door in affliction." 
Simeon second blushed scarlet; but his mother only 
smiled, and said, " Simeon is my good boy ; he will grow 
older by and by, and then he will be like his father." 
" I hope, my good sir, that you are not exposed to any 
difficulty on our account?" said George anxiously. 
" Fear nothing, George, for therefore are we sent into the 
world. If we would not meet trouble for a good cause, we 
were not worthy of our name." 
" But, for me" said George : " I could not bear it." 
" Fear not, then, friend George ; it is not for thee, but for 
God and man, we do it," said Simeon. "And now thou must 
lie by quietly this day, and to-night, at ten o'clock, Phineas 
Fletcher will carry thee onward to the next stand thee and 
the rest of thy company. The pursuers are hard after thee ; 
we must not delay." 
" If that is the case, why wait till evening ?" said George. 
"Thou art safe here by daylight, for every one in the 
settlement is a Friend, and all are watching. It has been 
found safer to travel by night." 
CHAPTER XIY. 
EVANGELINE. 
" A young star ! which shone 
O'er life too sweet an image for such glass ! 
A lovely being, scarcely formed or moulded ; 
A rose with all its sweetest leaves yet folded." 
THE Mississippi ! How, as by an enchanted wand, have 
its scenes been changed, since Chateaubriand wrote his 
prose-poetic description of it, as a river of mighty, unbroken 
solitudes, rolling amid undreamed wonders of vegetable and 
animal existence. 
But, as in an hour, this river of dreams and wild romance 
has emerged to a reality scarcely less visionary and splendid. 
"What other river of the world bears on its bosom to the 
ocean the wealth and enterprise of such another country ? 
a country whose products embrace all between the tropics and 
the poles ! Those turbid waters, hurrying, foaming, tearing 
along, an apt resemblance of that headlong tide of business 
which is poured along its wave by a race more vehement 
and energetic than any the old world ever saw. Ah ! would 
that they did not also bear along a more fearful freight, the 
tears of the oppressed, the sighs of the helpless, the bitter 
prayers of poor, ignorant hearts to an unknown God 
unknown, unseen, and silent, but who will yet " come out of 
his place to save all the poor of the earth ! " 
The slanting light of the setting sun quivers on the sea- 
like expanse of the river ; the shivery canes, and the tall, 
dark cypress, hung with wreaths of dark, funereal moss, glow 
in the golden ray, as the heavily-laden steamboat marches 
onward. 
Piled with cotton-bales from many a plantation, up over 
deck and sides, till she seems in the distance a square, massive block of grey, she moves heavily onward to the nearing 
mart. We must look some time among its crowded decks 
before we shall find again our humble friend Tom. High on 
the upper deck, in a little nook among the everywhere 
predominant cotton bales, at last we may find him. 
Partly from confidence inspired by Mr. Shelby's representations, and partly from the remarkably inoffensive 
and quiet character of the man, Tom had insensibly won 
his way far into the confidence even of such a man as 
Haley. 
At first he had watched him narrowly through the day, 
and never allowed him to sleep at night unfettered ; but the 
uncomplaining patience and apparent contentment of Tom's 
manner led him gradually to discontinue these restraints, 
and for some time Tom had enjoyed a sort of parole of 
honour, being permitted to come and go freely where he 
pleased on the boat. 
Ever quiet and obliging, and more than ready to lend a 
hand in every emergency which occurred among the workmen 
below, he had won the good opinion of all the hands, and 
spent many hours in helping them with as hearty a good 
will as ever he worked on a Kentucky farm. 
When there seemed to be nothing for him to do, he would 
climb to a nook among the cotton-bales of the upper deck, 
and busy himself in studying over his Bible and it is there 
we see him now. 
For a hundred or more miles above New Orleans, the 
river is higher than the surrounding country, and rolls its 
tremendous volume between massive levees twenty feet in 
height. The traveller from the deck of the steamer, as from 
some floating castle top, overlooks the whole country for 
miles and mnes around. Tom, therefore, had spread out full 
before him, in plantation after plantation, a map of the life 
to which he was approaching. 
He saw the distant slaves at their toil ; he saw afar their 
villages of huts, gleaming out in long rows on many a plantation, distant from the stately mansions and pleasure-grounds 
of the master ; and as the moving picture passed on, his poor 
foolish heart would be turning backward to the Kentucky 
farm, with its old shadowy beeches to the master's house, 
with its wide, cool halls, and near by, the little cabin, overgrown 
with the multiflora and bignonia. There he seemed to see 
familiar faces of comrades, who had grown up with him from 
infancy ; he saw his busy wife, bustling in her preparations 
for his evening meals ; he heard the merry laugh of his boys 
at their play, and the chirrup of the baby at his knee, and 
then, with a start, all faded, and he saw again the cane- 
brakes and cypresses and gliding plantations, and heard again 
the creaking and groaning of the machinery, all telling him 
too plainly that all that phase of life had gone by for ever. 
In such a case you write to your wife, and send messages 
to your children ; but Tom could not write the mail for 
him had no existence, and the gulf of separation was 
unbridged by even a friendly word or signal. 
Is it strange, then, that some tears fall on the pages of 
his Bible, as he lays it on the cotton-bale, and with patient 
finger, threading his slow way from word to word, traces out 
its promises ? Having learned late in life, Tom was but a 
slow reader, and passed on laboriously from verse to verse. 
Fortunate for him was it that the book he was intent on 
was one which slow reading cannot injure nay, one whose 
words, like ingots of gold, seem often to need to be weighed 
separately, that the mind may take in their priceless value. 
Let us follow him a moment, as, pointing to each word, and 
pronouncing each half aloud, he reads 
" Let not your heart be troubled. In my 
Father's house are many mansions. I go to 
prepare a place for you." 
Cicero, when he buried his darling and only daughter, Ittfi! 
a heart as full of honest grief as poor Tom's perhaps no 
fuller, for both were only men ; but Cicero could pause over 
no such sublime words of hope, and look to no such future 
re-union ; and if he had seen them, ten to one he would not 
have believed he must fill his head first with a thousand 
questions of authenticity of manuscript, and correctness of 
translation. But to poor Tom, there it lay, just what he 
needed, so evidently true and divine that the possibility of a 
question never entered his simple head. It must be true ; 
for if not true, how could he live ? 
As for Tom's Bible, though it had no annotations and 
helps in margin from learned commentators, still it had been 
embellished with certain way-marks and guide-boards of 
Tom's own invention, and which helped him more than the 
most learned expositions could have done. It had been his 
custom to get the Bible read to him by his master's children, 
in particular by young Master George ; and as they read he 
would designate, by bold strong marks and dashes, with 
pen and ink, the passages which more particularly gratified 
his ear or affected his heart. His Bible was thus marked 
through from one end to the other, with a variety of styles 
and designations ; so he could in a moment seize upon his 
favourite passages, without the labour of spelling out what 
lay between them ; and while it lay there before him, every 
passage breathing of some old home scene, and recalling 
some past enjoyment, his Bible seemed to him all of this life 
that remained, as well as the promise of a future one. 
Among the passengers on the boat was a young gentleman of fortune and family, resident in New Orleans, who 
bore the name of St. Clare. He had with him a daughter 
between five and six years of age, together with a lady, who 
seemed to claim relationship to both, and to have the little 
one especially under her charge. 
Tom had often caught glimpses of this little girl, for she 
was one of those busy, tripping creatures that can be no 
more contained in one place than a sunbeam or a summer 
breeze ; nor was she one that, once seen, could be easily 
forgotten. 
Her form was the perfection of childish beauty, without 
its usual chubbiness and squareness of outline. There was 
about it an undulating and aerial grace, such as one might 
dream of for some mythic and allegorical being.' Her face 
was remarkable, less for its perfect beauty of feature than for 
a singular and dreamy earnestness of expression, which made 
the ideal start when they looked at her, and by which the 
dullest and most literal were impressed, without exactly knowing why. The shape of her head and the turn of her neck 
and bust was peculiarly noble ; and the long, golden-brown 
hair that floated like a cloud around it, the deep, spiritual 
gravity of her violet blue eyes, shaded by heavy fringes of 
golden brown all marked her out from other children, and 
made every one turn and look after her, as she glided hither 
and thither on the boat. Nevertheless, the little one was 
not what you would have called either a grave child or a 
sad one. On the contrary, an airy and innocent playfulness 
seemed to flicker like the shadow of summer leaves over her 
childish face and around her buoyant figure. She was 
always in motion, always with a half smile on her rosy 
mouth, flying hither and thither, with an undulating and 
cloud-like tread, singing to herself as she moved, as in a 
happy dream. Her father and female guardian were incessantly busy in pursuit of her, but, when caught, she melted 
from them again like a summer cloud : and as no word of 
chiding or reproof ever fell on her ear for whatever she chose 
to do, she pursued her own way all over the boat. Always 
dressed in white, she seemed to move like a shadow through 
all sorts of places, without contracting spot or stain; and 
there was not a corner or nook, above or below, where those 
fairy footsteps had not glided, and that visionary golden 
head, with its deep blue eyes, fleeted along. 
The fireman, as he looked up from his sweaty toil, sometimes found those eyes looking wonderingly into the raging 
depths of the furnace, and fearfully and pityingly at him, as 
if she thought him in some dreadful danger. Anon the 
steersman at the wheel paused and smiled, as the picture- 
like head gleamed through the window of the round-house, 
and in a moment was gone again. A thousand times a day 
rough voices blessed her, and smiles of unwonted softness 
stole over hard faces, as she passed ; and when she tripped 
fearlessly over dangerous places, rough, sooty hands were 
stretched involuntarily out to save her, and smooth her path. 
Tom, who had the soft impressible nature of his kindly 
race, ever yearning toward the simple and child-like, watched 
the little creature with daily increasing interest. To him she 
seemed something almost divine ; and whenever her golden 
head and deep blue eyes peered out upon him from behind 
some dusky cotton-bale, or looked down upon him over some 
ridge of packages, he half believed that he saw one of the 
angels stepped out of his New Testament. 
Often and often she walked mournfully round the place 
where Haley's gang of men and women sat in their chains. 
She would glide in among them, and look at them with an 
air of perplexed and sorrowful earnestness ; and sometimes 
she would lift their chains with her slender hands, and then 
sigh woefully, as she glided away. Several times she appeared 
suddenly among them, with her hands full of candy, nuts, and 
oranges, which she would distribute joyfully to them, and 
then be gone again. 
Tom watched the little lady a great deal, before he 
ventured on any overtures towards acquaintanceship. He 
knew an abundance of simple acts to propitiate and invite 
the approaches of the little people, and he resolved to play 
his part right skilfully. He could cut cunning little baskets 
out of cherry-stones, could make grotesque faces on hickory 
nuts, or odd-jumping figures out of elder-pith, and he 
was a very Pan in the manufacture of whistles of all sizes 
and sorts. His pockets were full of miscellaneous articles 
of attraction, which he had hoarded in days of old for his 
master's children, and which he now produced, with commendable prudence and economy, one by one, as overtures 
for acquaintance and friendship. 
The little one was shy, for all her busy interest in everything going on, and it was not easy to tame her. FOR a 
while, she would perch like a canary-bird on some box or 
package near Tom, while busy in the little arts aforenamed, 
and take from him, with, a kind of grave bashfulness, the 
little articles he offered. But at last they got on quite 
confidential terms. 
" What's little missy's name ? " said Tom at last, when he 
thought matters were ripe to push such an inquiry. 
" Evangeline St. Clare," said the little one, " though 
papa and everybody else call me Eva. Now, what's your 
name?" 
"My name's Tom; the little chil'en used to call me 
Uncle "Tom, way back thar in Kentuck." 
" Then I mean to call you Uncle Tom, because, you see, 
I like you," said Eva. " So, Uncle Tom, where are you 
going?" 
" I don't know, Miss Eva." 
" Don't know ? " said Eva. 
"No. I am going to be sold to somebody. I don't 
know who." 
" My papa can buy you," said Eva, quickly ; " and if he 
buys you, you will have good times. I mean to ask him to, 
this very day." 
" Thank you, my little lady," said Tom. 
The boat here stopped at a small landing to take in wood, 
and Eva, hearing her father's voice, bounded nimbly away. 
Tom rose up, and went forward to offer his service in 
wooding, and soon was busy among the hands. 
Eva and her father were standing together by the railings 
to see the boat start from the landing-place, the wheel had 
made two or three revolutions in the water, when, by some 
sudden movement, the little one suddenly lost her balance, 
and fell sheer over the side of the boat into the water. Her 
father, scarce knowing what he did, was plunging in after 
her, but was held back by some behind him, who saw that 
more efficient aid had followed his child. 
Tom was standing just under her, on the lower deck, as 
she fell. He saw her strike the water and sink, and was 
after her in a moment. A broad-chested, strong-armed fellow, 
it was nothing for him to keep afloat in the water, till, in a 
moment or two, the child rose to the surface, and he caught 
her in his arms, and, swimming with her to the boat-side, 
handed her up, all dripping, to the grasp of hundreds of 
hands, which, as if they had all belonged to one man, were 
stretched eagerly out to receive her. A few moments more, 
and her father bore her, dripping and senseless, to the ladies' 
cabin, where, as is usual in cases of the kind, there ensued a 
very well-meaning and kind-hearted strife among the female 
occupants generally, as to who should do the most things to 
r.ialvc a disturbance, and- to hinder her recovery in every way  
possible: 
It was a sultry close day, the next day, as the steamer 
drew near to New Orleans. A general bustle of expectation 
and preparation was spread through the boat ; in the cabin, 
one and another were gathering their things together and 
arranging them preparatory to going ashore. The steward 
and chambermaid, and all, were busily engaged in cleaning, 
furbishing, and arranging the splendid boat, preparatory to a 
grand entree. 
On the lower deck sat our friend Tom, with his arms 
folded, and anxiously, from time to time, turning his eyes 
towards a group on the other side of the boat. 
There stood the fair Evangeline, a little paler than the 
day before, but otherwise exhibiting no traces of the accident 
which had befallen her. A graceful, elegantly-formed young 
man, stood by her, carelessly leaning one elbow on a bale of 
cotton, while a large pocket-book lay open before him. It 
was quite evident, at a glance, that the gentleman was Eva's 
father. There was the same noble cast of head, the same 
large blue eyes, the same golden-brown hair ; yet the expression was wholly different. In the large, clear blue eyes, 
though in form and colour exactly similar, there was wanting 
that misty, dreamy depth of expression ; all was clear, bold, 
and bright, but with a light wholly of this world : the beautifully-cut mouth had a proud and somewhat sarcastic expression, while an air of free-and-easy superiority sat not 
ungracefully in every turn and movement of his fine form. 
He was listening with a good-humoured, negligent air, half 
comic, half contemptuous, to Haley, who was very volubly 
expatiating on the quality of the article for which they were 
bargaining. 
" All the moral and Christian virtues bound in black 
morocco, complete ! " he said, when Haley had finished. 
" Well, now, my good fellow, what's the damage ? as they 
say in Kentucky ; in short what's to be paid out for this 
business ? How much are you going to cheat me, now ? 
Out with it!" 
" Wai," said Haley, " if I should say thirteen hundred 
dollars for that ar fellow, I shouldn't but just save myself I 
shouldn't, now, re'ly." 
" Poor fellow ! " said the young man, fixing his keen, 
mocking blue eye on him ; " but I suppose you would let me 
have him for that, out of a particular regard for me ? " 
" Well, the young lady here seems to be sot on him, and 
nat'lly enough." 
" Oh, certainly, there's a call on your benevolence, my 
friend. Now, as a matter of Christian charity, how cheap 
could you afford to let him go, to oblige a young lady that's 
particular sot on him ? " 
" Wai, now, just think on't," said the trader ; " just look 
at them limbs broad-chested, strong as a horse. Look at 
his head ; them high forrads al'ays shows calculatin' niggers, 
that'll do any kind o' thing. I've marked that ar. Now, a 
nigger of that ar heft and build is worth considerable, just, 
as you may say, for his body, supposin' he's stupid : but 
come to put in his calculatin' faculties, and them which I 
can show he has oncommon, why, of course, it makes him 
come higher. Why, that ar fellow managed his master's 
whole farm. He has a strornary talent for business." 
" Bad, bad, very bad ; knows altogether too much ! " said 
the young man, with the same mocking smile playing about 
his mouth. " Never will do in the world. Tour smart 
fellows are always running off, stealing horses, and raising 
the devil generally. I think you'll haye to take off a couple 
of hundred for his smartness." 
" Wai, there might be something in that ar, if it warn't 
for his character; but I can show recommends from his 
master and others, to prove he is one of your real pious the 
most humble, pray in', pious critter ye ever did see. Why, 
he's been called a preacher in them parts he came from." 
"And I might use him for a family chaplain, possibly," 
added the young man, dryly. " That's quite an idea. Religion is a remarkably scarce article at our house." 
" You're joking, now." 
" How do you know I am ? Didn't you just warrant 
him for a preacher ? Has he been examined by any synod 
or council ? Come, hand over your papers." 
If the trader had not been sure, by a certain good- 
humoured twinkle in the large blue eye, that all this banter 
was sure, in the long run, to turn out a cash concern, he 
might have been somewhat out of patience ; as it was, he laid 
down a greasy pocket-book on the cotton bales, and began 
anxiously studying over certain papers in it, the young man 
standing by the while, looking down on him with an air of 
careless, easy drollery ; 
" Papa, do buy him ! it's no matter what you pay,'* 
whispered Eva softly, getting up on a package, and putting 
her arm around her father's neck. "You have money 
enough, I know. I want him." 
" What for, pussy ? Are you going to use him for a 
rattle-box, or a rocking-horse, or what ?" 
" I want to make him happy." 
" An original reason, certainly." 
Here the trader handed up a certificate, signed by Mr. 
Shelby, which the young man took with the tips of his long 
fingers, and glanced over carelessly. 
"A gentlemanly hand," he said, "and well spelt, too. 
"Well, now, but I'm not sure, after all, about this religion," 
said he, the old wicked expression returning to his eye ; 
"the country is almost ruined with pious white people: 
such pious politicians as we have just before elections such 
pious goings on in all departments of church and state, 
that a fellow does not know who'll cheat him next. I don't 
know, either, about religion's being up in the market, just 
now. I have not looked in the papers lately, to see how it 
sells. How many hundred dollars, now, do you put on for 
this religion?" 
"You like to be a jokin', now," said the trader; "but 
then there's sense under all that ar. I know there's 
differences in religion. Some kinds is mis'rable: there's 
your meetin' pious; there's your singin', roarin' pious; 
them ar an't no account, in black or white : but these rayly 
is; and I've seen it in niggers as often as any, your rail 
softly, quiet, stiddy, honest pious, that the hull world 
couldn't tempt 'em to do nothing that they thinks is 
wrong ; and ye see in this letter what Tom's old master says 
about him." 
"Now," said the young man, stooping gravely over his 
book of bills, " if you can assure me that I really can buy 
this kind of. pious, and that it will be set down to my 
account in the book up above, as something belonging to 
me, I wouldn't care if I did go a little extra for it. How 
d'ye say?" 
"Wai, raily, I can't do that," said the trader. "I'm a 
thinking that every man '11 have to hang on his own hook, 
in them ar quarters." 
" Bather hard on a fellow that pays extra on religion, and 
can't trade with it in the State where he wants it most, an't 
it, now ?" said the young man, who had been making out a 
roll of bills while he was speaking. " There, count your 
money, old boy!" he added, as he handed the roll to the 
trader. 
"All right," said Haley, his face beaming with delight; 
and pulling out an old inkhorn, he proceeded to fill out 
a bill of sale, which, in a few moments, he handed to the 
young man. 
" I wonder, now, if I was divided up and inventoried," 
said the latter, as he ran over the paper, " how much I might 
bring. Say so much for the shape of my head, so much for 
a high forehead, so much for arms, and hands, and legs, and 
then so much for education, learning, talent, honesty, religion ! Bless me, 1 there would be small charge on that last, 
I'm thinking. But come, Eva," he said; and taking the 
hand of his daughter, he stepped across the boat, and carelessly putting the tip of his finger under Tom's chin, said, 
good-humouredly, "Look up, Tom, and see how you like 
your new master." 
Tom looked up. It was not in nature to look into that 
gay, young, handsome face, without a feeling of pleasure ; 
and Tom felt the tears start in his eyes as he said, heartily, 
" God bless you, mas'r !" 
"Well, I hope he Mall. What's your name? Tom? 
Quite as likely to do it for your asking as mine, from all 
accounts. Can you drive horses, Tom ? " 
"I've been al'ays used to horses," said Tom. "Mas'r 
Shelby raised heaps on 'em." 
 "Well, I think I shall put you in coachy, on condition 
that you won't be drunk more than once a week, unless in 
cases of emergency, Tom." 
Tom looked surprised and rather hurt, and said, " I never 
drink, mas'r." 
" I've heard that story before, Tom ; but then we'll see. 
It will be a special accommodation to all concerned if you 
don't. Never mind, my boy," he added, good-humouredly, 
seeing Tom still look grave ; " I don't doubt you mean to 
do well." 
" I sartin do, mas'r," said Tom. 
" And you shall have good times," said Eva. " Papa is 
very good to everybody 5 only he always will laugh at them." 
c ' Papa islnuch obliged to you for his recommendation," 
said St. Clare, laughing, as he turned on his heel, and walked 
away. 
CHAPTEE XY. 
OF TOM'S NEW MASTER, AND VARIOUS OTHER MATTERS. 
SINCE the thread of our humble hero's life has now become 
interwoven with that of higher ones, it is necessary to give 
some brief introduction to them. 
Augustine St. Clare was the son of a wealthy planter of 
Louisiana. The family had its origin in Canada. Of two 
brothers, very similar in temperament and character, one 
had settled on a nourishing farm in Yermont, and the other 
became an opulent planter in Louisiana. The mother of 
Augustine was a Huguenot French lady, whose family had 
emigrated to Louisiana during the days of its early settlement. Augustine and another brother were the only children 
of their parents. Having inherited from his mother an 
exceeding delicacy of constitution, he was, at the instance of 
physicians, during many years of his boyhood, sent to the 
care of his uncle in Yermont, in order that his constitution 
might be strengthened by the cold of a more bracing 
climate. 
In childhood he was remarkable for an extreme and 
marked sensitiveness of character, more akin to the softness 
of woman than the ordinary hardness of his own sex. Time, 
however, overgrew this softness with the rough bark of manhood, and but few knew how living and fresh it still lay at 
the core. His talents were of the very first order, although 
his mind showed a preference always for the ideal and the 
aesthetic ; and there was about him that repugnance to the 
actual business of life which is the common result of this 
balance of the faculties. Soon after the completion of his 
college course, his whole nature was kindled into one intense 
and passionate effervescence of romantic passion. His hour 
came the hour that comes only once ; his star rose in the 
horizon that star that rises so often in vain, to be remembered only as a thing of dreams ; and it rose for him Hi vain. 
To drop the figure, he saw and won the love of a high-minded 
and beautiful woman, in one of the northern states, and they 
were affianced. He returned south to make arrangements 
for their marriage, when, most unexpectedly, his letters were 
returned to him by mail, with a short note from her guardian, 
stating to him that ere this reached him the lady would be 
the wife of another. Stung to madness, he vainly hoped, as 
many another has done, to fling the whole thing from his 
heart by one desperate effort. Too proud to supplicate or 
seek explanation, he threw himself at once into a whirl of 
fashionable society, and in a fortnight from the time of the 
fatal letter was the accepted lover of the reigning belle of 
the season ; and as soon as arrangements could be made, he 
became the husband of a fine figure, a pair of bright, dark 
eyes, and a hundred thousand dollars; and, of course, 
everybody thought him a happy fellow. 
The married couple were enjoying their honeymoon, and 
entertaining a brilliant circle of friends in their splendid 
villa near Lake Pontchartrain, when one day a letter was 
brought to him in that well-remembered writing. It was 
handed to him while he was in full tide of gay and successful 
conversation, in a whole room-full of company. He turned 
deadly pale when he saw the writing, but still preserved his 
composure, and finished the playful warfare of badinage 
which he was at the moment carrying on with a lady 
opposite ; and, a short time after, was missed from the 
circle. In his room, alone, he opened and read the letter, 
now worse than idle and useless to be read. It was from 
her, giving a long account of a persecution to which she had 
been exposed by her guardian's family, to lead her to unite 
herself with their son ; and she related how, for a long time, 
his letters had ceased to arrive ; how she had written time 
and again, till she became weary and doubtful; how her 
health had failed under her anxieties, and how, at last, she 
had discovered the whole fraud which had been practised on 
them both. The letter ended with expressions of hope and 
thankfulness, and professions of undying affection, which 
were more bitter than death to the unhappy young man. 
He wrote to her immediately : 
" I have received yours but too late. I believed all I 
heard. I was desperate. I am married, and all is over. 
Only forget it is all that remains for either of us." 
And thus ended the whole romance and ideal of life for 
Augustine St. Clare ; but the real remained the real, like 
the flat, bare, oozy tide-mud, when the blue sparkling wave, 
with all its company of gliding boats and white-winged ships, 
its music of oars and chiming waters, has gone down, and 
there it lies, flat, slimy, bare exceedingly reaj. 
Of course, in a novel, people's hearts break, and they die, 
and that is the end of it ; and in a story this is very convenient. But in real life we do not die when all that makes 
life bright dies to us. There is a most busy and important 
round of eating, drinking, dressing, walking, visiting, buying, 
selling, talking, reading, and all that makes up what is commonly called living, yet to be gone through ; and this yet 
remained to Augustine. Had his wife been a whole woman, 
she might yet have done something as woman can to 
mend the broken threads of life, and weave again into a 
tissue of brightness. But Marie St. Clare could not even 
see that they had been broken. As before stated, she consisted of a fine figure, a pair of splendid eyes, and a hundred 
thousand dollars ; and none of these items were precisely 
the ones to minister to a mind diseased. 
"When Augustine, pale as death, was found lying on the 
sofa, and pleaded sudden sick-headache as the cause of his 
distress, she recommended to him to smell of hartshorn ; and 
when the paleness and headache 'came on week after week, 
she only said that she never thought Mr. St. Clare was 
sickly ; but it seems lie was very liable to sick-headaches, 
and that it was a very unfortunate thing for her, because he 
didn't enjoy going into company with her, and it seemed odd 
to go so much alone, when they were just married. Augustine 
was glad in his heart that he had married so undiscerning a 
woman ; but as the glosses and civilities of the honeymoon 
wore away he discovered that a beautiful young woman, who 
has lived all her life to be caressed and waited on, might prove 
quite a hard mistress in domestic life. Marie never had possessed much capability of affection, or much sensibility ; and 
the little that she had had been merged into a most intense 
and unconscious selfishness ; a selfishness the more hopeless 
from its quiet obtuseness, its utter ignorance of any claims 
but her own. From her infancy she had been surrounded 
with servants, who lived only to study her caprices ; the idea 
that they had either feelings or rights had never dawned 
upon her, even in distant perspective. Her father, whose 
only child she had been, had never denied her anything that 
lay within the compass of human possibility ; and when she 
entered life, beautiful, accomplished, and an heiress, she 
had, of course, all the eligibles and non-eligibles of the other 
sex sighing at her feet, and she had no doubt that Augustine 
was a most fortunate man in having obtained her. It is a 
great mistake to suppose that a woman with no heart will 
be an easy creditor in the exchange of affection. There is 
not on earth a more merciless exactor of love from others 
than a thoroughly selfish woman ; and the more unlovely she 
grows, the more jealously and scrupulously she exacts love, 
to the uttermost farthing. "When, therefore, St. Clare began 
to drop off those gallantries and small attentions which flowed 
at first through the habitude of courtship, he found his sultana 
no way ready to resign her slave ; there were abundance of 
tears, poutings, and small tempests ; there were discontents, 
pinings, upbraidings. St.. Clare was good-natured and self- 
indulgent, and sought to buy off with presents and flatteries ; 
and when Marie became mother to a beautiful daughter, he 
really felt awakened for a time to something like tenderness. 
St. Clare's mother had been a woman of uncommon elevation and purity of character, and he gave to this child his 
mother's name, fondly fancying that she would prove a 
reproduction of her image. The thing had been remarked 
with petulant jealousy by his wife, and she regarded her 
husband's absorbing devotion to the child with suspicion and 
dislike ; all that was given to her seemed so much taken 
from herself. Prom the time of the birth of this child her 
health gradually sunk. A life of constant inaction, bodily 
and mental the friction of ceaseless ennui and discontent, 
united to the ordinary weakness which attended the period 
of maternity in course of a few years changed the 
blooming young belle into a yellow, faded, sickly woman, 
whose time was divided among a variety of fanciful diseases, 
and who considered herself, in every sense, the most ill-used 
and suffering person in existence. 
There was no end of her various complaints ; but her principal forte appeared to He in sick-headache, which sometimes 
would confine her to her room three days out of six. As, of 
course, all family arrangements fell into the hands of servants, 
St. Clare found his menage anything but comfortable. His 
only daughter was exceedingly delicate, and he feared that, 
with no one to look after her and attend to her, her health 
and life might yet fall a sacrifice to her mother's inefficiency. 
He had taken her with him on a tour to Vermont, and had 
persuaded his cousin, Miss Ophelia St. Clare, to return with 
him to his southern residence ; and they are now returning 
on this boat, where we have introduced them to our readers. 
And now, while the distant domes and spires of New 
Orleans rise to our view, there is yet time for an introduction 
to Miss Ophelia. 
"Whoever has travelled in the New England States will 
remember, in some cool village, the large farm-house, with its 
clean-swept grassy yard, shaded by the dense and massive 
foliage of the sugar-maple ; and remember the air of order 
and stillness, of perpetuity and unchanging repose, that 
seemed to breathe over the whole place. Nothing lost, or 
out of order, not a picket loose in the fence, not a particle 
of litter in the turfy yard, with its clumps of lilac-bushes 
growing up under the windows. "Within, he will remember 
wide, clean rooms, where nothing ever seems to be doing or 
going to be done, where everything is once and for ever 
rigidly in place, and where all household arrangements move 
with the punctual exactness of the old clock in the corner. 
In the family "keeping-room," as it is termed, he will 
remember the staid, respectable old bookcase, with its glass 
doors, where Rollin's History, Milton's Paradise Lost, 
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, and Scott's Family Bible, 
stand side by side in decorous order, with multitudes of 
other books, equally solemn and respectable. There are no 
servants in the house, but the lady in the snowy cap, with 
the spectacles, who sits sewing every afternoon among her 
daughters, as if nothing ever had been done, or were to be 
done she and her girls, in some long-forgotten forepart of 
the day, " did up the work" and for the rest of the time, 
probably at all hours when you would see them, it is " done 
up" The old kitchen-floor never seems stained or spotted ; 
the tables, the chairs, and the various cooking utensils, never 
seem deranged or disordered : though three and sometimes 
four meals a day are got there, though the family washing 
and ironing is there performed, and though pounds of butter 
and cheese are in some silent and mysterious manner there 
brought into existence. 
On such a farm, in such a house and family, Miss Ophelia 
had spent a quiet existence of some forty-five years, when 
her cousin invited her to visit his southern mansion. The 
eldest of a large family, she was still considered by her father 
and mother as one of "the children," and the proposal that 
she should go to Orleans was a most momentous one to the 
family circle. The old grey-headed- father took down Morse's 
Atlas out of the bookcase, and looked out the exact latitude 
and longitude ; and read Flint's Travels in the South and 
"West, to make up his own mind as to the nature of the 
country. 
The good mother inquired, anxiously, " if Orleans wasn't 
an awful wicked place ; " saying, " that it seemed to her 
most equal to going to the Sandwich Islands, or any where 
among the heathen." 
It was known at the minister's, and at the doctor's, and 
at Miss Peabody's milliner's shop, that Ophelia St. Clare 
was " talking about going away down to Orleans with her 
cousin ; and, of course, the whole village could do no less 
than help this very important process of talking about the 
matter. The minister, who inclined strongly to Abolitionist 
views, was quite doubtful whether such a step might not tend 
somewhat to encourage the southerners in holding on to 
their slaves ; wliile the doctor, who was a stanch Colonisationist, inclined to the opinion that Miss Ophelia ought to 
go, to show the Orleans people that we don't think hardly 
of them, after all. He was of opinion, in fact, that southern 
people needed encouraging. When, however, the fact that 
she had resolved to go was fully before the public mind', she 
was solemnly invited out to tea by all her friends and 
neighbours for the space of a fortnight, and her prospects 
and plans duly canvassed and inquired into. Miss Mosely, 
who came into the house to help to do the dress-making, 
acquired daily accessions of importance from the developments with regard to Miss Ophelia's wardrobe which she had 
been enabled to make. It was credibly ascertained that 
Squire Sinclare, as his name was commonly contracted in 
the neighbourhood, had counted out fifty dollars, and given 
them to Miss Ophelia, and told her to buy any clothes she 
thought best ; and that two new silk dresses, and a bonnet, 
had been sent for from Boston. As to the propriety of this 
extraordinary outlay, the public mind was divided ; some 
affirming that it was well enough, all things considered, for 
once in one's life, and others stoutly affirming that the money 
had better have been sent to the missionaries ; but all parties 
agreed that there had been no such parasol seen in those 
parts as had been sent on from New York, and that she had 
one silk dress that might fairly be trusted to stand alone, 
whatever might be said of its mistress. There were credible 
rumours, also, of a hem-stitched pocket-handkerchief; and 
report even went so far as to state that Miss Ophelia had one 
pocket-handkerchief with lace all around it it was even 
added that it was worked in the corners ; but this latter 
point was never satisfactorily ascertained, and remains, in 
fact, unsettled to this day. 
Miss Ophelia, as you now behold her, stands before you, 
in a very shining brown linen travelling-dress, tall, square- 
formed, and angular. Her face was thin, and rather sharp 
in its outlines ; the lips compressed, like those of a person 
who is in the habit of making up her mind definitely on all 
subjects ; while the keen, dark eyes had a peculiarly 
searching, advised movement, and travelled over everything, 
as if they were looking for something to take care of. 
All her movements were sharp, decided, and energetic 
and, though she was never much of a talker, her words were 
remarkably direct and to the purpose when she did speak. 
In her habits, she was a living impersonation of order, 
method, and exactness. In punctuality, she was as inevitable 
as a clock, and as inexorable as a railroad engine ; and she 
held in most decided contempt and abomination anything of 
a contrary character. 
The great sin of sins, in her eyes the sum of all evils 
was expressed by one very common and important word in 
her vocabulary " shiftlessness." Her finale and ultimatum 
of contempt consisted in a very emphatic pronunciation of 
the word "shiftless;" and by this she characterised all 
modes of procedure which had not a direct and inevitable 
relation to accomplishment of some purpose then definitely 
had in mind. People who did nothing, or who did not know 
exactly what they were going to do, or who did not take the 
most direct way to accomplish what they set their hands to, 
were objects of her entire contempt ; a contempt shown less 
frequently by anything she said than by a kind of stony 
grimness, as if she scorned to say anything about the 
matter. 
As to mental cultivation, she had a clear, strong, active 
mind, was well and thoroughly read in history and the older 
English classics, and thought with great strength within 
certain narrow limits. Her theological tenets were all made 
up, labelled in the most positive and distinct forms, and put 
by, like the bundles in her patch trunk ; there were just so 
many of them, and there were never to be any more. So, 
also, were her ideas with regard to most matters of practical 
life such as housekeeping in all its branches, and the 
various political relations of her native village. And, under- 
laying all, deeper than anything else, higher and broader, lay 
the strongest principle of her being conscientiousness. 
Nowhere is conscience so dominant and all-absorbing as 
with New-England women. It is the granite formation, 
which lies deepest, and rises out, even to the tops of the 
highest mountains. 
Miss Ophelia was the absolute bond-slave of the " ought" 
Once make her certain that the " path of duty," as she 
commonly phrased it, lay in any given direction, and fire and 
water could not keep her from it. She would walk, straight 
down into a well, or up to a loaded cannon's mouth, if she 
were only quite sure that there the path lay. Her standard 
of right was so high, so all-embracing, so minute, and making 
so few concessions to human frailty, that though she strove 
with heroic ardour to reach it, she never actually did so, and 
of course was burdened with a constant and often harassing 
sense of deficiency. This gave a severe and somewhat 
gloomy cast to her religious character. 
But how in the world can Miss Ophelia get along with 
Augustine St. Clare gay, easy, unpunctual, unpractical, 
sceptical, in short, walking with impudent and nonchalant 
freedom over every one of her most cherished habits and 
opinions ? 
To tell the truth, then, Miss Ophelia loved him. When 
a boy, it had been hers to teach him his catechism, mend his 
clothes, comb his hair, and bring him up generally in the 
way he should go ; and her heart having a warm side to it, 
Augustine had, as he usually did with most people, monopolised a large share of it for himself, and therefore it was that 
he succeeded very easily in persuading her that the " path of 
duty" lay in the direction of New Orleans, and that she 
must go with him to take care of Eva, and keep everything 
from going to wreck and ruin during the frequent illnesses of 
his wife. The idea of a house without anybody to take 
care of it went to her heart ; then she loved the lovely little 
girl, as few could help doing; and though she regarded 
Augustine as very much of a heathen, yet she loved him, 
laughed at his jokes, and forbore with his failings, to an 
extent which those who knew him thought perfectly 
incredible. But what more or other is to be known of 
Miss Ophelia, our reader must discover by a personal 
acquaintance. 
There she is, sitting now in her state room, surrounded 
by a mixed multitude of little and big carpet-bags, boxes, 
baskets, each containing some separate responsibility which 
she is tying, binding up, packing or fastening, with a face of 
great earnestness. 
" Now, Eva, have you kept count of your things ? Of 
course you haven't children never do : there's the spotted 
carpet-bag and the little blue band-box with your best 
bonnet that's two ; then the India-rubber satchel is three
and my tape and needle-box is four; and my band-box, 
five ; and my collar-box, six ; and that little hair trunk, 
seven. What have you done with your sunshade ? Give it 
to me, and let me put a paper round it, and tie it to my 
Umbrella with my shade : there now." 
" Why, aunty, we are only going up home what is the 
use?" 
" To keep it nice, child ; people must take care of their 
things if they ever mean to have anything. And now, Eva, 
is your thimble put up ?" 
" Eeally, aunty, I don't know." 
" Well, never mind ; I'll look your box over. Thimble, 
wax, two spoons, scissors, knife, tape-needle ; all right put 
it in here. What did you ever do, child, when you were 
coming on with only your papa ? I should have thought 
you'd a lost everything you had." 
" Well, aunty, I did lose a great many ; and then, when 
we stopped anywhere, papa would buy some more of whatever 
it was." 
" Mercy on us, child, what a way! " 
" It was a very easy way, aunty," said Eva. 
" It's a dreadful shiftless one," said aunty. 
"Why, aunty, what'll you do now?" said Eva. "That 
trunk is too full to be shut down." 
