"Yes, they are possessed with the contrary notion. But in all
the creation nothing has a one-sided usefulness. What a
reflection it would be upon the wisdom of its Author, if
godliness alone were the exception  if it were not
'profitable for the life that now is, as well as for that
which is to come!' "
"They make that work the other way, don't they?" said Fleda;
"not being able to see how thorough religion should be for
anybody's happiness, they make use of your argument to
conclude that it is not what the Bible requires. How I have
heard that urged  that God intended his creatures to be happy
 as a reason why they should disobey him! They lay hold on
the wrong end of the argument, and work backwards."
"Precisely.
" 'God intended his creatures to be happy.
" 'Strict obedience would make them unhappy.
" 'Therefore, he does not intend them to obey.' "
"They never put it before them quite so clearly," said Fleda.
"They would startle at it a little. But so they would at the
right stating of the case."
"And how would that be, Mr. Carleton?"
"It might be somewhat after this fashion 
" 'God requires nothing that is not for the happiness of his
people.
" 'He requires perfect obedience.
" 'Therefore, perfect obedience is for their happiness.'
"But unbelief will not understand that. Did it ever strike you
how much there is in those words, 'Come and see?' All that
argument can do, after all, is but to persuade to that. Only
faith will submit to terms, and enter the narrow gate; and
only obedience knows what the prospect is on the other side."
"But isn't it true, Mr. Carleton, that the world have some
cause for their opinion  judging as they do by the outside?
The peculiar pleasures of religion, as you say, are out of
sight, and they do not always find in religious people that
enlargement and refinement of which you were speaking."
"Because they make unequal comparisons. Recollect that, as God
has declared, the ranks of religion are not for the most part
filled from the wise and the great. In making your estimate,
you must measure things equal in other respects. Compare the
same man with himself before he was a Christian, or with his
unchristianized fellows, and you will find invariably the
refining, dignifying, ennobling, influence of true religion 
the enlarged intelligence, and the greater power of
enjoyment."
"And besides those causes of pleasure-giving that your
mentioned," said Fleda, "there is a mind at ease; and how much
that is, alone! If I may judge others by myself, the mere fact
of being unpoised, unresting, disables the mind from a
thousand things that are joyfully relished by one entirely at
ease."
"Yes," said he; "do you remember that word,  'The stones of
the field shall be at peace with thee?' "
"I am afraid people would understand you as little as they
would me, Mr. Carleton," said Fleda, laughing.
He smiled, rather a prolonged smile, the expression of which
Fleda could not make out; she felt that she did not quite
understand him.
"I have thought," said he, after a pause, "that much of the
beauty we find in many things is owing to a hidden analogy 
the harmony they make with some unknown string of the mind's
harp which they have set a-vibrating. But the music of that is
so low and soft, that one must listen very closely to find out
what it is."
"Why, that is the very theory of which I gave you a smoky
illustration a little while ago," said Fleda. "I thought I was
on safe ground, after what you said about the characters of
flowers, for that was a little "
"Fanciful?" said he, smiling.
"What you please,"' said Fleda, colouring a little  "I am
sure it is true. The theory, I mean. I have many a time felt
it, though I never put it in words. I shall think of that."
"Did you ever happen to see the very early dawn of a winter's
morning?" said he.
But he laughed the next instant at the comical expression of
Fleda's face as it was turned to him.
"Forgive me for supposing you as ignorant as myself. I have
seen it once."
"Appreciated it, I hope, that time?" said Fleda.
"I shall never forget it."
"And it never wrought in you a desire to see it again?"
"I might see many a dawn," said he, smiling, "without what I
saw then. It was very early, and a cloudy morning, so that
night had still almost undisturbed possession of earth and
sky; but in the south-eastern quarter, between two clouds,
there was a space of fair white promise, hardly making any
impression upon the darkness, but only set off by it. And upon
this one bright spot in earth or heaven, rode the planet of
the morning  the sun's forerunner  bright upon the
brightness. All else was dusky, except where overhead the
clouds had parted again and showed a faint old moon,
glimmering down upon the night it could no longer be said to
'rule.' "
"Beautiful!" said Fleda. "There is hardly any time I like so
well as the dawn of a winter morning, with an old moon in the
sky. Summer weather has no beauty like it  in some things."
"Once," continued Mr. Carleton, "I should have seen no more
than I have told you  the beauty that every cultivated eye
must take in. But now, methought I saw the dayspring that has
come upon a longer night; and from out of the midst of it
there was the fair face of the morning star looking at me with
its sweet reminder and invitation; looking over the world with
its aspect of triumphant expectancy: there was its calm
assurance of the coming day  its promise that the star of
hope, which now there were only a few watching eyes to see,
should presently be followed by the full beams of the Sun of
Righteousness making the kingdoms of the world His own. Your
memory may bring to you the words that came to mine, the
promise 'to him that overcometh,' and the beauty of the lips
that made it: the encouragement to 'patient continuance in
well doing,' 'till the day break, and the shadows flee away.'
And there, on the other hand, was the substituted light of
earth's wisdom and inventions, dominant yet, but waning, and
soon to be put out for ever."
Fleda was crying again, and perhaps that was the reason why
Mr. Carleton was silent for some time. She was very sorry to
show herself so weak, but she could not help it; part of his
words had come too close. And when she had recovered again,
she was absolutely silent too, for they were nearing Sloman-
street, and she could not take him there with her. She did not
know what to say, nor what he would think; and she said not
another word till they came to the corner. There she must stop
and speak.
"I am very much obliged to you, Mr. Carleton," she said,
drawing her hand from his arm, "for taking care of me all this
disagreeable way; I will not give you any more trouble."
"You are not going to dismiss me?" said he, looking at her
with a countenance of serious anxiety.
"I must," said Fleda, ingenuously  "I have business to attend
to here "
"But you will let me have the pleasure of waiting for you?"
"O no," said Fleda, hesitating and flushing  "thank you, Mr.
Carleton; but pray do not  I don't know at all how long I may
be detained."
He bowed, she thought gravely, and turned away; and she
entered the little wretched street, with a strange feeling of
pain that she could not analyze. She did not know where it
came from, but she thought if there only had been a hiding-
place for her, she could have sat down and wept a whole
heartful. The feeling must be kept back now, and it was soon
forgotten in the throbbing of her heart at another thought
which took entire possession.
The sun was not down  there was time enough  but it was with
a step and eye of hurried anxiety that Fleda passed along the
little street, for fear of missing her quest, or lest Dinah
should have changed her domicile. Yet would her uncle have
named it for their meeting if he had not been sure of it? It
was very odd he should have appointed that place at all, and
Fleda was inclined to think he must have seen Dinah by some
chance, or it never would have come into his head. Still her
eye passed unheeding over all the varieties of dinginess and
misery in her way, intent only upon finding that particular
dingy cellar-way which used to admit her to Dinah's premises.
It was found at last, and she went in.
The old woman, herself most unchanged, did not know the young
lady, but well remembered the little girl whom Fleda brought
to her mind. And then she was overjoyed to see her, and asked
a multitude of questions, and told a long story of her having
met Mr. Rossitur in the street the other day, "in the last
place where she'd have looked to see him;" and how old he had
grown, and how surprised she had been to see the gray hairs in
his head. Fleda at last gave her to understand that she
expected him to meet her there, and would like to see him
alone; and the good woman immediately took her work into
another apartment, made up the fire, and set up the chairs,
and leaving her, assured Fleda she would lock up the doors,
"and not let no one come through."
It was sundown, and later, Fleda thought, and she felt as if
every pulse was doing double duty. No matter, if she were
shattered and the work done. But what work! Oh, the
needlessness, the cruelty, the folly of it! And how much of
the ill consequences she might be unable, after all, to ward
off. She took off her hat, to relieve a nervous smothered
feeling; and walked, and sat down; and then sat still, from
trembling inability to do anything else. Dinah's poor little
room, clean though it was, looked to her the most dismal place
in the world, from its association with her errand; she hid
her face on her knees, that she might have no disagreeableness
to contend with, but that which could not be shut out.
It had lain there some time, till a sudden feeling of terror
at the growing lateness made her raise it to look at the
window. Mr. Rossitur was standings still before her  he must
have come in very softly  and looking  oh, Fleda had not
imagined him looking so changed. All was forgotten  the
wrong, and the needlessness, and the indignation with which
she had sometimes thought of it; Fleda remembered nothing but
love and pity, and threw herself upon his neck with such tears
of tenderness and sympathy, such kisses of forgiveness and
comfort-speaking, as might have broken a stouter heart than
Mr. Rossitur's. He held her in his arms for a few minutes,
passively suffering her caresses, and then gently unloosing
her hold, placed her on a seat, sat down a little way off,
covered his face and groaned aloud.
Fleda could not recover herself at once. Then shaking off her
agitation, she came and knelt down by his side, and putting
one arm over his shoulders, laid her cheek against his
forehead. Words were beyond reach, but his forehead was wet
with her tears; and kisses, of soft entreaty, of winning
assurance, said all she could say.
"What did you come here for, Fleda?" said Mr. Rossitur, at
length, without changing his position.
"To bring you home, uncle Rolf."
"Home!" said he, with an accent between bitterness and
despair.
"Yes, for it's all over, it's all forgotten  there is no more
to be said about it at all," said Fleda, getting her words out
she didn't know how.
What is forgotten?" said he, harshly.
"All that you would wish, Sir," replied Fleda, softly and
gently; "there is no more to be done about it; and I came to
tell you, if possible, before it was too late. Oh, I'm so
glad!" and her arms and her cheek pressed closer, as fresh
tears stopped her voice.
"How do you know, Fleda?" said Mr. Rossitur, raising his head,
and bringing hers to his shoulder, while his arms in turn
enclosed her.
Fleda whispered, "He told me so himself."
"Who?"
"Mr. Thorn."
The words were but just spoken above her breath. Mr. Rossitur
was silent for some time.
"Are you sure you understood him?"
"Yes, Sir; it could not have been spoken plainer."
"Are you quite sure he meant what he said, Fleda?"
"Perfectly sure, uncle Rolf! I know he did."
"What stipulation did he make beforehand?"
"He did it without any stipulation, Sir."
"What was his inducement, then? If I know him, he is not a man
to act without any."
Fleda's cheek was dyed, but except that, she gave no other
answer.
"Why has it been left so long?" said her uncle, presently.
"I don't know, Sir  he said nothing about that. He promised
that neither we nor the world should hear anything more of
it."
"The world!" said Mr. Rossitur.
"No, Sir; he said that only one or two persons had any notion
of it, and that their secrecy he had the means of securing."
"Did he tell you anything more?"
"Only that he had the matter entirely under his control, and
that never a whisper of it should be heard again. No promise
could be given more fully and absolutely."
Mr. Rossitur drew a long breath, speaking to Fleda's ear very
great relief, and was silent.
"And what reward is he to have for this, Fleda?" he said,
after some musing.
"All that my hearty thanks and gratitude can give, as far as I
am concerned, Sir."
"Is that what he expects, Fleda?"
"I cannot help what he expects," said Fleda, in some distress.
"What have you engaged yourself to, my child?"
"Nothing in the world, uncle Rolf!" said Fleda, earnestly 
"nothing in the world. I haven't engaged myself to anything.
The promise was made freely, without any sort of stipulation."
Mr. Rossitur looked thoughtful and disquieted. Fleda's tears
were pouring again.
"I will not trust him," he said; "I will not stay in the
country!"
"But you will come home, uncle?" said Fleda, terrified.
"Yes, my dear child  yes, my dear child!" he said, tenderly,
putting his arms round Fleda again, and kissing, with an
earnestness of acknowledgment that went to her heart, her lips
and brow; "you shall do what you will with me; and when I go,
we will all go together."
From Queechy? from America? But she had no time for that
thought now.
"You said, 'for Hugh's sake,' " Mr. Rossitur observed, after a
pause, and with some apparent difficulty; "what of him?"
"He is not well, uncle Rolf," said Fleda; "and I think the
best medicine will be the sight of you again."
Mr. Rossitur looked pale, and was silent a moment.
"And my wife?" he said.
His face, and the thought of those faces at home, were too
much for Fleda; she could not help it. "Oh, uncle Rolf," she
said, hiding her face, "they only want to see you again now!"
Mr. Rossitur leaned his head in his hands and groaned; and
Fleda could but cry; she felt there was nothing to say.
"It was for Marion," he said at length; "it was when I was
hard pressed, and I was fearful if it were known that it might
ruin her prospects. I wanted that miserable sum  only four
thousand dollars  that fellow Schwiden asked to borrow it of
me for a few days, and to refuse would have been to confess
all. I dared not try my credit, and I just madly took that
step that proved irretrievable. I counted at the moment upon
funds that were coming to me only the next week  sure, I
thought, as possible  but the man cheated me, and our
embarrassments thickened from that time; that thing has been a
weight  oh, a weight of deadening power!  round my neck ever
since. I have died a living death these six years!"
"I know it, dear uncle  I know it all!" said Fleda, bringing
the sympathizing touch of her cheek to his again. "The good
that it did has been unspeakably overbalanced by the evil.
Even long ago I knew that."
"The good that it did!" It was no time then to moralize, but
he must know that Marion was at home, or he might incautiously
reveal to her what happily there was no necessity for her ever
knowing. And the story must give him great and fresh pain.
"Dear uncle Rolf," said Fleda, pressing closer to him "we may
be happier than we have been in a long time, if you will only
take it so. The cloud upon you has been a cloud upon us."
"I know it!" he exclaimed  "a cloud that served to show me
that my jewels were diamonds!"
"You have an accession to your jewels, uncle Rolf."
"What do you mean?"
"I mean," said Fleda, trembling, "that there are two more at
home."
He held her back to look at her.
"Can't you guess who?"
"No!" said he. "What do you mean?"
"I must tell you, because they know nothing, and needn't know,
of all this matter."
"What are you talking about?"
"Marion is there!"
"Marion!" exclaimed Mr. Rossitur, with quick changes of
expression  "Marion! At Queechy!  and her husband?"
"No, Sir  a dear little child."
"Marion!  and her husband  where is he?"
Fleda hesitated.
"I don't know  I don't know whether she knows."
"Is he dead?"
"No, Sir."
Mr. Rossitur put her away, and got up and walked, or strode up
and down the little apartment. Fleda dared not look at him,
even by the faint glimmer that came from the chimney.
But abroad it was perfectly dark  the stars were shining, the
only lamps that illumined the poor little street, and for a
long time there had been no light in the room but that of the
tiny wood fire. Dinah never could be persuaded of the superior
cheapness of coal. Fleda came at last to her uncle's side, and
putting her arm within his, said 
"How soon will you set off for home, uncle Rolf?"
"To-morrow morning."
"You must take the boat to Bridgeport now  you know the river
is fast."
"Yes, I know."
"Then I will meet you at the wharf, uncle Rolf  at what
o'clock?"
"My dear child," said he, stopping and passing his hand
tenderly over her cheek, "are you fit for it to-morrow? You
had better stay where you are quietly for a few days  you
want rest."
"No, I will go home with you," said Fleda, "and rest there.
But hadn't we better let Dinah in, and bid her good-bye? for I
ought to be somewhere else to get ready."
Dinah was called, and a few kind words spoken, and with a more
substantial remembrance, or reward, from Fleda's hand, they
left her.
Fleda had the support of her uncle's arm till they came within
sight of the house, and then he stood and watched her while
she went the rest of the way alone.
Anything more white and spirit-looking, and more spirit-like,
in its purity and peacefulness surely did not walk that night.
There was music in her ear, and abroad in the star-light, more
ethereal than Ariel's; but she knew where it came from  it
was the chimes of her heart that were ringing; and never a
happier peal, nor ever had the mental atmosphere been more
clear for their sounding. Thankfulness  that was the oftenest
note  swelling thankfulness for her success  joy for herself
and for the dear ones at home  generous delight at having
been the instrument of their relief  the harmonies of pure
affections, without any grating now  the hope, well grounded
she thought, of improvement in her uncle, and better times for
them all  a childlike peace that was at rest with itself and
the world  these were mingling and interchanging their music,
and again and again, in the midst of it all, faith rang the
last chime in heaven.
CHAPTER XVI.
"As some lone bird at day's departing hour
Sings in the sunbeam of the transient shower,
Forgetful though its wings are wet the while."
BOWLES.
Happily possessed with the notion that there was some hidden
mystery in Fleda's movements, Mrs. Pritchard said not a word
about her having gone out, and only spoke in looks her pain at
the imprudence of which she had been guilty. But when Fleda
asked to have a carriage ordered to take her to the boat in
the morning, the good housekeeper could not hold any longer.
"Miss Fleda," said she, with a look of very serious
remonstrance  "I don't know what you're thinking of, but I
know you're fixing to kill yourself. You are no more fit to go
to Queechy to-morrow than you were to be out till seven
o'clock this evening; and if you saw yourself, you wouldn't
want me to say any more. There is not the least morsel of
colour in your face, and you look as if you had a mind to get
rid of your body altogether as fast as you can! You want to be
in bed for two days running, now this minute."
"Thank you, dear Mrs. Pritchard," said Fleda, smiling  "you
are very careful of me, but I must go home to-morrow, and go
to bed afterwards."
The housekeeper looked at her a minute in silence, and then
said, "Don't, dear Miss Fleda!" with an energy of entreaty,
which brought the tears into Fleda's eyes. But she persisted
in desiring the carriage, and Mrs. Pritchard was silenced,
observing, however, that she shouldn't wonder if she wasn't
able to go, after all. Fleda herself was not without a doubt
on the subject before the evening was over. The reaction,
complete now, began to make itself felt, and morning settled
the question. She was not able even to rise from her bed.
The housekeeper was, in a sort, delighted; and Fleda was in
too passive a mood of body and mind to have any care on the
subject. The agitation of the past days had given way to an
absolute quiet, that seemed as if nothing could ever ruffle it
again, and this feeling was seconded by the extreme
prostration of body. She was a mere child in the hands of her
nurse, and had, Mrs. Pritchard said, "if she wouldn't mind her
telling  the sweetest baby-face that ever had so much sense
belonging to it."
The morning was half spent in dozing slumbers, when Fleda
heard a rush of footsteps, much lighter and sprightlier than
good Mrs. Pritchard's, coming up the stairs, and pattering
along the entry to her room, and, with little ceremony, in
rushed Florence and Constance Evelyn. They almost smothered
Fleda with their delighted caresses, and ran so hard their
questions about her looks and her illness, that she was well
nigh spared the trouble of answering.
"You horrid little creature!" said Constance, "why didn't you
come straight to our house? Just think of the injurious
suspicions you have exposed us to!  to say nothing of the
extent of fiction we have found ourselves obliged to execute.
I didn't expect it of you, little Queechy."
Fleda kept her pale face quiet on the pillow, and only smiled
her incredulous curiosity.
"But when did you come back, Fleda?" said Miss Evelyn.
"We should never have known a breath about your being here,"
Constance went on. "We were sitting last night, in peaceful
unconsciousness of there being any neglected calls upon our
friendship in the vicinity, when Mr. Carleton came in and
asked for you. Imagine our horror! We said you had gone out
early in the afternoon, and had not returned."
"You didn't say that!" said Fleda, colouring.
"And he remarked at some length," said Constance, "upon the
importance of young ladies having some attendance when they
are out late in the evening, and that you in particular were
one of those persons  he didn't say, but he intimated, of a
slightly volatile disposition  whom their friends ought not
to lose sight of."
"But what brought you to town again, Fleda " said the elder
sister.
"What makes you talk so, Constance?" said Fleda.
"I haven't told you the half!" said Constance, demurely. "And
then mamma excused herself as well as she could, and Mr.
Carleton said, very seriously, that he knew there was a great
element of headstrongness in your character; he had remarked
it, he said, when you were arguing with Mr. Stackpole."
"Constance, be quiet!" said her sister. "Will you tell me,
Fleda, what you have come to town for? I am dying with
curiosity."
"Then it's inordinate curiosity, and ought to be checked, my
dear," said Fleda, smiling.
"Tell me."
"I came to take care of some business that could not very well
be attended to at a distance."
"Who did you come with?"
"One of our Queechy neighbours that I heard was coming to New
York."
"Wasn't your uncle at home?"
"Of course not. If he had been, there would have been no need
of my stirring."
"But was there nobody else to do it but you?"
"Uncle Orrin away, you know; and Charlton down at his post 
Fort Hamilton, is it?  I forget which fort  he is fast
there."
"He is not so very fast," said Constance, "for I see him every
now and then in Broadway, shouldering Mr. Thorn instead of a
musket; and he has taken up the distressing idea that it is
part of his duty to oversee the progress of Florence's
worsted-work  (I've made over that horrid thing to her,
Fleda)  or else his precision has been struck with the
anomaly of blue stars on a white ground, and he is studying
that  I don't know which; and so every few nights he rushes
over from Governor's Island, or somewhere, to prosecute
inquiries. Mamma is quite concerned about him; she says he is
wearing himself out."
The mixture of amusement, admiration, and affection, with
which the other sister looked at her, and laughed with her was
a pretty thing to see.
"But where is your other cousin  Hugh?" said Florence.
"He was not well."
"Where is your uncle?"
"He will be at home to-day, I expect; and so should I have
been  I meant to be there as soon as he was, but I found this
morning that I was not well enough  to my sorrow."
"You were not going alone!"
"Oh, no!  a friend of ours was going to-day."
"I never saw anybody with so many friends, said Florence. "But
you are coming to us now, Fleda. How soon are you going to get
up?"
"Oh, by to-morrow," said Fleda, smiling; "but I had better
stay where I am the little while I shall be here. I must go
home the first minute I can find an opportunity."
"But you sha'n't find an opportunity till we've had you," said
Constance. "I'm going to bring a carriage for you this
afternoon. I could bear the loss of your friendship, my dear,
but not the peril of my own reputation. Mr. Carleton is under
the impression that you are suffering from a momentary
succession of fainting fits; and if we were to leave you here
in an empty house, to come out of them at your leisure, what
would he think of us?"
What would he think? Oh, world! Is this it?
But Fleda was not able to be moved in the afternoon; and it
soon appeared that nature would take more revenge than a day's
sleep for the rough handling she had had the past week. Fleda
could not rise from her bed the next morning; and instead of
that, a kind of nondescript nervous fever set in, nowise
dangerous, but very wearying. She was, nevertheless, extremely
glad of it, for it would serve to explain to all her friends
the change of look which had astonished them. They would make
it now the token of coming, not of past, evil. The rest she
took with her accustomed patience and quietness, thankful for
everything, after the anxiety and the relief she had just
before known.
Dr. Gregory came home from Philadelphia in the height of her
attack, and aggravated it for a day or two with the fear of
his questioning. But Fleda was surprised at his want of
curiosity. He asked her, indeed, what she had come to town
for, but her whispered answer of "business," seemed to satisfy
him, for he did not inquire what the business was. He did ask
her, furthermore, what had made her get sick; but this time he
was satisfied more easily still, with a very curious, sweet
smile, which was the utmost reply Fleda's wits, at the moment,
could frame. "Well, get well," said he, kissing her heartily
once or twice, "and I wont quarrel with you about it."
The getting well, however, promised to be a leisurely affair.
Dr. Gregory staid two or three days, and then went on to
Boston, leaving Fleda in no want of him.
Mrs. Pritchard was the tenderest and carefullest of nurses.
The Evelyns did everything but nurse her. They sat by her,
talked to her, made her laugh, and not seldom made her look
sober too, with their wild tales of the world and the world's
doings. But they were indeed very affectionate and kind, and
Fleda loved them for it. If they wearied her sometimes with
their talk, it was a change from the weariness of fever and
silence that on the whole was useful.
She was quieting herself one morning, as well as she could, in
the midst of both, lying with shut eyes against her pillow,
and trying to fix her mind on pleasant things, when she heard
Mrs. Pritchard open the door and come in. She knew it was Mrs.
Pritchard, so she didn't move nor look. But, in a moment, the
knowledge that Mrs. Pritchard's feet had stopped just by the
bed, and a strange sensation of something delicious saluting
her, made her open her eyes; when they lighted upon a huge
bunch of violets just before them, and in most friendly
neighbourhood to her nose. Fleda started up, and her "Oh!"
fairly made the housekeeper laugh; it was the very
quintessence of gratification.
"Where did you get them?"
"I didn't get them, indeed, Miss Fleda," said the housekeeper,
gravely, with an immense amount of delighted satisfaction.
"Delicious!  Where did they come from?"
"Well, they must have come from a greenhouse, or hothouse, or
something of that kind, Miss Fleda  these things don't grow
nowhere out o' doors at this time."
Mrs. Pritchard guessed Fleda had got the clue, from her quick
change of colour and falling eye. There was a quick little
smile too; and "How kind!" was upon the end of Fleda's tongue,
but it never got any further. Her energies, so far as
expression was concerned, seemed to be concentrated in the act
of smelling. Mrs. Pritchard stood by.
"They must be put in water," said Fleda  "I must have a dish
for them  Dear Mrs. Pritchard, will you get me one?"
The housekeeper went, smiling to herself. The dish was
brought, the violets placed in it, and a little table, at
Fleda's request, was set by the side of the bed, close to her
pillow, for them to stand upon; and Fleda lay on her pillow
and looked at them.
There never were purer-breathed flowers than those. All the
pleasant associations of Fleda's life seemed to hang about
them, from the time when her childish eyes had first made
acquaintance with violets, to the conversation in the library
a few days ago; and painful things stood aloof  they had no
part. The freshness of youth, and the sweetness of spring-
time, and all the kindly influences which had ever joined with
both to bless her, came back with their blessing in the
violets' reminding breath. Fleda shut her eyes and she felt
it; she opened her eyes, and the little, double blue things
smiled at her good-humouredly, and said, "Here we are  you
may shut them again." And it was curious how often Fleda gave
them a smile back as she did so.
Mrs. Pritchard thought Fleda lived upon the violets that day
rather than upon food and medicine; or, at least, she said,
they agreed remarkably well together. And the next day it was
much the same.
"What will you do when they are withered?" she said, that
evening. "I shall have to see and get some more for you."
"Oh, they will last a great while," said Fleda, smiling.
But the next morning Mrs. Pritchard came into her room with a
great bunch of roses, the very like of the one Fleda had had
at the Evelyns'. She delivered them with a sort of silent
triumph, and then, as before, stood by to enjoy Fleda and the
flowers together. But the degree of Fleda's wonderment,
pleasure, and gratitude, made her reception of them, outwardly
at least, this time rather grave.
"You may throw the others away now, Miss Fleda," said the
housekeeper, smiling.
"Indeed, I shall not!"
"The violets, I suppose, is all gone," Mrs. Pritchard went on;
"but I never did see such a bunch of roses as that since I
lived anywhere. They have made a rose of you, Miss Fleda."
"How beautiful!" was Fleda's answer.
"Somebody  he didn't say who  desired to know particularly
how Miss Ringgan was to-day."
"Somebody is very kind!" said Fleda, from the bottom of her
heart. "But, dear Mrs. Pritchard, I shall want another dish."
Somebody was kind, she thought more and more; for there came
every day or two the most delicious bouquets, every day
different. They were at least equal in their soothing and
refreshing influences, to all the efforts of all the Evelyns
and Mrs. Pritchard put together. There never came any name
with them, and there never was any need. Those bunches of
flowers certainly had a physiognomy; and to Fleda were (not
the flowers, but the choosing, cutting, and putting of them
together) the embodiment of an amount of grace, refined
feeling, generosity, and kindness, that her imagination never
thought of in connection with but one person. And his kindness
was answered, perhaps Mrs. Pritchard better than Fleda guessed
how well, from the delighted colour and sparkle of the eye
with which every fresh arrival was greeted as it walked into
her room. By Fleda's order, the bouquets were invariably put
out of sight before the Evelyns made their first visit in the
morning, and not brought out again till all danger of seeing
them any more for the day was past. The regular coming of
these floral messengers confirmed Mrs. Pritchard in her
mysterious surmises about Fleda, which were still further
strengthened by this incomprehensible order; and at last she
got so into the spirit of the thing, that if she heard an
untimely ring at the door, she would catch up a glass of
flowers and run as if they had been contraband, without a word
from anybody.
The Evelyns wrote to Mrs. Rossitur, by Fleda's desire, so as
not to alarm her; merely saying that Fleda was not quite well,
and that they meant to keep her a little while to recruit
herself; and that Mrs. Rossitur must send her some clothes.
This last clause was the particular addition of Constance.
The fever lasted a fortnight, and then went off by degrees,
leaving her with a very small portion of her ordinary
strength. Fleda was to go to the Evelyns' as soon as she could
bear it; at present she was only able to come down to the
little back parlour, and sit in the doctor's arm-chair, and
eat jelly, and sleep, and look at Constance, and, when
Constance was not there, look at her flowers. She could hardly
bear a book as yet. She hadn't a bit of colour in her face,
Mrs. Pritchard said, but she looked better than when she came
to town; and to herself the good housekeeper added, that she
looked happier too. No doubt that was true. Fleda's principal
feeling, ever since she lay down in her bed, had been
thankfulness; and now that the ease of returning health was
joined to this feeling, her face, with all its subdued
gravity, was as untroubled in its expression as the faces of
her flowers.
She was disagreeably surprised one day, after she had been two
or three days down stairs, by a visit from Mrs. Thorn. In her
well-grounded dread of seeing one person, Fleda had given
strict orders that no gentleman should be admitted; she had
not counted upon this invasion. Mrs. Thorn had always been
extremely kind to her, but though Fleda gave her credit for
thorough good-heartedness, and a true liking for herself, she
could not disconnect her attentions from another thought, and
therefore always wished them away; and never had her kind face
been more thoroughly disagreeable to Fleda than when it made
its appearance in the doctor's little back parlour on this
occasion. With even more than her usual fondness, or Fleda's
excited imagination fancied so, Mrs. Thorn lavished caresses
upon her, and finally besought her to go out and take the air
in her carriage. Fleda tried most earnestly to get rid of this
invitation, and was gently unpersuadable, till the lady at
last was brought to promise that she should see no creature
during the drive but herself. An ominous promise! but Fleda
did not know any longer how to refuse without hurting a person
for whom she had really a grateful regard. So she went, and
doubted afterwards exceedingly whether she had done well.
She took special good care to see nobody again till she went
to the Evelyns'. But then precautions were at an end. It was
no longer possible to keep herself shut up. She had cause,
poor child, the very first night of her coming, to wish
herself back again.
This first evening she would fain have pleaded weakness as her
excuse, and gone to her room, but Constance laid violent hands
on her, and insisted that she should stay at least a little
while with them. And she seemed fated to see all her friends
in a bevy. First came Charlton; then followed the Decaturs,
whom she knew and liked very well, and engrossed her, happily
before her cousin had time to make any inquiries; then came
Mr. Carleton; then Mr. Stackpole. Then Mr. Thorn, in
expectation of whom Fleda's breath had been coming and going
painfully all the evening. She could not meet him without a
strange mixture of embarrassment and confusion with the
gratitude she wished to express, an embarrassment not at all
lessened by the air of happy confidence with which he came
forward to her. It carried an intimation that almost took away
the little strength she had. And if anything could have made
his presence more intolerable, it was the feeling she could
not get rid of, that it was the cause why Mr. Carleton did not
come near her again, though she prolonged her stay in the
drawing-room in the hope that he would. It proved to be for
Mr. Thorn's benefit alone.
"Well, you staid all the evening, after all," said Constance,
as they were going up stairs.
"Yes  I wish I hadn't," said Fleda. "I wonder when I shall be
likely to find a chance of getting back to Queechy?"
"You're not fit yet, so you needn't trouble yourself about
it," said Constance. "We'll find you plenty of chances."
Fleda could not think of Mr. Thorn without trembling. His
manner meant  so much more than it had any right, or than she
had counted upon. He seemed  she pressed her hands upon her
face to get rid of the impression  he seemed to take for
granted precisely that which she had refused to admit; he
seemed to reckon as paid for that which she had declined to
set a price upon. Her uncle's words and manner came up in her
memory. She could see nothing best to do but to get home as
fast as possible. She had no one here to fall back upon. Again
that vision of father and mother, and grandfather, flitted
across her fancy; and though Fleda's heart ended by resting
down on that foundation to which it always recurred, it rested
with a great many tears.
For several days she denied herself absolutely to morning
visitors of every kind. But she could not entirely absent
herself from the drawing-room in the evening; and whenever the
family were at home there was a regular levee. Mr. Thorn could
not be avoided then. He was always there, and always with that
same look and manner of satisfied confidence. Fleda was as
grave, as silent, as reserved, as she could possibly be, and
not be rude; but he seemed to take it in excellent good part,
as being half indisposition and half timidity. Fleda set her
face earnestly towards home, and pressed Mrs. Evelyn to find
her an opportunity, weak or strong, of going there; but for
those days as yet none presented itself.
Mr. Carleton was at the house almost as often as Mr. Thorn,
seldom staying so long, however, and never having any more to
do with Fleda than he had that first evening. Whenever he did
come in contact with her, he was, she thought, as grave as he
was graceful. That was, to be sure, his common manner in
company, yet she could not help thinking there was some
difference since the walk they had taken together  and it
grieved her.
CHAPTER XVII.
"The best-laid schemes o' mice and men
Gang aft ajee."
After a few days, Charlton verified what Constance had said
about his not being very fast at Fort Hamilton, by coming
again to see them one morning. Fleda asked him if he could not
get another furlough to go with her home, but he declared he
was just spending one which was near out; and he could not
hope for a third in some time; he must be back at his post by
the day after to-morrow.
"When do you want to go, coz?"
"I would to-morrow, if I had anybody to go with me," said
Fleda, sighing.
"No, you wouldn't," said Constance; "you are well enough to go
out now, and you forget we are all to make Mrs. Thorn happy
to-morrow night."
"I am not," said Fleda.
"Not? you can't help yourself  you must; you said you would."
"I did not, indeed."
"Well, then, I said it for you, and that will do just as well.
Why, my dear, if you don't  just think!  the Thorns will be
in a state  I should prefer to go through a hedge of any
description rather than meet the trying demonstrations which
will encounter me on every side."
"I am going to Mrs. Decatur's," said Fleda; "she invited me
first, and I owe it to her; she has asked me so often and so
kindly."
"I shouldn't think you'd enjoy yourself there," said Florence;
"they don't talk a bit of English these nights. If I was
going, my dear, I would act as your interpreter, but my
destiny lies in another direction."
"If I cannot make anybody understand my French, I will get
somebody to condescend to my English," said Fleda.
"Why, do you talk French?" was the instant question from both
mouths.
"Unless she has forgotten herself strangely," said Charlton.
"Talk! she will talk to anybody's satisfaction  that happens
to differ from her; and I think her tongue cares very little
which language it wags in. There is no danger about Fleda's
enjoying herself, where people are talking."
Fleda laughed at him, and the Evelyns rather stared at them
both.
"But we are all going to Mrs. Thorn's? you can't go alone?"
"I will make Charlton take me," said Fleda; "or rather I will
take him, if he will let me. Will you, Charlton? will you take
care of me to Mrs. Decatur's to-morrow night?"
"With the greatest pleasure, my dear coz; but I have another
engagement in the course of the evening."
"Oh, that is nothing," said Fleda; "if you will only go with
me, that is all I care for. You needn't stay but ten minutes.
And you can call for me," she added, turning to the Evelyns,
"as you come back from Mrs. Thorn's."
To this no objection could be made, and the ensuing raillery
Fleda bore with steadiness at least, if not with coolness; for
Charlton heard it, and she was distressed.
She went to Mrs. Decatur's the next evening in greater elation
of spirits than she had known since she left her uncle's;
delighted to be missing from the party at Mrs. Thorn's, and
hoping that Mr. Lewis would be satisfied with this very plain
hint of her mind. A little pleased, too, to feel quite free,
alone from too friendly eyes, and ears that had too lively a
concern in her sayings and doings. She did not in the least
care about going to Mrs. Decatur's; her joy was that she was
not at the other place. But there never was elation so
outwardly quiet. Nobody would have suspected its existence.
The evening was near half over when Mr. Carleton came in.
