  incident as the sale of Cassy apart from Eliza, upon which the whole
  interest of the foregoing narrative hinges, never could have taken
  place in Louisiana, and that the bill of sale for Eliza would not
  have been worth the paper it was written on. Observe. George Shelby
  states that Eliza was eight or nine years old at the time his
  father purchased her in New Orleans. Let us again look at the
  statute-book of Louisiana.
  “In the Code Noir we find it set down that
  “‘Every person is expressly prohibited from selling separately from
  their mothers the children who shall not have attained the full age
  of ten years.’
  “And this humane provision is strengthened by a statute, one clause
  of which runs as follows:
  “‘Be it further enacted, That if any person or persons shall sell
  the mother of any slave child or children under the age of ten
  years, separate from said child or children, or shall, the mother
  living, sell any slave child or children of ten years of age, or
  under, separate from said mother, such person or persons shall
  incur the penalty of the sixth section of this act.’
  “This penalty is a fine of not less than one thousand nor more than
  two thousand dollars, and imprisonment in the public jail for a
  period of not less than six months nor more than one year.—Vide
  Acts of Louisiana, 1 Session, 9th Legislature, 1828, 1829, No. 24,
  Section 16.”
The author makes here a remark. Scattered through all the Southern
States are slaveholders who are such only in name. They have no pleasure
in the system, they consider it one of wrong altogether, and they hold
the legal relation still, only because not yet clear with regard to the
best way of changing it, so as to better the condition of those held.
Such are most earnest advocates for state emancipation, and are friends
of anything, written in a right spirit, which tends in that direction.
From such the author ever receives criticisms with pleasure.
She has endeavored to lay before the world, in the fullest manner, all
that can be objected to her work, that both sides may have an
opportunity of impartial hearing.
When writing “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” though entirely unaware and
unexpectant of the importance which would be attached to its statements
and opinions, the author of that work was anxious, from love of
consistency, to have some understanding of the laws of the slave system.
She had on hand for reference, while writing, the Code Noir of
Louisiana, and a sketch of the laws relating to slavery in the different
states, by Judge Stroud, of Philadelphia. This work, professing to have
been compiled with great care from the latest editions of the
statute-books of the several states, the author supposed to be a
sufficient guide for the writing of a work of fiction.[3] As the
accuracy of those statements which relate to the slave-laws has been
particularly contested, a more especial inquiry has been made in this
direction. Under the guidance and with the assistance of legal gentlemen
of high standing, the writer has proceeded to examine the statements of
Judge Stroud with regard to statute-law, and to follow them up with some
inquiry into the decisions of courts. The result has been an increasing
conviction on her part that the impressions first derived from Judge
Stroud’s work were correct; and the author now can only give the words
of St. Clare, as the best possible expression of the sentiments and
opinion which this course of reading has awakened in her mind.
  This cursed business, accursed of God and man,—what is it? Strip it
  of all its ornament, run it down to the root and nucleus of the
  whole, and what is it? Why, because my brother Quashy is ignorant
  and weak, and I am intelligent and strong,—because I know how, and
  can do it,—therefore I may steal all he has, keep it, and give him
  only such and so much as suits my fancy! Whatever is too hard, too
  dirty, too disagreeable for me, I may set Quashy to doing. Because I
  don’t like work, Quashy shall work. Because the sun burns me, Quashy
  shall stay in the sun. Quashy shall earn the money, and I will spend
  it. Quashy shall lie down in every puddle, that I may walk over dry
  shod. Quashy shall do my will, and not his, all the days of his
  mortal life, and have such a chance of getting to heaven at last as
  I find convenient. This I take to be about what slavery is. I defy
  anybody on earth to read our slave-code, as it stands in our
  law-books, and make anything else of it. Talk of the abuses of
  slavery! Humbug! The thing itself is the essence of all abuse. And
  the only reason why the land don’t sink under it, like Sodom and
  Gomorrah, is because it is used in a way infinitely better than it
  is. For pity’s sake, for shame’s sake, because we are men born of
  women, and not savage beasts, many of us do not, and dare not,—we
  would scorn to use the full power which our savage laws put into
  our hands. And he who goes the furthest, and does the worst, only
  uses within limits the power that the law gives him!
The author still holds to the opinion that slavery in itself, as legally
defined in law-books and expressed in the records of courts, is the
SUM AND ESSENCE OF ALL ABUSE; and she still clings to the hope that
there are many men at the South infinitely better than their laws;
and after the reader has read all the extracts which she has to make,
for the sake of a common humanity they will hope the same. The author
must state, with regard to some passages which she must quote, that the
language of certain enactments was so incredible that she would not take
it on the authority of any compilation whatever, but copied it with her
own hand from the latest edition of the statute-book where it stood and
still stands.
-----
Footnote 3:
  In this connection it may be well to state that the work of Judge
  Stroud is now out of print, but that a work of the same character is
  in course of preparation by William I. Bowditch, Esq., of Boston,
  which will bring the subject out, by the assistance of the latest
  editions of statutes, and the most recent decisions of courts.
                              CHAPTER II.
                            WHAT IS SLAVERY?
The author will now enter into a consideration of slavery as it stands
revealed in slave law.
[Sidenote: Civil Code, Art. 35.]
[Sidenote: 2 Brev. Dig. 229. Prince’s Digest, 446.]
What is it, according to the definition of law-books and of legal
interpreters? “A slave,” says the law of Louisiana, “is one who is in
the power of a master, to whom he belongs. The master may sell him,
dispose of his person, his industry and his labor; he can do nothing,
possess nothing, nor acquire anything, but what must belong to his
master.” South Carolina says “slaves shall be deemed, sold, taken,
reputed and adjudged in law, to be chattels personal in the hands of
their owners and possessors, and their executors, administrators, and
assigns, TO ALL INTENTS, CONSTRUCTIONS AND PURPOSES WHATSOEVER.” The law
of Georgia is similar.
[Sidenote: Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, 246. State v. Mann.]
Let the reader reflect on the extent of the meaning in this last clause.
Judge Ruffin, pronouncing the opinion of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina, says, a slave is “one doomed in his own person, and his
posterity, to live without knowledge, and without the capacity to make
anything his own, and to toil that another may reap the fruits.”
This is what slavery is,—this is what it is to be a slave! The
slave-code, then, of the Southern States, is designed to keep millions
of human beings in the condition of chattels personal; to keep them in a
condition in which the master may sell them, dispose of their time,
person and labor; in which they can do nothing, possess nothing, and
acquire nothing, except for the benefit of the master; in which they are
doomed in themselves and in their posterity to live without knowledge,
without the power to make anything their own,—to toil that another may
reap. The laws of the slave-code are designed to work out this problem,
consistently with the peace of the community, and the safety of that
superior race which is constantly to perpetrate this outrage.
From this simple statement of what the laws of slavery are designed to
do,—from a consideration that the class thus to be reduced, and
oppressed, and made the subjects of a perpetual robbery, are men of
like passions with our own, men originally made in the image of God as
much as ourselves, men partakers of that same humanity of which Jesus
Christ is the highest ideal and expression,—when we consider that the
material thus to be acted upon is that fearfully explosive element, the
soul of man; that soul elastic, upspringing, immortal, whose free will
even the Omnipotence of God refuses to coerce,—we may form some idea of
the tremendous force which is necessary to keep this mightiest of
elements in the state of repression which is contemplated in the
definition of slavery.
Of course, the system necessary to consummate and perpetuate such a
work, from age to age, must be a fearfully stringent one; and our
readers will find that it is so. Men who make the laws, and men who
interpret them, may be fully sensible of their terrible severity and
inhumanity; but, if they are going to preserve the THING, they have no
resource but to make the laws, and to execute them faithfully after they
are made. They may say, with the honorable Judge Ruffin, of North
Carolina, when solemnly from the bench announcing this great foundation
principle of slavery, that “THE POWER OF THE MASTER MUST BE ABSOLUTE, TO
RENDER THE SUBMISSION OF THE SLAVE PERFECT,”—they may say, with him, “I
most freely confess my sense of the harshness of this proposition; I
feel it as deeply as any man can; and, as a principle of moral right,
every person in his retirement must repudiate it;”—but they will also be
obliged to add, with him, “But, in the actual condition of things, it
MUST BE SO. * * This discipline belongs to the state of slavery. * * *
It is INHERENT in the relation of master and slave.”
And, like Judge Ruffin, men of honor, men of humanity, men of kindest
and gentlest feelings, are obliged to interpret these severe laws with
inflexible severity. In the perpetual reaction of that awful force of
human passion and human will, which necessarily meets the compressive
power of slavery,—in that seething, boiling tide, never wholly
repressed, which rolls its volcanic stream underneath the whole
frame-work of society so constituted, ready to find vent at the least
rent or fissure or unguarded aperture,—there is a constant necessity
which urges to severity of law and inflexibility of execution. So Judge
Ruffin says, “We cannot allow the right of the matter to be brought
into discussion in the courts of justice. The slave, to remain a slave,
must be made sensible that there is NO APPEAL FROM HIS MASTER.”
Accordingly, we find in the more southern states, where the slave
population is most accumulated, and slave property most necessary and
valuable, and, of course, the determination to abide by the system the
most decided, there the enactments are most severe, and the
interpretation of courts the most inflexible.[4] And, when legal
decisions of a contrary character begin to be made, it would appear that
it is a symptom of leaning towards emancipation. So abhorrent is the
slave-code to every feeling of humanity, that just as soon as there is
any hesitancy in the community about perpetuating the institution of
slavery, judges begin to listen to the voice of their more honorable
nature, and by favorable interpretations to soften its necessary
severities.
Such decisions do not commend themselves to the professional admiration
of legal gentlemen. But in the workings of the slave system, when the
irresponsible power which it guarantees comes to be used by men of the
most brutal nature, cases sometimes arise for trial where the consistent
exposition of the law involves results so loathsome and frightful, that
the judge prefers to be illogical, rather than inhuman. Like a spring
outgushing in the desert, some noble man, now and then, from the fulness
of his own better nature, throws out a legal decision, generously
inconsistent with every principle and precedent of slave jurisprudence,
and we bless God for it. All we wish is that there were more of them,
for then should we hope that the day of redemption was drawing nigh.
The reader is now prepared to enter with us on the proof of this
proposition: That the slave-code is designed only for the security of
the master, and not with regard to the welfare of the slave.
This is implied in the whole current of law-making and
law-administration, and is often asserted in distinct form, with a
precision and clearness of legal accuracy which, in a literary point of
view, are quite admirable. Thus, Judge Ruffin, after stating that
considerations restricting the power of the master had often been drawn
from a comparison of slavery with the relation of parent and child,
master and apprentice, tutor and pupil, says distinctly:
  The court does not recognize their application. There is no likeness
  between the cases. They are in opposition to each other, and there
  is an impassable gulf between them. * * * *
[Sidenote: Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, page 246.]
  In the one [case], the end in view is the happiness of the youth,
  born to equal rights with that governor, on whom the duty devolves
  of training the young to usefulness, in a station which he is
  afterwards to assume among freemen. * * * * With slavery it is far
  otherwise. The end is the profit of the master, his security and
  the public safety.
[Sidenote: Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, p. 239.]
Not only is this principle distinctly asserted in so many words, but it
is more distinctly implied in multitudes of the arguings and reasonings
which are given as grounds of legal decisions. Even such provisions as
seem to be for the benefit of the slave we often find carefully
interpreted so as to show that it is only on account of his property
value to his master that he is thus protected, and not from any
consideration of humanity towards himself. Thus it has been decided that
a master can bring no action for assault and battery on his slave,
unless the injury be such as to produce a loss of service.
The spirit in which this question is discussed is worthy of remark. We
give a brief statement of the case, as presented in Wheeler, p. 239.
[Sidenote: Cornfute v. Dale, April Term, 1800. 1 Har. & Johns. Rep. 4]
[Sidenote: 2 Lutw. 1481; 20 Viner’s Abr. 454.]
It was an action for assault and battery committed by Dale on one
Cornfute’s slave. It was contended by Cornfute’s counsel that it was not
necessary to prove loss of service, in order that the action should be
sustained; that an action might be supported for beating plaintiff’s
horse; and that the lord might have an action for the battery of his
villein, which is founded on this principle, that, as the villein could
not support the action, the injury would be without redress, unless the
lord could. On the other side it was said that Lord Chief Justice
Raymond had decided that an assault on a horse was no cause of action,
unless accompanied with a special damage of the animal, which would
impair his value.
Chief Justice Chase decided that no redress could be obtained in the
case, because the value of the slave had not been impaired, and without
injury or wrong to the master no action could be sustained; and
assigned this among other reasons for it, that there was no reciprocity
in the case, as the master was not liable for assault and battery
committed by his slave, neither could he gain redress for one committed
upon his slave.
Let any reader now imagine what an amount of wanton cruelty and
indignity may be heaped upon a slave man or woman or child without
actually impairing their power to do service to the master, and he will
have a full sense of the cruelty of this decision.
[Sidenote: Tate v. O’Neal, 1 Hawks, 418. U. S. Dig. Sup. 2, p. 797, §
           121.]
In the same spirit it has been held in North Carolina that patrols
(night watchmen) are not liable to the master for inflicting punishment
on the slave, unless their conduct clearly demonstrates malice against
the master.
[Sidenote: State v. Maner, 2 Hill’s Rep. 453. Wheeler’s Law of
           Slavery, page 243.]
The cool-bloodedness of some of these legal discussions is forcibly
shown by two decisions in Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, p. 243. On the
question whether the criminal offence of assault and battery can be
committed on a slave, there are two decisions of the two States of South
and North Carolina; and it is difficult to say which of these decisions
has the preëminence for cool legal inhumanity. That of South Carolina
reads thus.
Judge O’Neill says:
  The criminal offence of assault and battery can not, at common law,
  be committed upon the person of a slave. For notwithstanding (for
  some purposes) a slave is regarded by law as a person, yet
  generally he is a mere chattel personal, and his right of personal
  protection belongs to his master, who can maintain an action of
  trespass for the battery of his slave. There can be therefore no
  offence against the state for a mere beating of a slave
  unaccompanied with any circumstances of cruelty (!!), or an attempt
  to kill and murder. The peace of the state is not thereby broken;
  for a slave is not generally regarded as legally capable of being
  within the peace of the state. He is not a citizen, and is not in
  that character entitled to her protection.
[Sidenote: See State v. Hale. Wheeler, p. 239. 2 Hawk. N. C. Rep.
           582.]
What declaration of the utter indifference of the state to the
sufferings of the slave could be more elegantly cool and clear? But in
North Carolina it appears that the case is argued still more
elaborately.
Chief Justice Taylor thus shows that, after all, there are reasons why
an assault and battery upon the slave may, on the whole, have some such
general connection with the comfort and security of the community, that
it may be construed into a breach of the peace, and should be treated as
an indictable offence.
[Sidenote: 1 Rev. Code 448.]
  The instinct of a slave may be, and generally is, tamed into
  subservience to his master’s will, and from him he receives
  chastisement, whether it be merited or not, with perfect submission;
  for he knows the extent of the dominion assumed over him, and that
  the law ratifies the claim. But when the same authority is wantonly
  usurped by a stranger, nature is disposed to assert her rights, and
  to prompt the slave to a resistance, often momentarily successful,
  sometimes fatally so. The public peace is thus broken, as much as if
  a free man had been beaten; for the party of the aggressor is always
  the strongest, and such contests usually terminate by overpowering
  the slave, and inflicting on him a severe chastisement, without
  regard to the original cause of the conflict. There is,
  consequently, as much reason for making such offences indictable as
  if a white man had been the victim. A wanton injury committed on a
  slave is a great provocation to the owner, awakens his resentment,
  and has a direct tendency to a breach of the peace, by inciting him
  to seek immediate vengeance. If resented in the heat of blood, it
  would probably extenuate a homicide to manslaughter, upon the same
  principle with the case stated by Lord Hale, that if A riding on the
  road, B had whipped his horse out of the track, and then A had
  alighted and killed B. These offences are usually committed by men
  of dissolute habits, hanging loose upon society, who, being
  repelled from association with well-disposed citizens, take refuge
  in the company of colored persons and slaves, whom they deprave by
  their example, embolden by their familiarity, and then beat, under
  the expectation that a slave dare not resent a blow from a white
  man. If such offences may be committed with impunity, the public
  peace will not only be rendered extremely insecure, but the value
  of slave property must be much impaired, for the offenders can
  seldom make any reparation in damages. Nor is it necessary, in any
  case, that a person who has received an injury, real or imaginary,
  from a slave, should carve out his own justice; for the law has
  made ample and summary provision for the punishment of all trivial
  offences committed by slaves, by carrying them before a justice, who
  is authorized to pass sentence for their being publicly whipped.
  This provision, while it excludes the necessity of private
  vengeance, would seem to forbid its legality, since it effectually
  protects all persons from the insolence of slaves, even where their
  masters are unwilling to correct them upon complaint being made. The
  common law has often been called into efficient operation, for the
  punishment of public cruelty inflicted upon animals, for needless
  and wanton barbarity exercised even by masters upon their slaves,
  and for various violations of decency, morals, and comfort. Reason
  and analogy seem to require that a human being, although the
  subject of property, should be so far protected as the public
  might be injured through him.
  For all purposes necessary to enforce the obedience of the slave,
  and to render him useful as property, the law secures to the master
  a complete authority over him, and it will not lightly interfere
  with the relation thus established. It is a more effectual
  guarantee of his right of property, when the slave is protected from
  wanton abuse from those who have no power over him; for it cannot
  be disputed that a slave is rendered less capable of performing his
  master’s service when he finds himself exposed by the law to the
  capricious violence of every turbulent man in the community.
If this is not a scrupulous disclaimer of all humane intention in the
decision, as far as the slave is concerned, and an explicit declaration
that he is protected only out of regard to the comfort of the community,
and his property value to his master, it is difficult to see how such a
declaration could be made. After all this cool-blooded course of remark,
it is somewhat curious to come upon the following certainly most
unexpected declaration, which occurs in the very next paragraph:
  Mitigated as slavery is by the humanity of our laws, the
  refinement of manners, and by public opinion, which revolts at
  every instance of cruelty towards them, it would be an anomaly in
  the system of police which affects them, if the offence stated in
  the verdict were not indictable.
The reader will please to notice that this remarkable declaration is
made of the State of North Carolina. We shall have occasion again to
refer to it by and by, when we extract from the statute-book of North
Carolina some specimens of these humane laws.
[Sidenote: Jourdain v. Patton, July term, 1818. 5 Martin’s Louis Rep.
           615.]
In the same spirit it is decided, under the law of Louisiana, that if an
individual injures another’s slave so as to make him entirely useless,
and the owner recovers from him the full value of the slave, the slave
by that act becomes thenceforth the property of the person who injured
him. A decision to this effect is given in Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, p.
249. A woman sued for an injury done to her slave by the slave of the
defendant. The injury was such as to render him entirely useless, his
only eye being put out. The parish court decreed that she should
recover twelve hundred dollars, that the defendant should pay a further
sum of twenty-five dollars a month from the time of the injury; also the
physician’s bill, and two hundred dollars for the sustenance of the
slave during his life, and that he should remain forever in the
possession of his mistress.
The case was appealed. The judge reversed the decision, and delivered
the slave into the possession of the man whose slave had committed the
outrage. In the course of the decision, the judge remarks, with that
calm legal explicitness for which many decisions of this kind are
remarkable, that
  The principle of humanity, which would lead us to suppose that the
  mistress, whom he had long served, would treat her miserable blind
  slave with more kindness than the defendant, to whom the judgment
  ought to transfer him, cannot be taken into consideration in
  deciding this case.
[Sidenote: Jan. term, 1828. 9 Martin La. Rep. 350.]
Another case, reported in Wheeler’s Law, page 198, the author thus
summarily abridges. It is Dorothee v. Coquillon et al. A young girl,
by will of her mistress, was to have her freedom at twenty-one; and it
was required by the will that in the mean time she should be educated in
such a manner as to enable her to earn her living when free, her
services in the mean time being bequeathed to the daughter of the
defendant. Her mother (a free woman) entered complaint that no care was
taken of the child’s education, and that she was cruelly treated. The
prayer of the petition was that the child be declared free at
twenty-one, and in the mean time hired out by the sheriff. The suit was
decided against the mother, on this ground,—that she could not sue for
her daughter in a case where the daughter could not sue for herself were
she of age,—the object of the suit being relief from ill-treatment
during the time of her slavery, which a slave cannot sue for.
[Sidenote: Jan. term, 1827. 4 M’Cord’s Rep. 161. Wheeler’s Law of
           Slavery, p. 201.]
Observe, now, the following case of Jennings v. Fundeberg. It seems
Jennings brings an action of trespass against Fundeberg for killing his
slave. The case was thus: Fundeberg with others, being out hunting
runaway negroes, surprised them in their camp, and, as the report says,
“fired his gun towards them as they were running away, to induce them
to stop.” One of them, being shot through the head, was thus induced
to stop,—and the master of the boy brought action for trespass against
the firer for killing his slave.
The decision of the inferior court was as follows:
The court “thought the killing accidental, and that the defendant ought
not to be made answerable as a trespasser.” * * * *
“When one is lawfully interfering with the property of another, and
accidentally destroys it, he is no trespasser, and ought not to be
answerable for the value of the property. In this case, the defendant
was engaged in a lawful and meritorious service, and if he really
fired his gun in the manner stated it was an allowable act.”
The superior judge reversed the decision, on the ground that in dealing
with another person’s property one is responsible for any injury which
he could have avoided by any degree of circumspection. “The firing ...
was rash and incautious.”
Does not the whole spirit of this discussion speak for itself?
[Sidenote: Jan. T. 1827. 4 M’Cord’s Rep. 156.]
See also the very next case in Wheeler’s Law. Richardson v. Dukes, p.
202.
  Trespass for killing the plaintiff’s slave. It appeared the slave
  was stealing potatoes from a bank near the defendant’s house. The
  defendant fired upon him with a gun loaded with buckshot, and killed
  him. The jury found a verdict for plaintiff for one dollar. Motion
  for a new trial.
  The Court. Nott J. held, there must be a new trial; that the
  jury ought to have given the plaintiff the value of the slave. That
  if the jury were of opinion the slave was of bad character, some
  deduction from the usual price ought to be made, but the plaintiff
  was certainly entitled to his actual damage for killing his slave.
  Where property is in question, the value of the article, as nearly
  as it can be ascertained, furnishes a rule from which they are not
  at liberty to depart.
[Sidenote: Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, 220.]
It seems that the value of this unfortunate piece of property was
somewhat reduced from the circumstance of his “stealing potatoes.”
Doubtless he had his own best reasons for this; so, at least, we should
infer from the following remark, which occurs in one of the reasonings
of Judge Taylor, of N. Carolina.
  “The act of 1786 (Iredell’s Revisal, p. 588) does, in the preamble,
  recognize the fact, that many persons, by cruel treatment to their
  slaves, cause them to commit crimes for which they are executed.
  * * The cruel treatment here alluded to must consist in withholding
  from them the necessaries of life; and the crimes thus resulting
  are such as are calculated to furnish them with food and raiment.”
Perhaps “stealing potatoes” in this case was one of the class of crimes
alluded to.
[Sidenote: Witsell v. Earnest & Parker. Wheeler, p. 202.]
Again we have the following case:
  The defendants went to the plantation of Mrs. Witsell for the
  purpose of hunting for runaway negroes; there being many in the
  neighborhood, and the place in considerable alarm. As they
  approached the house with loaded guns, a negro ran from the house,
  or near the house, towards a swamp, when they fired and killed him.
  The judge charged the jury, that such circumstances might exist, by
  the excitement and alarm of the neighborhood, as to authorize the
  killing of a negro without the sanction of a magistrate.
This decision was reversed in the Superior Court, in the following
language:
  By the statute of 1740, any white man may apprehend and moderately
  correct any slave who may be found out of the plantation at which he
  is employed, and if the slave assaults the white person, he may be
  killed; but a slave who is merely flying away cannot be killed. Nor
  can the defendants be justified by common law, IF we consider the
  negro as a person; for they were not clothed with the authority of
  the law to apprehend him as a felon, and without such authority he
  could not be killed.
[Sidenote: Wheeler, p. 252. June T., 1820. Walker’s Rep. 83.]
IF we consider the negro a person, says the judge; and, from his
decision in the case, he evidently intimates that he has a strong
leaning to this opinion, though it has been contested by so many eminent
legal authorities that he puts forth his sentiment modestly, and in an
hypothetical form. The reader, perhaps, will need to be informed that
the question whether the slave is to be considered a person or a human
being in any respect has been extensively and ably argued on both sides
in legal courts, and it may be a comfort to know that the balance of
legal opinion inclines in favor of the slave. Judge Clarke, of
Mississippi, is quite clear on the point, and argues very ably and
earnestly, though, as he confesses, against very respectable legal
authorities, that the slave is a person,—that he is a reasonable
creature. The reasoning occurs in the case State of Mississippi v.
Jones, and is worthy of attention as a literary curiosity.
It seems that a case of murder of a slave had been clearly made out and
proved in the lower court, and that judgment was arrested and the case
appealed on the ground whether, in that state, murder could be committed
on a slave. Judge Clarke thus ably and earnestly argues:
  The question in this case is, whether murder can be committed on a
  slave. Because individuals may have been deprived of many of their
  rights by society, it does not follow, that they have been deprived
  of all their rights. In some respects, slaves may be considered as
  chattels; but in others, they are regarded as men. The law views
  them as capable of committing crimes. This can only be upon the
  principle, that they are men and rational beings. The Roman law
  has been much relied on by the counsel of the defendant. That law
  was confined to the Roman empire, giving the power of life and death
  over captives in war, as slaves; but it no more extended here, than
  the similar power given to parents over the lives of their children.
  Much stress has also been laid by the defendant’s counsel on the
  case cited from Taylor’s Reports, decided in North Carolina; yet, in
  that case, two judges against one were of opinion, that killing a
  slave was murder. Judge Hall, who delivered the dissenting opinion
  in the above case based his conclusions, as we conceive, upon
  erroneous principles, by considering the laws of Rome applicable
  here. His inference, also, that a person cannot be condemned
  capitally, because he may be liable in a civil action, is not
  sustained by reason or authority, but appears to us to be in direct
  opposition to both. At a very early period in Virginia, the power of
  life over slaves was given by statute; but Tucker observes, that as
  soon as these statutes were repealed, it was at once considered by
  their courts that the killing of a slave might be murder.
  Commonwealth v. Dolly Chapman: indictment for maliciously stabbing
  a slave, under a statute. It has been determined in Virginia that
  slaves are persons. In the constitution of the United States, slaves
  are expressly designated as “persons.” In this state the legislature
  have considered slaves as reasonable and accountable beings; and it
  would be a stigma upon the character of the state, and a reproach to
  the administration of justice, if the life of a slave could be taken
  with impunity, or if he could be murdered in cold blood, without
  subjecting the offender to the highest penalty known to the criminal
  jurisprudence of the country. Has the slave no rights, because he is
  deprived of his freedom? He is still a human being, and possesses
  all those rights of which he is not deprived by the positive
  provisions of the law; but in vain shall we look for any law passed
  by the enlightened and philanthropic legislature of this state,
  giving even to the master, much less to a stranger, power over the
  life of a slave. Such a statute would be worthy the age of Draco or
  Caligula, and would be condemned by the unanimous voice of the
  people of this state, where even cruelty to slaves, much [more] the
  taking away of life, meets with universal reprobation. By the
  provisions of our law, a slave may commit murder, and be punished
  with death; why, then, is it not murder to kill a slave? Can a mere
  chattel commit murder, and be subject to punishment?
                  *       *       *       *       *
  The right of the master exists not by force of the law of nature or
  nations, but by virtue only of the positive law of the state; and
  although that gives to the master the right to command the services
  of the slave, requiring the master to feed and clothe the slave from
  infancy till death, yet it gives the master no right to take the
  life of the slave; and, if the offence be not murder, it is not a
  crime, and subjects the offender to no punishment.
  The taking away the life of a reasonable creature, under the king’s
  peace, with malice aforethought, express or implied, is murder at
  common law. Is not a slave a reasonable creature?—is he not a human
  being? And the meaning of this phrase, reasonable creature, is, a
  human being. For the killing a lunatic, an idiot, or even a child
  unborn, is murder, as much as the killing a philosopher; and has not
  the slave as much reason as a lunatic, an idiot, or an unborn child?
Thus triumphantly, in this nineteenth century of the Christian era and
in the State of Mississippi, has it been made to appear that the slave
is a reasonable creature,—a human being!
What sort of system, what sort of a public sentiment, was that which
made this argument necessary?
And let us look at some of the admissions of this argument with regard
to the nature of slavery. According to the judge, it is depriving
human beings of many of their rights. Thus he says: “Because
individuals may have been deprived of many of their rights by society,
it does not follow that they have been deprived of all their rights.”
Again, he says of the slave: “He is still a human being, and possesses
all those rights of which he is not deprived by the positive
provisions of the law.” Here he admits that the provisions of law
deprive the slave of natural rights. Again he says: “The right of the
master exists not by force of the law of nature or of nations, but by
virtue only of the positive law of the state.” According to the decision
of this judge, therefore, slavery exists by the same right that robbery
or oppression of any kind does,—the right of ability. A gang of
robbers associated into a society have rights over all the neighboring
property that they can acquire, of precisely the same kind.
With the same unconscious serenity does the law apply that principle of
force and robbery which is the essence of slavery, and show how far the
master may proceed in appropriating another human being as his property.
[Sidenote: Wheeler, p. 28. Banks, Adm’r, v. Marksbury. Spring T. 1823.
           3 Little’s Rep. 275.]
The question arises, May a master give a woman to one person, and her
unborn children to another one? Let us hear the case argued. The
unfortunate mother selected as the test point of this interesting legal
principle comes to our view in the will of one Samuel Marksbury, under
the style and denomination of “my negro wench Pen.” Said Samuel states
in his will that, for the good will and love he bears to his own
children, he gives said negro wench Pen to son Samuel, and all her
future increase to daughter Rachael. When daughter Rachael, therefore,
marries, her husband sets up a claim for this increase,—as it is stated,
quite off-hand, that the “wench had several children.” Here comes a
beautifully interesting case, quite stimulating to legal acumen.
Inferior court decides that Samuel Marksbury could not have given away
unborn children on the strength of the legal maxim, “Nemo dat quod non
habet,”—i. e., “Nobody can give what he has not got,”—which certainly
one should think sensible and satisfactory enough. The case, however, is
appealed, and reversed in the superior court; and now let us hear the
reasoning.
The judge acknowledges the force of the maxim above quoted,—says, as one
would think any man might say, that it is quite a correct maxim,—the
only difficulty being that it does not at all apply to the present case.
Let us hear him:
  He who is the absolute owner of a thing owns all its faculties for
  profit or increase; and he may, no doubt, grant the profits or
  increase, as well as the thing itself. Thus, it is every day’s
  practice to grant the future rents or profits of real estate; and it
  is held that a man may grant the wool of a flock of sheep for years.
See also p. 33, Fanny v. Bryant, 4 J. J. Marshall’s Rep., 368. In this
almost precisely the same language is used. If the reader will proceed,
he will find also this principle applied with equal clearness to the
hiring, selling, mortgaging of unborn children; and the perfect legal
nonchalance of these discussions is only comparable to running a
dissecting-knife through the course of all the heart-strings of a living
subject, for the purpose of demonstrating the laws of nervous
contraction.
Judge Stroud, in his sketch of the slave-laws, page 99, lays down for
proof the following assertion: That the penal codes of the slave states
bear much more severely on slaves than on white persons. He introduces
his consideration of this proposition by the following humane and
sensible remarks:
  A being, ignorant of letters, unenlightened by religion, and
  deriving but little instruction from good example, cannot be
  supposed to have right conceptions as to the nature and extent of
  moral or political obligations. This remark, with but a slight
  qualification, is applicable to the condition of the slave. It has
  been just shown that the benefits of education are not conferred
  upon him, while his chance of acquiring a knowledge of the
  precepts of the gospel is so remote as scarcely to be appreciated.
  He may be regarded, therefore as almost without the capacity to
  comprehend the force of laws; and, on this account, such as are
  designed for his government should be recommended by their
  simplicity and mildness.
  His condition suggests another motive for tenderness on his behalf
  in these particulars. He is unable to read, and holding little or
  no communication with those who are better informed than himself;
  how is he to become acquainted with the fact that a law for his
  observance has been made? To exact obedience to a law which has not
  been promulgated,—which is unknown to the subject of it,—has ever
  been deemed most unjust and tyrannical. The reign of Caligula, were
  it obnoxious to no other reproach than this, would never cease to be
  remembered with abhorrence.
  The lawgivers of the slaveholding states seem, in the formation of
  their penal codes, to have been uninfluenced by these claims of the
  slave upon their compassionate consideration. The hardened convict
  moves their sympathy, and is to be taught the laws before he is
  expected to obey them; yet the guiltless slave is subjected to an
  extensive system of cruel enactments, of no part of which, probably,
  has he ever heard.
  Parts of this system apply to the slave exclusively, and for every
  infraction a large retribution is demanded; while, with respect to
  offences for which whites as well as slaves are amenable,
  punishments of much greater severity are inflicted upon the latter
  than upon the former.
This heavy charge of Judge Stroud is sustained by twenty pages of proof,
showing the very great disproportion between the number of offences made
capital for slaves, and those that are so for whites. Concerning this,
we find the following cool remark in Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, page 222,
note.
  Much has been said of the disparity of punishment between the white
  inhabitants and the slaves and negroes of the same state; that
  slaves are punished with much more severity, for the commission of
  similar crimes, by white persons, than the latter. The charge is
  undoubtedly true to a considerable extent. It must be remembered
  that the primary object of the enactment of penal laws, is the
  protection and security of those who make them. The slave has no
  agency in making them. He is indeed one cause of the apprehended
  evils to the other class, which those laws are expected to remedy.
  That he should be held amenable for a violation of those rules
  established for the security of the other, is the natural result of
  the state in which he is placed. And the severity of those rules
  will always bear a relation to that danger, real or ideal, of the
  other class.
  It has been so among all nations, and will ever continue to be so,
  while the disparity between bond and free remains.
[Sidenote: The State v. Mann. Dec. Term, 1829. 2 Devereaux’s North
           Carolina Rep. 265.]
A striking example of a legal decision to this purport is given in
Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, page 224. The case, apart from legal
technicalities, may be thus briefly stated:
The defendant, Mann, had hired a slave-woman for a year. During this
time the slave committed some slight offence, for which the defendant
undertook to chastise her. While in the act of doing so the slave ran
off, whereat he shot at and wounded her. The judge in the inferior court
charged the jury that if they believed the punishment was cruel and
unwarrantable, and disproportioned to the offence, in law the defendant
was guilty, as he had only a special property in the slave. The jury
finding evidence that the punishment had been cruel, unwarrantable and
disproportioned to the offence, found verdict against the defendant.
But on what ground?—Because, according to the law of North Carolina,
cruel, unwarrantable, disproportionate punishment of a slave from a
master, is an indictable offence? No. They decided against the
defendant, not because the punishment was cruel and unwarrantable, but
because he was not the person who had the right to inflict it, “as he
had only a SPECIAL right of property in the slave.”
The defendant appealed to a higher court, and the decision was reversed,
on the ground that the hirer has for the time being all the rights of
the master. The remarks of Judge Ruffin are so characteristic, and so
strongly express the conflict between the feelings of the humane judge
and the logical necessity of a strict interpreter of slave-law, that we
shall quote largely from it. One cannot but admire the unflinching
calmness with which a man, evidently possessed of honorable and humane
feelings, walks through the most extreme and terrible results and
conclusions, in obedience to the laws of legal truth. Thus he says:
  A judge cannot but lament, when such cases as the present are
  brought into judgment. It is impossible that the reasons on which
  they go can be appreciated, but where institutions similar to our
  own exist, and are thoroughly understood. The struggle, too, in
  the judge’s own breast, between the feelings of the man and the duty
  of the magistrate, is a severe one, presenting strong temptation to
  put aside such questions, if it be possible. It is useless, however,
  to complain of things inherent in our political state. And it is
  criminal in a court to avoid any responsibility which the laws
  impose. With whatever reluctance, therefore, it is done, the court
  is compelled to express an opinion upon the extent of the dominion
  of the master over the slave in North Carolina. The indictment
  charges a battery on Lydia, a slave of Elizabeth Jones.... The
  inquiry here is, whether a cruel and unreasonable battery on a slave
  by the hirer is indictable. The judge below instructed the jury that
  it is. He seems to have put it on the ground, that the defendant had
  but a special property. Our laws uniformly treat the master, or
  other person having the possession and command of the slave, as
  entitled to the same extent of authority. The object is the same,
  the service of the slave; and the same powers must be confided. In
  a criminal proceeding, and, indeed, in reference to all other
  persons but the general owner, the hirer and possessor of the slave,
  in relation to both rights and duties, is, for the time being, the
  owner.... But, upon the general question, whether the owner is
  answerable criminaliter, for a battery upon his own slave, or
  other exercise of authority of force, not forbidden by statute, the
  court entertains but little doubt. That he is so liable, has never
  been decided; nor, as far as is known, been hitherto contended.
  There has been no prosecution of the sort. The established habits
  and uniform practice of the country, in this respect, is the best
  evidence of the portion of power deemed by the whole community
  requisite to the preservation of the master’s dominion. If we
  thought differently, we could not set our notions in array against
  the judgment of everybody else, and say that this or that authority
  may be safely lopped off. This has indeed been assimilated at the
  bar to the other domestic relations; and arguments drawn from the
  well-established principles, which confer and restrain the
  authority of the parent over the child, the tutor over the pupil,
  the master over the apprentice, have been pressed on us.
  The court does not recognize their application. There is no likeness
  between the cases. They are in opposition to each other, and there
  is an impassable gulf between them. The difference is that which
  exists between freedom and slavery; and a greater cannot be
  imagined. In the one, the end in view is the happiness of the youth
  born to equal rights with that governor on whom the duty devolves of
  training the young to usefulness, in a station which he is
  afterwards to assume among freemen. To such an end, and with such a
  subject, moral and intellectual instruction seem the natural means;
  and, for the most part, they are found to suffice. Moderate force is
  superadded only to make the others effectual. If that fail, it is
  better to leave the party to his own headstrong passions, and the
  ultimate correction of the law, than to allow it to be immoderately
  inflicted by a private person. With slavery it is far otherwise. The
  end is the profit of the master, his security and the public safety;
  the subject, one doomed, in his own person and his posterity, to
  live without knowledge, and without the capacity to make anything
  his own, and to toil that another may reap the fruits. What moral
  considerations shall be addressed to such a being, to convince him
  what it is impossible but that the most stupid must feel and know
  can never be true,—that he is thus to labor upon a principle of
  natural duty, or for the sake of his own personal happiness? Such
  services can only be expected from one who has no will of his own;
  who surrenders his will in implicit obedience to that of another.
  Such obedience is the consequence only of uncontrolled authority
  over the body. There is nothing else which can operate to produce
  the effect. THE POWER OF THE MASTER MUST BE ABSOLUTE, TO RENDER THE
  SUBMISSION OF THE SLAVE PERFECT. I most freely confess my sense of
  the harshness of this proposition. I feel it as deeply as any man
  can. And, as a principle of moral right, every person in his
  retirement must repudiate it. But, in the actual condition of
  things, it must be so. There is no remedy. This discipline belongs
  to the state of slavery. They cannot be disunited without abrogating
  at once the rights of the master, and absolving the slave from his
  subjection. It constitutes the curse of slavery to both the bond and
  the free portions of our population. But it is inherent in the
  relation of master and slave. That there may be particular
  instances of cruelty and deliberate barbarity, where in conscience
  the law might properly interfere, is most probable. The difficulty
  is to determine where a court may properly begin. Merely in the
  abstract, it may well be asked which power of the master accords
  with right. The answer will probably sweep away all of them. But we
  cannot look at the matter in that light. The truth is that we are
  forbidden to enter upon a train of general reasoning on the subject.
  We cannot allow the right of the master to be brought into
  discussion in the courts of justice. The slave, to remain a slave,
  must be made sensible that there is no appeal from his master; that
  his power is, in no instance, usurped, but is conferred by the laws
  of man, at least, if not by the law of God. The danger would be
  great, indeed, if the tribunals of justice should be called on to
  graduate the punishment appropriate to every temper and every
  dereliction of menial duty.
  No man can anticipate the many and aggravated provocations of the
  master which the slave would be constantly stimulated by his own
  passions, or the instigation of others, to give; or the consequent
  wrath of the master, prompting him to bloody vengeance upon the
  turbulent traitor; a vengeance generally practised with impunity,
  by reason of its privacy. The court, therefore, disclaims the power
  of changing the relation in which these parts of our people stand to
  each other.
                  *       *       *       *       *
  I repeat, that I would gladly have avoided this ungrateful question.
