to the premises he had assumed, was compelled to refer her attack to
physical causes. Once, he fancied he saw an imploring agony in her
eye, which entreated for help or comfort; but while he looked, it
disappeared, leaving a serenity that rebuked his suspicions.
"Who is this Mr. Read is convoying this way?" he inquired. "I ought to
know him."
"He is a stranger to me," replied Ida.
"Miss Ross, Mr. Copeland fears you will not recognise him, without a
second introduction," said the host.
"And Mr. Copeland's fears were not groundless," said that gentleman,
when his brother-in-law was out of hearing. "A less modest individual
than myself might be dubious of the durability of an impression, made
under such circumstances, as our briefest of brief interviews,--when
I could have been, at best, but a fourth-rate attraction. Mr. Dana--I
believe! I need not excuse myself for not observing you before. This
is a brilliant assembly, Miss Ross. I have been rating my excellent
brother-in-law"--there was the least curl of scorn upon his handsome
mouth as he pronounced these words--"for deserting this galaxy of
beauty to seek a mate in our gloomier regions."
"Isolated stars often dispense more light than the millions composing
the galaxy," answered Ida.
"I have thought the same since I reached this corner," he returned,
gallantly. "I parted with a friend of yours, yesterday, who would not
have granted me time to say a word for myself, if I had engaged to
deliver a quarter of the messages he charged me with."
"Ah! who was so unreasonable?"
"Mr. Germaine," he replied, smiling, as the blood rose to her cheek.
"He enacted Telemachus last summer, with a difference in the object of
his search."
"But with a like termination," said Charley, who seemed to understand
the allusion.
"Yes--as it proved; but he did not know it at that time. He called
by to see me on his way home. He was in a deplorable state of mind;
but I am happy to say that the consolations of friendship were not
unavailing. I have succeeded in inoculating him with hopes of more
fortunate chances in future. Yesterday, he was ready to swear with
Barnadine, that he 'would not die that day for any man's persuasion.'"
"Had he been long absent from his own neighborhood?" asked Ida. "Did he
speak of Dr. Carleton's family?"
"Frequently. They are in their usual health, I believe, although
he was not explicit upon this point; all ideas connected with
Poplar-grove having a marked proclivity backward. 'Last summer' was
the starting-point and terminus of his discourse to me. I am going
to say something rude, Miss Ross. Is the lady by the pier-table your
cousin-german?"
"What if she were my sister?"
"I should say, with all frankness, that I could not detect the family
likeness. As she is not related by consanguinity or affinity, we will
hope, benevolently, that her attendant is not constituted like my
sister, who faints at passing a freshly-painted house; and furthermore
award her praise for her liberality. You have heard of the clay that
lived with roses--do you think that gentleman would appreciate the
apologue?"
Ida and Charley laughed, although the remark might have been considered
ill-natured. The pure red and white of the lady's face remained intact,
but the gentleman's coat-sleeve had received a bountiful donation of
flour or chalk from the snowy arm resting upon it.
"Is not that your friend, Miss Read?" pursued Mr. Copeland. "A pretty
casket, but how frail to enshrine the spirit that speaks in those orbs!
There is stirring music there, or I am mistaken. Hear me, Miss Ross,
before you annihilate me by a second look of reproof. We simple yeomen
do not get away from our farms often; and not above once in a lifetime
happen upon such a godsend as this is, for adding to our slender stock
of information. I am a boy of an inquiring mind, and my venerable and
respected father's parting injunction was to keep my eyes and ears
open. You believe every word I am saying--I see it in your countenance.
You do not fear to accept my arm for a promenade? Mr. Dana--au
revoir."
"I am afraid you have chosen an indifferent cicerone," said Ida.
"How unjust! I repel the insinuation, and to prove my innocence, will
not ask a question concerning any one but yourself."
"I will answer those upon any other subject more readily."
"I had not expected to find you one who would shirk inquiry into her
character and actions. Luckily I am not deputed to institute it. You do
not flirt, I understand, Miss Ross?"
"Never. Why the question?"
"It is the principal amusement here, I observe; and that reminded me
of my curiosity to behold you, when I heard that you were, in this
respect, an anomaly in your sex."
"Is your judgment so unsparing?" said Ida. "I know many, whose
sentiments and practices coincide with mine; but before we dispute, let
us have a clear sense of each other's meaning. What is your definition
of flirting?"
"With men, it signifies paying attentions that warrant the expectation
of courtship:--a formal declaration, or expressions which are
tantamount to it, when we have no inclination or intention to
fulfil an engagement of marriage. The man who does this, incurs the
opprobrium of the community, unless the lady is as great an adept in
the art as himself. Then, it is a harmless sham fight; no mischief
done, and nobody to blame. On the other side, the hapless wight,
who is worsted by a coquette, has to bear ridicule, in addition to
his bruises. She may beckon her victim on by smiles and blushes and
half-uttered fondness, actually give him the pledges, and admit him to
the privileges of an accepted lover; and then laugh in the face of the
fond fool, whose peace she has wilfully destroyed;--and this sensible,
charitable world claps its hands, and shouts 'bravo! for a clever
woman!'"
"No woman will acknowledge the truthfulness of this sketch," rejoined
Ida. "I have seen unthinking girls act thus; but we are cognizant of
the crime--not its punishment, which is inevitable and severe."
"They settle down generally, like their neighbors, to a home and a
husband," said Mr. Copeland.
"This is their outward lot; who knows their inner life?"
"The inner life of a woman! who, indeed! what a tissue of
contradictions it must be! Follow my eye, Miss Ross. Do you see that
Peri with cerulean eyes, who is bowing to that gentleman's petition
for 'the pleasure of her hand?'" Again, that blanching cheek, as she
murmured 'yes.'
"It is Lelia Arnold--my sister's bridesmaid. She is the loveliest and
gayest girl in the room; you would say that she could not exist, but
in this hot-house of flattery and pleasure. Last spring she went on a
visit to a sick friend, and for four months we lost sight of her. She
resides about six miles from, us; and we were notified of her return
by her driving over, one day, attended by a handsome fellow, brother
to the 'dear Annie' with whom she had been staying. The truth was out!
The parade the family made of her disinterestedness and attachment
to the invalid deceived my sister, but not me. She aims at universal
fascination; this Lacy has prepossessing manners and appearance,
talent,--and it may be, money. Her four months' nursing was a judicious
outlay. Helen--Mrs. Read, declares there is no engagement; but I retain
my opinion. She is, to-night, la reine du bal; on Sunday, she will
kneel, in Church, the most angelic vision that ever was vouchsafed to a
Catholic's prayers; relate a tale of woe, and the eyes now dancing in
mirth, will be dewy with tears; if you are worth winning, she is the
tender, love-beseeching girl. I am the only one who quarrels with her.
The first time, I was ready to blow my brains out, for my brutality. I
think now I shall wait for a more convenient season. She is
  'A perfect woman, nobly planned.
  To warn, to comfort, to command,'
--minus a heart!"
"Are you well advised of this?" Her voice was very low.
"I wish I were as sure of a diadem! and if I had it, I will not be my
own security, that she could not coax it from me, in five minutes after
it came into my possession. Do not imagine this a digression from the
subject. I could tell you of an exile from his native land, driven
thence by her falsehood; of one, with high intellect and gigantic
energies, paralyzed by his fall from the dizzy height, to which her
promises had raised him;--and the snow, this winter night, enwraps
another pierced heart, as cold as that which moves her fleecy drapery.
What do you say now, Miss Ross? Does the world heap no honors, lavish
no applause upon her?"
"I do not know how to believe you!" said Ida, putting her hand
confusedly to her forehead.
"It is no private scandal;--I do not retail such,--the facts are
notorious. Yet ask Helen--ask any woman who 'knows society,' and she
will certify to the frequency of these occurrences--'crimes' you called
them--and the impunity with which they are committed."
"It is a crime!" said Ida, wildly;--"an atrocious crime!"
"My dear Miss Ross! one would think you were reprobating a highway
murderer! Recover yourself--the perpetrators are your acquaintances and
friends. Another set, Helen! does Mr. Read take the floor, too!" he
said to his sister, with the mocking smile Ida had noticed once before.
"I do not know;" she replied, carelessly. "He can take care of
himself--"
"Having nearly arrived at years of discretion;" he concluded the
sentence.
Ida did not like the unnecessary taunt, nor the smile with which he
turned to her.
"Your naive abhorrence of flirtation, emboldens me to ask another
question. Has disinterested affection an abode upon earth?"
"Are you infidel there also?" said Ida, lightly.
"You evade. I ask no reply but that. You are a believer; and while I
was telling my story, your mind was running through the details of
conduct, diametrically opposed to our fair friend's yonder."
It was a random shot; but that it told, he was assured by the nervous
tremor of her arm; and kindly violating his promise not to be
inquisitive about his fellow-guests, returned to his jesting strain.
It was well that he did. She was fearfully tried. At Miss Arnold's
entrance, she had known the original of "Leila's" miniature; but
cowering at the unexpected ordeal she must undergo, while she was
beneath the same roof with herself, took refuge in the hope that she
was deceived by an accidental resemblance. Mr. Copeland had torn
down this frail shelter, and added a new sorrow to the burden that
was crushing her. Why was she made to hear this recital? Was there a
"special Providence" in his being Mr. Germaine's friend, and singling
her out among a hundred strangers? What directed his mind into the
channel it took? what pointed his finger to Lelia Arnold, and thereby
probed her heart to its core? She had taught herself to think of, and
pray for his wife--the good and beautiful, but not for this heartless
coquette--"not for her! oh! my Father! I could have borne anything but
this!" she cried, in bitterness of spirit. It was an experience which
smites many with sore amazement--that it is easier to learn resignation
for ourselves, than for those we love. She had begun her uninviting
journey meekly; but rebelled that a cloud lowered over him.
Night, morning passed--the afternoon was upon the wane, ere she gained
fortitude of body and spirit, for a re-encounter with the formidable
stranger. A prop to her resolution was applied by Rachel, who "thought
them young ladies must be having a mighty dull time. Mrs. Read nor Miss
Josephine didn't leave their rooms from breakfast to dinner; and looks
like they meaned to stay thar, till plump night; and Miss Murray and
Miss Arnold are wandering about, like lost sheep. I wish you was well
enough to sit with them awhile, Miss Ida."
Matters were much as she had represented. Miss Arnold was watching the
passers-by, with an ennuyee air, and Miss Murray lounging in an easy
chair, with a book. The latter arose with a cordial air.
"I am glad you are able to be with us again. You seem feeble, and we
were uneasy lest fatigue might have made you sick."
Miss Arnold bowed distantly, and held herself aloof, during the
dialogue that ensued. Ida gathered courage as she witnessed her
uninterested attitude, which could hardly have been feigned. She had
not recognised her; or as she reflected, in her humility, was more
probable, had never heard of her. The thought was unflattering, but
there was relief in it. Miss Murray was affable and unaffected; her
features only redeemed from plainness by their agreeable expression.
They talked of the distinctive traits of town and country life. She
"had never resided in the city," Miss Murray said, "but had attended
Mr. Purcell's school one session." Ida inquired "when?" and heard that
they were there together, but in different classes.
"I do not remember seeing you," said she.
"But I knew your face, yesterday afternoon;" was Miss Murray's reply.
"Carry Carleton was your desk-mate, and Anna Talbot sat before you."
They were at no loss for topics now; and "Alice" and "Ida" superseded
the formal "Miss."
"I read of Carry's marriage in the papers, but the name of her caro
sposo has slipped my memory;" said Miss Murray.
"Dr. Dana,--he is an excellent young man; handsome, amiable, and has a
high reputation as an intelligent man, and skilful physician."
"Dana! was there a gentleman of that name here last night?" asked Alice.
"Yes--his brother."
"He was introduced to me;"--and she laughed. "He is an original. I was
highly entertained by his humorous sayings."
She was interested in Ida's graphic limning of his character.
"He is an intimate friend of yours, then?"
"One of the best I have;--the kindest of brothers."
"I knew he was as good as funny, from his face. You saw him, Lelia?"
"Whom?" asked she, without moving.
"Mr. Dana, the humorous gentleman, I talked to so long, by the piano."
"I saw him, but heard no humor. I thought him very stupid."
Miss Murray reddened. "Why, Lelia! but you are not a fair judge. If he
had talked to you, you would not say so."
"He 'bored' me for what seemed an eternity, but which, Mr. Copeland,
who released me, said was only ten minutes," said she, carelessly.
Miss Murray was content she should be silent, after this mal-apropos
observation. Ida said "one must be well acquainted with him to
appreciate him." Miss Arnold measured her from head to foot, and saying
coldly, "I rarely err in a first opinion;" turned her blue eyes to the
window again.
The others were forgetting her in the deepening stream of chat, when
she came to the fire-place. "I am chilly!" she said, and throwing one
of the sofa-pillows at Alice's feet, seated herself, and leaned her
elbow upon her friend's lap. She was bewitchingly lovely--Ida owned;
and so may have thought Richard Copeland, who happened to enter, just
as she was settled.
"Rehearsing tableaux, young ladies!" said he. "Miss Ross--Miss
Alice--good evening. You play humility, I perceive, Miss Lelia."
She did not offer to rise. "Do not I become the character?" she
inquired.
"The character becomes you, at any rate. How have you wiled away the
day, Miss Alice?"
Her sunshiny face made him as frank as herself, when he addressed her.
"Oh!" said she. "In sleeping, reading and eating, I contrived to
dispose of all but the past hour or two, of which Miss Ross has kindly
relieved me."
"I can testify to her adroitness in this particular," he replied. "She
did a little time-lifting for me last evening. Have you finished your
official returns of 'killed, wounded and missing,' Miss Ross?"
"I suspect my bulletins would comprise most of the latter," said Ida.
"And mine!" echoed Alice.
"There is one exception, at least," he returned, bowing. "Decide
between yourselves to whom the captive belongs."
"May I be umpire?" asked Miss Arnold, her cheeks dimpling mischievously.
"When I was a boy, Miss Lelia, I read in an old spelling-book, of two
cats, who came to the scratch over a piece of cheese, and agreed to
refer its division to the monkey's arbitration. You have read it too,
and recollect the catastrophe."
He appeared to take pleasure in being as rude to her as the letter of
politeness allowed; and she bore it patiently, without relaxing her
efforts to please and attract.
"Where are Helen and Miss Read?" he asked of Alice. "Do all the duties
of hospitality devolve upon Miss Ross?"
"They are resting, I suppose, to be blooming at the party to-night,"
replied she.
"Your roses, then, are not so precious. Is this so?"
"Say instead, that they are perpetual," said Ida.
Alice blushed and laughed.
"Are we to be favored with your company, Miss Ross?" inquired Mr.
Copeland.
"No, I do not keep late hours until my health is confirmed."
"What a pity!" exclaimed Alice. "Do go! I shall feel so strange, so
lonely!"
"Mr. Copeland will prevent that; and I make over to you my interest in
my friend, Mr. Dana, for one evening."
"Are you in the market for the first bidder?" said Miss Arnold, with
pretty archness, to the former gentleman.
"If Miss Ross pleases. I intended to ask permission to remain in my
present quarters until the hour at which we ultra-fashionables go to
routs; but if she banishes me sooner, I am proud to do her bidding,
hard as it is."
The lamps were lighted; and Mrs. Read conferred the further
illumination of her presence.
"Where's your liege-lord, my lady?" asked her brother; and she replied,
as she did, whenever she could, to inquiries concerning him--"Indeed, I
do not know," and sank indolently upon a divan. The large, slumberous
eyes did not brighten at his step in the hall; and when she drew
her dress aside to make room for him, it was with more thought for
the costly fabric, than desire to have him near. Josephine came in,
as the bell sounded for supper. It was a cheerful meal, in spite of
her haughty silence, and Ida's inward conflicts. Alice Murray's even
spirits had an equalising effect upon the varied temperaments around
her; Miss Arnold was witty and charming. Ida could not deny her eyes
the luxury of watching her animated countenance. They feasted upon
its beauty, until every thought was merged in admiration; and this,
while, Mr. Copeland's sallies were exclusively for herself. Mrs. Read
aroused from her proud languor, and manifested a keen relish for the
ridiculous, and satirical powers, not inferior to her brother's. There
was a veiled acrimony in their manner to each other, which impressed
Ida with the belief of some unsettled feud, never lost sight of by
either; and which she could not reconcile with Alice's assertion, that
he was Mrs. Read's best-beloved brother. Their personal resemblance
was marked; but gay and caustic as he was, there were scintillations
of feeling in his dark eyes, which had burnt out, or were smothered in
hers. "And how else could it be?" she said to herself, as she looked at
her dignified guardian, transformed for the nonce, into the uxorious
husband; and marvelled, for the thousandth time--"What made her marry
him?"
They were incredulous when Mr. Read said it was time to dress for Mrs.
Talbot's.
"You go with us, Richard?" said his sister.
"I will meet you there; I must go to my hotel awhile first."
There could be no reason for this, yet Ida thought Miss Arnold's brow
clouded.
"Your hair was prettily arranged last night, Ida," said Alice. "Will
you give me a few hints as to my coiffure?"
"With pleasure. I was about to ask if I could assist you in any way?"
So, instead of going off to her "sanctum," she busied herself in the
dressing-room. Alice laughed and talked incessantly; Miss Arnold
was grave and mute, except when her maid paused for directions. She
objected, in the mildest of tones, that there was not light enough upon
her table, and thanked "dear, obliging Alice," who sent a candle from
hers, without fearing she could not spare it.
"I never looked so well in all my life!" said Alice, clasping her hands
in pretended rapture. "I am all impatience to try the effect of my
beauty. You have won me one admirer, Ida--myself."
"Add me to the number," said Miss Arnold, and gliding up, she kissed
the rosy cheek.
"O Lelia! my darling!" screamed Alice. "My darling! you are an angel!
Ida! is she not lovely?"
"Very!" said Ida, and she felt it. Alice said an affectionate--the
rest a polite farewell;--they drove off;--and she went very quietly to
her chamber--quietly--though her hand was pressed hard upon her heart;
and her throat ached, as if iron fingers were tightened around it;--and
while they were dancing, she was kneeling before that precious Bible,
forgetting sorrow and self in its sublime teachings;--hours before
their return, she slept, peacefully, happily--such sleep as even in
this life "He giveth His beloved."
CHAPTER XXIII.
Sunday was rainy, and Ida was deprived of the opportunity of judging
whether Miss Arnold's church behaviour was as Mr. Copeland had
portrayed it. But she was to learn how just to life another part of his
description was.
The morning, yawned through in the other apartments, passed swiftly in
hers, in reading, study, and blessed communion with her Heavenly Friend.
A low tap was heard at the door, and her "come in," answered by Miss
Arnold.
"Pray, keep your seat," said she, closing the door with a shiver, as
the cold draught from the passage blew over her; "I have ransacked the
parlor book-case in vain for Sabbath reading, and Alice said you could
probably supply me."
"My little library is at your service," said Ida, parting the curtains
before a handsome set of shelves.
"You have quite an extensive collection;" remarked Miss Arnold,
patronisingly. She did not ask her to help her in the selection, and
Ida returned to her chair. Miss Arnold pulled out one and another
slowly, so as to consume as much time as possible in the occupation.
Ida glanced up from time to time, to see what choice she made. A modest
volume, presented by Mr. Lacy, stood near the centre of the top shelf;
and she looked up once as Miss Arnold was in the act of taking it
down. She watched her with suspended breath. She read the title and
title-page, and shutting it, raised her arm to replace it; but a look
of recollection flitted over her brow, and she re-opened it--at the
fly-leaf. Ida dropped her eyes instantly to the page before her, yet
she saw as plainly as with her bodily organs of vision, that after
reading what was written there,--"Miss Ida Ross, with the regards
of M. L.," a gaze of keen inquisition rested upon herself, that the
inscription was thoughtfully examined,--then the subject matter of the
book, which was afterwards restored to its place, and with another,
selected at hazard, her visitor moved gracefully towards her. "You have
been so kind to me--to us--during our stay here, that I am encouraged
to beg an additional favor."
Her silvery voice had a new tone, and it was as if a malicious spirit
repeated to Ida,--"If you are worth winning, she is the tender,
love-beseeching girl." Hitherto, her conduct had afforded decisive
evidence that she was not worth the trouble. She drove the whisperer
away and answered politely,
"I shall be happy to oblige you."
"Then may I stay with you awhile? This is such a dear, home-like nook,
and it is so dreary out of doors, and not much better down stairs, for
Alice is drowsy, and Helen invisible."
Ida would have acceded to almost any other proposition more readily,
but she submitted with forced complaisance.
"Go on with your reading. I shall retire if I interrupt you;" continued
Miss Arnold.
"I have been reading all the morning;" said Ida, seeing that the
other's book was untouched.
"And won't my talking annoy you?" cried Miss Arnold with childish
pleasure. "I have so longed to know you better--to get nearer to
you! Bear with me while I say it; you are so--not exactly stern to
me--but so distant! That it was not your nature, I discovered from
your demeanor to Alice. I could not but love you for your goodness to
her; and--child that I am--I would have entreated you to care for me a
little in return--but you froze the words upon my lips. I have cried
over it after I went to bed at night. Will you not tell me truly why
you dislike me?"
The violet eyes were sparkling through tears.
"I was not aware that I was so frightful," replied Ida, smiling. "My
coldness was imaginary, or unintentional on my part, Miss Arnold."
"There!" said the beauty reproachfully; "it was 'Alice' before you had
known her a day."
"Because we were old schoolmates."
"Strangers, nevertheless. Come, Ida--be my friend--will you not?"
Could a false flirt copy Carry's look and tone so faithfully? and she
kneeled upon the rug, as she had done on that November night, when she
said, "Love me, Ida!" She could not resist the temptation to lay her
lips against the snowy forehead, beneath which those matchless eyes
beamed with love and gratitude. She would have recoiled as that satiric
whisper again hissed through her heart; but the soft arms were around
her--the beautiful head upon her shoulder.
"I am not the butterfly I seem, Ida; nor is the ephemera gaiety, in
which you see me floating, my proper sphere. I have not your unwavering
principle--your independence; I cannot of myself say to the world,--'I
hate your vain pageantry, and pine for a nobler life!' Often, often I
feel when the din of pleasure is loudest, that I am bound to a wheel
whose revolutions I cannot control. Show me how to be happy."
"There is but one happiness which cannot die," said Ida, with an
effort. "You do not require that I should point you to that!"
Her look of sorrowful deprecation was touching. "I know what you
mean," she replied, subduedly. "You would intimate, that professing
as I do, to be trying to lead a Christian's life, I ought to be as
familiar with the path as yourself; but I am a child--too much the toy
of impulse and fancy. I have been a pet from my infancy; have leaned
upon the judgment--abided by the decision of those I love; and you
cannot conceive of the difficulty I have in acting for myself, and in
opposition to their wishes."
This was plausible. Ida wished from her inmost soul, that she had never
heard Richard Copeland's story, which, after all, might have been
coloured, if not sketched by prejudice, or revenge for some slight to
himself. She would have taken this young girl, his betrothed, to her
bosom, and soothed her fears, and stimulated her failing resolves. But
the conviction of her heartlessness was too strong upon her; and her
upright nature forbade the assumption of an appearance of confidence
she did not feel. She spoke, indeed, as freely as she could of the love
which pities and forgives our infirmities and backslidings; but Lelia
shook her head dejectedly. She "had not reached her case. I thank you,
though, and love you!" She drew her cheek down to her lips. "Have you
had much sorrow?"
"Not more than falls to the lot of many, more deserving of
exemption.--Why?"
"Your serenity is so remarkable; you seem never to have suffered."
"The ocean is calm sometimes," said Ida, unconsciously.
"That is not your emblem," rejoined Lelia. "It is mine; ruffled by
every breath--dark in storms--flashing and laughing in sunshine--always
changing, yet always the same--and, ah! who believes that there are
treasures under the waters which are worth the seeking?"
"The ocean is constant in nothing except change," said Ida.
"That is the surface!" she spoke exultingly--
  "The water is calm and still below;
    For the winds and waves are absent there,--
  And the sands are bright as the stars that glow
    In the motionless fields of upper air."
"Those are fine lines!" said Ida. They were recited with a purity of
tone and emphasis that lent them an additional charm.
"They are Percival's," was the reply. "I love poetry, if I have
not, like one of my friends, received the poetic afflatus. Ah!
Improvisatrice! did you think me ignorant of your glorious gift?"
"You honour my petty talent by a higher name than it aspires to earn.
Your informant was given to exaggeration."
"You do not ask who it was!" cried Lelia, peeping into her face. "Ah!
that blush! you surmise. Now my demure darling, how will you excuse
yourself for not having breathed his name in my hearing, when you knew
how deep my interest is in all relating to him or his connections?"
This query was ably turned; but Ida's habitual self-control saved her
from the pitfall. She would know and confess nothing.
"And you dare look in my eyes and deny one of your best friends?" said
Lelia.
"I deny no one. The merest acquaintance may have imparted this
information."
"It was not a casual acquaintance. Shall I name him?"
"If you choose," said Ida, with quickened pulsation.
"Then it was Mr.--look at me!--Mr. Germaine!"
The blood flowed regularly again. Miss Arnold's ruse, if such was
intended, failed signally; and Ida shortly had cause to congratulate
herself upon the equanimity she had maintained through the interview.
Leila's friendliness continued without abatement; and her predilection
for her society was openly manifested. She invited her to walk on
Monday afternoon, and was inconsolable for her refusal until Richard
Copeland offered himself as a substitute. Alice rode out with Mrs. Read
and Josephine; and Ida lay down at dusk upon a sofa, within a recess of
the parlor. She soon dropped into a light slumber; and thought that she
was dreaming still, when she heard voices, and saw, 'twixt sleeping and
waking, two figures, dimly visible in the fire-light.
"You are cruelly unjust, Richard. Why seize upon every pretext to
attack and wound one who never had an unkind thought of you?"
"Because I have no respect for you, Lelia," was the cool rejoinder.
"Your trifling is disgraceful--inhuman!"
"I never trifled with you."
"For the best of reasons--you never had the chance. You will affirm
too, that you did not design to coquet with Hilton or Sheppard."
"Their unhappiness was the fruit of their own blind folly."
"'Blind folly' it was to love a heartless woman! And this Lacy--are you
retaining him as a corps de reserve?"
"He is nothing to me--."
An ejaculation of extreme disgust interrupted her. "Now this is too
much! Do you think then that a solitary manoeuvre has been unnoticed by
me? that I have not divined even the motive of your altered behaviour
to Miss Ross? You have either guessed or heard what has been told
me within a day or two--that he was her lover last winter--either
discarded, or engaged to her now. Have a care! you may be foiled with
your own weapons! Adieu!" His mocking laugh rang through the room.
Lelia remained where he left her; the ruddy glare lighting up features
contorted by anger or grief. "Can it be?" she said--"But, no!" she
smiled, contemptuously. "A made-up tale to work upon my jealousy!
That matters not at present--but this--yet I am not discouraged--he
is the only one!" and muttering over--"He is the only one!" she lifted
her bonnet and shawl, and carried them from the apartment. Astonishment
had chained Ida's limbs and tongue after she realised that she was
awake. She grew weak and sick at the accomplished duplicity of one so
youthful, so faultless in seeming;--the windings of her arms about
her neck--her kisses were like the coil and sting of a serpent. She
detected the artfulness of her pretended confidence; her lures to
inveigle her into some embarrassment or admission which would betray
her acquaintance with Mr. Lacy. She had suspected her then; the change
of manner followed too soon upon the recognition of the handwriting.
She rejoiced that the house was to be freed of her on the morrow. If
he could be warned! but this was a prohibited subject to thought as
to words, and she was learning how to govern both. There was a soiree
that evening, and Ida had never been more happy to see company. Alice
and Lelia came together to her room to say farewell, for they were
both to start early in the morning. She tried to treat them alike, but
her regrets at losing them were addressed to Alice; and if they were
heartfelt, the sigh of relief, with which she turned the bolt after
them, was equally sincere.
The bridal festivities were not over until after Christmas, but Ida
avoided further participation in them by spending holiday week at
Mr. Dana's. She was invited expressly to meet Carry and Arthur, and,
although the precedence belonged to them, as more unfrequent visitors,
she was installed in the seat of honour as chief guest. Carry inveighed
against Mr. Read's marriage, and was anxious to learn whether it would
render her position more unpleasant. Ida thought not:--her heart said
this could hardly be, but she spoke hopefully of the wholesome check
Mrs. Read's elegant propriety would be upon Josephine's brusqueness.
"They will not agree at first, for Mrs. Read, if she does appear too
fond of her ease to contend, is not deficient in resolution; yet the
end may be mutual endurance and forbearance. In any event I shall
remain neutral. Who knows, Carry, but, unpromising as the field is, I
may do as well as suffer, even there?"
They were alone in Carry's room. "There is one subject, upon which I
wish to speak to you;" said the latter, seriously. "Has Arthur said
anything to you of himself?"
"No--not particularly."
"He was always too good for me," pursued Carry. "You need not hold up
your finger so threateningly--but for a year past, I felt that he was
growing better, while I made no progress. After we were married, I
discovered that he was in the habit of the daily study of his Bible,
and secret prayer. I did not hint that I knew it, for it was too
sacred a matter for me to touch. Ida! I suffered! he had a care which
I could not share--was ill at ease, and I must not cheer him. When
you wrote, recounting the alteration of your views and prospects, he
unsealed his heart to me. He had long sought peace, without finding
it; but latterly, had experienced a glimmering hope he feared to
divulge, so faint was it--that he was a child of God. I wept for joy
and grief--joy, for I was sure, although he was not, that he was a
Christian;--and grief at my own hardness of heart. His light has burned
brighter and brighter every day; and he is prepared now to avow it to
his friends and the world. He says your fearlessness, in declaring
your principles, filled him with shame, and urged him to emulate your
example."
Here was one sheaf--an earnest of whitening harvest. The barrenness of
opportunities for serving and honouring her Redeemer, was a troublesome
stumbling-block. Her sphere of usefulness was so limited; and she had
talents, which might be deployed to some purpose in a larger arena.
The glowing zeal of a young convert called for action. In a moment
of discontent with herself, and perhaps with her situation, she had
expressed this to Charley, who silenced her with one line--
  "'They also serve, who only stand and wait.'"
The intelligence of Arthur's conversion was an unlooked-for and
refreshing element in her week's felicity. "Now, Charley, one thing
more!" she said, when they were talking it over. She seldom made a
pointed appeal, although he always took it kindly. He did not reflect
her smile--he only said, gravely;--"You cannot desire it more than I
do, Ida."
Invigorated in soul and body, and with a bounteous store of loving
memories heaped up for the time of famine, she sought her uncongenial
home. "Ah, well! it's allers been my experience that molasses and
water is mighty apt to sour, if it's kept; and it don't deceive me
now," remarked the oracular Rachel, with the decline of the honeymoon.
The metaphor was apt. Mr. Read's fondness was the saccharine that
qualified the insipidity of his wife's apathy. He had been elevated
to the seventh heaven of ecstacy, at his triumph over a host of
rivals, younger than himself. Her evident preference had incited him
to the contest, and he had no misgivings of its reality. She was "a
splendid woman!" He delighted in exhibiting her; and hearing this
from all sides, with compliments and congratulations to himself. But
this renewal of youth was evanescent. He had counted more than half
a century--she, not a quarter; and outraged nature revenged herself
for his infatuation in striving to overleap this mighty gap. She was
a "splendid woman!" that was unquestionable; but as he mounted guard,
from ten at night to two or three o'clock in the morning against the
wall of the assembly-room, waiting for her to despatch the list of
partners that covered both sides of her tablets--he tired and moped,
and stupidly wondering if the radiant creature, whose laugh came to him
with each whirl of the interminable waltz, were in truth married, and
his wife! it is problematical if he derived permanent consolation
from the well-timed praises of his old friends, who facetiously
inquired if he were not "jealous of his pretty bird"--or felt greatly
flattered by the fine things, comparative strangers were saying about
"his daughter." She was a "splendid woman!" and she shone most at
the largest party of the winter, where everybody danced (she most
sylph-like of all) except the papas and mammas, and the "past-worthy"
chaperons. The rooms were hot:--the dancers must have air--the windows
were robbed of their sashes. Mr. Read was in a draught--what of that?
the reflection of his wife's splendor should have warmed him. She
was not uncomfortable;--so she glided and pirouetted and swam by in
the polka, and he shook as if he were afflicted with a dance of quite
another name. An attack of inflammatory rheumatism was the finale. His
life was in danger for awhile; and to his wife's credit, be it said,
she nursed him dutifully, if not affectionately, until he entered upon
his convalescence.
A few mornings after the doctors announced his safety, Ida observed, at
breakfast, that Mrs. Read was looking badly.
"Confinement in a sick-room does not agree with you, I fear," said
she, with interest. "We must not let you fall ill, too. Will you not
delegate one of us to represent you this forenoon, while you take a
ride?"
"Constant attendance is unnecessary," she replied. "Hereafter, I shall
not stay in doors as I have been doing. I thank you for your offer,
however. If I can avail myself of it, I will do so."
"Why did he not come down to breakfast?" asked Josephine, ironically.
"He cannot leave his bed;" was the calm reply.
"Nor turn himself in it, I believe, madam?"
"You are right."
"It must cost you a pang to surrender to another the privilege of
allaying his pains, and paying those endearing little attentions, to
which affection imparts such sweetness. How can you think of it?"
"I do not consider my health unimportant."
"Not in comparison with his?" continued Josephine, provokingly.
"The duty is not rendered less imperative by any comparison."
"The pursuit of pleasure and ease is included in this prudent care of
yourself, I presume, madam?"
"In that, as in everything else, I shall consult my own inclinations."
"I did not know that a woman had a will of her own after she married,"
retorted Josephine.
"I am not conscious of having lost my volition or free agency."
"And acting upon this unbiassed volition, you will occupy your box at
the theatre to-night. I saw a ticket upon the table in the parlor."
"I shall be there; but there will be room for you, and whatever friend
you honor by accompanying."
"And this is conjugal devotion!" the suppressed wrath boiling
over,--"After cajoling a feeble old man into marrying you, you desert
him upon a bed of languishing, where he is laid by your follies, to
flirt with your train of gallants in the most public place in the city!"
"If you have more remarks of like import to make, I will hear them in
your father's presence, Miss Read," answered the unruffled step-mother.
"Miss Ida, please excuse my withdrawing before you have finished your
breakfast."
Josephine had emphatically picked this quarrel. She had received no
provocation, and combined with this disadvantage, that of loss of
temper. Chafing with anxiety to commence the warfare she had declared,
she was too eager to wait for a pretext; and had plunged into a rash
conflict, before estimating the strength of the enemy's forces. Ida
said nothing, until she was ready to leave the room. She deemed it her
duty to speak.
"Josephine," said she, mildly, "it is not my place to dictate to you;
but as a well-wisher, I warn you not to carry this further. Constant
dissension will be the only result. She is inclined to live peaceably
with you; and she will be a dangerous, a powerful enemy."
"Have I asked your advice?" said Josephine. Her scowl dissuaded Ida
from a second remonstrance. In reckless audacity, she proceeded
straight to her father's chamber. It was pitiable to see that
gray-haired man--helpless as infancy with disease, and remember that
his frayed thread of life was entwisted with the golden cord of hers,
who had barely attained the meridian of her early womanhood.
Josephine's visits had been rare and brief, and his salutation was
surly. "To what am I indebted for this superlative pleasure?" he
inquired, stretching his upper lip across his teeth, as was his wont,
when displeased.
"If I had supposed that my presence was conducive to your comfort, no
consideration should have detained me from you sir," was the meaning
rejoinder.
He did not answer, but moved uneasily, and asked his wife for water.
The goblet was nearest Josephine, and she held it to him. "Lift my
head!" he said, fretfully, "Ugh! you hurt me! this comes of your
officiousness. Why couldn't you let her do it?"
"I regret, sir, that my unskilful touch is painful," said Josephine,
"since you are to be dependent upon my cares."
"What the deuce are you talking about?" he demanded, sharply.
The slumberous eyes surveyed her listlessly over the couch.
"My speech is blunt, sir; I learned it from you, and I have an
inconvenient practice of saying what I think. Old men, who have
young and fashionable wives, should not indulge in the luxury of
sickness. What woman, who has a right appreciation of her charms, can
hesitate what course to pursue, when a decrepid husband is put in one
scale--society and a score of beaux in the other?"
His glare of impotent fury was demoniacal--he was too weak to control
it. The liquid eyes were dreamy and motionless still. The irascible old
man jerked his head so that he could see her face--"Helen! what is that
girl driving at?"
"She can best explain herself, sir."
"Speak!" he commanded, at the top of his tremulous voice.
"I hope you have made your will, sir;" said Josephine, deliberately.
"By my life, I will do it, and cut you off, without a copper, if you
parley much more?"
"You virtually severed our connection two months ago, sir. A stranger
has supplanted me in your heart and house; and up to this time, I have
held my peace. This is my revenge. Your idol, having used you for her
pleasure and advancement, does not mean that this sickness, caused
by your doating indulgence, shall fetter her dainty limbs. On the
contrary, it frees her from the restraint of your observation,--the
incumbrance of your attentions."
She dropped each word slowly, purposely to aggravate his impatience,
which was now frightful. Manacled, bound down by the fiery bands of his
malady, he writhed, as upon a Procrustean bed.
"Helen! speak! tell her she lies!"
"I never reply to inuendoes, sir." The eyes were passionless as ever.
"She is gentleness and patience personified," said Josephine, "Ask
whom she will accompany to the theatre to-night and pray her,--your
faithful wife--to stay with you."
"The theatre!" he uttered. "Are you going, and with whom?"
"With Mr. and Miss Talbot;" and save that she fastened her gaze upon
him, instead of her, she looked and spoke the same.
"The 'Miss,' is an adroit addenda," sneered Josephine.
Her father was silent. His selfishness was wounded. He was angered and
mortified that his wife should consign him to the care of others and
find enjoyment in gay recreations, while he lay crippled and racked;
but he detected the spring of Josephine's interference, and pride
cried loudly that her impertinent malice should be punished. A study
of his wife's determined face settled the point. If they differed, the
mischief-maker should not know it. "Hark you!" said he, with sudden
composure. "I see your game, my lady, and you may as well throw up your
cards. I am master in my house, and there is no law against turning you
out of it. I thought I had taught you this already. I have a piece of
advice, you will do well to bear in mind. Attend to your own business,
and let your betters alone. Now, be off! and don't let me see you again
until you can behave yourself."
"I obey you, sir. If you want my services, I trust you will send for
me."
Mr. Read was awkwardly embarrassed, when left with his wife.
Domineering and stubborn as he was, she awed him. Her haughty endurance
of his foolish fondness gave him no lien upon her affections; and the
sang-froid, she had preserved under Josephine's insolence, was a bad
augury of the efficacy of reproaches. She consulted her watch, and
informed him that it was the hour for his medicine; administered it,
and shook up his pillow.
"Helen," said he, coaxingly, "are you in earnest about leaving me? What
shall I do?"
"Sarah will wait upon you. I have the utmost confidence in her
fidelity."
"But what is a servant's nursing, after yours?"
"It is a pity you entertain this repugnance to every one's attentions
but mine. My health and spirits are injured by fatigue and want of
rest. You are recovering, there is no absolute necessity for my
remaining with you; and it is necessary that I should take care of
myself. We had best suspend this discussion, Mr. Read. You have been
too much excited this morning; and arguments are useless, as my plans
are made."
And "my plans are made" became the law of the household,--Josephine
excepted, who had her schemes also. There was an ominous calm. Mr.
Read mended gradually. His daughter's resentment outlived his; but his
pride was as inflexible as hers. She would not enter his chamber, and
he would not recall her. His wife performed mechanically a routine of
duties, self-enjoined, as covering all that could be required of her.
The residue of her time was devoted to the world, out of which, she did
not seem to live. She held her position as leader of the ton. She was
the best-bred, best-dressed, and best-educated woman of her circle. No
party was complete without her; and none vied with hers, in elegance
and agreeableness. People gossipped, and prophecied, and pitied her
"poor old husband"--courted and aped her. Ida had made a public
profession of her faith, and was humbly "waiting." Her health did not
now debar her from mingling in society; and she could discern neither
wisdom nor piety in a hermit's life. Her re-appearance amongst them
was hailed with acclamations by most of her acquaintances. Some were
shy for a time, thanks to Josephine's exposition of her "strait-laced
notions;" but her cheerful frankness banished their reserve; and if not
so noisily admired, she was more beloved than in her palmy days.
She was one evening at a "sociable" at Mrs. Morris', the cynosure of a
group, the liveliest in the room, for it comprised Ellen, Mr. Thornton,
Charley, Mr. Germaine, Mr. Villet, and Richard Copeland. Charley was
relating an amusing story; and Ida's peculiarly contagious laugh
created as much merriment as the anecdote.
"Miss Ross is ever happy," said Mr. Villet. "Your being devote does
not make you sad, morose--comme a l'ordinaire."
A glance of apprehension was exchanged by some of the circle; and Ida
colored, as she replied, smiling, "I do not know why it should, Mr.
Villet."
The Frenchman shrugged his shoulders: "Nor I! I do not comprehend these
affairs myself, but it is usual, I believe, for the visible visage to
elongate with the expansion of the--qu'est ce que c'est?--grace in
the soul."
There was a laugh. Charley and Ida were grave; and Mr. Villet's
politeness took the alarm. "I entreat your pardon, Miss Ross; I did not
meditate an offence."
"You have given none," answered she. "You would not knowingly make
sport of what you must respect. Religion is not gloomy, nor is it
ridiculous."
"Its professors, with some honorable exceptions, are one or the other,"
said Richard.
"This is their misfortune or failing, not the fault of the system,"
returned Ida. "Mortal nature is fallible, Mr. Copeland."
"You admit it, then?" said Mr. Thornton. "The greatest objection I have
to pious people is that they do not permit this indulgence to abused
human nature. They wind themselves up in their impenetrable cloaks of
