labyrinth of pain, made up of what used to be familiar objects
of pleasure. So she went in. But so soon as her eye caught the
figure standing before the fireplace, though she did not know
what he had come there for, only that he was there, her heart
sprang as to a pillar of hope. She stopped short and her two
hands were brought together with an indescribable expression,
telling of relief.
"Oh Mr. Landholm! what brought you here!"
He came forward to where she stood and took one of her hands;
and felt that she was trembling like a shaking leaf.
"How is your father?" was his question.
"I don't know!" said Elizabeth bending down her head while
tears began to run fast, -- "I don't know anything about
sickness -- I never was with anybody before --"
She had felt one other time the gentle kind hands which, while
her own eyes were blinded with tears, led her and placed her
on the sofa. Elizabeth took the sofa cushion in both arms and
laid her head upon it, turning her face from her companion;
and her whole frame was racked and shaken with terrible
agitation.
In a few minutes this violent expression of feeling came to an
end. She took her arms from the pillow and sat up and spoke
again to the friend at her side; who meanwhile had been
perfectly quiet, offering neither to check nor to comfort her.
Elizabeth went back to a repetition of her last remark, as if
for an excuse.
"I never even tried to nurse anybody before -- and the doctor
couldn't stay with me this morning --"
"I will do both now," said Winthrop.
"What?" -- said Elizabeth looking at him bewilderedly.
"Stay with you, and take care of Mr. Haye."
"Oh no! you must not!" she said with a sort of eager
seriousness; -- "I shouldn't like to have you."
"I have seen something of the disease," he said smiling
slightly, "and I am not afraid of it. -- Are you?"
"Oh yes! -- oh yes!!"
How much was confessed in the tone of those words! -- and she
hid her face again. But her companion made no remark.
"Is there no friend you would like to have sent for?"
"No," said Elizabeth, -- "not one! not one here -- and not
anywhere, that I should care to have with me."
"May I go up and see Mr. Haye now?" he said presently. "Which
is the room?"
Elizabeth rose up to shew him.
"No," he said, gently motioning her back, -- "I am going alone.
You must stay here."
"But I must go too, Mr. Landholm! --"
"Not if I go," he said.
"But I am his daughter, -- I must."
"I am not his daughter -- so as far as that goes we are even.
And by your own confession you know nothing of the matter; and
I do. No -- you must not go above this floor."
"Until when, Mr. Landholm?" said Elizabeth looking terrified.
"Until new rules are made," he said quietly. "While you can do
nothing in your father's room, both for him and for you it is
much better that you should not be there."
"And can't I do anything?" said Elizabeth.
"If I think you are wanted, I will let you know. Meanwhile
there is one thing that can be done everywhere."
He spoke, looking at her with a face of steady kind gravity.
Elizabeth could not meet it; she trembled with the effort she
made to control herself.
"It is the thing of all others that I cannot do, Mr.
Landholm."
"Learn it now, then. Which is the room?"
Elizabeth told him, without raising her eyes; and stood
motionless on the floor where he left her, without stirring a
finger, as long as she could hear the sound of his footsteps.
They went first to the front door, and she heard him turn the
key; then they went up the stairs.
The locking of that door went to her heart, with a sense of
comfort, of dependence, of unbounded trust in the hand, the
heart, the head, that had done it. It roused, or the taking
off of restraint roused again, all the tumult of passions that
had raged after her first coming in. She dropped on her knees
by the sofa and wrapping her arms round the cushion as she had
done before, she laid her head down on it, and to all feeling
laid her heart down too; such bitter and deep and long sobs
shook and racked her breast.
She was alive to nothing but feeling and the indulgence of it,
and careless how much time the indulgence of it might take. It
was passion's time. She was startled when two hands took hold
of her and a grave voice said,
"If you do in this way, I shall have two patients instead of
one, Miss Elizabeth."
Elizabeth suffered herself to be lifted up and placed on the
sofa, and sat down like a child. Even at the instant came a
flash of recollection bringing back the time, long past, when
Winthrop had lifted her out of the rattlesnake's way. She felt
ashamed and rebuked.
"This is not the lesson I set you," he said gently.
Elizabeth's head drooped lower. She felt that he had two
patients -- if he had only known it!
"You might set me a great many lessons that I should be slow
to learn, Mr. Landholm," she said sadly.
"I hope not," he said in his usual tone. "There is no present
occasion for this distress. I cannot see that Mr. Haye'
symptoms are particularly unfavourable."
Elizabeth could have answered a great deal to that; but she
only said, tearfully,
"How good you are to take care of him!"
"I will be as good as I can," said he smiling a little. "I
should like to have you promise to do as much."
"That would be to promise a great deal, Mr. Landholm," said
Elizabeth looking up earnestly.
"What then?"
Elizabeth looked down and was silent, but musing much to
herself.
"Is it too much of a promise to make?" said he gravely.
"No --" said Elizabeth slowly, -- "but more than I am ready to
make."
"Why is that?"
"Because, Mr. Landholm," said she looking up again at him, "I
don't believe I should keep it if I made it."
"You expect me to say, in that case you are quite right not to
make it. No, -- you are quite wrong."
He waited a little; but said no more, and Elizabeth could not.
Then he left the room and she heard him going down stairs! Her
first thought was to spring up and go after to help him to
whatever he wanted; then she remembered that he and Clam could
manage it without her, and that he would certainly choose to
have it so. She curled herself up on her sofa and laying her
head on the cushion in more quiet wise, she went off into a
long fit of musing; for Winthrop's steps, when they came from
down stairs went straight up stairs again, without turning
into the parlour. She mused, on her duty, her danger, her
sorrow and her joy. There was something akin to joy in the
enormous comfort, rest, and pleasure she felt in Winthrop's
presence. But it was very grave musing after all; for her
duty, or the image of it, she shrank from; her danger she
shrank from more unequivocally; and joy and sorrow could but
hold a mixed and miserable reign. The loss of her father could
not be to Elizabeth what the loss of his mother had been to
Winthrop. Mr. Haye had never made himself a part of his
daughter's daily inner life; to her his death could be only
the breaking of the old name and tie and associations, which
of late years had become far less dear than they used to be.
Yet to Elizabeth, who had nothing else, they were very much;
and she looked to the possible loss of them as to a wild and
dreary setting adrift upon the sea of life without harbour or
shore to make anywhere. And then rose the shadowy image of a
fair port and land of safety, which conscience whispered she
could gain if she would. But sailing was necessary for that;
and chart-studying; and watchful care of the ship, and many an
observation taken by heavenly lights; and Elizabeth had not
even begun to be a sailor. She turned these things over and
over in her mind a hundred times, one after another, like the
visions of a dream, while the hours of the day stole away
noiselessly.
The afternoon waned; the doctor came. Elizabeth sprang out to
meet him, referred him to her coadjutor up stairs, and then
waited for his coming down again. But the doctor when he came
could tell her nothing; there was no declarative symptom as
yet; he knew no more than she did; she must wait. She went
back to her sofa and her musing.
The windows were open, but with the sultry breath of August
little din of business came into the room; the place was very
quiet. The house was empty and still; seldom a footfall could
be heard overhead. Clam was busy, up stairs and down, but she
went with a light step when she pleased, and she pleased it
now. It was a relief to have the change of falling night; and
then the breeze from the sea began to come in at the windows
and freshen the hot rooms; and twilight deepened. Elizabeth
wished for a light then, but for once in her life hesitated
about ringing the bell; for she had heard Clam going up and
down and feared she might be busied for some one else. And she
thought, with a heart full, how dismal this coming on of night
would have been, but for the friend up stairs. Elizabeth
wished bitterly she could follow his advice.
She sat looking out of the open window into the duskiness, and
at the yellow lights of the street lamps which by this time
spotted it; thinking so, and feeling very miserable. By and by
Clam came in with a candle and began to let down the blinds.
"What are you going to do?" said her mistress. "You needn't
pull those down."
"Folks'll see in," said Clam.
"No they won't -- there's no light here."
"There's goin' to be, though," said Clam. "Things is goin'
straight in this house, as two folks can make 'em."
"I don't want anything -- you may let the lamps alone, Clam."
"I dursn't," said Clam, going on leisurely to light the two
large burners of the mantle lamps, -- "Mr. Winthrop told me to
get tea for you and do everything just as it was every night;
so I knowed these had to be flarin' up -- You ain't goin' to be
allowed to sit in the shades no longer."
"I don't want anything!" said Elizabeth. "Don't bring any tea
here."
"Then I'll go up and tell him his orders is contradickied,"
said Clam.
"Stop!" said her mistress when she had reached the door
walking off, -- "don't carry any foolish speech up stairs at
such a time as this; -- fetch what you like and do what you
like, -- I don't care."
The room was brilliantly lighted now; and Clam set the salver
on the table and brought in the tea-urn; and miserable as she
felt, Elizabeth half confessed to herself that her coadjutor
up stairs was right. Better this pain than the other. If the
body was nothing a gainer, the mind perhaps might be, for
keeping up the wonted habits and appearances.
"Ask Mr. Landholm to come down, Clam."
"I did ask him," said the handmaiden, "and he don't want
nothin' but biscuits, and he's got lots o' them."
"Won't he have a cup of tea?"
"He knows his own mind mostly," said Clam; "and he says he
won't."
"What arrangements can you make for his sleeping up there to-
night, Clam?"
"Him and me 'll see to it," responded Clam confidently. "I
know pretty much what's in the house; and the best of it ain't
too good for him."
So Elizabeth drank her cup of tea alone; and sat alone through
the long evening and mused. For still it was rather musing
than thinking; going over things past and things present;
things future she cared not much to meddle with. It was not a
good time, she said, for taking up her religious wants and
duties; and in part that was true, severely as she felt them;
for her mind was in such a slow fever that none of its pulses
were healthful. Fear, and foreboding, for her father and for
herself, -- hope springing along with the fear; a strong sense
that her character was different from what it ought to be, and
a strong wish that it were not, -- and a yet mightier leaning
in another direction; -- all of these, meeting and modifying
each other and struggling together, seemed to run in her veins
and to tell in each beat of the tiny timekeeper at her wrist.
How could she disentangle one from the other, or give a quiet
mind to anything, when she had it not to give?
She was just bitterly asking herself this question, when
Winthrop came in at the open parlour door; and the immediate
bitter thought which arose next was, did he ever have any but
a quiet mind to give to anything? The two bitters were so
strong upon her tongue that they kept it still; till he had
walked up to the neighbourhood of her sofa.
"How is my father, Mr. Landholm?" she said rising and meeting
him.
"As you mean the question I cannot answer it -- There is
nothing declarative, Miss Elizabeth. Yes," he said kindly,
meeting and answering her face, -- "you must wait yet awhile
longer."
Elizabeth sat down again, and looked down.
"Are you troubled with fears for yourself?" he said gently,
taking a chair near her.
"No --" Elizabeth said, and said truly. She could have told
him, what indeed she could not, that since his coming into the
house another feeling had overmastered that fear, and kept it
under.
"At least," she added, -- "I suppose I have it, but it doesn't
trouble me now."
"I came down on principle," said he, -- "to exchange the office
of nurse for that of physician; -- thinking it probably better
that you should see me for a few minutes, than see nobody at
all."
"I am sure you were right," said Elizabeth. "I felt awhile ago
as if my head would go crazy with too many thoughts."
"Must be unruly thoughts," said Winthrop.
"They were," said she looking up.
"Can't you manage unruly thoughts?"
"No! -- never could."
"Do you know what happens in that case? -- They manage you."
"But how can I help it, Mr. Landholm? There they are, and here
am I; -- they are strong and I am weak."
"If they are the strongest, they will rule."
Elizabeth sat silent, thinking her counsellor was very
unsatisfactory.
"Are you going to sit up all night, Miss Elizabeth?"
"No -- I suppose not --"
"I shall; so you may feel easy about being alone down here.
There could be no disturbance, I think, without my knowing it.
Let Clam be here to keep you company; and take the best rest
you can."
It was impossible for Elizabeth to say a word of thanks, or of
his kindness; the words choked her; she was mute.
"Can I do anything, Mr. Landholm?"
"Nothing in the world -- but manage your thoughts," he said
smiling.
Elizabeth was almost choked again, with the rising of tears
this time.
"But Mr. Landholm -- about that -- what is wrong cannot be
necessary; there must be some way of managing them?"
"You know it," he said simply.
But it finished Elizabeth's power of speech. She did not even
attempt to look up; she sat pressing her chin with her hand,
endeavouring to keep down her heart and to keep steady her
quivering lips. Her companion, who in the midst of all her
troubles she many times that evening thought was unlike any
other person that ever walked, presently went out into the
hall and called to Clam over the balusters.
"Is he going to give her directions about taking care of me?"
thought Elizabeth in a great maze, as Winthrop came back into
the parlour and sat down again. When Clam appeared however he
only bade her take a seat; and then bringing forth a bible
from his pocket he opened it and read the ninety-first psalm.
Hardly till then it dawned upon Elizabeth what he was thinking
to do; and then the words that he read went through and
through her heart like drawn daggers. One after another, one
after another. Little he imagined, who read, what strength her
estimate of the reader's character gave them; nor how that
same estimate made every word of his prayer tell, and go home
to her spirit with the sharpness as well as the gentleness of
Ithuriel's spear. When Elizabeth rose from her knees, it was
with a bowed head which she could in no wise lift up; and
after Winthrop had left the room, Clam stood looking at her
mistress and thinking her own thoughts, as long as she pleased
unrebuked.
"One feels sort o' good after that, now, don't they?" was her
opening remark, when Elizabeth's head was at last raised from
her hands. "Do you think the roof of any house would ever fall
in over his head? He's better'n a regiment o' soldiers."
"Is everything attended to down stairs, Clam?"
"All's straight where the Governor is," said Clam with a
sweeping bend of her head, and going about to set the room in
order; -- "there ain't two straws laid the wrong way."
"Where he is!" repeated Elizabeth -- "He isn't in the kitchen,
I suppose, Clam."
"Whenever he's in the house, always seems to me he's all
over," said Clam. "It's about that. He's a governor, you know.
Now Miss 'Lizabeth, how am I goin' to fix you for the night?"
"No way," said Elizabeth. "I shall just sleep here, as I am.
Let the lamps burn, and shut down the blinds."
"And then will I go off to the second story and leave you?"
"No, indeed -- Fetch something that you can lay on the floor,
and stay here with me."
Which Clam presently did; nothing more than a blanket however;
and remarked as she curled herself down with her head upon her
arm,
"Ain't he a handsome man, Miss 'Lizabeth?"
"Who? --" ungraciously enough.
"Why, the Governor."
"Yes, for aught I know. Lie still and go to sleep, Clam, if
you can; and let me."
Very promptly Clam obeyed this command; but her less happy
mistress, as soon as the deep drawn breaths told her she was
alone again, sat up on her sofa to get in a change of posture
a change from pain.
How alone! -- In the parlour after midnight, with the lamps
burning as if the room were gay with company; herself, in her
morning dress, on the sofa for a night's rest, and there on
her blanket on the carpet, Clam already taking it. How it told
the story, of illness and watching and desertion and danger;
how it put life and death in near and strong contrast; and the
summer wind blew in through the blinds and pushed the blinds
themselves gently out into the room, just as Elizabeth had
seen and felt in many a bright and happy hour not so long
past. The same summer breath, and the summer so different!
Elizabeth could hardly bear it. She longed to rush up stairs
where there was somebody; but then she must not; and then the
remembrance that somebody was there quieted her again. That
thought stirred another train, the old contrast between him
and herself, the contrast between his condition and hers, now
brought more painfully than ever home. "He is ready to meet
anything," she thought, -- "nothing can come amiss to him; -- he
is as ready for that world as for this -- and more!" --
The impression of the words he had read that evening came back
to her afresh, and the recollection of the face with which he
had read them, -- calm, happy, and at rest; -- and Elizabeth
threw herself off the sofa and kneeled down to lay her head
and arms upon it, in mere agony of wish to change something,
or rather of the felt want that something should be changed. O
that she were at peace like him! O that she had like him a
sure home and possession beyond the reach of sickness and
death! O that she were that rectified, self-contained, pure,
strong spirit, that he was! -- The utmost of passionate wish
was in the tears that wept out these yearnings of heart --
petitions they half were, -- for her mind in giving them form,
had a half look to the only possible power that could give
them fruition. But it was with only the refreshment of tears
and exhaustion that she laid herself on her couch and went to
sleep.
Clam had carried away her blanket bed and put out the lamps,
before Elizabeth awoke the next morning. It was a question
whether the room looked drearier by night or by day. She got
up and went to the window. Clam had pulled up the blinds. The
light of the summer morning was rising again, but it shone
only without; all was darkness inside. Except that light-
surrounded watcher up stairs. How Elizabeth's heart blessed
him.
The next thing was, to get ready to receive his report. That
morning's toilet was soon made, and Elizabeth sat waiting. He
might come soon, or he might not; for it was early, and he
might not know whether she was awake and risen yet. She was
unaccustomed, poor child, to a waiting of pain; and her heart
felt tired and sore already from the last forty-eight hours of
fears and hopes. Fears and hopes were in strong life now, but
a life that had become very tender to every touch. Clam was
setting the breakfast-table -- Could breakfast be eaten or not?
The very cups and saucers made Elizabeth's heart ache. She was
glad when Clam had done her work and was gone and she sat
waiting alone. But the breaths came painfully now, and her
heart was weary with its own aching.
The little knock at the door came at last. Elizabeth ran to
open it, and exchanged a silent grasp of the hand with the
newsbearer; her eyes looked her question. He came in just as
he came last night; calm and grave.
"I can tell you nothing new, Miss Elizabeth," he said. "I
cannot see that Mr. Haye is any better -- I do not know that he
is any worse."
But Elizabeth was weak to bear longer suspense; she burst into
tears and sat down hiding her face. Her companion stood near,
but said nothing further.
"May I call Clam?" he asked after a few minutes.
Elizabeth gave eager assent; and the act of last night was
repeated, to her unspeakable gratification. She drank in every
word, and not only because she drank in the voice with them.
"Breakfast's just ready, Mr. Winthrop," said Clam when she was
leaving the room; -- "so you needn't go up stairs."
The breakfast was a very silent one on Elizabeth's part.
Winthrop talked on indifferent subjects; but she was too full-
hearted and too sick-hearted to answer him with many words.
And when the short meal was ended and he was about quitting
the parlour she jumped up and followed him a step or two.
"Mr. Winthrop -- won't you say a word of comfort to me before
you go? --"
He saw she needed it exceedingly; and came back and sat down
on the sofa with her.
"I don't know what to say to you better than this, Miss
Elizabeth," he said, turning over again the leaves of his
little bible; -- "I came to it in the course of my reading this
morning; and it comforted me."
He put the book in her hands, but Elizabeth had to clear her
eyes more than once from hot tears, before she could read the
words to which he directed her.
"And there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the daytime
from the heat, and for a place of refuge, and for a covert
from storm and from rain."
Elizabeth looked at it.
"But I don't understand it, Mr. Landholm?" she said, raising
her eyes to his face.
He said nothing; he took the book from her and turning a few
leaves over, put it again in her hands. Elizabeth read; --
"And a man shall be as an hiding-place from the wind, and a
covert from the tempest; as rivers of water in a dry place; as
the shadow of a great rock in a thirsty land."
"Is that plainer?" he asked.
"It means the Saviour?" said Elizabeth.
"Certainly it does! To whom else should we go?"
"But Mr. Landholm," said Elizabeth after a minute's struggle,
"why do you shew me this, when you know I can do nothing with
it?"
"Will you do nothing?" he said.
The words implied that she could; an implication she would not
deny; but her answer was another burst of tears. And with the
book in her hand he left her.
The words were well studied that day! by a heart feeling the
blast of the tempest and bitterly wanting to hide itself from
the wind. But the fact of her want and of a sure remedy, was
all she made clear; how to match the one with the other she
did not know. The book itself she turned over with the
curiosity and the interest of fresh insight into character. It
was well worn, and had been carefully handled; it lay open
easily anywhere, and in many places various marks of
pencilling shewed that not only the eyes but the mind of its
owner had been all over it. It was almost an awful book to
Elizabeth's handling. It seemed a thing too good to be in her
hold. It bore witness to its owner's truth of character, and
to her own consequent being far astray; it gave her an opening
such as she never had before to look into his mind and life
and guess at the secret spring and strength of them. Of many
of the marks of his pencil she could make nothing at all; she
could not divine why they had been made, nor what could
possibly be the notable thing in the passage pointed out; and
longing to get at more of his mind than she could in one
morning's hurried work, she found another bible in the house
and took off a number of his notes, for future and more
leisurely study.
It was a happy occupation for her that day. No other could
have so softened its exceeding weariness and sadness. The
doctor gave her no comfort. He said he could tell nothing yet;
and Elizabeth could not fancy that this delay of amendment
gave any encouragement to hope for it. She did not see
Winthrop at dinner. She spent the most of the day over his
bible. Sickness of heart sometimes made her throw it aside,
but so surely sickness of heart made her take it up again.
The thought of Winthrop himself getting sick, did once or
twice look in through the window of Elizabeth's mind; but her
mind could not take it in. She had so much already to bear,
that this tremendous possibility she could not bear so much as
to look at; she left it a one side; and it can hardly be
numbered among her recognized causes of trouble.
The day wore to an end. The evening and the sea-breeze came
again. The lamps were lit and the table dressed with the
salver and tea-urn. And Elizabeth was thankful the day was
over; and waited impatiently for her friend to make his
appearance.
She thought he looked thoughtfuller than ever when he came.
That might have been fancy.
"I don't know, Miss Elizabeth," he said, taking her hand as he
had done in the morning, and answering her face. "We must wait
yet. -- How have you borne the day?"
"I have borne it by the help of your book," she said looking
down at it and trembling.
"You could have no better help," he said with a little sigh,
as he turned away to the table, -- "except that of the Author
of it."
The tea was very silent, for even Winthrop did not talk much;
and very sad, for Elizabeth could hardly hold her head up.
"Mr. Winthrop," she said when he rose, -- "can you give me a
minute or two before you go? -- I want to ask you a question."
"Certainly," -- he said; and waited, both standing, while she
opened his bible and found the place he had shewed her in the
morning. She shewed it to him now.
"This -- I don't quite understand it. -- I see what is spoken
of, and the need of it, -- but -- how can I make it my own?"
She looked up as she put the question, with most earnest eyes,
and lips that only extreme determination kept from giving way.
He looked at her, and at his book.
"By giving your trust to the Maker of the promise."
"How? --"
"The same unquestioning faith and dependence that you would
give to any sure and undoubted refuge of human strength."
Elizabeth looked down and pressed her hands close together
upon her breast. She knew so well how to give that! -- so
little how to give the other.
"Do you understand what Christ requires of those who would
follow him?"
"No," she said looking up again, -- "not clearly -- hardly at
all."
"One is -- that you give up everything, even in thought, that
is contrary to his authority."
He was still, and so was she, both looking at each other.
"That is what is meant by repentance. The other thing is, --
that you trust yourself for all your wants -- from the
forgiveness of sin, to the supply of this moment's need, -- to
the strength and love of Jesus Christ; -- and that because he
has paid your price and bought you with his own blood."
"You mean," said Elizabeth slowly, "that his life was given in
place of mine."
Winthrop was silent. Elizabeth stood apparently considering.
"'Everything that is contrary to his authority'" -- she added
after a minute, -- "how can I know exactly all that?"
He still said nothing, but touched with his finger once or
twice the book in his hand.
Elizabeth looked, and the tears came to her eyes.
"You know, --" she said, hesitating a little, -- "what
physicians say of involuntary muscular resistance, that the
physical frame makes sometimes?"
He answered her with an instant's light of intelligence, and
then with the darkened look of sorrow. But he took his bible
away with him and said no more.
Elizabeth sat down and struggled with herself and with the
different passions which had been at work in her mind, till
she was wearied out; and then she slept.
She waked up in the middle of the night, to find the lamps
burning bright and Clam asleep on the floor by her side; she
herself was sitting yet where she had been sitting in the
evening, on a low seat with her head on the sofa cushion. She
got up and with a sort of new spring of hope and cheer, whence
come she knew not, laid herself on the sofa and slept till the
morning.
"You'd best be up, Miss 'Lizabeth," were Clam's first words.
"Why?" said Elizabeth springing up.
"It's time," said her handmaiden.
Elizabeth rose from her sofa and put her face and dress in
such order as a few minutes could do. She had but come back
from doing this, and was standing before the table, when
Winthrop came in. It was much earlier than usual. Elizabeth
looked, but he did not answer, the wonted question. He led her
gently to the window and placed himself opposite to her.
"You must leave here, Miss Elizabeth," he said.
"Must I?" -- said Elizabeth looking up at him and trembling.
"You must --" he answered very gently.
"Why, Mr. Landholm?" Elizabeth dared to say.
"Because there is no longer any reason why you should stay
here."
She trembled exceedingly, but though her very lips trembled,
she did not cry. He would have placed her on a chair, but she
resisted that and stood still.
"Where do you want me to go, Mr. Winthrop?" she said
presently, like a child.
"I will take you wherever you say -- to some friend's house?"
She caught at his arm and her breath at once, with a kind of
sob; then releasing his arm, she said,
"There isn't anywhere."
"No house in the city?"
She shook her head.
"If you will let me, I will take you to a safe and quiet
place; and as soon as possible away from the city."
"When?"
"When from here? -- Now, -- as soon as you can be ready."
Elizabeth's eye wandered vaguely towards the table like a
person in a maze.
"Mayn't I go up stairs again?" she said, her eye coming back
to his.
"I would rather you did not."
She gave way then and sat down covering her face with her
hands. And sobs as violent as her tremblings had been, held
her for a little while. The moment she could, she rose up and
looked up again, throwing off her tears as it were, though a
sob now and then even while she was speaking interrupted her
breath.
"But Mr. Winthrop -- the house, --how can I go and leave it with
everything in it?"
"I will take care, if you will trust me."
"I will trust you," she said with running tears. "But you? --"
"I will take care of it and you too. -- I will try to."
"That was not what I meant --"
"I am safe," he said.
He gently seated her; and then going off to Clam at the other
side of the room he bade her fetch her mistress's bonnet and
shawl. He himself put them on, and taking her arm in his, they
went forth of the house.
CHAPTER IX.
The One remains, the many change and pass;
Heaven's light forever shines, Earth's shadows flee;
Life, like a dome of many-coloured glass
Stains the clear radiance of Eternity,
Until Death shiver it to atoms.
SHELLEY.
The dawn of the summer morning was just flushing up over the
city, when Winthrop and his trembling companion came out of
the house. The flush came up upon a fair blue sky, into which
little curls of smoke were here and there stealing; and a
fresh air in the streets as yet held place of the sun's hot
breath. One person felt the refreshment of it, as he descended
the steps of the house and began a rather swift walk up the
Parade. But those were very trembling feet that he had to
guide during that early walk; though his charge was perfectly
quiet. She did not weep at all; she did not speak, nor
question any of his movements. Neither did he speak. He kept a
steady and swift course till they reached Mr. Inchbald's house
in Little South Street, and then only paused to open the door.
He led Elizabeth up-stairs to his own room, and there and not
before took her hand from his arm and placed her on a chair.
Himself quietly went round the room, opening the windows and
altering the disposition of one or two things. Then he came
back to her where she sat like a statue, and in kind fashion
again took one of her hands.
"I will see that you are waited upon," he said gently; "and I
will send Clam to you by and by for your orders. Will you stay
here for a little while? -- and then I will take care of you."
How she wished his words meant more than she knew they did.
She bowed her head, thinking so.
"Can I give you anything?"
She managed to say a smothered 'no,' and he went; first
pulling out of his pocket his little bible which he laid upon
the table.
Was that by way of answering his own question? It might be, or
he might not have wanted it in his pocket. Whether or no,
Elizabeth seized it and drew it towards her, and as if it had
contained the secret charm and panacea for all her troubles,
she laid her hands and her head upon it, and poured out there
her new and her old sorrows; wishing even then that Winthrop
could have given her the foundation of strength on which his
own strong spirit rested.
After a long while, or what seemed such, she heard the door
softly open and some one come in. The slow careful step was
none that she knew, and Elizabeth did not look up till it had
gone out and the door had closed again. It was Mrs. Nettley,
and Mrs. Nettley had softly left on the table a waiter of
breakfast. Elizabeth looked at it, and laid her head down
again.
The next interruption came an hour later and was a smarter
one. Elizabeth had wearied herself with weeping, and lay
comparatively quiet on the couch.
"Miss 'Lizabeth," said the new-comer, in more gentle wise than
it was her fashion to look or speak, -- "Mr. Winthrop said I
was to come and get your orders about what you wanted."
"I can't give orders -- Do what you like," said Elizabeth
keeping her face hid.
"If I knowed what 'twas," -- said Clam, sending her eye round
the room for information or suggestion. "Mr. Winthrop said I
was to come. -- Why you haven't took no breakfast?"
"I didn't want any."
"You can't go out o' town that way," said Clam. "The Governor
desired you would take some breakfast, and his orders must be
follered. You can't drink cold coffee neither --"
And away went Clam, coffee-pot in hand.
In so short a space of time that it shewed Clam's business
faculties, she was back again with the coffee smoking hot. She
made a cup carefully and brought it to her mistress.
"You can't do nothin' without it," said Clam. "Mr. Winthrop
would say, 'Drink it' if he was here --"
Which Elizabeth knew, and perhaps considered in swallowing the
coffee. Before she had done, Clam stood at her couch again
with a plate of more substantial supports.
"He would say 'Eat,' if he was here --" she remarked.
"Attend a little to what I have to say," said her mistress.
"While you're eatin'," said Clam. "I wasn't to stop to get
breakfast."
A few words of directions were despatched, and Clam was off
again; and Elizabeth lay still and looked at the strange room
and thought over the strange meaning and significance of her
being there. A moment's harbour, with a moment's friend. She
was shiveringly alone in the world; she felt very much at a
loss what to do, or what would become of her, She felt it, but
she could not think about it. Tears came again for a long
uninterrupted time.
The day had reached the afternoon, when Clam returned, and
coming into Mrs. Nettley's kitchen inquired if her mistress
had had any refreshment. Mrs. Nettley declared that she
dursn't take it up and that she had waited for Clam. Upon
which that damsel set about getting ready a cup of tea, with a
sort of impatient promptitude.
"Have you got all through?" Mrs. Nettley asked in the course
of this preparation.
"What?" said Clam.
"Your work."
"No," said Clam. "Never expect to. My work don't get done."
"But has Mr. Landholm got through his work, down at the
house?"
"Don't know," said Clam. "He don't tell me. But if we was to
work on, at the rate we've been a goin' to-day -- we'd do up
all Mannahatta in a week or so."
"What's been so much to do? -- the funeral, I know."
"The funeral," said Clam, "and everything else. That was only
one thing. There was everything to be locked up, and
everything to be put up, and the rest to be packed; and the
silver sent off to the Bank; and everybody to be seen to. I
did all I could, and Mr. Winthrop he did the rest."
"He'll be worn out!" said Mrs. Nettley.
"No he won't," said Clam. "He ain't one o' them that have to
try hard to make things go -- works like oiled 'chinery --
powerful too, I can tell you."
"What's going to be done?" said Mrs. Nettley meditatively.
"Can't say," said Clam. "I wish my wishes was goin' to be done
-- but I s'pose they ain't. People's ain't mostly, in this
world." She went off with her dish of tea and what not, to her
mistress up-stairs. But Elizabeth this time would endure
neither her presence nor her proposal. Clam was obliged to go
down again leaving her mistress as she had found her. Alone
with herself.
Then, when the sun was long past the meridian, Elizabeth heard
upon the stair another step, of the only friend, as it seemed
to her, that she had. She raised her head and listened to it.
The step went past her door, and into the other room, and she
sat waiting. "How little he knows," she thought, "how much of
a friend he is! how little he guesses it. How far he is from
thinking that when he shall have bid me good bye -- somewhere --
he will have taken away all of help and comfort I have. --"
But clear and well defined as this thought was in her mind at
the moment, it did not prevent her meeting her benefactor with
as much outward calmness as if it had not been there. Yet the
quiet meeting of hands had much that was hard to bear.
Elizabeth did not dare let her thoughts take hold of it.
"Have you had what you wanted?" he said, in the way in which
one asks a question of no moment when important ones are
behind.
"I have had all I could have," Elizabeth answered.
There was a pause; and then he asked,
"What are your plans, Miss Elizabeth?"
"I haven't formed any. -- I couldn't not, yet."
"Do you wish to stay in the city, or to go out of it?"
"Oh to go out of it!" said Elizabeth, -- "if I could -- if I
knew where."
"Where is your cousin?"
"She was at Vantassel; but she left it for some friend's house
in the country, I believe. I don't want to be where she is."
Elizabeth's tears came again.
"It seems very strange --" she said presently, trying to put a
stop to them, but her words stopped.
"What?" said Winthrop.
"It seems very strange, -- but I hardly know where to go. I
have no friends near -- no near friends, in any sense; there
are some, hundreds of miles off, in distance, and further than
that in kind regard. I know plenty of people, but I have no
friends. -- I would go up to Wut-a-qut-o, if there was anybody
there," she added after a minute or two.
"Shahweetah has passed into other hands," said Winthrop.
"I know it," said Elizabeth; -- "it passed into mine."
Winthrop started a little, and then after another moment's
pause said quietly,
"Are you serious in wishing to go there now?"
"Very serious!" said Elizabeth, "if I had anybody to take care
of me. I couldn't be there with only Clam and Karen."
"You would find things very rough and uncomfortable."
"What do you suppose I care about how rough?" said Elizabeth.
"I would rather be there than in any other place I can think
of."
"I am afraid you would still be much alone there -- your own
household would be all."
"I must be that anywhere," said Elizabeth bitterly. "I wish I
could be there."
"Then I will see what I can do," said he rising.
"About what?" said Elizabeth.
"I will tell you if I succeed."
Mr. Landholm walked down stairs into Mrs. Nettley's sanctum,
where the good lady was diligently at work in kitchen affairs.
"Mrs. Nettley, will you leave your brother and me to keep
things together here, and go into the country with this
bereaved friend of mine?"
Mrs. Nettley stood still with her hands in the dough of her
bread and looked at the maker of this extraordinary
proposition.
"Into the country, Mr. Landholm! -- When?"
"Perhaps this afternoon -- in two or three hours."
"Dear Mr. Landholm! --"
"Dear Mrs. Nettley."
"But it's impossible."
"Is it?"
"Why -- What does she want me for, Mr. Landholm?"
"She is alone, and without friends at hand. She wishes to
leave the city and take refuge in her own house in the
country, but it is uninhabited except by servants. She does
not know of my application to you, which I make believing it
to be a case of charity."
Mrs. Nettley began to knead her dough with a haste and vigour
which told of other matters on hand.
"Will you go, Mr. Landholm?"
"Certainly -- to see you safe there -- and then I will come back
and take care of Mr. Inchbald."
"How far is it, sir?"
"So far as my old home, which Miss Haye has bought."
