been clean ; and there was a greasy smell which same 
from several harnesses that were kept there. It was 
comfortable, if not poetical ; and Harry soon felt per- 
fectly at home. 
His first duty was to cultivate the acquaintance 
of the ostlers. He found them to be rough, good- 
natured men, not over-scrupulous about their man- 
ners or their morals. If it does not occur to my 
young readers, it will to their parents, that this waa 
not a fit place for a boy — that he was in constant 
contact with corruption. His companions were good- 
hearted men ; but this circumstance rendered them 
all the more dangerous. There was no fireside of 
home, at which the evil effects of communication 
with men of loose morals would be counteracted. 
llany had not been an hour in their society before 
he caught himself using a big oath — which, when he 
had gone to bed, he heartily repented, renewing hi/i 
resolution with the promise to try again. 
He was up bright and early the next morning 
made a firs in the counting room, and had led out 
half the horses in the stable to water, before M ijoi 
Phillips came out. His services were in demand, aa 
Joe Flint, for some reason, had not come to tbe sta- 
ble that morning. 
The stable keeper declared that he had gone on 
a " spree," and told Harry he might take his 
place. 
Harry did take his place ; and the ostlers declared 
that, m every thing but cleaning the horses, he made 
good his place. The knowledge and skill which he 
had obtained at the poorhouse was of great value to 
him ; and, at night, though he was very tired, he waa 
satisfied that he had done a good clay's work. 
The ostlers took their meals at the house of Major 
Phillips, which stood at one side of the stable yard. 
Harry did not like Mrs. Phillips very well ; she waa 
cross, and the men said she was a " regular Tartar." 
But he was resolved to keep the peace. He after- 
wards found it a difficult matter ; for he had to bring 
wood and water, and do other chores about tha 
house, and he soon ascertained that she was deter* 
mined not to be pleased with any thing he did. Hi 
tried to keep his temper, however, and meekly sub- 
mitted to all her scolding and grumbling. 
Thus far, while Harry has been passing thrcigh 
the momentous period of his life with which we 
Commenced his story, we have minutely detailed the 
incidents of his daily life, so that we have related the 
events of only a few days. This is no longer neces- 
sary. He has got a place, and of course one day is 
very much like every other. The reader knows hira 
now — knows what kind of boy he is, and what his 
hopos and expectations are. The reader knows, too, 
the great moral epoch in his history — the event 
which roused his consciousness of error, and stimu- 
lated him to become better ; that he has a talisman 
in his mind, which can be no better expressed than 
by those words he so often repeated, " She hoped he 
would be a good boy." And her angel smile went 
with him to encourage him in the midst of trial and 
temptation — to give him the victory over the foes 
that assailed him. 
Wc shall henceforth give results, instead of a daily 
record, stopping to detail only the great events of hia 
career. 
We uhall pass over three months, during which 
time he worked diligently and faithfully for Major 
Phillips. Every day had its trials and temptations ; 
tot a day passed in which there were none. The 
habit of using profane language he found it very hard 
to eradicate ; but he persevered ; and though he often 
sinned, he as often repented and tried again, until he 
had fairly mastered the enemy. It was a great tri- 
umph, especially when it is remembered that he was 
surrounded by those whose every tenth word at least 
was an oath. 
He was tempted to lie, tempted to neglect his 
work, tempted to steal, tempted in a score of other 
things. And often he yielded ; but the remembrance 
of the little angel, and the words of the good Book 
she had given him, cheered and supported him as he 
struggled on. 
Harry's finances were in a tolerably prosperous 
condition. With his earnings he had bought a suit 
of clothes, and went to church half a day every San- 
day. Besides his wages, he had saved about five 
dollais from the " perquisites " which he received 
from customers for holding their horses, running er- 
 
rands, and other little services a boy could perform. 
fie was very careful and prudent with his money j 
and whenever he added any thing to his little hoard, 
he thought of the man who had become rich by 
sa\ing up his fourpences. He still cherished his 
purpose to become a rich man, and it is very likely 
he had some brilliant anticipations of success. Not 
a cent did he spend foolishly, though it was hard 
work to resist the inclination to buy the fine things 
that tempted him from the shop windows. 
Those who knew him best regarded him as a very 
strange boy ; but that was only because he was a 
little out of his element. He would have preferred 
to be among men who did not bluster and swear ; 
but, in spite of them, he had the courage and the 
fortitude to be true to himself. The little angel still 
maintained her ascendency in his moral nature. 
The ostlers laughed at him when he took out his 
little Bible, before he went to bed, to drink of the 
waters of life. They railed at him, called him " Lit- 
tle Pious," and tried to induce him to pitch, ceijf, in 
the back yard, on Sunday afternoon, instead of ^oing 
to church. He generally bore these taunt* with 
 
patience, though sometimes Tvs high spirit would get 
the better of his desire to be what the little angel 
wished him to be. 
John Lane put up at the stable once a week; and, 
every time he returned to Rockville, he carried a 
writter or a verbal account of the prosperity of the
little pauper boy. One Sunday, he wrote her a long 
letter all about " being good " — how he was tempt- 
ed, and how he struggled for her sake and for the 
sake of the truth. 
In return, he often received messages and letters 
from her, breathing the same pure spirit which she had 
manifested when she " fed him in the wilderness." 
These communications strengthened his moral nature, 
and enabled him to resist temptation. He felt just 
as though she was an angel sent into the world to 
watch over him. Perhaps he had fallen without 
them ; at any rate, her influence was very pow- 
erful. 
About the middle of January, when the earth was 
covered with snow, and the bleak, cold winds of 
winter blew over the city, John Lane informed Harry 
on his arrival, tint Julia was very sick with the 
 
ic?rlet fever and canker rash, and that it was feared 
she would not recover. 
This was tne most severe trial of all.hewept 
when he thought of her sweet face reddened with 
the flush of fever ; and he fled to his chamWr, to 
rent his emotions in silence and solituds. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
IK WHICH HARRV DOES A GOOD DEED, AND DK« 
TERMIXES TO " FACE THE MUSIC." 
"While Harry sat by the stove in the ostler'i 
room, grieving at the intelligence he had received 
from Rockville, a little girl, so lame that she walked 
with a crutch, hobbled into the apartment. 
" Is my father here ? " she asked, in tones so sad 
that Harry could not help knowing she was in dis- 
tress. 
" I don't know as I am acquainted with your 
father," replied Harry. 
" He is one of the ostlers here." 
" O, Joseph Flint ! " 
" Yes ; he has not been nome tG dinner or tur prt 
to-day, and mother is very sick." 
" I haven't seen him to-day." 
" O. dear ! What will become of us ? " sighed the 
little girl, and she hobbled away. 
Harry was struck by the sad appearance cf <he 
girl, and rle desponding words she uttered. Of late, 
Joe Flint's vile habit of intemperance had grown upon 
him so rapidly, that he did not work at the stable 
more than one day in three. For two months, Majoi 
Phillips had been threatening to discharge him ; and 
nothing but kindly consideration for his family had 
prevented him from doing so. 
"Have you seen Joe to-day?" asked Harry of 
one of the ostlers, who came into the room soon after 
the departure of the little girl. 
" No, and don't want to see him," replied Abner, 
testily ; for, in Joe's absence, his work had to be 
done by the other ostlers, who did not feel very 
kindly towards him. 
" His little girl has just been here after him." 
 Very likely he hasn't been noiae for a week," 
idded Abner. " I should think his family would be 
very thankful if they never saw him again He ii 
t nuisance ;o himself and every body else." 
 Where does he live ? " 
 
" Just up in Avery Street — in a ten-footer there." 
" The little girl said her mother was very sick." 
" I dare say. She is always sick ; and I don't 
much wonder. Joe Flint is enough to make any one 
sick. He has been drunk about two thirds of the 
time for two months." 
" I don't see how his family get along." 
" Nor I, either." 
After Abner had warmed himself, he left the room. 
Harry was haunted by the sad look and the despond- 
ing tones of the poor lame girl. It was a bitter cold 
evening ; and what if Joe's family were suffering 
with the cold and hunger ! It was sad to think of 
such a thing ; and Harry was deeply moved. 
" She hoped I would be a good boy. She is very 
Kick now, and perhaps she will die," said Harry to 
himself. " What would she do, if she were here 
now r " 
He knew very well what she would do, and he de- 
tei mined to do it himself. His heart was so deeply 
(sieved by the picture of sorrow and suffering with 
which his imagination had invested the home of the 
intemperate ostler, that it required no argument to 
nduce him to go. 
But he must go prepared to do something. How 
iver sweet and consoling may be the sympathy of 
others to those in distress, it will not warm tha 
chilled limbs or feed the hungry mouths ; and Harry 
thanked God then that he had not spent his money 
foolishly upon gewgaws and gimcracks, or in gratify- 
ing a selfish appetite. 
After assuring himself that no one was approach- 
ing, he jumped on his bedstead, and reaching p into 
a hole in the board ceiling of the room, he took out 
a large wooden pill box, which was nearly filled with 
various silver coins, from a five-cent piece to a half 
dollar. Putting the box into his pocket, he went 
down to the stable, and inquired more particularly 
in relation to Joe's house. 
When he had received such directions as would 
enable him to find the place, he told Abner he wanted 
to be absent a little while, and left the stable. He 
had no difficulty in finding the home of the drunk- 
ard's family. It was a little, old wooden house, ill 
Avery Street, opposite Haymarket Place, which baa 
long since been pulled down, to make room for I 
more elegant dwelling. 
Harry knocked, and was admitted by the little 
.ame girl whom he had seen at the stable. 
" I have come to see if I can do any thing fos 
you," said Harry, as he moved forward into the room 
in which the family lived. 
" Have you seen any thing of father ? " asked the 
little girl. 
" I haven't ; Abner says he hasn't been to the sta- 
ble to-day. Haven't you any lights ? " asked Harry, 
as he entered the dark room. 
" We haven't got any oil, nor any candles." 
In the fireplace, a piece of pine board was blazing, 
which cast a faint and fitful glare into the room ; 
and Harry was thus enabled to behold the scene 
which the miserable home of the drunkard pre- 
sented. 
In one corner was a dilapidated bedstead, on which 
lay the sick woman. Drawn from under it was a 
trundle bed, upon which lay two small children, who 
had evidently been put to bed at that ea-ly hour to 
keep them warm, for the temperature of the apartment 
was scarcely more comfortable than that of the open 
Air. It was a cheeiless home: and the faint light 
a( the blazing board served only to increase thi 
deeolale app^-o-ice of the place. 
" Who is it ? " asked the sick woman, faintly. 
" The boy that works at the stable," replied the 
lame girl. 
" My name is Harry West, marm ; and I come tr» 
«ee if you wanted any thing," added Harry. 
" We want a great many things," sighed she. 
s Can you tell me where my husband is ? " 
" I can't ; he hasn't been at the stable to-day." 
" O God ! what will become of us ? " sobbed the 
woman. 
" I will help you, marm. Don't take on so. I 
have money ; and I will do every thing I can for 
you." 
When her mother sobbed, the lame girl sat down 
on the bed, and cried bitterly. Harry's tender heart 
was melted ; and he would have wept also, if he had 
not been conscious of the high mission he had to 
perform ; and he felt very grateful that he was able 
to dry up those tears, and carry gladness (o those 
Meeding hearts. 
" I don't kna-' what you can do for us," said the 
poor woman, " though I am sure I am very much 
obliged to you." 
" I can do a great deal, marm. Cheer up," replied 
Harry, tenderly. 
As he spoke, one of the children in the trundle 
bed sobbed in its sleep ; and the poor mother's heart 
aeemed to be lacerated by the sound. 
" Poor child ! " wailed she. " He had no supper 
but a crust of bread and a cup of cold water. He 
cried himself to sleep with cold and hunger. O 
Heaven ! that we should have come to this ! " 
" And the room is very cold," added Harry, glan- 
cing around him. 
" It is. Our wood is all gone but two great logs. 
Katy could not bring them up." 
" I worked for an hour trying to split some pieces 
off them," said Katy, the lame girl. 
" I will fix them, marm," replied Harry, who felt 
the strength of ten stout men in his limbs at thai 
noment. " But you have had no supper." 
" No." 
" Wait a minute. Have you a basket ? " 
Katy brought him a peck basket, and Harry rushed 
out of the house as though he had been shot. Great 
deeds were before him, and he was inspired for the 
occasion. 
In a quarter of an hour he returned. The basket 
was nearly full. Placing it in a chair, he took from 
it a package of candles, one of which he lighted and 
placed in a tin candlestick on the table. 
" Now we have got a little light on the subject," 
said he, as he began to display the contents of the 
basket. " Here, Katy, is two pounds of meat ; here 
is half a pound of tea ; you had better put a little in 
the teapot, and let it be steeping for your mother." 
" God bless you ! '* exclaimed Mrs. Flint. " You 
are an angel sent from Heaven to help us in our 
distress." 
" No, marm ; I ain't an angel," answered Harry, 
who seemed to feel that Julia Bryant had an exclu- 
sive monopoly of that appellation, so far as it could 
be reasonably applied to mortals. " I only want to 
do my duty, marm." 
" Katy Flint was so bewildered that she could say 
nothing, though her opinion undoubtedly coinni led 
with that of her mother. 
"Here is two loaves of bread and two dozen 
crackers; a pound of butter; two pounds of sugar 
There ! I did not bring any milk." 
"Never mind the milk. You are a blessed child." 
" Give me a pitcher, Katy. I will go down to 
Thomas's in two shakes of a jiffy." 
Mrs. Flint ' protested that she did not want any 
milk — that she could get along very well without 
it. ; but Harry said the children must have it ; and, 
without waiting for Katy to get the pitcher, he took 
it from the closet, and ran out of the house. 
He was gone but a few minutes. When he re- 
turned, he found Katy trying to make the teakettle 
boil, but with very poor success. 
" Now, Katy, show me the logs, and I will sooc 
h?ve a fire." 
The lame girl conducted him to the cellar, where 
Harry found the remnants of the old box which Katy 
nad tried to split. Seizing the axe, he struck a few 
vigorous blown, and the pine boards were reduced to 
a proper shape for use. Taking an armful, he re- 
turned to the chamber; and soon a good fire wai 
blazing under the teakettle. 
" There, marm, we will soon have things to rights,'
said Harry, as he rose from the health, where he hail 
stooped down to blow the fire. 
" I am sure we should have perished if you had 
not come," added Mrs. Flint, who was not disposed 
to undervalue Harry's good deeds. 
" Then I am very glad I come." 
" I hope we shall be able to pay you back all the 
money you have spent ; but I don't know. Joseph 
has got so bad, I don't know what he is coming to. 
He is a good-hearted man. He always uses me well, 
even when he is in liquor. Nothing but drink could 
make him neglect us so." 
"It is a hard case, marm," added Harry. 
" Very hard ; he hasn't done much of any thing 
for us this winter. I have been out to work every 
day till a fortnight ago, when I got eick, and couldn't 
do any thing. Katy has kept us alive since then ; 
ghe is a good girl, and takes the whole care of Tom- 
m}" and Susan." 
" Poor girl ! it is a pity she is so lame." 
" I don't mind that, if I only had things to do 
with," said Katy, who was busy disposing of the 
provision which Harry had bought. 
As soon as the kett.e boiled, she made tea, an 
prepared a little toast for her mother, who, how ever, 
was too sick to take much nourishment. 
" Now, Katy, you must eat yourself," interposed 
Harry, when all was ready. 
" I can't eat," replied the poor girl, bursting into 
teais. " I don't feel hungry." 
" You must eat." 
Just then the children in the trundle bed, dis- 
turbed by the unusual bustle in the room, waked, 
and gazed with wonder at Harry, who had seated 
himself on the bed. 
" Poor Susy ! " exclaimed Katy ; " she has waked 
up. And Tommy, too ! They shall have their sup- 
per, now." 
They were taken up ; and Harry's eyes were glad- 
dened by such a sight as he had never beheld before. 
The hungry ate ; and every mouthful they took 
swelled the heart of the little almoner of God's 
bcunty. If the thought of Julia Bryant, languishing 
en a bed of sickness, had not marred his satif faction, 
he had been perfectly happy. But he was doing a 
deed that would rejoice her heart; he was doing jts< 
wLat she had done for him ; he was doing jnst what 
§he would hare done, if she had been there. 
" She hoped he would be a good bo} T ." His con- 
scieuce told him he had been a good boy — that he 
hitd been true to himself, and true to the noble ex- 
ample she had set before him. 
While the family were still at supper, Harry, light- 
ing another candle, went down cellar to pay hia 
respects to those big logs. He was a stout boy, and 
accustomed to the use of the axe. By slow degrees 
he chipped off the logs, until they were used up, and 
a great pile of serviceable wood was before him. Not 
content with this, he carried up several large armfuls 
of it, which he deposited by the fireplace in the room 
" Now, marm, I don't know as I can do any thing 
more for you to-night," said he, moving towards the 
door. 
" The Lord knows you have done enough," replied 
Khe poor woman. " I hope we shall be able to pay 
you for what you have done." 
" I don't want any thing, marm." 
"If we can't pay you, the Lord will reward you." 
" I am paid enough already. I hope you will get 
better, marm." 
" I hope so. I feel better to-night than I ha\e felt 
before for a week." 
" Good night, marm ! Good night, Katy ! " And 
Harry hurried back to the stable. 
" Where have you been, Harry ? " asked Abner, 
when he entered the ostler's room. 
" I have been out a little while." 
" I know that. The old man wanted you ; and 
when he couldn't find you, he was as mad as thun- 
der." 
" Where is he ? " said Harry, somewhat annoyed 
to find that, while he had been doing his duty in one 
direction, he had neglected his duty in another. 
" In the counting room. You will catch fits for 
going off." 
Whatever he should catch, he determined to " face 
the music," and left the room to find his employer. 
CHAPTER XV. 
IX WHICH HARRY MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OP 
A VERY IMPORTANT PERSONAGE. 
Major Phillips was in the counting room, where 
Hairy, dreading his anger, presented himself before 
bim. His employer was a violent man. He usually 
acted first, and thought the matter over afterwards ; 
so that he frequently had occasion to undo what had 
been done in haste and passion. His heart was 
kind, but his temper generally had the first word. 
" So you have come, Harry," exclaimed he, as 
our hero opened the door. " Where have you 
been ? " 
" I have been out a little while," replied Harry, 
whose modesty rebelled at the idea of proclaiming 
the good deed he had done. 
" Out a little while ! " roared the major, with aa 
aath that froze the boy's blood. " That is enough — 
 
M'ougli, sir. You know I don't allow man or boy to 
leave the stable without letting me know it." 
" I was wrong, sir ; but I " 
" You little snivelling monkey, how dared you 
Ipave the stable ? " continued the stable keeper, heed- 
less of the boy's submission. " I'll teach you better 
than that." 
" Will you ? " said Harry, suddenly changing h;s 
tone, as his blood began to boil. " You can begia 
as quick as you like." 
" You saucy young cub ! I have a great mind to 
give you a cowhiding," thundered the enraged stable 
keeper. 
" I should like to see you do it," replied Harry, 
fixing his eyes on the poker that lay on the floor 
near the stove. 
" Should you, you impertinent puppy ? " 
The hiajor sprang forward, as if to grasp the boj 
I y the collar ; but Harry, with his eye still fixed 
on the poker, retreated a pace or two, ready to act 
pn mptly when the decisive moment should come. 
Forgetting for the time that he had run away from 
ne duty to attend to another, be felt indignant that 
he should bo thus rudely treated for being absent a 
short time on an errand of love and charity. H>? 
gave himself too Jauch credit for the good deed, and 
felt that he was a martyr to his philanthropic spirit. 
He was willing to bear all and brave all in a good 
cause ; and it seemed to him, just then, as though 
he was being punished for assisting Joe Flint's fam- 
ily, instead of for leaving his place without permis- 
sion. A great many persons who mean well are apt 
to think themselves martyrs for any good cause in 
wlich they may be engagad, when, in reality, their 
own want of tact, or the offensive manner in which 
they present their truth, is the stake at which they 
are burned. 
" Keep off! " said Harry, his eyes flashing fire. 
The major was so angry that he could do nothing; 
and while they were thus confronting each other, Joe 
Flint staggered into the counting room. Intoxicated 
as he was, he readily discovered the position of affairs 
between the belligerents. 
"Look here — hie — Major Phillips," said he, 
reeling up to his employer, " I love you, — hie, — 
Major Pnillips, like a — hie — like a brother, Ma^oi 
Phillips; but if you touch that boy, Mujor Phillipt 
I'll — hie — you touch me, Major Phillips. That's 
all." 
' Go home. Joe," replied the stable keeper, his 
attention diverted from Harry to the new comba- 
tant. " You are drunk." 
" I know I'm drunk, Major Phillips. I'm as drunk 
as a beast ; but I ain't — hie — dead drunk. I know 
what I'm about." 
" No, you don't. Go home." 
" Yes, I dzoo. I'm a brute ; I'm a hog ; I'm a — 
dzwhat you call it ? I'm a villain." 
Joe tried to straighten himself up, and look at his 
employer ; but he could not, and suddenly bursting 
into tears, he threw himself heavily into a chair, 
weeping bitterly in his inebriate paroxysm. He 
sobbed, and groaned, and talked incoherently. He 
acted strangely, and Major Phillips's attention was 
excited. 
" What is the matter, Joe?" he asked; and hig 
anger towards Harry seemed to have subsideu. 
" I tell you I am a villain, Major }"hilhpn." blub- 
ber el Joe, 
" What do you mean by that ? ' ' 
" Haven't I been on a drunk, and left my lamilj 
to starve and freeze?" groaned Joe, inteilardii-g his 
ipeech with violent ebullitions of weeping. " Wouldn't 
my poor wife, and my poor children — O my God ! " 
and the poor drunkard covered his face with his 
hands, and sobbed like an infant. 
" AVhat is the matter ? What do you mean, Joe ? " 
asked Major Phillips, who had never seen him in 
this frame before. . 
" Wouldn't they all have died, if Harry hadn't 
gone and fed 'em, and split up wood to warm 'em ? " 
As he spoke, Joe sprang up, and rushed towards 
Harry, and in his drunken frenzy attempted to em- 
brace him. 
"What does this mean, Harry?" said the stable 
keeper, turning to our hero, who, while Joe was tell- 
ing his story, had been thinking of something else. 
" What a fool I was to get mad ! " thought he. 
What would she say, if she had seen me just now? 
foor J alia ! perhaps she is dead, even now." 
" My folks would have died, if it hadn't b- f.n for  
iim," hiccoughed Joe. 
"Explain it, Harry," added the major. 
" The lame girl, K'aty, came down here after hex 
fether, early in the evening. She seemed to be in 
trouble, and I tbought I would go up and see wnat 
the matter was. I found them in rather a bad con- 
dition, without any wood or any thing to eat. I did 
what I could for them, and came away," replied Harry. 
"Give me your hand, Harry! ' and the majoi 
grasped his hand like a vice. " You are a good 
fellow," he added, with an oath. 
" Forgive me, Mr. Phillips, for saying what I did ; 
I was mad," pleaded Harry. 
" So was I, my boy; but we won't mind that. 
You are a good fellow ; and I like your spunk. So 
you have really been taking care of Joe's family 
while he was off on a drunk." 
" I didn't do much, sir." 
" Look here, Harry, and you, Major Phillips 
W hsn I get this rum out of me, I'll never take 
%nother drop again," said Joe, throwing himself into 
a chair. 
*' Bah, Joe ! You have said that twenty times be- 
fore," added Major Phillips. 
" You dzee ! " exclaimed Joe, doubling hid fiat, 
and bringing it down with the intention of hitting 
the table by his side to emphasize his resolution; 
but, unfortunately, he missed the table — a circum- 
stance which seemed to foreshadow the fate of nis 
resolve. 
Jce proceeded to declare in his broken speech what 
a shock he had received when he went home, half an 
hour before, — the first time for several days, — and 
heard the reproaches of his suffering wife, how grate- 
ful he was to Harry, and what a villain he considered 
himself. Either the sufferings of his family, on the 
rum he had drank, melted his heart, and he was as 
eloquent as his half-paralyzed tongue would permit. 
He was a pitiable object ; and having assured him- 
self that Joe's family were comfortable for the night, 
Major Phillips put him to bed in his own house. 
Harry was not satisfied with himself; he had per- 
mitted his temper to get the better of him. He 
thought of Julia on her bed of suffering, wept for her, 
and repented for himself. That night he heard toe 
clock on the Boylston market strike twelve before ft« 
ciosevi his eyes t" sleep. 
The next day, while he was at work in the s'.able, 
i hoy of about fifteen called to see him, and desired 
to speak with him alone. Harry, much wondering 
who his visitor was, and what he wanted, conducted 
him to the ostler's chamber. 
" You are Harry West," the boy began. 
" That is my name, for the want of a better," re- 
plied Harry. 
" Then there is a little matter to be settled be« 
tween you and me. You helped my folks out his* 
night, and I want to pay you for it." 
" Your folks ? " 
" My name is Edward Flint." 
" Then you are Joe's son." 
" I am," replied Edward, who did not seem to fee] 
much honored by the relationship. 
'* Your folks were in a bad condition last night." 
:< That's a fact ; they were." 
" But I didn't know Joe had a son as old as jou 
are." 
" I am the oldest ; but I don't live at home, *n«J 
Vave not for three years. How much did you nay 
out for them last night ? " 
*' One dollar and twenty cents." 
" As much as that ? " 
" Just that." 
Edward Flint manifested some uneasiness ai the 
announcement. He had evidently come with a pur- 
pose, but had found things different from what he 
had expected. 
" I didn't think it was so much." 
" What matter how much ? " asked Ham 
" Why, I want to pay you." 
u You needn't mind that." 
" The fact is, I have only three dollars just now; 
and I promised to go out to ride with a fellow next 
Sunday. So, you see, if I pay you, I shall not have 
enough left to foot the bills." 
Harry looked at his visitor with astonishment ; he 
did not know what to make of him. Was he in 
earnest ? Would a son of Joseph Flint go out to 
ride, — on Sunday, too, — while his mother and his 
brother and sisters were on the very brink of starva- 
tion ? Our hero had some strange, old-fashioned 
uoticns of his own. For instance, he considered it 
son's duty to take care of his mother, even if he
were obliged to forego the Sunday ride ; that he 
ought to do all he could for his brothers and sisters, 
even if he had to go without stewed oysters, staj 
away from the theatre, and perhaps wear a little 
coarser cloth on his back. If Harrv was unreasona- 
ble in his views, my young reader will remember that 
he was brought up in the country, where young 
America is not quite so " fast-" as in the city. 
" I didn't ask you to pay me," continued Harry. 
" I know that ; but, you see, I suppose I ought to 
pay you. The old man don't take much care of the 
family." 
Harry wanted to say that the young man did not 
appear to do much better ; but he was disposed to 
oe as civil as the circumstances would permit. 
" You needn't pay me." 
" O, yes, I shall pay you ; but if you can wait till 
the first of next month, I should like it." 
" I can wait. Do you live out ? " 
" Live out ? What do you mean by that ? I am 
a clerk in a store down town," replied Edwaro with 
ifiended dignity. 
" How are you ? Do they pay you well ? " 
" Pretty fair ; I get five dollars a week." 
" Five dollars a week ! Thunder ! I should thiai 
you did get paid pretty well ! " exclaimed Harry, 
astonished at the vastness of the sum for a week'l 
work. 
" Fair salary," added Edward, complacently. 
" What are you doing here ? " 
" I work in the stable and about the house." 
" That's mean business," said Mr. Flint, turning 
up his nose. 
" It does very well." 
" How much do you get ? ' 
" Six dollars a month and perquisites." 
" How much are the perquisites ? " 
" From one to two dollars a month." 
" Humph ! I wonder you stay here." 
" It is as well as I can do." 
" No, it isn't ; why don't you go into a story 
A T e want a boy in our store." 
" Do you ? " 
" We do." 
*' How much do you pay ? " 
" We pay from two to four dollars a week." 
"Can't you get me the place ? " asked Harry, not
much interested in his companion. 
" Well, yes ; perhaps I can." 
" What s.iould I have to do ? " 
" Make the fires, sweep out in the morning, go of 
errands, and such work. Boys must begin at the 
foot of the ladder. I began at the foot of the lad- 
der," answered Mr. Flint, with an immense self- 
sufficiency, which Harry, however, failed to notice. 
" I should like to get into a store." 
" You would have a good chance to rise." 
" I am willing to do any thing, so that I can have 
a chance to get ahead." 
" We always give boys a good chance." 
Harry wanted that mysterious " we " defined. As 
it was, he was left to infer that Mr. Flint was a 
partner in the concern, unless the five doll.irs per 
week was an argument to the contrary ; but he didn't 
like to ask strange questions, and desired to know 
whom "he worked for." 
Edward Flint did not " work for " any body. He 
was a clerk in the extensive dry goods establishmnent 
of the Messrs. Wake and Wade, which, he declared, 
was the largest concern in Boston ; and one might 
further have concluded that Mr. Flint was the most 
important personage in the said concern. 
Mr. Flint was obliged to descend from his lofty 
dignity, and compound the dollar and twenty cents 
with the stable boy by promising to get him the 
vacant place in the establishment of Wake and 
Wade, if his influence was sufficient to procure it. 
Harry was satisfied, and begged him not to distress 
himself about the debt. The visitor took his leave, 
promising to see him again the next day. 
About noon, Joe Flint appeared at the stable 
again, perfectly sober. Major Phillips had lent him 
ten dollars, in anticipation of his month's wages, and 
he had been home to attend to the comfort of his 
suffering family. After dinner, he had a long talk 
with Harry, in which, after paying him the money 
disbursed on the previous evening, he repeated his 
solemn resolution to drink no more. He was very 
grateful to Harry, and hoped he should be able to 
Xo as much for him. 
" Don't drink any more, Joe, and it will be the 
Dest day's work I ever did," added Harry. 
" I never will, Harry — never ! ' protested Joe. 
CHAPTER XVT. 
IH ^THICH HARRY GOES INTO THE DBY GOODS 
BUSINESS. 
Me. Edward Flint's reputation as a gentleman 
»f honor and a man of his word suffered somewhat 
in Harry's estimation ; for he waited all day, and 
all the evening, without hearing a word from the 
firm of Wake and \* ade. He had actually be- 
gun to doubt whether the accomplished young man 
had as much influence with the firm as he had led 
him to suppose. But his ambition would not permi I 
him longer to be satisfied with the humble sphere c/ 
a stable boy ; and he determined, if he did not heu,i 
from Edward, to apply for the situation himself. 
The next day, having procured two hours' leave 
of absence from the stable, he called at the home of 
Joe Flint to obtain further particulars concerning 
Raward and hb situation. He found the fiunily a 
much better circumstances than at his previous visit. 
Mrs. Flint was sitting up, and was rapidly conva- 
lescing ; Katy was busy and cheerful ; and it seemed 
a different place from that to which he had been the 
nessenger of hope and comfort two nights before. 
They were very glad to see him, and poured forth 
their gratitude to him so eloquently that he was obliged 
to change the topic. Mrs. Flint was sure that her 
husband was an altered man. She had never before 
known him to be so earnest and solemn in his reso- 
lutions to amend and lead a new life. 
But when Harry alluded to Edward, both Katy 
and her mother suddenly grew sad. They acknowl- 
edged that they had sent for him in their extremity, 
out that he did not come till the next morning, when 
the bounty of the stable boy had relieved them from 
the bitterness of want. The mother dropped a tear 
as she sooke of the wayward son ; and Harry had 
not the heart to press the inquiries he hf.d come to 
make. 
After speaking as well as he dared to speak of 
Edward, he took his leave, and hastened to the estab- 
lishment cf Wake and Wade, to applj for the vacant 
 
place. He had put on his best clothes, and hU 
appearance this time was very creditable. 
Entering the store, he inquired for Edward Flint ; 
tad that gentleman was summoned to receive him. 
" Hal.o, Harry West ! " said Edward, when k<s 
recognized his visitor. " I declare I forgot all about 
you." 
" I thought likely," replied Harry, willing to be 
very charitable to the delinquent. 
" The fact is, we have been so busy in the store, I 
uaven't had time to call on you, as I promised." 
" Never mind, now. Is the place filled ? " 
"No." 
" I am glad to hear that. Do you think there is 
any chance for me ? " 
" Well, I don't know. I will do what I can for 
you." 
" Thank you, Edward." 
" "Wait here a moment till I speak with one of 
the partners." 
The clerk left him, and was absent but a moment, 
wnen Harry was summoned to the private room of 
Mr "Wake. The gentleman questioned him for a 
few rromcnts, and seemed to be pleased with his 
address and his frankness. The result of the inter* 
\iew was, that our hero was engaged at a salary of 
three dollars a week, though it was objected to him 
