for some evidences of imperfection in our great bargains. I was not
very long kept in suspense. One morning, about two weeks after all
had been fitted out so elegantly, while engaged in dusting the
chairs, a part of the mahogany ornament in the back of one of them
fell off. On the next day, another showed the same evidence of
imperfect workmanship. A few evenings afterwards, as we sat at the
centre table, one of our children leaned on it rather heavily, when
there was a sudden crack, and the side upon which he was bearing his
weight, swayed down the distance of half an inch or more. The next
untoward event was the dropping of one of its feet by the sofa, and
the warping up of a large piece of veneering on the back. While
lamenting over this, we discovered a broken spring ready to make its
way through the hair cloth covering.
"So much for cheap furniture," said I, in a tone of involuntary
triumph.
My husband looked at me half reproachfully, and so I said no more.
It was now needful to send for a cabinet maker, and submit our sofa
and chairs to his handy workmanship. He quickly discovered other
imperfections, and gave us the consoling information that our fine
furniture was little above fourth-rate in quality, and dear at any
price. A ten dollar bill was required to pay the damage they had
already sustained, even under our careful hands.
A more striking evidence of our folly in buying cheap furniture was,
however, yet to come. An intimate friend came in one evening to sit
a few hours with us. After conversing for a time, both he and my
husband took up books, and commenced reading, while I availed myself
of the opportunity to write a brief letter. Our visitor, who was a
pretty stout man, had the bad fault of leaning back in his chair,
and balancing himself on its hind legs; an experiment most trying to
the best mahogany chairs that were ever made.
We were all sitting around the centre table, upon which burned a
tall astral lamp, and I was getting absorbed in my letter, when
suddenly there was a loud crash, followed by the breaking of the
table from its centre, and the pitching over of the astral lamp,
which, in falling, just grazed my side, and went down, oil and all,
upon our new carpet! An instant more, and we were in total darkness.
But, ere the light went out, a glance had revealed a scene that I
shall never forget. Our visitor, whose weight, as he tried his usual
balancing experiment, had caused the slender legs of his chair to
snap off short, had fallen backwards. In trying to save himself, he
had caught at the table, and wrenched that from its centre
fastening. Startled by this sudden catastrophe, my husband had
sprung to his feet, grasping his chair with the intent of drawing it
away, when the top of the back came off in his hand. I saw all this
at a single glance--and then we were shrouded in darkness.
Of the scene that followed, I will not speak. My lady readers can,
without any effort of the mind, imagine something of its
unpleasant reality. As for our visitor, when lights were brought in,
he was no where to be seen. I have a faint recollection of having
heard the street door shut amid the confusion that succeeded the
incident just described.
About a week afterwards, the whole of our cheap furniture was sent
to auction, where it brought less than half its first cost. It was
then replaced with good articles, by good workmen, at a fair price;
not one of which has cost us, to this day, a single cent for
repairs.
A housekeeping friend of mine, committed, not, long since, a similar
error. Her husband could spare her a couple of hundred dollars for
re-furnishing purposes; but, as his business absorbed nearly all of
his time and thoughts, he left with her the selection of the new
articles that were to beautify their parlors and chambers, merely
saying to her:
"Let what you get be good. It is cheapest in the end."
Well, my friend had set her heart on a dozen chairs, a new sofa,
centre table, and "what-not," for her parlors; and on a
dressing-bureau, mahogany bedstead, and wash-stand, for her chamber,
besides a new chamber carpet. Her first visit was to the ware-rooms
of one of our best cabinet makers; but, his prices completely
frightened her--for, at his rate, the articles she wanted would
amount to more than all the money she had to spend, and leave
nothing for the new chamber carpet.
"I must buy cheaper," said she.
"The cheapest is generally dearest in the end," returned the cabinet
maker.
"I don't know about that," remarked the lady, whose thoughts did not
take in the meaning of the man's words. "All I know is, that I can
get as good articles as I desire at lower prices than you ask."
It did not once occur to my friend, that it would be wisest to
lessen the number of articles, and get the remainder of the first
quality. No; her heart covered the whole inventory at first made
out, and nothing less would answer. So she went to an auction store,
and bought inferior articles at lower prices. I visited her soon
after. She showed me her bargains, and, with an air of exultation,
spoke of the cost.
"What do you think I paid for this?" said she, referring to a showy
dressing-bureau; and, as she spoke, she took hold of the suspended
looking-glass, and moved the upper portion of it forward. "Only
seventeen dollars!"
The words had scarcely passed her lips, ere the looking-glass broke
away from one of the screws that held it in the standards, and fell,
crashing, at our feet!
It cost just seven dollars to replace the glass. But, that was not
all--over thirty dollars were paid during the first year for
repairs. And this is only the beginning of troubles.
Cheap furniture is, in most cases, the dearest that housekeepers can
buy. It is always breaking, and usually costs more, in a year or
two, than the difference between its price and that of first-rate
articles; to say nothing of the vexation and want of satisfaction
that always attends its possession. Better be content with fewer
articles, if the purse be low, and have them good.
While on this subject, I will incorporate in these "Confessions" an
"Experience" of my sister and her husband, Mr. and Mrs. John Jones.
Mr. Jones is, in some respects, very much like Mr. Smith, and, as
will be seen in the story about to be given, my sister's ideas of
things and my own, run quite parallel to each other. The story has
found its way, elsewhere, into print, for Mr. Jones, like myself,
has a natural fondness for types. But its repetition here will do no
harm, and bring it before many who would not otherwise see it.
CHAPTER V.
IS IT ECONOMY?
THE "Experience" of my relative, Mr. John Jones, referred to in the
preceding chapter, is given in what follows. After reading it, we
think that few young housekeepers will commit the folly of indulging
to any very great extent in cheap furniture.
We had been married five years, and during the time had boarded for
economy's sake. But the addition of one after another to our family,
admonished us that it was getting time to enlarge our borders; and
so we were determined to go to housekeeping. In matters of domestic
economy both my wife and myself were a little "green," but I think
that I was the greenest of the two.
To get a house was our first concern, and to select furniture was
our next. The house was found after two months' diligent search, and
at the expense of a good deal of precious shoe leather. Save me from
another siege at house-hunting! I would about as soon undertake to
build a suitable dwelling with my own hands, as to find one "exactly
the thing" already up, and waiting with open doors for a tenant. All
the really desirable houses that we found ticketed "to let," were at
least two prices above our limit, and most of those within our means
we would hardly have lived in rent free.
At last, however, we found a cosey little nest of a house, just
built, and clean and neat as a new pin, from top to bottom. It
suited us to a T. And now came the next most important
business--selecting furniture. My wife's ideas had always been a
little in advance of mine. That is, she liked to have every thing of
the best quality; and had the weakness, so to speak, of desiring to
make an appearance. As my income, at the time, was but moderate, and
the prospect of an increase thereof not very flattering, I felt like
being exceedingly prudent in all outlays for furniture.
"We must be content with things few and plain," said I, as we sat
down one morning to figure up what we must get.
"But let them be good," said my wife.
"Strong and substantial," was my reply. "But we can't afford to pay
for much extra polish and filigree work."
"I don't want any thing very extra, Mr. Jones," returned my wife, a
little uneasily. "Though what I do have, I would like good. It's no
economy, in the end, to buy cheap things."
The emphasis on the word cheap, rather grated on my ear; for I was
in favor of getting every thing as cheap as possible.
"What kind of chairs did you think of getting?" asked Mrs. Jones.
"A handsome set of cane-seat," I replied, thinking that in this, at
least, I would be even with her ideas on the subject of parlor
chairs. But her face did not brighten.
"What would you like?" said I.
"I believe it would be more economical in the end to get good
stuffed seat, mahogany chairs," replied Mrs. Jones.
"At five dollars a-piece, Ellen?"
"Yes. Even at five dollars a-piece. They would last us our
life-time; while cane-seat chairs, if we get them, will have to be
renewed two or three times, and cost a great deal more in the end,
without being half so comfortable, or looking half-so well."
"Sixty dollars for a dozen chairs, when very good ones can be had
for twenty-four dollars! Indeed, Ellen, we mustn't think of such a
thing. We can't afford it. Remember, there are a great many other
things to buy."
"I know, dear; but I am sure it will be much more economical in the
end for us to diminish the number of articles, and add to the
quality of what we do have. I am very much like the poor woman who
preferred a cup of clear, strong, fragrant coffee, three times a
week, to a decoction of burnt rye every day. What I have, I do like
good."
"And so do I, Ellen. But, as I said before, there will be, diminish
as we may, a great many things to buy, and we must make the cost of
each as small as possible. We must not think of such extravagance as
mahogany chairs now. At some other time we may get them."
My wife here gave up the point, and, what I thought a little
remarkable, made no more points on the subject of furniture. I had
every thing my own way; I bought cheap to my heart's content. It was
only necessary for me to express my approval of an article, for her
to assent to its purchase.
As to patronizing your fashionable cabinet makers and high-priced
upholsterers, we were not guilty of the folly, but bought at
reasonable rates from auction stores and at public sales. Our parlor
carpets cost but ninety cents a yard, and were handsomer than those
for which a lady of our acquaintance paid a dollar and
thirty-eight. Our chairs were of a neat, fancy pattern, and had cost
thirty dollars a dozen. We had hesitated for some time between a set
at twenty-four dollars a dozen and these; but the style being so
much more attractive, we let our taste govern in the selection. The
price of our sofa was eighteen dollars, and I thought it a really
genteel affair, though my wife was not in raptures about it. A pair
of card tables for fifteen dollars, and a marble-top centre table
for fourteen, gave our parlors quite a handsome appearance.
"I wouldn't ask any thing more comfortable or genteel than this,"
said, I, when the parlors were all "fixed" right.
Mrs. Jones looked pleased with the appearance of things, but did not
express herself extravagantly.
In selecting our chamber furniture, a handsome dressing-bureau and
French bedstead that my wife went to look at in the ware-room of a
high-priced cabinet maker, tempted her strongly, and it was with
some difficulty that I could get her ideas back to a regular maple
four-poster, a plain, ten dollar bureau, and a two dollar
dressing-glass. Twenty and thirty dollar mattresses, too, were in
her mind, but when articles of the kind, just as good to wear, could
be had at eight and ten dollars, where was the use of wasting money
in going higher?
The ratio of cost set down against the foregoing articles, was
maintained from garret to kitchen; and I was agreeably disappointed
to find, after the last bill for purchases was paid, that I was
within the limit of expenditures I had proposed to make by over a
hundred dollars.
The change from a boarding-house to a comfortable home was, indeed,
pleasant. We could never get done talking about it. Every thing was
so quiet, so new, so clean, and so orderly.
"This is living," would drop from our lips a dozen times a week.
One day, about three months after we had commenced housekeeping, I
came home, and, on entering the parlor, the first thing that met my
eyes was a large spot of white on the new sofa. A piece of the
veneering had been knocked off, completely disfiguring it.
"What did that?" I asked of my wife.
"In setting back a chair that I had dusted," she replied, "one of
the feet touched the sofa lightly, when off dropped that veneer like
a loose flake. I've been examining the sofa since, and find that it
is a very bad piece of work. Just look here."
And she drew me over to the place where my eighteen dollar sofa
stood, and pointed out sundry large seams that had gaped open, loose
spots in the veneering, and rickety joints. I saw now, what I had
not before seen, that the whole article was of exceedingly common
material and common workmanship.
"A miserable piece of furniture!" said I.
"It is, indeed," returned Mrs. Jones. "To buy an article like this,
is little better than throwing money into the street."
For a month the disfigured sofa remained in the parlor, a perfect
eye-sore, when another piece of the veneering sloughed off, and one
of the feet became loose. It was then sent to a cabinet maker for
repair; and cost for removing and mending just five dollars.
Not long after this, the bureau had to take a like journey, for it
had, strangely enough, fallen into sudden dilapidation. All the
locks were out of order, half the knobs were off, there was not a
drawer that didn't require the most accurate balancing of forces in
order to get it shut after it was once open, and it showed
premonitory symptoms of shedding its skin like a snake. A five
dollar bill was expended in putting this into something like
usable order and respectable aspect. By this time a new set of
castors was needed for the maple four-poster, which was obtained at
the expense of two dollars. Moreover, the head-board to said
four-poster, which, from its exceeding ugliness, had, from the
first, been a terrible eye-sore to Mrs. Jones, as well as to myself,
was, about this period, removed, and one of more sightly appearance
substituted, at the additional charge of six dollars. No tester
frame had accompanied the cheap bedstead at its original purchase,
and now my wife wished to have one, and also a light curtain above
and valance below. All these, with trimmings, etc., to match, cost
the round sum of ten dollars.
"It looks very neat," said Mrs. Jones, after her curtains were up.
"It does, indeed," said I.
"Still," returned Mrs. Jones, "I would much rather have had a
handsome mahogany French bedstead."
"So would I," was my answer. "But you know they cost some thirty
dollars, and we paid but sixteen for this."
"Sixteen!" said my wife, turning quickly toward me. "It cost more
than that."
"Oh, no. I have the bill in my desk," was my confident answer.
"Sixteen was originally paid, I know," said Mrs. Jones. "But then,
remember, what it has cost since. Two dollars for castors, six for a
new head-board, and ten for tester and curtains. Thirty-four dollars
in all; when a very handsome French bedstead, of good workmanship,
can be bought for thirty dollars."
I must own that I was taken somewhat aback by this array of figures
"that don't lie."
"And for twenty dollars we could have bought a neat, well made
dressing-bureau, at Moore and Campion's, that would have lasted for
twice as many years, and always looked in credit."
"But ours, you know, only cost ten," said I.
"The bureau, such as it is, cost ten, and the glass two. Add five
that we have already paid for repairs, and the four that our maple
bedstead has cost above the price of a handsome French, one, and we
will have the sum of twenty-one dollars,--enough to purchase as
handsome a dressing-bureau as I would ask. So you see. Mr. Jones,
that our cheap furniture is not going to turn out so cheap after
all. And as for looks, why no one can say there is much to brag of."
This was a new view of the case, and certainly one not very
flattering to my economical vanity. I gave in, of course, and,
admitted that Mrs. Jones was right.
But the dilapidations and expenses for repairs, to which I have just
referred, were but as the "beginning of sorrows." It took, about
three years to show the full fruits of my error. By the end of that
time, half my parlor chairs had been rendered useless in consequence
of the back-breaking and seat-rending ordeals through which they had
been called to pass. The sofa was unanimously condemned to the
dining room, and the ninety cent carpet had gone on fading and
defacing, until my wife said she was ashamed to put it even on her
chambers. For repairs, our furniture had cost, up to this period, to
say nothing of the perpetual annoyance of having it put out of
order, and running for the cabinet maker and upholsterer, not less
than a couple of hundred dollars.
Finally, I grew desperate.
"I'll have decent, well made furniture, let it cost what it will,"
said I, to Mrs. Jones.
"You will find it cheapest in the end," was her quiet reply.
On the next day we went to a cabinet maker, whose reputation for
good work stood among the highest in the city; and ordered new
parlor and chamber furniture--mahogany chairs, French bedstead,
dressing-bureau and all, and as soon as they came home, cleared the
house of all the old cheap (dear!) trash with which we had been
worried since the day we commenced housekeeping.
A good many years have passed since, and we have not paid the first
five dollar bill for repairs. All the drawers run as smoothly as
railroad cars; knobs are tight; locks in prime order, and veneers
cling as tightly to their places as if they had grown there. All is
right and tight, and wears an orderly, genteel appearance; and what
is best of all the cost of every thing we have, good as it is, is
far below the real cost of what is inferior.
"It is better--much better," said I to Mrs. Jones, the other day.
"Better!" was her reply. "Yes, indeed, a thousand times better to
have good things at once. Cheap furniture is dearest in the end.
Every housekeeper ought to know this in the beginning. If we had
known it, see what we would have saved."
"If I had known it, you mean," said I.
My wife looked kindly, not triumphantly, into my face, and smiled.
When she again spoke, it was on another subject.
CHAPTER VI.
LIVING AT A CONVENIENT DISTANCE.
THERE are few of us who do not feel, at some time in life, the
desire for change. Indeed, change of place corresponding, as it
does, in outward nature, to change of state in the mind, it is not
at all surprising that we should, now and then, feel a strong desire
to remove from the old, and get into new locations, and amid
different external associations. Thus, we find, in many families, an
ever recurring tendency to removal. Indeed, I have some housekeeping
friends who are rarely to be found in the same house, or in the same
part of the city, in any two consecutive years. Three moves,
Franklin used to say, were equal to a fire. There are some to whom I
could point, who have been, if this holds true, as good as burned
out, three or four times in the last ten years.
But, I must not write too long a preface to my present story. Mr.
Smith and myself cannot boast of larger organs of Inhabitativeness--I
believe, that is the word used by phrenologists--than many of
our neighbors. Occasionally we have felt dissatisfied with the
state of things around us, and become possessed of the demon of
change. We have moved quite frequently, sometimes attaining superior
comfort, and some times, getting rather the worst of, it for
"the change."
A few years ago, in the early spring-time, Mr. Smith said to me, one
day:
"I noticed, in riding out yesterday, a very pleasant country house
on the Frankford Road, to let, and it struck me that it would be a
fine thing for us, both as to health and comfort, to rent it for the
summer season. What do you think of it?"
"I always, loved the country, you know," was my response.
My heart had leaped at the proposition.
"It is such a convenient distance from the city," said Mr. Smith.
"How far?"
"About four miles."
"Do the stages pass frequently?"
"Every half hour; and the fare is only twelve and a half cents."
"So low! That is certainly an inducement."
"Yes, it is. Suppose we go out and look at the house?"
"Very well," said I. And then we talked over the pleasures and
advantage that would result from a residence in the country, at such
a convenient distance from the city.
On the next day we went to look at the place, and found much, both
in the house and grounds, to attract us. There was a fine shaded
lawn, and garden with a stock of small and large fruit.
"What a delightful place for the children," I exclaimed.
"And at such a convenient distance from the city," said my husband.
"I can go in and out to business, and scarcely miss the time. But do
you think you would like the country?"
"O, yes. I've always loved the country."
"We can move back into the city when the summer closes," said Mr.
Smith.
"Why not remain here permanently? It will be too expensive to keep
both a city and country house," I returned.
"It will be too dreary through the winter."
"I don't think so. I always feel cheerful in the country. And, then,
you know, the house is at such a convenient distance, and the stages
pass the door at every half hour. You can get to business as easily
as if we resided in the city."
I was in the mood for a change, and so it happened was Mr. Smith.
The more we thought and talked about the matters, the more inclined
were we to break up in the city, and go permanently to the country.
And, finally, we resolved to try the experiment.
So the pleasant country house was taken, and the town house given
up, and, in due time, we took our flight to where nature had just
carpeted the earth in freshest green, and caused the buds to expand,
and the trees of the forest to clothe themselves in verdure.
How pleasant was every thing. A gardener had been employed to put
the garden and lawn in order, and soon we were delighted to see the
first shoots from seeds that had been planted, making their way
through the ground. To me, all was delightful. I felt almost as
light-hearted as a child, and never tired of expressing my pleasure
at the change.
"Come and see us," said I, to one city friend and another, on
meeting them. "We're in a most delightful place, and at such a
convenient distance from the city. Just get into the Frankford
omnibus, which starts from Hall's, in Second street above Market,
every half hour, and you will come to our very door. And I shall be
so delighted to have a visit from you."
In moving from the city, I took with me two good domestics, who had
lived in my family for over a year. Each had expressed herself as
delighted at the prospect of getting into the country, and I was
delighted to think they were so well satisfied, for I had feared
lest they would be disinclined to accompany us.
About a month after our removal, one of them, who had looked
dissatisfied about something, came to me and said:
"I want to go back to the city, Mrs. Smith; I don't like living in
the country."
"Very well," I replied. "You must do as you please. But I thought
you preferred this to the city?"
"I thought I would like it, but I don't. It's too lonesome."
I did not persuade her to stay. That error I had once or twice, ere
this, fallen into, and learned to avoid it in future. So she went
back to the city, and I was left with but a single girl. Three days
only elapsed before this one announced her intended departure.
"But you will stay," said I, "until I can get some one in your
place."
"My week will be up on Saturday," was replied. "Can you get a girl
by that time?"
"That leaves me only two days, Mary; I'm afraid not."
Mary looked unamiable enough at this answer. We said no more to each
other. In the afternoon I went to the city to find a new domestic,
if possible, but returned unsuccessful.
Saturday came, and to my surprise and trouble, Mary persisted in
going away. So I was left, with my family of six persons, without
any domestic at all.
Sunday proved to me any thing but a day of rest. After washing and
dressing the children, preparing breakfast, clearing away the table,
making the beds, and putting the house to order, I set about getting
dinner. This meal furnished and eaten, and the dishes washed and put
away, I found myself not only completely tired out, but suffering
from a most dreadful headache. I was lying down, about four o'clock,
in a half-waking and sleeping state, with my head a little easier,
when my husband, who was sitting by the window, exclaimed:
"If there isn't Mr. and Mrs. Peters and their three children,
getting out of the stage!"
"Not coming here!" said I, starting up in bed, while, at the same
moment, my headache returned with a throbbing intensity that almost
blinded me.
"Yes, coming here," replied Mr. Smith.
"How unfortunate!" came from my lips, as I clasped my hands to my
temples.
Now, Mr. and Mrs. Peters were people for whom we had no particular
friendship. We visited each other scarcely once a year, and had
never reciprocated an evening to tea. True, I had, on the occasion
of meeting Mrs. Peters, about a week before, while stopping in the
city, said to her, while praising my new country home:
"You must come and see me sometime during the summer."
The invitation was intended as a compliment more than anything else.
I didn't particularly care about a visit from her; and certainly had
no idea that she would take me at my word. So much for insincerity.
"Go down and ask them into the parlor," said I to Mr. Smith. "I will
dress myself and join you in a little while."
In about half an hour I left my room, feeling really quite unwell. I
found my visitors walking in the garden, and their children ranging
about like wild colts, to the particular detriment of choice
shrubbery and garden beds.
"Oh, what a delightful place!" exclaimed Mrs. Peters, on my meeting
her. "I really envy you! You see that I have accepted your very kind
invitation. I said to my husband to-day, says I, wouldn't it be nice
to make the Smiths a visit this afternoon. They live at such a
convenient distance; and it will be such a treat to the children.
Well, just as you like, said Mr. Peters. And so, as soon as dinner
was over, we got ready and came out. Oh, I'm delighted! What a sweet
spot you have chosen. I shall come and see you often."
And thus she ran on, while I smiled, and responded with all
due politeness, and to a certain extent, hypocritical pretence of
pleasure at the visit.
They had come to spend the afternoon, and take tea with us, of
course, and, as the last stage went by at seven o'clock, I was soon
under the necessity of leaving my guests, in order to engage in
certain preliminary acts that looked towards an early supper. Oh,
how my head did throb; and with what an effort did I drag my weary
feet about!
But, the longest trial--the most painful ordeal has an end; and the
end of this came at length. Our visitors, after spending a few
hours, and being served with tea, took their departure, assuring us,
as they did so, that they had spent a delightful afternoon, and
would be certain to come again soon.
In ten minutes after they had left the house, I was in bed.
Two whole weeks elapsed before I succeeded in getting a girl; and
six times during that period, we had friends out from the city to
take tea with us; and one young lady spent three whole days!
When the season of fruits came, as we had a few apple and pear
trees, besides a strawberry bed, and a fine row of raspberry bushes,
our city friends, especially those who had children, were even more
particular in their attentions. Our own children, we could make
understand the propriety of leaving the small fruit to be picked for
table use, so that all could share in its enjoyment. But, visitors'
children comprehended nothing of this, and rifled our beds and
bushes so constantly, that, although they would have given our table
a fair supply of berries, in the season, we never once could get
enough to be worth using, and so were forced to purchase our fruit
in the city.
After a destructive visitation of this nature, during strawberry
time, I said to Mr. Smith, as he was leaving for the city one
morning--
"I wish you would take a small basket with you, and bring out two or
three quarts of strawberries for tea. I've only tasted them once or
twice, and it's hopeless to think of getting any from our garden."
Well, when Mr. Smith came home with his two or three quarts of
strawberries, we had six women and children, visitors from the city,
to partake of them. Of course, our own children, who had been
promised strawberries at tea time, and who had been looking for
them, did'nt get a taste.
And thus it happened over and over again.
As the weather grew warmer and warmer, particular friends whom we
were glad to see, and friends, so called, into whose houses we had
rarely, if ever ventured, came out to get a "mouthful of fresh air,"
and to "see something green." We lived at "such a convenient
distance," that it was no trouble at all to run out and look at us.
Twice again during the summer, I was left without a single domestic.
Girls didn't like to leave the city, where they had been used to
meeting their acquaintances every few days; and, therefore, it was
hard to retain them. So it went on.
I had poor help, and was overrun with company, at such a rate, that
I was completely worn out. I rarely heard the rumble of the
approaching stage that I did not get nervous.
Early in August, Mr. Smith said to me, one evening after returning
from the city--on that very morning, a family of four had left me,
after staying three days--
"I met Mr. Gray this afternoon, and he told me that they were coming
out to see you to-morrow. That he was going away for a while, and
his wife thought that it would be such a pleasant time to redeem her
promise of making you a visit."
"Oh dear! What next!" I exclaimed in a distressed voice. "Is there
to be no end to this?"
"Not before frost, I presume," returned Mr. Smith, meaningly.
"I wish frost would come along quickly, then," was my response. "But
how long is Mr. Gray going to be absent from home?"
"He didn't say."
"And we're to have his whole family, I suppose, during his absence."
"Doubtless."
"Well, I call that taxing hospitality and good feeling a little too
far. I don't want them here! I've no room for them without
inconvenience to ourselves. Besides, my help is poor."
But, all my feelings of repugnance were of no avail. As I was
sitting, on the next day, by a window, that overlooked the road, I
saw the stage draw up, and issue therefrom Mr. Jones, Mrs. Jones,
servant and five children--two of the latter twin-babies. They had
boxes, carpet bags, bundles, &c., indicating a prolonged sojourn,
and one little boy dragged after him a pet dog, that came also to
honor us with a visit.
Down to meet them at the door, with as good a grace as possible, I
hurried. Words of welcome and pleasure were on my tongue, though I
am not sure that my face did not belie my utterance. But, they were
all too pleased to get into our snug country quarters, to perceive
any drawback in their reception.
I will not describe my experience during the next three weeks--for,
Mr. Gray took the tour of the Lakes before returning, and was gone
full three weeks, leaving his family to our care for the whole time.
"Heaven be praised, that is over!" was my exclamation, when I saw
the stage move off that bore them from our door.
Frost at length came, and with it expired the visiting season. We
were still at a convenient distance from the city; but, our friends,
all at once, seemed to have forgotten us.
"You are not going to move back, now," said a friend in surprise, to
whom I mentioned in the following March our intention to return to
the city.
"Yes," I replied.
"Just as spring is about opening? Why, surely, after passing the
dreary winter in the country, you will not come to the hot and dusty
town to spend the summer? You are at such a convenient distance too;
and your friends can visit you so easily."
Yes, the distance was convenient; and we had learned to appreciate
that advantage. But back to the city we removed; and, when next we
venture to the country, will take good care to get beyond a
convenient distance.
CHAPTER VII.
THE PICKED-UP DINNER.
IT was "washing day;" that day of all days in the week most dreaded
by housekeepers. We had a poor breakfast, of course. Cook had to
help with the washing, and, as washing was the important thing for
the day, every thing else was doomed to suffer. The wash kettle was
to her of greater moment than the tea kettle or coffee pot; and the
boiling of wash water first in consideration, compared with broiling
the steak.
The breakfast bell rung nearly half an hour later than usual. As I
entered the dining room, I saw that nearly every thing was in
disorder, and that the table was little over half set. Scarcely had
I taken my seat, ere the bell was in my hand.
"There's no sugar on the table, Kitty."
These were my words, as the girl entered, in obedience to my
summons.
"Oh, I forgot!" she ejaculated, and hurriedly supplied the
deficiency.
Ting-a-ling-a-ling, went my bell, ere she had reached the kitchen.
"There's no knife and fork for the steak," said I, as Kitty
re-appeared.
The knife and fork were furnished, but not with a very amiable
grace.
"What's the matter with this coffee?" asked Mr. Smith, after sipping
a spoonful or two. "It's got a queer taste."
"I'm sure I don't know."
It was plain that I was going to have another trying day; and I
began to feel a little worried. My reply was not, therefore, made in
a very composed voice.
Mr. Smith continued to sip his coffee with a spoon, and to taste the
liquid doubtingly. At length he pushed his cup from him, saying:
"It's no use; I can't drink that! I wish you would just taste it. I
do believe Kitty has dropped a piece of soap into the coffee pot."
By this time I had turned out a cup of the fluid for myself, and
proceeded to try its quality. It certainly had a queer taste; but,
as to the substance to which it was indebted for its peculiar
flavor, I was in total ignorance. My husband insisted that it was
soap. I thought differently; but we made no argument on the subject.
The steak was found, on trial, to be burned so badly that it was not
fit to be eaten. And my husband had to make his meal of bread and
butter and cold water. As for myself, this spoiling of our breakfast
for no good reason, completely destroyed both my appetite and my
temper.
"You'd better get your dinner at an eating house, Mr. Smith," said
I, as he arose from the table. "It's washing day, and we shall have
nothing comfortable."
"Things will be no more comfortable for you than for me," was kindly
replied by my husband.
"We shall only have a picked-up dinner," said I.
"I like a good picked-up dinner," answered Mr. Smith. "There is
something so out of the ordinary routine of ribs, loins, and
sirloins--something so comfortable and independent about it. No, you
cannot eat your picked-up dinner alone."
"Drop the word good from your description, and the picked-up
dinner will be altogether another affair," said I. "No, don't come
home to-day, if you please; for every thing promises to be most
uncomfortable. Get yourself a good dinner at an eating house, and
leave me to go through the day as well as I can."
"And you are really in earnest?" said my husband, seriously.
"I certainly am," was my reply. "Entirely in earnest. So, just
oblige me by not coming home to dinner."
Mr. Smith promised; and there was so much off of my mind. I could
not let him come home without seeing that he had a good dinner. But,
almost any thing would do for me and the children.
In some things, I am compelled to say that my husband is a little
uncertain. His memory is not always to be depended on. Deeply
absorbed in business, as he was at that time, he frequently let
things of minor importance pass from his thoughts altogether.
So it happened on the present occasion. He forgot that it was
washing day, and that he had promised to dine down town. Punctually
at half-past one he left his place of business, as usual, and took
his way homeward. As he walked along, he met an old friend who lived
in a neighboring town, and who was on a visit to our city.
"Why, Mr. Jones! How glad I am to see you! When did you arrive?"
And my husband grasped the hand of his friend eagerly.
"Came in last evening," replied Mr. Jones. "How well you look,
Smith! How is your family?"
"Well--very well. When do you leave?"
"By this afternoon's line."
"So soon? You make no stay at all?"
"I came on business, and must go back again with as little delay as
possible."
"Then you must go and dine with me, Jones. I won't take no for an
answer. Want to have a long talk with you about old times."
"Thank you, Mr. Smith," replied Jones. "But, as I don't happen to
know your good lady, I hardly feel free to accept your invitation."
"Don't hesitate for that. She'll be delighted to see you. Always
glad to meet any of my old friends. So come along. I've a dozen
things to say to you."
"I'm really afraid of intruding on your wife," said Mr. Jones, still
holding back from the invitation.
"Nonsense!" answered my husband. "My friends are hers. She will be
delighted to see you. I've talked of you to her a hundred times."
At this Mr. Jones yielded.
"I can't promise you any thing extra," said Mr. Smith, as they
walked along. "Nothing more than a good, plain family dinner, and a
warm welcome."
"All I could ask or desire," returned Mr. Jones.
It was a few minutes to two o'clock. The bell had rung for dinner;
and I was just rising to go to the dining room, when I heard the
street door open, and the sound of my husband's voice in the
passage. There was a man in company with him, for I distinctly heard
the tread of a pair of feet. What could this mean? I remained
seated, listening with attention.
My husband entered the parlor with his companion, talking in a
cheerful, animated strain; and I heard him pull up the blinds and
throw open the shutters. Presently he came tripping lightly up the
stairs to my sitting room.
"I've brought a friend home to dinner, Jane," said he, as coolly and
as confidently as if it were not washing day; and as if he had not
told me on going out, that he would dine at an eating house.
This was a little too much for my patience and forbearance.
"Are you beside yourself, Mr. Smith?" I replied, my face instantly
becoming flushed, and my eyes glancing out upon him the sudden
indignation I felt at such treatment.
"Why, Jane! Jane! This is not kind in you," said my husband, with
regret and displeasure in his voice. "It is rather hard if a man
can't ask an old friend home to dine with him once in five years,
without asking the special permission of his wife."
"Mr. Smith! Are you not aware that this is washing day?"
There was an instant change in my husband's countenance. He seemed
bewildered for a few moments.
"And, moreover," I continued, "are you not aware that I was to have
a picked-up dinner at home, and that you were to dine at an eating
house?"
"I declare!" Mr. Smith struck his hands together, and turned around
once upon his heel.--"I entirely forgot about that."
"What's to be done?" said I, almost crying with vexation. "I've
nothing for dinner but fried ham and eggs."
"The best we can do is the best," returned Mr. Smith. "You can give
Mr. Jones a hearty welcome, and that will compensate for any defects
in the dinner. I forewarned him that we should not entertain him
very sumptuously."
"You'd better tell him the whole truth at once," said I, in answer
to this; "and then take him to an eating house."
But my good husband would hear to nothing of this. He had invited
his old friend to dine with him; and dine he must, if it was only on
a piece of dry bread.
"Pick up something. Do the best you can," he returned. "We can wait
for half an hour."
"I've nothing in the house, I tell you," was my answer made in no
very pleasant tones; for I felt very much irritated and outraged by
my husband's thoughtless conduct.
"There, there, Jane. Don't get excited about the matter," said he
soothingly. But his words were not like oil to the troubled waters
of my spirit.
"I am excited," was my response. "How can I help being so? It is too
much! You should have had more consideration."
But, talking was of no use. Mr. Jones was in the parlor, and had
come to take a family dinner with us. So, nothing was left but to
put a good face on the matter; or, at least, to try and do so.
"Dinner's on the table now," said I. "All is there that we can have
to-day. So just invite your friend to the dining room, where you
will find me."
So saying, I took a little fellow by the hand, who always eat with
us, and led him away, feeling, as my lady readers will very
naturally suppose, in not the most amiable humor in the world. I had
just got the child, who was pretty hungry, seated in his high chair,
when my husband and his guest made their appearance; and I was
introduced.
Sorry am I to chronicle the fact--but truth compels me to make a
faithful record--that my reception of the stranger was by no means
gracious. I tried to smile; but a smile was such a mockery of my
real feelings, that every facial muscle refused to play the
hypocrite. The man was not welcome, and it was impossible for me to
conceal this.
"A plain family dinner, you see," said Mr. Smith, as we took our
places at the meagre board. "We are plain people. Shall I help you
to some of the ham and eggs?"
He tried to smile pleasantly, and to seem very much at his ease.
But, the attempt was far from successful.
"I want some! Don't give him all!" screamed out the hungry child at
my side, stretching out his hands towards the poorly supplied dish,
from which my husband was about supplying our guest.
My face, which was red enough before, now became like scarlet. A
moment longer I remained at the table, and then rising up quickly
took the impatient child in my arms, and carried him screaming from
the room. I did not return to grace the dinner table with my
unattractive presence. Of what passed, particularly, between my
husband and his friend Mr. Jones, who had left his luxurious dinner
at the hotel to enjoy "a plain family dinner" with his old
acquaintance, I never ventured to make enquiry. They did not remain
very long at the table; nor very long in the house after finishing
their frugal meal.
I have heard since that Mr. Jones has expressed commiseration for my
husband, as the married partner of a real termigant. I don't much
wonder at his indifferent opinion; for, I rather think I must have
shown in my face something of the indignant fire that was in me.
Mr. Smith, who was too much in the habit of inviting people home to
take a "family dinner" with him on the spur of the moment, has never
committed that error since. His mortification was too severe to be
easily forgotten.
CHAPTER VIII.
WHO IS KRISS KRINGLE?
IT was the day before Christmas--always a day of restless, hopeful
excitement among the children; and my thoughts were busy, as is
usual at this season, with little plans for increasing the gladness
of my happy household. The name of the good genius who presides over
toys and sugar plums was often on my lips, but oftener on the lips
of the children.
"Who is Kriss Kringle, mamma?" asked a pair of rosy lips, close to
my ear, as I stood at the kitchen table, rolling out and cutting
cakes.
I turned at the question, and met the earnest gaze of a couple of
bright eyes, the roguish owner of which had climbed into a chair for
the purpose of taking note of my doings.
I kissed the sweet lips, but did not answer.
"Say, mamma? Who is Kriss Kringle?" persevered the little one.
"Why, don't you know?" said I, smiling.
"No, mamma. Who is he?"
"Why, he is--he is--Kriss Kringle."
"Oh, mamma! Say, won't you tell me?"
"Ask papa when he comes home," I returned, evasively.
I never like deceiving children in any thing. And yet, Christmas
after Christmas, I have imposed on them the pleasant fiction of
Kriss Kringle, without suffering very severe pangs of conscience.
Dear little creatures! how fully they believed, at first, the story;
how soberly and confidingly they hung their stockings in the chimney
corner; with what faith and joy did they receive their many gifts on
the never-to-be-forgotten Christmas morning!
Yes, it is a pleasant fiction; and if there be in it a leaven of
wrong, it is indeed a small portion.
"But why won't you tell me, mamma?" persisted my little
interrogator. "Don't you know Kriss Kringle?"
"I never saw him, dear," said I.
"Has papa seen him?"
"Ask him when he comes home."
"I wish Krissy would bring me, Oh, such an elegant carriage and four
horses, with a driver that could get down and go up again."
"If I see him, I'll tell him to bring you just such a nice
carriage."
"And will he do it, mamma?" The dear child clapped his hands
together with delight.
"I guess so."
