‘Then, ma’am, he’ll be a hypocrite, a gross hypocrite, if he won’t,’
said the Doctor. ‘It is not Christian charity to think it of him. I
shall call upon him this morning and tell him my intentions.’
‘But, Doctor,’ exclaimed Mrs. Scudder, with a start, ‘pray, think a
little more of it. You know a great many things depend on him. Why! he
has subscribed for twenty copies of your “System of Theology.” I hope
you’ll remember that.’
‘And why should I remember that?’ said the Doctor,—hastily turning
round, suddenly enkindled, his blue eyes flashing out of their usual
misty calm,—‘what has my “System of Theology” to do with the matter?’
[Illustration: The Minister is moved.
Page 90.
Sampson Low, Son & Co. March, 25th, 1859]
‘Why,’ said Mrs. Scudder, ‘it’s of more importance to get right views
of the gospel before the world than anything else, is it not?—and
if, by any imprudence in treating influential people, this should be
prevented, more harm than good would be done.’
‘Madam,’ said the Doctor, ‘I’d sooner my system should be sunk in the
sea than it should be a millstone round my neck to keep me from my
duty. Let God take care of my theology; I must do my duty.’
And as the Doctor spoke, he straightened himself to the full dignity
of his height, his face kindling with an unconscious majesty, and, as
he turned, his eye fell on Mary, who was standing with her slender
figure dilated, her large blue eye wide and bright, in a sort of
trance of solemn feeling, half-smiles, half-tears,—and the strong,
heroic man started, to see this answer to his higher soul in the
sweet, tremulous mirror of womanhood. One of those lightning glances
passed between his eyes and hers which are the freemasonry of noble
spirits,—and, by a sudden impulse, they approached each other. He took
both her outstretched hands, looked down into her face with a look full
of admiration, and a sort of naïve wonder,—then, as if her inspired
silence had been a voice to him, he laid his hand on her head, and
said,—
‘God bless you, child! “Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast
thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest
still the enemy and the avenger.”’
In a moment he was gone.
‘Mary,’ said Mrs. Scudder, laying her hand on her daughter’s arm, ‘the
Doctor loves you!’
‘I know he does, mother,’ said Mary, innocently; ‘and I love
him,—dearly!—he is a noble, grand man!’
Mrs. Scudder looked keenly at her daughter. Mary’s eye was as calm as a
June sky, and she began, composedly, gathering up the teacups.
‘She did not understand me,’ thought the mother.
CHAPTER X.
THE TEST OF THEOLOGY.
THE Doctor went immediately to his study and put on his best coat and
his wig, and, surmounting them by his cocked hat, walked manfully out
of the house, with his gold-headed cane in his hand.
‘There he goes!’ said Mrs. Scudder, looking regretfully after him. ‘He
is such a good man!—but he has not the least idea how to get along in
the world. He never thinks of anything but what is true; he hasn’t a
particle of management about him.’
‘Seems to me,’ said Mary, ‘that is like an Apostle. You know, mother,
St. Paul says, “In simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly
wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in the
world.”’
‘To be sure,—that is just the Doctor,’ said Mrs. Scudder; ‘that’s as
like him as if it had been written for him. But that kind of way,
somehow, don’t seem to do in our times; it won’t answer with Simeon
Brown,—I know the man. I know just as well, now, how it will all seem
to him, and what will be the upshot of this talk, if the Doctor goes
there! It won’t do any good; if it would I would be willing. I feel as
much desire to have this horrid trade in slaves stopped as anybody;
your father, I’m sure, said enough about it in his time; but then I
know it’s no use trying. Just as if Simeon Brown, when he is making his
hundreds of thousands in it, is going to be persuaded to give it up!
He won’t—he’ll only turn against the Doctor, and won’t pay his part of
the salary, and will use his influence to get up a party against him,
and our church will be broken up and the Doctor driven away,—that’s
all that will come of it; and all the good that he is now doing to
these poor negroes will be overthrown,—and they never did have so good
a friend. If he would stay here and work gradually, and get his System
of Theology printed,—and Simeon Brown would help at that,—and only drop
words in season here and there, till people are brought along with him,
why, by-and-by something might be done; but now, it’s just the most
imprudent thing a man could undertake.’
‘But, mother, if it really is a sin to trade in slaves and hold them, I
don’t see how he can help himself. I quite agree with him. I don’t see
how he came to let it go so long as he has.’
‘Well,’ said Mrs. Scudder, ‘if worst comes to worst, and he will do it,
I, for one, shall stand by him to the last.’
‘And I, for another,’ said Mary.
‘I would like him to talk with Cousin Zebedee about it,’ said Mrs.
Scudder. ‘When we are up there this afternoon, we will introduce the
conversation. He is a good sound man, and the Doctor thinks much of
him, and perhaps he may shed some light upon this matter.’
Meanwhile the Doctor was making the best of his way in the strength of
his purpose to test the orthodoxy of Simeon Brown.
Honest old granite boulder that he was, no sooner did he perceive a
truth than he rolled after it with all the massive gravitation of
his being, inconsiderate as to what might lie in his way:—from which
it is to be inferred, that, with all his intellect and goodness, he
would have been a very clumsy and troublesome inmate of the modern
American Church. How many societies, boards, colleges, and other good
institutions, have reason to congratulate themselves that he has long
been among the saints!
With him logic was everything; and to perceive a truth and not act
in logical sequence from it a thing so incredible, that he had not
yet enlarged his capacity to take it in as a possibility. That a man
should refuse to hear truth, he could understand. In fact, he had good
reason to think the majority of his townsmen had no leisure to give
to that purpose. That men hearing truth should dispute it and argue
stoutly against it, he could also understand; but that a man could
admit a truth and not admit the plain practice resulting from it was to
him a thing incomprehensible. Therefore, spite of Mrs. Katy Scudder’s
discouraging observations, our good Doctor walked stoutly, and with a
trusting heart.
At the moment when the Doctor, with a silent uplifting of his soul to
his invisible Sovereign, passed out of his study, on this errand, where
was the disciple whom he went to seek?
In a small, dirty room, down by the wharf, the windows veiled by
cobwebs and dingy with the accumulated dust of ages, he sat in a
greasy, leathern chair by a rickety office-table, on which were a great
pewter inkstand, an account-book, and divers papers tied with red tape.
Opposite to him was seated a square-built individual,—a man of about
forty, whose round head, shaggy eyebrows, small, keen eyes, broad
chest, and heavy muscles, showed a preponderance of the animal and
brutal over the intellectual and spiritual. This was Mr. Scroggs, the
agent of a rice plantation, who had come on, bringing an order for
a new relay of negroes to supply the deficit occasioned by fever,
dysentery, and other causes, in their last year’s stock.
‘The fact is,’ said Simeon, ‘this last ship-load wasn’t as good a one
as usual; we lost more than a third of it, so we can’t afford to put
them a penny lower.’
‘Ay,’ said the other—‘but then there are so many women!’
‘Well,’ said Simeon, ‘women a’n’t so strong perhaps to start with; but
then they stan’ it out, perhaps, in the long run, better. They’re more
patient;—some of these men, the Mandingoes particularly, are pretty
troublesome to manage. We lost a splendid fellow, coming over, on this
very voyage. Let ’em on deck for air, and this fellow managed to get
himself loose and fought like a dragon. He settled one of our men with
his fist, and another with a marlinespike that he caught,—and, in fact,
they had to shoot him down. You’ll have his wife; there’s his son,
too,—fine fellow, fifteen year old by his teeth.’
‘What! that lame one?’
‘Oh, he a’n’t lame!—it’s nothing but the cramps from stowing. You know,
of course, they are more or less stiff. He’s as sound as a nut.’
‘Don’t much like to buy relations, on account of their hatching up
mischief together,’ said Mr. Scroggs.
‘Oh, that’s all humbug! You must keep ’em from coming together, anyway.
It’s about as broad as ’tis long. There’ll be wives and husbands and
children among ’em before long, start ’em as you will. And then this
woman will work better for having the boy; she’s kinder set on him; she
jabbers lots of lingo to him, day and night.’
‘Too much, I doubt,’ said the overseer, with a shrug.
‘Well, well,—I’ll tell you,’ said Simeon, rising. ‘I’ve got a few
errands up town, and you just step over with Matlock and look over
the stock;—just set aside any that you want, and when I see ’em all
together, I’ll tell you just what you shall have ’em for. I’ll be back
in an hour or two.’
And so saying, Simeon Brown called an underling from an adjoining room,
and, committing his customer to his care, took his way up-town, in a
serene frame of mind, like a man who comes from the calm performance of
duty.
Just as he came upon the street where was situated his own large and
somewhat pretentious mansion, the tall figure of the Doctor loomed in
sight, sailing majestically down upon him, making a signal to attract
his attention.
‘Good morning, Doctor,’ said Simeon.
‘Good morning, Mr. Brown,’ said the Doctor. ‘I was looking for you.
I did not quite finish the subject we were talking about at Mrs.
Scudder’s table last night. I thought I should like to go on with it a
little.’
‘With all my heart, Doctor,’ said Simeon, not a little flattered. ‘Turn
right in. Mrs. Brown will be about her house business, and we will have
the keeping-room all to ourselves. Come right in.’
The ‘keeping-room’ of Mr. Simeon Brown’s house was an intermediate
apartment between the ineffable glories of the front parlour and that
court of the Gentiles, the kitchen; for the presence of a large train
of negro servants made the latter apartment an altogether different
institution from the throne-room of Mrs. Katy Scudder.
This keeping-room was a low-studded apartment, finished with the heavy
oaken beams of the wall left full in sight, boarded over and painted.
Two windows looked out on the street, and another into a sort of
court-yard, where three black wenches, each with a broom, pretended to
be sweeping, but were, in fact, chattering and laughing, like so many
crows.
On one side of the room stood a heavy mahogany sideboard, covered with
decanters, labelled Gin, Brandy, Rum, &c.; for Simeon was held to be
a provider of none but the best, in his housekeeping. Heavy mahogany
chairs, with crewel coverings, stood sentry about the room; and the
fireplace was flanked by two broad arm-chairs, covered with stamped
leather.
On ushering the Doctor into this apartment, Simeon courteously led him
to the sideboard.
‘We mus’n’t make our discussions too dry, Doctor,’ he said; ‘what
will you take?’
‘Thank you, sir,’ said the Doctor, with a wave of his hand,—‘nothing
this morning.’
And, depositing his cocked hat in a chair, he settled himself into one
of the leathern easy chairs, and, dropping his hands upon his knees,
looked fixedly before him, like a man who is studying how to enter upon
an inwardly absorbing subject.
‘Well, Doctor,’ said Simeon, seating himself opposite, sipping
comfortably at a glass of rum-and-water, ‘our views appear to be making
a noise in the world. Everything is preparing for your volumes; and
when they appear, the battle of New Divinity, I think, may fairly be
considered as won.’
Let us consider, that, though a woman may forget her firstborn, yet a
man cannot forget his own system of theology,—because, therein, if he
be a true man, is the very elixir and essence of all that is valuable
and hopeful to the universe; and considering this, let us appreciate
the settled purpose of our friend, whom even this tempting bait did
not swerve from the end which he had in view.
‘Mr. Brown,’ he said, ‘all our theology is as a drop in the ocean of
God’s majesty, to whose glory we must be ready to make any and every
sacrifice.’
‘Certainly,’ said Mr. Brown, not exactly comprehending the turn the
Doctor’s thoughts were taking.
‘And the glory of God consisteth in the happiness of all his rational
universe, each in his proportion, according to his separate amount of
being; so that, when we devote ourselves to God’s glory, it is the same
as saying that we devote ourselves to the highest happiness of his
created universe.’
‘That’s clear, sir,’ said Simeon, rubbing his hands, and taking out his
watch to see the time.
The Doctor hitherto had spoken in a laborious manner, like a man who is
slowly lifting a heavy bucket of thought out of an internal well.
‘I am glad to find your mind so clear on this all-important point,
Mr. Brown, the more so as I feel that we must immediately proceed to
apply our principles, at whatever sacrifice of worldly goods; and I
trust, sir, that you are one who, at the call of your Master, would not
hesitate even to lay down all your worldly possessions for the greater
good of the universe.’
‘I trust so, sir,’ said Simeon, rather uneasily, and without the most
distant idea what could be coming next in the mind of his reverend
friend.
‘Did it never occur to you, my friend,’ said the Doctor, ‘that the
enslaving of the African race is a clear violation of the great law
which commands us to love our neighbour as ourselves,—and a dishonour
upon the Christian religion, more particularly in us Americans, whom
the Lord hath so marvellously protected, in our recent struggle for our
own liberty?’
Simeon started at the first words of this address, much as if some one
had dashed a bucket of water on his head, and after that rose uneasily,
walking the room and playing with the seals of his watch.
‘I—I never regarded it in this light,’ he said.
‘Possibly not, my friend’ said the Doctor,—‘so much doth established
custom blind the minds of the best of men. But since I have given more
particular attention to the case of the poor negroes here in Newport,
the thought has more and more laboured in my mind,—more especially as
our own struggles for liberty have turned my attention to the rights
which every human creature hath before God,—so that I find much in
my former blindness and the comparative dumbness I have heretofore
maintained on this subject wherewith to reproach myself; for, though
I have borne somewhat of a testimony, I have not given it that force
which so important a subject required. I am humbled before God for my
neglect, and resolved now, by his grace, to leave no stone unturned
till this iniquity be purged away from our Zion.’
‘Well, Doctor,’ said Simeon, ‘you are certainly touching on a very dark
and difficult subject, and one in which it is hard to find out the path
of duty. Perhaps it will be well to bear it in mind, and by looking at
it prayerfully some light may arise. There are such great obstacles in
the way, that I do not see at present what can be done; do you, Doctor?’
‘I intend to preach on the subject next Sunday, and hereafter devote
my best energies in the most public way to this great work,’ said the
Doctor.
‘You, Doctor?—and now, immediately? Why, it appears to me you cannot
do it. You are the most unfit man possible. Whosoever’s duty it may
be, it does not seem to me to be yours. You already have more on your
shoulders than you can carry; you are hardly able to keep your ground
now, with all the odium of this new theology upon you. Such an effort
would break up your church,—destroy the chance you have to do good
here,—prevent the publication of your system.’
‘If it’s nobody’s system but mine, the world won’t lose much, if it
never be published; but if it be God’s system, nothing can hinder
its appearing. Besides, Mr. Brown, I ought not to be one man alone.
I count on your help. I hold it as a special providence, Mr. Brown,
that in our own church an opportunity will be given to testify to the
reality of disinterested benevolence. How glorious the opportunity for
a man to come out and testify by sacrificing his worldly living and
business! If you, Mr. Brown, will at once, at whatever sacrifice, quit
all connection with this detestable and diabolical slave-trade, you
will exhibit a spectacle over which angels will rejoice, and which will
strengthen and encourage me to preach and write and testify.’
Mr. Simeon Brown’s usual demeanour was that of the most leathery
imperturbability. In calm theological reasoning, he could demonstrate,
in the dryest tone, that, if the eternal torment of six bodies and
souls were absolutely the necessary means for preserving the eternal
blessedness of thirty-six, benevolence would require us to rejoice in
it, not in itself considered, but in view of greater good. And when he
spoke, not a nerve quivered; the great mysterious sorrow with which
the creation groaneth and travaileth, the sorrow from which angels
veil their faces, never had touched one vibrating chord either of body
or soul; and he laid down the obligations of man to unconditional
submission in a style which would have affected a person of delicate
sensibility much like being mentally sawn in sunder. Benevolence,
when Simeon Brown spoke of it, seemed the grimmest and unloveliest of
Gorgons; for his mind seemed to resemble those fountains which petrify
everything that falls into them. But the hardest-shelled animals have
a vital and sensitive part, though only so large as the point of a
needle; and the Doctor’s innocent proposition to Simeon, to abandon his
whole worldly estate for his principles, touched this spot.
When benevolence required but the acquiescence in certain possible
things which might be supposed to happen to his soul, which, after all,
he was comfortably certain never would happen, or the acquiescence in
certain suppositious sacrifices for the good of that most intangible
of all abstractions, Being in general, it was a dry, calm subject.
But when it concerned the immediate giving up of his slave-ships and
a transfer of business, attended with all that confusion and loss
which he foresaw at a glance, then he felt, and felt too much to see
clearly. His swarthy face flushed, his little blue eye kindled, he
walked up to the Doctor, and began speaking in the short, energetic
sentences of a man thoroughly awake to what he is talking about.
‘Doctor, you’re too fast. You are not a practical man, Doctor. You are
good in your pulpit;—nobody better. Your theology is clear;—nobody can
argue better. But come to practical matters, why, business has its
laws, Doctor. Ministers are the most unfit men in the world to talk on
such subjects; it’s departing from their sphere; they talk about what
they don’t understand. Besides, you take too much for granted. I’m not
sure that this trade is an evil. I want to be convinced of it. I’m sure
it’s a favour to these poor creatures to bring them to a Christian
land. They are a thousand times better off. Here they can hear the
gospel and have some chance of salvation.’
‘If we want to get the gospel to the Africans,’ said the Doctor,
‘why not send whole ship-loads of missionaries to them, and carry
civilization and the arts and Christianity to Africa, instead of
stirring up wars, tempting them to ravage each other’s territories,
that we may get the booty? Think of the numbers killed in the wars,—of
all that die on the passage! Is there any need of killing ninety-nine
men to give the hundredth one the gospel, when we could give the
gospel to them all? Ah, Mr. Brown, what if all the money spent in
fitting out ships to bring the poor negroes here, so prejudiced against
Christianity that they regard it with fear and aversion, had been spent
in sending it to them, Africa would have been covered with towns and
villages, rejoicing in civilization and Christianity!’
‘Doctor, you are a dreamer,’ replied Simeon, ‘an unpractical man. Your
situation prevents your knowing anything of real life.’
‘Amen! the Lord be praised there for!’ said the Doctor, with a
slowly-increasing flush mounting to his cheek, showing the burning
brand of a smouldering fire of indignation.
‘Now let me just talk common-sense, Doctor,—which has its time and
place, just as much as theology; and if you have the most theology, I
flatter myself I have the most common-sense: a business-man must have
it. Now just look at your situation,—how you stand. You’ve got a most
important work to do. In order to do it, you must keep your pulpit, you
must keep our church together. We are few and weak. We are a minority.
Now there’s not an influential man in your society that don’t either
hold slaves or engage in the trade; and, if you open upon this subject
as you are going to do, you’ll just divide and destroy the church.
All men are not like you; men are men, and will be, till they are
thoroughly sanctified, which never happens in this life,—and there will
be an instant and most unfavourable agitation. Minds will be turned off
from the discussion of the great saving doctrines of the gospel to a
side issue. You will be turned out; and you know, Doctor, you are not
appreciated as you ought to be, and it won’t be easy for you to get
a new settlement; and then subscriptions will all drop off from your
book, and you won’t be able to get that out; and all this good will be
lost to the world, just for want of common-sense.’
‘There is a kind of wisdom in what you say, Mr. Brown,’ replied the
Doctor, naïvely; ‘but I fear much that it is the wisdom spoken in James
iii. 15, which “descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual,
devilish.” You avoid the very point of the argument, which is, Is this
a sin against God? That it is, I am solemnly convinced; and shall I
“use lightness? or the things that I purpose do I purpose according
to the flesh, that with me there should be yea, yea, and nay, nay?”
No, Mr. Brown, immediate repentance, unconditional submission, these
are what I must preach as long as God gives me a pulpit to stand in,
whether men will hear or whether they will forbear.’
‘Well, Doctor,’ said Simeon, shortly, ‘you can do as you like; but I
give you fair warning, that I, for one, shall stop my subscription, and
go to Dr. Stiles’s church.’
‘Mr. Brown,’ said the Doctor, solemnly, rising, and drawing his tall
figure to its full height, while a vivid light gleamed from his blue
eye, ‘as to that, you can do as you like; but I think it my duty, as
your pastor, to warn you that I have perceived, in my conversation
with you this morning, such a want of true spiritual illumination
and discernment as leads me to believe that you are yet in the flesh,
blinded by that “carnal mind” which “is not subject to the law of God,
neither indeed can be.” I much fear you have no part nor lot in this
matter, and that you have need, seriously, to set yourself to search
into the foundations of your hope; for you may be like him of whom it
is written, (Isaiah xliv. 20,) “He feedeth on ashes: a deceived heart
hath turned him aside, that he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, is
there not a lie in my right hand?”’
The Doctor delivered this address to his man of influence with the
calmness of an ambassador charged with a message from a sovereign,
for which he is no otherwise responsible than to speak it in the most
intelligible manner; and then, taking up his hat and cane, he bade him
good morning, leaving Simeon Brown in a tumult of excitement which no
previous theological discussion had ever raised in him.
CHAPTER XI.
THE PRACTICAL TEST.
THE hens cackled drowsily in the barn-yard of the white Marvyn-house;
in the blue June-afternoon sky sported great sailing islands of cloud,
whose white, glistening heads looked in and out through the green
apertures of maple and blossoming apple-boughs; the shadows of the
trees had already turned eastward, when the one-horse waggon of Mrs.
Katy Scudder appeared at the door, where Mrs. Marvyn stood, with a
pleased, quiet welcome in her soft brown eyes. Mrs. Scudder herself
drove, sitting on a seat in front,—while the Doctor, apparelled in the
most faultless style, with white wrist-ruffles, plaited shirt-bosom,
immaculate wig, and well-brushed coat, sat by Mary’s side, serenely
unconscious how many feminine cares had gone to his getting-up. He
did not know of the privy consultations, the sewings, stitchings, and
starchings, the ironings, the brushings, the foldings and unfoldings
and timely arrangements, that gave such dignity and respectability to
his outer man, any more than the serene moon rising tranquilly behind a
purple mountain-top troubles her calm head with treatises on astronomy;
it is enough for her to shine,—she thinks not how or why.
There is a vast amount of latent gratitude to women lying undeveloped
in the hearts of men, which would come out plentifully, if they only
knew what they did for them. The Doctor was so used to being well
dressed, that he never asked why. That his wig always sat straight, and
even around his ample forehead, not facetiously poked to one side, nor
assuming rakish airs, unsuited to clerical dignity, was entirely owing
to Mrs. Katy Scudder. That his best broadcloth coat was not illustrated
with shreds and patches, fluff and dust, and hanging in ungainly
folds, was owing to the same. That his long silk stockings never had
a treacherous stitch allowed to break out into a long running ladder
was due to her watchfulness; and that he wore spotless ruffles on his
wrists or at his bosom was her doing also. The Doctor little thought,
while he, in common with good ministers generally, gently traduced the
Scriptural Martha and insisted on the duty of heavenly abstractedness,
how much of his own leisure for spiritual contemplation was due to the
Martha-like talents of his hostess. But then, the good soul had it in
him to be grateful, and would have been unboundedly so, if he had known
his indebtedness,—as, we trust, most of our magnanimous masters would
be.
Mr. Zebedee Marvyn was quietly sitting in the front summer parlour,
listening to the story of two of his brother church-members, between
whom some difficulty had arisen in the settling of accounts: Jim
Bigelow, a small, dry, dapper little individual, known as general
jobber and factotum, and Abram Griswold, a stolid, wealthy,
well-to-do farmer. And the fragments of conversation we catch are not
uninteresting, as showing Mr. Zebedee’s habits of thought and mode of
treating those who came to him for advice.
‘I could ’ave got along better, if he’d ’a’ paid me regular every
night,’ said the squeaky voice of little Jim;—‘but he was allers
puttin’ me off till it come even change, he said.’
‘Well, ’t’aint always handy,’ replied the other; ‘one doesn’t like to
break into a five-pound note for nothing; and I like to let it run till
it comes even change.’
‘But, brother,’ said Mr. Zebedee, turning over the great Bible that
lay on the mahogany stand in the corner, ‘we must go to the law and to
the testimony,’—and, turning over the leaves, he read from Deuteronomy
xxiv.:—
‘Thou shalt not oppress an hired servant that is poor and needy,
whether he be of thy brethren or of thy strangers that are in thy land
within thy gates. At his day thou shalt give him his hire, neither
shall the sun go down upon it; for he is poor, and setteth his heart
upon it: lest he cry against thee unto the Lord, and it be sin unto
thee.’
‘You see what the Bible has to say on the matter,’ he said.
‘Well, now, Deacon, I rather think you’ve got me in a tight place,’
said Mr. Griswold, rising; and turning confusedly round, he saw the
placid figure of the Doctor, who had entered the room unobserved in
the midst of the conversation, and was staring with that look of calm,
dreamy abstraction which often led people to suppose that he heard and
saw nothing of what was going forward.
All rose reverently; and while Mr. Zebedee was shaking hands with
the Doctor, and welcoming him to his house, the other two silently
withdrew, making respectful obeisance.
Mrs. Marvyn had drawn Mary’s hand gently under her arm and taken her
to her own sleeping-room, as it was her general habit to do, that she
might show her the last book she had been reading, and pour into her
ear the thoughts that had been kindled up by it.
Mrs. Scudder, after carefully brushing every speck of dust from the
Doctor’s coat and seeing him seated in an arm-chair by the open window,
took out a long stocking of blue-mixed yarn which she was knitting for
his winter-wear, and, pinning her knitting-sheath on her side, was soon
trotting her needles contentedly in front of him.
The ill-success of the Doctor’s morning attempt at enforcing his
theology in practice rather depressed his spirits. There was a noble
innocence of nature in him which looked at hypocrisy with a puzzled and
incredulous astonishment. How a man could do so and be so was to him
a problem at which his thoughts vainly laboured. Not that he was in the
least discouraged or hesitating in regard to his own course. When he
had made up his mind to perform a duty, the question of success no more
entered his thoughts than those of the granite boulder to which we have
before compared him. When the time came for him to roll, he did roll
with the whole force of his being;—where he was to land was not his
concern.
Mildly and placidly he sat with his hands resting on his knees, while
Mr. Zebedee and Mrs. Scudder compared notes respecting the relative
prospects of corn, flax, and buckwheat, and thence passed to the
doings of Congress and the last proclamation of General Washington,
pausing once in a while, if, peradventure, the Doctor might take up the
conversation. Still he sat dreamily eyeing the flies as they fizzed
down the panes of the half-open window.
‘I think,’ said Mr. Zebedee, ‘the prospects of the Federal party were
never brighter.’
The Doctor was a stanch Federalist, and generally warmed to this
allurement; but it did not serve this time.
Suddenly drawing himself up, a light came into his blue eyes, and he
said to Mr. Marvyn,—
‘I’m thinking, Deacon, if it is wrong to keep back the wages of a
servant till after the going down of the sun, what those are to do who
keep them back all their lives.’
There was a way the Doctor had of hearing and seeing when he looked
as if his soul were afar off, and bringing suddenly into present
conversation some fragment of the past on which he had been leisurely
hammering in the quiet chambers of his brain, which was sometimes quite
startling.
This allusion to a passage of Scripture which Mr. Marvyn was reading
when he came in, and which nobody supposed he had attended to, startled
Mrs. Scudder, who thought, mentally, ‘Now for it!’ and laid down her
knitting-work, and eyed her cousin anxiously. Mrs. Marvyn and Mary,
who had glided in and joined the circle, looking interested; and a
slight flush rose and overspread the thin cheeks of Mr. Marvyn, and his
blue eyes deepened in a moment with a thoughtful shadow, as he looked
inquiringly at the Doctor, who proceeded:—
‘My mind labours with this subject of the enslaving of the Africans,
Mr. Marvyn. We have just been declaring to the world that all men are
born with an inalienable right to liberty. We have fought for it, and
the Lord of Hosts has been with us; and can we stand before Him, with
our foot upon our brother’s neck?’
A generous, upright nature is always more sensitive to blame than
another,—sensitive in proportion to the amount of its reverence
for good,—and Mr. Marvyn’s face flushed, his eye kindled, and his
compressed respiration showed how deeply the subject moved him. Mrs.
Marvyn’s eyes turned on him an anxious look of inquiry. He answered,
however, calmly:—
‘Doctor, I have thought of the subject myself. Mrs. Marvyn has lately
been reading a pamphlet of Mr. Thomas Clarkson’s on the slave-trade,
and she was saying to me only last night, that she did not see but the
argument extended equally to holding slaves. One thing, I confess,
stumbles me:—Was there not an express permission given to Israel to buy
and hold slaves of old?’
‘Doubtless,’ said the Doctor; ‘but many permissions were given to them
which were local and temporary; for if we hold them to apply to the
human race, the Turks might quote the Bible for making slaves of us, if
they could,—and the Algerines have the Scripture all on their side,—and
our own blacks, at some future time, if they can get the power, might
justify themselves in making slaves of us.’
‘I assure you, sir,’ said Mr. Marvyn, ‘if I speak, it is not to excuse
myself. But I am quite sure my servants do not desire liberty, and
would not take it, if it were offered.’
‘Call them in and try it,’ said the Doctor. ‘If they refuse, it is
their own matter.’
There was a gentle movement in the group at the directness of this
personal application; but Mr. Marvyn replied, calmly,—
‘Cato is up at the eight-acre lot, but you may call in Candace. My
dear, call Candace, and let the Doctor put the question to her.’
Candace was at this moment sitting before the ample fireplace in the
kitchen, with two iron kettles before her, nestled each in its bed of
hickory coals, which gleamed out from their white ashes like sleepy,
red eyes, opening and shutting. In one was coffee, which she was
burning, stirring vigorously with a pudding-stick,—and in the other,
puffy dough-nuts, in shapes of rings, hearts, and marvellous twists,
which Candace had such a special proclivity for making, that Mrs.
Marvyn’s table and closets never knew an intermission of their presence.
‘Candace, the Doctor wishes to see you,’ said Mrs. Marvyn.
‘Bress his heart!’ said Candace, looking up, perplexed. ‘Wants to
see me, does he? Can’t nobody hab me till dis yer coffee’s done; a
minnit’s a minnit in coffee;—but I’ll be in dereckly,’ she added, in
a patronising tone. ‘Missis, you jes’ go ‘long in, an’ I’ll be dar
dereckly.’
A few moments after Candace joined the group in the sitting-room,
having hastily tied a clean white apron over her blue linsey
working-dress, and donned the brilliant Madras which James had lately
given her, and which she had a barbaric fashion of arranging so as to
give to her head the air of a gigantic butterfly. She sunk a dutiful
curtsy, and stood twirling her thumbs, while the Doctor surveyed her
gravely.
‘Candace,’ said he, ‘do you think it right that the black race should
be slaves to the white?’
The face and air of Candace presented a curious picture at this moment;
a sort of rude sense of delicacy embarrassed her, and she turned a
deprecating look, first on Mrs. Marvyn and then on her master.
‘Don’t mind us, Candace,’ said Mrs. Marvyn; ‘tell the Doctor the exact
truth.’
Candace stood still a moment, and the spectators saw a deeper shadow
roll over her sable face, like a cloud over a dark pool of water, and
her immense person heaved with her laboured breathing.
[Illustration: Candace receives her Freedom.
Page 107.
Sampson Low, Son & Co. April 25th, 1859]
‘Ef I must speak I must,’ she said. ‘No,—I neber did tink ’twas right.
When General Washington was here, I hearn ’em read de Declaration ob
Independence and Bill o’ Rights; an’ I tole Cato den, says I, “Ef dat
ar’ true, you an’ I are as free as anybody.” It stands to reason.
Why, look at me,—I a’n’t a critter. I’s neider huffs nor horns. I’s
a reasonable bein’,—a woman,—as much a woman as anybody,’ she said,
holding up her head with an air as majestic as a palm-tree;—‘an’
Cato,—he’s a man born free an’ equal, ef dar’s any truth in what you
read,—dat’s all.’
‘But, Candace, you’ve always been contented and happy with us, have you
not?’ said Mr. Marvyn.
‘Yes, Mass’r,—I ha’n’t got nuffin to complain of in dat matter. I
couldn’t hab no better friends ’n you an’ Missis.’
‘Would you like your liberty, if you could get it, though?’ said Mr.
Marvyn. ‘Answer me honestly.’
‘Why, to be sure I should! Who wouldn’t? Mind ye,’ she said, earnestly
raising her black, heavy hand, ‘’ta’n’t dat I want to go off, or want
to shirk work; but I want to feel free. Dem dat isn’t free has nuffin
to give to nobody;—dey can’t show what dey would do.’
‘Well, Candace, from this day you are free,’ said Mr. Marvyn, solemnly.
Candace covered her face with both her fat hands, and shook and
trembled, and, finally, throwing her apron over her head, made a
desperate rush for the door, and threw herself down in the kitchen in a
perfect tropical torrent of tears and sobs.
‘You see,’ said the Doctor, ‘what freedom is to every human creature.
The blessing of the Lord will be on this deed, Mr. Marvyn. “The steps
of a just man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way.”’
At this moment, Candace reappeared at the door, her butterfly turban
somewhat deranged with the violence of her prostration, giving a
whimsical air to her portly person.
‘I want ye all to know,’ she said, with a clearing-up snuff, ‘dat it’s
my will ’an pleasure to go right on doin’ my work jes’ de same; an’,
Missis, please, I’ll allers put three eggs in de crullers, now; an’
I won’t turn de wash-basin down in de sink, but hang it jam-up on de
nail; an’ I won’t pick up chips in a milkpan, ef I’m in ever so big a
hurry;—I’ll do eberyting jes’ as ye tells me. Now you try me and see ef
I won’t!’
Candace here alluded to some of the little private wilfulnesses which
she had always obstinately cherished as reserved rights, in pursuing
domestic matters with her mistress.
‘I intend,’ said Mr. Marvyn, ‘to make the same offer to your husband,
when he returns from work to night.’
‘Laus, Mass’r,—why, Cato he’ll do jes’ as I do,—dere a’n’t no kind o’
need o’ askin’ him. ’Course he will.’
A smile passed round the circle, because between Candace and her
husband there existed one of those whimsical contrasts which one
sometimes sees in married life. Cato was a small-built, thin,
softly-spoken negro, addicted to a gentle chronic cough; and, though a
faithful and skilful servant, seemed, in relation to his better half,
much like a hill of potatoes under a spreading apple-tree. Candace held
to him with a vehement and patronizing fondness, so devoid of conjugal
reverence as to excite the comments of her friends.
‘You must remember, Candace,’ said a good deacon to her one day, when
she was ordering him about at a catechizing, ‘you ought to give honour
to your husband; the wife is the weaker vessel.’
‘I de weaker vessel?’ said Candace, looking down from the tower of
her ample corpulence on the small, quiet man whom she had been fledging
with the ample folds of a worsted comforter, out of which his little
head and shining bead-eyes looked much like a blackbird in a nest,—‘I
de weaker vessel? Umph!’
A whole-woman’s-rights’ convention could not have expressed more in a
day than was given in that single look and word. Candace considered
a husband as a thing to be taken care of,—a rather inconsequent and
somewhat troublesome species of pet, to be humoured, nursed, fed,
clothed, and guided in the way that he was to go,—an animal that
was always losing of buttons, catching colds, wearing his best coat
every day, and getting on his Sunday hat in a surreptitious manner
for week-day occasions; but she often condescended to express it as
her opinion that he was a blessing, and that she didn’t know what she
should do if it wasn’t for Cato. In fact, he seemed to supply her that
which we are told is the great want in woman’s situation,—an object in
life. She sometimes was heard expressing herself very energetically in
disapprobation of the conduct of one of her sable friends, named Jinny
Stiles, who, after being presented with her own freedom, worked several
years to buy that of her husband, but became afterwards so disgusted
with her acquisition that she declared she would, ‘neber buy anoder
nigger.’
‘Now Jinny don’t know what she’s talkin’ about,’ she would say. ‘S’pose
he does cough and keep her awake nights, and take a little too much
sometimes, a’n’t he better’n no husband at all? A body wouldn’t seem to
hab nuffin to lib for, ef dey hadn’t an ole man to look arter. Men is
nate’lly foolish about some tings,—but dey’s good deal better’n nuffin.’
And Candace, after this condescending remark, would lift off with one
hand a brass kettle in which poor Cato might have been drowned, and fly
across the kitchen with it as if it were a feather.
CHAPTER XII.
MISS PRISSY.
WILL our little Mary really fall in love with the Doctor?—The question
reaches us in anxious tones from all the circle of our readers; and
what especially shocks us is, that grave doctors of divinity, and
serious, stocking-knitting matrons, seem to be the class who are
particularly set against the success of our excellent orthodox hero,
and bent on reminding us of the claims of that unregenerate James, whom
we have sent to sea on purpose that our heroine may recover herself of
that foolish partiality for him which all the Christian world seems
bent on perpetuating.
‘Now, really,’ says the Rev. Mrs. Q., looking up from her bundle of
Sewing-Society work, ‘you are not going to let Mary marry the Doctor?’
My dear Madam, is not that just what you did, yourself, after having
turned off three or four fascinating young sinners as good as James any
day? Don’t make us believe that you are sorry for it now!
‘Is it possible,’ says Dr. Theophrastus, who is himself a stanch
Hopkinsian divine, and who is at present recovering from his last grand
effort on Natural and Moral Ability,—‘is it possible that you are going
to let Mary forget that poor young man and marry Dr. H.? That will
never do in the world!’
Dear Doctor, consider what would have become of you, if some lady at a
certain time had not had the sense and discernment to fall in love with
the man who came to her disguised as a theologian.
‘But he’s so old!’ says Aunt Maria.
Not at all. Old? What do you mean? Forty is the very season of
ripeness,—the very meridian of manly lustre and splendour.
‘But he wears a wig.’
My dear Madam, so did Sir Charles Grandison, and Lovelace, and all the
other fine fellows of those days: the wig was the distinguishing mark
of a gentleman.
No,—spite of all you may say and declare, we do insist that our Doctor
is a very proper and probable subject for a young lady to fall in love
with.
If women have one weakness more marked than another, it is towards
veneration. They are born worshippers,—makers of silver shrines for
some divinity or other, which, of course, they always think fell
straight down from heaven.
The first step towards their falling in love with an ordinary mortal
is generally to dress him out with all manner of real or fancied
superiority; and having made him up, they worship him.
Now a truly great man, a man really grand and noble in heart and
intellect, has this advantage with women, that he is an idol ready-made
to hand; and so that very painstaking and ingenious sex have less
labour in getting him up, and can be ready to worship him on shorter
notice.
In particular is this the case where a sacred profession and a moral
supremacy are added to the intellectual. Just think of the career of
celebrated preachers and divines in all ages. Have they not stood like
the image that ‘Nebuchadnezzar the king set up,’ and all womankind,
coquettes and flirts not excepted, been ready to fall down and worship,
even before the sound of cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, and so forth? Is
not the faithful Paula, with her beautiful face, prostrate in reverence
before poor, old, lean, haggard, dying St. Jerome, in the most splendid
painting of the world, an emblem and sign of woman’s eternal power of
self-sacrifice to what she deems noblest in man? Does not old Richard
Baxter tell us, with delightful single-heartedness, how his wife fell
in love with him first, spite of his long, pale face,—and how she
confessed, dear soul, after many years of married life, that she had
found him less sour and bitter than she had expected?
The fact is, women are burdened with fealty, faith, reverence, more
than they know what to do with; they stand like a hedge of sweet-peas,
throwing out fluttering tendrils everywhere for something high and
strong to climb by,—and when they find it, be it ever so rough in the
bark, they catch upon it. And instances are not wanting of those who
have turned away from the flattery of admirers to prostrate themselves
at the feet of a genuine hero who never wooed them except by heroic
deeds and the rhetoric of a noble life.
Never was there a distinguished man whose greatness could sustain the
test of minute domestic inspection better than our Doctor. Strong
in a single-hearted humility, a perfect unconsciousness of self, an
honest and sincere absorption in high and holy themes and objects,
there was in him what we so seldom see,—a perfect logic of life; his
minutest deeds were the true results of his sublimest principles.
His whole nature, moral, physical, and intellectual, was simple,
pure, and cleanly. He was temperate as an anchorite in all matters
of living,—avoiding, from a healthy instinct, all those intoxicating
stimuli then common among the clergy. In his early youth, indeed, he
had formed an attachment to the almost universal clerical pipe,—but,
observing a delicate woman once nauseated by coming into the atmosphere
which he and his brethren had polluted, he set himself gravely to
reflect that that which could so offend a woman must needs be uncomely
and unworthy a Christian man; wherefore he laid his pipe on the
mantelpiece, and never afterwards resumed the indulgence.
In all his relations with womanhood he was delicate and reverential,
forming his manners by that old precept, ‘The elder women entreat
as mothers, the younger as sisters,’—which rule, short and simple
as it is, is nevertheless the most perfect résumé of all true
gentlemanliness. Then, as for person, the Doctor was not handsome, to
be sure; but he was what sometimes serves with woman better,—majestic
and manly, and, when animated by thought and feeling, having even a
commanding grandeur of mien. Add to all this, that our valiant hero is
now on the straight road to bring him into that situation most likely
to engage the warm partisanship of a true woman,—namely, that of a man
unjustly abused for right-doing,—and one may see that it is ten to one
our Mary may fall in love with him yet, before she knows it.
If it were not for this mysterious selfness-and-sameness which makes
this wild, wandering, uncanonical sailor, James Marvyn, so intimate
and internal,—if his thread were not knit up with the thread of her
life,—were it not for the old habit of feeling for him, thinking for
him, praying for him, hoping for him, fearing for him, which—woe is
us!—is the unfortunate habit of womankind,—if it were not for that
fatal something which neither judgment, nor wishes, nor reason, nor
common sense shows any great skill in unravelling,—we are quite
sure that Mary would be in love with the Doctor within the next six
months; as it is, we leave you all to infer from your own heart and
consciousness what his chances are.
A new sort of scene is about to open on our heroine, and we shall show
her to you, for an evening at least, in new associations, and with a
different background from that homely and rural one in which she has
fluttered as a white dove amid leafy and congenial surroundings.
As we have before intimated, Newport presented a résumé of many
different phases of society, all brought upon a social level by the
then universally admitted principle of equality.
There were scattered about in the settlement lordly mansions, whose
owners rolled in emblazoned carriages, and whose wide halls were the
scenes of a showy and almost princely hospitality. By her husband’s
side, Mrs. Katy Scudder was allied to one of these families of wealthy
planters, and often recognized the connection with a quiet undertone
of satisfaction, as a dignified and self-respecting woman should. She
liked, once in a while, quietly to let people know, that, although they
lived in the plain little cottage and made no pretensions, yet they had
good blood in their veins,—that Mr. Scudder’s mother was a Wilcox, and
that the Wilcoxes were, she supposed, as high as anybody,—generally
ending the remark with the observation, that ‘all these things, to be
sure, were matters of small consequence, since at last it would be of
far more importance to have been a true Christian than to have been
connected with the highest families of the land.’
Nevertheless, Mrs. Scudder was not a little pleased to have in her
possession a card of invitation to a splendid wedding-party that was
going to be given on Friday at the Wilcox Manor. She thought it a very
becoming mark of respect to the deceased Mr. Scudder that his widow
and daughter should be brought to mind,—so becoming and praiseworthy,
in fact, that, ‘though an old woman,’ as she said, with a complacent
straightening of her tall, lithe figure, she really thought she must
make an effort to go.
Accordingly, early one morning, after all domestic duties had been
fulfilled, and the clock, loudly ticking through the empty rooms, told
that all needful bustle had died down to silence, Mrs. Katy, Mary, and
Miss Prissy Diamond, the dressmaker, might have been observed sitting
in solemn senate around the camphor-wood trunk, before spoken of, and
which exhaled vague foreign and Indian perfumes of silk and sandalwood.
You may have heard of dignitaries, my good reader,—but, I assure you,
you know very little of a situation of trust or importance compared to
that of the dressmaker in a small New England town.
What important interests does she hold in her hands! How is she
