heart with a sense of weakness;--but that was the very position for the
next move; a spring beyond weakness to the only real and sufficient
ground of strength.

The afternoon merged into the evening. A tallow candle had been brought
by the attendant into the room in which Mr. Linden was waiting; and its
dim smoky light would have made a dismal place of it if he had had no
other to go by. He could sometimes hear the low tones of a word or two
in the other room; more often the tones were so low that they failed to
reach him. When this state of things had lasted a long time--as it
seemed--there came an interruption in the form of quick steps on the
snow; then the door was pushed open, and Dr. Harrison appeared.

"You here!" was his astonished salutation. "What upon earth has brought
you?"

"I came to bring some one else."

"She isn't here?" said the doctor. "You don't mean that?"

His emphatic pronouns were a little smile-provoking, in spite of the
grave thoughts upon which they intruded--or rather perhaps because of
them; but if Mr. Linden's face felt that temptation, it was only for a
moment,--he answered quietly,

"If you mean Miss Faith, she has been here a long time."

The doctor knew that! if she came when she was called. He had stopped
to eat his dinner.

"I mean her, of course," he said with his tone a little subdued. "I
shouldn't think her mother would have let her come--such a night!--"
Which meant very plainly that Dr. Harrison would not have let her.--"Is
she in there with the woman now?"

"Yes."

The doctor went with grave aspect to the door of communication between
the two rooms and softly opened it and went in; so softly, that Faith,
engaged in her reading, did not hear anything; the sick woman's eyes
were the first that perceived him. Hers rested on him a moment--then
came back to Faith, and then again met the doctor's; but not just as
they had been wont. And her first words bore out his impression.

"You may come in," she said, slowly and distinctly,--"I'm not afraid of
you to-night."

He came forward, looked at her, touched her hand, kindly; and then
without a word turned to Faith.

Faith did not dare ask a question, but her eyes put it silently.

"She don't want anything," said he meaningly. "Not from me. She may
have anything she fancies to have."

Faith's eyes went back to the other face. That the doctor's words had
been understood there too, was evident from the little flitting colour,
and the sick woman lay still with closed eyes, clasping Faith's hand as
if she were holding herself back from drifting out on "that great and
unknown sea." But she roused herself and spoke hurriedly. "Won't
somebody pray for me?"

Faith bent over until her lips almost touched the sufferer's cheek and
her warm breath floated in the words, "I'll bring somebody--" then
loosing her hold, she sprang from the bed and out into the other room.
But when she had clasped Mr. Linden's hand, Faith bent down her head
upon it, unable to speak. The strength it could, his hand gave her--and
his voice.

"What, my dear child?"

Then Faith looked up. "She wants you to pray for her." And without
waiting for the unnecessary answer, she led Mr. Linden to the door of
the room, there dropped his hand and went in before him. Dr. Harrison
was standing by the bedpost, and looked wordlessly upon the two as they
entered.

Mrs. Custers scanned the stranger's face as he came to wards her, with
an anxious, eager look, as if she wanted to know whether he could do
anything for her; the look changing to one of satisfaction. But to his
low-spoken question as he took her hand, she gave an answer that was
almost startling in its slow earnestness.

"Pray that I may believe--and that he may--and that God would bless
her forever!"

How was such a request to be met! then and there!--for a moment Mr.
Linden's eyes fell. But then he knelt by her side, and met it most
literally,--in tones very low and clear and distinct, in words that
might have been angels' plumage for their soft bearing upward of the
sufferer's thoughts. Faith could feel a slight trembling once or twice
of the hand that held hers, but the bitterness of its grasp had
relaxed. Dr. Harrison was behind her; whether he stood or knelt she did
not know; but he knew that when the other two rose to their feet, one
of them was exceedingly pale; and his move, made on the instant, was to
get her a glass of water. Faith only tasted it and gave it him back,
and mounted to her former place on the bed. And for a little all was
still, until Mr. Linden spoke again in the same clear, guiding tones.

   "'My God, within thy hand
   My helpless soul I trust!
   Thy love shall ever stand--
   Thy promise must!--'"


Then Mrs. Custers opened her eyes; and her first look was at Dr.
Harrison. But whether the relaxed mental tension let the bodily
weakness appear, or whether the tide was at that point where it ebbs
most rapidly, her words were spoken with some trouble--yet spoken as if
both to make amends and give information.

"You meant to be very kind--" she said--"and you have--But now I want
to believe--even if it isn't any use."

Her eyes passed from him--rested for a minute on Mr. Linden--then came
to Faith, and never wavered again. "Read"--was all she said.

With unnerved lip and quivering breath Faith began again her sweet
utterance of some of those sweetest things. For a moment she longed to
ask the other two listeners to go away and leave her alone; but
reasons, different and strong, kept her mouth from speaking the wish;
and then, once dismissed, it was forgotten. Her voice steadied and grew
clear presently; its low, distinct words were not interrupted by so
much as a breath in any part of the room. They steadied her; Faith
rested on them and clung to them as she went along, with a sense of
failing energy which needed a stay somewhere. But her words did not
shew it, except perhaps that they came more slowly and deliberately.
Mr. Linden had drawn back a little out of sight. Dr. Harrison kept his
stand by the bedpost, leaning against it; and whatever that reading was
to him, he was as motionless as that whereon he leaned.

Till some little length of time had passed in this way, and then he
came to Faith's side and laid his hand on her open book.

"She does not hear you," he said softly.

Faith looked at him startled, and then bent forward over the woman
whose face was turned a little from her.

"She is sleeping"--she said looking up again.

"She will not hear you any more," said the doctor.

"She breathes, regularly,--"

"Yes--so she will for perhaps some hours. But she will not waken
again,--probably."

"Are you sure?" Faith said with another look at the calm face before
her.

"Very sure!"--

Was it true? Faith looked still at the unconscious form,--then her
bible fell from her hands and her head wearily sunk into them. The
strain was over--broken short. She had done all she could,--and the
everlasting answer was sealed up from her. Those heavy eyelids would
not unclose again to give it; those parted lips through which the slow
breath went and came, would never tell her. It seemed to Faith that her
heart lay on the very ground with the burden of all that weight resting
upon it.

She was not suffered to sit so long.

"May I take you away?"--Mr. Linden said,--"you must not stay any
longer."

"Do you think it is no use?" said Faith looking up at him wearily.

"It is of no use," said Dr. Harrison. He had come near, and took her
hand, looking at her with a moved face in which there was something
very like tender reproach. But he only brought her hand gravely to his
lips again and turned away. Mr. Linden's words were very low-spoken. "I
think the doctor is right.--But let me take you home, and then I will
come back and stay till morning if you like--or till there comes a
change. You must not stay."

"I don't like to go,"--said Faith without moving. "She may want me
again."

"There may be no change all night," said the doctor;--"and when it
comes it will not probably be a conscious change. If she awakes at all,
it will be to die. You could do nothing more."

Faith saw that Mr. Linden thought so, and she gave it up; with a
lingering unwillingness got off the bed and wrapped her furs round her.
Mr. Linden put her into the sleigh, keeping Jerry back to let the
doctor precede them; and when he was fairly in front, Faith was doubly
wrapped up--as she had been the night of the fire, and could take the
refreshment of the cool air, and rest. Very wearily, for a while, mind
and body both dropped. Faith was as still as if she had been asleep;
but her eyes were gazing out upon the snow, following the distant speck
of the doctor's sleigh, or looking up to the eternal changeless lights
that keep watch over this little world and mock its changes. Yet not
so! but that bear their quiet witness that there is something which is
not "passing away;"--yea, that there is something which "endureth
forever."

"He calleth them all by their names; for that he is strong in power,
not one faileth." That was in Faith's mind along with other words--"The
Lord knoweth them that are his." Her mind was in a passive state;
things floated in and floated out. It was some time before Mr. Linden
said anything--he let her be as silent and still as she would; but at
last he bent over her and spoke.

"My Mignonette"--and the thought was not sweeter than the words--"are
you asleep?"

"No--" she said in one of those etherial answering tones which
curiously say a great many things.

"Are you resting?"

"Yes. I am rested."

"You must try not to bear the burden of your work after it is done. Now
lay it off--and leave your poor friend in the hands where I trust she
has left herself. Her senses are not closed to his voice."

"I do"--she said with a grateful look. "I know it is not my work--nor
anybody's."

He drew the furs up about her silently, arranging and adjusting them so
as to keep off the wind which had risen a little.

"We are not very far from home now,--we have come fast."

And as Jerry did not relax his pace, the little distance was soon
travelled over. How fair the lights in their own windows looked
then!--with their speech of blessing and comfort.

They all came together round the fire first, and then round the
tea-table; Faith being specially watched over and waited on by both the
others. Mrs. Derrick's half developed fear at their long stay, had
given place to a sort of moved, untalkative mood when she heard the
explanation, but a mood which relieved itself by trying every possible
and impossible thing for Faith's refreshment. Every possible thing
except refreshing talk--and that Mr. Linden gave her. Talk which
without jarring in the least upon the evening's work, yet led her
thoughts a little off from the painful part of it. Talk of the
Christian's work--of the Christian's privilege,--of "Heaven and the way
thither,"--of the gilding of the cross, of the glory of the crown.
Faith heard and joined in it, but there was a point of pressure yet at
her heart; and when they left the table and went into the other room, a
slight thing gave indication where it lay. Faith took a little bench by
Mrs. Derrick's side, drew her mother's arms round her close, and laid
her head down on her lap.

How softly, how tenderly, did Mrs. Derrick answer the caress, as if she
read it perfectly!--touching Faith's hands and brow and cheeks with
fingers that were even trembling. And at last--whether her child's mute
pleading was too much for her,--whether the pain which had never left
her heart since the day of Faith's overturn had by degrees done its
work,--she bent down her lips to Faith's cheek and whispered--"Yes,
pretty child--I mean to try."

And so the door opened, and Cindy and Mr. Skip came in for prayers.
Faith hid her face, but otherwise did not stir.

How sweet the service was to them all that night!--yes, to them all;
there was not one who could help feeling its influence. And yet it was
very simple, and not very long,--Mr. Linden read first a few Bible
passages, and then Wesley's hymn of the New Year,--with its bugle note
of action,--and then to prayer, for which, by that time, every heart
was ready.

   "Come let us anew our journey pursue,
   Roll round with the year,
   And never stand still till the Master appear.
   His adorable will let us gladly fulfil,
   And our talents improve,
   By the patience of hope and the labours of love.

   "Our life is a dream; our time, as a stream,
   Glides swiftly away,
   And the fugitive moment refuses to stay.
   The arrow is flown--the moment is gone;
   The millennial year
   Rushes on to our view, and eternity's here.

   "O that each, in the day of his coming, may say,
   I have fought my way through;
   I have finished the work thou didst give me to do.
   O that each from his Lord may receive the glad word,
   Well and faithfully done!
   Enter into my joy, and sit down on my throne."



CHAPTER VIII.



The first morning of the new year turned out as bright as could be
desired for the great sleigh-riding expedition; the very day for it.
And in the very mood for it were the people who were to go. Not but
somewhat of last night's gravity hung about Faith's bright face; the
one did no hurt to the other; for the best brightness is always sure to
be grave, and the best gravity is almost sure to be bright, on some
side. However there was nothing contemplative about the character of
things this morning; there was too much action afoot. Such an army of
meats and drinks, with all sorts of odd ends and varieties, from the
shoes to the fishing-net, and such an array of apples and
sugarplums!--to marshal and order them all in proper companies and
ranks, wanted a general! But Faith was by no means a bad general, and
up to the act of stowing the sleigh, at which point the things were
made over to Mr. Linden and Mr. Skip, her part was well done. And Mr.
Linden found in the course of his part of the business that Mrs.
Derrick and Faith had followed a lead of their own.

There had been a pretty packing and tying up and labelling at the
table, before the sleigh-packing began,--Faith's busy little fingers
went in and out with great dexterity; and either Mr. Linden thought it
was pleasant to her--or knew it was pleasant to him, to have them so
engaged; for though he stood by and talked to her, and laughed at her,
he let the said little fingers have their way; except when they touched
some harsh bit of string, or rough bit of paper, or unmanageable
package, and then his own interfered. It was a bright packing
up--without a shadow, at least that could be called such. But once or
twice, when with some quick movement of Faith's hand the diamonds
flashed forth their weird light suddenly,--she did see that Mr.
Linden's eyes went down, and that his mouth took a set which if not of
pain, was at least sad. It never lasted long--and the next look was
always one of most full pleasure at her. But the second time, Faith's
heart could hardly bear it. She guessed at the why and the what; but
words were too gross a medium to convey from spirit to spirit the touch
that love could give and pain bear. She watched her chance; and when
one of Mr. Linden's hands was for a moment resting on a package that
the other was busied in arranging, suddenly laying the jewelled hand on
his, Faith's lips kept it company.

"Faith!" he said. And then as if he saw it all, he did not say another
word, only held her for a minute in a very, very close embrace. But
then he whispered,

"Faith--you must give me that in another way."

Faith appeared to have exhausted her ammunition, for she only answered
by hiding her face.

"Faith"--Mr. Linden repeated.

She looked up slowly, blushing all over; and her very doubtful face
seemed to negative the whole proceeding. But then an irrepressible
little laugh began to play.

"I wouldn't do it," she said unsteadily,--"at least, I don't know that
I would--if I hadn't wished so very much to give you something
to-day;--and I have nothing else!--"

And nerving herself desperately, Faith laid one hand on Mr. Linden's
shoulder and slightly raising herself on her toes, did bestow on his
lips as dainty a kiss as ever Santa Claus brought in his box of New
Year curiosities. But she was overcome with confusion the moment she
had done it, and would have rushed off if that had been possible.

"Let me go"--she said hastily--"let me go!"--

In answer to which, she was held as securely fast as she ever had been
in her life. Covering and hiding all of her face that she could, Faith
renewed her request, in a comical tone of humility--as if she didn't
deserve it.

"I never felt less inclined to let you go!"

"There is all that work to be done," said Faith, by way of possibly
useful suggestion.

"Mignonette, will you remember your new lesson?"

She whispered softly, "No.--It was only Santa Claus."

"Not Campaspe?"

"No--Certainly not!"

"You remember," said Mr. Linden, "that when--'Cupid and Campaspe played
at cards for kisses, Cupid paid.'--I was unavoidably reminded of
that. But you may go on with your work,--you know what happens when
lessons are learned imperfectly." And liberty for her work she had; no
more.

"Child," said her mother coming in, "are you ready for your lunch?"

"Why no, mother," said Faith with a little laugh,--"of course not! but
I can take it as I go on. There's a good deal of 'sorting' to do yet. I
hope the sleigh is big."

"Take it as you go on, indeed!" said Mrs. Derrick. "You've got to stop
and eat, child,--you can't live till night with nothing but other
folk's dinners."

Faith however declared she could not stop to eat; and she contrived
to carry on both the rival occupations together; and even to make right
sure that no one else should attempt to live upon anything more
etherial than sandwiches and pumpkin pie. She drank her coffee in the
intervals of tying packages and writing labels, and ran about with a
sandwich in one hand and a basket in the other; filling Mr. Linden's
cup and putting tempting platefuls in his way. But he was as busy as
she,--spending much of his time at the barn, where Squire
Stoutenburgh's pretty little box sleigh was in process of filling with
cloaks, buffalo robes, and commodities! At last everything was in, and
Mr. Linden came to announce that fact to Faith,--furs and hood were
donned, and the sleigh was off with its whole load.

Bright, bright the snow was, and blue the shadows, and fair the white
expanse of hill and meadow, all crisp and sparkling. Everybody was
out--which was not wonderful; but so well had Mr. Linden disposed and
covered up his packages, that all anybody could see was that he and
Faith were taking a sleigh-ride,--which was not wonderful either. And
before long they left the more frequented roads, and turned down the
lane that led to the dwelling of Sally Lowndes. How different it looked
now, from that summer evening when Faith had gone there alone. What a
colouring then lay on all the ground that was now white with sunlight
and blue with shade! And also, what a difference in the mental
colouring. But Jerry, travelling faster than her feet had done, soon
brought them to the house. Mr. Linden buckled the tie, and helped
Faith to emerge from the buffalo robes; the winter wind blowing fresh
from the sea, and sweeping over the down till Jerry shook his blanket
in disapproval.

"Now my little counsellor," said Mr. Linden, "what does your wisdom say
should go in here--besides this basket of substantiate? I think you
know more of these people than I do?"--And the surf in its cold
monotony, said--"Anything warm!"

"Mother has put in a shawl for Sally," said Faith, getting out the
package;--(it was one that Mrs. Derrick found she could do
without,)--"and a little paper of tea,--tea is Sally's greatest
delight,--here it is!"

Sally's abode was in nothing different from the run of poor houses in
the country; unpainted of course, outside and inside; a rag carpet on
the floor, a gay patchwork coverlet on the bed. Sally herself was in
the rocking-chair before a little wood fire. But there was not the look
of even poor comfort which may sometimes be seen; want, that told of
lack of means and that also went deeper, was visible in everything.

"I've come to wish you a happy new year, Sally," said Faith brightly.

"Laws! I wonder where it's to come from!" said Sally. "If wishin' I
would fetch it--I've wished it to myself till I'm tired. Happy new
years don't come to all folks. Aint that--How do you do, sir!--aint it
the gentleman Jenny told of? that fell down at Mr. Simlins' door?"

"And got up again?" said Mr. Linden. "Yes, I presume I am the very
person Jenny told of. I remember that Jenny was very kind to me, too.
Where is she?"

"O she's to Mr. Simlinses all along! she's got a good place; she knows
when she's comfortable. She don't think of me stayin' here all alone."

"But aren't you comfortable, Sally?" said Faith.

"I should like to know how I would be! Folks that is comfortable
thinks all the world is like them! If they didn't they'd help."

"Well what is the first thing that would help to make you comfortable?"
said Mr. Linden.

Sally looked at him, up and down.

"I'd like to see a speck o' somebody's face now and then. I mope and
mope, till I wish I'd die to get rid of it! You see, sir, I aint as I
used to was; and my family aint numerous now. There's no one lives in
this house over my head but me and a girl what stays by me to do
chores. Aint that a life for a spider?"

Faith had been stealthily unfolding the shawl and now put it round
Sally's shoulders. "Will that help to make you comfortable?" she said
gently.

"Laws!" said Sally--"aint that smart! That's good as far as it goes.
Where did that come from?"

"Mother sent it to you, for New Year."

"It's real becoming of her!" said Sally in a mollified tone, feeling of
the shawl. "Well I won't say this New Years haint brought me something."

"It brings you too much cold air at present," Mr. Linden said. "Do you
know that window lets in about as much cold as it keeps out?"

"Well I reckon I do," said Sally. "I've nothin' to do all day but sit
here and realize onto it. There aint no such a thing as buildin' a fire
in the chimney that'll keep out the cold from that winter."

"I should think not!--the way is to attack the window itself," he said,
looking at it as if he were studying the attack.

"We've brought you something else here, Sally, to help keep out the
cold," said Faith. "May I put the things in your closet--so as to carry
home my basket?"

"Yes, if you like. What have you got there, Faith?" said Miss Lowndes
looking into the closet after her.

"There's a piece of beef, Sally, of mother's own curing--all ready
cooked--so you'll have nothing to do but cook your potatoes--and mother
thought you'd like a few of our potatoes, they're good this year. Then
here is a little paper of tea she sent you, and I've brought you one of
my own pumpkin pies--so you must say it is good, Sally."

"Well I'm beat!" said Sally. "Haint you got something else?"

She was like to be beat on all hands; for Mr. Linden who had been
examining the window while Faith emptied her basket, now went out and
presently brought back hammer and nails and strips of lath, that made
Faith wonder whether he had brought a tool-chest along. But the noise
of his hammer was much more cheerful than the rattling of the window,
and when it had done its work outside as well as in, the wind might
whistle for admission in vain. He came in and stood by the fire for a
moment then, before they set off, and asked Faith softly what else was
wanted? And Faith whispered in answer--

"'The Dairyman's Daughter?' but you must give it."

"Can't you get some comfort in reading your Bible, Sally?" said Faith
while Mr. Linden went out to the sleigh with his hammer and nails.

"Laws!" said Sally--"what's the use! I haint got the heart to take the
trouble to read, half the time."

"If you read one half the time, and pray too, Sally, you'll soon get
heart for the other half."

"It's easy talkin'"--was Sally's encouraging view of the case.

"It's a great deal easier doing," said Faith. "If you try it, Sally,
it'll make you so glad you'll never say you want comfort again."

"Well you've brought me a heap to-day anyhow," said Sally. "Just look
at that winder! I declare!--I 'spect I'll make out to eat my dinner
to-day without scolding."

Mr. Linden came back with the tract, but kept it in his hand for a
minute.

"Do you know, Sally, how a house is built upon the bare ground?" he
said. "The mason lays down one stone, and then another on that; and if
he cannot have his choice of stones he takes just what come to
hand--little and big, putting in plenty of mortar to bind all together.
Now that's the way you must build up a happy year for yourself,--and in
that way every one can." The words were spoken very brightly, without a
touch of faultfinding.

"Well"--said Sally rocking herself back and forth in the
rocking-chair--"I 'spect you know how."--Which might have been meant as
a compliment, or as an excuse.

"I think you do," said Mr. Linden smiling; "and I am going to leave you
a true story of how it was really done by somebody else. Will you read
it?"

"Yes"--said Sally continuing to rock. "I'll do any thing you ask me
to--after that winder. You've given me a good start--anyways. I'd as
lieves hear you talk as most things."

There was not time for much more talk then, however. Mr. Linden and
Faith went away, leaving the little book on the table. But when Sally
went to take a nearer view of its words of golden example, there lay on
it the first real little gold piece Sally had ever possessed.

"That was a good beginning," said Faith in a sort of quiet glee, after
she had got into the sleigh again. "I knew, before, we were like a
butcher and baker setting off on their travels; but I had no idea there
was a carpenter stowed away anywhere!" And her laugh broke forth upon
the air of those wild downs, as Jerry turned his head about.

"I must be something, you know," said Mr. Linden,--"and I don't choose
to be the butcher--and certainly am not the baker."

They turned into the village again, and then down towards the shore;
getting brilliant glimpses of the Sound now and then, and a pretty keen
breeze. But the sun was strong in its modifying power, and bright and
happy spirits did the rest. One little pause the sleigh made at the
house where Faith had had her decisive interview with Squire Deacon,
but they did not get out there; only gave a selection of comforts into
the hands of one of the household, and jingled on their way shorewards.
Not turning down to the bathing region, but taking a road that ran
parallel with the Sound.

"Do you remember our first walk down here, Faith?" said Mr.
Linden,--"when you said you had shewed me the shore?"

"Well I did," said Faith smiling,--"I shewed you what I knew; but you
shewed me what I had never known before."

"I'm sure you shewed me some things I had never known before," he said
laughing a little. "Do you know where we are going now?"--they had left
the beaten road, and entered a by-way where only footsteps marked the
snow, and no sleigh before their own had broken ground. It seemed to be
a sort of coast-way,--leading right off towards the dashing Sound and
its low points and inlets. The shore was marked with ice as well as
foam; the water looked dark and cold, with the white gulls soaring and
dipping, and the white line of Long Island in the distance.

"No, I don't know. Where are we going? O how beautiful! O how
beautiful!" Faith exclaimed. "Hasn't every time its own pleasure! Where
are we going, Endecott?"

"To see one who Dr. Harrison 'fancies' may have 'something in him.'
Whatever made the doctor take such a dislike to Reuben?"

Faith did not answer, and instead looked forward with a sort of
contemplative gravity upon her brow. Her cheeks were already so
brilliant with riding in the fresh air that a little rise of colour
could hardly have been noticed.

"Do you know?"

Faith presently replied that she supposed it was a dislike taken up
without any sort of real ground.

"Well to tell you the truth, my little Mignonette," said Mr. Linden,
"the doctor's twenty-five dollars gives me some trouble in that
connexion. Reuben will take favours gladly from anybody that likes him,
but towards people who do not (they are very few, indeed) he is as
proud as if he had the Bank of England at his back. I might send him
a dinner every day if I chose; but if Reuben were starving, his
conscience would have a struggle with him before he would take bread
from Dr. Harrison."

Faith listened very seriously and her conclusion was a very earnest
"Oh, I am sorry!--But then," she went on thoughtfully,--"I don't know
that Dr. Harrison dislikes Reuben.--He don't understand him, how
should he?--and I know they have never seemed to get on well
together.--"

"I chose to answer for him the other day," said Mr. Linden--"and I
shall not let him refuse; but I have questioned whether I would tell
him anything about the money till he is ready for the books. Then if he
should meet the doctor, and the doctor should ask him!--"

Faith was silent a bit.

"But Reuben will do what you tell him," she said. "And besides, Reuben
was doing everything he could for Dr. Harrison the other night--he
can't refuse to let Dr. Harrison do something for him. I don't think he
ought."

"He had no thought of reward. Still, he would not refuse, if he
supposed any part of the 'doing' was out of care for him,--and you know
I cannot tell him that I think it is. But I shall talk to him about it.
Not to-day: I will not run the risk of spoiling his pleasure at the
sight of us. There--do you see that little beaver-like hut on the next
point?--that is where he lives."

Faith looked at it with curious interest. That little brown spot amidst
the waste of snow and waters--that was where the fisherman's boy lived;
and there he was preparing himself for college. And for what beside?

"Will Reuben or his father be hurt at all at anything we have brought
them?" she said then.

"No, they will take it all simply for what it is,--a New Year's gift.
And Reuben would not dream of being hurt by anything we could do,--he
is as humble as he is proud. We are like enough to find him alone."

And so they found him. With an absorbed ignoring of sleigh-bells and
curiosity--perhaps because the former rarely came for him,--Reuben had
sat still at his work until his visiters knocked at the low door. But
then he came with a step and face ready to find Mr. Linden--though not
Faith; and his first flush of pleasure deepened with surprise and even
a little embarrassment as he ushered her in. There was no false pride
about it, but "Miss Faith" was looked upon by all the boys as a dainty
thing; and Reuben placed a chair for her by the drift-wood fire, with
as much feeling of the unfitness of surrounding circumstances, as if
she had been the Queen. Something in the hand that was laid on his
shoulder brushed that away; and then Reuben looked and spoke as usual.

Surrounding circumstances were not so bad, after all. Faith had noticed
how carefully and neatly the snow was cleared from the door and down to
the water's edge, and everything within bore the same tokens. The room
was very tiny, the floor bare--but very clean; the blazing drift-wood
the only adornment. Yet not so: for on an old sea chest which graced
one side of the room, lay Reuben's work which they had interrupted. An
open book, with one or two others beside it; and by them all, with mesh
and netting-kneedle and twine, lay an old net which Reuben had been
repairing. The drift-wood had stone supporters,--the winter wind swept
in a sort of grasping way round the little hut; and the dashing of the
Sound waters, and the sharp war of the floating ice, broke the
stillness. But they were very glad eyes that Reuben lifted to Mr.
Linden's face and a very glad alacrity brought forward a little box for
Faith to rest her feet.

"Don't you mean to sit down, Mr. Linden?" he said.

"To be sure I do. But I haven't wished you a happy New Year yet." And
the lips that Reuben most reverenced in the world, left their greeting
on his forehead. It was well the boy found something to do--with the
fire, and Faith's box, and Mr. Linden's chair! But then he stood silent
and quiet as before.

"Don't you mean to sit down, Reuben?" said Faith.

Reuben smiled,--not as if he cared about a seat; but he brought forward
another little box, not even the first cousin of Faith's, and sat down
as she desired.

"Didn't you find it very cold, Miss Faith?" he said, as if he could not
get used to seeing her there. "Are you getting warm now?"

Faith said she hadn't been cold; and would fast enough have entered
into conversation with Reuben, but she thought he would rather hear
words from other lips, and was sure that other lips could give them
better.

"And have you got quite well, ma'm?" said Reuben.

"Don't I look well?" she said smiling at him. "What are you doing over
there, Reuben?--making a net?"

"O I was mending it, Miss Faith."

"I can't afford to have you at that work just now," said Mr.
Linden,--"you know we begin school again to-morrow. You must tell your
father from me, Reuben, that he must please to use his new one for the
present, and let you mend up that at your leisure. Will you?"

Reuben flushed--looking up and then down as he said, "Yes, sir,"--and
then very softly, "O Mr. Linden, you needn't have done that!"

"Of course I need not--people never need please themselves, I suppose.
But you know, Reuben, there is a great deal of Santa Glaus work going
on at this time of year, and Miss Faith and I have had some of it put
in our hands. I won't answer for what she'll do with you!--but you must
try and bear it manfully."

Reuben laughed a little--half in sympathy with the bright words and
smile, half as if the spirit of the time had laid hold of him.

"You know, Mr. Linden," said Faith laughing, but appealingly
too,--"that Reuben will get worse handling from you than he will from
me!--so let him have the worst first."

"I'll bring in your basket," was all he said,--and the basket came in
accordingly; Reuben feeling too bewildered to even offer his services.

Faith found herself in a corner. She jumped up and placed herself in
front of the basket so as to hide it. "Wait!"--she said. "Reuben, how
much of a housekeeper are you?"

"I don't know, Miss Faith,--I don't believe I ever was tried."

"Do you know how to make mince pies, for instance?"

But Reuben shook his head, with a low-spoken, "No, Miss Faith,"--a
little as if she were somehow transparent, and he was viewing the
basket behind her.

"Never mind my questions," said Faith, "but tell me. Could you stuff a
turkey, do you think, if you tried?"

"I suppose I could--somehow," Reuben said, colouring and laughing. "I
never tried, Miss Faith."

"Then you couldn't!" said Faith, her laugh rolling round the little
room, as softly as the curls of smoke went up the chimney. "You needn't
think you could! But Reuben, since you can't, don't you think you would
let me do it once for you?"

Reuben's words were not ready in answer. But a bashful look at Faith's
face--and her hands,--one that reminded her of the clam-roasting,--was
followed by a grateful, low-spoken--"I don't think you ought to do
anything for me, Miss Faith."

"I have had so much pleasure in it, Reuben, you'll have to forgive
me;"--Faith answered, withdrawing from the basket.

"You must look into that at your leisure, Reuben," Mr. Linden said, as
he watched the play of feeling in the boy's face. "Miss Faith is in no
hurry for her basket."

Reuben heard him silently, and as silently lifted the basket from where
it stood and set it carefully on the table. But then he came close up
to Faith and stood by her side. "You are very good, Miss Faith!" he
said. "I don't know how to thank you."

"Reuben!" said Faith colouring--"you mustn't thank me at all. I've just
had the pleasure of doing--but it is Mr. Linden that has brought the
basket here, and me too."

"And he must take you away," Mr. Linden said. "Reuben, you may thank
Miss Faith just as much as you please. If I had nothing else to do, I
should invite my self here to dinner, but as it is I must be off. Are
you ready?" he said to Faith, while in silence Reuben knelt down to put
on again the moccasins which she had thrown off, and then she followed
Mr. Linden. Reuben followed too,--partly to help their arrangements,
partly at Mr. Linden's bidding to bring back the net. But when there
was added thereto a little package which could only mean books,
Reuben's cup of gravity, at least, was full; and words of good-bye he
had none.

And for a few minutes after they drove away Faith too was silent with
great pleasure. She hardly knew, though she felt, how bright the sun
was on the snow, and how genial his midday winter beams; and with how
crisp a gleam the light broke on ice points and crests of foam and
glanced from the snow-banks. The riches of many days seemed crowded
into the few hours of that morning. Were they not on a "shining"
