who occupied adjacent pews involuntarily suppressed their 
responses as her mellow tones repeated, with melancholy 
sweetness " Have mercy upon us, miserable sinners !" And 
as the melting cadences entranced their ears, the lovely 
penitent was speculating upon the probable cost of Miss 
Hauton's Parisian hat, or coveting Mrs. Beau Monde's sable 
cloak. 
If Sarah had ever heard of regeneration, it was as a tech 
nical phrase of the church articles and christening service. 
Of its practical meaning, its inward application, its absolute 
necessity to the safety of the soul, she had as vague a conception as a Parsee or New Zealand cannibal would have 
formed. She had read the Bible in connection with rhetorical lectures, and admired it as a noble specimen of Oriental 
literature. What other associations could she have with it ? 
A handsome copy of the Holy Scriptures, surmounted by a 
book of common prayer, lay on a stand in Mrs. Hunt's third 
and rear parlor, and was dusted when a like attention was 
paid to the other ornaments of tables and etag&res. An 
Oxford edition, russet antique, formed one of the wedding- 
gifts of each of the sisters, and in due time was laid in pious 
 
pomp on its purple pillow in the library corner. It was 
hardly strange, then, that the quotation, so apposite to the 
case in point, should fail to impress her very strongly. Aunt 
Sarah had gone out, deeming solitary reflection the best 
means of enforcing the lesson she had tried to inculcate, and, 
after re-reading the two verses, without further appropriation of their meaning, Sarah turned leaf after leaf of the volume, catching here and there a sentence of the large print, 
so grateful to the failing sight of her who was its daily 
student. 
" David said unto his servants * Is the child dead ? 
And they said, He is dead ! " 
The smitten chord in the mother's heart sent out a ring 
of pain, and her listless hand paused upon the open page. 
It is a simple story the royal parent's unavailing wrestle 
with the Chastener, the dread end of his suspense, and the 
affliction, made manifest in the calm resignation, the sancti 
fied trust of the mourner. But when received as Sarah 
read it, with the vision of a similar death-scene intermixing 
itself with its unadorned details, the fresh blood still welling 
from the wound made by the tearing away of a portion of 
one's own Life, every line is fraught with truth and pathos. 
" Can I bring him back again ? I shall go to him, but he 
shall not return to me !". 
"Go to her! Oh, if I could! My baby! my baby!" 
To the low, sad cry succeeded a season of yearning and 
of tears. It was an echo of the wail of the heathen mother 
who, centuries ago, having seen her babes slain before her 
eyes, cried aloud, in unselfish agony, as the sword, reeking 
with their blood, was plunged into her own bosom " Oh, my 
children ! where are ye ?" 
Sleep on, in thy lowly bed upon the hillside, sweet Baby 
Belle ! Like the pale buds that are fading with thee in thy 
narrow resting-place, thy mission on earth is accomplished. 
young freed spirit, if, stealing through the melodies of 
Heaven, there comes to thee the whisper of that mother's 
call ! Fair lamb ! the love that folded thee in the Shepherd's 
arms designed likewise, in recalling thee, to lure the wander 
ing parent home ! 
 
CHAPTER XIX. 
" MY DEAR LEWIS : Before you receive this letter, you 
will have had the explanation of my disappearance from 
New York. A merciful Providence directed me, in my 
partial derangement, to this peaceful retreat. Here I have 
found rest for body and soul peace such as the world could 
never give the heart, even were it not bowed down by a 
sorrow like mine. Not that I forget past errors ; nor that 
the review does not humble me in the dust. I confess, with 
shame and bitterness of spirit, my wasted years, my unsanctified affections, my evil passions. But for the assurance 
of the Father's pardon, the Saviour's loving pity, the black 
catalogue would strike me dead with horror and anguish. 
It is a fearful thing to be made to see one's self as she is ; 
to scan in terrified solicitude the record of a life, and find 
there nothing better than pride, misanthropy, falsehood, 
hatred of men rebellion against God. It is a sweet experience to taste, however tremblingly, the consolations of 
the Friend who invites the weary and heavy-laden to draw 
near and learn of Him. In His strength not in that feeble 
ness I once called power have I resolved to lead a new 
life. Of the causes which have contributed to produce this 
change, we will speak more at length when we meet. 
" When we meet ! Lewis, will you, can you forget your 
manifold wrongs and come back to me ? I do not plead, 
now, for the sake of our child. Her sinless soul hence 
forth can know no pain or woe. God saw that I was not 
 
worthy of her, and He took her. In the earlier weeks of 
my selfish mourning, I had no thought of your bereavement. 
Latterly, I have longed to comfort you, for I know that your 
heart is riven by this stroke. She was your joy, as she was 
my angel of peace. Her loss is our common sorrow. Shall 
it not draw us together ? Yet, as I have said, our estrange 
ment cannot now affect her. Thoughtless of evil, she passed 
away. Had she lived, the Omniscient only knows what 
grief and mortification might have darkened her pathway. 
Nor do I desire a reconciliation as a shield from the world's 
sneer or ban. I hold its applause and its censure alike 
cheaply. In prosperity, its favors were painted, tasteless 
fruit ; in adversity, it would have fed my starving heart 
with husks. But for my sake by the thought of my late 
and sore repentance ; by the remorse that must gnaw my 
spirit, when I remember your noble trust in me, your un 
swerving fidelity, your generous love and my base requital 
of it all ; by the sorrow that never leaves me by day or by 
night forgive me, and return to the home we have both 
forsaken ! I will serve you very faithfully, my husband ! I 
have gained other and higher views of the marriage relation 
within a short time past. However presumptuously I may 
have assumed its responsibilities, however unworthily I per 
formed its duties in former days, I would enter upon our re- 
engagement with a solemn sense of what I owe to you and 
to Him who united us. You must have despised me at our 
parting, and since. Perhaps you have come to think of me 
with dislike as well as contempt. I will bear this grievous 
though the burden will be as a part of my righteous punishment. I will never murmur never, even in thought, accuse 
you of unjust harshness, if you will grant me the opportunity 
to make what amends I can for all you have lost and suffered through my fault." 
Sarah was still far from strong ; and wearied as much by 
 
the intensity of her feelings as by the manual effort of 
writing, she laid the pen down, and leaned back in the 
cushioned chair. Her table stood in the parlor beneath the 
window overlooking the river. The room was prim and 
clean, as of yore, with its straight lines of chairs ; its shining 
specks of mirrors ; the grim black profiles above the mantel, 
and the green boughs in the fire-place. The outer scene was in 
its general features that which the girl had surveyed, with 
pleased surprise, the July evening of her arrival here twc 
years ago. 
Only two years ! The sufferings and life-lessons of twenty 
had been crowded into that brief space. The meadows were 
growing sere, as if scorching winds had swept over them, 
and the stream reflected truthfully, yet, one could have fan 
cied, sadly, the changing foliage fringing its borders. But 
the sky, with its tender blue and its fleecy clouds, ever shifting, yet ever retaining their likeness to one another the 
river's smooth, steady flow, were the same ; fit emblems 
both of them of counsels which are mercy and truth through 
all their workings ; of love that abideth forever ! 
The train of thought was replete with refreshing to the 
spirit that was striving, in prayer and watchfulness, to adhere 
to the right, to accept, with meek submission, all that hei 
cup yet held of pungent or nauseous lees. There was nc 
affectation in the humble tone of her letter. She would not 
begin it until she had mastered the stubborn remnant of hei 
native pride. It should be nothing to her that her husband 
had wilfully separated himself from her, and refused her 
overtures of reconcilement. If this was unkindness, it was 
all she could reproach him with in the course of time they 
had spent together. He had been a true friend, an honorable 
protector, and dimly still, but more justly than ever before, 
she perceived that into his love for her there had entered 
none of the merely prudential considerations, the cool calculations, wherewith she used to account for his choice of her 
self as a helpmeet. Where, in the world's heartless circles, 
could she point out another wife as much indulged, as much 
honored in public and in private, as she once was by him ? 
Mournfully, if not lovingly, she dwelt upon the countless 
evidences of his cordial fulfilment, in letter and in spirit, of 
his part of their mutual engagement, with something of the 
sinking of heart the alchemist may have felt when, after he 
had, by a mechanical and habitual fling of his arm, tossed 
the eagerly-sought philosopher's stone into the sea as a 
worthless pebble, he discovered that the divining steel he 
held had been changed to gold by its touch. 
To whom of us has not an experience similar to this come ? 
It may be that the eyes which once besought affection with 
dumb and disregarded eloquence are closed and rayless for 
all future time ; the lips that told, with modest frankness, 
how dear we were to hearts we cared not then to win, are 
now but silent dust. Or, perchance, grieved by indifference, 
repelled by unkindness, those hearts have sought and found 
in other loves solace for the pain we, in our blindness, inflicted. It matters little whether they be dead to all the 
world, or only to us. In either case, the longing and despair 
of our lonely lives are rendered the more unendurable from 
the flash of tardy truth that shows us, side by side with our 
actual poverty of heart riches, the tranquil beauty of the 
pictured " might have been." 
Aunt Sarah had gone on a visit to a neighbor ; the hired 
girl was in the distant wash-house ; and Charley considered 
it his duty to linger within easy reach of his cousin, should 
she need him for any purpose. To guard her from all chance 
of intrusion, he stationed himself on the front porch steps, 
with his book on his knee. For an hour, he read on uninterruptedly ; then, glancing up as he turned a leaf, he saw a 
gentleman coming down the gravel-walk. He looked thin 
 
and anxious, and his restless eye wandered from door to 
windows, as in expectation of seeing some one besides the 
boy. With a ready apprehension of his infirmity, only to 
be accounted for by some prior knowledge of the person he 
saluted, he took from his pocket a card, which he presented 
before he shook hands with the silent host. Charley's intelligent face was one beam of pleasure as he read, and his 
warm grasp showed his sympathy in the happiness he fancied 
was in store for his cousin. Inviting the guest by a gesture 
to follow him, he went softly to the parlor-door, tapped 
lightly too lightly, indeed, to attract the notice of the 
musing occupant of the room, then drew back the bolt, ad 
mitted the stranger, and delicately withdrew. 
Sarah heard the door open and Charley's retreating foot 
steps, and, supposing that he had peeped in to see that she 
was comfortable and wanted for nothing, she did not look 
around. The intruder stood still one step within the room, 
as if unable to advance or speak. The languid attitude of 
the figure before him, so unlike the self-poise and quiet energy of her former deportment, her black dress, even the wast 
ed hands dropped so wearily upon her lap, told of the 
storm that had passed over her, the utter revolution in her 
life and nature. A struggling sigh he could not repress 
broke from the gazer's breast, and Sarah turned hastily towards him. She did not swoon, as he feared she would. 
A thrill, like an electric shock, shook her from head to foot ; 
a wild inquiry looked from her eyes; a question of the reality of the appearance, succeeding so closely to did it grow 
out of her revery ? 
Lewis put this imagination to flight. 
" Sarah !" he said, pressing in his the hands she extended 
mutely. " They told me you were lost, and I hurried home 
to find you. I could not w r ait for your permission to come 
to you, when I learned in New York that I had a living 
 
wife ! The loss of the child was heavy enough ; but this " 
He could say no more. 
" I am thankful ! I am glad that you are here!" A faint, 
beautiful smile shone over her wan features. " And our 
baby, Lewis ! We must remember that she is an angel 
now !" 
 
CHAPTER XX. 
To no one except Aunt Sarah were the facts of the 
estrangement and reconciliation of her relatives ever're 
vealed, and within her faithful bosom the secret was hid 
den as securely as in a tomb. 
Great was the chagrin of gossips, male and female, 
when it was known that Mrs. Hammond's strange flight 
from her father's house, which had leaked out nobody 
knew how, and been variously construed into an elopement, a freak of derangement, and a deliberate intention 
of suicide, according to the degrees of charity possessed 
by the theorists, was a very innocent and unromantic 
journey to the country home of her favorite aunt and 
godmother, a lady of ample fortune and benevolent heart, 
who would, in all probability, make her namesake her heiress. 
Under her care, and for the benefit of the seclusion so con 
genial to one in her affliction, and the salt air so necessary 
for the restoration of her impaired health, Mrs. Hammond 
had remained until her husband's return from abroad. 
Mrs. Hunt had told Mrs. A., who had told Mrs. B., who repeated it to Mrs. C., how he had not stopped in New York an 
hour after he stepped ashore from the Adriatic. He hurried 
to the bank, and ascertained from Mr. Hunt that his wife was 
with her aunt, and that a boat which would land him near 
Shrewsbury was to leave in fifteen minutes. So he drove 
down post-haste, and jumped on board of her after the 
plank had been drawn in and the wheels began to move. 
There never was a more devoted husband or a more attached 
pair, Mrs. Hunt affirmed. 
More than she could say for that flirting Mrs. Benson 
and Tier other half," agreed A. B. and C., unanimously. 
"Her conduct at Newport was scandalous, and would 
have been outrageous if he had not watched her like 
a lynx !" said Mrs. Beau Monde, who had never been able 
to secure one-half as many admirers as had Lucy, and 
hated her as honestly as if they were a couple of Biddies 
pulling caps for Patrick or Murphy. 
" I don't see why he should have felt jealous, I am sure. 
He wasn't dying of love for her ! That could be seen with 
half an eye. They say he loved Mrs. Hammond before he 
addressed her sister, and married this one out of spite,"'re 
joined Mrs. Townes, who had made beaux yeux at the 
distingue Southerner for three whole evenings, and won only 
the most indifferent glances in requital. 
" Mrs. Hammond behaved very prudently !" pronounced 
Mrs. Greyling, " and dressed very well. I suppose Mr. 
Hammond brought her some elegant things from abroad. 
Pity she is in mourning, and must dress plainly at present ! 
If I were in her place as it was only a baby I would not 
wear black more than six months, unless it was very becoming." 
" She has become very religious, you know," said Mrs. 
Parton. 
"Indeed! People are apt to, I think, when there has 
been death in the family," concluded Mrs. Greyling, pensively. " I remember, when my poor sister died, I used to 
look forward to church and Sunday with real pleasure. I 
could not go anywhere on week-days, you know, although 
there were piles of tickets lying in my card-receiver, and we 
had just taken a box at the opera that very winter ! I declare, I should have lost the run of the fashions entirely, 
 
and forgotten people's faces, if I had not gone to church. I 
dare say, too, that she finds some comfort in religion poor 
woman ! if what the preachers and good books tell us be 
true." 
Had Sarah found comfort ? 
Look we, for reply, to the chastened lustre of the eye, 
where once burned restless fires, like the sunward gaze of 
the imprisoned eagle ; to the holy serenity struggling through 
and finally dispelling the clouds of memory and regret that, 
at times, would roll in between her soul and the bright, 
sustaining hope upon which Faith would have its regards 
forever fixed ; to her daily life, sanctified by prayer, beneficent in good works, and by its unostentatious loveliness 
winning others, first to admire, then to imitate ; to the wife 
ly submission and loving kindness of her bearing to her hus 
band, her grateful estimate of the affection he lavished upon 
her, the deep, true tenderness growing up in her heart for 
this fond and noble companion ; look we, lastly, to the 
snowy marble guarding that tiny mound in Greenwood, 
where the mother once believed that hope and joy were 
buried to know no awaking. 
"BABY BELLE," 
INFANT DAUGHTER OF 
LEWIS AND SARAH HAMMOND. 
SHE WENT HOME 
July 16, 1858, aged 8 months. 
" Is it well with thee ? Is it well with thy husband? 
Is it well with the child?" And she answered, 
" IT IS WELL" 
CHAPTER I. 
" YES ?" said Aunt Ruth, with kindling interest. 
This important monosyllable was, in the mouth of this 
excellent lady, susceptible of an infinite variety and number 
less gradations of meaning. Wooing encouragement ; hear 
ty and unequivocal assent ; loving sympathy ; lively curiosity 
and civil indifference ; sometimes, upon sufficient provocation, 
a mild species of sarcasm or contemptuous incredulity all 
these were habitually expressed by the gentle spinster 
through the medium of the little word, defined by mistaken 
masculine lexicographers as " an affirmative particle opposed 
to wo." Opposed to " no,  indeed ! As if Aunt Ruth could 
not, and did not, make it mean " no" and no uncertain neg 
ative, at that every day of her life ! 
She sat now in a well-cushioned Boston rocker, dressed 
in a gray merino, and a cap trimmed with dove-colored ribbons, swinging slowly to and fro, knitting a lamb's wool 
sock. Upon the other side of the round candle-stand was 
her eldest nephew, Mr. Alexander Lay, yclept by his intimates and the community in general, " Aleck," lounging in 
lazy content against the stuffed back of a great easy-chair, 
covered with black leather, polished to shining sleekness by 
constant service during many years. His nether limbs were 
supported by the brass fender, and a meerschaum was be 
tween his teeth. He was a fine-looking young fellow of 
four-and-twenty, with a well-developed, sinewy figure, black 
hair, and a beard whose length, while it would have given 
an outre air to the visage of most men, was yet highly be 
coming to his bronzed complexion and marked physiogno 
my. He had arrived unexpectedly, but three hours before, 
at his patrimonial mansion, after an absence of two years 
from his native land, most of which time he had spent in a 
German University. 
" The neatest people upon the globe !" he had said, pur 
suing a description of a tour through Holland. 
And Miss Ruth Massie, his maternal aunt, whose forte was 
housewifery, and who was famed, far and near, for the 
scrupulous cleanliness of her establishment, forgot the yawn 
lodged in her throat, provoked by his incidents of travel 
through Switzerland and Italy, and rejoined by the " particle" quoted above. 
" I wished most for you when I visited Broek," continued 
the tourist. " The streets are scoured as frequently and 
carefully as you wash your plates and dishes ; the iron railings enclosing the little patches of brick pavement they 
denominate door-yards, are ornamented by brass knobs, 
brought, by dint of diligent friction, to the brightness of 
mirrors ; and the fronts of the houses are deluged every 
morning by jets of water from a hose or syringe. Not an 
atom of dust or a cobweb is anywhere visible. They even 
the up the tails of the cows when they have combed and 
brushed them, lest they should trail upon the ground, and 
be afterwards accidentally used to whisk their smooth 
sides." 
"Yes?" Miss Ruth's eyes opened more widely. 
" The chickens nails are cleaned and pared each day, and 
I have heard, although I cannot vouch for the truth of this 
statement, that the hens teeth are scrubbed at the same time, 
with a brush invented solely for this purpose." 
Yes !" 
The " particle," this time, was equivalent to " You don't 
tell me so ! I never heard the like !" 
" I felt sorry for the children," Aleck went on with the 
veracious narrative " rosy, roly-poly, pudding-faced Dutch 
babies that they were! Fancy a childhood above all, a 
boyhood passed in ignorance of the glories of paddling in 
mud-puddles, with one's trousers rolled above his knees, 
and the delight of manufacturing mud pies ! I never longed, 
before or since, to be an instructor of youth, but I did covet 
the privilege of initiating the unfortunate little wretches 
into such practices as used to enrapture Robin's soul and 
mine !" 
" I don't believe their mothers would have thanked you ! 
I recollect the trouble you boys used to give me by such 
tricks." 
Aleck laughed. " Don't bear malice, aunty, since we have 
put away childish things more's the pity ! But I was going to tell you about the Dutch girls. Such complexions ! 
such roses and lilies ! such plump dumplings of forms suet 
dumplings, you could not doubt ! It made a fellow's mouth 
water to look at the angels !" 
"Ah, yes!" Miss Ruth's slight nod heightened the sig 
nificance of her arch, knowing tone. "Now you are coming 
to the point !" she meant to imply. 
" Then, you should see them skate in winter ! Ten or a 
dozen miles they fly down the canals to market, to sell their 
eggs and butter, and back again the same day. They have 
regular balls upon the ice. Shall I ever forget a day's sport 
upon skates, which I enjoyed with a blue-eyed beauty 
fleet of foot as a grey-hound ; lips like cherries ; cheeks like 
the sunny side of an apricot, and waist like a firm roll of 
butter! Ah, me ! Joys that we've tasted! That is one 
of the never-returning kind, I am afraid !" 
The one was she?" interrogated Miss Ruth. 
"One of them!" said the male coquette, heartlessly. 
"Yes! yes!" 
Which was, being interpreted " Aleck ! Aleck ! you are 
a sad fellow !" 
"Can't help it, aunty! If the girls will be fascinating, 
they must take the natural consequence of their behavior, 
and endure my devotion with the best grace they can." 
" I thought you were going to bring her home to America 
with you ?" 
" I would have done so, assuredly, had I known that you 
desired it, and if I could have decided which her you ex 
pected me to elect to that supreme felicity." 
" Yes !" said Miss Ruth, in affectionate ridicule of this 
conceited speech. " The her I meant was that Gret Gret- 
na or some such name you went crazy about, six months 
ago. It's queer I can't remember what you called her." 
" Gretna Green, perhaps ?" suggested Aleck, with praise 
worthy gravity. 
" You didn't mention her surname, but I think it more 
than likely that's the one the beautiful German girl, whose 
singing and dancing, you said, had carried you into the 
seventh heaven and all that sort of nonsense." 
" Gretna Green is of Scotch extraction. Perhaps Gret- 
chen was the word you could not recollect." 
" Yes. Where is she ?" 
" I really cannot say. Probably married to some lager- 
loving Herr Von Something, making his sauer-kraut and 
brewing his bier. I have not thought of her in five months, 
that I know of. I do remember, however, since you have 
alluded to the subject, that she was quite a pretty girl, and 
sang tolerably." 
Aunt Ruth shook her head again now, in sorrowful de 
precation of the criminal trifling he avowed so carelessly. 
" I was in hopes you meant to settle down for good and 
all ! Not that I fancied over-much your marrying a foreign 
er; and of the two girls you've spoken of, Fd rather you 
had brought home the Scotch than the Dutch." 
" German !" corrected Aleck. 
" It's all the same ain't it ? Aleck ! what possesses you 
to smoke that dirty-looking pipe ? Maybe you haven't noticed how the amber is staining it through and through ?" 
" Aunt Ruth ! I am ashamed of you ! This is a genuine 
meerschaum, and cost more money than Robin could get 
for the best horse in his stable !" 
"Yes? Let me see it!" 
She inspected the shining black bowl, with its curious 
cloudy veins, and the curved stem. 
" A mere sham did you call it ?" 
" Yes, ma 'am. There are so few of the real articles among 
the many that pass with the verdant purchasers for valuable, 
that the contemptuous title deserved by the counterfeit has 
gradually been applied to all. There's a moral in the fact, 
if you will take the pains to study it." 
" It wants burning out badly !" said his aunt, disregarding his philosophizing, and handing back the vaunted " real 
article," with an unmistakable contortion of the nose and 
upper lip. " It would be the sweeter, and so would your 
mouth, for that matter, if you would leave it under the back 
log there, all night. I could caution Marthy to be careful 
not to crack or break it when she takes up the ashes to 
morrow morning." 
Managing his facial muscles with considerable difficulty, 
the fun-loving nephew explained that the discoloration she 
condemned was the prime beauty of the pipe, adding divers 
reminiscences authentic, of course of the high estimate set 
upon long-used and well-blackened meerschaums by discrimi 
nating Teutons. 
"Reckon they are not such overly clean people, after all !" 
was Miss Ruth's conclusion, enunciated with disdainful em 
phasis. " Brit seriously, my boy, what has become of this 
girl ? not Miss Green the other one ! What broke off the 
match ? You as good as told me you were going to marry 
her right off." 
"I did! When and how? 
" In a letter, crammed from beginning to end with her 
praises, which you wrote me half a year ago." 
" Ah ! that was the end of the matter, I fancy. The flame 
burned itself to ashes in that epistle. I cannot remember 
certainly what disenchanted me. I have an idea that it 
was Gretchen's immoderate fondness for cabbage in an ad 
vanced stage of decomposition so-called sauer-kraut." 
" Yes !" Aunt Ruth sighed. 
" You don't think that a sufficient cause for a breach of 
promise, I see," said her nephew, in pretended anxiety. 
" I am afraid you will never marry, Aleck !" 
" If I ever do, my wife's favorite dish shall be neither 
cabbage nor onions." 
" You are as bad as Colonel Floyd ! When he has bacon 
and cabbage for dinner, he won't allow Mrs. Floyd and the 
girls to come to the table. He says it is only fit for men to 
smell. Once in a while he has an old-fashioned neighbor 
there, to whom he wants to be polite ; and since his rich 
friend must have the dish, it is prepared, and the ladies 
don't make their appearance until the cabbage is removed. 
I've heard, though, that Helen will not submit to this non 
sense since she came of age that she will take her place 
at table and entertain the company in her aunt's absence. * 
" They are all well at Belleview, are they ?" questioned 
Aleck, puffing away rather faster at his meerschaum. 
" Yes." 
Mr. Lay turned at the hesitating tone, enwrapping so 
much of mysterious meaning, and ominous of ill-tidings. 
" Why, what's the matter there? Has any thing gone 
wrong ?" 
" Nothing new nothing but what has been wrong from 
the start, and that was more years ago than most people 
dream of. Only from all I can gather from people's sly 
whispers nobody dares say any thing aloud things are 
looking crookeder of late than they used to." 
She stopped to count the rounds in her sock, preparatory 
to turning off the heel. Aleck said nothing, and seemed to 
watch the briskly-rising rings of smoke. 
" This marriage is a serious business one that is generally entered upon too carelessly," resumed Miss Massie, 
oracularly. " I don't know but you are right to be cautious 
about risking a chance in the lottery ; but there are many 
worse faults in a wife or husband than a breath scented with 
cabbage or garlic. Colonel Floyd always reminds me of 
the men of old who used to tithe mint, anise, and cinnamon, 
while they neglected the weightier matters of the law. If 
he had been as careful of his wife's property and happiness, 
and his children's real good, as he is to spare them a few 
trifling annoyances that nobody else would ever think of, 
they'd be better off in mind and estate. They say he 
gambles awfully worse than ever and that if half his 
debts were paid, he would not have a dollar or an acre of 
land left that he could call his own." 
" Nobody is surprised at that, I imagine. People have 
prophesied that for years past; although, as you say, 
the real condition of his affairs may be more generally known, 
and spoken of more openly than it used to be," said Aleck. 
Miss Ruth's needles rattled nervously against one 
another. 
" Yes ; but there's one thing that worries me more than 
all the rest. While I am, of course, very sorry for poor 
Mrs. Floyd and the children, still it's natural to feel most 
uneasy about one's own flesh and blood, and well maybe 
I ought not to speak of it, even to you but I'm very sure 
that Robert has lent him money, and a good deal of it, and 
I am. doubtful whether he will ever be paid." 
" You need not be. There is a moral certainty that he 
will never see a cent of it again. No man ever did yet, who 
was so foolish as to lend any thing to the colonel. You 
can set your mind at rest upon that score." 
"Yes, I suppose so ; but it is a pity and a shame, Aleck ! 
I wish you could put Robert upon his guard. He's so soft 
hearted and open-handed that he can't say No to any 
body, much less to a friend. And he always defends 
Colonel Floyd when he is attacked ; says he's not so bad 
as the world is disposed to think, and has some fine traits 
of character, and has always been very kind to him, and all 
such talk. You know Robert, and how easily imposed 
upon he is ; and the colonel certainly puts himself out to be 
polite and attentive to him, and, Robert told rne, gave his 
consent in the most handsome manner to his engagement 
with Helen Gardner, Gracious, Aleck! you might have 
broken it all to pieces !" 
Aleck stooped to pick up the pipe that had slipped from 
his fingers, and remained in that position for a minute, 
busily brushing the ashes from the gayly flowered hearth 
rug a manifestation of care and neatness which, if Aunt 
Ruth remarked, she attributed to the effect of his resi 
dence among the cleanly Hollanders. 
" Ugly and dirty as it is, it would have been a pity to 
break what cost so much money, and is so hard to replace 
in this country !" continued the thrifty housewife. " Tisn't 
cracked, is it ?" 
" No I But I interrupted you ! What were you say 
ing ?" Aleck refilled and relighted his pipe, after seeming 
to examine it solicitously, and stretched out his feet as 
before. " You were talking about the Floyds." 
" Yes ! so far as I can judge, there is no love lost between 
Helen and her guardian. I don't think there ever has been. 
He has always found her an unruly charge, I reckon. So it 
isn't to please her that Robert let him have money, when 
he asked for it. It's just his own good-nature, and he will 
suffer for it." 
"They have been engaged for some time, have they?" 
"Who? Robert and Helen? Four or five months. 
They seem very happy together, as contented a couple as 
I ever saw. They expect to be married at Christinas ; but 
I suppose Robert has told you all about that." 
" At Christmas ! and this is the first of November !" 
There was a dreary echo in his tone that reached even 
Miss Ruth's apprehensions, and elicited a responsive sigh. 
" Yes ! it will be a change for us all for you and me, as 
well as them ! But I hope it is for Robert's good. He will 
make one of the best husbands alive ; and she has steadied 
surprisingly sobered down more than I once thought she 
ever could, since they were first engaged. Do you recol 
lect how wild she used to be ?" 
"Yes!" 
And after this musing articulation of his aunt's favorite 
monosyllable, there was an interval of silence. Miss Ruth 
plied her knitting-needles assiduously, and looked over her 
spectacles into the crackling fire. The nephew smoked 
slowly, and seemed to study the same blazing pile of hickory logs. What were her motherly and housewifely meditations, it concerns us not to inquire. The central figure in 
his dream-pictures was a young girl, with flashing, laughing 
eyes, and dark chestnut locks wound in heavy braids about 
her nobly-shaped head ; form erect, yet pliant ; dancing 
feet whose rapid beat was sweetest music to his ears. 
" Did he recollect how wild she used to be ?" 
Mrs. Floyd, sober and shocked, had oftentimes expostu 
lated with him for aiding and abetting her harum-scarum 
niece in her hare-brained pranks and lawless proceedings. 
He had taught her to sit firmly his most spirited hunter, in 
leaping fences and ditches ; to fish, and, most barbarous of 
all pursuits for a young lady to hunt ! to carry her fowling-piece and bring down her game with the coolness and 
address of a veteran sportsman. This last named accom 
plishment was rather practised in secret, than alluded to in 
public. It was doubtful whether Mrs. Floyd was ever quite 
sure that Helen had really acquired it. Many a day had 
she spent in the woods in company with Aleck and Robert, 
when governess and guardians had granted her permission 
to pay a. proper, hum-drum visit to Miss Ruth. An unfor 
tunate accident finally cured her of her Nimrod proclivities. 
The three were out turkey-hunting, one day, and Aleck, 
having stationed Robert with Helen behind the blind of 
brushwood and bushes, to await the coming of the fright 
ened and scattered flock, grew impatient of the tardiness 
of the dogs sent to " flush" the birds, and started off himself to seek and direct them. He was not long in discovering a fine gang of turkeys, and after assuring himself that 
many of them had taken the direction he desired, undertook 
to regain the covert by another route. Crouching low, that 
his head might not appear above the undergrowth of the 
wood, he made his way rapidly and stealthily towards the 
ambuscade. He was within twenty yards of it, when the 
crack of a gun rang out upon the forest stillness. Helen, 
excited and impetuous, had mistaken the slight motion 
created by his passage among the bushes, for the advance 
of the expected game, and fired before Robert could interfere to prevent her rash action. The charge from her 
weapon lodged in Aleck's shoulder and the upper part of 
his chest, inflicting a severe, and, as they, in their inexpe 
rience, feared, a fatal wound. 
Bleeding and suffering ignorant as his companions of 
the extent of his danger, the elder brother still retained his 
habitual power of resolve and command. 
" Leave me here both of you !" was his order. " Robert ! 
you will see her home ! then ride over to Greenfield and 
bring a couple of men back with you. And, my dear fel 
low ! mind ! I did it myself!" 
Helen interposed with a passionate burst of self-accusation. It was all her work her unpardonable stupidity! 
her cruel, cruel blunder ! and she alone should be blamed 
for it! She deserved the most severe things that could be 
said of and to her ! 
" Nelly !" The wounded youth looked up with his own 
saucy smile. " Do you remember what that old Hebrew 
king Abimelech, I believe it was said to his armor- 
bearer, when a woman cast a piece of millstone from the 
wall of the besieged city, and cracked his crown ? c Draw 
thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me A 
woman slew him ! Robert, you will do as I said !" 
Robert hastened away in quest of help ; but Helen's will 
I was not to be borne down in this matter. For two hours 
long in their anguished suspense to her ; short and delicious as a dream of Paradise to the injured boy, she lingered beside him in the heart of that lonely forest; 
stanching the blood with such appliances as were within 
her reach ; making him a pillow of leaves ; fanning him ; 
gently wiping his brow, when the pain, that could not extort 
groan from the manly heart, or dim his grateful smile, 
forced great beads of sweat through the pores. 
more ! when the sound of voices was heard approaching 
the spot, and he besought her for both their sakes to make 
good her retreat before she was perceived by curious or 
unfriendly eyes, she gazed long and earnestly into his 
face, a look that awoke a new thrill of life in the fainting 
heart, and, the tears raining down her cheeks, bent over 
and kissed him. 
When Robert and his attendants arrived at the scene of 
the accident, Aleck was alone, lying quietly upon his leafy 
couch, more than serene, with a happy light upon his counte 
nance that glorified and elevated every feature. It was but 
the commencement of a splendid hunting season the finest 
that had been known in years when he was shot, and he 
lost the whole of it. Miss Ruth marvelled at and lauded 
his patient endurance of his tedious confinement ; his comrades were affected with equal surprise at the cheerful 
equanimity with which he received their raillery upon his 
awkwardness in hitting himself, he, the best shot in the 
country ! 
" Merely a difference of game, boys !" he said, gayly. 
"I went to look for turkeys, and brought down a great 
goose instead !" 
Robert carried daily health bulletins to Colonel Floyd's, 
and never returned without some token of remembrance or 
sympathizing message from Helen. Sometimes she wrote 
to the invalid. Every one of these hastily penned notes 
incoherent, girlish, extravagant was treasured up to this 
day locked away, as too sacred for other eyes ; perfumed 
with the roses she had sent by his brother's hand. The 
three guarded well their secret ; but Helen never hunted 
again. If she had not lost her unfeminine hankering for a 
personal participation in the amusement, she shrank from its 
practice with trembling. 
She was but fifteen then, scarcely more than a child. 
Robert was two years older, and Aleck his senior by 
eighteen months. He was twenty-two when he went to 
Germany, and it was still "Aleck" and "Nelly" between 
them. Still they laughed, danced, rode and sported to 
gether, the acknowledged ringleaders of every frolic 
the wilder the better and Robert was the balance-wheel 
to their impetuosity. He was mirthful, and loved fun as 
dearly as did either of the others, but he exhibited a gentle 
steadiness of demeanor, a graceful propriety of action, that 
caused him to be extolled by all the matrons of the region 
as a "pattern young man, and a safe chance for any girl." 
Nobody called Aleck Lay an unsafe chance, yet his popularity never equalled his brother s. He was too unscrupu 
lous in speech, often reckless and imprudent in manner. 
The weak-minded and timid feared his lash of ridicule; 
hypocrites and pretenders, his fearless exposure of their 
true characters. Little cared he for popular judgment, for 
public favor, or public reprobation ! Aunt Ruth petted 
him ; Robert loved him ; and Helen was his willing ally, 
his fast friend, his confidante upon all subjects save one. 
Their farewell, prior to his departure for the Old World, 
was spoken in the interval of the dance, at a large party 
given at Colonel Floyd's in celebration of Lily Calvert's a 
niece and another ward of the colonel's birthday. 
" It would hardly be honorable in me were I to say to 
you all that is in my heart," Aleck had said, hurriedly ; 
" for this avowal would force you to a corresponding frankness and I shall be absent a long time and we are both 
very young. It would be basely ungenerous, were I to attempt to bind you by a promise now." 
His color came and went almest as rapidly as did hers, 
and his whole behavior was oddly at variance with his usual 
easy, self-assured bearing. 
" But, if my presumption in daring to speak of this matter to think of you, to hope and dream, as I have for 
years, has not offended you; if you will still keep your 
early play-fellow in remembrance still permit him to 
cherish your image where he has always worn it in his 
heart of hearts may I ask you to wear this while I am 
away? It is no signal of bondage, recollect! It leaves 
you free as air. When I return, if I do not see it on your 
finger, I shall, nevertheless, have no right to feel myself 
ill-treated shall never molest you by demands for any ex 
planation." 
They stood apart from the crowd, at a window partially 
concealed by a curtain. Without a word only with one 
thrilling look into his eyes, that revived the memory of the 
forest scene, she drew off her glove his hand touched 
hers held it for a second! The next minute a partner 
claimed her for the ensuing set, and led her away, dreaming 
as little of the ring hicjden by the snowy kid, as did the 
throng at large of the wild throbbings of the heart the 
mingled rapture, pain, and unrest masked by Aleck Lay's 
laughing face. Helen was never more gay than during the 
remainder of the revel ; and his spirits seemed to keep pace 
with the rise of hers. Their last dance together was a 
dashing, sweeping waltz, whose almost frantic swiftness, 
and the length of time they kept it up, set all the prudes 
heads to wagging in holy horror, and drew from kind, lov 
ing, charitable Aunt Ruth a deprecating remark to her 
nephew Robert. 
" She's a good-hearted girl, I don't doubt, Robert ! And 
I have great confidence in her principles ; she wouldn't 
knowingly do a wrong thing ; but it's a pity the poor child 
has no mother !" 
The rout over, the adieux were brief a single glance 
was interchanged, and a hand-clasp, fervent, but not pro- 
 
longed ; a jesting phrase, intended for the benefit of the 
bystanders,- 
" Good-by, Nelly ! Take care of yourself!" and 
" Good-by, Aleck ! I suppose we shall not see you again 
until you are a fat Mynheer, whose thick tongue will be 
unintelligible to untravelled ears." 
This was all ! As he had said, they were both very young 
then ; it was his choice to leave her untrammelled by the 
shadow of a pledge. The ring might have been a friend's 
parting gift. She was a woman now more grave, more 
thoughtful, more judicious than in the days when she seem 
ed to prefer his society to that of other admirers even to 
Robert's ; a woman who had chosen for herself a life partner, and who would, in seven weeks more, be his brother's 
wife! 
He thought all this over, without the change of a muscle 
or an audible sigh. His will was strong, and his pride stub 
born ; himself one of the men who can meet death, however 
horrible its form, with a steady or smiling front, if it be 
proved to be inevitable, and there are others looking on to 
mark how they sustain the trial. 
His voice, cheery and unfaltering, ended the protracted 
pause. 
" Ah, well, aunty, you and I need not stay here to embarrass the movements of the rightful master and mistress 
of this establishment. Greenfield is a dear and lovely spot 
to us both, but duty and expediency unite in forbidding my 
longer residence here. Maple Hill is sadly in want of a 
tenant, and I have always looked forward to a settlement 
of myself and worldly goods there when I should be ready 
to begin life in earnest. But I cannot keep house by myself, you know. It would be a doleful and disgraceful Bachelor's Hall, that would cause you to disown me forever. I 
must have somebody to scold the maids, to pour out my 
coffee and lecture me occasionally. You will not mind the 
change of home so much as if I invited you to be my com 
panion in a strange neighborhood and unfamiliar house, will 
you?" 
" I was born there, lived there until your mother and 
grandfather died, and your father begged me to come here 
and take charge of you boys !" 
A tear found its way from beneath the spectacles. 
"And you have no idea what an exemplary character I 
mean to become," pursued Aleck. " Not quite so good as 
Robin, to be sure, but a very decorous and decent young 
man, notwithstanding beard and meerschaum." 
Miss Ruth smiled up at him affectionately. Scapegrace 
though she was often obliged to consider him, he had ever been 
her favorite of her adopted children ; and the vision of an 
independent home with him was far more pleasant, more in 
consonance with her tastes, than the thought of resigning 
the insignia of authority, i. e., the keybasket, into the hands 
of Robert's wife, and the meek acceptance of a secondary 
position in the court where she had reigned supreme for 
upwards of twenty years. 
"You were always kind-hearted and generous, Aleck! 
one of the sort whose worst side is the outside. I hope 
