might throw new light upon the conduct of the "poor boy" during his
midnight ramble. He recalled the dirty and foul condition of the
patient when discovered in his room, and he examined all the vile and
filthy places in the neighborhood, for the marks of some terrible
struggle that might have taken place between the sleep-walker, and any
real or imaginary demon.
The patient seeker after the hidden truths of science had been to the
pigsty, to learn whether he had been wrestling with the pigs; he had
looked into the cow yard, the horse stables, and the dog kennels for
information upon the dark subject; he had patiently explored the
cornfield and the potato patch, and every dirty hole he could find; but
not a single fact or hint could he obtain to assist him in solving the
difficult problem.
In the course of his investigations he had reached the department of
Ben, the boatman. He had carefully noted the appearance of the earth on
the banks of the river, and, quite fatigued by his unusual exertions,
he had seated himself in the boat house, where Ben was at work.
"Have you noticed any thing unusual about the boats, Ben?" asked the
old gentleman, after he had given the boatman a full exposition of his
views on somnambulism.
"Yes, sir; I noticed that the Greyhound was in a very dirty, slovenly
condition this morning. She wasn't so last night, when I looked at
her," replied the boatman.
"Ah, indeed!"
"The white seats in the standing room were covered with black mud, and
upon the edges there were stains of blood."
"Blood?" queried the philosopher.
"Yes, sir, blood; I have seen blood in my day, and I know what it looks
like."
"Can it be possible! Blood! What could have happened to the poor boy?"
"I don't know, sir."
"It is really awful. There is no knowing what the poor boy may have
suffered."
"He got back all right, for the boat was made fast, as usual, to her
moorings."
"The poor fellow must have been off somewhere in the boat, in his
sleep."
"May be he did, sir," answered Ben, respectfully.
"O, there can be no doubt about it. Isn't it a wonder that he wasn't
drowned?"
"Mr. Richard, knows how to handle a boat as well as any boy of his
years on the river."
"Yes, but you forget that he was asleep all the time."
"Perhaps he was, sir," said Ben, who did not seem to appreciate Mr.
Presby's philosophy.
"But he did not get all that mud and filth upon him while he was in the
boat."
"No, sir, of course he didn't; for I wash down the boat every time she
is used, and she was as neat as a new pin when I looked into her at
sundown last night."
"Then he must have landed somewhere," added the logical Mr. Presby.
"No doubt of that, sir."
"Where do you suppose he landed?"
"I haven't the least idea."
"Do you suppose you could find out by sailing up and down the river,
and examining the shore?"
"Well, sir, if you could tell which way the wind is by looking into the
ship's coppers, perhaps you might."
"I feel a very deep interest in the poor boy's welfare," added Mr.
Presby, who did not admire Ben's coldness on the subject; "and if you
could obtain any information that would throw light on this singular
affair, you might confer a great favor on the youth."
"I'll do any thing I can, sir, to find out about it; and if you want to
go up and down the river and examine the shore, I'll pull the boat for
you."
Mr. Presby accepted this offer, and Richard kept behind the boat house
till they had embarked. The roguish author of all these scientific
inquiries listened to the old gentleman's remarks on sleep-walking in
general, and the phenomena of his own case in particular, till the boat
disappeared in the cove above the pier. He then jumped into his skiff,
and pulled off to the Greyhound.
Ben had carefully removed all the stains of dirt and blood, and the
boat now bore no testimony against him. Whatever the boatman might have
thought, he certainly said nothing, and was even willing to countenance
Mr. Presby's theory in explanation of the absence of the boat, and of
her dirty appearance.
Though Richard had every reason to be satisfied with the success which
had attended his representation of the character of a somnambulist, he
could not banish the doubts and fears that haunted him. Some unlucky
mischance might betray him; "Old Batterbones" or Bates might tell the
story; Sandy might be entrapped into an exposure of the affair; indeed,
there were so many ways by which the secret might come out, that he was
far from satisfied with the prospect before him.
He was a high-spirited young man, and prided himself upon his healthy
body and well-developed muscle, and the idea of being pitied as a
person having an infirmity upon him was far from grateful to his
sensibilities. He did not much admire Mr. Presby's inquiring mind, and
thought he was an "old fool" to trouble himself about what did not
concern him. He did not care to be the subject of his meditations.
Being watched, pitied, and made the object of a physiological study,
were almost as bad as being caught in the act of stealing melons.
But above all considerations of his own safety or his own comfort was
the reflection that he had been whipped--unjustly and cruelly
whipped--by such a person as "Old Batterbones." All the bad boys hated
and despised him, and he felt that Woodville had been outraged in the
person of its male heir. These thoughts rankled in his soul, and he was
thirsting for revenge. He was determined to have satisfaction for the
injuries that had been heaped upon him. Already the dim outline of a
purpose whose execution would secure him ample vengeance was presented
to his mind.
While these dark thoughts were passing through his brain, he discovered
the boat, with Mr. Presby and Ben, returning to the pier. Not caring to
encounter the scrutiny, or answer the questions of the philosopher, he
hoisted the sails, and cast off the moorings of the Greyhound. He was
anxious to see Sandy Brimblecom, and ascertain whether he had been
discovered when he went home. Sailing over to Whitestone, he found
Sandy on the wharf, and took him into the boat.
"Did you get into the house all right?" asked Richard as the Greyhound
receded from the wharf.
"I did, but I got caught for all that. My mother had missed me, and
about one o'clock, after I had got into bed, the old man came up to my
chamber to see if I was there."
"Of course you pretended to be sound asleep."
"I did; but it wouldn't go down. The old man asked me where I had been.
I told him I had been over to see you."
"Did you, indeed?" sneered Richard. "And the next thing he will do will
be to go to my father, and ask him if you were at our house. My folks
know I went to bed before nine o'clock. You have got me into a pretty
scrape."
"No, I haven't. The old man won't ask any more questions; but he was
mad as thunder with me for staying out so late. It's all right now,
Dick; you needn't give yourself any trouble about it."
"I shall not do that, whatever happens."
Richard then described the happy "dodge" by which he had thrown dust in
the eyes of all the inmates of Woodville. Sandy was much amused at the
account, and expressed a decided admiration for the wonderful genius of
his companion, and even went so far as to request the loan of the
remarkable work which had suggested the expedient. He would like to
read that book, though he was not in the habit of doing such things.
"See there, Sandy," said Richard, as he pulled up his pants, and
exhibited to his friend the wales and broken skin upon his legs.
"That's hard," replied Sandy, as he shook his head. "The old villain
laid it on well."
"He did, and he shall pay dearly for it," added Richard, as he
compressed his lips and ground his teeth. "I'll be revenged upon him if
it costs me my life."
"I'm with you there, Dick."
"It shall be the worst night's work for Old Batterbones that ever he
did."
"What are you going to do, Dick?"
"Will you stand by me, Sandy?" demanded Richard, earnestly.
"Certainly; to be sure I will. But, Dick, we mustn't burn our own
fingers," said his prudent companion. "What are you going to do?"
In low tones, Richard detailed the scheme into which his outline of a
purpose had grown, and when they parted at noon, the arrangements were
all completed.
CHAPTER VI.
RICHARD GIVES ANOTHER ILLUSTRATION OF SLEEP-WALKING.
For six or seven nights following the expedition to the watermelon
patch of Mr. Batterman, Richard Grant did not "walk in his sleep." The
parental solicitude of his father prompted him to set a watch for
several nights; and Mr. Presby, who was still anxious to pursue his
scientific investigations, slept with one eye open, that he might be in
readiness to avail himself of the reappearance of the phenomenon.
The philosopher's hint that sleep-walkers are sensitive to any allusion
to their infirmity, had prevented him and Mr. Grant from informing the
subject of their precautions of the steps they had taken to observe his
movements, and Richard was entirely unconscious that vigilant eyes were
upon him while he slept, or while he ought to sleep.
But Richard was too lame and sore from the effects of his flogging to
indulge again so soon in the luxury of "sleep-walking." He had not been
questioned in regard to the blood upon the seats of the Greyhound, for,
being asleep when the stains were made, of course he would know nothing
about them. Mr. Presby explained his inactivity and want of energy upon
philosophical principles, and every body seemed to be satisfied.
The salve which the sufferer applied to his wounded members healed the
bruises in a few days, and he was again in condition to pursue his
wonted sports and pleasures. After the lapse of a week, as the patient
exhibited no further signs of the malady, the watch was discontinued;
but Mr. Presby was too enthusiastic in the cause of science to abandon
the case so soon. He sat up in his chamber till midnight, with his ears
wide open, to catch the slightest indication of a movement on the part
of his interesting subject.
Every day, Richard and Sandy met; and they never failed to renew the
mutual pledges they had made to be revenged upon "Old Batterbones." The
plan was discussed and amended till no further improvement could be
made; and by this time Richard was so far recovered from his injuries
as to enable him to take the leading part in its execution. The night
was appointed for the purpose, and it was agreed that the boys should
meet at a point just below Whitestone, where Richard was to take Sandy
into the Greyhound, and proceed to the inlet where they had before
landed.
It was a very difficult matter for Richard to get out of the house
without detection. If he could succeed in opening his door, and walk
through the long halls of the mansion without attracting the attention
of any of its numerous inmates, he could hardly expect to unlock any of
the outer doors with safety. After much reflection, he decided that it
would be the better way to go out as he had gone before--over the roof
of the conservatory, and down the trellis.
With the proper tools, therefore, he had removed the nails with which
his father had secured the window of his chamber. He had then skilfully
adjusted them, so that they appeared to be as his father had left them,
though he could easily pull them out. At ten o'clock he retired as
usual, but the hour of meeting was one o'clock, for the young rascals
had come to the conclusion that their purpose could be better executed
in the small hours of the morning, when the farmer and his man would
probably be asleep.
Richard waited impatiently till he heard the clock strike twelve. There
had been no noise in the chamber of Mr. Presby for some time, and he
concluded that the old gentleman must be asleep. He had gone to bed as
usual, in order to remove any suspicion in case he should find it
necessary to act the part of the sleep-walker again. He rose and
dressed himself for the expedition, using the utmost care to avoid
disturbing the slumbers of the troublesome philosopher in the adjoining
room.
Every thing worked to his entire satisfaction, and he was not conscious
that he had made the slightest noise. The nails were removed from the
window; but, though he had taken the precaution to oil the sash where
it slid up and down, it creaked a little, in spite of all the care he
could use. He was satisfied that the noise could not wake Mr. Presby,
and he continued his operations. Leaving the window open, as a
somnambulist would naturally be expected to do, he crept softly over
the roof, and reached the trellis without accident.
As yet there was no appearance of an interruption; but the first bar of
the trellis, upon which he placed his foot, creaked and snapped. As the
noise, so far as he could see, attracted no notice, he resumed his
attempt, and reached the ground without any further impediment, real or
imaginary.
With stealthy step he retreated from the house till there was no longer
any danger of being discovered. Quickening his pace, he soon reached
the pier, and with the skiff boarded the Greyhound. The night was
certainly favorable for the execution of dark deeds. The midnight
assassin, the incendiary, or the burglar would have rejoiced in its
darkness, its dense black clouds, and its fitful winds.
Richard Grant still felt the cowhide of his enemy tingling upon his
legs, and still felt its iron piercing his soul. The injury he had
received a week before, rankled in his bosom as it had the hour after
it had been inflicted. Neither the time that had elapsed, nor the peril
attending his present enterprise, in any degree moderated the spirit of
revenge that burned in his soul.
As soon as he had secured the skiff at the buoy to which the sail boat
was moored, he opened the door of the stern locker, and drew forth a
small bottle. He shook it to satisfy himself that the contents were
safe, and then restored it to the place from which he had taken it. He
then examined his pockets to assure himself that some other article
necessary for his purpose was all right. No mistakes or omissions had
been made, and he proceeded to hoist the mainsail. He then cast off the
moorings, and hoisted the jib. The wind was too fresh to permit the
Greyhound to carry all sail, and even with what he had set, she put her
rail under the water at the first forward impulse.
One less skilful and courageous than Richard would have been terrified
by the fierce waves and the gloom of the night, especially if bound
upon an errand of evil and crime; but he held the tiller with a steady
hand, and heeded not the spray that broke upon the half-deck of the
Greyhound. A few moments in such a breeze were sufficient to carry him
over the river to the place of rendezvous. The point was as familiar to
him as the pier at Woodville; and as soon as he could obtain a view of
the dark outline of the shore, he ran the boat alongside the point,
with as little difficulty as though it had been broad daylight.
Sandy Brimblecom was not there, and an expression of anger escaped from
the lips of Richard, when he found that the partner of his iniquitous
scheme might possibly fail him. He gave the signal whistle with which
they were in the habit of calling each other; but there was no reply.
The clocks on the churches in Whitestone struck one, and Richard waited
half an hour after he heard them--half an hour, which seemed like half
a day to him.
He was afraid that Sandy's heart had failed him, or that his father had
discovered him; and Richard decided to proceed alone with the
enterprise. Disgusted at the failure of his associate, he pushed off
from the point. As he did so, he discovered another boat a short
distance up the river, moving off from the shore. He watched it for a
moment, till it disappeared in the gloom. It was not a common thing to
see sail boats out at such an hour, and on such a night as this was;
but he concluded that it was some gardener taking his produce to an
early market, and he gave himself no uneasiness.
Just as he lost sight of the boat, he heard the familiar whistle of
Sandy. Putting the Greyhound about, he ran under the lee of the point,
and his friend leaped on board. Richard immediately put off again, and
shaped the course of the boat for the inlet near the garden of "Old
Batterbones."
"You are late, Sandy," said Richard, in reproachful tones.
"Can't help it. I got asleep, and didn't wake up," replied Sandy, with
a long gape.
"Asleep! What did you go to sleep for? I haven't been asleep."
"I didn't mean to, but I was so sleepy I couldn't help it."
"You came pretty near spoiling your share of the fun. I had just cast
off, and was going to put the thing through alone."
"I wish you had," answered Sandy, in a tone which did not please his
companion any better than the words themselves.
"What do you mean?"
"It's a bad scrape we are getting into, and I wish we were well out of
it. If I hadn't promised to go, I wouldn't have any thing to do with
it."
"Old Batterbones licked you as well as me."
"I know that, and I should like to pay him off for it; but I don't
believe it will do to go in quite so steep as we are going."
"You are chicken-hearted, Sandy. I thought you had more grit than
that."
"I think I have got as much as you have, but I don't believe it will
pay to rub your nose on a grindstone. Your nose will get the worst of
it."
"You can back out, if you want to," added Richard, in an indifferent
tone.
"I don't want to back out. I agreed to go, and I am going, if I have to
be hung for it. I only say, it is a bad scrape."
"No scrape at all, Sandy. I don't calculate to get found out."
"You didn't calculate to before, but you did; and Old Batterbones got
more fun out of the scrape than you did. Perhaps he will this time."
"If you are afraid, Sandy, back out, and we will go home again."
"I'm not afraid: don't use that word to me again, Dick. If I had been
afraid, I shouldn't come, of course."
By this time the Greyhound was off the little inlet, near Mr.
Batterman's garden, and, as a matter of prudence, all conversation was
suspended. The boat shot into the inlet, and was made fast to the same
tree as on the former occasion. As the business of these hopeful youths
was not with the melon patch, they took a different road this time.
They had gone but a short distance before the rushing of a boat through
the water was heard. They paused and Richard saw a sail, which he
believed he had seen before that night, pass by the mouth of the inlet.
He caught but a glance of it, as it cut a tangent along the small
circle of his vision.
"I don't like the looks of that boat, Sandy," whispered Richard, as the
sail disappeared in the gloom.
"Why not?"
"What is any one sailing about the river at this time of night for?"
"I don't know," added Sandy, who did not seem to be at all alarmed at
the appearance of the boat.
"I think I have seen her before to-night," continued Richard.
"If you are afraid, we will both back out, and then neither can twit
the other."
"I'm not afraid; come along. I've no notion of backing out." And
Richard moved on, followed by his reluctant associate.
When they had ascended the hill, they carefully walked all over the
grounds to satisfy themselves that the farmer and his man were not
keeping vigil over the melons; but they could neither see nor hear any
thing that betokened the presence of a human being. Satisfied with this
survey of the ground, Richard led the way to the barn, where he had
received his terrible flagellation. The memories of the place were not
pleasant, and they intensified the hatred he bore the owner of the
premises, and fanned the flame of vengeance that was burning in his
soul.
The barn was an old building, and very much out of repair. It contained
the farmer's horses and oxen, his wagons, his hay, and other produce.
On the side nearest to the river, some of the boards had been forced
partly off by the pressure of the hay; and against one of these places
Richard sat down upon the ground.
"Pull out some of the hay, Sandy," whispered Richard, as he drew from
his pocket the bottle which he had taken from the locker of the boat.
Sandy hinted something about backing out again; but a sneer from
Richard silenced him, and he obeyed the order. While he was doing so,
Richard walked round the barn to satisfy himself that no one was near.
They were alone, and the wicked work proceeded.
CHAPTER VII.
RICHARD KINDLES A LITTLE FIRE.
Sandy continued to pull out the hay from behind the board, till
Richard, who, as engineer, conducted the operations, directed him to
suspend his labors. The contents of the bottle were poured upon the
heap of loose hay.
"What's that, Dick?" asked Sandy.
"Spirits of turpentine. I intend to make sure work of it," answered
Richard.
"I wouldn't use that stuff," added Sandy.
"Why not?"
"To tell the truth, Dick, I was in hopes the fire wouldn't burn."
"I believe you are a fool, Sandy Brimblecom. Have you come clear over
here, in the dead of the night, to kindle a fire that will not burn?"
"I don't like the idea of setting the barn on fire," whispered Sandy,
in an earnest tone. "What do you suppose they will do with us, if we
should get found out?"
"We shall not get found out."
"We shall be sent to the state prison--at least I shall."
"I shall, if you are; we shall both be in the same boat, and if one
goes down the other must."
"I don't know about that," said Sandy; "your father is rich, and he
will get you off. I shall have to stand all the racket."
"Shut up, Sandy! I have gone too far to back out now," added Richard,
decidedly, as he took a bunch of matches from his pocket.
"Hold on a moment, Dick, before it is too late. It will be cheaper to
do our thinking now than it will be after the barn is burned down."
"I have done all the thinking I care to do already. The die is cast,
Sandy. I won't back out now, and you shall not."
"It's too bad to burn up the horses and oxen in the barn. That's cruel.
If it wasn't for them, I wouldn't say a word."
"Very well; we will go round and turn out the horses and oxen. I don't
want to burn them any more than you do."
"But the noise will wake the farmer and his man."
"No, it won't. I have thought a great deal about the animals, and it
goes right against my grain to hurt them, especially the horses."
"I don't want to burn the barn, any way."
"You are a coward and a fool, Sandy."
"It's easy enough for you to say so, when you know your father has
money enough to buy up Old Batterbones, if we get into any scrape."
"Come, no more whining, Sandy; I'm going to get the horses and oxen
out, and then I'm going to burn the barn."
"I'm off, then."
"Very good; but if I get into trouble, I will blow on you."
This consideration staggered Sandy, and he concluded to stay and see
the end of the wicked enterprise. The house of Mr. Batterman was at a
considerable distance from the barn, and there was but little danger
that the humane policy of the young incendiaries would expose them to
any additional peril.
Richard, followed by Sandy, entered the barn, and turned all the
animals loose. They drove them into a lot where they could not get near
the fire. The only thing that had weighed upon the mind of the broker's
son, in the prosecution of his mad enterprise, was now removed, and he
returned to the place where he had prepared the materials for starting
the conflagration. Again Sandy stated his objections, and urged Richard
to abandon the scheme; but the latter, without any reply to this
remonstrance, drew a card of matches across a stone, and applied the
burning mass to the hay which had been saturated with turpentine.
The heap of combustible matter suddenly blazed up, lighting all the
fields around them. The work had been surely done, and it was too late
for Sandy to urge any more of his objections.
"Come, Sandy, the work is done. Now use your legs," said Richard, as he
started at the top of his speed towards the inlet where the Greyhound
lay.
Sandy's legs did not fail him on this emergency, for he soon
outstripped his companion. They had gone but a few rods, when both were
appalled at the discovery of two men, who were running towards the fire
with all their might--which was not saying much, for both of them
seemed to be old and stiff, and incapable of making very good time even
on so pressing an emergency as the present.
The guilty boys were filled with terror. The shock was so great that it
seemed to deprive them of their strength, and they found their legs
giving out under them.
"We are caught, Dick," gasped Sandy, when he could regain breath enough
to speak.
"No, we are not; come along. Don't stop here," answered Richard, who
was beginning to recover his self-possession.
They ran as fast as their weakened limbs would permit, till they
reached the bank of the river. Richard jumped into the boat and hoisted
the sails, while Sandy cast off the painter, and they were soon
standing out from the shore before the fresh breeze. Neither of them
spoke for some minutes, for neither of them had breath enough left in
his body to do so.
"The fire don't burn," said Richard, when the boat had gone far enough
to enable him to see over the high bank of the river.
"Don't it?" asked Sandy, hoarsely, for the terror and exhaustion of the
awful moments through which he had just passed seemed to have choked up
his throat, and deprived him of his voice.
"No; it is as dark up there as it was before we landed."
"I am glad of it," gasped Sandy, who was beginning to breathe a little
easier.
"I'm not," added Richard, firmly. "We shall only have the job to do
over again."
"If you ever catch me in such a scrape as this again, you may let me
know it when you do."
"You might as well have the game as the name."
"I don't know about that. I am glad the barn didn't burn. Are you sure
the fire has gone out?"
"No doubt of it. There isn't enough to light your cigar."
"I suppose those men put it out. Who do you think they were?"
"I don't know, and I don't care. I wish they had been somewhere else.
They have spoiled my night's work."
"I am glad they have; and I thank them with all my heart for what they
have done."
"I don't; you might as well be hung for an old sheep as a lamb. If we
are caught it will be all the same with us as though we had burned the
barn."
"Who do you suppose the men were?"
"I haven't the least idea. I don't care."
"Yes, you do care, Dick. What's the use of talking in that way? You
don't want to be found out any more than I do."
"I know that, but we are not found out; and that isn't all--we shall
not be."
"I should like to be satisfied on that point."
"The men didn't take any notice at all of us, and I am certain they did
not see us."
"They couldn't help seeing us, Dick. The fire lit up the whole field,
so that it was as light as broad day."
"Suppose they did see us; they couldn't tell who we were. Keep a stiff
upper lip, Sandy, and it will be all right."
"I can only hope for the best, but I shall be scared at my own shadow
for a month to come," added Sandy, in whose nature a vein of candor
appeared to be suddenly developed, for he was not in the habit of
acknowledging that he was afraid of any thing.
"You don't talk a bit like Sandy Brimblecom," sneered Richard; "and you
act more like an old woman than a fellow of any spunk."
"Humph! I'll bet you are as scared as I am, only you won't own it."
"I don't know what fear means, Sandy."
"O, you can brag; but when a fellow can go and set a man's barn afire,
without wincing, he's worse than I am; that's all I've got to say."
"Worse than you are!" said Richard. "Didn't you agree to the whole
thing? Didn't you go in for paying off Old Batterbones? Didn't you come
down here to burn the barn with me?"
"I did, but I didn't want to come."
"What did you come for, then?"
"Because I agreed to come."
"You're not the fellow I took you to be. You joined me in the affair,
and then, at the last moment, you begin to whine like a sick monkey."
"I'm not so far gone that I can burn a man's barn without feeling it."
"You haven't got the pluck of a mosquito."
"You've said about enough on that tack, Dick Grant," replied Sandy, who
did not relish the reflections cast upon his courage.
"I shall say what I think best."
"No, you won't! I'm sorry for what I've done, and I'm willing to own
it; but I won't take any sauce from you or any other fellow."
"You can talk big enough," sneered Richard.
"Shut up, or I'll bat you over the head."
"Humph!"
"Just put me ashore, Dick Grant, and you and I will part company."
"I'm willing."
Both boys felt that enough had been said, and the conversation was
discontinued by mutual consent. Richard, notwithstanding his bravado,
was no better satisfied with himself than Sandy. Though he had spoken
of "doing the job over again," he had not the slightest idea of
repeating the experiment. The shock which the discovery of the two men
had given him, was too much even for his strong nerves; and though he
was not willing to confess it, he was sorry for what he had done. The
terror of being found out had damped the spirit of revenge. The
excitement of the affair had passed away, and like his companion in
wickedness, visions of public trial, of the house of correction, or the
state prison, began to flit before him.
He was not sorry that the barn had been saved from destruction; and the
only pleasant reflection in connection with the whole transaction was,
that he had insisted upon saving the horses and the oxen. It was with
Richard as it is with all who commit crimes. They are led on by the
spirit of revenge, or some other strong motive. There is a kind of
excitement which urges them on till the wicked deed is committed. Then
the criminal excitement subsides; the hour of reflection comes,
burdened also with the fear of discovery. To some extent, crime is its
own punishment; at least, it is so with those who have not become
hardened in iniquity.
Richard brought the Greyhound up to the point where he had taken Sandy
on board. He did not like to part with him in anger, for, to a certain
extent, he sympathized with him in his penitential confession. But,
more than this, he was afraid Sandy might revenge himself upon him for
the reproaches he had uttered.
"Let's not quarrel, Sandy," said Richard, as he laid the boat alongside
the landing place.
"I don't want to quarrel, but I won't be picked upon by you," replied
Sandy, with spirit.
"I'll take it all back. Let's be friends again. We have failed to do
what we intended, and perhaps it will be just as well for us."
"I'm glad you are coming to your senses. Do you mean to try it again?"
"We won't burn the barn, Sandy, but we must pay off Old Batterbones in
some other way."
"I'll do it. I'll hook his apples, pull out the linchpins of his wagon,
throw a dead cat into his well, or any thing of that sort, with you,
but I won't attempt to burn any man's barn again. No, never!"
"We'll fix him yet, Sandy. When shall I see you again?"
"I shall be round the wharf to-morrow."
"I'll see you there. Good night to you, Sandy."
"Good night, Dick."
Boys don't usually bid each other good night after they have been doing
wicked deeds; and Richard's parting salutation was a peace-offering,
rather than the kindly wish of a friend.
Sandy made his way up to Whitestone, and Richard again pushed off upon
the troubled waters of the Hudson. The Greyhound leaped over the waves
as though she was in haste to get out of the disgraceful business in
which she had been employed. Richard heard the clocks in Whitestone
striking three, as he grappled his moorings and made fast to them.
He landed from the skiff, and, like a thief in the night, stole up to
his father's house. Before he attempted to ascend the trellis, he
pulled off his boots, and fastening them together with his
handkerchief, slung them around his neck. He reached the roof of the
conservatory without noise, and then, to his utter consternation,
discovered a light in Mr. Presby's room. But the precaution he had
taken in the removal of his boots enabled him to reach his chamber
window without producing a sound. Then, to his astonishment and terror,
he found that the window he had left open was closed.
Some one had been there.
CHAPTER VIII.
RICHARD BEHOLDS HOW GREAT A MATTER A LITTLE FIRE KINDLETH.
The window of the chamber was not fastened, and when Richard gained
admission, he found the door locked as he had left it. The window must
therefore have been closed from the outside; but this did not seem
probable, and he came to the conclusion that the sash had dropped of
itself. This was a very comforting reflection, and it removed many of
the doubts and fears which disturbed him.
Congratulating himself upon his escape from manifold perils by land and
water, Richard undressed himself and went to bed. But tired as he was,
he could not go to sleep for some time. His brain was busy calculating
the chances of detection, and devising schemes to avert suspicion if
any should be fastened upon him. Nature triumphed at last, and he went
to sleep.
Late the next morning, when he went down stairs, he was pale and
haggard. Somewhat to his surprise, he found that his father had not
gone to the city as usual. Every body looked sober, and Mr. Grant's
face wore a very stern and troubled expression. Richard ate his
breakfast in silence, wondering all the time what so many serious and
averted faces portended.
"You were out again last night, Richard," said his father, when they
met in the sitting room at a later hour.
"No, sir, not that I am aware of," replied Richard, with as much
self-possession as he could call to his aid, though his heart was
leaping with fear and anxiety.
"If you had been out, shouldn't you have been aware of it?" asked his
father, fixing a penetrating gaze upon him.
"I don't know. I only judge by what happened the other night," answered
Richard, who had determined to "run" the sleep-walking expedient again.
"You mean by that you got up in your sleep if you got up at all?"
"Yes, sir."
"You were entirely unconscious when you got up the other night and went
off in the Greyhound--were you?"
"Of course I was."
A faint smile played upon the lips of Mr. Grant, while the faces of
uncle Obed and Mr. Presby wore a decidedly comical expression. Though
Richard could not see "where the laugh came in," he was conscious that
he had placed himself in a ludicrous attitude.
"And you were asleep last night when you went out--were you?" continued
Mr. Grant.
"If I went out, I suppose I was," replied Richard, going to the window
and looking out, thus turning his back to those in the room.
He could not bear the penetrating gaze of his father, and the quizzing
glances of Mr. Presby and uncle Obed were utterly insupportable.
"Mr. Presby, you have devoted considerable attention to the phenomena
of sleep-walking," added uncle Obed. "What do you think of this case?"
"I think it is the most remarkable one on record," replied the
philosopher, whose smile had grown into a broad grin. "Richard, I am
deeply interested in the investigation of this matter, and I want to
ask you a few questions. Will you oblige me by answering them?"
"I will if I can," said Richard, rather doggedly, for he was fully
satisfied, by this time, that the old gentleman was quizzing him.
"If you can, then, will you be kind enough to tell me whether Sandy
Brimblecom was asleep or not, when he joined you in the boat at the
point below Whitestone?"
"Who? Sandy joined me?" stammered Richard, staggered by this home
thrust of the friend of the family.
"Yes; I am very anxious to know whether there is a sympathy between
sleep-walkers which draws them together, even though separated by miles
of space."
Richard made no reply; he had none to make. He had no idea how much his
tormentors knew of the events of the night.
"You don't answer, my boy. I have been the butt of your uncle for the
last week on account of my devotion to the cause of science. I have
studied your case very thoroughly, and I may want to make a report of
it to the scientific associations."
"Why don't you answer him, Dick?" added uncle Obed, who,
notwithstanding the serious character of the matter, could not restrain
his laughter at the ludicrous side of the question.
"I don't care about your making fun of me," replied the poor
somnambulist.
"My dear boy, this is a scientific, a physiological investigation. You
pulled out the nails which your father had driven into the window; you
skulked away from the house; you went down to your boat, got under way
in a squally, dark night, and met another sleep-walker on the other
side of the river;--I presume he was asleep, for you do not say to the
contrary;--you sailed down the river to a certain inlet; you landed,
and went up to Mr. Batterman's barn; you removed the horses and oxen
from it; you poured turpentine upon a bunch of loose hay prepared for
the purpose; you lighted your matches and set fire to it; and all the
while you were fast asleep. And you returned home and went to bed again
without waking. Really, my dear boy, this is the most astonishing case
of somnambulism on record. I have vainly looked over my books for a
parallel instance. Can you tell me what your dreams were last night?
Did you dream any thing of this kind?"
Richard was filled with dismay at this recital of the events of the
night. The mysterious boat he had twice seen was the only explanation
of the minuteness of Mr. Presby's details that suggested itself to his
mind.
"You talked quite rationally in your sleep, which is a new development
in somnambulism. But, after all," continued the devotee of science,
"the phenomena of last night were not near so remarkable as those of
the former occasion. By the way, my dear boy, do sleep-walkers have any
particular fondness for watermelons?"
Uncle Obed laughed outright at this sally, and even Mr. Grant, wounded
as his paternal heart was by the discovery, could not help smiling,
though he felt more like weeping than laughing.
"You are silent, my dear boy," resumed Mr. Presby. "This is an
important physiological inquiry, and you would enlarge the sphere of
human knowledge of this interesting subject, if you would answer me."
Richard was inclined to get into a passion, but the consciousness of
his guilt restrained him, and he listened in silence to the satirical
remarks of the old gentleman.
"But the most astounding fact of all is, that you could take such an
unmerciful flogging as Mr. Batterman gave you without waking up,"
continued the inquisitor. "Perhaps you did wake under this cruel
infliction, but went to sleep again when the castigation was over. Can
you inform me on this point?"
"You have made fun enough of me," replied Richard; but his words were
very tame, considering the amount of provocation he had endured.
"Were you asleep, Richard, on these two nights when you have been
prowling about the neighborhood?" demanded his father, sternly.
"No, sir, I was not," said Richard, to whom the ridicule of Mr. Presby
and uncle Obed was more terrible than any punishment he could receive
for his misdeeds.
"I am glad to see you have some honesty left in your composition. You
acknowledge the deception, and we will let the farce end here. You have
become a thief and a midnight incendiary. I have been weak and
indulgent towards you. My eyes are opened, and I shall pursue a
different course."
Mr. Grant's lip trembled with emotion as he spoke. Mr. Presby and uncle
Obed suddenly became very serious, and it was plain to the culprit that
the farce had really ended.
"Richard, I knew you were wild, and even dissolute, but I did not think
you would steal," added Mr. Grant, with deep feeling.
"It was only for fun, father," pleaded Richard.
"Do you practise the trade of the incendiary for fun?" asked his
father, sternly.
"That was only because Mr. Batterman flogged me. He had no business to
do that."
"And so you would burn his barn?"
"I didn't burn it."
"It would have burned to the ground, if Mr. Presby and Ben had not put
the fire out. I have let my friend expose you in his own way, because
the trouble he has taken reveals to me your true character. You are
worse than your dissolute companions. Richard, you have become a
villain!"
Mr. Grant rose from his chair and walked away to hide the tears which
this sad revelation of his son's character drew from his eyes.
"He is not so bad as he might be," interposed Mr. Presby. "Remember
that he saved the animals in the barn."
"The record is black even with this redeeming line," said Mr. Grant. "I
would rather follow my son to his grave than have him become such a
wretch as you are, Richard. Shall I let you take the consequences of
your crime?"
"What consequences, father?" asked Richard, with a degree of humility
he had never before exhibited.
"Are you a simpleton? Don't you know the penalty of your crime?"
"We didn't burn the barn."
"In the eye of the law you are just as guilty as though the barn had
burned to the ground. If convicted, you would be sent to the state
prison. I have made up my mind what to do with you," said Mr. Grant, as
he walked out of the room, for his emotions would no longer permit him
to remain.
"You have got into a bad scrape, Dick," added uncle Obed, as he shook
his head, and followed his brother, leaving the culprit alone with Mr.
Presby.
"He will not let them send me to the state prison?" said Richard,
fearful that his father might have abandoned all hope of redeeming him
from the error of his ways.
"You have been a very bad boy," replied Mr. Presby.
"I am very sorry for it, and I mean to do better."
"I hope you will, my dear boy. Your father has suffered terribly since
I returned, and poor Bertha has done nothing but weep for the last two
hours. You are ruining yourself and wounding the hearts of your friends
more than words can describe."
"I will try to do better."
"Your father will not trust you again."
"What is he going to do?"
"He will inform you himself," replied Mr. Presby, as he withdrew from
the room.
Richard was alone with his own thoughts and fears. He felt as though
his career had reached its close, though he could not imagine what
terrible thing his father intended to do. He was really sorry for what
he had done, whether his sorrow was caused by a genuine feeling that he
had done wrong, or by the fear of punishment.
His mind was in a confused state; the past with its sorrows, and the
future with its terrors, whirled through his brain. He wanted time for
reflection, and leaving the house, he walked down to the pier to
deliberate upon the situation.
Ben was there, and Richard began to question him, for Mr. Presby had
intimated that the boatman was with him the night before. From him he
learned all the facts in regard to their movements. It appeared that
the old gentleman had heard Richard when he opened the window, and had
watched him closely, fully satisfied, however, that he was asleep.
When Mr. Presby, from the roof of the conservatory, had noted the
direction he took, he had closed the window, and called the boatman to
assist him. They had followed him in the large sail boat, and landed
near the point where Sandy was taken on board the Greyhound. By this
time, Ben's original idea that Richard was wide awake was adopted by
Mr. Presby. By the exercise of great skill and caution, they had kept
near the boys, and had put out the fire almost as soon as it was
kindled.
While they were still on the ground, Mr. Batterman, who had been
awakened by the bright light of the burning hay, made his appearance.
He found the two old men in the very act of putting out the fire. Mr.
Presby smothered the flames by throwing his great-coat upon it.
"Now, Mr. Richard," continued the boatman, "Mr. Presby saved you. He
was acquainted with Batterman, and has a mortgage on his farm. The
farmer suspected who had attempted to burn his building; he laid it to
you at once, and told us all about the scrape when you stole the
melons. You don't know how mad he was, Mr. Richard. But Mr. Presby made
it all right with him, and he promised not to prosecute. Mr. Richard,
you had better not walk in your sleep any more."
Richard did not like this last remark, and he walked down the pier. The
state prison was only a bugbear then; but his father meant to do
something. He was about to get into his skiff to visit the Greyhound
when Ben hailed him.
"My orders are, not to let you have any of the boats," said he.
The new order of things had begun, and he returned to the house. His
father was in the sitting room when he entered.
"Richard," said Mr. Grant, "to-morrow you will leave home for some
months. I have decided to place you in a boarding school, where you
will be under the eye of one who is competent to manage you."
This was the great matter which a little fire had kindled.
CHAPTER IX.
RICHARD GOES TO THE TUNBROOK MILITARY INSTITUTE.
Richard had several times before been threatened with a residence at a
boarding school. Most of his education had been obtained at home, under
the superintendence of tutors, and special teachers in various
branches. He had been under little or no restraint; and the consequence
was, that his mental discipline had been very imperfect, and his stock
of knowledge was small, considering the opportunities he had enjoyed.
His father had long been conscious of his deficiencies, and proposed to
send him to a boarding school, for the benefit of its discipline; but
Richard was so averse to the idea, that his father had from time to
time postponed his departure. When Mr. Grant saw his son associating
with bad boys he again proposed to send him, and had actually sought
out a suitable place for him; but his own financial trials and troubles
had prevented him from executing his purpose.
If Richard's education had failed to develop his intellect in an
adequate degree, it had built up a sound and vigorous constitution.
Riding on horseback, sailing and rowing, had been pastimes for which he
had sacrificed intellectual culture. But there was still time to remedy
this deficiency, for the youth was hardly sixteen.
The establishment which Mr. Grant had selected for the future residence
of his son was the Tunbrook Military Institute, under the
superintendence of Colonel Brockridge. This place had been chosen, not
because it was a military institution, but because its principal was a
thorough disciplinarian. He had the reputation of being a just and fair
man, and was very popular with boys of strong constitution and decisive
temperaments. No "milk-and-water" boys were ever sent to him; or, if
they were, they soon left the Institute, or became vigorous and decided
in their habits.
Colonel Brockridge had been in the army, though his title was won in
the militia. He was a thorough teacher, and was conscientious and
faithful in the discharge of his duties to those who were intrusted to
his care. He was a "positive man," and no fear of what the father or
