the tones of the speaker, that the report of the gun from the Isabel was
not altogether favorable to the views of the pursuers.
Dan made no reply, but loaded up his gun for further use.
"Stop your boat, or we'll fire into you again," shouted the speaker.
"If you do you will get as good as you send," answered Dan, as he put
the cap upon his piece.
The reply was followed by another shot from the slave-hunters; but the
ball whistled far above the heads of the fugitives. Dan took deliberate
aim at the boat, and fired, ordering Quin to do the same. So far as
they could discover, neither of the shots took effect. From this time
both parties kept up an occasional firing; but as the night was so dark,
and the motion of the boats not favorable to a steady aim, no one in the
Isabel was hit, and Dan and his companion were not aware of any
different result to the other boat.
Cyd maintained his position at the helm with the steadiness of an old
salt who had stood at the wheel in a hundred battles; and Dan,
witnessing his improved demeanor, began to think his singular conduct
had been the result of excitement rather than of timidity.
But one thing was painfully evident to all on board of the
schooner--that the boat was gaining upon her, and that the wind was
gradually dying out. There was no hope for them except in their own
right arms. They must fight for liberty, fight for the rights which they
had boldly reässumed. Dan and Quin were fully determined upon this
course, and if they could bring Cyd up to a sense of duty on this trying
emergency, there would be some chance of success.
As it was, the odds were against them. The pursuers were probably men
accustomed to the use of arms, while all in the Isabel were, to say the
least, very indifferent marksmen. Hitherto, they had fired at a dark
mass on the water, for they could not distinguish the enemy in the gloom
of the night, and the pursuers had been subject to the same
disadvantage. A nearer approach to each other of the contending parties,
would enable both to obtain a more accurate aim, and the work of death
could not be much longer postponed.
"De wind's clean gone," said Cyd, as the heavy sails of the Isabel began
to flap idly in the brails.
"Cyd, you must fight!" added Dan, earnestly.
"Possifus!" exclaimed Cyd, rising and seizing a boat-hook that lay on
the quarter. "Dis chile will fight, for sartin."
"Good, Cyd! You are a brave fellow! You deserve to be free, and you
shall be."
"Hossifus! Don't tell Cyd he's a coward, kase he ain't no such ting, no
how."
"I didn't mean that, Cyd; and I take it all back," added Dan. "The boat
has lost her headway now. They will be upon us in a moment or two.
Stand firm, Cyd, and break the head of any man that attempts to get into
the boat."
"Yes, sar! Dat's jus what I'se gwine to do. I'll broke de head ob any
nigger-hunter dat's gwine to come in dis boat, for sartin."
"Now, stoop down both of you, and let them fire over our heads as they
come up."
Dan crouched down in the bottom of the Isabel, with the gun ready for
use when the decisive moment should arrive; Quin and Cyd did the same,
and the intrepid skipper proceeded to give them such instructions for
repelling the assault as the occasion required. All of them were to keep
their places till the pursuers were close alongside, when the four guns,
which were ready for use, were to be discharged. They hoped this would
be sufficient to drive them off. If it should not, a fifty-six pound
weight, taken from the ballast in the run, was to be pitched into the
boat, as she came alongside, which would break out a hole in its bottom,
and sink it before the enemy could get on board; Cyd was then to do duty
with his boat-hook, and the others with similar weapons.
The slave-hunters showed some hesitation in boarding the schooner. The
guns which had been fired from her had undoubtedly inspired them with a
proper respect for those on board of her. The Isabel lay with her sails
hanging loosely from the gaffs for half an hour, and still the enemy did
not come up to her.
"We's gwine to hab a shower," said Quin.
"And a squall too, I'm afraid," added Dan, as he cast his eyes anxiously
over the rail, to observe a pile of dense black clouds, which had
suddenly rolled up the midnight sky.
"Whar's de boat?" asked Cyd.
"She lies off here only a little way from us. If she will only keep
still till we can get a breeze, we shall be all right."
"Let 'em come on; dis chile's all ready for 'em," replied Cyd.
"Have you got over being scared?"
"Never was skeered."
"You said you were."
"Cyd's only jokin den. I done feel so kinder stirred up. I done want to
holler--make de nigger feel good."
"Hush! They are coming!" exclaimed Dan, whose quick eye detected a
stealthy movement on the part of the boat.
"Hallo! In the boat, thar," shouted the slave-hunter.
"Well. What do you want?"
"We're go'n to come on board of yer."
"No, you are not. You are all dead men if you attempt it."
"What do you want to shoot us fur? We ain't a go'n to hurt yer."
"You fired first, you infernal chicken thieves! We know what you are,"
replied Dan, who thought it best to class them with these
depredators--men who frequent the western and southern rivers,
plundering boats or houses, as opportunity presents.
"We ain't no chicken thieves."
"Keep off. We know you," repeated Dan.
This conversation was followed by another pause, during which the
careful skipper had another opportunity to examine the weather
indications. They were decidedly unfavorable. It was probable that a
squall, if not a tornado, would soon burst upon them, and he deemed it
prudent, even at the risk of being shot, to haul down the jib-topsail,
the staysail, and the gaff-topsails. This he succeeded in doing; but he
had scarcely finished the job, without giving himself time to stow the
extra sails, before he saw the boat of the pursuers dashing rapidly
towards the Isabel. The slave-hunters had at last made up their minds
what to do. They meant to risk the encounter.
Just then a sharp flash of lightning illumined the lake, followed by the
muttering thunder. A few fitful flashes of lightning had before glared
on the gloomy scene; but now it gleamed fiercely from the sombre clouds,
and the heavy thunder rolled an almost incessant peal.
"Ready! Ready, now!" said Dan, earnestly, as he sighted his gun at the
trio in the boat, which the lightning plainly revealed to him.
"All ready," replied Quin.
"Now give it to them," said Dan, as he discharged his gun, and grasped
another.
Quin did the same. The pursuers' boat was not more than ten rods from
them, but, from the want of skill in the marksmen, the discharge proved
harmless.
"Put in! Put in!" yelled one of the slave-hunters. "Never mind their
firing. They can't hit nothing."
Dan and Quin fired again.
"I'm hit!" roared one of the enemy, with a horrible oath. "Don't go no
furder."
"Keep her a goin!" replied another. "We'll fix 'em in a minute now."
The boat dashed up towards the Isabel; but Dan, as soon as he had fired,
leaped from his place, and seizing the fifty-six pound weight, plumped
it full into the bottom of the boat. The fugitives heard the pine boards
crash, as the weight broke its way through, and went to the bottom of
the lake.
"Stand by, now!" shouted Dan, as he seized his club, and dealt a heavy
blow upon the head of the slave-hunter who was in the act of leaping on
board the schooner.
"We're sinkin!" cried another of them; and the gunwale of the bateau in
which they sailed was nearly submerged.
They had no time to act upon the aggressive; it was all they could do to
secure their own safety. Just then, the expected squall struck the
Isabel, and though Dan had before cast off all the sheets, she careened
over till the water flowed into the standing room. Her watchful skipper
sprung to the helm, and in an instant she righted partially, and darted
forward like a steed pricked with the spur.
"We are safe!" exclaimed Dan, as Lily rushed from her cabin, startled by
the exciting events which had just transpired.
CHAPTER XV.
THE FATE OF THE SLAVE-HUNTERS.
"Haul down the foresail, Cyd!" shouted Dan, as the Isabel gathered way,
and forged ahead. "Be quick, but be careful of yourself."
With the assistance of Quin, Cyd got the foresail in, though it was not
without a deal of hard tugging, for the wind now blew a fierce gale. As
soon as sail was thus reduced, the sheets of the jib and mainsail were
secured, and the schooner lay down to her work, dashing through the
water at a furious rate.
"We are all right now, Lily," said Dan. "Go into your cabin again, or
you will be blown away."
"Were any of you hurt in the fight?" asked she, as loud as she could
scream, for the wind howled fearfully through the rigging of the
schooner.
"No, we are all well and hearty. Go to the cabin, Lily."
She returned to her place of security, and seemed to be satisfied that
the hour of peril had passed, for the thunder and the lightning, the
dashing waves and the roaring wind, had no terrors compared with those
produced by the presence of the slave-hunters.
The Isabel labored fearfully in the heavy squall, and it was only by the
exercise of all his skill that Dan could keep her right side up. He was
obliged, as the gusts of wind struck her, to ease off the sheets, and to
luff her up. By the glare of the blinding lightning he obtained the
position of the boat in the lake, or he might have run her on shore,
and, with the beautiful craft, wrecked all the hopes of his party.
"Here, Cyd and Quin, stand by to reef this mainsail! We can't stand this
long," said Dan, as he threw the Isabel up into the wind.
"Possifus!" yelled Cyd, above the howling of the tempest. "We all go to
de bottom, for sartin."
"No, we won't; stand by, and work lively. Let go the peak halyards,"
replied he, as he cast off the throat halyards, on the other side. "Haul
down the sail as fast as you can, Quin."
With the jib still drawing full, the Isabel continued steadily on her
course, while Dan and Cyd put a double reef in the mainsail, Quin
standing at the helm in the mean time, and acting under the direction of
the skipper.
"Now, up with it," added Dan, when the reef-points were all taken up.
The mainsail was hoisted, and again the Isabel dashed madly on her
course, for she had now all the sail she could carry in that fierce
blow. Dan stood at the helm, with his eyes measuring the distances, as
the vivid lightning revealed the bearings of the shores. Cyd was ordered
to the forecastle to keep a sharp lookout ahead, while Quin was directed
to bale out the boat, for at least a hogshead of water had poured in
over the side when the flaw struck her.
The wind came in heavy gusts, each one of which threatened to "knock
down" the Isabel; and if her skipper had not been a thorough boatman,
such must have been her fate. By skilfully meeting the flaws as they
struck her, he prevented her from capsizing. Under ordinary
circumstances he would have deemed it highly imprudent to carry any
sail, and would have anchored the boat with a long cable; but this was
the battle of Freedom, and success was worth any risk and any peril
which it might require.
The tempest, however, was of short duration. When the rain began to pour
in torrents, the gale subsided. The reefs were shaken out, and, finally,
the foresail was set again. The wind continued to blow pretty fresh, but
all danger was at an end.
"What you 'pose come ob dem men?" asked Quin, as he finished his task of
baling out the boat.
"I don't know; but I feel confident that not all of them are able to
tell what has happened to them."
"One of them was hit wid de shot," added Quin.
"And I struck one over the head with a fender."
"Dem two mus be gone killed dead for sure," said Quin, with solemn
earnestness.
"Of course it was not possible for them to get ashore, for their boat
was stove all to pieces. Do you know them, Quin?"
"Yes, sar; dey's all nigger-hunters."
"Could they swim?"
"I dunno; but I s'peck dey could."
"It would not make much difference whether they could or not. The wind
blew a hurricane for a few moments."
"Quin tinks dey must be all dead," replied the man, shaking his head.
"I'm afraid they are; but it was not our fault. If I thought they were,
I would not go down the lake any farther," added Dan, musing.
"I feels almost sartin dey's gone to dar reward--'may de good Lo'd hab
mercy on dar sinful souls.'"
Dan considered the question for a time in silence, and finally
determined to put the boat about, and head her for his destination at
the north-westerly corner of the lake. The rain still came down in
torrents; but as all on deck were provided with rubber coats, belonging
to the boat, which had been provided for the use of the planter and his
guests on board, they did not suffer, and were not even very
uncomfortable. But if they had been, it would not have been regarded as
a serious matter, amid the fierce excitements of that eventful night.
The storm was nothing more than one of those sudden showers which come
up so unexpectedly at the south. We once passed through a tornado in
Louisiana, which came in a shower that gathered upon a blue sky in less
than half an hour. It tore up tall trees as though they had been
cornstalks, and rolled up the Mississippi so that it looked like a
boiling caldron. In half an hour more the sun was shining gayly on the
scene of devastation, as though Nature had no terrors in her laboratory
of forces.
In an hour after the exciting scene on the lake, the Isabel had a gentle
breeze and fair weather. Cyd still maintained his position on the
forecastle, and Lily once more ventured into the standing room. Dan gave
her a minute account of the affray with the slave-hunters, and concluded
by stating his belief that all three of them had been drowned in the
lake.
Lily shuddered at the thought; for the taking of a human life, even in
defence of the freedom which she valued more highly than life itself,
seemed a terrible thing to her gentle heart.
"Perhaps they are not dead," said she.
"Perhaps not; but it is hardly possible that they could have swum
ashore. We were at least three miles from the land, and their boat was
all stove to pieces."
"Dey might hab hold on to de boat," suggested Quin.
"But there was an awful sea for a few moments. Why, the water dashed
clean over our decks," added Dan. "One of them may have saved himself,
but I am confident the other two must have been lost."
"Hi, Dan!" shouted Cyd, from his position at the heel of the bowsprit.
"What is it, Cyd?"
"Dar's someting ober dar," added Cyd, pointing over to leeward, as he
walked aft.
"What is it?"
"Cyd tinks it's de boat ob de slabe-hunters."
"Perhaps it is," said Dan, musing. "And our wounded or dying enemies may
be clinging to it. Shall we save them?"
"Hossifus! Dey kill us ef we does," exclaimed Cyd.
"'Lub your enemies,'" said Quin, piously. "Let us sabe dem if we can. We
kin tie dar hands and fotch 'em ober dar."
"I don't think they are there."
"We must save their lives," added the gentle Lily.
"And perhaps lose our own; but I will overhaul the boat, to satisfy
myself whether the men were lost or not," said Dan, as he let out the
main sheet, and put up the helm. "Stand by with the boat-hook, Cyd."
In a few moments the Isabel had run up to the wreck of the boat, and Cyd
grappled it with the boat-hook. There were no men clinging to it, but in
the bottom of the boat, covered over with water, lay the body of one of
the slave-hunters. It was probably the one who had been shot. He had not
been killed at once, for he had spoken after he was hit; it looked as
though he had been drowned in the bottom of the boat where he lay.
The fugitives were filled with horror at this discovery. Poor Lily had
nearly fainted, and if Cyd had been shot himself, he could hardly have
made a stronger demonstration. Quin uttered many pious ejaculations,
showing that he had, from his heart, forgiven this man, who, an hour
before, had thirsted for his blood. Dan, though not less impressed than
his companions, was calm and resolute.
"This body may betray us," said he. "We must sink it in the lake."
"Ugh!" exclaimed Cyd, with a thrill of horror.
"We have no time to spare," added Dan, briskly. "Bring up another
fifty-six, Quin."
The weight was brought up and tied to the corpse of the slave-hunter, as
it lay in the boat. Dan then ordered his companions to tip the boat
over; but Quin, asking for a moment's delay, threw himself upon his
knees, and commenced an earnest prayer in behalf of the deceased,
supplicating forgiveness for his bloodthirsty enemy. Dan listened
reverently to the prayer, while Lily sobbed as though the departed
slave-hunter had been her dearest friend, instead of the bitter foe of
her race.
The service was ended; the boat was careened till the body rolled out,
and disappeared in the depths of the lake.
"May de good Lo'd hab mercy on his poor, sinful soul, for de lub of
Jesus' sake!" exclaimed Quin, as the corpse sank to its resting-place.
"Make fast the boat to that cleat on the quarter, Cyd," said Dan, as he
hauled aft the sheets, and put his helm down.
Cyd obeyed, and the Isabel filled away upon her course again. Lily was
calmer now, but she was still much impressed by the solemn and awful
scene of which she had just been a witness.
"It's all over now, Lily. Don't think any more about it," said Dan, in
soothing tones.
"It is terrible--isn't it, Dan?" replied she, with a shudder.
"It is, Lily; but there was no help for it. All that we have done was in
self-defence."
"But it is awful to think of killing them."
"It is better as it is than if we had let them take us."
"Did you really mean to kill them, Dan?"
"Not if I could help it; but I would have killed a dozen of them rather
than be carried back into slavery."
"We didn't kill 'em, Missy Lily," interposed Quin. "Dey done drownded.
De good Lo'd strike 'em down jus like he did de 'Gyptians in de Red Sea,
in de midst ob dar wickedness. We didn't kill 'em, Missy Lily."
"That's it, Lily," added Dan, indorsing the explanation, though the
religious aspect of the case was not so strongly impressed upon his mind
as upon that of his pious companion.
"We might have saved them," continued the gentle-hearted girl, who
derived but little consolation from the words of Quin. "You might have
taken them on board when the squall came."
"Why, Lily, I had just smashed their boat with my own hands, and I
wasn't going to put my head into the lion's mouth. It is best as it is,
Lily. The death of these men will remove all danger from our path, for
no one has seen us except them."
"But how awful!" sighed she.
"I told you, Lily, before we started, that terrible things might happen
to us. You shall be free; let this thought comfort you."
But it did not comfort her, and she continued to bewail the catastrophe
that had befallen the slave-hunters till the attention of her companions
was called to the position of the Isabel.
"Dar's land on de bof sides of us," called Cyd, who had again been
stationed at the heel of the bowsprit to act as lookout man.
"All right! I see it," responded Dan. "Quin, let go the foresail
halyards. How does it look ahead, Cyd?"
"Dark as de back of dis chile's hand."
"Look out sharp!"
"Do dat, for sartin."
The Isabel continued slowly on her course, for the woods on the shore
now began to shelter the sails from the full force of the wind. The
corner of the lake grew narrower with every moment she advanced, till
the boat was not more than a couple of rods from either shore. She was
running up one of the tributaries of the lake.
Presently the creek was less than thirty feet wide; and having passed
round a bend so as to hide her from the open lake, Dan ordered his
companions to make fast to a tree, as he ran her up to the shore.
CHAPTER XVI.
IN THE SWAMP.
The place where the Isabel had been moored was in the midst of a gloomy
and extensive swamp. Though Dan had never been here before, he had heard
of the region, and from the first had determined to conceal his party
within its deep and almost impenetrable morasses. The swamp was about
fifteen miles in extent from north to south, and ten from east to west.
It was full of bayous and lagoons, and inhabited only by herons,
alligators, and other wild animals of the south-west.
It was impossible to penetrate the swamp without a boat, for the terra
firma of the region consisted only of islands covered with trees, most
of them surrounded by shallow and muddy waters. It is doubtful whether
any human being had ever fully explored this extensive swamp; and Dan
was confident that, if he could succeed in making his way with the
Isabel to a distance of two or three miles from the lake, his party
would be free from intrusion, unless, indeed, the slave-hunters made a
business of driving them from their covert.
The information of the leader of the expedition in regard to the swamp
was exceedingly limited. All he knew had been derived from Colonel
Raybone, who, in conversation with some of his friends, had mentioned
the region, and given a partial description of it. He had learned that
the bayou, which was the outlet of the waters of the swamp, was
obstructed by fallen timber a short distance from the lake. As runaway
slaves could not live in this desolate place, there had been no occasion
to pursue them into its deep recesses.
The party on board the Isabel were very much fatigued by the labor and
excitement of the night; and when the schooner was safely moored, Dan
declared that nothing more should be done until the party had rested
themselves. It was not yet daylight, and the boat was in a secure
position.
"But we must not all go to sleep," added Dan. "I intend to keep a watch
night and day while we stay in this place, if it should be for a year."
"Hossifus! What's de use of keepin de watch?" yawned Cyd, as he
stretched himself, and opened his mouth wide enough to take in a small
alligator.
"Suppose half a dozen slave-hunters should come up here while we are all
asleep!" replied Dan, sharply.
"'Pose dey come when we're all awake--what den?"
"We can beat them off, as we did those last night."
"Gossifus! Some ob us git killed for shore, if dey keep shooten wid de
guns."
"Better die than be taken, Cyd. We must believe this before we can be
sure of success."
"Dat's what I's gwine to do," added Quin. "Dis chile will fight till dey
ain't notin lef ob him--ye kin be shore ob dat."
"Possifus! Den, if you's all gwine to fight, Cyd ain't gwine to be out
ob de fashion, for sartin. I's don't know much about de guns, but Cyd
kin split a two-inch plank a buttin agin it. I's can't shoot, but I can
butt," grinned Cyd. "You kin bet your life dis chile ain't no coward, no
how."
"You did very well last night, Cyd, and I hope you will stand up to your
principles," said Dan.
"What's dem?"
"What do you think, Cyd?"
"Hossifus! Cyd tinks he's sleepy," yawned he, opening his mouth in a
fearful gape. "I's stand up to dat, for shore."
"Very well; but one of us shall stand watch while the others sleep.
Which shall it be?"
"I'll be de fus. I done sleep some last night," said Quin. "You didn't
shet your eyes once."
"Whose turn next?"
"Cyd's, for sartin. You'm did a big ting last night, Dan. We all done
gwine to de bottom ob de lake, or de nigger-hunters hab us for shore, if
'twan't for you, Dan. You kin sleep all day."
"I'm very tired, and need rest, for we have hard work before us; but you
must keep awake, whoever is on the watch. Our lives depend upon the man
on the watch."
"You kin trust me, Dan," replied Quin.
"So you kin me," added Cyd.
Dan examined all the guns, to see that they were in condition for
immediate use, and then turned in, to obtain the rest he so much needed.
Lily had already retired, and before the weary skipper could close his
eyes, Cyd was snoring like a sleepy alligator.
Quin was tired and sleepy, as well as his companions; but it was a
matter of conscience with him to keep awake. He walked up and down the
standing room in his bare feet, that the noise might not disturb the
sleepers, to guard against the possibility of being unfaithful to the
solemn duty which had been imposed upon him. The sun rose bright and
clear, and the solitary sentinel still kept vigil over the sleeping
party in the cabin. Two hours, four hours, elapsed, and Quin still paced
the deck. It was full six hours before the sleepers showed any signs of
life.
Lily was the first to wake and come on deck. In a whisper she told Quin
to go to his berth, and permit her to keep the watch. At first he
objected; but her persistence finally overcame his scruples, and he
crept softly to his bunk in the forward cabin. In a few moments he was
sleeping as soundly as the rest. The two boys were physically incapable
of going without their rest. They were growing, and to sit up all night,
filled with anxiety and excitement, was more than they could bear
without Nature's strongest protest.
They slept hour after hour, and Lily faithfully performed her duty as
sentinel over them. The swamp was as still as the house of death; not a
sound was to be heard, for even the alligators were motionless, as they
sunned themselves upon the dead logs of the lagoons.
Dan, having slept eight hours strong, was the first to appear on deck.
As he looked at his watch he was surprised to find it so late, and
surprised to find Lily acting as watch on deck. His orders had been
disregarded; but Lily was too powerful an advocate with him to permit
any blame to be cast upon his companions. She persuaded him that every
thing which had been done was for the best. Cyd soon after made his
appearance, having slept all he could at one stretch, and the boys
proceeded to get breakfast. Ham and eggs, coffee and toast, constituted
the repast, prepared by the skilful hand of Lily, though she was
assisted by her willing friends.
Quin did not wake till the meal was ready to be put upon the table; and
the party all sat down to this princely banquet in the forward cabin,
with the feeling that they were fortunate beyond all other fugitives
that had ever escaped to the swamp.
After breakfast--or rather dinner, if we designate the meal by the time
of day--Lily insisted upon her right to clear off the table and wash the
dishes, which was yielded after some discussion, though with the proviso
that Cyd should assist in the heavy work. While they were thus engaged,
Dan and Quin took the bateau, which had been put into the water before
dinner, and rowed up the bayou to explore the region above them. Finding
an unobstructed passage for about two miles, they returned.
By this time the work of the housekeepers was finished, and the labor of
towing the Isabel up the bayou was commenced. As the water was very
shallow in some places, they had to follow the channel; and it was
sundown when they had moored her to the point they had reached in the
bateau.
"That will do very well," said Dan, as they made her fast to a tree.
"De nigger-hunters neber find us here, for sartin," added Cyd, as he
dashed the sweat from his brow.
"We are not in a safe place yet," continued Dan. "But we are in no
hurry, and we won't do any more to-day. Let us have supper and go to
bed."
Lily had already made the tea, and had every thing in a forward state of
preparation.
After supper, the important question of the watch came up again for
consideration.
"We may as well settle this matter once for all," said Dan. "I suppose
six hours' sleep is enough for any of us."
"Plenty," added Quin.
"Dunno," said Cyd, shaking his head, and gaping as though he had not
slept any for a week. "Dis chile allus goes to sleep at eight, and wakes
up at five. How long's dat, Dan?"
"Nine hours; that's enough for a hog."
"Nuff for a nigger too."
"I have got a plan all ready, and if you agree to it we will adopt it,"
added Dan.
"You's de cap'n, and weder we 'gree to it or not, you mus hab your own
way," continued Cyd.
"Not at all. We'll have no captain here. We are not at sea, and we will
all be equal. What we do will be for our own safety. I intend to keep my
watch, and do my share of the work; so you needn't grumble, Cyd."
"Possifus! Cyd neber grubble in his life."
"You seem to think that I want to make you do more than your share."
"No, sar! I's tink you do more'n your share, Dan. Cyd ain't notin but a
nigger, and you's almos' a gen'leman."
"Come, come, Cyd. I shall be angry if you talk in that way. I am just
the same as the rest of you."
"Hossifus! Wha--wha--wha----"
"That'll do, Cyd."
"You's got all de brains, and knows jes what to do and where to go.
Gossifus! Wha--wha--what become ob us widout Dan?"
"Dat's jus what I tinks," added Quin. "You does de tinkin, and we does
de wuck."
"I shall do my part of the work. Now listen to me, and I will tell you
how I think the work ought to be divided. We'll go to bed at nine
o'clock, and turn out at five."
"Dem's um," nodded Cyd.
"I will take the first watch to-night, till one o'clock, and Cyd the
second, till five in the morning."
"But whar's my watch?" demanded Quin.
"At five o'clock you shall turn out and get breakfast. To-morrow night
it shall be your first watch, and my second, and Cyd shall get breakfast
the next morning. Then Cyd shall have the first watch the third night,
and Quin the second, and I will get breakfast. That makes a fair
division, I think."
"Dat's all right," added Quin.
"Those who sleep but four hours in the night can sleep during the day,
if they wish."
"Yes, when de wuck's done," said Quin.
"We shall not have much work to do after we get settled," replied Dan.
"All that's very fine," added Lily, who had been listening to the
arrangement; "but I shall not consent to it. I intend to get breakfast
myself."
"No, Lily," remonstrated Dan. "If you do all the cooking, you will have
to work harder than any of the boys. One of us will do the heavy work on
deck, and you shall attend to the table. I am willing you should do your
share of the work, if you insist upon it, but not more than your share.
We shall have nothing to do but eat and sleep when we get the boat in
position."
Lily insisted for some time, but was forced to yield the point at last;
for neither Dan nor his companions would consent to her proposition. At
nine o'clock Lily went to her cabin, and Quin and Cyd were soon sound
asleep in their bunks. At one o'clock Cyd was called, and Dan gave him
his watch, that he might know when to call Quin.
It was a difficult task for the sentinel to keep awake; but I believe he
was faithful this time in the discharge of his important duty. At five
Quin was called, and Cyd immediately proceeded to make up for lost
time.
CHAPTER XVII.
CYD HAS A BAD FIT.
Cyd was roused from his slumbers at nine o'clock to assist in working
the Isabel farther into the swamp, and in the course of the day she was
safely moored in her permanent position. The quick eye of Dan had
detected the admirable fitness of this place both for concealment and
defence. It was not more than three miles from the lake.
The Isabel was secured between two islets, in the midst of a broad
lagoon. The channel between the two portions of land was only wide
enough to admit the boat, and the shore was covered with an impenetrable
thicket of bushes and trees, so that the fugitives were obliged to
"strip" the sail-boat, and take out her masts, before they could move
her into the narrow bayou.
The next day, when the morning work on board was done, they commenced
the task of concealing the Isabel more effectually from the view of any
persons who might possibly penetrate the swamp. A half-decayed log was
thrown across the channel, and green branches stuck in the ground, till
the boat could not be seen. A coat of green paint was then put over the
white one, and the party were satisfied that no one could discover their
retreat, unless he happened to blunder upon it.
In these preparations a great deal of hard work was done; but the
feeling of security which they procured amply compensated for the labor.
When it was done, the fugitives enjoyed a season of rest, and for a week
they did nothing but eat and sleep, though a strict watch was kept all
the time to guard against a surprise. But this was an idle and stupid
life; and even Cyd, who had formerly believed that idleness was bliss,
began to grow weary of it. A few days more were employed in building a
bridge from the deck of the boat to the island, in establishing a
kitchen on shore, and in making such other improvements on board and on
the land as their limited experience in the swamp suggested.
After every change and addition which the ingenuity of the fugitives
could devise had been completed, the time again began to hang heavily on
their hands. It was a happy thought of Lily that Dan should open a
school for the instruction of Quin and Cyd, and half the day was very
pleasantly occupied in this manner. At the end of a month both of these
pupils were able to read a little from Dan's Testament, and they
continued to make good progress during the remainder of their residence
in the swamp.
At the end of a month Dan saw with dismay the inroad which had been made
upon the supply of provisions. The addition of one person to the party
had deranged his calculations, for Quin was blessed with a tremendous
appetite. It was necessary that a sufficient quantity of the bacon and
crackers should be reserved for the voyage that was yet before them,
which might be a month in duration, or even longer. This supply had been
carefully stowed away in the fore hold, and at the rate they consumed
their provisions, the remainder would not last them two months.
Dan communicated his doubts and fears on this subject to Quin and Cyd,
who immediately became very wise, and suggested a dozen expedients to
meet the difficulty. Cyd proposed to forage on a plantation, which was
immediately condemned as involving too much risk. Quin thought they
might go to the nearest store and purchase food, as both Dan and Lily
had considerable sums of money. This also was too dangerous.
"What's de use stoppin here so long?" asked Quin.
"The search for us has not ended yet," replied Dan.
"But dey won't tink no more ob us in two monfs from dis yere time."
"Very true; but the water will be so low that we can't get out of the
lake in less than one month from now. We must stay here till next
spring," added Dan, decidedly.
"Wha--wha--what ye gwine to stop here a whole year fur?" demanded Cyd,
with his usual impetuosity.
"When would you leave?"
"When de water gets high in de fall."
"If we go to sea in the fall or winter, we shall meet with terrible
storms in the Gulf. We should perish with the cold, or founder in a
gale. We may have to be at sea a month. We shall have to meet our
greatest perils after we leave this place."
"Well, I s'pose you knows best, Dan; and we's gwine to do jus what you
say," replied Quin, meekly.
"Dem's um, Dan; you jus tell dis chile wot you wants done, and we's
gwine to do notin but do it," said Cyd.
"But we must have something to eat while we remain here," added Dan.
"Dat's so; niggers can't lib widout eatin."
"We can do as the Indians do--we can hunt and fish," suggested Dan.
"Sartin--plenty ob ducks and geese, pigeons and partridges."
"And we have fowling pieces, with plenty of powder and shot; but none of
us are hunters, and I'm afraid we shall not have very good luck in
shooting game."
It was decided that Dan and Quin should try their luck on the following
day; and having taken an early breakfast, they started in the bateau,
rowing down the bayou in the direction of the lake. Dan was provided
with a fowling piece, while Quin was to try his luck as a fisherman. The
former was landed at a convenient place, while the latter pushed off
into the deep waters of the lake, each to exercise his craft to the best
of his ability.
On the shore of the lake Dan saw an abundance of wild ducks; but they
were so very wild that he found a great deal of difficulty in getting
near enough to risk the expenditure of any portion of the precious
ammunition which was to last a year. He fired twice without injuring the
game, and began to think that he was never intended for a sportsman. The
third time he wounded a duck, but lost him. This was hopeful, and he
determined to persevere. At the next shot he actually bagged a brant,
and, what was better, he believed he had "got the hang" of the business,
so that he could hunt with some success.
We will not follow him through the trials and disappointments of a six
hours' tramp; but the result of his day's shooting was five ducks and
one goose, with which he was entirely satisfied. With the game in his
bag, he hastened back to the place where Quin had landed him in the
morning. The other sportsman had been waiting two hours for him, and had
been even more fortunate than his companion, having captured about a
dozen good-sized catfish. The result of the expedition was very
promising, and the food question appeared to be settled. With light
hearts they pulled back to the camp, as Dan had christened their
dwelling-place in the swamp.
"Where is Cyd?" asked Dan, as he hauled the boat through the dense
thicket which concealed the Isabel from the gaze of any outsiders.
"He is here on deck," replied Lily, with a troubled expression.
"Something ails him."
"What's the matter?"
"I don't know; he is very sick, and I am so glad you have come!" added
the poor girl, who appeared to have suffered an age of agony in the
absence of the hunter.
Dan was alarmed, for he had not yet considered even the possibility of
the serious illness of any member of the party; and Lily's announcement
conjured up in his vivid imagination visions of suffering and death. He
was full of sympathy, too, for his companion, to whom he was strongly
attached. With a heart full of painful and terrible forebodings, he
leaped upon the deck of the Isabel, and rushed to the standing room,
where Cyd lay upon the floor. The sufferer had evidently just rolled off
the cushioned seat, and was disposed in the most awkward and
uncomfortable position into which the human form could be distorted.
Dan and Quin immediately raised him tenderly from the floor, and placed
him upon the cushions. This movement seemed to disturb the sufferer, and
he opened his eyes, muttering some incoherent words. At the same time he
threw his arms and legs about in a frightful manner. Dan was quite as
much puzzled and alarmed as Lily had been. He did not know what to do
for him. His experience as a nurse had been very limited, and his
knowledge of human infirmities was extremely deficient.
"What ails him?" asked Lily, whose anxiety for the patient completely
beclouded her beautiful face.
"I don't know," replied Dan, hardly less solicitous for the fate of his
friend. "How long has he been sick?"
"After you went away I was busy in the cabin for two or three hours,
taking care of the dishes and cleaning up the place. When I came on deck
he seemed to act very strangely. I never heard him talk so fast before.
He said he felt sick, and thought he should vomit. He was so weak he
could not walk; when he tried to do so, he staggered and fell. I helped
him upon the seat, and then he seemed to be asleep. I bathed his head
with cold water. When he waked up he was stupid, and I was afraid he
would die before you got back. I didn't know what to do; so I gave him
some brandy."
"How much did you give him?" asked Dan.
"Only about half a tumbler full--as much as you gave Quin when he was
sick. Poor fellow! You don't know how much I have suffered in your
absence."
During this conversation, Quin, who had more skill as a physician and
nurse than his companions, had been carefully examining the patient.
"What do you think of him, Quin?" asked Dan, as he turned from Lily to
consult with him.
"I tink dar's hope for Cyd," replied he, a queer smile playing about
his mouth as he glanced at the anxious leader of the party.
"Do you? Then you understand the case--do you?"
"Yes, sar; I do, for sartin. My old massa used to hab jus such fits as
dat," added Quin, his countenance beaming with intelligence.
"What did you do for him?"
"Notin, but put him to bed and let him sleep it off; I tink cold water
good for him. Dat's what missus used to do for old massa when he hab it
bery bad."
At the suggestion of Quin, Cyd was placed outside of the washboard, and
half a dozen buckets of cold water were dashed upon him by the
relentless hand of the negro nurse.
"Wha--wha--wha--" roared Cyd, as the first bucket fell upon him.
"See dar!" exclaimed Quin, triumphantly. "He done git better so quick.
Gib him some more;" and he dashed another pailful upon him.
"Go away dar!" cried Cyd, trying to rise; but Dan held him fast.
"Dat do him heaps ob good," added Quin; and he continued to apply the
harsh remedy.
"Don't do it any more, Quin," interposed Lily, who seemed to think the
remedy was as bad as the disorder.
"Do him power ob good. Drive de fit right away from him," answered Quin,
as he remorselessly dashed another bucket of cold water upon the
patient. "Dat's wat dey call de water-cure."
"Go away dar!" screamed Cyd. "Luff dis chile lone."
"Don't, Quin; he does not like it," said Lily.
"'Pose he don't; nobody likes de medicine."
"But you may kill him," added Dan.
"Kill him! Don't you see he's growin better all de time? Dar; dat'll
do," replied Quin, as he carried the bucket to the forecastle.
"Wha--wha--what's the matter?" demanded Cyd.
"Do you feel better, Cyd?" asked Dan, tenderly, as he permitted the
patient to roll over into the standing room.
"Yes, sar!
 'I's born way down 'pon de Mississip;
 I's crossed de riber on a cotton-wood chip,'"
roared Cyd, trying to sing a familiar song.
"Why, he is crazy!" exclaimed Lily.
"Yes, missy, he's crazy; but he soon git ober it," answered Quin,
laughing.
"Why do you laugh, Quin? You don't seem to be at all concerned about
him," added Lily.
"Bad fit, missy!"
"What ails him?"
"Bad fit, missy; my ole massa use to hab lots ob dem fits," chuckled
Quin.
"But what kind of a fit is it, Quin?"
"Notin, missy, only Cyd done drink too much whiskey, and get
drunk--dat's all."
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE AFFRAY ON THE LAKE
Even Lily laughed when she realized that her friend Cyd was in no danger
of dying in the bad fit which had attacked him; she laughed at his
strange actions and his silly expressions; they all laughed for a time,
but there was something very serious in the occasion. The patient was
taken down into the cabin, and put to bed in his bunk.
When he was asleep again, and the rest of the party had returned to the
deck, the serious part of the affair came up for consideration; and the
meeting was so solemn and momentous that even the good luck of the two
sportsmen was forgotten, and the game and fish were allowed to remain
unnoticed in the bateau. To Dan and Lily it was a terrible thing for a
boy like Cyd to get drunk. It was very funny, but it was awfully serious
in view of future consequences.
Several bottles of wine and liquor had been deposited in the lockers
under the seats in the standing room, and Cyd had helped himself as he
sat there alone. This was the key to his mysterious sickness; and while
his companions congratulated themselves upon Cyd's expected recovery, it
was deemed prudent to place all the intoxicating beverages on board in a
secure place. A locker in Lily's cabin was selected for this purpose,
and it was soon out of Cyd's reach.
Dan wanted to throw all the liquor overboard, except a couple of bottles
to be used as medicine; but Quin thought that some use might be made of
it at a future time. There was no one on board, except Cyd, who would
drink it; and he had imbibed rather as a frolic than because he had any
taste for the fiery article.
The patient slept all the rest of the day and all the following night.
The next morning he was afflicted with a terrible headache, and was so
stupid that he was good for nothing. He was severely reprimanded for his
folly, and made a solemn promise never to partake again; and as the
dangerous fluid was all locked up, and the key in Lily's possession, it
was believed that he would not violate his obligation.
Roast ducks and geese, and fried fish, were the food of the party for
several days to come; and the change from salt provision was very
agreeable. About once a week Dan and Quin repeated the excursion to the
lake, and almost always returned with a plentiful supply of fish and
game. The fugitives lived well, especially as pigeons, partridges, and
an occasional wild turkey graced their table. A roast coon was not an
unusual luxury; for by extending their hunting-grounds in various
directions, they added very much to the variety of their larder.
The small stores, such as butter, salt, sugar, coffee, and tea, were
exhausted in the fall, though they had been very carefully expended.
They had been so long accustomed to their luxurious living, that the
want of these articles was felt as a very great hardship. Their nice
ducks and geese were absolutely loathsome without salt, and Dan came to
the conclusion that salt was a necessity, and that it must be procured
at any risk. About twenty miles from the camp there was a village where
groceries could be obtained; and after a great deal of consideration it
was decided to undertake a journey for this purpose. They had been five
months in the swamp without seeing any human being, though Dan and Quin,
in one of their hunting trips, had heard voices on the lake. They felt
entirely secure in the camp, and Lily was not afraid to remain with Cyd
while Dan and Quin went after the needed supplies.
It was resolved that Dan should pass himself off as a white boy, who,
with a party of hunters, had encamped in the woods. He therefore dressed
himself for the part he was to play, and embarked in the bateau with
Quin, who was to act as his servant. With the utmost care they pursued
their journey, and, without any incident or accident, came in sight of
the village where they were to purchase the stores. But Dan did not
think it prudent to visit the place in broad daylight; so they concealed
themselves in the swamp, and slept by turns till nearly daylight the
next morning.
This seemed to be the most favorable time to visit the store; and they
entered the village, which was called so by courtesy, for it had only
six houses. Putting on the bold, swaggering air of a young southerner,
Dan entered the place, followed by his servant. With all the bluster
necessary to keep up his character, he roused the shopkeeper, and
ordered, rather than requested, him to open his store. Fortunately trade
was not so lively in the place as to render the merchant independent of
his business, and he gladly opened his establishment even at that
unseemly hour. He asked a great many questions, which Dan answered very
readily. The purchases were all made, and Dan's funds, though they
