"My lady shall have it--she is welcome--nobody shall find Juanita
trouble them," the black woman said with great sweetness.
"What will you do with yourself?"
"A little place be enough for me, my lady. My spirit lives in a large
home."
Mrs. Randolph turned impatiently away. The manner of the woman was so
inexpressibly calm and sweet, the dignity of her beautiful presence was
so immovable, that the lady felt it in vain to waste words upon her.
Juanita was a hopeless case.
"It is no use for me to be here then," she said. "Mr. Randolph, you may
make your own arrangements."
Which Mr. Randolph did. He held a consultation with Juanita, as to what
was wanting and what she would do; a consultation with which he was
satisfied. Juanita was left in full charge, with authority to do for
Daisy precisely according to Dr. Sandford's instructions, in all
matters. Mrs. Randolph meanwhile had a talk with her poor pale little
daughter, upon more or less the same subjects; and then the father and
mother prepared to go home to breakfast.
"Shall I send you June?" said Mrs. Randolph.
"No, mamma; I think not."
"Be patient a little while, Daisy," said her father kissing her; "and
you will be able to have books and company too. Now for a little while
you must keep quiet."
"Juanita will keep me quiet, papa."
"I will come and see you again by and by."
"Papa, I want to tell you one thing. I want to speak to you and mamma
before you go."
Mr. Randolph saw that the child's face flushed as if she were making
some effort. He bent down over her again.
"Is it something of interest, Daisy?"
"Yes, papa. To me."
"Don't talk of it now then. Lie still and do not talk at all. By and by
you will tell me what it is."
CHAPTER XVII.
Mr. and Mrs. Randolph departed.
"Daisy will be ruined forever!" So said the lady as soon as she was in
the carriage.
"I hope not."
"You take it coolly, Mr. Randolph. That woman is exactly the sort to
infect Daisy; and you have arranged it so that she will have full
chance."
"What is the precise danger you apprehend?" said Mr. Randolph. "I have
not heard it put into words."
"Daisy will be unmanageable. She is nearly that now."
"I never saw a more docile child in my life."
"That is because you take her part, Mr. Randolph. You will find it out
in time, when it is too late; and it will be your own doing."
"What?"
"Daisy will be a confirmed piece of superstition. You will see. And you
will not find her docile then. If she once takes hold of anything, she
does it with great obstinacy."
"But what is she taking hold of now? After all, you do not tell me,"
said Mr. Randolph carelessly.
"Of every sort of religious fanatical notion, you will find, Mr.
Randolph! She will set herself against everything I want her to do,
after the fashion of those people, who think nothing is right but their
own way. It will be a work of extreme difficulty, I foresee, to do
anything with her after these weeks in this black woman's house. I
would have run any risk in removing her, rather than let it be so."
"Well, we shall see," said Mr. Randolph. "I cannot quite take your view
of the matter. I would rather keep the child--even for my own private
comfort--than lose her to prevent her from becoming religious."
Mrs. Randolph indignantly let this statement of opinion alone.
Little Daisy had a quiet day, meanwhile. The weather grew excessively
hot; her broken ankle pained her; it was a day of suffering. Obliged to
lie quite still; unable to change her position even a little, when the
couch became very hot under her; no air coming in at the open window but
what seemed laden with the heats of a furnace, Daisy lay still and
breathed as well as she could. All day Juanita was busy about her;
moistening her lips with orange juice, bathing her hands, fanning her,
and speaking and singing sweet words to her, as she could attend to
them. The child's eyes began to go to the fine black face that hovered
near her, with an expression of love and trust that was beautiful to
behold. It was a day that tried poor little Daisy's patience; for along
with all this heat, and weary lying still in one position, there were
shoots and twitches of pain that seemed to come from the broken ankle
and reach every part of her body; and she could not move about or turn
over to ease them by some change.
At last the weary hours began to grow less oppressive. The sun got low
in the sky; the air came with a little touch of freshness. How good it
was to see the sun lost behind the woods on the other side the road.
Juanita kindled her fire again and put on the kettle; for Daisy was to
have another cup of tea, and wanted it very much. Then, before the
kettle had boiled, came the doctor.
It was a pleasant variety. Dr. Sandford's face was a good one to see
come in anywhere, and in Daisy's case very refreshing. It was so noble a
face; the features fine, manly, expressive; with a sedate gravity that
spoke of a character above trifling. His calm, forceful eye was very
imposing; the thick auburn locks of his hair, pushed back as they were
from, his face, were beautiful to Daisy's imagination. Altogether he
fastened her attention whenever he came within reach of it; she could
not read those grave lines of his face; she puzzled over them. Dr.
Sandford's appearance was in some way bewitching to her. Truly many
ladies found it so.
He examined now the state of her foot; gave rapid comprehensive glances
at everything; told his orders to Mrs. Benoit. Finally, paused before
going, and looked into the very wise little eyes that scanned him so
carefully.
"Is there anything you want, Daisy?" he said with a physician's
familiarity.
"No, sir,--I thank you."
"Mrs. Benoit takes good care of you?"
"Very good."
The manner of Daisy's speech was like her looks; childlike enough, and
yet with a deliberate utterance unlike a child.
"What do you think about, as you lie there all day?" he said.
The question had been put with a somewhat careless curiosity; but at
that he saw a pink flush rise and spread itself all over Daisy's pale
face; the grey eyes looked at him steadily, with no doubt of some
thoughts behind them. Dr. Sandford listened for her answer. What was
the child thinking about? She spoke at last with that same sweet
deliberateness.
"I have been thinking, Dr. Sandford, about what Jesus did for me."
"What was that?" said the doctor in considerable surprise.
"Because it was so hard for me to keep still to-day, I thought--you
know--how it must have been--"
The flush deepened on the cheeks, and Daisy's eyes were swimming full of
tears. Dr. Sandford looked, in much surprise; perhaps he was at some
pains to comprehend what all this meant.
"How it must have been when?" said he, bending over Daisy's couch.
"You know, Dr. Sandford," she said tenderly. "When he was on the
cross--and couldn't move----"
Daisy gave way. She put her hands over her face. The doctor stood erect,
looking at her; glanced his grave eyes at Mrs. Benoit and at her again;
then made a step towards Juanita.
"No excitement is permitted," he said. "You must keep her from it. Do
you understand?"
"Yes, sir," Juanita said. But her face was all alight.
"Have you been reading some of those stories to her?"
"I have not been reading to her at all to-day, if his honour pleases."
"Daisy," said Dr. Sandford, coming back to the couch, "what put such
thoughts into your head?"
"I felt so badly to-day." She spoke with her usual collectedness again.
"Well, try and not mind it. You will feel better in a day or two. Do you
know when that happened that you were talking about?"
"Yes, sir."
"When was it?"
"More than eighteen hundred years ago."
"Do you think it is worth your while to be troubled for what happened
eighteen hundred years ago?"
"I think it is just the same as if it happened now," said Daisy, without
moving her eyes.
"Do you? By what power of reasoning?"
"I don't think I know how to reason," said Daisy. "It is feeling."
"How does feeling manage it?"
Daisy discerned the tone of the question, looked at her questioner, and
answered with tender seriousness:
"I know the Lord Jesus did that for me; and I know he is in heaven now."
The doctor kept silence a minute. "Daisy," said he, "you are under my
orders at present. You must mind me. You are to take a cup of tea, and a
piece of toast, if you like; then you are to go to sleep and keep quiet,
and not think of anything that happened more than an hour ago. Will
you?"
"I will try to be quiet," said Daisy.
She and the doctor looked at each other in a dissatisfied manner, she
wistfully, he disapprovingly, and then the doctor went out. Daisy's eyes
followed, straining after him as long as they could; and when she could
see him no longer they filled with tears again. She was looking as
intent and wistful as if she might have been thirty years old instead of
nine or ten, when Juanita came to her side with the tea she had been
making.
The tea and toast did Daisy good; and she was ready to enjoy a visit
from, her father, who spent the evening with her. But he would not let
her talk. The next day was hot again; however Daisy felt better. The
heat was more bearable. It was a very quiet day.
Both she and Juanita obeyed orders and did not talk much; nevertheless
Juanita sang hymns a great deal, and that was delightful to Daisy. She
found Juanita knew one hymn in particular that she loved exceedingly; it
was the one that had been sung in the little church the day she had
heard Mr. Dinwiddie preach; it fell in with the course of Daisy's
thoughts; and several times in the day she had Juanita sing it over.
Daisy's eyes always filled when she heard it; nevertheless Juanita could
not resist her pleading wish.
  "O the Lamb! the loving Lamb!--
   The Lamb on Calvary.
   The Lamb that was slain, but lives again,
   To intercede for me."
"I am so happy, Juanita," Daisy said after one of these times. "I am so
happy!"
"What makes it so, my love?"
"O because that is true--because he lives up there to take care of me."
"Bless the Lord!" said the black woman.
Towards evening of that day, Juanita had left the room to make her fire
and attend to some other things, when Daisy heard her own name hailed
softly from the window. She turned her head, and there was Preston's
bright face.
"My poor, poor little Daisy!"
"How do you do, Preston?" said Daisy, looking as clear as a moonbeam.
"There you are a prisoner!"
"It is a very nice prison."
"Don't, my dear Daisy! I'll believe you in anything else, you know; but
in this I am unable. Tied by your foot for six weeks, perhaps! I should
like to shoot Capt. Drummond."
"It was not Capt. Drummond's fault."
"Is it bad, Daisy?"
"My foot? It has been pretty bad."
"Poor Daisy! And that was all because you would not sing."
"Because I would not sing, Preston!"
"Yes, that is the cause of all the trouble that has been in the house.
Now, Daisy, you'll give it up?"
"Give what up?"
"Give up your nonsense, and sing."
"That?" said Daisy, and a slight flush came into the pale cheeks.
"Aunt Felicia wants you to sing it, and she will make you do it, when
you get well."
Daisy made no answer.
"Don't you see, my dear Daisy, it is foolish not to do as other people
do?"
"I don't see what my broken ankle has to do with what you are saying,
Preston."
"Daisy, what will become of you all these six weeks? We cannot go a
fishing, nor have any fun."
"You can."
"What will you do?"
"I guess I can have books and read, by and by. I will ask Dr. Sandford."
"Suppose I bring some books, and read to you?"
"O Preston! how nice."
"Well, I'll do it then. What shall I bring?"
"I wish you could bring something that would tell about these things."
"These things? What is that?"
"It is a trilobite. Capt. Drummond got it the other day. It was a fish
once, and now it is a stone; and I would like very much to know about
it."
"Daisy, are you serious?"
"Why, yes, Preston."
"My dear little Daisy, do not you go and be a philosopher!"
"Why, I can't; but why shouldn't I?"
"Philosophers are not 'nice,' Daisy, when they are ladies," said
Preston, shaking his head.
"Why not?"
"Because ladies are not meant to be philosophers."
"But I want to know about trilobites," said Daisy.
"I don't think you do. You would not find the study of fossils
interesting."
"I think I should--if you would help me, Preston."
"Well, we will see, Daisy. I will do anything for you, if you will do
one thing for me. O Daisy, do! Aunt Felicia has not given it up at
all."
"Good bye, Preston," said Daisy. "Now you must go, and not talk to me
any more this time."
Preston ran off. He was not allowed to come again for a day or two; and
Daisy was not allowed to talk. She was kept very quiet, until it was
found that the broken bone was actually healing and in a fair way to get
well. The pains in it were no longer so trying; the very hot days had
given place to a time of milder weather; and Daisy, under the care of
the old black woman, enjoyed her solitary imprisonment well enough.
Twice a day always her father visited her; once a day, Mrs. Randolph.
Her stay was never very long; Juanita's house was not a comfortable
place for her; but Mr. Randolph gave a large piece of his time and
attention to his suffering little daughter, and was indeed the first one
to execute Preston's plan of reading aloud for her amusement. A new and
great delight to Daisy. She never remembered her father taking such
pains with her before. Then, when her father and mother were gone, and
the cottage was still, Juanita and Daisy had what the latter called
their "good time." Juanita read the Bible and sang hymns and prayed.
There was no time nor pleasure in all the day that Daisy liked so well.
She had gained strength and was in a good way to be well again. The
first morning this was told her, Daisy said:
"Papa, may I speak to you now?"
"About something important, Daisy?"
"Yes, papa, I think so."
"Go on. What is it?"
Juanita was standing near by. The child glanced at her, then at her
father.
"Papa," she said, speaking slowly and with some hesitation,--"I want you
to know--I want to tell you--about me, so that you may understand."
"Are you so difficult to understand, Daisy?"
"No, papa; but I want you to know something. I want you to know that I
am a Christian."
"Well, so are we all," said Mr. Randolph coolly.
"No, papa, but I don't mean that."
"What do you mean?"
"I mean, papa,--that I belong to the Lord Jesus, and must do what he
tells me."
"What am I to understand by that, Daisy?"
"Nothing, papa; only I thought you ought to know."
"Do you understand what you are saying yourself, my child?"
"Yes, papa."
"What does it mean, Daisy?"
"Only, papa, I want you to know that I belong to the Lord Jesus."
"Does that imply that you will not belong to me any more?"
"O no, papa!"
"Why do you tell it me, then?"
"Papa, Jesus says he will be ashamed of those who are ashamed of him; I
will not be ashamed of him; so I want you to know what I am."
"But, Daisy, you and I must come to an understanding about this," said
Mr. Randolph, taking a chair. "Does this declaration mean that you are
intending to be something different from what I like to see you?"
"I do not know, papa."
"You do not! Does it mean that you are proposing to set up a standard of
action for yourself, independent of me?"
"No, papa."
"What then, Daisy?"
"Papa, I do not quite know what you mean by a standard."
"I will change the word. Do you mean that your purpose is to make,
henceforward, your own rules of life?"
"No, papa; I do not mean that."
"What do you mean?"
"Papa," said Daisy, very deliberately, "if I belong to my Saviour,--you
know,--I must follow his rules."
"Daisy, I shall not cease to require obedience to mine."
"No, papa,--but----" said Daisy, colouring.
"But what?"
"I don't know very well how to say what I want, papa; it is difficult."
"Try."
"Papa, you will not be displeased?"
"That depends upon what you have to say. Daisy."
"Papa, I do not mean to displease you," said the child, her eyes
filling with tears. "But--suppose----"
"Well,--suppose anything."
"Suppose those rules should be different from your rules?"
"I am to be the judge, Daisy. If you set up disobedience to me, on any
pretext, you know the consequences."
Daisy's lip trembled; she put up her hands to her face and burst into
tears. She could not bear that reminder. Her father took one of her
hands down and kissed the little wet cheek.
"Where are you going to find these rules, Daisy," he said kindly, "which
you are going to set up against mine?"
"Papa, I do not set them up."
"Where do you get them?"
"Only in the Bible, papa."
"You are a little child, Daisy; you are not quite old enough to be able
to judge properly for yourself what the rules of that book are. While
you are little and ignorant, I am your judge, of that and everything
else; and your business is to obey me. Do you understand that?"
"But, papa----"
"Well--what?"
"Papa, I am afraid you will be angry."
"I do not think I shall. You and I had better come to an understanding
about these matters. Say on, Daisy." "I was going to say, papa--"
Daisy was afraid to tell what. Mr. Randolph again stooped and kissed
her; kissed her two or three times.
"Papa, I do not mean to make you angry," said the child with intense
eagerness,--"but--suppose--papa, I mean,--are you a servant of the
Lord Jesus?"
Mr. Randolph drew back. "I endeavour to do my duty, Daisy," he said
coldly. "I do not know what you include in the terms you use."
"Papa, that is what I mean," said Daisy, with a very meek face. "Papa,
if I am, and you are not, then perhaps you would not think the
things that I think."
"If you are, and I am not, what?"
"That, papa--which I wanted you to know I am. A servant of Jesus."
"Then, what?"
"Then, papa, if I am, and you are not,--wouldn't you perhaps not think
about those rules as I must think of them?"
"You mean that our thoughts would disagree?"
"Papa--they might."
"What shall we do, then, Daisy?"
Daisy looked wistfully and somewhat sadly at him. There was more weight
of thought under the little brow than he liked to see there. This would
not do; yet matters must be settled.
"Do you want to be a different little person from what you have been,
Daisy, hitherto?"
"I don't know, papa--I think so."
"How do you wish to be different?"
"I can't tell, papa. I might have to be."
"I want you just as you are, Daisy."
Mr. Randolph stooped his head down again to the too thoughtful little
face. Daisy clasped her arms around his neck and held him close. It was
only by her extraordinary self-command that she kept from tears; when he
raised his head her eyes were perfectly dry. "Will you be my good
little Daisy--and let me do the thinking for you?" said Mr. Randolph
tenderly.
"Papa--I can't."
"I will not have you different from what I like you, Daisy."
"Then, papa, what shall I do?"
"Obey me, and be satisfied with that."
"But, papa, I am a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ," said the child,
looking unutterably sober.
"I do not intend my commands shall conflict with any of higher
authority."
"Papa--suppose--they might?"
"I must be judge. You are a little child; you must take the law from my
mouth, until you are older."
"But, papa, suppose I thought the Bible told me to do what you did not
think it said?"
"I advise you to believe my judgment, Daisy, if you wish to keep the
peace between us. I will not have anymore calling of it in question."
Daisy struggled plainly, though she would not cry; her colour flushed,
her lip quivered. She was entirely silent for a little while, and Mr.
Randolph sat watching her. The struggle lasted some minutes; till she
had overcome it somewhat she would not speak; and it was sharp. Then the
child closed her eyes and her face grew calm. Mr. Randolph did not know
what to think of her.
"Daisy----"
"What, papa?"
"I do not think we have settled this question yet."
"I do not think we have, papa."
"What is to be done? It will not answer, my little daughter, for you to
set up your will against mine."
"Papa, it is not my will."
"What do you call it, then?"
"Papa, it is not my will at all. It is the will of God."
"Take care, Daisy," said her father. "You are not to say that. My will
will never oppose itself to that authority you speak of."
"Papa, I only want to obey that."
"But remember, I must be the judge."
"Papa," said Daisy, eagerly, "won't this do? If I think something is in
the Bible, mayn't I bring it to you to see?"
"Yes."
"And if you think it is there, then will you let me do it?"
"Do what?"
"Do what the Bible says, papa."
"I think I may promise that, Daisy," said Mr. Randolph; though
dubiously, as not quite certain what he was promising; "so long as I am
the judge."
"Then that will do, papa! That is nice."
Daisy's countenance expressed such utter content at this arrangement,
that Mr. Randolph looked grave.
"Now you have talked and excited yourself enough for to-day," he said.
"You must be quiet."
"Mayn't I tell mamma when she comes?"
"What, Daisy?"
"I mean what I have told you, papa."
"No. Wait till to-morrow. Why do you wish to tell her, Daisy?"
"Papa, I think I ought to tell her. I want her to know."
"You have very uncompromising notions of duty. But this duty can wait
till another day."
Daisy had to wait more than a day for her opportunity; her mother's next
visits were too bustling and unsatisfactory, as well as too short, to
promise her any good chance of being heard. At last came a propitious
morning. It was more moderate weather; Daisy herself was doing very well
and suffering little pain; and Mrs. Randolph looked in good humour and
had sat down with her tetting-work as if she meant to make her daughter
something of a visit. Mr. Randolph was lounging at the head of the
couch, out of Daisy's sight.
"Mamma," began the child, "there is something I wish to say to you."
"You have a favourable opportunity, Daisy. I can hear." Yet Daisy looked
a minute at the white hand that was flying the bobbin about. That white
hand.
"It isn't much, mamma. It is only--that I wish you to know--that I am a
Christian."
"That you are what?" said Mrs. Randolph coldly.
"A Christian, mamma."
"Pray what does that mean?"
"That I am a servant of Christ, mamma."
"When did you find it out, Daisy?"
"Some time ago, mamma. Some time--a little while--before my birthday."
"You did! What do you think me?"
Daisy kept silence.
"Well! why don't you speak? Answer me."
"Mamma, I don't know how to answer you," said Daisy, flushing for an
instant. Her mother's eyes took note of her.
"I shall not ask you a third time, Daisy."
"Mamma," said the child low,--"I do not think you are what I mean by a
Christian."
"You do not. I supposed that. Now you will go on and tell me what you
mean by 'a Christian.'"
"It means," said Daisy, her eyes filling with tears, "it means a person
who loves the Lord Jesus and obeys him."
"I hope you are gratified, Mr. Randolph," said the lady, "with this
specimen of the new Christianity. Dutiful and respectful are happily
united; along with a pleasant mixture of modesty. What do you expect me
to do, Daisy, with this announcement of yours?"
"Nothing, mamma," said Daisy faintly.
"I suppose you think that my Christianity must accommodate itself to
yours? Did you expect that?" "No, mamma."
"It would be very foolish of you; for the fact will be the other way.
Yours must accommodate itself to mine."
"I only wanted you to know what mine is, mamma."
"Yours is what mine is, Daisy. What I think right for you, that you are
to do. I will not hear a whimper from you again about what you are--do
you understand? Not again. I have listened to you this time, but this is
the last. If I hear another syllable like this, about what you are or
your Christianity, I shall know how to chastise it out of you. You are
nothing at all, but my Daisy; you are a Jewess, if I choose to have it
so."
Mr. Randolph made an uneasy movement; but the lady's white fingers flew
in and out of her tetting-work without regarding him.
"What do you want to do, that you are asking my permission in this
roundabout way? What do you want to do, that you think will not please
me?"
Daisy at first hesitated; then Mr. Randolph was surprised to hear her
say boldly--
"I am afraid, a great many things, mamma."
"Well, you know now what to expect. Mr. Randolph," said the lady letting
fall her tetting-work, "if you please, I will go home. The sun will only
be getting hotter, if I stay."
Mr. Randolph stood behind Daisy, bending down and holding her face in
his two hands.
"What would you like me to send you from home, Daisy?"
"Nothing, papa."
"Would you like to have Preston come and see you?"
"If he likes to come, papa."
"He has been only waiting for my permission, and if you say so, I will
give him yours."
"He may come. I should like to see him very much."
"You may have books too, now, Daisy. Do you not want some books?"
"I should like 'Sandford and Merton,' papa; and when Preston comes I'll
tell him what else I want."
Mr. Randolph stood still, smoothing down the hair on each side of the
little round head, while Mrs. Randolph was adjusting herself for her
drive.
"Are you ready, Mr. Randolph?"
"Cannot say that I am," said the gentleman, stooping to kiss Daisy's
forehead,--"but I will go with you. One thing I should like understood.
For reasons which are sufficient with me, Daisy is to consider herself
prohibited from making any music on Sundays henceforward, except she
chooses to do it in church. I mention it, lest you should ask her to do
what I have forbidden, and so make confusion."
Mrs. Randolph gave no sort of answer to this speech, and walked off to
the door. Daisy, whose eyes had brightened with joy, clasped her arms
around her father's neck when he stooped again and whispered with an
energetic pressure,
"Thank you, papa!"
Mr. Randolph only kissed her, and went off after his wife. The drive
home was remarkably silent.
CHAPTER XVIII.
It happened that day that Juanita had business on hand which kept her a
good deal of the morning in the out-shed which formed part of her
premises. She came in every now and then to see how Daisy was doing; yet
the morning was on the whole spent by Daisy alone; and when Juanita at
last came in to stay, she fancied the child was looking pale and worn
more than usual.
"My love do not feel well?"
"Yes I do, Juanita--I am only tired. Have you done washing?"
"It is all done. I am ready for whatever my love pleases."
"Isn't washing very disagreeable work, Juanita?"
"I do not think what it be, while it is mine," the woman said
contentedly. "All is good work that I can do for the Lord."
"But that work, Juanita? How can you do that work so?"
"When the Lord gives work, he give it to be done for him. Bless the
Lord!"
"I do not understand, though, Juanita. Please tell me. How can you?"
"Miss Daisy, I don't know. I can do it with pleasure, because it is my
Lord's command. I can do it with thanksgiving, because he has given me
the strength and the power. And I can do it the best I can, so as nobody
shall find fault in his servant. And then, Miss Daisy, I can do it to
get money to send his blessed word to them that sit in darkness--where I
come from. And I can do it with prayer, asking my Lord to make my heart
clean for his glory; like as I make soiled things white again. And I do
it with joy, because I know the Lord hear my prayer."
"I think you are very happy, Juanita," said Daisy.
"When the Lord leads to living fountains of waters, then no more
thirsting,"--said the black woman expressively.
"Then, Juanita, I suppose--if I get tired lying here,--I can do patience
work?"
"Jesus will have his people do a great deal of that work," said Mrs.
Benoit tenderly. "And it is work that pleases him, Miss Daisy. My love
is very weary?"
"I suppose, Juanita, if I was really patient, I shouldn't be. Should I?
I think I am impatient."
"My love knows who carries the lambs in his bosom."
Daisy's tired face smoothed itself out at this. She turned her eyes to
the window with a placid look of rest in them.
"Jesus knows where the trouble is," said the black woman. "He knows all.
And he can help too. Now I am going to get something to do Miss Daisy
good."
Before this could be done, there came a heavy clumping step up to the
house and a knock at the door; and then a person entered whom Juanita
did not know. A hard-featured woman, in an old-fashioned black straw
bonnet and faded old shawl drawn tight round her. She came directly
forward to Daisy's couch.
"Well I declare if it ain't true! Tied by the heels, ain't ye?"--was her
salutation. Juanita looked, and saw that Daisy recognized the visiter;
for she smiled at her, half pleasure, half assent to what she said.
"I heerd of it--that is, I heerd you'd gone up to the mountain and broke
something; I couldn't find out what 'twas; and then Hephzibah she said
she would go down to Melbourne Sunday. I said to her, says I,
'Hephzibah, I wouldn't go all that ways, child, for to do nothing;
'tain't likely but that some part of the story's true, if you and me
can't find out which;' but Hephzibah she took her own head and went; and
don't you think, she came back a cryin'?"
"What was that for?" said Daisy, looking very much interested.
"Why she couldn't find you, I guess; and she thought you was killed. But
you ain't, be you?"
"Only my foot and ankle hurt," said Daisy smiling; "and I am doing very
well now."
"And was you broke anywheres?"
"My ankle was broken."
"I declare! And you couldn't be took home?"
"No."
"So the folks said; only they said that young soldier had killed you. I
hope he got hurted himself?"
"Why Mrs. Harbonner, he did not do it. It was an accident. It wasn't
anybody's fault."
"It wouldn't ha' happened if I had been there, I can tell you!" said
Hephzibah's mother. "I don't think much of a man if he ain't up to
taking care of a woman;--and a child above all. Now how long are you
goin' to be in this fix?"
"I don't know. I suppose I shall have to lie still for four or five
weeks more, before my foot is well."
"It's tiresome, I guess, ain't it?"
"Yes--sometimes."
"Well I used to think, if folks was good, things wouldn't happen to 'em.
That's what I thought. That was my study of divinity. And when
everything on earth happened to me, I just concluded it was because I
warn't a bit too good to deserve it. Now I'm beat--to see you lie there.
I don't see what is the use of being good, if it don't get none."
"O Mrs. Harbonner!" said Daisy--"I am glad my foot was broken."
"Well, I'm beat!" was all Mrs. Harbonner could say. "You air, be you?"
"It hasn't done me any harm at all; and it has done me a great deal of
good."
Mrs. Harbonner stood staring at Daisy.
"The promise is sure," said Mrs. Benoit. "All things shall work together
for good to them that love God!"
The other woman wheeled about and looked at her for an instant with a
sharp keen eye of note-taking; then she returned to Daisy.
"Well I suppose I'll tell Hephzibah she won't see you again till
summer's over; so she may as well give over thinking about it."
"Do you think Hephzibah wants to learn, Mrs. Harbonner?"
"Well, I guess she does."
"Wouldn't she come here and get her lessons? Couldn't she come to see me
every day while I am here?"
"I 'spose she'd jump out of her skin to do it," said Mrs. Harbonner.
"Hephzibah's dreadful sot on seeing you."
"Mrs. Benoit," said Daisy, "may I have this little girl come to see me
every day, while I am here?"
"Miss Daisy shall have all, who she will," was the answer; and it was
arranged so; and Mrs. Harbonner took her departure. Lingering a minute
at the door, whither Juanita attended her, she made one or two enquiries
and remarks about Daisy, answered civilly and briefly by Mrs. Benoit.
"Poor little toad!" said Mrs. Harbonner, drawing her shawl tight round
her for the last time. "But ain't she little queer?"
These words were spoken in a low murmur, which just served to draw
Daisy's attention. Out of sight behind the moreen curtain, Mrs.
Harbonner forgot she was not beyond hearing; and Daisy's ears were
good. She noticed that Juanita made no answer at all to this question,
and presently shut the door.
The business of giving Daisy some fruit was the next thing attended to;
in the course of eating which Daisy marvelled a little to herself what
possible likeness to a toad Mrs. Harbonner could have discovered in
her. The comparison did not seem flattering; also she pondered somewhat
why it could be that anybody found her queer. She said nothing about it;
though she gave Mrs. Benoit a little account of Hephzibah and the reason
of the proposed series of visits. In the midst of this came a cheery
"Daisy"--at the other side of her; and turning her head, there was
Preston's face at the window.
"O Preston!"--Daisy handed to Mrs. Benoit her unfinished saucer of
strawberries--"I am so glad! I have been waiting for you. Have you
brought my books?"
"Where do you think I have been, Daisy?"
"I don't know. Shooting!--Have you?"
Daisy's eye caught the barrel of a fowling-piece shewing its end up at
the window. Preston without replying lifted up his game bag and let her
see the bright feathers of little birds which partly filled it.
"You have!--Shooting!"--Daisy repeated, in a tone between disapprobation
and dismay. "It isn't September!"
"Capital sport, Daisy," said Preston, letting the bag fall.
"I think it is very poor sport," said Daisy. "I wish they were all alive
and flying again."
"So do I--if I might shoot them again."
"It's cruel, Preston!"
"Nonsense, Daisy. Don't you be too tender. Birds were made to kill. What
are they good for?"
With a wit that served her instead of experience, Daisy was silent,
looking with unspoken abhorrence at the wicked muzzle of the
fowling-piece.
"Did you bring me 'Sandford and Merton,' Preston?" she said presently.
"'Sandford and Merton'! My dear Daisy, I have been going all over the
world, you know--this part of it--and I was too far from Melbourne to go
round that way for your book; if I had, it would have been too late to
get here. You see the sun's pretty well down."
Daisy said no more; but it was out of her power not to look
disappointed. She had so counted upon her book; and she was so weary of
lying still and doing nothing. She wanted very much to read about the
house that Harry and Tommy built; it would have been a great
refreshment.
"Cheer up, Daisy," said Preston; "I'll bring you books to-morrow--and
read to you too, if you like it. What shall I bring?"
"O Preston, I want to know about trilobites!"
"Daisy, you might as well want to know about the centre of the earth!
That's where they belong."
"I should like to know about the centre of the earth," said Daisy. "Is
there anything there?"
"Anything at the centre of the earth? I suppose so."
"But I mean, anything but earth," said Daisy.
Preston burst out laughing. "O Daisy, Daisy!--Hadn't you better learn
about what is on the outside of the earth, before we dig down so deep
into it?"
"Well, Preston, my trilobite was on the outside."
"Daisy, it wouldn't interest you," said Preston seriously; "you would
have to go deep into something else besides the earth--so deep that you
would get tired. Let the trilobite alone, and let's have Grimm's Tales
to-morrow--shall we? or what will you have?"
Daisy was patiently silent a minute; and then in came Dr. Sandford. In
his presence Preston was mute; attending to the doctor's manipulations
as gravely as the doctor himself performed them. In the midst of the
general stillness, Dr. Sandford asked,
"Who was speaking about trilobites as I came up?"
"Preston was speaking," said Daisy, as nobody else seemed ready to
answer.
"What about them?"
"He thinks they would not interest me," said Daisy.
"What do you know about trilobites?" said Dr. Sandford, now raising his
blue eyes for a good look into the child's face. He saw it looked weary.
"I have got a beautiful one. Juanita, will you bring it here, please?"
The doctor took it up and handled it with an eye that said, Daisy knew,
that it was a fine specimen. The way he handled it gratified her.
"So this is one of your playthings, is it, Daisy?"
"No, sir; it is not a plaything, but I like to look at it."
"Why?"
"It is so wonderful, and beautiful, I think."
"But do tell Daisy, will you, doctor," said Preston, "that it is a
subject she cannot understand yet. She wants me to bring her books about
trilobites."
"Time hangs heavy, Daisy?" said the doctor.
"No, sir--only when I have nothing to do."
"What have you done to-day?"
"Nothing, sir; except talking to papa and mamma,--and some business
about a little girl."
The sedateness of this announcement was inexpressible, coming as it did
after a little thoughtful pause. Preston burst out laughing. Dr.
Sandford did not so far forget himself. He only gave Daisy a rapid look
of his grave blue eyes.
"It would be a charity to give you more employment than that," he said.
"You like wonderful things, Daisy?"
"Very much, when I understand about them."
"I will agree to tell you anything you please--that I know--about any
wonderful things you can see to-morrow, looking from your window."
The Doctor and Preston went off together, and left Daisy, though without
books, in a high state of excitement and gratification. The rest of the
evening her little head was busy by turns with fancying the observations
of the next day, and wondering what she could possibly find from her
window to talk to the doctor about. A very unpromising window Daisy
considered it. Nothing was to be seen beside trees and a little strip of
road; few people passed by that way; and if there had, what wonder could
there have been in that. Daisy was half afraid she should find nothing
to talk to the doctor about; and that would be a mortification.
Daisy and Juanita were both apt to be awake pretty early. Lying there on
her back all day, without power to run about and get tired, Daisy's
sleep was light; and her eyes were generally open before the sun got
high enough to look at them. Juanita was always up and dressed earlier
even than that; how much earlier Daisy had no means of knowing; but she
was sure to hear the murmur of her friend's voice at her prayers, either
in the other room or outside of the house. And Juanita did not come in
to see Daisy till she had been awake a good while, and had had leisure
to think over a great many things. Daisy found that was a good time for
her own prayers; there was nothing to disturb her, and nothing to be
heard at all, except that soft sound of Juanita's voice and the clear
trills and quavers of the little birds' voices in the trees. There was
no disturbance in any of those sounds; nothing but joy and gladness and
the voice of melody from them all.
By and by, when the light began to kindle in the tops of the trees, and
Daisy was sure to be watching it and trying to get sight of some of the
bird singers which were so merry up there, she would hear another sound
by her bedside, or feel a soft touch; and there would be Juanita, as
bright as the day, in her way of looking bright, bending over to see
and find out how Daisy was. Then, having satisfied herself, Juanita
would go about the business of the morning. First her fire was made, and
the kettle put on for breakfast. Daisy used to beg her to leave the door
open, so that though she could not follow her with her eyes and see, she
could yet hear what Juanita was doing. She used to listen to hear the
kindling put in the stove, and the wood; she knew the sound of it; then
when the match was lit and applied she liked the rushing sound of the
blaze and kindling fire; it gave pleasant token that the kettle would be
boiled by and by. But first she listened to Juanita's feet brushing
through the grass to get to the well; and Daisy listened so hard she
could almost tell after a while whether the grass was dry or whether it
was heavy with dew. Juanita always carried the kettle to the well; and
when she came back Daisy could hear the iron clink of the stove as the
kettle was put on. Presently Juanita came in then from her kitchen, and
began the work of putting the house in order. How nicely she did it!
like the perfection of a nurse, which she was. No dust, no noise, no
bustle; still as a mouse, but watchful as a cat, the alert old woman
went round the room and made all tidy and all clean and fresh. Very
likely Juanita would change the flowers in a little vase which stood on
the mantelpiece or the table, before she felt that everything was as it
ought to be.
When all that was done, her next attention was to Daisy herself; and
Daisy never in her life had nicer tending than now. If Juanita was a
nurse, she was a dressing-maid too, of first-rate qualifications. It was
a real pleasure to have her ministering about the couch; and for that
matter, the whole work of the morning, as Juanita managed it, was a
regular and unfailing piece of amusement to Daisy. And in the midst of
it, every look at the black woman's noble, sweet face, warmed Daisy's
heart with something better than amusement. Daisy grew to love her very
much.
This morning all these affairs had been gone through as usual; and
leaving Daisy in a happy, refreshed state, Mrs. Benoit went off to
prepare her breakfast. Like everything else, that was beautifully done.
By and by, in she came with a tray and white napkin, white as napkin
could be, and fine damask too. For Juanita had treasures of various
sorts, besides old moreen curtains. On this tray for instance, there was
not only a fine napkin of damask; there was a delicate cup and saucer of
fine china, which Daisy thought very beautiful. It was as thin and fine
as any cup at Melbourne House, and had a dainty vine of leaves and
flowers running round it, in a light red brown colour. The plate was not
to match; it was a common little white plate; but that did not matter.
The tea was in the little brown cup, and Daisy's lips closed upon it
with entire satisfaction. Juanita had some excellent tea too; and if she
had not, there was a sufficient supply sent from Melbourne; as well as
of everything else. So to-day there was not only the brown toast in
strips, which Daisy fancied; but there were great red Antwerp
raspberries for her; and that made, Daisy thought, the very best
breakfast that could be eaten. She was very bright this morning.
"Juanita," she said, "I have found something for Dr Sandford already."
"What does Miss Daisy mean?"
"Don't you know? Didn't you hear him yesterday? He gave me something to
do. He said he would tell me about anything wonderful I could see in the
course of the day; and I have found something already."
"'Seems to me as all the Lord has made is wonderful," said the black
woman. "Does Miss Daisy think Dr. Sandford can tell her all about it?"
"Why I suppose he knows a great deal, Juanita."
"If he knowed one thing more,"--said the black woman. "Here he is, Miss
Daisy. He's early."
Certainly he was; but Dr. Sandford had a long ride to take that morning,
and could only see Daisy then on his way. In silence he attended to her,
and with no delay; smiled at her; put the tips of his fingers to her
raspberry dish and took out one for his own lips; then went quick away.
