Captain de Banyan was with them ; thus proving in 
the most conclusive manner that the gentleman in the 
chimney was not this distinguished individual. Having 
lost one prisoner, they were particularly cautious in 
regard to the disposition of the other. The captain 
marched off in gloomy dignity, with two cavalrymen 
before and two behind him. Somers caught a -glance 
at his face as he turned the corner into the road. It 
was sad beyond anv tiling which he had ever observed 
in his countenance before, and a momentary twinge of 
conscience upbraided him for deserting a comrade in 
such an hour : he might have waited till both of them 
could escape together. But the captain's record in the 
Third Tennessee assured him that he had only done 
his duty ; though he hoped his brilliant friend would be 
able, if an opportunity was ever presented, to remove 
the stain which now rested on his name and fame. 
TVilli a feeling of intense relief, however much he 
commiserated the misfortunes of his comrade, Somers 
saw the little procession move up the road which led to 
Richmond and a rebel dungeon. They disappeared ; and 
while he was considering in what manner he should 
make his way down to the creek, where he hoped to find 
a boat in which to leave this treacherous soil, he heard a 
voice beneath him, and farther down than the locality of 
the deserter. 
" Yer kin come down now, Tom," said the farmer. 
Though the name was his own, the invitation was 
evidently not intended for him ; and he remained quietly 
on his perch, waiting for further developments. 
Hev they all gone, dad?" asked the deserter. 
.. 
 
" Yes : all gone. Yer kin come down now." 
The renegade, then, was the son of the farmer ; which 
accounted for the unwillingness of the latter to have the 
house searched by the soldiers : and, though Sorners had 
a general contempt for deserters, he felt his indebtedness 
to this interesting family for the service they had unwit- 
tingly endeavored to render him. 
Tom Somers wanted to have his name changed then 
Tom descended from his position in the chimney. It 
was an easy matter ; for the kitchen was at the other end 
of the house, and there had been no fire on this hearth 
for many a month. 
" Dad," said this graceless son of a graceless sire. 
" Go and wash yer face, Tom. Yer blacker than 
Black Jack." 
" Dad, there's another man up the chimley. We come 
near havin' a fight up there. I told him what I would 
do ; and he got skeered, and went up top." 
"What d' yer mean, Tom?" demanded the patriarch. 
Tom stated again, more explicitly than before, the 
subject-matter of his startling communication. 
" I reckon he's a Yank, dad : he talks like one, but 
says he b'lougs to the Forty-fust Virginny. I know he's 
a Yank. I kin smell one a mile off." 
Somers was flattered ; but he was not angry at the 
compliment, and calmly waited for an invitation to join 
the family below. 
 
" He's the feller that gin the soldiers the slip," added 
the father. " The sergeant says he's a Yank ; but t'other 
prisoner says he's a James-River pilot." 
" I know he's a Yank. He'd a killed me if I hadn't 
skeered him off." 
" I reckon he skeered you more'n you skeered him," 
added the head of the family, who appeared not to have 
a very high opinion of his son's courage. "We'll smoke 
him out, Tom. Go'n git some pitch -wood and sich 
truck." 
Somers had a very strong objection to being smoked 
out, and he commenced a forward and downward move- 
ment in the direction of the assailing party. Fearing 
that some unworthy advantage might be taken of his 
lower extremities before he could assume an attitude of 
defence, he drew his pistol, and placed himself a few feet 
above the fire-place. Tom returned with the fuel, and 
the old man ordered him to make a fire. 
" One moment, if you please," said Somers. " I'll 
shoot the first man of you that attempts to make a fire 
there." 
With an -exclamation of terror, Tom retreated from 
the hearth ; and Somers, improving the opportunity, 
leaped down from his perch. Stepping out from the 
great fire-place, he stood in the presence of the hopeful 
son and sire. 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
A BROKEN BARGAIN. 
OMERS was entirely satisfied with himself 
when he stood in the presence of the farmer 
and his son ; and, so far as they were concerned, 
he had no fears for the future. The redoubta- 
ble Tom retired to one corner of the room, and, full of 
terror, awaited the issue. The father was the braver of 
the two, and stood in the middle of the floor, confront- 
ing the pestilent Yankee who had thus so unceremoni- 
ously invaded his house. 
" Who be you?" demanded the old man. 
" No matter who I am," replied Somers, with the 
pistol still in his hands. " I propose to spend the day 
with you, and will pay for every thing I have." 
" Perhaps yer will stay here, and perhaps yer won't," 
replied the farmer doggedly. 
There is no perhaps about it : I intend to stay here." 
I s'pose yer don't keer whether I'm willing or not." 
" On the contrary, I do care. I had much rather staj> 
with your consent than without." 
" Well, then, yer won't stay with my consent.'' 
" Then I shall stay without it," answered Somers, 
with a degree of decision which was exceedingly annoy- 
ing to his involuntary host. 
" No, yer won't," growled the farmer. 
"I will pay you well for the use of this room, and for 
all that I eat and drink," said Somers, wishing to be 
fully understood. 
" Yer can't stay here." 
No, yer can't," added Tom. 
I have made you a fair offer, and am willing to do 
what is right ; and, as I said before, I intend to stay here 
till to-night, whether you are willing or not." 
" Yer kin put up your pistol : I ain't afeerd on it." 
" I have no desire to use the pistol to your injury, 
and shall not do so unless in self-defence. You know 
that I am a fugitive." 
" A nigger, by gracious ! " exclaimed the farmer, 
whose vocabulary was very limited, and who had no idea 
that the word " fugitive ' : ' could mean any thing but a 
runaway negro. 
" You know that the soldiers are after me, and it will 
not be safe for me to leave this house before dark. I'm 
not a nigger ; and it makes no difference to you what I 
am." 
" You are a dirty Yankee ; and I'd rather hev a hun- 
dred niggers in my house than one Yankee." 
" That's a matter of taste. If you are fond of ne. 
groes, I don't interfere with you for that." 
" Shet up ! " snarled the farmer, highly displeased with 
the answer of the fugitive. u I won't hev a Yankee in 
my house a single hour." 
" Very well : we won't argue the matter. You can do 
any thing you please about it," replied Somers with per- 
fect indifference as he seated himself in a chair. 
" Then yer kin leave." 
" I shall not leave : on the contrary, I shall remain 
here till night." 
" I reckon we'll see about that. I'll jest go down and 
call up two or three of them soldiers, and let 'em know 
you're a Yankee. I calkilate they'll tote you out of this 
rather sudden." 
Go ahead ! " replied Somers coolly. 
I reckon ye'll tell another story by the time they 
git here." 
" I reckon your son Tom will too," added the unwel- 
come guest. 
" See here, dad : that won't work, nohow," interposed 
the hopeful son. " They'll ketch me if yer do." 
" Exactly so," added Somers, who, of course, had de- 
pended upon the situation of the rebel deserter for his 
own safety. 
The farmer looked at his intractable guest, and then 
upon his dutiful son ; and the idea tardily passed through 
 
his dull brain thaMhe soldiers would be just as dangerous 
to the welfare of the son as to the visitor. Probably he 
had intended, when the military force came, to send Tom 
up the chimney, as he had done a dozen times before ; 
but the secret was no longer in the keeping of the family 
alone. 
" I see you understand the case perfectly," said 
Somers, as he contemplated with intense satisfaction 
the blank dismay of both father and son. " If you had 
the wisdom of Solomon, you couldn't comprehend it any 
better." 
" I reckon yer about right, stranger," replied the 
farmer. 
" You can see now it is for your interest as well as 
mine that we make friends. Tom's safety and mine are 
both the same thing. The best you can do is to take 
good care of me to-day, and at night help me to make 
my way over to the other side of the river." 
4G Then yer be a Yank ? ' 
" I didn't say so. Tom can go with me if he likes. 
He will be safer there than here." 
"Tom?" . 
" If he is a deserter from the rebel army, he will be 
caught sooner or later, and be shot. He will be safe 
on the other side of the river." 
" Go over to the Yanks ! He hates 'em wurs'n pizin 
Don't yer, Tom?" 
 
" Bet yer life I do, dad," replied the hopeful son. u J 
won't go over thar, nohow." 
" Just as he pleases about that. I only wanted to d(? 
him a friendly act." 
" Well, stranger, I don't mind keepin' yer to-day ; but 
Tom can't go with yer." 
" Very well : then I will stay in this room ; and, if the 
soldiers come, I can go up the chimney with Tom," re- 
plied Somers. u I'm tired and sleepy. Didn't sleep a 
wink last night. I will take a nap on the floor. You 
will wake me, Tom, if there's any danger ; won't you ? ' 
" Yes, I'll wake yer," replied the deserter with a 
broad grin. 
" We'll see that yer don't git caught ; kase, if yer do, 
of course, Tom'll git caught too," added the farmer. 
There was something in his manner which Somers did 
not like. Though he was a man of dull mind, there was 
a kind of low cunning visible in his look and manner 
which warned Somers to be cautious. He stretched 
himself on the floor ; and the farmer and his son left 
the room, closing the door behind them. 
Our scout was, as he had before declared, both tired 
and sleepy ; but rest and sleep were luxuries in which he 
could not permit himself to indulge in the midst of so 
much peril and so many enemies. As soon as the door 
closed behind the sire and the son, he rose from his re- 
clining posture, and hastened to reconnoitre the position. 
 
The enemy for such he was fully assured his host was 
passed through the entry, and out the door at the back 
of the house, as Somers discovered from the noise of 
their retreating footsteps. 
There was a window in the rear of the room, which 
commanded a full view of them as they paused near the 
door to consider the situation. Somers raised the sash 
a little, so that he could hear what they said, not doubt- 
ing that his own case would be the subject of the con- 
versation. 
" Don't you do it, dad," protested Tom in answer to 
some proposition which the farmer had made before the 
listener came within hearing distance of them. 
" Don't yer be skeert, Tom. The feller's gone ter 
sleep in there, and the soldiers kin hurry him off afore 
he wakes up. Don't yer see, Tom? I reckon the 
Yank's an officer, and they'll give me sunthin hand- 
some for ketchin him." 
" Yes ; but, dad, they'll get sunthin handsome fur 
tatchin me too." 
" You kin hide, as yer allers does when they comes." 
" But the Yank will blow on me." 
" What if he does?" 
" He'll tell 'em I'm up chimley, and then they'll look 
fur me." 
"Tom, yer a bigger fool'n yer father!' said the 
farmer petulantly. " Can't yer hide in t'other place down 
suller?" 
" It looks kinder skeeiy, dad," replied the doubtful 
son. 
" Yer used ter hide down suller more'n yer did up 
chimley. But don't yer see, Tom, arter I've called in 
the soldiers, and give up the Yank, they'll think I'm a 
patriot, and won't b'leeve nothin' a dirty Yank can say 
agin me?" 
" Well, dad, I hate the Yank as bad as you do ; but 
yer must be keerful." 
" Now go and see that the feller don't wake up and 
run off, and I'll go down arter a sergeant and half a 
dozen men. When yer hear us comin', just step down 
suller'n crawl inter the drean. Git the feller's pistol 
out of his pocket, if yer kin, while he's asleep." 
" What a precious old scoundrel that man is ! ' 
thought Somers, as he retreated from the window, and 
threw himself on the floor where the farmer had left 
him. 
He almost regretted that he had not used his pistol on 
the treacherous old villain, who had made a fair bargain 
with him, and agreed to the terms of the contract. The 
wretch had actually gone after the soldiers to entrap 
him, and Tom was to remain and keep watch of him 
in the mean time. Taking the revolver from his pocket, 
he thrust it under his blouse ; still keeping his hand upon 
it, so as to make sure that the deserter did not carry out 
his part of the programme. Thus prepared for the con- 
 
flict which might ensue, or for any other event, he closed 
his eyes, and pretended to be asleep. 
Presently the door softly opened, and Tom crept into 
the room. He had taken off his shoes, that his step on 
the imcarpeted floor might not disturb his prey, and stole 
towards him. After approaching as near to the pros- 
trate form as he dared, he bent over him to determine 
in which pocket the pistol had been placed. Somers 
was tempted to grapple him by the throat, as he lis- 
tened to the young villain's subdued breathing ; but he 
feared that he would scream if he did so, and it was 
necessary to achieve his conquest in a more gentle 
manner. 
lie moved his body a little, as if his slumbers were 
disturbed by unpleasant dreams ; and added a noise like 
a snore to complete the delusion. Tom retired for a 
moment till his victim should again be composed ; but 
Somers-, instead of subsiding into the slumber of a sleepy 
and tired man, gradually opened his eyes and waked up. 
Slowly rising into a sitting posture, he looked around 
him ; and apparently, as if entirely by accident, he dis- 
cerned Tom. 
"Can't yer sleep?' asked Tom, with extraordinary 
good nature for a person of his saturnine disposition. 
" I've been asleep these two hours, I believe," gaped 
Somers. " What time is it, Tom? " 
" 'Tain't eight o'clock yet. Yer hain't been asleep 
more'n fifteen minutes." 
 
"Haven't I?" 
" Not raore'n that. Better lay down, and finish yef 
flap ; kase I spose yer won't git much sleep to-night, if 
yer gwine over the river." 
"I feel better than I did r at any rate. I think I'll 
get up. It's tremendous hot here. Don't you ever open 
your windows ? ' 
" I reckon we do. I was just thinkin' o' that." 
And it was quite probable he was thinking of it ; for 
he certainly wanted the earliest information of the ap- 
proach of the soldiers. He opened the window in the 
front of the house, and Somers opened that in the rear. 
The latter then went to the door, and took a careful sur- 
vey of the entry, in order to determine the way which 
the deserter must take to reach the cellar, where he was 
to conceal himself when the soldiers came. The pru- 
dent son of the master of the house had opened the door 
leading to the cellar, from which he was to enter his 
subterranean retreat. 
For more than an hour, Tom nervously watched the 
wakeful Yankee, and several times suggested to him that 
he could sleep just as well as not, promising to wake 
him up if there was any danger ; but Somers was most 
provokingly lively for a man who had been up all the 
preceding night, and resolutely refused to take a hint or 
to adopt a suggestion. Both of them were fearfully 
anxious for the result that was pending, and each had 
his plan for overreaching the other. It was a long hour ; 
but at last Tom broke the spell which seemed to rest on 
both of them by declaring that he was " clean choked 
up," and must go and get a drink of water. At the 
same moment, Sorners heard the tramp of the soldiers 
in the road as they approached the house, and under- 
stood why his companion had suddenly become so 
thirsty. 
" No," said Somers, placing himself between the 
deserter and the door, with the revolver in his hand. 
" I don't want to be left alone. Somebody is coming to 
the house, half a dozen men. They are soldiers ! " he 
exclaimed, glancing out at the window. 
" Run right up chimley thar, and you'll be as safe as 
if you was t'other side of the river." 
" But they'll catch you too ! Come, Tom, up chim- 
ney with you, and I'll follow. If any one attempts tt> 
follow us, I'll shoot him with my pistol. Be in a hurry. 
Tom ! We have no time to spare," urged Somers, driv- 
ing the coward before him towards the fire-place. 
" You go up fust," pleaded Tom, in mortal terror of 
the revolver. 
" Up with you, or I'll blow your brains out ! " added 
Somers in a low, fierce tone, which frightened his com- 
panion half out of his wits. 
" Don't fire, and I will," replied the wretch, as he 
stepped into the fire-place, and commenced the ascent of 
the chimney. 
 
" Up with you ! " repeated Somers. " Now, if you 
attempt to come down, I'll shoot you." 
The voice of the farmer, leading the soldiers to then 
prey, was now heard close to the house ; and Somer 
deemed it prudent no longer to remain in the room. 
Darting out into the entry, he made his way to the 
cellar, closing the door behind him just as the rebels 
were about to enter. 
"Where is he?" demanded the sergeant, who belonged 
to the battery at the works near the house. 
" In this room," replied the farmer, putting his hand 
on the door of the apartment where he had seen the 
victim lie down to sleep an hour before. " But yer 
must be keerful with him. He had a pistol, and mebbe 
he mought shoot some on us." 
" We aren't afraid of all the Yankees this side of the 
North Pole," added the sergeant, as he pushed the door 
open and entered the room, followed by his squad of 
soldiers. " Where is he ? There aren't no Yankee 
here." 
" Well, he was here an hour ago," said the farmer. 
" See here, old man, if you've been makin' a fool of 
us this hot day, I'll spit you on my bayonet. We heard 
that a deserter and a Yankee had been taken, and that 
the cavalry iost one of them." 
" That 'was the Yankee. They lost him, and I found 
him again." 
 
"Where is he, then?" 
" He aren't far from here," said the farmer, walking 
up to the fire-place, and pointing up the chimney, where 
he had no doubt the victim had retired when he heard 
the soldiers approaching. 
"Up there?' 
" That's where the feller hid when the troopers was 
lookin' for him ; and yer kin be sure he's up there now
But yer must be keerful ; fur he's got a pistol, and is a 
mighty savage fellow." 
" We'll soon bring him down," added the sergeant, as 
he stepped into the fire-place, and looked up the chimney. 
" I see him ; but he's half way up to the top. I reckon 
we can smoke him out best. Come, old man, take some 
of this pitch-wood : that will make a big smoke, and 
kindle a fire." 
" We'll soon have him," said the farmer as he obeyed 
the order. 
" I say, Yank ! " shouted the sergeant up the chimney ; 
" if you don't want to be smoked out, come down." 
No answer came to this polite suggestion ; and then 
one of the soldiers proposed to fire his musket up the 
chimney ; which so terrified the occupant thereof, that he 
begged for mercy. 
" Don't shoot, and I'll come down ! >: groaned the 
wretch. 
 
" The cowardly Yank ! He's like all the rest of them. 
Come down quick, then ! ' : 
The farmer, who had stepped out for more wood, 
returned ; and, at the same moment, Tom the deserter, 
begrimed with soot, dropped down on the hearth, and 
stepped out into the room. 
CHAPTER XXV. 
SOMERS IS COMPELLED TO BACK OUT. 
ERY likely the Virginia farmer had some idea 
of retributive justice when he saw his hopeful 
son step out of the fire-place into the very jaws 
of ruin.- To. say that he was astonished would 
be expressing his state of mind too tamely ; for he was 
overwhelmed with confusion, fear, and mortification. 
He had expected to find the Yankee asleep on the floor ; 
but, as he was not there, it was sufficiently evident to 
him that he had again resorted to the chimney for con- 
cealment. It had been distinctly arranged beforehand, 
that Tom, his son, should conceal himself in the cellar ; 
and, of course, he did not expect to find him in the 
chimney. 
In short, all his expectations had been defeated, and 
he himself had opened the trap for his sou to enter. He 
probably knew how strict was the discipline of the rebel 
army in respect to deserters. He had frequently heard 
of executions of persons of this class ; and he could 
hardly expect his son to escape the penalty of his mis- 
conduct. He had broken his bargain with the fugitive ,' 
 
And, in attempting to surrender him to his implacable 
enemies, he had deprived his heir of liberty, if not of 
life. 
"This is your Yankee, is it?" demanded the sergeant, 
as he gazed at the remnants of the rebel uniform which 
Tom still wore. 
"No, no; this ain't the Yankee!' stammered the 
farmer. 
" "Well, you needn't tell us who lie is ; for we know. I 
was told to keep a sharp lookout for one Tom Rigney, 
a deserter ; and I reckon this is the chap. You are my 
prisoner? my fine lad." 
"There, now, dad! d'ye see what ye've done?" 
snarled poor Tom Rigney, as he glanced reproachfully 
at the patriarch, who had unwittingly sprung the trap 
upon him. 
" I didn't do it, Tom," replied Farmer Rigney, 
appalled at the calamity which had overtaken his 
house. 
" Didn't you bring me in here to capture this boy?" 
asked the sergeant, who appeared to be bewildered by 
the unnatural act of the father. 
" I brought yer here to take the Yank, who was as 
fiassy as a four-year-old colt." 
" He promised the Yankee he'd take keer on him till 
aight," added the vengeful Tom. 
That was only to keep him here till I could fotch 
somebody to take keer on him," pleaded the farmer. 
" The Yank must be up chimley now," he continued, 
reminded that his own reputation for loyalty to the 
great and general Southern Confederacy was now 
doubly compromised. 
" He ain't up there, dad, nohow," said Tom 
"Where is he?" demanded the sergeant. 
" Dunno." 
"Where did he go?" 
" Dunno." 
" Didn't you see him? " 
" I reckon it was too dark, up chimley, to see any 
thing." 
" Haven't you seen him?" 
" I reckon I have. He woked up, and druv me up 
chimley right smart, with the pistol in his hand : reckon, 
if I hachv't. gone, I'd been a dead man ; I'll be dog 
scotched \f I shouldn't." 
" You say he drove you up the chimney? " demanded 
the sergeant. 
" I reckon he did." 
"Where did he go, then?" 
"Dunno." 
"Yes, yon do know! If you don't tell, you'll get a 
bayonet through your vitals," said the soldier sternly, 
as he demonstrated with the ugly weapon he had fixed 
on his gun ltfo-re he began to examine the chimney. 
 
" Dunno," replied the deserter sulkily. 
" Answer, or take the consequences ! " 
" Dunno. Jes as lief be stuck with a bagonet as shot 
by a file of soldiers," answered Tom, to whom the 
future looked even more dark than the present. 
" Tell, Tom," pleaded his father. 
"Dunno, dad : I was up chimley when he left. Dun- 
no no more'n the dead." 
Perhaps the sergeant concluded that Tom's position 
was a reasonable one, and that it would not have been 
possible for him to see, from his dark retreat, where the 
Yankee had gone. At any rate, he was saved from 
further persecution ; and two of the men were ordered to 
conduct him to the camp, while the remainder staid to 
continue the search for the fugitive. Farmer Rigney 
protested and pleaded, and even offered to warm the 
palms of the soldier's hands with certain pieces of gold 
which he had in the house ; but, unfortunately for the 
patriotic farmer, the sergeant was above a bribe, and 
Tom was hurried off to his doom. 
A careful search of the house and premises was now 
instituted ; and this time the farmer was a zealous 
co-operator with the soldiers ; for it was necessary for 
him to establish his own loyalty before he could do 
any thing to save his son from the deserter's fate. 
The party proceeded up stairs first, and carefully ex- 
amined every closet, and every nook and corner which 
 
could by any possibility contain the form of a man, 
As Somers was not up stairs, of course they did not 
find him ; and we will not weary our readers by follow- 
ing them in their fruitless search. 
Somers went down into the cellar, closing the door 
after him ; and, as he may be lonesome in his gloomy 
retreat, we will join him there, though it was rather a 
tight place for more than one person. The cellar was 
dark when the fugitive made his advent within its 
sombre shades ; and, as he was an utter stranger in 
the place, he was not a little bewildered by the awk- 
wardness of the situation. He was in darkness, and 
wished for light ; at least, for enough to enable him 
to find the hiding-place of which he had heard the 
farmer speak. 
This snug retreat, where the deserter had balked his 
pursuers, was undoubtedly the cellar drain ; though, to 
Somers, it appeared to be a Virginia notion to have it 
long enough to admit the form of a man. Tom Rigney 
was a larger person than himself ; and the case was hope- 
ful enough, if he could only find the opening. The 
cellar contained various boxes, barrels, firkins, and 
other articles, the mass of which were piled up in one 
corner. 
Somers followed the wall entirely around, from the 
pile in the corner, till he returned to it, without finding 
what he desired. It was sufficiently evident, therefore, 
 
that the entrance to the drain was under the boxes and 
barrels, which had probably been placed over it to ward 
off the over-inquisitive gaze of any visitors who might 
explore the cellar. Our enterprising hero immediately 
commenced the work of burrowing beneath the rubbish, 
and soon had the happiness of discovering the identical 
road by which the original occupant of the place had 
entered. Before the opening, he found sufficient space 
to enable him to re-adjust the boxes and barrels, so as to 
hide his den from the observation of any who might be 
disposed to follow him in his subterranean explorations. 
The drain was certainly small enough, even for the 
genteel form of Captain Thomas Somers ; though, as his 
mustache was quite diminutive in its proportions, he 
was able to worry himself along several feet intp the 
gloomy hole. It was a miserable place in which to 
spend the clay ; but, miserable as it was, he hoped 
that he should be permitted to remain there. He was 
fully conscious of the perils of his situation. He knew 
that Tom, in the chimney, must be captured ; and it 
was not probable that the farmer would let the soldiers 
depart without examining the house. His retreat was 
known to him, and there was not one chance in a hun- 
dred for the hole to be passed by without an exam- 
ination. 
It would be fatal to remain where he was ; and, after 
resting himself from the fatigue which the exertion of 
moving in his narrow den induced, he again pushed 
forward, cheered by the conclusion that a drain would 
be a useless institution without an opening at each end. 
Indeed, there was a glimmer of light at some distance 
before him ; and he indulged the hope that he might 
work his way out to the blue sky. 
He had scarcely resumed his progressive movement, 
which had to be accomplished very much after the 
fashion of a serpent, for the aperture was too narrow 
for the regular exercise of his legs and arms, he had 
scarcely begun to move before voices in the cellar 
announced the approach of the pursuers. A cold sweat 
seemed to deluge his frame ; for the sounds were like the 
knell of doom to him. With desperate energy he con- 
tinued his serpent march ; but it was only to butt his 
head against the stones of the drain, where its size was 
reduced to less than half its proportions near the cellar. 
His farther advance was hopelessly checked ; and there 
was nothing more to be done but to wait patiently the 
result of the exciting event. He was satisfied that his 
feet were not within eight or ten feet of the cellar ; for, 
being a progressive young man, he had entered the hole 
head first. It was possible, but not probable, that he 
might escape detection, even if the opening was exam- 
ined ; and, with what self-possession he could muster for 
the occasion, he lay, like the slimy worms beneath him, 
till ruin or safety should come. 
" I reckon he isn't down here," said the sergeant, after 
the party had examined the cellar, and even pulled over 
some of the boxes and barrels. 
" God bless you for a stupid fellow as you are ! ' : 
thought Somers ; for he was prudent enough not audibly 
to invoke benedictions, even upon the head of his 
enemies : but the words of the sergeant afforded him a 
degree of relief, which no one, who has not burrowed 
in a drain in the rebel country, can understand or appre- 
ciate. 
" I reckon there's a place down in (hat corner that's 
big enough to hold a man ; for my son Tom's been in 
there," added the farmer. 
These words gave Somers another cold sweat ; and 
perhaps he thought it was a mistake that he had not put 
a bullet through the patriarch's head when he had been 
tempted to do so in the room above. He was a double 
traitor ; but I think the conscience of our hero was 
more at rest as it was than it would have been if he 
had shot down an unarmed man, even to save himself 
from prospective capture. 
"Where is the place?" demanded the sergeant. 
" In yonder, under them barrels and boxes. Jest 
fotch the trumpery out, and you'll see the hole," replied 
Rigney. 
Somers heard the rumble of the barrels, as they were 
rolled out of the way, with very much the same feelings 
 
that a conscious man in a trance would listen to t~he 
rumbling of the wheels of the hearse which was bear- 
ing him to the church-yard, only that he was to come 
forth from a hopeless grave to the more gloomy light of 
a rebel dungeon. 
U I can't see any thing in that hole," said the sergeant. 
" No man could get into such a place as that." 
" Blessed are your eyes; for they see not!" thought 
Somers. " May your blindness be equal to that of the 
scribes and Pharisees ! ' 
" But my son Tom has been in there. I reckon a 
Yankee could crawl inter as small a hole as any- 
body." 
The sergeant thought this was funny ; and he honored 
the remark with a hearty laugh, in which Somers was 
disposed to join, though he regretted for the first time in 
his life that he was unable to " crawl out at the little 
end of the horn." He was encouraged by the scepticism 
of the soldier, and was satisfied, that, if he attempted to 
demonstrate the proposition experimentally, he would be 
fully convinced of its difficulty, if not of its impossi- 
bility. 
" Go and bring another lamp and a pole," said the 
sergeant. 
One of the party went up the stairs, and Somers gave 
himself up for lost. The extra lamp would certainly ex- 
pose him, to say nothing of the pole ; and it seemed to be 
 
folly to remain there, and be punched with a stick, like a 
woodchuck in his hole. Besides, there is something in 
tumbling down gracefully, when one must inevitably 
tumble ; and he was disposed to surrender gracefully, as 
the coon did when he learned that Colonel Crockett was 
About to fire and bring him down. There was no hope ; 
and it is bad generalship, as well as inhuman and use- 
less, to fight a battle which is lost before the first shot is 
fired. 
We have before intimated that Captain Somers, be- 
sides being a brave and enterprising young man, was a 
philosopher. He had that happy self-possession which 
enables one to bear the ills of life, as well as the cour> 
age and address to triumph over them. He had done 
every thing which ingenuity, skill, and impudence could 
accomplish to save himself from the hands of the rebel 
soldiers ; from a rebel prison, if not from a rebel halter. 
He had failed ; and, though it gave him a bitter pang to 
yield his last hope, he believed that nothing better could 
be done than to surrender with good grace. 
"How are you, sergeant?" shouted he, when he had 
fully resolved upon his next step. 
" Hallo ! ' replied the sergeant, laughing heartily at 
the hail from the bowels of the earth. " How are you, 
Yank?" 
" In a tight place, sergeant ; and I've concluded to back 
out," replied Somers. 
 
" Good ! That's what all the Yankees will have to do 
before they grow much older. Back out, Yank ! ' 
Somers commenced the operation, which was an ex- 
ceedingly unpleasant necessity to a person of his pro- 
gressive temperament. It was a slow manoeuvre ; but 
the sergeant waited patiently till it was accomplished, 
by which time the extra lamp and the pole had reported 
for duty. 
" How are you, Yank?" said the sergeant, laughing 
immoderately at the misfortune of his victim. 
" That's the smallest hole I ever attempted to crawl 
through," replied Somers, puffing and blowing from the 
violence of his exertions in releasing himself from his 
narrow prison-house. 
"How came you in such a place?" asked the sergeant 
as they walked up the stairs. 
" "\Yell, my friend, the farmer here suggested the 
idea to me. He said his son had crawled in there a 
great many times." 
" I ? " exclaimed Rigney. " I never said a word about 
llie drean." 
t; You must be looked after," added the sergeant, with 
a menacing look at the discomfited farmer. " You have 
concealed a deserter in your house for weeks ; and now 
we find that you hide Yankees too." 
" I didn't hide him ! " protested Rigney . 
 
" Didn't ycu agree to keep me here till night? " asked 
Somers, who despised him beyond expression. 
" If I did, it was only to have the soldiers ketch yer." 
The sergeant declared that Rigney was a traitor, and 
that he must go along with him : but Somers, with more 
magnanimity than many men would have exercised to- 
wards such a faithless wretch, told the whole story ex- 
actly as it was, thus relieving him of a portion of his 
infidelity to the Southern Confederacy ; and the sergeant 
was graciously pleased to let him remain at home, while 
his victim was marched off io the rebel camp. 
CHAPTER XXVI. 
A NIGHT IX PETERSBURG. 
'HE sergeant who had captured our hero seemed 
to be a very -clever fellow, aud appreciated the 
sterling merits of his captive. While he was 
rigidly devoted to the discharge of his duty, 
he treated his prisoner with all the consideration which 
one human being has the right to expect of another, what- 
ever the circumstances under which they meet. 
Somers was disgusted with the result of the adventure, 
even while he had no reason to blame himself for any 
want of care or skill in conducting his affairs under the 
trying circumstances. He was only a few hours behind 
his late companion, Captain de Banyan ; whom he had 
now a reasonable expectation of meeting again before 
the close of the day. 
If Somers was disgusted with -the issue of the ad- 
venture, he did not yet despair of effecting his escape. 
This was all he had to live for at present ; and he was 
determined not to lose sight of this great object of exist- 
ence. Libby Prison was a flourishing institution, even 
 
at the time of which we write ; and he was determined 
not to be sent there, if human energy and perseverance 
could save him from such a fate. It was easier to avoid
such a. trap than it would be to get out of it after he had 
fallen into it. As he walked along with the talkative, 
sergeant, he kept his eyes open, ready to avail himself of 
any opportunity which might afford him a reasonable 
prospect of shaking off his disagreeable companion. 
His captor asked him a great many questions in re- 
gard to himself, and to the Army of the Potomac on 
the other side of the river, which Somers answered with 
skill and discretion ; though we suppose that even a rigid 
moralist would have excused some slight variations from 
the strict letter of the truth which crept into his replies. 
He was an officer in the Yankee army ; but he dared not 
acknowledge his rank, lest he should be accused of being 
a spy. If he was a captain, he ought to have worn the 
uniform of his rank in order to have it recognized. As 
he was a private, his chance of spending the summer on 
Belle Island was better than that for Libby. But, as 
Somers was fully resolved not to go to Richmond in ad- 
vance of the noble army whose fortunes and misfortunes 
he had shared, he did not deem it necessary to consider 
what quarters he should occupy. 
The sergeant was a faithful soldier. Somers found no 
opportunity to slip away from his guard on the way to 
the camp. He was duly delivered to the officer of the 
 
day, and his intimacy with his good-natured captor 
was at an end. The officer who was responsible for 
him made some inquiries in regard to the prisoner, 
and learned that he had escaped from the troopers in 
the morning. When he understood the case, as it was 
only eight miles to the railroad station, where the other 
prisoner was probably waiting a conveyance in the camp, 
he decided to send Somers forward kt once, fearful that 
he might again take leave of his captors. From what 
he had heard from Captain Osborn and the cavalry 
soldiers in charge of him, he concluded that the young 
man was a person of more consequence than he appeared 
to be, that he was either high in rank, or guilty of 
enormous military misdemeanors. 
A two-horse wagon used for general business about 
the camp was brought up, and Somers was sent forward 
in charge of two soldiers, who were specially ordered to 
shoot him if he attempted to escape ; which they would 
probably have done of their own free will and accord, 
