in some Asylum." 
" Exactly. And you will see, by the date, that I 
have had it in my possession for several months." 
" So I perceive." 
" Forbearing all that time, and hoping all that time 
for a change in her condition, that would render need 
less a last resort." 
Mrs. Harte sighed very naturally, adding to her sigh 
the words " Poor lady ! " and then shook her head in 
a hopeless kind of way. 
 
" This is a fair opportunity to have her removed," 
said Mr. Guy, comprehending the woman's state of ac 
quiescence. " She is entirely unconscious, and will, in 
all probability, remain so for hours. Can I secure your 
cooperation ? " 
" If all is right," answered the woman. 
" You hold the guaranty in your hand, Mrs Harte. 
As to the insanity, your own observation makes that 
clear." 
" That is clear enough, poor lady ! " said Mrs. Harte. 
" And the authority for her removal is explicit." 
" So I perceive." 
Then let us act without hesitation or delay, both for 
her sake and that of her children, over whom her in 
fluence is of a very unhappy character. My purpose is 
to remove her to-night, and have her safely cared for 
before consciousness returns. What do you think of 
it?" 
Mrs. Harte reflected for a few moments, and then re 
plied, 
" I do not see, sir, that a better opportunity is likely 
soon to occur. You are certain that she has not taken 
too much of the morphine ? " 
And Mrs. Harte gave Guy a searching look. 
" Too much ! No ! I kept to the Doctor's prescrip 
tion within a drop." 
" Because," added Mrs. Harte, in her calm, clear 
voice, " I do not wish to get myself into any trouble." 
" There can be no trouble to any one in the case," 
said Mr. Guy. 
The woman's eyes did not fall away from his face, but 
 
dwelt on it for several moments, and with an expression 
that Guy felt as a kind of power over him. He had 
not, since this woman came into the family held with 
her, until now, any familiar or confidential intercourse. 
Wrapped in his own separate thoughts and interests, he 
had moved about his house, only considering Mrs. Harte 
as a useful appendage in her place, and of no more ac 
count to him than any other bit of domestic machinery. 
But, now, the relation had changed, and he felt it 
felt it with an" in ward sense of reluctance and repulsion. 
" If there is entire safety, sir." How even and pene 
trating her voice ! How steadily her cold, searching 
eyes rest upon his face ! 
" You understand the case as well as I do, madam." 
There was an apparent drawing back from the woman, 
on the part of Mr. Guy, which was perceived on the 
instant, and produced a change in her manner. 
" I believe so, sir," her tone was softer and more ac 
quiescent ; " and if I can serve you and the poor lady 
in anything, I stand ready to act. She will be a great 
deal better off in a well-managed Asylum. Where do 
you think of placing her ? " 
" Among the Sisters at Mount Hop^e." 
" Ah ? " 
" Yes. I have already consulted them on the subject, 
and shown the Doctor's certificate. They are pre 
pared, at any time, to receive her." 
" She could not be sent to a better place," said Mrs. 
Harte. 
" I am sure not. And my instructions will be that 
she receive the kindest and most humane attentions. 
 
But, time passes, and we must act promptly, if we act 
at all." 
" True, sir." And Mrs. Harte arose. 
"Have the children all in bed before her removal," 
said Mr. Guy. 
" The three youngest are asleep ; but you will have 
to see after Adam, John, and Lydia. If I were to say 
'go to bed,' they would sit up half the night in rebuke 
of my assumed authority." 
" Very well. I'll settle that. Remain here, and get 
all things ready for her removal. After the boys and 
Lydia are in bed, I will go for a carriage. You must 
be prepared to accompany us. Lock the door when I 
go out, so that no one in the house may intrude and ob 
tain a knowledge of what is going on." 
Mr. Guy then withdrew, and Mrs. Harte turned 
the key. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
D 
HE woman's aspect changed instantly, 
when alone. The cold eyes and face 
flashed and gleamed ; the placid man 
ner became disturbed ; a look of satis 
faction almost of triumph flitted 
over her countenance. Quickly she 
proceeded to the work of changing the 
garments of Mrs. Guy, and getting all 
things in readiness for removal. Now 
and then, she would stop and consider the pale, death 
like face before her, not in pity ; not in fear ; not in 
hate ; but with a look of searching inquiry, in which 
doubt and desire blended. There was a covert eager 
ness in her manner, seen in the unusual celerity with 
which she hovered about the bed, and the occasional un 
steadiness of her hands as they moved over the person 
of Mrs. Guy. Her part of the work was done, long 
before Guy was ready, or the carriage at the door. 
" Has she stirred yet? " was the whispered question 
of Mr. Guy, as he came into the chamber, when all 
was prepared. 
" No, sir." 
Guy crossed to the bed, where his wife lay, and stood 
regarding her for a few moments. An image of death, 
 
not life, was before him. His heart gave a strong throb, 
and he turned a face of alarm upon Mrs. Harte. They 
looked at each other in silence for some moments. 
" Her heart beats," replied the woman, who under 
stood him. 
Guy took his wife's small, wasted hand in his, and 
placed his fingers on the wrist. 
" I don't find any pulse," said he, turning pale. His 
voice was disturbed. 
" Lay your hand over her heart." 
Guy obeyed the suggestion. 
" Don't you feel it beat ? " 
"No!" 
"What!" And Mrs. Harte thrust her hand in, 
pushing that of Mr. Guy aside. Suspended breaths 
marked the intense interest of both. " It beats, sir ! 
There ! Put your hand there ! " She spoke in a whisper, 
quickly. 
" Yes yes. I feel it ! But how very low and 
faint," said Guy, as he withdrew his hand and stood 
up, in doubt and irresolution. Then he laid his fingers 
again over the artery on her wrist. Not the feeblest 
thread of motion touched the alert sense of feeling:. 
O 
" You gave her too much, I fear," said Mrs. Harte, 
letting her pale, blue eyes rest firmly upon him. 
The face of Mr. Guy turned still whiter. 
" In that case " and the woman made a step back 
wards, pausing with the sentence half finished. 
" How in that case ? " Guy felt himself already in 
her power. 
'' She may not rally," said the woman. 
 
" The Doctor is responsible. I only followed his pre 
scription." 
" How often did she take the medicine ? " 
" Three times." 
" How much did you give her each time ? " 
" Only a few drops." 
Mrs. Harte crossed the room to where the vial of 
morphine still remained on the mantel piece, and taking 
it in her hand, held it up to the light. It was one-third 
empty. 
"Was it full when you received it?" asked Mrs. 
Harte. 
" No." But the manner of his answer betrayed the 
truth to Mrs. Harte. 
" There has been an over dose,'' she said, confidently. 
" I'm afraid you mistook the amount of vital power in 
her system." 
" If there has been a mistake, it lies at the Doctor's 
door, not mine," answered Guy, in too apparent alarm. 
"No dose is marked on the label." The woman's 
eyes turned from the vial, and again dwelt, searchingly, 
on Guy's face. He quailed a little, and she saw it. 
" I think," said Mrs. Harte, speaking with delibera 
tion, " that I understand the case, which has assumed a 
very serious aspect. You did not see the Doctor at 
all." 
Guy started, frowned, and was about to repel the as 
sertion, when the housekeeper lifted her hand, saying, 
with perfect coolness 
" A moment, sir, if you please. If the Doctor had 
ordered morphine, the dose would have been indicated 
on the prescription, and the druggist would not have 
failed to mark it on the label. The truth is, you pro 
cured the drug without consultation, and administered 
it in too strong doses. Am I not right ? You had bet- 
ter trust me fully, if you want my aid. I must see 
where I stand, and the actual peril in my way ; before I 
take a step forward. You have put yourself in a very 
dangerous position, sir." 
A tremor seized the nerves of Mr. Guy. The feeble 
denial attempted broke down ere half of it was spoken- 
He could not go on, with the cold, searching eyes of a 
woman, whose character he was only now beginning to 
understand, resting on him like a spell. 
" You meant no harm only good," continued Mrs. 
Harte. " That I imderstand clearly. But intentions 
are out of the pale of consideration now. Actions and 
effects will only be regarded. In order to get Mrs. Guy 
into a condition for removal to an Asylum, you gave 
her morphine." 
" The morphine was taken to relieve pain," said Guy. 
'' Ostensibly. That was the plea. The real object 
was to accomplish something beyond. You gave her 
too much, and her life is in peril. Now, do you want 
my assistance or not ? Heaven knows, if I consulted 
my own feelings, I would pass, instantly, from under 
your roof. Say that you do not care for my aid in the 
matter, and a heavy burden will be removed. But, be 
ing here, I will not shrink from duty, if called on for 
help." 
" What shall be doiiC ? " asked Guy, showing symp 
toms of a helpless bewildermeill of mind. " It will 
 
hardly be safe to remove her to Mount Hope, seeing 
that she is sinking so rapidly." 
" No. She might be dead before we reached there. 
The Doctor had better be called in." 
" Is that necessary ? " asked Guy. 
" Yes. It will not do to make any mystery with 
him. Let him understand the naked facts in the case. 
The maddening neuralgia, and the doses of morphia. 
Say nothing of course, about any object beyond." 
' Hadn't I better say, that she took the doses her 
self?" asked Guy, actually trembling in the face of 
peril. 
" No. All attempts at concealment will involve 
greater danger. Let the Doctor clearly understand the 
case, and he will exonerate you from blame, and give 
the medical certificate required for burial in case she 
does not live." 
Mrs. Harte took up the vial of morphine again. 
" Are you certain it was not full ? " she asked. 
" Positive," answered Guy. 
" The druggist may be referred to." Mrs. Harte 
looked at him meaningly, and he understood her. 
A pause ensued, in which each regarded the other. 
" There is alcohol in the house," said Mrs. Harte, 
breaking the silence, " and it will be prudent, I think, 
to add a couple of spoonfuls to this vial. Go, or send 
for the Doctor. I will see that the vial is replenish 
ed." 
" Then, it is understood that the removal is abandon 
ed for the present ? " 
" Of course. That cannot be thought of for a mo- 
 
ment. The Doctor must be had, and speedily. Don't 
lose another instant, sir. Everything depends on promp 
titude now." 
Thus enjoined, Mr. Guy went hastily out, and jump 
ing into the carriage which was in waiting at the door 
to remove his wife, ordered the driver to go with all 
speed to the residence of his family physician. In twen 
ty minutes afterwards, the Doctor and Mr. Guy enter 
ed the chamber where the unconscious woman was ly 
ing. 
" It is too late," said the Doctor, after sitting for a 
little while at the bed-side. " No human skill can save 
her." 
" In heaven's name, no, Doctor ! Don't say that ! " 
And Gny exhibited what seemed uncontrollable anguish. 
" You must save her ! " 
But, the Doctor shook his head soberly, and then ask 
ed 
" How much did she take ? " 
" Only a few drops, sir, as you can see," replied 
Mrs. Harte, producing the vial. The Doctor held the 
vial towards the light, and examined it for a moment ; 
then handed it back with the remark 
" The symptoms indicate a much larger dose." 
" Was there no heart disease ? " asked the house 
keeper. 
The Doctor turned and looked at her sharply for a 
moment ; but her cold eyes did not shrink nor waver. 
" You gave an emetic, I understand ? " He looked 
from the woman to Mr. Guy. 
" Oh yes, sir, immediately on finding that she had 
apparently taken too much." 
 
'' But no action of the stomach followed ? " 
" None whatever." 
" What else was done ? " The Doctor referred to 
Mrs. Harte. 
" Nothing, sir. We were so alarmed and confused 
we did not know what to do. The effect of a few 
drops was so extraordinary. I've never seen anything 
like it in my life. There must have been some organic 
trouble." 
An attempt was now made by the Doctor, to give an 
emetic, but without effect. Death was too near and too 
certain. In less than half an hour, the curtain fell over 
this tragedy of life, and a weary head and an aching 
heart were forever at rest. 
CHAPTER XXIII. 
HE Doctor was not satisfied in regard 
to the death of Mrs. Guy ; yet there 
was no evidence of foul play, and he 
pushed aside the doubtful questions 
that kept intruding themselves. His 
certificate, in the usual form, made all 
plain for the burial, and left no room 
for suspicion to take any dangerous as 
pect in the public mind. People talked 
as they always will talk when there is a shadow of mys 
tery, and many idle stories were whispered around ; but, 
the real truth did not transpire. 
For a time, Adam Guy felt a sense of freedom. An 
obstruction, which had hindered and annoyed him for 
years, was removed. He was master of the position 
once more. His will could go forth unquestioned at 
home as well as abroad. But, soon, he became aware 
of a presence in the house that touched his freedom 
more vitally than it had ever been touched. That 
presence, though neither demonstrative, nor obtrusive, 
became more and more palpable as a fixed fact. The 
quiet, self-possessed, cold, orderly housekeeper, sat at 
his table every day, silent for the most part ; and moved 
through his home with a power of subjugation that 
 
rarely provoked resistance, yet steadily intruded itself, 
gathering up the reins of government, and preparing to 
hold its place with a strong hand when the time for 
throwing off the mask came. 
Adam Guy was in the power of this woman ; and he 
began to have an unpleasant consciousness that she 
meant to use the power in some way, to her own ad 
vantage. She did not seem to have a will of her own 
in the family, and yet, Guy saw new movements going 
on in the order of things which no hand but hers direct 
ed. Occasionally, she would suggest a change in pres 
ence of the children, which brought from them opposi 
tion or remonstrance. She did not argue the case, nor 
show special interest in the mattter but, it usually 
happened, that Mr. Guy came over to her side ; not 
because he saw clearly any special value in the changes 
proposed, but from an indefinable impression of pow 
er that he did not feel willing to oppose. Rebellion, 
however, soon began to lift its head among the children, 
to whom, during their mother's life-time, the housekeep 
er had yielded with a skill or passiveness that rarely pro 
voked opposition. Not until she had a firm grasp upon 
the rein, did Mrs. Harte begin to draw upon it so stead 
ily as to make the pressure felt. The father was in her 
toils, and she would now reduce the children to obedi 
ence. But the task, in this case, was more difficult. 
She had no command of their fears. There was not in 
their hearts a fatal secret to which her finger ever 
pointed in warning. When they looked into her face, 
they did not see " Beware ! " fluttering on her lips. 
Adam had always treated her in a half insolent way 
 
as if she were inferior and of little account ; and usually 
took pains to give things a direction, if possible, adverse 
to her wishes. This he was able to do, in consequence 
of his position as purse-bearer and account-keeper for 
the family. From this position, Mrs. Harte meant to 
have him removed ; but, she was in no haste. First of 
all, she must be well seated. There must be no doubt 
as to her influence over Mr. Guy. 
" How much do you ffive Adam for housekeeping 
purposes?" She put the question one evening when 
they sat alone together. Mr. Guy had no intimate 
acquaintances, and so went out in the evening but rarely. 
Mrs. Harte had him, therefore, so much in her power ; 
and in the most unobtrusive and unapparent way, 
managed to interest some of the lonely hours he spent 
at home. 
" Twenty dollars a week," answered Mr. Guy. 
Mrs, Harte looked down at the work in her hands, 
and remained silent. 
" Why do you ask ? " After a pause of nearly a 
minute, Mr. Guy put this question. He had been 
waiting all that time for the housekeeper ; but she did 
not seem inclined to any further remark. 
" Adam manages things very well for a boy better, 
probably, than one boy in a dozen could manage. Still, 
he is only a boy, and cannot be expected to understand 
the requirements of a household like this. Twenty 
dollars a week, if spent with judgment, should go farther 
than he makes it go." 
Mr. Guy did not answer. He felt a shade of per 
plexity coming over his mind. 
 
" It is nothing to me, of course," resumed Mrs. Harte. 
" I only express a passing thought. Another thino- I 
have observed is this. The position occupied hy Adam, 
puts him in a kind of forced antagonism towards the 
other children. Between him and John there is a con 
stant feud, growing mainly out of the fact that Adam's 
will regulates much in the family. He markets to suit 
his own tastes and whims ; and, I observe, takes pains to 
omit buying the very articles for which John and Lydia 
manifest a preference. If it goes on, a permanent 
alienation between him and the other children, as they 
grow up, will assuredly take place ; and, of all things, 
this should be guarded against as the worst of evils." 
" Is that so ? Does Adam really annoy his brothers 
and sisters in the way you intimate ? " said Mr. Guy. 
" Have they never complained ? " asked Mrs. Harte. 
" O yes. They're always complaining. But I'm 
used to that, and pay little heed to what they say." 
" They have cause." The housekeeper's voice had g, 
shade more of feeling. After a moment she added, 
'' One child in a family should not have as much 
power over the other children as Adam now possesses. 
He does not know how to rule wisely ; and they live 
daily in a state of half angry rebellion against him. 
Besides, sir, the boy's mind should be educated towards 
a man's duties in life, and not towards a woman's. 
You design him for regular business for a merchant, 
like yourself not a boarding-house keeper. His pres 
ent office at home is not, therefore, good for him. It 
will belittle his mind narrow it down to the smallest 
things incapacitate him for the larger sphere in which 
you look to see him move. But, excuse me, sir, for 
this freedom of speech. I have been led to say more 
than I intended." 
" There is reason in what you urge," returned Mr. 
Guy, " and I must think it over. Adam is a little in 
clined to be overbearing, I know ; but, as affairs have 
been, I could do no better than place things in his 
hands ; and, all circumstances considered, it seems to 
me that he has managed admirably. Not one boy in 
ten would have done so well," 
" Probably not one in a hundred," answered Mrs. 
Harte. 
And there the conversation dropped. But Mr. Guy 
understood his housekeeper. She was not satisfied to 
remain any longer subject to the will and direction of 
a boy. He must pass out of her way. 
Mr. Guy did not act immediately on the suggestion 
of Mrs. Harte. Too much was involved in this. It 
included the fact of a new disbursing agent in the 
household, and that agent the lady herself. Would it 
be wise to admit her to this place of power ? Over, 
and over, and over again the question was revolved, and 
yet without decision. In the meantime, Mrs. Harte, 
from behind the screen of an unimpassioned exterior, 
watched, eagle-eyed, the progress of things, drawing all 
the \yhile a little and a little more firmly on the reins 
of government that were in her hands. 
" Adam," said she, one morning, as the boy passed 
her in the hall, She knew that it was market day. 
He stopped, turning his head partly towards her, with 
an air of indifference. 
 
" Are you going to market ? " 
" Yes." 
" I wish you would get a pair of chickens for to-day's 
dinner." 
"I shall get corned beef;" was almost insolently 
answered. 
" Oh, very well." And Mrs. Harte turned from 
him in her calm, quiet way. An observer would have 
detected no indication of a quicker heart-throb. 
At dinner time, Mrs. Harte said, speaking across the 
table to Mr. Guy 
" I asked Adam to get a pair of chickens for dinner 
to-day." Her tones were cold and even. 
Mr. Guy turned his eyes on Adam, whose face col 
ored a little. 
" Why didn't you do as Mrs. Harte desired ? " The 
boy was not prepared for the sternness with which this 
question was asked, and stammered out an unsatisfacto 
ry reply. 
" Don't let it occur again." Mr. Guy spoke in ear 
nest. 
No more was said at the time ; but the spirit destined 
to rule in that house had gained a victory, and soon 
every inmate had an impression of the fact. It took 
only a week or two from this time for Mrs. Harte to 
bring Adam to the position of a mere agent of her will 
in the household administration. He bought as she 
gave direction, being little more than purse-bearer. 
There were no contentions between him and Mrs. Harte. 
If he rebelled, and was insolent, she did not stoop to 
his level, but, with subtle management, turned his fa- 
 
ther's iron hand upon him. In six months after the 
death of Mrs. Guy, the housekeeper's will was supreme 
in the family where wife and mother had been thrust 
aside, and held as of no account. 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
RS. Harte was a woman of superior 
mind, and some cultivation. Her 
husband, a lawyer of considerable 
promise, died just as he was rising 
to an eminent position at the bar, 
and she was left without an income. 
In order to sustain herself, she 
taught for a few years ; but not find 
ing, in this occupation, anything 
congenial, she gave up her scholars, and accepted the 
place of housekeeper in Mr. Guy's family. Her position 
there proved very far from being agreeable, and she was 
simply waiting for an opportunity to change, when the 
grave incidents attendant on the death of Mrs. Guy 
altered her purpose, and she determined to remain. A 
rich man was in her power, and that was an advantage 
not to be lightly thrown aside an advantage which 
she was just the woman to accept. 
Mrs. Harte was as thoroughly selfish in her ruling qual 
ity of mind, as Mr. Guy was in his ; and more subtle 
and cruel. He bore down opposition, when it presented 
itself, with the strong hand of conscious power ; but she 
wrought stealthily, gaining her ends by almost unappar- 
ent intrusions, and revealing them only when accom- 
 
plished. Both loved money ; but his love of money had 
its foundation in avarice, while hers rested on ambition. 
He desired morttey for its own sake ; she for the sake of 
power, position, and influence. Pride ruled with her, 
avarice with him. 
While it was not her intention to leave the house of 
Mr. Guy, she managed to give him the impression that 
she only waited for an opportunity to make a change. 
Most cunningly did she bend, at times, the brief pas 
sages of conversation which passed between them, so as 
to touch that memorable death scene, and always with 
a hint of overshadowing peril that sent a chill of fear 
to the heart of Adam Guy, and made him more dis 
tinctly conscious that he was fatally in her power. She 
waslt kind of terror in his house ; yet, on no account 
would he have that terror removed. A secret lay hid 
den in her bosom, the revelation of which might, at any 
time, put even his life in jeopardy. She must, therefore, 
be conciliated, and kept in friendly contact. There was 
safety in her friendship ; but disaster in her enmity. 
And so, as Mrs. Harte gradually assumed a controll 
ing position in Mr. Guy's family, Mr. Guy receded and 
left the way clear, taking her side in all contests with the 
older children, and compelling their acquiescence to 
her rule. 
Only a few months were needed, under the new order 
of things, to make Mr. Guy aware of the fact, that so 
far as his home-comforts were concerned, he had gained 
sensibly by the death of his wife. For a year or two, 
Lydia had been so indifferent tosvards him, that she neg 
lected many personal attentions ; and left him to care 
 
for himself. But now, a woman's thought and a wo 
man's hand were becoming more and more apparent in 
all things of his wardrobe, and in all the home arrange 
ments that touched him personally. The younger chil 
dren were kept more quiet when he was in the house, and 
the injunction was constantly falling on his ears, given 
half aside and in a hushed voice, " Don't do so ; it 
will annoy your father," or words of similar import. 
It was in vain that Mrs. Harte strove to conciliate or 
bend Adam, the oldest boy, to her will and she was 
equally unsuccessful with the sharp-tempered, clear- 
seeing Lydia. Her usurpation of Adam's prerogative in 
the family, was an offence neither to be forgotten nor 
forgiven. The boy had tasted of power, and could not 
relinquish it and accept submission. He was, therefore, 
a rebel in heart, and, on all suitable opportunities, a rebel 
in act. But, he put himself in antagonism to one 
against whom he strove in blindness, losing power in 
every struggle. Lydia, who, with all her ill-nature and 
waywardness, had loved her mother, could not bear 
to have a stranger take her place in the household. 
She was a girl of quick perception, and saw deeper than 
any one into the character of Mrs. Harte ; or to speak 
more accurately, had a truer impression of her charac 
ter and designs. John had a weaker side he was a 
sensualist and a spendthrift and Mrs. Harte, by occa 
sional indulgences, won him over to her will. 
Adam and Lydia, who felt, daily, that Mrs. Harte 
was gaining strength, united their forces in a league 
against her, and inaugurated an undying warfare. 
They watched her every movement, interpreting to each 
 
other her words and actions to suit themselves, and put 
ting all manner of obstructions in her way. But in 
every move she thwarted them without a seeming effort, 
turning, often, their machinations to their own discom 
fiture, and leading them, by a few well directed ques 
tions, to an exposure of themselves to their father. So 
things went on, the antagonism between Mrs. Harte and 
Adam and Lydia, gaining strength all the while, but 
taking on no appearance of anger, dislike, or stern re 
sistance on the part of the former. She was always 
cold, calm, dignified, and to the eyes of Mr. Guy, in 
the right. 
After the lapse of a year, Mrs. Harte's position was 
so well assured in her own mind, that she began to act 
with less caution. Up to this period, she received only 
the wages of a housekeeper, according to the original 
contract, twelve dollars a month. It was time to 
have some new and better arrangement to get nearer 
the full coffers on which her eyes had dwelt with covet 
ous longings. Mr. Guy seemed too well satisfied to let 
things move on as they were going. She was adminis 
tering all his affairs with order and economy, and home 
was more comfortable than it had been for years. Why 
should he desire a change ? For twelve dollars a month, 
he received a liberal service, and was satisfied. Not so 
Mrs. Harte. Patient waiting was at an end ; for she 
saw no sign of any new order of things in the family. 
It was now that an incident occurred that aroused her 
to immediate action. One day, while walking in the 
street, she saw in advance the familiar form of Mr. Guy, 
in company with a lady. Even her calm pulse leaped. 
 
What did this mean ? Who was this lady ? Her dress 
was elegant, and she walked with a self-conscious air. 
Mrs. Harte checked her pace, and lingered a little way 
behind them. They appeared to be in familiar conver 
sation, as if well acquainted. For the distance of 
nearly two squares, Mrs. Harte kept them in close ob 
servation ; then they stopped at the corner of a street, 
and after talking a few moments, separated. At part 
ing, Mr. Guy bowed with considerable formality, and 
with the air of one who evidently sought to make a 
good impression. 
The lady, who turned off from the main street, glanced 
back, two or three times, before Mr. Guy was out of 
sight. 
"Who is that? " came audibly from the lips of Mrs. 
Harte, as she stood still, like one who felt a sudden 
shock. Then pressing forward quickly, she followed 
the lady, and after passing her, turned at the next cor 
ner and stood, as if in doubt. The fair, attractive face 
of a woman scarcely beyond thirty years, looked almost 
smilingly, yet a little curiously, into hers. Mrs. Har.te 
was at fault ; she did not know the lady. But she must 
know her ! Remaining in apparent hesitation until the 
stranger moved onward a short distance, she then fol 
lowed slowly at first, but quickening her pace so as not 
to be thrown too far behind. All at once she lost sight' 
of her. The lady had turned into another street. Mrs. 
Harte hastened forward with accelerated steps, but when 
she reached the corner, the object of her pursuit was no 
where visible. She had entered one of the fine dwell 
ings that stood in the block. 
 
Baffled, and excited with strange alarm, Mrs. Harte 
retraced her steps, and took her way homeward. The 
countenance of that lady was full of winning grace. 
Who was she ? What was she ? Wife, widow or maid 
en ? Hurriedly these questions chased each other 
through her mind. Was she rich, as well as attractive ? 
a widow, as well as beautiful ? Ah ! what had a 
poor housekeeper, with few personal charms, to hope 
for in a rivalry here ? 
" I must know who she is ! " Mrs. Harte said this in 
a resolute way, forcing back the tremors that were agi 
tating her. And then she grew calm, and self-possessed, 
and clear-seeing. If this were an obstruction in her way, 
it must be removed. But, first, to be assured that it 
was an obstruction. On the next day, on the next, and 
on the next, Mrs. Harte visited the neighborhood where 
the lady had disappeared, in order to ascertain, if possi 
ble, by seeing her at a window, or going in or coming 
out, in which house she resided, and thence her name 
and position. Three times her visit failed of any satis 
factory result ; but on the fourth day, in passing down 
the block, she saw the lady descend from one of the 
houses, enter a carriage, and drive off. The name on 
the door was noted. It was Leslie. 
" Mrs. Leslie ! " Her heart bounded. She had often 
heard of this lady, a widow, holding in her own right, 
a large fortune. Ah, here was a formidable rival in 
deed, if rival at all ! Rich, elegant, attractive what 
had she to offer in opposition to these ? 
Of late, Mr. Guy, after dressing himself with scrupu 
lous care, went out, occasionally, in the evening. The 
 
fact had already awakened a feeling of uneasiness with 
Mrs. Harte ; now, the circumstance presented an alarm 
ing aspect, for it was connected in her mind with visits 
to the rich young widow. On this very evening the 
one following the day on which Mrs. Harte discovered 
the lady's identity Mr. Guy dressed himself and went 
away. As he left the house, Mrs. Harte passed to her 
own room, where she moved about restlessly for some 
time. Then she sat down, with deep lines on her ordi 
narily smooth brow, and a tight pressure on her lips, 
that were firmly drawn against her .teeth. Her hands 
lay clenched upon her lap. 
" Never ! Never ! Never ! " The words came in 
a deep whisper, while a gleam of passion quivered over 
her face. " I will not be pushed aside by any one ! " 
" Rising, she went to a drawer, and unlocking it, 
took out a vial the same from which Mr. Guy had 
administered the morphine to his wife and held it to 
the lio-ht. It was nearlv full. The reader will remember, 
that to hide the fatal secret of an overdose, she 
had added alcohol, and so deceived the physician. But, 
now she poured from the vial a portion equal to that 
added. 
" This is my argument," she said, as she recorked 
the vial, and held it again to the light. " He must 
take care. I am no trifler." 
It was after eleven o'clock when Mr. Guy returned. 
Mrs. Harte knew the time to a second. 
On the next morning, one of the children happened 
to be sick, and the doctor was called. In the evening, 
Mrs. Harte managed it so, that, towards nine o'clock 
she was alone with Mr. Guy. 
 
" The doctor thinks Frances quite a sick child," she 
remarked. 
" Does he? " Mr. Guy aroused himself from an ab 
stracted state of mind. 
" Yes." 
" Nothing serious, I hope." 
" There is a great deal of scarlet fever about ; and 
she complains of sore throat." 
Mr. Guy looked into Mrs. Harte's face steadily, v but 
did not answer. A brief silence followed ; then Mrs. 
Harte said 
" I don't fancy Dr. Blake." The eyes of Mr. Guy 
had fallen to the floor, but something unusual in the 
woman's voice caused him to look at her again. 
" Has he offended you in anything ? " 
" No ; but he has a prying, inquisitive way about him 
that I don't like." 
" Ah ? I haven't noticed it. In what direction does 
his inquisitiveness run ? " 
Mrs. Harte did not answer immediately. The ques 
tion disconcerted her, apparently. But, it was only in 
appearance. Mrs. Harte was never more really self- 
possessed in her life. 
" In what direction does his inquisitiveness run." 
Guy repeated the question. 
" In a direction by no means agreeable. At his last 
.three visits he has referred to the death of Mrs. Guy in 
a way which leads me to infer that something is on his 
mind." 
There was an instant change in Mr. Guy's face, and 
Mrs. Harte noted it well, and took courage. 
 
" What did he say ? " The voice betrayed alarm. . 
" He asked about the quantity of morphia that was 
given." 
" He knew that as well as you or I." 
" Perhaps not." Never since the fatal night when 
he stood, with Mrs. Harte, at the bed-side of his depart 
ing wife, had he felt so much in her power as at this 
moment ; never before had Mrs. Harte so meant to make 
him feel conscious of her power. She came nearer to 
him, now nearer, and with an intrusive familiarity 
that he dared not repel ; a familiarity that made him 
shudder as it approached. 
" Perhaps not." Ah, in the tone and manner of 
Mrs. Harte were something more than in these simple 
words. It was as if she had suddenly thrown her arms 
around him, and said, " You are in my power ! We 
are sharers of a fatal secret, and safety lies only in con 
cessions to my will." 
" He saw the vial," said Mr. Guy, in a voice which 
had suddenly grown husky. 
" But, it did not give the true indication. I know 
that three times the quantity indicated by the vial was 
administered." There was marked emphasis on the 
pronoun J. 
" The fact is," she added, after a pause, " I've never 
felt comfortable in my mind about this thing. My er 
ror was in having any part or lot with you in the mat 
ter at the beginning. I should have washed my hands 
clear of it the moment I understood the truth. But," 
she hesitated, and remained silent, for a brief space. 
When she resumed, her voice was softer, and she 
leaned a little towards Mr. Guv. 
 
" But," she continued, " I saw the fearful peril in 
which you were involved, and believing that no wrong 
was meant, obeyed my natural impulses, and went over 
without reflection to your side. The act was imprudent, 
and I have always so regarded it." 
" As Heaven is my witness, no wrong was meant," 
said Mr. Guy, showing considerable disturbance. 
" I am sure of that." How skilfully did Mrs. Harte 
throw just a shadow of sympathy in her voice. " I am 
sure of that, Mr. Guy." She repeated the sentence, 
with just a little warmth of expression. " But courts 
of justice take account only of facts." 
" Courts of justice ! Madam ! What are you driv 
ing at ? " Guy aroused himself, and drew away from 
the woman, not able to keep the signs of fear from his 
countenance. 
u Nothing, sir." How calmly spoken were the words. 
How soft their utterance. There was no stern purpose 
on her lips , no threat in her eyes. " I merely suggest 
ed a fact that no one in your peril should fail to keep 
in remembrance. An unhappy circumstance acci 
dent, we will say has placed you in a most unfortu 
nate position, and safety demands that you be always 
guarded." 
" Guarded ? guarded ? " Guy's manner showed 
some bewilderment of thought. " No one is in the 
O 
secret but you, Mrs. Harte." 
You were not guarded when that dropped from your 
lips, Mr. Guy. 
" Those who know me best, sir, will tell you that I 
am a warm friend" 
 
