and written with a charm of style that made it additionally attractive.
Helen read fifty pages, when the approach of evening made it necessary
for her to pause.
“I will come in to-morrow morning, and read a little while,” she said.
“Good night, Martha. I suppose I must be getting ready for the theatre.”
It was on this evening that Mr. Sharp had the memorable interview with
Lewis Rand, which resulted in restoring to Helen and her father a
magnificent fortune.
                              CHAPTER XL.
                         UNCLE ZEBINA’S OFFER.
Helen and the young artist, who roomed opposite, remained fast friends.
From the evening when, by a fortunate chance, he was enabled to defend
her from insult he established himself as her evening escort from the
theatre. These daily walks enabled each better to understand the other.
They became mutual confidants. Helen indulged in sanguine anticipations
of the success of her father’s invention,—anticipations in which the
young man’s practical sense could not permit him to join, yet he was so
careful of Helen’s feelings, that he never, by a word, sought to
undermine her perfect trust in her father’s ability to achieve success.
Herbert, too, had his dreams of fame and fortune. He was an enthusiastic
lover of his art. No future seemed so bright to him as that in which he
figured himself an artist, achieving fame by his works. Others might
become generals, judges, statesmen; he desired nothing better than to be
admitted into the confidence of Nature, and to become her interpreter.
Many were the pleasant conversations on art which he held with Helen.
She looked up to him with affectionate reverence, and believed in him
fully. The compact into which they had entered, to regard each other as
brother and sister, had been faithfully kept. Not seldom Herbert was an
invited guest at Mr. Ford’s table. Helen presided on such occasions with
proud delight, and with an assumption of matronly dignity, which lent
her new charms in the eyes of her father and the young artist, who felt
his isolation relieved by admittance to the humble home of the inventor.
But of late Helen perceived with some concern, not unmingled with
surprise, that Herbert had grown less social and communicative. A shadow
seemed to rest upon his features. She tried in gentle ways to lure him
on to talk of himself, but without success. Something was evidently
troubling him, and she was anxious to learn what it was.
She was saved the trouble of inquiring, for the young artist finally
spoke himself. It was on the evening of the same day that Margaret was
taken sick.
“My little sister,” said Herbert, “you have perhaps observed a change in
me within a few days.”
“Yes, Herbert; I have been afraid that you were sick or in trouble, and
I wanted to ask you what it was.”
“I am sick, Helen, sick at heart; I believe disappointment is harder
to bear than physical pain, especially when, as in my case, it is the
disappointment of a long-cherished hope. You know how often I have
talked to you about art, and how I longed to achieve name and fame as an
artist.”
“Yes, Herbert, you surely have not changed your mind.”
“Never!” said the young man, fervently. “Never has art appeared to me so
divinely beautiful as now, when I fear I must renounce it. Never has my
longing to attain its coveted rewards been stronger. And to think I must
give it all up after the brief dream of enjoyment in which I have
indulged,—this is, indeed, hard.”
“But why,” said Helen, puzzled; “why, if you still love it as much as
ever, do you renounce it?”
“My little sister,” said the artist, sadly, “it is money that rules the
world. Before its sway we must all bow, willing or unwilling. It is the
want of money that drives me to abandon that which is the chief joy of
my life.”
“But, Herbert, can’t you sell your pictures?”
“In art it is a crime to be a young man. If I were only well known! But
I look too much like a boy. Don’t think,” he added, hastily, “that I
consider this the only impediment to my success. I have doubtless much,
very much, to learn. There is great room for improvement, and if I could
I should be content to work on for years without selling a picture,
striving only to improve myself, not achieving, but learning to achieve.
Yet I have seen paintings sold for generous sums, on account of the
artist’s name, no better than mine.”
“I am sure your ‘Country Farm-house’ is a beautiful painting,” said
Helen, enthusiastically. “There must be a great many that would like to
buy it.”
Herbert smiled bitterly.
“I tried to sell it, yesterday, to a dealer. He received me coldly, and
after inquiring what else I had painted declined to buy it on any terms.
Another offered me ten dollars, a little more than the cost of the
frame. I had the curiosity to inquire the price of another painting
which he had for sale, which I should certainly not admit to be superior
to my own, and was told that it was one hundred and fifty dollars. One
hundred and fifty dollars! if I could only realize that sum for mine, it
would enable me to work six months longer. But wishes are cheap.
Yesterday I decided to give up all my dreams of art, and go back to my
country home.”
“O Herbert, what a pity!”
“Just as I had come to this conclusion I received a letter from an uncle
of mine in my native town, which confirmed my resolution. He keeps a
country store, partly grocery, partly dry goods, and wants an assistant.
He writes that, so far as he can learn, I don’t find painting very
profitable,—but hold, I will read you the letter.”
Pausing before a shop window, Herbert took from his pocket a letter
inclosed in a coarse yellow envelope, and read it as follows:—
    “DEAR NEPHEW,—
    “I am in good health, and hope you are enjoying the same blessing.
    Your folks are pretty smart. Your father sold his yearling calf
    last week, and got a pretty good price for it. I expect you are
    not making much money by your painting. I always thought it a
    foolish piece of business letting you go into such an uncertain
    trade, and so I told brother, but he wouldn’t listen to me, though
    I expect now he is beginning to think about as I do. If it had
    been house painting now, there’d have been some sense in that.
    There’s Josiah Watson is making his two dollars and a half a day
    straight along, and I don’t believe you’re making a quarter of
    that. (’He’s right there,’ interpolated Herbert.) Now I’m going to
    make you an offer, and if you’re wise you’ll accept it. I’m
    getting old, and I find my business increasing. I need help in the
    store, and I’d rather give the situation to one that’s kin to me
    than to a stranger, especially as I can trust you, and may be I
    might get deceived in another. I’m willing to pay thirty-five
    dollars a month, and more when you’ve got a little used to things,
    so you can move round handy. I shall want you to begin work the
    first of next month. That’ll give you a fortnight to settle up
    your painting business in the city.
    “Now, nephew Herbert, I’ve made you a fair offer, and you’ll do
    well to accept it. Your father thinks as I do about it; and the
    folks, I know, will like to have you at home again. I don’t want
    to make no promises, but bimeby I may find myself obliged to take
    a partner, and of course, if you give satisfaction, as I’ve no
    doubt you will, I sha’n’t be very apt to go out of the family. I
    shall want to hear from you as soon as you have made up your mind.
    Your aunt Desire sends her love, and hopes you will come. She
    would like to have you bring her a new pair of spectacles from the
    city. Her old pair got broken the other day (your cousin Mary
    stepped on them), and she’s pestered about seeing.
                                                 “Your uncle,
                                                       “ZEBINA PRATT.”
“A brilliant offer, isn’t it?” said the young artist. “I am invited to
give up all my high aspirations,—all my dreams of artistic eminence,—and
take my place behind the counter of a country-store, to weigh out tea
and sugar for Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Jones, and chaffer with Mrs. Thompson
about the extra half cent on a yard of calico. And all for thirty-five
dollars a month!”
“The offer seems kindly meant,” said Helen.
“Yes, there is no doubt of that. Uncle Zebina is a worthy and
kind-hearted man. I have no doubt he thinks he is consulting my best
interests in making me such a proposal. And doubtless he is, so far as
his views of life are concerned. I should be pretty sure to be admitted
into partnership after a while, and eventually to succeed my uncle in
business. I dare say I should become a thrifty trader, be elected
selectman, assessor, town clerk, and perhaps in time be elected to a
seat in the legislature. That is not so bad, is it? And what has art to
offer me that will outweigh all these advantages? It will gratify my
æsthetic tastes; it will give me that which my soul craves; it will open
to me a world of beauty in which I can revel; but, alas! it will not
give me bread. Helen, it is bread and butter that must decide this
question. I believe I must send my uncle an affirmative answer. I must
bid farewell to art, and sell soap and sugar. What do you advise?”
There was a bitterness in the young man’s tone that pained Helen.
Accustomed to think for her father, she began to think for him. What
would be best? It was not a question to be hastily decided. Bread and
butter, humble and prosaic as it is, is not to be slighted. Yet she was
convinced that Herbert would be very unhappy if transferred to his
uncle’s store.
“I don’t know what to say, Herbert,” said Helen, at length. “I want to
think it over. When do you propose to write to your uncle?”
“I can wait till day after to-morrow.”
“Then I will think it over till then. Perhaps, between us, we can think
of something that will keep you in the city. I don’t know what I should
do without you. Next to my father, I should miss you.”
“And one of my chief regrets in leaving the city would be that I must
leave behind my little sister,” said the young artist, affectionately.
“Thank you, Herbert; goodnight!”
“Good night, Helen.”
                              CHAPTER XLI.
              MR. SHARP MAKES AN IMPORTANT COMMUNICATION.
Helen was engaged in rinsing up the breakfast dishes, thinking busily
meantime what could be done for Herbert, when a gentle tap called her to
the door. Wondering a little at so early a call, she looked up to meet
the smiling face of Mr. Sharp.
“Good morning, Mr. Sharp,” she said, politely. “Won’t you come in and
see papa?”
“Thank you, my dear Miss Ford; at the risk of interrupting your
respected father in his valuable scientific labors I will yet do so. I
am quite aware that I have called at an unseasonable hour. I should not
have ventured to do it, but that I am summoned hither by business of an
important character—business, which I may venture to hope, will make me
welcome.”
“You are welcome, sir; we are always glad to see one who has shown
himself a friend.”
“Thank you, my dear Miss Ford. Such a testimony is most grateful to my
feelings, the more so that I feel, so far as my intentions are
concerned, it is not wholly undeserved.”
“Papa, Mr. Sharp is here,” said Helen, going up to her father, and
laying her hand lightly upon his shoulder.
Rousing at the touch, Mr. Ford advanced and welcomed the lawyer
cordially.
“I was just apologizing to your charming daughter for calling so early,”
said Mr. Sharp.
“There is no occasion for that,” said Mr. Ford, courteously. “We don’t
stand on ceremony with our friends.”
“I hope you will ever include me in that number. But my call this
morning is of a business character.”
“Shall I leave the room, papa?”
“No, my dear, I can have no business in which you are not equally
interested.”
“By no means, my dear Miss Ford; I particularly desire that you should
be present. Mr. Ford, I called on your cousin Lewis last evening.”
“And I suppose he renewed his offer,” said Mr. Ford, hastily. “Tell him
from me that I shall accept no pittance at his hands. The only
proposition to which I shall listen is one that will surrender to me
half of my father’s estate.”
“He has consented to such a surrender,” said Mr. Sharp.
“My cousin has consented to yield me one half the estate!” exclaimed Mr.
Ford, overwhelmed with astonishment.
Helen drew near, and listened intently, half believing she was dreaming.
“Read this,” said the lawyer, showing the document he had extorted from
the fears of Lewis Rand.
“Can this be genuine?”
“There can be no doubt of that. Mr. Rand signed it in my presence.”
“But I cannot account for such a change in him.”
“I can,” said Mr. Sharp, smiling. “Indeed, I may say that it is entirely
owing to my persuasions that the change is due.”
“You have, indeed, been a friend,” said Mr. Ford, grasping his hand,
warmly; “but I am still at a loss——”
“To understand the secret of my influence?”
“Yes.”
“I will not conceal from you that your cousin acted very much against
his will; but I employed an argument which he found it impossible to
resist.”
“And that was——”
“A police officer, and a warrant for his arrest.”
“Have you arrested Lewis?”
“No, I only used these in terrorem. Threatening breaks no bones, but
sometimes serves a useful purpose, as in this case. Not to keep you in
suspense, however, a singular and unexpected chance threw in my way the
proofs of your cousin’s complicity in a forged will by which he holds
the estate. Acting as your unauthorized agent, yet feeling sure that you
would give me a warrant for my proceedings, I brought these to bear upon
him, but agreed in your name to stay further proceedings against him if
he would quietly yield to you one half of all the property left by your
late father. Was I right in making this agreement?”
“Quite so. I have no desire to subject my cousin to any legal penalties.
It is enough that he has done me tardy justice. But how shall I thank
you, Mr. Sharp, for your friendly and disinterested service?”
“My dear Mr. Ford,” said Mr. Sharp, with effusion, “I feel abundantly
repaid in having been the humble agent of restoring to you and my
charming young friend, Miss Helen, that property which rightfully
belongs to you. Yet, if you desire to acknowledge in any way the
obligation, I will suggest that you will probably require a man of
business, to undertake the charge of your large property. I believe I am
right in asserting that you will not desire so far to interrupt your
scientific pursuits, for the petty details of business, to which an
inferior capacity can equally well attend. Should you so far honor me
with your confidence, as to intrust that business to my charge, to
select me, in fact, as your lawyer and man of business, I trust I shall
do all that is possible to any one to promote your interests.”
“Mr. Sharp,” said Mr. Ford, “if you will undertake that office, I shall
regard it as a fresh kindness on your part. You are well aware that I
have little business capacity. The accession of wealth I shall not
permit materially to interfere with my scientific pursuits. Indeed, it
is partly because it will facilitate them, that I am thankful for this
change in my circumstances. Let me add, that I shall desire to
compensate your services liberally.”
“Thank you,” said Mr. Sharp, with feeling; “I feel grateful for this
mark of your confidence. I will not hesitate even to accept the
compensation to which you so delicately allude, and trust I shall be
able to show you that I am sensible of the great privilege of being
admitted to your friendship.”
“Mr. Sharp,” said Helen, thoughtfully, “can you give me any idea of the
value of the property which has come to papa?”
“I cannot, of course, give you any definite statement, my dear Miss
Ford. From investigations I have made, however, I can assure you that it
will exceed half a million dollars.”
“I am so glad,” exclaimed Helen, looking quite radiant.
“Why, Helen,”, said her father, roused into surprise; “I had no idea you
were grown so fond of money!”
“It is because of the good we can do with so much, papa. Indeed, I want
to dispose of some at once.”
“Speak, Helen. It must be a large favor that I would not grant you.”
“But this is a hundred and fifty dollars, papa.”
“Half an hour since that would have seemed a large sum to me, Helen;
now, I believe I can afford it. Tell me what use you wish to make of
it.”
“You know Herbert Coleman, papa, the young artist opposite.”
“A very gentlemanly young man. Well, my dear?”
“He is in great trouble. His money is exhausted, and because he is so
young and unknown, he cannot sell his picture. He has had an offer from
his uncle to go into a country store to sell groceries, and fears he
must abandon art and accept this offer, for want of money to keep him
here in New York. He told me last evening that if he could only sell his
picture—you have seen it, papa: the ‘Country Farm-house,’ you know—for a
hundred and fifty dollars, he could remain in the city six months
longer.”
“And you want me to buy the picture, Helen?”
“Yes, papa.”
“Very well, but I have not so much ready money. I do not understand such
things. Mr. Sharp will know whether there will be any delay in coming
into possession of this property.”
“Very little, sir, since there is no opposition to fear from the
opposite party. In the course of a few days——”
“But he has got to decide to-day,” said Helen.
“If he is sure of a sale, however, he will wait for the money,”
suggested the lawyer.
“But there is one thing,” said Helen. “I don’t want Herbert to know just
at first that it is we who have bought his picture.”
“Leave that to me,” said Mr. Sharp. “I can tell him that I have a
commission from a friend to purchase for him, without mentioning names,
you know.”
“Yes, that will be just the thing,” said Helen, well satisfied. “Will
you go in now?”
“By all means, if you desire it.”
“And I want to go with you,” said Helen. “I want to see how delighted he
will look when he finds his picture is bought. Only please don’t tell
him just yet that we are rich, papa and I.”
“Be assured, my dear Miss Ford, I will respect your wishes,” said Mr.
Sharp, bowing. “Indeed, I honor you for your kind and generous desire to
assist your struggling friends.”
“I think, Mr. Sharp,” said Mr. Ford, quietly, “that I will authorize you
to pay Mr. Coleman two hundred dollars for his picture, and to order of
him another at the same price, the subject to be entirely of his own
selection. Do you approve, Helen?”
“Approve, papa? You are the dearest of all papas. You have made me very
happy.”
“My dear child,” said her father, affectionately, “I feel that I ought
to do what I can to make you happy. You have been my joy and comfort,
and latterly my support, in the days of my poverty. Henceforth, it shall
be mine to gratify you in all your reasonable desires.”
“Papa, you embolden me to ask another favor.”
“Well, Helen?”
“I will tell you by and by. Now, Mr. Sharp, let us go and see Herbert.”
“Herbert is a fortunate young man,” thought the lawyer. “He seems in
favor with both father and daughter. If Helen were a little older, who
can tell what would come of it. It will be worth my while to be polite
to the young man.”
                             CHAPTER XLII.
                           HOW YES BECAME NO.
Herbert Coleman had finished his scanty and unsatisfying breakfast, and
was seated before his easel, on which was an unfinished picture. He
gazed at it mournfully, for the conviction was deepening in his mind
that he must bid farewell to art. Chosen mistress of his affections, she
had treated him but coldly. She had admitted him to the threshold of her
domain. He was permitted to view the glories in which he must not share.
A career was opened before him, which it would have been his highest
happiness to follow,—in which he could see others making their way
successfully; but Necessity, with stern and forbidding countenance,
waved him back as with a sword.
Yes, he must bid farewell to art. At the age of twenty-one, he felt that
the happiness of his life was over. Henceforth, he must cherish in his
heart aspirations which he would never be able to realize. He must
descend from the clouds, and plod on in the prosaic way in which his
uncle, with more common tastes, had found happiness and prosperity. But
the transition from art to groceries was indeed great. Yet there seemed
no alternation. If it were possible to find employment for a part of the
day, sufficient to defray expenses reduced to the lowest amount
compatible with health, that would be preferable. But this was
uncertain, and, meanwhile, his purse was almost empty.
“I might as well accept my uncle’s offer, at once,” he said, to himself,
despondently. “Nothing is likely to turn up in twenty-four hours to
affect my decision. Come, I will write the letter now, and not mail it
till to-morrow.”
Feeling that his mind would be relieved by taking a decisive step, he
opened his desk, and, taking out a sheet of note-paper, had got as far
as “Dear Uncle,” when there was a little tap at his door. He rose, and,
opening it, discovered Helen and Mr. Sharp.
“Good morning, Helen,” he said, cheered, he knew not why, by her
expression; “I am glad to see you.”
“Herbert, you have heard me speak of Mr. Sharp, papa’s friend. He
desires to make your acquaintance.”
“I am very glad to meet you, Mr. Sharp,” said the young artist, looking
a little curiously at the perpetual white hat, whose general appearance
age had, by no means, improved.
“Thank you, Mr. Herbert,” said the lawyer, nodding pleasantly. “Excuse
my familiar use of your name, but Miss Helen has not mentioned any
other.”
“Mr. Coleman, excuse me,” said Helen, blushing a little. “How stupid I
am!”
“By no means, my dear young lady. But, Mr. Coleman, Miss Helen has told
me that you were an artist, and her commendations of one of your
pictures have excited my interest; and I have come to ask, as a favor,
that you will allow me to look at it.”
“Certainly, sir. I am afraid, however, that you will find Miss Helen’s
friendship has dulled her critical powers. This is probably the painting
to which you refer.”
In a moment of despondency, he had turned his painting of the “Country
Farm-house” to the wall. The high hopes which he had formed of its
success, and their signal failure, produced a revulsion of feeling,
which made it unpleasant for him to look at it.
“This is indeed beautiful!” exclaimed Mr. Sharp, admiringly. (In this
case he was sincere, though, had it been the merest daub, he would have
expressed equal admiration.) “Mr. Coleman, I congratulate you. There are
touches in that painting which indicate genius of a high order. I
predict that you will, ere many years, achieve a high place in the roll
of our native artists.”
Herbert smiled sadly, and glanced significantly at Helen. This praise,
coming at a time when he had resolved to cut adrift from the profession
of his love, was a source of pain rather than pleasure. He felt the more
that it would be a fatal mistake, but, nevertheless, one that seemed
inevitable.
Helen’s expression perplexed him. It was one of quiet happiness. Yet she
must know the necessity that was upon him.
“I like this painting,” continued the lawyer, “chiefly because of its
truth to nature. The highest praise I can give it is that I have seen
precisely such a farm-house. The scene is one familiar to those who know
anything of country-life. May I inquire, Mr. Coleman, whether this
painting is for sale?”
“Yes, sir,” said Herbert, brightening up a little, though he hardly
judged, from Mr. Sharp’s appearance, that he was likely to become a
patron of art. “Young artists cannot afford to keep their works on hand.
I may add, frankly, that my circumstances are such that I shall be very
glad to find a purchaser.”
“I don’t ask in my own behalf,” said Mr. Sharp. “Though I am
passionately fond of fine paintings, my means are restricted, and my
professional income will not permit me to indulge in such luxuries. But
I am authorized by one of my clients, to purchase him a painting. He
confides implicitly to my taste. May I inquire what price you set upon
this painting?”
The young artist’s face brightened up with new-born hope. Perhaps he
might be able to send a negative answer to his uncle, after all.
“Should you consider fifty dollars too large?” he said, hesitatingly,
fearing lest it might exceed Mr. Sharp’s limit.
“Fifty dollars, Mr. Coleman! You surely cannot be in earnest.”
“I am a young artist,” stammered Herbert, “and, perhaps, may have set
too high a value upon my work. You shall have it at your own price.”
“You mistake me, my young friend, if you will permit me to call you so.
I was only surprised at the lowness of your price. My friend has
authorized me to pay two hundred dollars for such a work as my taste
approves. I shall not think of offering you less for this beautiful
painting.”
“Two hundred dollars!” exclaimed Herbert, in joyful excitement. “Are you
really in earnest?”
“Most unquestionably.”
“I am very grateful to you, sir; you can’t understand how great a
service you have rendered me,” said Herbert, grasping Mr. Sharp’s hand,
and wringing it with cordial energy. “Just as you came in I was on the
point of writing a letter, accepting a proposition which would cut me
off forever from my favorite work.”
“You won’t write it, now, Herbert?” said Helen, archly.
“I shall write a different letter, Helen. Once more, Mr. Sharp, let me
thank you.”
“I do not deserve your thanks. Some day I will introduce you to the real
purchaser of the painting. Meanwhile, I have a commission for you. I am
authorized, by my friend, to order another picture at the same price.
Will you undertake it?”
“Most willingly; most gratefully.”
“The subject shall be left to your own taste and judgment.”
“I hope to deserve this generous confidence.”
“Perhaps, Herbert, you would rather go into your uncle’s store,” said
Helen, smiling happily.
“I am afraid Uncle Zebina must look elsewhere for an assistant,” said
the young artist. “I must not forget, dear Helen, that my good fortune
comes through you.”
“You have been very kind to me, Herbert. I hope I shall be able to do
more for you hereafter.”
“I regret, Mr. Coleman,” said the lawyer, “that I am unable to pay you
this morning for your painting. I hope to be able to pay you next week.”
“That will be quite satisfactory, sir.”
“Meanwhile, as one who understands the world a little better than
yourself, to suggest that, if your painting could be on exhibition a few
days,—at Goupil’s, for instance,—with the name of the artist, and the
label, ‘Sold,’ it might be of assistance to you. It will give the
impression that your works are in demand.”
“A most excellent suggestion, for which I thank you. If your friend
would be willing?”
“I undertake to engage that there will be no objection. Depend upon it,
my young friend, there is nothing succeeds so well as success.”
“You may be sure, sir, that I appreciate your friendly feeling no less
than the liberal patronage I have received through you. You have
probably determined my future.”
“That will be a source of proud satisfaction to me, Mr. Coleman,” said
the lawyer. “Let me suggest that you lose no time in making an
arrangement to exhibit your painting, as proposed. It might do no harm
to affix the price for which it was sold.”
“Thank you, sir. It is well thought of. I shall certainly adopt your
suggestion.”
“I believe I must now bid you good morning,” said the lawyer. “I have
important business on hand, and have been beguiled already into
remaining here too long. Good morning, Miss Helen. I shall take a very
early opportunity to call again upon you and your worthy father. You
will hear from me before long, Mr. Coleman, in a way that will, I trust,
prove satisfactory to you.”
Mr. Sharp bowed his way down stairs, leaving two happy hearts behind
him. He, too, was in excellent spirits. As Mr. Ford’s man of business,
he would be liberally paid, and no longer be reduced to those shifts to
which, in times past, he had been compelled to resort, for the purpose
of “getting along.”
Helen lingered a moment after the lawyer departed.
“Now to finish Uncle Zebina’s letter,” said Herbert, briskly. “It will
be a letter different from what I anticipated.”
The letter ran as follows:—
    “DEAR UNCLE ZEBINA: I thank you for your very kind offer, though I
    shall be unable to accept it. I feel that I shall be happier as an
    artist, than I could be in any other vocation. I am confident that
    you will have no difficulty in securing an assistant who will suit
    you better than I should do. Give my love to aunt Desire. Tell her
    and all my friends that I hope to see them all at Thanksgiving.
                             “Your affectionate nephew,
                                                     “HERBERT COLEMAN.
    “P. S. I have just sold a painting for two hundred dollars, and
    have an order for another at the same price.”
This letter, it may be remarked, more especially the postscript, made
quite a sensation in Herbert’s country home; and Uncle Zebina allowed
that perhaps Herbert was doing better, after all, than if he had become
a house painter.
                             CHAPTER XLIII.
                       MARTHA GREY IS SURPRISED.
Lewis Rand submitted to what was inevitable, and, as Mr. Sharp
predicted, interposed no obstacles in the way of a division of the
property. He chose to retain in his own share the house and furniture of
the late Mr. Rand, foreseeing that the house would rise annually in
value. The remainder of the property consisted partly of real estate,
but mainly of stocks and bonds. This rendered the division easy. At the
end of ten days, Mr. Sharp was in a situation to deliver to his client
the title to three houses situated in different parts of the city, and a
quarter of a million in bank and railway shares.
Until matters were concluded, Helen desired that the fact of their good
fortune should be kept strictly private. Neither Martha nor Herbert
suspected that their humble neighbors had fallen heirs to a princely
fortune.
One of the three houses referred to was situated in Twenty-second
Street. It was nearly new, and thoroughly furnished. Fortunately, it had
just been vacated by a family on the point of visiting Europe for a
series of years. By Mr. Sharp’s advice, negotiations for the purchase of
the furniture were entered into and satisfactorily completed. To this
house Helen and her father proposed to remove.
Thanks to Helen’s good care, and the rest which she so much needed,
Martha Grey had quite recovered from the attack brought on by excessive
labor. She was anxious to resume work, but Helen had succeeded in
putting her off.
“I shall certainly begin to-morrow,” said Martha, one evening. “I cannot
consent longer to remain a burden upon you.”
“But if I were rich,” said Helen, with a smile.
“That would be different.”
“Well, Martha, I may become rich some day.”
“I hope you will, my dear child.”
“But you don’t expect it. Yet stranger things have happened. Now,
Martha, I have a promise to exact of you. When I am rich, will you come
and live with me?”
Martha smiled.
“Yes, Helen, when you are rich, I will come and live with you.”
“Mind you don’t forget your promise. I may remind you of it some day.”
“Poor child!” thought Martha. “She means, when her father has completed
his invention. I am afraid it will be a long time before that will bring
her a fortune.”
The next morning, Martha was sitting in her little rocking-chair, busy
at her sewing, when Helen came in with a smile.
“Put down that sewing directly, Martha,” she said. “I have another plan
for to-day.”
“But, my dear child, I must disobey you this time. It is quite time that
I was again at work.”
“You can put off your sewing for a couple of hours. Mr. Sharp has been
kind enough to invite you and papa and myself to take a ride.”
“He is very kind,” said Martha. “I don’t know why he should think of
me.”
“Perhaps he thought it would do you good. He knew you had been sick.”
“But I have nothing fit to wear.”
“Am I very richly dressed?”
“No, but——”
“No objections, Martha. Get your bonnet and shawl directly.”
It was a beautiful morning,—an Indian summer day,—the air balmy and
sweet as a day in early June. The seamstress yielded not unwillingly to
the solicitations of Helen, and was quickly dressed for the drive.
Mr. Sharp was waiting below with a carriage.
“Good morning, Miss Grey,” he said, with his usual suavity; “I am truly
glad to see that you have recovered from your illness. You are a little
pale yet, but I hope we shall succeed in bringing back the roses to your
cheek.”
“I am very much obliged to you for kindly remembering me, Mr. Sharp,”
said Martha. “It is a charming day. I assure you I shall enjoy the
drive.”
“It seems to me,” thought M’lle Fanchette, looking from her window,
“that the Fords are growing extravagant. Such airs as that child puts
on, merely because she sings in a theatre! and bless my soul, there’s
the seamstress, Martha Grey, too! She’d better be at work. There’s the
lawyer, too. It can’t be possible he is paying attentions to Helen Ford.
No, she’s too young for that. Or is it Martha Grey? If it’s she, I don’t
admire his taste, that’s all. She is most an old woman, and never had
any beauty to boast of. (Martha was three years younger than M’lle
Fanchette.) Well, well, its a queer world. That Helen may lose her
situation by and by,—I’m sure, I don’t think much of her singing,—and
then we sha’n’t have such gay doings.”
By this time the carriage had driven away, and M’lle Fanchette prepared
to go to her shop.
Our party did not at once drive to Twenty-second street, but farther up
on the island, through that portion of the city, then wholly unsettled,
which is now occupied by the Central Park. It was a charming morning.
Helen was in the best of spirits, and even Mr. Ford forgot, for the
time, his invention, and drank in the sweet influences of the day. To
Martha, confined in her room for so long, whose only prospect had been
the brick wall opposite, it seemed like a dream of Paradise. Memories of
her childhood came back to her, and her eyes involuntarily filled with
tears as she thought of that sweet, unforgotten time. Mr. Sharp was in
excellent spirits, livelier, and more affable even than usual, and kept
up the spirits of the party by his jocular remarks.
At length the carriage stopped.
The driver jumped from his seat, and threw open the door of the
carriage.
“We haven’t got home?” said Martha, a little bewildered.
“Oh, I forgot to tell you,” said Helen; “Mr. Sharp has invited us to
look over a house which he has just secured for some friends of his.”
“What a handsome house!” said Martha. “They must be rich people.”
“Yes,” said Mr. Sharp, with an incomprehensible smile, “I assure you
that they are quite rich.”
“They wouldn’t object to our visit?” asked Martha, timidly.
“O no, not at all. In fact they gave me permission to bring you here.”
By this time they had entered the hall, and went in first to inspect the
parlors. These were furnished in the style appropriate to such a house.
To Martha, who had never before entered a house of such pretensions, it
seemed very magnificent, and even palatial.
After they had examined the rooms on the lower floor they went up
stairs. The chambers were furnished with equal taste. Helen felt that it
would take some time to get accustomed to such a style of living after
her humble lodgings at Mother Morton’s.
“I like this room very much,” said Martha. It was a broad, spacious
chamber with a sunny aspect, very pleasant and home-like in its
appearance.
“You would be willing to give up your room at Mrs. Morton’s if you could
have this?” inquired Helen.
“If I could have as agreeable neighbors,” said Martha, with a smile.
“Very well,” said Helen, “I will take you at your word. You shall occupy
this room.”
“What do you mean, Helen?” asked Martha, in surprise.
“I mean that it only depends upon your own consent to exchange your
present room for this.”
“I don’t understand,” said Martha, bewildered.
“Then I will explain. The mistress of this house, who is a friend of Mr.
Sharp, is desirous of securing a companion, and will take you if you
will come.”
“Perhaps she may not like me.”
“I think there is no doubt on that point; do you papa?”
“No, I believe not,” said Mr. Ford.
“Then you will consent, Martha. You will be secure against want, and
will have every comfort provided you.”
“It will be great good fortune for me,” said Martha. “But I cannot bear
the thought of being separated from you, Helen.”
“You may learn to like the lady I refer to as well as me.”
“Never!” said Martha, with emphasis.
“Make no rash promises,” said Helen, “I shall be very much disappointed
if you do not.”
“If I could see this lady.”
“So you shall. You will find her in the next room.”
More mystified than ever, Martha accompanied Helen into the next room.
There was a large pier glass extending from floor to ceiling. Helen led
the seamstress up to it, and standing beside her said, “There, Martha,
there is the lady who invites you to be her companion.”
“But I see only yourself.”
“Well, and I am the one,” said Helen, smiling.
Then Helen explained to her astonished and delighted auditor the great
change that had taken place in her circumstances. No longer obliged to
toil for her daily bread, she would henceforth live in affluence.
“God has been very good to us, Martha,” she said, in conclusion. “I hope
we shall not forget, in the happiness of the present, the poverty of the
past. I hope we shall use His gift as He would have us.”
“Dear Helen, I am sure you will.”
“And you will come and live with me? I should be very lonely in this
large house without a friend to lean upon. Dear Martha, it shall not be
my fault if your future is not as sunny as your past has been dark.”
“How much happiness I shall owe you!” said Martha, with grateful tears.
“Hush, Martha,” said Helen, softly. “Do not thank me, for my happiness
will be no less.”
That evening the household at Mother Morton’s was electrified by the
announcement that Helen Ford had turned out a great heiress, and that
Martha Grey was going to live with her. On the morrow Helen and her
father transferred their home from their humble lodgings to
Twenty-second Street.
“If I had only known,” thought M’lle Fanchette, regretfully, “I might
have been in that sickly Martha Grey’s place. But who could ever have
imagined that Helen Ford would turn out a rich woman? Well, it’s too
late now!”
And M’lle Fanchette had to content herself with this philosophical
reflection.
                             CHAPTER XLIV.
                    HELEN TAKES LEAVE OF THE STAGE.
The next morning Helen, on reaching the theatre, sought the presence of
Mr. Bowers.
The manager was seated in his office, as usual. He nodded carelessly as
Helen entered, but did not invite her to be seated.
“Well, Miss Ford,” he said, after a while. “What can I do for you, this
morning?”
“I should like to have you release me from my engagement, if you please,
Mr. Bowers.”
“Release you from your engagement!” ejaculated the astonished manager.
Then, in a tone of indignation, “I suppose you have had a larger offer
elsewhere.”
“No, sir.”
“What can be your motive, then? I beg you to understand, Miss Ford, that
a contract is a contract, and must be kept. Of course your place could
be supplied, but it is annoying to make a change in the middle of the
season.”
This last remark was thrown in, lest Helen should presume upon her value
to the establishment to demand a higher salary. Indeed, the manager
suspected that this was her object, and wished to anticipate her.
“I was afraid it might inconvenience you,” said Helen, gently; “and am
willing, in requital, to refund the whole amount of wages that I have
received from you.”
Mr. Bowers stared at Helen in undisguised astonishment. She must have
had a very brilliant offer to warrant her in making such a proposal.
“Did I understand that you have had no other engagement offered you?” he
inquired, abruptly.
“No, sir. I do not wish to sing any more in public.”
“It will pay you better than anything else you can do.”
“I ought to explain that I have had a fortune left me, or rather papa
has, and under our new circumstances it would be inconvenient for me to
come to the theatre every evening.”
“Indeed, Miss Ford!” said Mr. Bowers, his tone changing. “I congratulate
you. I hope, for your sake, it is a large fortune.”
“Mr. Sharp tells me that it will be a few hundred thousand dollars,”
said Helen, simply, without the least trace of exultation in her tone.
“A few hundred thousand dollars!” exclaimed Mr. Bowers, in profound
astonishment. “Pray, take a seat, my dear Miss Ford. Hang my stupidity,
why didn’t I think to offer you one before?”
And Mr. Bowers bustled about, and offered Helen a seat with as much
deference as if she were a duchess. It was easy to see that she had
risen immeasurably in his estimation.
“Did the property come from a relation?” he asked.
“Yes, sir; from my grandfather.”
“Was his name the same with yours, Miss Ford?”
“No, sir. His name was Rand.”
“Not the late Gerald Rand?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Why he was one of our most substantial citizens—lived on Fifth Avenue.
And to think I should have had his granddaughter singing in my theatre!
Well, wonders will never cease.”
“If it wouldn’t inconvenience you too much to release me,” said Helen,
returning to her petition; “I like to be with papa in the evening. He is
lonely without me.”
“By all means, Miss Ford, I would oblige you even were the inconvenience
ten times as great,” said Mr. Bowers, obsequiously.
“Thank you, sir; you are very kind. I shall be willing to sing for you
the rest of the week, so as to give you time to find some one to fill my
place.”
“Will you?” asked the manager, eagerly, seeing at once how he might turn
Helen’s accession of fortune to profitable account; “you will indeed
confer a great favor upon me by so doing. It will take me some time to
fill your place, and I cannot hope to obtain a substitute who will
become such a favorite with the public.”
“Thank you, sir,” said Helen, rising to go. “Then I will go to
rehearsal.”
“Thank you rather, my dear Miss Ford,” said the manager, rising from his
seat and opening the door for her. “I shall not forget your kindness.”
Helen could not help wondering a little at the change in the manager’s
manner, and, unversed as she was in the ways of the world, she could not
help seeing that it was the result of her change of circumstances.
Meanwhile the manager was not idle. The morning papers contained the
following paragraph, the authorship of which may at least be suspected.
    ROMANCE IN REAL LIFE. We understand that Miss Helen Ford, the
    young vocalist whose charming melodies have made her such a
    popular favorite, has just come into possession of a splendid
    fortune, inherited from her grandfather, Gerald Rand, Esq., the
    well-known capitalist, whose death was recently noticed in our
    columns. Miss Ford has kindly agreed to sing as usual through the
    present week, when she will leave the stage forever.
The effect of this paragraph may be imagined. That evening hundreds were
turned away from the theatre, which was crowded to its utmost capacity.
Never had such an audience been seen within its walls. When Helen
appeared on the stage, quite unaware of the paragraph which had produced
this effect, she was received with long-continued applause. The vast
audience seemed inspired with a sudden enthusiasm.
Helen was surprised, but did not lose her self-possession. She sang with
her usual sweetness, and was immediately encored. Again she sang, and
this time was called before the curtain. Several bouquets were thrown
her, which she picked up, and hastily withdrew.
If Helen had been older, she would have understood the meaning of this
ovation. As it was, she only wondered.
Behind the curtain she met the manager, smiling, and rubbing his hands
in evident glee.
“My dear Miss Ford,” he said, “this is indeed a triumph.”
“The house is very full,” said Helen.
“And hundreds turned away; never was such a house seen.”
“I am very glad of it,” said Helen.
“So am I; let me see, this is Tuesday evening. Friday you shall have a
benefit. One third of the receipts. It is only fair, since you have
drawn this immense audience.”
Helen would have declined the offer, but for a sudden thought. When she
first became connected with the theatre she noticed a thin fragile girl,
who danced between the plays. The exertion was evidently too great for
her, for she was often seized with a violent fit of coughing after
withdrawing from the stage. For a fortnight Helen had missed her. On
inquiry, she learned that Alice (this was her name) was sick. “Poor
girl,” added the prompter, who was her informant, “it is a great
misfortune, for she has an invalid sister who is dependent upon her for
support. I am afraid she won’t get along very well, for her salary was
small, and now it is cut off altogether.”
It occurred to Helen that she could give the proceeds of her benefit to
Alice. She accordingly thanked Mr. Bowers, and accepted his proposal.
The week was a series of triumphs. Every evening the doors of the
theatre were besieged, and every evening hundreds were turned away.
Friday evening,—the evening of her benefit,—Helen found the house
fuller, if possible, than before, the manager had taken the opportunity,
in consequence of the great demand for seats, to raise temporarily the
price of admission. As he anticipated, this did not in the least
diminish the throngs who crowded for admittance.
On Saturday morning he handed Helen a check for five hundred dollars, as
her share of the proceeds.
Helen’s eyes sparkled with joy, as she thought of the happiness which
this sum would bring to the poor ballet girl.
She lost no time in seeking her out.
It was indeed a poor place, Helen would have been afraid of venturing
into such a locality if she had not been accompanied by Herbert Coleman.
Up a rickety staircase she climbed, and was shown, by an untidy woman,
into a room wholly destitute of comforts, where on a pallet reclined
Alice and her sister, both sick.
“Is that you, Miss Ford?” asked Alice, her face lighting up. “How very
kind you are to come and see me!”
“I am very sorry to find you so sick,” said Helen.
“I don’t think I am very sick,” said Alice. “But this is but a poor
place, and I cannot get any one to take care of my sister Jennie. She
has been an invalid for years.”
“There are better times in store,” said Helen, cheerfully, “First we
must have you moved to a better room. Next you must have a nurse.”
“But,” said Alice, hesitatingly, “we are very poor. I never had anything
