"Hah, you bloody villains of Yankees!" shouted the rebels, at their
ports.
"How are you, Johnny Reb?" replied a fore-top man, as he hurled a
spittoon in at the port.
Another old salt dashed in a holy-stone, and then the marines opened
fire upon them with their muskets.
"Ram her again!" shouted the admiral from the main rigging of the
Hartford, as the flag-ship dashed at the game.
The Chatauqua swept round, and succeeded in striking the Tennessee
again, but with no better result than before. At the same time she
poured in shot and shell from every available gun.
At this moment one of the ships struck the Hartford, by accident, in the
dense smoke, and knocked two of her ports into one. It was believed that
the flag-ship would go down, for her planking was stove in within two
feet of the water-line.
"Save the admiral! save the admiral!" shouted the men; and there was
not one of them who would not have died by fire or water to rescue their
beloved leader.
Somers sprang upon the rail, to observe the catastrophe, and to be in
readiness to save the admiral if an opportunity occurred. While he stood
there, a shot hit the rail diagonally, a splinter struck him in the
side, and he dropped helpless into the water.
"Mr. Somers is wounded and fallen overboard!" shouted the captain of the
pivot gun amidships.
The words were hardly out of his mouth, before another man dropped into
the water from one of the ports. It was Tom Longstone. He found his
young friend, and bearing him up with his strong arm, both were rescued
from their perilous position.
"She shows the white flag! She surrenders!" was the cry, as the
boatswain and Somers reached the deck.
The young officer was borne to the ward-room at the moment of victory,
while the cheers of the brave tars were ringing through the fleet.
The Tennessee and the Selma had surrendered, the Gaines had been driven
ashore, and the Morgan was for the present safe under the guns of the
fort. The victory was complete and decisive.
Somers was severely, if not dangerously, injured. He was borne tenderly
to his state-room by his brother officers, as the cheers for the great
victory were sounding through the fleet. There had been seven men killed
and thirty-five wounded on board the Chatauqua. The surgeon was in the
cockpit, busily engaged in attending to the wounds of the poor fellows,
and could not immediately examine the young officer, who, it was
evident, required no surgical operation.
The ship, though considerably cut up by the shots from the fort and from
the rebel steamers, was still in condition for active service. The fleet
anchored in the bay, out of the reach of the guns of Fort Morgan.
Officers were busy in making the necessary surveys, and the men were
occupied in repairing damages and restoring order about the decks and
rigging.
"How do you feel, Mr. Somers?" asked Mr. Hackleford, entering the
sufferer's room, as soon as he could leave the deck.
"I do not suffer much pain, sir; but I am afraid I am badly damaged in
the hull," replied Somers, with a languid smile.
He was very pale, and lay very still. He was numb from the effects of
the shock given him by the splinter, and some of the functions of his
frame seemed to be suspended. The first lieutenant was alarmed, and sent
a second messenger for the surgeon, who presently made his appearance,
having disposed of the severest cases in the cockpit.
"What do you think of him, doctor?" asked Mr. Hackleford.
"I fear he is badly injured," replied Dr. De Plesion, shaking his head.
"Dangerously?" whispered the first lieutenant.
The surgeon shook his head.
"Speak out, doctor," said the patient, faintly. "I am not afraid to die
for my country. Please tell me the truth."
"I cannot tell yet, Mr. Somers. Three of the ribs are fractured, but if
he is not injured internally, he will do very well," added the surgeon,
to Mr. Hackleford.
"I have but little pain," said the patient.
"You will have more, Mr. Somers, by night," continued Dr. De Plesion. "I
do not discover any internal injury."
"I hope there is none," said the first lieutenant. "You are too good an
officer to be spared, Mr. Somers,--I mean for even a brief period, of
course."
The report of the surgeon was anxiously awaited by the captain and all
the ward-room officers, for the third lieutenant had been a universal
favorite, and his capture of the Ben Lomond, and his gallant conduct
during the action with the forts and the Tennessee, had not diminished
his popularity. Of all who waited the doctor's decision, none took the
matter so much to heart as the boatswain, who had saved him from
drowning while he was helpless in the water. Mr. Hackleford noticed him
at his duty, still wet to the skin, and kindly gave him permission to
visit his young friend.
"I shall not go by the board, Tom," said Somers. "You and I may yet make
another cruise together."
"Thank God! I hope so," exclaimed the boatswain, encouraged by these
cheerful words.
"Tom, I owe my life to you."
"O, never mind that, my darling! What would I have done if you had
slipped your wind?"
"You would have done your duty, as you always do, my good fellow."
"I dare say I should, Mr. Somers, but I can only thank God that you are
alive now," replied the boatswain, as the tears flowed down his bronzed
cheek, and he turned to leave the room.
CHAPTER XXVI.
IN THE HOSPITAL.
Under the arrangement made by Admiral Farragut with the commander of
Fort Morgan, the wounded of both sides were sent in the Metacomet to
Pensacola. Somers was of the number, and he was borne from his berth in
the Chatauqua to the steamer, though the removal caused him great pain.
The numbness of his side was beginning to pass away, and the parts to
become very sensitive.
"Mr. Somers, I am sorry to see you in this condition," said "Brave Old
Salt," who was present with a kind word for the suffering heroes of the
battle. "You behaved nobly during the fight, as I am told you always
do."
"Thank you, sir. You are very kind," moaned Somers, in his pain and
weakness.
"I have not forgotten you, my brave fellow," continued the admiral. "The
capture of the Ben Lomond was a matter of more consequence than you can
appreciate, perhaps; and your faith and skill in doing this work entitle
you to the gratitude of your country."
"I am happy in having merited your approbation."
"You have behaved gallantly in the action; and, I repeat, you shall be
remembered. What can I do for you, Mr. Somers?"
"Nothing more for me, admiral. You have done more for me now than I
deserve. Mr. Longstone, the boatswain of the Chatauqua, who saved my
life--"
"I know all about him, Mr. Somers. He was your right-hand man in the
capture of the Ben Lomond."
"He was, sir."
"He shall not be forgotten."
"I have already been rewarded more than I deserve--"
"No, you haven't. Mr. Pillgrim promised you a lieutenant's commission,
if you brought out his steamer. I ratify that promise. As to the
boatswain, it is a pity he is not an educated man; but he shall be cared
for."
"Thank you, sir."
But Somers was too faint to talk any longer, and the admiral passed to
other of the noble fellows who had been wounded on that eventful day.
The sufferer's cot was placed on the ward-room floor, for the
state-rooms and berths were already full. In one of them lay Admiral
Buchanan, who had commanded the rebel fleet. He had been wounded in the
leg in the battle, and he had lost the battle itself, which, to a proud,
brave spirit, was worse than losing a leg.
Somers was now suffering the most intense pain, which he bore like a
hero. Tom Longstone bent tenderly over him, his eyes filled with tears,
and uttered his adieus. With a hand as gentle as a woman's, he pillowed
his head on the couch, and smoothed back his hair from his eyes. He
would gladly have gone with his wounded friend, to lave his fevered brow
and speak words of comfort and encouragement to him; but neither of them
thought of such a thing, for the admiral's fleet was in the enemy's
waters, and every man was needed at his post.
The Metacomet, having received her precious freight of mangled heroes,
cast off her moorings, and, passing the fort, turned her prow to the
eastward. On her arrival at Pensacola, the sufferers were transferred to
the hospital, where they received every attention which willing hands
and generous hearts could bestow.
Fort Morgan surrendered to the combined forces of the army and navy
before the end of the month, and Mobile Bay was in undisputed possession
of the government. The work undertaken by the brave admiral had been
fully completed. Mobile was now a cipher, so far as the Confederacy was
concerned, though a great bluster was made of defending it to the last.
Somers had been three weeks in the hospital, and doubtless owed his life
to the skill of the surgeon and the attentions of the nurses. He had
been injured internally, as Dr. De Plesion feared; but he had begun to
improve, though he was still unable to sit up. He had endured the
severest pain, and the doctor had not concealed from him his fears of a
fatal result, because the patience and firmness, but especially the
religious faith, of the sufferer warranted him in doing so.
Day after day and night after night Somers struggled with his condition,
in faith, patience, and resignation. He felt that he was ready to leave
the world, full of joys and hopes as it was, for the purer hopes and
brighter joys of the eternal world beyond the grave. He thought of his
mother, and wished that she might be with him to smooth his dying
pillow, if he must die; but it was not the will of God, and he did not
murmur. He thought of Kate Portington. He would like to see her once
more before he passed away, but this was a vain wish; and from her and
the loved ones at home he turned to the glorious realities of the
immortal life--fitting theme for one who was trembling between life and
death.
In the midst of his pain and earthly loneliness he was happy. He could
not but recall the scene of Phil Kennedy's death-bed; of the agony of
remorse which shook him, as he looked back upon his past life; of the
terrors with which his stricken conscience invested the grave. Then the
sufferer, in the deepest depths of his heart, thanked God that he had
been enabled to be true to himself and to duty. He was happy in the
past, happy in the hope of the future. There was much to regret and to
repent of; but as he did regret and repent, he felt that he was
forgiven.
He was happy; and the joy of that hour, when an approving conscience
triumphs over bodily pain, and decks the waiting tomb with flowers, was
worth the struggle with the legions of temptations which all must
encounter.
We are best fitted to live when best prepared to die. Somers waited with
hope and resignation for the angel of death, but he came not. The very
calmness with which he regarded the open tomb, assisted in closing its
portals to him. At the end of two weeks the doctor spoke more of life
than of death; at the end of three he spoke not at all of the grim
messenger--grim he was, even when he wore the chaplet of flowers with
which Faith and Hope ever crown him.
Somers was out of danger. The internal inflammation passed away, and the
patient began to mend. He thought of life now, of meeting the loved ones
who, afar off, had sadly spoken farewells to him when he departed from
their presence, with all the fearful perils of storm and battle hanging
over him.
On the day after the news of the surrender of Fort Morgan arrived, the
Chatauqua dropped her anchor off Pensacola. A boat immediately put off
from her, containing Boatswain Longstone, who landed, and hastened to
the hospital with all possible speed. Probably there had hardly been an
hour since the Metacomet left Mobile Bay with the wounded, in which Tom
had not thought of Somers. The old man was as eager and impatient as a
child, and could hardly submit to the formalities necessary to procure
admission to the hospital.
"My darling!" exclaimed the veteran, as he crept up to the bed of his
young friend.
He walked lightly, and spoke softly and tenderly, for he knew how sick
Somers had been.
"Ah, Tom, I am glad to see you," replied the patient, as he extended his
thin hand, which the boatswain eagerly seized, though he handled it as
tenderly as a bashful youth does the hand of the maiden he loves. "It
does my eyes good to look upon you, Tom."
"Jack, I've been dying to see you. They told me you were in a bad way,
and might slip your cable any moment."
"I have not expected to live, until a week ago."
"God bless you, Jack! I was never so happy in my life;" and the
boatswain actually wept,--great, strong, weather-stained veteran as he
was, who had breasted the storms of four and thirty years on the ocean.
"I know how you feel, Tom."
"So you may, Jack,--I beg pardon, Mr.--"
"Call me Jack, now," interposed Somers, with a faint smile; "it sounds
like old times. You have been the making of me, Tom, and we won't stand
on ceremony, as long as we are not on board the ship."
The boatswain still held the attenuated hand of his sick friend, and
they talked of the past and of the present; of the battle, and of the
subsequent events in the bay. But Tom Longstone seemed to be thinking
all the time of something else.
"What have you got on, Tom?" asked Somers, as he noticed a "foul anchor"
on his shoulder, and a band of gold lace on his sleeve.
"What have I got on? Why, I always wear my colors, of course," replied
Tom, with a smile of the deepest satisfaction.
"But those are not the colors of a boatswain in the United States Navy."
"That's a fact, Jack. I'm not a boatswain, just now."
"Indeed!"
"I'm an acting ensign."
"Is it possible?" exclaimed Somers, not less pleased than the veteran.
"It's a fact, my darling; but before we spin any more yarns, here's a
document for you. Shall I open it?" continued Tom, as he took from his
breast pocket a huge official envelope, whose appearance was entirely
familiar to Somers.
"If you please."
It was directed to "Lieutenant John Somers;" and the superscription
sufficiently indicated the nature of its contents.
"God bless the admiral!" said Somers.
"God bless the admiral!" repeated Tom, glancing reverently upward as he
spoke.
The commission was dated before the news of the battle in Mobile Bay
could have reached Washington. It followed the reception of the
despatches concerning the capture of the Ben Lomond; and Tom Longstone
had been made an acting ensign, though he still retained his warrant as
a boatswain, for his conduct in the same affair.
"I congratulate you, Tom, on this promotion," said Somers.
"Thank you, Jack; and I congratulate you as Lieutenant Somers. You are a
'regular,' but I'm only an 'acting,'" replied the veteran. "When the
war's over, I shall be a boatswain again."
"I am more rejoiced for you than for myself, Tom."
"Just like you, Jack. If I made you, I'm sure you made me. I got my
rating as boatswain's mate in the Rosalie through you, and then I was
made a boatswain for what I did with you. Now I'm an ensign by your
doings. I suppose you think I'm not up to it, Jack."
"Yes, I do. I know you are. There's nothing about a ship that you don't
know as well as the admiral himself, except--"
"Except," laughed Tom, as Somers paused, "except what?"
"Navigation."
"I know something about that, Jack--I do, upon my honor."
"I do not doubt it."
"When I first went into the navy, I was a regular sea dandy. I used big
words, as long as the coach-whip; but I soon found a man must not talk
above his station. When I was a young man, I wasn't a bad scholar. I
went to the academy, and learned surveying; I meant to be a surveyor;
but I got a hitch, and went to sea."
"A hitch?"
"Well, I never mention it now. Squire Kent's daughter didn't treat me as
handsomely as she did another young fellow, and I drank more liquor than
was good for me. I got run down; and when I had payed out all the
respectability I had, I went to sea. That cured me of drinking; in fact,
I became a temperance man before the grog rations were stopped in the
navy. As I said, I was pretty well educated, and talked as well as the
officers on the quarter deck. But my shipmates laughed at me, and I soon
dropped down into using sea slang."
"I have noticed that your speech has been wonderfully improved since you
were made a boatswain."
"I've been trying to cure my bad habits. I've been lying round loose in
the navy for thirty years before the war began. I tried to be honest and
true, but the war has set me right up. I haven't told you the best of
the news yet, Jack."
"What more?"
"You are appointed to the Ben Lomond as prize master, and I'm going with
you as second officer. The admiral says you shall take the prize home,
if she has to wait two months for you. She is yours, and you shall have
the command of her."
"He is very kind; but I do not think I shall be able to take command at
present."
"We are to go as soon as the doctor will let you be carried on board of
her. Jack, the Ben Lomond is going into the navy; and if I mistake not,
she will be in command of Lieutenant Somers."
"That would be the height of my ambition. Indeed, I never aspired to
anything so great as the command of a fine steamer."
"You'll have her; the admiral is your friend. If you do, I shall be in
the ward-room. Splinter my timber-heads! Only think of that! Tom
Longstone a ward-room officer!"
"You deserve it, Tom."
In the course of the week, other officers of the Chatauqua visited the
patient, and at the end of that period the doctor permitted Somers to be
conveyed on board the Ben Lomond.
CHAPTER XXVII.
MISS PORTINGTON NOT AT HOME.
Pillgrim and Langdon had been in close confinement at Pensacola since
their capture. They were now placed on board of the Ben Lomond to be
sent north. An apartment was specially fitted up for their use in the
steerage, for they were regarded as dangerous men, to whom bolts, bars,
and other obstacles, were but trifling impediments. A sufficient number
of marines to guard them were detailed for duty on the passage, and the
steamer sailed for Boston, where the prize was to be adjusted.
Somers was now improving very rapidly, and before he left the hospital,
had sat up a small portion of each day. The pleasant intelligence
brought to him by Tom Longstone had not retarded his recovery; on the
contrary, the bright hopes of the future which it suggested, rather
stimulated his feeble frame, and assisted in his restoration to health.
The steamer had fine weather on the passage, with the exception of a
gale of thirty hours' duration. She put into Hampton Roads, and landed
her prisoners at Fortress Monroe, in accordance with the orders of her
commander, and then proceeded to Boston. The Ben Lomond behaved
remarkably well in the heavy weather she experienced, proving herself to
be a strongly-built and substantial vessel. Somers sent his despatches
to Washington from Fortress Monroe.
When the Ben Lomond sailed into Boston Harbor, Somers was able to go on
deck, for with each day of the voyage his health had continued to
improve. The steamer was duly handed over to the naval authorities, and
the young lieutenant was granted a furlough of sixty days.
"Our cruise is up," said Tom Longstone, when the business had been
completed.
"For the present, we have nothing to do; but I hope we shall soon
receive our orders," replied Somers. "Now, Tom, you will go down to
Pinchbrook with me, and spend a couple of months."
"Thank you, Jack; I hardly think I should know how to behave in a house
on shore, it is so long since I have been in one."
"You will soon learn."
They went to Pinchbrook, and Tom received a welcome almost as cordial as
that extended to Somers. The veteran was soon made entirely at home by
his young friend's father, and such a "spinning of yarns" for thirty
days had never been known before. Tom told a story of the Cumberland;
then Captain Somers had a West India yarn; and gran'ther Greene was
indulgently permitted to relate his experience in the "last war," though
it was observed that the old man, whose memory was much impaired, always
told the same story.
Never did a happier trio gather around a kitchen fire than that which
sat around the cook-stove at Pinchbrook on those autumn mornings. Very
likely Mrs. Somers thought the "men folks" were in the way at times;
but, she was too much interested in the stories told, and too good
natured to raise an objection, especially when John joined the party.
In the mean time, Somers was rapidly regaining his health and strength.
As may be supposed, he was a lion in Pinchbrook, and was invited to
every party and every merry-making in the place. Captain Barney was with
him a great deal, and was as fond of him as though he had been his own
son. Of course the young ladies of Pinchbrook regarded the lieutenant as
a great man; and if it had not been known in town that he was "paying
attention" to a commodore's daughter, he might have been absolutely
persecuted by the fair ones of his native village.
In strict observance of his promise, Somers had written several letters
to Kate Portington, but had received no answer. These epistles, with the
exception of an occasional playful remark, were confined to the details
of his naval operations. The events of his career were faithfully
recorded, and they were in no sense such productions as many silly young
men would have written under similar circumstances. No answer to any of
them had been received.
Since his arrival at Pinchbrook, Somers had written two letters; but at
the end of the first month of his furlough, he had not heard a word from
Kate. He was troubled, and no doubt thought Kate was very cold and
cruel. He knew that Pillgrim had not seen her, and therefore could not
have prejudiced her against him. It was possible that his letters had
not reached their destination; Kate might be away from home; and he was
not willing to believe that anything had occurred to make her less
friendly to him than formerly.
Somers, as we have so often had occasion to represent him, was always in
favor of "facing the music." If there was anything the matter, he wanted
to know it. If the lady wished to discontinue the acquaintance, he
wanted to know that; and when he could no longer content himself in
Pinchbrook, with the question unsettled, he started for Newport. On his
arrival he proceeded at once to the residence of Commodore Portington.
With a firm hand he rang the bell--in surprising contrast with his first
visit, for now he was firm and decided.
The servant informed him that Miss Portington was at home, and he sent
up his card. Somers sat nervously waiting the issue. Presently the
servant returned and handed him a card, on which was written, "Miss
Portington is not at home to Mr. John Somers."
He was confounded by this cool reply. Though her present conduct was in
accordance with the unanswered letters, he had not expected to be thus
rudely repelled. If she had any objection to him, why didn't she tell
him so? He had done his duty to his country, and kept his promises to
her. It was the severest blow he had ever received.
He read the card, rose from his chair, and left the house, as dignified
as though he had been on the quarter deck of the Ben Lomond. He was too
proud to ask or to offer any explanations. We will not undertake to say
how bad he felt. Perhaps he wished he had died in the Pensacola
hospital, when he lay at death's door; perhaps he felt like rushing into
the hottest of a fight, and laying down his life for the cause he had
espoused, without thinking that this would be suicide, rather than a
generous sacrifice to a holy duty.
Mr. Pillgrim had informed him that he would meet with a "chilly"
reception. It was even worse than that; but as it was evidently caused
by the traitor's machinations, he was content to suffer. If she chose to
let the words of the wretched conspirator against his country bias her
against him, he could not help it; and his only remaining duty was to
submit with the best possible grace.
Of course he could not leave Newport without calling at the Naval
Academy. Mr. Revere, the commandant of midshipmen, was his firm friend,
and it would be treason to him to leave the city without seeing him. He
was cordially received, and his experience in Mobile Bay was listened to
with the most friendly interest.
"I need not ask you if you have been to Commodore Portington's," said
Mr. Revere.
"I have, sir."
"Well, how is Miss Portington?"
"I did not see her," replied Somers, who, conscious that he had done no
wrong, was not disposed to conceal his misfortune from so good a friend.
"Did not see her!" exclaimed the commandant.
Somers explained.
The story of Pillgrim's treason had been circulated, but the particulars
by which it had been exposed were known to only a few. Mr. Revere saw at
once the cause of the rupture.
"The villain has sent her the bond you signed," said he.
"Perhaps he has."
"Probably she knows nothing of the circumstances under which you signed
it."
"I have had no opportunity to explain."
"But, Somers, you musn't be too stiff. Any lady would be fully justified
in refusing to see a gentleman who signed a paper like that, which
contained her name in such a connection."
"I think so myself; and therefore I will not blame her."
"Pillgrim got you to sign that document for this very purpose."
"I surmised as much."
"But it is a wrong to the lady as well as to you, to permit this thing
to go on."
"I have no remedy."
"Write her a note, explaining your position."
"My motives would be misconstrued."
"Then I shall act for you."
Somers went to his hotel, and Mr. Revere did act it for him. Kate was
not satisfied. A high-minded man would have died rather than sign such a
paper. So would Somers, if the bond had any real meaning. The commandant
was not successful in the negotiation, as mediators seldom are in such
cases.
"I am satisfied, Mr. Revere," said Somers: but he was as far from
satisfied as a young man could be.
"There is no help for it; but, Somers, I have invited a few friends to
my house this evening, and you must be with us."
"Will Miss Portington be there?"
"She has been invited, with her mother."
"I will go," replied he, still carrying out his principle that it is
always best to "face the music."
He did go. The few friends were about fifty--to celebrate the birthday
of the commandant's lady. There were music, and dancing, and revelry;
and Kate Portington was there, with her mother. He saw the fair girl;
saw her smile as pleasantly and unconcernedly as though nothing had
happened. He met her face to face; she bowed coldly, and passed on. Mrs.
Portington was not quite so "chilly," but not at all as she had been in
former times.
"Mr. Somers, we shall always remember you with gratitude, for the
service you so kindly rendered us," said she.
"It is hardly worth remembering, madam, much less mentioning," replied
Somers.
"It shall always be gratefully remembered, and cordially mentioned. You
cannot yourself regret more than I do, that anything should have
occurred to disturb the pleasant relations which formerly existed."
"I regret it very much, madam; but as I think I have done my duty to my
country and to my friends, I must regret it without reproaching myself
for my conduct in that which has proved so offensive."
"Was it your duty to sign that vile paper?" asked the lady, in excited
tones.
"I think it was."
"I must take a different view of the matter; but, Mr. Somers, I shall
still be interested in your success."
"Thank you, madam."
And the lady passed on. Somers looked at Kate. She was dancing with a
young officer who had greatly distinguished himself in the waters of
North Carolina. She looked happy. Was she so? She certainly had a
wonderful command of herself if she was not. Somers retired at an early
hour.
Did Kate think he was an adventurer? His superior officer had directed
him to sign the bond, as a "war measure." He had done so with regret and
disgust. The paper meant nothing to him. Why should it mean anything to
her and her mother?
The next day, Somers returned to Pinchbrook, where he found certain
official documents in the post office, directed to him. He was appointed
to the command of the Firefly, which was the new name given by the
department to the Ben Lomond. The steamer had been duly condemned, and
purchased by the government, her great speed admirably adapting her as a
cruiser for rebel pirates. Somers was generously rewarded for his zeal
and success in the capture of the twin steamers, which had been intended
to prey on the commerce of the country.
Acting Ensign Longstone was appointed second lieutenant of the Firefly.
The third and fourth lieutenants, and the sailing master, were acting
ensigns, like Tom Longstone.
All was excitement now at the cottage in Pinchbrook, in anticipation of
Somers's departure. A lieutenant commanding was a higher position than
he had ever hoped to obtain; but even while he rejoiced over his bright
future, he could not help being "blue" over his affair at Newport. He
tried to forget the fair lady, but he found that was not an easy matter.
He devoted himself to the fitting up of the Firefly, spending part of
his time at Pinchbrook, till his orders came from Washington. A kind
word from Kate would have made him the happiest man in the world. As
that did not come, he went to sea without it.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
THE BEN LEDI.
The Firefly had been strengthened and otherwise improved for the purpose
to which she was to be applied. Her armament had been changed, to adapt
it to the standard of the United States navy. She now carried a hundred
pounder rifle amidships, a rifled thirty on her forecastle, four
twenty-four pounders on the broadsides, and two howitzers on the quarter
deck. The cabin, ward-room, and steerage remained as before.
It was a pleasant November day--in the full reign of the Indian
summer--when she went down the harbor. Somers stood on the quarter deck,
as dignified as the commander of a man-of-war should be, but he could
hardly repress the feeling of pride and exultation with which he
regarded his position. He was hardly twenty-one, though he was mature
enough in appearance and in judgment for twenty-five. He had realized
the warmest hope he had permitted himself to cherish. He was in command
of a beautiful vessel, with a hundred officers and men under his
charge. He was the supreme authority; every man on board touched his cap
to him.
Below was a cabin, appropriated wholly to his use, where he could live
as luxuriously as a lord. He had no watch to keep, no work to perform.
As he contemplated his position, he was absolutely amazed. He had hoped,
but not expected, to reach this pinnacle of his ambition. But there was
another side to the question. A fearful responsibility was imposed upon
him. The lives of his hundred men depended upon him. This valuable
steamer, with her armament and stores, was intrusted to him, and he must
account for all loss or waste on board of her. More than this, the honor
of the flag under which he sailed had been committed to him. If he lost
his ship by bad management, it would be his ruin. If he permitted the
ensign which floated at his peak to be disgraced, it would be infamy to
him.
In the public service he might have occasion to run into foreign ports,
or to visit neutral waters. His want of knowledge, or his want of
judgment, might entangle his country in perplexing broils with other
nations, or even involve her in another war. As he thought of his
delicate and difficult duties, he felt like shrinking from them, and
avoiding the immense responsibility. Being "captain," in this view, was
quite a different thing from what he had anticipated.
With a smile he recalled his own reflections, when, as an ordinary
seaman, he had observed the captain of his ship walk the deck. Then he
had thought the commander had the easiest and jolliest time of all the
men on board, with his fine cabin all to himself, and no watch to keep,
and apparently no work to do. From his present stand-point, the captain
occupied the most difficult and trying place in the ship, and he almost
wished he had declined the command offered to him.
Outside the bay, the sealed orders were opened. As he had anticipated,
he was ordered to cruise in search of rebel steamers, whose depredations
on the coast had severely tried the patience of the nation. He was
directed to proceed first to the eastward, and then to use his own
judgment. There were several rebel privateers, or naval vessels
belonging to the Confederacy. The Tallahassee, the Chickamauga, and the
Olustee had been the most mischievous; and it was believed that there
were others at Wilmington, and the neutral ports of New Brunswick,
Nova Scotia, and the West Indies.
Having learned where he was to go, and what he was to do, he went on
deck and gave his orders to Mr. Gamage, the first lieutenant. The
Firefly was headed to the north-east, and all sail set to help her
along. Before Somers went below, she logged fifteen knots, which was
splendid for a ship with her bunkers full of coal.
In the evening the young commander invited Tom Longstone to visit his
cabin. The veteran was in his happiest frame of mind. All the
aspirations of his earlier years seemed to have been rekindled in his
soul; he had abandoned the use of slang, and conducted himself so much
like a gentleman, outwardly, that no one could have suspected he had
spent thirty odd years of his life before the mast; but as he had always
been a gentleman at heart, it was comparatively easy for him to assume
the externals of his new profession.
The old man had donned a new uniform; and though his hair and beard were
iron gray, he looked as "spruce" as a dry goods clerk. No change of
dress, however, could make him any other than an "old salt." He walked
with a rolling gait, and had all the airs of a veteran seaman. It is
true that in the transposition from the forecastle to the ward-room he
had discarded "pigtail," and confined himself to "fine cut," taken from
a silver box; but he still used as much of the "weed" as an old
sheet-anchor man.
"You sent for me, Captain Somers," said the second lieutenant, as he
touched his fore-top, from the force of habit.
"Sit down, Mr. Longstone," said the captain. "It is one of the blessings
of my present position that I have a place to sit down and talk with old
friends. I suppose you know we are bound to the eastward in search of
rebel privateers."
"So Mr. Gamage told me, sir. I hope we shall catch some of them."
"So do I; but I'm afraid we are on a wild-goose chase."
"Perhaps not--at least, I hope not. If there is a rebel ship in these
waters, we'll have her, if we have to dive after her."
"The ocean is very broad. None of our ships have had much luck in
catching these rebel pirates. I would rather have gone down on the
blockade, where there is some show for us."
"Don't give it up, Captain Somers."
"I don't give it up; but I do not see any reason why I should be more
fortunate than others. A score of our ships have cruised for months
without catching a single one of them."
"They didn't look where they were," laughed Tom.
"If I knew where they were, I would look there."
"You will certainly catch one of the pirates, Captain Somers."
"Why do you say so?"
"Because you are smart, and you are lucky. I know you will make a
capture on this cruise. I feel it in my bones."
"I hope I shall. Wouldn't it be glorious, if I could send such a
despatch as Captain Winslow did, after he had sunk the Alabama?"
Somers's eyes glistened as he thought of it, but it was only an
air-castle; and after he had contemplated it for a moment, his common
sense obliged him to come down from the clouds.
The cruise of the Firefly would supply matter enough for a whole volume,
but we have only space for a mere outline of the voyage. The steamer lay
off and on for a week without meeting with anything that looked like a
rebel privateer, when her commander decided to run into Halifax, where
he hoped to obtain some information. The city was a nest of "secesh
sympathizers," and the captain of the Firefly was not received with much
enthusiasm outside of the American consulate. He had not been in the
habit of hearing his country and her rulers vilified, and as he sat in
the parlor of the hotel, and listened to hostile remarks, evidently
intended for his ear, nothing but prudence prevented him from indulging
in the luxury of pulling the noses of the speakers. He preserved his
dignity in spite of his inclination.
"Upon my word, this is a very unexpected pleasure," said a familiar
voice.
He looked up from the newspaper he was reading. Before him stood Mr.
Pillgrim!
"Quite as unexpected to me as to you, Mr. Pillgrim!" replied Somers,
with abundant self-possession.
"I dare say, Mr. Somers," laughed Pillgrim. "Of course you did not
expect to see me. Will you take a glass of wine with me, Mr. Somers?"
"No, I thank you; I never indulge--as you are aware."
"I didn't know but your rapid advancement had changed your tastes."
"No, sir."
"You command the Ben Lomond now, Mr. Somers, I learn from the papers."
"The Firefly is her present name."
"Bah! What an ugly name for a fine steamer like her. The Tallapoosa is
much better. Be that as it may, I congratulate you on your promotion and
your appointment; and you know how sincere I am!
"I do know; and, therefore, cannot even thank you for your good wishes."
"Don't be savage, Mr. Somers. You can afford to be very good-natured."
"I am."
"You don't seem to be very glad to see me."
"On the contrary, I am. I hope, with your usual candor, that you will
tell me what you are going to do next, and give me an opportunity to cut
out your vessel. I am up here for that purpose."
Pillgrim bit his lip.
"At present, Mr. Somers, I must be silent; but we shall yet meet and
settle up old accounts. Let us not be ill-natured. If we meet as
enemies, we will fight it out."
"We can never meet in any other way."
"That isn't friendly. How is Miss Portington?"
"She was well, last time I saw her;" and Somers blushed, and looked
disconcerted--as he really was.
"I am glad to hear it, Mr. Somers," said Pillgrim, significantly.
Somers changed the topic at once, and finally contrived to ask the
traitor how he happened to be in Halifax, instead of Fortress Monroe.
Pillgrim laughed exultingly, and declared there were no irons, bolts, or
bars that could keep him a prisoner; and the facts seemed to justify the
assertion.
"Mr. Somers, not more than one half of the people of the North are in
favor of this cruel war. I have friends in Washington and other cities
whom no one suspects of favoring the South. I am indebted to them for my
liberation. I shall yet carry out my original purpose. I have lost three
vessels. I was paid for two by the Confederacy; and I have your bond for
half the value of the third. I am a commander in the Confederate navy.
In one week I shall be at sea. I shall sink, burn, and destroy! You
can't help yourself."
"Is your ship here?"
"Yes--no."
Pillgrim laughed, turned on his heel, and walked away. Somers was
excited. He wanted to know more. He went to the American consul. A
"blue-nose" sailor of the Firefly was sent on shore, who found Pillgrim,
and without much difficulty shipped in the "Sunny South" for a voyage on
the coast. This was all the information that could be obtained. There
was no such craft as the Sunny South in port. Somers examined all the
vessels in the harbor, and found a steamer called the Ben Ledi--another
Scottish mountain. She was Clyde-built, and similar to the Ben Nevis and
the Ben Lomond. The name alone satisfied the inquirer that she belonged
to the same family as the two vessels he had already captured.
Things began to look a little more hopeful, and the young commander
carefully read his books on international law. He attempted to place the
Firefly where he could watch the suspected steamer; but the authorities,
on various pretences, prevented him from doing so. The next morning the
Ben Ledi was gone. Somers was exceedingly mortified, for he might as
well look for a needle in a haymow as try to find the vessel on the
ocean. He put to sea at once. A "blue-nose" official laughed at him as
his gig pulled off to the ship, and everybody on shore was in high glee
because the Confederate had eluded the Yankee.
Somers kept cool in spite of his chagrin; and believing the Ben Ledi
would run for Wilmington, where she would probably be fitted out as a
cruiser, he headed the Firefly in that direction, and gave chase.
CHAPTER XXIX.
A LONG CHASE.
Somers was somewhat bewildered by the events which had transpired during
his brief stay at Halifax. It was almost incredible that Pillgrim had
again escaped; but the traitor had powerful friends--men who appeared to
be loyal while they were in full sympathy with the leaders of the
rebellion. The three "Bens," the last of which was now fleeing before
him, were certainly an interesting family. Pillgrim, while abroad, and
operating for the Southern Confederacy, had apparently purchased a whole
line of Clyde-built steamers. Two of them were now in good hands, and
doing good service to the loyal cause; but Somers feared that the third
would escape him.
Pillgrim had learned prudence from the experience of the past. Somers
hoped he would indulge in his customary reckless boasting; that his
thirst for revenge would again lead him to betray himself; but he had
not dropped even a hint that could be of any service. The decoy seaman
had only learned that he was to sail in the "Sunny South." The sudden
departure of the Ben Ledi was the only important fact in possession of
the commander of the Firefly.
When the ship was well out of the bay, and her course laid down, Somers
went into his cabin to consult his charts, and consider a plan for
future operations. Unfortunately there was no information on which to
base a theory in regard to the pirate's course. He could only guess at
her destination. The Firefly was run at her best speed during the rest
of the day, but her course for a large portion of the time was through a
dense Nova Scotia fog, and nothing was seen or heard.
On the following day, the sun shone through a clear air, and at noon
there was seen, dead ahead, some evidences of black smoke in the
horizon. This was a hopeful sign, for there was a steamer burning
English coal in the direction indicated. It might be the Ben Ledi, and
it might not; but the appearance created a tremendous excitement on
board the Firefly.
"Captain Somers, you will have her," said Tom Longstone, placing himself
by the side of the young commander. "It is your luck."
"That may not be the steamer we are after. We haven't seen her yet."
"That's the Ben Ledi; you may depend upon it. I wouldn't give five cents
to any man to guarantee my share of prize money in her."
"Don't be too confident, Mr. Longstone."
"She is ours, Captain Somers."
"I wish I could believe it."
"You must believe it, and work for it."
"I shall certainly work for it."
And he did work for it. Everything that would add a fraction of a knot
to the speed of the Firefly was done. The black smoke was visible all
the rest of the day, but not a sight of the steamer from which it
proceeded could be obtained. Darkness settled down upon the ocean, and
nothing could be seen during the night. The next day was cloudy, and
there was not a sign of encouragement to those on board of the pursuing
vessel. Then came a gale of twenty hours' duration; but the Firefly held
her course, and proved herself to be a perfect sea boat.
The fourth day out from Halifax was fine, and shortly after sunrise the
cloud of black smoke was again discovered, and a thrill of delight
coursed through the veins of Somers as he discovered it. The steamer was
on the port bow now, but it was evident that both steamers were bound to
the same point, though their courses had slightly varied during the
gale.
"I told you so, Captain Somers!" exclaimed Lieutenant Longstone, as he
rubbed his hands briskly in view of the bright prospect.
"We haven't caught her yet, Mr. Longstone."
"But you will catch her, just as sure as the sun shines."
"Mr. Pillgrim will not allow himself to be taken."
"He cannot help himself."
"Perhaps he can. That steamer sails as well as the Firefly, and we are
not a hundred and fifty miles from Cape Fear."
"No matter; we have got ten hours' working time, and we shall use her
up. Shall we put the helm to starboard, Captain Somers?"
"No; keep her as she is," replied the commander. "If she is going into
Wilmington we shall be making something on this tack. We have the
weather-gage of her."
It was soon clearly demonstrated that the chase had "slowed down," so as
not to approach the coast before night should favor her operations,
though her great speed gave her every advantage over an ordinary
pursuer. The Firefly had run down so that the Ben Ledi was on her port
beam, about eight miles distant. Both steamers had hoisted English
colors, for Somers had no idea of being cheated out of the game by
"showing his hand."
The most intense excitement prevailed on board of the Firefly, for it
was evident that a few hours more would settle the question one way or
the other. Somers was not disposed to wait until night, which would
favor the chase more than himself; and he was afraid, if he headed
towards her, that she would take the alarm and beat him on time. He kept
quiet for a couple of hours, just as though he were waiting for the
darkness to cover him in running the blockade.
His plan seemed to be a success, for after a while the Ben Ledi began to
bear down upon him. It was an anxious hour for Somers. He ordered the
first lieutenant to beat to quarters, and the chief engineer to have on
a full head of steam. The guns were loaded with solid shot, and every
preparation made for an exciting time. Pillgrim did not seem to suspect
thus far that the steamer under English colors was the one he had left
in Halifax harbor. It was certain that he did not yet recognize her.
The Firefly reciprocated the attention of the Ben Ledi, and moved slowly
towards her, for Somers was careful not to excite suspicion by being
precipitate. The two steamers approached within three miles, and the
respective captains were busy in examining each other's ship through
their glasses. The chase now hoisted her number. As Somers had the
Lloyd's signal book, he read it without difficulty. It was the Ben Ledi.
To the question, "What ship is that?" he had no answer to give, for it
was not prudent to hoist the old number of the Ben Lomond.
Our younger readers may not understand how a conversation is carried on
between ships at sea, several miles distant from each other. There are
ten small signal flags representing the nine digits and the zero. Any
number can of course be formed of these figures. Every ship is provided
with a number, which if it consists of two figures is represented by two
flags, hoisted together; three figures, three flags; and so on.
The signal book also contains a great number of questions and answers,
such as, "What ship is that?" "Where bound?" "All well." "Short of
water," &c. Each sentence has its invariable number, which may be
indicated by the signal flags. If one vessel shows the number 124, the
captain of the ship signalized would find this number in his signal
book; and against it would be printed the question or answer.
Somers was not disposed to reply to the question of Pillgrim; and as he
did not do so, the traitor immediately took the alarm. The Ben Ledi went
about, and made off to the eastward under full steam. The Firefly was
all ready to follow, and then commenced a most exciting chase. It was
useless to waste shot at that distance, and Somers confined his
attention to the speed of his vessel. For three hours the pursuit was
