should think he might be fourteen years of age. And 
now, would you like to know if the husband is still living ? " 
" Is he? " asked Peter, looking up. 
" No. He died about a year since, of a fever." 
" And— and Eleanor ? What of her ? " 
" For six months past she has been a tenant of yours." 
" A tenant of mine ! " exclaimed the miser. 
" It is even so. She occupies a second-story room in 
the tenement-house in Street." 
 
 
'' And I have met her face to face ? " 
'' I dare say you have. Your tenants are pretty sure 
to have that pleasure once a month. But doesn't it 
seem strange that Eleanor Gray, the beautiful daughter 
of your Havana employer, should after these twenty years 
turn up in Boston the tenant of her father's book-keeper ? " 
'' Ha ! ha ! " chuckled the miser, hoarsel}", " she isn't so 
much better off than if she had married old Peter." 
"As to being better off," said Randall, "I presume 
she is better off, though she can't call a hundred dollars 
her own, than if she were installed mistress of your establishment. Faugh ! Poorly as she is obliged to live, 
it is luxury, compared with your establishment.'' 
He glanced about him. with a look of disgust. 
'' If you don't like it," said Peter, querulously, " there 
is no use of your staying. It is past my bedtime." 
" I shall leave you in a few minutes, Peter, but I want 
to give you something to think of first. Don't you see 
that your property is in danger of slipping from your 
hands?" 
" My property in danger ! " exclaimed Peter, wildly ; 
" what do you mean ; where is the danger? " Then, his 
voice sinking to its usual whine, — " not that I have any 
of any consequence, I am poor — very poor." 
" Only from what I see I could easily believe it, but I 
happen to know better." 
"Indeed, lam " 
" No more twaddle about poverty," said Randall, decidedly, " it won't go down. I am not so easily deceived as you may imagine. I know perfectly well that 
you are worth at the very least, thirty thousand dollars." 
"Thirty thousand dollars ! " exclaimed the miser, raising both hands in astonishment. 
" Yes, Peter, and I don't know but I may say forty 
thousand. Why, it can't be otherwise, with your habits. 
Twenty years ago you made off with twenty thousand, 
which has been accumulating ever since. Your personal 
expenses haven't made very large inroads upon your income, judging from your scarecrow appearance. So 
much the worse for you. You might have got some good 
from it. Now it must go to others." 
" To others !" exclaimed Peter, turning pale. 
" Certainly. You don't think the law gives you what- 
ever you've a mind to steal, do you ? Of course there is 
no doubt that to your tenants, Eleanor and Charlie Cod- 
man, belongs this property which you wrongfully hold." 
" They sha'n't have it. They never shall have it," said 
Peter Manson, hastily. 
" Well, perhaps the law may have something Jto say 
about that." 
"My gold I" groaned the miser. "If I lose that I 
lose everything. It will be my death. Good Mr. Randall, have pity upon me. I am sure you won't say any- 
thing that " 
" Will bring you to state's prison," said Randall,coolly. 
" They — Eleanor and her son — need never know it." 
"Unless I tell them." 
" But you won't." 
" That depends upon circumstances. How much will 
you give me to keep the thing secret? '' 
" What will I givQ you ? " 
"Precisel3  That is what I have been so long in 
coming at. You see, Peter, that the secret is worth 
 
 
something. Either I reveal it to the parties interested, 
in which case I wouldn't give that," snapping his finger, 
" for your chance of retaining the property, or I keep 
silence if you make it worth my while!'' 
i " Pity me," said the miser, abjectly, sinking on his 
knees before Randall ; '' pity me, and spare my gold." . 
" Pity you ! " said Randall, contemptuously. " Why 
. didn't you pity your employer? You must make up your 
mind to pay me my price." 
" I am very poor," whined Peter, in his customary 
phrase, " and I can't pay much. ' 
" O yes, Peter," said the other, sarcastically, " I am 
well aware that you are poor, — wretchedly poor, — and 
I won't be too hard upon you." 
'' Thank you — thank you," said Peter, catching at this 
promise ; " I will give you something — a little " 
" How much? " asked Randall, with some curiosity. 
" Ten dollars ! " said the miser, with the air of a man ' 
who named a large sum. 
"Ten dollars!" returned Randall, with a laugh of 
derision. " Ten dollars to secure the peaceable posses- 
sion of thirty thousand ! Old man, you must be mad, or 
you must think that I am." 
" I — I did not mean to offend," said the old man, 
humbly. "K I double the sum will it satisfy you? I — I 
will try to raise it, though it will be hard — very hard." 
" This is mere trifling, Peter Manson," said his visitor, 
decidedly. "Twenty dollars! Why I wouldn't have 
come across the street to get it. No, j ou will have to 
elevate your ideas considerably." 
" How much do you demand ? " said the miser, groaning internally, and fixing his eyes anxiously upon Randall. 
 
 
" You must not make a fusg when I name the amount." 
" Name it," said Peter, in a choking voice. 
" One thousand dollars will purchase my silence, and 
not a dollar less." 
Peter sprang from his seat in consternation. 
, "One thousand dollars! Surely you are not in 
earnest." 
"But I am, though. This is not a subject -I care to 
jest upon." 
" One thousand dollars ! It will take all I have, and 
leave me a beggar." 
" If it should, Peter," said his visitor, composedly, 
" I will procure you admission to the poor-house, where, 
if I am not much mistaken, you will be better off than 
in this tumble-down old shanty." 
" Has the man no mercy?" groaned Peter, wringing 
his hands. 
 " None at all." 
" Then," exclaimed the miser, in a sudden fit of desperation, " I won't pay you a cent — not a single cent." 
" That is your final determination, is it?" 
" Ye —  yes," muttered Peter, but less firmly. 
" Very well. I will tell you the result. I shall at 
once go to Eleanor, and inform her of the good fortune 
which awaits her. No fear but sh will pay me a thou- 
sand dollars for the intelligence." 
" She has no money." 
" I will furnish her with money for the lawyers — she 
can repay me out of your hoards." 
Peter groaned. 
" Ay, groan away, Peter. You'll have c|iuse enough 
to groan, by and by. There is one thing you don't seem 
 
to consider, that the law will do something more than 
take away your property. I will come to see you in 
jail." 
He rose to leave the room, but Peter called him back 
hastily. " We may come to terms yet," he said. 
" Then you accede to my terms."" 
" I will give you five hundred." 
" Good-night, Peter. I wish you happy dreams." 
" St-stay ! " exclaimed Peter, terrified. " I will give 
eight hundred." 
" I am in something of a hurry," said Randall. " I 
believe I will call on Eleanor. I don't think we can 
make any arrangement." 
'' Hold ! perhaps I will do as you say." 
" Ah ! now you are beginning to be reasonable," said 
Randall, resuming his seat. 
"What security can you give me for your silence?" 
" I'll tell you what I'll do, Peter. You remember I 
told you Eleanor had a son, a boy of fourteen." 
"Yes." 
" His mother is quite devoted to him. Indeed, he 
contributes to her support by selling papers, and by va- 
rious little jobs. Now, as long 'as Eleanor lives here 
you are in danger.'' 
" Yes." 
" And if a blow is levelled at her it must be through 
her boy." 
" I see." 
'' Then I'll tell you of a scheme I have arranged. You 
must first know that I am mate of a vessel now in port, 
which is bound for San Francisco. We are to sail in a 
few days." 
 
"Well?" 
" We happen to be in want of a boy to fill up our reg- 
ular number. Suppose I kidnap Eleanor's boy. Don't 
you see, that as he is her chief support, she will soon be 
in difficulties ? and this, with her uncertainty about her 
boy's fate, may rid you of your greatest peril, and the 
only one of the two who could identify you." 
" Excellent, excellent 1 " chuckled Peter, rubbing his 
hands ; " she shall yet be sorry that she rejected old 
Peter." 
"Ami to understand that you accede to my proposal, then?" 
Not without many groans Peter agreed to deliver the 
sum mentioned between them, on condition that the boy 
was secured. 
It was striking ten when Randall lefb the house. His 
face beamed with exultation. 
" I have done a good night's work," he said. " By 
working on the fears of the old curmudgeon I have made 
sure of a thousand dollars. He will be lucky if this is 
the last money I get out of him. He little thinks that I, 
too, have a revenge to wreak. He is not the only one 
that has been scomfully rejected by Eleanor Codman. 
Now to bed, and to-morrow shall see my work com- 
menced." 
The tenement-honse owned by Peter Manson was a 
three-story wooden building, very much in need of 
paint. It was scarcely likely to be pointed out by any 
one as one of the architectural ornaments of the city. 
Years before it had fallen into Peter's hands at a small 
price, and he had every year since realized from it in 
the way of rent a sum equal to one half the purchase- 
money. No one who has lived in a city can help knowing how much more proportionally the poor are compelled to pay for their scanty and insufficient accommo- 
dations than the rich, or those in moderate circumstances. No class of property is made to pay a larger percentage than the wretched tenement-houses which seem 
adapted to furnish as little accommodation as possible 
to those who are compelled to occupy them. 
The tenement-house . in which Charlie and his mother 
lived was no better than the average. It was the home 
of a large number of persons of various occupations. 
Seamstresses, mechanics, washer-women, and many oth- 
ers found a home under this one roof. 
Mrs. Codman occupied a room on the third floor. As 
we enter the room it is easy to see what a charm can be 
thrown around even the humblest place by the presence 
 
of refinement and good taste. 'A
the room, indeed, were of the cheapest description. 
Probably the furniture did not exceed in cost that of the 
room opposite. Yet there was a considerable difference 
in the appearance of Mrs. Codman's room and that of 
Sally Price, who, if she had ever possessed an organ of 
neatness, had lost it years ago. 
The old-fashioned windows were- washed as clean as 
water could make them, so as to admit all the sunshine 
which could find its way over the tall roof on the opposite side of the street. They were hung with plain chintz 
curtains, separated in the middle and looped on either 
side. The floor was quite clean as far as it. could be 
seen. In the centre was spread a floor-cloth some eight 
feet square, which relieved its bareness. There was a 
small round table near the window, and a small square 
work-table of no very costly material, in another part 
of the room. On this was placed a rose-bush in a flower-pot. It had been given to Charlie by an old gentle- 
man who had taken a fancy to him. In another quarter 
was a home-made lounge, the work of Charlie's hands. 
It had originally been a wooden box, given him by a 
shopkeeper near by. This box had been covered with 
calico stuffed with cotton, so that it made quite a comfortable seat. It was used besides as a wood-box, its 
legitimate province, but when the cover was closed it 
was nevertheless a very respectable article of furniture. 
There were besides a few plain wooden chairs, and a 
small rocking-chair for Mrs. Codman. Opening out of 
the main room was a small bedroom, occupied by the 
mother, while Charlie had a bed made up for him at 
night in the common sitting-room. 
 
 
A few books. — a very few — were piled upon the little table. They were chiefly school-books, — an arithmetic, a geography and an atlas, over which Charlie would 
generally spend a portion of every evening, and occasionally s boy's book, lent him by his friend Edwin 
Bangs, who, together with his brother's, had quite a 
large juvenile library. 
Mrs. Codman is sitting by the window industriously 
engaged in needle-work, and intent on accomplishing a 
certain amount before nightfall. She was past thirty- 
five, yet, in spite of the trials which have left their impress on her brow, she would readily be taken .for five 
years younger; She has drawn her chair to the window 
to make the most of the rapidly fading daylight. As 
with swift fingers she plies the glistening needle, and 
the sun touches her cheek with a beaming glow, we can 
see that not only has she been beautiful, but is still so. 
A hasty step is heard on the stairs, there is a stamp- 
ing at the door, and in rushes a bright, handsome boy, 
with rosy cheeks and dark hair. 
The mother's face lights up with a bright smile as she 
turns to her son, the only one she has left to love. 
" You're a little later than usual, Charlie, are you 
not?" 
" A little, mother. You see I didn't get a job till 
late, and then two came together." 
"What were they?" 
" A gentleman wanted me to take his carpet-bag from 
the Maine depot, and I had to carry it away up to Rut- 
land Street." 
"Did he go with you?" 
" No ; he had to go to his counting-room in State 
Street.'' 
" Was he willing to trust you? Some boys might have 
made off with the carpet-bag, and he would have never 
seen it again." 
" He thought of that, but be said — and I think he's a 
real gentleman — that he knew I was honest by my ap- 
pearance, and he was willing to trust me." 
" Quite complimentary, Charlie. How much did he 
pay you for your trouble ? '' 
"Half a dollar." 
" Then you have done a good deal better than I have. 
I have been working all day, and shall not realize more 
than twenty-five cents for my labor." 
" I wish you didn't have to work at all, mother." 
" Thank you, Charlie ; but I dare say I am happier 
for having something to do. I wish I could get better 
pay for my work. But you haven't told me what the 
other errand was. You said you had two." 
"Yes," said Charlie, " I had just got back from Eutland Street, and had bought two or three evening papers 
which I was going to try to sell, when a man came up to 
me, and after looking at me for a minute or two, asked 
me if I would take a little walk with him. He said he 
" as a stranger in Boston, and didn't know his way about 
much. He asked me if I had lived here long, and what 
my name was. He told me he would pay me if I would 
go around with him, and point out some of the public 
buildings. He told me he would pay me at the rate of 
twenty-five cents an hour for my time. I told him I had 
one or two papers to dispose of. 
 
 
" ' Never mind about them said he, ' I will take them 
off your hands.' 
" ' But they are alike,' said I. 
" ' Never mind,' he answered ; so he paid me the full 
price for two Journals and two Transcripts, and off we 
went." 
" What sort of a person was he? " 
" He was a stout man, over forty, and looked to me 
like a sailor. I shouldn't wonder if he was an officer of 
some ship." 
" Did you like his looks ? " 
" Why," said Charlie; hesitatingly, '> not exactly ; not 
so much as I did of the other gentleman. There was 
something about his eye which I didn't like. Still he 
acted up to his agreement, and paid me all he promised." 
" How fong were you together? " 
" About an hour and a half. We walked round the 
Common and the Public Garden, went into the State 
House and the Public Library. However, he didn't seem 
to care much about them. He seemed to take more 
interest in me, some how, and asked mfi a good many 
questions ; whether I had any parents living, and how 
long I had lived in the city. When I told him you were 
born in Havana, he said he used to live there himself." 
" Indeed ! " said Mrs. Codman. 
" He also told me that he might like to have me go 
round with him again, and told me to call to-morrow at 
the Quincy House, where he is stopping. But, mother, 
isn't it most time for supper? Here, just let me set the 
table, if you are busy." 
" Very well, Charlie ; I shall be gl%d to have you do 
so, as I am in a hurry to finish my sewing. 
 
In the evening Charlie read to his mother while she 
sewed. Neither of them suspected that it was the 
last evening they  would spend together for several 
months. 
 
Lting at one of the wharves was a ship of moderate 
size, evidently fast getting ready for sea. The cargo 
had all been stowed away, and, notwithstanding the 
confusion, it was easy even for a landsman to see that 
the ship was about ready for departure. 
The ship was the Bouncing Betsey, commanded by 
Captain Nathaniel Brace. As to the peculiar name of 
the vessel, I can give no information whether or not 
there was a real bouncing Betsey after whom it was 
named. The probability ho\7ever is, that it was a purely ideal name, the sound and alliterative character of 
which had commended it to the one upon whom rested 
the selection of a name. 
A few words now about Captain Brace, with whom we 
shall become better acquainted by and by. 
He was a short, stout, broad-shouldered man. He 
was no fresh-water captain, but from the age of thirteen 
had been tossing about on the ocean. It is my privilege 
to know many sea captains who do honor to their call- 
ing, high toned, gentlemanly, and intelligeixt meu ; not 
learned in books, but possessing a wide range of general 
information. I am sorry to say that Captain Brace was 
not a man of this class.' He had little education beyond 
 
 
what was required by his profession, and was utterly 
lacking in refinement and courtesy. He was not an 
amiable man, but rough, stormy, exacting, and dictatorial. The crew under his command he looked upon as 
so many machines, whose duty it was to obey him with 
scrupulous exactness, whatever might be the nature of 
his requisitions. When he got into, one of his fits of 
passion, he would stamp and rave, kicking and striking 
this way and that with the most reckless disregard of 
human lives and human feelings. In fact, he was one 
of those pests of the merchant service, an unfeeling tyrant, who did all in his power to degrade the profession 
which he had adopted, and add to the hardships which 
lie in the path of the sailor. 
The employers of Captain Brace were far from being 
aware of the extent to which he carried the severity of 
his discipline ; brutality, indeed, would be the more ap- 
propriate word. They supposed him to be a strict commander  who liked to preserve a proper subordination in 
those under his command, and this they were disposed 
to commend rather than to complain of, more especially 
as the captain was master of his profession, and had usually made quick and profitable voyages. This, as may 
be supposed, was enough to cover a great many defects 
in the eyes of those wtose pecuniary interest he subserved, even if the captain had not been shrewd enough 
to conceal his more disagreeable traits when on shore, 
under an affectation of bluff frankness. 
There was a time when there were many captains in 
the service no better than the one we have just sketched, 
but both in the naval and merchant service there has 
 
 
nndoabtedly been a great improvement within a few 
years. 
Without dwelling further on the personal characteristics of Captain Brace, with whom we shall have abundant opportunity to become acquainted, since we purpose going to sea with him on his approaching voyage, 
we introduce him pacing the deck of his vessel with a 
i&ort black pipe in his mouth, on the very morning he 
intends to sail. 
" Where is Mr. Randall? has he come on board? " he 
inquired, turning to the second mate. 
''No, sir; I havie not seen him this morning," was 
the reply. 
" When he comes on board tell him I wish to see him 
immediately." 
"Very well, sir." 
The captain went to his cabin, and about five minutes 
later the individual after whom he inquired came 
aboard. We recognize in him' an old acquaintance ; no 
other than the nocturnal visitor who excited such fear- 
ful apprehensions in the mind of old Peter Manson the 
miser. 
"Where is Captain Brace, Mr. Bigelow?" he in- 
quired of the second mate. 
" In the cabin, Mr. Randall. He wishes to see you." 
'' And I wish to see him, so we can suit each other's 
convenience. How long since did he ask for me ? " 
" Only two or three minutes. He has just gone 
below." 
" Then he hasn't had long to wait.'' 
With these words he hastened to the cabin, where he 
found the captain waiting for him. 
 
 
The subject on which the captain wished to see his 
first mate was purely of a professional and technical 
character, and will not be likely to interest the reader, 
and so will be passed over. 
When this preliminary matter was disposed of, Randall, with a little hesitation, remarked : "I have a little 
favor to ask of you, Captain Brace." 
" Very well, sir ; let me know what it is, and if I can 
conveniently grant it I will." 
" The boy who had engaged to go with us has backed 
out, having heard some ridiculous stories about your 
severity and " 
The captain's brow grew dark with anger, as he said : 
" The young rascal I I should like to overhaul him I 
Fd show him what it is to see service ! " 
There is very little doubt that the captain would have 
kept his word. 
Randall took care not to inform his superior officer 
that he had privately communicated to the mother of 
the boy intelligence of his severity, not from any motives of humanity, but simply because his going would 
have interfered with his own plans in respect to Charlie. 
" We shall not have much time to hunt up a boy if 
we sail at three o'clock," said the captain. " I don't see 
but we must go without one." 
" I think I can supply you with one. Captain Brace.'' 
"Ha! who is it?" 
" It is a nephew of mine, and the favor I spoke of 
was that you should take him in place of the boy we 
have missed of." 
'' Humph I " said the captain, " there is one objection 
I have to taking relations of the officers. You are ex- 
 
 
pected to be tender of them, and not order them about 
as roughly as the rest." 
" There won't be any trouble of that sort in this case, 
Captain Brace, you may be very sure," said the mate. 
'' Although the boy is my nephew I don't feel any very 
extraordinary affection for him." 
" I should think not," said the captain, with a grim 
smile, " from your efforts to get him a place on board 
this ship. You're not any more gentle with boys than I 
am." 
"The fact is. Captain Brace," said Randall, with a 
smile which evinced a thorough understanding of the 
captain's meaning ; " the fact is, the boy is unruly, and 
they can't do much for him at home, and I thought it 
might be well for him to try a voyage or two, for the 
benefit of his health ! " 
The mate smiled, and as it was such a joke as the 
captain could appreciate, he smiled too. 
" Very well, Mr. Randall ; if such are your views I 
have no objection to his coming on board." 
" I had fears," continued the mate, " that his unruly 
temper would interfere with his usefhlness at home. I 
felt pretty sure we could soon cure him of that." 
" Kill or cure  that's my motto," said the captain. 
" Sometimes both," thought Randall, remembering 
one boy in a previous voyage who had languished and 
died under the cruel treatment he experienced on board. 
" Does the boy know he is to go with us?" inquired 
the captain. 
" Bless you, no ; not he I He'd make a fuss if he did." 
" How do you intend to get him on board, then?" 
" I shall invite him to come and see the vessel, and 
when he is down below I can take care that he stays 
there till we are fairly at sea." 
" A good plan. What is the youngster's name, Mr.' 
Eandall?' 
'' Jack Randall ; named after me." 
" Humph ! hope he'll do credit to the name," said.the 
captain, grimly. " I leave in your hands all the steps 
necessary to securing him. Remember, if you please, 
that we shall sail at three." 
'' I will be on board before that time, sir, and bring 
nay nephew with me." 
" Very well, sir." 
Of course the reader has conjectured that the Jack 
Randall, the mate's nephew, spoken of above, is no other than our young hero, Charlie Codman. 
Poor boy ! little does he dream of the plot that is being formed against him. 
 
On leaving the Bouncing Betsy, Mr. John Randall, 
the estimable mate of that vessel, bent his steps towards 
a shop devoted to sailors' clothing ready-made, With a 
large variety of other articles such as seamen are accus- 
tomed to require. 
It was a shop of .very good dimensions, but low stud- 
ded and rather dark, the windows, which were few, being 
in part covered up by articles hung in front of them. 
The proprietor of this establishment was Moses Mellen, 
a little Jew, with a countenance clearly indicating his 
Israelitish descent. His small black eyes sparkled with 
the greed of gain, and he had a long, hooked nose like 
the beak of a bird, which would not have been considered 
too small an appendage for a face of twice the size. He 
had one qualification for a successful trader— he seldom 
or never forgot a face which he had once seen. 
Rubbing his hands with a great show of cordiality, and 
with his face wreathed in smiles, the instant he espied 
Randall he hastened to meet him. 
" Delighted to see you, Mr. Randall," he exclaimed ; 
 ' perhaps I ought to say Captain Randall." 
"Not yet." 
  " Ah-well, that will come soon. I hope you have had 
a prosperous voyage." 
" Tolerably so, Mr. Mellen." 
" Have you just arrived in the city, or have you been 
here for some time ? " 
"Three weeks only, and now I am off again. We 
sailors don't have a chance to stop long on dry land, Mr. 
Mellen."- 
'' Not if they are such capital sailors as my friend, Mr. 
Randall. But where are you bound this time ? " 
" Probably to Valparaiso." 
" Anywhere else?" 
" Perhaps so. We may go to the Indies or Sandwich 
Islands before we return." 
" A long voyage,. — you will need to be fitted out before you start, — don't you want something in my line ? 
I sha'n't want much profit out of an old friend like you." 
This, by the way, was what Moses said to pretty much 
all his customers. 
" I shall want a few things. I will pick them out 
now." 
" This way, then." 
Randall followed the proprietor to the back of the 
store, where he selected a variety of articles, which he 
ordered sent on board the Bouncing Betsy immediately. 
" Now," said the mate, after his own purchases were 
completed, " I shall require a small outfit for a boy who 
is going out with us." 
"K you had brought him with you we could have 
furnished him at short order." 
" There was one little diflSiculty in the way of my doing 
that." 
"Eh?" . . 
" He doesn't know he is going.'' 
 
 
" Ah ha ! " said the Jewish dealer, putting one scraggy 
finger to the side of his nose with a knowing look ; " that's 
it, is it?" 
'' I see you comprehend. Now tell me what shall we 
do about fitting him?" 
" If I could only see him — . — " 
" You could judge by your eye what would be likely 
to fit him. Is that what you would say?" 
 ' Precisely." 
" And how long would you require to look at him?'' 
" Two minutes would answer." 
" Very well ; I will call with the boy in the course of 
an hour or two. By the way, I shall want a small chest 
to put the articles in. You keep them, of course ? " 
" A great variety." 
'' I dare say you will suit me. A very plain one will 
answer. Have your bill made out for the other articles, 
and I will discharge it.'' 
With a profusion of bows and thanks, the trader dis- 
missed his customerr 
The mate now betook himself to the hotel where he 
had engaged Charlie to meet him at eleven o'clock. 
Charlie, who was always punctual to his appointments, 
had already arrived, and was looking over a newspaper 
in the reading-room. 
" So you are on hand, my boy," said Randall, in a 
friendly manner. 
" Yes, sir." 
" I am glad to find you punctual. Are you ready to 
get out?" 
" Yes, sir, quite ready." 
Bather to keep up the boy's delusion as to his designs , 
 
Randall suffered Charlie to guide bim to one or two 
pikces of public interest, with wbicb be was already more 
familiar than bis guide, and tben suddenly proposed that 
they sbould go down to tbe wbarves. 
"You must know, my lad," said be, "tbat I am a 
sailor." 
" I tbougbt so, sir." 
" Wbat made you tbink so ? " 
" I don't know, sir ; but I can generally tell a sailor." 
" Perbaps I baven't got my sea-legs off. However, as 
I was saying, I am an oflSicer on board a sbip lying at 
tbe wbarf, and I bave just tbougbt of a bundle I want 
brougbt from tbe ship. If you will go with me and fetch 
it, I will pay you at tbe same rate I promised you for 
going about with me." 
Of course Charlie bad no objections. In fact, although 
he had been on board ships at the wbarf, be had never 
been in company with an officer,, and he thought it possi- 
ble bis companion might be willing to explain to him the 
use of some parts which be did not yet understand. Ac- 
cordingly he gave a ready assent to the mate's proposi- 
tion, and together they took their way to Long Wharf, at 
which the sbip was lying. 
The shop kept by tbe Jew was, as a matter of con- 
venience and policy, located near the wbarves. It was 
not a general clothing-store, but specially designed to 
supply seamen with outfits. 
" I have a little errand here," said Randall, pausing 
before tbe shop of Moses Mellen. 
'' I can stop outside," said Charlie. 
" You had better come in. You will see where we 
sailors get our clothing." 
 
 
Not suspecting any sinister design in this invital on, 
Charlie accepted it without more ado, and followed Ban- 
dall in. He looked about him with some curiosity, not 
observing that he too was an object of attention to the 
Jewish dealer, whose quick eye detected their entrance. 
He went forward to meet Randall. 
" You see the boy, do you?" asked the mate, in a low 
voice. 
"Is that the one?'' 
" Yes. Do you think you will be able to fit him? '' 
" No doubt about it, though he is a little smaller than 
the boys we usually fit out." 
" Never mind if the clothes are a little large. He'll 
be sure. to grow to them, and a precise fit isn't quite so 
important on the quarter-deck as it might be on Washington Street. We are not fashionable on board the 
Betsy, Mr. MeUen." 
The dealer laughed, showing some yellowish tusks, 
which were evidently not supplied by the dentist, 
" Have you made out my bill ? " 
" Here it is."  
"While I am looking over it, will yon pick out such 
clothes as the boy will need?" 
Parting a hasty glance at Charlie, to make sure of his 
size, the dealer hurried to the rear of the shop, and commenced selecting articles which he laid away in a small 
blue chest. 
This task was soon completed, and again he came out 
to the front part of the store. 
" All ready I " he said, in a low voice to Randall. 
" You have been quick. Here is the amount of your 
 
bill. As to the chest, you may send it on board the 
Booncing Betsy without any unnecessary delay." 
" It shall be done, Mr. Randall. Have you no further 
commands for us ? '' 
" I beliere.not, to-day." 
" You will remember our shop when you are round 
again?" 
" I won't forget you." 
'' You needn't accompany me to tjie door, nor allude 
to my voyage," said Randall, in a low voice, to the 
dealer. " Remember, I have Mm with me." 
Moses winked m a manner which by no means improved the expression of his not very agreeable features. 
" Now, my lad," said Randall, " we'll go on board the 
vessel. Have you ever been on board a ship ? " 
" Yes, sir, a good many times by myself, but I never 
had any one to tell me the different parts." 
" I'll promise, then," said the mate, in a tone whose 
signficance was lost upon our hero at the time, though 
he afterwards recalled it, " that you shall know mcffe 
about a vessel before you leave this onfe." 
" I thank you," said Charlie, considering the offer a 
kind one. 
They ascended the ladder and jumped upon the deck 
of the vessel, which, though Charlie knew it not, was to 
be his home for many a weary day. 
At the close of the last chapter we had got our hero 
fairly on board the Bouncing Betsey, on what he sup- 
posed to be a brief visit, but which his companion had 
resolved should be far otherwise. 
Randall did not at first undeceive his youthful attend. 
ant. He felt that it would hardly be polite, as the ship 
was lying at the wharf surrounded by ottier vessels, and 
the disturbance and vigorous resistance which Charlie 
would be apt to make when told what was in store for 
him might attract a degree of attention which might 
prove fatarto his plans.   
They had scarcely set their feet upon deck, when they 
encountered Capt. Brace. 
The mate glanced significantly at the boy by his side, 
and carelessly put his finger to his lips in token of si- 
lence, at the same time saying, "A lad whom I have 
promised to initiate into some of the mysteries of sea- 
manship." 
''He may find the knowledge usefhl to him some 
time," said the captain, with a grim smile. " Do you 
think you should like going to sea, my lad? ' 
" No, sir," returned Charlie, promptly, " I don't 
think I should." 
 
"Why not?" 
' I should get tired of seeing the sea all the time." 
" You would get used to it." 
" I never should like it so well as the land. Besides, 
I should not like to leave my mother." 
'.' Well, my lad, if you should ever change your 
mind," said the captain, with a wicked glance at Ran- 
dall, "I hope you'U give me the first offer of your 
services." .  
" Yes, sir," said our hero, thinking the captain very 
affable and polite, though, to be sure, his appearance 
was hardly as prepossessing as it might have been. 
" The. captain seems to be a very nice man," said he 
to Randall, after that officer had left them. 
" Oh, yes," answered Randall, dryly, " a Tery fine 
man the captain is. Fm glad you like him." 
"Have you been to sea a long time?" inquired 
Charlie: 
" Yes, I have been ever since I was a boy." 
"D >youlikeit?" 
"Very much. It seems like home to me now. I 
shouldn't be willing to live on land for any length of 
time." 
" Did you begin very young? " 
" I was about sixteen. How old are you? " 
" Almost fourteen. I shall be fourteen next month." 
" You are a very -good size for your age." 
"Yes," said Charlie, with boyish pride, drawing him- 
self up to his f\ill height. Like most boys, he liked to 
be told he was large of his age. _ 
 ' My fkther was quite a large man," added our young 
hero.  
 
 
"I know it,himself, as the 
handsome face and manly form of the father rose before 
him. They were imprinted more vividly upon his memory, because he felt that it was these very advantages 
which had enabled his rival to succeed in winning the 
prize for which he had vainly contended. 
"Did you speak?" said Charlie, hearing indistinctly 
the words which his companion muttered. 
"No," said Randall, shortly. "But I promised to 
show you something about the vessel. I suppose you 
know the names of the masts." 
" Yes, sir." 
" What do they call this ? " 
'' This is the main-mast," answered Charlie, promptly, 
"and the others are called the foremast and mizzen-' 
mast." 
" That is right ; I suppose the masts seem high to 
you." 
" Yes, very high," said Charlie, stretching his neck to 
enable him to see the top.  
" Then you don't think you should like to go aloft?" 
said Randall, playing with him as a cat plays with a 
mouse. 
" I don't believe I could. It would make me dizzy." 
" You could do better than you think for, if you were 
obliged to."- 
"Perhaps I might," said Charlie, doubtfhlly. "Do 
the boys on board ship have to go up there?" 
" I had to when I was a boy." 
"Wer'n't you afraid?" 
"I suppose I was, but that didn't do any good, — I 
had to go." 
 
" Wer'n't you afraid of losing your hold? " 
" Yes, but it isn't often a boy loses his hold going up 
the fii'st time. He is so frightened that he clings to the 
ropes with a pretty tight grip. But after he gets used 
to it — and it doesn't seem any worse than going up 
stairs — he is apt to grow careless, and then there is 
sometimes an accident." 
'' Then I suppose they fall on deck and are instantly 
killed," said Charlie, shuddering. 
" Not always, for when the ship is in progress it leans 
a good deal, so that they are more likely to fall over- 
board." 
" And get drowned?" 
" Sometimes. They can't always keep up till assist- 
itnce comes, especially if they can't swim. Solnetimes 
their fall is broken by the rigging, and they manage to 
save themselves by catching hold." 
They visited other parts of the ship, and' Randall con- 
tinued his explanations. The sailors were all on board, 
at work in various ways. They did not appear to notice 
the mate and his young companion when they passed, 
but Charlie, chancing to look behind him, observed one 
making a significant gesture to another, which evidently 
referred to them. 
Our young'hero mentally thought this not very polite, 
but did not pay much attention to it. 
About this time a porter arrived from the clothing- 
store already referred to, bringing a small blue chest. 
