not do a thing. O Gypsy, you don't know!"
Something in Peace Maythorne's tone just then made Gypsy feel worse than
she felt to see her sew. She was silent a minute, turning away her face.
"Well, I suppose I don't. But I say I'd as lief have a stone wall for an
aunt; no, I will say it, Peace, and you needn't look at me." Peace
looked, notwithstanding, and Gypsy stopped saying it.
"Sometimes I've thought," said Peace, after a pause, "I might earn a
little crocheting. Once, long ago, I made a mat out of ends of worsted I
found, and it didn't hurt me hardly any; on my good days it wouldn't
honestly hurt me at all. It's pretty work, crocheting, isn't it?"
"Why don't you crochet, then," said Gypsy, "if you must do anything?
It's ten thousand times easier than this sewing you're killing yourself
over."
"I've no worsteds, you know," said Peace, coloring; and changed the
subject at once.
Gypsy looked thoughtful. Very soon after she bade Peace good-bye, and
went home.
That night she called her mother away alone, and told her what Peace had
said.
"Now, mother, I've thought out an idea."
"Well?"
"You mustn't say no, if I tell you."
"I'll try not to; if it is a sensible idea."
"Do I ever have an idea that isn't sensible?" said Gypsy, demurely. "I
prefer not to be slandered, if you please, Mrs. Breynton."
"Well, but what's the idea?"
"It's just this. Miss Jane Maythorne is a heathen."
"Is that all?"
"No. But Miss Jane Maythorne is a heathen, and ought to cut off her
head before she lets Peace sew. But you see she doesn't know she's a
heathen, and Peace will sew."
"Well, what then?"
"If she will do something, and won't be happy without, then I can't help
it, you see. But I can give her some worsteds for a Christmas present,
and she can make little mats and things, and you can buy them. Now,
mother, isn't that nice?"
"Yes," said Mrs. Breynton, after a moment's thought. "It is a very good
plan. I think Joy would like to join you. Together, you can make quite a
handsome present out of it."
"I don't want Joy to know a thing about it," said Gypsy, with a decision
in her voice that amounted almost to anger.
"Why, Gypsy!"
"No, not a thing. She just takes her father's money, and gives lots of
splendid presents, and makes me ashamed of all mine, and she's glad of
it, too. If I'm going to give anything to Peace, I don't want her to."
"I think Joy has taken a great fancy to Peace. She would enjoy giving
her something very much," said Mrs. Breynton, gravely.
"I can't help it. Peace Maythorne belongs to me. It would spoil it all
to have Joy have anything to do with it."
"Worsted are very expensive now," said her mother; "you alone cannot
give Peace enough to amount to much."
"I don't care," said Gypsy, resolutely, "I want to do one thing Joy
doesn't."
Mrs. Breynton said nothing, and Gypsy went slowly from the room.
"I wish we could give Peace Maythorne something," said Joy, an hour
after, when they were all sitting together. Mrs. Breynton raised her
eyes from her work, but Gypsy was looking out of the window.
When the girls went up to bed, Gypsy was very silent. Joy tried to laugh
and plague and scold her into talking, but it was of no use. Just before
they went to sleep, she spoke up suddenly:
"Joy, do you want to give something to Peace Maythorne?"
"Splendid!" cried Joy, jumping up in bed to clap her hands, "what?"
Gypsy told her then all the plan, a little slowly; it was rather hard.
Perhaps Joy detected the hesitation in her tone. Joy was not given to
detecting things with remarkable quickness, but it was so plain that she
could not very well help it.
"I don't believe you want me to give any of it."
"Oh, yes," said Gypsy, trying to speak cordially, "yes, it will be
better."
It certainly was better she felt. She went to sleep, glad it was settled
so.
When the girls came to make their purchases, they found that Gypsy's
contribution of money would just about buy the crochet-needles and
patterns. The worsteds cost about treble what she could give. So it was
settled that they should be Joy's gift.
Gypsy was very pleasant about it, but Joy could not help seeing that she
was disappointed. So then there came a little generous impulse to Joy
too, and she came one day and said:
"Gypsy, don't let's divide the things off so, for Peace. It makes my
part the largest. Besides, the worsteds look the prettiest. Let's just
give them together and have it all one."
There is a rare pleasure in making a gift one's self, without being
hampered by this "all-together" notion, isn't there?—especially if the
gift be a handsome one, and is going where it is very much needed. So as
Joy sat fingering the pile of elegant worsteds, twining the brilliant,
soft folds of orange, and crimson, and royal purple, and soft,
wood-browns about her hands, it cost her a bit of a struggle to say
this. It seems rather a small thing to write about? Ah, they are these
bits of struggles in which we learn to fight the great ones; perhaps
these bits of struggles, more than the great ones, make up life.
"You're real good," said Gypsy, surprised; "I think I'd rather not. It
isn't really half of it mine, and I don't want to say so. But it's just
as good in you."
At that moment, though neither of them knew it was so, one thought was
in the heart of both. It was a sudden thought that came and went, and
left a great happiness in its place (for great happiness springs out of
very little battles and victories),—a memory of Peace Maythorne's
verse. The good Christmas time would have been a golden time to them, if
it taught them in ever so small, imperfect ways, to prefer one another
"in honor."
One day before it came a sudden notion seemed to strike Gypsy, and she
rushed out of the house in her characteristic style, as if she were
running for her life, and down to Peace Maythorne's, and flew into the
quiet room like a tempest.
"Peace Maythorne, what's your favorite verse?"
"Why, what a hurry you're in! Sit down and rest a minute."
"No, I can't stop. I just want to know what your favorite verse is, as
quick as ever you can be."
"Did you come down just for that? How queer! Well, let me see."
Peace stopped a minute, her quiet eyes looking off through the window,
but seeming to see nothing—away somewhere, Gypsy, even in her hurry
stopped to wonder where.
"I think—it isn't one you'd care much about, perhaps—I think I like
this. Yes, I think I can't help liking it best of all."
Peace touched her finger to a page of her Bible that lay open. Gypsy,
bending over, read:
"And the inhabitants shall not say I am sick."
When she had read, she stooped and kissed Peace with a sudden kiss.
From that time until Christmas Gypsy was very busy in her own room with
her paint box, all the spare time she could find. On Christmas Eve she
went down just after dusk to Peace Maythorne's room, and called Miss
Jane out into the entry.
"This is for Peace, and I made it. I don't want her to see a thing about
it till she wakes up in the morning. Could you please to fasten it up on
the wall just opposite the bed where the sun shines in? sometime after
she's gone to sleep, you know."
Miss Jane, somewhat bewildered, took the thing that Gypsy held out to
her, and held it up in the light that fell from a neighbor's half-open
door.
It was a large illuminated text, painted on Bristol board of a soft gray
shade, and very well done for a non-professional artist. The letters
were of that exquisite shade known by the artists as smalt blue, edged
heavily with gold, and round them a border of yellow, delicate sprays of
wheat. Miss Jane spelled out in German text:
"And the Inhabitants shall not say I am Sick."
"Well, thank you. I'll put it up. Peace never gets asleep till terrible
late, and I'm rather worn out with work to lie awake waitin' till she
is. But then, if you want to surprise her—I s'pose she will be
dreadful tickled—I guess I'll manage it someways."
Perhaps Miss Jane was softened into being obliging by her coming
holiday; or perhaps the mournful, longing words touched something in her
that nothing touched very often.
Gypsy and Joy were not so old but that Christmas Eve with its little
plans for the morrow held yet a certain shade of that delightful
suspense and mystery which perhaps never hangs about the greater and
graver joys of life. I fancy we drink it to the full, in the hanging up
of stockings, the peering out into the dark to see Santa Claus come down
the chimney (perfectly conscious that that gentleman is the most
transparent of hoaxes, but with a sort of faith in him all the while; we
may see him if we can lie awake long enough—who knows?) the falling
asleep before we know it, and much against our will, the waking in the
cold, gray, mysterious dawn, and pattering about barefoot to "catch" the
dreaming and defenseless family.
"I'm going to lie awake all night," Gypsy announced, as she stood
brushing out her bright, black hair; "then I'll catch you, you see if I
don't."
"But I'm going to lie awake, too," said Joy. "I was going to last
Christmas, only—I didn't."
"Sit up and see the sun dance, like Patty."
"Well, let's. I never was awake all night in my whole life."
"Nor I," said Gypsy. "I came pretty near it once, but I somehow went to
sleep along at the end."
"When was that?"
"Why, one time I had a dream, and went clear over to the Kleiner Berg
Basin, in my sleep, and got into the boat."
"You did!"
"I guess I did. The boat was unlocked and the oars were up at the barn,
and so I floated off, and there I had to stay till Tom came in the
morning."
"Why, I should have been scared out of my seventeen senses," said Joy,
creeping into bed. "Didn't you scream?"
"No. That wouldn't have done any good. See here, Joy, if you find me
going to sleep, pinch me, will you?"
"Oh, yes," said Joy, with alacrity. "I shall be awake, I know."
There was a silence. Gypsy broke it by turning her head over on the
pillow with a whisk, and opening her eyes savagely, quite indignant to
find them shut.
"Joy."
No answer.
"Joy, you're going——"
Joy's head turned over with another whisk.
"No, I'm not. I'm just as wide awake as ever I was."
Another silence.
"Gypsy!"
Gypsy jumped.
"You're going to sleep."
"It isn't any such thing," said Gypsy, sitting up and rubbing her eyes.
"I wonder if it isn't most morning," said Joy, in a tone of cheerful
indifference.
"Most morning! Mother'd say we'd been in bed just ten minutes, I
suppose."
Joy stifled a groan, and by dint of great exertions turned it into a
laugh.
"All the longer to lie awake. It's nice, isn't it?"
"Ye-es. Let's talk. People that sit up all night talk, I guess."
"Well, I guess it would be a good plan. You begin."
"I don't know anything to say."
"Well, I'm sure I don't."
Silence again.
"Joy Breynton."
"We-ell?"
"I guess I'll keep awake just as well if I—shut up—my eyes. Don't
you—"
That was the end of Gypsy's sentence, and Joy never asked for the rest
of it. Just about an hour and a half after, Gypsy heard a noise, and was
somewhat surprised to see Joy standing up with her head in the washbowl.
"What are you doing?"
"Oh, just dipping my head into the water. They say it helps keep people
awake."
"Oh—well. See here; we haven't talked much lately, have we?"
"No. I thought I wouldn't disturb you."
Gypsy made a ghastly attempt to answer, but couldn't quite do it.
At the end of another indefinite period Joy opened her eyes under the
remarkable impression that Oliver Cromwell was carrying her to the
guillotine in a cocoa-nut shell; it was really a very remarkable
impression, considering that she had been broad awake ever since she
came to bed. As soon as her eyes were opened she opened her mouth
likewise—to gasp out a little scream. For something very tall and
white was sitting on the bedpost with folded arms.
"Why, Gypsy Breynton!"
"What?"
"What are you up there for?"
"Got up so's to keep awake. It's real fun."
"Why, how your teeth chatter. Isn't it cold up there?"
"Ra-ther. I don't know but I might as well come down."
"I wonder," muttered Gypsy, drowsily, just as Joy had begun in very
thrilling words to request Oliver Cromwell to have mercy on her, and was
about preparing to jump out of the cocoa-nut shell into Niagara Falls,
"I wonder what makes people think it's a joke to lie awake."
"I don't believe they do," said Joy, with a tinge in her voice of
something that, to say the least, was not hilarious.
"Yes they do," persisted Gypsy; "all the girls in novels lie awake all
night and cry when their lovers go to Europe, and they have a real nice
time. Only it's most always moonlight, and they talk out loud. I always
thought when I got large enough to have a lover, I'd try it."
Joy dropped into another dream, and, though not of interest to the
public, it was a very charming dream, and she felt decidedly cross,
when, at the end of another unknown period Gypsy woke her up with a
pinch.
"Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas!"
"What are you merry Christmassing for? That's no fair. It isn't morning
yet. Let me alone."
"Yes, it is morning too. I heard the clock strike six ever so long ago.
Get up and build the fire."
"I don't believe it's morning. You can build it yourself."
"No, it's your week. Besides, you made me do it twice for you your last
turn, and I shan't touch it. Besides, it is morning."
Joy rose with a groan, and began to fumble for the matches. All at once
Gypsy heard a very fervent exclamation.
"What's the matter?"
"The old thing's tipped over—every single, solitary match!"
Gypsy began to laugh.
"It's nothing to laugh at," chattered Joy; "I'm frozen almost to death,
and this horrid old fire won't do a thing but smoke."
Gypsy, curled up in the warm bed, smothered her laugh as best she could,
to see Joy crouched shivering before the stove-door, blowing away
frantically at the fire, her cheeks puffed out, her hands blue as
indigo.
"There!" said Joy, at last; "I shan't work any more over it. It may go
out if it wants to, and if it don't it needn't."
She came back to bed, and the fire muttered and sputtered a while, and
died out, and shot up again, and at last made up its mind to burn, and
burned like a small volcano.
"What a noise that fire makes! I hope it won't wake up mother. Joy,
don't it strike you as rather funny it doesn't grow light faster?"
"I don't know."
"Get up and look at the entry clock; you're on the front side."
Poor Joy jumped out shivering into the cold again, opened the door
softly, and ran out. She came back in somewhat of a hurry, and shut the
door with a bang.
"Gypsy Breynton!"
"What?"
"If I ever forgive you!"
"What is the matter?"
"It's just twenty-five minutes past eleven!"
Gypsy broke into a ringing laugh. Joy could never bear to be laughed at.
"I don't see anything so terrible funny, and I guess you wouldn't if
you'd made that old—"
"Fire; I know it. Just to think!—and you shivering and blowing away at
it. I never heard anything so funny!"
"I think it was real mean in you to wake me up, any way."
"Why, I thought I heard it strike six as much as could be. Oh, dear, oh,
dear!"
Joy couldn't see the joke. But the story of that memorable night was not
yet finished.
The faint, gray morning really came at last, and the girls awoke in good
earnest, ready and glad to get up.
"I feel as if I'd been pulled through a knothole," said Joy.
"I slept with one eye open all the time I did sleep," said Gypsy,
drearily. "I know one thing. I'll never try to lie awake as long as I
live."
"Not when you have a lover go to Europe?"
"Not if I have a dozen lovers go to Europe. How is that fire going to be
built, I'd like to know?—every stick of wood burned out last night."
There was no way but to go down into the wood-shed and get some. It was
yet early, and quite dark.
"Go the back stairs," said Gypsy, "so's not to wake people up."
Joy opened the door, and jumped, with a scream that echoed through the
silent entry.
"Hush-sh! What is the matter?"
"A—a—it's a ghost!"
"A ghost! Nonsense!"
Gypsy pushed by trembling Joy and ran out. She, too, came back with a
jump, and, though she did not scream, she did not say nonsense.
"What can it be?"
It certainly did look amazingly like a ghost. Something tall and white
and ghastly, with awful arm extended. The entry was very dark.
Joy sprang into bed and covered up her face in the clothes. Gypsy stood
still and winked fast for about a minute. Then Joy heard a fall and a
bubbling laugh.
"That old Tom! It's nothing but a broom-handle and a sheet. Oh, Joy,
just come and see!"
After that, Joy declared she wouldn't go to the wood-shed alone, if she
dressed without a fire the rest of her life. So Gypsy started with her,
and they crept downstairs on tiptoe, holding their very breath in their
efforts to be still, the stairs creeking at every step. Did you ever
particularly want stairs to keep still, that they didn't creak like
thunder-claps?
The girls managed to get into the wood-shed, fill their basket, and
steal back into the kitchen without mishap. Then came the somewhat
dubious undertaking of crawling upstairs in darkness that might be felt,
with a heavy and decidedly uncertain load of wood.
"I'll go first and carry the basket," said Gypsy. "One can do it easier
than two."
So she began to feel her way slowly up.
"It's black as Egypt! Joy, why don't you come?"
"I'm caught on something—oh!" Down fell something with an awful crash
that echoed and reëchoed, and resounded through the sleeping house. It
was succeeded by an utter silence.
"What is it?" breathed Gypsy, faintly.
"The clothes-horse, and every one of Patty's clean clothes!"
Scarcely were the words off from Joy's lips, when Gypsy, sitting down on
the stairs to laugh, tipped over her basket, and every solitary stick of
that wood clattered down the uncarpeted stairs, thumped through the
banisters, bounced on the floor, rolled into the corners, thundered
against the cellar door. I don't believe you ever heard such a noise in
all your life.
Mr. and Mrs. Breynton ran from one direction, Tom from another, Winnie
from a third, and Patty, screaming, in fearful dishabille, from the
attic, and the congress that assembled in that entry where sat Gypsy
speechless on one stair, and Joy on another, the power fails me to
describe.
But this was the end of that Christmas night.
It should be recorded that the five-dollar bill and the portfolio with
purple roses on it were both forthcoming that day, and that Gypsy
entirely forgot any difference between her own little gifts and Joy's.
This was partly because she had somehow learned to be glad in the
difference, if it pleased Joy; partly because of a certain look in her
mother's eyes when she saw the picture-frame. Such a look made Gypsy
happy for days together.
That Christmas was as merry as Christmas can be, but the best part of it
all was the sight of Peace Maythorne's face as she lay twining the
gorgeous worsteds over her thin fingers, the happy sunlight touching
their colors of crimson, and royal purple, and orange, and woodland
brown, just as kindly as it was touching the new Christmas jewels over
which many another young girl in many another home sat laughing that
morning.
But Gypsy long remembered—she remembers now with dim eyes and
quivering smile—how Peace drew her face down softly on the pillow,
pointing to the blue and golden words upon the wall, and said in a
whisper that nobody else heard:
"That is best of all. Oh, Gypsy, when I woke up in the morning and found
it!"
CHAPTER IX
UP RATTLESNAKE
"I should think we might, I'm sure," said Joy pausing, with a crisp bit
of halibut on her fork, just midway between her plate and her lips.
"You needn't shake your head so, Mother Breynton," said Gypsy, her great
brown eyes pleading over her teacup with their very most irresistible
twinkle. "Now it isn't the slightest trouble to say yes, and you can
just as well say it now as any other time, you know."
"But it really seems to me a little dangerous, Gypsy,—up over those
mountain roads on livery-stable horses."
"But Tom says it isn't a bit dangerous, and Tom's been up it forty
times. Rattlesnake has the best roads of any of the mountains round
here, and there are fences by all the precipices, Tom said, didn't you,
Tom?"
"No," said Tom, coolly. "There isn't a fence. There are logs in some
places, and in some there aren't."
"Oh, what a bother you are! Well, any way it's all the same, and I'm not
a bit afraid of stable horses. I can manage any of them, from Mr. Burt's
iron-gray colt down," which was true enough. Gypsy was used to riding,
and perfectly fearless.
"But Joy hasn't ridden much, and I should never forgive myself if any
accident happened to her while her father is gone."
"Joy can ride Billy. There isn't a cow in Yorkbury safer."
Mrs. Breynton sipped her tea and thought about it.
"I want to go horsebacking, too," put in Winnie, glaring savagely at
Gypsy over his bread and milk. "I'm five years old."
"And jerked six whole buttons off your jacket this very day," said
Gypsy, eyeing certain gaps of which there were always more or less to be
seen in Winnie's attire in spite of his mother's care. "A boy who jerks
buttons like that couldn't go 'horsebacking.' You wouldn't have one left
by the time you came home,—look out, you'll have your milk over. You
tipped it over times enough this morning for one day."
"You will have your milk over; don't stand the mug up on the
napkin-ring,—no, nor on that crust of bread, either," repeated his
mother, and everybody looked up anxiously, and edged away a little from
Winnie's immediate vicinity. This young gentleman had a pleasing little
custom of deluging the united family at meal-time, at least once
regularly every day, with milk and bread-crumbs; maternal and paternal
injunctions, threats, and punishments notwithstanding, he contrived
every day some perfectly novel, ingenious, and totally unexpected method
of accomplishing the same; uniting, in his efforts, the strategy of a
Napoleon, with the unruffled composure of a Grant.
"I don't know but what I'll see what father thinks about it," Mrs.
Breynton went on, thoughtfully. "If he should be willing—"
"Good, good!" cried Gypsy, clapping her hands. "Father's in the library.
Winnie, you run up and ask him if we can't go up Rattlesnake."
"Well," said Winnie, "when I just get through eatin'. I'm goin' to make
him let me horseback as much as you or anybody else."
Winnie finished his toast with imperturbable deliberation, pushed back
his chair, and jumped up.
Splash! went a shower of milk all over him, his mother, the table, and
the carpet. Everybody jumped. Winnie gasped and stood dripping.
"Oh-oh! how did he do it? Why, Winnie Breynton!"
For there hung the mug from his waist, empty, upside down, tied to his
bib.
"In a hard knot, if you'll believe it! I never saw such a child in all
my life! Why, Winnie!"
The utter blankness of astonishment that crept over Winnie's face when
he looked down and saw the mug hanging, Mr. Darley might have made a
small fortune out of; but the pen of a Cicero could not attempt it. It
appeared to be one of those cases when "the heart feels most though the
lips move not."
"What did you do such a thing for? What could possess you?"
"Oh," said Winnie, very red in the face, "it's there, is it? I was a
steamboat, and the mug was my stove-pipe, 'n' then I forgot. I want a
clean apron. I don't want any milk to-morrer."
This was in the early summer. The holidays had come and gone, and the
winter and the spring. Coasting, skating, and snowballing had given
place to driving hoop, picking flowers, boating, and dignified
promenades on the fashionable pavement down town; furs and bright woolen
hoods, tippets, mittens, and rubber-boots were exchanged for calico
dresses, comfortable, brown, bare hands, and jaunty straw hats with
feathers on them. On the whole, it had been a pleasant winter: times
there had been when Gypsy heartily wished Joy had never come, when Joy
heartily wished she were at home; certain little jealousies there had
been, selfish thoughts, unkind acts, angry words; but many penitent
hours as well, some confessions, the one to the other, that nobody else
heard, and a certain faint, growing interest in each other. Strictly
speaking, they did not very much love each other yet, but they were
not far from it. "I am getting used to Joy," said Gypsy. "I like Gypsy
ever so much better than I did once," Joy wrote to her father. One thing
they had learned that winter. Every generous deed, every thoughtful
word, narrowed the distance between them; each one wiped out the ugly
memory of some past impatience, some past unkindness. And now something
was about to happen that should bring them nearer to each other than
anything had done yet.
That June night on which they sat at the tea-table discussing the
excursion up Rattlesnake was the beginning of it. When Winnie was
sufficiently mopped up to admit of his locomotion about the house with
any safety to the carpets, he was dispatched to the library on the
errand to his father. What with various wire-pullings of Gypsy's, and
arguments from Tom, the result was that Mr. Breynton gave his consent to
the plan, on condition that the young people would submit to his
accompanying them.
"That's perfectly splend," cried Gypsy; "all the better for having you.
Only, my best beloved of fathers, you mustn't keep saying, 'Gypsy,
Gypsy, be careful,' you know, every time my horse jumps, because if you
should, I'm very much afraid."
"Afraid of what?"
"That Gypsy wouldn't be careful," said the young lady, folding her hands
demurely. Her father attempted to call her a sauce-box but Gypsy jumped
upon his knee, and pulled his whiskers till he cried out for mercy, and
gave her a kiss instead.
There was an undercurrent of reality in the fun, however. Mr. Breynton's
over-anxiety—fussiness, some people would have called it—his
children were perfectly conscious of; children are apt to be the first
to discover their parents' faults and weaknesses. Gypsy loved her father
dearly, but she somehow always felt as if he must be managed.
So it came about that on a certain royal June day, a merry party started
for a horseback ride up Rattlesnake mountain.
"I've a good mind to take my waterproof," said Joy, as they were
starting; "we may not be back till late, and you know how cold it grows
by the river after dark."
"Nonsense!" laughed Gypsy; "why, the thermometer's 80° already."
Nevertheless, Joy went back and got the waterproof. She afterwards had
occasion to be very glad of it.
The party consisted of Mr. Breynton, Tom, Joy, Gypsy, Mr. and Mrs.
Hallam (this was the Mrs. Hallam who had once been Gypsy's teacher),
Sarah Rowe, and her brother Francis, who was home from college on
account of ill health, he said. Tom always coughed and arched his
eyebrows in a very peculiar way when this was mentioned, but Gypsy could
never find out what he did it for.
The day, as I said, was royal. The sky, the river, the delicate golden
green of the young leaves and grass, the lights and shadows on the
distant mountains, all were mellowed in together like one of Church's
pictures, and there was one of those spicy winds that Gypsy always
described by saying that "the angels had been showering great bottles of
fresh cologne-water into them."
The young people felt these things in a sort of dreamy, unconscious way,
but they were too busy and too merry to notice them in detail.
Joy was mounted safely on demure Billy, and Gypsy rode—not Mr. Burt's
iron-gray, for Tom claimed that—but a free, though manageable pony,
with just the arch of the neck, toss of the mane, and coquettish lifting
of the feet that she particularly fancied. The rest were variously
mounted: Francis Rowe rode a fiery colt that his father had just bought,
and the like of which was not to be seen in Yorkbury.
Up—up, winding on and away, through odors of fragrant pines and unseen
flowers, under the soft, green shadows, through the yellow lights. How
beautiful—how beautiful it was!
"Who'll race with me?" inquired Mr. Francis Rowe suddenly. "I call it an
uncommon bore, this doing nothing but looking at the trees. I say,
Breynton, the slope's easy here for a quarter of a mile; come ahead."
"No, thank you; I don't approve of racing up mountains."
Tom might have said he didn't approve of being beaten; the iron-gray was
no match for the colt, and he knew it.
"Who'll race?" persisted Mr. Francis, impatiently; "isn't there
anybody?"
"I will," said Gypsy, seriously enough.
"You!" said Tom; "why, the colt would leave that bay mare out of sight
before you could say Jack Robinson."
"Oh, I don't expect to beat. Of course that's out of the question. But I
should like the run; where's the goal, Francis?"
"That turn in the road where the tall fir-tree is, with those dead
limbs; you see?"
"Yes. We'll trot, of course. All ready."
"Be very careful, Gypsy," called her father, nervously; "I'm really
almost afraid to have you go. You might come to the precipice sooner,
than you expect, and then the horse may shy."
"I'll be careful father; come, Nelly, gently—whe-ee!"
Suddenly reflecting that it was not supposed to be lady-like to whistle,
Gypsy drew her lips into a demure pucker, touched Nelly with the tassel
of her whip, and flew away up the hill on a brisk trot. Mr. Francis
condescendingly checked the full speed of the colt, and they rode on
pretty nearly side by side.
"I'm afraid, in justice to my horse, I must really come in first," began
Mr. Francis, loosening his rein as they neared the fir-tree.
"Oh, of course," said Gypsy, with a twinkle in her eyes; "I didn't
undertake to beat."
Now Nelly had a trick with which Gypsy was perfectly familiar, of
breaking into a run at an instant's notice, if she were pinched in a
certain spot on her neck. Suddenly, while the colt was springing on in
his fleet trot, and Mr. Francis supposed Gypsy was a full eight feet
behind, he was utterly confounded to see her flying past him on a
bounding gallop, her hair tossing in the wind, her cheeks scarlet, her
eyes triumphant.
But right in the middle of the road, between them and the fir-tree, was
something neither of them had seen;—a huge tree just fallen, with its
high, prickly branches on.
"Jerusalem!" said Mr. Francis, under his breath as the colt pricked up
his ears ominously.
"Oh, good! here's a jump," cried Gypsy, and over it she went at a bound.
The colt reared and shied, and planting his dainty forefeet firmly on
the ground, refused to stir an inch. Gypsy whirled around and stood
triumphant under the fir-tree, her eyes snapping merrily.
"Why, how did this ever happen?" cried the rest, as they came laughing
up.
"I say, there's some witchcraft about this business," remarked Mr.
Francis, quite bewildered; "wait till I've cleared off these branches,
and we'll try that over again."
"Very well," said Gypsy, in a perfect whirl of excitement and delight,
as she always was, with anything in the shape of reins in her hand. But
just then she looked back and saw Joy toiling on slowly behind the
others; Billy with his head hanging and his spirits quite gone. Gypsy
stopped a moment as if in thought, and then rode slowly down the hill.
"I'm having a horrid time," said Joy disconsolately, as she came up;
"Billy is as stupid as a mule, and won't go."
"I'm real sorry," said Gypsy, slowly; "you might have Nelly. We'll
change awhile."
"No," said Joy, "I'm afraid of Nelly. Besides, you wouldn't like Billy
any better than I do. It's dreadfully stupid back here alone, though. I
wish I hadn't come."
"Francis," called Gypsy, "I guess I won't race, I'm going to ride with
Joy awhile."
"Why, you needn't do that!" said Joy, rather ashamed of her complaining.
But Gypsy did do it; and though her face had clouded for the moment, a
sunbeam broke over it then that lasted the rest of the day.
The day passed very much like other picnics. They stopped in a broad,
level place on the summit of the mountain, tied the horses where they
could graze on the long, tufted wood-grass, unpacked the dinner baskets,
and devoted themselves to biscuit and cold tongue, tarts, lemonade and
current wine, through the lazy, golden nooning.
It was voted that they should not attempt the long, hot ride down the
mountain-side until the blaze of the afternoon sun should be somewhat
cooled. So, after dinner they went their several ways, finding amusement
for the sultry hours. Mr. Breynton and Tom went off on a hunt after a
good place to water the horses; Francis Rowe betook himself to a cigar;
Sarah curled herself up on the soft moss with her sack for a pillow, and
went to sleep; Mr. and Mrs. Hallam sat under the trees and read Tennyson
to each other.
"How terribly stupid that must be," said Gypsy, looking on in supreme
disgust; "let's you and I go off. I know a place where there used to be
some splendid foxberry blossoms, lot's of 'em, real pretty; they looked
just as if they were snipped out of pearls with a pair of sharp
scissors."
"I wouldn't go out of sight of us all," called Mr. Breynton, as the two
girls roamed away together among the trees.
"But you are most out of sight now," said Joy, presently.
"Oh, he didn't say we mustn't," answered Gypsy. "He didn't mean we
mustn't, either. Father always worries so."
It would have been well for Gypsy if her father's wish had been to her
what her mother's was—as binding as a command. "Just think," observed
Gypsy, as they strolled on through the fallen leaves and redcup mosses,
"just think of their sitting still and reading poetry on a picnic! I
can't get over it. Miss Melville didn't used to do such stupid things.
It's just 'cause she's married."
"How do you know but you'll do just the same some day?"
"Catch me! I'm not going to be married at all."
"Not going to be married! Why, I am, and I'm going to have a white
velvet dress too."
"Well, you may. But I wouldn't for a whole trunkful of white velvet
dresses—no, I wouldn't for two dozen trunkfuls. I'm not going to stay
home and keep house, and look sober, with my hair done up behind. I'd
rather be an old maid, and have a pony and run round in the woods."
"Why, I never saw such a girl!" exclaimed Joy, opening her small eyes
wide; "I wouldn't be an old maid for anything. I'm going to be married
in St. Paul's, and I'm going to have my dress all caught up with orange
buds, and spangles on my veil. Therése and I, we planned it all out one
night—Therése used to be my French nurse, you know."
For answer, Gypsy threw herself down suddenly on the velvet moss, her
eyes turned up to the far, hazy sky, showing in patches through a lace
work of thousands of leaves.
"Joy," she said, breaking a silence, and speaking in a curious, earnest
tone Gypsy seldom used, "I do really, though, sometimes go off alone
where there are some trees, and wonder."
"Wonder what?"
"What in this world I was ever made for. I suppose there's got to be a
reason."
"A reason!" said Joy, blankly.
"There's got to be something done, for all I see. God doesn't make
people live on and on and die, for nothing. One can't be a little girl
all one's life, climbing trees and making snowballs," said Gypsy, half
dreamily, half impatiently, jumping up and walking on.
So they wandered away and away, deeper into the heart of the forest,
through moss and tufted grasses, and tangles of mountain flowers,
chatting as girls will, in their silly, merry way, with now and then a
flash of graver thought like this of Gypsy's.
"You're sure you know the way back," said Joy, presently.
"Oh, yes; I've been over it forty times. We've turned about a good many
times, but I don't think we've gone very far from the top of the
mountain."
So, deeper, and further, and on, where the breath of the pines was
sweet; where hidden blossoms were folding their cups for the night, and
the shadows in the thickets were growing gray.
"Gypsy!" said Joy, suddenly, "we're certainly going down hill!"
"So we are," said Gypsy, thoughtfully; "it's getting dark, too. They'll
be ready to start for home. I guess we'll go back now."
They turned then, and began rapidly to retrace their steps, over
brambles and stones and fallen trees; through thickets, and up
projecting rocks—very rapidly.
"It is growing dark," said Gypsy, half under her breath; "why didn't we
find it out before?"
"Gypsy," said Joy, after a silence, "do you remember that knot of white
birches? I don't."
Gypsy stopped and looked around.
"N-no, I don't know as I do. But I dare say we saw them and forgot.
Let's walk a little faster."
They walked a little faster. They walked quite as fast as they could go.
"See that great pile of rock," said Joy, presently, her voice trembling
a little; "I know we didn't come by that before. It looks as if there
were a precipice off there."
Gypsy made no answer. She was looking keenly around, her eyes falling on
every rock, stump, tree, and flower, in search of the tiny, trodden path
by which they had left the summit of the mountain. But there was no
path. Only the bramble, and the grass, and the tangled thickets.
It was now very dark.
"I guess this is the way," spoke up Gypsy, cheerfully—"here. Take hold
of my hand, Joy, and we'll run. I think I know where the path is. We had
turned off from it a little bit."
Joy took her hand, and they ran on together. It grew darker, and grew
darker. They could scarcely see the sky now, and the brambles grew high
and thick and strange.
Suddenly Gypsy stopped, knee-deep in a jungle of blackberry bushes.
"Joy, I'm—afraid I don't—know the—way."
CHAPTER X
WE ARE LOST
The two girls, still clasping hands, looked into each other's eyes.
Gypsy was very pale.
"Then we are lost!"
"Yes."
Joy broke into a sort of sobbing cry. Gypsy squeezed her hand very
tightly, with quivering lips.
"It's all my fault. I thought I knew. Oh, Joy, I'm so sorry!"
She expected Joy to burst forth in a torrent of reproaches; once it
would have been so; but for some reason, Joy did not say an angry word.
She only sobbed away quietly, clutching at Gypsy's hand as if she were
very much frightened. She was frightened thoroughly. The scene was
enough to terrify a far less timid child than Joy.
It was now quite dark. Over in the west a faint, ghostly gleam of light
still lingered, seen dimly through the trees; but it only made the utter
blackness of the great forest-shadows more horrible. The huge trunks of
the pines and maples towered up, up—they could scarcely see how far,
grim, and gloomy and silent; here and there a dead branch thrust itself
out against the sky, in that hideous likeness to a fleshless hand which
night and darkness always lend to them. Even Gypsy, though she had been
in the woods many times at night before, shuddered as she stood looking
up. A queer thought came to her, of an old fable she had sometime read
in Tom's mythology; a fable of some huge Titans, angry and fierce, who
tried to climb into heaven; there was just that look about the trees. It
was very still. The birds were in their nests, their singing done. From
far away in some distant swamp came the monotonous, mournful chant of
the frogs—a dreary sound enough, heard in a safe and warm and lighted
home; unspeakably ugly if one is lost in a desolate forest.
Now and then a startled squirrel dropped from bough to bough; or there
was the stealthy, sickening rustle of an unseen snake among the fallen
leaves. From somewhere, too, where precipices that they could not find
dashed downwards into damp gullies, cold, clinging mists were rising.
"To stay here all night!" sobbed Joy, "Oh Gypsy, Gypsy!"
Gypsy was a brave, sensible girl, and after that first moment of horror
when she stood looking up at the trees, her courage and her wits came
back to her.
"I don't believe we shall have to stay here all night," speaking in a
decided, womanly way, a little of the way her mother had in a
difficulty.
"They are all over the mountain hunting for us now. They'll find us
before long, I know. Besides, if they didn't, we could sit down in a dry
place somewhere, and wait till morning; there wouldn't anything hurt us.
Oh, you brought your waterproof—good! Put it on and button it up
tight."
Joy had the cloak folded over her arm. She did passively as Gypsy told
her. When it was all buttoned, she suddenly remembered that Gypsy wore
only her thin, nankeen sack, and she offered to share it with her.
"No," said Gypsy, "I don't want it. Wrap it around your throat as warm
as you can. I got you into this scrape, and now I'm going to take care
of you. Now let's halloa."
And halloa they did, to the best of their ability; Joy in her feeble,
frightened way, Gypsy in loud shouts, and strong, like a boy's. But
there was no answer. They called again and again; they stopped after
each cry, with breath held in, and head bent to listen. Nothing was to
be heard but the frogs and the squirrels and the gliding snakes.
Joy broke out into fresh sobs.
"Well, it's no use to stand here any longer," said Gypsy; "let's run
on."
"Run where? You don't know which way. What shall we do, what shall we
do?"
"We'll go this way—we haven't tried it at all. I shouldn't wonder a
bit if the path were right over there where it looks so black. Besides,
we shall hear them calling for us."
Ah, if there had been anybody to tell them! In precisely the other
direction, the picnic party, roused and frightened, were searching every
thicket, and shouting their names at every ravine. Each step the girls
took now sent them so much further away from help.
While they were running on, still hand in hand, Joy heard the most
remarkable sound. It was a laugh from Gypsy—actually a soft, merry
laugh, breaking out like music on the night air, in the dreary place.
"Why, Gypsy Breynton! What can you find to laugh at, I should like to
know?" said Joy, provoked enough to stop crying at very short notice.
"Oh, dear, I really can't help it," apologized Gypsy, choking down the
offending mirth; "but I was thinking—I couldn't help it, Joy, now,
possibly—how mad Francis Rowe will be to think he's got to stop and
help hunt us up!"
"I wonder what that black thing is ahead of us," said Joy, presently.
They were still running on together, but their hands were not joined
just at that moment. Joy was a little in advance.
"I'm sure I don't know," said Gypsy, eyeing it intently. The words were
scarcely off from her lips before she cried out with a loud cry, and
sprang forward, clutching at Joy's dress.
She was too late.
Joy tripped over a mass of briars, fell, rolled heavily—not over upon
the ground, but off. Off into horrible, utter darkness. Down, with
outstretched hands and one long shriek.
Gypsy stood as if someone had charmed her into a marble statue, her
hands thrown above her head, her eyes peering into the blank darkness
below.
She stood so for one instant only; then she did what only wild,
impulsive Gypsy would have done. She went directly down after Joy,
clinging with her hands and feet to the side of the cliff; slipping,
rolling, getting to her feet again, tearing her clothes, her hands, her
arms—down like a ball, bounding, bouncing, blinded, bewildered.
If it had been four hundred feet, there is no doubt she would have gone
just the same. It proved to be only ten, and she landed somewhere on a
patch of soft grass, except for her scratches and a bruise or two, quite
unhurt.
Something lay here beside her, flat upon the ground. It was Joy. She lay
perfectly still.
A horrible fear came over Gypsy. She crept up on her hands and knees,
trying to see her lace through the dark, and just then Joy moaned
faintly. Gypsy's heart gave a great thump. In that moment, in the moment
of that horrible fear and that great relief, Gypsy knew for the first
time that she loved Joy, and how much.
"It's my ankle," moaned Joy; "it must be broken—I know it's broken."
It was not broken, but very badly sprained.
"Can you stand on it?" asked Gypsy, her face almost as pale as Joy's.
Joy tried to get to her feet, but fell heavily, with a cry of pain.
Gypsy looked around her with dismay. Above, the ten feet of rock shot
steeply; across the gully towered a high, dark wall; at each end,
shelving stones were piled upon each other. They had fallen into a sort
of unroofed cave,—a hollow, shut in completely and impassably.
Impassably to Joy; there could be no doubt about that. To leave her
there alone was out of the question. There was but one thing to be done;
there was no alternative.
"We must stay here all night," said Gypsy, slowly. She had scarcely
finished her sentence when she sprang up, her lips parted and white.
"Joy, see, see! what is that?"
"What? Where?" asked Joy between her sobs.
"There! isn't that smoke?"
A distinct, crackling sound answered her, as of something fiercely
licking up the dead leaves and twigs,—a fearful sound to hear in a
great forest. At the same instant a white cloud of smoke puffed down
almost into their faces. Before they had time to stir or cry out, a
great jet of yellow flame shot up on the edge of the cliff, glared far
into the shadow of the forest, lighted up the ravine with an awful
brightness.
The mountain was on fire.
Gypsy sat for the instant without speaking or moving. She seemed to
herself to have no words to say, no power of motion. She knew far better
than Joy what those five words meant. A dim remembrance came to
her—and it was horrible that it should come to her just then—of
