drunk on.” 
“ Oh, Tom ! ” 
“ Well, for sprees — gales — good times — 
anything you call it.” 
“ But father thinks it’s enough, doesn’t he? ” 
“ I suppose so ; ye-es.” 
“ He must know. I don’t exactly under- 
stand,” said Gypsy, slowly. 
They had reached the house by this time, 
and she passed on ahead of him and went up- 
stairs with a sober face. She was puzzled and 
a little troubled by this talk with Tom. 
and knick-knacks upon the mantel, and 
books upon the shelves ; there were bright 
curtains at the windows, and bright flowers upon 
the carpet, and bright figures upon the paper- 
ing; there was also — a little — dust upon the 
table ; but then, that was an old story, and one 
became used to it. The window was open, and 
beyond it hung a sky of flame, golden and 
ruddy and quivering, deepening and paling, 
shut in with low gray clouds. By this window 
sat the pleasantest thing in the room, and that 
was Gypsy; her figure and face in bold relief 
against the west, her head bent, her bright 
black hair falling against her cheeks. She 
looked flushed and excited and tired ; she held 
some bit of fancy work in her hands, on which 
she was sewing very fast, straining her eyes to 
catch the last of the lingering light ; scraps of 
ribbon and silk and tinsel were scattered about 
her on the floor. It was evident that something 
very mysterious and important was going on ; 
for her door was locked, and nobody was 
allowed to come in. 
Somebody thought he ought to come in, 
though, and that was Winnie. This young 
gentleman having a constitutional inability to 
comprehend why any privilege, anywhere, 
under any circumstances, should be denied to 
him by anybody, stamped up-stairs, and hammered
on the door, and demanded entrance. 
“ Can’t come in.” 
“Yes, I can come in, too. I’m five years 
old.” 
“ I can’t help it if you are. I ’m busy. Go 
away.” 
(Thump, thump, thump!) 
“ Winnie, stop making such a noise, and go 
downstairs ! ” 
“I want (thump, thump!) to come in” 
(thump !) 
“No you can’t; and when I say so, I mean 
it. Run away, like a good boy.” 
“You don’t (bang!) mean it neither, and I 
ain’t goin’ to run away (hammer !) to be a good 
(bang !) boy.” 
No answer. Thump ! hammer ! bang ! thump ! 
Then the enemy changed tactics. 
“ I say, Gypsy, Delia Guest wants you.” 
“ Indeed ! ” 
“ Yes, she does, and I was a-goin’ to tell you 
so to the beginnin’, only it — well, it gives me 
a sore throat to holler through the key-hole. 
She wants to see you like everything.” 
“ I don’t believe it.” But there was a rustle 
as if Gypsy had dropped her work and were 
becoming interested. 
“ Well, she does, ’n she says she ’s got the 
funniest thing to tell you. Let me come 
(thump!) in.” 
“ Oh, Delia always thinks she has something 
funny to say. I don’t believe this is anything. 
Tell her I ’m too busy to come.” 
‘‘ Yes it is anything too. She says it ’s something 
or nuther ’bout George Holman driving 
tack-nails into Mr. Guernsey’s chair. I want to 
come in ! ” 
“ Tack-nails into Mr. Guernsey’s chair ! — 
why, I wonder — no, I can’t, though. I can’t 
go, Winnie. Tell her I ’ll hear about it tomorrow. 
I ’m doing something for Tom now, 
and I can’t leave it. Be a good little boy and 
go away and let me finish.” 
“Tom — Tom — Tom! It’s nothing but 
Tom, all the time ! ” called vanquished Winnie, 
through the key-hole. “ Anyways, I see what 
you ’re doin’ — so ! ” 
“What?” 
“You’re makin’ a skating-cap out of green 
ribbing. I ’m going to tell him.” 
“ Do, dear. Run right along quick. Be 
sure you get it right.” And Winnie stamped 
downstairs in good faith. 
It was very much as Winnie had said, — 
“ nothing but Tom all the time.” It is a great 
day when the first boy goes to college, and Tom 
suddenly found himself of unheard-of and very 
agreeable importance in the eyes of all the 
family. His father must be so busy and worried 
over his fitting-out, — afraid he had given the 
boy too much money ; then afraid he had not 
given him enough ; wishing he had more for 
him ; wishing he were a rich man like the 
children’s Uncle George; afraid Tom would never 
keep his accounts straight ; half afraid to trust 
him; anxious to teach him properly; wondering 
if he would be ruined by college life like 
young Rowe ; anxious, too, to arrange all his 
plans pleasantly for him ; bringing up nobody 
knew how many ledgers and diaries, pens and 
ink-bottles, and specimens of paper, from the 
store, that Tom might take his choice ; changing 
any and every arrangement at Tom’s suggestion, 
a dozen times a day; spoiling him by indulgence 
one minute, and worrying him by anxiety the 
next; behaving, generally, very much like 
Mr. Breynton. Tom was used to his father, 
and, though often worried out of good temper 
by his nervous peculiarities and particularities, 
yet he undoubtedly loved him, and loved him 
more than ever in these last days of home-life. 
He would have been a very ungrateful boy if he 
had not. 
As for his mother, who could tell what there 
was that she did not do? For weeks she had 
scarcely been seen without her thimble. No 
one but herself knew exactly how much sewing 
she had done. So many shirts to be cut, 
button-holes to make, wrist-bands to stitch ; so 
much mending and making over ; so much 
planning and contriving to make a little go a 
great way ; so much care to sponge up old coats 
and re-bind old vests, that might save the new a 
little, and yet never make the boy ashamed of 
them. Such pies and doughnuts, such cookies 
and stray bunches of grapes, and mellow, golden 
pears, as she had collected on the pantry shelf, 
to adorn the table during Tom’s “ last days,” or 
to tuck into corners of his trunk. Such scraps 
 
of gentle lessons about this strange life into 
which he was going, as she gave him sometimes 
when they sat together in the twilight; such 
soft kisses as fell on his forehead when she said 
good-night at last, — these were best of all ; 
and so Tom thought, though he never said so. 
Was there ever a boy of seventeen who did? 
Neither was Winnie by any means inactive. 
For ten days before Tom went, had he not 
spasmodic attacks of “ popping corn for Tom, 
sir, and you might just let him alone, sir?” 
And did he not collect just twenty-five corns, of 
which twenty were burnt, and three had never 
“ popped ” at all, tie them up in an old lace 
bag, and carry them in his pocket morning, 
noon, and night, to say nothing of sleeping 
with them under his pillow? And is it not 
recorded that the bag burst, and the contents 
one by one grew small by degrees and beautifully 
less, but that Winnie didn’t mind that in 
the least ; how he finally pinned it with a rusty 
pin on the cleanest collar he could find in the 
trunk, and how he believes to this day that Tom 
ate every one of those corns, with a faith that 
amounts to sublimity? 
Even Patty must contribute her mite, and, 
having a vague idea that a collegian was always 
glad of an addition to his library, what should 
she do but purchase a Biography of the Blessed 
Mary, profusely illustrated in gamboge and 
vermilion, and hope “ Misther Tom would 
take it kindly, and be a good boy, poor fellow ! ” 
But to no one in the family was Tom’s going 
away just what it was to Gypsy. Even his 
mother could not miss him as she should. 
Tom was very much to her. Since they were 
little children it had been just so. They had 
rolled hoop, and played marbles, and played 
horse, and baked mud-pies together; as they 
grew older, no boating, riding, skating, and 
base-ball were quite complete unless they could 
share them together. Tom was very proud of 
Gypsy, — “she didn’t scream or faint; and if 
he had any particular abhorrence it was a 
screaming, fainting girl. She could handle her 
oar very well, really very well, — under his 
teaching. She was always on hand for any 
fun, and never spoiled things by ‘ being nervous.’ 
Besides, she mended a fellow’s gloves 
without scolding, and if you put her in a parlour 
she was as much of a lady as anybody.” 
Gypsy was very proud of Tom. “ Tom was 
so tall. Tom was handsome. All the girls 
liked Tom. Tom was so generous, too, and 
good, and let her go about with him. Tom 
never scolded. Make fun of her? Oh, yes, 
he did that, but she didn’t care ; she should 
miss that as much as anything. To have Tom 
gone, — gone hour after hour, day in and day 
out, week upon week, — why, it seemed like 
cutting a piece of her life right out.” 
Some such thought as this was in her mind as 
she sat alone in the twilight which had gathered 
and deepened, her work lying idly in her lap, — 
it was quite too dark to sew now, — and her 
eyes looking sadly off into the dying west. In 
the midst of the thought there came a great 
noise, — a banging and pounding and scraping 
on the garret floor ; then a banging and pounding 
and scraping and jouncing and bouncing 
down the stairs. Gypsy jumped up, wonder- 
ing what had happened, and opened the door to 
see. A huge brown trunk, and Tom behind it. 
“ Oh, Tom ; ” 
“ Oh, Gypsy ! ” 
“ Not the trunk, so soon?” 
“ Yes, the trunk, so soon. Going to begin 
to pack to-morrow morning; so I thought I’d 
have her on hand, as I hadn’t anything else to 
do this particular minute.” 
“ Pack to-morrow ! ” 
“ Couldn’t pack Sunday very well. Don’t 
you remember what the catechism says about 
it?” 
“ But it seems so — so — ” 
“ So what? ” 
“So — why, so exactly as if you were 
going off.” 
Tom sat down on the trunk to fan himself 
with his hat and laugh. Gypsy did not join in 
the laugh; she slipped away, and when Tom 
had carried the trunk down, and dusted it out 
(with a clean handkerchief), and put in his 
blacking-box on top of his shirt, “just to see 
how things were going to look,” he missed 
her. After a long and fruitless hunt, he went 
up garret, 
“ Gypsy, are you here? ” 
Something stirred faintly in an old trunk that 
stood under the eaves, and there sat Gypsy all 
in a heap, with something very suspiciously 
bright in both eyes. Tom stared. 
“ If you could inform the inquiring mind 
what you are supposed to be doing?” 
“ I believe — I came up to — cry,” said 
Gypsy. 
“ My dear, I would not be such a goose.” 
“ On the whole, I don’t think I will,” said 
Gypsy, and jumped out of the trunk, rubbing 
both fists into her eyes. 
As they went past her room — 
“ What were you locked up so long for to 
night?” asked Tom. 
“ Oh, something. I ’ll let you know — let me 
see — Sunday night, I guess.” 
“ You needn’t bother yourself so much about 
me,” said Tom, looking a little surprised. 
“ You ’re always doing something. I should 
like to know how many shirts you helped 
mother make. Haven’t seen you for three 
weeks but that you ’ve had your fist stuck into 
one of my stockings, darning it.” 
“The fist? Well, you needn’t talk about it, 
Tom. I like to do things for you.” 
Tom walked off whistling. But Tom looked 
pleased. 
The next day came the packing, and this was, 
as packings always are, rather doleful work for 
everybody. Poor Gypsy thought it was a little 
more than she could stand. 
“ Oh, Tom, how bare the closet looks, — 
Where did I put your brown woollen stockings? 
— and there ’s the table with the cloth off, just 
as if you ’d really gone ! ” 
“ Here ’s your box of paper collars — Oh, 
what will you do without anybody to make you 
new neck-ties ; you always did wear them out so 
fast! Here’s your Virgil. Don’t want it? 
Do you remember how you used to sit up in 
the hay and read me stories out of it? We 
sha’n’t do that any more ! ” 
“ Oh, Tom, what shall I do nights when I 
come home from school, and you’re not here? 
— Here ’s your little clothes-brush — and when 
I go boating — Mother, did you put that 
cologne-bottle down in the corner? — and when 
I come into your room and sit down and look — 
Oh, Tom!” 
This was rather forlorn work for Tom, and at 
last he broke out : — 
“ I say. Gyp, you ’ll make a fellow homesick 
before his time. Say something sort of gay 
and festive, can’t you ? ” 
Gypsy’s face flushed as she bent over to wrap 
up a picture and put it in the trunk. Her good 
sense told her that she had been doing a 
thoughtless thing. Her good heart taught her 
how to bring back the old merry Gypsy at a 
moment’s notice. Tom heard no more sighs. 
“ I ’m glad your last night is Sabbath night,” 
said his mother, when it came. 
“ I wonder what ’s the reason people always 
love each othermore Sunday nights,” said Gypsy, 
pushing her cricket a little nearer to Tom. 
“ It ’s funny, isn’t it? ” 
“It’s Tom’s last night,” said Winnie to 
Patty, “ and you can just give me some of that 
rharboob preserve. Mother ’s in the parlour. I 
had two flabjacks for supper. Don’t you wish 
Tom would go off to college every night? ” 
“ Did you put your wallet in your inside vest 
pocket, Tom, as I advised?” asked Mr. Breynton 
several times in the pauses of the evening. 
And the last time he asked to see it, and slipped 
in an extra five-dollar bill. 
The singing, and the quiet talk, and the 
hymns they sang, and most of all his father’s 
prayer, made Tom very still. Towards the end 
of the evening he slipped away for a few min- 
utes, and Gypsy followed him. She found him 
out on the doorsteps, with his hat pushed down 
over his forehead. 
“Want me, Tom?” 
“ Yes, sit down.” 
She sat down beside him, and putting up her 
hand on his shoulder, began to stroke him in a 
comical, demure way, very much as she would 
a kitten, — Gypsy never did things exactly like 
other people. But Tom liked it. 
“Homesick, Tom?” 
“ No,” growled Tom, pushing his hat savagely 
over his eyes. 
“ Not a bit, dear? ” 
The hat went nearly down to his chin. 
“Homesick before I’m out of the house? 
What nonsense you talk, Gypsy ! ” 
Tom got up and strode severely up and down 
the yard several times. Then he came back 
and seemed to feel better. 
“ I wonder if you ’ll ever think about us Sunday 
nights,” said Gypsy, indiscreetly. 
Tom began to cough. It was some time 
before he thought it necessary to make any 
reply. When he did, he said : — 
“ My dear Gypsy, you don’t understand 
about these things. You are a girl. Fellows 
at college have plenty to think of; but then I 
don’t expect to — forget you exactly — no.” 
And the wonderful part of it was that Tom had 
to get up and walk down the yard again. 
“ I hope you won’t get hazed,” said Gypsy, 
presently. Tom’s young eyes flashed. 
“ I should like to see them try it, that ’s all ! 
I ’d shoot the first man that touched me. The 
only thing is, father won’t let me have a re- 
volver, which I think is rough on the Trojans.” 
“ Can’t he afford it?” 
“ Oh, I guess so. But he ’s afraid I should 
shoot myself, or something, I don’t know what. 
As if I weren’t old enough to take care of my- 
self! ” 
“ I hope you ’ll have a nice time,” said Gypsy, 
thinking best to change the subject. 
“ Of course I shall ; a regular jolly. I 
haven’t looked forward to college all my life 
for nothing. I mean to get all the fun I can 
out of it.” 
“ How splendid it’ll be ! I wish I could go. 
But then you go to study, you know, father 
says, and mother too.” 
“ Oh, study, yes, of course,” said Tom, care- 
lessly ; “ but I mean to have a good time any- 
way T 
Gypsy looked a little troubled. She knew 
how Tom felt, and she was so sure that she 
should feel exactly the same way if she were in 
his place, that she had not the conscience to 
scold him ; at the same time, she doubted if he 
were quite right about it. She had a dim idea 
that when people went to college “just for 
fun,” they did not come out of it quite as good 
as they went in; a flitting thought of Francis 
Rowe ; a shudder at the bare possibility that her 
brother should ever be like Sarah’s. This may 
have had something to do with her answer; for 
she said, speaking low and earnestly, — 
“ Tom, do you remember my saying, out in 
the boat, that I wished you had something to 
start on?"' 
“ I guess so.” 
“ Well, I do wish just that. I can’t explain, 
— I never can explain things, you know, Tom; 
but I ’ve got an idea there somewhere, now 
really.” This with a curious, piquant look, half 
laughing, half sober. Tom saw the sober part 
of it, and answered accordingly. 
“ I suppose you mean what people call principle, 
only you don’t know what you ’re driving 
at. You don’t think I ’m such a horrible sinner, 
do you, Gypsy? ” 
“ No, Tom, — why, no ! ” 
“Well, I guess I’m about as good as most 
fellows, am I not? ” 
“Better!” said Gypsy, vehemently; “ever 
so much better. Why, I don’t know any other 
boy in Yorkbury half as good as you I ” 
“ Well, then, I guess you needn’t trouble 
about me,” said Tom. Gypsy looked puzzled 
and made no reply. Presently she pulled some- 
thing out of her pocket. 
“ Tom, dear I ” 
Tom looked up and saw a broad blue ribbon 
studded at each end with heavy silver crosses ; 
in the centre a strip of silver card-board on 
which was the one word “Gypsy” sewed in 
Gypsy’s own bright hair. 
“ I don’t know that you ’ll care anything 
about it, but it was all I could make that was 
all my own. I tried a lot of things, and spoilt 
them. That’s my hair, and if you see any little 
frizzled ends, you needn’t look, — such a time 
as I had with them, and they would keep sticking out ! ” 
“That’s prime,’’ said Tom, turning it about 
in his fingers as if he were hunting for a handle 
to take hold by. “ What is it, — a neck-tie? ’’ 
“Neck-tie! Tom Breynton ! Don’t you 
know book-marks when you see them?’’ 
“Oh, a book-mark, is it? Very good. 
Thanks are due. Where shall I put it, in my 
Homer or Latin Prose?’’ 
“It’s for — your Bible,’’ said Gypsy, hesi- 
tating. She wanted to add, “ And if you 
would only please to read it every night, Tom.’’ 
But she did not. Can you guess why, girls? 
Because she could not ask of him what she did 
not do herself? Exactly. I wonder if you 
think she felt just then a little sorry — or 
not ! 
What she did not say, I am inclined to think 
that his mother did ; for after he had gone to his 
room, they had a long talk together, and when 
it was over, and Tom was left to himself, he hid 
his head under the bed-clothes and was still a 
marvellously long time. 
The cold gray light of Monday morning 
woke Gypsy from a dream that President 
Woolsey had expelled Tom from college for not 
reading the Bible. She started up to find that 
it was a quarter-past five, and Tom was already 
up and eating his breakfast. 
How short that breakfast seemed ; how 
strange the early light; how odd the merry 
singing of the birds ! Gypsy wondered if they 
did not know that Tom was going, and what 
they could possibly find to be so happy about. 
Going, really going : it seemed like part of 
her night’s dream; she sat watching Tom’s face, 
his merry lips and faint moustache, his hand- 
some eyes and curling hair, just as one would 
look at a picture that one was going to burn up. 
Half laughing, half crying, she packed up his 
luncheon, and stuffed his pockets with golden 
pears, and jumped on his trunks while he 
strapped them down, and listened to the coach 
rumbling up, and then she ran out into the yard 
and turned her back to everybody. 
“Good-bye, mother. Yes, my money’s all 
right, father. Here, Winnie, give us a kiss, 
sir. Patty, you there? Good-bye to you all. 
I ’ll write as soon as I get there. The small 
trunk, John, in the entry — all right! Now, 
Gypsy, Gypsy! Where is the child?’’ 
Her arms were round his neck, and her head 
was on his shoulder ; she followed him out to 
the gate, kissing and clinging to him, quite de- 
termined not to cry, and making up by the 
means a series of horrible faces. 
“Oh, Tom, what shall I do without you? 
what shall I do ? ” 
“ Shake Winnie and break lamp-chimneys,” 
began Tom, after his usual style, but choked 
and stopped short. 
“I don’t know what a fellow’s going to do 
without Gypsy,” — and giving her a great 
hug, he jumped on the box with John, and 
never looked back. 
Gypsy watched the coach rumble away, grow 
dim in the clouds of dust, grow small, grow 
less, become a speck, vanish utterly. Then she 
went into Tom’s desolate room, bare of its 
familiar pictures, books, and clothes, strange 
and cold for want of the merry eyes, the ringing 
laugh, the eager step that had belonged to it 
and been a part of it since the boy was a baby. 
She locked the door, sat down on a heap of old 
newspapers in the middle of the floor, and did 
what Gypsy very seldom did, — cried as hard 
as she could cry. 
seven o’clock he was sitting in his room 
alone, feeling, to tell the truth, — well, we 
won’t say homesick, but something very much 
like it. His chum was gone out, though that 
was no great loss, for the boy was a com- 
parative stranger to him ; they had seen each 
other for the first time when they came to be 
examined in the summer, and had engaged 
rooms together because it happened to be convenient ; 
Hall took, as every one did, a fancy 
to Tom at first sight, and both being tired out 
with tramping after boarding-places, they had 
met in Elm Street, found just such rooms as 
they wanted, and were glad enough to unite 
their fortunes for the sake of getting them. 
Tom had reached New Haven in the after- 
noon, unpacked his trunks, put away his clothes 
and books, hung his pictures, bargained with 
his landlady for the luxury of a chair with four 
legs (there being none in the room possessed 
of more than two or three), gone to supper at 
his club and come home again ; he had read a 
newspaper and dusted off his table, arranged 
and re-arranged his books, eaten some of his 
mother’s pears, looked his photograph album 
through three times from beginning to end, 
rather wished he could look into the windows at 
home and see what they were all doing, and 
now he was tipped back in his chair, — the 
four-legged one, — against the wall, wishing 
that he knew what to do next, and that it would 
not have such a way of growing dark early. 
For some reason, — whether there could have 
been any homesickness about it or not we will 
not undertake to decide, — the solitude and the 
gathering twilight grew at last intolerable. He 
brought his chair down with a jerk, tossed on 
his cap, and started out for a walk. He strolled 
along past the colleges, and under the elms, 
hanging somewhat yellow and sere now in their 
tossing, netted arches ; tried to look at the 
Sophomores as if he thought them no better 
than himself, did not succeed very well, wished 
he were through Freshman year, and finally, by 
way of something to do, decided to run down 
to the office. Not that there would be anything 
there for him, — of course there was no chance 
of that, though he wished there were, sadly 
enough ; but he would go down just for the fun 
of the thing. So he went, and carelessly ran 
his eye over the list of advertised letters, through 
the A’s and B’s, and was just turning away 
when, lo and behold ! — “ Breynton, Thomas.” 
“Not from home so soon, surely,” thought 
Tom. But it was from home, directed in 
Gypsy’s hand, — and the hand, by the way, 
was very much like Gypsy, sharp and decided, 
and adorned with various little piquant flourishes,
but with a remarkable tendency to run 
over the line and under the line, and everywhere 
but on the line, and not entirely guiltless of blots, 
— to Thomas Breynton, Esq., Freshman, Yale 
College, New Haven, Conn., U. S. A., North 
America, Western Hemisphere.” 
“ The rogue ! ” said Tom, between his teeth, 
as he took it from the hand of the laughing 
clerk; “ I guess she ’ll get her pay for this.” 
Hall met him on the steps as he passed out 
tearing open the envelope in a great hurry. 
“ I say, Breynton, hilloa ! That you ? Come 
over to the Tontine with a fellow.” 
The Tontine was no place for Tom, and he 
knew it. WTether he would have preferred it 
to his lonely room and the dreary gathering twilight,
if it had not been for that letter, I cannot 
say. But at any rate. Hall had this for an 
answer : — 
“ No, thank you. I have something else to 
do. Don’t you wish you had a sister to write 
to you the day you leave, sir?” 
“ Don’t know but I do,” said Hall, looking on 
rather wistfully. Tom walked off radiant. 
The dreary twilight was dreary no longer; 
the dark and lonely rooms seemed all at once 
like home. He lighted his lamp, tipped back 
his chair, and read as fast as most college boys 
read their first letter from home, I fancy : — 
Monday, September the something or other, 
One o’clock P. m., in my room, on the bed. 
Best beloved of Thomases, — Here you ’ve 
been gone only seven hours, and I have so much 
to say I can’t begin to say it and it isn’t of a'ny 
use and I don’t know what I ’ll do when you ’ve 
been gone a week only I ’ve asked father to 
bring me up a ream of paper from the store 
because I know I shall use as much as that 
before you get home. 
Oh, dear ! I haven’t put in a scrap of punctuation 
in that long sentence, only one funny little 
comma, that looks exactly like a pol — polly — 
how do you spell polliwog? — at the beginning; 
and I never could correct it in the world, for I 
shouldn’t have a sign of an idea what belonged 
where. I ’m going to put in a lot ; of semi- 
colons ; along here to ; make up ; 
What do you suppose? — Miss Cardrew asked 
Fanny French to-day what a semicolon was, 
and she said she believed it was a place where 
ministers went to school. Did you ever? I 
laughed till I choked, and was just as red in the 
beet as a face — I mean — well, you change it 
round right yourself; I can’t stop. Then Miss 
Cardrew told me I ’d laughed enough, and that 
made me laugh all the harder, and Delia Guest, 
she went into a coniption, — you know she 
always does when anything happens, anyway, — 
and we had the greatest time you ever knew. 
But, then, this isn’t the beginning, and I meant 
to commence there. I always do jump at things 
so. 
You see, after you ’d gone, I just went into 
your room and — don’t you tell, will you? but I 
did — I cried like a little goose. You’d better 
believe your table looked homesick enough, and 
your closet with nothing but your linen coat 
hanging up. I banged the door to, I got so 
mad looking at it. 
Ow ! look at that blot. I was only just shaking 
my pen round a little to get off some of the 
ink. I never ! if it hasn’t gone all over the bed- 
quilt ! I got up here to write because it ’s easier, 
and then — well, somehow, my chairs are always 
filled up with things. What do you suppose 
mother’ll say? Isn’t it a shame? 
Well, after I tho light I ’d cried enough, you 
know, Winnie ’d been banging at the door so 
long I thought I ’d let him in, and you ought to 
have seen him ! He had on one of your old 
coats that mother gave to Patty to give to her 
cousin’s husband that has the consumption, and 
he ’d corked a moustache that went clear out to 
his ears, and then he had a Mother Goose under 
his arm ; said he was going to be Tom now, and 
have his room, and study Aunt Abbieses (I sup- 
pose he meant Anabasis) ; he didn’t wish to be 
disturbed ; I might go away so he could lock 
the door. 
Well, you see that made me laugh, only it 
would have been just as easy to cry again, and 
mother was wiping her eyes, and father was 
coughing and looking round, and so I went 
out-doors to see if I couldn’t laugh some 
way. It is so horrid not to feel like laughing, 
isn’t it? 
Then Sarah Rowe came over, and she didn’t 
seem to mind it a bit because Francis was gone; 
but then she says he ’s been gone so much, now 
it is Sophomore year. I wonder if I sha’n’t mind 
it by the time you ’re a Soph. She says I sha’n’t, 
but I don’t believe any such a thing. Then you 
see I just felt as if I must have a good time some- 
how, and the kitty came out, and we all went to 
playing, and I got into Mrs. Surly’s yard before 
I thought. You know I never do think, any- 
way. So you see the puppy he came out and he 
went at the cat, and she put up her back and ran 
off mewing, and he after her, and I after both 
of them. That dog he wrung a cat’s neck once, 
and I wasn’t going to have him wringing ours, 
£0 I never thought, and she put down into the 
cellar kitchen, and I went too, and I never looked 
nor anything, and I went splash ! into Mrs. Sur- 
ly’s tub of starch, and over it went, all on me, 
and the floor, and the cat, and the puppy, and 
Mrs. Surly. 
Well, it wasn’t very hot, and we weren’t any- 
body burnt very much but the puppy, and good 
enough for him ; but I thought I should go off 
laughing, and you ought to have heard Mrs. 
Surly scold. She should like to know if that was 
the way my ma brought me up, and if I didn’t 
know children ought to be at their book instead 
of tumbling down their neighbours’ cellars and 
upsetting their neighbours’ starch, and burning 
their neighbours’ dogs, and she should tell my ma 
of me and my conduct before the sun went down. 
So what should she do but come marching 
over just before dinner, with the longest lingo, 
but of course I ’d told mother all about it before- 
hand, and she tried to look sober and tell me I 
must be careful, but I could see her laughing 
right out of her eyes the whole time. 
We had mince pie for dinner, and I missed you 
more than ever. How you did use to pull out 
the raisins! We had some tomatoes too. 
Oh, Tom, I do miss you ! Everybody sends a 
world of love. I ’ve been counting the weeks till 
you come home. You have the nicest part of it. 
It ’s always harder to stay at home and think 
about it than it is to go off and do it, I think. 
It does seem to me as if I thought about you 
all the time pretty much. If you were to be 
such a boy as Francis Rowe, I believe I 
shouldn’t know anything what to do. 
How horrid it would be if you were to learn 
to swear. Please don’t. But of course you 
wouldn’t. 
Write me all about the Sophs, and who gets 
hazed, and everything. I should think it would 
be perfectly mag, to go to college. I think it ’s 
real mean girls can’t. 
Wouldn’t it be nice if you could peep in the 
door now, and let me hug you? 
Your very loving 
GvrsY. 
P. S. I send a blue neck-tie. I meant to 
get it done before you went, but I didn’t. I 
sewed on it some in school, and Miss Cardrew 
made me lose my recess for it, — just like her! 
Blue is real becoming to you, you know. You 
used to look dreadfully handsome in the other; 
something like — well, like Haroun Alraschid, I 
think; then sometimes like Major Winthrop. 
The girls used to go crazy over his photograph, 
because it did look so much like you. They 
haven’t any of them got such a brother, and I 
guess they know it. Why, if there isn’t another 
blot, and I haven’t any more idea how it came 
there than Adam. G. 
On Friday night, as Gypsy was passing her 
father’s store on the way home from school, Mr. 
Simms, the clerk, came to the door and called 
her. 
“Here’s a letter for you. Miss Gypsy; it 
came in with the rest after your father had gone 
up to the house. It’s a — really a very peculiar 
looking letter. But then there always is some- 
thing peculiar about you, you know, my dear.” 
“ Oh, thank you, Mr. Simms — yes, I know 
I ’m always doing things out of the way, but — 
dear me ! I never did! Did you ever? That 
old Tom ! Why, what did the postman say? ” 
Tom had certainly “paid her” richly. The 
letter was enclosed in a flaring crimson envelope, 
conspicuous anywhere, especially so at York- 
bury, where crimson envelopes were few and far 
between, and it bore this inscription : — 
“ To Miss Jemima Breynton, R. R. Terror 
of puppies and elderly ladies. Enemy-in-espe- 
cial to starch-tubs and study-hours. Enemy- 
in-general to the peace and order of society in 
Yorkbury, Vermont.” 
“ I have been wondering what R. R. could 
possibly stand for, my dear,” observed Mr. 
Simms, mildly. 
“Oh, that’s a secret between Tom and me,” 
said Gypsy, between her shouts of laughter, 
and started for home on the run, to show the 
letter to her mother. 
If any reader should share Mr. Simms’s curiosity 
to such an extent as to suffer seriously 
from loss of sleep or appetite, he is hereby 
confidentially referred to the first volume of Gyp- 
sy’s history for a solution of the mystery. 
I think it necessary to say, however, for the 
sake of my reputation as a historian, that this 
misdirecting of letters is a sorry joke, with 
about as much wit in it as there is apt to be in 
young people’s fun, and that I am not givin 
my sanction to any such lawless proceedings. 
The letter, though so obviously directed to 
Gypsy, contained only a slip for her ; the note 
itself was for her mother. 
“ A letter from Tom ! a letter from Tom ! a 
letter from Tom ! ” shouted Gypsy, rushing into 
the house. “ Mother, do come and read it, for 
I ’m in such a hurry to hear ! Mother, father, 
all of you ! ” 
And all of them came, down to Winnie, with 
his hands and mouth full of bread and butter, 
and Patty, with broom and duster. 
“ How soon he has written, — the dear boy ! ” 
said his mother, flushing with pleasure, and read 
aloud to a breathless audience : — 
My dear Mother, — I reached here safely 
Tuesday P. M. : had a jolly time Monday night 
at Uncle Job’s; he has a decidedly pretty 
daughter, and I want her asked up to Yorkbury 
some vacation. 
Old Yale seems to conduct herself with propriety, 
and is not, mirabile dictu (“ His old 
Latin ! ’’put in Gypsy), quite as much impressed 
by the arrival and presence of your distinguished 
son as might naturally be expected, and would 
certainly be becoming in her. It ’s rather a jump 
from graduating at Yorkbury and feeling your- 
self of some importance, to being nothing but a 
“little Freshy,’’ and being treated by those un- 
utterable Sophs as if you were a lower order of 
animal, somewhere in the region of the oyster ; at 
any rate, something to which the gorilla would 
