and Calneh, in the land of Shinar;' and from there it seems 
he went up into Assyria and founded four more great cities. 
Our English Bible says Asshur founded them ; but that is 
probably a mistranslation. The Hebrew words will read 
the other way ; and Asshur is out of place among the Cushites ; and the Bible elsewhere calls Assyria ' the land of 
Nimrod.' So I think it is certain." 
''Are any of those cities left yet, uncle Sam ?" 
" Nothing but ruins ; and in most cases we cannot be sure 
of the place the ruins represent. But the old Erech is thought 
to be found in the modern Warka, or Irak; and there and 
at Mugheir there are, as I told you, ruins of temple-towers 
dating back to Nimrod's time. Babylon was rebuilt long 
afterwards, and Nineveh; but in spite of Nebuchadnezzar 
and all the kings who ever lived, over all that land Nimrod's 
name still lives in the mouths of the Arabs. 
" I shall not forget when I first heard it from one of them. 
I was going down the Tigris on a raft. Towards evening, 
one pleasant evening in spring, we came near an immense 
heap of ruins on the eastern bank of the river. It was all 
green then, as the Assyrian ruins are after the spring rains ; 
the mound and the meadows around it were all fresh and 
green and full of flowers of every colour ; the ruin looked 
very like a natural hill, and you might think it was, but for 
the bits of pottery and brick and alabaster scattered over it, 
half hid among the grass. The river was swollen from the 
rains, and rushed along rather furiously ; a sort of dam, a 
large piece of mason work, stretched across it; and over this 
and around this the waters whirled and eddied, and made a 
tolerably large cataract We went over with a dash, safely 
and when my Arab boatman had got through his religious 
exclamations, which the danger had called up, he informed 
me that the dam was built by Nimrod, and that it was 
made for a causeway to let him cross over from the city, 
the ruins of which we were passing, to a palace on the opposite bank." 
" What ruins were those, uncle Sam ? " 
" I believe they were f oimd to be the ruins which mark 
the place of the old city of Calah. The Arabs call them 
NimroucL Nimrod was made a deified hero of the early 
Babylonish religion ; and his name in the inscriptions ia the 
same with the name given to Meroe, the chief city of the 
Cushites in Ethiopia. That shows the connexion between 
the peoples. But now we must finish up the children of 
Ham. 
" Miaraim is next to Cush That means, the two Egypts, 
Upper and Lower. They were reckoned two regions, though 
under one king. The crown of Upper Egypt was white, and 
the crown of Lower Egypt was red ; and the two together 
made the royal diadem, or pshent, as it was called. Now 
here are a great many tribes spoken of as children of Miz- 
raim. Some of them, the Naphtuhim, the Pathrusim, Caslu- 
him, and Caphtorim, were in Egypt itself ; others branched 
off The Philistines we shall come to by and by." 
" Then where was Phut ? What a name !" said Prissy. 
" We are not certain of more than that he was in Africa
probably not far from Egypt proper. He is not much men- 
tioned ; but the prophet Nahum speaks of him as one of 
the supporters of the strength of the great Egyptian city 
Thebes. ' Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and it was 
infinite : Put and Lubim were thy helpers.' " 
" Where is that, sir ? " said Liph. 
" In the third chapter— ninth verse." 
" But Thebes is not spoken of here." 
"What makes you think so? 'Populous No, that was 
situate among the rivers'— that was Thebes, my boy." 
 
" Then who was Lubim ?" said Priscilla. 
"Perhaps the same as the Mizraite Lehabim. They are 
tiot the same as the Ludim ; those were probably another 
African branch. The Lubim were a Mizraite family that 
went off towards the west. In the Bible, and also in old 
Egyptian monuments, we find them mentioned as a people 
under tribute to Egypt, or under its rule ; and as a white 
northern people. So they were along the north coast of 
Africa, and with their kindred tribes were called the Libyans. 
From the earliest times a stream of emigration has poured 
westward into Africa, between the Mediterranean and the 
Great Desert. The first of these emigrants were no doubt 
the Lubim and their fellow tribes. Later, they were conquered by the Egyptians in the time of Rameses III ; and 
later still, the fate of Ham's children overtook them. They 
were forced to go back from the sea-coast by the incoming 
Phoenicians and Greek colonists ; and now there they are 
yet, on the borders of the Great Desert, and partly within 
it and in the mountains; while their Shemitic successors 
pasture their flocks in the rich plains they once owned. One 
great Arab tribe holds the ground from Egypt to Morocco — 
the old territory, I suppose, of the Libyans. Some of these 
Mizraite people spread into the islands of the sea and the 
corner of Asia Minor, whence the children of Chittim drove 
them out ; they could not stand anywhere." 
" Now, uncle Sam," said Liph, who sat with the map be- 
fore him while Daniel held an open Bible, (and so did Prissy 
and I, for that matter,) " there is nobody else left of the 
Hamites but Canaan." 
" Well, you see where he went. Sidon was his first-bom, 
and the father of the great Phoenician nation ; here is his 
city, Sidon, it is a city yet, — up high on the coast of Palestine. The other sons and descendants of Canaan were scat- 
tered over the land' The Hamathite was up here, in the 
valley of the Orontes, at the very northern border of it ; the 
Sinite, farther up yet, on the slopes of Lebanon ; the Arkite 
and Arvadite were in Phoenicia. The rest of the family, of 
whom ife JbaoiF anything, filled the country of Canaan; with 
one exception. In the south-west, on the sea-coast, stretch- 
ing along for many a mile, is a rich level plain ; a great 
cornfield it is and was, and has been for centuries. That the 
Philistines got hold o£ They were another branch of Ham
family, and came very early indeed out of Egypt and planted 
themselves here. That is the end of the list of the Hamites. 
They became great nations; they established themselves 
in great power ; they had arts and accomplishments supe- 
rior to other peoples at that day. Homes of civilisation 
grew up from a Hamite stock in many and many a place ; 
they were merchants, and builders, and people of great 
ability in forming and establishing empire ; yet they sooner 
or later everywhere went down before their brethren Shem 
and JaphetL But wherever they were, they left traces of 
themselves which remained. Very massive pieces of archi- 
tecture, which once must have belonged to a magnificent 
 nation ; a peculiar mixture of language ; and a native religion in part, at least, of low creature-worship, and in part of 
high creature-worship. Not only sun and stars and the 
creating or preserving deities supposed to reside or to be represented in them; but trees, and stones, and cats, and 
dogs, and even viler and lower things ; what is called 
fetishism."
"They seem to have been a sensuous people," said my 
grandmother. "Shem and Japheth were more intellectual." 
"Ay," said my uncle. "Well, now we come to Shem— 
the 'name of renown;' for all the real glory of the world 
came in his line. We have not much to do here with great 
nations and peoples ; for the Bible goes on to tell us about 
that glory ; and it was not the glory of conquest or fighting. 
We must see, however, where Shem's place in the world was. 
He was the ' father of all the children of Eber' — that is, of 
all Abraham's race ; but he had other children too. Elam — 
he inhabited this district south of Assyria, between it and 
the Persian Gulf; afterwards called Susiana. It is also 
Chuzistan, you remember. It seems that the Elamites were 
first settled there, and then overcome by the Cushites, who 
 
for some time estabKshed a powerful monarchy, put the 
Elamites under, and gave their own name to the region. 
They were named Cosscei, or Cissians, Still Elam was Elam, 
in Bible language ; the power of the Cushites lasted but for 
a time. Asshur, another son of Shem, seems to have had 
the like fate in Assyria. That was his country ; and there, 
as we have seen, Nimrod and his Cushites invaded and took 
possession of him. There can be no doubt of it. Arts and 
accomplishments went up out of Babylonia into Assyria — 
they did not come down." 
"How can you know it, sir ?" Liph asked. 
" Take one thing, my boy. Their cuneiform writing — you 
know, or I will show you — it is made up with a wedge- 
shaped character, placed in a great variety of combinations- 
With a tool fashioned to this wedge-shape at the end, you 
see how quick and easily a man could punch in a soft brick 
all the characters as fast as he wanted them. In Babylonia 
they had only brick. But in Assyria they wrought in stone ; 
and the characters had to be carved with infinite pains in 
basalt or alabaster. It is easy to see from this circumstance 
alone where the cuneiform writing began. When the con- 
querors went up from Shinar into Asshur's country, they 
carried their way of writing along with them, though it was 
no longer so convenient a way. 
" Aram comes next. Aram means Jdgh-land ; and by that 
word the Jews meant all the tract of country — which is a 
tableland of 2000 feet height above the sea level— all that 
tract stretching north and east from the borders of Palestine, 
from the lake oi Tiberias and the shores of the upper Jordan 
over to the borders of the Euphrates. All that is Aram. It 
is generally called Syria now ; but Aram did not include so 
much as that term takes in. We do not know where Lud 
went ; and Arphaxad is famous 'only for his children. Eber 
was his grandson. Eber's two sons, Peleg and Joktan, were 
the fathers of the really interesting part of Shem's family. 
Joktan's sons colonised the whole southern portion of Arabia, 
and formed a great, powerful, long-existing kingdom there. 
From Mecca, along nearly the whole southern coast and far 
into the interior. This was the great kingdom of Sheba, 
that we read of in the Bible, and from which spices and 
incense and precious stones were brought to Jerusalem. It 
is a land of spices. Along that coast, you remember, the 
Cushites had made settlements, and built, and established 
themselves. The Joktanite tribes swept over them, and 
became the owners and masters ; but the Cushite stock remaining no doubt was mixed with the conquerors, and the result was a strong, energetic, seafaring people. The tribe 
of Seba in the south-west was the most powerful, and gave 
name to the principal kingdom. The Joktanite Arabs occupy 
the same ground now ; and there are remains of the Cyclopsean Cushite architecture and Cushite inscriptions in the 
stone. I should say, the Joktanite Arabs occupy a part of 
the same ground now. The Ishmaelite Arabs have spread 
over the northern part of the peninsula, and as they assert, 
over nearly the whole of it, except one or two districts in the 
south. But that is not proved." 
"Is that aD, uncle Sam ?" I said, as he shut up his book. 
" All of what ] It is all of the world's very ancient history, 
Tiny ; at least all that I am going to tell you. Now we are 
ready to take up the history of Abraham. Japheth, and 
Ham, and Shem too, are cleared out of the way." 
" I am glad," said L " But I like the world's history." 
 
" They were not wanted," said Liph. 
"They went for their own sakes. It is not likely the 
secret of Abraham's movement was revealed to them. To 
them it seemed, I suppose, very like what a young man's 
going West seems to us; a notion for a new place and 
making his fortune. They would not understand perhaps 
his religious motive, if he told it ; for Abraham, like Noah, 
was alone in his religion. The people of the land were 
Cushite idolaters, or Shemite followers of them ; his own 
father Terah and his brother Nahor were no better ; so when 
he avowed his resolution to go north, they only went too to 
keep all the tribe together, and maybe to share the riches of 
a new land. So ' Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the 
son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law'
his son Abram's wife ; and they went forth with them from 
Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan' It seems 
that Nahor went too, as far as Haran, though he is not men- 
tioned among those that set out to go to Canaan." 
"But I don't see how they went north," said liph. 
" Haran lies south of Ur of the Chaldees." 
"That depends upon where Ur of the Chaldees was, does 
it not ? " 
"I have been reading about it, sir, in a book of travels. 
It was the place called Orfa— in Mesopotamia. There is a 
mosque of Abraham there, and a spring called the Lake of 
Abraham, full of fish ; and the Mussulmans believe the fish 
are under Abraham's protection, and could not be cooked if 
any one was to try." 
"I know," said my uncle ; " and I know that it is a mistake about the fish. I have eaten them myself, very well 
fried. But the tradition is as you give it, Liph ; and the 
place is supposed by all the Arabs of the region to be the 
very place of Abraham's native city. Nevertheless, there 
are two serious difficulties in the way. Orfa was never, so 
far as we know, called Ur ; and it was not in the land of the 
Chaldees. There is no getting over that fact. And moreover, now the old cuneiform inscriptions of Assyria and 
Babyloim are coming in to help us understand many 
things. People have only lately begun to read them. Open 
your map. The true land of the Chaldees is this lower part 
of Babylonia, nearest the Persian Gulf. The name afterwards may have extended tb a larger region, when the power 
of the Chaldsean monarch stretched up into Assyria ; but it 
never at any time reached to this part of Mesopotamia where 
Orfa is situated. Now down here in the true land of the 
Chaldees, below Babylon some distance, are the ruins of one 
of their old cities called now Mtigheir, or ' the mother of 
bitumen.' One of the very old temple-towers of which I 
told you is still remaining in its ruins ; the outside wall of 
bricks laid in bitumen, as the workers at the tower of Babel 
wrought. From inscriptions on its bricks, this city is now 
known to have been called Ur or Hur. It was the capital 
of a king named Urukh ; and for centuries it was a great 
city. That temple was dedicated to the moon-god, Hurki ; 
from which the place seems to have got its name, and per- 
haps its sacredness, in part; for it was esteemed especially 
sacred for a great, great many years. So much, that it was 
used as a city of burial-places; from a distance people 
brought their dead there, it is believed for so long a time as 
eighteen hundred years ; even long after Ur had ceased to 
be great in any other way. It is perhaps the very oldest of 
the Babylonian cities whose ruins are identified. What is 
to be seen now is a number of low mounds, girdled about 
with an enclosure ; and within and without the enclosure it 
is a place of graves. The ground is thick with them. Towards one corner of the enclosure the ruins of the temple 
stand. Two of its stages or platforms can be traced yet. 
It is supposed to have been built near a hundred years 
before Abraham quitted Ur — that is, a little while before 
he was born ; if so, when he lived there the city was in its 
glory." 
" Where is Haran, then ? " said my grandmother. 
" Haran is in the north of Mesopotamia, about twenty or 
twenty-five miles from Orfa. There is no doubt of its being 
the true Haran ; and never has been." 
" That seems to me a very circuitoos course to go to Pakrtin& All the way up there, to go round and come down 
again." 
"It is the only way, mother, a tribe having flocks and 
herds could go, to get to Palestine. On the other side of 
the Euphrates they would have found deserts without pasture, and without water, and no doubt then as now roving 
bands of wild robbers who would have made their journey 
very insecure. You must remember, children, what sort of 
a journey this was. There was no ,train of waggons loaded 
with furniture. The wealth of the tribe was in flocks and 
cattle. The tents and the women would be packed on the 
backs of camels, as now ; the few iron or copper cooking 
vessels slung upon other camels, with the carpets and tent 
furniture, and bags of meal and dates. Terah was an old 
man ; but you can imagine his sons, Abraham and Nahor, 
galloping about on fine horses, to direct the movements of 
the tribe and to lead them. Very likely a long spear in the 
hand marked out the chiefs then as it does now. Terah 
would wear the scarlet cloak of the head of the tribe. The 
servants would be on foot, running along by the camels and 
donkeys, and others guiding and driving the long procession 
of bands of sheep and cattle and camels. And with such a 
party going on their travels, it would be well worth their 
while to take the trouble to cross the Euphrates and go up 
along its left bank. There they would be secure from predatory wild men of the deserts ; and they would be surrounded on every hand, and from night till morning, by the 
rich grass and grain-growing plain of Shinar." 
" How long would it take them ? " my grandmother 
asked. 
" I don't know," said my uncle ; " caravan travelling is 
slow work. Twelve or fifteen miles a day is as much as can 
be managed ; and that takes five or six hours. You think 
that is a short day's journey ; but you must remember the 
cool hours only are fit for moving, when the weather is hot ; 
and in any time, camels and beasts of burden and fiocks and 
cattle can get on but slowly. In travelling with a caravan 
the line of wiiich was two xxiiles from end to end, I could go 
to the head of it in a couple of hours, by merely walking my 
horse gently. Then I used to dismount, let my horse feed, 
and rest on the grass with a book for an hour or so ; till the 
caravan had all passed me again. I dare say Abraham went 
no faster." 
" But that must be very tiresome, uncle Sam." 
" No, I don't think it is," said my uncle. " People are not 
in a hurry. Then, when the end of the journey for the day 
was reached, perhaps Terah or his son would stick his long 
spear in the ground as an Arab sheikh does now ; and the 
march would stop. The camels would kneel down and have 
their burdens taken off; the donkeys would be unloaded  
the women would pitch the tents, and men would run round 
with wooden mallets to drive the tent pins home ; the camels 
would come to be milked, and the women would fetch water 
and gather brushwood to make fires and cook the evening 
meal ; while the men would gather in circles and talk, till it 
was ready. That is the way they do now." 
" But what makes you think it is the way they did then, 
uncle Sam ? " I asked. 
"Because, Tiny, in that land, and among those people 
that are the children of Shem, manners do not change. Just 
as they did four thousand and three thousand years ago, so 
they do in this day. If they did not, we should be puzzled 
to understand a great many things in the Bible. But now, 
what we find spoken of in the Bible as happening three or 
four thousand years ago, we can exactly understand, because 
we see the very same done now. That is why God made and 
chose the children of Shem to be keepers of His promises 
and teachings. The children of Ham have lost everything, 
even themselves ; the children of Japheth are for ever changing; their motto is to go forward; they never stand still 
They are not like to-day what they were five hundred years 
back. But the children of Shem do not change. Their very 
language does not change. We could not understand the 
French or the English of a thousand years ago. But the 
languages of Shem's descendants are like languages cast in 
a mould ; firm and durable as the rock. Abraham was the 
father of the whole Hebrew race, and of all the great family 
of Ishmaelite Arabs ; what he did, Isaac, and Jacob, and 
Ishmael did, and after them their children ; the very things 
and customs are before our eyes ; we see the old Bible times 
as in a living picture." 
" So that was why God chose Shem ? " said Priscilla. 
"Ay, Prissy ; but remember, God made Shem before He 
chose him. ' Known unto God are all his works, from the 
foundation of the world.' And it is beautiful when we can 
see how perfect they are." 
" Ay, and when we know as we are known — by and by," 
said my grandmother, " how much beauty we shall see ! " 
" Then they must have been two or three weeks going from 
Ur to Haran ? " said Daniel 
" Probably. And look at the map. At first their road 
would lie among the rich grass and corn of the plain of 
Shinar ; then, no doubt, fertile and fruitful The Euphrates 
would be always at hand to supply water for the flocks. Let 
them get as high as Hit, and from there the character of the 
country changes. The land is no longer so low ; the banks 
of the rivers are higher, and canals could not be made to 
draw the water off through the whole country as was later 
done below. The land between the two rivers is again one 
immense plain ; but not the plain of Shinar. It is different 
at different times of the year. In spring after the rains, it ' 
is an unbroken spread of the richest verdure, giving supplies 
of pasturage without end ; and adorned with multitudes of 
flowers. They are not scattered about, spotting the grass 
here and there like our dandelions ; but they stretch out in 
thick carpets and patches of red, and yellow, and blue, as 
far almost as you can see. The dogs come in from roving 
about after game, with their hides dyed with the colour of 
the flowers where they have been. That is the way Abraham 
and Terah found it, if they went in spring. In the middle 
of March it is in its glory. When summer comes, these vast 
flowery plains are dried up, and nothing but a sandy desert 
stretches across from river to river. But even then, Abraham 
would have found no difficulty ; for along the course of the 
rivers there is always delicious shade to be had, and plenty 
of good pasture. Up along those grassy plains the long lines 
of camels and sheep went slowly on, while the chiefs of the 
tribe, as Arab chiefs do now, went very likely on fine horses 
to lead the way ; or gallopped off to the right or left on a 
course after game. At night, nothing could be or can be 
more pleasant than an encampment in the desert. The 
spring evenings are soft and mild ; the air comes perfumed 
from the fields of flowers ; the cattle are moving about, the 
horses are led to water ; the groups of tents and scenes of 
busy life around you are set off by the wide desert horizon 
and the unbroken vault of the blue sky. At evening, however, 
there would be one point of difference between the way of 
things now, and in Abraham's journey. One great difference. 
A Bedouin Arab, if he prays at all, about which he is not 
always very particular, turns his face towards Mecca as near 
as he can, and makes Moslem prostrations. But Abraham, 
in those evenings of his pilgrimage, sought a place to be 
alone with the true God, whom he was obeying, and to enjoy 
His presence." 
"Abraham's obedience had not cost him inuch, so far," 
said Liph. 
"Not in the matter of this desert life, for there are few 
things more pleasant. But remember, he obeyed at any 
cost. ' He went out not knowing whither he went.' He did 
not know now. He followed where the Lord led, as every 
child of God has done since ; not seeking to choose for himself. Children, that is faith, and it is the faith that works 
by love, too. He had left one of the richest lands that the 
sun shines upon. 
"This desert that I have been speaking about, lasts till 
you come to a little river, the Khaboor, which curves round 
here and cuts the northern part of Mesopotamia in two. 
Crossing this and going on northward, they would come to 
a still different region, where Haran lies. It is an open 
country also, rolling or plain, with no trees at all, but with 
large tracts that will bear rich cultivation. It is not like 
the plain of Shiuar. Stony, and thin, and bare land come
 
in between great com and grass districts. Here it is not so 
fiercely hot ; the climate is delicious in early summer, when 
I was there ; no dews, and nice cool airs blowing over from 
Mount Taurus here in the north-west. And in the hill 
country a little beyond there is rich vegetation and plenty of 
fruit trees. This open country is Padan Aram ; 'the district 
at the foot of the hills ; ' the cultivated high land of Aram ; 
that is what the name means. And here, for some reason, 
the company with whom Abraham was travelhng made a 
stop. Half of them had no idea of going to Canaan. They 
were merely suiting themselves with a resting-place ; and 
' they came unto Haran and dwelt there.' Here is Haran, 
you see, in the far north of Mesopotamia ; there is no doubt 
of this being the place. How long they dwelt there before 
Abraham left them, we do not know ; but it must have been 
some time, for mention is made of the ' substance' that 
Abraham and Lot had gathered there, and 'the souls that 
they had gotten ;' that is, the slaves they had become possessed of. The whole tribe abode there at any rate until the 
death of Terah." 
"And then Abraham went on," said Priscilla. 
" I don't see how he came to stop," said L " He had not 
got to Canaan." 
" He did not know he was going to Canaan, Tiny. He 
went as he was bidden. Bound about Haran it is a beautiful country; so fine that it seems Nahor was satisfied to 
remain there ; and he and his portion of the family took it 
for their permanent home. But that would have been one very 
reason why Abraham must not. It became a place for the 
Chaldasan language and the worship of Chaldaean gods; and 
down to a very late date it was noted for keeping the remains 
of both language and worship, which I suppose Nahor had 
brought there. But Abraham was to be separated from all 
who followed idols. ' I called him alone, and blessed him, 
and increased him,' the Lord said. When Terah was dead, 
the call came again to Abraham, to rise up and quit kindred 
and home, and go farther, to a land which he should after 
receive for an inheritance. ' So Abram departed, as the 
Lord had spoken unto him ; and Lot went with him ; and 
Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out 
of Haran.' They took all their substance, their flocks, and 
herds, and servants ; and set off once more." 
" But Abraham knew the Lord would take care of him, 
uncle Sam." 
" Yes, Tiny; and we know He will take care of us ; and 
yet, child, to follow God in the dark as it were, as he did, 
not knowing whither he went,'— quitting what is already 
known and dear,— it is what we do not easily ! Not at all, 
unless we are true soldiers of Christ, and ready to obey 
orders at all hazards." 
" But we ought not to leave home and friends to be Chris- 
tians," sadd Priscilla. 
" We must be ready, if the order comes," said uncle Sam. 
" It is the business of a soldier, as I once heard an officer 
say, to obey orders and not to ask for orders. It is not for us 
to choose. And 'he that loveth his life' when Christ calls 
for it, 'shall lose it ; ' but as a deserter in the war. ' He that 
forsaketh not all that he hath, cannot be my disciple.' " 
" Abraham is a grand example of obedient faith," said my 
grandmother ; " so he is called ' the father of them that 
believe.' How beautiful his obedience was in every point ! 
like the obedience of a child, who does not pretend to know 
the reason." 
" It was the obedience of perfect trust," said my uncle. 
" And so he was honoured with that wonderful title, ' the 
friend of God.' It is curious, that the Arabs know him by 
that name to this day. All over the western part of Asia 
he is called universally el Kluilil, that is, ' The Friend,' 
"'They went forth to go into the land of Canaan, and 
into the land of Canaan they came.' Westward they went. 
Two days' travel would bring them to the border of the 
Euphrates, not far probably from Bir, which has long been 
a highway point on the river for eastern and western travel. 
How they got over the river, I cannot tell you. At Bir the 
stream is some ten or twelve feet deep, pretty swift on the 
left side. There might have been afording-place for the 
cattle— I belive there was, lower down ; and the goods may 
very likely have gone over on rafts, such as they make there 
now and have made for ages beyond memory. You know, 
wood is scarce ; there are no trees in Mesopotamia, except 
when you get near the hills. The people take off the skins 
of sheep and goats, keeping them as whole as possible ; sew 
up all the openings except one, after the skins are properly 
dried and cured ; and then blow them up with air and fasten 
the opening securely. A frame work is got ready, of poplar 
branches and reeds ; and the blown-up skins are carefully 
tied to it with osiers ; then the raft is launched ; and upon 
the framework are piled the bales or the baskets or whatever 
merchandise is to be carried. There are skins enough underneath to keep the framework high and dry. On those rafts 
people go up and down those rivers now, and on nothing 
else, above Bagdad. When they are to carry a passenger, a 
little hut is made on the raft, with a wooden bedstead 
covered with reeds and spread with skins ; and so one may 
travel very comfortably ; not much as if one was on a steam- 
boat. Arabs guide the rafts with oars ; long poles with some 
pieces of split cane tied to one end. Perhaps such rafts 
carried Abraham's stock of goods over the river. Or he 
may have used boats such as were made there long ages ago 
and like what are made still at Bagdad ; circular boats, 
' round like a shield,' as an old historian describes them ; 
built of willow boughs, covered with skins and smeared with 
bitumen. They were made large enough to carry animals 
on board ; but their navigation must have been a matter of 
difficulty, one thinks who is accustomed to have a head and 
stem to a boat At any rate, Abraham and Lot got their 
goods and chattels across somehow. Then there lay before 
them a seven days' journey to Aleppo." 
" Do we know that they went there ? " said my grand- 
mother. 
" No, mother ; except from the inevitable nature of some 
of the routes of travel in the East. They would not take to 
the desert ; they probably kept very much the same track 
that caravan journeys have followed for centuries, going 
from Orfa to Aleppo. That track would take them through 
a tolerably fertile country most of the way, and also from 
there to Damascus. We have nothing else but tradition to 
show that Abraham was at either place. The Arabs say that 
on his way to Canaan he made some stay at Aleppo, which 
indeed is not fertile enough to be very inviting. However, 
they used still to show a stone trough into which the milk 
of Abraham's cows was poured ; and they tell that some 
neighbouring poor people to whom he gave milk every day, 
used to gather at evening about the foot of the hill and cry 
out now and then, Ibrahim hcdeb, — that is, 'Abraham has 
milked.' So from haleb came the name Aleppo, when the 
city was afterwards built." 
" That was giving Abraham a good character," said 
Priscilla. 
" Deserved more or less by all the Bedouin Arabs,'' said 
my uncle. " They would think it a disgrace to sell milk, 
though they will give it now to the traveller who passes by 
them. Damascus was already a city in Abraham's time, but 
I do not believe the old story that says he was king of it. 
His chief servant, some time later, was Eliezer of Damascus, 
but whether bought there or born there we do not know. 
But Abraham had been called to go into the land of Canaan ; 
I have no idea that he tarried on the way. Into the land 
of Canaan he came. And now look on the map, children. 
From Damascus he probably came down through the plain 
and entered this rich lowland tract to the east of the Sea of 
Cinneroth, (the same as Gennesareth,) where his cattle and 
flocks would find plenty of food. This was the country called 
Bashan. From Bashan, at the lower end of the Sea of 
Cinneroth, he would come upon the beautiful upland district 
called Gilead, or Mount Gilead. And now I must tell you 
a little about that." 
" I never knew where Mount Gilead was," said Dan. 
" From Cinneroth down to the Dead Sea runs the Jordan ; 
very crooked, but keeping a due southerly course on the 
whole. This river Jordan runs through a very deep valley 
rich and level, and from eight miles wide to fourteen. On 
 
the eastern side- of this valley, all along the distance from 
Cinneroth to the Dead Sea, rises up a mountain ridge ; not 
a mountain, for the summit is a pretty even line, with no 
peaks of any note that are seen from a distance. But from 
the bed of the Jordan to the top of this mountain ridge, is 
some three thousand feet ; and farther back there are points 
that rise still much higher. The high land itself, the ridge, 
is two thousand feet above the level of the Mediterranean, 
and the Jordan valley is sunk a thousand feet below the 
Mediterranean ; so that from the bottom, this grand wall is 
six times the height of the Palisades of the North Kiver where 
they are highest. Through this great barrier there are three 
clefts, where ravines and little rivers run down to the Jordan. 
One here— just below Cinneroth — the Hieromax ; and that 
glen is rather the region's northern boundary. One here — 
in the midway — the Kiver Jabbok ; and the third still below, the river Amon. All this stretch of high rocky land, 
from the one end to the other, is the land of Gilead. The 
name Gilead signified ' a hard rocky region.' On the east- 
ward, it slopes gently off and melts into the high Arabian 
plains, so that approaching from that side it does not seem 
high ground. And though it is a ' heap of rock,' when you 
are on it you are in a beautiful place. Everywhere the 
richest growth of grass and herbage; the surface of the ground 
not level but tossed into waves and swells of land; making 
the prettiest little hiDs and dales, bright with wild flowers, and 
sweet with the music of wood pigeons and wild partridges. 
Then towards the centre of the region come magnificent 
forests of oak and terebinth, arbutus and pine, and great fig-
trees. Sometimes these are in thickets ; sometimes they are 
scattered about more like English park scenery ; and in the 
spring every bit of a brook winding about or leaping down 
its ravine, is gay along its borders with the rosy oleander." 
" Think of Mount Gilead being such a pretty place," said 
Priscilla. 
"Why not?" said liph. 
" On the sides of the hills, or topping them, are now the 
raina of old places and villages crumbling to dust. In 
Abraham's time there were none of them. People had not 
lived there long then, and maybe not many villages were yet 
built in the whole land. But the ancient, that is, I would 
say, the first inhabitants, were scattered about in it, on both 
sides Jordan ; in Gilead the Eephaim and Zuzim and Emim 
were pasturing their flocks no doubt, as Abraham did his. 
Gilead was and is a great place for cattle." 
" I should not think they would have let Abraham and 
Lot come through," said Dan, " with all their troop, to eat 
up the grass." 
" Grass enough," said my uncle, " and land enough. In 
those days, before cities and villages were built and people 
had began to find their quarters too strait for themselves, it 
was all free ; and there was no hindrance whatever to Abraham's walking ' through the length and breadth of the land' 
if he was disposed. So no doubt he came down through the 
tempting pastures and forests of Gilead, till he reached the 
ravine of the little river Jabbok. And on his way he must 
have had many a strange look at the Promised Land, which 
lay spread out for him to look at. These heights of Gilead 
are everywhere to be seen from the central parts of Palestine ; 
and of course from them the eye easily takes the range of 
the lower country. From one hill in particular I remember 
the view. It is a hill that Abraham would have passed be- 
fore reaching the ravine of the Jabbok ; and it must have 
been very natural for him to turn aside to this or some other 
commanding point, to look at the promised inheritance of 
his family. An old Saracenic castle crowns the hill-top 
now ; but before the Saracens had ever been heard of, the 
view was the same. And it is one of the most magnificent 
views I ever saw in my life. Eight in front, stretching away 
right and left, is the deep dark Jordan valley. You can see 
nearly its whole course, with the Lake of Tiberias at one 
end and the Dead Sea at the other. Beyond it, there is the 
long mountain range of Palestine ; the hill country and the 
wilderness of Judea on one hand, the mountains of Ephraim, 
and the hills of Galilee more to the north. You see this 
mountain range all cut and furrowed by the deep ravioea 
 
"What did uncle Sam mean by the 'swelling of Jordan ? ' " 
I said the next day, while we were waiting on the rock for 
him and my grandmother to come up. 
Idph whistled ; but Dan answered, "I know, Tiny. Jordan overflows all his banks in the time harvest." 
" Those great high banks," I said. 
" No, that cannot be. You must ask uncle Sam. Uncle 
Sam, Tiny wants to know about the overflowing of Jordan." 
"Jordan will come under consideration by and by," said 
my uncle; "but in the meantime you can understand that 
a river which has its feeding springs among snowy moun- 
tains, will be greatly swollen for a time after the melting of 
the snows. That is the case with the Jordan. When the 
snows melt on Lebanon and Hermon, the springs and sources 
of the river are filled, and pour down a great increase of their 
tributary waters. The Jordan has two sets of banks ; one, 
the lower banks that shut in the river in its ordinary state ; 
the other banks stand back some distance on either side, 
and rise higher — in some places sixty feet and more high ; — 
it is the lower banks that are filled full and overflowed in 
the swellings of Jordan." 
"Then the fords are covered?" I said. 
" Certainly, and it is scarcely possible to get over. Well — 
an overflowing tide is everywhere used in the Bible to 
describe a time of great trouble and perplexity. Besides 
that, the passage of Jordan has been for many ages a figure 
of the passage we have to make over the line that separates 
us from our promised land. sThe best way, little Tiny, is to 
be carried over. There are fords for us too ; but the best way 
28 to he carried over." 
"To be carried over, uncle Sam ?" I repeated. 
"Ay. Don't you know, Jesus says to those that love 
Him — ' I will come again and receive you unto myself  — 
and they say, ' Though I walk through the valley of the 
shadow of death, I will fear no evil ; for Thou art with me.' 
But we shall know more of the Jordan by and by. We must 
go on now with Abraham. 
"Abraham crossed no doubt at the ford of Bethbara, a 
little above the opening of the Jabbok. On the other side 
of the Jordan valley there rose up before him a great stretch 
of mountain country, several thousand feet high to the 
highest part of it ; and the only way to get up into it was 
then as now, by the ravines of the watercourses — the tmdys. 
The hill country on that side of Jordan is full of them. 
They are steep and winding, and often narrow, and most of 
them dry except in the rainy season ; but sometimes they 
widen out into little valleys and bits of meadow ground with 
a spring making a green place. At any rate, those are the 
highways up and down, from and to the Jordan ; for they 
wind down from the very heart of the hill country where the 
springs rise. Up one of these wadys Abraham and Lot 
must have gone with their flocks and herds. There is one 
that opens with a beautiful rich plain, not very far from 
where they crossed the ford ; and it leads to the place they 
were going to ; so I think it is likely they took that road 
when they went ' through the land unto the place of Sichem, 
unto the oak of Moreh.' I know, Liph, the word is not 
'oak' in our translation of the Bible, but it ought to be." 
"Then why isn't, sir?" 
"Just because, when our translation was made, some 
things were not so perfectly understood as they are now." 
"Then perhaps there are other things which we do not 
understand." 
" Perhaps ; and in the meanwhile, liph, let us go on with 
what knowledge we have. You would not throw away a 
bushel of com because there were a few grains spilled over 
— would you, my boyi Moreh was the place; and there, 
under the oak, was Abraham's first resting-place in the land 
 
of his inheritance ; there the Lord appeared to him ; there 
he built the first altar to the Lord in his new country. Look 
on the map, and let me tell you about this place, where the 
oak of Moreh grew. It is famous for other things. 
"Some thirty miles up from the Jordan, one of these 
tmdys, or long water valleys, opens into a rich level plain. 
A little plain, only about seven miles long and one and a 
half broad, stretching northerly and southerly. It is all one 
level corn-field, without a fence or a house ; in those days it 
might have been grass or corn ; and dotted with olive-trees. 
On the western side of this little beautiful plain, coming 
bluff down to the edge of it, are the ends of two rocky 
mountain ridges ; the one on the north is Mount Ebal, the 
one on the south is Grerizim ; the eastern border is a lower 
line of swelling hills, pushing out irregularly now and then 
into the plain. Ebal and Gerizim come square and bluff 
down upon it. Between them, between these two high rocky 
ridges running back towards the west, is one of the loveliest 
little valleys in all Palestine. It is only about two huudred 
yards broad ; the mountain sides rise up steep on each side 
of it ; and all the space between is filled with greenness and 
sweetness and beauty. For half a mile the corn-fields of the 
plain push up into the valley, the ground rising gently all 
the way ; then comes a great grove of olive-trees, filling the 
whole space from side to side with their soft gray leaves ; 
and then come the fruit orchards of the town, almond and 
fig-trees. Water is plenty all through the valley, and water 
is everything in Palestine. Little streams and springs are 
flowing about you on every side, and the birds make merry 
there accordingly. The people say that they have more 
music in their valley than any other can boast in Palestine. 
Almost two miles up from the plain, the little town of 
Nablous stands now ; and that is ' the place of Shechem.' 
Shechem was the old city first built there, and famous it was 
too ; we shall hear more of it by and by ; but when Abraham 
arrived in the land the city, it seems, was not yet built. To 
the 'place' of Shechem he came; to the entrance of the 
valley most likely; and there pitched his tent under the oak 
of Moreh." 
" He must have been very glad, uncle Sam," said I. 
" I have no doubt he was, Tiny." 
" Does that ' oak of Moreh ' mean one particular oak? " 
" It is written so, and the Bible generally means what it 
says. Yes, Dan ; in those days when the land was without 
temples or cities, a general wilderness of grassy hill and dale, 
very great trees were known and noted as landmarks. Can't 
you see how that would be ? Palestine now is stripped of 
its ancient woods and is very bare ; but it never was a place 
of forests like this where we are. It was much more wooded 
then than now; but even in its early times we see that 
certain particularly great trees or groves of trees were known 
by name ; and the fame of them, and the histories connected 
with thetn, and the sacredness attached to them, were kept 
down along the years till very late times ; and in some instances are hardly forgotten yet. Single trees could not be 
honoured so in a country like this. They were honoured 
then as the temples of God." 
"I cannot wonder at that," said my grandmother. "I 
never come out here but I feel myself in the grandest sort of 
a church." 
" I have little doubt but Abraham felt so," said my uncle, 
" when he pitched his tent under the oak of Moreh. The 
oaks of Palestine are fitted for such honour above all the 
other trees that grow there. They are tall, spreading, dark ; 
with evergreen foliage, and exceedingly thick and close in 
their branches and leaves; the light comes through in a 
glorious dim, solemn way. Abraham had lived among the 
square, bare temples of the Moon-god, and other idols of the 
Chaldees, which no doubt he hated. Any sort of a temple 
for the true Lord of heaven and earth had never been erected 
anywhere, so far as we know ; and furthermore, Abraham 
had seen little of God's work in trees, until his journey 
brought him from Mesopotamia. Mesopotamia has no trees 
to speak of. Under the shadow of the great oak of Moreh, 
 
looking up into its thick canopy of dark green and its maze 
of spreading branches, I daresay he felt as if the very canopy 
of God's protection was over him. And there, under that 
oak, he built the first altar built to the Lord in the land of 
Palestine. Very naturally, no doubt, it seemed to him a 
temple that the Lord had prepared for Himself." 
"And do you think trees are, uncle Sam ?" 
"What, Tiny ?' 
"Temples!" 
" I think all nature is a temple, and every place a good 
place to pray, if that is what you mean, Tiny. But the 
trouble with the feeling about trees was that people got a 
superstitious notion about them. In after=-times, when the 
Jews took to idolatry, they could not be kept from running 
to their ' high places ' and the altars under the trees. ' They 
sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and bum incense 
upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and elms, because 
