upon to perform; and the order sent a thrill of delight to all hearts.
The cable had often been heaved to a short stay, that is, so that it run
nearly up and down; but that was as far as they had ever before been
permitted to proceed. Now, with the anchor apeak, they were ordered to
the capstan again, and they realized that the Young America was actually
going to sea. The command kindled an enthusiasm which glowed on every
face. The ship was going out of the harbor, and the evil doers in the
mess rooms below were to be pitied.
"Anchor aweigh, sir," reported the excited boatswain who, however, had
to be prompted in this instance by Peaks, for it had never been in that
position before since it first hooked the mud in Brockway harbor.
"Anchor aweigh, sir," repeated the second lieutenant.
"Man the jib and flying-jib halyards!" said the first lieutenant.
"Anchor's at the bow, sir," said the boatswain, which report went
through the same channels as before, till it reached the executive
officer.
"Hoist away on the jib and flying-jib halyards! Avast heaving! Pawl the
capstan! Stopper the cable! Cat and fish the anchor!" shouted the first
lieutenant. "Port the helm!"
The Young America was clear of the ground. The fore topsail, which had
been trimmed to the fresh breeze, was full, and the ship began to gather
headway. Two seamen had been placed at the wheel, under the charge of
the quartermaster. The boys had often "made believe" do these things,
but now they were real. The vessel was actually moving through the
water, and they could hardly contain themselves, so exhilarating was the
scene.
"Steady!" said the first lieutenant, when the ship had come up to her
intended course.
"Steady, sir," repeated the quartermaster in charge of the helm.
"Stand by to set the spanker," added the first lieutenant. "Man the
outhaul! Cast off the brails, and loose the vangs!"
The after-guard, which is the portion of the ship's company stationed on
the quarter-deck, or abaft the mizzenmast, obeyed this order, and stood
ready to set the spanker, which is the aftermost sail.
"Walk away with the outhaul!" and the after-guard ran off with the rope,
which drew the sail out into its place on the gaff. "Stand by the
spanker sheet--let it out!"
"You must attend to your main and mizzen topsails Mr. Pelham," said the
principal, in a low tone.
"Man the fore and main braces!" said the executive officer; and the
young seamen sprang to their stations. "Let go and haul!"
The main and the mizzen topsails were thus trimmed, so that they took
the wind.
"That was very well done, Captain Carnes, though your crew need more
practice. They are very much excited," said Mr. Lowington.
"I don't wonder, sir; I think none of them knew we were going out of the
harbor," replied the captain.
"I am glad they enjoy it," added the principal, "though I should not
have left the anchorage, except as a substitute for the Fourth of July
celebration."
"They will like this much better than going to the city."
"I have no doubt on that point; and last evening, when those students
wished to run away, I was tempted to punish their disobedience by
letting them go. The wind is pretty fresh, Captain Carnes, but I think
you may set the top-gallant sails."
The captain gave the order to the first lieutenant.
"Aloft, sail-loosers of the top-gallant sails!" shouted Mr. Pelham; and
the eager young salts dashed up the rigging. "Lay out! Loose! Let fall!
Man your sheets and halyards! Sheets home, and hoist away!"
The addition of the top-gallant sails was sensibly felt by the Young
America; and, "taking a bone in her teeth," she careened over, and
dashed away merrily on her course.
The band played Hail, Columbia, and as the ship passed the fort, the
crew mounted the rigging and gave three cheers. The excitement on board
was immense, and never was Independence Day more thoroughly and
enthusiastically enjoyed. The officers and crew were at the height of
felicity, as the gallant little ship bowled over the waves, threading
her way through the channels between the numerous islands of the bay.
"Can't we put on any more sail, Mr. Lowington?" asked Captain Carnes, as
he met the principal on the quarter-deck.
"Not at present. We are making very good progress now."
"The boys want to see all sail on her."
"The wind is blowing half a gale now," added Mr. Lowington, with a
smile. "I think we shall be able to give them quite enough of it when we
get out into blue water. I'm afraid you will lose half your crew before
noon!"
"Lose them?"
"By seasickness, I mean."
"Do you think they will be sick, sir?"
"I have no doubt of it. Many of them never saw the ocean before, and
never looked upon a ship till they came on board of the Young America. I
don't think it would be prudent to put on all sail, until we know what
force we are to have to handle the ship."
"They don't look like being seasick at present."
"Wait till we get out into the heavy sea," laughed the principal, as he
went forward.
At eight bells the ship was abreast of the last island, and she began to
pitch and roll a little, though the motion was hardly perceptible, until
she was well off from the land. Professor Paradyme was the first victim
of seasickness, and the boys all laughed when they saw the woe-begone
expression on the face of the learned man; but some of those who laughed
the loudest were the first to be taken by the ridiculous malady.
The Young America pitched and rolled heavily as she receded from the
land, and nothing more was said by the students about putting on more
sail. The spray broke over the bow, and washed the decks; but most of
the boys enjoyed the scene as they had never enjoyed anything before.
"What are you doing here, sir?" demanded Mr. Lowington, as he went
forward, and discovered Wilton skulking under the lee of the foremast.
"You were told to stay in your mess room, sir!"
"I couldn't, sir," whined the culprit.
"You could, and you will."
"I was seasick, sir."
"I can't help it; you must stay in your mess room," added the principal,
sternly.
"If you please, sir, I will obey orders if you will let me stay on
deck," said Wilton, humbly.
"No; return to your room?" and Wilton was compelled to obey.
It was a very severe punishment to him and Monroe to be obliged to stay
in the steerage during the first trip of the Young America.
CHAPTER VII.
HEAVING THE LOG.
The Young America, under topsails and top-gallant sails, was making
about ten knots an hour. After passing the last island in the bay, she
was headed to the south-east, which brought the wind over the starboard
quarter. The ship was of the clipper class, though not as sharp as many
of this model. It was found that her sailing ability was excellent, and
Mr. Lowington and Mr. Fluxion expressed much satisfaction at her
performance, both in respect of speed and weatherly qualities.
When the ship left her moorings, the principal had not decided where to
go, or how long to remain at sea, intending to be governed by the
circumstances of the hour. It had never been his purpose to keep her at
one anchorage, but to go from port to port, remaining a few days or a
few weeks at each, as the discipline of the ship and the progress of the
boys in their studies suggested. There were many elements of seamanship
which could not be effectively practised while the ship lay at anchor,
such as heaving the log, sounding and steering, though the boys had been
carefully instructed in the theory of these operations.
The instructor in mathematics, the boatswain, the carpenter, and the
sailmaker, all of whom were good seamen, were in great demand as soon as
the ship was under way; but when she had sea-room enough, the helm was
handed over to the boys, under the charge of a juvenile quartermaster.
Peaks stood by, and gave the necessary directions, till the students
were able to do the work themselves.
"Now, my lads, we will heave the log," said the boatswain, when the ship
was well out from the land.
"We know how to do that," replied Smith, one of the quartermasters.
"I dare say you do, young gentlemen; but in my opinion, you can't do it.
You know how to write a psalm, but I don't believe you could write one,"
added Peaks. "You have to learn how to do these things by the feeling,
so that they will do themselves, so to speak. After-guard, stand by to
haul in the log-line. Here, quartermaster, you will hold the glass, and
the officer of the deck will throw the chip."
"We know all about it, Mr. Peaks," repeated Smith.
"I know you do; but you can't tell within five knots how fast the ship
is going," laughed the boatswain. "Let's do it right a few times, and
then you can be trusted."
The quartermaster took the glass, and Gordon, then officer of the watch,
the chip, which he cast into the water over the stern of the ship.
"Turn!" said he, when the stray line had run out.
Now, Smith, at this particular moment, was watching a vessel over the
quarter, and he did not instantly turn the glass, as he should have
done; but Peaks said nothing.
"Up!" cried the quartermaster, when the sand had all run through the
glass.
Gordon stopped the reel from which the line was running out, and noted
the mark.
"Seven knots," said he.
"Not right," replied the boatswain, sharply. "This ship is going nine or
ten knots an hour, and any man who has snuffed salt water for six months
could guess nearer than you make it. Now try it once again, and if you
don't hit nearer than that next time, you may as well throw the reel
overboard, and hire a Yankee to guess the rate of sailing."
"I thought we knew all about it," added Smith.
"I think you do, young gentlemen; but you were star-gazing when you
ought to have been all attention. The line ran out two or three knots
before you turned the glass."
Gordon took the chip again. It was a thin piece of board, in the form of
a quarter circle. The round side was loaded with just lead enough to
make it float upright in the water. The log-line was fastened to the
chip, just us a boy loops a kite, two strings being attached at each end
of the circular side, while the one at the angle is tied to a peg, which
is inserted in a hole, just hard enough to keep it in place, while there
is no extra strain on the board, but which can be drawn out with a smart
pull. When the log-line has run out as far as desired, there would be
some difficulty in hauling in the chip while it was upright in the
water; but a sudden jerk draws the peg at the angle, and permits the
board to lie flat, in which position the water offers the least
resistance to its passage.
The half-minute glass used on board the Young America, held by the
quartermaster, was like an hour glass, and contained just sand enough to
pass through the hole in the neck in thirty seconds. The log-line was
one hundred and fifty fathoms in length, and was wound on a reel, which
turned very easily, so that the resistance of the chip to the water
would unwind it. The log-line is divided into certain spaces called
knots, the length of each of which is the same fractional part of a mile
that a half minute is of an hour. If there be sixty-one hundred and
twenty feet in a nautical mile, or the sixtieth part of a degree of a
great circle, which is not far from accurate, and the ship be going ten
knots an hour, she will run sixty-one thousand two hundred feet in an
hour. If the chip were thrown overboard at eight o'clock, and the line
were long enough, the ship would have run out sixty-one thousand two
hundred feet, or ten miles, at nine o'clock, or in one hour. In one
minute she would run one sixtieth of sixty-one thousand two hundred
feet, which is ten hundred and twenty feet; in half a minute, five
hundred and ten feet.
The half-minute glass is the measure of time generally used in heaving
the log. While the sand is dropping through, the line runs out five
hundred and ten feet, the ship going ten knots an hour being the basis
of the calculation. One knot, therefore, will be fifty-one feet. If the
line pays out five hundred and ten feet in thirty seconds, by the glass,
the ship is going ten knots an hour. If it pays out four hundred and
eight feet in half a minute, or eight hundred and sixteen feet in a
minute, she will pay out a mile in as many minutes as eight hundred and
sixteen feet is contained in sixty-one hundred and twenty feet, which is
seven and a half minutes. Then the ship goes a mile in seven and a half
minutes, or eight miles an hour.
A knot on the log-line is therefore invariably fifty-one feet; and the
number of knots of the line run out in half a minute indicates also the
ship's speed per hour, for fifty-one feet is the same part of a nautical
mile that half a minute is of an hour. The calculations are given
without allowances, merely to show the principle; and both the glass and
the line are modified in practice.
On board the Young America, ten fathoms were allowed for "stray line;"
this length of line being permitted to run out before the measuring
commenced, in order to get the chip clear of thee eddies in the wake of
the ship. The ten fathoms were indicated by a white rag, drawn through
the line; and when the officer paying out comes to this mark, he orders
the quartermaster to turn the glass, and the operation actually begins.
At every fifty-one feet (or forty-seven and six tenths, making the
allowances) there is a mark--a bit of leather, or two or more knots. The
instant the sands have all run through the glass, the quartermaster
says, "Up," and the officer notes the mark to which the line has run
out. Half and quarter knots are indicated on the line.
"Now, quartermaster, mind your eye. When the officer of the deck says,
'Turn,' you repeat the word after him, to show that you are alive,"
continued Peaks.
"Ready!" said Gordon.
"Ready!" replied Smith.
The lieutenant threw the chip into the water, and when the stray line
had run off, he gave the word to turn the glass.
"Turn!" repeated Smith.
Gordon eased off the log-line, so that nothing should prevent it from
running easily.
"Up!" shouted Smith; and Gordon stopped the line.
"Very well," added Peaks. "What's the mark?"
"Ten and a quarter," replied the officer.
"That sounds more like it. I knew this ship was going more than seven
knots. You see, young gentlemen, you can't catch flies and tend the
log-line at the same time. Now, you may try it over again."
The experiment was repeated, with the same result. Other officers and
seamen were called to the quarter-deck, and the training in heaving the
log continued, until a reasonable degree of proficiency was attained.
"Land ho!" cried the lookout on the top-gallant forecastle, at about
eleven o'clock in the forenoon.
"Where away?" called the officer of the deck.
"Dead ahead, sir."
"What is that land, Mr. Lowington?" asked Paul Kendall.
"Don't you know?"
"I'm sure I don't."
"Then you should study your map more. Look at the compass, and tell me
how she heads."
"South-east, sir," replied Paul, after looking into the binnacle.
"Now, what land lies south-east of Brockway Harbor?" asked the
principal.
"Cape Cod, I think."
"You are right; then that must be Cape Cod."
"Is it, really?"
"Certainly it is," laughed Mr. Lowington. "Have you no faith in your
map?"
"I didn't think we could be anywhere near Cape Cod. I thought it was
farther off," added Paul, who seemed to be amazed to think they had
actually crossed Massachusetts Bay.
"The land you see is Race Point, which is about forty miles from the
entrance to the bay, at the head of which Brockway is located. We have
been making about ten knots an hour, and our calculations seem to be
very accurate. By one o'clock we shall come to anchor in Provincetown
Harbor."
This prediction was fully verified, and the Young America was moored off
the town. Those who had been seasick recovered as soon as the motion of
the ship ceased; and when everything aloft and on deck had been made
snug, the crew were piped to dinner.
In the afternoon, part of the students were permitted to go on shore;
the band played, and several boat-races took place, very much to the
delight of the people on shore, as well as those on board. At six
o'clock the ship was opened for the reception of visitors, who came off
in large numbers to inspect the vessel. After dark there was a
brilliant display of fireworks, and the Young America blazed with
blue-lights and Roman candles, set off by boys on the cross-trees, and
at the yard-arms. At ten the festivities closed, and all was still in
the steerage and on deck.
The next morning, the ship got under way, and stood out of the harbor,
bound for Brockway again. She had a light breeze, and a smooth time, and
the boys had the satisfaction of seeing every rag of canvas spread,
including studding-sails alow and aloft; but it was not till after dark
that the ship came to anchor at her former moorings.
Wilton and Monroe were released from confinement in the morning, and
permitted to go on deck. Whatever their shipmates might have said, they
felt that they had been severely punished, especially as they had failed
in their runaway expedition. Wilton did not feel any more kindly towards
Shuffles when he was released than when he had been ordered to his room.
He felt that his late crony had been a traitor, and he was unable to
take any higher view of the circumstances.
"Wilton," said Mr. Lowington, when he met the runaway on deck, the day
after the Fourth, "I told you that you had made a mistake. Do you
believe it yet?"
"I suppose I do, sir."
"You suppose you do! Don't you know?"
"Yes, sir, I think I did make a mistake," replied Wilton, who found it
very hard to acknowledge the fact.
"I do not refer to your punishment, when I allude to the consequences of
your misdeed, for that was very light. You have fallen very low in the
estimation of your superiors."
"Do you mean Mr. Shuffles, sir?"
"I did not mean the officers exclusively, though I believe they have a
proper respect for the discipline of the ship."
"I don't think Shuffles need to say anything."
"He hasn't said anything."
"He is worse than I am."
"Shuffles has done very well, and merits the approbation of the
principal and the instructors."
"They don't know him as well as I do," growled Wilton.
"They probably know him better. Your remarks do not exhibit a proper
spirit towards an officer. He defeated your plan to escape, but he did
no more than his duty. He would have been blamed, perhaps punished, if
he had done any less."
"I don't find any fault with him for doing his duty, but I don't like to
be snubbed by one who is worse than I am. If you knew what I know, sir,
you would turn him out of the after cabin."
"Then it is fortunate for him that I don't know what you know," replied
Mr. Lowington, sternly. "If you wish to injure him in my estimation, you
will not succeed."
"He is going to get up a mutiny one of these days. He told me all about
it," continued Wilton, desperately, when he found that the principal was
in no mood to listen to his backbiting.
"That will do, Wilton? I don't wish to hear anything more about that
matter. Your testimony against Shuffles, under present circumstances, is
not worth the breath you use in uttering it."
"I thought it was my duty to tell you, if any one was trying to get up a
mutiny."
"You did not think so; you are telling me this story to revenge yourself
against the third lieutenant for his fidelity. Whether there is, or is
not, any truth in what you say, I shall take no notice of it."
"It is all true, sir. He did speak to me about getting up a mutiny,
locking up the professors, taking the ship, and going round Cape Horn;
and he will not deny it."
"He will have no opportunity to deny it to me, for I shall not mention
the subject to him. Go to your duty, and remember that you have injured
yourself more than Shuffles by this course."
Wilton hung his head, and went forward, cheated of his revenge, and
disconcerted by the rebuke he had received.
Mr. Lowington was quite willing to believe that Shuffles had talked
about a mutiny, while he was in the steerage, but there was at least no
present danger of an extravagant scheme being put into operation. He
understood Shuffles perfectly; he knew that his high office and his
ambition were his only incentives to fidelity in the discharge of his
duty; but he had fairly won his position, and he was willing to let him
stand or fall by his own merits. He was not a young man of high moral
principle, as Paul Kendall, and Gordon, and Carnes were; but the
discipline of the ship was certainly doing wonders for him, though it
might ultimately fail of its ends.
The ship came to anchor, the band was sent on shore, and the Fourth of
July holidays were ended. On the following morning the studies were
resumed, and everything on board went on as usual. A few days later, the
ship went on a cruise to the eastward, spending a week in each of the
principal ports on the coast. The students soon became so accustomed to
the motion of the ship, that none of them were seasick and the
recitations were regularly heard, whether the Young America was in port
or at sea.
When the cold weather came, stoves were put up in the cabins and in the
steerage, and the routine of the ship was not disturbed; but Mr.
Lowington dreaded the ice and snow, and the severe weather of
mid-winter, and in November, the Young America started on a cruise to
the southward, and in the latter part of December she was in Chesapeake
Bay. In March she returned to Brockway. By this time the crew were all
thorough seamen, and had made excellent progress in their studies. Mr.
Lowington was entirely satisfied with the success of his experiment, and
was resolved to persevere in it.
The boys were in splendid discipline, and there had not been a case of
serious illness on board during the year. Besides the six hours of study
and recitation required of the pupils per day, they were all trained in
gymnastics by Dr. Winstock, the surgeon, who had a system of his own,
and was an enthusiast on the subject. This exercise, with the ordinary
ship's duty, kept them in excellent physical condition; and while their
brown faces and rosy cheeks indicated a healthy state of the body, their
forms were finely developed, and their muscles scientifically trained.
Greek and Latin, German and French, with the ordinary English branches
pursued in high schools and academies, were taught on board, and the
instructors were satisfied that the boys accomplished twice as much as
was ordinarily done in similar institutions on shore, and without injury
to the students. Everything was done by rule, and nothing was left to
the whims and caprices of teachers and scholars. Just so much study was
done every day, and no more. There was no sitting up nights; there were
no balls and parties, theatres and concerts, to interfere with the work;
no late suppers of escalloped oysters and lobster salads to be eaten.
Boys who had bad habits were watched, and injurious tendencies
corrected.
But the students enjoyed their life on shipboard. As the vessel went
from port to port, new scenes were opened to them. Those who could be
trusted were allowed to go on shore in their off-time; and as all their
privileges depended upon their good conduct, they were very careful to
do their duty, both as students and as seamen, cheerfully and
faithfully.
The Young America dropped her anchor in Brockway Harbor on the 5th of
March, on her return from her southern cruise. The first term of the
second year was to commence on the 1st of April, and it was understood
that the ship would sail for Europe on the last day of March. The vessel
needed some repairs, and all the students were allowed a furlough of
twenty days to visit their homes.
Several of the larger boys, including Carnes, had obtained places in the
navy, and were not to return. Two or three were to enter college in the
summer, and a few were to go into mercantile houses; but these vacancies
would be more than filled by the applicants who had been waiting months
for an opportunity to join the ship.
After the departure of the students, the Young America was docked, and
the necessary repairs made upon her. She was thoroughly cleansed and
painted, and came out as good as new. Before the return of the boys, her
provisions, water, and stores, were taken on board, and all the
preparations made for a foreign voyage. On the 25th of the month she was
anchored again at her old moorings, and in the course of the next two
days all the instructors and pupils were in their places. There were
eleven new boys.
"Young gentlemen," said Mr. Lowington, as he mounted his usual rostrum,
"I am happy to see you again, and to welcome you on board. Our
experience during the coming season will be much more interesting and
exciting than that of the last year. We shall proceed immediately to
Europe, and all who are worthy of the privilege will have an opportunity
to visit the principal cities of Europe--London, Paris, Naples, St.
Petersburg. We shall go up the Baltic and up the Mediterranean, in this
or a subsequent cruise, and I can safely promise you, not only an
interesting, but a profitable trip. In a circular I have informed your
parents and guardians of my purposes, and you are shipped this time for
a foreign voyage, with their consent and approval."
This speech caused no little excitement among the boys, who anticipated
a great deal from the summer voyage. It was no small thing to visit
London, Paris, and St. Petersburg, and not many boys obtain such an
opportunity.
"But, young gentlemen, I believe in discipline and progress, as most of
you know. I expect every student to do his whole duty; and I wish to
tell you now, that misconduct, and failures at recitation, will bring
heavy disappointments upon you. If you do nothing for yourselves, you
need expect nothing from me. For example, when the ship is going up the
Thames, if any one of you, or any number of you, should be guilty of
flagrant misconduct, or gross neglect of your studies, you will see no
more of the city of London than you can see from the cross-trees, for
you shall not put a foot on shore."
"Rather steep," whispered one of the new comers.
"That's so, but he means it," replied an old student.
"We shall be at sea, out of sight of land, for twenty or thirty days,"
continued Mr. Lowington. "We shall encounter storms and bad weather,
such as none of you have ever seen; for in going from port to port, last
season, we were enabled to avoid all severe weather. We shall go to sea
now with no harbor before us till we reach the other side of the
Atlantic, and we must take whatever comes. But the ship is as strong as
a ship can be built, and with good management she would stand any gale
that ever blew. Good management includes good discipline, and every
officer and seaman must be faithful in the discharge of his duty, for
the safety of the ship and all on board of her will depend upon the
fidelity of each individual.
"Young gentlemen, there are eleven new scholars: they must take the
vacant berths after the ship's company is organized on the old plan. The
offices will be given out and the berths drawn by the merit roll for
January, February, and a portion of March--only about nine weeks of term
time."
Shuffles, who stood near the principal, looked very much disconcerted
when this announcement was made, and whispered to Paul Kendall that it
was not fair to distribute the offices by last year's record. While the
Young America was lying at anchor in Chesapeake Bay, in December,
Shuffles, then second lieutenant, had received a letter from his mother,
in which she had informed him that his family would visit Europe in the
following spring, and that he would leave the ship, and form one of the
party. This information had caused him to relax his efforts as a
student, and he had fallen very low in rank. This was the reason why the
proposed distribution of offices was not fair.
When Shuffles went home on his furlough of twenty days, he had behaved
so badly that his father refused to have him form one of the party in
the trip abroad, and compelled him to return to the ship for another
year of wholesome discipline under Mr. Lowington. Angry and indignant,
Shuffles did return and the announcement that the offices were to be
distributed by the merit roll did not add to his equanimity.
"I will now read the record of marks," said the principal, "and announce
the officers for the next term."
The boys were silent and anxious; for places in the after cabin were
more highly valued than ever, now that the Young America was going to
Europe.
CHAPTER VIII.
OUTWARD BOUND.
Mr. Lowington read the merit roll, announcing the officers as he
proceeded. The occupants of the after cabin, who were appointed for the
succeeding three months, during which time the ship crossed the
Atlantic, and visited various European ports, were as follows:--
CHARLES GORDON,    Captain.
Joseph Haven,      First Lieutenant.
Paul Kendall,      Second     "
Samuel Goodwin,    Third      "
Augustus Pelham,   Fourth     "
William Foster,    First Master.
Henry Martyn,      Second  "
Thomas Ellis,      Third   "
Joseph Leavitt,    Fourth  "
Joseph O. Rogers,  First Purser.
Edward Murray,     Second  "
George W. Terrill, First Midshipman.
John Humphreys,    Second     "
Mark Robinson,     Third      "
Andrew Groom,      Fourth     "
The students mentioned in the list made the required promise to behave
themselves like gentlemen, and faithfully discharge the duties of their
several offices, and were duly installed in their new positions in the
after cabin. Most of them had been officers before, but all of them were
higher in rank than at any former period. Richard Carnes had been
captain four terms, for no one could get ahead of him.
The new captain had been first lieutenant, during the preceding year,
three terms out of four, and was certainly the best qualified student on
board for the command. He was a young man of high moral aims, with much
dignity of character and energy of purpose.
The officers went to the after cabin, put on their uniforms, and assumed
their proper places. The choice of berths in the steerage proceeded as
usual, according to the merit roll, and the petty offices were given to
the highest in rank. The new boys took the unoccupied berths by lot. The
organization of the ship was now completed, and the students were
directed to put their berths and lockers in order. The remainder of the
day was fully occupied in preparing for the voyage. Great quantities of
ice and fresh provisions were taken on board, and packed away in the
store rooms of the hold, and all was bustle and confusion.
On Thursday morning the ship was put in order again. The vessel had been
duly cleared at the custom house, and every article required for the
voyage had been received. The boys were ordered to put on their best
suits, and at nine o'clock a steamer came off, having on board a large
number of the parents and friends of the students. The forenoon was
given up to this interesting occasion. It was a beautiful day, with a
gentle breeze from the westward, and at twelve o'clock, all hands were
mustered on deck for religious services, to be performed by the
chaplain, in the presence of the friends of the pupils.
Mr. Lowington was a religious man, and the position of the Rev. Mr.
Agneau, as chaplain on board, was by no means a sinecure. Services had
always been held twice a day on Sunday. At five minutes before eight in
the morning, and at the same time in the evening, prayers were said on
deck, or in the steerage, in the presence of the entire ship's company.
On the point of leaving the shores of the United States, it seemed
highly appropriate to invoke the blessing of God on the voyage and the
voyagers, and the principal had directed that the service should be
conducted in the presence of the parents and friends.
The prayer and the remarks of the chaplain were very solemn and
impressive, and even the roughest of the students were moved by them. At
the conclusion of the religious service, Mr. Lowington addressed the
visitors, explaining the details of his plan more fully than he had done
in his circulars, and saying what he could to inspire the parents with
confidence in regard to the safety of their sons. It need not be said
that there were many tears shed on this occasion.
At the close of the speech a collation was served to the visitors, in
the cabins and steerage, after which another hour was allowed for social
intercourse; and then the ship was cleared, the visitors going on board
the steamer again, which was to accompany the Young America below the
lighthouse. The boys were sent below to change their clothes again.
"All hands, up anchor, ahoy!" piped the boatswain; and the crew sprang
to their stations with more than usual alacrity.
This was a greater event than they had ever known before. The anchor,
which was now to be hauled up, was not to be dropped again for about a
month, and then in foreign waters. They were going out upon the waste of
the ocean, to be driven and tossed by the storms of the Atlantic. They
were bidding farewell to their native land, not again to look upon its
shores for many months. They were boys, and they were deeply impressed
by the fact.
The capstan was manned, and the cable hove up to a short stay. The
topsails and top-gallant sails were set; then the anchor was hauled up
to the hawse-hole, catted and fished. The Young America moved; she wore
round, and her long voyage was commenced. The courses and the royals
were set, and she moved majestically down the bay. The steamer kept
close by her, and salutations by shouts, cheers, and the waving of
handkerchiefs, were continually interchanged, till the ship was several
miles outside of the lower light.
The steamer whistled several times, to indicate that she was about to
return. All hands were then ordered into the rigging of the ship; and
cheer after cheer was given by the boys, and acknowledged by cheers on
the part of the gentlemen, and the waving of handkerchiefs by the
ladies. The steamer came about; the moment of parting had come, and she
was headed towards the city. Some of the students wept then; for,
whatever charms there were in the voyage before them, the ties of home
and friends were still strong. As long as the steamer could be seen,
signals continued to pass between her and the ship.
"Captain Gordon, has the first master given the quartermaster the course
yet?" asked Mr. Lowington, when the steamer had disappeared among the
islands of the bay.
"No, sir; but Mr. Fluxion told him to make it east-north-east."
"Very well; but the masters should do this duty," added Mr. Lowington,
as he directed the instructor in mathematics to require the masters, to
whom belonged the navigation of the ship, to indicate the course.
William Foster was called, and sent into the after cabin with his
associates, to obtain the necessary sailing directions. The masters had
been furnished with a supply of charts, which they had studied daily, as
they were instructed in the theory of laying down the ship's course.
Foster unrolled the large chart of the North Atlantic Ocean upon the
dinner table, and with parallel ruler, pencil, and compasses, proceeded
to perform his duty.
"We want to go just south of Cape Sable," said he, placing his pencil
point on that part of the chart.
"How far south of it?" asked Harry Martyn.
"Say twenty nautical miles."
The first master dotted the point twenty miles south of Cape Sable,
which is the southern point of Nova Scotia, and also the ship's
position, with his pencil. He then placed one edge of the parallel
ruler on both of these points, thus connecting them with a straight
line.
A parallel ruler consists of two smaller rulers, each an inch in width
and a foot in length, connected together by two flat pieces of brass,
riveted into each ruler, acting as a kind of hinge. The parts, when
separated, are always parallel to each other.
Foster placed the edge of the ruler on the two points made with the
pencil, one indicating the ship's present position, the other the
position she was to obtain after sailing two or three days. Putting the
fingers of his left hand on the brass knob of the ruler, by which the
parts are moved, he pressed down and held its upper half, joining the
two points, firmly in its place. With the fingers of the right hand he
moved the lower half down, which, in its turn, he kept firmly in place,
while he slipped the upper half over the paper, thus preserving the
direction between the points. By this process the parallel ruler could
be moved all over the chart without losing the course from one point to
the other.
On every chart there are one or more diagrams of the compass, with lines
diverging from a centre, representing all the points. The parallel ruler
is worked over the chart to one of these diagrams, where the direction
to which it has been set nearly or exactly coincides with one of the
lines representing a point of the compass.
The first master of the Young America worked the ruler down to a
diagram, and found that it coincided with the line indicating east by
north; or one point north of east.
"That's the course," said Thomas Ellis, the third master--"east by
north."
"I think not," added Foster. "If we steer that course, we should go
forty or fifty miles south of Cape Sable, and thus run much farther than
we need. What is the variation?"
"About twelve degrees west," replied Martyn.
The compass does not indicate the true north in all parts of the earth,
the needle varying in the North Atlantic Ocean from thirty degrees east
to nearly thirty degrees west. There is an imaginary line, extending in
a north-westerly direction, through a point in the vicinity of Cape
Lookout, called the magnetic meridian, on which there is no variation.
East of this line the needle varies to the westward; and west of the
line, to the eastward. These variations of the compass are marked on the
chart, in different latitudes and longitudes, though they need to be
occasionally corrected by observations, for they change slightly from
year to year.
"Variation of twelve degrees,"[1] repeated Foster, verifying the
statement by an examination of the chart. That is equal to about one
point, which, carried to the westward from east by north, will give the
course east-north-east.
[Footnote 1: These calculations are merely approximate, being intended
only to illustrate the principle.]
The process was repeated, and the same result being obtained, the first
master reported the course to Mr. Fluxion, who had made the calculation
himself, in the professors' cabin.
"Quartermaster, make the course east-north-east," said the first master,
when his work had been duly approved by the instructor.
"East-north-east, sir!" replied the quartermaster, who was conning the
wheel--that is, he was watching the compass, and seeing that the two
wheelmen kept the ship on her course.
There were two other compasses on deck, one on the quarter-deck, and
another forward of the mainmast which the officers on duty were required
frequently to consult, in order that any negligence in one place might
be discovered in another. The after cabin and the professors' cabin were
also provided with "tell-tales," which are inverted compasses, suspended
under the skylights, by which the officers and instructors below could
observe the ship's course.
The log indicated that the ship was making six knots an hour, the rate
being ascertained every two hours, and entered on the log-slate, to be
used in making up the "dead reckoning." The Young America had taken her
"departure," that is, left the last land to be seen, at half past three
o'clock. At four, when the log was heaved, she had made three miles; at
six, fifteen miles; at eight, the wind diminishing and the log
indicating but four knots, only eight miles were to be added for the two
hours' run, making twenty-three miles in all. The first sea day would
end at twelve o'clock on the morrow, when the log-slate would indicate
the total of nautical miles the ship had run after taking her departure.
This is called her dead reckoning, which may be measured off on the
chart, and should carry the vessel to the point indicated by the
observations for latitude and longitude.
The wind was very light, and studding-sails were set alow and aloft. The
ship only made her six knots as she pitched gently in the long swell of
the ocean. The boys were still nominally under the order of "all hands
on deck," but there was nothing for them to do, with the exception of
the wheelmen, and they were gazing at the receding land behind them.
They were taking their last view of the shores of their native land.
Doubtless some of them were inclined to be sentimental, but most of them
were thinking of the pleasant sights they were to see, and the exciting
scenes in which they were to engage on the other side of the rolling
ocean, and were as jolly as though earth had no sorrows for them.
The principal and the professors were pacing the quarter-deck, and
doubtless some of them were wondering whether boys like the crew of the
Young America could be induced to study and recite their lessons amid
the excitement of crossing the Atlantic, and the din of the great
commercial cities of the old world. The teachers were energetic men, and
they were hopeful, at least, especially as study and discipline were the
principal elements of the voyage, and each pupil's privileges were to
depend upon his diligence and his good behavior. It would be almost
impossible for a boy who wanted to go to Paris while the ship was lying
at Havre, so far to neglect his duties as to forfeit the privilege of
going. As these gentlemen have not been formally introduced, the
"faculty" of the ship is here presented:--
Robert Lowington, Principal.
Rev. Thomas Agneau, Chaplain.
Dr. Edward B. Winstock, Surgeon.
INSTRUCTORS.
John Paradyme, A.M., Greek and Latin.
Richard Modelle, Reading and Grammar.
Charles C. Mapps, A.M., Geography and History.
James E. Fluxion, Mathematics.
Abraham Carboy, M.D., Chemistry and Nat. Phil.
Adolph Badois, French and German.
These gentlemen were all highly accomplished teachers in their several
departments, as the progress of the students during the preceding year
fully proved. They were interested in their work, and in sympathy with
the boys, as well as with the principal.
It was a very quiet time on board, and the crew were collected in little
groups, generally talking of the sights they were to see. In the waist
were Shuffles, Monroe, and Wilton, all feuds among them having been
healed. They appeared to be the best of friends, and it looked ominous
for the discipline of the ship to see them reunited. Shuffles was
powerful for good or evil, as he chose, and Mr. Lowington regretted that
he had fallen from his high position, fearing that the self-respect
which had sustained him as an officer would desert him as a seaman, and
permit him to fall into excesses.
Shuffles was more dissatisfied and discontented than he had ever been
before. He had desired to make the tour of Europe with his father, and
he was sorely disappointed when denied this privilege; for with the
family he would be free from restraint, and free from hard study. When
he lost his rank as an officer, he became desperate and reckless. To
live in the steerage and do seaman's duty for three months, after he had
enjoyed the luxuries of authority, and of a state-room in the after
cabin, were intolerable. After the cabin offices had been distributed,
he told Monroe that he intended to run away that night; but he had found
no opportunity to do so; and it was unfortunate for his shipmates that
he did not.
"This isn't bad--is it, Shuffles?" said Wilton, as the ship slowly
ploughed her way through the billows.
"I think it is. I had made up my mouth to cross the ocean in a steamer,
and live high in London and Paris," replied Shuffles. "I don't relish
this thing, now."
"Why not?" asked Wilton.
"I don't feel at home here."
"I do."
"Because you never were anywhere else. I ought to be captain of this
ship."
"Well, you can be, if you have a mind to work for it," added Monroe.
"Work for it! That's played out. I must stay in the steerage three
months, at any rate; and that while the burden of the fun is going on.
If we were going to lie in harbor, or cruise along the coast, I would go
in for my old place."
"But Carnes is out of the way now, and your chance is better this year
than it was last," suggested Monroe.
"I know that, but I can't think of straining every nerve for three
months, two of them while we are going from port to port in Europe. When
we go ashore at Queenstown, I shall have to wear a short jacket, instead
of the frock coat of an officer; and I think the jacket would look
better on some younger fellow."
"What are you going to do, Shuffles?" asked Wilton.
"I'd rather be a king among hogs, than a hog among kings."
"What do you mean by that?"
"No matter; there's time enough to talk over these things."
"Do you mean a mutiny?" laughed Wilton.
"Haven't you forgotten that?"
"No."
"I wonder what Lowington would say, if he knew I had proposed such a
thing," added Shuffles, thoughtfully.
"He did know it, at the time you captured the runaways, for I told him."
"Did you?" demanded Shuffles, his brow contracting with anger.
"I told you I would tell him, and I did," answered Wilton. "You were a
traitor to our fellows, and got us into a scrape."
"I was an officer then."
"No matter for that. Do you suppose, if I were an officer, I would
throw myself in your way when you were up to anything?"
"I don't know whether you would or not; but I wouldn't blow on you, if
you had told me anything in confidence. What did Lowington say?"
"Nothing; he wouldn't take any notice of what I said."
"That was sensible on his part. One thing is certain, Wilton: you can't
be trusted."
"You mustn't make me mad, then."
"I will keep things to myself hereafter," growled Shuffles.
"Don't be savage. You served me a mean trick, and I paid you off for it;
so we are square."
"We will keep square then, and not open any new accounts."
"But you will want me when anything is up," laughed Wilton. "What would
you do without me in getting up a mutiny?"
"Who said anything about a mutiny?"
"I know you are thinking over something, and you don't mean to submit to
the discipline of the ship, if you can help it."
"Well, I can't help it."
"There goes the boatswain's whistle, piping to muster," said Monroe.
"Confound the boatswain's whistle!" growled Shuffles. "I don't like the
idea of running every time he pipes."
Very much to the surprise of his companions, Shuffles, his irritation
increased by the conduct of Wilton, took no notice of the call, and went
forward, instead of aft. His companions, more wise and prudent, walked
up to the hatch, which Mr. Lowington had just mounted.
"Groom, tell Shuffles to come aft," said the principal to one of the
midshipmen.
The officer obeyed the order; Shuffles flatly refused to go aft. Mr.
Lowington descended from his rostrum and went forward to enforce
obedience. This event created a profound sensation among the students.
"Shuffles," said Mr Lowington, sternly.
"Sir," replied the malcontent, in a surly tone.
"The boatswain piped the crew to muster."
"I heard him."
"You did not obey the call. I sent for you, and you refused to come."
"I don't think I ought to obey the boatswain's call."
"May I ask why not?"
"I've been an officer three terms, and I should be now if we had had
fair play," growled Shuffles.
"I am not disposed to argue this point in your present frame of mind. I
order you to go aft."
"And I won't go!" replied Shuffles, impudently.
