
"O, yes, Miss Fanny; I will be ever so good; I won't even look wrong,"
replied Fanny Jane, whose snapping black eyes even then beamed with
mischief.

"I am afraid you don't mean what you say," added Miss Fanny,
suspiciously.

"Yes, I do; I mean every word of it, and more too."

"You make large promises; and I find when you promise most, you perform
least."

"But, certain true as I live, I won't do a single thing this time,"
protested Fanny Jane. "Won't you believe me?"

"You have deceived me so often that I do not know when to trust you."

"I have turned over a new leaf, and I mean to be just as good as ever I
can be."

"If you are not good, Fanny Jane, I shall feel very bad when I return.
I have done a great deal for you, and I hope you will think of it if
you are tempted to do wrong during my absence. This time, in
particular, I wish you to behave very well, and not do any mischief.
You know what father says about you?"

"He don't like me," pouted Fanny Jane.

"When you are good he likes you."

"He scolds me all the time."

"He never scolds you; he reproves you when you do wrong, and I am sorry
to say that is very often indeed. He says, if you do not behave better,
he shall send you back to your uncle at the west."

"I don't want to go there."

"But you must, if you do not do better. He would have sent you before
if I had not interceded for you."

"Hadn't what?"

"If I hadn't begged him not to do so."

"I won't be sent back to my uncle's, any how," replied Fanny Jane,
sharply; for the intimations of what might be, roused a spirit of
resentment, rather than of penitence, in her mind.

"We will not talk about that now, Fanny Jane. We are going to Hudson to
spend a week. The strongest objection to our visit was, that you would
not behave well while we were gone."

"O, I will behave well!"

"We intend to trust you once more. If you disappoint me this time, I
shall not be able to say another word in your favor; and I am quite
sure father will send you off to Minnesota just as soon as we get
back."

The carriage was waiting at the door; Bertha was already seated, and
Fanny, having done all she could to insure the good behavior of the
troublesome young miss who had become her peculiar charge, hastened to
join her sister, and they were driven away towards the railroad
station.

In the two tall and elegant ladies, seated in the Woodville family
carriage, our readers would hardly recognize Bertha and Fanny Grant,
for eight years have elapsed since they were introduced, as children,
to our young friends. Bertha maintains her pure and beautiful
character, and is still a blessing to the family, and to the
neighborhood in which she resides. Fanny is taller and prettier than
her sister; and, having put away her childish follies, she is quite a
dignified personage.

Mighty events had transpired since they were children, and the country
was entering upon the second year of the great civil war, which
desolated the sunny South, and carried mourning to almost every
household of the free North. Richard Grant had already distinguished
himself as a captain in a popular New York regiment, of which the Rev.
Ogden Newman, whilom Noddy, was the chaplain.

Mr. Grant had retired from active business, and had been succeeded by
Mr. Sherwood, his clerk, who, having a high appreciation of the
excellent character of Bertha, was about to enter into more intimate
relations with his employer and predecessor in business. Bertha was to
become Mrs. Sherwood in June, and, as Mr. Grant had reluctantly
accepted a financial mission from the government, which compelled him
to visit Europe, it had been arranged that the bridal tour should be a
trip across the Atlantic, in which Fanny was to accompany them. If the
general conduct of Miss Fanny Jane Grant had been sufficiently
meritorious to warrant the extending of the privilege to her, doubtless
she also would have been one of the party, for she had been for two
years a member of the family.

Fanny Jane was a distant relative of the Grants of Woodville. Mr.
Grant had two cousins, John and Edward, the latter of whom--the father
of the wayward girl--had died three years previous to her introduction
to the reader. At the time of his decease, he was in the employ of the
wealthy broker, as a travelling agent. Just before his death, which
occurred in a western city, while conscious that his end was near, he
had written a letter to Mr. Grant, begging him to see that his only
child was properly cared for when he could no longer watch over her.

Edward Grant's wife had been dead several years. At her decease Fanny
Jane had been committed to the care of her father's brother, then
residing in Illinois. Mr. Grant, impressed by the solemn duty intrusted
to him by his deceased cousin, promptly wrote to the child's uncle, who
was dependent upon his own exertions for his daily bread, offering any
assistance which the orphan might need; but no demand was made upon
him.

A year after the father's death, Mr. Grant's business affairs required
him to visit the west, and he improved the opportunity to satisfy
himself that the charge committed to him by the dying father was well
cared for. On his arrival he was not pleased with the relations
subsisting between Fanny Jane and her aunt. Mrs. Grant declared that
the child was stubborn, wilful, and disobedient, needing frequent and
severe punishment. On the other hand, Fanny said that her aunt abused
her; worked her "almost to death;" did not give her good things to eat,
and whipped her when she "did not do anything."

Mr. Grant was a prudent and judicious man. He conversed with each party
alone, and, being then in doubt, he consulted the uncle. John Grant's
testimony, in the main, confirmed that of his wife, though he was
willing to confess that the aunt "might have been a little hard on the
child." Mr. Grant was far from satisfied; he thought it more than
probable that Fanny was wilful, but he could not endure to think of her
being abused. The sacred duty imposed upon him could not be trifled
with, and, as the only method by which he could meet the demands of his
conscience, he decided to take the orphan to Woodville with him.

The uncle and the aunt, who had no children of their own, objected to
this procedure, both because they did not wish to part with the child,
and because her withdrawal from their care implied a condemnation of
their former treatment of the orphan. Mr. Grant, however, succeeded in
overcoming both of these objections, and they consented that Fanny
should remain at Woodville for two years; Mrs. Grant assuring the
benevolent broker that he would be glad to get rid of her in less than
six months.

Fanny had behaved so well during the stay of Mr. Grant at her uncle's
house, that he was completely deceived in regard to her real character.
The presence of so important a person as the wealthy broker, who had
been represented to her as a person hardly less dignified than the
President of the United States, had overawed her, and put her on her
best behavior. Her kind friend, therefore, was unable to realize that
the orphan girl was half so bad as she was described to be by her aunt.

Edward Grant, while in the employ of the broker, had often visited
Woodville, and being especially pleased with the person and the manners
of Miss Fanny, had named his own daughter after her. On the arrival of
the orphan at her new home, it was deemed fitting that Miss Fanny
should have the especial care of her namesake, then only ten years of
age. Fanny Jane, amid the novelties of the great house, and the
beautiful grounds, was so much occupied for a few weeks that she
behaved very well; but when she grew weary of horses and boats, house
and grounds, she astonished her young mistress by conduct so outrageous
that Miss Fanny wept in despair over the miserable failure she made in
governing her charge.

Miss Bertha was called in to assist in taming the refractory subject;
but it was soon found that Fanny Jane had none of the chivalrous
reverence which had rendered the wild Noddy Newman tolerably tractable,
and her failure was as complete and ignominious as that of her sister.
Mr. Grant was finally appealed to; and the sternness and severity to
which he was compelled to resort were, for a time, effectual. But even
these measures began to be impotent, and the broker realized that the
uncle and aunt had understood the case better than himself.

As a last resort, he threatened to send the wayward girl back to her
uncle, who had now removed to Minnesota; for it would be better for
such a child to put her down to hard work, and to keep her constantly
under the eye of her guardians. This threat was more efficient than all
the other means which had been used to keep the child within the bounds
of common decency; but even this had grown stale upon her.

Miss Fanny, finding that her failure involved no disgrace, renewed her
exertions to reform her pupil and charge. With the utmost diligence she
instructed her in her moral and religious duties, and endeavored by
love and gentleness to win her from the error of her ways. Sometimes
she felt that there was much to encourage her, at other times she
despaired of ever making any impression upon her pupil. Her father
induced her to persevere, for he had hope. He remembered what Edward
Grant, her father, had been when a child; that he was accounted the
worst and most hopeless boy in the town where he resided; but in spite
of this unpromising beginning, he had become a very worthy and
respectable man. Such a change might in due time come over the
daughter, and Mr. Grant frequently impressed upon Fanny the necessity
of perseverance, and of remitting no effort to reach her pupil's moral
and spiritual nature.

If Miss Fanny did not improve her pupil, she did improve herself, for
the more of love and truth we impart to others, the more we have for
ourselves; making the very pretty moral paradox, that the more of love
and truth we subtract from our store, the more we have left in our own
heart.

Fanny Jane was undoubtedly a very naughty girl. We do not mean to say
that she was merely rude and unlady-like in her manners; that she was
occasionally angry without a just cause; that she had a few bad habits,
and a few venial faults: she was impudent to her benefactors; she was
untruthful, and even dishonest. Not only to Fanny and Bertha, but also
to Mr. Grant, she was openly defiant. She used bad language, told
falsehoods by wholesale, and had several times been detected in
stealing valuable articles from the house.

Yet with all her faults and failings, there were some good traits in
Fanny Jane, though they seemed like the two grains of wheat in the
bushel of chaff. What these redeeming features of her character were,
we shall let our story disclose. One meeting the wayward girl on the
lawn for a moment, or spending a few hours in the house with her, would
have been deceived, as Mr. Grant had been, for her black eyes were full
of animation; her manner was spirited, and her answers were quick and
sharp. She was light and rather graceful in form; she did not appear to
walk; she flashed about like a meteor. She was bold and daring in her
flights, and as strong as most boys of her years. She would not run
away from a rude boy; she laughed in the thunder storm, and did not
fear to go through the glen at midnight.

Bertha and Fanny had gone up to Hudson to spend a few days with the
family of Mr. Sherwood's father, previous to their departure for
Europe. This visit had been talked about for a fortnight, and the
wayward girl knew that it was to take place. Contrary to her usual
custom, she made the fairest of promises to her kind mistress, who,
from this very readiness, suspected her sincerity; and her fears were
more than realized.

Fanny Jane stood at the open door gazing at the carriage until it
disappeared beyond the hill. Her black eyes snapped under the stimulus
of certain exciting thoughts which agitated her mind. When the carriage
could no longer be seen, she slammed the front door, and bounded like a
gazelle across the entry to the library of Mr. Grant, which she
entered, closing the door behind her.

"O, yes! I'll be good!" laughed she; "I'm always good! Send me to my
uncle's? I should like to see them do it! I won't go! There are not men
and women enough at Woodville to make me go!"

Then she bounded to the windows in the library, one after another, and
looked out at each. She closed the inner blinds of one, before which
the gardener was at work on the lawn.

"I can do as Miss Berty did, if worse comes to worst," said she,
throwing herself into a great armchair. "She went to live out, and had
her own way, and I can do the same; but I won't be as poor as she was.
Ha, ha, ha! I know their secrets," she continued, as she crawled under
the desk, in the middle of the room, and pushing the middle drawer out,
took from a nail behind it a key. "They needn't think to cheat me."

She sprang to her feet again with the key in her hand, laughing with
delight at her own cunning.




CHAPTER II.

THOU SHALT NOT STEAL.


Fanny--as we shall call her when she is not in the company of her
namesake--revelled in the possession of the key, and congratulated
herself on her own shrewdness in obtaining it. She applied it to one of
the drawers of the desk. Though her devoted young mistress had been
faithful to the last degree in her efforts to instil good principles in
the mind of her pupil, Fanny appeared to have no scruples of
conscience. She did not hesitate, did not pause to consider the
wickedness of her acts.

The drawer was unlocked and opened with an eager rather than a
trembling hand. She seemed to fear nothing, and to be intent only on
obtaining possession of some coveted treasure. As she pulled out the
drawer, she was startled by a very unexpected incident. A great black
cat, suddenly released from imprisonment, sprang out of the drawer,
and, terrified by the appearance of the naughty girl, ran around the
room several times, and then disappeared through an open window. The
cat was a stranger to her; it was not a Woodville cat; and, though
Fanny was not frightened, the presence of the animal in the drawer was
suggestive.

"I am not so sharp as I thought I was," said she to herself, quite
soberly. "The housekeeper must have seen me when I was looking for that
key; but she needn't think I am afraid of a cat!"

Fanny sneered at the thought, and after glancing at the window through
which the cat had made her escape, she turned to the drawer again, but
it was empty; or it contained only a great card, such as those used in
the Sunday school, on which was painted, in large black letters,

    THOU SHALT NOT STEAL!

This card, which must have been placed there for her especial benefit
by some member of the family, rendered it certain that her intentions
were suspected, if not known.

"That's a gentle hint not to take anything from that drawer," said
Fanny to herself. "There is nothing there, and of course I must take
the hint; but they can't cheat me. There is money somewhere in this
desk, and I must have it."

Perhaps, under ordinary circumstances, she would have been moved by the
expedient which had been used to deter her from stealing. The
commandment of God, staring her in the face at the very moment when she
expected to place her hand upon the forbidden treasure, might have
reached her conscience if she had not been engaged in a deeply-laid
plan for revelling in stolen joys. As it was, she was only disappointed
at not finding the money which the drawer had been supposed to contain.

"Fanny Jane!" called Mrs. Green, the housekeeper, from the entry.

It was not prudent to be seen in the library, and, hastily closing the
drawer, and restoring the key to the nail under the desk, she stepped
out at one of the long windows upon the piazza.

"Fanny Jane!" repeated the housekeeper.

"Here I am," said the guilty girl, entering the front door.

"It is time for you to get ready for school," added Mrs. Green.

"I'm not going to school to-day."

"Not going to school? Why not, miss?"

"Because I don't want to go."

"I think you are going," said the housekeeper, firmly.

"And I think I am not going!"

"Very well; then I will send for Mr. Long," added Mrs. Green, with a
coolness and decision which were not without their effect upon the
stubborn girl.

Mr. Long was a constable, and outside of his official duties, he was
often employed in various miscellaneous offices by Mr. Grant. He lived
in a small cottage adjoining the Woodville estate. This man was a great
bugbear to Fanny, who had a very proper and wholesome regard for the
strong arm of the law.

"I don't care for Mr. Long," said Fanny, shaking her shoulders in
defiance; but this was only a vain boast.

Mrs. Green rang a bell for the man-servant who was employed in the
house. This was more than the naughty girl could endure, for she knew
that Mrs. Green would do all she promised.

"You needn't send for Mr. Long," interposed Fanny, doggedly. "I'll go
to school."

"I thought you would; but you may do as you please."

"I'll go, but I want fifteen cents to buy a new copy-book."

As Mrs. Green knew that Fanny needed a new copy-book, she did not
object to this request, and went into the library to procure the money.
Instead of going up stairs to prepare herself for school, as the
housekeeper had told her to do, Fanny went out upon the piazza again,
and looking through the window, saw Mrs. Green open a closet in the
library, and, from a drawer there, take out the money she had asked
for. The housekeeper locked the drawer and the closet door, placing the
key of the latter in a vase on the mantel-piece, and the key of the
drawer under one of a row of volumes on a book shelf. All these
precautions had been rendered necessary by the presence of the
dishonest girl in the house.

Fanny, having carefully observed where the keys were placed, ran up
stairs, and presently appeared, dressed for school. Mrs. Green gave her
the money for which she had asked, and having satisfied herself that
the refractory girl had actually departed for school, she went up
stairs to attend to her usual duties. Fanny went as far as the road,
and then, instead of turning to the left, she went to the right, and
keeping in the shadow of the trees, reached the rear of the mansion.
From this point she crept round to the piazza, from which she passed
into the library.

"She can't cheat me!" said Fanny, again congratulating herself upon her
own cunning. "She'll find, before night, that I'm too much for her."

The wicked girl then went to the vase, and taking from it the key,
opened the closet. From the place where she had stood, she could not
determine exactly under which book the key of the drawer had been
placed; but after raising half a dozen of them, she found the object of
her search. The drawer was opened, and on the top of several bundles of
papers lay a pocket-book. Her eyes snapped with unwonted fire as she
discovered the prize.

She opened it, and found a great roll of bills; in one of the pockets
there was a mass of currency. There was no great staring placard, with
"Thou shalt not steal" printed upon it, but the words seemed to be
spoken from her own breast--seemed to be thundering in her soul. But
Fanny was excited by the prospect of the stolen joys, in which she had
been revelling in anticipation for a fortnight, and she heeded not the
voice from her breast, and silenced the thunder-tones that rolled
through her soul.

"Shall I take it all?" whispered she, as she gazed on the great pile of
"greenbacks and currency." "I may as well be hung for an old sheep as a
lamb," she added, as she gathered up the money, and thrust it into her
pocket.

A noise in the entry startled her. She closed the drawer, locked it,
and restored the key to the place where she had found it. The closet
door was secured in like manner, and the key returned to the vase.
Passing out of the library as she had entered, she made her way back to
the road, and walked towards the school-house. Before she reached it,
however, she turned down a lane leading to the river. It was a lonely
avenue, completely shaded by trees, which concealed her from the view
of the people in the adjoining houses. Increasing her pace to a
bounding run, she soon reached the Hudson.

Seated on a stone, near the river, was a girl of fourteen, who had
evidently been waiting for Fanny. In her hand she held a couple of
books, which indicated that she also had been sent to school.

"Where have you been? Why didn't you come before?" asked the girl, as
she rose at Fanny's approach.

"I couldn't come before," replied Fanny.

"Why not?" demanded the other, whose name was Kate Magner.

"No matter why not," answered Fanny, rather testily, for she was not
yet quite willing to confess what she had done in the library of the
mansion-house.

"Haven't the folks gone away?"

"Yes; they all went off in the morning train. Where is Tom?"

"I don't know."

"But we want him; we can't get along without him."

"He said he would come."

"But he is late."

"So are you."

"I couldn't help it."

"I suppose he can't, either. But what are we going to do, Fan?" asked
Kate, who did not seem to be satisfied with the present prospect of the
enterprise, whatever it was.

"We are going to have a good time."

"You said that before; but I want to know what we are going to do. You
asked me to meet you here at half past eight. You come at nine, and I
don't see that anything is to be done. I shall catch it for playing
truant from school, and all for nothing."

"You shall have the best time you have had in your life."

"I don't know about that. Why don't you tell me what you mean to do?"

"I am almost afraid to tell you, Kate."

"Afraid of what?"

"I'm afraid you won't dare to go with me."

"Did you ever do anything I was afraid to do?" said Kate, with a sneer.

"But this is a greater thing than we ever did before. We may be gone a
long time, and we are certain to be found out."

"What do you mean?" demanded Kate, apparently appalled by this frank
statement of the difficulties of the enterprise.

"I thought it would scare you," laughed Fanny.

"But it don't scare me."

"Yes, it does."

"I will do anything that you dare to do," replied Kate, stung by the
flings of her companion.

"You shall have the greatest time that ever was, but you must take the
consequences after it is all over."

"If you can, I can."

"Come with me, then," continued Fanny, as she moved along the bank of
the river towards the Woodville landing pier.

"I won't go a step till I know what you are going to do."

"I'm afraid you will back out."

"No, I won't; I solemnly promise you that I will go with you anywhere
you please."

"I have got some money," added Fanny, in a very mysterious manner.

"How much?"

"Two dollars."

"Pooh! that ain't much!" sneered Kate.

"Well, I've got five dollars."

"Have you?"

"Yes."

"Where did you get it?"

"I found it."

"Where?"

"On the floor."

Kate probably had her doubts in regard to the finding of the money, but
she did not ask any troublesome questions, and repressed whatever of
righteous indignation might have risen in her soul.

"What are you going to do with it?" she asked.

"We will have a good time with it."

"But where are you going?"

Fanny glanced at her companion, and hesitated to reveal the brilliant
project, fearful that it might be disapproved.

"We will go over to Whitestone, or down to Pennville, and buy
something. But where is Tom? We must have him."

"What do you want of him?" asked Kate, rather petulantly.

"We must go over in a boat, and we want him to manage it for us."

"Perhaps he will come; he promised to do so."

"We will go up to the landing-place; perhaps he is up there."

The two girls walked up to the Woodville pier; but Tom Magner was not
there. He seemed to have no relish for the society of the interesting
young ladies engaged in a brilliant enterprise; and if he had made any
appointment to meet them, he neglected to keep it. Fanny was very much
disappointed at his non-appearance, much more so than the young
gentleman's sister, who, not knowing the extent of the enterprise, was
in blissful ignorance of its perils and difficulties. Tom Magner was an
almost indispensable part of the plan; but the young knight did not
come, and the project must be abandoned or carried out without him.

"I am afraid he won't come," said Fanny, after impatiently waiting for
half an hour.

"I know he won't now. I don't believe he intended to come at all,"
replied Kate.

"He is a mean fellow, then."

"We can get along without him. We shall have more money to spend
ourselves."

"But how shall we get over to Whitestone?"

"We can go up the river and take the ferry."

"Yes; and the first person we meet may be your father, or some of the
Woodville folks. No, Kate, we must not be seen; if we are, all our fun
will be spoiled."

"For my part I don't want Tom, or any other boy with us. I think boys
are hateful!"

"So do I; but I only want him to manage the boat. Don't you think you
could go up and find Tom?"

"I don't think I could," said Kate, indignantly.

"Where is he?"

"At school, I suppose."

"Couldn't you tell the teacher that your father wants him?" suggested
Fanny.

"No, I could not! I should be caught myself. I believe you want to get
me into trouble."

"I'm sure I don't, Kate, for that would get me into trouble. What shall
we do?"

"We will go up to the ferry. We can see who is in the boat before we go
on board."

"I won't do that if we don't go at all."

And so the brilliant scheme seemed to be defeated for the want of a
boatman; but Fanny was too bold and enterprising in mischief to give up
without a struggle.




CHAPTER III.

LETTING THE CAT OUT.


"Pooh! I shall not give it up so!" exclaimed Fanny, when it was certain
that Tom Magner did not intend to join the party.

"What will you do?" asked Kate.

"Go to Pennville, of course."

"How will you get there?"

"In the boat; we will take the Greyhound."

"You know we can't do anything of the kind, Fanny Grant."

"I know we can," replied the resolute girl.

"But who will manage her?"

"I will manage her myself."

"You?"

"Yes; I know how to manage a boat as well as any of them. I have sailed
enough to understand the whole thing," added Fanny, as she led the way
to the pier, off which the sail-boat was moored.

"Do you think I will risk my life in a boat with no one but you to
manage it?"

"But I know how to handle the boat as well as any one," persisted
Fanny. "There isn't much wind, and I'm sure there is no danger."

Kate Magner had a great many doubts, but the vision of cakes and candy,
lemonade and ice-cream, which her companion's money would purchase,
tempted her to yield. The breeze was apparently very light, and it
seemed hardly possible that the boat could be upset. She wavered, and
Fanny saw the advantage she had gained.

"If we don't get along very well, we can hire some boy or man to manage
the boat for us," continued the resolute girl, pressing the point upon
her yielding companion. "There are some men and boys fishing over
there, and they will be very glad to make some money."

"That will be the best way. If you will get one of those men to manage
the boat, I will go with you; for there isn't any fun in being drowned,
or in being run over by a steamboat."

"Very well, I will do that," replied Fanny, her black eyes snapping
with renewed vigor.

Ben, the boatman, who usually haunted the pier and the boat-house like
a familiar spirit, had added many infirmities to his burden of cares
during the eight years which have intervened since we first knew him,
and he was now confined to his house by an attack of rheumatism. There
was no one near, therefore, to interfere with the execution of Fanny's
plan. The Greyhound was moored a short distance from the pier, at which
the small skiff, which served as her tender, was fastened. The two
girls were about to embark in the little boat, when footsteps were
heard at the upper end of the pier.

Fanny started, released her hold of the painter of the skiff, and at
once realized that her brilliant project was in imminent danger of
being defeated. She turned to observe who the intruder was, and to her
horror and consternation, discovered that it was Mr. Long, the
constable, the greatest bugbear in the world to her on ordinary
occasions, and especially so in the present instance, when her
conscience accused her of a very wicked deed.

There was no opportunity to retreat, for the enemy was between her and
the main land. She had been so intent upon the argument with her more
cautious companion, that she had not noticed the approach of the
constable until his feet struck upon the planking of the pier. The
money she had stolen was in her pocket, and it felt just like a coal of
fire, which was soon to create a conflagration that might burn her up.
She very much desired, just then, to get rid of this evidence of her
crime, and she would have dropped the roll of bills into the water if
it would have sunk to the bottom, and disappeared from the sight of the
terrible man who was approaching.

Fanny did not doubt that the loss of the money had been discovered by
Mrs. Green, and that she had sent for the constable to arrest her and
put her in prison--a threat which the housekeeper had injudiciously
made on a former occasion, when the naughty girl had been guilty of a
similar fault, but a threat which Mr. Grant would not have permitted to
be carried out. This terrible punishment appalled Fanny, but she did
not entirely lose her self-possession. She had done a very great wrong;
she had staked everything upon the success of the present venture. She
was entirely satisfied that Mr. Grant, on his return, would send her to
her uncle in Minnesota, and she had prepared herself for the worst. Her
object, therefore, was to escape present defeat, and she hoped,
cornered as she was by the constable, that some means of getting out of
the dilemma might be presented to her.

"We are caught," said Kate, as Mr. Long moved down the pier.

"Not yet," replied Fanny, with more confidence than she actually felt.

The consciousness of being the leader in the enterprise led her to put
on a bold face in order to inspire her friend with confidence, if for
no other purpose.

"What shall we do?" demanded Kate, nervously.

"Keep still; don't you say a word."

"What are you doing here, Fanny, at this time of day?" asked Mr. Long,
as he approached the girls.

"I'm not doing anything," replied Fanny, boldly.

"Why are you not at school?"

"The teacher sent us down to get some green branches to put over the
clock. We are going to have some visitors in school this afternoon,"
replied Fanny, promptly.

"Did she send the other girl, too?"

"Yes; she sent both of us."

"I want to see you, Fanny; come with me," continued the terrible
constable, beckoning her to follow him up the pier.

"What do you want of me?"

"I wish to speak with you a moment."

"I can't stop long, for we must hurry back with the boughs," added
Fanny, who had no relish for a confidential conversation with such a
man, for she at once surmised its topic.

"Are you looking for green boughs out on the end of that pier?" said
he.

"We only went out there for a moment," pleaded Fanny, as she followed
Mr. Long, but it was with the intention of darting away from him at a
favorable moment.

But the constable stopped before he reached the head of the pier, which
effectually prevented her retreat unless she jumped into the water.

"What do you want of me, Mr. Long?" she asked, with increasing
boldness.

"Fanny, you have been very bad again," began the tormentor.

"No, I haven't."

"Yes, you have; and you needn't attempt to deny it."

"What have I done?"

"You know what you have done."

"I haven't done anything," protested she, speaking for the sake of
speaking, rather than because she had any confidence in the impression
her words would produce upon the mind of her tormentor, and all the
while thinking how she could break away from the constable.

"'Thou shalt not steal,'" said Mr. Long, impressively.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Fanny. "Do you mean to say that I
steal? If you do, you are very much mistaken."

"Fanny, if you didn't steal anything, it was only because you did not
find anything to steal."

What could he mean by that? She was perplexed, but she began to hope
that he did not know what she had done.

"I do not want to steal," said she; and now she spoke for the purpose
of drawing out her accuser, to ascertain how much he did know.

"You have been guilty of stealing several times," continued the
constable, assuming a very stern and virtuous aspect.

"I never meant to steal anything."

"But you meant to steal this time: the cat is out of the bag."

The constable's stern features relaxed a little, and there was
something like a smile playing upon his face, as if in faint
appreciation of a joke.

"The cat is out of the drawer, if that is what you mean," said Fanny,
laughing, and now greatly encouraged by the new aspect of the case.

"That is what I mean."

"But I didn't let the cat out," protested Fanny.

