
"No!" shouted the boys, indignantly.

"Now we have the steamer; what shall we do with her?"

"Let us go on a cruise," suggested Fred Mason.

"I did not take possession of the boat with the intention of making
any use of her only to get away from the island while it was possible
to do so," replied Vallington.

"O, let's have some fun in her, now we have got her," added Mason.

"We are drifting over to Cannondale pretty rapidly, general," I
interposed. "We must go ahead, or we shall run ashore."

"I don't exactly know what to do, or where to go," continued our
perplexed leader.

"We must go ahead now, and settle that question by and by," I added.

"Can you steer her, commodore?" he asked.

"Certainly I can. I understand the wheel now, and I know all about the
lake. If you can manage the engine, I can take care of the steering."

"My brother is an engineer on a Hudson River boat, and I have spent
many a day with him in the engine-room. I think I understand the
engine pretty well," he replied.

"Let us go ahead then," said one of the impatient fellows.

"We will start her again, commodore; and I wish you would take her to
some place where we can lie to, and decide upon our future course."

"I will do so, general; but I don't think it will hurt those on the
island to wait a while," I answered.

"Very well; we will go where you pilot us, commodore," added
Vallington, as he returned to the engine-room.

Three of the students were sent down into the fire-room, after being
instructed in their duty by the general, who was careful to tell them
not to put too much wood in the furnaces. By this time the Splash had
come alongside, and was made fast to the stern. I invited Bob Hale and
Tom Rush to occupy the wheel-house with me, and I took my place at the
spokes.

"What are we going to do?" asked Bob, who had not been present at the
conference on the forward deck.

"That is not decided," replied Tom. "We are going to lie to
somewhere, and talk the matter over."

"I don't know about this steaming it on the lake," added Bob, shaking
his head. "Suppose the boat should burst her boiler--where should we
be?"

"No danger of that; Vallington knows all about engines, and the
commodore knows how to steer," said Tom, lightly.

I struck one bell, after looking at the paper which Vallington had
given me, to make sure that I was right. In response to my signal, the
wheels began to turn, and the Adieno went "ahead slowly." I soon
brought her to bear on the helm, and finding I had the boat under
perfect control, I ventured to strike the four bells, which indicated
that she was to "go ahead, full speed."

The steam was rather low in the boilers, and "full speed" I found was
not very rapid. The boat steered easily, and minded her helm so
promptly, that I soon became quite fascinated with my occupation.
There was something very exhilarating in the fact that I was directing
the course of what to me was an immense craft; and every time I moved
the wheel, and saw the bow veer in obedience to her helm, it afforded
me a thrill of delight, and I wholly forgot the enormity of the
enterprise in which our party were engaged. I was so pleased with my
employment that I came very near devoting my life to the business of
piloting a steamboat.

I steered the Adieno to the northward, until she had passed clear of
Pine Island, when I put her head to the west, intending to run for a
couple of islands six miles down the lake, called "The Sisters."




CHAPTER XXII.

IN WHICH ERNEST PILOTS THE ADIENO TO "THE SISTERS."


"There comes the Champion!" exclaimed Bob Hale, pointing to the
steamer that regularly made her trip round the lake every day, as she
came out from behind a point of land on the north shore, beyond which
she made a landing.

"We must give her a wide berth," I replied.

"Why so? Her people will not know that it isn't all right with the
Adieno."

"We are in no immediate danger; but suppose the captain of this boat
should find means to get to Cannondale before the Champion does, he
might engage her to go in pursuit of us."

"That would be jolly!" said Tom Rush. "We should have a glorious
race!"

"But the chances are against us in a race," I replied, confounded by
the temerity of Tom in thinking of such a thing as contending with the
steamboat men on their own ground.

"Not a bit of it, Ernest. The Adieno is the faster boat of the
two--that has been tried a dozen times," added Tom, as much excited as
though the race had actually commenced.

"We must not attempt to beard the lion in his den."

"Why not? We might as well be hung for an old sheep as a lamb. We are
in a scrape, and even Vallington thinks it is a bad one by this time.
The more advantage we gain, the better terms we can make."

"I don't know about it, Tom. I feel as though we had carried this
thing about far enough, and the sooner we get out of the scrape, the
better it will be for us."

"Those are my sentiments. My father is part owner in this boat, and I
think he will not enjoy the idea of our going off on a cruise in her,"
added Bob Hale.

"Pooh! we won't hurt her," replied Tom.

"We don't intend to hurt her; but we are following a business just now
that we don't know much about."

"Don't you know the lake, and don't Vallington know all about the
engine?"

"Neither of us has had any experience."

"That's so," added Bob. "In my opinion breaking away is about played
out. We have made up our minds that we can't have anything more to do
with Mr. Parasyte, and we may as well return to Parkville, and go to
work in a more reasonable way. We can send the circulars to our
parents, and dig out of the difficulty the best way we can."

"I agree to that," I answered. Not that I cared for myself, for my
"breaking away" was a much more serious matter than that of my
fellow-students; but I thought it better for them to get out of the
mud before they sank any deeper into the mire.

"I am willing to do as the rest of the fellows do; but I don't want to
be whipped round a stump when there is no need of it," continued Tom.
"If the Champion chases us, I go for keeping out of the way till we
can retire from the field without any broken heads."

"So far I shall agree with you, Tom," I replied. "I am not in favor of
surrendering, to be kicked and cuffed by these steamboat men, who are
not exactly lambs in their dispositions."

"What's the use of talking?" interposed Bob Hale. "The Champion is not
after us, and it does not appear that she will be."

"It appears so to me," I answered. "I have no idea that the captain of
the Adieno will stay on Pine Island all day. I found a way to get
ashore this morning, and I think he will be able to do so."

"Perhaps he will."

"I am perfectly satisfied that he will reach the shore by one o'clock,
if he has not already done so. No doubt he thinks his boat will be
smashed to pieces, or blown up, if he does not recover her soon. He
isn't going to sit down and bite his finger nails."

"He may not be able to get the Champion," replied Bob Hale, who
evidently did not wish to believe that there would be a contest for
superiority between the two steamers.

"I don't profess to be a prophet, Bob, but I can see through a
millstone when the hole is big enough. I will tell you just how I
think it will be. The captain of the Adieno will make a raft, and
get to Cannondale. Then he will take the Champion for Parkville,
arriving about half past one. The boat does not start on her trip down
the lake till five o'clock, and that will give her three hours and a
half to spare. You may take my word for it, that time will be used in
chasing us."

"Very likely you are right, Ernest; we shall see. It is twelve o'clock
now, and we haven't much time to consider what we shall do," said Bob
Hale, looking very serious; and it was evident now, if it had not been
before, that he had strong objections to any steamboat enterprises.

"It's nearly dinner time," added Tom; "and I must go and see about the
provender."

Bob Hale went below to have a talk with Vallington, and the commissary
left for the kitchen, to provide our noon rations. I was left alone in
the wheel-house. I enjoyed my occupation very much; but the talk of
my friends had filled me with doubts and fears, so that my situation
was not so delightful as before. I could not help asking myself what
was to come out of this scrape, and it seemed to me that it could
result in nothing but defeat and disaster.

The Adieno was approaching The Sisters, at one of which there was a
pier, like that at Pine Island, which had been erected for the use of
the scows employed in the transportation of the wood cut on the
island. I knew that the water around it was deep enough for the
steamer, for I had seen her land there. Between the two islands there
was a channel not more than twenty rods wide, by which alone the wood
pier could be reached.

The channel had barely depth enough in the middle to permit the
passage of the Adieno; but as it was perfectly straight, and the water
high in the lake, I considered myself competent to take her through.
The boat minded her helm very prettily, and there was no current in
the channel to interfere with my calculations, so that I did not
regard the place as very difficult navigation. I had been through the
channel twenty times in the Splash. The pier ran out from the island
to the deep water, so that I had only to run the bow up to it, and
make fast to the ring. The steamer would be safe here, and, being
concealed between the islands, could only be seen from one point above
and one below; and here we could have our dinner, and hold our
important consultation without the danger of interruption.

I had another and stronger motive for entering this channel, and
without which, perhaps, I might not have had the confidence to run
even the slight risk which the navigation of the passage involved. It
was so fully ground into my bones that the Champion would be after us
about three o'clock, or as soon as she had landed her passengers at
Parkville, that I wished to be fully prepared for any emergency. To
the north of the "North Sister," and to the south of the "South
Sister," the water was shoal for a mile in each direction, while the
channel between the islands seemed to have been kept open by the
strong south-west and north-east winds, as they forced the waters
through. At any rate, there was a channel with five feet of water in
it, though I was not entirely certain in regard to the explanation of
the fact.

The Champion was a larger boat, drawing one foot more water aft than
the Adieno, and therefore could not pass through the channel, or come
within half a mile of the wood pier. My idea was, that in this
position we could not be approached by our anticipated pursuer, as we
lay moored at the wharf. If chased, I might be able to gain on the
Champion by running through The Sisters Channel, which would enable me
to come out two or three miles ahead of her on the opposite side, as
she would be obliged to go a mile, north or south, to get round the
shoal water.

I was so pleased with the calculation I had made, that I could not
help wishing I was employed in a better cause than in fighting the
battle of a parcel of runaway students,--it would have been so
exciting to play the game of strategy in real earnest, and in a good
cause. I plumed myself just then on being a great navigator, and a
shrewd calculator, and I wished to test my plans. It so happened,
however, that they were tested, as the sequel will show.

The Adieno approached the narrow channel, which was just as clearly
defined in my mind as though the bottom of the lake had been laid bare
to me; for I had always been obliged to keep in the deep water even
when I went through in the Splash. As the wind, though not so strong
as it had been in the morning, still came fresh from the north-west, I
hugged the weather side of the channel, and, with the boat at full
speed, went on my course. I was just on the point of ringing one bell
to slow down, when the steamer's wheels suddenly stopped.

"What are you about, Thornton?" shouted Vallington, rushing out of the
engine-room to the forward deck, both excited and angry.

"I'm all right!" I replied, provoked at his singular conduct in
stopping the boat at such a critical point.

"Where are you going? Do you want to run us all ashore?"

"I don't, but I think you do. Go ahead, or we shall be aground in
a moment," I added, as the Adieno was losing her headway, and we were
not yet sheltered by the North Sister from the force of the wind.

"I'm not going any farther into this hole," replied he, sternly. "I
think you are crazy, Thornton, to take the boat into such a place."

"I know what I am about," I answered, rather sharply; "and if you will
take care of the engine, I will look out for the helm."

"You'll smash the boat all to pieces--going into a little, narrow,
dirty channel at full speed."

"I know the channel as well as I know my own name. If you will go
ahead, we shall be all right!" I shouted.

"I won't go ahead any farther into this hole," said he, decidedly.

"O, yes, go ahead," interposed Bob Hale. "Ernest knows what he is
about."

"Perhaps he does; but I want to know what he is about too. I don't
want the steamer smashed or injured."

It was of no use for me to say anything more, and I held my tongue.
The Adieno had now entirely lost her headway, and as the strong wind
began to act on her top works, she drifted over to the lee side of the
channel. She grated a moment on the bottom, and then stuck fast, hard
aground, so far as I could judge.

"There! now do you see what you have done?" shouted Vallington,
stamping his foot angrily upon the deck.

"I see what you have done," I replied, as calmly as I could; and
that was not saying much, for I was very indignant at being charged
with what was plainly his doing.

And there we were, hard and fast aground, with a tempest brewing
between the general and the commodore.




CHAPTER XXIII.

IN WHICH ERNEST TAKES COMMAND OF THE EXPEDITION.


It was useless for me to remain any longer in the wheel-house, and I
descended by the forward ladder to the deck. I was indignant, but I
was determined to "face the music." The best of friends are liable to
"fall out" at times, and no better than Vallington and myself had ever
existed. He was burdened by the responsibility of the position he had
assumed, and perhaps did not feel just right about the course he had
taken. These things may have made him irritable. Though I had never
before known him to be unkind or uncourteous, he had certainly
"pitched into me," on the present occasion, in a manner which my
self-respect would not permit me to endure.

I had been acting, in charge of the wheel, to the best of my ability;
and I was perfectly confident that nothing would have gone wrong with
the steamer if the engineer had not stopped the wheels. However I felt
on the general question of duty, I was quite satisfied that I had been
faithful to the interests of the expedition upon which we had
embarked; and I could not bear to be "snapped up," and treated like an
inferior in knowledge and skill, even by my chosen leader. I was
"chief of navigation," at least; and I felt that the general had
interfered with my part of the work. He accused me of causing the
mischief, when he had been the author of it himself; and this was so
plain to me that I could not help resenting it.

Very likely my face was flushed with anger and excitement when I
confronted Vallington on the forward deck. If it was, his was not less
so, and there was a lively prospect of a "family quarrel." With my
strong consciousness that I had done right, or, at least, intended to
do right, so far as our expedition was concerned, I could have
afforded to refrain from heated expressions; and it would have been
better if I had done so. It is no reason, because one person gets
mad, that another should. It is more dignified, manly, and Christian
for one always to control his temper. Let the truth be spoken
forcibly, if need be, but kindly.

"We are in for a pretty scrape now," said Vallington, sternly and
angrily, as I walked up to him.

"It isn't my fault if we are," I answered, sharply.

"Why do you say it isn't your fault, Thornton? Didn't you pilot the
steamer into this hole?"

"I didn't pilot her aground. When you stopped her there were two or
three feet of water under her keel."

"What did you bring her in here for? If I hadn't stopped her when I
did, you would have smashed her up."

"Perhaps I should," I answered with a sneer, when I found it was
impossible to make any headway against the general's unreasonable
speech.

"You were going at full speed; and it is lucky I happened to see the
shore and stop her when I did."

"I have nothing more to say," I replied, seating myself on the rail of
the steamer.

"I don't think there is much more to be said. Here we are, hard
aground; and anybody that has a mind to come after us can take us."

I made no reply. Vallington went to the gangway and looked over into
the shallow water. Then he walked over to the other side, and I had no
doubt our situation looked hopeless to him. After he had walked about
a while, his anger abated; and perhaps he was conscious that he had
been too fast in expressing himself.

"What's to be done? That's the next question," said he.

"I suppose nothing can be done," replied Tom Rush, who was more
disappointed than any other fellow on board. "They say the Champion
will be down after us this afternoon. Perhaps she will drag us off,
and then our tyrants will treat us as they think proper."

"You needn't disturb yourselves about the Champion," I interposed.
"She can't come within half a mile of us at least."

"Is that so?"

"That is so."

"It doesn't make much difference whether she can or not. We must stay
here till some one helps us out of the scrape," added Vallington. "It
was stupid to come in here."

"I don't think so," said Bob Hale, decidedly.

"Here we are aground, anyhow."

"Harry," continued Bob, gently and kindly, "I think Ernest was right
in what he said. If you hadn't stopped the engine, we should have gone
through well enough."

Vallington bit his lips, and he and Bob walked aft together. They were
absent a few moments; and when he returned, the general's face wore a
different expression.

"Thornton, I acknowledge that I was wrong," said he, extending his
hand to me.

The boys standing around us immediately began to clap their hands in
token of their satisfaction. In matters of navigation they were more
willing to believe in me than in Vallington; and probably most of them
were satisfied that I had been in the right.

"Don't say another word," I replied, jumping down from my seat, and
grasping his offered hand.

"You will excuse my hasty language," he continued.

"Certainly; and I ask the same favor of you," I replied.

"I irritated you, commodore, by my unreasonable words, and I am
willing to bear all the blame."

"You don't deserve it all."

If Vallington had been less noble and manly, we might have had a bad
quarrel; as it was, our differences were promptly healed.

"Now, what's to be done, commodore?" the general proceeded. "I have
got you into the scrape; but I hope you will be able to get out of
it."

"I think I shall," I replied, confidently.

"They say we are to be chased by the Champion this afternoon; but just
now we don't seem to be in condition to be chased even by a scow."

"We are not very hard aground; we only drifted on the shoal bottom;
and if I mistake not, we can work her off. So far as the Champion is
concerned, I am satisfied she will be after us as soon as she has
landed her passengers at Parkville; but that will not be for a couple
of hours yet."

"Then you really expect her."

"I certainly do; and when we float again, I don't care how soon she
comes. I came into this place, which you call a hole, general, simply
to get ready for the Champion; for she draws too much water to pass
through this channel."

"Well, that's a double proof that I have wronged you, and I am all the
more sorry for my unkindness."

"Don't mention that again, Vallington," I replied, touched by his
magnanimity.

"Fellows," said Vallington, turning to the boys, "I resign my
commission as general-in-chief of this expedition."

"No, no!" shouted the students.

"We are on the water now, and it is more proper that the commodore
should have the entire command. When we are on shore again, I will
resume my office. I will obey all the commodore's orders now, and the
rest of you will do the same."

I protested, but the general insisted. We finally agreed to the
proposition, and for the time I became the commander of the
expedition. Our first business was to float the steamer. Vallington
went back to the engine-room, and I resumed my place at the wheel. I
rang to back her, and the paddles slapped the water furiously for a
time, but without producing any effect. The steamer had taken the
ground harder than I supposed. She had run her bow upon the gradual
slope of the bottom till the wheels were powerless to move her.

The boys looked at one another in blank dismay, and seemed to feel
just as though the enemy were to "bag" them, as a sportsman does the
game he has brought down. I did not despair yet. From the wheel-house
I had surveyed the surroundings, and a plan had occurred to me by
which I hoped to work the Adieno out of her uncomfortable position.

"No go," said Vallington, as we met together on the main deck.

"Not yet; but we won't give it up. The bow had dug into the bottom
more than I supposed. We must carry a line ashore, and make fast to
one of those trees; then I think we can pull her off."

Bob Hale, with two others, was sent ashore on the North Sister in the
Splash, carrying the end of a long rope. When he had secured it to a
large tree on the shore, I took the other end, the line passing
through a round hawse-hole forward, and conveyed it aft to the shaft.
After winding it four or five times round the shaft, I told the boys
to haul it taut; and about twenty of them laid hold of the rope to
"take in the slack," if we were fortunate enough to obtain any.

"Bully for you," said Vallington, as he comprehended my arrangement.

"If the rope don't break, something will come," I replied.

I had been obliged to join several ropes, in order to form one long
enough; but having carefully avoided "granny knots," I hoped it would
hold. The bearing of the line was at the hawse-hole, near the bow of
the boat; and as the power was applied to the rope by turning the
wheel and shaft, the tendency was to haul the forward end of the boat
off the ground into the deeper water.

"All ready now, Vallington," I continued, when the preparations were
completed. "Back her slowly."

He started the engine, as I directed.

"Haul taut on that rope!" I shouted to the boys at the line.

The wheels turned, and the shaft revolved. The rope groaned and
strained.

"Stop her!" I added to the engineer, afraid to risk the strain. "Run
aft the chain-box."

My orders were obeyed; and as the boat floated at her stern, the
weight of the chain-box was sensibly felt.

"Back her slowly again," I continued.

Again the rope groaned and strained as though too much was expected of
it.

"She starts!" cried the boys forward. "She is coming off!"

I heard the keel scraping upon the bottom; and as the rope wound up,
the Adieno slid off into the deep water.

"Hurrah!" shouted the boys.

"Let go the rope!" I called to the boys aft. "Stop her, Vallington."

I hastened up to the wheel-house, the better to work her. I found she
lay in good position to go ahead, and I shouted to Bob Hale to cast
off the rope from the tree, directing the boys on the forward deck to
haul it on board. I rang one bell, and the boat moved ahead slowly
towards the wood pier. The boys cheered lustily, and were overjoyed at
our good fortune in getting out of the scrape. In a few moments I ran
the bow of the steamer up to the pier, and she was made fast to the
ring.

"Now we are all hunky-dory," said Tom Rush, who was rather given to
"expressions," and who was overjoyed to find there was still a chance
for an excitement.

"Not quite," I added.

"What's the matter now?"

"We want some dinner."

"You shall have it in half an hour."

And while Tom was superintending the cooking, Vallington, Bob Hale,
and myself had a consultation in the wheel-house.




CHAPTER XXIV.

IN WHICH ERNEST ENGAGES IN AN EXCITING STEAMBOAT RACE.


"If you ask for my opinion," said Bob Hale, "I say we had better
return to Parkville at once, and not wait to be driven back."

"It is easy enough for you to say that," replied Tom Rush, who had
joined us. "You live there, and all you have to do is to go home; but
what are the fellows who reside a hundred miles from there to do?"

"They will not be any worse off there than they will be here. The
question is only between going back and being driven back," added Bob.

"I suppose that we are to acknowledge that breaking away has been a
failure," said Vallington.

"Not at all; I, for one, won't have any more to do with Mr. Parasyte,"
answered Bob. "What do you say, Ernest?"

"I probably shall not go back to the Institute, whatever happens," I
replied. "My breaking away is not from school only, but from all the
home I ever knew. I have been thrown out upon the world, to take care
of myself."

For a moment my friends seemed to forget that we were in council to
determine what should be done for the rebels in their sympathy for me;
but I assured them I was not at all concerned about myself, and felt
abundantly able to make my way without any help.

"But what an old humbug your uncle is!" said Tom.

"He is a strange man. He seemed to have turned me out because I
displeased him in resisting Mr. Parasyte's injustice. He is afraid my
conduct will lessen the value of his mortgage on the Parkville Liberal
Institute."

"I think Mr. Parasyte's conduct has lessened it," said Vallington.
"But all this is neither here nor there. What shall we do with this
steamer?"

"Take her back to Parkville, and leave her there," answered Bob.

"What are the fellows to do?" asked Tom.

"Let them go back to the Institute, and lie back till something
happens."

"I don't believe anything will happen this year," laughed Tom, who was
always light-hearted in any emergency.

"Now, I think something will happen within a few days. I know that
certain persons in Parkville, who have long been dissatisfied with Mr.
Parasyte, intended to have a change months ago; and if I mistake not,
this affair of ours will bring matters to a head," said Bob.

"What can they do? Mr. Parasyte is as obstinate as a mule, and owns
the Institute himself," added Vallington.

"Not quite; my uncle will own the most of it if his note isn't paid,"
I interposed.

"I am not at liberty to tell even what I know, which is not much; but
I believe something will turn up which will put things right at the
Institute. All we have to do is to go back to Parkville and make our
peace with the steamboat folks the best way we can," continued Bob.

We all agreed that the steamboat enterprise was a bad affair for us;
but we were just as unanimous in the opinion that we could not have
done otherwise than take her as we did. It was mean of her captain to
lend himself and his boat to such a man as Mr. Parasyte. We could not
stay on Pine Island without food and without shelter. But we hoped to
return the Adieno uninjured, and, through the powerful influence of
Bob Hale's father, who was the wealthiest man in the county, to escape
without any serious consequences. It was decided, therefore, to return
to Parkville just as soon as we had eaten our dinner.

Tom Rush's cooks were either very dilatory, or they had not got the
hang of the steamer's kitchen, for we had to wait an hour for the
meal. We dined in the cabin, where we found everything we needed to
set the table; and in spite of the desperate condition of our affairs,
we enjoyed ourselves very much. Some one ventured to inquire if we
could not charter the Adieno for a week, and finish our breaking away
in her, it would be so pleasant to live on board, and cruise up and
down the beautiful lake. But it was satisfactorily shown that our
finances, however they might be improved by letters from home, would
not warrant such a piece of extravagance.

This was the last day of the breaking away, at least on the lake and
in camp, and we were disposed to make the most of it. As soon as it
was announced that we were to return to Parkville, though some of the
students murmured, and wished to make a trip down the lake before we
went back, the plan was accepted, and the boys were disposed to
improve the remainder of the cruise. They persisted in enjoying it;
and before the boat left the wood pier, they were skylarking and
training as though the future would require no account to be rendered
of their past conduct.

Vallington went to the engine-room, and directed the boys below to
start up the fires. With Bob Hale I went to the wheel-house; while Tom
Rush, as he had been directed by our chief, had all the dishes washed,
and everything put in order in the cabin and kitchen, for we wished to
leave the boat in as good condition in every respect as we found her.

"Cast off the fasts!" I called to the boys on the forward deck, when
Vallington informed me that he had steam enough.

"All clear!" replied those who were doing duty as deck hands.

I rang to back her; and when the bow of the Adieno was clear of the
wharf, I started her forward slowly; and keeping her in the middle of
the channel, she passed in safety out into the broad lake.

"We are too late; we ought to have gone before," said Bob,
impatiently. "There comes the Champion. I was certain she would be
after us--as certain as you were. What shall we do?"

I headed the Adieno down the lake when I saw the Champion--that is,
away from Parkville.

"We must take our chances; we can't do anything else," I replied to
Bob, as I threw the wheel over.

"But you are not headed for Parkville."

"Not yet; for I don't mean to be captured."

"How can you help it?"

"Perhaps I can't help it; but I can try."

I notified Vallington through the speaking-tube that the Champion was
in sight, and headed towards us.

"We mustn't let her overtake us, if we can help it. I will put on the
steam," he replied.

"All right; I can keep out of her way," I answered.

"Why not surrender?" said Bob, who stood at my side watching the
Champion.

"Surrender!" I exclaimed.

"Why not? What harm will it do?"

"I have no idea of throwing myself into the hands of those steamboat
men. Don't you see the Champion is full of men?"

"Do you suppose they would harm us?"

"I do. No doubt Mr. Parasyte is on board, and he will give them
liberty to maul us as much as they please."

"Perhaps you are right; I didn't think of Mr. Parasyte's being with
them."

"Of course he is; and I think we can make better terms by fighting it
out. For my own part, I would run the steamer ashore and take to the
woods, rather than give myself up to Mr. Parasyte and such a gang as
he has now."

Bob did not fully agree with me, though he thought we had better get
back to Parkville, if we could. This was not an easy matter, for the
Champion lay between us and our destination, and could cut us off if
we attempted to pass her. She could run up alongside of the Adieno, if
we attempted to dodge her, and throw her men on our decks.

The Sisters lay near the middle of the lake, and the Champion must go
to the north or to the south of them. I made a blunder; I ought to
have waited at the end of the channel until our pursuer had reached
his most southern or most northern point in coming round the shoal,
and then gone off in the opposite direction; but even then he might
have put about, and headed us off. It was hard to decide what to do,
and I continued to go to the westward until the Champion, which had
chosen the southern passage, was due south of The Sisters, when I
stood away to the northward.

But the pursuer "had me;" and finding it was useless to attempt to get
by her, I headed the boat down the lake again. The Champion then
crowded on all steam and chased us. This was exactly what I wished her
to do, and I led her five miles down the lake.

"I don't know about it, Ernest," said Bob, shaking his head. "I think
she will catch us. This boat is the fastest, but we don't understand
her well enough to make her do her best."

"I am afraid of that; but don't talk to me, if you please, now," I
replied.

I led the Champion to the northward of an island at this point; and
here her captain made a blunder, which restored to me the advantage I
had lost before. When the Champion was well by the island, I turned
the Adieno to the southward, and went round the island, which
prevented our pursuer from cutting us off, and saving any of the
distance, as he might have done, in the open lake.

"There, Bob, I have done it now, and I am satisfied," I said. "She
can't cut us off, and it will be a square race up the lake."

"The Champion is gaining on us every moment," replied Bob.

[Illustration: THE RACE BETWEEN THE ADIENO AND THE CHAMPION.--Page
275.]

The other steamer was certainly overhauling us. The superior skill of
the men in charge of her gave them the advantage. I told Vallington of
the fact, and soon the roaring of the furnaces and the creaking of
the boat assured me he was in earnest. But in spite of his renewed
exertions, the Champion was gaining a little, and I was sure that she
would overtake us long before we could reach Parkville. I headed her
for The Sisters, therefore, determined to put in force the plan I had
devised before dinner. I ran directly for the channel, and the
Champion followed.

The pursuer was almost upon us when we came within a quarter of a mile
of the end of the channel. Both boats were shaking and trembling under
the high pressure of steam, and every fellow on board the Adieno was
in a fever of excitement.

"Crowd her, Vallington!" I shouted through the tube.

"The Champion's bow is within ten feet of us!" exclaimed Bob.
