tavern ? " 
w Nothin', Stephen. I ain't told nothin' " piteously. 
A strange emotion sped along Stephen's veins. He 
drew the shaky arm within his own. In spite of all, 
there was a bond between them, subtile and strong ; a 
tie of blood that could not be easily rent asunder. This 
life was his to save, or to destroy. Did justice ask it 
at his hands ? What reparation could the utmost of 
this feeble soul and body make ? A solemn tenderness 
came over him, a weak, womanish shrinking. If God 
managed these things in His own way, if He brought 
every evil deed to light some time, why not wait until 
that day came, and not vex himself with vain ques- 
tions ? 
He held up the trembling figure ; he even seemed to 
put new life in the straggling limbs by his own firm 
step. But he did not dare trust himself with a reply. 
He wanted to hear no confession. So they walked up 
to the cottage door, when the old man lagged back, and 
appeared unwilling to enter. 
" It's late," Stephen said, " and you are tired, father." 
Joe sprang up from the settle, where she had fallen 
asleep, rubbed her eyes, and snuffed the candle. 
Stephen lighted another, and took it into his father's 
room, the old man following. And all the while he was 
helping him to bed, he never glanced into his face. Then 
he went up stairs, but not to sleep. All night the man's 
soul travailed in strong agony, though his lips were dry 
and dumb, and could utter no moan. He did not even 
pray to be delivered from any danger, but just endured, 
with a sort of sullen hardihood. At morning's dawn 
he sat there on the window sill, his brow pressed against 
the glass, his eyes strained far over the river, but seeing 
nothing in the gray distance. No promise, no hope. 
 
When Joe had breakfast ready, he forced himself to 
eat. His father was sleeping soundly in the adjoining 
room. It came to Joe, although she was not very 
keen-sighted, that never in her whole life had she seen 
Stephen's face wear such an expression. It chilled her 
into silence. Only when he rose and took down his hat, 
from force of habit, she said, 
"I want some flour, Stephen. I forgot it yesterday. 
You'll have time to stop before you go to work, and 
some one's always there." 
" I wasn't going to the Foundery," he answered, 
slowly. " Did you want a barrel ? " 
"Yes." Then curiosity mastered her. "What's up, 
Stephen?" 
He felt that it must come. Perhaps, indeed, before 
night he would be in jail, and the terrible story in every 
one's mouth. 
" I was discharged yesterday." 
" What for ? What you goin' to do ? " 
"I don't know "-^ in a vague, absent tone. 
" You can't go back ? " 
" No." 
"Tfcat hateful old Vennard ! He'll keep on till he 
drives every man to ruin. I wish he " 
" Hush, Joe." He said it with white, quivering lips. 
Then he turned away. 
Joe left the table as it was, made her own bed, and 
tidied her room, and, hearing no stir on her uncle's 
part, went to Stephen's. His bed in perfect order I 
what did it mean ? How strange Stephen was ! Some- 
thing on his mind always. Looking out of the window, 
she drummed idly on the sash, and speculated. Stephen 
had never been the same since he took to following John 
Gilbert about. And this Adams What had occurred 
at the Foundery? In a blind way she espoused Ste- 
phen's side, whatever the trouble might be. 
She turned, at length, and took up her broom. The 
chimney ran up close by the window, and a long, hang- 
ing dust-web caught her eye. Sweeping it slowly 
down, she espied a book lodged there in the crevice. 
The space was too narrow for fingers. Joe glanced 
around, then broke a twig of woodbine just outside, 
stripped off the leaves, and used it for a lever. The 
book fell into the other hand she was holding for sup- 
port, and some papers fluttered out. Bank bills ! For 
some seconds she was motionless with surprise. 
Josephine Dane had none of that nice honor and del- 
icate self-respect born in some women. She felt that 
of late Stephen had rather defrauded her in the matter 
of confidence ; and if she could learn anything in this 
way, she had no scruples to hold her back. So she 
turned the leaves slowly. 
Thomas Vennard's property. 
Then she counted the money, and replaced it. Five 
hundred dollars. 
She stared around in a blank, puzzled manner. How 
 
did Stephen come by this ? Hidden away, too ! Was 
he a thief? But her cheek burned indignantly at the 
thought. Did he mean to take it back? Had it any- 
thing to do with his being discharged ? Joe's brain was 
in a sad whirl. 
If the money was only theirs ! Why, she had never 
seen half so much together. They could build the new 
room Stephen had been talking about ; they could have 
carpet and chairs ; and may be he would give her a silk 
dress. But then it ought to be a wedding dress ; and 
here Joe sighed. 
She concluded at last that he would surely return it. 
Perhaps he was waiting for Mr. Vennard to offer a re- 
ward. That was right enough. How odd that he should 
have put it just there, and she should have seen it ! If 
she dared tease him a little ! 
She dropped it back into its hiding-place, and swept 
the room. Then, hearing her uncle stumbling about, 
she ran down, with a most innocent face. 
Archy Dane had reached the settle. His blood-shot 
eyes were staring around, with an eager, frightened 
look. His face, was dismally gray, the lips pinched 
and colorless. 
" He's had a buster this time," thought Joe ; but she 
said aloud, "Will you have some breakfast ?" 
"Where's Stephen?" feebly and piteously. 
" Why, it's after seven ; " and Joe forced a short, dis- 
cordant laugh. Was the world being turned upside down ? 
" Stephen's a good boy. He allers was. He won't 
stan' by and see his old father 'bused. Is the Fotmdery 
open, Joe?" 
" Lord ! Why should the Foundery be shut up ? 
You're half fuddled." 
He looked up at her, his eyes glazing over with dull 
terror. 
"I don't want any breakfast, Joe " staggering up. 
"Take me back to bed. And if anybody comes, send 
for Stephen. He'll stan' by me. He's a good boy 
Stephen. He's all I've got ; " and the old man 
maundered on, while Joe cleared away the dishes, her 
usually torpid brain roused to new activity. 
Meanwhile Stephen Dane had gone down the street, 
in a slow, irresolute manner, peering cautiously into the 
faces of those he passed, as he gave his familiar, half- 
abstracted nod. Arrived at the flouring-mill, he went 
in ami did his errand. As he took out his money he 
thought of the hundreds at home with a bright red 
mark upon them. This was honestly earned and free 
from stain. He fingered it with a little manly pride ; 
but as he recalled the bitter sneers that had come with 
it, his brow grew fiercely hot. 
He lingered until the Foundery bell rang. Some one 
said, 
" Taking a holiday, Dane ? " 
He gave a sickly smile, but had not the courage to 
own the truth. Had no one heard ? 
 
Two men halted, seeing him standing in the door. 
One was Forbes. 
"Dane," he asked, "what's the row down yonder? 
Doesn't any one know where Vennard is ? He's plaguy 
close-mouthed ; but he wouldn't go off without a word 
to any one would he ? " 
Stephen Dane made a great effort. " Gone off 
where?" he asked, incredulously. 
"Why, man, haven't you heard? haven't you been 
down to the Foundery ? " 
"No." 
"They're all up in arms. Mrs. Vennard sent over 
he wasn't home last night didn't leave any mes- 
sage. No one can tell anything about him. Fact. You 
needn't look as if you didn't believe a fellow ! " 
"He might have had business," said Dane, speaking 
over a great lump in his throat. 
" He'd a' told time-keeper, any how. And it's mighty 
odd. There's no love lost atween Vennard and some 
o' the men." 
" You don't mean " and Mr. Bross paused amid the 
bags he was lifting. 
" I don't mean anything special," said Forbes. " Only, 
if an accident had happened to him, I know a few who 
wouldn't make their black very expensive. He's a mean 
old niggard. It was a sorry day for Trcgony when he 
came into it. And I'll bless the Lord for the day he goes 
out o' it. I don't see why God lets such men live and 
prosper." 
Forbes was growing excited. Stephen Dane shiv- 
ered. 
"Wasn't he home last night?" asked Mr. Bross. 
"No. And it ain't just his style to go off without a 
word. It looks queer." 
Dane could not endure the talk ; so he stepped out. 
The glare of the sunlight in the street blinded him. 
How strange this glowing wealth of summer appeared, 
when human souls were hourly dying and leaving 
it all ! Then his mind wandered to the secluded spot 
in the river, where some one lay sleeping never to 
waken again. 
Some inexplicable whim dragged him to the Foun- 
dery. His breath came hard and short ; every nerve 
in his body seemed bare and exposed to a biting blast. 
The fearful expectation of something kept his senses 
alert and keen, yet his outward self was 'as rigid as if 
slowly turning to stone. 
No gate-keeper peering suspiciously out at the en- 
trance. A knot of men in the office groups else- 
where, talking and gesticulating, their faces full of 
dumb wonder. What if he went to his place and 
worked as usual? A whole day's idleness would drive 
him crazy. He paused in the wide doorway. 
"Pretty work this, Dane !" ejaculated a gruff fore- 
man. "Everybody's about cracked, I think. As if 
 
Vennard didn't know his own business ! There'll be a 
nice breeze when he comes back. What you gaping 
there for ? You was off all yesterday afternoon. Go 
to work." 
Then the man did not know he had been discharged. 
He hung up his hat and coat, tied on his leathern apron, 
and went to work with a resolute will. Yet his mind 
was full of busy thoughts an island floating in a dim 
sea of space, with no sure rock for foundation. 
By noon the excitement had increased. About four 
on the preceding afternoon Mr. Vennard had been seen 
to leave the Foundery. He had gone to the office of 
Slocum & Adsley, to discuss the new mill, and had 
promised to view the site, and give his opinion of it. 
No one had seen him since. The place had been 
searched, but not a vestige discovered. Inquiries had 
been made everywhere. Mr. Ellicott had telegraphed 
to several business friends in the city. The town au- 
thorities had even taken up the matter. He surely was 
not in Tregony. 
Stephen Dane drew a long breath of 'relief. The 
place had been searched, then ! What had led him to 
destroy that sure evidence, that inanimate tongue whose 
wordless story would have been certain proof? A 
strange awe fell upon him. What if God meant to 
save him? For now he must believe in something 
higher and stronger than mere blind chance. 
No one remarked his silence. He took his way 
through the groups unnoticed. He was glad to have 
Adams still absent ; for friendly eyes are often keen. 
What of his father through all this long morning? 
He almost dreaded to enter the house. 
An expression in Joe's face startled him. Those 
slow-moving brown eyes were quickened with a sense 
of fear or suspicion. He turned pale through all the 
grime and heat. 
"Where have you been all the morning?" she asked, 
excitedly. 
" To work." 
"Why, they say Mr. Vennard is that he has no 
one can find him. Is it so, Stephen?" 
Her voice sank to a terrified whisper. 
"What's the matter?" he exclaimed, roughly, more 
to regain his own self-possession than to startle her. 
" Can't a man go off if he likes ? Where's father ? " 
" He's sick, and wouldn't eat any breakfast," Joe said, 
sulkily. 
What is it fever ? Does he talk ? " 
Stephen was washing his face and hands and wiping 
them on the coarse towel. Did this girl know or sus- 
pect? Had she penetrated the poor old man's secret? 
"Mutters to himself that's all. Guess he was 
pretty drunk last night." 
Stephen winced, but went straight to the bedroom. 
His father moved uneasily, and drew the soiled counter- 
pane over his head. 
 
" You're sick, father." The tone was tender and re- 
assuring. 
"Yes, Stephen, sick," was the quavering reply. 
" What can I do for you ? " 
"Nothin', Stephen, nothin'. I'm gettin' to be a 
feeble old man. Le' me lay here and rest." 
All this time he had not once turned his eyes towards 
his son. 
"I think rest will be the best medicine," was the 
decisive answer " After a few days' quiet you will 
come around all right again ; " and Stephen gave the 
withered hand a pressure that said so much. It com- 
forted the poor soul suffering all the remorse and agony 
possible for such a nature. If Stephen suspected his 
secret, it was in safe keeping. 
"Have you been to work, Stephen?" Joe asked, as 
he seated himself at the table. 
" Yes. I went down there, and Bartow told me to 
go to work. Vennard hasn't been in all the morning. 
There's a precious row about him." 
"And Mrs. Vennard is taking on like a crazy 
woman ! Sally Fawcett says she'll bet anything that 
that " 
" That what? " Stephen stirred his coffee impatiently. 
" That he's been murdered ! " Joe's tone dropped to 
a whisper, and she glanced around fearfully. 
" Well," Stephen replied, slowly, " Vennard has 
made some bitter enemies j but a man must hate another 
pretty fiercely to murder him in cold blood. Hard 
blows are sometimes given in a quarrel, but they can't 
prove that against any one. Slocum was the last man 
who saw him." 
" They've been searching haven't they ? Down by 
theP'int?" 
"Yes. They fancied he might have gone to view 
the new mill-site. And they are sending everywhere." 
" What do you think of it, Stephen?" 
Joe dared not raise her eyes from her plate. 
"I don't want to think just now. It looks very 
mysterious; but Vennard was. a close man, not much 
given to telling his plans. If he should come back this 
afternoon " 
" If he shouldn't what then ? " 
" I should begin to suspect foul play. Saturday is an 
important day for him." 
Stephen's tones were calm and measured. Some- 
how he began to distrust Joe, and thought it best to 
allay any vague suspicious. 
" Stephen," the old man called as he rose. "What's 
come o' Mr. Vennard ? " The eyes seemed starting out 
of their deep sockets. 
" No one knows." Stephen cleared his throat, and 
told the story, the surmises, and the search. 
" Didn't they find nothin' ? " Each word came 
with a gasp. 
"Not a fragment. Not a trace " 
 
"Wouldn't they hunt everywhere? Wouldn't they 
turn an' twist, an' drag an? scour? He's a great man, 
Stephen. Folks 'll do a sight for rich 'uns. And may 
be some one 'll be took up for his murder." 
How the watery eyes glared on Stephen ! The thin 
hand clutched his arm, and the gaunt figure partially 
raised itself. 
Stephen laid him gently back on the pillow. 
"You must not excite yourself so. It will be time 
enough to talk of that when they find the body. Will 
you promise to lie still here, and try to sleep? You're 
weak and tired. I'll come back early." 
" Yes, I'll be still." He said it in a fearful whisper. 
Stephen had one more errand. He went to his room, 
and peered into the chink of the chimney. There was 
the book. With his knife he slipped it out. It needed 
a secure hiding-place. For it might happen that the 
real agent in this terrible drama would escape scot 
free. God held them all in the hollow of His hand. 
He had a right to take every precaution. 
He carried the book out with him. Loitering around 
with an observant eye, he discovered a broken place at 
the root of the woodbine. The old house was falling 
into ruin. He pushed in the book, and patched up 
the place with a stone, dragging the clustering vines 
over it. 
When he was out of sight, Joe ran up to his chamber. 
The chink had been despoiled. What had Stephen 
Dane to do with the disappearance of Thomas Vennarcl ? 
She shivered with dread of the awful secret that had 
come into her possession. If Stephen but no, she 
would not believe it. 
It was a strange afternoon in Tregony a strange 
day, indeed. A shudder pervaded the very atmosphere. 
Voices dropped together in a lower key, and eyes 
glanced into each other with vague questioning. Every 
man felt the subtile influence amid the din and smoke. 
As if the eye that had watched them so vigilantly would 
watch them no more. As if the solid, iron-like figure, 
peering here and there, haunting every place with a 
sort of ubiquity, would never ferret out any more delin- 
quencies. 
There were moments when Stephen Dane waited 
breathlessly for some one to accuse him. How strange 
that no one knew of his discharge of the altercation 
between him and Mr. Vennard ! No one asked where 
he had been the preceding afternoon. No one had 
missed him, perhaps. One of those odd circumstances 
in which there seems a peculiar fate or shall we call 
it by its right name ? Providence ! 
The day ended at last. He found his father weaker, 
and evidently wandering in his mind. He could not 
help thinking death would be the best end for this 
tragedy. It would take the stain of one foul deed out 
of the world, and leave only a pitiful remembrance of 
the man he had called father. Father ! Faugh ! Did 
 
any such sluggish and corrupt blood flow through his 
veins ? 
But if he died here without any assistance, such 
as he might justly claim, would Stephen be entirely 
guiltless ? Would not wishing him out of the way, and 
raising no hand to keep the feeble flame alive, amount 
in another way to murder ? Because he could see how 
much better it would be for the grave to close over this 
secret, he knew it was his duty to bide God's time. 
Did God have anything to do with such poor miserable 
souls? 
He was tender as a woman, this great, brawny man. 
He went to the doctor's, and afterwards sat up far into 
the summer night, administering medicines and bath- 
ing the burning hands and face with cool spring water ; 
smoothing back the straggling hair, and arranging the 
tumbled pillows. Now and then the quivering lips 
moved, or the vacant eyes gave a questioning stare ; 
but the secret that lay between father and child was 
never touched upon. I think the old man accepted, in 
a sort of blind way, his safety, and was content to be 
taken into the keeping of his strong and patient son. 
VI, 
SAVED. 
THE next day was Sunday. Stephen was intensely 
thankful. The quiet, the soft chiming of church 
bells, the long day with no surmises and excitements. 
Adams came in the afternoon, but ascribed Stephen's 
abstracted air to his night's watching and care for his 
father. 
Archy Dane fell into a stupor. A sort of torpid life 
that was not conscious of any physical want, only an 
intense mental hungering after his son. That was told 
more by beseeching glances, than words. Even Joe 
became aware of a new bond between them. 
She kept her own counsel. One mighty feeling 
swayed her love for Stephen. She was weak, 
curious, and given to gossiping; but in this matter 
not all the tortures of the Inquisition could have 
extorted one surmise from her. 
On Monday the world took up its old routine. Each 
day suspicion of murder became stronger. The woods 
were searched anew, the river dragged at the Point. 
No success. 
Five days afterwards some children went to the 
lower part of the town to gather huckleberries, that 
were just ripening. An area of several acres of timber 
had been cleared and burned over, and the bushes, with 
their usual tendency, had covered the spot. The river 
made a decided circuit here ; the shore was shallow, and 
bordered by low-growing swamp cedars. 
One adventurous youth sallied out to explore the place 
and gather some attractive wild flowers. Wading over 
the moss-grown stones, peering, into shaded coves, and 
startling the little fishes from their repose, he at last 
came upon a sight that filled him with wildest terror. 
One shriek of dismay, and he rushed back to the group 
pale and breathless. 
"A man," he exclaimed, when he could find his 
tongue. " A drownded man in the water, and his face 
all big and white ! " 
"You're crazy, Charley. Frightened by a stone," 
said one of the larger girls. 
" I ain't, neither. 'Twan't no stone. I see his face 
and his hair." 
" I don't believe it.' 
"Come and see for yourself," said the indignant 
hero. 
But most of the group hung back, glancing at each 
other with great, frightened eyes. Presently some of 
the more courageous ventured to follow Charley. He 
went along plucky enough until he neared the fatal 
spot ; then he looked around to see if they were 
following. 
" There ! " His finger pointed through the trees. 
A ghastly, upturned face, swollen to twice its natural 
size ! No wonder screams of affright broke from those 
young lips, and that some should obey their first 
impulse of flight. Others gazed in white terror, as if 
fascinated. 
When it came to them that this was Mr. Vennard's 
body, they hurried home with the tidings. An hour 
afterwards, the whole town was in wild excitement. 
There was a cut on the temple of such force that it 
had fractured the bone, and three discolored spots at 
the throat, as if marked by fingers in the death strug- 
gle. His watch and pocket-book were found upon his 
person. The motive had not been plunder. 
A coroner's jury were summoned immediately. It 
was in session that day and the next, and returned a 
verdict of " wilful murder." 
Stephen took home the news, to Joe's great gratifica- 
tion ; for since her uncle's illness her daily allowance 
of gossip had been abridged. He had become used to 
his burden in some degree ; so he was able to master his 
voice in telling the details. 
" It seems robbery wasn't the object," he said, with 
 
emphasis. "I'm sorry for any man who has ever had 
a quarrel with him." 
A light came into the wan face of Archy Dane. 
Stephen would fain have gone to his own room that 
night, but the wistful eyes followed him about. The 
old bleared look of intoxication had grown fainter during 
these few days. 
"Don't go; don't leave me, Stephen;" and he 
stretched out his skeleton hand. There was a world of 
entreaty in the voice. 
" I think you will sleep to-night." 
" I can't stay here alone ; " and he started up in vague 
terror. "If you could see no, it ain't devils ! But 
he'll drag me out with him. Save me, Stephen ! " 
The eyes dilated. The worn frame trembled with 
wild excitement. The very fingers shook as if with an 
ague. 
"I'll stay. I thought you were better. But I see 
you cannot do without your clumsy nurse ; " and Stephen 
tried to smile. 
"You shall have part of my bed. Don't leave me, 
Stephen." 
"There, be quiet. I'll sleep here, on the settle." 
" Bolt the door. Do you think any one will come ? " 
and the eyes glared like fire. 
" Why, no. It's all right now. Drink this ; " and he 
gave him a composing draught. 
By morning he had-sunk back into the old stupor. 
It was best, and gave Stephen a feeling of greater 
safety. 
Then came a new shock. Forbes had been arrested 
for the murder. Since his discharge from the Foundery, 
he had been fierce in his denunciations of Mr. Vennard, 
and more than once used threatening language. He 
had been among the first to suspect murder. 
It is strange how circumstances can be twisted and 
tortured even with a semblance of truth. Stephen 
Dane had been summoned as a witness, and was there 
in his place. He had heard Forbes's triumphant asser- 
tion that he could prove an alibi ; he knew him in- 
nocent ; yet he felt, but for that, he must have been 
tempted to believe him guilty. I cannot describe to 
you the cruel anguish of his mind as he listened to 
the evidence. Forbes must be acquitted. If no other 
way 
His mind wandered from the jury and the witnesses. 
At home there was a poor feeble life, scarcely worth 
the%aving; but some tie of blood strong upon him, 
some strange pity or fine sense of honor, bade him save 
it. The sacrifice was fearful. Youth, health, man- 
hood's strength and ambition, revolted. He .was in- 
nocent too. Much might be done with his own life ; 
but this other, come to the muddy, vapid dregs, what 
was it worth ? Could he do it ? Every pulse mutinied. 
A disgraceful death, or a felon's miserable existence in 
some foul prison. O God ! O God !
 
He reached up his hands. He wanted to take hold 
of something stronger than himself. In his over- 
whelming agony he prayed. At this crisis of his life 
there must be a God. He could not do without one. 
Stephen Dane ! " 
He arose like one dazed. He made a step forward, 
relieved to find his incompetency was more mental than 
physical. But he seemed to have no feet, no will to 
guide himself, no strength. 
Somehow he found his place. How much was the 
"whole truth"? 
" Did you see Forbes the day he was discharged ? " 
That recalled Stephen's wandering brain. With a 
strong effort he steadied his mind. 
"Yes." 
" Did he use threatening or abusive language ? " 
"He was angry. I did not stop to hear what he 
said ; " and Stephen's breath came in slow gasps. His 
very brain wavered with the effort to distinguish be- 
tween necessity and right, and the desire not to ajftact 
suspicion to himself. 
"Do you know whether he had made any threats 
before?" 
"I never heard him.' 
He was glad he could say this, though he knew 
Forbes had been one of the loud talkers at the 
tavern. 
"You were in Bross's Mill the morning after the 
disappearance. Forbes hinted that something had 
happened to Mr. Vennard did he not?" 
"He spoke of an accident, I think. We were all 
excited ; " and Stephen's throat constricted at the re- 
membrance. 
" Was there not something suspicious in his conduct 
an exultation at the idea of Mr. Vennard's death ? " 
It was a cruel thrust for the witness. Great drops 
of perspiration started to his forehead. He felt, too, 
that a keen eye was upon him. 
" He might have expressed some gratification. It is 
very natural when a man has ground you to the last 
notch ; " and Stephen turned at bay in a desperate fashion. 
"What did he say?" 
"I don't remember; " which was ifue enough. He 
had a confused general impression, but could not recall 
any distinct sentence. " I do not think he talked or 
acted like a guilty man ; " and there was a sharp ring in 
Stephen's voice. Forbes, following him eagerly, gave 
an inward thanksgiving for this good turn. It seemed 
as if everything had gone so positively against him 
until now. 
Several more irrelevant questions, and he returned to 
his seat. 
Another witness, and in that brief while Stephen 
Dane lived ages. Then his resolve was taken. If 
they committed Forbes, he would tell them where they 
could find the memorandum-book, and declare the man 
innocent. Further he need not say. Heaven knew 
that would be sufficient. If and there had been 
many times when he had despised that feeble old man 
at home if he had failed in duty (and God knew he 
had) he would make amends for all now. He gave 
himself up into God's hands. Honor, respect, and 
success were dear, but he relinquished them. Just as 
God willed, he prayed humbly. 
What was it? He began to follow the testimony in 
a weak, uncertain way. Two men swore to being with 
Forbes all the afternoon ; one of them walked home 
with him. After supper he went to the doctor's for 
some medicine, as his mother had a "poor turn." He 
brought it back himself, and remained at home after that. 
Then came a rigorous cross-examination. The tes- 
timony of the witnesses could not be shaken. There 
was no weak spot or flaw in it. The jury retired. 
After the shuffling of feet had subsided, there was a 
dead, awful calm. Forbes glanced about with an un- 
concerned air. Dane knew it for innocence ; but more 
than one pronounced it hardihood. 
Turn it about in whatever light they might, there was 
not sufficient evidence to commit the prisoner. So they 
came in with a reluctant verdict of acquittal, which left 
the matter more of a mystery than ever. 
During this period the Foundery was closed, and 
preparations made for the funeral. The men, having 
nothing to do, congregated in groups, discussing the 
murder with great spirit, and offering many curious 
surmises. Forbes's acquittal had been received with 
cheers ; yet I am not sure but more than one there 
present, would have taken a grim satisfaction in a differ- 
ent verdict. Human nature hates mysteries that baffle 
it continually. There is a sense of justice in every 
heart that can be appeased only when the perpetrator 
of so monstrous a crime is brought to light. 
Stephen Dane walked slowly homeward, greatly re- 
lieved, it must be confessed, and yet sorely puzzled. 
Did he have any duty in this matter ? Had the God in 
whom he trusted really interposed and saved him ? For 
it might easily have happened that Forbes could not 
have been substantiated in his account of the time. He, 
as innocent, must have suffered. 
From the very beginning Providence had, so to speak, 
interposed. If Archy Dane had kept the money and the 
papers, he would have blundered upon the secret some- 
how. If there had been any witness to his last conver- 
sation with Mr. Vennard, and the fact of his discharge, 
suspicion would certainly have directed itself towards 
him. If his father had been well during this time of 
wild excitement, could he have kept his fatal secret? 
And now, if the old man paid his life for this one that 
he had taken, the justice of Heaven would certainly be 
satisfied, if that on earth remained forever unappeased. 
"\Vhat hard, knotty problems these were. He was not 
used to such perplexing brain-work ! Right and wrong 
 
began to have a strange significance for him. A man's 
duty was something broader and higher than he had 
thought it six months ago. 
He walked wearily homeward. Life itself seemed a 
mockery. The discrepancy between the lofty impulses 
of the soul, its tender longings, its hungry ambitions, 
and the mean, low circumstances by which it is sur-. 
rounded ; the discouragements that follow its highest 
efforts ; the dreary visions that meet it when it is most 
in need of hope and strength. After all, were not 
those who settled in a lower groove, and remained there 
contentedly, the best and safest, and certainly the hap- 
piest ? 
Joe stood in the door. It was a scorching hot day, 
but Stephen wiped something more than perspiration 
from his brow. 
" How did it go ? " 
" Forbes was acquitted." 
"Of course. You never believed he had a hand in 
it, Stephen?" 
"No." He dared not face the eyes watching him. 
With a sort of sickly, uneasy smile, he subjoined, 
"They've offered a thousand dollars reward for the 
murderer." 
"I don't believe they'll find him." 
"There will not be a stone left unturned, I can tell 
you. Every one who has ever made a threat will be 
watched and suspected." 
" You haven't, Stephen ? " 
What did this girl know? Why, she was worse 
than the twelve jurymen. 
" I shouldn't like to be held to a strict account for any 
chance word. There's been a good deal of hard talk, 
first and last ; though I should come to a pretty tight 
pass in my life before I'd stain it with such a black deed. 
Old Mr. Ellicott's been taken with paralysis." 
" It's dreadful ; " and Joe shivered. " Mrs. Vennard's 
going on like a crazy woman. No one seems to care 
about the child ; but I suppose she doesn't half under- 
stand it." 
"No," said Stephen, briefly, going in to his father. 
The weak, wandering eyes gave a faint sign of rec- 
ognition. What had been passing over yonder he 
neither knew, nor cared to know. Stephen felt the 
pulse a faint thread. For days he had taken only 
the slightest nourishment. At this rate the weak frame 
would soon be worn out. It was best so. And if he 
could never come to a sense of the awful deed he had 
committed How far did God's mercy extend ? 
He took up the tattered fan, and commenced brush- 
ing away the flies. Joe, just outside the door, had been 
having a good cry ; why she hardly knew. Now that 
she felt better, she came in, and, stirring among the 
ashes, began "to kindle the fire. Eating was a stern 
demand of nature. But Joe's heart was going through 
a fierce struggle for Stephen. How much we suffer for 
one another ! 
 
Stephen fell into deep thought. After it was all 
over his duty here he meant to try the world ; to 
dare a hard battle, and win something. This secret 
buried in the grave, there would be no phantom to 
haunt him, to dog his steps with that uneasy sense of 
danger. He would board Joe in some pleasant family, 
and feel free to use his time and his energy for himself. 
He was young and strong, used to work, willing to 
wait. In ten years he would still be a young man ; 
but at thirty-three he meant to stand on some higher 
plane than this. 
Joe, little dreaming how she had been discarded from 
the fortune Stephen was to carve out for himself, 
yearned over him in her passionate tenderness, and 
whispered to herself between her sighs, "It's all the 
same to me. If the whole world believed it against 
you, 'twouldn't alter my love." 
A curious lull fell over Tregony. The murder, so 
daring and inexplicable, became shrouded in a sort of 
awe. Mr. Ellicott died ; and a cousin of Mrs. Ven- 
nard came down to offer his condolence and assist- 
ance. Nothing could be done at present at the Foun- 
dery. So the whole town seemed idle, but wonderfully 
quiet. Men spoke in lower tones. There was no fierce 
denunciation of the one who had rendered himself so 
universally disliked by the lower class. All the women 
felt a grief and pity for Mrs. Vennard, doubly bereaved, 
but ended their regrets in a way true to human nature. 
" 'Tain't so hard for her as 'twould be for one o' us. 
She's plenty o' money. She won't know much about 
want." 
Which was very just. 
Stephen Dane remained at home, mostly.' The town 
talk was to him a dagger thrust into a fresh wound. 
Adams dropped in frequently ; but his conversation ran 
in a different channel. 
"Dane," he said one evening, as they sat out on a 
large stone, smoking, "Dane, I've an idea that might 
be worked up to profit for both of us. What's the 
good of your spending all your life here in Tregony ? " 
"I don't mean to. I'd leave it to-morrow, if I 
could." 
"There's no telling anything about the Foundery. 
I have a little money, and if you could raise as much, 
we might go to Philadelphia and commence business in 
a small way. I've some friends there that would be of 
service. I tried the experiment once before, but didn't 
succeed ; " knocking the ashes out of his pipe, with a 
grim smile. " It was with a fellow who had a weakness 
for a fast horse ; rather expensive, you see ; and he 
just cleaned me all out. I think .we might make it go. 
You're an honest man, Dane, in other matters beside 
money." 
"How much capital?" was Dane's brief query. 
"I have about a thousand dollars. It would be a 
small beginning, to be sure ; " with a doubtful com- 
 
pression of the lips ; M but we're both practical workmen. 
We shouldn't need any help for some time, and if we 
didn't earn quite wages in the beginning we haven't 
either of us any expensive habits." 
"No. I'd be willing to live on a crust and cold 
water." 
"You're a plucky fellow. I like that in you. I tell 
you, Dane," and he brought his fist forcibly down on 
his knee, "you are just the kind of man that succeeds. 
When you get hold of an idea, there's no let up to 
your grip. A man needs just that patient, dogged sort 
of perseverance to accomplish anything. And I believe 
you can make Vennard's theory .work. I've been 
studying over that cut-off of yours, and the steam-chest. 
There's a secret of success somewhere in it. We could 
try experiments on a small scale until pretty sure. I 
know some scientific men there, who would take a 
young beginner by the hand." 
How plausible all this looked ! He had been wishing 
for some friend to give him a lift. This first step was 
so hard ! But the money could he wring it out of 
these stones? 
Just there, at the. root of the woodbine, lay five 
hundred dollars. No stir had been made about it ; 
perhaps, indeed, it had not been missed. He had 
racked his brains with vain projects to restore it un- 
observed. Mrs. Vennard had enough, surely. If he 
should borrow it for a few years ? 
He drew his breath hard. The man seemed sorely 
beset on every side. 
"If I could raise the money," he said, slowly. 
" O, you can between this and the first of September. 
If you left Tregony, you'd sell the place, of course?" 
"Yes." 
"There doesn't seem much hope for your father, 
Dane ? " 
"No. And after that, I'd planned to go away." 
"Five weeks." Adams's voice dropped into a musing 
tone. "The August dog-days 'll go hard with him. 
He's only a shadow now. Suppose I should go to 
Philadelphia, Dane, and look around a little." 
