“Why did you ask E.S. here?” demanded Treherne.
“My dear fellow, how could I help it? My mother wanted the general, my
father’s friend, and of course his wife must be asked also. I couldn’t
tell my mother that the lady had been a most arrant coquette, to put it
mildly, and had married the old man in a pet, because my cousin and I
declined to be ruined by her.”
“You could have told her what mischief she makes wherever she goes,
and for Octavia’s sake have deferred the general’s visit for a time. I
warn you, Jasper, harm will come of it.”
“To whom, you or me?”
“To both, perhaps, certainly to you. She was disappointed once when she
lost us both by wavering between your title and my supposed fortune. She
is miserable with the old man, and her only hope is in his death, for he
is very feeble. You are free, and doubly attractive now, so beware, or
she will entangle you before you know it.”
“Thanks, Mentor. I’ve no fear, and shall merely amuse myself for a
week--they stay no longer.” And with a careless laugh, Sir Jasper
strolled away.
“Much mischief may be done in a week, and this is the beginning of it,”
 muttered Treherne, as he raised himself to look under the bronze vase
for the note. It was gone!
Chapter III
WHO WAS IT?
Who had taken it? This question tormented Treherne all that sleepless
night. He suspected three persons, for only these had approached the
fire after the note was hidden. He had kept his eye on it, he thought,
till the stir of breaking up. In that moment it must have been removed
by the major, Frank Annon, or my lady; Sir Jasper was out of the
question, for he never touched an ornament in the drawing room since he
had awkwardly demolished a whole étagère of costly trifles, to
his mother’s and sister’s great grief. The major evidently suspected
something, Annon was jealous, and my lady would be glad of a pretext to
remove her daughter from his reach. Trusting to his skill in reading
faces, he waited impatiently for morning, resolving to say nothing to
anyone but Mrs. Snowdon, and from her merely to inquire what the note
contained.
Treherne usually was invisible till lunch, often till dinner; therefore,
fearing to excite suspicion by unwonted activity, he did not appear till
noon. The mailbag had just been opened, and everyone was busy over their
letters, but all looked up to exchange a word with the newcomer, and
Octavia impulsively turned to meet him, then checked herself and hid her
suddenly crimsoned face behind a newspaper. Treherne’s eye took in
everything, and saw at once in the unusually late arrival of the mail a
pretext for discovering the pilferer of the note.
“All have letters but me, yet I expected one last night. Major, have you
got it among yours?” And as he spoke, Treherne fixed his penetrating
eyes full on the person he addressed.
With no sign of consciousness, no trace of confusion, the major
carefully turned over his pile, and replied in the most natural manner,
“Not a trace of it; I wish there was, for nothing annoys me more than
any delay or mistake about my letters.”
He knows nothing of it, thought Treherne, and turned to Annon, who was
deep in a long epistle from some intimate friend, with a talent for
imparting news, to judge from the reader’s interest.
“Annon, I appeal to you, for I must discover who has robbed me of
my letter.”
“I have but one, read it, if you will, and satisfy yourself” was the
brief reply.
“No, thank you. I merely asked in joke; it is doubtless among my lady’s.
Jasper’s letters and mine often get mixed, and my lady takes care of his
for him. I think you must have it, Aunt.”
Lady Treherne looked up impatiently. “My dear Maurice, what a coil about
a letter! We none of us have it, so do not punish us for the sins of
your correspondent or the carelessness of the post.”
She was not the thief, for she is always intensely polite when she
intends to thwart me, thought Treherne, and, apologizing for his
rudeness in disturbing them, he rolled himself to his nook in a sunny
window and became apparently absorbed in a new magazine.
Mrs. Snowdon was opening the general’s letters for him, and, having
finished her little task, she roamed away into the library, as if in
search of a book. Presently returning with one, she approached Treherne,
and, putting it into his hand, said, in her musically distinct voice,
“Be so kind as to find for me the passage you spoke of last night. I am
curious to see it.”
Instantly comprehending her stratagem, he opened it with apparent
carelessness, secured the tiny note laid among the leaves, and,
selecting a passage at hazard, returned her book and resumed his own.
Behind the cover of it he unfolded and read these words:
    I understand, but do not be anxious; the line I left was merely
    this--“I must see you alone, tell me when and where.” No one can
    make much of it, and I will discover the thief before dinner. Do
    nothing, but watch to whom I speak first on entering, when we meet
    in the evening, and beware of that person.
Quietly transferring the note to the fire with the wrapper of the
magazine, he dismissed the matter from his mind and left Mrs. Snowdon
to play detective as she pleased, while he busied himself about his
own affairs.
It was a clear, bright December day, and when the young people separated
to prepare for a ride, while the general and the major sunned themselves
on the terrace, Lady Treherne said to her nephew, “I am going for an
airing in the pony carriage. Will you be my escort, Maurice?”
“With pleasure,” replied the young man, well knowing what was in
store for him.
My lady was unusually taciturn and grave, yet seemed anxious to say
something which she found difficult to utter. Treherne saw this, and
ended an awkward pause by dashing boldly into the subject which
occupied both.
“I think you want to say something to me about Tavie, Aunt. Am I right?”
“Yes.”
“Then let me spare you the pain of beginning, and prove my sincerity by
openly stating the truth, as far as I am concerned. I love her very
dearly, but I am not mad enough to dream of telling her so. I know that
it is impossible, and I relinquish my hopes. Trust me. I will keep
silent and see her marry Annon without a word of complaint, if you will
it. I see by her altered manner that you have spoken to her, and that my
little friend and nurse is to be mine no longer. Perhaps you are wise,
but if you do this on my account, it is in vain--the mischief is done,
and while I live I shall love my cousin. If you do it to spare her, I am
dumb, and will go away rather than cause her a care or pain.”
“Do you really mean this, Maurice?” And Lady Treherne looked at him with
a changed and softened face.
Turning upon her, Treherne showed her a countenance full of suffering
and sincerity, of resignation and resolve, as he said earnestly, “I do
mean it; prove me in any way you please. I am not a bad fellow, Aunt,
and I desire to be better. Since my misfortune I’ve had time to test
many things, myself among others, and in spite of many faults, I do
cherish the wish to keep my soul honest and true, even though my body be
a wreck. It is easy to say these things, but in spite of temptation, I
think I can stand firm, if you trust me.”
“My dear boy, I do trust you, and thank you gratefully for this
frankness. I never forget that I owe Jasper’s life to you, and never
expect to repay that debt. Remember this when I seem cold or unkind, and
remember also that I say now, had you been spared this affliction, I
would gladly have given you my girl. But--”
“But, Aunt, hear one thing,” broke in Treherne. “They tell me that any
sudden and violent shock of surprise, joy, or sorrow may do for me what
they hope time will achieve. I said nothing of this, for it is but a
chance; yet, while there is any hope, need I utterly renounce Octavia?”
“It is hard to refuse, and yet I cannot think it wise to build upon a
chance so slight. Once let her have you, and both are made unhappy, if
the hope fail. No, Maurice, it is better to be generous, and leave her
free to make her own happiness elsewhere. Annon loves her, she is
heart-whole, and will soon learn to love him, if you are silent. My poor
boy, it seems cruel, but I must say it.”
“Shall I go away, Aunt?” was all his answer, very firmly uttered, though
his lips were white.
“Not yet, only leave them to themselves, and hide your trouble if you
can. Yet, if you prefer, you shall go to town, and Benson shall see that
you are comfortable. Your health will be a reason, and I will come, or
write often, if you are homesick. It shall depend on you, for I want to
be just and kind in this hard case. You shall decide.”
“Then I will stay. I can hide my love; and to see them together will
soon cease to wound me, if Octavia is happy.”
“So let it rest then, for a time. You shall miss your companion as
little as possible, for I will try to fill her place. Forgive me,
Maurice, and pity a mother’s solicitude, for these two are the last of
many children, and I am a widow now.”
Lady Treherne’s voice faltered, and if any selfish hope or plan
lingered in her nephew’s mind, that appeal banished it and touched his
better nature. Pressing her hand he said gently, “Dear Aunt, do not
lament over me. I am one set apart for afflictions, yet I will not be
conquered by them. Let us forget my youth and be friendly counselors
together for the good of the two whom we both love. I must say a word
about Jasper, and you will not press me to explain more than I can
without breaking my promise.”
“Thank you, thank you! It is regarding that woman, I know. Tell me all
you can; I will not be importunate, but I disliked her the instant I saw
her, beautiful and charming as she seems.”
“When my cousin and I were in Paris, just before my illness, we met her.
She was with her father then, a gay old man who led a life of pleasure,
and was no fit guardian for a lovely daughter. She knew our story and,
having fascinated both, paused to decide which she would accept: Jasper,
for his title, or me, for my fortune. This was before my uncle changed
his will, and I believed myself his heir; but, before she made her
choice, something (don’t ask me what, if you please) occurred to send us
from Paris. On our return voyage we were wrecked, and then came my
illness, disinheritance, and helplessness. Edith Dubarry heard the
story, but rumor reported it falsely, and she believed both of us had
lost the fortune. Her father died penniless, and in a moment of despair
she married the general, whose wealth surrounds her with the luxury she
loves, and whose failing health will soon restore her liberty--”
“And then, Maurice?” interrupted my lady.
“She hopes to win Jasper, I think.”
“Never! We must prevent that at all costs. I had rather see him dead
before me, than the husband of such a woman. Why is she permitted to
visit homes like mine? I should have been told this sooner,” exclaimed
my lady angrily.
“I should have told you had I known it, and I reproved Jasper for his
neglect. Do not be needlessly troubled, Aunt. There is no blemish on
Mrs. Snowdon’s name, and, as the wife of a brave and honorable man, she
is received without question; for beauty, grace, or tact like hers can
make their way anywhere. She stays but a week, and I will devote myself
to her; this will save Jasper, and, if necessary, convince Tavie of my
indifference--” Then he paused to stifle a sigh.
“But yourself, have you no fears for your own peace, Maurice? You must
not sacrifice happiness or honor, for me or mine.”
“I am safe; I love my cousin, and that is my shield. Whatever happens
remember that I tried to serve you, and sincerely endeavored to
forget myself.”
“God bless you, my son! Let me call you so, and feel that, though I deny
you my daughter, I give you heartily a mother’s care and affection.”
Lady Treherne was as generous as she was proud, and her nephew had
conquered her by confidence and submission. He acted no part, yet, even
in relinquishing all, he cherished a hope that he might yet win the
heart he coveted. Silently they parted, but from that hour a new and
closer bond existed between the two, and exerted an unsuspected
influence over the whole household.
      
Maurice waited with some impatience for Mrs. Snowdon’s entrance, not
only because of his curiosity to see if she had discovered the thief,
but because of the part he had taken upon himself to play. He was equal
to it, and felt a certain pleasure in it for a threefold reason. It
would serve his aunt and cousin, would divert his mind from its own
cares, and, perhaps by making Octavia jealous, waken love; for, though
he had chosen the right, he was but a man, and moreover a lover.
Mrs. Snowdon was late. She always was, for her toilet was elaborate, and
she liked to enjoy its effects upon others. The moment she entered
Treherne’s eye was on her, and to his intense surprise and annoyance she
addressed Octavia, saying blandly, “My dear Miss Treherne, I’ve been
admiring your peacocks. Pray let me see you feed them tomorrow. Miss
Talbot says it is a charming sight.”
“If you are on the terrace just after lunch, you will find them there,
and may feed them yourself, if you like” was the cool, civil reply.
“She looks like a peacock herself in that splendid green and gold dress,
doesn’t she?” whispered Rose to Sir Jasper, with a wicked laugh.
“Faith, so she does. I wish Tavie’s birds had voices like Mrs.
Snowdon’s; their squalling annoys me intensely.”
“I rather like it, for it is honest, and no malice or mischief is hidden
behind it. I always distrust those smooth, sweet voices; they are
insincere. I like a full, clear tone; sharp, if you please, but decided
and true.”
“Well said, Octavia. I agree with you, and your own is a perfect sample
of the kind you describe.” And Treherne smiled as he rolled by to join
Mrs. Snowdon, who evidently waited for him, while Octavia turned to her
brother to defend her pets.
“Are you sure? How did you discover?” said Maurice, affecting to admire
the lady’s bouquet, as he paused beside her.
“I suspected it the moment I saw her this morning. She is no actress;
and dislike, distrust, and contempt were visible in her face when we
met. Till you so cleverly told me my note was lost, I fancied she was
disturbed about her brother--or you.”
A sudden pause and a keen glance followed the last softly uttered
word, but Treherne met it with an inscrutable smile and a quiet “Well,
what next?”
“The moment I learned that you did not get the note I was sure she had
it, and, knowing that she must have seen me put it there, in spite of
her apparent innocence, I quietly asked her for it. This surprised her,
this robbed the affair of any mystery, and I finished her perplexity by
sending it to the major the moment she returned it to me, as if it had
been intended for him. She begged pardon, said her brother was
thoughtless, and she watched over him lest he should get into mischief;
professed to think I meant the line for him, and behaved like a charming
simpleton, as she is.”
“Quite a tumult about nothing. Poor little Tavie! You doubtlessly
frightened her so that we may safely correspond hereafter.”
“You may give me an answer, now and here.”
“Very well, meet me on the terrace tomorrow morning; the peacocks will
make the meeting natural enough. I usually loiter away an hour or two
there, in the sunny part of the day.”
“But the girl?”
“I’ll send her away.”
“You speak as if it would be an easy thing to do.”
“It will, both easy and pleasant.”
“Now you are mysterious or uncomplimentary. You either care nothing for
a tête-à-tête with her, or you will gladly send her out of my way.
Which is it?”
“You shall decide. Can I have this?”
She looked at him as he touched a rose with a warning glance, for the
flower was both an emblem of love and of silence. Did he mean to hint
that he recalled the past, or to warn her that someone was near? She
leaned from the shadow of the curtain where she sat, and caught a
glimpse of a shadow gliding away.
“Who was it?” she asked, below her breath.
“A Rose,” he answered, laughing. Then, as if the danger was over, he
said, “How will you account to the major for the message you sent him?”
“Easily, by fabricating some interesting perplexity in which I want sage
counsel. He will be flattered, and by seeming to take him into my
confidence, I can hoodwink the excellent man to my heart’s content, for
he annoys me by his odd way of mounting guard over me at all times. Now
take me in to dinner, and be your former delightful self.”
“That is impossible,” he said, yet proved that it was not.
Chapter IV
FEEDING THE PEACOCKS
It was indeed a charming sight, the twelve stately birds perched on the
broad stone balustrade, or prancing slowly along the terrace, with the
sun gleaming on their green and golden necks and the glories of their
gorgeous plumes, widespread, or sweeping like rich trains behind them.
In pretty contrast to the splendid creatures was their young mistress,
in her simple morning dress and fur-trimmed hood and mantle, as she
stood feeding the tame pets from her hand, calling their fanciful names,
laughing at their pranks, and heartily enjoying the winter sunshine, the
fresh wind, and the girlish pastime. As Treherne slowly approached, he
watched her with lover’s eyes, and found her very sweet and blithe, and
dearer in his sight than ever. She had shunned him carefully all the day
before, had parted at night with a hasty handshake, and had not come as
usual to bid him good-morning in the library. He had taken no notice of
the change as yet, but now, remembering his promise to his aunt, he
resolved to let the girl know that he fully understood the relation
which henceforth was to exist between them.
“Good-morning, cousin. Shall I drive you away, if I take a turn or two
here?” he said, in a cheerful tone, but with a half-reproachful glance.
She looked at him an instant, then went to him with extended hand and
cheeks rosier than before, while her frank eyes filled, and her voice
had a traitorous tremor in it, as she said, impetuously: “I will be
myself for a moment, in spite of everything. Maurice, don’t think me
unkind, don’t reproach me, or ask my leave to come where I am. There is
a reason for the change you see in me; it’s not caprice, it is
obedience.”
“My dear girl, I know it. I meant to speak of it, and show you that I
understand. Annon is a good fellow, as worthy of you as any man can be,
and I wish you all the happiness you deserve.”
“Do you?” And her eyes searched his face keenly.
“Yes; do you doubt it?” And so well did he conceal his love, that
neither face, voice, nor manner betrayed a hint of it.
Her eyes fell, a cloud passed over her clear countenance, and she
withdrew her hand, as if to caress the hungry bird that gently pecked at
the basket she held. As if to change the conversation, she said
playfully, “Poor Argus, you have lost your fine feathers, and so all
desert you, except kind little Juno, who never forgets her friends.
There, take it all, and share between you.”
Treherne smiled, and said quickly, “I am a human Argus, and you have
been a kind little Juno to me since I lost my plumes. Continue to be so,
and you will find me a very faithful friend.”
“I will.” And as she answered, her old smile came back and her eyes met
his again.
“Thanks! Now we shall get on happily. I don’t ask or expect the old
life--that is impossible. I knew that when lovers came, the friend
would fall into the background; and I am content to be second, where I
have so long been first. Do not think you neglect me; be happy with
your lover, dear, and when you have no pleasanter amusement, come and
see old Maurice.”
She turned her head away, that he might not see the angry color in her
cheeks, the trouble in her eyes, and when she spoke, it was to say
petulantly, “I wish Jasper and Mamma would leave me in peace. I hate
lovers and want none. If Frank teases, I’ll go into a convent and so be
rid of him.”
Maurice laughed, and turned her face toward himself, saying, in his
persuasive voice, “Give him a trial first, to please your mother. It can
do no harm and may amuse you. Frank is already lost, and, as you are
heart-whole, why not see what you can do for him? I shall have a new
study, then, and not miss you so much.”
“You are very kind; I’ll do my best. I wish Mrs. Snowdon would come, if
she is coming; I’ve an engagement at two, and Frank will look tragical
if I’m not ready. He is teaching me billiards, and I really like the
game, though I never thought I should.”
“That looks well. I hope you’ll learn a double lesson, and Annon find a
docile pupil in both.”
“You are very pale this morning; are you in pain, Maurice?” suddenly
asked Octavia, dropping the tone of assumed ease and gaiety under which
she had tried to hide her trouble.
“Yes, but it will soon pass. Mrs. Snowdon is coming. I saw her at the
hall door a moment ago. I will show her the peacocks, if you want to go.
She won’t mind the change, I dare say, as you don’t like her, and I do.”
“No, I am sure of that. It was an arrangement, perhaps? I understand. I
will not play Mademoiselle De Trop.”
Sudden fire shone in the girl’s eyes, sudden contempt curled her lip,
and a glance full of meaning went from her cousin to the door, where
Mrs. Snowdon appeared, waiting for her maid to bring her some additional
wrappings.
“You allude to the note you stole. How came you to play that prank,
Tavie?” asked Treherne tranquilly.
“I saw her put it under the urn. I thought it was for Jasper, and I took
it,” she said boldly.
“Why for Jasper?”
“I remembered his speaking of meeting her long ago, and describing her
beauty enthusiastically--and so did you.”
“You have a good memory.”
“I have for everything concerning those I love. I observed her manner
of meeting my brother, his devotion to her, and, when they stood
laughing together before the fire, I felt sure that she wished to charm
him again.”
“Again? Then she did charm him once?” asked Treherne, anxious to know
how much Jasper had told his sister.
“He always denied it, and declared that you were the favorite.”
“Then why not think the note for me?” he asked.
“I do now” was the sharp answer.
“But she told you it was for the major, and sent it.”
“She deceived me; I am not surprised. I am glad Jasper is safe, and I
wish you a pleasant tête-à-tête.”
Bowing with unwonted dignity, Octavia set down her basket, and walked
away in one direction as Mrs. Snowdon approached in another.
“I have done it now,” sighed Treherne, turning from the girlish figure
to watch the stately creature who came sweeping toward him with
noiseless grace.
Brilliancy and splendor became Mrs. Snowdon; she enjoyed luxury, and her
beauty made many things becoming which in a plainer woman would have
been out of taste, and absurd. She had wrapped herself in a genuine
Eastern burnous of scarlet, blue, and gold; the hood drawn over her head
framed her fine face in rich hues, and the great gilt tassels shone
against her rippling black hair. She wore it with grace, and the
barbaric splendor of the garment became her well. The fresh air touched
her cheeks with a delicate color; her usually gloomy eyes were brilliant
now, and the smile that parted her lips was full of happiness.
“Welcome, Cleopatra!” cried Treherne, with difficulty repressing a
laugh, as the peacocks screamed and fled before the rustling amplitude
of her drapery.
“I might reply by calling you Thaddeus of Warsaw, for you look very
romantic and Polish with your pale, pensive face, and your splendid
furs,” she answered, as she paused beside him with admiration very
visibly expressed in her eyes.
Treherne disliked the look, and rather abruptly said, as he offered her
the basket of bread, “I have disposed of my cousin, and offered to do
the honors of the peacocks. Here they are--will you feed them?”
“No, thank you--I care nothing for the fowls, as you know; I came to
speak to you,” she said impatiently.
“I am at your service.”
“I wish to ask you a question or two--is it permitted?”
“What man ever refused Mrs. Snowdon a request?”
“Nay, no compliments; from you they are only satirical evasions. I was
deceived when abroad, and rashly married that old man. Tell me truly how
things stand.”
“Jasper has all. I have nothing.”
“I am glad of it.”
“Many thanks for the hearty speech. You at least speak sincerely,” he
said bitterly.
“I do, Maurice--I do; let me prove it.”
Treherne’s chair was close beside the balustrade. Mrs. Snowdon leaned on
the carved railing, with her back to the house and her face screened by
a tall urn. Looking steadily at him, she said rapidly and low, “You
thought I wavered between you and Jasper, when we parted two years ago.
I did; but it was not between title and fortune that I hesitated. It was
between duty and love. My father, a fond, foolish old man, had set his
heart on seeing me a lady. I was his all; my beauty was his delight, and
no untitled man was deemed worthy of me. I loved him tenderly. You may
doubt this, knowing how selfish, reckless, and vain I am, but I have a
heart, and with better training had been a better woman. No matter, it
is too late now. Next my father, I loved you. Nay, hear me--I will
clear myself in your eyes. I mean no wrong to the general. He is kind,
indulgent, generous; I respect him--I am grateful, and while he lives, I
shall be true to him.”
“Then be silent now. Do not recall the past, Edith; let it sleep, for
both our sakes,” began Treherne; but she checked him imperiously.
“It shall, when I am done. I loved you, Maurice; for, of all the gay,
idle, pleasure-seeking men I saw about me, you were the only one who
seemed to have a thought beyond the folly of the hour. Under the seeming
frivolity of your life lay something noble, heroic, and true. I felt
that you had a purpose, that your present mood was but transitory--a
young man’s holiday, before the real work of his life began. This
attracted, this won me; for even in the brief regard you then gave me,
there was an earnestness no other man had shown. I wanted your respect;
I longed to earn your love, to share your life, and prove that even in
my neglected nature slept the power of canceling a frivolous past by a
noble future. Oh, Maurice, had you lingered one week more, I never
should have been the miserable thing I am!”
There her voice faltered and failed, for all the bitterness of lost
love, peace, and happiness sounded in the pathetic passion of that
exclamation. She did not weep, for tears seldom dimmed those tragical
eyes of hers; but she wrung her hands in mute despair, and looked down
into the frost-blighted gardens below, as if she saw there a true symbol
of her own ruined life. Treherne uttered not a word, but set his teeth
with an almost fierce glance toward the distant figure of Sir Jasper,
who was riding gaily away, like one unburdened by a memory or a care.
Hurriedly Mrs. Snowdon went on, “My father begged and commanded me to
choose your cousin. I could not break his heart, and asked for time,
hoping to soften him. While I waited, that mysterious affair hurried you
from Paris, and then came the wreck, the illness, and the rumor that old
Sir Jasper had disinherited both nephews. They told me you were dying,
and I became a passive instrument in my father’s hands. I promised to
recall and accept your cousin, but the old man died before it was done,
and then I cared not what became of me.
“General Snowdon was my father’s friend; he pitied me; he saw my
desolate, destitute state, my despair and helplessness. He comforted,
sustained, and saved me. I was grateful; and when he offered me his
heart and home, I accepted them. He knew I had no love to give; but as a
friend, a daughter, I would gladly serve him, and make his declining
years as happy as I could. It was all over, when I heard that you were
alive, afflicted, and poor. I longed to come and live for you. My new
bonds became heavy fetters then, my wealth oppressed me, and I was
doubly wretched--for I dared not tell my trouble, and it nearly drove me
mad. I have seen you now; I know that you are happy; I read your
cousin’s love and see a peaceful life in store for you. This must
content me, and I must learn to bear it as I can.”
She paused, breathless and pale, and walked rapidly along the terrace,
as if to hide or control the agitation that possessed her.
Treherne still sat silent, but his heart leaped within him, as he
thought, “She sees that Octavia loves me! A woman’s eye is quick to
detect love in another, and she asserts what I begin to hope. My
cousin’s manner just now, her dislike of Annon, her new shyness with me;
it may be true, and if it is--Heaven help me--what am I saying! I must
not hope, nor wish, nor dream; I must renounce and forget.”
He leaned his head upon his hand, and sat so still Mrs. Snowdon rejoined
him, pale, but calm and self-possessed. As she drew near, she marked his
attitude, the bitter sadness of his face, and hope sprang up within her.
Perhaps she was mistaken; perhaps he did not love his cousin; perhaps he
still remembered the past, and still regretted the loss of the heart she
had just laid bare before him. Her husband was failing, and might die
any day. And then, free, rich, beautiful, and young, what might she not
become to Treherne, helpless, poor, and ambitious? With all her faults,
she was generous, and this picture charmed her fancy, warmed her heart,
and comforted her pain.
“Maurice,” she said softly, pausing again beside him, “if I mistake you
and your hopes, it is because I dare ask nothing for myself; but if ever
a time shall come when I have liberty to give or help, ask of me
anything, and it is gladly yours.”
He understood her, pitied her, and, seeing that she found consolation in
a distant hope, he let her enjoy it while she might. Gravely, yet
gratefully, he spoke, and pressed the hand extended to him with an
impulsive gesture.
“Generous as ever, Edith, and impetuously frank. Thank you for your
sincerity, your kindness, and the affection you once gave me. I say
‘once,’ for now duty, truth, and honor bar us from each other. My life
must be solitary, yet I shall find work to do, and learn to be content.
You owe all devotion to the good old man who loves you, and will not
fail him, I am sure. Leave the future and the past, but let us make the
present what it may be--a time to forgive and forget, to take heart and
begin anew. Christmas is a fitting time for such resolves, and the birth
of friendship such as ours may be.”
Something in his tone and manner struck her, and, eyeing him with soft
wonder, she exclaimed, “How changed you are!”
“Need you tell me that?” And he glanced at his helpless limbs with a
bitter yet pathetic look of patience.
“No, no--not so! I mean in mind, not body. Once you were gay and
careless, eager and fiery, like Jasper; now you are grave and quiet, or
cheerful, and so very kind. Yet, in spite of illness and loss, you seem
twice the man you were, and something wins respect, as well as
admiration--and love.”
Her dark eyes filled as the last word left her lips, and the beauty of a
touched heart shone in her face. Maurice looked up quickly, asking with
sudden earnestness, “Do you see it? Then it is true. Yes, I am
changed, thank God! And she has done it.”
“Who?” demanded his companion jealously.
“Octavia. Unconsciously, yet surely, she has done much for me, and this
year of seeming loss and misery has been the happiest, most profitable
of my life. I have often heard that afflictions were the best teachers,
and I believe it now.”
Mrs. Snowdon shook her head sadly.
“Not always; they are tormentors to some. But don’t preach, Maurice. I
am still a sinner, though you incline to sainthood, and I have one
question more to ask. What was it that took you and Jasper so suddenly
away from Paris?”
“That I can never tell you.”
“I shall discover it for myself, then.”
“It is impossible.”
“Nothing is impossible to a determined woman.”
“You can neither wring, surprise, nor bribe this secret from the two
persons who hold it. I beg of you to let it rest,” said Treherne
earnestly.
“I have a clue, and I shall follow it; for I am convinced that something
is wrong, and you are--”
“Dear Mrs. Snowdon, are you so charmed with the birds that you forget
your fellow-beings, or so charmed with one fellow-being that you forget
the birds?”
As the sudden question startled both, Rose Talbot came along the
terrace, with hands full of holly and a face full of merry mischief,
adding as she vanished, “I shall tell Tavie that feeding the
peacocks is such congenial amusement for lovers, she and Mr. Annon
had better try it.”
“Saucy gypsy!” muttered Treherne.
But Mrs. Snowdon said, with a smile of double meaning, “Many a true word
is spoken in jest.”
Chapter V
UNDER THE MISTLETOE
Unusually gay and charming the three young friends looked, dressed
alike in fleecy white with holly wreaths in their hair, as they
slowly descended the wide oaken stairway arm in arm. A footman was
lighting the hall lamps, for the winter dusk gathered early, and the
girls were merrily chatting about the evening’s festivity when
suddenly a loud, long shriek echoed through the hall. A heavy glass
shade fell from the man’s hand with a crash, and the young ladies
clung to one another aghast, for mortal terror was in the cry, and a
dead silence followed it.
“What was it, John?” demanded Octavia, very pale, but steady in a
moment.
“I’ll go and see, miss.” And the man hurried away.
“Where did the dreadful scream come from?” asked Rose, collecting her
wits as rapidly as possible.
“Above us somewhere. Oh, let us go down among people; I am frightened to
death,” whispered Blanche, trembling and faint.
Hurrying into the parlor, they found only Annon and the major, both
looking startled, and both staring out of the windows.
“Did you hear it? What could it be? Don’t go and leave us!” cried the
girls in a breath, as they rushed in.
The gentlemen had heard, couldn’t explain the cry, and were quite ready
to protect the pretty creatures who clustered about them like frightened
fawns. John speedily appeared, looking rather wild, and as eager to tell
his tale as they to listen.
“It’s Patty, one of the maids, miss, in a fit. She went up to the north
gallery to see that the fires was right, for it takes a power of wood to
warm the gallery even enough for dancing, as you know, miss. Well, it
was dark, for the fires was low and her candle went out as she whisked
open the door, being flurried, as the maids always is when they go in
there. Halfway down the gallery she says she heard a rustling, and
stopped. She’s the pluckiest of ‘em all, and she called out, ‘I see
you!’ thinking it was some of us trying to fright her. Nothing answered,
and she went on a bit, when suddenly the fire flared up one flash, and
there right before her was the ghost.”
“Don’t be foolish, John. Tell us what it was,” said Octavia sharply,
though her face whitened and her heart sank as the last word passed the
man’s lips.
“It was a tall, black figger, miss, with a dead-white face and a black
hood. She see it plain, and turned to go away, but she hadn’t gone a
dozen steps when there it was again before her, the same tall, dark
thing with the dead-white face looking out from the black hood. It
lifted its arm as if to hold her, but she gave a spring and dreadful
screech, and ran to Mrs. Benson’s room, where she dropped in a fit.”
“How absurd to be frightened by the shadows of the figures in armor that
stand along the gallery!” said Rose, boldly enough, though she would
have declined entering the gallery without a light.
“Nay, I don’t wonder, it’s a ghostly place at night. How is the
poor thing?” asked Blanche, still hanging on the major’s arm in her
best attitude.
“If Mamma knows nothing of it, tell Mrs. Benson to keep it from her,
please. She is not well, and such things annoy her very much,” said
Octavia, adding as the man turned away, “Did anyone look in the gallery
after Patty told her tale?”
“No, miss. I’ll go and do it myself; I’m not afraid of man, ghost, or
devil, saving your presence, ladies,” replied John.
“Where is Sir Jasper?” suddenly asked the major.
“Here I am. What a deuce of a noise someone has been making. It
disturbed a capital dream. Why, Tavie, what is it?” And Sir Jasper came
out of the library with a sleepy face and tumbled hair.
They told him the story, whereat he laughed heartily, and said the maids
were a foolish set to be scared by a shadow. While he still laughed and
joked, Mrs. Snowdon entered, looking alarmed, and anxious to know the
cause of the confusion.
“How interesting! I never knew you kept a ghost. Tell me all about it,
Sir Jasper, and soothe our nerves by satisfying our curiosity,” she said
in her half-persuasive, half-commanding way, as she seated herself on
Lady Treherne’s sacred sofa.
“There’s not much to tell, except that this place used to be an abbey,
in fact as well as in name. An ancestor founded it, and for years the
monks led a jolly life here, as one may see, for the cellar is twice as
large as the chapel, and much better preserved. But another ancestor, a
gay and gallant baron, took a fancy to the site for his castle, and, in
spite of prayers, anathemas, and excommunication, he turned the poor
fellows out, pulled down the abbey, and built this fine old place. Abbot
Boniface, as he left his abbey, uttered a heavy curse on all who should
live here, and vowed to haunt us till the last Treherne vanished from
the face of the earth. With this amiable threat the old party left Baron
Roland to his doom, and died as soon as he could in order to begin his
cheerful mission.”
“Did he haunt the place?” asked Blanche eagerly.
“Yes, most faithfully from that time to this. Some say many of the monks
still glide about the older parts of the abbey, for Roland spared the
chapel and the north gallery which joined it to the modern building.
Poor fellows, they are welcome, and once a year they shall have a chance
to warm their ghostly selves by the great fires always kindled at
Christmas in the gallery.”
“Mrs. Benson once told me that when the ghost walked, it was a sure sign
of a coming death in the family. Is that true?” asked Rose, whose
curiosity was excited by the expression of Octavia’s face, and a certain
uneasiness in Sir Jasper’s manner in spite of his merry mood.
“There is a stupid superstition of that sort in the family, but no one
except the servants believes it, of course. In times of illness some
silly maid or croaking old woman can easily fancy they see a phantom,
and, if death comes, they are sure of the ghostly warning. Benson saw
it before my father died, and old Roger, the night my uncle was seized
with apoplexy. Patty will never be made to believe that this warning
does not forebode the death of Maurice or myself, for the gallant
spirit leaves the ladies of our house to depart in peace. How does it
strike you, Cousin?”
Turning as he spoke, Sir Jasper glanced at Treherne, who had entered
while he spoke.
“I am quite skeptical and indifferent to the whole affair, but I agree
with Octavia that it is best to say nothing to my aunt if she is
ignorant of the matter. Her rooms are a long way off, and perhaps she
did not hear the confusion.”
“You seem to hear everything; you were not with us when I said that.”
 And Octavia looked up with an air of surprise.
Smiling significantly, Treherne answered, “I hear, see, and understand
many things that escape others. Jasper, allow me to advise you to smooth
the hair which your sleep has disarranged. Mrs. Snowdon, permit me. This
rich velvet catches the least speck.” And with his handkerchief he
delicately brushed away several streaks of white dust which clung to the
lady’s skirt.
Sir Jasper turned hastily on his heel and went to remake his toilet;
Mrs. Snowdon bit her lip, but thanked Treherne sweetly and begged him to
fasten her glove. As he did so, she said softly, “Be more careful next
time. Octavia has keen eyes, and the major may prove inconvenient.”
“I have no fear that you will,” he whispered back, with a
malicious glance.
Here the entrance of my lady put an end to the ghostly episode, for it
was evident that she knew nothing of it. Octavia slipped away to
question John, and learn that no sign of a phantom was to be seen.
Treherne devoted himself to Mrs. Snowdon, and the major entertained my
lady, while Sir Jasper and the girls chatted apart.
It was Christmas Eve, and a dance in the great gallery was the yearly
festival at the abbey. All had been eager for it, but the maid’s story
seemed to have lessened their enthusiasm, though no one would own it.
This annoyed Sir Jasper, and he exerted himself to clear the atmosphere
by affecting gaiety he did not feel. The moment the gentlemen came in
after dinner he whispered to his mother, who rose, asked the general for
his arm, and led the way to the north gallery, whence the sound of music
now proceeded. The rest followed in a merry procession, even Treherne,
for two footmen carried him up the great stairway, chair and all.
Nothing could look less ghostly now than the haunted gallery. Fires
roared up a wide chimney at either end, long rows of figures clad in
armor stood on each side, one mailed hand grasping a lance, the other
bearing a lighted candle, a device of Sir Jasper’s. Narrow windows
pierced in the thick walls let in gleams of wintry moonlight; ivy,
holly, and evergreen glistened in the ruddy glow of mingled firelight
and candle shine. From the arched stone roof hung tattered banners, and
in the midst depended a great bunch of mistletoe. Red-cushioned seats
stood in recessed window nooks, and from behind a high-covered screen of
oak sounded the blithe air of Sir Roger de Coverley.
With the utmost gravity and stateliness my lady and the general led off
the dance, for, according to the good old fashion, the men and maids in
their best array joined the gentlefolk and danced with their betters in
a high state of pride and bashfulness. Sir Jasper twirled the old
housekeeper till her head spun around and around and her decorous skirts
rustled stormily; Mrs. Snowdon captivated the gray-haired butler by her
condescension; and John was made a proud man by the hand of his young
mistress. The major came out strong among the pretty maids, and Rose
danced the footmen out of breath long before the music paused.
The merriment increased from that moment, and when the general
surprised my lady by gallantly saluting her as she unconsciously stood
under the mistletoe, the applause was immense. Everyone followed the
old gentleman’s example as fast as opportunities occurred, and the
young ladies soon had as fine a color as the housemaids. More dancing,
games, songs, and all manner of festival devices filled the evening,
yet under cover of the gaiety more than one little scene was enacted
that night, and in an hour of seeming frivolity the current of several
lives was changed.
By a skillful maneuver Annon led Octavia to an isolated recess, as if to
rest after a brisk game, and, taking advantage of the auspicious hour,
pleaded his suit. She heard him patiently and, when he paused, said
slowly, yet decidedly, and with no sign of maiden hesitation, “Thanks
for the honor you do me, but I cannot accept it, for I do not love you.
I think I never can.”
“Have you tried?” he asked eagerly.
“Yes, indeed I have. I like you as a friend, but no more. I know Mamma
desires it, that Jasper hopes for it, and I try to please them, but love
will not be forced, so what can I do?” And she smiled in spite of
herself at her own blunt simplicity.
“No, but it can be cherished, strengthened, and in time won, with
patience and devotion. Let me try, Octavia; it is but fair, unless you
have already learned from another the lesson I hope to teach. Is it so?”
“No, I think not. I do not understand myself as yet, I am so young, and
this so sudden. Give me time, Frank.”
She blushed and fluttered now, looked half angry, half beseeching, and
altogether lovely.
“How much time shall I give? It cannot take long to read a heart like
yours, dear.” And fancying her emotion a propitious omen, he assumed the
lover in good earnest.
“Give me time till the New Year. I will answer then, and, meantime,
leave me free to study both myself and you. We have known each other
long, I own, but, still, this changes everything, and makes you seem
another person. Be patient, Frank, and I will try to make my duty a
pleasure.”
“I will. God bless you for the kind hope, Octavia. It has been mine for
years, and if I lose it, it will go hardly with me.”
Later in the evening General Snowdon stood examining the antique screen.
In many places carved oak was pierced quite through, so that voices were
audible from behind it. The musicians had gone down to supper, the young
folk were quietly busy at the other end of the hall, and as the old
gentleman admired the quaint carving, the sound of his own name caught
his ear. The housekeeper and butler still remained, though the other
servants had gone, and sitting cosily behind the screen chatted in low
tones believing themselves secure.
“It was Mrs. Snowdon, Adam, as I’m a living woman, though I wouldn’t
say it to anyone but you. She and Sir Jasper were here wrapped in
cloaks, and up to mischief, I’ll be bound. She is a beauty, but I don’t
envy her, and there’ll be trouble in the house if she stays long.”
“But how do you know, Mrs. Benson, she was here? Where’s your proof,
mum?” asked the pompous butler.
“Look at this, and then look at the outlandish trimming of the lady’s
dress. You men are so dull about such matters you’d never observe these
little points. Well, I was here first after Patty, and my light shone on
this jet ornament lying near where she saw the spirit. No one has any
such tasty trifles but Mrs. Snowdon, and these are all over her gown. If
that ain’t proof, what is?”
“Well, admitting it, I then say what on earth should she and Master be
up here for, at such a time?” asked the slow-witted butler.
“Adam, we are old servants of the family, and to you I’ll say what
tortures shouldn’t draw from to another. Master has been wild, as you
know, and it’s my belief that he loved this lady abroad. There was a
talk of some mystery, or misdeed, or misfortune, more than a year ago,
and she was in it. I’m loath to say it, but I think Master loves her
still, and she him. The general is an old man, she is but young, and so
spirited and winsome she can’t in reason care for him as for a fine,
gallant gentleman like Sir Jasper. There’s trouble brewing, Adam, mark
my words. There’s trouble brewing for the Trehernes.”
So low had the voices fallen that the listener could not have caught the
words had not his ear been strained to the utmost. He did hear all, and
his wasted face flashed with the wrath of a young man, then grew pale
and stern as he turned to watch his wife. She stood apart from the
others talking to Sir Jasper, who looked unusually handsome and debonair
as he fanned her with a devoted air.
Perhaps it is true, thought the old man bitterly. They are well matched,
were lovers once, no doubt, and long to be so again. Poor Edith, I was
very blind. And with his gray head bowed upon his breast the general
stole away, carrying an arrow in his brave old heart.
      
“Blanche, come here and rest, you will be ill tomorrow; and I promised
Mamma to take care of you.” With which elder-sisterly command Rose led
the girl to an immense old chair, which held them both. “Now listen to
me and follow my advice, for I am wise in my generation, though not yet
gray. They are all busy, so leave them alone and let me show you what is
to be done.”
Rose spoke softly, but with great resolution, and nodded her pretty head
so energetically that the holly berries came rolling over her white
shoulders.
“We are not as rich as we might be, and must establish ourselves as soon
and as well as possible. I intend to be Lady Treherne. You can be the
Honorable Mrs. Annon, if you give your mind to it.”
“My dear child, are you mad?” whispered Blanche.
“Far from it, but you will be if you waste your time on Maurice. He is
poor, and a cripple, though very charming, I admit. He loves Tavie, and
she will marry him, I am sure. She can’t endure Frank, but tries to
because my lady commands it. Nothing will come of it, so try your
fascinations and comfort the poor man; sympathy now will foster love
hereafter.”
“Don’t talk so here, Rose, someone will hear us,” began her sister, but
the other broke in briskly.
“No fear, a crowd is the best place for secrets. Now remember what I
say, and make your game while the ball is rolling. Other people are
careful not to put their plans into words, but I’m no hypocrite, and say
plainly what I mean. Bear my sage counsel in mind and act wisely. Now
come and begin.”
Treherne was sitting alone by one of the great fires, regarding the gay
