me.

If arrested and tried, I should have the privilege of the meanest
criminal to defend myself. I should call on Squire Hale to produce my
father's will. I should lay bare in a court of justice the whole of
Tom's and his father's infamous conduct. But Tom knew that I had taken
the will; that I had deprived him of his sheet anchor. With only half an
eye he could see what the consequence of arresting me must be. My uncle
would groan and tremble at the very idea of such an exposure. After
these reflections, I came to the conclusion that I should not be
arrested as a criminal. Tom Thornton would fight his battle with other
weapons than those of justice and the law.

Tom had shown by his acts that he did not scruple to take the law into
his own hands, and I was convinced that my future trials were to be
caused by individual persecution rather than public prosecution. Again
the question came up, What will he do? It was certain that he would
follow me, and it was almost as certain that he would find me. I had
hardly a doubt that he would take the night train from the west, and be
in Albany the next morning. Such a person as Tom Thornton must be a
selfish man, and I concluded that he would not trouble himself much more
about finding Kate. His own trials overshadowed those of the fair widow
of Cannondale. He would be after me rather than Kate.

While I was anxiously considering the case, the landlady called me to
supper. She poured out the tea, and asked more questions than I cared to
answer; but so far as I said anything, I told the truth. I did not sleep
many hours that night; I was too much disturbed by the perils of my
situation to slumber. I thought, and thought, and thought. Tom Thornton
would arrive in the morning. At the railroad station he would begin his
inquiries for me. The baggage-master, who had directed me to the
boarding-house, would tell him just where I was.

I had almost made up my mind to leave Kate in Albany, go to New York
alone, find her uncle, and then return for her; but the thought that Tom
would arrive in the morning caused me to abandon this plan. I rose very
early, and walked down to the river, where I found a steamer would leave
for New York at eight o'clock. I went back to the boarding-house, and
after breakfast paid the bill. We walked down to the river, and went on
board of the steamer. I took a seat where I could see everybody that
came on board of the boat, for I felt very certain that Tom Thornton was
already in the city, and searching for me. I was not wrong, for just as
the boat was on the point of starting, and I was congratulating myself
on the fact that we were safe, I saw him standing on the wharf, looking
at me.




CHAPTER XV.

IN WHICH ERNEST FACES THE ENEMY.


I HAD discovered what Tom Thornton intended to do, in part. It was not
an officer who came to arrest me; it was Tom himself. Though I had
confidently expected him--as we always dread the worst possible thing
that can happen to us--I had hoped to escape him when the bell sounded
for the departure of the steamer. I felt quite sure that all was well
with me, and had begun to congratulate myself on my singular good
fortune, when his ugly face appeared on the wharf.

I do not think now that I made any mistake in not remaining in Albany,
for it was the easiest thing in the world for him to trace me out, and
find the boarding-house where I had spent the night. If I had left the
cars at the last station before the train reached Albany, I might have
avoided him. It seemed to me that my only way was to continue the
journey, and I did so. If I had been alone it would have been an easy
matter to evade him.

Tom Thornton rushed on board of the steamer just in season to secure his
passage, for the plank was hauled on board the moment he had crossed it.
I was on the hurricane deck when I saw him, and he saw me. Perhaps there
was a chance for me yet to outflank him. It was a bad scrape, but all I
could do was to make the best of it. I left my position when I saw Tom
coming on board, and went to Kate, whom I had requested to remain in the
saloon. I sat down by her side, and tried to look as unmoved as I could.

"Don't be frightened, Kate," I began.

"Frightened! Of course I am not frightened now," she replied, fixing the
gaze of her deep eyes upon me.

"But you musn't be when I tell you something."

"What, Ernest Thornton?" demanded she, taking the alarm at once.

"Tom Thornton is on board of this steamer. Don't be alarmed; I will take
care of you. He shall not harm you, and he shall not take you away from
me."

"O mercy!" exclaimed she, turning as white as a sheet.

"Don't be disturbed, Kate. I think I can take care of him," I added,
with more confidence than I felt.

"What shall we do?"

"I don't know yet, but I will see. Leave it all to me, Kate. If he
speaks to you, answer him civilly."

"I could not speak to him. I shall faint away if he comes near me. O,
Ernest Thornton, I am frightened almost to death!"

"There is no need of your being alarmed. I don't think he desires to see
you half so much as he does me. I will put you in a safe place soon.
Come down into the ladies' cabin for the present."

She followed me, trembling in every fibre of her frame. I left her at
the door, bidding her keep out of sight as much as possible. A glance
along the main deck, in the vicinity of the captain's office, assured me
Tom was not there and I procured a state-room of the clerk. Going half
way up the stairs to the saloon, I discovered my pursuer. He was
evidently looking for me. I watched him till he had made the circuit of
the long apartment, carefully avoiding him. He then went below, to look
for me in other parts of the boat. He walked forward first, and I took
this opportunity to conduct Kate to the saloon again, and gave her the
state-room I had procured, telling her to lock herself in.

"Won't he find me here?" asked she, with quivering lips.

"No matter if he does: keep your door locked. I will knock four times by
two's. Don't open the door on any account till you hear my rap."

"I will not."

"I will keep watch on the outside. Now don't be alarmed. I will take
good care of you."

She closed the door, and I heard her lock it. I felt then that she, at
least, was out of Tom's reach for a time, and that I was in condition to
fight the battle alone. Large as the steamer was, it was impossible for
me to avoid a meeting with him, since he knew that I was on board. If he
had not seen me the case would have been different, and I might have
contrived to keep out of his way.

I could not help asking myself what I should do. I did not expect Tom
would resort to violence in the presence of hundreds of passengers. He
would fasten himself upon me, and not lose sight of me. If he had
intended to arrest me, he would have sent a sheriff after me, instead of
coming himself. What would he do next? This was the important question.
Of course I could not answer it. I could only wait for time and
circumstances to develop his plan. As it was useless for me to attempt
to avoid him, I sat down in the saloon, resolved to let things take
their course.

Summoning to my aid all the coolness, self-possession, and impudence I
could command,--and I found that for an emergency in which I had right
and justice on my side, I had an abundant supply of this kind of
ammunition,--I calmly waited the appearance of my adversary. I
deliberately made up my mind to speak up like a man to him, and to stand
my ground like a hero. If he made a scene, I would denounce him, and
punch him with the naked truth.

Tom Thornton appeared to be making a very diligent search below, for it
was half an hour before he came up to the saloon again. Most of the
passengers were out on the hurricane deck, or in other places where they
could view the scenery on the shores of the river. I had plenty of time
to get thoroughly "primed" for the exciting interview I anticipated. As
I thought the matter over, I felt that I had the weather-gage of
him--that all the advantage was on my side. The will was in my
possession, and subject to my order. I had the address of my uncle's
London correspondent, and whatever Tom might threaten, he could not
deprive me of these favoring points. I could afford to be cool and
impudent; and if Tom wanted to talk, I could talk as fast and as much to
the point as he could.

At last I saw him come up the steps. He was certainly a splendid-looking
fellow, though he was evidently a man of the world. He was elegantly
dressed, not over-dressed, and his movements were easy and graceful. I
could not help thinking of these things, in which he had so decided an
advantage over me. But he lacked one thing, without which everything
else is vain and valueless--moral principle. He was a villain, and as
such I despised him.

I could not help noticing that the expression on his face was troubled,
rather than malignant; indeed, he really seemed to be more in sorrow
than in anger. He saw me when he first glanced around the saloon, and
walked towards the sofa on which I was seated. This time he was not
savage and violent, as he had been before when I met him. He had
something to think of now, and perhaps he had learned that "that boy"
was not to be trifled with.

"Good morning, Ernest," said he; and it would have been difficult to
discover in his tones that he was an enemy.

"Good morning, Mr. Tom Thornton," I replied, in cheerful tones,
intending to intimate to him that I was master of the situation.

"You left home rather suddenly," he continued.

"Rather; and I presume you did not think a great while about it before
you started."

"Ernest, I think we had better come to an understanding," he added,
seating himself on the sofa at my side.

"I know what I am about, and I suppose you know what you are about," I
answered, with easy assurance. "I don't know that we can come to any
better understanding."

"I think we can," added Tom, very mildly. "I don't believe you know what
you are about."

"Leave that to me."

"Ernest, I know what you have done at your uncle's house," said he, in a
whisper, as though he had possessed himself of a valuable secret.

"So do I."

"You robbed your uncle's safe," he continued, in the same confidential
tone.

"That depends on whether the safe was his or mine," I answered, readily.

"Ernest, it is no use for you to play bluff with me. You know what you
have done," he added, rather petulantly; and I saw he was disappointed
because he had failed to make an impression upon me.

"No one knows better than I what I have done."

"You have taken money and valuable papers out of your uncle's safe."

"I know it."

"You opened it without his knowledge or consent."

"I know that too."

"And then you ran away from your home."

"That also I know."

"I was sent for by your uncle--"

"By your father, you mean," I interposed.

"I said by your uncle," added he, persistently. "I found him quite
ill--made so by your bad behavior."

"Not much," I replied, when Tom looked into my face to notice the effect
of this revelation. "Didn't he tell you he had not slept nights for
years; that he had steeped his soul in crime for your sake, Mr. Tom
Thornton?"

He started, sprang to his feet; but recollecting himself, he sat down
again, and tried to recover his calmness.

"It's no use for you to tell me, Mr. Tom Thornton, that your father was
made ill by my bad behavior. It was your bad behavior and his own that
trouble him."

"Young man, you talk just as though you were entirely innocent
yourself," added Tom, virtuously. "Do you really think you are free from
guilt?"

"I think I have done nothing more than my duty."

"Then you believe it is all right to break into your uncle's safe, and
take his money and his papers?"

"Circumstances alter cases."

"They don't make black white."

"Sometimes a man's hypocrisy whitewashes his whole life. Sometimes a man
lives for years on his ill-gotten gains, and all the world thinks he is
an honest man. Then circumstances make black white."

"You are talking of something besides the subject before us. Let us come
back to it."

"No; I am talking about the subject before us."

"You confess that you robbed your uncle's safe."

"I admit that I helped myself to certain things in it which I wanted. I
am ready to admit it anywhere you choose to place me," I replied, easily
and good-naturedly.

"Are you aware that you have committed a crime?" said he, more
pointedly than he had before spoken.

"I don't think I have committed any crime, or even any wrong. If you
think so, Mr. Tom Thornton, you are welcome to your opinion."

"I do think so," he answered, beginning to be a little excited. "Do you
know that I can arrest you, and send you to prison?"

"I do know it; and I respectfully ask, Why don't you do it?"

"Why don't I do it?" repeated he, apparently amazed at my impudence, and
disappointed because an arrest and a prison appeared to have no terrors
to me.

"Yes, why don't you do it?"

"I'll tell you why I don't do it. Because your uncle is weak, and don't
wish to injure you. That's the reason."

"That isn't the reason. I want to tell you, Mr. Tom Thornton, that
nothing would suit me better than to have you arrest me, and send me to
prison."

This answer vexed him so much that he jumped up, and walked off.




CHAPTER XVI.

IN WHICH ERNEST MAKES A LANDING ON THE HUDSON.


TOM THORNTON was no fool, and it was easy enough for him to see that I
understood the situation. It was useless for him to tell me that any
tenderness on the part of my uncle saved me from arrest, for the son
would have crushed me like a worm beneath his feet in spite of the
father. I think he got up and left me because he could not control his
temper, and feared a scene. He cooled off in a few moments, and came
back, as I knew he would.

"You defy me to arrest you--do you, Ernest?" said he, dropping into the
seat at my side.

"Yes; if you wish to put it in that form, I defy you to arrest me. I
repeat that I should be very glad to have you do it."

"Why so?" asked he, nervously.

"It would give me a chance to defend myself, and that is just what I
want, now I have the means to do so."

"You have some queer conceits, young man," sneered he. "What have you
done with that girl?"

"She is safe."

"I asked you what you had done with her."

"And I didn't answer you."

"What have you done with her?"

"She is safe."

"Running away with her is another criminal offence."

"If it is, I shall fight that battle on the same ground with the other.
If you choose to take me back to Parkville on any charge, of course you
can do so. If you do, a certain document will be brought to light, which
will convince Mrs. Loraine and everybody else, that Mr. Tom Thornton,
with his gold watch and chain, his span of bays, and his fine clothes,
isn't worth a dollar in the world."

Tom's lip actually quivered.

"I don't want to injure you, Ernest," said he. "Your uncle is not
willing that you should be brought to justice."

"I have no desire to bring him to justice, either."

"You talk like a fool, like a small boy," said he, impatiently.

"Then don't talk with me."

"You will make out that you haven't done anything wrong yourself, but
your friends have made a martyr of you. When I offer to get you out of
the scrape into which you have plunged, you speak just as though you
were the injured party."

"Exactly so, and I speak just what I mean. You talk to me just as though
you and your father had not suppressed my father's will, intending to
rob me of my inheritance, and kept my mother in a madhouse for ten or a
dozen years."

"What sort of bosh are you talking now?" demanded Tom, with an effort,
while his face was pale, and his frame trembled.

"I can prove it all. If you and your father wish to tell me where my
mother is, and to make terms you can tell me what you will do," I added,
following up my advantage.

"You have taken some ridiculous notion into your head, and I really
don't know what you are talking about."

"Did you ever read my father's will?"

"Your father's will!" exclaimed he. "I never heard that he made a will.
If he did, it was the most ridiculous thing he ever did in the whole
course of his life, for he hadn't a penny to leave."

"Perhaps you can tell me why my uncle so persistently refused to tell me
anything about my father or my mother?"

"I certainly can if you insist upon it; though, having more regard for
you than you have for yourself, I should prefer to follow your uncle's
example, and not say anything about them."

"I will not ask you to spare my feelings, Mr. Tom Thornton. Your father
went so far, when I insisted upon it, as to tell me that my mother was
insane."

"She is, poor woman, and I don't wonder that her reason was dethroned,"
replied Tom, whose face brightened up wonderfully as he spoke.

"He refused to tell me anything about my father."

"Which was very kind of him. Your uncle is a strange man; but his
greatest weakness is his regard for you. It is best you should know
nothing of your father; but if you wish to know, I'll tell you."

"I do wish to know."

"He committed a forgery in London, and died in Newgate before his trial
took place. Your poor mother was so grieved that it made her insane. Now
you know the whole truth, and you can understand why your uncle did not
wish to talk to you about your father."

I confess that I was rather startled by this explanation, and I could
not help asking myself if there was any truth in it. It certainly
accounted for my uncle's unwillingness to tell me anything about my
parents. But I would not believe it. It was treachery to my father's
memory to do so.

"Did he make his will in Newgate?" I asked.

"His will! What will? I have told you he had not a penny in the world.
Your uncle has ever since paid your mother's board in the insane
asylum."

"That is very kind of him. Can you tell me where she is?"

"I don't know."

"I suppose not; and probably it would not be convenient for you to tell
if you did."

"I would tell you if I knew. If you desire it, I will persuade your
uncle to tell you. You keep talking about a will. What do you mean by
it?"

"I found such a document in my uncle's strong box."

"Where is it?"

"It is safe."

"If there is any such document it is a mere fiction. I don't know
anything about it."

"You don't?"

"No."

"All right."

"What do you mean?"

"Nothing."

"Of course when you speak of a will, you mean something by it,"
persisted Tom.

"It's no use to talk."

"Why not?"

"Because the truth isn't in you."

"I speak the exact truth."

"No--you don't."

"But I do."

"You know all about the will. I heard my uncle speak to you about it;
and I heard you ask if it was not destroyed. You asked for it, and
wanted to burn it then. Don't you know anything about it now?"

"You heard all this?" said he, biting his lips.

"I heard it."

"You dreamed it."

"No, I didn't dream it. I heard a great deal more than this. You wanted
to destroy the will; but your father said he dared not do it."

"Pray, where were you, when you heard all this?"

"On the top of the bay window of the library. The upper sash was pulled
down, so as to let the air in."

"Then you are an eaves-dropper as well as a thief."

"I was on the eaves of the bay window, and I dropped down about the time
you went up stairs to look for me. Now you know all about it--and so do
I. You may tell me my father died in Newgate, and that you never heard
of any will. I shall believe just as much of it as I please, and no
more. You think I'm a boy, Mr. Tom Thornton; but I've got brains enough
to know chalk from cheese."

Tom wiped his forehead. He did not like my style; but he could not do
anything. He dared not take any decided step. After observing the
feebleness of his position, I made up my mind that I had won the
victory. He was afraid to arrest me, and I felt as safe as though I had
been in London then. But there was one more point I wanted to impress
upon him.

"I have no doubt, Ernest, that you have some paper which you think is
valuable; something which has the form of a will," said Tom, after he
had fidgeted about in his seat for some time.

"It has that form," I replied.

"I should like to know what the paper is. Where is it?"

"No matter where it is. I know its value, and I have put it where, the
moment you take your first step against me, you will find it lying like
a big snake in your path."

"Won't you let me see it?"

"No."

"I only want to know what it is. You need not let it go out of your own
hands."

"I won't show it."

I had made my point. I had assured him the will would be forthcoming
when he took any step to annoy me. Tom tried all sorts of persuasion to
induce me to exhibit it; but without denying that I had it, I declined
to produce it. He was so weak that I began to despise him. At last he
got mad, and threatened me with all sorts of calamities. I told him,
when he became abusive, that I would not talk any more with him, and
abruptly left him.

Most of all, I desired to shake him off and get rid of him. While he was
watching me, I could not convey Kate to her uncle, and I was puzzled to
know what I should do. When the steamer arrived at New York, Tom would
keep both eyes fixed upon me, and I should have no chance to assist my
fair companion. I walked about the boat, and thought the matter over;
but the more I considered it, the more unsatisfactory it seemed.

About one o'clock the steamer made a landing at Poughkeepsie. I went
down to the main deck, from which the gangway planks led to the wharf. I
found Tom Thornton there, apparently for the purpose of assuring himself
that I did not take "French leave" of him, which was just the thing I
intended to do, if it could be done without his notice. I went forward,
but found that the stern of the boat was swung in, so that the forward
gangway was twenty feet from the pier.



Returning to the saloon deck, I carefully examined the position of the
boat in regard to the shore. I went out upon the space over the guards,
and outside of the state-rooms. On the edge of the wharf there was a
storehouse, the end of which reached about to the middle of the
steamer's wheel. The top of the paddle-box was nearly on a level with
the flat roof of this building. I could not see Tom Thornton, but I
concluded that he was still watching for me on the main deck. The space
between the top of the paddle-box and the roof of the storehouse was not
more than three or four feet, and I concluded that a girl as resolute as
Kate Loraine would leap across the gulf without difficulty. I went to
her state-room, and gave the four raps. She was glad enough to see me,
and taking her valise I told her to follow me. I waited till I heard the
order given to haul in the plank, and then led Kate up the rude steps on
the curve of the paddle-box, heedless of the sign which interdicted
passengers from ascending.

A waiter shouted to me; but, fearful that I should be accused of trying
to evade the payment of our fares, I threw him my tickets, and told him
I must land at Poughkeepsie. I reached the top of the paddle-box with
Kate, and jumped over on the roof myself, with her carpet-bag in my
hand.

"Now jump, Kate!" I called, as I heard the bell ring to start the
wheels.

"I am afraid," she replied, shuddering, as she looked down into the
yawning gulf below.

"Jump quick, and I will catch you!"

"I cannot! I cannot!" exclaimed she, in an agony of terror.

The wheels turned, and in an instant the space was too wide for her to
come on the roof, or for me to return to the boat. The people discovered
us, and began to shout. I saw the waiter give the tickets to a man;
but, at the same instant, Tom Thornton, perceiving me on the roof of the
storehouse, sprang upon the rail, and leaped ashore, as the stern swung
in and grazed the pier. The steamer went on her course; and I saw the
man to whom the waiter had given the tickets assist the frightened Kate
down from the paddle-box.

I was on shore, but so was Tom Thornton.




CHAPTER XVII.

IN WHICH ERNEST OUTFLANKS TOM THORNTON.


MY first impulse, standing on the roof of the store, as the steamer bore
Kate Loraine away from me, was to denounce the timidity of girls in
general, and of the young lady in my charge in particular. I am sorry to
say that, as a rule, I did not think much of girls, though I had a very
high opinion of and regard for Kate; but I am happy to say that a few
years cured the general dislike, and increased the particular
preference.

I was about to mutter something smart and saucy about Kate; but a better
and more charitable thought checked the speech, and I felt that I had
asked too much of her when I required her to jump four feet, over a
chasm of such depth as that which gaped between the steamer and the
building. I suppose I forgot, in my enthusiasm for her safety, that
girls are not used to climbing trees, and promenading on the roofs of
barns. With my second thought I excused her, and blamed myself for
expecting her to take such a leap.

There I was on the roof of a storehouse in Poughkeepsie, while the
steamer was hurrying down the river at the rate of fourteen miles an
hour. If I had separated myself from my fair charge, I had also
separated Tom Thornton from her. The enemy was on my track, not hers,
thus confirming what I had told Kate--that he was after me rather than
her. Though I was not afraid of him, I wanted to keep out of his way,
and give him the slip if I could.

There was a scuttle in the roof, upon which I stood. I raised it a
little, to obtain a view of the interior; but at that moment I heard the
voice of Tom inquiring the way to the roof. While I had been staring at
the retreating steamer, he had entered the building in search of me. I
closed the scuttle, and retired from its vicinity to the end of the
storehouse. Adjoining it there was a one-story building. Throwing the
carpet-bag down, I "hung off," and, repeating the operation, reached
the ground before Tom had made his way to the roof. Fortunately my path
led me down in the rear of the building, and out of the way of the
people, who had been observing me from the ground. Behind this building
I conducted my retreat in as good order as possible, but with all
practicable speed.

The road which led down to the steamboat pier was flanked on one side by
a row of one-story buildings, used as stores. I had jumped on one of
these shops, and thence to a narrow space on the verge of the wharf.
Before any one could go round the storehouse, I had reached the street.
I did not dare to run, lest some one should suspect me of being a
fugitive. The street was crowded with people, who had just landed from
the steamer, and I walked as fast as I could till I heard the screaming
whistle of a locomotive. In a few moments more I discovered the railroad
station, and being now some distance from the steamboat wharf, I
ventured to run. I reached the station just as the train was starting.

"Where does this train go?" I asked of a brakeman on a car.

"Down river. Be in a hurry if you are going," replied the man.

I was going, and I was in a hurry. I entered the car and dropped into a
seat, exhausted by the hard run I had had. I caught my breath, and wiped
the perspiration from my brow, feeling that good fortune had favored me
in the most singular manner. I had certainly given Tom Thornton the
slip, and in spite of my habitual modesty, I voted unanimously that I
was smart. But it was all luck, in this instance, which favored me; for
I heard some one say that the train was thirty minutes late that day. It
was due in Poughkeepsie at ten minutes before one, and left half an hour
behind its time. If it had been in season, of course I should have lost
it. I was very thankful for the accident which, the conductor said, had
delayed the train.

From the car window I had frequent views of the river; and in a short
time I saw the steamer in which I had come down, ploughing her way down
the stream to her destination. I could almost fancy I saw Kate on the
hurricane deck. The poor girl had trouble enough now, and I had no doubt
she was bitterly lamenting the misfortune which had separated us. On
whirled the train, and I soon lost sight of the boat; but I hoped to be
able to get on board of her at her next stopping-place, if I could find
where that was. I inquired of a gentleman who sat in front of me at what
places the steamers stopped. He informed me that some of them stopped at
all the towns, but the larger of them at only the principal ones. I
mentioned the steamer on which I had been a passenger, and he assured me
she would make a landing at Peekskill.

In about an hour the train arrived at this place, and I hastened to the
river; but I was obliged to wait over an hour before the steamer
appeared. She came up to the pier, and I went on board. I was
immediately recognized by a dozen persons who had seen me on the roof of
the storehouse. They wanted to ask me some questions; but I avoided
them, and rushed up to the saloon. I inquired of the stewardess for
Kate, and was told that she was in her state-room. I gave the four
raps, and she opened the door.

"Why, Ernest Thornton!" exclaimed she. "Where did you come from?"

"From up the river," I replied.

The inquisitive passengers had followed me to the state-room, and I was
obliged to go in and shut the door in order to avoid them. I saw by the
looks of Kate's eyes that she had been crying. Our sudden and unexpected
separation had been even a greater trial to her than I had supposed, and
her smile was now so full of joy that I never felt happier before in my
life.

"I was sure I had lost you, Ernest Thornton. Why, how can it be that you
are here, when you were left on the wharf more than two hours ago?" said
she, bewildered by my presence, for our reunion was quite as unexpected
as the separation had been.

"It is very easily explained, Kate," I replied, with abundant
good-nature. "I hope you have not been crying."

"But I have. I never felt so bad before in my life. I believed I had
lost the last friend I had in the world, for I was afraid that horrible
Tom Thornton would kill you, or do something almost as bad. But you
don't explain how you happen to be here. Did you fly?"

"No; I came in the train, which happened to be half an hour late for my
especial accommodation;" and I related my story in full.

"I am sorry I didn't jump when you told me to do so," said she, when I
had finished. "I ought to have jumped, even if I had been sure of
falling into the river."

"I ought not to have asked you to take such a leap, Kate; and it is very
fortunate that you had not the courage to do it, for Tom Thornton would
have been with us. It couldn't have happened any better even if we had
planned it ourselves. Who was the man that helped you down from the
paddle-box? What did the people say to you? Did you tell them anything?"

"I did tell them, Ernest Thornton. I hope I haven't done anything
wrong," she replied, a sudden shade of anxiety passing over her
features.

"It will do no harm."

"The man that helped me down was the steward, they said. Indeed, he was
very kind to me, and so were all the people. Half a dozen of them
promised to take care of me when I reached New York, and help me find my
uncle. They wanted to know who you were, and why the gentleman wanted to
catch you."

"What did you tell them?" I asked, rather fearful that she had told more
than I cared to have the public know about my affairs.

"I told them the truth; that I had been ill-used by a person, and that
you were taking me to my uncle in New York."

"Did you tell them who Tom Thornton was?"

"I only said he had been sent after me. The steward thought he must have
supposed I was on the building when he jumped ashore. I didn't tell them
anything about your troubles. I didn't know that you would wish me to do
so."

"I am glad you did not. But, Kate, you needn't stay in here any longer.
We have got rid of Tom Thornton, and you may go out and look at the
scenery, if you wish. Have you been to dinner?"

"Yes, the steward gave me some dinner. He was very good to me, and I
want to thank him ever so much for his kindness."

When we left the state-room, we were surrounded by the curious
passengers, and I was obliged to tell them the adventures I had gone
through with. I left Kate with a lady and gentleman who manifested an
interest in her, and went down to my dinner, and when I paid for it I
paid for Kate's also. When I went on deck, I found that I was a lion,
and the passengers insisted upon hearing me roar. They asked questions
with Yankee pertinacity, and I finally told a select party of them that
I had taken Kate out of her step-mother's house by the way of the attic
window, but I was careful not to call any names, for if Mrs. Loraine
behaved herself, I did not care to expose her to the public.

"You are a smart young man," said an elderly gentleman, heartily. "Does
your father live in this State?"

"I have no father, sir," I replied; and I had dodged a dozen similar
questions before.

"No father. I suppose you live with your mother," he added, with the
evident intention of drawing me out.

"No, sir. My mother is in England, where I hope soon to join her."

"Ah, in England!" he added, with increasing interest. "In what part does
she reside?"

"I do not yet know."

Perhaps he thought it was very odd I should not know.

"I am going to England by the steamer next Wednesday," continued the
gentleman. "If I can serve you there, it would give me great pleasure to
do so."

"Thank you, sir;" and I began to feel a deep interest in the subject
myself.

