At a store where I was not known I purchased ten pounds of nails, and
such other articles of hardware as would be needed in carrying on the
work upon the raft. The method of supplying Sim with provisions was a
more difficult problem; but, at a restaurant near the steamboat landing,
I bought a boiled ham, which I thought would keep my hungry assistant
alive for several days. I also purchased a keg of crackers, half a
cheese, a couple of loaves of soft bread, and a basket to carry them in.
I was rich, and did not mind the expense.
When I arrived home, I took the basket and the hardware to the back side
of the barn; but before I went to bed I saw Sim, and told him where they
were. Before I made my appearance in the morning he had carried them
away to the swamp. Everything had worked successfully thus far. Sim was
in no danger of starving, and I was relieved of the necessity of feeding
him from the buttery of the house.
I gave Squire Fishley a copy of the Standard, and pointed out to him the
paragraph in relation to the "elderly gentleman under the influence of
liquor." He turned pale and trembled as he read it; but I assured him he
was perfectly safe, and that no one but myself was in possession of his
secret.
After breakfast, when I had finished my regular "chores," I hastened to
the swamp to work on the raft. I cannot describe the satisfaction which
this labor, and the thinking of it, afforded me. It was fully equal to a
trip down the river in a steamboat. Day after day, and night after
night, in my trips to Riverport, and in my bed, I anticipated the voyage
down the stream, and the pleasure of keeping house in our mansion on the
raft, with Flora and Sim.
After three days' hard work, we had the body of the raft completed. We
had covered the long logs with short ones, and on the upper tier laid a
flooring of slabs, which were more plentiful than boards, as they were
thrown away by the saw-mills above. The platform was more than a foot
above the surface of the water, and I was confident that it would carry
us high and dry.
It only remained to build the house--the most pleasing because it was
the most difficult part of the job. This structure was to be eighteen
feet long and six feet wide, placed in the middle of the platform. I put
together two frames of the requisite size, forming the sills and plates
of the building, and boarded them up and down, leaving three windows on
each side, and a door at the rear end. I made the rafters of slabs, with
the round side down.
On the fifth day, so enthusiastically had we labored, I expected to
complete the outside of the house, so that Sim could sleep in it. I was
putting on the last of the roof boards, which lapped over so as to shed
the rain, when an unfortunate circumstance occurred to delay the work.
My bow-legged friend and fellow-laborer was the most willing boy in the
world. He was quite skilful in the use of the axe; but he was very
awkward in his movements, and did not always work to the best advantage.
Towards the last of the work, we had come short of boards, and I was
thinking of going to the saw-mills, seven miles up the stream, to buy a
few to complete the work. But there was a heavy rain in the night, which
raised the creek, and brought down quite a number of them. I had swung a
boom out so as to catch them. Sim had just hauled one of these, soaked
with water, out of the river. While he was raising the end to hand it up
to me, on the roof, his feet slipped, and he went into the stream with a
"chug," like a frog.
Sim could not swim, and he began to flop about in the wildest and most
unreasonable manner. I threw him a board, but he did not seem to have
sense enough to grasp it. I saw that he would be drowned in a moment
more, unless he received more efficient help. I was fearfully alarmed
for his safety; and, though I could swim like a fish, I doubted my
ability to handle such a clumsy fellow in the water.
Kicking off my shoes, I dived after him from the roof of the house; for
he had gone down, and I was not sure that he would come up again. I
could not help thinking that this accident had ruined my enterprise.
Though it seemed to be a long time to me, and doubtless a much longer
time to him, he had not been in the water more than three seconds when I
dived after him.
I did not find him under the water; but, when I rose to the surface, I
saw him a rod or more below me, floundering about like a crazy
alligator.
CHAPTER XIII.
NEAR UNTO DEATH.
Although I was abundantly able to take care of myself in the water, and
even to do a little more than that, I was really afraid to approach Sim
Gwynn, he struggled so violently. I was satisfied, if I did so, that he
would swamp me as well as himself. We were both floating down the stream
with the current, and all the chances seemed to be against us.
Sim had struggled till his strength was in a measure wasted. I saw that
he was going down again, and though I feared it would cost me my own
life, I decided to grapple with him. A couple of strokes with my arms
brought me to him, and I seized him by the collar. The moment he was
conscious of the presence of something near him, he began to struggle
more violently than ever. He threw his arms tight around my body, and
hugged me in what I thought would be the death-gripe.
Vainly I tried to shake him off. The more I labored, the closer he clung
to me, as if fearful that I should escape his grasp. I believed that my
last moment had come. I gave myself up in despair, and thought of
Flora--what would become of her. I asked God to forgive all my
sins--which seemed like a mountain to me in that awful moment.
I rested but an instant while these thoughts rushed through my brain. I
felt myself going down. It was useless to do so, I felt; but I could not
help making one more struggle for the boon of life. It would have been
useless if a kind Providence had not come to my aid, for my strength was
nearly exhausted, and I was utterly inadequate to the task of bearing up
the heavy burden of my companion.
My head struck against a log, one end of which had grounded on the
shore, while the other projected out over the deep water of the stream.
I clutched it, threw my arms around it, and hugged it as though it was
the dearest friend on earth. I threw myself across it, so as to bring
Sim's head out of the water, and waited to recover my wasted breath.
Our united weight on the end of the log detached it from the shore, and
we were again floating down the stream. I clung to my support; and such
a sweet rest as that was I had never before known. The life seemed to
come back to me, and every breath of air I drew in was a fountain of
strength to my frame.
Still Sim clung to me, and appeared not to know that there was anything
else to sustain him. As my powers came back to me, I drew myself farther
up on the log, and tried to release my body from the gripe of my
senseless companion.
"Sim!" I shouted.
He did not answer me. Was he dead? I trembled at the thought.
"Sim!" I cried again, louder than before.
"Ugh!" said he, with a shudder that thrilled my frame.
He was not dead, or even wholly unconscious. With one arm hugging the
log, I tried with the other to release myself from his bearish gripe.
"Let go of me, Sim!" I screamed to him.
But he would not, or could not. After a desperate effort, I succeeded in
throwing one of my legs over the log; and, thus supported, I found
myself better able to work efficiently. With a mighty struggle, I shook
him off, and he would have gone to the bottom if I had not seized his
hand as he threw it up. I placed his arm on the log, and he grappled
with it as though it had been a monster threatening his destruction.
After pausing a moment to rest, I pulled him farther up on the log.
Then, for the first time, I felt safe. The battle had been fought, and
won. I believed Sim had lost his senses. He was stupefied, rather than
deprived of any actual power. It was the terror rather than any real
injury which overcame him. I permitted him to remain quiet for a moment,
to recover his breath.
"Sim!" said I, when he began to look around him, and show some signs of
returning reason.
"Ugh! That's what I wanted to see you for, Buck," gasped he.
I could not laugh, though his wild stare and incoherent words were
ludicrous.
"You are safe now, Sim," I added.
"I'm dead--drownded."
"No, you are not. You are safe."
"No! Am I? Hookie!"
I had placed myself astride the log, and was now in a comfortable
position. I moved up to him, when I found it was safe to approach him,
and assisted him into an easier posture. Gradually I restored him to his
former self, and finally assured him that he was still in the land of
the living, where he might remain if he would only be reasonable.
"Where are we going to?" he asked.
"Down the river."
"Down to New Orleans?"
"Not yet, if you will behave like a man. Have a little pluck, Sim."
"I dassent!" replied he, with a shake of his frame.
"Now hold on tight! I'm going to try to get ashore," I called to him, as
I saw that the current would carry us under the overhanging branch of a
tree, which I could reach by making a strong effort.
"Don't leave me, Buck!" pleaded he, in his terror.
"I won't leave you. Cling to the log," I replied, as I jumped up, and
succeeded in grasping the branch of the tree.
I pulled it down till I got hold of a part strong enough to check the
progress of the log; but the current was so swift that I was nearly
dragged from it. By twining my legs around the log, I held on till its
momentum was overcome; and then I had no difficulty in drawing it in
till the end touched the shore. After much persuasion I induced Sim to
work himself along the stick till he reached the dry land; for we had
passed beyond the greatest depression in the swamp, where the stream did
not cover the banks.
Eagerly he passed from the log to the bank, and actually danced with joy
when he found himself once more on the solid earth.
"Hookie! Hookie!" shouted he, opening his mouth from ear to ear, while
his fat face lighted up with an expression of delight, like a baby with
a new rattle.
"Are you going to let me go down stream, Sim?" I called to him,
reproachfully, for he seemed to have more regard for his own safety than
for mine.
"What shall I do?" he asked, blankly; and he appeared to have an idea
that I could not possibly need any assistance from him.
"Catch hold of the end of the log, and haul it up so that I can get
ashore. If I let go the branch, the log will go down stream again."
Sim lifted the log, and hauled it far out of the water. He was as strong
as an ox now, though he had been as weak as an infant a few moments
before. I crawled up the stick, and went ashore. The moment I was fairly
on the land, Sim threw his arms around my neck, and hugged me as though
I had been his baby, blubbering in incoherent terms his gratitude and
love.
"Hold on, Sim! You have hugged me enough for one day," said I, shaking
him off.
"Hurrah! Hurrah!" shouted he.
"Silence, Sim," I added.
I threw myself on my knees, dripping with water as I was.
"O Lord God, I thank thee for saving my life, and for saving Sim's life.
In my heart I thank thee, O Lord. May it be a good lesson to him and me.
May we both try to be better boys, and obey thy holy law as we have
never done before."
I had never prayed before in my life, but I could not help it then. I
felt that God had saved my life, and that I could not be so wicked as
not to pray to him then. My heart was full of gratitude, and I felt the
better for speaking it.
I opened my eyes, and saw Sim kneeling before me, very reverently, and I
realized that he was as sincere as I was. He was not satisfied with
hearing. He uttered a prayer himself, using nearly my own words. He
finished, and both of us were silent for several minutes. However long I
may live, I shall never forget the agony of that fearful moment, when,
with Sim clinging to me, I felt myself going down, never to come up;
never to see the light of the blessed sun again; never more to look into
the eyes of my loving sister. The influence of that thrilling incident
will go with me to the end of my days, and I am sure it has made me a
better man.
We walked through the swamp to the open prairie beyond, where the sun
shone brightly. We took off our clothes, and wrung them out, and then
lay in the sunshine to dry them. We talked of the event of the
afternoon, and Sim, in his bungling speech, poured forth his gratitude
to me for saving his life. I staid there till it was time for me to go
back to the house. My clothes were still wet, and I crept through the
back entry up to my chamber and changed them. Squire Fishley was going
home that day, and was to ride down to Riverport with me.
I was sorry he was going, for during his visit our house seemed to be a
paradise. Mrs. Fishley was all smiles, and never spoke a cross word,
never snarled at Flora or at me. If the squire had been a steady boarder
at his brother's, I should have been content to cut my raft adrift, and
let it go down the river without me. He was going home, and there would
be a storm as soon as he departed.
During the week of the senator's stay, not a word was said about Miss
Larrabee's letter; and Ham appeared about the same as usual. I observed
his movements with interest and curiosity. Sometimes I thought he was
more troubled than was his habit. After the thrashing his father had
given me, he seemed to be satisfied that I had been "paid off," and he
was tolerably civil to me, though I concluded that he did not wish to
have any more difficulty during the visit of the distinguished guest.
After supper, with my passenger, I drove down to Riverport. On the way
he talked very kindly to me, and gave me much good advice. He counselled
me to "seek the Lord," who would give me strength to bear all my
troubles. He told me he had spoken to his brother about me, but he was
afraid he had done more harm than good, for the captain did not seem to
like it that I had said anything to the guest about my ill usage.
I bade him good by at the hotel, where he was to spend the night; and we
parted the best of friends, with a promise on his part to do something
for me in the future. After changing the mail-bags at the post-office, I
went to several stores, and picked up various articles to furnish the
house on the raft, including a small second-hand cook-stove, with eight
feet of pipe, for which I paid four dollars, and a few dishes and some
table ware.
I succeeded in placing these things in the wheelbarrow, back of the
barn, without detection. Early in the morning Sim wheeled them down to
the swamp. When I joined him after breakfast, I found he had waded
through the water to the branch, and brought up the small raft, upon
which he had loaded the stove and other articles. Before noon that day,
the outside of the house was done, and the cook-stove put up. I went
home to dinner as usual, that my absence might not be noticed.
"Where have you been all the forenoon?" demanded Captain Fishley, in the
most uncompromising of tones.
The storm was brewing.
CHAPTER XIV.
WHO ROBBED THE MAIL.
"Where on airth have you been?" said Mrs. Fishley, chiming in with her
husband; and if I had not realized before, I did now, that the squire
had actually gone home.
"I haven't been a great ways," I replied.
As the fact of my absence, rather than where I had been, was the great
grievance with my tyrants, I concluded not to tell them in what precise
locality I had spent the forenoon. The old order of things was fully
restored. It was snap, snarl, and growl. But I soon learned that there
was something more than this. Captain Fishley and Ham both looked glum
and savage; but they ate their dinner in silence.
"Buck, I want you," said the captain, in a very ugly tone, as I was
going to the barn after dinner. "Come into the store."
I followed him into the shop. He sat down behind the post-office
counter, looked at me sternly, and then gazed at the floor.
"Where have you been to-day?" said he, after his gaze had vibrated for
some time between me and the floor.
"I haven't been far."
"Buck, have you got any money?" he added, sharply, and putting the
question as a home thrust at me.
"Yes, sir, I have," I replied, startled by the inquiry; for it was
evident to me now that the storm was coming in the shape of a tempest.
"How much have you got?"
"I haven't got any of your money," I answered.
If Ham could rob the mail, it would not be a very hard step for him to
take to rob his father's pocket-book; and I began to think he had done
so, charging the crime upon me.
"I didn't say you had got any of my money," added Captain Fishley. "I
asked you how much you had."
"What do you want to know for?"
"No matter what I want to know for. Why don't you answer me?"
"Because I don't choose to answer you," I replied, saucily.
I felt innocent, and I could not tell him anything about my money
without exposing his brother. He made a movement towards me, and I
thought he was going to seize me by the collar. I jumped over the
counter, for I had all my money in my pocket, and I did not care about
being searched.
"Come back here!" said he, savagely.
"I am just as well here."
"Will you tell me how much money you have got, or shall I send for the
constable?" he continued.
"You may send for the constable, if you like; but I haven't any money
that belongs to you, or anybody but myself."
"Yes, you have! You have been robbing the mail!" retorted my tyrant,
fiercely.
Robbing the mail! I saw through the mill-stone. The postmaster had heard
from Miss Larrabee, or her brother, in regard to the missing letter,
and I was accused of purloining it! No doubt Captain Fishley thought I
was the robber. Probably Ham had charged the crime upon me, and his
father was willing to believe him.
"I have not robbed the mail," I replied, smartly.
"Yes, you did; and I can prove it. You had better own it, and give back
the money."
"I didn't take the money."
"What's the use to deny it, Buck?" said he, more mildly. "If you will
own it, and give back the money, I will try and make it as easy as I can
for you."
"I tell you I didn't take the money, and I won't own it when I didn't do
it."
"Well, just as you like, Buck. If you won't give up the money, I shall
have to hand you over to the constable, and see what he can do."
"You may hand me over to the constable as much as you please. Neither he
nor anybody else can make me own up to what I didn't do."
"Why will you persist in saying you didn't do it?"
"Because I didn't do it."
"I can prove it."
"Let's see you prove it."
"You carry the mail to Riverport and back."
"I know it; but I don't have any key to the bag."
"You know where the key is," said he, earnestly. "This morning I had a
letter from Miss Larrabee's brother, saying that he sent his sister
forty dollars, which must have come on before she left."
"That don't prove that I took it," I interposed; for I wished to know
what the trap was before I said anything about Ham.
"It proves that the letter came. I've been down to Riverport this
forenoon, and seen the postmaster there. He says the name was an odd one
to him, and he distinctly remembers seeing it when he sorted the mail. I
haven't any doubt the letter came to this office."
"Nor I either," I replied, glancing at Ham, who had taken position by
his father's side to hear what was said.
"What do you mean by that?" demanded Captain Fishley, puzzled by my
remark.
"You haven't proved that I took the letter."
"It came here, but none of us saw it. The very night the mail containing
that letter came in, you were seen counting money."
"Who saw me?" I asked.
"Ham saw you--didn't you, Ham?" replied the captain, appealing to his
son.
"Yes, I did. After I came home from Crofton's, I put on my old rubbers,
and went out to the barn after the lantern. I found Buck on the
hay-loft, counting a roll of bank bills," answered Ham, glibly.
"How much was there?" asked the postmaster.
"I asked him how much he had, but he wouldn't tell me," replied Ham. "He
said it was a little money that he had made on his own account."
"How did you make it, Buck?"
"I made it honestly, and I did not steal it," was the only safe answer I
could give.
I confess that it must have looked very bad for me; but I could not
expose Squire Fishley, and my lips were sealed.
"How much did there appear to be, Ham?" continued Captain Fishley; and I
must do him the justice to say that he now appeared to be only anxious
to elicit the truth.
"I don't know. I thought there were five or six bills. It was a good
deal of money for him to have, anyhow. I didn't think much about it till
since we found this letter was lost."
"Didn't you, Ham Fishley?" said I, looking him right in the eye. "You
know very well that I didn't take that letter."
"I know it!" repeated he, trying to bluster; but I saw that it was hard
work.
"Yes, you know it, if your father don't."
"I don't see who could have taken it, if he didn't," added Ham, turning
to his father.
"Don't you, Ham?" I shouted, in my excitement.
"Of course he took it," said the postmaster. "He isn't willing to tell
where he got that money, which he don't deny having."
"I can't tell where I got it, without injuring some one else; but I most
solemnly declare that I did not steal it, nor take the letter."
"That's all in your eye," said Ham.
"It was all in my eye the night the mail was robbed," I replied. "I
didn't do it; but I saw it done; and I know who did it, Ham Fishley."
"Humph! I shouldn't wonder if he meant to lay it to me, father!" added
Ham.
"That's just what I mean to do. I saw Ham take the money out of the
envelope, and then burn the letter."
"Well, that's a good one!" said Ham, laughing heartily; but his face was
pale, and his laugh hollow.
Captain Fishley looked at his son earnestly. Perhaps he saw the
unrealness of his mirth. Ham was extravagant in his demonstrations, and
so far overdid the matter, that even his father must have been troubled
with a suspicion that all was not right in relation to him.
"Buck Bradford, you have a large sum of money about you," said he. "Have
you not?"
"No matter how much," I answered.
"You have forty dollars. Will you deny it?"
"I will neither own nor deny it. I have nothing to say about it."
"Ham saw you have five or six bills. Now, you must tell me where you
got that money, or I shall believe you robbed the mail."
"I shall not tell you," I replied, firmly. "If it was right for me to do
so, I would; but it isn't right, and I can't."
"That's rich!" sneered Ham. "If you want any better evidence than that,
you will have to send to Texas after it. His trying to lay it to me is
the best proof I want."
"Ham Fishley, you know that what I have said is true," I continued
indignantly. "You know that you opened that mail-bag after you came home
from Crofton's, put the money in your pocket, and burned the letter."
"Of course that's perfectly ridiculous," said Ham, angrily.
"I'm tired of this jaw," added Captain Fishley, in disgust. "Buck, come
round here."
"I know what you want, and I think I won't do it," I replied, leaving
the store.
"Ham, go over to Stevens's, and tell him I want to see him," said my
tyrant, coming to the door.
Stevens was a constable. I was not anxious to see him. I went to the
barn, and by a roundabout way reached the swamp. I need hardly say that
I was in great excitement and alarm. The constable was to be put upon my
track; but I was not at all afraid that he would find me in the swamp,
which for nearly half a mile had three feet of water on the ground. He
could not reach me at the raft without a boat.
I went to work upon the interior of the house, put up a partition to
divide Flora's room from the rest of the space, and built a bunk in her
apartment. I had already rigged a steering oar, and at one end of the
raft I had set up a mast, on which I intended to spread a square-sail
for use when the wind was favorable. I worked very hard all the
afternoon, and kept Sim as busy as I was myself in sawing boards of the
right length for the work.
The raft was in condition to go down the river, though it was not yet
finished. I was ready to start that very night, if necessary. I was
confident that I was to be persecuted, if not prosecuted, for robbing
the mail. As long as I could not explain where I obtained the money
which Ham had unfortunately seen, I was not able to clear myself of the
suspicion. Before I left the swamp, I concealed all my money, but a few
dollars, in the hollow of a tree.
I was not afraid of the constable. I determined to go back to the house,
and trust to my wits for safety. I went into the kitchen as usual, where
Captain Fishley and his wife were just sitting down to supper.
"Where have you been all the afternoon?" asked he, in a milder tone than
I expected to hear him use.
"Keeping out of the way of the constable," I replied.
"I don't want to call the constable for you, but I shall if you don't
give up the money," added Captain Fishley.
"I haven't got it. What I said about Ham was the truth."
"The wicked wretch!" gasped Mrs. Fishley. "Why don't you send for the
constable?"
Poor Flora had heard the story about me, and she trembled with
apprehension. How I pitied her!
"I will hand him over to Stevens to-morrow, if he don't give up the
money before that time," added the captain.
I was not permitted to go after the mail that night. The postmaster went
himself, and his wife accompanied him to "do some shopping."
CHAPTER XV.
THE DEPARTURE.
I harnessed the horse for Captain Fishley, and put the mail-bag in the
wagon, as I was told to do. I could not help thinking that my tyrants
were playing some deeper game than appeared upon the surface. They were
certainly looking up evidence to enable them to convict me of robbing
the mail. If the captain should happen to blunder into some of the
stores in Riverport where I had made some extensive purchases, as I
regarded them, he might wonder what I had done with a second-hand
cooking-stove, about twenty pounds of nails, and other articles upon
which boys do not usually set a high value; but the amount of money
employed in the transaction would be of greater interest to him.
Captain Fishley drove off, and I went into the store. Ham was alone
there, and the glance which he bestowed upon me was unusually ugly. I
was uneasy and nervous. I knew I should never have any peace till I told
where I had obtained the money in my possession; but Squire Fishley had
specially interdicted my saying anything to his brother. It seemed to me
just as though my chief tyrant had gone down to Riverport on purpose to
find something which would condemn me. I had bought at least ten
dollars' worth of goods at one store, and if he could prove that I had
expended this sum of money, it would be enough to satisfy him that I had
robbed the mail.
I felt that the storm was coming down upon me like a tempest. My tyrants
were anxious to condemn me. Ham, in whom there was no sentiment of
justice or magnanimity, would do his utmost to convict me, in order to
save himself. It was plain enough to me, that without the testimony of
Squire Fishley, I could not hope to escape. Ham was a villain; he knew
that I had not stolen the money. I could not blame Captain Fishley and
his wife for deeming me guilty; but I could not save myself at the
expense of Squire Fishley. I had promised him faithfully, and he had
handsomely rewarded me for my silence.
"You are bound to have a row with me, Buck Bradford," said Ham, as I sat
in the store thinking of the perils of the situation.
"I think the boot's on the other leg," I replied.
"What do you mean by saying I robbed the mail then?"
"Well, what do you mean by saying I did it?" I retorted.
"You can't tell where you got that money I saw you have."
"No matter whether I can or not. You know, if nobody else does, that it
didn't come out of that letter."
"What do you mean by that?"
"What's the use of talking, Ham Fishley?" I replied, impatiently.
"Didn't you hear the dog howling that night when you broke open Miss
Larrabee's letter, and put the money in your pocket? I did, and I went
down stairs in my stocking feet to let him in. When I came to the store
door, I saw what you were doing. I saw you set the letter afire, and
throw it into the stove. Then you put the envelope in after it. But that
didn't burn up, and I saved a piece of it in the morning when I made the
fire."
"That's a pretty story!" exclaimed Ham; but I saw that he was pale, and
that his lips quivered. "Do you expect any one to believe it?"
"I don't expect your father to believe it; but, if you want to fetch the
constable, I think I can make him believe it."
"I went for the constable, but he was not in."
"Lucky for you!"
"You haven't told where you got that money."
"I don't mean to tell; but I think I can fetch some one to explain it,
if the worst comes," I added.
It was useless to talk with him. My secret sealed my lips and tied my
hands. I could do nothing, and it seemed like folly for me to stay and
face my tyrants, who would enjoy my ruin. I could appeal to the senator
to save me; but, if he did so, it would be at the expense of his own
reputation, and he would not thank me for putting him in such an
unpleasant position. If it had not been for Flora, I would have fled
that instant. Though I had prepared the raft for her accommodation, I
hardly expected she would be willing to go with me.
I went from the store into the kitchen, where I found the poor girl at
the stove. She had been crying, and I had never before seen her look so
sad and hopeless.
"What is the matter, dear Flora?" I asked, seating myself at her side.
"Nothing, Buckland."
"You have been crying, Flora."
"I couldn't help it."
"What made you cry?"
"I don't want to make trouble," she replied, the tears coming to her
eyes again; "but I wish it was October, that we might leave this house.
I'm sure Clarence does not know how much we suffer."
"Has Mrs. Fishley been abusing you again?"
She looked at me, and wiped away her tears before she answered.
"I did not mean to tell you of it, Buckland; but she did shake me
again, and she hurt me very much," sobbed she.
"I'll tear her in pieces for it!" I cried, angrily; and my teeth ground
together, and my fists involuntarily clinched.
"No, no, brother! Don't say anything about it," pleaded Flora. "Perhaps
it was my fault; I contradicted her. She said you stole the money from
the letter, and I persisted that you did not. O, Buckland, that was
awful--to say you were a thief! I could not bear it."
"I am not a thief!"
"But have you some money?"
"I have."
"Where did you get it?" she asked, anxiously.
"I cannot tell them where I got it. I will tell you a little; but you
must not breathe a word of it to any one."
"I will not, Buckland."
"I saved the life of a gentleman who had been drinking too much; and he
gave me the money. He made me promise that I would not tell any one
about it."
"Who was he?" asked she, excited by my story.
"I cannot tell even you who he was. He was very penitent, and wished me
to save his character. Flora, it was Ham who robbed the mail. I saw him
do it."
I told her what I had seen in the store the night the senator arrived,
and that Ham accused me of the crime in order to save himself.
"You will be sent to prison, Buckland!" exclaimed she, in terror, as she
threw her arm around my neck. "Ham hates you, and so do his father and
mother."
"Dear Flora, if you will go with me, I will not stay another night with
our tyrants. They abuse us both."
"Where will you go?"
"To New Orleans."
I will not pause to detail the arguments by which I convinced her that
it was best for us to leave Torrentville at once. In the morning the
constable would be sent for; and, while those who were left as my
protectors were really my enemies, I could not hope to escape their
malignity. This was the reasoning of a boy. Doubtless I was influenced
by the fact that the raft was ready for use, and by a desire to embark
upon a period of adventure.
"How can we go?" asked she; for I had said nothing to her about my craft
yet.
"I have built a raft with a house upon it," I replied.
"A raft!"
"Yes; it is big enough to hold twenty men."
"But we can't go to New Orleans on a raft."
"Perhaps not; but when we get tired of it, we can take a steamboat and
go the rest of the way. We shall have no tyrants to vex us," I added,
with enthusiasm. "I have made a nice house for you, dear Flora."
"I will do anything you say, Buckland," said she, clasping her arms
around my neck. "I cannot stay here."
"Then we must go this very night, before Captain Fishley and his wife
return. The raft is in the swamp. Go and dress yourself in your warmest
clothes, and put everything in a bundle which you wish to carry with
you."
"Shall we stay on the raft night and day, Buckland?" she inquired,
curiously; and her face already wore an expression of relief.
"Certainly, Flora. I have made a bunk in your room, and there is a stove
in the house."
"Is the house furnished?"
"Not much," I replied. "We have some things."
"You know all the furniture in my room here belongs to us," she added.
I did know it, but I had not thought of it before. When we went from our
own home to Captain Fishley's, Clarence had brought all the furniture
from Flora's room. I decided to carry off as much as I could of it,
including her bed, and the little rocking-chair in which she always sat.
Flora went to her chamber to prepare for her departure, and I hastened
to make my arrangements.
The die was cast! I was going immediately. Before the morning sun rose,
Flora and I, borne by the swift current of the river, would be far away
from Torrentville. My plans were all formed. Captain Fishley and his
wife would not return before nine o'clock, and I had nearly three hours
to convey Flora and her effects to the raft. There were no windows in
the rear of the store, and I was not in much danger of being seen by
Ham. I went to the barn to procure the wheelbarrow, and a little wagon I
had made for Flora, in which I intended to draw her to the swamp.
"Buck!" shouted Ham, as I was bringing out these vehicles, "I want you."
I deemed it prudent not to have a fuss with him then, and I hastened to
the store. In front of it I found the stable-keeper's best team. My
elegant tyrant was doubtless going to take Miss Elsie Crofton out to
ride, during the absence of his father.
"I want you to stay in the store till it's time to shut up," said Ham.
"I haven't left any money where you can steal it."
"I shall not stay in the store," I replied, indignant at his gratuitous
fling at me.
"Won't you?"
"No, I won't! I'm not going to put myself in position to be accused of
anything else."
"I think you'd better do as I tell you."
"I don't think so. The old man will give you fits for leaving the store;
and you know he wouldn't trust me there."
"The money is safe."
"That's all, Ham Fishley;" and I left the store.
I waited a little while to see what he would do. He locked the store,
and drove off with the fine team. He knew his father would not be back
till after it was time to close the shop. The coast was clear, and I
lost not a moment in carrying out my plans. I took an armful of Flora's
things, and went down to the verge of the swamp with them. I called Sim,
and told him what I intended to do as we walked back to the house. Our
operations were all carried on in the rear of the house, where none of
the neighbors could see us; and I loaded down the wheelbarrow to its
utmost capacity. But even then we could not carry everything, and I left
several bundles behind the barn, where we could readily obtain them for
a second load. I intended to take Bully with me, but I could not find
him. He was in the habit of making journeys about the village, and he
missed his destiny by being absent at this time.
It was after sundown when our little procession started for the swamp. I
felt as though I was taking the great step of my lifetime, and winning
the final triumph over my tyrants.
CHAPTER XVI.
DOWN THE RIVER.
First steps are always full of interest, at least to those who take
them; and, as I look back upon the eventful time when our little
procession left the back of the barn, it looms up as the most exciting
moment of my life, if I except the instant when I was struggling with
Sim Gwynn in the water. I was leaving the only home I had known for
years, and was going on a strange voyage down the river on a raft. I
shall not soon forget the emotions which agitated me.
Sim led the way with the wheelbarrow piled high with Flora's bed,
bundles of clothing, blankets, sheets, and comforters, while I brought
up the rear, dragging Flora's wagon, in which she was seated. My poor
sister was quite cheerful, and did not seem to be disturbed by any
timidity.
"Hurry up, Sim!" I called to my file-leader. "We have no time to lose."
"Won't Captain Fishley come after us?" asked Flora, as Sim quickened his
pace.
"He will if he knows where to come; but the swamp will be the last place
in the world where any one would think of looking for us. Before morning
we shall be miles away. Don't be alarmed, Flora."
"I am not alarmed. I feel ever so much better than I did when I thought
of meeting Mrs. Fishley again. Do you think it is right for us to do
this, Buckland?"
"Right! Of course it is. I don't know of any reason why we should stay
with Captain Fishley and his wife, to be kicked and cuffed by them any
longer."
Flora was thoughtful; but I knew she would not have come with me if she
had believed it was wrong to do so. We were all silent till we reached
the verge of the swamp, where the small raft lay. We unloaded the
wheelbarrow, and Sim went back for the rest of the articles. I placed my
sister's bed on the raft, and taking her in my arms, I laid her upon
it, and covered her with blankets, that the night air might not injure
her. I then pushed the raft over to the branch of the creek.
"Is that the raft?" exclaimed Flora, as I pointed it out to her.
"That's it; and I am sure you will be happier on board of it than at
Fishley's."
"The house looks real nice! There is the stove-pipe. You have one glass
window."
"Yes; that is in your room," I replied, as I ran the tender alongside
the great raft.
I fastened it securely, and helped Flora on board. She was almost as
much delighted with my handiwork as I had been myself. I conveyed her
bed to her apartment, and placed it in the bunk. It was not a bad fit.
"Now, Flora, I must leave you, and go for the rest of the things. You
can lie down in your bed, and I will cover you with blankets."
"I'm not cold. Shall you be gone long?" she asked.
"No."
"This is a very dismal place."
"You shall be on the broad river in the morning."
She lay down, and I left her to meet Sim at the landing-place. He had
arrived before me, and we loaded all the rest of the goods on the raft.
"What shall I do with the wheelbarrow?" asked Sim.
"Take it up into the open field, where they can see it. It might lie in
the swamp for a year before any one found it; and I don't mean to take a
single thing from Fishley. I carried back the saw I borrowed, and bought
a new one. I don't owe him anything now," I replied.
"I reckon he'll wonder where you and Miss Flora are, when he gets back,"
said Sim, with one of his broad grins.
"Let him wonder. I shall not charge him anything for wondering."
"I s'pose not," chuckled Sim, as he went off with the wheelbarrow.
While he was gone, I amused myself in picking up a quantity of dry wood
on the high ground for the stove, which I placed upon the raft. As soon
as Sim returned, we pushed off, and made our last trip through the
swamp. When we arrived at the raft, I found Flora had got up, and was
walking about the platform. She was so nervous she could not lie in bed.
I placed her chair in the large room, closed the shutters, and made a
fire in the stove. In a few minutes I had the pleasure of seeing her
seated before the fire, seemingly comfortable and happy.
Sim and I transferred the articles, including Flora's wagon, from the
small raft to the house on the large one. By this time it was quite
dark, and I lighted my lantern. My first work was in Flora's room, where
I made up the bed, and spread a rug on the floor. I drove nails into the
walls to hang her clothes upon, and arranged her boxes on some shelves I
had put up. The place looked very cosy to me, and Flora declared that it
was ever so much nicer than she had expected. I had taken great pains
with this part of the building, and carefully stopped every crack where
the wind could blow through upon her, and the roof had already been
tested in a heavy shower.
By nine o'clock, as nearly as I could guess the time, I had finished my
sister's room; but, though it was past her bedtime, she was not willing
to retire. I had hoped she would take to her bed at the usual hour, and
relieve me of all anxiety about her, for I was afraid she would catch
cold and be sick. But the excitement would not permit her to do so. The
stove warmed both of the rooms, and we were in more danger from the want
of ventilation than from the night air. She sat in her chair in her
room, with Sim and me before her, talking over the matter.
"Why don't you start, Buckland?" she asked, when I had detailed more
fully than before my plans.
"It is rather too early yet. You know the road to Riverport runs along
the bank of the creek, and I don't wish anybody in these parts to see
us," I replied.
"The sooner we start, the farther we shall get before morning," added
Sim, who was as impatient as Flora.
"We shall be far enough off in the morning. How fast do you suppose the
raft will go, Sim?"
"I dunno."
"It will go about as fast as the current without any help; and that is
three or four miles an hour. We shall be at least twenty miles from here
at five o'clock in the morning."
"But won't they miss us at the house, Buckland?" asked Flora.
"Certainly they will. Very likely they have missed us by this time."
"Suppose they should find us?"
"We should be no worse off than before. But there is not the remotest
chance that they will find us. Do you think they would look in the swamp
for you, Flora?"
She was satisfied, and we continued to discuss the future, until I
judged that it was late enough to commence the voyage. I wished to be
sure that Captain Fishley and his wife had returned from Riverport. The
night was quite dark, and I had no fear that the raft would be seen; but
even if it were, it was not a very uncommon thing for such a craft to go
down the river.
I had made a crooked steering oar, and built a platform to stand upon,
so that the helmsman could see over the house. I mounted this platform,
and took hold of the end of the oar.
"Now cast off the forward fast, Sim!" I called to my deck hand.
"All clear," replied Sim, when he had drawn in the line, which had been
passed round a tree so that it could be hauled in without going on
shore.
"Now let go the other!"
Sim untied one of the ends of the rope, and was pulling it in, when I
felt a consciousness that something was wrong, though I could not tell
what. It flashed across my mind that I was making a blunder.
"Hold on, Sim!" I shouted, jumping down from the platform, and trying to
catch the rope; but the end had gone ashore.
"What's the matter, Buck?" called Sim, apparently alarmed by my sudden
movements.
"I have forgotten my money!" I exclaimed, as I leaped on the small raft
which lay alongside.
I sprang for the tree to which the great raft was fastened, in order to
secure the rope; but it was too late. The current started the raft, and
dragged the rope off before I could catch hold of it. In the darkness
and the night the craft went off without me.
"Don't leave me, Buck!" called Sim.
"Take the steering oar, and run her up to the shore!" I replied.
I had the small raft, and I could follow at pleasure, and join my
companions; but if I pushed off, I could not return, for the branch of
the creek was too deep for me to use the pole. I could not think of
going without my money.
I saw Sim jump upon the platform, and work the steering oar vigorously,
but with more power than skill. He succeeded in running her up to the
bank.
"Now hold on to her!" I shouted. "I shall not be gone long!"
I pushed the raft to the tree where I had concealed the money; and,
though I had some difficulty in finding it, I succeeded; still, three
times as many minutes were wasted in the operation as I supposed would
be necessary. With the roll of bills in my pocket-book, I pushed off
again, and soon reached the stream. Launching out into the current, the
raft was borne with its flow towards the creek.
I could not see the light on the raft where I had left it, only a few
rods below the starting-point. My frail bark was not large enough to
float easily on the rapid stream, and in spite of my best efforts, it
would whirl round, for the pole in my hand had not blade enough to
enable me to steer with it. In a few moments I reached the place where I
had last seen the light through the window of Flora's room; but the raft
was not there. It was not to be seen before me; but the stream made a
bend a short distance below me.
The raft had probably broken loose, and Sim had been unable to stop it;
but it was not like my fellow-voyager to let it go without yelling at
the top of his lungs, and he had more voice than wits. Though all my
hopes were in the ark I had built, and Flora, whom I loved more than
life, was a passenger upon it, I was not alarmed. Sim would be able to
run it up to the shore, and probably had done so beyond the bend.
I always had a habit of looking on the bright side of things, and was
disposed never to despair; at least not till I had seen what was beyond
the next bend in the stream of life. I was quite confident I should find
the ark of my safety in a few moments more, and I did not even attempt
to hurry the crazy float on which I travelled. I reached the bend, and
strained my eyes to peer through the gloom, which hung deep and heavy
over the swamp. The stream was straight for half a mile ahead of me, but
no light gladdened my eyes.
I was startled, and even terrified, by the situation.
CHAPTER XVII.
NIGHT ON THE RIVER.
Sim Gwynn had a voice like a bull, and I wondered that he had not used
it, as he was in the habit of doing in all cases of peril or emergency.
The worst fear I had was, that he had fallen overboard; for it seemed to
me that nothing else could have prevented him from halloing. But I had
strong hopes that the next bend of the stream would remove my anxiety.
With the board I had torn from my raft I paddled with all my might; but
it seemed like an hour to me, in my deep solicitude for the fate of my
