gladness which began to fill the dry places in my heart, and
rose and swelled till my heart was full. I lost my troubles
and forgot my difficulties. I forgot that my father and mother
were away, for the sense of loneliness was gone. I forgot that
those around me were in bonds, for I felt them free as I, and
inheritors of the same kingdom. I have not often in my life
listened to such a prayer, unless from the same lips. He was
one of those that make you feel that the door is open to their
knocking, and that they always find it so. His words were
seconded  not interrupted, even to my feeling  by low-
breathed echoes of praise and petition; too soft and deep to
leave any doubt of the movement that called them forth.
There was a quiet gravity upon the company when we rose to our
feet again. I knew I must go; but the kitchen had been the
pleasantest place to me in all Magnolia. I bade them good
night, answered with bows and curtseys and hearty wishes; and
as I passed out of the circle, tall black Pete, looking down
upon me with just a glimmer of white between his lips, added,
"Hope you'll come again."
A thought darted into my head which brought sunshine with it.
I seemed to see my way begin to open.
The hope was warm at my heart as soon as I was awake the next
morning. With more comfort than for many days I had known, I
lay and watched Margaret making my fire. Then suddenly I
remembered it was Christmas, and what thanksgivings had been
in heaven about it, and what should be on earth; and a
lingering of the notes of praise I had heard last night made a
sort of still music in the air. But I did not expect at all
that any of the ordinary Christmas festivities would come home
to me, seeing that my father and mother were away. Where
should Christmas festivities come from? So, when Margaret rose
up and showed all her teeth at me, I only thought last night
had given her pleasure; and I suspected nothing, even when she
stepped into the next room and brought in a little table
covered with a shawl, and set it close by my bedside. "Am I to
have breakfast in bed?" I asked. "What is this for?"
"Dunno, Miss Daisy," said Margaret, with all her white teeth
sparkling;  'spose Miss Daisy take just a look, and see what
'pears like."
I felt the colour come into my face. I raised myself on my
elbow and lifted up cautiously one corner of the shawl.
Packages  white paper and brown paper  long and short, large
and small! "O Margaret, take off the shawl, won't you!" I
cried;  "and let me see what is here."
There was a good deal. But "From papa" caught my eye on a
little parcel. I seized it and unfolded. From papa, and he so
far away! But I guessed the riddle before I could get to the
last of the folds of paper that wrapped and enwrapped a little
morocco case. Papa and mamma, leaving me alone, had made
provision beforehand, that when this time came I might miss
nothing except themselves. They had thought and cared and
arranged for me; and now they were thinking about it, perhaps,
far away somewhere over the sea. I held the morocco case in my
hand a minute or two before I could open it. Then I found a
little watch; my dear little watch! which has gone with me
ever since, and never failed nor played tricks with me. My
mother had put in one of her own chains for me to wear with
it.
I lay a long time looking and thinking, raised up on my elbow
as I was, before I could leave the watch and go on to anything
else. Margaret spread round my shoulders the shawl which had
covered the Christmas table; and then she stood waiting, with
a good deal more impatience and curiosity than I showed. But
such a world of pleasure and pain gathered round that first
"bit of Christmas"  so many, many thoughts of one and the
other kind  that I for awhile had enough with that. At last I
closed the case, and keeping it yet in one hand, used the
other to make more discoveries. The package labelled "From
mamma," took my attention next; but I could make nothing of
it. An elegant little box, that was all, which I could not
open; only it felt so very heavy that I was persuaded there
must be something extraordinary inside. I could make nothing
of it; it was a beautiful box; that was all. Preston had
brought me a little riding whip; both costly and elegant. I
could not but be much pleased with it. A large, rather soft
package marked with aunt Gary's name, unfolded a riding cap to
match; at least it was exceeding rich and stylish, with a
black feather that waved away in curves that called forth
Margaret's delighted admiration. Nevertheless, I wondered,
while I admired, at my aunt Gary's choice of a present. I had
a straw hat which served all purposes, even of elegance, for
my notions. I was amazed to find that Miss Pinshon had not
forgotten me. There was a decorated pen, wreathed with a cord
of crimson and gold twist, and supplemented with two dangling
tassels. It was excessively pretty, as I thought of aunt
Gary's cap; and not equally convenient. I looked at all these
things while Margaret was dressing me; but the case with the
watch, for the most part, I remember I kept in my hand.
"Aint you goin' to try it on and see some how pretty it looks,
Miss Daisy?" said my unsatisfied attendant.
"The cap?" said I. "Oh, I dare say it fits. Aunt Gary knows
how big my head is."
"Mass' Preston come last night," she went on; "so I reckon
Miss Daisy'll want to wear it by and by."
"Preston come last night!" I said. "After I was in bed?"  and
feeling that it was indeed Christmas, I finished getting ready
and went down stairs. I made up my mind I might as well be
friends with Preston, and not push any further my displeasure
at his behaviour. So we had a comfortable breakfast. My aunt
was pleased to see me, she said, look so much better. Miss
Pinshon was not given to expressing what she felt; but she
looked at me two or three times without saying anything, which
I suppose meant satisfaction. Preston was in high feather;
making all sorts of plans for my divertisement during the next
few days. I for my part had my own secret cherished plan,
which made my heart beat quicker whenever I thought of it. But
I wanted somebody's counsel and help; and on the whole I
thought my aunt Gary's would be the safest. So after breakfast
I consulted Preston only about my mysterious little box, which
would not open. Was it a paper weight?
Preston smiled, took up the box and performed some conjuration
upon it, and then  I cannot describe my entranced delight 
as he set it down again on the table, the room seemed to grow
musical. Softest, most liquid sweet notes came pouring forth
one after the other, binding my ears as if I had been in a
state of enchantment. Binding feet and hands and almost my
breath, as I stood hushed and listening to the liquid warbling
of delicious things, until the melody had run itself out. It
was a melody unknown to me; wild and dainty; it came out of a
famous opera I was told afterward. When the fairy notes sunk
into silence, I turned mutely towards Preston. Preston
laughed.
"I declare!" he said,  "I declare! Hurra! you have got colour
in your cheeks, Daisy; absolutely, my little Daisy! there is a
real streak of pink there where it was so white before."
"What is it?" said I.
"Just a little good blood coming up under the skin."
"Oh, no, Preston  this; what is it?"
"A musical box."
"But where does the music come from?"
"Out of the box. See, Daisy; when it has done a tune and is
run out, you must wind it up, so,  like a watch."
He wound it up and set it on the table again. And again a
melody came forth, and this time it was different; not
plaintive and thoughtful, but jocund and glad; a little shout
and ring of merriment, like the feet of dancers scattering the
drops of dew in a bright morning; or like the chime of a
thousand little silver bells rung for laughter. A sort of
intoxication came into my heart. When Preston would have wound
up the box again, I stopped him. I was full of the delight. I
could not hear any mote just then.
"Why, Daisy, there are ever so many more tunes."
"Yes. I am glad. I will have them another time," I answered.
"How very kind of mamma!"
"Hit the right thing this time, didn't she? How's the riding
cap, Daisy?"
"It is very nice," I said. "Aunt Gary is very good; and I like
the whip very much, Preston."
"That fat little rascal will want it. Does the cap fit,
Daisy?"
"I don't know," I said. "Oh, yes, I suppose so."
Preston made an exclamation, and forthwith would have it tried
on to see how it looked. It satisfied him; somehow it did not
please me as well; but the ride did, which we had soon after;
and I found that my black feather certainly suited everybody
else. Darry smiled at me, and the house servants were exultant
over my appearance.
Amid all these distracting pleasures, I kept on the watch for
an opportunity to speak to aunt Gary alone. Christmas day I
could not. I could not get it till near the end of the next
day.
"Aunt Gary," I said, "I want to consult you about something."
"You have always something turning about in your head,"  was
her answer.
"Do you think," said I slowly, "Mr. Edwards would have any
objection to some of the people coming to the kitchen Sunday
evenings to hear me read the Bible?"
"To hear you read the Bible!" said my aunt.
"Yes, aunt Gary; I think they would like it. You know they
cannot read it for themselves."
"They would like it. And you would be delighted, wouldn't
you?"
"Yes, aunt Gary. I should like it better than anything."
"You are a funny child! There is not a bit of your mother in
you  except your obstinacy."
And my aunt seemed to ponder my difference.
"Would Mr. Edwards object to it, do you think? Would he let
them come?"
"The question is, whether I will let them come. Mr. Edwards
has no business with what is done in the house."
"But, aunt Gary, you would not have any objection."
"I don't know, I am sure. I wish your father and mother had
never left you in my charge; for I don't know how to take care
of you."
"Aunt Gary," I said, "please don't object! There is nobody to
read the Bible to them  and I should like to do it very
much."
"Yes, I see you would. There  don't get excited about it 
every Sunday evening, did you say?"
"Yes, ma'am  if you please."
"Daisy, it will just tire you; that's what it will do. I know
it, just as well as if I had seen it. You are not strong
enough."
"I am sure it would refresh me, aunt Gary. It did the other
night."
"The other night?"
"Christmas eve, ma'am."
"Did you read to them then?"
"Yes, ma'am; they wanted to know what Christmas was about."
"And you read to them. You are the oddest child!"
"But, aunt Gary, never mind,  it would be the greatest
pleasure to me. Won't you give leave?"
"The servants hear the Bible read, child, every morning and
every night."
"Yes, but that is only a very few of the house servants. I
want some of the others to come  a good many,  as many as
can come."
"I wish your mother and father were here," sighed my aunt.
"Do you think Mr. Edwards would make any objection?" I asked
again, presuming on the main question being carried. "Would he
let them come?"
"Let them!" echoed my aunt. "Mr. Edwards would be well
employed, to interfere with anything the family choose to do."
"But you know he does not let them meet together, the people,
aunt Gary; not unless they have his permission."
"No, I suppose so. That is his business."
"Then will you speak to him, ma'am, so that he may not be
angry with the people when they come?"
"I? No," said my aunt. "I have nothing to do with your
father's overseer. It would just make difficulty maybe, Daisy;
you had better let this scheme of yours alone."
I could not, without bitter disappointment. Yet I did not know
how further to press the matter. I sat still and said nothing.
"I declare, if she isn't growing pale about it!" exclaimed my
aunt. "I know one thing, and that is, your father and mother
ought to have taken you along with them. I have not the least
idea how to manage you; not the least. What is it you want to
do, Daisy?"
I explained, over again.
"And now if you cannot have this trick of your fancy you will
just fidget yourself sick! I see it. Just as you went driving
all about Melbourne without company to take care of you. I am
sure I don't know. It is not in my way to meddle with
overseers  How many people do you want to read to at once,
Daisy?"
"As many as I can, aunt Gary. But Mr. Edwards will not let two
or three meet together anywhere."
"Well, I dare say he is right. You can't believe anything in
the world these people tell you, child. They will lie just as
fast as they will speak."
"But if they came to see me, aunt Gary?" I persisted, waiving
the other question.
"That's another thing, of course. Well, don't worry. Call
Preston. Why children cannot be children, passes my
comprehension!"
Preston came, and there was a good deal of discussing of my
plan; at which Preston frowned and whistled, but on the whole,
though I knew against his will, took my part. The end was, my
aunt sent for the overseer. She had some difficulty, I judge,
in carrying the point; and made capital of my ill-health and
delicacy and spoiled-child character. The overseer's unwilling
consent was gained at last; the conditions being, that every
one who came to hear the reading should have a ticket of
leave, written and signed by myself, for each evening; and
that I should be present with the assembly from the beginning
to the close of it.
My delight was very great. And my aunt, grumbling at the whole
matter and especially at her share in it, found an additional
cause of grumbling in that, she said, I had looked twenty per
cent. better ever since this foolish thing got possession of
my head. "I am wondering," she remarked to Miss Pinshon,
"whatever Daisy will do when she grows up. I expect nothing
but she will be  what do you call them?  one of those people
who run wild over the human race."
"Pirates?" suggested Preston. "Or corsairs?"
"Her mother will be disappointed," went on my aunt. "That is
what I confidently expect."
Miss Pinshon hinted something about the corrective qualities
of mathematics; but I was too happy to heed her or care. I was
stronger and better, I believe, from that day; though I had
not much to boast of. A true tonic had been administered to
me; my fainting energies took a new start.
I watched my opportunity, and went down to the kitchen one
evening to make my preparations. I found Maria alone and
sitting in state before the fire  which I believe was always
in the kitchen a regal one. I hardly ever saw it anything
else. She welcomed me with great suavity; drew up a chair for
me; and finding I had something to say, sat then quite grave
and still looking into the blaze, while I unfolded my plan.
"De Lord is bery good!" was her subdued comment, made when I
had done. "He hab sent His angel, sure!"
"Now, Maria," I went on, "you must tell me who would like to
come next Sundays, you think; and I must make tickets for
them. Every one must have my ticket, with his name on it; and
then there will be no fault found."
"I s'pose not," said Maria,  "wid Miss Daisy's name on it."
"Who will come, Maria?"
"Laws, chile, dere's heaps. Dere's Darry, and Pete  Pete, he
say de meetin' de oder night war 'bout de best meetin' he eber
'tended; he wouldn't miss it for not'ing in de world; he's
sure; and dere's ole 'Lize; and de two Jems  no, dere's tree
Jems dat is ser'ous; and Stark, and Carl and Sharlim "
"Sharlim?" said I, not knowing that this was the Caffir for
Charlemagne.
"Sharlim," Maria repeated. "He don' know much; but he has a
leanin' for de good t'ings. And Darry, he can tell who'll
come. I done forget all de folks' names."
"Why, Maria," I said, "I did not know there were so many
people at Magnolia that cared about the Bible."
"What has 'um to care for, chile, I should like fur to know.
Dere aint much mo' in dis world."
"But I thought there were only very few," I said.
" 'Spose um fifty," said Maria. "Fifty aint much, I reckon,
when dere's all de rest o' de folks what don't care. De Lord's
people is a little people yet, for sure; and de world's a big
place. When de Lord come Hisself, to look for 'em, 'spect He
have to look mighty hard. De world's awful dark."
That brought to my mind my question. It was odd, no doubt, to
choose an old coloured woman for my adviser; but indeed I had
not much choice; and something had given me a confidence in
Maria's practical wisdom, which early as it had been formed,
nothing ever happened to shake. So, after considering the
fire and the matter a moment, I brought forth my doubt.
"Maria," said I, "what is the best way  I mean, how can one
let one's light shine?"
"What Miss Daisy talkin' about?"
"I mean,  you know what the Bible says  'Let your light so
shine before men, that they may see your good works and
glorify your Father which is in heaven'?"
"For sure, I knows dat. Aint much shinin' in dese yere parts.
De people is dark, Miss Daisy; dey don' know. 'Spect dey would
try to shine, some on 'em, ef dey knowed. Feel sure dey
would."
"But that is what I wanted to ask about, Maria. How ought one
to let one's light shine?"
I remember now the kind of surveying look the woman gave me. I
do not know what she was thinking of; but she looked at me, up
and down, for a moment, with a wonderfully tender, soft
expression. Then turned away.
"How let um light shine?" she repeated. "De bestest way, Miss
Daisy, is fur to make him burn good."
I saw it all immediately; my question never puzzled me again.
Take care that the lamp is trimmed; take care that it is full
of oil; see that the flame mounts clear and steady towards
heaven; and the Lord will set it where its light will fall on
what pleases Him, and where it will reach mayhap, to what you
never dream of.
CHAPTER VI.
WINTER AND SUMMER.
From the Christmas holidays, I think I began slowly to mend.
My aunt watched me, and grumbled that kitchen amusements and
rides with Darry should prove the medicines most healing and
effectual; but she dared stop neither of them. I believe the
overseer remonstrated on the danger of the night gatherings;
but my aunt Gary had her answer ready, and warned him not to
do anything to hinder me, for I was the apple of my father's
eye. Miss Pinshon, sharing to the full my aunt's discontent,
would have got on horseback, I verily believe, to be with me
in my rides; but she was no rider. The sound of a horse's four
feet always, she confessed, stamped the courage out of her
heart. I was let alone; and the Sunday evenings in the
kitchen, and the bright morning hours in the pine avenues and
oak groves, were my refreshment and my pleasure, and my
strength.
What there was of it; for I had not much strength to boast for
many a day. Miss Pinshon tried her favorite recipe whenever
she thought she saw a chance, and I did my best with it. But
my education that winter was quite in another line. I could
not bear much arithmetic. Bending over a desk did not agree
with me. Reading aloud to Miss Pinshon never lasted for more
than a little while at a time. So it comes, that my
remembrance of that winter is not filled with school
exercises, and that Miss Pinshon's figure plays but a
subordinate part in its pictures. Instead of that, my memory
brings back first and chiefest of all, the circle of dark
faces round the kitchen light wood fire, and the yellow blaze
on the page from which I read; I a little figure in white,
sitting in the midst among them all. That picture  those
evenings  come back to me, with a kind of hallowed perfume of
truth and hope. Truth, it was in my lips and on my heart; I
was giving it out to those who had it not. And hope,  it was
in more hearts than mine, no doubt; but in mine it beat with
as steady a beat as the tickings of my little watch by my
side, and breathed sweet as the flowers that start in spring
from under the snow. I had often a large circle; and it was
part of my plan, and well carried into execution, that these
evenings of reading should supply also the place of the
missing prayer-meeting. Gradually I drew it on to be so
understood; and then my pieces of reading were scattered along
between the prayers, or sometimes all came at first, followed
by two or three earnest longer prayers from some of those that
were present. And then, without any planning of mine, came in
the singing. Not too much, lest as Maria said, we should "make
de folks up stairs t'ink dere war somethin' oncommon in de
kitchen;" but one or two hymns we would have, so full of
spirit and sweetness that often now-a-days they come back to
me, and I would give very much to hear the like again. So full
of music too. Voices untrained by art, but gifted by nature;
melodious and powerful; that took different parts in the tune,
and carried them through without the jar of a false note or a
false quantity; and a love both of song and of the truth which
made the music mighty. It was the greatest delight to me, that
singing, whether I joined them or only listened. One,  the
thought of it comes over me now and brings the water to my
eyes, 
"Am I a soldier of the cross 
Of the cross 
Of he cross 
A follower of the Lamb;
And shall I fear to own his cause,
Own his cause 
Own his cause, 
Or blush to speak His name?"
The repetitions at the end of every other line were: both
plaintive and strong; there was no weakness, but some
recognition of what it costs in certain circumstances to "own
His cause." I loved that dearly. But that was only one of
many.
Also the Bible words were wonderful sweet to me, as I was
giving them out to those who else had a "famine of the word."
Bread to the hungry, is quite another thing from bread on the
tables of the full.
The winter had worn well on, before I received the answer to
the letter I had written my father about the prayer-meetings
and Mr. Edwards. It was a short answer, not in terms but in
actual extent; showing that my father was not strong and well
yet. It was very kind and tender, as well as short; I felt
that in every word. In substance, however, it told me I had
better let Mr. Edwards alone. He knew what he ought to do,
about the prayer-meetings and about other things; and they
were what I could not judge about. So my letter said. It said
too, that things seemed strange to me because I was unused to
them; and that when I had lived longer at the South they would
cease to be strange, and I would understand them and look upon
them as every one else did.
I studied and pondered this letter; not greatly disappointed,
for I had had but slender hopes that my petition could work
anything. Yet I had a disappointment to get over. The first
practical use I made of my letter, I went where I could be
alone with it  indeed, I was that when I read it,  but I
went to a solitary lonely place, where I could not be
interrupted; and there I knelt down and prayed, that however
long I might live at the South, I might never get to look upon
evil as anything but evil, nor ever become accustomed to the
things I thought ought not to be, so as not to feel them. I
shall never forget that half hour. It broke my heart that my
father and I should look on such matters with so different
eyes; and with my prayer for myself, which came from the very
bottom of my heart, I poured out also a flood of love and
tears over him, and of petition that he might have better
eyesight one day. Ah yes! and before it should be too late to
right the wrong he was unconsciously doing.
For now I began to see, in the light of this letter first,
that my father's eyes were not clear but blind in regard to
these matters. And what he said about me led me to think and
believe that his blindness was the effect, not of any
particular hardness or fault in him, but of long teaching and
habit and custom. For I saw that everybody else around me
seemed to take the present condition of things as the true and
best one; only convenient, but natural and proper. Everybody,
that is, who did not suffer by it. I had more than suspicions
that the seven hundred on the estate were of a different mind
here from the half dozen who lived in the mansion; and that
the same relative difference existed on the other plantations
in the neighbourhood. We made visits occasionally, and the
visits were returned. I was not shut out from them, and so had
some chance to observe things within a circle of twenty miles.
Our "neighbourhood" reached so far. And child as I was, I
could not help seeing; and I could not help looking, half
unconsciously, for signs of what lay so close on my heart.
My father's letter thus held some material of comfort for me,
although it refused my request. Papa would not overset the
overseer's decision about the prayer-meetings. It held
something else. There was a little scrap of a note to aunt
Gary, saying, in the form of an order, that Daisy was to have
ten dollars paid to her every quarter; that Mrs. Gary would
see it done; and would further see that Daisy was not called
upon, by anybody, at any time, to give any account whatever of
her way of spending the same.
How I thanked papa for this! How I knew the tender affection
and knowledge of me which had prompted it. How well I
understood what it was meant to do. I had a little private
enjoyment of aunt Gary's disconsolate face and grudging hands
as she bestowed upon me the first ten dollars. It was not that
she loved money so well, but she thought this was another form
of my father's unwise indulging and spoiling of me; and that I
was spoiled already. But I  I saw in vision a large harvest
of joy, to be raised from this small seed crop.
At first I thought I must lay out a few shillings of my stock
upon a nice purse to keep the whole in. I put the purse down
at the head of the list of things I was making out, for
purchase, the first time I should go to Baytown, or have any
good chance of sending. I had a good deal of consideration
whether I would have a purse or a pocket-book. Then I had an
odd secret pleasure in my diplomatic way of finding out from
Darry and Maria and Margaret what were the wants most pressing
of the sick and the old among the people; or of the
industrious and the enterprising. Getting Darry to talk to me
in my rides, by degrees I came to know the stories and
characters of many of the hands; I picked up hints of a want
or a desire here and there, which Darry thought there was no
human means of meeting, or gratifying. Then, the next time I
had a chance, I brought up these persons and cases to Maria,
and supplemented Darry's hints with her information. Or I
attacked Margaret when she was making my fire, and drew from
her what she knew about the persons in whom I was interested.
So I learned  and put it down in my notebook accordingly 
that Pete could spell out words a little bit, and would like
mainly to read; if only he had a Testament in large type. He
could not manage little print; it bothered him. Also I
learned, that aunt Sarah, a middle-aged woman who worked in
the fields, "wanted terrible to come to de Sabbas meetin's,
but she war' shamed to come, 'cause her feet was mos' half out
of her shoes; and Mr. Ed'ards wouldn't give her no more till
de time come roun'." Sarah had "been and gone and done stuck
her feet in de fire, for to warm 'em, one time when dey was
mighty cold; and she burn her shoes. Learn her better next
time."
"But does she work every day in the field with her feet only
half covered?" I asked.
"Laws! she don't care," said Maria. "Taint no use give dem
darkies not'ing; dey not know how to keep' um."
But this was not Maria's real opinion, I knew. There was often
a strange sort of seeming hard edge of feeling put forth,
which I learned to know pointed a deep, deep, maybe only half-
conscious irony, and was in reality a bitter comment upon
facts. So a pair of new shoes for Sarah went down in my list
with a large print Testament for Pete. Then I found that some
of the people, some of the old ones, who in youth had been
accustomed to it, liked nothing so well as tea; it was
ambrosia and Lethe mingled; and a packet of tea was put in my
list next to the Testament. But the tea must have sugar; and I
could not bear that they should drink it out of mugs, without
any teaspoons; so to please myself I sent for a little delf
ware and a few pewter spoons. Little by little my list grew. I
found that Darry knew something about letters; could write a
bit; and would prize the means of writing as a very rare
treasure and pleasure. And with fingers that almost trembled
with delight, I wrote down paper and pens and a bottle of ink
for Darry. Next, I heard of an old woman at the quarters, who
was ailing and infirm, and I am afraid ill-treated, who at all
events was in need of comfort, and had nothing but straw and
the floor to rest her poor bones on at night. A soft pallet
for her went down instantly on my list; my ink and tears
mingling together as I wrote; and I soon found that my purse
must be cut off from the head of my list for that time. I
never ventured to put it at the head again; nor found a chance
to put it in anywhere else. I spent four winters at Magnolia
after that; and never had a new purse all the time.
I had to wait awhile for an opportunity to make my purchases;
then had the best in the world, for Darry was sent to Baytown
on business. To him I confided my list and my money, with my
mind on the matter; and I was served to a point and with
absolute secrecy. For that I had insisted on. Darry and Maria
were in my counsels, of course; but the rest of the poor
people knew only by guess who their friend was. Old Sarah
found her new shoes in her hut one evening, and in her noisy
delight declared that "some big angel had come t'rough de
quarters." The cups and saucers it was necessary to own, lest
more talk should have been made about them than at all suited
me; Darry let it be understood that nothing must be said and
nobody must know of the matter; and nobody did; but I took the
greatest enjoyment in hearing from Maria how the old women
(and one or two men) gathered together and were comforted over
their cups of tea. And over the cups, Maria said: the cups
and spoons made the tea twice as good; but I doubt their
relish of it was never half so exquisite as mine. I had to
give Pete his Testament; he would not think it the same thing
if he did not have it from my own hand, Maria said; and
Darry's pens and ink likewise. The poor woman for whom I had
got the bed, was, I fear, beyond enjoying anything; but it was
a comfort to me to know that she was lying on it. The people
kept my secret perfectly; my aunt and governess never, I
believe, heard anything of all these doings; I had my
enjoyment to myself.
And the Sunday evening prayer-meeting grew. Little by little.
Old Sarah and her new shoes were there of course, at once.
Those who first came never failed. And week by week, as I went
into the kitchen with my Bible, I saw a larger circle; found
the room better lined with dark forms and sable faces. They
come up before me now as I write, one and another. I loved
them all. I love them still, for I look to meet many of them
in glory; "where there is neither bond nor free." Nay, that is
here and at present, to all who are in Christ; we do not wait
for heaven, to be all one.
And they loved me, those poor people. I think Pete had
something the same sort of notion about me that those
Ephesians had of their image of Diana, which they insisted had
fallen from heaven. I used to feel it then, and be amused by
it.
But I am too long about my story. No wonder I linger, when the
remembrance is so sweet. With this new interest that had come
into my life, my whole life brightened. I was no longer
spiritless. My strength little by little returned. And with
the relief of my heart about my father, my happiness sprung
back almost to its former and usual state when I was at
Melbourne. For I had by this time submitted to my father's and
mother's absence as a thing of necessity, and submitted
entirely. Yet my happiness was a subdued sort of thing; and my
aunt Gary still thought it necessary to be as careful of me,
she said, "as if I were an egg-shell." As I grew stronger,
Miss Pinshon made more and more demands upon my time with her
arithmetic lessons, and other things; but my rides with Darry
were never interfered with, nor my Sunday evening readings;
and indeed all the winter I continued too delicate and feeble
for much school work. My dreaded governess did not have near
so much to do with me as I thought she would.
The spring was not far advanced before it was necessary for us
to quit Magnolia. The climate after a certain day, or rather
the air, was not thought safe for white people. We left
Magnolia; and went first to Baytown and then to the North.
There our time was spent between one and another of several
watering-places. I longed for Melbourne; but the house was
shut up; we could not go there. The summer was very wearisome
to me. I did not like the houses in which our time was spent,
or the way of life led in them. Neither did Miss Pinshon, I
think; for she was out of her element, and had no chance to
follow her peculiar vocation. Of course, in a public hotel, we
could not have a schoolroom; and with the coming on of warm
weather my strength failed again, so sensibly, that all there
was to do was to give me sea air and bathing, and let me
alone. The bathing I enjoyed; those curling salt waves
breaking over my head, are the one image of anything fresh or
refreshing which my memory has kept. I should have liked the
beach; I did like it; only it was covered with bathers, or
else with promenaders in carriages and on foot, at all times
when I saw it; and though they were amusing, the beach was
spoiled. The hotel rooms were close and hot; I missed all the
dainty freedom and purity of my own home; the people I saw
were, it seemed to me, entirely in keeping with the rooms;
that is, they were stiff and fussy, not quiet and busy. They
were busy after their own fashion indeed; but it always seemed
to me, busy about nothing. The children I saw, too, did not
attract me; and I fear I did not attract them. I was sober-
hearted and low-toned in spirits and strength; while they were
as gay as their elders. And I was dressed according to my
mother's fancy, in childlike style, without hoops, and with my
hair cropped short all over my head. They were stately with
crinoline, and rich with embroidery, stiff with fine dresses
and plumes; while a white frock and a flat straw were all my
adornment, except a sash. I think they did not know what to
make of me; and I am sure I had nothing in common with them;
so we lived very much apart. There was a little variation in
my way of life when Preston came; yet not much. He took me
sometimes to drive, and did once go walking with me oil the
beach; but Preston found a great deal where I found nothing,
and was all the time taken up with people and pleasures;
boating and yachting and fishing expeditions; and I believe
with hops and balls too. But I was always fast asleep at those
times.
It was a relief to me when the season came to an end, and we
went to New York to make purchases before turning southward. I
had once hoped, that this time, the year's end, might see my
father and mother come home again. That hope had faded and
died a natural death a long while ago. Letters spoke my
father's health not restored; he was languid and spiritless
and lacked vigour; he would try the air of Switzerland; lie
would spend the winter in the Pyrenées! If that did not work
well, my mother hinted, perhaps he would have to try the
effect of a long sea voyage. Hope shrunk into such small
dimensions that it filled but a very little corner of my
heart. Indeed, for the present I quite put it by and did not
look at it. One winter more must pass, at any rate, and maybe
a full year, before I could possibly see my father and mother
at home. I locked the door for the present upon hope; and
turned my thoughts to what things I had left with me. Chiefest
of all theses were my poor friends at Magnolia. My money had
accumulated during the summer; I had a nice little sum to lay
out for them, and in New York I had chance to do it well, and
to do it myself; which was a great additional pleasure. As I
could, bit by bit, when I was with aunt Gary shopping, when I
could get leave to go out alone with a careful servant to
attend me, I searched the shops and catered and bought, for
the comfort and pleasure of  seven hundred! I could do
little. Nay, but it was for so many of those as I could reach
with my weak hands; and I did not despise that good because I
could not reach them all. A few more large print Testaments I
laid in; some copies of the Gospel of John, in soft covers and
good type; a few hymn books. All these cost little. But for
Christmas gifts, and for new things to give help and comfort
to my poor pensioners, I both plagued and bewitched my brain.
It was sweet work. My heart went out towards making all the
people happy for once, at Christmas; but my purse would not
stretch so far; I had to let that go, with a thought and a
sigh.
One new thing came very happily into my head, and was worth a
Peruvian mine to me, in the pleasure and business it gave.
Going into a large greenhouse with my aunt, who wanted to
order a bouquet, I went wandering round the place while she
made her bargain. For my aunt Gary made a bargain of
everything. Wandering in thought as well, whither the sweet
breath of the roses and geraniums led me, I went back to Molly
in her cottage at Melbourne, and the Jewess geranium I had
carried her, and the rose tree; and suddenly the thought
started into my head, might not my dark friends at Magnolia,
so quick to see and enjoy anything of beauty that came in
their way  so fond of bright colour and grace and elegance 
a luxurious race, even in their downtrodden condition; might
not they also feel the sweetness of a rose, or delight in the
petals of a tulip? It was a great idea; it grew into a full
formed purpose before I was called to follow aunt Gary out of
the greenhouse. The next day I went there on my own account. I
was sure I knew what I wanted to do; but I studied a long time
the best way of doing it. Roses? I could hardly transport pots
and trees so far; they were too cumbersome. Geraniums were
open to the same objection, besides being a little tender as
to the cold. Flower seeds could not be sown, if the people had
them; for no patch of garden belonged to their stone huts,
and they had no time to cultivate such a patch if they had it.
I must give what would call for no care, to speak of, and make
no demands upon overtasked strength and time. Neither could I
afford to take anything of such bulk as would draw attention
or call out questions and comments. I knew, as well as I know
now, what would be thought of any plan or action which
supposed a love of the beautiful in creatures the only earthly
use of whom was to raise rice and cotton; who in fact were not
half so important as the harvests they grew. I knew what
unbounded scorn would visit any attempts of mine to minister
to an aesthetic taste in these creatures; and I was in no
mind to call it out upon myself. All the while I knew better.
I knew that Margaret and Stephanie could put on a turban like
no white woman I ever saw. I knew that even Marie could take
the full effect of my dress when I was decked  as I was
sometimes  for a dinner party; and that no fall of lace or
knot of ribband missed its errand to her eye. I knew that a
picture raised the liveliest interest in all my circle of
Sunday hearers; and that they were quick to understand and
keen to take its bearings, far more then Molly Skelton would
have been, more than Logan, our Scotch gardener at Melbourne,
or than my little old friend Hephzibah and her mother. But the
question stood, in what form could I carry beauty to them out
of a florist's shop? I was fain to take the florist into my
partial confidence. It was well that I did. He at once
suggested bulbs. Bulbs! would they require much care? Hardly
any; no trouble at all. They could be easily transported;
easily kept. All they wanted, was a little pot of earth when I
was ready to plant them; a little judicious watering; an
unbounded supply of sunshine. And what sorts of bulbs were
there? I asked diplomatically; not myself knowing, to tell
truth, what bulbs were at all. Plenty of sorts, the florist
said; there were hyacinths  all colours  and tulips,
striped and plain, and very gay; and crocuses, those were of
nearly all colours too; and ranunculus, and anemones, and
snowdrops. Snowdrops were white; but of several of the other
kinds I could have every tint in the rainbow, both alone and
mixed. The florist stood waiting my pleasure, and nipped off a
dead leaf or two as he spoke, as if there was no hurry and I
could tale my time. I went into happy calculation, as to how
far my funds would reach; gave my orders, very slowly and very
carefully; and went away the owner of a nice little stock of
tulips, narcissus, crocuses, and above all, hyacinths. I chose
gay tints, and at the same time inexpensive kinds; so that my
stock was quite large enough for my purposes; it mattered
nothing to me whether a sweet double hyacinth was of a new or
an old kind, provided it was of first-rate quality; and I
confess it matters almost as little to me now. At any rate, I
went home a satisfied child; and figuratively speaking, dined
and supped off tulips and hyacinths, instead of mutton and
bread and butter.
That afternoon it fell out that my aunt took me with her to a
milliner's on some business. In the course of it, some talk
arose about feathers and the value of them; and my aunt made
a remark which, like Wat Tyrrell's arrow, glanced from its aim
and did execution in a quarter undreamed of.
"That feather you put in the little riding cap you sent me,"
she said to the milliner,  "your black feather, Daisy, you
know,  you charged me but fifteen dollars for that; why is
this so much more?"
I did not hear the milliner's answer. My whole thought went
off upon a track entirely new to me, and never entered before.
My feather cost fifteen dollars! Fifteen dollars! Supposing I
had that to buy tulips with? or in case I had already tulips
enough, suppose I had it to buy print gowns for Christmas
presents to the women, which I had desired and could not
afford? Or that I had it to lay out in tea and sugar, that my
poor old friends might oftener have the one solace that was
left to them, or that more might share it? Fifteen dollars! It
was equal to one quarter and a half's allowance. My fund for
more than a third of the year would be doubled, if I could
turn that black feather into silver or gold again. And the
feather was of no particular use, that I could see. It made me
look like the heiress of Magnolia, my aunt said; but neither
could I see any use in that. Everybody knew, that is, all the
servants and friends of the family knew, that I was that
heiress; I needed no black feather to proclaim it. And now it
seemed to me as if my riding cap was heavy with undeveloped
bulbs, uncrystallised sugar, unweighed green tea. No
transformation of the feather was possible; it must wave over
my brow in its old fashion, whether it were a misguided
feather or not; but my thoughts, once set a going in this
train, found a great deal to do. Truth to tell, they have not
done it all yet.
"Aunt Gary," I said that same evening, musing over the things
in my boxes,  "does lace cost much?"
"That is like the countryman who asked me once, if it took
long to play a piece of music! Daisy, don't you know any more
about lace than to ask such a question?"
"I don't know what it costs, aunt Gary. I never bought any."
"Bought! No; hardly. You are hardly at the age to buy lace
yet. But you have worn a good deal of it."
"I cannot tell what it costs by looking at it," I answered.
"Well, I can. And you will, one day, I hope; if you ever do
anything like other people."
"Is it costly, ma'am?"
"Your lace is rather costly," my aunt said, with a tone which
I felt implied satisfaction.
"How much?" I asked.
"How much does it cost? Why it is the countryman's question
over again, Daisy. Lace is all sort of prices. But the lace
you wear, is, I judge, somewhere about three and five, and one
