the fourth week he had six houses unsold; but the average proceeds of
his sales had been over fifteen dollars a week.
Leo was enterprising, and with some of his funds he purchased half a
dozen pairs of rabbits, and enlarged the sphere of his business. He
built very tasty houses for each pair of these animals, with wire
netting in front, so that they could be seen. They were provided with
proper nests, with conveniences for keeping them clean. These
establishments found a ready sale, at remunerative prices for the
rabbits and the work.
Then he enlarged the business still further, adding guinea pigs and
doves to his stock, till the basement of the house became a menagerie
of pets. The dove-houses were made to be placed on sheds, or fastened
to the sides of buildings, generally in front of back attic windows,
where they could be readily reached. The good doctor, the banker, and
his other customers had thoroughly advertised his business for him, and
purchasers came every day to see his merchandise. He was continually
inventing new patterns for houses, and could now keep a variety of them
on hand, to enable those who patronized him to select for themselves.
Leo Maggimore worked very hard; but his business was profitable, and he
had every encouragement to persevere. His net proceeds were generally
twenty dollars a week; and, after paying for lumber, hardware, glass,
and wire netting, his average gains were fully up to the standard he
had fixed. Perhaps the young mechanic did not realize the fact, but it
was none the less true, that he was largely indebted to powerful
friends for the extensive sales he made. Probably many persons bought
his wares solely for the purpose of assisting him in his self-imposed
task of maintaining the family. Dr. Fisher, while attending the barber,
stated the case to at least a hundred of his patients and friends.
The spring came, and Leo's business was as good as ever. He was making
his fifteen dollars a week right along, to which Maggie sometimes added
two or three more. All this time André had been steadily improving. He
was now able to go out every day, and had almost recovered the use of
his limbs. He was not yet in condition to use a razor, which requires a
very steady and delicate hand; but he was able to do a great deal of
work about the house. He helped Leo, and became general salesman for
all his merchandise. The affairs of the family had been improving from
the very day that André was stricken down by his malady. The only
misfortune over which they mourned was, that the young mechanic had
been taken out of school.
At the end of three months, when the barber felt quite able to go to
work,--and Cutts & Stropmore were very anxious to have him do so,--the
family were never in a more prosperous condition. There was actually
about a hundred dollars in the exchequer, though Dr. Fisher's bill had
not been paid; but they need not have troubled themselves about that,
for the physician would no more have carried in a bill than he would
have cheated one of his neighbors; and that was quite impossible for
him to do.
Leo went up to see the master of the school as soon as his father was
able to go to work; and it was decided that he should immediately
resume his place. The teacher was confident that, with extra study, it
was still possible for him to obtain the medal. Leo went to work upon
his studies with the same energy and determination he had brought to
bear upon the mouse business.
"Make or break!" said he; "I will catch up with my class."
Of course he succeeded, though between the shop and the books he had
nearly "broken;" for there was still a demand for mice, doves, rabbits,
and guinea pigs, and he added several dollars a week to the income of
his father. He worked too hard; and Maggie, seeing that he was likely
to "break," took upon herself the care of the menagerie and the sales,
in addition to the housework, which was really quite enough for a girl
of fifteen.
Maggie was a good housekeeper. Mindful of the traditions of the elders,
as the spring came on she commenced the semiannual operation of
house-cleaning. She went through the performance in the front room
first, and then devoted herself to the chamber over it, which was Leo's
room. According to her custom she took everything out of the closets,
bureau, chest, and table drawers. In the course of this ceremonial she
came to the chest in which Leo kept his clothes.
At the bottom she found the papers deposited there by "Mr. Hart," or
possibly Pilky Wayne, for it was not certainly known who committed the
robbery. There was quite a large bundle of them; and Maggie, inheriting
the propensity of Mother Eve, was, of course, anxious to know what they
were. She laid them on the table with other articles, and then opened
one of them. She saw the name of Mr. Checkynshaw.
She was terrified when she remembered that the banker's safe had been
robbed, and that Mr. Checkynshaw had come to the house with the
detective to see about it. She was not quite sure of the fact, but it
seemed to her that Leo had been suspected of being concerned in the
robbery. Here were the valuable papers, hidden away very carefully at
the bottom of Leo's chest. They must have been there at least three
months, and of course her brother knew they were there.
The longer she considered the matter, the more terrified she became. It
was awful to think that Leo had been concerned in a robbery. She was
not willing to believe it. If there were any good boys in the world,
Leo was one of them. He would cut his right hand off before he would do
a wicked thing. It was impossible for her to charge the dear fellow
with anything that looked like a crime.
She turned the papers over again. They were strange documents to her,
with great seals on them, and no end of legal phrases. Perhaps, after
all, they were not good for anything. They could not be the papers
which Mr. Checkynshaw had lost. Probably they were some old and useless
documents, which the banker had thrown away when they were of no
further consequence. It was quite likely that Leo, who was always
studying up methods of doing business, had saved them from the dirt
barrels in the streets, so as to learn the forms of making out such
papers.
This explanation was not quite satisfactory, though it was plausible,
to her. It was about nine o'clock in the morning when she found the
papers. Leo had gone to school, and her father would not return till
night. She was so impatient to know whether the documents were of any
value or not, that she was unwilling to wait till noon. At first she
thought she would take them up to Mr. Checkynshaw himself, and ask him
if they were good for anything; but she did not exactly like to do
that.
Then it occurred to her that Fitz Wittleworth, who had been a clerk for
the banker, could tell her just as well as his late employer, and he
lived only a short distance from Phillimore Court. Mrs. Wittleworth,
with a portion of the money received from the banker, had purchased a
small house near her former residence. Fitz had not yet found another
place, and probably both he and his mother would have come to want
before this time, if she had taken his advice. Maggie went to the front
door, and called Tom Casey, whom she had seen in the court from the
window.
Tom was one of the gallantest young Irishmen in the city. He was a fast
friend of Leo, and spent much time in the shop with him. Tom made no
mental reservation when he declared that Maggie was the "purtiest gurl
in the wurruld;" and he was only too happy to oblige her when she asked
him to request Fitz to step in and see her for a moment. In ten minutes
Mr. Wittleworth made his appearance, as grand as ever, for three
months' idleness had not taken any of the starch out of him.
Maggie showed him the papers with fear and trembling. Fitz rubbed his
chin, and pursed his lips, as he examined them, looked wise, and
finally, after much sage deliberation, declared that the papers were of
the utmost importance.
"O, dear!" groaned poor Maggie.
"What is the matter, Miss Maggimore?" demanded Mr. Wittleworth.
"What shall I do! How came those papers in my brother's chest?"
"I haven't the least idea, Miss Maggimore. I can only say that the
papers are very valuable, and that Checkynshaw offered a reward for
them. Now I remember! Your brother was with the man that robbed the
safe."
"That's what troubles me," gasped poor Maggie.
"Don't be alarmed, Miss Maggimore. It is very fortunate that you called
me to attend to this delicate business. If you had not done so, they
might have thrown your brother into jail. Checkynshaw has no more
consideration for a young man than a mule," said Fitz, patronizingly.
"Leave it all to me, Miss Maggimore. I will see that the papers are
restored to the owner, and that no harm comes to Leo."
"You are very kind," replied Maggie, hopefully.
"I am always glad to do what I can for those who are in need of
assistance. It is fortunate you called me in. It will be best for you
not to mention to any one that I have taken them."
Maggie thought so too, and she was very glad to have her visitor take
the papers away from the house. She felt as though a contagious disease
had been removed as soon as the door closed behind Fitz. Was it
possible that Leo had been concerned in the robbery? If so, sooner or
later he would ask what had become of the papers. The man that stole
the papers had come to the house with Leo, she then called to mind for
the first time; but her thoughts were confused, and instead of this
circumstance affording a satisfactory explanation to her of the
presence of the package in Leo's chest, it had just the opposite
effect.
Fitz Wittleworth went home with the papers; went up to his room with
them; examined every document in the bundle. There was a copy of his
grandfather's will among them, but nothing else relating to the block
of stores, and nothing which related to Marguerite--not even the
letters which Mr. Checkynshaw had declared were stolen with the papers.
Mr. Wittleworth went up to the banker's office. He was civil, and Mr.
Checkynshaw asked him, very sternly, what he wanted.
"You offered a reward of five hundred dollars for the recovery of the
papers taken from your safe, Mr. Checkynshaw," Fitz began, pompously.
"I did."
"I claim it."
"The money is ready; where are the papers?" asked the banker, promptly.
"I have them here," replied Fitz, producing the package.
"Where did you get them?"
"That is what I must decline to answer," added Fitz, decidedly.
"Must you? Then I suppose I am to understand that you were a party to
the robbery, as I have suspected from the beginning."
Mr. Wittleworth thought this was a very unreasonable view to take of
the case. He decided to leave, and conduct the negotiation for the
reward in some other manner. He turned to go, but the banker seized him
by the collar and held him.
Mr. Wittleworth was in hot water.
CHAPTER XX.
AN AVALANCHE OF GOOD FORTUNE.
Mr. Wittleworth was more astonished than he had ever before been in his
life. This was the gratitude of great men! Mr. Checkynshaw did not seem
to be at all rejoiced to find his papers, and was so mean as to send
for Constable Clapp.
"Didn't you offer a reward of five hundred dollars for your papers, Mr.
Checkynshaw?" asked Fitz.
"I did; and I am willing to pay the reward the moment you have
explained to me where you got them," replied the banker, as he pitched
his prisoner into a chair to await the arrival of the officer.
"I came here in good faith, and I didn't expect to be treated in this
manner," growled Mr. Wittleworth.
"I am not yet willing to pay you for stealing my papers and money, or
for employing another person to do it for you," added Mr. Checkynshaw,
dryly.
"I did not steal them."
"Then you cannot object to telling me where you obtained them."
Mr. Wittleworth did object. He had undertaken to manage this business,
and he expected to make at least a commission out of it. His plan was
to pay Maggie fifty or a hundred dollars of the reward, and keep the
rest himself. It was not probable that the barber,--who was ill at the
time,--or his family, had read the newspapers, and it was not likely
that they knew anything about the reward. Maggie, or even Leo, would be
entirely satisfied with the fifty dollars, and ought to be exceedingly
obliged to him for managing the matter so well for them.
Constable Clapp arrived in a few moments, and the case was stated to
him.
"How much money was stolen with the papers?" asked the officer.
"About three hundred and fifty dollars," replied the banker.
"Very well; if this young gentleman will restore the papers and the
money, he may take the reward; and then we shall be ready to attend to
the criminal charge. That will make a balance of one hundred and fifty
dollars in his favor," chuckled the officer.
"I am entirely willing to pay the reward I offered," added Mr.
Checkynshaw, magnanimously.
"Where did you get the papers, Mr. Wittleworth?" asked the detective.
"I didn't steal them."
"I don't say you did. Where did you get them, was the question I
asked."
"Of course I don't wish to expose anybody. They came into my possession
in consequence of an accident."
"Exactly so!" said the officer, taking the papers from Fitz, and
producing a pair of handcuffs. "In consequence of an accident, I shall
be obliged to put these irons on your wrists, and take you over to the
jail."
"Me!" gasped Fitz, the iron entering his lofty soul. "I should like to
know what my friend Choate would say to that!"
"In one word, will you wear the bracelets, or will you tell where you
obtained the papers? Of course Mr. Checkynshaw will pay the reward. He
is an honorable man, and does all he agrees. You will want the money to
pay your friend Choate for keeping you out of the State Prison. What
will you do?"
Fitz thought for a moment. The disgrace of being marched through the
streets by a person so well known as Mr. Clapp, and with a pair of
irons on his wrists, was intolerable to think of, and he decided to
inform the officer where he had obtained the papers. He then related
the particulars of his interview with Maggie.
"Then you did not find the papers yourself?" said Mr. Checkynshaw, with
a feeling of relief, for it would have galled him sorely to pay the
five hundred dollars to one he disliked so much.
"I did not," replied Fitz.
"Then the reward does not belong to you."
"It is hardly necessary for me to say that I was doing the business for
Miss Maggimore."
"But it was hardly necessary for you to conceal her name."
The banker was really overjoyed to find his papers, and at once drew a
check for the amount which he had offered as a reward.
"We will go down and see Maggie," said the banker, putting the check
into his pocket.
"I think the case is plain enough," added the constable. "When I
ascertain where the papers were found, I shall be better satisfied."
Mr. Checkynshaw called a carriage, and they went to Phillimore Court.
No further notice was taken of Mr. Wittleworth; in fact he was utterly
ignored from the moment he had told his story. He was permitted to
depart in peace. He did depart, but not in peace; for he was not
entirely satisfied. The reward ought to have been paid to him, and he
should have had the lion's share of it. This was his feeling as he
retired from the office.
Maggie was fearfully frightened when she saw the banker and the
constable. The roses fled from her cheek, and she was pale and
trembling. That awful officer had come to bear Leo away to the jail.
She was almost sorry that she had not burned the papers, instead of
sending them back to the owner.
"You have come for poor Leo!" exclaimed she, in terror, when she opened
the door.
"Don't be alarmed, Maggie," said Mr. Checkynshaw, in a tone which was
gentle for him. "We come to inquire about those papers you found."
"I knew you did!" gasped Maggie in despair, as the two gentlemen
followed her into the rear room.
"Where did you find them?" asked Mr. Clapp, in a gentler tone than the
banker could speak.
"In Leo's room," stammered she. "I must tell the truth; but I hope you
won't harm poor Leo."
"Will you show us just where you found them?"
"I will, if you will come up stairs," she added, leading the way. "You
won't put poor Leo in jail--will you? I'm sure he didn't intend to do
any wrong."
"I don't think he did," replied the officer, moved by the distress of
the poor girl.
"I found them at the bottom of Leo's chest," said Maggie, as she
pointed to the place where she had discovered them. "I was cleaning
house, and I cleared out all the closets and drawers. I took all Leo's
things out of his chest, and I found those papers under his summer
clothes."
"Did Leo know they were there?"
"I'm sure I don't know whether he did or not. I don't believe he did.
He never stays in his room only when he is asleep. All the clothes he
wears in the winter are in the top of the chest."
"I looked into that chest when I searched the room on the day the safe
was robbed," added the officer. "I put my hand down into the clothing;
but I suppose I didn't reach the bottom. Where is Leo now?"
"He is at school."
"Can you send for him?"
"You won't take him up--will you? It would break his heart," pleaded
Maggie.
"I don't think it will be necessary to arrest him," replied the
constable, rather cautiously. "The man that stole the papers came to
this room, and I have no doubt he put them there to get rid of them."
"Send for Leo; I will promise you he shall not be taken up," added Mr.
Checkynshaw, taking the responsibility upon himself.
Maggie wrote a note, and sent Tom Casey to the school with it, the
gentlemen having taken seats in the front parlor. In a short time Leo
appeared, trembling lest his father had had another attack of
paralysis. He was not a little surprised to find the banker and the
constable awaiting his arrival.
"Leo, what do you keep in that chest of yours, up in your room?" asked
the officer.
"My clothes, sir," replied Leo, astonished at the strange question.
"What else?"
"Nothing else."
"Don't you keep any white mice in it?" said the constable, smiling.
"No, sir."
"Don't your mice get out of their houses down stairs, and come up?"
"I have seen two or three of them in the kitchen."
"But don't they go up in your chamber?"
"I never saw any up there," answered Leo, puzzled by these singular
inquiries.
"What would you say if I told you that a couple of them had made a nest
in your chest up stairs, and had a litter of little ones there?"
"I don't know what I should say. I don't know that it would be very
strange."
"Should you deny it?"
"If you saw them there I should not, though I don't see how they could
get into the chest. The lid is always closed."
"But you might have left the lid up some morning, and the mice might
have crawled down to the very bottom of the chest, and had a family
there. Could this have happened?"
"It could; but I don't think it is very likely it did happen."
"Why not?"
"I should have smelt them," laughed Leo.
"Shouldn't you have seen them?"
"I don't think I should. Maggie puts my shirts and stockings at the top
of the chest, and I hardly know what there is at the bottom. She takes
care of my things."
"Is there anything in that chest besides your clothes?"
"Yes; I believe there is a piece of brass chain, a ball, some marbles,
and a top in the till."
"Anything else?"
"There may be some other things of that sort in the till. I don't
remember; if you want to know, I will go up and show you."
"Are there any papers there?" demanded the constable, sharply.
"Yes, sir, there are two or three newspapers."
"Any written papers?"
"Not a paper."
"Have you had any papers there at any time?"
"No, sir; I don't remember that I ever did. I keep my papers in the
table drawer in the kitchen."
"Didn't you know there was a package of papers in the chest--such as
bonds, deeds, and notes?"
"No, sir, I didn't know it. I never saw anything of the kind there,"
replied Leo, still puzzled, but satisfied now that something serious
had happened.
"Have you overhauled the contents of your chest lately?"
"No, sir; not since last summer, that I remember."
"Leo, in your chest were found the papers which Mr. Checkynshaw lost."
"Then that Mr. Hart, or whatever his name was, put them there!"
exclaimed Leo, his face turning red. "I never saw them, and didn't know
they were there."
"I am satisfied," interposed Mr. Checkynshaw.
"So am I," added Mr. Clapp.
The truth as it was had been correctly discerned.
"Maggie, I offered a reward of five hundred dollars for those papers,"
continued the banker. "I would have given five thousand rather than not
have had them."
"Then I am very glad you have found them," replied the fair girl, now
entirely relieved of all her fears on account of her brother.
"But you found them, Maggie, and you are entitled to the reward. Here
is my check for the amount. Your father can draw the money for you."
"I don't deserve the reward!" exclaimed Maggie, blushing deeply, as she
took the check. "It is reward enough for me to find that Leo is as good
as I always believed him to be."
"You found the papers, and I am indebted to you for their preservation.
Another might have destroyed them."
"But I only took them out of the chest. I didn't know what they were. I
almost made up my mind that they were good for nothing, and that Leo
had saved them from the dirt barrels to learn how to write such papers
from. I didn't know what to do, and I sent for Mr. Wittleworth to tell
me whether they were good for anything or not. He said they were very
valuable, and told me it was fortunate I sent for him, and then kindly
undertook to return them to you."
"Very kindly!" sneered the banker. "He claimed this reward."
"He did?"
"Yes; but I am very glad it goes to you, instead of to him."
Maggie objected to taking such a vast sum of money for so slight a
service; but Mr. Checkynshaw's mandate was imperative, and he departed,
leaving her bewildered at the sudden fortune which had come down like
an avalanche upon her. Leo went back to school, as delighted at her
good luck as his own in finding himself entirely freed from the charge
of being concerned in the robbery.
As usual, Mr. Wittleworth was the only person who was not satisfied. He
had again been "left out in the cold." He wanted to know what had
happened at the house of André, and after dinner he called there; but
Maggie had gone to the barber's shop with her father's noonday meal,
and he found the door locked. In the evening he went again, when both
André and Leo were at home.
CHAPTER XXI.
MR. WITTLEWORTH's WRONGS.
Maggie, fluttering with delight, had taken Mr. Checkynshaw's check to
her father when she carried his dinner. The barber was astonished as
well as pleased with the gift, and, having drawn the check, deposited
the money in the Savings Bank, as a provision for dark days, like those
through which they had passed at the beginning of André's illness.
After supper the family gathered around the cooking-stove in the
kitchen. Never before had they been so happy as now, and never before
were they so strongly attached to each other. They had passed through
the storm of privation and trial--they had triumphed over adverse
circumstances. Leo tried to study his lesson, while André and Maggie
were talking about the great event of the day, and comparing their
present situation with the first days of the barber's illness, when all
of them were trembling for the future.
"God has been very good to us, my children, and I hope we shall always
be grateful to him for his mercies," said André, as a tear, which he
could not repress, stole down his pale cheek.
"I'm sure I never felt so good before in my life; and I know my prayers
mean more to me now than ever before," replied Maggie.
"We have been faithful to each other, and God has been faithful to all
of us, as he always is, even when we forsake and forget him."
"Ah, mon père, how could we help being faithful to you, when you were
always so kind to us!" exclaimed Maggie, as she rested her hand on
André's arm. "And Leo--he has really been a lion! You don't know how
brave he was; how he worked, and how he persevered! It was all make,
and no break--wasn't it, Leo?"
"It has been, so far," replied Leo, less demonstrative, but not less
delighted than the other members of the family. "I think we can do
anything we make up our minds to do. I have made up my mind to take the
Franklin medal this year, and, make or break, I'm going to do it."
Leo bent over his slate again, and seemed to be determined, make or
break, that he would attend to his lessons, whatever happened in the
room. Unfortunately, in this instance, it was at least a partial break,
for a very imperative knock was heard a few moments later at the front
door. André answered the summons, and admitted Mr. Wittleworth.
"I hope I don't intrude," said Fitz, as daintily as Paul Pry himself
could have said it.
"Take a seat, Mr. Wittleworth," added Maggie, giving him a chair at the
stove.
"Thank you. I don't often go out evenings, for mother is alone. My
friends groan and complain because I don't visit them; but really this
is the first time I have been out of the house of an evening for a
month," continued Mr. Wittleworth, as he seated himself in the offered
chair, expecting the barber's family to appreciate his condescension in
this particular instance.
"The last time I went out of an evening," he added, "I called on my
friend Choate--you know Choate? Of course you do, Mr. Maggimore."
"I have not that honor," replied the barber, modestly.
"Choate's a good fellow--Choate is. He is the most gentlemanly person I
ever met, not even excepting Everett, who, by the way, was at Choate's
when I called upon him. Winthrop was there, too; but Winthrop is rather
stiff--Winthrop is. Of course I haven't anything to say against
Winthrop. He is a great man, talented, a good speaker, and all that
sort of thing; but you see he hasn't that companionable way with him
that Choate has. Of course you will not mention what I say to Winthrop,
for I don't want him to know but what I think as much of him as I do of
Choate or Everett."
André very kindly promised not to mention any disparaging allusion he
might make in regard to the honorable gentleman.
"In a private conversation one does not like to be held responsible for
remarks dropped without much reflection," continued Fitz. "I have
nothing against Winthrop, only he is not just like Choate. Choate is my
idea of a perfect gentleman--Choate is. But perhaps I am prejudiced in
Choate's favor. I used to be in the law business myself--in the same
office with Choate. Well, really, I didn't come here to talk about
Choate, or any of the rest of my friends. Isn't it singular how a light
remark, casually dropped, leads us off into a conversation which
occupies a whole evening?"
André acknowledged that it was singular how a light remark, casually
dropped, leads us into a conversation which occupies a whole evening;
but he hoped no light remark of Mr. Wittleworth would be expanded to
that extent, for his room was better than his company, now that the
family were at the high tide of happiness and prosperity.
"I suppose Miss Maggimore has informed you that she sent for me this
morning, in order to obtain the benefit of my advice," continued Fitz.
"Yes, sir, she did," replied André.
"The case was rather a singular one; and being alone, she needed the
counsel of some person of experience, and of extensive knowledge. She
sent for me, and I came," added Mr. Wittleworth, rubbing his chin and
pouting his lips, as was his habit when his bump of self-esteem was
rubbed; though it was a notable fact that he always rubbed it
himself--nobody else ever appeared to do so.
"It was kind of you to come when I sent for you," said Maggie, willing
to give him all the credit she could.
"I came; I saw--" but he did not conquer. "I saw the papers, and I
undertook to manage the business for Miss Maggimore. I was willing to
give her the full benefit of my knowledge and experience, though my
doing so came very near involving me in a painful difficulty."
"I am very sorry for that," interposed Maggie.
"It was all on account of my own excessive expenditure of good-nature.
I wished to do you a good turn, and Checkynshaw a good turn. So far as
Checkynshaw was concerned, it was a mistake; I am willing to confess
that it was a blunder on my part. I confided in his honor. I might have
known better, for Checkynshaw is a cur--Checkynshaw is."
Mr. Wittleworth slipped lightly over the "painful difficulty" in which
he was so nearly involved. He was willing to give Maggie the benefit of
his knowledge and experience in negotiating the strictly business
matter in relation to the reward; but Checkynshaw basely calumniated
him, and bit the hand that was extended to serve him.
"Mr. Checkynshaw came here, with the constable, and inquired into all
the circumstances attending the finding of the papers," said Maggie,
tired of Mr. Wittleworth's tedious exordium. "He was entirely satisfied
with what we had done."
Maggie then explained the manner in which the papers had come into
Leo's chest; that they were concealed there by "Pilky Wayne."
"Mr. Checkynshaw was very good and very kind," she added, with
enthusiasm.
"Checkynshaw?" exclaimed Fitz, incredulously.
"He was, indeed."
"Checkynshaw don't know how to be good and kind--Checkynshaw don't. It
isn't in him."
"Indeed, he does!" protested Maggie.
"So he does!" chimed in Leo, who was very grateful to Mr. Checkynshaw
for buying his merchandise and recommending it to his friends. "I blow
for Checkynshaw!"
"Mr. Checkynshaw has been very kind to us, and we feel grateful to him
for his goodness," added André, in his mild, silky-toned voice.
"I know Checkynshaw. I've summered him and wintered him; and you have
to summer and winter a man like Checkynshaw before you know him. My
friend Choate knows him. Me and Choate both know him. Checkynshaw is
mean; Checkynshaw has a small soul. You could set up two such souls as
Checkynshaw's on the point of a cambric needle, and they could wander
about till the end of time without coming within hailing distance of
each other."
"Mr. Checkynshaw is not mean," replied Maggie, her pretty face red with
excitement and indignation.
"Excuse me, Miss Maggimore, but you don't know him."
"I think I do know him. He gave me the reward of five hundred dollars
for returning the papers to him," said Maggie, warmly; and the banker
might have rejoiced to be defended by so fair and spirited an advocate.
"Checkynshaw!" ejaculated Mr. Wittleworth, springing out of his chair.
About the same instant Leo closed his book savagely, and sprang to his
feet, his manly face wearing a decidedly belligerent look.
"See here, Fitz; you have said just about enough," Leo began, both
fists clinched. "Mr. Checkynshaw is a friend of ours, and we are not
going to sit here and have him abused."
"Don't be angry, Leo; he isn't worth minding," whispered Maggie in his
ear.
"Then he gave you the reward?" added Fitz, sitting down again.
"He did," replied Maggie.
"Well, that is the only white spot on the general blackness of his
character."
"No, 'tisn't!" protested Leo.
"You will excuse me, Miss Maggimore, if you think I speak too plainly;
but candor is one of the attributes of a gentleman."
"It's not necessary for you to be so very candid," suggested Maggie.
"I know the man," said Fitz, pompously. "Did I ever tell you how he
treated me and my mother? I never did. Well, I will."
"Nobody cares how he treated you and your mother," interposed Leo.
"Allow me to contradict you, Leo. I care; my mother cares; and every
person who loves justice and fairness cares."
In spite of several very pointed hints from André, Maggie, and Leo,
that they did not care to bear the story, Fitz persisted in telling it,
and did tell it. He declared it was his solemn conviction that Mr.
Checkynshaw had wronged his mother out of the block of stores, and ten
years' income of the same, for which he had paid her the petty
consideration of ten thousand dollars. Fitz had heard from his mother
the narrative of the second Mrs. Checkynshaw's sickness, and of the
sickness of little Marguerite, who had been taken to the cholera
hospital; and he related it all in the most painfully minute manner.
"That child was the heir of my grandfather's property," continued Fitz,
eloquently; for he was still burning under the sense of his own wrongs.
"If that child died, the block of stores, according to my grandfather's
will, was to come to my mother. That child did die, in my opinion."
"What makes you think so?" asked André, interested, in spite of
himself, in the story.
"What makes me think so?" repeated Mr. Wittleworth, magnificently. "Am
I a man of ordinary common sense? Have I lived to attain my present
stature without growing wiser with every day of life I lived? Of what
avail are my judgment, my knowledge, and my experience, if I cannot
penetrate a sham so transparent as this? What makes me think so? Does a
man of wealth and influence leave his own child among strangers, in a
foreign land, for ten years? No! I repeat it, no!"
"You say the child was sent to the cholera hospital?" asked André,
nervously.
"She was; but in my opinion she died there."
"O, she died there--did she?" said André, with apparent relief.
"Checkynshaw says she did not die; I say she did."
"Why should he say she didn't die, if she did die?" inquired Maggie,
very innocently.
"Why should he? Why, indeed?" repeated Fitz, amazed at her obtuseness.
"Don't you see that, if the child died, the block of stores belongs to
my mother? But it makes no difference now," sighed Mr. Wittleworth,
"for my mother, contrary to my advice, contrary to my solemn protest,
sold out all her right in the premises for a mere song."
"But where is the child now?"
"Dead!" replied Fitz, in a sepulchral tone.
"Mr. Checkynshaw does not say so," persisted André. "What does he say
about the child?"
"He says the child was taken by the Sisters of Charity, and that he
found her in one of their nunneries or schools; but of course that is
all bosh."
Mr. Wittleworth had told his story, and having done so, he tore himself
away, leaving André very thoughtful.
CHAPTER XXII.
THE TWO MARGUERITES.
When Mr. Wittleworth passed out into the street, the excitement of the
argument subsided. He felt that he had thoroughly and completely
demolished Mr. Checkynshaw, and that nothing more could be said in the
banker's favor after what he had said against him. The great man need
not attempt to hold up his head again, after that.
Mr. Checkynshaw had actually paid the reward to Maggie. It was strange,
but it was true; and the saddest part of it was, Mr. Wittleworth had
received no share of the money. He had given his valuable advice to the
barber's daughter, and his late employer had received the full benefit
of it. If he, Mr. Wittleworth, had been so vicious and depraved, so
lost to the high instincts of a gentleman, as wilfully and maliciously
to have given Miss Maggimore bad advice--advice not based on his
experience and knowledge of the world; in a word, if he had told her
that the papers were good for nothing, the young lady would doubtless
have destroyed them.
Instead of this, he had been upright and conscientious; he had given
good, wholesome counsel, worthy of his knowledge and experience. Miss
Maggimore had actually asked him if the papers were good for anything;
and he had actually informed her that they were very valuable, thus
saving them from a devastating conflagration in the cooking-stove. Miss
Maggimore had actually been paid five hundred dollars for opening that
chest, and taking therefrom the package of papers; while he, who had
furnished the intelligence, supplied the brains, and even the physical
power by which the papers had been conveyed to the banker's office, had
not received a cent!
There was something wrong, in the opinion of Mr. Wittleworth. The
reward should be at least equally shared between him and her. In the
morning he had made up his mind that fifty dollars would pay her
handsomely, while the four hundred and fifty would not be an
over-adequate compensation for the brains of the transaction. His
calculations had been set at nought. He knew the value of those papers,
but he had given the banker credit for integrity he did not possess,
and had lost all. The world was always hard on Mr. Wittleworth, and at
this time it seemed to be peculiarly savage towards him, especially as
he had been out of business three months, and needed money badly.
It would be useless for him to represent his redeeming agency in the
affair to Mr. Checkynshaw. The great man refused to acknowledge his
shining abilities. Mr. Checkynshaw was prejudiced--he was. But the
barber was a singularly simple-hearted man. He would not rob a flea of
the mite of warm blood needed for its supper. Maggie was known
throughout the neighborhood as a good little girl, and Leo was a mere
tinker. These people might be brought to see the justice of his claim,
and to acknowledge that through his advice and influence the papers had
been saved from destruction, and restored to their owner; or, to put
the matter in its most direct form, that he had enabled them to obtain
the reward. They were indebted to him for it, and it would be
exceedingly stupid of them if they could not see that he was fairly
entitled to at least one half of it.
The next evening Mr. Wittleworth, to the consternation of Leo, paid
another visit to the humble domicile of the barber. The young student
was disgusted. His lessons were behind, and he could not afford to be
interrupted; and as soon as Fitz came in, Leo retreated to his
chamber--a movement which suited the visitor quite as well as the
scholar.
"Mr. Wittleworth, I am very glad you called," said André, "for I wished
to ask you something more about Mr. Checkynshaw's daughter."
"Any information which I possess I will most cheerfully impart to those
who need it; but I ought to say that I came on business, however,"
replied Fitz, rather anxiously.
"Very well, Mr. Wittleworth; we will attend to the business first, if
you desire."
Mr. Wittleworth did desire, and it took him about an hour to go over
the argument which had passed through his brain the night before; but
he made it appear, to his own entire satisfaction, that he had been the
sole instrumentality in enabling his auditors to obtain the princely
reward.
"But I hadn't the least intention of burning the papers," protested
Maggie. "It is true I almost wished I had burned them; but it was when
I was afraid they would get Leo into trouble."
"Exactly so; and it was through my advice, personal influence, and
personal efforts, that the papers were restored to Checkynshaw."
"What portion of the reward do you claim, Mr. Wittleworth?" asked
André, very mildly.
"I should be satisfied with one half of it, at this stage of the
proceedings; though, when I consider that it was entirely through my
advice and discreet action that the papers were saved, I think I should
be justified in claiming four fifths, or even nine tenths of it. As it
is, you having already received the money, I will be content with half
of it; though this is rather hard on me, considering the personal
indignity and the injury in my feelings to which I was subjected."
Maggie looked at André, and André looked at Maggie. Mr. Wittleworth
was modest in his demand, and it was plainly useless to discuss the
question.
"We understand your position, Mr. Wittleworth," said André. "It takes
us rather by surprise; but we will consider your demand, and return you
an answer in a day or two. We may wish to consult Mr. Checkynshaw about
it."
"No!" said Fitz, very decidedly. "After what I have said to you about
Checkynshaw, it would be absurd for you to consult him. Checkynshaw is
rich, and he is prejudiced against me--Checkynshaw is. This is a
question of abstract justice, not of personal feeling or personal
prejudice. I only ask for justice."
"We will think of it, Mr. Wittleworth, and give you an answer to-morrow
or next day," repeated André. "I am very much interested in what you
said about Mr. Checkynshaw's first child."
"In a question of abstract justice, André, it is hardly necessary for
an honest man to wait a single day before he does his duty. I prefer to
settle this little matter at once," added Fitz.
"But I have not the money in the house. I put it in the Savings Bank,"
replied the barber, anxious only to defer the final answer.
"But you can determine your duty in regard to my claim, and inform me
of your intentions."
"I have no intentions at present, and you will pardon me if I decline
to say anything more about it to-night."
Fitz began to think he was overdoing the matter. André appeared to be
slightly ruffled, and he deemed it prudent to proceed no further.
"Very well, André; if you do not see the justice of my claim, I will
not press it. You are an honest and a just man. If I had not known you
as such, I should not have troubled you. Of course my future opinion of
you must depend very much upon your decision in this matter. Not that I
care so much for the money, but I love justice. If I can afford you any
information in regard to Checkynshaw's child, I shall be glad to do
so."
"Mr. Wittleworth, I was in one of the cholera hospitals of Paris at the
time that child died--I think you said ten years ago."
"Is it possible!" exclaimed Fitz. "It was ten years ago last August."
"Do you know in what hospital the child was placed?" asked André, with
breathless interest.
"I do not, but my mother does. She has a letter written to her by the
present Mrs. Checkynshaw, in which she informed her that Marguerite had
died in the hospital. But Checkynshaw looked the matter up afterwards;
and he says the child did not die; that she was taken away by the
Sisters of Charity. That was all bosh."
"Could I see your mother?" asked André.
"Certainly; you can walk over to my house and see her if you like."
"I do not ask from an idle curiosity," added André. "The foreign
residents in Paris were generally taken to the same hospital, in the
Rue Lacépède. I was then the valet of an English gentleman, who died
there of cholera. While I was there--for, after the death of my
employer, I was engaged as a kind of interpreter for the English
patients who did not speak French--the Hôpital des Enfants Malades
was full, and a portion of our establishment was devoted to foreign
children. I well remember two children of the name of Margaret; and I
have reason to remember them;" and André glanced tenderly at Maggie.
"One of them died, and the other is my Maggie."
"But what was the other name of the one that died?" asked Fitz,
nervously.
"Marguerite Chuckingham. I suppose there were other Marguerites there;
but I did not know them. They could not find the dead child's parents;
they were dead themselves. I would like to see your mother's letter,"
added André.
Accepting Fitz's invitation, the barber and his daughter walked over to
"his house," and were introduced to Mrs. Wittleworth. André repeated
his story about the two Marguerites, and she was quite as much
interested in it as her son had been.
"I have the letter," said she. "I thought the property was mine, and
that the letter might be of use to me; so I have carefully preserved
it."
She went to the bureau, and produced the letter. It contained a pitiful
account of the sufferings of Mrs. Checkynshaw during the cholera
season, and the announcement of little Marguerite's death at the
hospital in the Rue Lacépède.
"That's the place!" exclaimed André, much excited.
"What became of the child?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth, not less agitated.
"It must have been Marguerite Chuckingham, for that was as near as a
Frenchman would be likely to get the name."
"But it may have been the other Marguerite," suggested Mrs.
Wittleworth.
"No!" exclaimed André, with something like a shudder at the thought of
having Maggie taken from him, even to dwell in the palatial home of the
banker.
"Why may it not have been?"
"Because I traced the parents of my Maggie to their lodgings, and both
of them had died of cholera. The concierge identified the clothing
and a locket I found upon her neck. Besides, Maggie spoke French then,
and the other child did not. I have no doubt the child that died was
Mr. Checkynshaw's."
"André, your hand!" said Fitz.
"I don't wish to harm Mr. Checkynshaw," protested the barber, taking
the hand involuntarily, rather than because he was interested in the
act.
"You love truth and justice; you have the reputation of loving truth
and justice, all over the world--you have. You are a noble-minded man,"
continued Fitz, eloquently. "Now you can see what Checkynshaw is, and
now you can see what I am."
"Don't be foolish, Fitz!" interposed Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Foolish! Mother, have I not furnished wisdom for our family? Have I
not told you from the beginning what Checkynshaw was? I told you the
child was dead. Now it is proved."
"No matter if it is. It makes no difference now."
"It is matter; it does make a difference. Mother, you know how
earnestly I protested against your signing that quitclaim deed. Now I
am justified. Now you can see that I was right, and you were wrong."
André and Maggie had no interest in this discussion, and they hastened
their departure as soon as the atmosphere began to look stormy. The
barber was sorry he had said anything. Simple-minded man as he was, he
had not foreseen that he was getting Mr. Checkynshaw into trouble, and
he determined to say nothing more about it.
Fitz stormed furiously when it was proved that "wisdom was justified of
her followers." He declared that Checkynshaw had cheated his mother and
himself out of their inheritance, and that justice should be done, if
the heavens fell.
"What can we do? I have signed the quitclaim deed to the block of
stores."
"No matter if you have. Checkynshaw deceived you. You signed the deed
only because he said the child was living. We shall prove that the
child is dead. The proceeding will be in equity; all that has been done
can be ripped up as easily as you can tear up a piece of paper. I know
something about law. Me and Choate have talked over cases in equity."
How long this tempestuous debate would have continued none can know,
for it was disturbed by the ringing of the door bell. The person
admitted was John Wittleworth himself, the husband and father, who came
to his family clothed and in his right mind, from the House of
Correction, where he had served a term of four months as a common
drunkard. He was cordially welcomed, for he was himself; and there, on
his bended knee, he promised, and called upon Heaven to record his vow,
that he would never again taste the intoxicating cup.
He had been discharged that afternoon, and had been endeavoring till
that late hour to find his wife and son. He had finally traced them to
their new home. In the course of the evening, after the past had been
fully discussed, Fitz brought up the matter of Mr. Checkynshaw's child,
and all the facts which had been developed were fully stated to him.
Fitz found a warm supporter of his views in his father, who declared
