It would not be prudent, he knew, to reveal his suspicion, for he had
no proof to bring forward. What should he do?
Mrs. Oakley meant him to remain with her brother; but he had already
seen enough of Mr. Huxter's petty tyranny and intemperate habits, to
decide that he could never be happy or ordinarily comfortable with
him. Of the two, Mrs. Oakley seemed preferable. Mrs. Huxter, to be
sure, seemed to be a good-hearted woman, but she was a victim of her
husband's tyranny, and her well-meant interference, without doing him
any good, would very likely bring her into trouble.
Finding his perplexity only increase, John adopted a sensible
resolution. He determined to lay the matter before some one who was
older and wiser than himself, and be guided by his advice. He decided
to write to Squire Selwyn, his father's lawyer and friend, who was
already well acquainted with all the circumstances of the case, and ask
his advice. If he should write at once, he calculated that an answer
might reach him by the fourth day, and until then he thought he could
endure Mr. Huxter's disagreeable manners. As to the will, he thought it
more than probable that it would never be found, or, if found, it would
never do him any good. If Mrs. Oakley would carry out his father's
plans, permit him to continue his studies and go through college, he
would then be able to make his own way, and would not trouble himself
about the property.
While engaged in these reflections he had been slowly walking up the
road towards the village. It was not much of a village, not more than
twenty houses in all, including a church, a school-house, the tavern,
and a store. Knowing something of the custom in country villages, John
rightly concluded that the post-office would be found in the store. He
entered therefore, and looked about him. It was a common country store,
with a stock of a very miscellaneous assortment of articles, from sugar
and dried apples to calico and tape. One corner was appropriated to the
use of the post-office. John walked up to the counter and asked:--
"Have you any writing paper and envelopes?"
"Yes," said the clerk, producing the articles.
John bought two sheets of paper and two envelopes, thinking he might
have occasion to write two letters, and then asked when the mail went
out.
"It has already gone."
"When will the next mail go?"
"To-morrow morning."
"Will you allow me the use of your ink to write a letter?"
"Certainly. Just step behind the counter."
John followed directions, and, sitting down at the desk, commenced
writing. He thought it better to write here than to do so at Mr.
Huxter's, knowing that the suspicions of the latter would be excited.
It is not necessary for me to transcribe John's letter. He contented
himself with stating plainly the situation in which he found himself,
and the manner in which he had already been treated by Mr. Huxter, and
wound up by asking Squire Selwyn's advice. Having concluded the letter,
he directed it neatly, and, prepaying the postage, handed it to the
clerk.
"All right," said the latter. "It'll go to-morrow morning."
When this matter was disposed of John felt more comfortable. He had
transferred the responsibility of deciding what he should do to another
in whom he had great confidence, and so felt a burden removed from his
own shoulders. He thought he could stand Mr. Huxter's harsh treatment
for a few days. Meanwhile, with the usual elasticity of youth, he began
to feel an interest in the new scenes by which he was surrounded.
He had never before been so far away from home, and though Jackson
was not a very attractive place, it was new, and so had a certain
charm for him. About half a mile distant he saw a hill, which, though
barren pasture land, would afford him a good view of the village. He
determined to climb it, and look about him.
We must now return to Mr. Huxter.
Half an hour or more after John left the house he began to feel
thirsty,--not that natural, healthful thirst to which we are all
subject, but the artificial, craving thirst of one who has accustomed
himself to the drinking of alcoholic mixtures. Thanks to the advanced
payment for John's board which he had received from his sister, he
was unusually well supplied with funds, and felt that he need work no
more than he chose. After splitting up a little wood, therefore, he
turned out of the yard, and walked towards the tavern. He went into the
bar-room, and received a cordial greeting from the landlord, of whom he
was a pretty steady customer.
"Good-morning, Huxter, where have you kept yourself for two or three
days? You haven't been round to see me."
"I've been making a visit to my sister," said Huxter.
"Oh, that's it. I began to think you had taken the temperance pledge,
and given up your old friends."
"I haven't come to that yet," said Mr. Huxter, in a tone which
indicated that he considered taking the pledge a very discreditable
proceeding.
"No; I thought you'd have too much sense for that. What'll you have
this morning?"
"Give me a glass of something stiff. Let it be extra good, for I'm
going to pay up the old score."
No doubt it was extra good, for Mr. Huxter drank it with evident
enjoyment, and immediately ordered another glass. This, too, was drank,
and after a little desultory conversation Mr. Huxter left the tavern.
It occurred to him that his stock of tobacco was out, and he went into
the store hard by to lay in a fresh supply. While he was paying for it
the clerk said:--
"You brought a boy home with you, Mr. Huxter, didn't you?"
"Yes. How'd you know?"
"I saw him on the stage, and somebody said he got off at your house.
Going to stay with you?"
"Yes, I've taken charge of him."
"He seems a good sort of boy."
"When did you see him?" asked Mr. Huxter.
"This morning. He only went out from here a few minutes ago."
"Humph!" said Mr. Huxter. "Did he buy anything?"
"Only two sheets of paper and two envelopes."
A light began to dawn upon Mr. Huxter. John wanted to make trouble by
writing home.
"Look here," said he; "if the boy brings in a letter you needn't send
it. Keep it, and hand it to me."
The clerk looked surprised. Mr. Huxter, finding some explanation
necessary, continued:--
"He's a very troublesome boy. He's almost broken his poor mother's
heart,--she's my sister,--and I've agreed to take charge of him for
a time. It takes a man to manage him. But it won't do for him to be
writing home and making a fuss. You understand?"
"I shouldn't have thought him so troublesome. He looks very quiet."
"You can't judge from appearances," said Mr. Huxter, shaking his head.
"He don't show out before folks. So, if any letters are put in directed
to Hampton, just keep them, and I'll look them over. If they're proper
to send, I will let them go."
"He wrote a letter here this morning."
"Did he?" asked Mr. Huxter, his eyes sparkling. "The young rascal's
prompt. It's lucky I came in. He was cunning enough to write here, that
I might not know anything about it. Let me see the letter."
The clerk, not doubting Mr. Huxter's authority, handed him the letter.
He broke it open hastily, and read it. It is needless to say that
John's description of himself, though moderately expressed, was far
from complimentary, and Mr. Huxter's heart was stirred with indignation.
"The young rascal shall pay for this," he thought.
"This letter is not fit to send," he said, aloud. "It would only make
trouble. I will take charge of it. The boy needn't know but it is gone.
You may take any letter he brings; but mind you don't send it till I
have seen it."
"Very well," said the clerk; but he could not help pitying John, if
he was to be under Mr. Huxter's guardianship. In a small village like
Jackson every man's failings were a matter of general knowledge, and
the estimation in which Mr. Huxter was held was not very high.
"Well, I've defeated the young rascal," thought Mr. Huxter,
triumphantly, as he left the store. "He'll find it isn't so easy to
outwit me. If Jane can't manage him I can, and I intend to. I reckon
it'll be some time he'll have to wait for an answer to that letter."
This thought amused Mr. Huxter, so that he partly forgot his vexation
at the unflattering description of himself which the letter contained.
Having no further business to attend to, he went up the road towards
home. The letter he put in one of the side-pockets of the loose coat
which he wore. But there was a large hole in his pocket, and without
Mr. Huxter's knowledge the letter slipped through. He kept on his way,
not suspecting his loss.
The letter remained unnoticed in the grass by the side of the road,
having been wafted there by the wind, until John, on his way home an
hour and a half later, happened to catch sight of it. He went to pick
it up, not suspecting what it was, and was immeasurably surprised when
he found it to be the same letter he had put into the post-office two
hours before. How came it there?
John was not long in guessing the truth. Mr. Huxter was determined that
he should not communicate with any one in Hampton, and had recalled the
letter. No doubt he had given instructions to the postmaster, which
would make it impossible for John to post any letters in future in the
village.
"I am very glad to know this," thought John; "I shall know better how
to act."
He put the letter in his pocket, and kept on his way, determined to
keep his discovery to himself. He began to see what sort of man he had
to deal with.
CHAPTER XVII.
A NEW ACQUAINTANCE.
Twelve o'clock was the dinner hour at Mr. Huxter's. John and he met
once more, but the dispute between them was not renewed. John was
deliberating as to what course he should pursue. Mr. Huxter was
secretly exulting in having defeated John's attempt to communicate with
his friends, little suspecting that John knew all about it. So on the
whole he was pleasanter than usual, and allowed his young guest to eat
in peace. Mrs. Huxter was glad to notice this change in his conduct,
though she hardly dared to hope that it would continue.
"So you took a walk this morning, Oakley?" said Mr. Huxter.
"Yes, sir."
"Where did you go?"
"I went to the top of the hill behind the tavern."
"How do you like our village?"
"I can't tell yet. I haven't got sufficiently acquainted."
"You'll have chance enough before you get through," said Mr. Huxter,
significantly.
John understood this very well; but did not see fit to show that he did
so. He did not wish to provoke a quarrel.
"I am going to write to my sister this afternoon," said Mr. Huxter.
"Perhaps you'd like to send a message."
"Thank you," said John; "I don't think of any message just at present."
"You wouldn't like to send your love to Ben, would you?" asked Mr.
Huxter, jocosely.
"I don't think I should," said John, quietly.
"There isn't much love lost between you two, I reckon."
"We are not very good friends," said John, in the same quiet tone.
"I'm sure it's no wonder," said Mrs. Huxter; "Ben was always a
troublesome, headstrong boy."
"Let me tell you, Mrs. Huxter," said her husband, sharply, "it doesn't
look very well in you to run down your own relations."
Mrs. Huxter thought it prudent not to reply.
"Let me see," said Mr. Huxter, as they rose from the table, "it's
Friday,--too late in the week to begin anything. You shall have till
Monday morning to look about you, and then we'll see if we can't find
something for you to do."
Here was a disclosure for John. He had understood that he was to board
with Mr. Huxter. Now it appeared that the latter intended to set him to
work. Had he any authority for doing so, and what was John's duty under
the circumstances. He wished earnestly that he were able to consult
Squire Selwyn without delay, and this reminded him that his letter had
not yet gone. It would be useless to leave it again at the village
post-office. It must go from some other. John had all the afternoon
before him, and if the next town were not too far off, he determined to
walk over and post his letter there. Not wishing Mr. Huxter to have any
clue to his plans, he decided to obtain the necessary information, not
from Mrs. Huxter, though he did not doubt her willingness to give it,
but from some other person.
He went out into the road, and began to walk slowly in a direction
opposite to that which he had taken in the morning. It was the stage
road he knew, and was probably the most direct route to the next town.
Our hero had walked about three-quarters of a mile, when he heard a
loud clattering sound behind him. Turning around, he saw a farm-wagon,
driven by a boy of about his own age. It was but little past noon,
and the walk which might be a long one was sure to be a hot one. As
the boy-driver appeared to be alone, and there was plenty of room for
another, John hailed him.
"Hallo!" he called out. "Hold on a minute."
"Whoa!" shouted the boy, and brought his horse to a stop.
"Are you going to the next village?" inquired John.
"To Milbank, you mean?"
"Yes," said John, who was not quite sure whether he meant it or not,
but was willing to take the risk.
"Yes, I'm going there. Don't you want a ride?"
"That's just what I was going to ask. I'm willing to pay for it."
"I don't want any pay," said the boy; "I'd rather have company than go
alone."
"How far is Milbank?"
"It's a pretty good piece,--most five miles."
John was glad he had not attempted to walk.
"You don't live round here, do you?" asked John's new acquaintance.
"No."
"I thought I hadn't seen you. Whereabouts are you stayin'?"
[Illustration]
"At Mr. Huxter's."
"Is he a relation of yours?" asked the boy, looking at John with
interest.
"No, he isn't," said John, hastily, unwilling for a moment to have it
supposed that there was any such tie between him and his temporary host.
"Are you going to stay long?"
John was not surprised at these questions, for in the country, where
he had always lived, it was the rule to be inquisitive about other
people's affairs, and he felt that he ought to make some return for his
ride.
"I don't think I shall," he said.
He would like to have replied decidedly in the negative; but he felt
that he was by no means certain about the length of his stay.
"How do you like Huxter?" asked his new acquaintance, with rather a
comical look.
"I've seen men I liked better," said John, smiling.
"Shouldn't wonder," said the other. "He gets awful tight sometimes."
"It is a pity," said John, "for Mrs. Huxter seems to be a good sort of
a woman, and it must be hard on her."
"It would be hard for any woman to have such a husband. I don't know
Mrs. Huxter much, but I never heard anything against her. I've a great
mind to tell you," said the boy, looking at John to judge whether he
appeared as if he might be trusted with a secret, "a trick that one or
two of the fellows played on Mr. Huxter once when he was drunk. But
you'll be sure not to tell?"
John, whose curiosity was somewhat excited, gave the required promise.
"You see," continued his informant, "I was walking along with George
Sprague one afternoon, when we came across old Huxter lying side of the
road as drunk as he could be. George is rather a wild boy, and always
up to some mischief or other. That afternoon he happened to have a
little red paint, which he had got at the painter's shop for his father
to use. As soon as we saw old Huxter snoring away, George winked to me,
and said, 'Huxter's nose is red, but I've a great mind to make it a
little redder. I should like to see how the old fellow will look.' With
that he took out his brush, and touched Huxter's nose with it lightly,
making it as red as a brick. I was afraid he would wake up and chase
us, for he's pretty violent when he's drunk; but he was too far gone,
and never stirred. George took the paint home, and then we came out to
see if Huxter had gone home. We found he had, and we afterwards heard
how the trick came out."
[Illustration]
"When he got home and went into the kitchen, Mrs. Huxter screamed as
soon as she saw him.
"'What's the matter with you?' he growled.
"'O Mr. Huxter!' she said, clasping her hands, 'I knew that drinking
would be the ruin of you.'
"'Then you're a fool,' he said. 'Drinking a little now and then don't
do me any harm; but you're a woman, and have no more sense than a
kitten.'
"'You don't believe me, look at your nose,' said his wife.
"'What's the matter with my nose?' asked old Huxter, a little surprised.
"'Look at it, and you won't be surprised at my words.'
"With that Huxter did look, and when he saw his nose glaring red, he
was pretty well frightened, I can tell you. He had no more suspicion
than his wife that any one had been playing a trick upon him, and he
was afraid that his nose would always be so. He got frightened and went
to bed, and then asked his wife to go for the doctor."
"Did the doctor tell him how it was?"
"No; he thought it would do him no harm to be frightened a little; so
he lectured him about his habits, but told him that he thought he could
cure him this time by using a warm lotion. It was nothing but warm
water, with something put in to stain the water and make him think it
was something else; but Huxter did not know that, and was very grateful
to the doctor for relieving him.
"The fright had such an effect upon him that he didn't drink anything
for a whole week. Then he began again, and got bolder by degrees, till
now he's as bad as ever."
"How did you find out how the doctor treated the case?"
"Because George Sprague is the doctor's son. The doctor told all about
it at home as a good joke. George heard it all, but never breathed a
word to his father about his being the one that painted Huxter's nose.
The doctor didn't say anything to George, but he looked at him rather
queerly, as if he had some suspicion. It was a good joke,--wasn't it?"
"It would have turned out pretty well if it had stopped Mr. Huxter's
drinking."
"Nothing will do that. He's a pretty hard case But you mustn't say a
word about what I've been telling you. It would get George and me into
trouble."
"No, I won't say anything about it."
"Where do you live?"
"In Hampton."
"Whereabouts is that? Is it far from here?"
"About eighty miles, I should think. It lies to the north."
"Is it a pleasant place?"
"I think so; but then I was born there, you know, and perhaps that is
the reason I think so."
"Well, I was born in Jackson, but I don't think much of it. I guess
we'll move away next spring. Father talks of selling his farm. What is
your name?"
"My name is John Oakley."
"And mine is David Wallace."
The boys now felt thoroughly acquainted, and chatted together on a
variety of subjects, such as interest boys. While they were in the
midst of their conversation, they came to a grist-mill.
"I must stop here about ten minutes, to leave my grain," said David.
"The village is a mile further on. If you'll wait I'll carry you there
afterwards."
"I don't want you to go just on my account," said John.
"I am going there any way," said David. "There are better stores at
Milbank than at home, and mother asked me to buy her two or three
things. So you can come as well as not, and ride back too, if you don't
want to stay long."
"Thank you, David," said John. "I shall be glad to accept your offer.
It's rather hot walking, and I shan't want to stop but a few minutes.
Shall you go anywhere near the post-office?"
"Close by."
"I'll just run in there a minute."
"Have you got anything else to do?"
"No."
"You didn't set out to walk just to go to the Milbank post-office, did
you?" asked David, in some surprise.
"I had a letter to mail."
"Couldn't you mail it at our post-office?"
"Yes, I could; but it wouldn't go."
"Why not?"
"I've a great mind to tell you. You told me one secret, and I'll tell
you another, but on the same condition,--you won't tell anybody?"
"I wish I may have my head chopped off if I do," said David, earnestly.
John felt sure that he could trust his new acquaintance, though they
had so recently been brought to the knowledge of each other, and he
wanted somebody to confide in. So he gave David Wallace a general idea
of his story, not mentioning, however, the will, as he could see no
advantage in so doing.
"So Huxter thinks you don't know anything of his having stopped your
letter?"
"I am sure he does not."
"It's a good joke on him. He will never think of your coming so far to
mail a letter."
Part of this conversation took place after they had left the mill, and
were driving towards Milbank. They were soon in the village. It was a
much larger and pleasanter place than Jackson, and much more important
also, being the county seat, and therefore having a court-house and a
jail. John looked around him with interest, and did not dream how lucky
he was in taking this journey on this particular afternoon.
CHAPTER XVIII.
AN UNEXPECTED MEETING.
"That is the court-house," said David Wallace, pointing out a brick
building, surmounted by a wooden cupola.
John glanced at the building to which his attention was thus called.
He had hardly done so than he started and uttered an exclamation of
surprise.
"What's the matter?" demanded David.
"Won't you stop the horse?" asked John, hastily. "I want to get out."
"What for?"
"There's a man I know. I want to speak to him."
David stopped the horse, and John sprang to the ground. He hurried to
the gateway of the court-house, by which a gentleman was just entering.
"Squire Selwyn!" John called out.
Mr. Selwyn, for it was indeed he, turned in surprise, and could hardly
believe his eyes.
"John Oakley!" he exclaimed; "is it really you?"
"Yes, sir."
"How came you here?"
"It is a long story, sir. Can you spare me fifteen minutes? I had
written you a letter, and was just about to post it," said John.
"Yes, I will spare you that time. Come into the court-house with me,
and we will find a chance to sit down."
"One minute, sir, and I will be with you."
John returned to the wagon, and said to the surprised David:--
"It is the gentleman to whom I was going to post a letter. I am going
in to have a talk with him. I won't trouble you to stop for me, but I
can walk home. I am very much obliged to you for bringing me so far."
"How long will you be?" asked David.
"Half an hour perhaps."
"I shall be here as long as that. I will go on and do my errands, and
stop here on my way back. Then, if you are through, I will take you
along. You would find it warm walking."
"You're very kind, David."
"I'd rather have company than not. It makes the time go quicker. So go
ahead. It's all right."
David started the horse, and John rejoined the lawyer, who had been
waiting for him.
"You say you were just going to post me a letter?" said Squire Selwyn.
"Yes, sir."
"Of course you have it with you?"
"Here it is."
"I will read it. That will be the shortest way of getting at what
you wish to consult me about. After I have read it, I will ask any
questions that seem needful. But first we will come in."
They entered the court-house, and went into a room to the left, where
they found seats. Squire Selwyn put on his spectacles, and read the
letter slowly and deliberately.
"You are in a difficult position, John," he said, when he had finished
reading. "You are very unpleasantly situated, I should judge."
"Very, sir."
"And this Mr. Huxter doesn't seem a very agreeable man to have dealings
with?"
"I should be very unhappy if I expected to be obliged to stay with him."
"You say he is intemperate?"
"He drank several times on his way back in the stage, and the boy with
whom I rode over says he has been intemperate for years."
"Certainly he is not a fit person to have charge of you. Does he know
that you have come over here to-day?"
"No, sir."
"It is evidently Mrs. Oakley's intention that you you should not
be allowed to communicate with me, or any of your other friends in
Hampton. So, no doubt, she has instructed her brother. There must be
some motive for this."
Squire Selwyn looked thoughtfully at John as he said this, perhaps with
a view of drawing out John's opinion.
"I think," said John, hesitatingly, "that she is going to look for the
will."
"I won't say whether I agree with you or not," said Squire Selwyn,
cautiously. "It is not best to charge any one with wrong thoughts or
intentions too hastily, but it is well to be prepared for what may be
done to our disadvantage. Of course it is for your interest that the
will should be found, provided the discovery is made public."
"Yes, sir."
"But would Mrs. Oakley make it public, if found, when it is for her
interest to keep it concealed? That is an important question."
"She can do what she pleases so far as I am concerned. She has sent me
away from home, where I shall know nothing that is going on."
"In one sense you are wholly in the power of your stepmother," said the
lawyer; "but you will have some one to look after your interests. Your
father was my friend, and you are my son's friend. I shall do what I
can in your behalf."
"Thank you, sir," said John, gratefully. "I felt sure you would, and
that is why I wrote to you at once."
"As soon as I return to Hampton,--and that will be to-morrow,--I will
call on Mrs. Oakley, and, without letting her know how I came by the
information, will set before her your present position, and demand that
she pursue a different course. The result I will communicate to you.
How do you wish me to direct any letter I may have occasion to write?"
"To Milbank, if you please, Squire Selwyn. If directed to Jackson, I
feel sure that it would fall into Mr. Huxter's hands."
"And never reach you. Very likely you are right. Then I will direct to
Milbank, and will write at once upon having my interview with Mrs.
Oakley."
"Suppose Mr. Huxter ill-treats me in the mean time?" suggested John. "I
think it is his intention to set me to work next week."
"Did he not say you were boarding with him?"
"That is what Mrs. Oakley said in her letter."
"Then if he is paid a full price for your board, I do not see that he
has any claim upon your services. It is better, however, to avoid cause
of quarrel until you hear from me."
"And if you cannot induce Mrs. Oakley to change her plans?" asked John.
"You wouldn't advise me to stay with Mr. Huxter?"
"Didn't your father have a married sister?" inquired Squire Selwyn. "I
think I have heard so."
"Yes, sir. Her husband kept a country store in the town of Wilton."
"That is about fifty miles to the westward. Well, though I don't in
general approve of a boy's running away, it might be advisable, should
your stepmother continue obstinate, and Mr. Huxter seem disposed to
abuse you, to leave here, and seek out your aunt. Should you make this
change, you would of course immediately communicate with me."
"Yes, sir. Thank you for the advice. I never thought of that before;
but I think it is the best thing I could do."
"Have you any money, John?" asked Squire Selwyn, putting his hand into
his pocket.
"Yes, sir; thank you. I have thirty dollars."
"Indeed!" said the lawyer, surprised. "Did Mrs. Oakley supply you with
so much?"
"No, sir; but when my father was alive he gave me an allowance of a
dollar a week pocket-money. I had saved up thirty dollars, thinking
I might some time want to make a large purchase,--a row-boat, or
something of that kind. When I came away with Mr. Huxter, I thought I
had better bring it with me."
"It is lucky you did so. You may have occasion to use it. Does Mr.
Huxter know you have this money?"
"He knows I have some money," said John, "but probably does not suspect
how much."
"I advise you to take care of it then. Such a man is not to be trusted.
If he claims the power of controlling you, he may demand this money."
"I don't think he will get it," said John, resolutely.
"I hope not. You were always a quiet boy; but I have observed that you
were not deficient in firmness."
"I hope you don't think me obstinate, Squire Selwyn," said John,
smiling.
"No, I don't think you that."
"If I find myself in the wrong I am always ready to confess it and give
up."
"That's right, my lad. It's a thing that some of us who are much older
than you find it hard to do. By the way, I suppose you wonder how I
happen to be here so opportunely for you."
"I have been wondering all the time, but did not like to ask."
"One of my clients placed some business in my hands relating to
property which required me to consult the county records of this
county."
"You didn't come through by the stage?"
"No, I thought it too long and tedious. So I came by a roundabout
way which left me only twenty miles' staging. I travelled a greater
number of miles than you, but in considerably less time. Now, John, is
there anything more I can do for you before I set about the particular
business which called me here?"
"No, sir, thank you. At least I think of nothing."
"One thing at least let me say. We don't know how this affair is coming
out. Your stepmother may prove wholly unmanageable, especially as the
power is in her hands, as things are at present situated. Should there
come a time when you have need of further money, let me know frankly,
and I will see what I can do for you."
"You are very kind indeed, sir," said John, earnestly.
"I certainly ought to be. When I came to Hampton, a young lawyer and
without acquaintances, your father took me by the hand, and placed
his business in my hands, and influenced others to do the same. So I
consider that he laid the foundation of my present prosperity, and
therefore I shall not desert his son while he is in trouble."
"Thank you, Squire Selwyn," said John. "I did not know what you just
told me; but I did know that my father looked upon you as one of his
most valued friends."
"Well, John, good-by," said the lawyer, kindly, extending his hand.
"Keep up a good heart, and something may turn up which may set matters
right. Be sure to keep me apprised of your movements, and rely upon me
to do what I can for you in Hampton."
John left the court-house much encouraged by the friendly words of
Squire Selwyn. He felt that he would prove a powerful friend, and
his burden of care was diminished now that he had communicated his
situation to such a friend.
Just then David Wallace drove up to the gate in his wagon.
"Have you got through your talk?" he asked.
"Just finished."
"Jump aboard then, and we'll be getting home."
"I've been pretty lucky to-day, David," said John.
"How's that?"
"In the first place, in finding my letter by the side of the road. But
for that I should have thought it had gone straight. Next in meeting
you, and being saved a hot walk; and again in just meeting the very man
I wanted most to see."
"There's one thing you forgot," said David, roguishly.
"What's that?"
"The affectionate welcome you'll get from old Huxter when you reach
home."
"I don't count much on that," said John, smiling in return.
"I'm glad you've overreached the old fellow," said David.
"He thinks he's overreached me."
"I know it. That makes it all the better."
John reached his temporary home about four o'clock. Mr. Huxter was
not at home when he arrived, and remained ignorant of the important
interview which had taken place between John and Squire Selwyn.
CHAPTER XIX.
ON THE TRACK.
When the stage which conveyed John and Mr. Huxter was fairly out of
sight Mrs. Oakley entered the house with a great feeling of relief.
She realized for the first time how she had been constrained by the
presence of her stepson. Though he had always been respectful, there
was an unuttered reproach in his frank, fearless glance, which made
her uncomfortable. It was the tribute which a mean and wicked nature
pays to one of greater nobility, though Mrs. Oakley did not acknowledge
that. She only felt glad that John was out of the way.
She had been so fearful that something might happen to prevent the
success of her plan, that she had been careful not to make Ben
acquainted with it. She was apprehensive that Ben would, in his
exultation, lead John to suspect what was going on, and so cause him
to refuse going. Now that he was fairly off she would tell her son the
good news.
Ben came down to breakfast late. He generally had his way now, and was
seldom present at the regular breakfast hour. It was different when
Squire Oakley was alive; but then many other things were different also.
"Benjamin is delicate," she said, one morning in presence of the
servant. "He needs more sleep than the rest of us."
"Maybe it's smoking cigars makes him delicate," suggested the servant,
who did not particularly admire Ben, or care to join his mother in
making allowances for him.
Her mistress silenced her with some asperity; but nevertheless took an
opportunity to speak to Ben on the subject. But that young gentleman
only laughed at her remonstrances.
"It does me good, mother," he said. "I always feel better after smoking
a good cigar."
"It seems to me you are growing pale," said Mrs. Oakley, whose heart
was full of tenderness where Ben was concerned.
"That's all nonsense," said Ben. "I'm not as red as a beet, and I don't
want to be. But as to being pale, I'm healthy enough. Don't worry
yourself."
With this Mrs. Oakley had to be contented, for Ben, though a coward
with his equals, had sense enough to take advantage of his mother's
weak partiality, and take his own way.
When Ben came down to breakfast on the morning of his uncle's
departure, he said in an indifferent tone:--
"Has that man gone?"
"Do you refer to your uncle, Benjamin?" asked Mrs. Oakley, not
altogether pleased to hear Mr. Huxter spoken of in that style, though
she felt no very warm attachment for him herself.
"I mean Mr. Huxter," said Ben, carelessly, breaking an egg as he spoke.
"He is your uncle."
"I don't mean to call him so. I'm ashamed of the relationship."
"He is my brother."
"That's your misfortune," said Ben. "All I know is, that I hope he
won't darken our doors again."
"What have you against him?"
"He's a coarse, low man. He isn't a gentleman. You're a rich woman now,
mother. You'd better cut his acquaintance. He won't do us any credit.
You haven't invited him to come again, I hope."
"I don't think he will come again very soon."
"He'd better not. How can you expect people to forget that you were
the late Mr. Oakley's house-keeper if you show them such a man as that
as your brother?"
This argument had weight with Mrs. Oakley. She wanted to be looked
upon as a lady, and she acknowledged to herself that Mr. Huxter's
relationship would be no credit to her. He was coarse and low, as Ben
said,--not because he was poor. Wealth would have made no difference in
him, except that it might have enabled him to dress better. It would
not have diminished the redness of his nose, for instance, or refined
his manners. Mrs. Oakley, however, made no comment on what Ben had
said, but remarked:--
"At any rate, Ben, your uncle has done us a good turn."
"What is that, mother?" asked Ben.
"John has gone with him."
"Gone home with him?"
"Yes."
"How long is he going to stay?"
"For good."
"How's that? I don't understand."
"John was in the way here. You and he could not agree,--not that I
blame you for that,--and I did not like him. Therefore I made an
arrangement with my brother to have John board with him. I don't
suppose you'll miss him much."
"It'll be a lucky miss," said Ben, emphatically. "But John's rather
stubborn. How did you get him to go?"
"He doesn't know he is to stay. I told him I wanted him to go back with
your uncle, in order to attend to a little business for me. When he
gets there he'll find out what it is."
"Won't he rave, though?" exclaimed Ben, laughing heartily. "He'll find
it a healthy old boarding-house."
"I wish you wouldn't use such language, Ben," said his mother. "It is
my great ambition to see you act and talk like a gentleman."
"So I do, mother. That's just the way they talk."
Mrs. Oakley looked rather incredulous.
"I say, mother, is Uncle Huxter going to prepare John for college?"
Mrs. Oakley laughed--heartily for her.
"Your uncle's shoe-shop will be the only college John will enter," she
said.
"Do you mean that he is to peg shoes?"
"Yes."
"His pride will have a pretty hard fall."
"I mean that it shall," said Mrs. Oakley, compressing her thin lips.
"Well, I don't envy John. Every dog has his day, and he has had his.
It's our turn now. Another cup of coffee, and not so weak as the last."
"I don't think such strong coffee is good for you, Benjamin."
"Oh bother, don't be a granny," said Ben, rudely. "Anybody'd think I
was a baby."
This was the way in which Ben addressed his mother, who deserved his
gratitude at least, for she was to him a devoted and self-sacrificing
mother, however faulty might be her conduct towards John.
At length Ben's late breakfast was over, and he left the house to
resort to his accustomed haunt,--the hotel bar-room and billiard saloon.
"I wish Ben cared more about study, and was more ambitious," thought
Mrs. Oakley, with a half sigh. "If I could only make him feel as I do!"
It would have been fortunate for Ben if he had inherited his mother's
energy and ambition. The ambition was not a noble one; but at least it
would have kept him from low haunts and bad associates, which were all
he cared about at present. Though all his mother's worldly plans should
succeed, this was the point in which they were likely to fail. Mrs.
Oakley's punishment would come in all probability through the son for
whom she was willing to sacrifice justice and duty.
When Ben had left the house, Mrs. Oakley began to concentrate her
thoughts upon that which had first led her to determine upon John's
banishment. This was the hidden will. She could not feel assured of
her position until that was found. Until now she had not felt at
full liberty to search. She had feared that John might come upon
her unexpectedly, and divine her object. Now there was no fear of
interruption. She could ransack the house from top to bottom, and no
one would understand the motive of her search. She had not communicated
her intention to Ben. She trusted in his discretion too little to
confide to him any secret of importance, for she was a shrewd and
prudent woman.
On this particular morning she had a feeling that she had never had
before. There was a confidence that she had never before experienced
that success awaited her.
"I must and will find it," she thought. "This is not a large house.
Then there are some parts of it that need not be searched. Mr.
Oakley would never have hidden his will in the servants' rooms, nor
in the kitchen. Everywhere else I will search. Let me go to work
systematically and thoroughly. This time it shall not be my fault if it
escapes me."
There was a small room on the lower floor, where the late Mr. Oakley
used to do the most of his writing. This has already been referred to.
Here he kept a desk, and this desk more than once had been searched by
Mrs. Oakley. She determined to search it once more, but only for form's
sake.
"He did not mean that I should find it," she thought. "Therefore he did
not conceal it where I should be certain to look first."
So, though she searched the desk, she was not disappointed when this
search, like the preceding, resulted in bringing nothing to light.
"It is as I thought," she said. "Where shall I search next?"
She selected her own bedchamber, though here, for obvious reasons, she
had little hopes of finding the missing document.
"He wouldn't place it under my very eyes," she said. "Of course I know
that. Still I cannot afford to leave a single place unexplored."
The result justified her anticipations. So room after room was
searched, and no clue was obtained.
"He wouldn't put it under the carpet," she thought.
Yet the thought seemed worth following up. She got down on her hands
and knees, and felt of every square foot of carpeting in the several
rooms to see if she could detect beneath the pressure of any paper. In
one place there was a rustle, and she eagerly tore up the carpet. But
nothing was revealed save a loose piece of newspaper, which by some
chance had got underneath. Disappointed, she nailed down the carpet
again.
Where else should she look? All at once a luminous idea came to her.
John's room,--his old room, of course! Why had she never thought of
that? John, of course, was the one who would be most benefited by
the new will. If by any chance it should be discovered by him, no
harm would result. His father would trust John, when he would not
have trusted her or Ben. Mrs. Oakley could not help acknowledging to
herself that in that he was right. What strengthened her in this view
was, that among the articles of furniture was an old desk which had
belonged to Squire Oakley's father. It was battered and defaced by
hard usage, and had been at one time banished to the attic. But John,
who was accustomed to study in his room, felt that this old desk would
be of use to him, and he had asked to have it transferred to his own
chamber. There had been no objection to this, and the transfer took
place about a year before Squire Oakley's death. It had stood in John's
room ever since.
When the new idea came to Mrs. Oakley, she thought at once of this old
desk as the probable repository of the will. Her eyes sparkled with
anticipated triumph.
"I was a fool not to think of this before," she said. "If the will is
anywhere in the house, it is in John's room, and in that old desk. At
last I am on the right track!"
With a hurried step she entered John's room. Her hands trembled with
nervous agitation. She felt that she was on the brink of an important
discovery.
CHAPTER XX.
MRS. OAKLEY FINDS THE WILL.
Mrs. Oakley commenced her examination of the old desk, thoroughly
convinced that if the missing will were in existence at all, it was
hidden there.
It was one of those old desks and bureaus combined, which were so
common in the days of our grandfathers. In the drawers beneath, John
had been accustomed to keep his clothing; in the desk above, writing
materials, and some small articles of no particular importance. These
he had not had time to remove before his unexpected departure.
Mrs. Oakley turned those over impatiently, and explored every drawer
hurriedly. But she did not discover what she had expected to find.
This first failure, however, did not surprise her. She did not
expect to find the will lying loosely in any of the drawers. But she
suspected that some one drawer might have a false bottom, beneath which
the important document would prove to be concealed. She therefore
carefully examined every drawer with a view to the discovery of such a
place of concealment. But to her disappointment she obtained no clue.
The drawers seemed honestly made. For the first time Mrs. Oakley began
to doubt whether the will were really in existence. She had searched
everywhere, and it could not be found.
"I wish I could be sure," she said to herself. "I would give five
hundred dollars this minute to be sure that there was no will. Then I
should feel secure in the possession of my money. But to feel that at
any moment a paper may turn up depriving me of forty thousand dollars
keeps me in constant anxiety."
She gave up the search for the day, having domestic duties to attend
to. She tried to persuade herself that her fears and anxieties were
without foundation, but in this she was unsuccessful. She permitted a
day to slip by, but on the second day she again visited John's room.
The old desk seemed to have a fascination for her.
This time she turned the desk around, and passed her hand slowly over
the back. Just when she was about to relinquish the attempt in despair,
success came.
Suddenly beneath her finger a concealed spring was unconsciously
touched, and a thin drawer sprang from the recesses of the desk. Mrs.
Oakley's eyes sparkled with the sense of approaching triumph, as she
perceived carefully laid away therein a paper compactly folded.
With fingers trembling with nervous agitation she opened it. She had
not been deceived. The missing will lay outspread before her! Mrs.
Oakley read it carefully.
It was drawn up with the usual formalities, as might have been
expected, being the work of a careful lawyer. It revoked all other
wills of a previous date, and bequeathed in express terms two-thirds of
the entire estate left by the testator to his only son, John. Squire
Selwyn was appointed executor, and guardian of said John, should he be
under age at the time of his father's death. The remaining third of
the property was willed to Mrs. Jane Oakley, should she survive her
husband; otherwise to her son Benjamin in the event of his mother's
previous death.
Such was the substance of Squire Oakley's last will and testament, now
for the first time revealed.
Mrs. Oakley read it with mingled feelings,--partly of indignation
with her late husband that he should have made such a will, partly
