"Do you mean it?"
"Yes, I do."
"Bully for you! I like your pluck. I wouldn't go back and get a
licking, if I were you. What'll Mother Watson say?"
"She'll be mad, I expect," said Mark.
"Keep a sharp lookout for her. I'll tell you what you can do: stay near
me, and if she comes prowlin' round I'll manage her."
"Could you?" said Mark, quickly, who, from certain recollections, had
considerable fear of his stout tyrant.
"You may just bet on that. What you goin' to do?"
"I think I shall go and get some breakfast," said Mark.
"So would I, if I had any tin; but I'm dead broke,--spent my last cent
goin' to the Old Bowery. I'll have to wait till I've had one or two
shines before I can eat breakfast."
"Are you hungry?"
"I'll bet I am."
"Because," said Mark, hesitating, "I'll lend you money enough for
breakfast, and you can pay me when you earn it."
"You lend me money!" exclaimed Ben, in astonishment. "Why, you haven't
got but eight cents."
"Yes, I have," said Mark, producing the two half-dollars.
"Where'd you get them?" asked the boot-black, in unfeigned surprise,
looking at Mark as if he had all at once developed into an Astor or a
Stewart. "You haven't been begging this morning, have you?"
"No," said the match boy, "and I don't mean to beg again if I can help
it."
"Then where'd you get the money?"
"I don't know."
"Don't know! You haven't been stealin', have you?"
Mark disclaimed the imputation indignantly.
"Then you found a pocket-book?"
"No, I didn't."
"Then where did you get the money?"
"I don't know any more than you do. When I went to sleep on the boat I
didn't have it, but this morning when I felt in my pocket it was there."
"That's mighty queer," said Ben, whistling.
"So I think."
"It's good money, aint it?"
"Try it and see."
Ben tossed up one of the coins. It fell with a clear, ringing sound on
the sidewalk.
"Yes, that's good," he said. "I just wish somebody'd treat me that way.
Maybe it's the vest? If 'tis I'd like to buy it."
"I don't think it's that," said Mark, laughing.
"Anyway you've got the money. I'll borrow twenty cents of you, and
we'll go and get some breakfast."
CHAPTER X.
ON THE WAR PATH.
Ben led the way to a cheap restaurant, where for eighteen cents each
of the boys got a breakfast, which to their not very fastidious tastes
proved very satisfactory.
"There," said Ben, with a sigh of satisfaction, as they rose from the
table, "now I feel like work; I'll pay up that money afore night."
"All right," said Mark.
"What are you goin' to do?"
"I don't know," said Mark, irresolutely.
"You're a match boy,--aint you?"
"Yes."
"Where's your matches?"
"In Mother Watson's room."
"You might go and get 'em when she's out."
"No," said Mark, shaking his head. "I won't do that."
"Why not? You aint afraid to go round there,--be you?"
"It isn't that,--but the matches are hers, not mine."
"What's the odds?"
"I won't take anything of hers."
"Well, you can buy some of your own, then. You've got money enough."
"So I will," said Mark. "It's lucky that money came to me in my sleep."
"That's a lucky boat. I guess I'll go there and sleep to-night."
Mark did as he proposed. With the money he had he was able to purchase
a good supply of matches, and when it became light enough he began to
vend them.
Hitherto he had not been very fortunate in the disposal of his wares,
being timid and bashful; but then he was working for Mother Watson, and
expected to derive very little advantage for himself from his labors.
Now he was working for himself, and this seemed to put new spirit and
courage into him. Then again he felt that he had shaken off the hateful
thraldom in which Mother Watson had held him, and this gave him a
hopefulness which he had not before possessed.
The consequence was that at noon he found that he had earned forty
cents in addition to his investment. At that time, too, Ben was ready
to pay him his loan, so that Mark found himself twenty-two cents better
off than he had been in the morning, having a capital of a dollar and
thirty cents, out of which, however, he must purchase his dinner.
While he is getting on in such an encouraging manner we must go back to
Mother Watson.
When Mark did not return the night before she grumbled considerably,
but no thought of his intentional desertion dawned upon her. Indeed,
she counted upon his timidity and lack of courage, knowing well that
a more spirited boy would have broken her chain long before. She only
thought, therefore, that he had not got the twenty-five cents, and did
not dare to come back, especially as she had forbidden him to do so.
So, determining to give him a taste of the leather strap in the
morning, she went to bed, first taking a fresh potation from the
whiskey bottle, which was her constant companion.
Late in the morning Mother Watson woke, feeling as usual, at that
hour of the day, cross and uncomfortable, and with a strong desire to
make some one else uncomfortable. But Mark, whom she usually made to
bear the burden of her temper, was still away. For the first time the
old woman began to feel a little apprehensive that he had deserted
her. This was far from suiting her, as she found his earnings very
convenient, and found it besides pleasant to have somebody to scold.
She hastily dressed, without paying much attention to her toilet.
Indeed, to do Mother Watson justice, her mind was far from being filled
with the vanity of dress, and if she erred on that subject it was in
the opposite extreme.
When her simple toilet was accomplished she went downstairs, and
knocked at Mrs. Flanagan's door.
"Come in!" said a hearty voice.
Mrs. Flanagan was hard at work at her wash-tub, and had been for a good
couple of hours. She raised her good-natured face as the old woman
entered.
"The top of the morning to you, Mother Watson," she said. "I
hope you're in fine health this morning, mum." "Then you'll be
disappointed," said Mrs. Watson. "I've got a bad feeling at my stomach,
and have it most every morning."
"It's the whiskey," thought Mrs. Flanagan; but she thought it best not
to intimate as much, as it might lead to hostilities.
"Better take a cup of tea," said she.
"I haven't got any," said the old woman. "I wouldn't mind a sup if
you've got some handy."
"Sit down then," said Mrs. Flanagan, hospitably. "I've got some left
from breakfast, only it's cold, but if you'll wait a bit, I'll warm it
over for you."
Nothing loth, Mother Watson sank into a chair, and began to give a full
account of her ailments to her neighbor, who tried hard to sympathize
with her, though, knowing the cause of the ailments, she found this
rather difficult.
"Have you seen anything of my boy this morning?" she asked after a
while.
"What, Mark?" said Mrs. Flanagan. "Didn't he come home last night?"
"No," said the old woman, "and he isn't home yet. When he does come
I'll give him a dose of the strap. He's a bad, lazy, shiftless boy,
and worries my life out."
"You're hard on the poor boy, Mother Watson. You must remember he's but
a wisp of a lad, and hasn't much strength."
"He's strong enough," muttered Mother Watson. "It's lazy he is. Just
let him come home, that's all!"
"You told him not to come home unless he had twenty-five cents to bring
with him."
"So I did, and why didn't he do it?"
"He couldn't get the money, it's likely, and he's afraid of bein' bate."
"Well, he will be bate then, Mrs. Flanagan, you may be sure of that,"
said the old woman, diving her hand into her pocket to see that the
strap was safe.
"Then you're a bad, cruel woman, to bate that poor motherless child,"
said Mrs. Flanagan, with spirit.
"Say that again, Mrs. Flanagan," ejaculated Mother Watson, irefully.
"My hearin' isn't as good as it was, and maybe I didn't hear you right."
"No wonder your hearin' isn't good," said Mrs. Flanagan, who now broke
bounds completely. "I shouldn't think you'd have any sense left with
the whiskey you drink."
"Perhaps you mean to insult me," said the old woman, glaring at her
hostess with one of the frowns which used to send terror to the heart
of poor Mark.
"Take it as you please, mum," said Mrs. Flanagan, intrepidly. "I'm
entirely willin'. I've been wanting to spake my mind a long while, and
now I've spoke it."
Mother Watson clutched the end of the strap in her pocket, and eyed
her hostess with a half wish that it would do to treat her as she had
treated Mark so often; but Mrs. Flanagan with her strong arms and
sturdy frame looked like an antagonist not very easily overcome, and
Mrs. Watson forbore, though unwillingly.
Meanwhile the tea was beginning to emit quite a savory odor, and the
wily old woman thought it best to change her tactics.
Accordingly she burst into tears, and, rocking backward and forward,
declared that she was a miserable old woman, and hadn't a friend in the
world, and succeeded in getting up such a display of misery that the
soft heart of Mrs. Flanagan was touched, and she apologized for the
unpleasant personal observations she had made, and hoped Mother Watson
would take the tea.
To this Mother Watson finally agreed, and intimating that she was
faint, Mrs. Flanagan made some toast for her, of which the cunning
old woman partook with exceeding relish, notwithstanding her state of
unhappiness.
"Come in any time, Mother Watson," said Mrs. Flanagan, "when you want a
sip of tea, and I'll be glad to have you take some with me."
"Thank you, Mrs. Flanagan; maybe I'll look in once in a while. A sip of
tea goes to the right spot when I feel bad at my stomach."
"Must you be goin', Mother Watson?"
"Yes," said the old woman; "I'm goin' out on a little walk, to see my
sister that keeps a candy-stand by the Park railins. If Mark comes in,
will you tell him he'll find the matches upstairs?"
This Mrs. Flanagan promised to do, and the old woman went downstairs,
and into the street.
But she had not stated her object quite correctly. It was true that she
had a sister, who was in the confectionery and apple line, presiding
over one of the stalls beside the Park railings. But the two sisters
were not on very good terms, chiefly because the candy merchant,
who was more industrious and correct in her habits than her sister,
declined to lend money to Mother Watson,--a refusal which led to a
perfect coolness between them. It was not therefore to see her that the
old woman went out. She wanted to find Mark. She did not mean to lose
her hold upon him, if there was any chance of retaining it, and she
therefore made up her mind to visit the places where he was commonly to
be found, and, when found, to bring him home, by violence, if necessary.
So with an old plaid cloak depending from her broad shoulders, and her
hand grasping the strap in her pocket, she made her way to the square,
peering about on all sides with her ferret-like eyes in the hope of
discovering the missing boy.
CHAPTER XI.
MARK'S VICTORY.
Meanwhile Mark, rejoicing in his new-found freedom, had started on
a business walk among the stores and offices at the lower part of
Nassau Street, and among the law and banking offices of Wall Street.
Fortunately for Mark there had been a rise in stocks, and Wall Street
was in a good-humor. So a few of the crumbs from the tables of the
prosperous bankers and brokers fell in his way. One man, who had just
realized ten thousand dollars on a rise in some railway securities,
handed Mark fifty cents, but declined to take any of his wares. So this
was all clear profit and quite a windfall for the little match boy.
Again, in one or two cases he received double price for some of his
matches, and the result was that he found himself by eleven o'clock the
possessor of two dollars and a quarter, with a few boxes of matches
still left.
Mark could hardly realize his own good fortune. Somehow it seemed a
great deal more profitable as well as more agreeable to be in business
for himself, than to be acting as the agent of Mother Watson. Mark
determined that he would never go back to her unless he was actually
obliged to do so.
He wanted somebody to sympathize with him in his good fortune, and, as
he had nearly sold out, he determined to hunt up Ben Gibson, and inform
him of his run of luck.
Ben, as he knew, was generally to be found on Nassau Street, somewhere
near the corner of Spruce Street. He therefore turned up Nassau Street
from Wall, and in five minutes he reached the business stand of his
friend Ben.
Ben had just finished up a job as Mark came up. His patron was a
young man of verdant appearance, who, it was quite evident, hailed
from the country. He wore a blue coat with brass buttons, and a tall
hat in the style of ten years before, with an immense top. He gazed
with complacency at the fine polish which Ben had imparted to his
boots,--a pair of stout cowhides,--and inquired with an assumption of
indifference:--
"Well, boy, what's the tax?"
"Twenty-five cents," said Ben, coolly.
"Twenty-five cents!" ejaculated the customer, with a gasp of amazement.
"Come now, you're jokin'."
"No, I aint," said Ben.
"You don't mean to say you charge twenty-five cents for five minutes'
work?"
"Reg'lar price," said Ben.
"Why I don't get but twelve and a half cents an hour when I work out
hayin'," said the young man in a tone expressive of his sense of the
unfairness of the comparative compensation.
"Maybe you don't have to pay a big license," said Ben.
"A license for blackin' boots?" ejaculated the countryman, in surprise.
"In course. I have to deposit five hundred dollars, more or less, in
the city treasury, before I can black boots."
"Five--hundred--dollars!" repeated the customer, opening his eyes wide
at the information.
"In course," said Ben. "If I didn't they'd put me in jail for a year."
"And does he pay a license too?" asked the countryman, pointing to
Mark, who had just come up.
"He only has to pay two hundred and fifty dollars," said Ben. "They
aint so hard on him as on us."
The young man drew out his wallet reluctantly, and managed to raise
twenty-three cents, which he handed to Ben.
"I wouldn't have had my boots blacked, if I'd known the price," he
said. "I could have blacked 'em myself at home. They didn't cost but
three dollars, and it don't pay to give twenty-five cents to have 'em
blacked."
"It'll make 'em last twice as long," said Ben. "My blackin' is the
superiorest kind, and keeps boots from wearin' out."
"I havn't got the other two cents," said the young man. "Aint that near
enough?"
"It'll do," said Ben, magnanimously, "seein' you didn't know the price."
The victimized customer walked away, gratified to have saved the two
cents, but hardly reconciled to have expended almost quarter of a
dollar on a piece of work which he might have done himself before
leaving home.
"Well, what luck, Mark?" said Ben. "I took in that chap neat, didn't I?"
"But you didn't tell the truth," said Mark. "You don't have to buy a
license."
"Oh, what's the odds?" said Ben, whose ideas on the subject of truth
were far from being strict. "It's all fair in business. Didn't that
chap open his eyes when I told him about payin' five hundred dollars?"
"I don't think it's right, Ben," said Mark, seriously.
"Don't you go to preachin', Mark," said Ben, not altogether pleased.
"You've been tied to an old woman's apron-string too long,--that's
what's the matter with you."
"Mother Watson didn't teach me the truth," said Mark. "She don't care
whether I tell it or not except to her. It was my mother that told me I
ought always to tell the truth."
"Women don't know anything about business," said Ben. "Nobody in
business speaks the truth. Do you see that sign?"
Mark looked across the street, and saw a large placard, setting forth
that a stock of books and stationery was selling off at less than cost.
"Do you believe that?" asked Ben.
"Perhaps it's true," said Mark.
"Then you're jolly green, that's all I've got to lay," said Ben. "But
you haven't told me how much you've made."
"See here," said Mark, and he drew out his stock of money.
"Whew!" whistled Ben, in amazement. "You're in luck. I guess you've
been speculatin' on your license too."
"No," said Mark; "one gentleman gave me fifty cents, and two others
paid me double price."
"Why, you're gettin' rich!" said Ben. "Aint you glad you've left the
old woman?"
But just then Mark lifted up his eyes, and saw a sight that blanched
his cheek. There, bearing down upon him, and already but a few feet
distant, was Mother Watson! She was getting over the ground as fast
as her stoutness would allow. She had already caught sight of Mark,
and her inflamed eyes were sparkling with triumphant joy. Mark saw
with terror that her hand was already feeling in the pocket where she
kept the leather strap. Much as he always feared the strap, the idea
of having it applied to him in the public street made it even more
distasteful.
"What shall I do, Ben?" he said, clutching the arm of his companion.
"What are you afraid of? Do you see a copp after you?"
A "copp" is the street-boy's name for a policeman.
"No," said Mark; "there's Mother Watson coming after me. Don't you see
her?"
"That's Mother Watson, is it?" asked Ben, surveying the old body with a
critical eye. "She's a beauty, she is!"
"What shall I do, Ben? She'll beat me."
"No, she won't," said Ben. "You just keep quiet, and leave her to me.
Don't be afraid. She shan't touch you."
"She might strike you," said Mark, apprehensively.
"She'd better not!" said Ben, very decidedly; "not unless she wants to
be landed in the middle of next week at very short notice."
By this time Mother Watson came up, puffing and panting with the
extraordinary efforts she had made She could not speak at first, but
stood and glared at the match boy in a vindictive way.
"What's the matter with you, old lady?" asked Ben, coolly. "You aint
took sick, be you? I'd offer to support your delicate form, but I'm
afraid you'd be too much for me."
"What do you mean by runnin' away from home, you little thief?" said
the old woman, at length regaining her breath. Of course her remark was
addressed to Mark.
"You're very polite, old lady," said Ben; "but I've adopted that boy,
and he's goin' to live with me now."
"I aint speakin' to you, you vagabone!" said Mother Watson, "so you
needn't give me no more of your impertinence. I'm a-speakin' to him."
"I'm not going to live with you any more," said Mark, gaining a little
courage from the coolness of his friend, the boot-black.
"Aint a goin' to live with me?" gasped the old woman, who could hardly
believe she heard aright. "Come right away, sir, or I'll drag you home."
"Don't you stir, Mark," said Ben.
Mother Watson drew out her strap, and tried to get at the match boy,
but Ben put himself persistently in her way.
"Clear out, you vagabone!" said the old lady, "or I'll give you
something to make you quiet."
"You'd better keep quiet yourself," said Ben, not in the least
frightened. "Don't you be afraid, Mark. If she kicks up a rumpus, I'll
give her over to a copp. He'll settle her."
Mother Watson by this time was very much incensed. She pulled out her
strap, and tried to get at Mark, but the boot-black foiled her efforts
constantly.
Carried away with anger, she struck Ben with the strap.
"Look here, old lady," said Ben, "that's goin' a little too far. You
won't use that strap again;" and with a dexterous and vigorous grasp he
pulled it out of her hand.
"Give me that strap, you vagabone!" screamed the old woman, furiously.
"Look here, old lady, what are you up to?" demanded the voice of one
having authority.
Mother Watson, turning round, saw an object for which she never had
much partiality,--a policeman.
"O sir," said she, bursting into maudlin tears, "it's my bad boy that I
want to come home, and he won't come."
"Which is your boy,--that one?" asked the policeman, pointing to Ben
Gibson.
"No, not that vagabone!" said the old woman, spitefully. "I wouldn't
own him. It's that other boy."
"Do you belong to her?" asked the officer, addressing Mark.
"No, sir," said the match boy.
"He does," vociferated the old woman.
"Is he your son?"
"No," she said, after a moment's hesitation.
"Is he any relation of yours?"
"Yes, he's my nephew," said Mother Watson, making up her mind to a
falsehood as the only means of recovering Mark.
"Is this true?" asked the officer.
"No, it isn't," said Mark. "She's no relation to me, but when my mother
died she offered to take care of me. Instead of that she's half starved
me, and beaten me with a strap when I didn't bring home as much money
as she wanted."
"Then you don't want to go back with her?"
"No, I'm going to take care of myself."
"Is there anybody that will prove the truth of what you say?"
"Yes," said Mark, "I'll call Mrs. Flanagan."
"Who is she?"
"She lives in the same house with us."
"Shall he call her, or will you give him up?" asked the officer. "By
the way, I think you're the same woman I saw drunk in the street last
week."
Mother Watson took alarm at this remark, and, muttering that it was
hard upon a poor widder woman to take her only nephew from her,
shuffled off, leaving Mark and Ben in full possession of the field,
with the terrible strap thrown in as a trophy of the victory they had
won.
"I know her of old," said the policeman. "I guess you'll do as well
without her as with her."
Satisfied that there would be no more trouble, he resumed his walk, and
Mark felt that now in truth he was free and independent.
As Mother Watson will not reappear in this story, it may be said that
only a fortnight later she was arrested for an assault upon her sister,
the proprietor of the apple-stand, from whom she had endeavored in
vain to extort a loan, and was sentenced to the island for a period of
three months, during which she ceased to grace metropolitan society.
CHAPTER XII.
THE NEWSBOYS' LODGING HOUSE.
When Mother Watson had turned the corner, Mark breathed a sigh of
relief.
"Don't you think she'll come back again?" he asked anxiously of Ben
Gibson.
"No," said Ben, "she's scared of the copp. If she ever catches you
alone, and tries to come any of her games, just call a copp, and she'll
be in a hurry to leave."
"Well," said Mark, "I guess I'll try to sell the rest of my matches. I
haven't got but a few."
"All right; I'll try for another shine, and then we'll go and have some
dinner. I'd like to get hold of another greeny."
Mark started with his few remaining matches. The feeling that he was
his own master, and had a little hoard of money for present expenses,
gave him courage, and he was no longer deterred by his usual timidity.
In an hour he had succeeded in getting rid of all his matches, and he
was now the possessor of two dollars and seventy-five cents, including
the money Ben Gibson owed him. Ben also was lucky enough to get two
ten-cent customers, which helped his receipts by twenty cents. Ben,
it may be remarked, was not an advocate of the one-price system.
He blacked boots for five cents when he could get no more. When he
thought there was a reasonable prospect of getting ten cents, that was
his price. Sometimes, as in the case of the young man from the rural
districts, he advanced his fee to twenty-five cents. I don't approve
Ben's system for my part. I think it savors considerably of sharp
practice, and that fair prices in the long run are the best for all
parties.
The boys met again at one o'clock, and adjourned to a cheap underground
restaurant on Nassau Street, where they obtained what seemed to them a
luxurious meal of beefsteak, with a potato, a small plate of bread, and
a cup of what went by the name of coffee. The steak was not quite up
to the same article at Delmonico's, and there might be some reasonable
doubts as to whether the coffee was a genuine article; but as neither
of the boys knew the difference, we may quote Ben's familiar phrase,
and say, "What's the odds?"
Indeed, the free and easy manner in which Ben threw himself back in his
chair, and the condescending manner in which he assured the waiter that
the steak was "a prime article," could hardly have been surpassed in
the most aristocratic circles.
"Well, Mark, have you had enough?" asked Ben.
"Yes," said Mark.
"Well, I haven't," said Ben. "I guess I'll have some puddin'. Look
here, Johnny," to the colored waiter, "just bring a feller a plate of
apple dump with both kinds of sauce."
After giving this liberal order Ben tilted his chair back, and began to
pick his teeth with his fork. He devoted himself with assiduity to the
consumption of the pudding, and concluded his expensive repast by the
purchase of a two-cent cigar, with which he ascended to the street.
"Better have a cigar, Mark," he said.
"No, thank you," said the match boy. "I think I'd rather not."
"Oh, you're feared of being sick. You'll come to it in time. All
business men smoke."
It is unnecessary to dwell upon the events of the afternoon. Mark was
satisfied with the result of his morning's work, and waited about with
Ben till the close of the afternoon, when the question came up, as to
where the night should be passed.
"I guess we'd better go to the Lodge," said Ben. "Were you ever there?"
"No," said Mark.
"Well, come along. They'll give us a jolly bed, all for six cents, and
there's a good, warm room to stay in. Then we can get breakfast in the
mornin' for six cents more."
"All right," said Mark. "We'll go."
The down-town Newsboys' Lodging House was at that time located at
the corner of Fulton and Nassau Streets. It occupied the fifth and
sixth stories of the building then known as the "Sun" building, owned
by Moses S. Beach, the publisher of that journal. In the year 1868
circumstances rendered it expedient to remove the Lodge to a building
in Park Place. It is to be hoped that at some day not far distant the
Children's Aid Society, who carry on this beneficent institution, will
be able to erect a building of their own in some eligible locality,
which can be permanently devoted to a purpose so praiseworthy.
Ben and Mark soon reached the entrance to the Lodge on Fulton Street.
They ascended several flights of narrow stairs till they reached the
top story. Then, opening a door at the left, they found themselves in
the main room of the Lodge. It was a low-studded room of considerable
dimensions, amply supplied with windows, looking out on Fulton and
Nassau Streets. At the side nearest the door was a low platform,
separated from the rest of the room by a railing. On this platform
were a table and two or three chairs. This was the place for the
superintendent, and for gentlemen who from time to time address the
boys.
The superintendent at that time was Mr. Charles O'Connor, who still
retains the office. Probably no one could be found better adapted to
the difficult task of managing the class of boys who avail themselves
of the good offices of the Newsboys' Home. His mild yet firm manner,
and more than all the conviction that he is their friend, and feels a
hearty interest in their welfare, secure a degree of decorum and good
behavior which could hardly be anticipated. Oaths and vulgar speech,
however common in the street, are rarely heard here, or, if heard, meet
with instant rebuke.
The superintendent was in the room when Ben and Mark entered.
"Well, Ben, what luck have you had to-day?" said Mr. O'Connor.
"Pretty good," said Ben.
"And who is that with you?"
"Mother Watson's nephew," said Ben, with a grimace.
"He's only joking, sir," said Mark. "My name is Mark Manton."
"I am glad to see you, Mark," said the superintendent. "What is your
business?"
"I sell matches, sir."
"Have you parents living?"
"No, sir; they are both dead."
"Where have you been living?"
"In Vandewater Street."
"With any one?"
"Yes, with a woman they call Mother Watson."
"Is she a relation of yours?"
"No, sir," said Mark, hastily.
"What sort of a woman is she?"
"Bad enough, sir. She gets drunk about every day and used to beat me
with a strap when I did not bring home as much money as she expected."
"So you have left her?"
"Yes, sir."
"Have you ever been up here before?"
"No, sir."
"I suppose you know the rules of the place."
"Yes, sir; Ben has told me."
"You had better go and wash. We shall have supper pretty quick. Have
you any money?"
"Yes, sir."
Mark took out his hoard of money, and showed it to the superintendent,
who was surprised at the amount.
"How did you get so much?" he asked.
"Part of it was given me," said Mark.
"What are you going to do with it? You don't need it all?"
"Will you keep it for me, sir?"
"I will put as much of it as you can spare into the bank for you. This
is our bank."
He pointed to a table beside the railing on the outside. The top of
it was pierced with narrow slits, each having a number attached. Each
compartment was assigned to any boy who desired it, and his daily
earnings were dropped in at the end of the day. Once a month the bank
was opened, and the depositor was at liberty to withdraw his savings if
he desired it. This is an excellent arrangement, as it has a tendency
to teach frugal habits to the young patrons of the Lodge. Extravagance
is one of their besetting sins. Many average a dollar and over as
daily earnings, yet are always ragged and out at elbows, and often are
unsupplied with the small price of a night's lodging at the Home. The
money is squandered on gambling, cigars, and theatre-going, while the
same sum would make them comfortable and independent of charity. The
disposition to save is generally the first encouraging symptom in a
street boy, and shows that he has really a desire to rise above his
circumstances, and gain a respectable position in the world.
Ben, who had long frequented the Lodging House off and on, led the
way to the washing-room, where Mark, to his satisfaction, was able to
cleanse himself from the dust and impurity of the street. At Mother
Watson's he had had no accommodations of the kind, as the old lady was
not partial to water either internally or externally. He was forced to
snatch such opportunities as he could find.
"Now," said Ben, "we'll go into the gymnasium."
A room opposite the main room had been fitted up with a few of the
principal appliances of a gymnasium, and these were already in use by
quite a number of boys.
Mark looked on, but did not participate, partly from bashfulness, and
partly because he did not very well understand the use of the different
appliances.
"How do you like it?" asked Ben.
"Very much," said Mark, with satisfaction. "I'm glad you brought me
here."
"I'll show you the beds by and by," said Ben.
The rooms on the floor below were used for lodging. Tiers of neat beds,
some like those in a steamboat or a hospital, filled a large room.
They were very neat in appearance, and looked comfortable. In order to
insure their continuing neat, the superintendent requires such as need
it to wash their feet before retiring to bed.
The supper was of course plain, but of good quality and sufficient
quantity.
About nine o'clock Mark got into the neat bed which was assigned
him, and felt that it was more satisfactory even than the cabin of a
Brooklyn ferry-boat. He slept peacefully except towards morning, when
he dreamed that his old persecutor, Mother Watson, was about to apply
the dreaded strap. He woke up terrified, but soon realized with deep
satisfaction that he was no longer in her clutches.
CHAPTER XIII.
WHAT BEFELL THE MATCH BOY.
During the next three months Mark made his home at the Lodging House.
He was easily able to meet the small charges of the Lodge for bed and
breakfast, and saved up ten dollars besides in the bank. Ben Gibson
began to look upon him as quite a capitalist.
"I don't see how you save up so much money, Mark," he said. "You don't
earn more'n half as much as I do."
"It's because you spend so much, Ben. It costs you considerable for
cigars and such things, you know, and then you go to the Old Bowery
pretty often."
"A feller must have some fun," said Ben. "They've got a tearin' old
play at the Bowery now. You'd better come to-night."
Mark shook his head.
"I feel pretty tired when it comes night," he said. "I'd rather stay at
home."
"You aint so tough as I am," said Ben.
"No," said Mark, "I don't feel very strong. I think something's the
matter with me."
"Nothin' aint ever the matter with me," said Ben, complacently; "but
you're a puny little chap, that look as if you might blow away some
day."
It was now April, and the weather was of that mild character that saps
the strength and produces a feeling of weakness and debility. Mark had
been exposed during the winter to the severity of stormy weather, and
more than once got thoroughly drenched. It was an exposure that Ben
would only have laughed at, but Mark was slightly built, without much
strength of constitution, and he had been feeling very languid for a
few days, so that it was with an effort that he dragged himself round
during the day with his little bundle of matches.
This conversation with Ben took place in the morning just as both boys
were going to work.
They separated at the City Hall Park, Ben finding a customer in front
of the "Times" building, while Mark, after a little deliberation,
decided to go on to Pearl Street with his matches. He had visited the
offices in most of the lower streets, but this was a new region to him,
and he thought he might meet with better success there. So he kept on
his way.
The warm sun and the sluggish air made his head ache, and he felt
little disposition to offer his wares for sale. He called at one or two
offices, but effected no sales. At length he reached a large warehouse
with these names displayed on the sign over the door:--
  "ROCKWELL & COOPER."
This, as the reader will remember, was the establishment in which
Richard Hunter, formerly Ragged Dick, was now book-keeper.
At this point a sudden faintness came over Mark, and he sank to the
ground insensible.
A moment before Richard Hunter handed a couple of letters to the office
boy,--known to the readers of the earlier volumes in this series as
Micky Maguire,--and said, "Michael, I should like to have you carry
these at once to the post-office. On the way you may stop at Trescott
& Wayne's, and get this bill cashed, if possible."
"All right, Mr. Hunter," said Michael, respectfully.
Richard Hunter and Micky Maguire had been boot-blacks together, and
had had more than one contest for the supremacy. They had been sworn
enemies, and Micky had done his utmost to injure Richard, but the
latter, by his magnanimity, had finally wholly overcome the antipathy
of his former foe, and, when opportunity offered, had lifted him to a
position in the office where he was himself employed. In return, Micky
had become an enthusiastic admirer of Richard, and, so far from taking
advantage of their former relations, had voluntarily taken up the habit
of addressing him as Mr. Hunter.
Michael went out on his errand, but just outside the door came near
stepping upon the prostrate form of the little match boy.
"Get up here!" he said, roughly, supposing at first that Mark had
thrown himself down out of laziness and gone to sleep.
Mark didn't answer, and Micky, bending over, saw his fixed expression
and waxen pallor.
"Maybe the little chap's dead," he thought, startled, and, without
more ado, took him up in his strong arms and carried him into the
counting-room.
"Who have you got there, Michael?" asked Richard Hunter, turning round
in surprise.
"A little match boy that was lyin' just outside the door. He looks as
if he might be dead."
Richard jumped at once from his stool, and, approaching the boy, looked
earnestly in his face.
"He has fainted away," he said, after a pause. "Bring some water,
quick!"
Micky brought a glass of water, which was thrown in the face of Mark.
The match boy gave a little shiver, and, opening his eyes, fixed them
upon Richard Hunter.
"Where am I?" he asked, vacantly.
"You are with friends," said Richard, gently. "You were found at our
door faint. Do you feel sick?"
"I feel weak," said Mark.
"Have you been well lately?"
"No, I've felt tired and weak."
"Are you a match boy?"
"Yes."
"Have you parents living?"
"No," said Mark.
"Poor fellow!" said Richard. "I know how to pity you. I have no parents
either."
"But you have got money," said Mark. "You don't have to live in the
street."
"I was once a street boy like you."
"You!" repeated the match boy, in surprise.
"Yes. But where do you sleep?"
"At the Lodging House."
"It is a good place. Michael, you had better go to the post-office now."
Mark looked about him a little anxiously.
"Where are my matches?" he asked.
"Just outside; I'll get them," said Michael, promptly.
He brought them in, and then departed on his errand.
"I guess I'd better be going," said Mark, rising feebly.
"No," said Richard. "You are not able. Come here and sit down. You will
feel stronger by and by. Did you eat any breakfast this morning?"
"A little," said Mark, "but I was not very hungry."
"Do you think you could eat anything now?" Mark shook his head.
"No," he said, "I don't feel hungry. I only feel tired."
"Would you like to rest?"
"Yes. That's all I want."
"Come here then, and I will see what I can do for you."
Mark followed his new friend into the warehouse, where Richard found
a soft bale of cotton, and told Mark he might lie down upon it. This
the poor boy was glad enough to do. In his weakness he was disposed
to sleep, and soon closed his eyes in slumber. Several times Richard
went out to look at him, but found him dozing, and was unwilling to
interrupt him.
The day wore away, and afternoon came.
Mark got up from his cotton bale, and with unsteady steps came to the
door of the counting-room.
"I'm going," he said.
Richard turned round.
"Where are you going?"
"I'm going to the Lodge. I think I won't sell any more matches to-day."
"I'll take all you've left," said Richard. "Don't trouble yourself
about them. But you are not going to the Lodge."
Mark looked at him in surprise.
"I shall take you home with me to-night," he said. "You are not well,
and I will look after you. At the Lodge there will be a crowd of boys,
and the noise will do you harm."
"You are very kind," said Mark; "but I'm afraid I'll trouble you."
"No," said Richard, "I shan't count it a trouble. I was once a poor boy
like you, and I found friends. I'll be your friend. Go back and lie
down again, and in about an hour I shall be ready to take you with me."
It seemed strange to Mark to think that there was somebody who proposed
to protect and look after him. In many of the offices which he visited
he met with rough treatment, and was ordered out of the way, as if he
were a dog, and without human feelings. Many who treated him in this
way were really kind-hearted men who had at home children whom they
loved, but they appeared to forget that these neglected children of the
street had feelings and wants as well as their own, who were tenderly
nurtured. They did not remember that they were somebody's children,
and that cold, and harshness, and want were as hard for them to bear
as for those in a higher rank of life. But Mark was in that state of
weakness when it seemed sweet to throw off all care or thought for the
future, and to sink back upon the soft bale with the thought that he
had nothing to do but to rest.
"That boy is going to be sick," thought Richard Hunter to himself. "I
think he is going to have a fever."
It was because of this thought that he decided to carry him home. He
had a kind heart, and he knew how terrible a thing sickness is to these
little street waifs, who have no mother or sister to smooth their
pillows, or cheer them with gentle words. The friendless condition of
the little match boy touched his heart, and he resolved that, as he had
the means of taking care of him, he would do so.
"Michael," he said, at the close of business hours, "I wish you would
call a hack."
"What, to come here?" asked Micky, surprised.
"Yes. I am going to take that little boy home with me. I think he is
going to be sick, and I am afraid he would have a hard time of it if I
sent him back into the street."
"Bully for you, Mr. Hunter!" said Micky, who, though rough in his
outward manners, was yet capable of appreciating kindness in others.
There were times indeed in the past when he had treated smaller boys
brutally, but it was under the influence of passion. He had improved
greatly since, and his better nature was beginning to show itself.
Micky went out, and soon returned in state inside a hack. He was
leaning back, thinking it would be a very good thing if he had a
carriage of his own to ride in. But I am afraid that day will never
come. Micky has already turned out much better than was expected, but
he is hardly likely to rise much higher than the subordinate position
he now occupies. In capacity and education he is far inferior to his
old associate, Richard Hunter, who is destined to rise much higher than
at present.
Richard Hunter went to the rear of the warehouse where Mark still lay
on his bale.
"Come," he said; "we'll go home now."
Mark rose from his recumbent position, and walked to the door. He saw
with surprise the carriage, the door of which Micky Maguire held open.
"Are we going to ride in that?" he asked.
"Yes," said Richard Hunter. "Let me help you in."
The little match boy sank back in the soft seat in vague surprise at
his good luck. He could not help wondering what Ben Gibson would say if
he could see him now.
Richard Hunter sat beside him, and supported Mark's head. The driver
whipped up his horse, and they were speedily on their way up the Bowery
to St. Mark's Place.
CHAPTER XIV.
RICHARD HUNTER'S WARD.
It was about half-past five o'clock in the afternoon when the carriage
containing Richard Hunter and the match boy stopped in front of his
boarding-place in St. Mark's Place. Richard helped the little boy out,
saying, cheerfully, "Well, we've got home."
"Is this where you live?" asked Mark, faintly.
"Yes. How do you like it?"
"It's a nice place. I am afraid you are taking too much trouble about
me."
"Don't think of that. Come in."
Richard had ascended the front steps, after paying the hackman, and
taking out his night-key opened the outside door.
"Come upstairs," he said.
They ascended two flights of stairs, and Richard threw open the door
of his room. A fire was already burning in the grate, and it looked
bright and cheerful.
"Do you feel tired?" asked Richard.
"Yes, a little."
"Then lie right down on the bed. You are hungry too,--are you not?"
"A little."
"I will have something sent up to you."
Just then Fosdick, who, it will be remembered, was Richard Hunter's
room-mate, entered the room. He looked with surprise at Mark, and then
inquiringly at Richard.
"It is a little match boy," explained the latter, "who fell in a
fainting-fit in front of our office. I think the poor fellow is going
to be sick, so I brought him home, and mean to take care of him till he
is well."
"You must let me share the expense, Dick," said Fosdick.
"No, but I'll let you share the care of him. That will do just as well."
"But I would rather share the expense. He reminds me of the way I was
situated when I fell in with you. What is your name?"
"Mark Manton," said the match boy.
"I've certainly seen him somewhere before," said Fosdick, reflectively.
"His face looks familiar to me."
"So it does to me. Perhaps I've seen him about the streets somewhere."
