to escape from the consort during the administration of Dr. Carboy, and
they regarded a couple of weeks in Paris and Switzerland, free from
restraint, as ample compensation for the deprivation.
"Let those laugh that win," said Herman, when Horne, one of the
Faithful, ventured to sympathize with him in the misfortune of being
left behind.
"I don't see what you can win doing duty and learning your lessons on
board of the Josephine," added Horne.
"Don't you cry, my hearty. You will hear from us by the time you get
halfway down the Rhine; and if we don't have a better time than you do,
it will be because we don't know how."
"Well, I suppose you do know Howe," answered Horne, with a smile, which
indicated that he enjoyed even a sickly pun. "I should think you had
known him to your sorrow."
"Howe has played out. I expect Lowington will get boozy on this
excursion."
"Why so?"
"Because he's going to take a Horne on the trip."
"Pretty good! I see you know Howe."
"We know how to have a good time, and we can do it without any sheep's
wool."
"Are you going to run away in the Josephine again, Herman?"
"No; that's played out."
But the runaway was reminded, by this question, that he had been
talking rather imprudently, and he left his companion for more genial
associates.
Perth still stood on the quarter-deck, waiting the action of the
principal, who had sent the head steward to overhaul the state-room of
the delinquent. The money could not be found in the cabin, though
several of the officers, who were there, assisted in the search.
"What have you done with the twenty pounds sent you by your uncle,
Perth?" asked Mr. Lowington, when the steward had reported to him.
"Thrown it overboard, sir," replied Perth, with a malignant glance at
the boatswain.
"He threw some bits of paper he had torn up into the water," added
Peaks. "Whether it was the bank bills or not, I don't know, but I don't
think it was."
"Very well," added Mr. Lowington, who never permitted a delinquent
pupil to see that he was disturbed and annoyed, even if he was so. "You
will bring your bag on deck, and go on board of the Josephine."
"I'm ready, sir," replied Perth, with brazen assurance.
"As your conduct is hardly becoming an officer and a gentleman, you
will clothe yourself in a seaman's dress," added the principal, taking
the shoulder-straps from his coat. "When a young man can stand up and
reel off a string of lies without blushing, he is not fit to associate
with those who are competent to be officers of this ship."
"I earned my rank, sir," said Perth, who had an idea that he should
sleep in the cabin of the Josephine during his intended short stay on
board of her.
"And forfeited it by your gross misconduct. You will obey the orders
given you," added the principal, as he turned and walked away.
Peaks did not take his eye off the offender, but attended him to the
cabin, where he was supplied with a seaman's suit. Perth objected to
changing his clothing with a pertinacity which provoked the boatswain.
"If you say you won't change the clothes, I will report to Mr.
Lowington," said Peaks.
"Well, I won't."
"All right, my hearty;" and the old sailor left the state-room.
But he had not reached the deck before Perth hailed him.
"I will put them on, Mr. Peaks. I've thought better of it," said he,
throwing off his frock coat, as the boatswain appeared at the door of
the room.
"All the better for you, my lad. I thought you wanted to spend a week
or two in the brig," replied Peaks.
"I think it is a hard case, after a fellow has earned his rank, to take
it from him," muttered Perth, as he proceeded to put on the sailor's
suit.
"An officer should be a gentleman," growled the old sailor.
But the boatswain had been overreached, after all. The four five-pound
notes had been sewed into the waistband of Perth's trousers; and this
was the particular reason why he objected to losing his rank, if he had
to lose his pants with it. Peaks would not take his eye off him long
enough to allow him to tear out the bills; but when the boatswain went
to report to the principal, the opportunity was obtained, and promptly
used. The money was saved, and he yielded the point. He was conducted
to the deck, and when the boats brought the Josephines, who were to
visit Germany, to the ship, the runaways were sent to their new
quarters, or rather their old ones, for they had spent three weeks in
her before, under the superintendence of Mr. Fluxion. Before supper
time the change was effected. Dr. Carboy, at his own request,--for he
preferred the trip to the Mediterranean to that into Germany,--was
transferred to the consort for the cruise, with Peaks and Bitts.
The "happy family" were now united on board the ship, and all the
active discordant elements of the squadron were collected in the
consort. With only a very few exceptions, both parties were satisfied
with the arrangement. The runaways perhaps experienced a feeling of
relief that they were no longer in danger of being watched and
overheard by the "lambs." They had only to look out for the adult
officers now, and in the steerage they were by themselves.
Yet the appearance of Peaks on board of the consort with his bag was
rather ominous. Bitts was not regarded with the same dread. There were
now four adult forward officers in the Josephine; but the old boatswain
was the only one who inspired any special terror. Little's brilliant
scheme to enable his small party to escape seemed to be endangered by
Peak's coming, for he was an exceedingly prompt, decided and vigilant
man. The four old sailors, on an emergency, could handle the Josephine
alone.
"What do you think now?" said Herman, when everything on board the
consort had settled down into order and quiet.
"I don't like to see old Peaks on board," replied the little villain.
"He is a tough customer, and may bother us."
"That's so."
"But I think we can wax him."
"I hope so. We have Tom Perth now to help us. We must take him into our
squad, and then we shall just make up a crew for the third or fourth
cutter."
"I don't like too many."
"But Perth has the rocks in his pocket now--twenty pounds, or five
hundred francs," suggested Herman.
"That's an inducement."
"Certainly it is. We can cut for Paris the moment we get on shore."
"All right. We will try it on about to-morrow night. But don't say a
word to a single other fellow. We must look out for ourselves this
time, and not attempt to carry all the rest of the fellows on our
backs," added the prudent Little.
"It looks mean to do so."
"No, it don't. I have told them all to look out for themselves."
"But they don't even know how the thing is to be managed."
"No; and they shall not know it. If they don't know enough to go ashore
when the vessel is adrift, let them stay on board."
"Well, Perth is the only fellow to whom I mentioned it."
"That's all right; but don't let him say anything about how the thing
is to be done."
"He don't know. I only told him we had a plan which could not possibly
fail."
"It won't, if Peaks don't make trouble. We must let off the gun when he
is not on deck," continued Little.
"We shall be able to see, after to-night, how things are to be done on
board, and whether any of the men are to keep watch," added Herman. "We
needn't give up if we don't happen to get off to-morrow night, for we
have two or three weeks to do the job in."
Little, seated out on the bowsprit, rehearsed his plan again, and went
into all the minor details. They were presently joined by Perth, and
the whole affair was explained to him. He approved it, and made a
number of suggestions in regard to the boats.
"I am bound to go this time," said Perth, earnestly. "I don't stay
another week in the Academy. I have had my shoulder-straps stripped
off, and am pointed at by the lambs as an example of a naughty boy. I
bluffed them all on board the ship, but with me the die is cast. If
your plan don't work, I shall jump overboard, and swim ashore. I have
been degraded and disgraced, and I can't possibly stand it any longer."
"We are all in the same boat; and if we can't get off any other way, we
will set the vessel afire, and swim ashore by the light of it," added
Little.
"You are the fellow for me!" exclaimed Perth. "I don't want any milk
and water about this scrape. If we can't make it go in one way, we will
try another."
Peaks, who was planking the deck, extended his walk to the forecastle,
and the trio discontinued their conversation. They were satisfied that
setting the vessel adrift, some time in the night, would accomplish
their purpose, and they were willing to wait till the next evening.
They had some difficulty in escaping the observation of their
companions who were not in the secret; but they assured them something
would be done just as soon as Mr. Fluxion started for Italy, which it
was understood, would be on the following day.
Berths were assigned to the temporary crew of the Josephine, and at an
early hour they turned in. None of them were detailed to keep the
anchor watch on deck; but in the night Little crawled out of his berth,
and went up the ladder. All was still on deck, and he could not see
that any one was on watch. Seven bells struck on board a man-of-war at
anchor near the vessel. It was half past eleven. He crept stealthily to
the forecastle, where he found Bitts, who was asleep under the lee of
the capstan. This discovery satisfied him that the forward officers
were to keep the anchor watch. The arrangement was not favorable to the
carrying out of Little's scheme; but if the man on deck would only
sleep, it would not make so much difference.
Little carefully studied the situation, which suggested to his fertile
invention half a dozen expedients, in case he failed at the proper time
to unbit the cable. Four of them could jump into one of the cutters,
lower the boat from the davit, and might reach the shore before a
single man could call assistance, and get another boat into the water.
One of them could pretend to be sick, and, sending the watchman to the
cabin to procure medicine, escape while he was looking for it. And so
the little schemer went on till he had a quiver full of expedients, any
one of which promised to be successful. Having satisfied himself that
he had not been reckoning too fast, he went below again, and turned in.
At daylight in the morning all hands were called on board of the Young
America. An early breakfast was taken, and a steamer came alongside to
convey the happy party to the shore. The hands on board the Josephine
were turned out at the same hour, and they had the satisfaction of
seeing the members of the Order of the Faithful depart on their
pleasant tour to the Rhine. Breakfast was served to them at the usual
hour, and when Herman and Little went on deck, after the meal, they saw
a man in a canoe coming alongside. He looked like a pilot, but neither
of the two runaways who saw him suspected that he had a mission on
board. He came on deck, and was duly welcomed by Mr. Fluxion.
"What does that covey want here?" said Little.
"I don't know," replied Herman.
"He has made his canoe fast astern, as though he meant to stay here
some time."
"O, he's only loafing, and wants to see a Yankee ship and a Yankee
crew," laughed Herman.
Little did not exactly like the coming of the pilot; not that he had
any suspicion of the actual programme, but he was afraid the vessel
might be moored in some less convenient place for the escape than her
present berth. As the runaways finished their breakfast, they came on
deck, and some of them recognized the pilot as the one who had brought
the Josephine into port the day before.
"All hands, on deck, ahoy!" shouted Peaks, blowing a pipe more shrill
than had ever before been heard on board of the consort.
All hands were on deck already; but the call produced a decided
sensation. Something was to be done, and all hands fell to discussing
probabilities with a zeal, which ought to have brought forth correct
conclusions. The general opinion seemed to be, that nothing more than a
sermon was coming off, though the vice-principal was not much given to
preaching. If Mr. Fluxion was going to Italy, it would be necessary for
him formally to transfer his authority to Professor Carboy. On the
whole, therefore, the prospect was rather pleasing than otherwise.
Herman, and some of the others who were deeply concerned in coming
events, advised all the fellows to behave well, and take the preaching
kindly, so that the officers need not "smell a mice."
"All hands, up anchor, ahoy!" roared old Peaks, piping a blast which
seemed to come from the breath of a north-wester, while the leading
spirits were counselling meekness and submission.
"What does that mean?" demanded the astonished Perth.
"O, nothing! Only we are going to have another anchorage," replied
Herman.
"Lively, my hearties," said the boatswain, as he stepped forward into
the waist. "Don't you hear the pipe?"
"I hear it; but we haven't been stationed in this vessel," replied
Herman.
"That's very true, my lad; for once you speak the truth."
"You are a little fast, Peaks," said the vice-principal, coming up from
the cabin with a paper in his hand. "Here is the bill, and we will
station the crew before we do anything."
Every one of the runaways was stationed for each of the various
evolutions of getting under way, making and taking in sail, reefing and
tacking. They were all good seamen, and it was not necessary to drill
them in their duties. The boatswain again piped, "All hands, up anchor,
ahoy!"
The hands took their stations promptly enough, and when the anchor was
hove up to a short stay, the foresail and mainsail were hoisted.
"Clear away the jib and flying-jib!" shouted Mr. Fluxion, who gave all
the orders himself, though they were repeated by Peaks and Cleats, who
acted as first and second officers.
"All ready forward, sir," reported Cleats.
"Man the capstan! Stand by the jib-halyards!"
"Anchor a-weigh, sir!" said Cleats, who was doing duty on the
forecastle.
"Hoist the jib!"
"Up with the jib!" repeated Peaks.
As the anchor came up to the hawse-hole, the jib filled, and the vessel
began to move.
"Cat and fish the anchor!" called the vice-principal; and his order was
passed forward.
"Cat and fish the anchor!" exclaimed Perth. That doesn't look as though
we were going to another anchorage."
"It's all right; we can't go far," added Herman.
While those who were stationed on the top-gallant forecastle were
engaged in catting and fishing the anchor, those who had been assigned
to places on the topsail and top-gallant yards were sent aloft.
"Lay aloft, sail-loosers!" continued Mr. Fluxion, and the top-men and
top-gallant-men ran up the rigging as nimbly as though they had
perfectly comprehended the purpose of the officers. "Lay out and
loose!"
"All ready!" shouted Bitts, who had gone aloft with the top-men.
"Let fall!"
"Let fall," passed from Peaks to Bitts, and from the latter to the
top-men.
"Man the topsail and top-gallant sheets and halyards. Sheet home, and
hoist away!"
The topsails and top-gallant sails were speedily set, the braces were
manned, and the yards trimmed. Gage had the helm, the pilot standing
near him to give out the courses. The main gaff-topsail was next set,
and the Josephine was then under full sail. With the wind fair, and
everything drawing, she flew through the Goulet at the rate of ten
knots an hour. Peaks was as busy as a bee, and in person saw that every
rope was properly coiled up or flemished, that the cable was in order
to run out when needed, and in general, that everything was in
ship-shape order.
As good seamen, the young gentlemen understood that these careful
preparations did not indicate merely a change in the holding-ground of
the vessel. Everything about the Josephine seemed to be shrouded in
profound mystery. Peaks kept all hands at work till the strict order of
a man-of-war prevailed in every part of the deck and rigging. He did
not say anything, or do anything, which afforded the slightest hint in
regard to the destination of the consort. Mr. Fluxion planked the
quarter-deck, and did not manifest the least sign of an intention to go
to Italy. The movement was utterly incomprehensible, and the runaways
began to look very anxious.
After passing through the Goulet into the open sea, the fore and main
sheets were manned, the yards braced up, and the course changed to the
south-west. Off the Chaussée de Sein, the pilot was discharged, and the
Josephine sped on her way, with a fresh breeze a little forward of the
beam. Still the vice-principal planked the quarter-deck, and no one
said anything to solve the mystery. Peaks had caused everything to be
done which he could find to do, and all hands were "sogering" about the
deck.
"Mr. Peaks, pipe down the port watch," said Mr. Fluxion, at last, as
though every word cost him a month's salary, he was so chary of them.
The acting first officer obeyed the order, and the port watch were
dismissed from duty. Like old sailors, they went below, partly from the
force of habit, and partly to discuss the unaccountable movement of the
vessel. Perth and Herman were both in the starboard watch; but Little
and Ibbotson put their heads together as soon as they were in the
steerage.
"I don't understand it," said Ibbotson, shaking his head.
"Nor I either; but I think it will come out all right," replied Little,
who was always disposed to put the best face upon doubtful indications.
"Do you suppose we are homeward bound?"
"Of course not. Look at the tell-tale. We are running about south-west
by south."
"Perhaps that's the course on the great circle."
"Nonsense! We shall fetch up on the coast of South America, if we keep
this course long enough."
"I don't know about the course, but I have made up my mind that this is
about what it means. I'll bet all the bad marks I shall get for the
next quarter, that we are homeward bound."
"No such thing."
"I believe it," persisted Ibbotson. "Lowington did not know what to do
with us, while he is in Germany, and so he has sent us home."
"South-west by west won't take us home. Fluxion is only giving us an
airing for a day or two, just to see how we behave, and to give us a
little wholesome discipline. If we are good, he will return to port,
and start for Italy. What is Dr. Carboy here for, if we are bound
home?"
"What is he here for? Because Mr. Stout is not here. I suppose they
have changed places for a few weeks. The ship goes home next month."
"Don't you cry! In a day or two, if not before night, we shall be back
again in the harbor of Brest. I'm willing to bet all my bad marks
against all yours, that we get ashore in less than forty-eight hours."
"That's heavy betting, but it won't settle anything. There is Peaks;
suppose we ask him," suggested Ibbotson, as the old boatswain came down
the ladder.
"You can call up spirits from the vasty deep, but they won't come. You
can ask him, but you might as well put the question to the
anchor-stock."
"Where are we going, Mr. Peaks?" asked Ibbotson, as gently as though he
were addressing a lady.
"Going to sea," replied Peaks, gruffly, as he went on his way, deigning
no further answer.
"No use," said Little. "If we only wait, we shall know in a day or two.
In the mean time we must be as proper as the parson's lambs."
Still the Josephine sped on her way, and no one was the wiser.
CHAPTER XIII.
FROM STRASBURG TO CONSTANCE.
The party on board of the Young America were in the highest spirits on
the morning of their departure. All of them had now been decorated with
the white ribbon of the Order of the Faithful. Even Raymond and
Lindsley were entirely satisfied with the good faith and fairness of
the principal--better satisfied than they were with their own conduct.
What had before been regarded as defeat was now triumph, for a failure
to achieve success in doing wrong is actually victory, especially if
followed, as in this instance, by real regret, genuine penitence.
Grace Arbuckle, perhaps conscious that she had exerted a salutary
influence upon the students through the pleasantry of the Order of the
Faithful, was as happy as the young gentlemen themselves. She appeared
on deck at an early hour, and when the officers and seamen presented
themselves, in their best uniforms, wearing the white ribbon, she was
so delighted she could not help laughing heartily.
"Commodore Kendall, are you going to wear that ribbon to Paris?" she
asked, as Paul touched his cap to her.
"Certainly I am. I should as soon think of going without my coat as
without that," replied he.
"But how absurd!"
"Absurd? Vous ne pouvez pas faire un sifflet de la queue d'un cochon,"
added he, very seriously.
"C'est vrai; but what has that to do with the ribbon? Do you mean to
call that a pig's tail?"
"No; on the contrary, it is the wing of an angel--it was bestowed by
you. I only mean to say it would be quite impossible to go to Germany
without this ribbon. It is our talisman to keep us faithful to duty;
and I am afraid we should get into mischief if we went without it.
Every member will wear his decoration. But, Miss Arbuckle, I think you
ought to wear the white ribbon also."
"I!"
"Certainly. You are the Grand Protectress of the order. Do wear it,
Miss Arbuckle, with a rosette, to indicate your superior rank. It would
please all the members very much."
"I will, if you desire it," replied Grace, more seriously.
"We all desire it."
"It shall be done, if you wish it."
"Thanks."
Grace tripped lightly down the stairs to the cabin, but presently
returned, wearing the white ribbon, surmounted by a very tasty rosette,
composed of white, blue, and yellow ribbons, to denote the several
degrees of the order. Paul was in raptures, and when the ship's company
saw the decoration she wore, they saluted her with three rousing
cheers, which she gracefully acknowledged.
"We must perpetuate this order, Shuffles," said Paul, as they stood in
the presence of the Grand Protectress.
"I think we must," replied the captain.
"We will organize more systematically when we have time."
"And have a suitable emblem to distinguish the members."
"The white ribbon must not be discarded," protested Paul, glancing at
Grace.
"Certainly not; but we will have a gold anchor, say, from which the
ribbon shall be suspended," added Shuffles. "On the anchor shall be
engraved the single word FAITHFUL."
"And 'Vous ne pouvez pas faire,' &c.," laughed Paul. "I think we
must ask the Grand Protectress for a suitable emblem."
"You have great confidence in me, and I will give the subject faithful
consideration," said Grace.
"Our motto is an excellent one, I think," continued Paul. "To us it
will always mean that you cannot redress a wrong by resorting to
dishonorable measures."
The conversation was interrupted by the call to breakfast. Before the
meal was finished, the steamer that was to convey the party on shore
came alongside. By the time she had made fast, and run out her planks,
the boatswain piped, "All hands, on deck with bags, to go ashore." The
stewards conveyed the baggage of the Arbuckles on board, and the ship's
company marched in single file to the deck of the steamer. There were
no turbulent spirits among them, and everything was done in order. In
due time the party reached the railroad station, and seated themselves
in the special cars, which had been provided for their use.
The Arbuckles, Dr. Winstock, Paul, and Shuffles occupied one
compartment of a carriage, and, as usual, the pleasant and
well-informed surgeon of the ship, who had been a very extensive
traveller, was a living encyclopædia for the party. The course of the
train was through Brittany, of which Dr. Winstock had much to say. It
is a poor country, not unlike Scotland, though it has no high
mountains. The lower order of the people wear quaint costumes, and have
hardly changed their manners and customs for three hundred years.
"Do you see that building in the churchyard?" said the doctor, as he
pointed out the window.
"What is it--the hearse-house?" asked Paul.
"No; I think they don't use hearses much here. It is a bone-house."
"A what!" exclaimed Shuffles.
"A bone-house, or reliquaire. The poor people in this part of France
are very ignorant and superstitious. Requiescat in pace, so far as
the mortal remains of their dead are concerned, has no meaning to them,
for they do not let them rest quietly in their graves, as we do. After
the bodies of the deceased have gone to decay, the skulls and bones are
removed from the coffins, and placed in the bone-house. The names, or
the initials, of the departed are painted upon the forehead of the
skull."
"How horrible!" exclaimed Grace.
"Doubtless it is so to you; but to these people it is an act of
affectionate remembrance," added the doctor; "as sacred and pious as
any tribute we render to our loved and lost ones."
Dr. Winstock continued to describe the various places through which the
train passed, answering the many questions proposed by his interested
auditors. At noon they arrived at Rennes, where the excursionists
lunched, and some of them, perhaps at the expense of the inner man,
were enterprising enough to see a little of the city, which contains
forty thousand inhabitants, and was the ancient capital of the dukedom
of Brittany.
"This is Laval," said the doctor, an hour and a half after the train
left Rennes.
"See there!" exclaimed Grace, pointing to a man clothed in goatskins,
the hair outside. "Is that Robinson Crusoe?"
"No; that is the fashion for the peasants in this part of Brittany.
They don't depend upon Paris for the mode. I suppose you have all
heard of the Vendéan war."
"Yes, sir. The people of La Vendée were royalists, and fought against
the republicans as long as there was anything left of them," replied
Paul.
"La Vendée lies south of the Loire; but one of their greatest battles
was fought near Laval, in 1793. They conducted themselves with fearful
desperation, and after the republicans had sent word, as the battle
waned, to the Convention at Paris, that La Vendée was no more, the
wounded leader of the insurgents was carried through their ranks, and
they rallied, gaining the day in a decisive victory, by which the
government troops lost twelve thousand men."
Fifty-six miles farther brought the excursionists to Le Mans, where the
Vendéan army was finally destroyed by the forces of General Marceau.
The carnage was terrible, and extended even to the massacre of many of
the wives and children of the royalists. An obelisk to the memory of
the republican general, who was born at Le Mans, informs the reader
that he was a soldier at sixteen, a general at twenty-three, and died
when he was twenty-seven.
At Chartres, forty-seven miles from Paris, the train stopped half an
hour, and the party had an opportunity to see the cathedral, the most
magnificent in France, and one of the most ancient. It is four hundred
and twenty-five feet long. Henry IV. was crowned in it in 1594, for the
reason that Rheims, where coronations formerly took place, was in
possession of the Leaguers.
At seven o'clock, the train arrived in Paris, and the party hastened to
the lodgings which had been engaged for them. In the evening they
attended the grand opera, at the invitation of Mr. Arbuckle, and the
next morning proceeded to Strasburg. After a short delay, the party
continued the journey, crossing the Rhine into Germany, and halting at
Offenburg, a small town, where hotel accommodations had been bespoken.
After supper, the excursionists were collected in a large room, and
Professor Mapps took a position in front of them.
"Young gentlemen, where are we?" he asked.
"In Germany."
"Very true, but rather indefinite," added the professor.
"In Baden," said Paul Kendall, who, as usual, had taken pains to study
up the situation.
"In the Grand Duchy of Baden."
"What is a Grand Duchy?" inquired one of the students, who was
doubtless bothered, as others have been, by the varying titles of the
German states.
"It is a territory having an independent local government. There is no
reason why it should be called a Grand Duchy, unless it is because it
is larger than a simple Duchy, though this rule does not always hold
good, for the Duchy of Brunswick has double the territory and double
the population of the Grand Duchy of Mecklenburg-Strelitz. The titles
of the states seem to be entirely arbitrary, and, according to the
fancy of their rulers, they were called kingdoms, principalities,
electorates, palatinates, margraviates, Grand Duchies, or Duchies. The
Grand Duchy of Baden is larger than the Kingdom of Saxony. These
designations have been occasionally changed, as the states increased in
size, or as their rulers desired a grander title. In 1803 Baden was a
margraviate of one fourth its present extent. Napoleon gave the title
of Elector, and afterwards of Grand Duke, to the Margrave Charles
Frederick, as his territory was increased.
"Baden has about six thousand square miles, or is about equal in size
to Rhode Island and Connecticut united. It has a population of one
million three hundred thousand, which has hardly increased during the
last fifty years, for the reason that so many of its people have
emigrated to the United States. The country is mountainous, and
contains the Schwarzwald. What does that mean?"
"The Black Forest," replied several.
"A mountainous region, which has been the paradise of story-tellers.
The highest peak is the Feldberg, forty-six hundred and fifty feet
high. Its principal river is the Rhine, which forms its western and
southern boundary, and has many branches in this country. The Neckar is
the largest, crossing Baden in the north. The river which you observed
in this place is the Kinzig. The Danube, which the Germans call the
Donau, rises in Baden. In the south-east the country borders on Lake
Constance, or, in German, Boden See. The climate is salubrious, but it
is cold in the mountains, where they have snow during the greater part
of the year.
"Baden is divided into four circles, or provinces, which are again
divided into bailiwicks, or counties, and communes, or towns. Two
thirds of the people are Roman Catholics; the rest are Protestant, with
a sprinkling of Jews, who are found in all parts of Germany. There is a
Catholic university at Freiburg, and a Protestant one at Heidelberg,
which is so celebrated that it has not a few American students. There
are two thousand common schools, and several establishments of higher
grade.
"The government is an hereditary constitutional monarchy, the Grand
Duke being the sovereign. It has a legislative body, composed of two
chambers, the upper of which consists of the nobility and members
appointed by the Grand Duke, and the lower of sixty-eight deputies,
chosen indirectly by the people. But I do not think it is necessary to
describe, at any great length, these small German states, and I give
you Baden as a specimen of what most of them are."
The next morning the company took the train for Freiburg, and in a
couple of hours reached their destination, where they immediately
divided themselves into small parties, in order to see the cathedral,
or minster, and other sights, within the allotted time. Those who
travelled in the same compartment of the railway carriage usually came
together on these occasions for the same reason that united them on the
road. Paul Kendall zealously placed himself at the side of Grace,
though she was as impartial as a just judge between him and the captain
of the ship.
The minster is a Gothic church, and almost the only one in Germany
which is actually finished. It was commenced in the twelfth century,
and one of the princes of Zähringen, from whom the present Grand Duke
is descended, contributed largely to the vast expense; but it would
probably have been unfinished, like many similar grand structures, if
the people of Freiburg had not taxed themselves to the utmost, and made
great sacrifices to insure its completion. The spire is of beautiful
fret-work, nearly four hundred feet high. The interior is grand, and
something about it gives the beholder a peculiar feeling of
solemnity--perhaps the thought that men have worshipped there for six
hundred years. It contains some choice paintings, which are carefully
cherished as the productions of the old masters. A glance at the
university, the Kaufhaus, the statue of Schwarz, the inventor of
gunpowder, and a walk around the Schlossberg, or Castle Hill, which
commands a splendid view of the Black Forest Mountains, exhausted the
place, and at the time appointed the party reassembled at the railroad
station, where Mr. Arbuckle had gathered together half a dozen
diligences, in which the company were to proceed to Schaffhausen, in
Switzerland. He knew how much interest the story-readers feel in the
Black Forest, and as the party had already visited Basle, he proposed
to take his charge across the country, which would enable them to see
some of the finest mountain scenery in Germany, and more of the manners
and customs of the people than could be observed in the large towns on
the railroad. He had already sent forward his courier to make
preparations for the accommodation of his party.
Two days were to be occupied in reaching the Rhine. The first part of
the journey was over a level plain highly cultivated. The road soon
begins to ascend; and this locality is called Himmelreich, or Heaven,
to distinguish it by contrast from the Höllenthal, or Valley of Hell,
a deep and romantic gorge which lies beyond. The students enjoyed the
scenery, and those who were disposed, walked for miles up the long
hills, to the great satisfaction of the driver. The students of the
German language had abundant opportunities to practise their gutturals,
and none but sufferers know what a pleasure it is to have a genuine
native understand their sentences.
The pedestrians made brief halts at the water-mills, houses, and fields
on the way, and were invariably treated with the utmost kindness and
consideration. "Bitte, geben sie mir ein Glas Wasser," was repeated
so many times that all understood it. The fact that they were Americans
insured them a warm welcome, and many an inquiry was made for "meinem
Sohn in Amerika." The "walkists" enjoyed this intercourse with the
people so much that they walked till they were unnecessarily fatigued.
"Bitte, geben sie mir Geld," said a German, stepping up to the
carriage which contained Dr. Winstock, and those who were so careful to
keep near him.
He was a young man, with a big pipe in his mouth, a big stick in his
hand, and a big knapsack on his back. He was pretty well dressed, and
was in company with three others, who asked for money in like manner of
different persons of the party. The doctor asked him a few questions,
and then gave him two or three kreutzers, which he accepted with many
thanks.
"Those are very respectable beggars," said Paul, as the man left the
diligence.
"They are not beggars, but handwerksburschen."
"What are they?"
"Travelling journeymen. No apprentice can obtain his freedom, and be
competent to set up in business for himself, till he has spent several
years in travelling, and in working at his trade in foreign countries.
This is to increase his knowledge and his skill, and you will see
hundreds of them on the roads all over Germany. They become, under this
system, very skilful workmen, for they learn the various methods of
work in different countries. They often understood two or three
languages besides their own. They keep a kind of diary of their travels
in a book furnished to them by the trade-society to which they belong,
in which also their employers write testimonials of their good conduct.
It is often the case that they cannot obtain work, and are compelled to
ask charity on the roads. It is a hard life to lead, but it produces
skilful mechanics."
"What was that man's trade?" asked Grace.
"He is a baker."
At a solitary inn in Steig the party found a dinner ready for them,
consisting mainly of trout, which were very nice. From this point the
road went up a steep hill, which required an extra horse to each
diligence, though most of the boys walked up. At Neustadt, a town of
fifteen hundred inhabitants, vast numbers of wooden clocks are
manufactured, and the raising of singing birds is a common occupation.
Just before sunset the excursionists arrived at Donaueschingen, where
they were to spend the night. The place contains about three thousand
inhabitants, and is the residence of Prince Fürstenberg, who was one of
the mediatized sovereigns--his territory having by treaty been assigned
to Baden.
A walk to his palace was immediately taken by the tourists. It is a
plain modern edifice, with an extensive garden, which the travellers
were permitted to visit. In one corner a circular basin was pointed out
to them by their guide. The water, clear as crystal, bubbled up from a
spring in the bottom, and was conveyed from the basin, by an
underground tunnel, into the Briegach, a stream which flows down from
the mountains.
"This spring is said to be the source of the Danube," said Dr.
Winstock. "From this point the stream takes the name of Danube, though
that into which it flows comes from miles away."
"'Large streams from little fountains flow,'" replied Paul.
"Yes; and from a great many of them," added the surgeon. "The country
in this vicinity is like a sponge, it is so full of springs, which feed
the great river. The Neckar rises a few miles north of us. We are,
therefore, on the summit of the water-shed of Europe; for of two drops
of rain which fall side by side near us, one may find its way into the
Danube, and be carried down to the Black Sea, while the other, by the
Neckar and the Rhine, may reach the North Sea."
The students wandered about the town till it was too dark to see
anything, and most of them were tired enough to sleep, even under the
feather beds which the Germans insist upon using as a coverlet. In the
morning the journey was renewed in the diligences. The scenery was
still very fine, and from the top of a high hill called the Rande, the
students obtained a splendid view of the mountains of Switzerland, of
the broad expanse of Lake Constance, and the towers of the city.
Descending the long hill, the tourists entered Switzerland, and at five
o'clock were set down at the Schweitzer Hof in Schaffhausen, near the
falls.
The students had been riding so long that they were glad to be at
liberty again, and hastened into the hotel gardens, which extend down
to the river. It was rather late to visit the falls, and the company
were piped together around a kind of kiosk, in which Professor Mapps
presented himself.
"Do not be alarmed, young gentlemen," said the instructor, good-naturedly.
"I will not detain you long, but I am reminded that I have not given
you the Rhine in detail. Here on its banks, and in sight of its
grandest cataract, I will say a few words to you about it. The river
rises in two small lakes in the mountains near St. Gothard, seventy-five
hundred feet above the sea. It descends four thousand feet in going
twelve miles. Fifty miles from its source, at Reicherau, it is two
hundred and fifty feet wide, and becomes navigable for river boats. Its
volume of waters is continually increased by the flow from its
branches, till it discharges itself into Lake Constance, which may be
regarded as a widening of the river.
"The lake is forty-four miles long and nine miles wide. Its greatest
depth is nine hundred and sixty-four feet. Its waters are dark-green in
color, and very clear. Twenty-five different kinds of fish are
mentioned as caught in the lake. It is navigated by steamers, eight or
ten of which ply between the various ports, and carry on considerable
commerce. It is thirteen hundred and forty-four feet above the level of
the sea.
"The Rhine issues from the lake at Constance, and flowing a few miles
westward, again expands into the Unter See, which is thirty feet lower
than the upper lake. It gradually contracts till the stream is about
three hundred feet wide at this point. Steamers formerly ran from
Constance to Schaffhausen; but since the completion of the railroad
they have discontinued their trips. The falls which you see, and will
visit on Monday morning, are seventy feet high. Below the cataract the
river is navigable for boats without obstacles as far as Laufenburg,
where its width is reduced to fifty feet, and its waters rush down a
series of rapids. Here boats ascend and descend by the aid of ropes,
after their cargoes have been discharged. At this place the young Lord
Montague, the last male of his line, was drowned while his boat was
descending the rapids in this manner. On the same day his family
mansion in England was destroyed by fire. From this point to Basle the
fall is only fifty feet.
"From Basle to Mayence, a distance of two hundred miles, the Rhine
flows in a northerly direction. The current is very swift as far as
Strasburg, to which place it is navigable for vessels of one hundred
tons, though they are "tracked" by horses on the upward passage. The
bed of the river is wide in this part, and contains numerous islands.
At Mayence the course of the river changes to west, and again at Bingen
to the north-west, where the mountains again force it into a narrow
channel; and for fifty miles the stream flows through a beautiful
region, where the hills extend to its very banks, and many of their
summits are crowned with old castles. Below Cologne, the Rhine runs
through a low and flat country. The lower part of the river I have
already described in Holland."
The professor finished his brief lecture, and the party spent the rest
of the day in wandering about the garden, and in watching the flow of
the mighty river, as it tumbled over the precipice. The next day was
Sunday, and the excursionists attended church at the town three miles
distant. On Monday morning the tourists crossed the bridge, and
hastened to the garden of the Castle of Laufen, where were platforms,
stagings and kiosks, for the convenience of visitors, which afford the
best views of the cataract. One of these balconies projects out over
the fall, and the party gathered on this, and beclouded with mist and
spray, gazed at the wild rush of waters. Two rocks on the precipice
separate the cataract into three divisions. Below is a semi-circular
basin, whose waters are lashed into a heavy sea by the plunging torrent
which falls into it. Boats ply between the foot of the rock on which
the Castle of Laufen stands and a square tower on the opposite shore.
These light craft make heavy weather of it, but with ordinary caution
they are safe enough.
There was nothing else to see at Schaffhausen, and the excursionists
took the train for Constance. The last portion of the trip was on the
banks of the Unter See, separated from the main body of the lake by a
peninsula. The ride was less than two hours, and the party reached the
"Goldener Adler" in time for dinner. Most of the Swiss hotels serve two
or three dinners, table d'hôte, every day, the first being at one,
and the last at five o'clock, the prices of which are from three to
five francs.
"Young gentlemen, in what country is Constance?" asked Professor Mapps,
when the party had assembled to visit the objects of interest in the
town.
"In Switzerland."
"No."
"We certainly crossed the Rhine on an iron bridge, when we came into
the place," replied one of the students.
"That is very true, but Constance belongs to the Grand Duchy of Baden.
It was formerly a free city, but was annexed to Austria in 1549, and
ceded to Baden in 1805. It once had forty thousand inhabitants, but now
has only eight thousand. It is a very old city, as you may judge from
the buildings you have already seen, many of which are just as they
were four hundred years ago. The town is of great historical interest."
"What was the Council of Constance, sir?" asked one of the students.
"I will tell you when we visit the Kaufhaus," replied the professor.
Attended by several guides, the excursionists walked to the minster, a
Gothic structure founded in the eleventh century, but rebuilt in the
sixteenth. The guides indicated the spot where Huss stood when
sentenced to be burned to death. From this church the party went to the
Kaufhaus.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE STORM ON LAKE CONSTANCE.
The Kaufhaus is situated near the border of the lake. It was built for
a warehouse in 1388. The party were conducted immediately to a large
room with wooden pillars.
"This is the Kaufhaus, and this apartment is the one in which the
Council of Constance held its sessions," said Mr. Mapps.
"What's a Kaufhaus?" asked one of the boys who did not study German.
"What does Kaufen mean?"
"To buy."
"Then it is a buy-house. It is a company's hall, like Goldsmiths'
Hall, Fishmongers', and others in London. The Council of Constance
assembled in 1414, and continued its sessions for three years and a
half. It was called to regulate the affairs of the Catholic Church,
especially in regard to the schism caused by some of the popes taking
up their abode in Avignon, France. Gregory XI. went from the residence
of his immediate predecessors to Rome in 1377, where he died the next
year. The Romans wanted a native of their own city to be pope. An
Italian--Urban VI.--was elected by the cardinals; but, as he was not a
Roman, there was much dissatisfaction. The French cardinals protested
against the election, and created Robert of Geneva pope, under the
title of Clement VII., who established himself at Avignon. Urban had
three successors, the last of whom was Gregory XII. The Avignon pope
was followed by Benedict XIII., who maintained his claim to the papal
chair till his death in 1424.
"There were two popes: the church was divided, and in doubt as to which
was the rightful successor of St. Peter. Gregory declared, at his
accession, that he would resign if Benedict at Avignon would do the
same. An attempt was made to get rid of both of them, so that they
could agree upon a third. The Council of Pisa deposed both, and elected
Alexander V. Benedict refused to vacate his chair; and Gregory retained
his position because his rival refused to compromise. Instead of
getting rid of one, the church had now three popes who claimed the
chair. Alexander died in 1410; and his successor, John XXIII., called
the Council of Constance. It was not a meeting of bishops merely, but
was attended by cardinals, archbishops, ambassadors of kings, knights,
and delegates from universities. John presided at the first session,
and was invited to resign the pontifical office. He promised to do so
if Gregory and Benedict would do the same; but the next night he fled
secretly to Schaffhausen, and from thence to Freiburg. After much
trouble, negotiations were opened with him, and he resigned his office.
He was afterwards thrown into prison with Huss. Gregory was a good man,
and gave the council no trouble, and for the sake of peace yielded up
his high office. But Benedict was obdurate to the end, claiming to be
pope, even after all his followers had forsaken him. The council
attempted to make terms with him; but when he refused to yield, it
condemned and deposed him, electing Martin V. to the papal chair.
"The council also gave its attention to the heresy of Wycliffe, whose
doctrines it condemned, commanding that his books should be burned, and
decreeing that his remains should be disinterred and burned. Huss was
condemned to the stake; and his disciple, Jerome of Prague, having
retracted his anti-Catholic doctrines, and then relapsed, shared his
fate a year afterwards."
In the hall are the chairs occupied, at the sittings of the council, by
the Emperor Sigismund and by the pope; a model of the dungeon in which
Huss was confined, with the real door and other parts which had been
preserved, and the car on which the reformer was drawn to the place of
execution. The house in which he lodged is pointed out in one of the
