"Not mine; but I have the care of her, as her mother is dead."
"How old is she?"
"Eight."
"A little older than my Jennie. Are you fond of children, Miss Manning?"
"Very much so."
"I am looking for some one who will look after my little girls during
the day, and teach them. At present they know absolutely nothing, and I
have not been willing to send them out of the house to school. What I
have been thinking is, of securing some one who would live in the house,
and take the care of the children off my hands. I am an invalid, as you
see, and sometimes their noise absolutely distracts me."
Miss Manning was struck with pity, as she noticed the pale, nervous face
of the invalid.
"Then the children need to go out and take a walk every day; but I have
no one to send with them. You wouldn't object to that, would you?"
"No, I should like it."
"Could you come soon?"
"I could come to-morrow, if you desire it," said Miss Manning, promptly.
"I wish you would. I have a nervous headache which will last me some
days, I suppose, and the children can't keep still. I suppose it is
their nature to be noisy."
"I can take them out for an hour now, if you like it, Mrs. Colman. It
would give me a chance to get acquainted."
"Would you? It would be quite a relief to me, and to them too. Oh, there
is one thing we must speak of. What compensation will satisfy you?"
"I don't know how much I ought to ask. I am willing to leave that matter
to you."
"You would want your little girl to live with you, I suppose."
"Yes, she needs me to look after her."
"Very well. Then I will pay Mrs. Clayton for the board of both of you,
and if two dollars a week would satisfy you--"
Would satisfy her? Miss Manning's breath was quite taken away at the
magnificent prospect that opened before her. She could hardly conceive
it possible that her services were worth a home in so nice a house and
two dollars a week besides. Why, toiling early and late at her needle,
she had barely earned hitherto, thirty-seven cents a day, and out of
that all her expenses had to be paid. Now she would still be able to sew
while the children were learning their lessons. She would no longer be
the occupant of a miserable tenement house, but would live in a nice
quarter of the city. She felt devoutly thankful for the change: but, on
the whole, considered that perhaps it was not best to let Mrs. Colman
see just how glad she was. So she simply expressed herself as entirely
satisfied with the terms that were offered. Mrs. Colman seemed glad that
this matter had been so easily arranged.
"Mrs. Clayton will show you the room you are to occupy," she said. "I
have not been into it, but I understand that it is very comfortable. If
there is any addition in the way of furniture which you may require, I
will make it at my own expense."
"Thank you. You are very kind."
Here Mrs. Clayton reappeared, and, at the request of Mrs. Colman,
offered to show them the room which they were to occupy.
"It is on the upper floor," she said, apologetically; "but it is of good
size and pleasant, when you get to it."
She led the way into the room. It was, as she had said, a pleasant one,
well lighted, and of good size. A thick woollen carpet covered the
floor; there were a bureau, a clothes-press, a table, and other articles
needful to make it comfortable. After the poor room they had occupied,
it looked very attractive.
"I think I shall like it," said Miss Manning, with satisfaction.
"Are we to live here?" asked Rose, who had not quite understood the
nature of the arrangement.
"Yes, Rosy; do you think you shall like it?"
"Oh, yes, ever so much. When are we coming?"
"To-morrow morning. You will have two little girls to play with."
"The little girls I saw in that lady's room downstairs?"
"Yes. Do you think you shall like it?"
"I think it will be very nice," said Rose, with satisfaction.
"Well, how do you like the room, Miss Manning?" said Mrs. Colman, when
they had returned from upstairs.
"It looks very pleasant. I have no doubt I shall like it."
"I think you will need a rocking-chair and a sofa. I will ask Mr. Colman
to step into some upholsterer's as he goes down town to-morrow, and send
them up. If it wouldn't be too much trouble, Miss Manning, I will ask
you to help Carrie and Jennie on with their hats and cloaks. They quite
enjoy the thought of a run out of doors with you and your little girl.
By the way, what is her name?"
"Rose."
"A very pretty name. I have no doubt the three children will soon
become excellent friends. She seems a nice little girl."
"Rose is a nice little girl," said the seamstress, affectionately.
In a short time they were on their way downstairs. In the hall below
they met the landlady once more.
"What is the price of your hall bedroom, Mrs. Clayton?" asked Miss
Manning.
"Five dollars and a half a week," was the answer.
It needs to be mentioned that this was in the day of low prices, and
that such an apartment now, with board, would cost at least twelve
dollars a week.
"What made you ask, Miss Manning?" said Rose.
"I was thinking that perhaps Rufus might like to take it."
"Oh, I wish he would," said Rose; "then we would all be together."
"We are speaking of her brother," said Miss Manning, turning to Mrs.
Clayton.
"How old is he?"
"Fifteen."
"Is he at school, or in a place?"
"He is in a broker's office in Wall Street."
"Then, as he is the little girl's brother, I will say only five dollars
a week for the room."
"Thank you, Mrs. Clayton. I will let you know what he decides upon
to-morrow."
They went out to walk, going as far as Union Square, where Miss Manning
sat down on a bench, and let the children sport at will. It is needless
to say that they very soon got well acquainted, and after an hour and a
half, which their bright eyes testified to their having enjoyed, Miss
Manning carried the little Colmans back to Waverley Place, and, with
Rose, took the horse-cars back to their old home.
"Won't Rufie be surprised when he hears about it?" said Rose.
"Yes, Rosy, I think he will," said Miss Manning.
CHAPTER III.
JAMES MARTIN'S VICISSITUDES.
While Miss Manning is seeking a new boarding-place for herself and Rose,
events are taking place in Brooklyn which claim our attention. It is
here that James Martin, the shiftless and drunken step-father of Rufus
and Rose, has made a temporary residence. He had engaged board at the
house of a widow, Mrs. Waters, and for two or three weeks paid his board
regularly, being employed at his trade of a carpenter on some houses
going up near by. But it was not in James Martin's nature to work
steadily at anything. His love of drink had spoiled a once good and
industrious workman, and there seemed to be little chance of any
permanent improvement in his character or habits. For a time Rufus used
to pay him over daily the most of his earnings as a newsboy, and with
this he managed to live miserably enough without doing much himself. But
after a while Rufus became tired of this arrangement, and withdrew
himself and his sister to another part of the town, thus throwing Martin
on his own resources. Out of spite Martin contrived to kidnap Rose, but,
as we have seen, her brother had now succeeded in recovering her.
After losing Rose, Martin took the way back to his boarding-house,
feeling rather doubtful of his reception from Mrs. Waters, to whom he
was owing a week's board, which he was quite unable to pay. He had told
her that he would pay the bill as soon as he could exchange a
fifty-dollar note, which it is needless to say was only an attempt at
deception, since he did not even possess fifty cents.
On entering the house, he went at once to his room, and lay down on the
bed till the supper-bell rang. Then he came down, and took his place at
the table with the rest of the boarders.
"Where's your little girl, Mr. Martin?" inquired Mrs. Waters, missing
Rose.
"She's gone on a visit to some of her relations in New York," answered
Martin, with some degree of truth.
"How long is she to stay?"
"'Till she can have some new clothes made up; maybe two or three weeks."
"That's rather sudden, isn't it? You didn't think of her going this
morning?"
"No," answered Martin, with his mouth full of toast; "but she teased so
hard to go, I let her. She's a troublesome child. I shall be glad to
have the care of her off my mind for a time."
This might be true; but Mrs. Waters was beginning to lose confidence in
Mr. Martin's statements. She felt that it was the part of prudence to
make sure of the money he was already owing her, and then on some
pretext get rid of him.
When supper was over, Martin rose, and was about to go out, but Mrs.
Waters was too quick for him.
"Mr. Martin," she said, "may I speak to you a moment?"
"Yes, ma'am," answered Martin, turning reluctantly.
"I suppose you are ready to pay my bill; I need the money particularly."
"I'll pay it to-morrow, Mrs. Waters."
"You promised to pay me as soon as you changed a bill, and this morning
you said you should have a chance to change it, as you were going to buy
your little girl some new clothes."
"I know I did," said Martin, feeling cornered.
"I suppose, therefore, you can pay me the money to-night," said Mrs.
Waters, sharply.
"Why, the fact is, Mrs. Waters," said Martin, awkwardly, "I was very
unfortunate. As I was sitting in the horse-car coming home, I had my
pocket picked of all the money I got in change. There was some over
forty dollars."
"I'm sorry," said Mrs. Waters, coldly, for she did not believe a word of
this; "but I need my money."
"If it hadn't been for that, I'd have paid you to-night."
"There's only one word I have to say, Mr. Martin," said the landlady,
provoked; "if you can't pay me, you must find another boarding-place."
"I'll attend to it in a day or two. I guess I can get the money
to-morrow."
"If you can't pay me to-night, you'll oblige me by giving up your room
to-morrow morning. I'm a poor widder, Mr. Martin, and I must look out
for number one. I can't afford to keep boarders that don't pay their
bills."
There was one portion of this speech that set Mr. Martin to thinking.
Mrs. Waters was a widow--he was a widower. By marrying her he would
secure a home, and the money received from the boarders would be paid to
him. He might not be accepted. Still it would do no harm to try.
"Mrs. Waters," he said, abruptly, wreathing his features into what he
considered an attractive smile, "since I lost my wife I've been feeling
very lonely. I need a wife to look after me and my little gal. If you
will marry me, we'll live happy, and--"
"Thank you, Mr. Martin," said Mrs. Waters, considerably astonished at
the sudden turn affairs had taken; "but I've got too much to do to think
about marrying. Leastways, I don't care about marrying a man that can't
pay his board-bill."
"Just as you say," answered Martin, philosophically; "I've give you a
good chance. Perhaps you won't get another very soon."
"Well, if there isn't impudence for you!" ejaculated Mrs. Waters, as her
boarder left the room. "I must be hard up for a husband, to marry such a
shiftless fellow as he is."
The next morning, Mr. Martin made his appearance, as usual, at the
breakfast-table. Notwithstanding his proposal of marriage had been so
decidedly rejected the day before, his appetite was not only as good as
usual, but considerably better. In fact, as he was not quite clear where
his dinner was to come from, or whether, indeed, he should have any at
all, he thought it best to lay in sufficient to last him for several
hours. Mrs. Waters contemplated with dismay the rapid manner in which he
disposed of the beef-steak and hash which constituted the principal
dishes of her morning meal, and decided that the sooner she got rid of
such a boarder the better.
Mr. Martin observed the eyes of the landlady fixed upon him, and
misinterpreted it. He thought it possible she might have changed her
mind as to the refusal of the day before, and resolved to renew his
proposal. Accordingly he lingered till the rest of the boarders had left
the table.
"Mrs. Waters," he said, "maybe you've changed your mind since
yesterday."
"About what?" demanded the landlady, sharply.
"About marrying me."
"No, I haven't," answered the widow; "you needn't mention the matter
again. When I want to marry you, I'll send and let you know."
"All right!" said Martin; "there's several after me, but I'll wait a
week for you."
"Oh, don't trouble yourself," said the landlady, sarcastically; "I don't
want to disappoint anybody else. Can you pay me this morning?"
"I'll have the money in a day or two."
"You needn't come back to dinner unless you bring the money to pay your
bill. I can't afford to give you your board."
Mr. Martin rose and left the house, understanding pretty clearly that he
couldn't return. On reaching the street, he opened his pocket-book, and
ascertained that twelve cents were all it contained. This small amount
was not likely to last very long. He decided to go to New York, having
no further inducements to keep him in Brooklyn. Something might turn
up, he reasoned, in the shiftless manner characteristic of him.
Jumping upon a passing car, he rode down to Fulton Ferry, and crossed in
the boat to the New York side, thus expending for travelling expenses
eight cents.
Supposing that Rufus still sold papers in front of the "Tribune" office,
he proceeded to Printing House Square, and looked around for him; but he
was nowhere to be seen.
"Who you lookin' for, gov'nor?" inquired a boot-black, rather short of
stature, but with an old-looking face.
"Aint you the boy that went home with me Wednesday?" asked Martin, to
whom Ben Gibson's face looked familiar.
"S'posin' I am?"
"Have you seen a newsboy they call Rough and Ready, this morning?"
"Yes, I seed him."
"Where is he? Has he sold all his papers?"
"He's giv' up sellin' papers, and gone into business on Wall Street."
"Don't you try to fool me, or I'll give you a lickin'," said Martin,
sternly.
"Thank you for your kind offer," said Ben, "but lickings don't agree
with my constitution."
"Why don't you tell me the truth then?"
"I did."
"You said Rufus had gone into business in Wall Street."
"So he has. A rich cove's taken a fancy to him, and adopted him as a
office-boy."
"How much does he pay him?" asked Martin, considering whether there
would be any chance of getting some money out of his step-son.
"Not knowin' can't say," replied Ben; "but he's just bought two
pocket-books to hold his wages in."
"You're a humbug!" said Martin, indignantly. "What's the man's name he
works for?"
"It's painted in big letters on the sign. You can't miss it."
James Martin considered, for an instant, whether it would be best to
give Ben a thrashing, but the approach of a policeman led him to decide
in the negative.
"Shine yer boots, gov'nor?" asked Ben, professionally.
"Yes," said Martin, rather unexpectedly.
"Payment in advance!" said Ben, who didn't think it prudent to trust in
this particular instance.
"I'll tell yer what," said Martin, to whom necessity had taught a
certain degree of cunning, "if you'll lend me fifty cents for a week,
I'll let you shine my boots every day, and pay you the money besides."
"That's a very kind proposal," said Ben; "but I've just invested all my
money on a country-seat up the river, which makes me rather short."
"Then you can't lend me the fifty?"
"No, but I'll tell you where you can get it."
"Where?"
"Up in Chatham Street. There's plenty'll lend it on the security of that
hat of yours."
The hat in question was in the last stages of dilapidation, looking as
if it had been run over daily by an omnibus, and then used to fill the
place of a broken pane, being crushed out of all shape and comeliness.
Martin aimed a blow at Ben, but the boot-black dexterously evaded it,
and, slinging his box over his back, darted down Nassau Street.
Later in the day he met Rough and Ready.
"I see the gov'nor this mornin'," said Ben.
"What, Mr. Martin?"
"Yes."
"What did he say?"
"He inquired after you in the most affectionate manner, and wanted to
know where you was at work."
"I hope you didn't tell him."
"Not if I know myself. I told him he'd see the name on the sign. Then he
wanted to borrow fifty cents for a week."
Rufus laughed.
"It's a good investment, Ben. I've invested considerable money that way.
I suppose you gave him the money?"
"Maybe I did. He offered me the chance of blacking his boots every day
for a week, if I'd lend him the money; but I had to resign the glorious
privilege, not havin' been to the bank this mornin' to withdraw my
deposits."
"You talk like a banker, Ben."
"I'm goin' to bankin' some day, when boot-blacking gets dull."
Ben Gibson had been for years a boot-black, having commenced the
business when only eight years old. His life had been one of hardship
and privation, as street life always is, but he had become toughened to
it, and bore it with a certain stoicism, never complaining, but often
joking in a rude way at what would have depressed and discouraged a more
sensitive temperament. He was by no means a model boy, though not as bad
as many of his class. He had learned to smoke and to swear, and did both
freely. But there was a certain rude honesty about him which led Rufus,
though in every way his superior, to regard him with friendly interest,
and he had, on more than one occasion, been of considerable service to
our hero in his newsboy days. Rufus had tried to induce him to give up
smoking, but thus far without success.
"It keeps a feller warm," he said; "besides it won't hurt me. I'm
tough."
CHAPTER IV.
HOW JAMES MARTIN CAME TO GRIEF.
After parting with Ben Gibson, James Martin crossed the street to the
City Hall Park, and sat down on one of the wooden benches placed there
for the public accommodation. Neither his present circumstances nor his
future prospects were very brilliant. He was trying to solve the great
problem which has troubled so many lazy people, of how best to live
without work. There are plenty of men, not only in our cities, but in
country villages, who are at work upon this same problem, but few solve
it to their satisfaction. Martin was a good carpenter, and might have
earned a respectable and comfortable livelihood, instead of wandering
about the streets in ragged attire, without a roof to shelter him, or
money to pay for a decent meal.
As he sat on the bench, a cigar-boy passed him, with a box of cigars
under his arm.
"Cigars," he cried, "four for ten cents!"
"Come here, boy," said Martin. The boy approached.
"I want a cigar."
"I don't sell one. Four for ten cents."
Martin would willingly have bought four, but as his available funds
amounted only to four cents, this was impossible.
"I don't want but one; I've only got four cents in change, unless you
can change a ten-dollar bill."
"I can't do that."
"Here, take three cents, and give me a prime cigar."
"I'll sell you one for four cents."
"Hand over, then."
So Martin found himself penniless, but the possessor of a cigar, which
he proceeded to smoke with as much apparent enjoyment as if he had a
large balance to his credit at the bank.
He remained in the Park till his cigar was entirely smoked, and then
sauntered out with no definite object in view. It occurred to him,
however, that he might as well call on the keeper of a liquor saloon on
Baxter Street, which he had frequently patronized.
"How are you, Martin?" asked "Jim," that being the name by which the
proprietor was generally known.
"Dry as a fish," was the suggestive reply.
"Then you've come to the right shop. What'll you have?"
Martin expressed his desire for a glass of whiskey, which was poured
out, and hastily gulped down.
"I'm out of stamps," said Martin, coolly. "I s'pose you'll trust me till
to-morrow."
"Why didn't you say you hadn't any money?" demanded Jim, angrily.
"Come," said Martin, "don't be hard on an old friend. I'll pay you
to-morrow."
"Where'll the money come from?" demanded Jim, suspiciously.
This was a question which Martin was quite unable to answer
satisfactorily to himself.
"I'll get it some way," he answered.
"You'd better, or else you needn't come into this shop again."
Martin left the saloon rather disappointed. He had had a little idea of
asking a small loan from his friend "Jim;" but he judged that such an
application would hardly be successful under present circumstances.
"Jim's" friendship evidently was not strong enough to justify such a
draft upon it.
Martin began to think that it might have been as well, on the whole, to
seek employment at his trade in Brooklyn, for a time at least, until he
could have accumulated a few dollars. It was rather uncomfortable being
entirely without money, and that was precisely his present condition.
Even if he had wanted to go back to Brooklyn, he had not even the two
cents needed to pay the boat fare. Matters had come to a crisis with
Martin financially, and a suspension of specie payments was forced upon
him.
He continued to walk about the streets in that aimless way which results
from absence of occupation, and found it, on the whole, rather cheerless
work. Besides, he was beginning to get hungry. He had eaten a hearty
breakfast at his boarding-house in Brooklyn, but it was now one o'clock,
and the stomach began to assert its claims once more. He had no money.
Still there were places where food, at least, could be had for nothing.
He descended into a subterranean apartment, over the door of which was a
sign bearing the words FREE LUNCH.
As many of my readers know, these establishments are to be found in most
of our cities. A supply of sandwiches, or similar food, is provided free
for the use of those who enter, but visitors are expected to call and
pay for one or more glasses of liquor, which are sold at such prices
that the proprietor may, on the whole, realize a profit.
It was into one of those places that James Martin entered. He went up to
the counter, and was about to help himself to the food supplied. After
partaking of this, he intended to slip out without the drink, having no
money to pay for it. But, unfortunately for the success of his plans,
the keeper at the saloon had been taken in two or three times already
that day by similar impostors. Still, had James Martin been
well-dressed, he could have helped himself unquestioned to the
provisions he desired. But his appearance was suspicious. His ragged and
dirty attire betokened extreme poverty, and the man in charge saw, at a
glance, that his patronage was not likely to be desirable.
"Look here, my friend," he said, abruptly, as Martin was about to help
himself, "what'll you take to drink?"
"A glass of ale," said Martin, hesitatingly.
"All right! Pass over the money."
"The fact is," said Martin, "I left my pocket-book at home this morning,
and that's why I'm obliged to come in here."
"Very good! Then you needn't trouble yourself to take anything. We don't
care about visitors that leave their pocket-books at home."
"I'll pay you double to-morrow," said Martin, who had no hesitation in
making promises he hadn't the least intention of fulfilling.
"That won't go down," said the other. "I don't care about seeing such
fellows as you at any time. There's the door."
"Do you want to fight?" demanded Martin, angrily.
"No, I don't; but I may kick you out if you don't go peaceably. We
don't want customers of your sort."
"I'll smash your head!" said Martin, becoming pugnacious.
"Here, Mike, run up and see if you can't find a policeman."
This hint was not lost upon Martin. He had no great love for the
Metropolitan police, and kept out of their way as much as possible. He
felt that it would be prudent to evacuate the premises, and did so,
muttering threats meanwhile, and not without a lingering glance at the
lunch which was not free to him.
This last failure rather disgusted Martin. According to his theory, the
world owed him a living; but it seemed as if the world were disposed to
repudiate the debt. Fasting is apt to lead to serious reflection, and by
this time he was decidedly hungry. How to provide himself with a dinner
was a subject that required immediate attention.
He walked about for an hour or two without finding himself at the end of
that time any nearer the solution of the question than before. To work
all day may be hard; but to do nothing all day on an empty stomach is
still harder.
About four o'clock, Martin found himself at the junction of Wall Street
and Nassau. I hardly know what drew this penniless man to the street
through which flows daily a mighty tide of wealth, but I suspect that he
was hoping to meet Rufus, who, as he had learned from Ben Gibson, was
employed somewhere on the street. Rufus might, in spite of the manner in
which he had treated him, prove a truer friend in need than the
worthless companions of his hours of dissipation.
All at once a sharp cry of pain was heard.
A passing vehicle had run over the leg of a boy who had imprudently
tried to cross the street just in front of it. The wheels passed over
the poor boy's legs, both of which appeared to be broken. Of course, as
is always the case under such circumstances, there was a rush to the
spot where the casualty took place, and a throng of men and boys
gathered about the persons who were lifting the boy from the ground.
"The boy seems to be poor," said a humane by-stander; "let us raise a
little fund for his benefit."
A humane suggestion like this is pretty sure to be acted upon by those
whose hearts are made tender by the sight of suffering. So most of those
present drew out their pocket-books, and quite a little sum was placed
in the hands of the original proposer of the contribution.
Among those who had wedged themselves into the crowd was James Martin.
Having nothing to do, he had been eager to have his share in the
excitement. He saw the collection taken up with an envious wish that it
was for his own benefit. Beside him was a banker, who, from a plethoric
pocket-book, had drawn a five-dollar bill, which he had contributed to
the fund. Closing the pocket-book, he carelessly placed it in an outside
pocket. James Martin stood in such a position that the contents of the
pocket-book were revealed to him, and the demon of cupidity entered his
heart. How much good this money would do him! There were probably
several hundred dollars in all, perhaps more. He saw the banker put the
money in his pocket,--the one nearest to him. He might easily take it
without observation,--so he thought.
In an evil moment he obeyed the impulse which had come to him. He
plunged his hand into the pocket; but at this moment the banker turned,
and detected him.
"I've caught you, you rascal!" he exclaimed, seizing Martin with a
vigorous grip. "Police!"
Martin made a desperate effort to get free, but another man seized him
on the other side, and he was held, despite his resistance, till a
policeman, who by a singular chance happened to be near when wanted,
came up.
Martin's ragged coat was rent asunder from the violence of his efforts,
his hat fell off, and he might well have been taken for a desperate
character, as in this condition he was marched off by the guardian of
the city's peace.
There was another humiliation in store for him. He had gone but a few
steps when he met Rufus, who gazed in astonishment at his step-father's
plight. Martin naturally supposed that Rufus would exult in his
humiliation; but he did him injustice.
"I'm sorry for him," thought our hero, compassionately; "he's done me
harm enough, but I'm sorry."
He learned from one of the crowd for what Martin had been arrested, and
started for Franklin Street to carry the news to Miss Manning and Rose.
CHAPTER V.
THE LAST EVENING IN FRANKLIN STREET.
Though Rufus felt sorry for Mr. Martin's misfortune, there was at least
one satisfaction connected with it. He would doubtless be sent to
Blackwell's Island for three months, and of course when there he would
be unable to annoy Rose, or contrive any plots for carrying her off.
This would be a great relief to Rufus, who felt more than ever how much
the presence of his little sister contributed to his happiness. If he
was better than the average of the boys employed like himself, it was in
a considerable measure due to the fact that he had never been adrift in
the streets, but even in the miserable home afforded by his step-father
had been unconsciously influenced towards good by the presence of his
mother, and latterly by his little sister Rose. He, in his turn, had
gained a salutary influence among the street boys, who looked up to him
as a leader, though that leadership was gained in the first place by
his physical superiority and manly bearing.
It occurred to him, that perhaps, after all, it might not be necessary
for Rose and Miss Manning to move from Franklin Street at present, on
account of Mr. Martin's arrest. He was rather surprised, when, on
entering the little room, after hurrying upstairs two or three steps at
a time, he saw Miss Manning's trunk open and half packed, with various
articles belonging to herself and Rose spread out beside it.
"Hallo!" he exclaimed, stopping short on the threshold, "what are you
doing?"
"Getting ready to move, Rufus," answered the seamstress.
"So you've found a place?"
"Oh, such a nice place, Rufie!" chimed in little Rose; "there's a nice
carpet, and there's going to be a sofa, and oh, it's beautiful!"
"So you're going to live in style, are you?" said Rufus. "But how about
the cost, Miss Manning?"
"That's the pleasantest part of it," was the reply; "it isn't going to
cost me anything, and I am to be paid two dollars a week besides."
Rufus looked bewildered.
"Can't I get a chance there too?" he asked. "I'd be willin' to give 'em
the pleasure of my society for half a price, say a dollar a week,
besides a room."
"We are to be boarded also," said Miss Manning, in a tone of
satisfaction.
"If it's a conundrum I'll give it up," said Rufus; "just tell a feller
all about it, for I begin to think you're crazy, or else have come
across some benevolent chap that's rather loose in the upper story."
Hereupon Miss Manning, unwilling to keep Rufus longer in suspense, gave
him a full account of her morning's adventures, including her engagement
with Mrs. Colman.
"You're in luck," said Rufus, "and I'm glad of it; but there's one thing
we'll have to settle about."
"What's that?"
"About Rose's board."
"Oh, that is all settled already. Mrs. Colman is to pay for her board as
well as mine."
"Yes, I know that; but it is your teachin' that is to pay for it."
"Yes, I suppose so."
"Then I must pay you for her board. That will make it all right."
"Oh, no, Rufus, I couldn't accept anything. You see it doesn't cost me
anything."
"Yes, it does," persisted the newsboy; "if it wasn't for that, you would
be paid more money."
"If it wasn't for her, I should not have applied for board in that
place; so you see that it is to Rose, after all, that I am indebted for
the situation."
"I see that you are very kind to Rose, Miss Manning, but I can't have
you pay for her board. I am her brother, and am well and strong. I can
afford to pay for Rose, and I will. Now how much will it be?"
Miss Manning persisted that she was not willing to receive anything; but
upon this point the newsboy's pride was aroused, and finally this
arrangement was made: Miss Manning was to receive three dollars a week,
and for this sum she also agreed to provide Rose with proper clothing,
so that Rufus would have no responsibility or care about her. He wanted
the seamstress to accept four dollars; but upon this point she was quite
determined. She declared that three dollars was too high, but finally
agreed to accept it.
"I don't want to make money out of Rose," she said.
"It'll take some time to get ahead of A. T. Stewart on three dollars a
week."
"I shall have five dollars a week."
"But you will have to buy clothes for Rose and yourself."
"I shall make them myself, so that they won't cost me more than half of
the money."
"Then you can save up the rest."
"But you will only have five dollars left to pay your expenses, Rufus."
"Oh, I can get along. Don't mind me."
"But I wanted you to come and board with us. Mrs. Clayton has a hall
bedroom which she would let to you with board for five dollars a week.
But that would leave you nothing for clothes."
"I could earn enough some other way to pay for my clothes," said Rufus;
"but I don't know about going to board with you. I expect it's a
fashionable place, and I shouldn't know how to behave."
"You will know how to behave as well as I do. I didn't think you were
bashful, Rufus."
"No more I am in the street," said the newsboy; "but you know how I've
lived, Miss Manning. Mr. Martin didn't live in fashionable style, and
his friends were not very select. When I took breakfast at Mr. Turner's,
I felt like a cat in a strange garret."
"Then it's time you got used to better society," said Miss Manning. "You
want to rise in the world, don't you?"
"Of course I do."
"Then take my advice, and come with us. You'll soon get used to it."
"Maybe I will. I'll come round to-morrow, and see how I like it."
"Remember you are in business in Wall Street, and ought to live
accordingly. Don't you think Mr. Turner would prefer to have you board
in a good place rather than sleep at the Lodging House, without any home
of your own?"
"Yes, I suppose he would," said Rufus.
The idea was a new one to him, but it was by no means disagreeable. He
had always been ambitious to rise, but thus far circumstances had
prevented his gratifying this ambition. His step-father's drunken
habits, and the consequent necessity he was under of contributing to his
support as well as that of Rose, and his mother when living, had
discouraged him in all his efforts, and led him to feel that all his
efforts were unavailing. But now his fortunes had materially changed.
Now, for the first time, there seemed to be a chance for him. He felt
that it was best to break off, as far as possible, his old life, and
turn over a new leaf. So the advice of his friend, Miss Manning,
commended itself to his judgment, and he about made up his mind to
become a boarder at Mrs. Clayton's. He would have the satisfaction of
being in the same house with his little sister Rose, and thus of seeing
much more of her than if he boarded down town at the Lodging House. It
would cost him more to be sure, leaving him, as Miss Manning suggested,
nothing for his clothes; but, as his duties in Wall Street did not
commence until nine o'clock, and terminated at five, he felt sure that
in his leisure time he would be able to earn enough to meet this
expense. Besides, there would be the interest on his five hundred
dollars, which would amount to not less than thirty dollars, and
probably more, for, with the advice of Mr. Turner, he was about to
purchase with it some bank shares. Then, if it should be absolutely
necessary, he could break in upon his principal, although he would be
sorry to do this, for, though he did not expect to add to it for a year
to come, he hoped to keep it at its present amount.
These thoughts passed rapidly through his mind, and, when little Rose,
taking his hand, said, pleadingly, "Do come and live with us, Rufie!" he
answered, "Yes, Rosy, I will, if Mrs. Clayton will make room for me."
"Oh, that will be so nice, won't it, Miss Manning?" said Rose, clapping
her hands.
"Perhaps Mr. Martin will come and board with us," said Rufus, jestingly;
"wouldn't you like that, Rose?"
"No," said Rose, looking frightened; "do you think he will find out
where we are?"
"Not for some time at least," said her brother. "By the way, I saw him
to-day, Miss Manning."
"Did you speak with him, Rufus?"
"Did he try to carry you off, Rufie?" asked Rose, anxiously.
"You forget, Rose, that I am rather too big to carry off," said Rufus.
"No, he did not say anything to me. The fact is, he has got into a
scrape, and has enough to do to think of himself."
"Tell us about it, Rufus."
"I saw him, just as I was coming home, in the hands of the police. I
heard that he had tried to rob a gentleman of his pocket-book."
"What will they do to him?"
"I suppose he will be sent to the Island."
"I am sorry for him, though he has not treated you and Rose right."
"Yes, I am sorry too; but at any rate we need not feel anxious about his
getting hold of Rose."
They had a very pleasant supper together. It was the last supper in the
old room, and they determined that it should be a good one. Rufus went
out and got some sirloin steak, and brought in a pie from the baker's.
This, with what they had already had, made a very nice supper.
"You won't have any more cooking to do for some time, Miss Manning,"
said Rufus; "you'll be a lady, with servants to wait on you. I hope the
two little girls won't give you much trouble. If they do, that might be
harder work than sewing."
"They seem to be quite pleasant little girls, and they will be a good
deal of company for Rose."
"How did you like them, Rosie?" asked her brother.
"Ever so much. Jennie,--that's the oldest, you know, she's almost as big
as me,--said she would give me one of her dolls. She's got four."
"That's quite a large family for a young lady to have. Don't you think
she would give me one of them?"
"Boys don't have dolls," said Rose, decidedly. "It aint proper."
Rufus laughed.
"Then I suppose I must do without one; but it would be a great deal of
company for me when I go down town to business. I could put it in my
pocket, you know."
"You're only making fun, Rufie."
"I suppose you think of going up to Mrs. Clayton's the first thing in
the morning," said Rufus, turning to Miss Manning.
"Yes," she answered; "I can send up my trunk by a city express, and Rose
and I can go up by the horse-cars, or, if it is pleasant, we will walk."
"I will go up with you, and look at the room you spoke of, if you will
go early enough for me to be down at the office at nine o'clock."
Miss Manning assented to this arrangement, and Rufus left Franklin
Street at nine, and repaired to the Newsboy's Lodging House, to sleep
there for the last time.
CHAPTER VI.
A NEW HOME.
At an early hour the next morning Miss Manning, accompanied by Rufus and
Rose, ascended Mrs. Clayton's steps, and rang the bell.
The summons was answered directly by a servant.
"Is Mrs. Clayton at home?" inquired Miss Manning.
"Yes; you're Mrs. Colman's new governess, aint you?"
"I am; but I would like to see Mrs. Clayton first."
"Come in, and I'll call her."
The three remained standing in the hall, awaiting the appearance of the
landlady.
Rufus surveyed the interior of the house, so far as he could see it,
with evident approval. Not that the house compared with the homes of
many of my young readers who are favored by fortune. It was not
magnificent, but it was neat, and well furnished, and looked bright and
cheerful. To Rufus it appeared even elegant. He had a glimpse of the
parlor through the half-opened door, and it certainly was so, compared
with the humble boarding-house in Franklin Street, not to mention the
miserable old tenement house on Leonard Street, which the readers of
"Rough and Ready" will easily remember.
"I say, Miss Manning, this is jolly," said Rufus, in a tone of
satisfaction.
"Isn't it a nice house, Rufie?" said little Rose.
"Yes, it is, Rosie;" and Rough and Ready, to call him for once by his
old name, felt happy in the thought that his little sister, whose life,
thus far, had been passed in a miserable quarter of the city, would now
be so much more favorably situated.
At this moment Mrs. Clayton made her appearance.
"Good-morning, Miss Manning," she said, cordially; "I am sorry the
servant left you standing in the hall. Good-morning, my dear,"
addressing Rose; "is this young man your brother?"
"He is my brother," said Rose; "but he isn't a young man. He's a boy."
Rufus smiled.
"Maybe I'll be a young man in twenty or thirty years," he said. "Miss
Manning tells me," he continued, "that you have a small room which you
will let for five dollars a week with board."
"Yes," said the landlady; "my price has always been five and a half, but
as your sister would like to have you here, I will say five to you."
"Can I look at it?"
"Yes, I will go up and show it to you at once."
They followed Mrs. Clayton up two flights of stairs. The door of the
vacant room was already open. It was a hall bedroom of ordinary size.
The head of the bed was on the same side as the door, the room being
just wide enough for it. Between the foot of the bed and the window, but
on the opposite side, was a bureau with a mirror. There were a washstand
and a couple of chairs beside it. A neat carpet covered the floor, and
the window was screened by a shade.
"You see it is pretty good size for a hall bedroom," said the landlady.
"There is no closet, but you can hang your clothes on that row of pegs.
If there are not enough, I will have some more put in."
"I think there will be enough," said Rufus, thinking, as he spoke, of
his limited wardrobe. He was not much better off than the man who
carried all his clothes on his back, and so proclaimed himself
independent of trunk-makers.
"Well, Rufus, what do you think of the room?" asked Miss Manning.
"I'll take it," said our hero, promptly. He had been on the point of
calling it bully, when it occurred to him that perhaps such a word
might not be the most appropriate under the circumstances.
"When will you come, Mr. ----?" here the landlady hesitated, not having
been made acquainted with the last name of our new boarder. Here it
occurs to me that as yet our hero has not been introduced by his full
name, although this is the second volume of his adventures. It is quite
time that this neglect was remedied.
"Rushton," said Rufus.
"When will you take possession of the room, Mr. Rushton?"
"I'll be here to-night to dinner," said Rufus, "Maybe I won't send my
trunk round till to-morrow."
"I didn't know you had a trunk, Rufie," said Rose, innocently.
"I don't carry my trunk round all the time like an elephant, Rosy," said
her brother, a little embarrassed by his sister's revelation, for he
wanted to keep up appearances in his new character as a boarder at an
up-town boarding-house.
"Rufus, wouldn't you like to go up and see my room?" interposed Miss
Manning; "it's on the next floor, but, though rather high up, I think
you will like it."
This opportune interruption prevented Rose from making any further
reference to the trunk.
So they proceeded upstairs.
Though Mr. Colman had not yet sent in the additional furniture promised
by his wife, the room was looking bright and pleasant. The carpet had a
rich, warm tint, and everything looked, as the saying is, as neat as a
pin.
"This is to be my room," said Miss Manning, with satisfaction,--"my room
and Rosy's. I hope you will often come up to visit us. How do you like
it?"
"Bully," said Rufus, admiringly, unconsciously pronouncing the forbidden
word.
"I think we shall be very comfortable here," said Miss Manning.
Here a child's step was heard upon the stairs, and Jennie Colman
entered.
"Mamma would like to see you downstairs, Miss Manning," she said.
"Good-morning, my dear," said her new governess. "Rufus, this is one of
my pupils."
"Is that your husband, Miss Manning?" asked Jennie, surveying Rufus with
attention.
Rufus laughed, and Miss Manning also.
"He would be rather a young husband for me, Jennie," she said. "He is
more suitable for you."
"I am not old enough to be married yet," she answered, gravely; "but
perhaps I will marry him some time. I like his looks."
Rufus blushed a little, not being in the habit of receiving compliments
from young ladies.
"Have you got that doll for me, Jennie?" asked Rose, introducing the
subject which had the greatest interest for her.
"Yes, I've got it downstairs, in mamma's room."
They went down, and at the door of Mrs. Colman's room Miss Manning said,
"Won't you come in, Rufus? I will introduce you to Mrs. Colman."
"Yes, come in," said Jennie, taking his hand.
But Rufus declined, feeling bashful about being introduced.
"It's time for me to go to the office," he said; "some other time will
do."
"You'll be here in time for dinner, Rufus?"
"Yes," said our hero, and putting on his hat he made his escape, feeling
considerably relieved when he was fairly in the open air.
"I s'pose I'll get used to it after a while," he said to himself.
"I am glad you have come, Miss Manning," said Mrs. Colman, extending her
hand. "You will be able to relieve me of a great deal of my care. The
children are good, but full of spirits, and when I have one of my
nervous headaches, the noise goes through my head like a knife. I hope
you won't find them a great deal of trouble."
"I don't anticipate that," said the new governess, cheerfully; "I am
fond of children."
"Do you ever have the headache?"
"Very seldom."
"Then you are lucky. Children are a great trial at such a time."
"Have you the headache this morning, Mrs. Colman?" asked Miss Manning,
in a tone of sympathy.
"Not badly, but I am seldom wholly free from it. Now suppose we talk a
little of our plans. It is time the children were beginning to learn to
read. Can your little girl read?"
"A little; not very much."
"I suppose it will be better not to require them to study more than an
hour or two a day, just at first. The rest of the time you can look
