“There was something unpleasant in your intercourse with them, then? or
something objectionable in the people themselves? Could they have been
relatives of this widow and her daughter? The name is not a common one
to my ears.”
“Nor to mine; yet we have no proof to sustain your supposition. I should
be very sorry--”
He stopped.
Mabel studied his perturbed countenance with augmented uneasiness.
“Was not the family respectable?”
“Perfectly, my shrewd little catechist!” seeming to shake off an
uncomfortable incubus, as he laughed down at her serious face. “They
vaunted themselves upon the antiquity of their line, and were more
liberal in allusions to departed grandeur than was quite well-bred. When
I knew them they were not wealthy, or in what they would have called
‘society.’ Indeed, the mother kept a private boarding-house near
the law-school I attended. There were several sons--very decent,
enterprising fellows. But one lived at home, and a daughter, the wife of
a lieutenant in the navy, whom I never saw. I boarded with them for six
months, or thereabout.”
“You never saw the daughter! How was that?”
“I must have expressed myself awkwardly if I conveyed any such idea. I
did not meet the seafaring husband who was off upon a long cruise.
The wife I met constantly--knew very well. You need not look at me so
intently, love, as if you feared that some dark mystery lurked behind
this matter-of-fact recital. If I do not tell you every event of my
former life, it is not because it was vile. I could not sustain
the light of your innocent eyes if I had ever been guilty of aught
dishonorable or criminal. But even the follies and mistakes of a young
man’s early career are not fit themes for your ears. And I was no wiser,
no more wary, than other youths of the same age; was apt to believe that
fair which was only specious, and that I might play, uninjured, with
edged tools. Nor had I seen you then, my treasure--my snow-drop of
purity! Mabel! do you know how solemn a thing it is to be loved and
trusted by a man, as I love and confide in you? It terrifies me when I
think of the absoluteness of my dependence upon your fidelity--of how
rich I am in having you--how poor, wretched, and miserable I should be
without you. I shall not draw a free breath until you are mine beyond
the chance of recall.”
“Nobody else wants me!” breathed Mabel in his ear, nestling within
the arm that enfolded and held her tightly in the corner of the
piazza shaded by the creeper. “The danger of losing me is not imminent
to-night, at all events,” she resumed, presently, with a touch of the
sportiveness that lent her manner an airy charm in lighter talk than
that which had engrossed her for the past hour.
The evening was warm and still to sultriness, and the moonlight,
filtered into pensive pallor through a low-lying haze, yet sufficed to
show how confidingly Imogene leaned upon her attendant in sauntering
down the long main alley of the garden. Rosa was at the piano in the
parlor, singing to the enamored Alfred. Mrs. Sutton had withdrawn to
her own room to ruminate upon the astounding disclosure of her nephew’s
engagement, while Winston bent over his study-table busy with the
interrupted letter his aunt had seen in his portfolio.
“There is no one here who has the leisure or the disposition to contest
your rights, you perceive,” said Mabel, running through a laughing
summary of their companions’ occupations.
“Betrothals are epidemic in this household and neighborhood,” Winston
was writing. “There are no fewer than three pairs of turtles cooing down
stairs as I pen this to you, my bird of paradise. The case that next to
mine--to ours--commands my interest is that of my sister. I came home to
learn that the little Mabel I used to hold on my knee had entered into
an engagement--conditional upon my sanction--with that traditional
tricky personage, a Philadelphia lawyer--Mr. Frederic Chilton, at the
door of whose manifold perfections, as set forth by my loquacious aunt,
you may lay the blame of this delayed epistle. I know nothing of this
aspirant to the dignity of brotherhood with myself, saving the facts
that he is tolerably good looking, claims to be the scion of an old
Maryland family, and that self-conceit is apparently his predominant
quality.”
“What is that?” asked Frederic, halting before the windows, of the
drawing-room, as a wild, sorrowful strain, like the wail of a breaking
heart, arose upon the waveless air.
Rosa was a vocalist of note in her circle, and she had never rendered
anything with more effect than she did the song to which even the
preoccupied strollers among the garden borders stayed their steps to
listen. Through the open casement Mabel and her lover could see the face
of the musician, slightly uplifted toward the moonlight; her eyes, dark
and dreamy, as under the cloud of many years of weary waiting and final
hopelessness. Her articulation was always pure, but the passionate
emphasis of every word constrained the breathless attention of her
audience to the close of the simple lay:
    “Thy name was once the magic spell
       By which my thoughts were bound;
     And burning dreams of light and love
       Were wakened by the sound.
     My heart beat quick when stranger-tongues,
       With idle praise or blame,
     Awoke its deepest thrill of joy
       To tremble at thy name.
    “Long years, long years have passed away,
       And altered is thy brow;
     And we who met so fondly once
       Must meet as strangers now.
     The friends of yore come ‘round me still,
       But talk no more of thee,
     ‘Twere idle e’en to wish it now,
       For what art thou to me?”
    “Yet still thy name--thy blessed name!
       My lonely bosom fills,
     Like an echo that hath lost itself
       Among the distant hills,
     That still, with melancholy note,
       Keeps faintly lingering on,
     When the joyous sound that woke it first
       Is gone--forever gone!”
“A neat conceit that last verse, and the music is a fair imitation of a
dying bugle-echo!” said Winston Aylett to himself, resuming the writing
he had suspended for a minute. “That girl should take to the stage. If
one did not know better, her eyes and singing together would delude him
into the idea that she had a heart. Honest Alfred evidently believes
that she has, and that the patient labor of love will win it for
himself. Bah!”
Frederic and Mabel retired noiselessly from their post of observation,
as “honest Alfred” made a motion to take in his the hand lying prone and
passive upon the finger-board. They exchanged a smile, significant and
tender, in withdrawing.
“We understand the signs of the times,” whispered Frederic, at the upper
turn of their promenade. “Heaven bless all true lovers under the sun!”
“Don’t!” said Rosa, vehemently, snatching away her hand from her
suitor’s hold. “Leave me alone! If you touch me again I shall scream!
I think you were made up without nerves, either in the heart or in the
brain--if you have any!”
Before the aghast Alfred rallied from the recoil occasioned by her
gesture and words, her feet were pattering over the oaken hall and
staircase in rapid retreat to her chamber.
“You are really happy, then?” queried Mabel. “Quite content?”
“Did I not tell you awhile ago that I was not satisfied?” returned
Chilton. “Two months since I should, in anticipation of this hour, have
declared that it would be fraught with unalloyed rapture. I was
happier yesterday than I am to-day. It is not merely that we must part
to-morrow, or that your brother’s precautionary measures and disapproval
of what has passed between us have acted like a shower-bath to the
fervor of my newly born hopes. I am willing that my life should be
subjected to the utmost rigor of his researches, and another month, at
farthest, will reunite us. Nor do I believe in presentiments. I am more
inclined to attribute the uneasiness that has hovered over me all the
day to physical causes. We will call it a mild splenetic case, induced
by the sultry weather, and the very slow on coming of the storm presaged
by your dewless roses.”
He laughed naturally and pleasantly. Having confessed to what he
regarded as a ridiculous succumbing of his buoyant spirit to atmospheric
influences, he shook off the nightmare as if it had never sat upon him.
Mabel was grave still.
“There is something weirdly oppressive in the night,” she said, in a
low, awed tone. “But the burden you describe has weighed me down since
morning. While Rosa was singing, I felt suddenly removed from you by a
horrid gulf. What if all this should be the preparation to us for some
impending danger?”
“Sweet! these are unwholesome vapors of the imagination. Nothing can be
a disaster that leaves us to one another,” was the text of Frederic’s
fond soothing; and by the time Mrs. Sutton descended from her chamber of
meditation, to remind Imogene that the seeds of ague and fever lurked in
the river-fogs, the couple from the piazza came into the lighted parlor,
all smiles and animation, wondering, jocosely, what had become of the
recent occupants of the apartment.
Neither reappeared until breakfast-time next morning. Rosa was like
freshly-poured champagne, in sweet and sparkle. Alfred, rueful and limp,
as if the dripping clouds that verified Mabel’s prediction had
soaked him all night. He was dry and comfortable--to carry out the
figure--within twenty minutes after his beloved fluttered, like a tame
canary, into the chair next his own--in five more, was more truly her
slave, living in, and upon her smiles--adoring her very caprices as he
had never admired another woman’s virtues--than he had been prior to the
brief, but tempestuous scene over night. She was the life of the
party assembled in the dining-room. Imogene had caught cold, walking
bareheaded in the evening air, and Tom condoled with her upon her
influenza and sore-throat too sincerely to do justice to the rest of
his friends and his breakfast. Mr. Aylett was never talkative, and his
unvarying, soulless politeness to all produced the conserving effect
upon chill and low spirits that the atmosphere of a refrigerator does
upon whatever is placed within it. Mrs. Sutton’s motherly heart was
yearning pityingly over the lovers who were soon to be sundered, while
Mabel’s essay at cheerful equanimity imposed upon nobody’s credulity.
Frederic comported himself like a man--the more courageously because
the host’s cold eye was upon him, and he surmised that sighs and
sentimentality would meet very scant indulgence in that quarter.
Moreover, he was not so unreasonable as to descry insupportable
hardships in this parting. By agreement with Mr. Aylett and his sister,
he was, if all went prosperously, to revisit Ridgeley at the end of six
weeks, when his design was to entreat his betrothed to name the wedding
day. The prospect might well support him under the present trial. He
bore Rosa’s badinage gallantly, tossing back sprightly and telling
rejoinders that called forth the smiling applause of the auditors, and
commanded her respectful recognition of him as a foeman worthy of her
steel.
“Nine o’clock,” said Winston, at length, consulting his watch, and
pushing back his chair. “The carriage will be at the door in fifteen
minutes, Mr. Chilton. The road is heavy this morning, and the stage
passes the village at ten.”
“I shall be ready,” responded Frederic. “I am sorry your carriage and
coachman must be exposed to the rain.”
“That is nothing. They are used to it. I never alter my plan of travel
on account of the weather, how ever severe the storm. This warm rain can
hurt nobody.”
“It is pouring hard,” remarked Mrs. Button, solicitously. “And that
stage is wretchedly uncomfortable in the best weather. I wish you
could be persuaded to stay with us until it clears off, Mr. Chilton,
and”--making a bold push--“I am sure my nephew concurs in my desire.”
“Mr. Chilton should require no verbal assurance of my hospitable
feelings toward him and my other guests,” said Mr. Aylett,
frigidly--smooth as ice-cream. “If I forbear to press him to prolong his
stay, it is in reflection of the golden law laid down for the direction
of hosts--‘Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest.’”
“You are both very kind, but I must go,” Frederic replied, concisely
and civilly, following Mabel into the parlor, whither the other visitors
were fabled to have repaired. As he had guessed, his betrothed was the
only person there; the quartette having dispersed with kindly tact, for
which he gave them due credit.
“Don’t think hardly of me, dear,” he began, seating himself beside her
on the sofa.
“Allow me to offer you a few of the finest cigars I have enjoyed for
many years,” said Mr. Aylett, entering in season to check Frederic’s
movement to encircle Mabel’s drooping form with his arm. “You smoke, I
believe? You may have an opportunity of indulging in this solace in
an empty stage. At least, there is little probability that you will be
denied the luxury by the presence of lady passengers. I procured those
in Havana, last winter. In case you should like them well enough to
order some for yourself, I will give you the address of the merchant
from whom I purchased them.”
He wrote a line upon a card, as he might sign a beggar’s petition--with
a supercilious parade of benevolence--and passed it to the other, who
accepted it with a phrase of acknowledgment neither hearty nor grateful.
Then the master of the house paced the floor with a slow, regular step,
his hands behind him; his countenance placidly ruminative, his
thoughts apparently engaged with anything rather than the pain upon the
corner-sofa, whose leave-taking he had mercilessly marred. Frederic dumb
and furious; Mabel equally dumb and amazed to alarm, knowing as she
did that her brother’s actions were never purposeless, sat still, their
hands clasped stealthily amid the folds of Mabel’s dress; their eyes
saying the dear and passionate things forbidden to their tongues.
Neither would feign indifference, or attempt a lame dialogue upon other
topics than those that filled their minds. Mr. Aylett was not one to pay
outward heed to hints when he chose to ignore them. He kept up his walk
until the carriage was driven around to the front door, informed the
parting guest that it awaited his commands, likewise that he would
need all the time that remained to him if he hoped to catch the
stage; without leaving the room, called to a servant to bring down Mr.
Chilton’s baggage, and did not lose sight of his sister’s lover until
the last farewell was said, and Frederic bestowed inside the vehicle.
There was nothing offensively officious or malicious in all this.
Having declared as an incontrovertible dogma, that a ward could form no
engagement without the formal sanction of her legal guardian, he saw fit
to put the seal upon the decision at this, their adieu, in a manner they
were not likely to forget. An hour’s harangue would not have imbued them
with the sense of his authority, his determination to exercise it, and
their impotency to resist it, as did this practical lesson.
Mrs. Sutton could scarcely restrain her tearful remonstrances against
what was, to her perception, an act of arbitrary and wanton cruelty, and
other spectators had their views upon the subject.
“Very inconsiderate in Aylett! I wonder how he would like the same game
to be played upon himself!” commented Alfred, aside, to his Dulcinea.
Her lip curled in disdainful amusement.
“As if he had ever done an inconsiderate thing since he put off long
clothes! There is method in all this, if we were clever enough to fathom
it.”
Within herself, she determined that she would solve the enigma before
she was a week older.
Frederic cast one hasty, eager look at the portico, as the carriage
turned out of the yard. Mabel stood in the foreground, her figure framed
by the climbing roses drooping over the front steps. She was very pale,
and, forgetful for the moment of the observation of the bystanders,
leaned slightly forward, her eyes strained upon the carriage-window--one
hand laid upon her heart, the other resting against the pillar nearest
her, as for support. She waved her handkerchief, in response to his
smile and lifted hat, and simultaneously with this interchange of adieux
her brother took her by the arm.
“You are getting wet there, Mabel! Come into the house! It is well I
have come back to look after you!”
CHAPTER IV. -- “FOUNDED UPON A ROCK.”
If Mrs. Sutton had raised horrified eyes and despairing hands upon
learning the date of her nephew’s proposed marriage, it was because
she miscalculated his executive abilities, and the energy she had never
until now seen fairly put forth. Within three days after his return, the
homestead was alive with masons, carpenters, painters, and upholsterers,
engaged by the prompt bridegroom on his passage through Richmond; and so
explicit were his orders as to the minutest detail of the work appointed
to each, that he could safely leave the scene of action at the time
appointed for the flying trip northward, to which he had referred in his
dialogue with Mabel on the afternoon of his arrival.
The party of visitors had emigrated to other regions, a couple of days
after Frederic Chilton’s departure, with the exception of Rosa Tazewell,
who accepted Mabel’s invitation to prolong her sojourn, the more
willingly since she “flattered herself she could be of use in the
general upheaving of the ancient foundations, and establishment of
the new. If there was one thing she enjoyed above another, it was a
tremendous bustle--a lively revolution.”
She made her boast of personal utility good by installing herself
forthwith as Mrs. Sutton’s aid-de-camp, and rendering herself so far
indispensable in the work of reconstruction that Mr. Aylett deigned to
ask her not to desert her post in his absence.
“Yours is the genius of renovation, Miss Rosa,” the potentate was
pleased to say in his handsomest style. “Do not, I beg of you, forsake
my aunt and sister in their need. Let me feel that I leave one head as
the motive-power of the multitudinous hands.”
She agreed, in the same strain, to oblige him--a decision greeted
with satisfaction by the pair in whose behalf he besought her friendly
offices. The versatile invention and deft fingers of the little
brunette were welcome to the heavily-taxed housekeeper, as were her
gay good-humor and words of cheer and affection to the younger of her
companions. The two girls became more confidential in six days than
eighteen years of neighborly intercourse had sufficed to make them.
Mabel’s innate delicacy and excellent common sense would, in ordinary
circumstances, have barred effusiveness upon the theme nearest
her heart, but love at nineteen is rarely discreet, even when the
persuasives to communicativeness are less powerful than were the sorcery
of Rosa’s sympathy and the confessions that paved the way to answering
and trustful communicativeness on her friend’s part.
They were having what she called “a good, long, comforting, as well as
comfortable chat” over their sewing in Mabel’s chamber on the afternoon
of the eighth day of Winston’s absence. The weather was lovely, with the
mellow brightness and balmy airs that make Virginian autumns a joy and
glory until November is half spent, and the atmosphere held, at sunset,
the warmth and much of the radiance which had set the day--a perfect
gem--in the heart of the golden month. Into the eastern windows gazed
the full moon, a crimson globe upon the hazy horizon, while Venus lay,
large and tremulous, among the dying fires of the west.
“‘Lovers love the western star,’” quoted Rosa, merrily, taking Mabel’s
work from her and throwing it upon the bed. “Come and enjoy the holy
hour with me.”
They leaned together upon the window-sill, their young faces tinted
by the changeful hues of the sky, both thoughtful and mute, until Rosa
broke the silence by a heavy sigh.
“O Mabel, you should be a happy, happy girl; blessed among women. You
can love--freely and joyously--and have pride and faith in the one
beloved.”
“As you will some day,” rejoined the other, drawing nearer to her, “when
you, in your turn, shall know the unspeakable sweetness of unquestioning
faith--of utter dependence upon him to whom you have given your heart.”
“Utter dependence!” echoed Rosa. “That would mean utter wreck of
heart, hope--everything--should the anchor give way. It is a hazardous
experiment, ma belle!”
The other looked down at her with simple fearlessness.
“‘For it was founded upon a rock!’” she repeated softly; yet the
exultant ring of her accent vibrated upon the ear like a joyous
challenge.
Rosa’s fretful movement was involuntary.
“Mine would drag in the sand at every turn of the tide, every rise
of the wind, if I were to follow your advice, and say ‘yes’ to the
pertinacious Alfred,” she said reproachfully.
“Don’t say advice, dear!” corrected the other. “I only endeavored
to convince you that there must be latent tenderness beneath your
sufferance of Mr. Branch’s devotion; that if you really were averse to
the thought of marrying him, you could not take pleasure in his society
or enjoy the marks of his attachment which are apparent to you and to
everybody else.”
“Can’t you understand,” said the beauty, petulantly, “that it is one
thing to flirt with a man in public, and another to cherish his image
in private? There is no better touchstone of affection than the holiness
and calm of an hour like this. If Frederic were with you, the scene
would be the fairer, the season more sacred for its association with
thoughts of him and his love. Whereas, my Alfred’s adoring platitudes
would disgust me with the sunset, with the world, and with myself, for
permitting him to haunt my presence and hang upon my smile--foppish
barnacle that he is! If you knew how I despise myself sometimes!”
“Dear Rosa! I shall never try again to persuade that you care for him
as a woman should for the man GOD intended her to marry. But why not act
worthily of yourself--justly to him, and reject him decidedly?”
“Because”--her face shrewd and wilful as it had been sorrowful just
now--“I am by no means certain that I can do better than to marry him.
He is rich, good-looking (so people say!), well-born, gentlemanly, and
pleasant of temper. An imposing array of advantages, you see! I might go
further, and fare very much worse. We shall not expect to pass our days
in gazing at sunsets and walking in the moonlight, you know. It is not
every woman who can marry the man she loves best. While the right to
select and to woo is usurped by the masculine portion of the community,
it must, perforce, be Hobson’s choice with an uncountable majority
of feminines. I should not complain. The stall allotted to me by
Hobson--alias Fate--might hold a worse-conditioned animal than my
worshipping swain.”
“What a wicked rattle you are!” Mabel said, affecting to box her ears.
“I could not love you if I believed you to be in earnest. As to
your figure of the stabled steed--this disapproving customer has the
consolation that she need not accept him, unless she wishes to do so.
She has the invaluable privilege of saying ‘no’ as often and obstinately
as she pleases.”
“I deny it,” said Rosa, perversely. “Parents, in this age, do not make a
custom of locking up refractory daughters in nunneries or garrets until
they consent to wed Baron Buncombe or my Lord Nozoo, but there are,
nevertheless, compulsory marriages in plenty. Society warns me to make
a creditable match, upon penalty, if I decline, of being pointed out
to the succeeding--and a fast-succeeding generation it is! as a
disappointed old maid--passée belle, who squandered her capital of
fascinations, and has become a pauper upon public toleration, while
my mother, sisters, and brothers are growing impatient at my many and
profitless flirtations, and anxious to see me ‘settled.’ My mother’s
pet text, since I was sixteen, has been her prayerful desire that I, the
last of her nestlings, should make choice of a tenable bough and helpful
partner, and set up a separate establishment before she dies. When that
event occurs, I shall be, in effect, homeless--a boarder around upon my
rebukeful relatives, who ‘always thought how my trifling would end,’ and
who will be forever scribbling ‘vanitas vanitatum,’ upon the tombstone
of my departed youth--my day of beaux and offers. You may shake your
head and look heroic with all your might! You are no better off than
I, should your brother see cause to refuse his consent to your marriage
with Mr. Chilton. He could, and probably would, coerce you into another
alliance before you were twenty-one. There are so many ways of
letting the life out of a woman’s heart, when it is already faint from
disappointment! The spirit is oftener broken by unyielding, but not
seemingly cruel pressure, than by outrageous violence. And Winston would
show himself an adept in such arts, if occasion offered.”
“Rosa Tazewell! you are speaking of my brother, my friend and
benefactor! one of the best, noblest, most disinterested creatures
Heaven ever made!” cried Mabel, erect and indignant. “You have no
warrant--I shall never give you the right--to asperse him in my
presence. He is incapable of cruelty or unfairness. It is my duty to
obey him, but it is no less a pleasure, for he is a hundred-fold
wiser and better than I am--knows far more truly what is for my real
advantage. As to his conduct in this affair of Frederic and myself, you
cannot deny that it has been generous and consistent throughout. He has
been cautious--never harsh!”
“So!” said Rosa, scrutinizing the flushed countenance of the other, her
own full of intense meaning, “you HAVE had your misgivings!”
Mabel reddened more warmly.
“Misgivings! What do you mean?”
“That the uncalled-for vehemence of your defence is a proof of disturbed
confidence, of wanting belief in the infallibility of your semi-deity.
The trailing robes of divinity have been blown aside by a chance breath
of suspicion, and you had a glimpse of the clay feet. I am glad of
it. Scepticism is the parent of rebellion, and the time is coming when
fealty to your betrothed may demand disloyalty to the power that now
is.”
Mabel’s smile was meant to be careless, but it was only uneasy, and gave
the lie direct to her asseveration.
“I have no apprehensions of such a conflict. Winston’s word is as
good as another man’s oath. It is pledged to my marriage with Frederic
Chilton, in the event of the prosperous issue of his inquiries into
his, Frederic’s, character and prospects. That these will be answered
favorably, I have the word of another, who is every whit as trustworthy.
Where is there room for doubt?”
The brunette shook her head--unconvinced.
“Have your own way! I can afford to abide the showing of the logic of
events.”
“And I!” retorted Mabel, hastily, turning from her, without attempting
to dissemble her chagrin, to answer a knock at the door.
It was a servant, with two letters. The annoyance passed from her brow,
like the sheerest mist, as she read the superscriptions--one in her
brother’s handwriting, the other in Frederic’s.
Rosa interfered to prevent the breaking of the seals.
“I am going to leave you to the undisturbed enjoyment of your feast,”
 she said, in her most winsome manner. “But--won’t it taste the sweeter
if your antepast is the delight of forgiveness? Say you are not angry
with me--mia cara!”
“You are a ridiculous child!” Mabel bent to kiss the pleading lips, then
the great, melting eyes. “Who could be out of temper with you for half a
minute at a time? You did try my patience with your nonsense, but since
it WAS nonsense, I have forgotten it all, and love you none the less for
your prankish humor--you gypsy!”
“She calls my prophecies humbug--turns a deaf ear to my warnings!” cried
the incorrigible rattle, clasping her hands above her head and rolling
her eyes tragically. “I have a lively appreciation, at this instant, of
Cassandra’s agonies when Troilus named her ‘our mad sister!’--
      ‘Woe! woe! woe!
    Let us pay betimes
    A moiety of that mass of moans to come!’”
Laughing anew at her frantic rush from the chamber, Mabel sat down in
the broad window-seat to read her love-letter.
Frederic was too manly in feeling and habit of speech to deal in florid
rhapsodies, but each line had its message from his heart to hers. He
loved her purely and in truth, and there was not a sentence that did not
tell her this, by inference, if not directly. He trusted her--and this,
too, he told her, more as a husband might the wife of years than a lover
of her he had won so lately. Their hopes were the same and their lives,
and she dwelt longest upon the sketched plans for the future of these.
It brought him closer to her than anything else--put her secret and
reluctant imaginations of evil, and Rosa’s daring insinuations, out of
sight and recollection. She read slowly, and with frequent pauses,
that she might take in the exquisite flavor of this and that phrase of
endearment; set before herself in beauty and distinctness the scenes he
portrayed as the adornment of the prospect which was theirs.
The second and yet more deliberate perusal over, she folded the sheet
with lingering touches to every corner, thrust it into the envelope,
and drew it forth again to peep once more at the signature--“Forever and
truly, your own Frederic;” pressed it to her lips, then to her heart,
and bestowed it securely in her writing-desk, before she unclosed her
brother’s epistle.
With her finger upon the seal--a big drop of red wax, like a petrified
blood-gout, stamped with the Aylett coat-of-arms--she leaned through
the casement to watch for the flutter of Rosa’s white dress among the
vari-colored maples shading the lawn--sang a clear, sweet second to the
song that ascended to her eyrie:
    “Why weep ye by the tide, ladye?
       Why weep ye by the tide?
     I’ll wed ye to my youngest son,
       And ye shall be his bride.
     And ye shall be his bride, ladye,
       Sae comely to be seen;
     But aye she loot the tears down fa’
       For lock o’ Hazeldean.”
“MY DEAR MABEL” [wrote the lord of Ridgeley]--“I wish you, so soon as
you receive this, to communicate with Jenkyns and Smythe concerning the
new parlor furniture I ordered from them. In talking it over, Clara and
I have decided that it had better be covered with maroon, instead of
green, as you advised. I enclose a sample of damask which they must
match exactly. I would I write direct to them, but think it likely that
Jenkyns, the managing man of the firm, is in your neighborhood at this
time. He told me, when I was in town, of his intention to visit Mrs.
Wilson, his sister, I believe, who lives on the White Oak road, about
three miles from Ridgeley. Send for him, and put the samples into his
hands. If he cannot get the precise color in Richmond, let him order it
from New York.
“The carpets for the parlor, dining-room, and Clara’s chamber I have
bought in Lowell. Clara accompanied me thither, and gave me the benefit
of her taste in the selection. I have resolved, also, to purchase
wallpaper in Boston to match these. Say as much to Jenkyns. I shall
have the boxes directed to his care and instruct him further respecting
making the carpets and hanging the paper when I return.
“Ask Roberts (the mason) whether it will be practicable to build
a fire-place in the large lower hall. Another chimney would be an
unsightly appendage to the roof, but Clara agrees with me, since
studying the plan of the house I brought on for her inspection, that a
flue could be run through the closet in your room into the rear one of
the west chimneys. She thinks the hall must be freezing cold in winter,
and caught eagerly at my idea that a blazing fire at one end would
lighten the sombre effect of the oaken wainscot and lofty ceiling.
I proposed to tear down the panelling, but she was horrified at the
thought. I could not take more pride and interest in preserving the
antique character of the home of my forefathers than does she. She will
have it that the hall, thus improved, and hung with a few old pictures,
some bits of ancient armor, and carpeted with maroon and green will be
truly baronial. You and she will agree admirably in your enthusiastic
love of the venerable, and in your aesthetic tastes. I congratulate
myself hourly upon my good fortune in securing such a companion for
myself, and such an instructress for yourself. You cannot fail to derive
infinite benefit from intercourse with her.
“This brings me to another subject to which I desire to call your
immediate attention. I wish her to select a couple of dresses suitable
for your wear on the night of our reception-party, and at others which
will, undoubtedly, be given in our honor. She objects to doing this
unless I obtain from you a written request that she should thus aid me.
She fears you may consider her action ‘premature and officious.’ Write
to her at once, requesting her to do this sisterly favor for you,
setting forth your distance from the city, the meagre assortment of
the goods to be had in the Richmond stores, etc., and giving her carte
blanche as to cost and style. It will be an inestimable advantage to
your appearance on the occasions named should she oblige you in this
particular. I earnestly desire that you should look your best at your
introduction to her.”
“‘Maroon and green!’ a ‘baronial’ hall, and new party-dresses for
insignificant me!” Mabel stopped to say aloud in great amusement. “What
would my sage brother have said to such paltry memoranda six months ago?
He is an apt scholar, or he has an able teacher. Ah, well! love is a
marvellous transmogrifier!”
With this apothegm from the storehouse of her lately acquired wisdom,
she passed to the next paragraph.
“Now for another matter about which I meant to write to you yesterday,
but I was prevented by our expedition to Lowell. The evenings I of
course devote to Clara. I have not been so engrossed by my own very
important concerns as to neglect yours. I stopped a day in Philadelphia,
illy as I could afford the time, to make such investigations as I could,
without exciting invidious suspicion, into the character of the person
whom I found domesticated at Ridgeley on my return from my summer tour.
The information I picked up in that cautious city was so meagre and
tantalizing as to provoke me into the belief that he had selected his
references with an eye to the slenderness of their knowledge of his
personal history. Accident, however, has since placed within my reach
a means of learning all that I wish to know. Without wearying you with
explanations, which, indeed, I have no time to write--being engaged
to drive out with Clara in an hour from this time--I will transcribe a
portion of a letter received by me, two days since, from a gentleman of
unexceptional standing, and upon whose word you may safely depend.
“He says: ‘In reply to your queries as to my acquaintanceship with one
Frederic Chilton, now a practising lawyer in the city of Philadelphia,
I would, if conscience permitted, repay your frankness by evasion of a
disagreeable truth. But in the circumstances which induced your
appeal, I have no option. Hesitation or concealment would be unkind and
dishonorable. I knew the man you speak of well--I may say intimately,
while we were fellow-students in the----law school, in 18--. He was
then--what I have but too much reason for believing him at this
day--a plausible, unprincipled man of pleasure. Our intercourse, which
commenced at the card-table, terminated with a severe horsewhipping
I administered to him in punishment of an offence offered a married
lady--a relative of my own. Taking advantage of the protracted absence
of her husband, who was a naval officer, he offered her many attentions,
received by herself as tokens of innocent and friendly regard, until he
forgot himself so far as to make her open and insulting proposals, even
urging her to consent to an elopement, and threatening, in the event of
her refusal, to ruin her by infamous calumnies. Her father was infirm;
her husband in a foreign land. His base persecution would have met with
no chastisement, had not I espoused the terrified woman’s cause.
These are the bare facts of the case. He merited a flogging--as you, a
chivalric Virginian, will admit. I--a Northern man, with cooler blood,
but I hope, as true a sense of honor and right as your own--inflicted
this, as I am prepared to testify before any number of witnesses.’”
[Mabel was reading very fast, her eyes hurrying from side to side of the
page, her face blanching, and her hands more numb with every word.]
“The above is a verbatim copy of that portion of my friend’s letter
which pertains to your affair,” continued Mr. Aylett. “I shall write to
Mrs. Sutton’s protege by the mail that carries this, informing him of my
opportune discovery, through no instrumentality of his providing, of the
poverty of his claims to the title of gentleman, and the audacity of
his pretensions to my sister’s hand. Have what letters, etc., you have
received from him ready packed to return to his address when I
come home. My principal regret, in the review of the unfortunate
entanglement, is that he ever visited Ridgeley and was known in the
vicinity as your suitor. You will suffer from this, in the future, more
than you can now suppose. A woman hardly ever outlives such a stigma.
“You may expect me on Thursday next, the 21st, at which time I hope to
see most of the alterations I have ordered in an encouraging state of
forwardness. Should Jenkyns be in town when you get this, write out my
directions clearly and in full, and send them, with sample of damask, by
mail.
“Your affectionate brother,
“WINSTON AYLETT”
The clammy, nerveless hands dropped--the fatal sheet below them--into
Mabel’s lap. She did not cry out or moan. Things stricken to the heart
generally fall dumbly. It was not her cramped position within the
window-seat that paralyzed her limbs, nor the chill of the twilight that
crept through vein and bone. For one sick second she believed herself
to be dying, and would not have stirred a muscle or spoken a syllable to
save the life which had suddenly grown worthless--worthless, since she
was never to see Frederic again; be no more to him than if she had
never laid her head upon his bosom; never felt his kisses upon lip and
forehead; never lived upon his words of love as rapt mortals, admitted
in trances to the banquet of the gods, eat ambrosia, and drink to
divinest ecstacy of nectar--the elixir of immortal life and joy,
sparkling in golden chalices.
She had had her dream--ravishing and brief--but the awakening was
terrible as the struggle back to life from a swoon or deathful lethargy.
As to thinking, I believe nobody thinks at such seasons. Nature shrinks
in speechless horror at sight of the descending weight, and when it has
fallen, lies motionless, gasping in breath to enable her to support
the intolerable anguish, not speculating how to avert the next stroke.
Frederic and she were parted! Had not Winston said so! And when was he
known to reverse a verdict! She had nothing to do but sit still and let
the waters go over her head.
Rosa was seated upon the upper step of the west porch, her chin cradled
in her hand, her elbow on her knee, gazing on the darkening sky, and
crooning Scotch ballads in a pensive, dreamy way. Mabel, from her perch,
eyed her as if she were a creature belonging to another world--seen
dimly, and comprehended yet more imperfectly. Yet it could not have been
half an hour--thirty fleeting minutes--since the two had talked as dear
friends out of the fulness of their hearts. Where were the hopes and
happy memories that had made hers then a garden of pleasant things, a
fruitful field which Heaven had blessed? In that little inch of time,
the flood had come and taken them all away.
Would the dry aching in her throat and chest ever be less? Tears
had gushed freely and healthfully after her last leave-taking with
Frederic--the looked farewell, which was all Winston’s surveillance had
granted them. She had been wounded then by her brother’s singular want
of tact or feeling. She had not the spirit to resent anything to-night,
unless it were that God had made and suffered to live a being so
wretched and useless as herself. She supposed it was wicked--but she did
not care! She ought to be resigned to the mysterious dispensations of
Providence--that was the prescribed phraseology of pious people. She had
heard the cant times without number. What more would they have than her
utter destitution of love and bliss? Was she not miserable enough to
satisfy the sternest believer in purgatorial purification? to appease
the wrath even of Him who had wrought her desolation? It must be the
judgment of a retributive Deity upon her idolatrous affection that she
was bearing--her worship of Frederic. Yes, she had loved him; she loved
him now better than she did anything else upon earth--better than she
did anything in Heaven.
In the partial insanity of her woe and despair, she lifted her gray face
and vacant eyes to the vast, empty vault, beyond which dwelt her Maker
afar off, and said the words aloud--spat them at Him through hard, ashy
lips.
“I love him! I love him! You have taken him from me--but I will love him
for all that!”
Heaven--or Fate--her blasphemous mood did not distinguish the one from
the other--was a robber. Her brother was pitiless as the death that
would not answer to her call. Between them she was bereaved.
It was but a touch--the lightest breath of natural feeling that broke
up the hot crust, that shut down the fountain of tears--Rosa’s voice,
tuneful and sad as a nightingale’s, chanting the border-lays she loved
so well:
    “When I gae out at e’en.
     Or walk at morning air,
     Ilk rustling bush will seem to say
     I used to meet thee there.
     Then I’ll sit down and cry,
     And live beneath the tree.
     And when a leaf falls in my lap,
     I’ll oa’ it a word from thee.”
She had sung it herself to Frederic the night before he left her, and as
she finished the artless ballad, he took her in his arms and kissed her.
As he would never do again!
“My darling! my darling!” she cried aloud.
Then the grief-drops came in a flood.
CHAPTER V. -- CLEAN HANDS.
The servant who summoned Mabel to supper brought down word that she was
not feeling well, and did not wish any.
“Not well! Bless me!” exclaimed Mrs. Sutton, starting up. “Rosa, love,
excuse me for three seconds, please. I must see what is the matter. I
do hope there is no bad news from--” (arrested by the recollection that
there were servants in the room, she substituted for the name upon her
lips)--“in her letters.”
“I don’t think she’s much sick ma’am,” said the maid. “She is a-settin’
in the window.”
“Where I left her with her letters, an hour and more ago,” observed
Rosa. “Don’t hurry back if she needs you, Aunt Rachel. I will make
myself at home; shall not mind eating alone for once.”
Not withstanding the array of dainties before her, she only nibbled the
edge of a cream biscuit with her little white teeth, and crumbled
the rest of it upon her plate in listlessness or profound and active
reverie, while the hostess was away. She, too, had her conjectures and
her anxieties--a knotty problem to work out, and the longer she pondered
the more confident was she that she had grasped at least one filament of
the clue leading to elucidation.
Mabel had not stirred from her place--sat yet with her brother’s letter
in her lap, her hands lying heavily upon it, although her muslin dress
was ghostly in the stream of moonlight flowing across the chamber. She
had wept her eyes dry, and her voice was monotonous, but unfaltering.
“I am not really sick, aunt, but I have no appetite, and having a great
deal to think of, I preferred staying here to going to the table,” was
her answer to Mrs Sutton’s inquiries.
“Your hands are cold and lifeless as clay, my child. What is the matter?
It is not like you to be moping up here, alone in the dark.”
“Won’t you leave me to myself for a while, and keep Rosa down-stairs?”
 asked Mabel, more patiently than peevishly. “Before bed-time I will see
you in your room, and we can talk of what has disturbed me.”
“My daughter,” murmured the gentle-hearted chaperone, trying to draw the
erect head to her shoulder, as she stood by her niece.
Mabel resisted the kindly force.
“No, no, aunt. I cannot bear that yet. I have just begun to think
connectedly, and petting would unnerve me.”
This was strange talk from the frank-hearted child she had reared from
babyhood, and while she desisted from further attempts at consolation,
Aunt Rachel took a very sober visage back to the supper-room with her,
and as little appetite as Rosa had manifested. The meal was quickly
over, and by way of obeying the second part of Mabel’s behest, the
innocent diplomatist begged Rosa to go to the piano.
“I always enjoy your delightful music, my dear. It makes the house more
lively.”
“Thank you, dear Mrs. Sutton. I should take pleasure in obliging you;
but if Mabel is out of sorts, I don’t believe she will care to have the
house lively to-night,” was the amiable rejoinder. “Moreover, I am dying
to finish ‘David Copperfield.’ Will you allow me to curl myself up in
the big chair here, and read for an hour?”
Mrs. Sutton gave a consent that was almost glad in its alacrity, and
pretended to occupy herself with the newspapers brought by the evening
mail, until she judged that Mabel had had season in which to compose her
thoughts. Then she muttered something about “breakfast,” “muffins,” and
“Daphne,” caught up her key-basket, and bustled out.
Rosa’s book fell from before her face at the sound of the closing door.
The liquid eyes were turbid; her features moved by some passion mightier
far than curiosity or compassion for her friend’s distress.
“I have done nothing--literally nothing, to bring this on!” was the
reflection which brought most calm to her agitated mind. “If it should
be as I think, I am guiltless of treachery. My skirts are clear. My
hands are clean! Yet there have been moments when I could have dipped
them in blood that this end might be attained!”
Too restless to remain quiet, she tossed her book aside and wandered
from side to side of the room, halting frequently to hearken for Mrs.
Sutton’s return, or some noise from the conference chamber that might
alleviate her suspense.
“I tried to put her on her guard,” she broke forth at length, bent, it
would seem, upon self-justification against an invisible accuser. “I saw
aversion in Winston’s eye the day he came home to find the other here.
He would never forgive his slave the presumption of choosing a husband
for herself. Did I not tell her so? Yet this has caught her like a
rabbit in a trap--unprepared for endurance or resistance. The spiritless
baby! Would I give him up, except with life, if he loved me as he does
her?”
It was not a baby’s face that was confronting Mrs. Sutton’s just then.
It was no weak, spiritless slave who sustained the pelting shower of her
comments, her wonderment and her entreaties that Mabel would refuse to
abide by her brother’s decision--her guardian though he was--and if she
would not write to Frederic with her own hand, empower her aunt to apply
to him for an explanation of the disgraceful mystery.
“We should condemn no man unheard,” she argued.
“It is but fair to give him an opportunity of telling his side of the
story.”
“Winston’s letter will inform him of what and by whom he is accused,”
 said Mabel. “He will have the opportunity you speak of. I should not be
content with my brother’s action, were this not so. I have been over
the whole ground again and again, since sunset. We--you and I--are
powerless. This story is either true or false. If what we have read
really happened, what could arise from our correspondence with the
offender against honor and virtue? It would but complicate difficulties.
If he is unjustly accused, he can prove it, and put his slanderers to
shame without our promptings. Our interference would be an intimation
that he needed our championship.”
“I believe he will clear himself of every stain,” returned Mrs. Sutton
earnestly. “This is either a vile plot concocted by some secret foe, or
the Frederic Chilton mentioned here,” pushing the letter away from her
on the table, with a gesture of loathing, “is another person.”
“That is very unlikely!”
Mabel leaned her forehead wearily upon her hand, and did not finish the
sentence immediately.
“I will be candid with you, aunt, upon this subject, as I have tried to
be in every other confidence with which I have burdened you. Frederic
Chilton was a student in the law-school, which was also attended by
Winston’s correspondent, and at the date specified by him. I have reason
to think there was something unpleasant--something he wished to conceal
from me, and perhaps from everybody else, connected with his stay there.
He referred to it ambiguously on the last evening of his visit here, as
a folly, a youthful indiscretion. I have the impression, moreover, that
a married woman was mixed up in this trouble, whatever it was--a lady,
some years older than himself, whose husband, a naval officer, was
absent upon a long cruise. This may be the germ of the story related
here, and it may have nothing whatever to do with it.”
In saying “here,” she pointed to the letter. Both avoided touching it
as it lay between them, the big seal uppermost, and looking more like
bright, fresh blood than ever, in the lamplight.
“My dear, all this proves nothing--absolutely nothing--except that
the shock and overmuch solitary musing have made you morbid and
unreasonable.”
Mrs. Sutton assumed a collected air, and delivered herself with the mien
of one who was determined to submit to no trifling, and to credit no
scrap of evidence against her friend which counter-reasoning could set
aside.
