I had not thought about it." 




" Can't you do anything without thinking 
about it first?" 

" I do not understand it yet." 

" Understand ! why, nothing is easier than 
to understand. Of course, we are all to be 
as good as we can be that's all." 

" You don't think that is much," said the 
little one, as she began slowly to undress herself. The work of undressing and dressing 
was always slow with Tilly. Every article of 
clothing taken off was to be delicately folded 
and nicely laid away at night ; and taken out 
and put on with equal care and punctiliousness in the morning. Maria's stockings went 
one way and her shoes another; while Tilly's 
were put exactly ready for use under her 
chair. And Maria's clothes presently lay in 
a heap on the floor. But not till some time 
after Matilda's neat arrangements had been 
made and she herself was safe in bed. Maria 
had dallied while the other was undressing. 

"I think you are very curious, Matilda!" 
she exclaimed as she followed her sister into 


bed. " I shouldn't think it required much 
thinking-, to know that one ought to be good." 

" You haven't put out the candle, Maria." 

Maria bounced from her bed, and bounced 
in again. 

" O Maria!" said Matilda in a moment or 
two, plaintively, " you've blown it out ! and the 
room is all filled with smoke." 

" It doesn't make any difference," said 
Maria. 

" It is very disagreeable." 

" It will be gone in a minute." 

" No, it wont, for I can see the red spark on 
the end of the candle now." 

" You are so particular, Tilly ! " said her 
sister. " If you ever take a notion to be good, 
you'll have to leave off some of your ways, 
I can tell you. You needn't mind a little 
smell of candle-smoke. Go to sleep, and forget it." 

" Don't good people mind disagreeable 
things?" said Matilda. 

" No, of course they don't. How could they 



 

get along, you know. Don't you remember 
what Mr. Richmond said ? " 

" I don't remember that he said that. But 
then, Maria, would you mind getting up to 
snuff out that candle ? It's dreadful ! " 

" Nonsense ! I sha'n't do it. I've just got 
warm." 

Another minute or two gave tokens that 
Maria was past minding discomfort of any 
sort. She was fast asleep. Tilly waited, 
panted, looked at the glimmering red end of 
the candle snuff; finally got out o.f bed and 
crept to the dressing-table where it stood, and 
with some trouble managed to put a stop to 
smoke for that night. 




CHAPTER II. 

THE house in which these things happened 
-- was a brown house, standing on the 
great high road of travel which ran through 
the country, and just where a considerable 
village had clustered round it. From the 
upper windows you caught a glimpse of a 
fine range of blue mountains, lying miles 
away, and with indeed a broad river flowing 
between ; but the river was too far off to be 
seen, and hidden behind intervening ground. 
From the lower windows you looked out into 
the village street ; clean and wide, with comfortable houses standing along the way, not 
crowded together; and with gardens between 
and behind them, and many trees shielding 
and overhanging. The trees were bare now ; 
the gardens a spread of snow; the street a 





white way for sleigh runners; nevertheless 
the aspect of the whole was hopeful, comfortable, thriving, even a little ambitious. Within 
this particular house, if you went in, you 
would see comfort, but little pretension ; a 
neat look of things, but such things as had 
been mended and saved and would not be 
rashly replaced. It was very respectable, 
therefore, and had no look of poverty. So 
of the family gathered around the breakfast 
table on the morning after the Sunday school 
meeting. It was a fair group, healthy and 
bright; the four girls and their mother. They 
were nicely dressed ; and good appetites spoke 
of good spirits ; and the provision on the 
table was abundant though plain. 

Maria asked if Letty had finished her bonnet last night ? Letty said she had. 

" And did you put those red flowers in ? " 

" Certainly." 

" That will be gay." 

" Not too gay. Just enough. The bonnet 
would be nothing if it had not flowers." 



Maria's spoon paused half way to 
mouth. " I wonder," she said gravely, " if 
Mr. Richmond likes red flowers ? " 

" He has nothing to do with my bonnet," 
said Letitia. " And no more have you. You 
need not raise the question. I shall wear 
what becomes me." 

" What is the difference whether one wears 
red or blue, Maria ? " said her mother. " Do 
you think one colour is more religious than 
another ? or more wicked ? What do you 
mean ? " 

" Nothing, ma'am," Maria answered, a little 
abashed. " I was only thinking." 

" I think Mr. Richmond likes flowers everywhere," said Matilda ; " and all colours." 

" People that are very religious do not wear 
flowers in their bonnets though, do they?''
said Maria. 

" Mr. Richmond did not say any such 
thing ! " said Matilda indignantly. 

" What did he say ? What was all this 
last night's talk about ? " said Anne. I did 




not 'tfncferstand half of it. Was it against 
red flowers, or red anything?" 

" I did not understand any of it," said Mrs. 
Englefield. 

" Why mamma, I told you all, as plain as 
could be," said Maria. " I told you he 
made a Band " 

"He didn't," interrupted Matilda; "the 
Band made themselves." 

But at this, the shout that went round the 
breakfast table threatened to endanger the 
dishes. 

" It's no use trying to talk," said Maria 
sullenly, " if you laugh so. I told you there 
was a Band ever so many of us rose 
up and agreed that we would belong to 
it." 

" Matilda, are you in it too ? " the mother 
asked. 

" No, mamma." 

" Why not ? How comes that ? " 

" She wasn't ready," her sister said. 

"Why not, Tilly?" 



" Mamma, I want to understand," said ' .  
child. 

" Quite right ; so do I." 

" Wouldn't you do what Mr. Richmond 
says, whether you understand or not ? " inquired Maria severely. 

" I would rather know what it is, first," said 
Matilda in her way, which was a compound 
of cool and demure, but quite natural. 

"And when is the next meeting?" said 
Letitia. I guess I'll go." 

" It won't be for a week," said Matilda. 

" And will you join the Band, Letty ? " 
Maria asked somewhat eagerly. 

"How, join it?" 

" Why, rise up, when you are asked." 

" What does ' rising up ' mean, Maria ? 
What do you rise for?" 

" Why, it means just that you promise to 
be good, you know." 

" But I have heard you promise that a 
number of times, it seems to me; without 
I rising up,' as you call it Will the promise 



lot 'better, if you make it on your feet instead 
of sitting?" 

" Now mamma," said Maria, flushing, "isn't 
that just wicked in Letitia? " 

" My dear, I do not understand one word 
at present of what this is all about," her 
mother answered. 

Perhaps Matilda was in the same mood, 
for she was a thoughtful little child all the 
way to school that morning. And at the 
close of the school day, when the children 
were going home, she went slowly and demurely along the icy street, while her sister 
and companions made a merry time. There 
had been a little thaw in the middle of the 
day, and now it had turned cold again, and 
the sidewalks were a glare of ice. Matilda 
was afraid, and went cautiously ; Maria and 
the others took the opportunity for a grand 
slide, and ran and slipped and slid and sailed 
away homewards, like mad things. One 
after another they passed her and rushed 
along, till Matilda was left the last, slowly 



shuffling her little feet over the track 
the feet of the others had made doubly slippery. When quick steps came up behind her, 
and a pleasant voice spoke. 

" Are you afraid you are going to tumble 
down?" 

Matilda started, but lifted her eyes very 
contentedly then to the face of the speaker. 
They had a good way to go, for he was a tall 
young man. But he was looking down 
towards her with a bright face, and two good, 
clear blue eyes, and a smile; and his hand 
presently clasped hers. Matilda had no objec 
tion. 

" Where is everybody else ? how come 
you to be all alone ? " 

" They have gone ahead, sliding on the 
ice." 

" And you do not practise sliding ? " 

" I am always afraid I shall fall down." 

" The best way is not to be afraid ; and there
you don't fall down. See no! hold fast; 
I shall not let you slip. " 




the gentleman and Matilda slid along 
the street for half a block. 

" How do you like that ? " 

" Very well, Mr. Richmond with you 
holding me." 

" It doesn't give you courage, eh ? Well, 
we will walk on soberly together. I didn't 
see you stand when Maria did last night?" 

" Mr. Richmond, I did not know just what 
it all meant ; and so I sat still." 

' You did not know just what it all 
meant?" 

" No, sir." 

" Then you were perfectly right to sit still. 
But that means that I did not speak so that 
you could understand me ? Was it so ? " 

" I did not understand " said Matilda. 

" It comes to that, I suppose. It is my 
fault. Well, I shall remember and be very 
careful what I say the next time. I will 
speak so that you will understand. But in 
that case I want you to do one thing for me, 
Tilly, will you?" 




" If I can, Mr. Richmond." 

" Do you think I would ask something you 
could not do ? " 

Matilda looked up to the blue eyes again ; 
they were fastened upon her gravely, and she 
hesitated. 

" Mr. Richmond I don't know. You 
might." 

" I hope not," he said, smiling. " I will try 
not. You won't promise me ? " 

" If I can I will, Mr. Richmond." 

" I am only going to ask you When you 
hear what I have to say next time, if you 
understand it, will you do what you think 
you ought to do ? " 

There fell a silence upon that. Mr. Richmond's firm step on the icy ground and 
Matilda's light footfall passed by house after 
house, and still the little one's tongue seemed 
to be tied. They turned the corner, and went 
their way along Matilda's own street, where 
the light of afternoon was now fading, and 
the western sky was throwing a reflection of 



 

its own. Past the butcher's shop, and the post 
office, and house after house; and still Matilda 
was silent, and her conductor did not speak. 
Until they stopped before the little gate lead- 
ing to the house, which was placed somewhat 
back from the road. At the gate Mr. Richmond stood still. 

"What about my question, Matilda?" he 
said, without loosing his hold of the little 
hand which had rested so willingly in his all 
the way. 

" Aren't you coming in, Mr. Richmond ? " 

" Not to-night. What about my question ? " 

" Mr. Richmond," said the child slowly, 
" I do not always do the things I ought to do." 

" No, I know you do not. But will you do 
that thing, which you will think you ought to 
do, when you have heard me and understood 
what I say, the next time the Band has a meet- 
ing?" 

Matilda stood silent, her hand still in Mr. 
Richmond's. 

" What's the matter ? " 



" Perhaps I shall not want to do it," she 
said looking up frankly. 

" I ask you to do it, all the same." 

Matilda did not move, and now her face 
shewed great perplexity. 

"Well?" said Mr. Richmond, smiling at 
last. 

" Perhaps I cannot do it, Mr. Richmond ? " 

" Then, if you think you cannot do it, will 
you come and tell me ? " 

Matilda hesitated and pondered and hesi- 
tated. 

" Do you wish it very much, Mr. Richmond ? " she said, looking up appealingly into 
his face. 

" I do wish it very much." 

" Then I will! " said Matilda, with a sigh. 

He nodded, shook her hand, and turned 
'away with quick steps. Matilda went in and 
climbed the stairs to the room she and Maria 
shared together. 

" What were you talking to Mr. Richmond 
so long about ? " said Maria. 



" I wasn't talking to Mr. Richmond. He 
was talking to me." 

" What's the difference ? But I wish he 
would talk to Ailie Swan ; she wants it, I 
know. That girl is too much ! " 

What has she done ? " 

" O, you don't know ; she isn't in your set. 
J know. She's just disagreeable. I think 
people ought to be civil, if they are ever so 
good." 

" I thought good people were civil always." 

" Shows you don't know much." 

" Isn't Ailie Swan civil ? " 

" I do not call it civility. What do you 
think, Tilly ? I asked her if my South America wasn't good ? and she said she thought it 
was not. Isn't that civility ? " 

" What did you ask her for ? " 

" Because ! I knew my South America 
was good." 

Let me see it." 

" Nonsense ! You do not know the first 
thing about it." But she gave her little sister 



 

the sheet on which the map was drawn. 
Matilda took it to a table under the window, 
where the dying light from the western sky 
fell brightest; and putting both elbows on the 
table and her head in her hands, studied the 
map. 

" Where is the Atlas ? " 

" What do you want of the Atlas? " 

" I want to see if it is like." 

" It is like, of course, child." 

" I can't tell without seeing," Matilda persisted. And Maria grumblingly brought the 
Atlas, open at the map in question. Matilda 
took it and studied anew. 

" It is getting dark," said she at length. 
" But your South America is crooked, Maria." 

" It isn't ! " said Maria vehemently. " How 
should it be crooked ? when we angle it on, 
just according to the rules." 

" Angle it on ? " repeated Matilda, looking 
at her sister. 

" Yes. O, you don't understand, child ; how 
should you ? I told you you didn't know any- 



 

thing about it. Of course, we have rules and 
things to go by ; and my South America was 
put on just right." 

" It is not straight, though," said Matilda. 

" Why, no, it isn't straight ; it is not meant 
to be straight ; it is all crookly crawly, going 
in and out, all round." 

"But it don't stand straight," said Ma- 
tilda ; " and it looks thin, too, Maria ; it don't 
puff out as much as the real South America 
does." 

" Puff out! " Maria repeated. " It's as good 
as Ailie's, anyhow ; and a great deal better 
than Frances Earth's. Frances got a great 
blot on hers ; she's so careless. George Van 
Dyke is making a nice one ; and Ben Barth 
is doing a splendid map ; but then Ben does 
everything " 

Here there was a great call to tea from below, and the girls went down. Downstairs 
there was excitement. A letter had come from 
Mrs. Candy, Mrs. Englefield's sister, saying 
that she herself with her daughter Clarissa 



 

would be with them the beginning of the 
week. . 

" To stay, mamma ? O mamma, is Aunt 
Candy coming to stay ? Do tell me. Is she coming to stay ? " Maria exclaimed and questioned. 

" She will stay a night with us, Maria. 
Don't be so eager." 

" Only a night, mamma? Won't she be 
here longer ? " 

" She is coming to stay till summer, Maria," 
said her eldest sister. " Do be reasonable." 

" I think it is reasonable to want to know," 
said Maria. " You knew ; so you didn't care 
about it." 

 " I care a great deal ; what do you mean ? " 
said Anne. 

" I mean you didn't care about knowing. 
O mamma, can't I have my dress finished be- 
fore they come ? " 

" What dress, Maria ? " her sister went 
on; for Mrs. Englefield was busy with the 
letter. 



 

" My new merino. It is almost done ; it 
only wants finishing." 

" There's all the braid to put on, isn't 
there?" 

" Well, that isn't much. Mamma, cannot I 
have my red merino finished before they come ? 
I have got nothing to wear." 

" What can you mean, Maria ? You have 
everything you want. That is only for your 
best dress." 

" But, mamma, it is just when I should want 
it, when they come ; you'll be having everybody to tea. Won't you have it done for me ? 
please, mamma ? " 

" I think you can do it for yourself, Maria. 
I have no objection to your finishing it." 

" I cannot put on that braid in that 
quirlicue pattern, mamma ; I never did 
such work as that; and I haven't time, besides." 

" Nor inclination," said Letitia laughing. 
" Come, Maria, it is time you learned to do 
something for yourself. Matilda, now, might 



 

plead inexperience, and have some reason ; 
but you are quite old enough." 

The dispute would have gone on, but Mrs. 
Englefield desired silence, and the family drew 
round the tea-table. Other plans for the following weeks filled every tongue. Mrs. 
Candy was well off; a widow with one child, 
her daughter Clarissa ; she had been in Europe 
for several years ; coming back now to 
her own country, she was bending her steps 
first of all to her sister's house and family. 

" We shall have the new fashions, straight 
from Paris," Anne remarked. 

" Has Aunt Candy been in Paris ? I thought 
she was in Scotland, mamma ? " 

" People may go to Paris, if they have been 
in Scotland, Maria. It is not so far as around 
the world." 

" But has she been in Paris ? " 

Lately." 

" Mamma, what is Aunt Candy going to do 
with herself when summer comes ? She says, 
till summer.' " 


" When she tells us, I shall know, Letty 
At present I am as ignorant as you." 

" Do you think she will buy a house here, 
and make her home here ? " 

" That depends on how well she likes 
Shadywalk, I imagine." 

" I hope she will ! " 

" I would like to see, first, what she is," 
said Maria. " We shall have time enough for 
that, if they stay with us till summer. How 
old, mamma, is Clarissa Candy ? " 

" Over your age, Maria, by a year or so." 

" Will she go to school with us, do you 
suppose, mamma? " 

" I really cannot tell, Maria. I think it 
very likely." 

" Is Aunt Candy very rich ? " 

" You talk like a foolish girl. Why do you 
want to know ? " 

" I was thinking whether Clarissa would be 
dressed a great deal better than we are." 

" And what if she is ? " 

Nothing. I was thinking. That's all." 




" I don't think it signifies," said Matilda. 

" O, Matilda has found her tongue. I
was waiting to see when she would speak," 
cried Anne. What don't signify, little one ? " 

" It don't signify, I think, whether any one 
is dressed better than another ; anybody ; 
Clarissa or anybody else." 

" Well, you are mistaken then," said 
Anne; "for it does signify. All the world 
knows it ; and what is more, all the world 
feels it." 

' I don't think I do," said Matilda. 

" Your time has not come." 

" Tour time had come, though, before you 
were as old as she," said her mother ; " and 
Maria's, and Letty's." 

" I know, Matilda is a wonderful child," 
said Anne, " but her time will come too, 
mamma ; and she will find it makes a difference whether she is dressed one way or 
another." 

" I think that now," observed Matilda. 

" Anybody that has to fasten Tilly's dresses 



 

knows that," laughed Maria. " I don't make 
half so much fuss." 

"I wish you did," said her mother. " You 
are not near careful enough, in putting on 
your things. Now putting on is half the 
battle." 

The argument lasted till Tilly and Maria 
went back to the consideration of South 
America; which was brought downstairs to 
the lamp. 

" You haven't got the Amazon right," said 
Matilda ; " and Rio Janeiro is too far down ; 
and it's all crooked don't you see ? " 

"No!" said Maria; "and if it is, Ailie 
Swan needn't have said hers was better." 

You asked her." 

"Well, what if I did?" 

" What could she say ? " 

" I don't care ; it was awfully rude ; and 
people ought to be polite, if they're ever so 
good." 

"What is all that?" said Mrs. Englefield. 
That is not Tilly's map ? " 



 

" O, no, mamma ; she can't draw maps ; she 
is only setting up for a judge." 

" She would do it as well as that, if she 
would try," said her mother. " I wish you 
would love your studies, Matilda. You could 
do so well if you pleased." 

" Clarissa Candy will make you both 
ashamed," said Anne. " She has learned 
everything, and is terribly smart ; ' going 
on to learn everything else,' her mother 



" Mamma," said Maria, " I have only my 
green silk and my blue delaine for nice dresses ; 
and the silk is old-fashioned, you know, and 
the delaine is too short ; and I want my merino 
finished." 

Finish it, then." 

Maria pouted. 

" I cannot afford every indulgence to you, 
as your aunt can to Clarissa ; you must make 
it up by your own industry." 

" But can I, mamma ? " 

" Can you what ? " 



 

