the sobs that shook her frame, while she sought to draw from the
servant that last message of her husband which she was never to hear,
was not thought worthy even of the rights of common humanity.
The first volume of the 'Memoir' came out in 1830. Then for the first
time came one flash of lightning from the silent cloud; and she who
had never spoken before spoke out. The libels on the memory of her
dead parents drew from her what her own wrongs never did. During all
this time, while her husband had been keeping her effigy dangling
before the public as a mark for solemn curses, and filthy lampoons,
and secretly-circulated disclosures, that spared no sacredness
and violated every decorum, she had not uttered a word. She had
been subjected to nameless insults, discussed in the assemblies of
drunkards, and challenged to speak for herself. Like the chaste lady
in 'Comus,' whom the vile wizard had bound in the enchanted seat to
be 'grinned at and chattered at' by all the filthy rabble of his
dehumanised rout, she had remained pure, lofty, and undefiled; and the
stains of mud and mire thrown upon her had fallen from her spotless
garments.
Now that she is dead, a recent writer in 'The London Quarterly' dares
give voice to an insinuation which even Byron gave only a suggestion
of when he called his wife Clytemnestra; and hints that she tried the
power of youth and beauty to win to her the young solicitor Lushington,
and a handsome young officer of high rank.
At this time, such insinuations had not been thought of; and the only
and chief allegation against Lady Byron had been a cruel severity of
virtue.
At all events, when Lady Byron spoke, the world listened with respect,
and believed what she said.
Here let us, too, read her statement, and give it the careful attention
she solicits (Moore's 'Life of Byron,' vol. vi. p. 275):--
 'I have disregarded various publications in which facts within my
 own knowledge have been grossly misrepresented; but I am called upon
 to notice some of the erroneous statements proceeding from one who
 claims to be considered as Lord Byron's confidential and authorised
 friend. Domestic details ought not to be intruded on the public
 attention: if, however, they are so intruded, the persons affected
 by them have a right to refute injurious charges. Mr. Moore has
 promulgated his own impressions of private events in which I was most
 nearly concerned, as if he possessed a competent knowledge of the
 subject. Having survived Lord Byron, I feel increased reluctance to
 advert to any circumstances connected with the period of my marriage;
 nor is it now my intention to disclose them further than may be
 indispensably requisite for the end I have in view. Self-vindication
 is not the motive which actuates me to make this appeal, and the
 spirit of accusation is unmingled with it; but when the conduct of
 my parents is brought forward in a disgraceful light by the passages
 selected from Lord Byron's letters, and by the remarks of his
 biographer, I feel bound to justify their characters from imputations
 which I know to be false. The passages from Lord Byron's letters, to
 which I refer, are,--the aspersion on my mother's character (p. 648,
 l. 4):[19] "My child is very well and flourishing, I hear; but I must
 see also. I feel no disposition to resign it to the contagion of its
 grandmother's society." The assertion of her dishonourable conduct
 in employing a spy (p. 645, l. 7, &c.): "A Mrs. C. (now a kind of
 housekeeper and spy of Lady N.'s), who, in her better days, was a
 washerwoman, is supposed to be--by the learned--very much the occult
 cause of our domestic discrepancies." The seeming exculpation of
 myself in the extract (p. 646), with the words immediately following
 it, "Her nearest relations are a----;" where the blank clearly implies
 something too offensive for publication. These passages tend to throw
 suspicion on my parents, and give reason to ascribe the separation
 either to their direct agency, or to that of "officious spies"
 employed by them.[20] From the following part of the narrative (p.
 642), it must also be inferred that an undue influence was exercised
 by them for the accomplishment of this purpose: "It was in a few
 weeks after the latter communication between us (Lord Byron and Mr.
 Moore) that Lady Byron adopted the determination of parting from him.
 She had left London at the latter end of January, on a visit to her
 father's house in Leicestershire; and Lord Byron was in a short time
 to follow her. They had parted in the utmost kindness,--she wrote
 him a letter, full of playfulness and affection, on the road; and,
 immediately on her arrival at Kirkby Mallory, her father wrote to
 acquaint Lord Byron that she would return to him no more."
 [Footnote 19: The references are to the first volume of the first
 edition of Moore's Life', originally published by itself.]
 [Footnote 20: 'The officious spies of his privacy,' p. 650.]
 'In my observations upon this statement, I shall, as far as possible,
 avoid touching on any matters relating personally to Lord Byron
 and myself. The facts are,--I left London for Kirkby Mallory, the
 residence of my father and mother, on the 15th of January, 1816.
 Lord Byron had signified to me in writing (Jan. 6) his absolute
 desire that I should leave London on the earliest day that I could
 conveniently fix. It was not safe for me to undertake the fatigue of a
 journey sooner than the 15th. Previously to my departure, it had been
 strongly impressed on my mind that Lord Byron was under the influence
 of insanity. This opinion was derived in a great measure from the
 communications made to me by his nearest relatives and personal
 attendant, who had more opportunities than myself of observing him
 during the latter part of my stay in town. It was even represented to
 me that he was in danger of destroying himself. With the concurrence
 of his family, I had consulted Dr. Baillie, as a friend (Jan. 8),
 respecting this supposed malady. On acquainting him with the state of
 the case, and with Lord Byron's desire that I should leave London, Dr.
 Baillie thought that my absence might be advisable as an experiment,
 assuming the fact of mental derangement; for Dr. Baillie, not
 having had access to Lord Byron, could not pronounce a positive
 opinion on that point. He enjoined that, in correspondence with Lord
 Byron, I should avoid all but light and soothing topics. Under these
 impressions I left London, determined to follow the advice given by
 Dr. Baillie. Whatever might have been the nature of Lord Byron's
 conduct towards me from the time of my marriage, yet, supposing him
 to be in a state of mental alienation, it was not for me, nor for
 any person of common humanity, to manifest at that moment a sense
 of injury. On the day of my departure, and again on my arrival at
 Kirkby (Jan. 16), I wrote to Lord Byron in a kind and cheerful tone,
 according to those medical directions.
 'The last letter was circulated, and employed as a pretext for the
 charge of my having been subsequently influenced to "desert"[21] my
 husband. It has been argued that I parted from Lord Byron in perfect
 harmony; that feelings incompatible with any deep sense of injury had
 dictated the letter which I addressed to him; and that my sentiments
 must have been changed by persuasion and interference when I was
 under the roof of my parents. These assertions and inferences are
 wholly destitute of foundation. When I arrived at Kirkby Mallory, my
 parents were unacquainted with the existence of any causes likely to
 destroy my prospects of happiness; and, when I communicated to them
 the opinion which had been formed concerning Lord Byron's state of
 mind, they were most anxious to promote his restoration by every means
 in their power. They assured those relations who were with him in
 London, that "they would devote their whole care and attention to the
 alleviation of his malady;" and hoped to make the best arrangements
 for his comfort if he could be induced to visit them.
 [Footnote 21: 'The deserted husband,' p. 651.]
 'With these intentions, my mother wrote on the 17th to Lord Byron,
 inviting him to Kirkby Mallory. She had always treated him with an
 affectionate consideration and indulgence, which extended to every
 little peculiarity of his feelings. Never did an irritating word
 escape her lips in her whole intercourse with him. The accounts given
 me after I left Lord Byron, by the persons in constant intercourse
 with him, added to those doubts which had before transiently occurred
 to my mind as to the reality of the alleged disease; and the reports
 of his medical attendant were far from establishing the existence of
 anything like lunacy. Under this uncertainty, I deemed it right to
 communicate to my parents, that, if I were to consider Lord Byron's
 past conduct as that of a person of sound mind, nothing could induce
 me to return to him. It therefore appeared expedient, both to them and
 myself, to consult the ablest advisers. For that object, and also
 to obtain still further information respecting the appearances which
 seemed to indicate mental derangement, my mother determined to go to
 London. She was empowered by me to take legal opinions on a written
 statement of mine, though I had then reasons for reserving a part
 of the case from the knowledge even of my father and mother. Being
 convinced by the result of these inquiries, and by the tenor of Lord
 Byron's proceedings, that the notion of insanity was an illusion, I no
 longer hesitated to authorise such measures as were necessary in order
 to secure me from being ever again placed in his power. Conformably
 with this resolution, my father wrote to him on the 2nd of February
 to propose an amicable separation. Lord Byron at first rejected this
 proposal; but when it was distinctly notified to him that, if he
 persisted in his refusal, recourse must be had to legal measures, he
 agreed to sign a deed of separation. Upon applying to Dr. Lushington,
 who was intimately acquainted with all the circumstances, to state in
 writing what he recollected upon this subject, I received from him the
 following letter, by which it will be manifest that my mother cannot
 have been actuated by any hostile or ungenerous motives towards Lord
 Byron:--
 '"MY DEAR LADY BYRON,--I can rely upon the accuracy of
 my memory for the following statement. I was originally consulted
 by Lady Noel, on your behalf, whilst you were in the country. The
 circumstances detailed by her were such as justified a separation;
 but they were not of that aggravated description as to render such
 a measure indispensable. On Lady Noel's representation, I deemed a
 reconciliation with Lord Byron practicable, and felt most sincerely
 a wish to aid in effecting it. There was not on Lady Noel's part
 any exaggeration of the facts; nor, so far as I could perceive, any
 determination to prevent a return to Lord Byron: certainly none was
 expressed when I spoke of a reconciliation. When you came to town,
 in about a fortnight, or perhaps more, after my first interview with
 Lady Noel, I was for the first time informed by you of facts utterly
 unknown, as I have no doubt, to Sir Ralph and Lady Noel. On receiving
 this additional information, my opinion was entirely changed: I
 considered a reconciliation impossible. I declared my opinion, and
 added, that, if such an idea should be entertained, I could not,
 either professionally or otherwise, take any part towards effecting it.
  '"Believe me, very faithfully yours,
  '"STEPH. LUSHINGTON.
  '"Great George Street, Jan. 31, 1830."
 'I have only to observe, that, if the statements on which my legal
 advisers (the late Sir Samuel Romilly and Dr. Lushington) formed
 their opinions were false, the responsibility and the odium should
 rest with me only. I trust that the facts which I have here briefly
 recapitulated will absolve my father and mother from all accusations
 with regard to the part they took in the separation between Lord Byron
 and myself.
 'They neither originated, instigated, nor advised that separation;
 and they cannot be condemned for having afforded to their daughter
 the assistance and protection which she claimed. There is no other
 near relative to vindicate their memory from insult. I am therefore
 compelled to break the silence which I had hoped always to observe,
 and to solicit from the readers of Lord Byron's "Life" an impartial
 consideration of the testimony extorted from me.
  'A. I. NOEL BYRON.
  'Hanger Hill, Feb. 19, 1830.'
The effect of this statement on the literary world may be best judged
by the discussion of it by Christopher North (Wilson) in the succeeding
May number of 'The Noctes,' where the bravest and most generous of
literary men that then were--himself the husband of a gentle wife--thus
gives sentence: the conversation is between North and the Shepherd:--
 North.--'God forbid I should wound the feelings of Lady Byron, of
 whose character, known to me but by the high estimation in which
 it is held by all who have enjoyed her friendship, I have always
 spoken with respect!... But may I, without harshness or indelicacy,
 say, here among ourselves, James, that, by marrying Byron, she took
 upon herself, with eyes wide open and conscience clearly convinced,
 duties very different from those of which, even in common cases, the
 presaging foresight shadows ... the light of the first nuptial moon?'
 Shepherd.--'She did that, sir; by my troth, she did that.'
 North.--'Miss Milbanke knew that he was reckoned a rake and a
 roué; and although his genius wiped off, by impassioned eloquence
 in love-letters that were felt to be irresistible, or hid the worst
 stain of, that reproach, still Miss Milbanke must have believed it a
 perilous thing to be the wife of Lord Byron.... But still, by joining
 her life to his in marriage, she pledged her troth and her faith and
 her love, under probabilities of severe, disturbing, perhaps fearful
 trials, in the future....
 'But I think Lady Byron ought not to have printed that Narrative.
 Death abrogates not the rights of a husband to his wife's silence
 when speech is fatal ... to his character as a man. Has she not
 flung suspicion over his bones interred, that they are the bones of
 a--monster?... If Byron's sins or crimes--for we are driven to use
 terrible terms--were unendurable and unforgivable as if against the
 Holy Ghost, ought the wheel, the rack, or the stake to have extorted
 that confession from his widow's breast.... But there was no such
 pain here, James: the declaration was voluntary, and it was calm.
 Self-collected, and gathering up all her faculties and feelings
 into unshrinking strength, she denounced before all the world--and
 throughout all space and all time--her husband, as excommunicated by
 his vices from woman's bosom.
        *       *       *       *       *
 ''Twas to vindicate the character of her parents that Lady Byron
 wrote,--a holy purpose and devout, nor do I doubt sincere. But filial
 affection and reverence, sacred as they are, may be blamelessly, nay,
 righteously, subordinate to conjugal duties, which die not with the
 dead, are extinguished not even by the sins of the dead, were they as
 foul as the grave's corruption.'
Here is what John Stuart Mill calls the literature of slavery for
woman, in length and breadth; and, that all women may understand the
doctrine, the Shepherd now takes up his parable, and expounds the true
position of the wife. We render his Scotch into English:--
 'Not a few such widows do I know, whom brutal, profligate, and savage
 husbands have brought to the brink of the grave,--as good, as bright,
 as innocent as, and far more forgiving than, Lady Byron. There
 they sit in their obscure, rarely-visited dwellings; for sympathy
 instructed by suffering knows well that the deepest and most hopeless
 misery is least given to complaint.'
Then follows a pathetic picture of one such widow, trembling and
fainting for hunger, obliged, on her way to the well for a can of
water, her only drink, to sit down on a 'knowe' and say a prayer.
 'Yet she's decently, yea, tidily dressed, poor creature! in sair worn
 widow's clothes, a single suit for Saturday and Sunday; her hair,
 untimely gray, is neatly braided under her crape cap; and sometimes,
 when all is still and solitary in the fields, and all labour has
 disappeared into the house, you may see her stealing by herself, or
 leading one wee orphan by the hand, with another at her breast, to the
 kirkyard, where the love of her youth and the husband of her prime is
 buried.
 'Yet,' says the Shepherd, 'he was a brute, a ruffian, a monster. When
 drunk, how he raged and cursed and swore! Often did she dread that, in
 his fits of inhuman passion, he would have murdered the baby at her
 breast; for she had seen him dash their only little boy, a child of
 eight years old, on the floor, till the blood gushed from his ears;
 and then the madman threw himself down on the body, and howled for
 the gallows. Limmers haunted his door, and he theirs; and it was hers
 to lie, not sleep, in a cold, forsaken bed, once the bed of peace,
 affection, and perfect happiness. Often he struck her; and once when
 she was pregnant with that very orphan now smiling on her breast,
 reaching out his wee fingers to touch the flowers on his father's
 grave....
 'But she tries to smile among the neighbours, and speaks of her boy's
 likeness to its father; nor, when the conversation turns on bygone
 times, does she fear to let his name escape her white lips, "My
 Robert; the bairn's not ill-favoured, but he will never look like his
 father,"--and such sayings, uttered in a calm, sweet voice. Nay, I
 remember once how her pale countenance reddened with a sudden flush
 of pride, when a gossiping crone alluded to their wedding; and the
 widow's eye brightened through her tears to hear how the bridegroom,
 sitting that sabbath in his front seat beside his bonny bride, had
 not his equal for strength, stature, and all that is beauty in man,
 in all the congregation. That, I say, sir, whether right or wrong,
 was--forgiveness.'
Here is a specimen of how even generous men had been so perverted by
the enchantment of Lord Byron's genius, as to turn all the pathos and
power of the strongest literature of that day against the persecuted,
pure woman, and for the strong, wicked man. These 'Blackwood' writers
knew, by Byron's own filthy, ghastly writings, which had gone sorely
against their own moral stomachs, that he was foul to the bone. They
could see, in Moore's 'Memoirs' right before them, how he had caught an
innocent girl's heart by sending a love-letter, and offer of marriage,
at the end of a long friendly correspondence,--a letter that had been
written to show to his libertine set, and sent on the toss-up of a
copper, because he cared nothing for it one way or the other.
They admit that, having won this poor girl, he had been savage, brutal,
drunken, cruel. They had read the filthy taunts in 'Don Juan,' and the
nameless abominations in the 'Autobiography.' They had admitted among
themselves that his honour was lost; but still this abused, desecrated
woman must reverence her brutal master's memory, and not speak, even
to defend the grave of her own kind father and mother.
That there was no lover of her youth, that the marriage-vow had been
a hideous, shameless cheat, is on the face of Moore's account; yet
the 'Blackwood' does not see it nor feel it, and brings up against
Lady Byron this touching story of a poor widow, who really had had a
true lover once,--a lover maddened, imbruted, lost, through that very
drunkenness in which the Noctes Club were always glorying.
It is because of such transgressors as Byron, such supporters as
Moore and the Noctes Club, that there are so many helpless, cowering,
broken-hearted, abject women, given over to the animal love which they
share alike with the poor dog,--the dog, who, beaten, kicked, starved,
and cuffed, still lies by his drunken master with great anxious eyes
of love and sorrow, and with sweet, brute forgiveness nestles upon his
bosom, as he lies in his filth in the snowy ditch, to keep the warmth
of life in him. Great is the mystery of this fidelity in the poor,
loving brute,--most mournful and most sacred!
But, oh that a noble man should have no higher ideal of the love of a
high-souled, heroic woman! Oh that men should teach women that they
owe no higher duties, and are capable of no higher tenderness, than
this loving, unquestioning animal fidelity! The dog is ever-loving,
ever-forgiving, because God has given him no high range of moral
faculties, no sense of justice, no consequent horror at impurity and
vileness.
Much of the beautiful patience and forgiveness of women is made
possible to them by that utter deadness to the sense of justice which
the laws, literature, and misunderstood religion of England have sought
to induce in woman as a special grace and virtue.
The lesson to woman in this pathetic piece of special pleading is,
that man may sink himself below the brute, may wallow in filth like
the swine, may turn his home into a hell, beat and torture his
children, forsake the marriage-bed for foul rivals; yet all this does
not dissolve the marriage-vow on her part, nor free his bounden serf
from her obligation to honour his memory,--nay, to sacrifice to it
the honour due to a kind father and mother, slandered in their silent
graves.
Such was the sympathy, and such the advice, that the best literature
of England could give to a young widow, a peeress of England, whose
husband, as they verily believed and admitted, might have done
worse than all this; whose crimes might have been 'foul, monstrous,
unforgivable as the sin against the Holy Ghost.' If these things be
done in the green tree, what shall be done in the dry? If the peeress
as a wife has no rights, what is the state of the cotter's wife?
But, in the same paper, North again blames Lady Byron for not
having come out with the whole story before the world at the time
she separated from her husband. He says of the time when she first
consulted counsel through her mother, keeping back one item,--
 'How weak, and worse than weak, at such a juncture, on which hung her
 whole fate, to ask legal advice on an imperfect document! Give the
 delicacy of a virtuous woman its due; but at such a crisis, when the
 question was whether her conscience was to be free from the oath of
 oaths, delicacy should have died, and nature was privileged to show
 unashamed--if such there were--the records of uttermost pollution.'
 Shepherd.--'And what think ye, sir, that a' this pollution could hae
 been, that sae electrified Dr. Lushington?'
 North.--'Bad--bad--bad, James. Nameless, it is horrible; named,
 it might leave Byron's memory yet within the range of pity and
 forgiveness; and, where they are, their sister affections will not be
 far; though, like weeping seraphs, standing aloof, and veiling their
 wings.'
 Shepherd.--'She should indeed hae been silent--till the grave had
 closed on her sorrows as on his sins.'
 North.--'Even now she should speak,--or some one else for her,--
 ... and a few words will suffice. Worse the condition of the dead
 man's name cannot be--far, far better it might--I believe it would
 be--were all the truth somehow or other declared; and declared it
 must be, not for Byron's sake only, but for the sake of humanity
 itself; and then a mitigated sentence, or eternal silence.'
We have another discussion of Lady Byron's duties in a further number
of 'Blackwood.'
The 'Memoir' being out, it was proposed that there should be a complete
annotation of Byron's works gotten up, and adorned, for the further
glorification of his memory, with portraits of the various women whom
he had delighted to honour.
Murray applied to Lady Byron for her portrait, and was met with a cold,
decided negative. After reading all the particulars of Byron's harem of
mistresses, and Moore's comparisons between herself and La Guiccioli,
one might imagine reasons why a lady, with proper self-respect,
should object to appearing in this manner. One would suppose there
might have been gentlemen who could well appreciate the motive of
that refusal; but it was only considered a new evidence that she was
indifferent to her conjugal duties, and wanting in that respect which
Christopher North had told her she owed a husband's memory, though his
crimes were foul as the rottenness of the grave.
Never, since Queen Vashti refused to come at the command of a drunken
husband to show herself to his drunken lords, was there a clearer case
of disrespect to the marital dignity on the part of a wife. It was a
plain act of insubordination, rebellion against law and order; and
how shocking in Lady Byron, who ought to feel herself but too much
flattered to be exhibited to the public as the head wife of a man of
genius!
Means were at once adopted to subdue her contumacy, of which one may
read in a note to the 'Blackwood' (Noctes), September 1832. An artist
was sent down to Ealing to take her picture by stealth as she sat in
church. Two sittings were thus obtained without her knowledge. In the
third one, the artist placed himself boldly before her, and sketched,
so that she could not but observe him. We shall give the rest in
Mackenzie's own words, as a remarkable specimen of the obtuseness,
not to say indelicacy of feeling, which seemed to pervade the literary
circles of England at the time:--
 'After prayers, Wright and his friend (the artist) were visited by
 an ambassador from her ladyship to inquire the meaning of what she
 had seen. The reply was, that Mr. Murray must have her portrait,
 and was compelled to take what she refused to give. The result was,
 Wright was requested to visit her, which he did; taking with him,
 not the sketch, which was very good, but another, in which there
 was a strong touch of caricature. Rather than allow that to appear
 as her likeness (a very natural and womanly feeling by the way), she
 consented to sit for the portrait to W. J. Newton, which was engraved,
 and is here alluded to.'
The artless barbarism of this note is too good to be lost; but it
is quite borne out by the conversation in the Noctes Club, which it
illustrates.
It would appear from this conversation that these Byron beauties
appeared successively in pamphlet form; and the picture of Lady Byron
is thus discussed:--
 Mullion.--'I don't know if you have seen the last brochure. It has a
 charming head of Lady Byron, who, it seems, sat on purpose: and that's
 very agreeable to hear of; for it shows her ladyship has got over any
 little soreness that Moore's "Life" occasioned, and is now willing
 to contribute anything in her power to the real monument of Byron's
 genius.'
 North.--'I am delighted to hear of this: 'tis really very noble in
 the unfortunate lady. I never saw her. Is the face a striking one?'
 Mullion.--'Eminently so,--a most calm, pensive, melancholy style of
 native beauty,--and a most touching contrast to the maids of Athens,
 Annesley, and all the rest of them. I'm sure you'll have the proof
 Finden has sent you framed for the Boudoir at the Lodge.'
 North.--'By all means. I mean to do that for all the Byron Beauties.'
But it may be asked, Was there not a man in all England with delicacy
enough to feel for Lady Byron, and chivalry enough to speak a bold word
for her? Yes: there was one. Thomas Campbell the poet, when he read
Lady Byron's statement, believed it, as did Christopher North; but it
affected him differently. It appears he did not believe it a wife's
duty to burn herself on her husband's funeral-pile, as did Christopher
North; and held the singular idea, that a wife had some rights as a
human being as well as a husband.
Lady Byron's own statement appeared in pamphlet form in 1830: at
least, such is the date at the foot of the document. Thomas Campbell,
in 'The New Monthly Magazine,' shortly after, printed a spirited,
gentlemanly defence of Lady Byron, and administered a pointed rebuke to
Moore for the rudeness and indelicacy he had shown in selecting from
Byron's letters the coarsest against herself, her parents, and her
old governess Mrs. Clermont, and by the indecent comparisons he had
instituted between Lady Byron and Lord Byron's last mistress.
It is refreshing to hear, at last, from somebody who is not altogether
on his knees at the feet of the popular idol, and who has some chivalry
for woman, and some idea of common humanity. He says,--
 'I found my right to speak on this painful subject on its now
 irrevocable publicity, brought up afresh as it has been by Mr.
 Moore, to be the theme of discourse to millions, and, if I err not
 much, the cause of misconception to innumerable minds. I claim to
 speak of Lady Byron in the right of a man, and of a friend to the
 rights of woman, and to liberty, and to natural religion. I claim a
 right, more especially, as one of the many friends of Lady Byron,
 who, one and all, feel aggrieved by this production. It has virtually
 dragged her forward from the shade of retirement, where she had hid
 her sorrows, and compelled her to defend the heads of her friends and
 her parents from being crushed under the tombstone of Byron. Nay, in a
 general view, it has forced her to defend herself; though, with her
 true sense and her pure taste, she stands above all special pleading.
 To plenary explanation she ought not--she never shall be driven.
 Mr. Moore is too much a gentleman not to shudder at the thought of
 that; but if other Byronists, of a far different stamp, were to force
 the savage ordeal, it is her enemies, and not she, that would have to
 dread the burning plough-shares.
 'We, her friends, have no wish to prolong the discussion: but a few
 words we must add, even to her admirable statement; for hers is a
 cause not only dear to her friends, but having become, from Mr. Moore
 and her misfortunes, a publicly-agitated cause, it concerns morality,
 and the most sacred rights of the sex, that she should (and that,
 too, without more special explanations) be acquitted out and out, and
 honourably acquitted, in this business, of all share in the blame,
 which is one and indivisible. Mr. Moore, on further reflection, may
 see this; and his return to candour will surprise us less than his
 momentary deviation from its path.
 'For the tact of Mr. Moore's conduct in this affair, I have not to
 answer; but, if indelicacy be charged upon me, I scorn the charge.
 Neither will I submit to be called Lord Byron's accuser; because a
 word against him I wish not to say beyond what is painfully wrung
 from me by the necessity of owning or illustrating Lady Byron's
 unblamableness, and of repelling certain misconceptions respecting
 her, which are now walking the fashionable world, and which have been
 fostered (though Heaven knows where they were born) most delicately
 and warily by the Christian godfathership of Mr. Moore.
 'I write not at Lady Byron's bidding. I have never humiliated either
 her or myself by asking if I should write, or what I should write;
 that is to say, I never applied to her for information against Lord
 Byron, though I was justified, as one intending to criticise Mr.
 Moore, in inquiring into the truth of some of his statements. Neither
 will I suffer myself to be called her champion, if by that word be
 meant the advocate of her mere legal innocence; for that, I take it,
 nobody questions.
 'Still less is it from the sorry impulse of pity that I speak of
 this noble woman; for I look with wonder and even envy at the proud
 purity of her sense and conscience, that have carried her exquisite
 sensibilities in triumph through such poignant tribulations. But
 I am proud to be called her friend, the humble illustrator of her
 cause, and the advocate of those principles which make it to me more
 interesting than Lord Byron's. Lady Byron (if the subject must be
 discussed) belongs to sentiment and morality (at least as much as Lord
 Byron); nor is she to be suffered, when compelled to speak, to raise
 her voice as in a desert, with no friendly voice to respond to her.
 Lady Byron could not have outlived her sufferings if she had not wound
 up her fortitude to the high point of trusting mainly for consolation,
 not to the opinion of the world, but to her own inward peace; and,
 having said what ought to convince the world, I verily believe that
 she has less care about the fashionable opinion respecting her than
 any of her friends can have. But we, her friends, mix with the world;
 and we hear offensive absurdities about her, which we have a right to
 put down.
        *       *       *       *       *
 'I proceed to deal more generally with Mr. Moore's book. You speak,
 Mr. Moore, against Lord Byron's censurers in a tone of indignation
 which is perfectly lawful towards calumnious traducers, but which will
 not terrify me, or any other man of courage who is no calumniator,
 from uttering his mind freely with regard to this part of your hero's
 conduct. I question your philosophy in assuming that all that is
 noble in Byron's poetry was inconsistent with the possibility of his
 being devoted to a pure and good woman; and I repudiate your morality
 for canting too complacently about "the lava of his imagination,"
 and the unsettled fever of his passions, being any excuses for his
 planting the tic douloureux of domestic suffering in a meek woman's
 bosom.
 'These are hard words, Mr. Moore; but you have brought them on
 yourself by your voluntary ignorance of facts known to me; for you
 might and ought to have known both sides of the question; and, if the
 subject was too delicate for you to consult Lady Byron's confidential
 friends, you ought to have had nothing to do with the subject. But you
 cannot have submitted your book even to Lord Byron's sister, otherwise
 she would have set you right about the imaginary spy, Mrs. Clermont.'
Campbell now goes on to print, at his own peril, he says, and without
time to ask leave, the following note from Lady Byron in reply to an
application he made to her, when he was about to review Moore's book,
for an 'estimate as to the correctness of Moore's statements.'
The following is Lady Byron's reply:--
 'DEAR MR. CAMPBELL,--In taking up my pen to point out
 for your private information[22] those passages in Mr. Moore's
 representation of my part of the story which were open to
 contradiction, I find them of still greater extent than I had
 supposed; and to deny an assertion here and there would virtually
 admit the truth of the rest. If, on the contrary, I were to enter into
 a full exposure of the falsehood of the views taken by Mr. Moore, I
 must detail various matters, which, consistently with my principles
 and feelings, I cannot under the existing circumstances disclose. I
 may, perhaps, convince you better of the difficulty of the case by
 an example: It is not true that pecuniary embarrassments were the
 cause of the disturbed state of Lord Byron's mind, or formed the
 chief reason for the arrangements made by him at that time. But is it
 reasonable for me to expect that you or any one else should believe
 this, unless I show you what were the causes in question? and this I
 cannot do. 'I am, &c.,
  'A. I. NOEL BYRON.'
[Footnote 22: 'I (Campbell) had not time to ask Lady Byron's permission
to print this private letter; but it seemed to me important, and I have
published it meo periculo.']
Campbell then goes on to reprove Moore for his injustice to Mrs.
Clermont, whom Lord Byron had denounced as a spy, but whose
respectability and innocence were vouched for by Lord Byron's own
family; and then he pointedly rebukes one false statement of great
indelicacy and cruelty concerning Lady Byron's courtship, as follows:--
 'It is a further mistake on Mr. Moore's part, and I can prove it to be
 so, if proof be necessary, to represent Lady Byron, in the course of
 their courtship, as one inviting her future husband to correspondence
 by letters after she had at first refused him. She never proposed a
 correspondence. On the contrary, he sent her a message after that
 first refusal, stating that he meant to go abroad, and to travel for
 some years in the East; that he should depart with a heart aching,
 but not angry; and that he only begged a verbal assurance that she
 had still some interest in his happiness. Could Miss Milbanke, as a
 well-bred woman, refuse a courteous answer to such a message? She sent
 him a verbal answer, which was merely kind and becoming, but which
 signified no encouragement that he should renew his offer of marriage.
 'After that message, he wrote to her a most interesting letter about
 himself,--about his views, personal, moral, and religious,--to which
 it would have been uncharitable not to have replied. The result was
 an insensibly increasing correspondence, which ended in her being
 devotedly attached to him. About that time, I occasionally saw Lord
 Byron; and though I knew less of him than Mr. Moore, yet I suspect I
 knew as much of him as Miss Milbanke then knew. At that time, he was
 so pleasing, that, if I had had a daughter with ample fortune and
 beauty, I should have trusted her in marriage with Lord Byron.
 'Mr. Moore at that period evidently understood Lord Byron better than
 either his future bride or myself; but this speaks more for Moore's
 shrewdness than for Byron's ingenuousness of character.
 'It is more for Lord Byron's sake than for his widow's that I resort
 not to a more special examination of Mr. Moore's misconceptions. The
 subject would lead me insensibly into hateful disclosures against poor
 Lord Byron, who is more unfortunate in his rash defenders than in
 his reluctant accusers. Happily, his own candour turns our hostility
 from himself against his defenders. It was only in wayward and bitter
 remarks that he misrepresented Lady Byron. He would have defended
 himself irresistibly if Mr. Moore had left only his acknowledging
 passages. But Mr. Moore has produced a "Life" of him which reflects
 blame on Lady Byron so dexterously, that "more is meant than meets
 the ear." The almost universal impression produced by his book is,
 that Lady Byron must be a precise and a wan, unwarming spirit, a
 blue-stocking of chilblained learning, a piece of insensitive goodness.
 'Who that knows Lady Byron will not pronounce her to be everything the
 reverse? Will it be believed that this person, so unsuitably matched
 to her moody lord, has written verses that would do no discredit to
 Byron himself; that her sensitiveness is surpassed and bounded only by
 her good sense; and that she is
  '"Blest with a temper, whose unclouded ray
  Can make to-morrow cheerful as to-day"?
 'She brought to Lord Byron beauty, manners, fortune, meekness,
 romantic affection, and everything that ought to have made her to
 the most transcendent man of genius--had he been what he should
 have been--his pride and his idol. I speak not of Lady Byron in the
 commonplace manner of attesting character: I appeal to the gifted Mrs.
 Siddons and Joanna Baillie, to Lady Charlemont, and to other ornaments
 of their sex, whether I am exaggerating in the least when I say, that,
 in their whole lives, they have seen few beings so intellectual and
 well-tempered as Lady Byron.
 'I wish to be as ingenuous as possible in speaking of her. Her manner,
 I have no hesitation to say, is cool at the first interview, but is
 modestly, and not insolently, cool: she contracted it, I believe, from
 being exposed by her beauty and large fortune, in youth, to numbers
 of suitors, whom she could not have otherwise kept at a distance.
 But this manner could have had no influence with Lord Byron; for
 it vanishes on nearer acquaintance, and has no origin in coldness.
 All her friends like her frankness the better for being preceded by
 this reserve. This manner, however, though not the slightest apology
 for Lord Byron, has been inimical to Lady Byron in her misfortunes.
 It endears her to her friends; but it piques the indifferent. Most
 odiously unjust, therefore, is Mr. Moore's assertion, that she has had
 the advantage of Lord Byron in public opinion. She is, comparatively
 speaking, unknown to the world; for though she has many friends, that
 is, a friend in everyone who knows her, yet her pride and purity and
 misfortunes naturally contract the circle of her acquaintance.
 'There is something exquisitely unjust in Mr. Moore comparing her
 chance of popularity with Lord Byron's, the poet who can command
 men of talents,--putting even Mr. Moore into the livery of his
 service,--and who has suborned the favour of almost all women by the
 beauty of his person and the voluptuousness of his verses. Lady Byron
 has nothing to oppose to these fascinations but the truth and justice
 of her cause.
 'You said, Mr. Moore, that Lady Byron was unsuitable to her lord: the
 word is cunningly insidious, and may mean as much or as little as may
 suit your convenience. But, if she was unsuitable, I remark that it
 tells all the worse against Lord Byron. I have not read it in your
 book (for I hate to wade through it); but they tell me that you have
 not only warily depreciated Lady Byron, but that you have described a
 lady that would have suited him. If this be true, "it is the unkindest
 cut of all,"--to hold up a florid description of a woman suitable to
 Lord Byron, as if in mockery over the forlorn flower of virtue that
 was drooping in the solitude of sorrow.
 'But I trust there is no such passage in your book. Surely you must be
 conscious of your woman, with her "virtue loose about her, who would
 have suited Lord Byron," to be as imaginary a being as the woman
 without a head. A woman to suit Lord Byron! Poo, poo! I could paint to
 you the woman that could have matched him, if I had not bargained to
 say as little as possible against him.
 'If Lady Byron was not suitable to Lord Byron, so much the worse
 for his lordship; for let me tell you, Mr. Moore, that neither your
 poetry, nor Lord Byron's, nor all our poetry put together, ever
 delineated a more interesting being than the woman whom you have so
 coldly treated. This was not kicking the dead lion, but wounding
 the living lamb, who was already bleeding and shorn, even unto the
 quick. I know, that, collectively speaking, the world is in Lady
 Byron's favour; but it is coldly favourable, and you have not warmed
 its breath. Time, however, cures everything; and even your book,
 Mr. Moore, may be the means of Lady Byron's character being better
 appreciated.
  'THOMAS CAMPBELL.'
Here is what seems to be a gentlemanly, high-spirited, chivalric man,
throwing down his glove in the lists for a pure woman.
What was the consequence? Campbell was crowded back, thrust down,
overwhelmed, his eyes filled with dust, his mouth with ashes.
There was a general confusion and outcry, which reacted both on him
and on Lady Byron. Her friends were angry with him for having caused
this re-action upon her; and he found himself at once attacked by
Lady Byron's enemies, and deserted by her friends. All the literary
authorities of his day took up against him with energy. Christopher
North, professor of moral philosophy in the Edinburgh University,
in a fatherly talk in 'The Noctes,' condemns Campbell, and justifies
Moore, and heartily recommends his 'Biography,' as containing nothing
materially objectionable on the score either of manners or morals. Thus
we have it in 'The Noctes' of May 1830:--
 'Mr. Moore's biographical book I admired; and I said so to my little
 world, in two somewhat lengthy articles, which many approved, and
 some, I am sorry to know, condemned.'
On the point in question between Moore and Campbell, North goes on
to justify Moore altogether, only admitting that 'it would have been
better had he not printed any coarse expression of Byron's about the
old people;' and, finally, he closes by saying,--
 'I do not think that, under the circumstances, Mr. Campbell himself,
 had he written Byron's "Life," could have spoken, with the sentiments
 he then held, in a better, more manly, and more gentlemanly spirit, in
 so far as regards Lady Byron, than Mr. Moore did: and I am sorry he
 has been deterred from "swimming" through Mr. Moore's work by the fear
 of "wading;" for the waters are clear and deep; nor is there any mud,
 either at the bottom or round the margin.'
Of the conduct of Lady Byron's so-called friends on this occasion it is
more difficult to speak.
There has always been in England, as John Stuart Mill says, a class
of women who glory in the utter self-abnegation of the wife to the
husband, as the special crown of womanhood. Their patron saint is
the Griselda of Chaucer, who, when her husband humiliates her, and
treats her as a brute, still accepts all with meek, unquestioning,
uncomplaining devotion. He tears her from her children; he treats her
with personal abuse; he repudiates her,--sends her out to nakedness
and poverty; he installs another mistress in his house, and sends for
the first to be her handmaid and his own: and all this the meek saint
accepts in the words of Milton,--
                  'My guide and head,
  What thou hast said is just and right.'
Accordingly, Miss Martineau tells us that when Campbell's defence came
out, coupled with a note from Lady Byron,--
 'The first obvious remark was, that there was no real disclosure; and
 the whole affair had the appearance of a desire, on the part of Lady
 Byron, to exculpate herself, while yet no adequate information was
 given. Many, who had regarded her with favour till then, gave her up
 so far as to believe that feminine weakness had prevailed at last.'
The saint had fallen from her pedestal! She had shown a human frailty!
Quite evidently she is not a Griselda, but possessed with a shocking
desire to exculpate herself and her friends.
Is it, then, only to slandered men that the privilege belongs of
desiring to exculpate themselves and their families and their friends
from unjust censure?
Lord Byron had made it a life-long object to vilify and defame his
wife. He had used for that one particular purpose every talent that
he possessed. He had left it as a last charge to Moore to pursue
the warfare after death, which Moore had done to some purpose; and
Christopher North had informed Lady Byron that her private affairs
were discussed, not only with the whisky-toddy of the Noctes Club,
but in every drawing-room in May Fair; and declared that the 'Dear
Duck' letter, and various other matters, must be explained, and urged
somebody to speak; and then, when Campbell does speak with all the
energy of a real gentleman, a general outcry and an indiscriminate
mêlée is the result.
The world, with its usual injustice, insisted on attributing Campbell's
defence to Lady Byron.
The reasons for this seemed to be, first, that Campbell states that he
did not ask Lady Byron's leave, and that she did not authorise him
to defend her; and, second, that, having asked some explanations from
her, he prints a note in which she declines to give any.
We know not how a lady could more gently yet firmly decline to make
a gentleman her confidant than in this published note of Lady Byron;
and yet, to this day, Campbell is spoken of by the world as having
been Lady Byron's confidant at this time. This simply shows how very
trustworthy are the general assertions about Lady Byron's confidants.
The final result of the matter, so far as Campbell was concerned, is
given in Miss Martineau's sketch, in the following paragraph:--
 'The whole transaction was one of poor Campbell's freaks. He excused
 himself by saying it was a mistake of his; that he did not know what
 he was about when he published the paper.'
It is the saddest of all sad things to see a man, who has spoken from
moral convictions, in advance of his day, and who has taken a stand for
which he ought to honour himself, thus forced down and humiliated, made
to doubt his own better nature and his own honourable feelings, by the
voice of a wicked world.
Campbell had no steadiness to stand by the truth he saw. His whole
story is told incidentally in a note to 'The Noctes,' in which it is
stated, that in an article in 'Blackwood,' January 1825, on Scotch
poets, the palm was given to Hogg over Campbell; 'one ground being,
that he could drink "eight and twenty tumblers of punch, while
Campbell is hazy upon seven."'
There is evidence in 'The Noctes,' that in due time Campbell was
reconciled to Moore, and was always suitably ashamed of having tried to
be any more generous or just than the men of his generation.
And so it was settled as a law to Jacob, and an ordinance in Israel,
that the Byron worship should proceed, and that all the earth should
keep silence before him. 'Don Juan,' that, years before, had been
printed by stealth, without Murray's name on the title-page, that had
been denounced as a book which no woman should read, and had been given
up as a desperate enterprise, now came forth in triumph, with banners
flying and drums beating. Every great periodical in England that had
fired moral volleys of artillery against it in its early days, now
humbly marched in the glorious procession of admirers to salute this
edifying work of genius.
'Blackwood,' which in the beginning had been the most indignantly
virtuous of the whole, now grovelled and ate dust as the serpent in
the very abjectness of submission. Odoherty (Maginn) declares that he
would rather have written a page of 'Don Juan' than a ton of 'Childe
Harold.'[23] Timothy Tickler informs Christopher North that he means
to tender Murray, as Emperor of the North, an interleaved copy[24] of
'Don Juan,' with illustrations, as the only work of Byron's he cares
much about; and Christopher North, professor of moral philosophy in
Edinburgh, smiles approval! We are not, after this, surprised to see
the assertion, by a recent much-aggrieved writer in 'The London Era,'
that 'Lord Byron has been, more than any other man of the age, the
teacher of the youth of England;' and that he has 'seen his works
on the bookshelves of bishops' palaces, no less than on the tables of
university undergraduates.'
[Footnote 23: 'Noctes,' July 1822.]
[Footnote 24: 'Noctes,' September 1832.]
A note to 'The Noctes' of July 1822 informs us of another instance of
Lord Byron's triumph over English morals:--
 'The mention of this' (Byron's going to Greece) reminds me, by the by,
 of what the Guiccioli said in her visit to London, where she was so
 lionised as having been the lady-love of Byron. She was rather fond
 of speaking on the subject, designating herself by some Venetian pet
 phrase, which she interpreted as meaning "Love-Wife."'
What was Lady Byron to do in such a world? She retired to the
deepest privacy, and devoted herself to works of charity, and the
education of her only child,--that brilliant daughter, to whose eager,
opening mind the whole course of current literature must bring so
many trying questions in regard to the position of her father and
mother,--questions that the mother might not answer. That the cruel
inconsiderateness of the literary world added thorns to the intricacies
of the path trodden by every mother who seeks to guide, restrain, and
educate a strong, acute, and precociously intelligent child, must
easily be seen.
What remains to be said of Lady Byron's life shall be said in the words
