burdened me.
"I wish they had not come at all. They have made it a sad day for me,"
I replied, bitterly.
"You mustn't take it too hardly, Phil Farringford."
"How can I help it?"
"It is not strange that you weep; but you are young, and your spirits
are buoyant. You will feel better in a few days."
"What is to become of me now?" I asked. "Old Matt is gone, and I need
stay here no longer."
"Why not? You can carry on Matt's farm, with the help of Kit and me.
You have done most of the work for the last year, and you can get along
as well in the future as you have in the past."
"Shall I live here alone?"
"Of course you may do as you please. You are your own master now, as
not many boys of your age are. But it is rather early now to consider a
matter of so much importance."
"What should I do if the Indians came upon me?"
"You would defend yourself, as you do now. But the Indians will be
taken care of. As soon as we can send word up to the fort, the officer
in charge will detail a force to punish them for what they have done,
and secure our safety in the future. I have been in this vicinity for
five years, and this is the first time I have known any serious
difficulty with the savages."
Mr. Mellowtone smoked his pipe out, and then lay down by my side. In a
few moments he dropped asleep. I was very tired after the severe labor
of the day, and I had been up most of the preceding night. Nature at
last asserted her claim, and I slept.
When I awoke, the sun was shining in through the loopholes of the block
house. Kit Cruncher lay by my side, still fast asleep. I realized that
the Indians had not made an assault during the night. I rose carefully,
stepped over the long gaunt form of the stalwart hunter, and left the
fortress. Mr. Mellowtone was walking up and down, with his pipe in his
mouth, between the expiring embers of the fires, which had been
permitted to go out at daylight.
"Why didn't you call me, and let me take my turn on the watch, Mr.
Mellowtone?" I asked, after the sentinel had given me a pleasant
greeting.
"Kit told me not to call you, and I did not intend to do so, Phil
Farringford. You are a boy, and you need sleep."
"I'm willing to do my share of the watching."
"You shall take your turn to-night. We can do nothing to-day but eat
and sleep. If you will give us some breakfast, we shall be ready for
it."
"I will--right off. Have you seen anything of the Indians?"
"No; not one of them has ventured into the clearing. Being ready for
them is more than half the battle. I doubt whether they trouble us
again at present. We have taught them a lesson they will not soon
forget."
"Yes; and they have taught us one which we shall not soon forget," I
added, glancing at the mound over the grave of Matt Rockwood.
I went to the Castle, made a fire, and while the kettle was boiling I
attended to the horses. I cooked some fish and potatoes, and we
breakfasted between the block house and the forest. All day long we
watched and waited for the coming of the savages; but we heard nothing
of them. At night I took the first watch, and walked around the Castle,
keeping up the fires, till I was so sleepy I could hardly keep my eyes
open; and then, as a matter of prudence rather than comfort, I called
Kit.
CHAPTER VIII.
IN WHICH PHIL SEES THE FIRST YOUNG LADY HE EVER SAW.
We were rather tired of this life of inactivity after a couple of days.
We watched for Indians, but none came; and, on the third day after the
death of Matt Rockwood, Kit declared his intention to take a tramp into
the woods in the direction of his own cabin. If he found any Indians he
would return; but he was satisfied that the party who had made the
attack expended all their provisions, and were obliged to retire to
obtain more.
"I shall be atween you and the Injuns all the time, boy," said he.
"I am not afraid, Kit; and I'm very grateful to you for what you have
done for me--and for Matt," I replied, walking with him towards the
brook.
"Matt and I was good friends; but all that's passed and gone. I shall
come back in a few days--sooner ef there's any Injuns round. Good by,
boy."
He walked across the brook on one of the stringers, and disappeared in
the forest. Mr. Mellowtone was also impatient to depart. He had been
away from his home on the island for several days. In the afternoon, as
Kit did not return, we concluded the enemy had retired, and my friend
embarked in his barge for home; but he promised to return before night.
I was alone then, and I walked about the farm thinking of Matt.
Whichever way I turned, there was always something to remind me of him.
I could not help considering my prospects for the future. I had
concluded to carry on the farm that season, though I did not like the
idea of living all alone. Mr. Mellowtone said nothing about taking up
his residence with me, though I had suggested the idea to him. I knew
that he was fond of solitude for a large portion of his time. He was
too much enamoured of his island to leave it. Kit's habits would not
permit him to settle down and dwell in a house, for though he had a
cabin, he did not live in it except in the winter. If I carried on the
farm, I must do it alone, though I should doubtless receive frequent
visits from my neighbors.
I walked about the farm thinking what I should do the coming season,
and I laid out work enough to keep me well employed till the coming of
the autumn. I intended to plant ten acres in corn, potatoes, and
vegetables. Fortunately the soil was easily worked, and I had no doubt
of my ability to perform the labor, with the aid of the horses and the
implements at my command. I walked till I had arranged my plans, and
then went into the Castle to consider them further.
My thoughts wandered away from the practical duties of the farm to the
past. I recalled the scene on the banks of the Missouri, where Matt had
folded me in his arms by the bivouac fire. He was not my real father,
though he had done all a parent could do for me. I had had a real
father and mother, who probably believed, if they were saved from the
calamity, that I had perished. The subject was full of interest to me.
Perhaps my parents had been saved, and still lived. Matt had told me
that one half of the people on board the Farringford had been picked up
by the steamer that passed the next morning.
The more I thought of this subject, the more curious and anxious I
became. I glanced at a large chest, which stood near the head of the
bed. It contained all the valuables of Matt, and he always kept it
locked. I had never known him to open it, except when he had sold a lot
of wood, and wished to put away the money. Although he never said
anything about it, I thought he did not wish me to see what the chest
contained. He kept it locked, it seemed to me, to prevent me from
opening it, for there was no other person who was likely to meddle with
it. I respected his wishes, though he never expressed them, and
refrained even from looking at him when he opened the chest. There must
be money in it; but that was of no use to me, except when the trading
steamers came along.
I was sure that it was not to keep me from meddling with the money that
my patriarchal friend locked the chest. There was something in it, I
fancied, which was connected with the mystery of my parentage. Though
it did not occur to me then, I have thought since that Matt Rockwood
did very wrong in not trying to ascertain who my father and mother
were. Even Kit Cruncher had insisted upon his doing this; but after he
had loved me and cared for me, he could not permit me to be taken from
him. I could forgive him because of his tenderness and affection for
me; but even these could not justify his conduct.
I rose from the bench on which I was seated, and walked across the room
to the chest. It was locked; but where was the key? Old Matt had always
carried it in his pocket, and I concluded that it had been buried with
him. Had it been in my possession I should have opened the chest; but I
had not the courage to break it open. I resumed my seat on the bench,
and the mystery of my parentage seemed to become awful and oppressive.
Why could I not know whether my father, or mother, or both, were alive
or dead? But all was dark to me, and I could not penetrate the veil
which hung between me and those who had given me being.
While I was thinking, I heard the whistle of a steamer, frequently
repeated, indicating that she wanted a supply of wood. I hastened to
the stable, and mounted Cracker, for the landing-place was a mile from
the Castle. By the time the boat had made fast to the tree, which
served as a mooring-stake, I reached the wood-yard. We had one hundred
cords of cotton-wood piled up in readiness for sale.
"Hallo, Phil Rockwood," said the captain, crossing the gang-plank to
the shore. "Where is your father?"
"He is dead, sir," I replied, gloomily enough, for the scene reminded
me very strongly of Matt, and this was the first time I had been called
upon to make a bargain myself.
"Dead! I am sorry for that. When did he die?" added the captain, with
an appearance of real regret.
"He was shot by the Indians four days ago."
"Shot! Well, that's too bad."
"I wish you would tell the commander of the fort above all about it."
"I will, certainly. But what do you ask for wood?"
"Matt Rockwood said he must have four dollars a cord now, for we have
to haul it farther than we used to," I replied.
"That's rather high."
But I stuck to the price which Matt had fixed, and the captain finally
agreed to it, though it was more than we had ever charged before. We
measured off twenty cords, and the deck hands of the steamer began to
carry it on board. While they were thus engaged, I told the captain all
about our difficulty with the Indians, and he was confident that the
commandant of the fort would send a force to chastise them.
While the boat was wooding up, the passengers went on shore, and walked
in the woods to vary the monotony of the tedious voyage. Among them I
observed a young lady of twelve or thirteen, the first I had ever seen
in my life of the white race. I gazed at her with curiosity and
interest, as she walked up the cart path towards the castle. She was
alone, for the other passengers took the road on the bank of the brook.
She was very prettily dressed, and the sight of her gave me a new
sensation. I saw two ladies, but they were watching the labors of the
deck hands, and did not leave the steamer.
"You have some passengers, captain," said I, wishing to introduce the
subject, so that I could inquire about the young lady.
"A few, but it is rather too early in the season for them. Mine is the
first boat this year," he replied.
"Where are these ladies going?"
"They are going to Oregon--Portland, I believe."
"Who is that young lady?" I asked.
"She is the daughter of one of the ladies on deck, and a very pretty
girl she is, too. Her name is Ella Gracewood."
The hands had nearly finished loading the wood, and the captain ordered
the bell to be rung and the whistle to be blown, in order to call back
his passengers, who were wandering about on shore. He paid me eighty
dollars in gold for the wood; for in this wild region we used only hard
coin, and did not believe in banks hundreds or thousands of miles
distant. I took the money, and with a portion of it purchased a barrel
of flour, a keg of sugar, a quantity of ground coffee, and some other
supplies needed at the Castle. The steamer hauled in her plank, and
casting off her hawser, renewed her long voyage up the river. Mounting
Cracker, I rode back to the Castle, and harnessed both horses to the
wagon, in order to haul up the stores I had purchased.
While I was thus employed, I saw the young lady, who had landed from
the steamer, walking very deliberately across the field from the
forest, to which she had extended her promenade. In her hand she
carried some of the little flowers which blossomed in the grass.
Occasionally she held them to her nose, and seemed to enjoy their
fragrance very much. I drove my horses down the slope, and intercepted
her as she reached the road. I knew she had made a serious mistake in
not returning before; but she, as yet, had no suspicion that the
steamer had departed. I hauled in my horses, but she was not disposed
to take any notice of me.
I may say now, fifteen years after, that I was not a dandy, and my
appearance was not calculated to make an impression upon a young lady.
I wore coarse gray pants, "fearfully and wonderfully made," besides
being fearfully soiled with grease and dirt, the legs of which were
stuffed into the tops of my boots, after the fashion of our backwoods
locality. Above these I wore a hunting-frock, made of a yellow blanket,
with a belt around my waist. My cap was of buffalo hide, and shaped
like a gallon tin-kettle. My frock was dirty, greasy, and ragged, for I
wore it while cooking, taking care of the pigs and horses, and in doing
other dirty work about the house and barn.
I thought the young lady did not like my appearance, for she seemed to
be very timid, and perhaps thought I was a brigand. I was near enough
to see that she was very pretty, even according to the standard of
later years, though I had no means of making a comparison at that time.
Though I pulled in my horses, she only glanced at me, and resumed her
walk towards the landing, apparently determined to avoid me. I was
rather vexed at this treatment, for I wished to invite her to ride down
to the river. I knew nothing about the shyness and reserve of young
ladies in civilized life. I drove on once more, and she stepped out of
the road to permit the team to pass. She glanced at me again, and I saw
that she was not angry with me. I stopped the horses, and then I
ventured to speak to her.
CHAPTER IX.
IN WHICH PHIL HAS A VISITOR AT THE CASTLE.
"Won't you ride?" I asked, as the young lady stepped out of the road to
allow my team to pass.
"No, I thank you," she answered, with a smile and a blush.
I did not then understand the absurdity of the invitation I extended to
her. The wagon was simply a platform on wheels, with stakes. It had
been built by old Matt, though the wheels had been brought from some
town hundreds of miles down the river. It was the only vehicle on the
place, and was used for carting wood and hay, and for all the purposes
of the farm. It was not a suitable chariot for a civilized young lady,
dressed as prettily as Miss Gracewood was.
"Did you know that the steamer you came in had gone?" I added.
"Gone!" exclaimed she, with a start, and an expression of utter
despair.
"She left half an hour ago."
"What shall I do!" cried she, so troubled that I felt very bad myself.
"The steamer cannot have gone without me."
"She went more than half an hour ago," I added. "I suppose they thought
you were on board."
"O, dear! what shall I do!"
"She will come back after you when they find you have been left
behind."
"Do you think they will?"
"To be sure they will."
"Why did she go so soon? They have always stopped three or four hours
in a place."
"I suppose the boat had more business to do at other landings than
here. She only stopped here for wood. She whistled and rang her bell
half an hour before she started. Didn't you hear the whistle?"
"I did hear it, but not the bell, which I supposed was the signal to
call the passengers. It was such a pretty place in the forest that I
enjoyed it very much, and I did not think of such a thing as the
steamer starting for several hours. The boat whistles so much that I am
used to it, and don't heed it. What will become of me!"
"I don't think you need trouble yourself much about it. The steamer
will come back as soon as they miss you," I continued, very much moved
when I saw the tears starting in her eyes.
"I'm afraid they won't miss me."
"Why, certainly they will," I protested, earnestly. "Won't you ride
down to the landing?"
She glanced at the dirty wagon. She appeared to be tired after her long
walk, and the invitation was a temptation to her; but the character of
the vehicle did not please her. I had put a clean box on the wagon to
contain the small stores I had purchased.
"You can sit on this," I added, pointing to the box.
"I don't think I can get into the wagon."
I jumped upon the ground, and placed the box near the vehicle, so that
she could use it as a step. I did not understand the rules of gallantry
well enough to offer to assist her when she really needed no
assistance. She stepped upon the box, and, grasping one of the stakes,
easily mounted the platform. I placed the box in the middle of the
wagon, and she seated herself. I drove slowly to the landing-place, so
that the motion of the rude vehicle might not disturb her.
"I am afraid they won't come back to-night," said she, as she strained
her eyes in gazing up the river.
"Your friends on board would compel the captain to return; but he is a
very good man, and I think he will be willing."
"But they may not miss me. There are very few passengers on board, and
I have a state-room all to myself. I have been in it half the time,
reading, and they may think I am there."
"There will be another steamer along in a few days, and you can go in
her."
"In a few days!" repeated she. "What can I do for two or three days?"
"There's Mr. Mellowtone," I interposed, pointing to the pretty barge of
my friend, who was returning to the Castle, as he had promised to do.
"And who is Mr. Mellowtone?" inquired my fair companion.
I explained who he was: and by the time I had finished my description,
we arrived at the landing.
"There is no steamer to be seen," said Miss Ella, sadly.
"But she will come back, I am sure, even if she has gone a hundred
miles, when they discover your absence," I replied.
"I wish I could think so."
"You may depend upon it."
"It is almost dark now."
"The steamers run by night as well as by day, in this part of the
river, when the water is as high as it is now."
She walked down to the bank of the river, and continued to gaze
earnestly up the stream, while I employed myself in loading my goods. I
did not think, when I bought the barrel of flour, that I was now alone,
and two hundred pounds was more than I could lift from the ground to
the body of the wagon. But in the backwoods every person is necessarily
full of expedients. Taking a shovel from the shanty, which Matt had
built as a shelter in stormy weather, I dug a couple of trenches into
the slope of the hill, corresponding to the wheels, and then backed the
wagon into them, until I had a height of less than a foot to overcome.
Using a couple of sticks as skids, I easily rolled the barrel of flour
upon the vehicle. After loading the other articles, I was ready to
return to the Castle.
Miss Ella stood on the bank of the river, still watching for the
steamer. It did not come, and I invited her to return with me. She was
chilled with the cool air of the evening, and reluctantly consented. I
made a seat for her on the wagon, and assured her I should hear the
whistle of the steamer when she returned.
"I am afraid she will not return," said she again, very gloomily.
"Of course she will. I doubt whether she will go any farther to-night
than the fort, about twenty miles farther up the river," I replied.
"Your friends must have discovered your absence by this time."
"No," she replied, shaking her head, "they will think I am in my
state-room."
"Your mother is on board, I heard the captain say."
"She is, and my aunt."
"I am sure your mother will discover your absence. She will want to see
you before you go to bed."
"No."
I had no experience of domestic life among civilized people, but I had
read in books, lent to me by Mr. Mellowtone, that parents and children
were very affectionate. In the stories, little girls always kissed
their mothers, and said "good night" after they repeated their prayers.
I thought it would be very strange if Ella's mother did not discover
her absence till the next day. The young lady was very sad, and shook
her head with so much significance, that I was afraid her mother was
not kind to her, though I could hardly conceive of such a thing.
"Do you live here all alone?" she asked, after a silence of a few
moments, as though she wished to turn my attention away from a
disagreeable subject.
"I am all alone now, though it is only four days since the old man with
whom I lived was killed by the Indians."
"By the Indians!" exclaimed Miss Ella, with a look of terror.
I repeated the story of the attack of the Indians; but I did not wish
to alarm her, and refrained from saying that we expected another visit
from them soon. I had heard nothing from Kit Cruncher since he
departed, and I concluded that there was no present danger. My fair
companion sympathized with me in the loss I had sustained, and asked me
a great many questions in regard to my life in the woods. I told her
how I happened to be there, and I think she forgot all about herself
for the time, she was so interested in my eventful career.
We arrived at the Castle, and I found a good fire blazing in the room,
but I did not see Mr. Mellowtone, though he had lighted it. I conducted
Miss Gracewood into our rude house, and gave her a seat before the
fire. Unhitching my horses, I went to the barn with them. While I was
feeding them for the night, Mr. Mellowtone came in.
"I have been out into the woods," said he; "but I see no signs of any
Indians."
"I don't think there are any very near us," I replied. "If there were,
Kit Cruncher would return, and let us know of their approach. I have
some company in the Castle, Mr. Mellowtone."
"Company?"
"Yes; a young lady."
"Is it possible!"
"She was left by the steamer. She had been to walk in the forest, and
did not heed the whistle."
"This is not a very good place for ladies. We are liable to receive a
visit from the Indians at any time."
"Don't say anything to her about it. It would only frighten her, and
she is uncomfortable enough now," I suggested, as I led the way towards
the house.
"Stop a minute, Phil Farringford," interposed Mr. Mellowtone. "I think
I will not see your visitor."
"Not see her!" I exclaimed, astonished that one who had hardly seen a
lady for years should desire to avoid one, especially a young lady of
twelve.
"No; I think not."
"But she is young, and very pretty."
"So much the worse. It would revive old associations in my mind which
are not pleasant. I will tell you more about that another time. But the
steamer will return for the young lady--will it not?"
"Of course it will; but she thinks her friends in the boat will not
discover her absence before morning, for she occupied a state-room
alone."
"If the boat comes in the night, we shall hear her whistle. You and I
can sleep in the block house, and your visitor can have the Castle all
to herself."
"Very well."
"Now go and attend to her wants, and I will smoke my pipe in the field.
It would not be polite to smoke in the presence of a lady," continued
Mr. Mellowtone, as he left me.
He disappeared behind the building, leaving the aroma of his pipe after
him. I thought his conduct was very strange; but then I had always
regarded him as a singular man. He had never gone to the landing when a
steamer arrived. If he wanted any stores, or wished to send to St.
Louis for anything, he always commissioned Matt or me to do his
business for him. He had never whispered a word in my hearing in regard
to his past history, though he took a great interest in me.
I went into the Castle, and found that Miss Ella was as comfortable as
the circumstances would permit. I put some pitch wood on the fire,
which made the room light enough to enable one to read in any part of
it. I prepared some supper, of which she ate very sparingly, though
when, like an accomplished housekeeper, I apologized for the fare, she
declared that it was very good.
I had to unload the wagon; but the barrel of flour was still too much
for me, and I asked Mr. Mellowtone to help me, and he came to the front
of the Castle for that purpose. I lighted a pitch-wood torch, and went
out. Miss Ella followed me, and insisted upon holding the torch, when I
began to thrust one end of it into the ground.
Mr. Mellowtone could not help seeing her; and when I was ready to roll
down the barrel of flour on the skids, I saw that he was gazing at her
very intently.
"What is this young lady's name, Phil Farringford?" he asked, in a low
tone.
"Ella Gracewood," I replied.
"My daughter!" exclaimed he, with deep emotion, as he sprang towards
her.
CHAPTER X.
IN WHICH PHIL VISITS PARADISE, AND FIRES AT AN INDIAN.
Ella raised the torch, and gazed earnestly into the face of Mr.
Mellowtone.
"Father!" exclaimed she, springing into his arms.
I took the torch from her hand, utterly confounded by the scene. I
could not see how Mr. Mellowtone could be the father of Miss Gracewood,
for I knew enough of the customs of society to be aware that the
daughter bore the parent's name. They wept and sobbed in each other's
arms, and I was so touched that I could not help crying, too.
"You are but little changed, Ella," said the father. "Only a little
taller."
He stepped back and gazed at her, as if to note the change which time
had wrought in her.
"And you don't look any older than when we parted; how well I remember
it!" replied Ella, her pretty face lighted up with joy. "Only your
clothes are different."
Mr. Mellowtone wore the costume of the woods--a blue hunting-shirt, or
frock, over pants stuffed into the tops of his boots, with a felt hat.
"I suppose, if I wore my black clothes, you would see no change at all
in me," replied the father. "But I will help you unload your flour,
Phil Farringford."
"I am in no hurry," I answered.
"Let us do it at once."
I handed the torch to Ella again, and we rolled the heavy barrel to the
ground.
"How funny it looks to see you doing such work, father!" said she,
laughing.
"But I am my own cook and my own servant. I chop my own wood, and shoot
my own dinner. You shall go to my island home to-morrow, and I think we
shall be very happy there."
"You needn't do anything more, Mr. Mellowtone," I interposed, when he
was going to help unload the rest of the goods. "You can go into the
house, and talk with your daughter."
"Why do you call him Mr. Mellowtone?" asked Ella. "That is not his
name."
"It is the name by which I am known here in the forest," added he.
"But your name is Henry Gracewood."
"And you may call me so, Phil Farringford, in future," said Mr.
Mellowtone. "My own name sounds strange to me now. I changed it to
escape impertinent questions which might possibly be put to me."
Father and daughter entered the Castle, and seated themselves before
the blazing fire. I rolled the barrel of flour into the store-room,
between the house and the barn. Disposing of the rest of the articles I
had bought in their proper places, my work was finished for the night.
"I will go to the block house now, Mr. Gracewood," I remarked, not
wishing to intrude myself upon the happy father and child in the
Castle.
"No, Phil Farringford," replied he; "I shall have no secrets from you
after this, for you have learned enough to make you desire to know
more."
"I don't wish to intrude, sir."
"Sit down, Phil Farringford. Now Matt Rockwood is gone, I shall regard
you both as my children," continued Mr. Gracewood, with more
sprightliness than I had ever seen him exhibit before.
I put some more pitch wood on the fire, and seated myself opposite the
father and daughter, where I could see the glowing faces of both.
"Now, Ella, tell me how you happen to be so far from St. Louis," said
Mr. Gracewood.
"We were going to Portland, Oregon. Mr. Sparkley failed in business,
and lost all his property," replied she.
"Mr. Sparkley is my brother-in-law, Phil," added Mr. Gracewood. "And
you are going with him, Ella?"
"Yes; Mr. Sparkley has a good chance to go into business there."
"Is your--is your mother with him?" asked Mr. Gracewood, with some
embarrassment.
"She is."
I was not a little puzzled by what I heard. My good friend spoke of the
mother of Ella, and I knew that she was his daughter. The mother,
therefore, was his wife, as I reasoned out the problem; but I could not
understand how he happened to be living in the backwoods, away from her
and his child. Mr. Gracewood was silent for a time, and I began to
realize that there was something unpleasant in his family relations,
though the matter was incomprehensible to me.
"I suppose your mother does not speak very kindly of me," said the
father, at last, with considerable emotion.
"I never heard her speak an unkind word of you, father," replied Ella,
promptly; and at the same time her eyes filled with tears.
"I am glad to hear that."
"It is true, father," added the daughter, wiping the tears from her
eyes.
"Don't cry, Ella; all may yet be well. Perhaps I was to blame, in
part."
"You will see mother when she comes back in the steamer--won't you,
father?" pleaded she.
"She may not wish to see me."
"I know she will be glad to see you."
Mr. Gracewood was moody and agitated again. I saw that he was
struggling with his feelings, and I hoped that the gentle words of his
daughter would lead to a reconciliation. She seemed like an angel of
peace to me, as she threw oil upon the troubled waters. But I felt like
an intruder in such a scene, and I left the Castle on the pretence of
attending to the horses. I did not return, feeling that I was not
needed in such an interview. I made up a bed in the block house, and
was about to turn in, when Mr. Gracewood joined me. He told me he had
attended to all the wants of his daughter, and that she would sleep in
the Castle.
"I know you were astonished at what you heard, Phil Farringford," said
he, as we lay down in the block house.
"I was, sir, and I felt very bad when your daughter wept."
"I am afraid, from what Ella says, that I am quite as much to blame as
her mother. Indeed, I had begun to think before that the fault was not
all on her side. When my father died, he left a handsome fortune, which
was divided between my brother and myself. I was educated at one of the
best colleges in the west, and intended to study the profession of law;
but the death of my father placed sufficient wealth in my possession to
enable me to live in luxury without any exertion. I was married, and
for a few years lived very happily.
"I had always been very fond of fishing and hunting, and while in
college I spent all my vacations in camp, on the prairie or in the
forest. After I was graduated, I used to devote two or three months of
the year to these pursuits. When I was married, I was not willing to
forego this luxury,--for such it was to me,--and without going into the
painful details, this subject became a source of difference between us.
I thought my wife was unreasonable, and she thought the same of me. Six
years ago she told me, if I went on my usual excursion, she would leave
me, never to return. I could not believe she was in earnest. I had
reduced the period of my absence to six weeks, and when I returned
found my house closed. Mrs. Gracewood was at the residence of her
brother, Mr. Sparkley. I sent her a note, informing her of my return.
"She wrote me in reply, that if I would promise to abandon my annual
hunting trip, or take her with me, she would come back. I replied that
I would travel with her wherever she desired to go, and at any time
except in June and July, and that a woman was out of place in a camp of
hunters. She positively refused to return or to see me on any other
than her own conditions. I met Ella every week at my own house, where
she came in charge of a servant. Neither of us would yield, and life
was misery to me. The next spring I placed all my property in the hands
of my brother, with instructions to pay my wife an annuity of three
thousand dollars a year, and made a will in favor of my child.
"I had been to this region before, and hunted upon the island where I
now live. To me it was a paradise, and I determined to spend the rest
of my days there. I felt that I had been robbed of all the joys of
existence in the love of my wife and child. Taking the materials for my
house, furniture, a piano, and my library, with a plentiful supply of
stores, I came up the river in a steamer, and have lived here ever
since."
"But didn't you wish to see your daughter?" I asked.
"Very much; but I was afraid that the sight of her would break down my
resolution, and induce me to yield the point for which I had contended.
A kind Providence seems to have sent my child to me, to open and warm
my heart."
"Do you still think you were right?" I asked.
"I do; my annual hunt was life and strength to me for the whole year. I
thought my wife's objections were unkind and unreasonable; but I
believe now, since I have seen Ella, that my manner was not
conciliatory; that I was arbitrary in my refusal. Perhaps, if I had
been kind and gentle, and taken the pains to convince her that my
health required the recreation, she would have withdrawn her
objections. Quarrels, Phil Farringford, oftener result from the manner
of the persons concerned than from irreconcilable differences."
I went to sleep, but I think it was a long night to Mr. Gracewood. When
I waked he had left the block house; but I found him with Ella, at
sunrise, on the bank of the river. He had called her up, and was going
to start at that early hour for Paradise, as he called his island. He
invited me to go up as soon as I could, declaring that there was no
danger from the Indians so long as Kit did not return. I was sorry to
lose my pretty visitor so soon; but she was as impatient to see the
home of her father as he was to have her do so.
I watched the beautiful boat as Mr. Gracewood pulled up the stream; but
I trembled when I considered the danger of losing my neighbors, for
Ella would not think of remaining long in such a lonely region. I took
care of the horses, and turned them out to feed on the new grass,
believing that they would be better able to take care of themselves in
my absence if the Indians visited the clearing. After breakfast, I
walked down to the landing, where I had a boat, as starting from there
would save me the labor of paddling a mile against the current. I soon
reached the island, and landed upon the lower end. I had taken my rifle
with me, so as to bring down any game I happened to see.
As I walked up the slope of the hill, I discovered in the water, on the
north side of the island, a couple of Indian dugouts. I was alarmed,
and hastened with all speed to the house of my good friend. I heard the
music of his piano, and was assured that the Indians had not yet done
any mischief. I went up to the door, which was wide open. Mr. Gracewood
sat at the instrument, with his pipe in his mouth, inspired by the
melody he was producing. At the same instant I perceived the head of an
Indian at a window behind the pianist. I saw him raise a rifle, as if
to take aim. As quick as my own thoughts, I elevated my own piece and
fired.
CHAPTER XI.
IN WHICH PHIL ENGAGES IN THE PURSUIT OF THE INDIANS.
The shot which I fired was instantly followed by a fierce and savage
yell. Until this moment the invaders had been creeping like cats up to
the house, and Mr. Gracewood and Ella had no suspicion of their
presence. In coming up the river I had crossed to the opposite side by
a diagonal course, partly to shorten the distance, and partly to avoid
a strong current, which swept in close to the shore above the mouth of
Fish Creek. The Indians must have been making the passage at the same
time; but the island was between them and me, so that I could not see
them.
They belonged to the same band that had attacked us at the Castle. The
fact that they had their dugouts with them assured me they had come
down Crooked River, the next stream above the Fish, on our side of the
Missouri. I concluded that they intended to renew the attack upon the
Castle, and had come in their boats so that they could approach on the
water side of the farm. They knew Mr. Gracewood very well, and meant to
plunder him first, for his share in the occurrences of the last week.
I could form no idea of the number of Indians on the island. I judged
that there were but few, for I could see only two dugouts on the bank
of the river. The savage at whom I had fired was in the act of stealing
in at the window. He had but just raised his head, and was the only one
I could see. His companions were near him, however, as I soon learned
from the yell they uttered.
Mr. Gracewood's house was large enough to contain two rooms below, and
two sleeping apartments in the attic. The front room, on the south side
of the building, was nearly half filled by a Chickering's grand
piano--a magnificent instrument, which was the joy and solace of the
recluse in his self-imposed exile. I had often sat for hours, while he
played upon it, listening to the wonderful melody he produced. He was
an enthusiast in music, and when he played he seemed to be inspired.
Almost invariably his pipe was in his mouth when seated at the
instrument, and I supposed his two joys afforded him a double rapture.
I used to think, if it had been my case, I could have dispensed with
the pipe, for it seemed like adding gall to honey.
The grand piano was a powerful instrument, and I had heard its tones
before I landed, and I listened to them with pleasure until my
attention was attracted by the sight of the dugouts. The front door was
open, and Mr. Gracewood glanced at me as I appeared at the door, but he
did not suspend his rapturous occupation. Behind him stood Ella,
enjoying the music; and both were totally unconscious of the deadly
peril that menaced them. At the same instant I discovered the head of
the Indian. He had evidently surveyed the interior of the room before,
and he did not see me. I fired, and he dropped. His companions yelled,
and Ella uttered a scream of terror. She was beside herself with fear,
and apparently thinking the house was full of Indians, she rushed out
at the open door as I entered. Mr. Gracewood seized his rifle, and a
revolver which hung on the wall.
I loaded my piece without delay, and followed the recluse out of the
house. I heard him fire before I overtook him. The plan of the savages
failed as soon as they were discovered, for they were too cowardly to
stand up before the rifles of the white man. As I hastened after Mr.
Gracewood, I glanced at the outside of the window through which I had
fired at the Indian. I supposed I had killed him, but his body was not
there. A terrible scream from Ella, followed by a cry of anguish from
her father, startled me at this moment, and I ran with all speed in the
direction from which the sounds came. Passing beyond the house, I
discovered four Indians in full retreat. Two of them were dragging the
shrieking Ella over the ground towards the point on the river where the
dugout lay. My blood ran cold with horror as I realized that they had
captured the fair girl.
The poor child, in her terror, had run away from the house to escape
the savages, who, she supposed, were in it, but only to encounter them
where we could not prevent her capture. The agony of her father was
fearful. He groaned in the heaviness of his soul. We could not fire
upon the Indians without danger of hitting Ella, whom her captors
cunningly used to protect their own bodies from our bullets.
Mr. Gracewood ran, but his limbs seemed to be partially paralyzed by
the agony of his soul. It was but a short distance to the river, and
before we could overtake the Indians they had dragged their prisoner
into one of the dugouts, and pushed off from the shore. I passed the
poor father, but reached the bank of the river too late to be of any
service to Ella. There were two Indians in each boat. They had gone but
a few rods before a bullet whistled near my head, and I retreated to
the shelter of a tree until Mr. Gracewood joined me.
"Heaven be merciful to me and to her!" groaned he, pressing both hands
upon his throbbing head. "What shall we do, Phil Farringford? Tell me,
for I am beside myself."
"Let us take your barge and follow them."
At that moment the shrill whistle of a steamer echoed over the island.
The sound came from up the river, and I was satisfied that it was the
boat in which Ella had been a passenger, returning for her.
"It will be a sad moment to her mother when she hears what has become
of Ella," groaned Mr. Gracewood.
"Let us get into your boat as quick as possible, and meet the steamer
as she comes down," said I.
We ran to the landing-place at the lower end of the island, and
embarked in the barge. Mr. Gracewood rowed with all his might up the
stream.
"Do you see the dugouts, Phil Farringford?" he asked, after he had
pulled to the upper end of the island.
"I can just see them. They are making for Crooked River."
"Do you see the steamer?"
"She is not in sight yet."
The mouth of Crooked River was half a mile above Paradise Island. Its
head waters were in the Indian country, but the most of its course was
through a more level region than that through which the two branches of
the Fish flowed, though the mouths of the two were not more than a
couple of miles apart. Crooked River was, therefore, practicable for
boats, while there were frequent rapids in Fish Creek and its
tributaries.
"There's the steamer," said I, after we had gone a short distance
farther.
"And where are the dugouts?"
"They have gone into Crooked River."
"Can the people in the steamer see them?" asked the anxious father.
"No," I replied, sadly.
Mr. Gracewood continued to pull with all his might, and in silence,
till we came within hail of the steamer.
"Hold on!" I shouted, making violent gestures with my arms.
The captain immediately recognized me, and the wheels of the steamer
stopped. Mr. Gracewood pulled the barge up to the steamer, and we went
on board.
"Where is the young lady we left at your wood-yard?" demanded the
captain, very much excited, as I stepped on deck.
"She was captured by the Indians less than an hour ago," I replied,
breathless with emotion. "They have taken her up into Crooked River. Do
put your boat about and chase them."
"Captured by the Indians!" exclaimed the captain, aghast at the
intelligence.
"Will you put about, and follow them, captain?" interposed Mr.
Gracewood.
"He is Ella's father," I added.
"I am," said he.
The captain directed the pilot to start the steamer, and head her up
the river, as we dragged the barge on deck.
"But we can't go up these small streams," he added.
"The Indians cannot have gone far, and the water is deep for several
miles," replied Mr. Gracewood.
"I will do the best I can. We have a detachment of troops which I am to
land at your yard, Phil," continued the captain.
"I'm glad to hear that. The Indians will give us no peace until they
have been punished for the mischief they have done."
"Did you say this gentleman was Ella's father?" asked the captain,
pointing to Mr. Gracewood, who had gone to the bow of the boat, and was
on the lookout for the Indians.
I told him all that had transpired since we met the evening before,
including the capture of Ella.
"If he is Ella's father, his wife is on board," said the captain. "I
suppose I must tell her what has happened to her daughter; but I don't
like to do it."
As he left me to perform this unpleasant duty, I saw two ladies and
three gentlemen, two of them officers, coming down the steps from the
boiler deck. I inferred that one of these ladies was the mother of
Ella. She had evidently received an intimation that something had
occurred to her daughter, for she was very much disturbed.
"What has happened, Captain Davis? Where is Ella?" she demanded, in
broken tones.
"I am sorry to say that the news is not as pleasant as I could wish,"
replied the captain.
"Where is she?" cried Mrs. Gracewood.
"Her father is here, and----"
"Her father!" exclaimed the anxious mother.
Mr. Gracewood, whose attention was attracted by the sound of her voice,
came up to the group, and was instantly recognized by his wife.
"O, Henry!" gasped she. "Forgive me!"
"Nay, I ask to be forgiven," he replied, choking with emotion.
Without any explanation or terms whatever, the reconciliation seemed to
be perfect.
"This must be a sad meeting, Emily, for I fear that Ella is lost to
us."
"Where is she?" demanded Mrs. Gracewood.
"In the hands of the Indians," replied the suffering father.
"O, mercy! mercy!" groaned the poor mother. "They will kill her!"
"Let us hope not," replied Mr. Gracewood, struggling to repress his
emotions.
But this intelligence was too heavy for the strength of the poor lady,
and she was borne fainting up the stairs to the saloon. Mr. Gracewood
assisted in this duty, and I was left to give the military officers the
information they needed. The steamer had already entered Crooked River,
and a leadman was calling out the depth of water.
"There they are!" I cried, when the boat turned a sharp bend in the
river, as I discovered the two dugouts paddling up the stream.
"We will make short work of them," replied Lieutenant Pope, who was in
command of the detachment of soldiers sent down for our relief.
The Indians saw the steamer, and immediately made for the shore, where
they landed.
CHAPTER XII.
IN WHICH PHIL TAKES DELIBERATE AIM AT ONE OF THE CAPTORS OF ELLA.
"What is your name, young man?" said Lieutenant Pope to me.
"Phil Farringford, sir."
"Are you acquainted with the country in this vicinity?"
"Yes, sir; I have been over it many times."
"Then you can act as a guide," added the officer, who had collected his
force on the forward deck, in readiness to disembark them.
Presently the steamer reached the point at which the Indians had
landed. The dugouts were hauled up on the shore; but we could see
nothing of the savages, who had disappeared in the forest, half a mile
from the stream, where the land began to rise.
"Can we make a landing here?" asked the captain.
"You can," I replied.
"Do so, captain," added Lieutenant Pope.
"I wouldn't land here," I interposed.
"Why not?"
"This boat can go three miles up the river, sure, and perhaps five. The
Indians must travel up stream in order to escape you. If you go up two
miles farther, you can head them off."
"Keep her a-going, captain," added the officer.
"Two or three miles east of us is Big Fish Creek. The Indians can't get
across below us without swimming."
"Then we shall have them between these two streams."
"Of course it is possible for them to get across the Big Fish, but it
won't be very easy, unless they get rid of their prisoner."
"How far is it across the country to the creek?" asked the lieutenant.
