opposite to her, and with all possibility of confidential intercourse
with her brother entirely cut off. Lillie, in this matter, acted,
with much grace and spirit, the part of the dog in the manger; and,
while she resolutely refused to enter into any of John’s literary or
intellectual tastes, seemed to consider her wifely rights infringed
upon by any other woman who would. She would absolutely refuse to go
up with her husband and spend an evening with Grace, alleging it was
“pokey and stupid,” and that they always got talking about things
that she didn’t care any thing about. If, then, John went without
her to spend the evening, he was sure to be received, on his return,
with a dead and gloomy silence, more fearful, sometimes, than the
most violent of objurgations. That look of patient, heart-broken woe,
those long-drawn sighs, were a reception that he dreaded, to say the
truth, a great deal more than a direct attack, or any fault-finding
to which he could have replied; and so, on the whole, John made up
his mind that the best thing he could do was to stay at home and rock
the cradle of this fretful baby, whose wisdom-teeth were so hard to
cut, and so long in coming. It was a pretty baby; and when made the
sole and undivided object of attention, when every thing possible was
done for it by everybody in the house, condescended often to be very
graceful and winning and playful, and had numberless charming little
ways and tricks. The difference between Lillie in good humor and Lillie
in bad humor was a thing which John soon learned to appreciate as one
of the most powerful forces in his life. If you knew, my dear reader,
that by pursuing a certain course you could bring upon yourself a
drizzling, dreary, north-east rain-storm, and by taking heed to your
ways you could secure sunshine, flowers, and bird-singing, you would be
very careful, after a while, to keep about you the right atmospheric
temperature; and, if going to see the very best friend you had on earth
was sure to bring on a fit of rheumatism or tooth-ache, you would
soon learn to be very sparing of your visits. For this reason it was
that Grace saw very little of John; that she never now had a sisterly
conversation with him; that she preferred arranging all those little
business matters, in which it would be convenient to have a masculine
appeal, solely and singly by herself. The thing was never referred to
in any conversation between them. It was perfectly understood without
words. There are friends between whom and us has shut the coffin-lid;
and there are others between whom and us stand sacred duties,
considerations never to be enough reverenced, which forbid us to seek
their society, or to ask to lean on them either in joy or sorrow: the
whole thing as regards them must be postponed until the future life.
Such had been Grace’s conclusion with regard to her brother. She well
knew that any attempt to restore their former intimacy would only
diminish and destroy what little chance of happiness yet remained to
him; and it may therefore be imagined with what changed eyes she read
Walter Sydenham’s letter from those of years ago.
There was a sound of stamping feet at the front door; and John came
in, all ruddy and snow-powdered, but looking, on the whole, uncommonly
cheerful.
“Well, Gracie,” he said, “the fact is, I shall have to let Lillie go
to New York for a week or two, to see those Follingsbees. Hang them!
But what’s the matter, Gracie? Have you been crying, or sitting up all
night reading, or what?”
The fact was, that Gracie had for once been indulging in a good cry,
rather pitying herself for her loneliness, now that the offer of relief
had come. She laughed, though; and, handing John her letter, said,—
“Look here, John! here’s a letter I have just had from Walter Sydenham.”
John broke out into a loud, hilarious laugh.
“The blessed old brick!” said he. “Has he turned up again?”
“Read the letter, John,” said Grace. “I don’t know exactly how to
answer it.”
John read the letter, and seemed to grow more and more quiet as he read
it. Then he came and stood by Grace, and stroked her hair gently.
“I wish, Gracie dear,” he said, “you had asked my advice about this
matter years ago. You loved Walter,—I can see you did; and you sent him
off on my account. It is just too bad! Of all the men I ever knew, he
was the one I should have been best pleased to have you marry!”
“It was not wholly on your account, John. You know there was our
father,” said Grace.
“Yes, yes, Gracie; but he would have preferred to see you well
married. He would not have been so selfish, nor I either. It is your
self-abnegation, you dear over-good women, that makes us men seem
selfish. We should be as good as you are, if you would give us the
chance. I think, Gracie, though you’re not aware of it, there is a
spice of Pharisaism in the way in which you good girls allow us men
to swallow you up without ever telling us what you are doing. I often
wondered about your intimacy with Sydenham, and why it never came to
any thing; and I can but half forgive you. How selfish I must have
seemed!”
“Oh, no, John! indeed not.”
“Come, you needn’t put on these meek airs. I insist upon it, you have
been feeling self-righteous and abused,” said John, laughing; “but
‘all’s well that ends well.’ Sit down, now, and write him a real
sensible letter, like a nice honest woman as you are.”
“And say, ‘Yes, sir, and thank you too’?” said Grace, laughing.
“Well, something in that way,” said John. “You can fence it in with as
many make-believes as is proper. And now, Gracie, this is deuced lucky!
You see Sydenham will be down here at once; and it wouldn’t be exactly
the thing for you to receive him at this house, and our only hotel is
perfectly impracticable in winter; and that brings me to what I am here
about. Lillie is going to New York to spend the holidays; and I wanted
you to shut up, and come up and keep house for us. You see you have
only one servant, and we have four to be looked after. You can bring
your maid along, and then I will invite Walter to our house, where he
will have a clear field; and you can settle all your matters between
you.”
“So Lillie is going to the Follingsbees’?” said Grace.
“Yes: she had a long, desperately sentimental letter from Mrs.
Follingsbee, urging, imploring, and entreating, and setting forth all
the splendors and glories of New York. Between you and me, it strikes
me that that Mrs. Follingsbee is an affected goose; but I couldn’t
say so to Lillie, ‘by no manner of means.’ She professes an untold
amount of admiration and friendship for Lillie, and sets such brilliant
prospects before her, that I should be the most hard-hearted old Turk
in existence if I were to raise any objections; and, in fact, Lillie is
quite brilliant in anticipation, and makes herself so delightful that I
am almost sorry that I agreed to let her go.”
“When shall you want me, John?”
“Well, this evening, say; and, by the way, couldn’t you come up and see
Lillie a little while this morning? She sent her love to you, and said
she was so hurried with packing, and all that, that she wanted you to
excuse her not calling.”
“Oh, yes! I’ll come,” said Grace, good-naturedly, “as soon as I have
had time to put things in a little order.”
“And write your letter,” said John, gayly, as he went out. “Don’t
forget that.”
Grace did not forget the letter; but we shall not indulge our readers
with any peep over her shoulder, only saying that, though written with
an abundance of precaution, it was one with which Walter Sydenham was
well satisfied.
Then she made her few arrangements in the housekeeping line, called in
her grand vizier and prime minister from the kitchen, and held with
her a counsel of ways and means; put on her india-rubbers and Polish
boots, and walked up through the deep snow-drifts to the Springdale
post-office, where she dropped the fateful letter with a good heart on
the whole; and then she went on to John’s, the old home, to offer any
parting services to Lillie that might be wanted.
It is rather amusing, in any family circle, to see how some one member,
by dint of persistent exactions, comes to receive always, in all the
exigencies of life, an amount of attention and devotion which is never
rendered back. Lillie never thought of such a thing as offering any
services of any sort to Grace. Grace might have packed her trunks to go
to the moon, or the Pacific Ocean, quite alone for matter of any help
Lillie would ever have thought of. If Grace had headache or toothache
or a bad cold, Lillie was always “so sorry;” but it never occurred to
her to go and sit with her, to read to her, or offer any of a hundred
little sisterly offices. When she was in similar case, John always
summoned Grace to sit with Lillie during the hours that his business
necessarily took him from her. It really seemed to be John’s impression
that a toothache or headache of Lillie’s was something entirely
different from the same thing with Grace, or any other person in the
world; and Lillie fully shared the impression.
Grace found the little empress quite bewildered in her multiplicity of
preparations, and neglected details, all of which had been deferred to
the last day; and Rosa and Anna and Bridget, in fact the whole staff,
were all busy in getting her off.
“So good of you to come, Gracie!” and, “If you would do this;” and,
“Won’t you see to that?” and, “If you could just do the other!” and
Grace both could and would, and did what no other pair of hands could
in the same time. John apologized for the lack of any dinner. “The fact
is, Gracie, Bridget had to be getting up a lot of her things that were
forgotten till the last moment; and I told her not to mind, we could do
on a cold lunch.” Bridget herself had become so wholly accustomed to
the ways of her little mistress, that it now seemed the most natural
thing in the world that the whole house should be upset for her.
But, at last, every thing was ready and packed; the trunks and boxes
shut and locked, and the keys sorted; and John and Lillie were on their
way to the station.
“I shall find out Walter in New York, and bring him back with me,” said
John, cheerily, as he parted from Grace in the hall. “I leave you to
get things all to rights for us.”
It would not have been a very agreeable or cheerful piece of work to
tidy the disordered house and take command of the domestic forces
under any other circumstances; but now Grace found it a very nice
diversion to prevent her thoughts from running too curiously on this
future meeting. “After all,” she thought to herself, “he is just the
same venturesome, imprudent creature that he always was, jumping to
conclusions, and insisting on seeing every thing in his own way. How
could he dare write me such a letter without seeing me? Ten years make
great changes. How could he be sure he would like me?” And she examined
herself somewhat critically in the looking-glass.
“Well,” she said, “he may thank me for it that we are not engaged, and
that he comes only as an old friend, and perfectly free, for all he has
said, to be nothing more, unless on seeing each other we are so agreed.
I am so sorry the old place is all demolished and be-Frenchified. It
won’t look natural to him; and I am not the kind of person to harmonize
with these cold, polished, glistening, slippery surroundings, that have
no home life or association in them.”
But Grace had to wake from these reflections to culinary counsels with
Bridget, and to arrangements of apartments with Rosa. Her own exacting
carefulness followed the careless footsteps of the untrained handmaids,
and rearranged every plait and fold; so that by nightfall the next day
she was thoroughly tired.
She beguiled the last moments, while waiting for the coming of the
cars, in arranging her hair, and putting on one of those wonderful
Parisian dresses, which adapt themselves so precisely to the air of the
wearer that they seem to be in themselves works of art. Then she stood
with a fluttering color to see the carriage drive up to the door, and
the two get out of it.
It is almost too bad to spy out such meetings, and certainly one has
no business to describe them; but Walter Sydenham carried all before
him, by an old habit which he had of taking all and every thing for
granted, as, from the first moment, he did with Grace. He had no idea
of hesitations or holdings off, and would have none; and met Gracie as
if they had parted only yesterday, and as if her word to him always had
been yes, instead of no.
In fact, they had not been together five minutes before the whole life
of youth returned to them both,—that indestructible youth which belongs
to warm hearts and buoyant spirits.
Such a merry evening as they had of it! When John, as the wood fire
burned low on the hearth, with some excuse of letters to write in his
library, left them alone together, Walter put on her finger a diamond
ring, saying,—
“There, Gracie! now, when shall it be? You see you’ve kept me waiting
so long that I can’t spare you much time. I have an engagement to be in
Montreal the first of February, and I couldn’t think of going alone.
They have merry times there in mid-winter; and I’m sure it will be ever
so much nicer for you than keeping house alone here.”
Grace said, of course, that it was impossible; but Walter declared
that doing the impossible was precisely in his line, and pushed on his
various advantages with such spirit and energy that, when they parted
for the night, Grace said she would think of it: which promise, at the
breakfast-table next morning, was interpreted by the unblushing Walter,
and reported to John, as a full consent. Before noon that day, Walter
had walked up with John and Grace to take a survey of the cottage,
and had given John indefinite power to engage workmen and artificers
to rearrange and enlarge and beautify it for their return after the
wedding journey. For the rest of the visit, all the three were busy
with pencil and paper, projecting balconies, bow-windows, pantries,
library, and dining-room, till the old cottage so blossomed out in
imagination as to leave only a germ of its former self.
Walter’s visit brought back to John a deal of the warmth and freedom
which he had not known since he married. We often live under an
insensible pressure of which we are made aware only by its removal.
John had been so much in the habit lately of watching to please Lillie,
of measuring and checking his words or actions, that he now bubbled
over with a wild, free delight in finding himself alone with Grace and
Walter. He laughed, sang, whistled, skipped upstairs two at a time, and
scarcely dared to say even to himself why he was so happy. He did not
face himself with that question, and went dutifully to the library at
stated times to write to Lillie, and made much of her little letters.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE CASTLE OF INDOLENCE.
IF John managed to be happy without Lillie in Springdale, Lillie
managed to be blissful without him in New York.
“The bird let loose in Eastern skies” never hastened more fondly home
than she to its glitter and gayety, its life and motion, dash and
sensation. She rustled in all her bravery of curls and frills, pinkings
and quillings,—a marvellous specimen of Parisian frostwork, without one
breath of reason or philosophy or conscience to melt it.
The Follingsbees’ house might stand for the original of the Castle of
Indolence.
              “Halls where who can tell
    What elegance and grandeur wide expand,—
    The pride of Turkey and of Persia’s land?
    Soft quilts on quilts; on carpets, carpets spread;
    And couches stretched around in seemly band;
    And endless pillows rise to prop the head:
    So that each spacious room was one full swelling bed.”
It was not without some considerable profit that Mrs. Follingsbee had
read Balzac and Dumas, and had Charlie Ferrola for master of arts in
her establishment. The effect of the whole was perfect; it transported
one, bodily, back to the times of Montespan and Pompadour, when life
was all one glittering upper-crust, and pretty women were never
troubled with even the shadow of a duty.
It was with a rebound of joyousness that Lillie found herself once
more with a crowded list of invitations, calls, operas, dancing, and
shopping, that kept her pretty little head in a perfect whirl of
excitement, and gave her not one moment for thought.
Mrs. Follingsbee, to say the truth, would have been a little careful
about inviting a rival queen of beauty into the circle, were it not
that Charlie Ferrola, after an attentive consideration of the subject,
had assured her that a golden-haired blonde would form a most complete
and effective tableau, in contrast with her own dark rich style of
beauty. Neither would lose by it, so he said; and the impression, as
they rode together in an elegant open barouche, with ermine carriage
robes, would be “stunning.” So they called each other ma sœur, and
drove out in the park in a ravishing little pony-phaeton all foamed
over with ermine, drawn by a lovely pair of cream-colored horses, whose
harness glittered with gold and silver, after the fashion of the Count
of Monte Cristo. In truth, if Dick Follingsbee did not remind one of
Solomon in all particulars, he was like him in one, that he “made
silver and gold as the stones of the street” in New York.
Lillie’s presence, however, was all desirable; because it would draw
the calls of two or three old New York families who had hitherto stood
upon their dignity, and refused to acknowledge the shoddy aristocracy.
The beautiful Mrs. John Seymour, therefore, was no less useful than
ornamental, and advanced Mrs. Follingsbee’s purposes in her “Excelsior”
movements.
“Now, I suppose,” said Mrs. Follingsbee to Lillie one day, when they
had been out making fashionable calls together, “we really must call on
Charlie’s wife, just to keep her quiet.”
“I thought you didn’t like her,” said Lillie.
“I don’t; I think she is dreadfully common,” said Mrs. Follingsbee:
“she is one of those women who can’t talk any thing but baby, and bores
Charlie half to death. But then, you know, when there is a liaison
like mine with Charlie, one can’t be too careful to cultivate the
wives. Les convenances, you know, are the all-important things. I
send her presents constantly, and send my carriage around to take
her to church or opera, or any thing that is going on, and have her
children at my fancy parties: yet, for all that, the creature has not a
particle of gratitude; those narrow-minded women never have. You know
I am very susceptible to people’s atmospheres; and I always feel that
that creature is just as full of spite and jealousy as she can stick in
her skin.”
It will be remarked that this was one of those idiomatic phrases which
got lodged in Mrs. Follingsbee’s head in a less cultivated period of
her life, as a rusty needle sometimes hides in a cushion, coming out
unexpectedly, when excitement gives it an honest squeeze.
“Now, I should think,” pursued Mrs. Follingsbee, “that a woman who
really loved her husband would be thankful to have him have such a
rest from the disturbing family cares which smother a man’s genius,
as a house like ours offers him. How can the artistic nature exercise
itself in the very grind of the thing, when this child has a cold, and
the other the croup; and there is fussing with mustard-paste and ipecac
and paregoric,—all those realities, you know? Why, Charlie tells me he
feels a great deal more affection for his children when he is all calm
and tranquil in the little boudoir at our house; and he writes such
lovely little poems about them, I must show you some of them. But this
creature doesn’t appreciate them a bit: she has no poetry in her.”
“Well, I must say, I don’t think I should have,” said Lillie, honestly.
“I should be just as mad as I could be, if John acted so.”
“Oh, my dear! the cases are different: Charlie has such peculiarities
of genius. The artistic nature, you know, requires soothing.” Here they
stopped, and rang at the door of a neat little house, and were ushered
into a pair of those characteristic parlors which show that they have
been arranged by a home-worshipper, and a mother. There were plants and
birds and flowers, and little genre pictures of children, animals,
and household interiors, arranged with a loving eye and hand.
“Did you ever see any thing so perfectly characteristic?” said Mrs.
Follingsbee, looking around her as if she were going to faint.
“This woman drives Charlie perfectly wild, because she has no
appreciation of high art. Now, I sent her photographs of Michel
Angelo’s ‘Moses,’ and ‘Night and Morning;’ and I really wish you would
see where she hung them,—away in yonder dark corner!”
“I think myself they are enough to scare the owls,” said Lillie, after
a moment’s contemplation.
“But, my dear, you know they are the thing,” said Mrs. Follingsbee:
“people never like such things at first, and one must get used to high
art before one forms a taste for it. The thing with her is, she has no
docility. She does not try to enter into Charlie’s tastes.”
The woman with “no docility” entered at this moment,—a little snow-drop
of a creature, with a pale, pure, Madonna face, and that sad air of
hopeless firmness which is seen unhappily in the faces of so many women.
“I had to bring baby down,” she said. “I have no nurse to-day, and he
has been threatened with croup.”
“The dear little fellow!” said Mrs. Follingsbee, with officious
graciousness. “So glad you brought him down; come to his aunty?” she
inquired lovingly, as the little fellow shrank away, and regarded
her with round, astonished eyes. “Why will you not come to my next
reception, Mrs. Ferrola?” she added. “You make yourself quite a
stranger to us. You ought to give yourself some variety.”
“The fact is, Mrs. Follingsbee,” said Mrs. Ferrola, “receptions in New
York generally begin about my bed-time; and, if I should spend the
night out, I should have no strength to give to my children the next
day.”
“But, my dear, you ought to have some amusement.”
“My children amuse me, if you will believe it,” said Mrs. Ferrola, with
a remarkably quiet smile.
Mrs. Follingsbee was not quite sure whether this was meant to be
sarcastic or not. She answered, however, “Well! your husband will
come, at all events.”
“You may be quite sure of that,” said Mrs. Ferrola, with the same
quietness.
“Well!” said Mrs. Follingsbee, rising, with patronizing cheerfulness,
“delighted to see you doing so well; and, if it is pleasant, I will
send the carriage round to take you a drive in the park this afternoon.
Good-morning.”
And, like a rustling cloud of silks and satins and perfumes, she bent
down and kissed the baby, and swept from the apartment.
Mrs. Ferrola, with a movement that seemed involuntary, wiped the baby’s
cheek with her handkerchief, and, folding it closer to her bosom,
looked up as if asking patience where patience is to be found for the
asking.
“There! didn’t I tell you?” said Mrs. Follingsbee when she came out;
“just one of those provoking, meek, obstinate, impracticable creatures,
with no adaptation in her.”
“Oh, gracious me!” said Lillie: “I can’t imagine more dire despair than
to sit all day tending baby.”
“Well, so you would think; and Charlie has offered to hire competent
nurses, and wants her to dress herself up and go into society; and she
just won’t do it, and sticks right down by the cradle there, with her
children running over her like so many squirrels.”
“Oh! I hope and trust I never shall have children,” said Lillie,
fervently, “because, you see, there’s an end of every thing. No more
fun, no more frolics, no more admiration or good times; nothing but
this frightful baby, that you can’t get rid of.”
Yet, as Lillie spoke, she knew, in her own slippery little heart, that
the shadow of this awful cloud of maternity was resting over her;
though she laced and danced, and bid defiance to every law of nature,
with a blind and ignorant wilfulness, not caring what consequences she
might draw down on herself, if only she might escape this.
And was there, then, no soft spot in this woman’s heart anywhere?
Generally it is thought that the throb of the child’s heart awakens
a heart in the mother, and that the mother is born again with her
child. It is so with unperverted nature, as God meant it to be; and
you shall hear from the lips of an Irish washer-woman a genuine poetry
of maternal feeling, for the little one who comes to make her toil
more toilsome, that is wholly withered away out of luxurious circles,
where there is every thing to make life easy. Just as the Chinese have
contrived fashionable monsters, where human beings are constrained to
grow in the shape of flower-pots, so fashionable life contrives at last
to grow a woman who hates babies, and will risk her life to be rid of
the crowning glory of womanhood.
There was a time in Lillie’s life, when she was sixteen years of age,
which was a turning-point with her, and decided that she should be
the heartless woman she was. If at that age, and at that time, she
had decided to marry the man she really loved, marriage might indeed
have proved to her a sacrament. It might have opened to her a door
through which she could have passed out from a career of selfish
worldliness into that gradual discipline of unselfishness which a true
love-marriage brings.
But she did not. The man was poor, and she was beautiful; her beauty
would buy wealth and worldly position, and so she cast him off. Yet
partly to gratify her own lingering feeling, and partly because she
could not wholly renounce what had once been hers, she kept up for
years with him just that illusive simulacrum which such women call
friendship; which, while constantly denying, constantly takes pains to
attract, and drains the heart of all possibility of loving another.
Harry Endicott was a young man of fine capabilities, sensitive,
interesting, handsome, full of generous impulses, whom a good woman
might easily have led to a full completeness. He was not really
Lillie’s cousin, but the cousin of her mother; yet, under the name of
cousin, he had constant access and family intimacy.
This winter Harry Endicott suddenly returned to the fashionable circles
of New York,—returned from a successful career in India, with an ample
fortune. He was handsomer than ever, took stylish bachelor lodgings,
set up a most distracting turnout, and became a sort of Marquis of
Farintosh in fashionable circles. Was ever any thing so lucky, or so
unlucky, for our Lillie?—lucky, if life really does run on the basis of
French novels, and if all that is needed is the sparkle and stimulus of
new emotions; unlucky, nay, even gravely terrible, if life really is
established on a basis of moral responsibility, and dogged by the fatal
necessity that “whatsoever man or woman soweth, that shall he or she
also reap.”
In the most critical hour of her youth, when love was sent to her heart
like an angel, to beguile her from selfishness, and make self-denial
easy, Lillie’s pretty little right hand had sowed to the world and
the flesh; and of that sowing she was now to reap all the disquiets,
the vexations, the tremors, that go to fill the pages of French
novels,—records of women who marry where they cannot love, to serve
the purposes of selfishness and ambition, and then make up for it by
loving where they cannot marry. If all the women in America who have
practised, and are practising, this species of moral agriculture should
stand forth together, it would be seen that it is not for nothing that
France has been called the society educator of the world.
The apartments of the Follingsbee mansion, with their dreamy
voluptuousness, were eminently adapted to be the background and
scenery of a dramatic performance of this kind. There were vistas
of drawing-rooms, with delicious boudoirs, like side chapels in a
temple of Venus, with handsome Charlie Ferrola gliding in and out,
or lecturing dreamily from the corner of some sofa on the last most
important crinkle of the artistic rose-leaf, demonstrating conclusively
that beauty was the only true morality, and that there was no sin but
bad taste; and that nobody knew what good taste was but himself and
his clique. There was the discussion, far from edifying, of modern
improved theories of society, seen from an improved philosophic point
of view; of all the peculiar wants and needs of etherealized beings,
who have been refined and cultivated till it is the most difficult
problem in the world to keep them comfortable, while there still
remains the most imperative necessity that they should be made happy,
though the whole universe were to be torn down and made over to effect
it.
The idea of not being happy, and in all respects as blissful as they
could possibly be made, was one always assumed by the Follingsbee
clique as an injustice to be wrestled with. Anybody that did not
affect them agreeably, that jarred on their nerves, or interrupted
the delicious reveries of existence with the sharp saw-setting of
commonplace realities, in their view ought to be got rid of summarily,
whether that somebody were husband or wife, parent or child.
Natures that affected each other pleasantly were to spring together
like dew-drops, and sail off on rosy clouds with each other to the land
of Do-just-as-you-have-a-mind-to.
The only thing never to be enough regretted, which prevented this
immediate and blissful union of particles, was the impossibility of
living on rosy clouds, and making them the means of conveyance to the
desirable country before mentioned. Many of the fair illuminatæ, who
were quite willing to go off with a kindred spirit, were withheld by
the necessities of infinite pairs of French kid gloves, and gallons
of cologne-water, and indispensable clouds of mechlin and point lace,
which were necessary to keep around them the poetry of existence.
Although it was well understood among them that the religion of the
emotions is the only true religion, and that nothing is holy that you
do not feel exactly like doing, and every thing is holy that you do;
still these fair confessors lacked the pluck of primitive Christians,
and could not think of taking joyfully the spoiling of their goods,
even for the sake of a kindred spirit. Hence the necessity of living in
deplored marriage-bonds with husbands who could pay rent and taxes, and
stand responsible for unlimited bills at Stewart’s and Tiffany’s. Hence
the philosophy which allowed the possession of the body to one man, and
of the soul to another, which one may see treated of at large in any
writings of the day.
As yet Lillie had been kept intact from all this sort of thing by the
hard, brilliant enamel of selfishness. That little shrewd, gritty
common sense, which enabled her to see directly through other people’s
illusions, has, if we mistake not, by this time revealed itself to our
readers as an element in her mind: but now there is to come a decided
thrust at the heart of her womanhood; and we shall see whether the
paralysis is complete, or whether the woman is alive.
If Lillie had loved Harry Endicott poor, had loved him so much that
at one time she had seriously balanced the possibility of going to
housekeeping in a little unfashionable house, and having only one girl,
and hand in hand with him walking the paths of economy, self-denial,
and prudence,—the reader will see that Harry Endicott rich, Harry
Endicott enthroned in fashionable success, Harry Endicott plus fast
horses, splendid equipages, a fine city house, and a country house on
the Hudson, was something still more dangerous to her imagination.
But more than this was the stimulus of Harry Endicott out of her power,
and beyond the sphere of her charms. She had a feverish desire to see
him, but he never called. Forthwith she had a confidential conversation
with her bosom friend, who entered into the situation with enthusiasm,
and invited him to her receptions. But he didn’t come.
The fact was, that Harry Endicott hated Lillie now, with that kind of
hatred which is love turned wrong-side out. He hated her for the misery
she had caused him, and was in some danger of feeling it incumbent
on himself to go to the devil in a wholly unnecessary manner on that
account.
He had read the story of Monte Cristo, with its highly wrought plot of
vengeance, and had determined to avenge himself on the woman who had so
tortured him, and to make her feel, if possible, what he had felt.
So, when he had discovered the hours of driving observed by Mrs.
Follingsbee and Lillie in the park, he took pains, from time to time,
to meet them face to face, and to pass Lillie with an unrecognizing
stare. Then he dashed in among Mrs. Follingsbee’s circle, making
himself everywhere talked of, till they were beset on all hands by the
inquiry, “Don’t you know young Endicott? why, I should think you would
want to have him visit here.”
After this had been played far enough, he suddenly showed himself one
evening at Mrs. Follingsbee’s, and apologized in an off-hand manner to
Lillie, when reminded of passing her in the park, that really he wasn’t
thinking of meeting her, and didn’t recognize her, she was so altered;
it had been so many years since they had met, &c. All in a tone of
cool and heartless civility, every word of which was a dagger’s thrust
not only into her vanity, but into the poor little bit of a real heart
which fashionable life had left to Lillie.
Every evening, after he had gone, came a long, confidential
conversation with Mrs. Follingsbee, in which every word and look
was discussed and turned, and all possible or probable inferences
therefrom reported; after which Lillie often laid a sleepless head
on a hot and tumbled pillow, poor, miserable child! suffering her
punishment, without even the grace to know whence it came, or what it
meant. Hitherto Lillie had been walking only in the limits of that
kind of permitted wickedness, which, although certainly the remotest
thing possible from the Christianity of Christ, finds a great deal
of tolerance and patronage among communicants of the altar. She had
lived a gay, vain, self-pleasing life, with no object or purpose but
the simple one to get each day as much pleasurable enjoyment out of
existence as possible. Mental and physical indolence and inordinate
vanity had been the key-notes of her life. She hated every thing that
required protracted thought, or that made trouble, and she longed
for excitement. The passion for praise and admiration had become
to her like the passion of the opium-eater for his drug, or of the
brandy-drinker for his dram. But now she was heedlessly steering to
what might prove a more palpable sin.
Harry the serf, once half despised for his slavish devotion, now stood
before her, proud and free, and tantalized her by the display he made
of his indifference, and preference for others. She put forth every
art and effort to recapture him. But the most dreadful stroke of fate
of all was, that Rose Ferguson had come to New York to make a winter
visit, and was much talked of in certain circles where Harry was quite
intimate; and he professed himself, indeed, an ardent admirer at her
shrine.
CHAPTER XX.
THE VAN ASTRACHANS.
THE Van Astrachans, a proud, rich old family, who took a certain
defined position in New-York life on account of some ancestral passages
in their family history, had invited Rose to spend a month or two with
them; and she was therefore moving as a star in a very high orbit.
Now, these Van Astrachans were one of those cold, glittering,
inaccessible pinnacles in Mrs. Follingsbee’s fashionable Alp-climbing
which she would spare no expense to reach if possible. It was one of
the families for whose sake she had Mrs. John Seymour under her roof;
and the advent of Rose, whom she was pleased to style one of Mrs.
Seymour’s most intimate friends, was an unhoped-for stroke of good
luck; because there was the necessity of calling on Rose, of taking her
out to drive in the park, and of making a party on her account, from
which, of course, the Van Astrachans could not stay away.
It will be seen here that our friend, Mrs. Follingsbee, like all
ladies whose watch-word is “Excelsior,” had a peculiar, difficult, and
slippery path to climb.
The Van Astrachans were good old Dutch-Reformed Christians,
unquestioning believers in the Bible in general, and the Ten
Commandments in particular,—persons whose moral constitutions had been
nourished on the great stocky beefsteaks and sirloins of plain old
truths which go to form English and Dutch nature. Theirs was a style
of character which rendered them utterly hopeless of comprehending
the etherealized species of holiness which obtained in the innermost
circles of the Follingsbee illuminati. Mr. Van Astrachan buttoned
under his coat not only many solid inches of what Carlyle calls “good
Christian fat,” but also a pocket-book through which millions of
dollars were passing daily in an easy and comfortable flow, to the
great advantage of many of his fellow-creatures no less than himself;
and somehow or other he was pig-headed in the idea that the Bible and
the Ten Commandments had something to do with that stability of things
which made this necessary flow easy and secure.
He was slow-moulded, accurate, and fond of security; and was of opinion
that nineteen centuries of Christianity ought to have settled a few
questions so that they could be taken for granted, and were not to be
kept open for discussion.
Moreover, Mr. Van Astrachan having read the accounts of the first
French revolution, and having remarked all the subsequent history of
that country, was confirmed in his idea, that pitching every thing into
pi once in fifty years was no way to get on in the affairs of this
world.
He had strong suspicions of every thing French, and a mind very ill
adapted to all those delicate reasonings and shadings and speculations
of which Mr. Charlie Ferrola was particularly fond, which made every
thing in morals and religion an open question.
He and his portly wife planted themselves, like two canons of the
sanctuary, every Sunday, in the tip-top highest-priced pew of the
most orthodox old church in New York; and if the worthy man sometimes
indulged in gentle slumbers in the high-padded walls of his slip, it
was because he was so well assured of the orthodoxy of his minister
that he felt that no interest of society would suffer while he was off
duty. But may Heaven grant us, in these days of dissolving views and
general undulation, large armies of these solid-planted artillery on
the walls of our Zion!
Blessed be the people whose strength is to sit still! Much needed are
they when the activity of free inquiry seems likely to chase us out of
house and home, and leave us, like the dove in the deluge, no rest for
the sole of our foot.
Let us thank God for those Dutch-Reformed churches; great solid
breakwaters, that stand as the dykes in their ancestral Holland to keep
out the muddy waves of that sea whose waters cast up mire and dirt.
But let us fancy with what quakings and shakings of heart Mrs.
Follingsbee must have sought the alliance of these tremendously solid
old Christians. They were precisely what she wanted to give an air of
solidity to the cobweb glitter of her state. And we can also see how
necessary it was that she should ostentatiously visit Charlie Ferrola’s
wife, and speak of her as a darling creature, her particular friend,
whom she was doing her very best to keep out of an early grave.
Charlie Ferrola said that the Van Astrachans were obtuse; and so, to
a certain degree, they were. In social matters they had a kind of
confiding simplicity. They were so much accustomed to regard positive
morals in the light of immutable laws of Nature, that it would not have
been easy to have made them understand that sliding scale of estimates
which is in use nowadays. They would probably have had but one word,
and that a very disagreeable one, to designate a married woman who was
in love with anybody but her husband. Consequently, they were the very
last people whom any gossip of this sort could ever reach, or to whose
ears it could have been made intelligible.
Mr. Van Astrachan considered Dick Follingsbee a swindler, whose proper
place was the State’s prison, and whose morals could only be mentioned
with those of Sodom and Gomorrah.
Nevertheless, as Mrs. Follingsbee made it a point of rolling up her
eyes and sighing deeply when his name was mentioned,—as she attended
church on Sunday with conspicuous faithfulness, and subscribed to
charitable societies and all manner of good works,—as she had got
appointed directress on the board of an orphan asylum where Mrs. Van
Astrachan figured in association with her, that good lady was led
to look upon her with compassion, as a worthy woman who was making
the best of her way to heaven, notwithstanding the opposition of a
dissolute husband.
As for Rose, she was as fresh and innocent and dewy, in the hot whirl
and glitter and glare of New York, as a waving spray of sweet-brier,
brought in fresh with all the dew upon it.
She really had for Lillie a great deal of that kind of artistic
admiration which nice young girls sometimes have for very beautiful
women older than themselves; and was, like almost every one else,
somewhat bejuggled and taken in by that air of infantine sweetness and
simplicity which had survived all the hot glitter of her life, as if a
rose, fresh with dew, should lie unwilted in the mouth of a furnace.
Moreover, Lillie’s face had a beauty this winter it had never worn:
the softness of a real feeling, the pathos of real suffering, at times
touched her face with something that was always wanting in it before.
The bitter waters of sin that she would drink gave a strange feverish
color to her cheek; and the poisoned perfume she would inhale gave a
strange new brightness to her eyes.
Rose sometimes looked on her and wondered; so innocent and healthy and
light-hearted in herself, she could not even dream of what was passing.
She had been brought up to love John as a brother, and opened her heart
at once to his wife with a sweet and loyal faithfulness. When she told
Mrs. Van Astrachan that Mrs. John Seymour was one of her friends from
Springdale, married into a family with which she had grown up with
great intimacy, it seemed the most natural thing in the world to the
good lady that Rose should want to visit her; that she should drive
with her, and call on her, and receive her at their house; and with her
of course must come Mrs. Follingsbee.
Mr. Van Astrachan made a dead halt at the idea of Dick Follingsbee. He
never would receive that man under his roof, he said, and he never
would enter his house; and when Mr. Van Astrachan once said a thing of
this kind, as Mr. Hosea Biglow remarks, “a meeting-house wasn’t sotter.”
But then Mrs. Follingsbee’s situation was confidentially stated to
Lillie, and by Lillie confidentially stated to Rose, and by Rose to
Mrs. Van Astrachan; and it was made to appear how Dick Follingsbee had
entirely abandoned his wife, going off in the ways of Balaam the son
of Bosor, and all other bad ways mentioned in Scripture, habitually
leaving poor Mrs. Follingsbee to entertain company alone, so that he
was never seen at her parties, and had nothing to do with her.
“So much the better for them,” remarked Mr. Van Astrachan.
“In that case, my dear, I don’t see that it would do any harm for you
to go to Mrs. Follingsbee’s party on Rose’s account. I never go to
parties, as you know; and I certainly should not begin by going there.
But still I see no objection to your taking Rose.”
If Mr. Van Astrachan had seen objections, you never would have caught
Mrs. Van Astrachan going; for she was one of your full-blooded women,
who never in her life engaged to do a thing she didn’t mean to do: and
having promised in the marriage service to obey her husband, she obeyed
him plumb, with the air of a person who is fulfilling the prophecies;
though her chances in this way were very small, as Mr. Van Astrachan
generally called her “ma,” and obeyed all her orders with a stolid
precision quite edifying to behold. He took her advice always, and
was often heard naively to remark that Mrs. Van Astrachan and he were
always of the same opinion,—an expression happily defining that state
in which a man does just what his wife tells him to.
CHAPTER XXI.
MRS. FOLLINGSBEE’S PARTY, AND WHAT CAME OF IT.
OUR vulgar idea of a party is a week or fortnight of previous
discomfort and chaotic tergiversation, and the mistress of it all
distracted and worn out with endless cares. Such a party bursts in
on a well-ordered family state as a bomb bursts into a city, leaving
confusion and disorder all around. But it would be a pity if such a
life-long devotion to the arts and graces as Mrs. Follingsbee had
given, backed by Dick Follingsbee’s fabulous fortune, and administered
by the exquisite Charlie Ferrola, should not have brought forth some
appreciable results. One was, that the great Castle of Indolence was
prepared for the fête, with no more ripple of disturbance than if
it had been a Nereid’s bower, far down beneath the reach of tempests,
where the golden sand is never ruffled, and the crimson and blue sea
flowers never even dream of commotion.
Charlie Ferrola wore, it is true, a brow somewhat oppressed with care,
and was kept tucked up on a rose-colored satin sofa, and served with
lachrymæ Christi, and Montefiascone, and all other substitutes for the
dews of Hybla, while he draughted designs for the floral arrangements,
which were executed by obsequious attendants in felt slippers; and
the whole process of arrangement proceeded like a dream of the
lotus-eaters’ paradise.
Madame de Tullegig was of course retained primarily for the adornment
of Mrs. Follingsbee’s person. It was understood, however, on this
occasion, that the composition of the costumes was to embrace both hers
and Lillie’s, that they might appear in a contrasted tableau, and bring
out each other’s points. It was a subject worthy a Parisian artiste,
and drew so seriously on Madame de Tullegig’s brain-power, that she
assured Mrs. Follingsbee afterwards that the effort of composition had
sensibly exhausted her.
Before we relate the events of that evening, as they occurred, we must
give some little idea of the position in which the respective parties
now stood.
Harry Endicott, by his mother’s side, was related to Mrs. Van
Astrachan. Mr. Van Astrachan had been, in a certain way, guardian
to him; and his success in making his fortune was in consequence
of capital advanced and friendly patronage thus accorded. In the
family, therefore, he had the entrée of a son, and had enjoyed the
opportunity of seeing Rose with a freedom and frequency that soon
placed them on the footing of old acquaintanceship. Rose was an easy
person to become acquainted with in an ordinary and superficial manner.
She was like those pellucid waters whose great clearness deceives the
eye as to their depth. Her manners had an easy and gracious frankness;
and she spoke right on, with an apparent simplicity and fearlessness
that produced at first the impression that you knew all her heart. A
longer acquaintance, however, developed depths of reserved thought and
feeling far beyond what at first appeared.
Harry, at first, had met her only on those superficial grounds of
banter and badinage where a gay young gentleman and a gay young lady
may reconnoitre, before either side gives the other the smallest peep
of the key of what Dr. Holmes calls the side-door of their hearts.
Harry, to say the truth, was in a bad way when he first knew Rose:
he was restless, reckless, bitter. Turned loose into society with an
ample fortune and nothing to do, he was in danger, according to the
homely couplet of Dr. Watts, of being provided with employment by that
undescribable personage who makes it his business to look after idle
hands.
Rose had attracted him first by her beauty, all the more attractive to
him because in a style entirely different from that which hitherto had
captivated his imagination. Rose was tall, well-knit, and graceful,
and bore herself with a sort of slender but majestic lightness, like
a meadow-lily. Her well-shaped, classical head was set finely on
her graceful neck, and she had a stag-like way of carrying it, that
impressed a stranger sometimes as haughty; but Rose could not help
that, it was a trick of nature. Her hair was of the glossiest black,
her skin fair as marble, her nose a little, nicely-turned aquiline
affair, her eyes of a deep violet blue and shadowed by long dark
lashes, her mouth a little larger than the classical proportion, but
generous in smiles and laughs which revealed perfect teeth of dazzling
whiteness. There, gentlemen and ladies, is Rose Ferguson’s picture:
and, if you add to all this the most attractive impulsiveness and
self-unconsciousness, you will not wonder that Harry Endicott at first
found himself admiring her, and fancied driving out with her in the
park; and that when admiring eyes followed them both, as a handsome
pair, Harry was well pleased.
Rose, too, liked Harry Endicott. A young girl of twenty is not a
severe judge of a handsome, lively young man, who knows far more of
the world than she does; and though Harry’s conversation was a perfect
Catherine-wheel of all sorts of wild talk,—sneering, bitter, and
sceptical, and giving expression to the most heterodox sentiments, with
the evident intention of shocking respectable authorities,—Rose rather
liked him than otherwise; though she now and then took the liberty to
stand upon her dignity, and opened her great blue eyes on him with a
grave, inquiring look of surprise,—a look that seemed to challenge
him to stand and defend himself. From time to time, too, she let fall
little bits of independent opinion, well poised and well turned, that
hit exactly where she meant they should; and Harry began to stand a
little in awe of her.
Harry had never known a woman like Rose; a woman so poised and
self-centred, so cultivated, so capable of deep and just reflections,
and so religious. His experience with women had not been fortunate, as
has been seen in this narrative; and, insensibly to himself, Rose was
beginning to exercise an influence over him. The sphere around her was
cool and bright and wholesome, as different from the hot atmosphere of
passion and sentiment and flirtation to which he had been accustomed,
as a New-England summer morning from a sultry night in the tropics.
Her power over him was in the appeal to a wholly different part of
his nature,—intellect, conscience, and religious sensibility; and
once or twice he found himself speaking to her quietly, seriously,
and rationally, not from the purpose of pleasing her, but because she
had aroused such a strain of thought in his own mind. There was a
certain class of brilliant sayings of his, of a cleverly irreligious
and sceptical nature, at which Rose never laughed: when this sort of
firework was let off in her presence, she opened her eyes upon him,
wide and blue, with a calm surprise intermixed with pity, but said
