live. She needs an apprenticeship in some house like this. My little
niece must be about her age.”
“Mary? How can I trust her to the companionship of such a girl?”
“Tom isn’t bad. She is only untrained. She will learn more than she will
teach at first. Afterwards Mary may learn something of her.”
“I am sure I don’t know what to say,” said Mrs. Merton, irresolutely.
Here the captain named the terms he was willing to pay for Tom’s board.
This was a consideration to Mrs. Merton, who found that she had to
calculate pretty closely to make keeping boarders pay.
“I’ll try her,” she said.
“Thank you, Martha. You can let her go into the kitchen at first, till
she is fit to be promoted.”
“She must have some clothes. She had on a boy’s jacket.”
“Yes, and cap. In fact she is more of a boy than a girl at present.”
“I am not sure but some of Mary’s old dresses may fit her. Mary must be
a little larger than she is.”
“That reminds me I brought a doll for Fanny. She has not grown too large
for dolls yet.”
“No, she is just the age to enjoy them. She will be delighted.”
“I think we may call in Tom now, and inform her of our intention.”
“She must have another name. It won’t do to call a girl Tom.”
“She said her name used to be Jenny, but she has been nicknamed Tom.”
The door was opened, and Captain Barnes called in Tom.
“Come in, Tom,” he said.
“All right!” said Tom. “I’m on hand!”
“We’ve been talking about you, Tom,” pursued the captain.
“What have you been sayin’?” asked Tom, suspiciously.
“I’ve been telling my sister that you had no home, and were obliged to
earn your own living in the streets.”
“I don’t care much,” said Tom. “I’d rather do that than live with
granny, and get licked.”
“But wouldn’t you like better to have a nice home, where you would have
plenty to eat, and a good bed to sleep in?”
“Maybe I would.”
“I’ve been asking my sister to let you stay here with her. Would you
like that?”
Tom regarded Mrs. Merton attentively. The face was careworn, but very
different from granny’s. On the whole, it inspired her with some degree
of confidence.
“If she wouldn’t lick me very often,” she said.
“How about that, Martha?” he asked.
“I think I can promise that,” said Mrs. Merton, amused in spite of
herself.
“Of course you will have to work. My sister will find something for you
to do.”
“I aint afraid of work,” said Tom, “if I only get enough to eat, and
aint licked.”
“You see, Tom, I feel an interest in you.”
“You’re a brick!” said Tom, gratefully.
“Little girl,” said Mrs. Merton, shocked, “you mustn’t use such language
in addressing my brother.”
“Never mind, Martha; she means it as a compliment.”
“A compliment to call you a brick!”
“Certainly. But now about clothes. Can’t you rig her out with something
that will make her presentable?”
“She needs a good washing first,” said Mrs. Merton, surveying Tom’s
dirty face and hands with disfavor.
“A very good suggestion. You won’t mind being washed, I suppose, Tom?”
“I’d just as lives,” said Tom.
In fact she was quite indifferent on the subject. She was used to being
dirty, but if she could oblige her new protector by washing, she was
quite willing.
“I’ve got to go out for an hour or two,” said Captain Barnes, “but I
will leave my carpet-bag here, and come back to lunch.”
“Of course, Albert. When do you sail?”
“In three days at farthest.”
“Of course you will remain here up to the day of sailing.”
“Yes, if you can find a spare corner to stow me in.”
“It would be odd if I couldn’t find room for my only brother.”
“So be it, then. You may expect me.”
He rose and taking his hat left the house. Tom and Mrs. Merton were now
alone.
                               CHAPTER X.
                         TOM DROPS HER TATTERS.
“Now, what is your name, little girl?” asked Mrs. Merton, surveying Tom
doubtfully, half sorry that she had undertaken the care of her.
“Tom.”
“That’s a boy’s name.”
“Everybody calls me Tom,—sometimes Tattered Tom.”
“There’s some reason about the first name,” thought Mrs. Merton, as her
glance rested on the ragged skirt and well-ventilated jacket of her
brother’s protegée.
“As you are a girl, it is not proper that you should have a boy’s name.
What is your real name?”
“I think it’s Jenny. Granny used to call me so long ago, but I like Tom
best.”
“Then I shall call you Jenny. Now, Jenny, the first thing to do, is to
wash yourself clean. Follow me.”
Mrs. Merton went up the front stairs, and Tom followed, using her eyes
to good advantage as she advanced.
The landlady led the way into a bath-room. She set the water to running,
and bade Tom undress.
“Am I to get into the tub?” asked Tom.
“Yes, certainly. While you are undressing, I will try and find some
clothes that will fit you.”
Though she did not at first fancy the idea of bathing, Tom grew to like
it, and submitted with a good grace. Mrs. Merton took care that it
should be thorough. After it, she dressed Tom in some clothes, still
very good, which had been laid aside by her daughter Mary. Then she
combed Tom’s tangled locks, and was astonished by the improvement it
made in the appearance of the little waif.
I have already said that Tom had elements of beauty, but it took sharp
eyes to detect them under the rags and dirt which had so effectually
disguised her. She had very brilliant dark eyes, and a clear olive
complexion, with cheeks that had a tinge of red instead of the pallor
usually to be found in those children who have the misfortune to be
reared in a tenement house. In her new clothes she looked positively
handsome, as Mrs. Merton thought, though she did not see fit to say so
to Tom herself.
When her toilet was concluded she turned Tom to the glass, and said,
“There, Jenny, do you know who that is?”
Tom stared in open-eyed wonder at the image which she saw. She could
hardly believe the testimony of her eyes.
“Is that me?” she asked.
“I believe so,” said Mrs. Merton, smiling.
“It don’t look like me a bit,” continued Tom.
“It doesn’t look like ‘Tattered Tom,’ certainly. Don’t you like it
better?”
“I dunno,” said Tom, doubtfully. “It looks too much like a girl.”
“But you are a girl, you know.”
“I wish I wasn’t.”
“Why?”
“Boys have more fun; besides, they are stronger, and can fight better.”
“But you don’t want to fight?” said Mrs. Merton, scandalized.
“I licked a boy yesterday,” said Tom, proudly.
“Why did you do that?”
“He sassed me, and I licked him. He was bigger’n I was, too!”
“I can’t allow you to fight in future, Jenny,” said Mrs. Merton. “It
isn’t at all proper for girls, or indeed for boys, to fight; but it is
worse for girls.”
“Why is it?” asked Tom.
“Because girls should be gentle and lady-like.”
“If you was a girl, and a boy should slap you in the face, what would
you do?” asked Tom, fixing her bright eyes upon her mentor.
“I should forgive him, and hope he would become a better boy.”
“I wouldn’t,” said Tom. “I’d give him Hail Columby.”
“You’ve got some very wrong ideas, Jenny,” said Mrs. Merton. “I fear
that your grandmother has not brought you up properly.”
“She did not bring me up at all. I brought myself up. As for granny, she
didn’t care as long as I brought her money to buy whiskey.”
Mrs. Merton shook her head. It was very evident to her that Tom had been
under very bad influences.
“I hope you will see the error of your ways after a while, Jenny. My
brother takes an interest in you, and for his sake I hope you will try
to improve.”
“If he wants me to, I will,” said Tom, decidedly.
Arab as she was, she had been impressed by the kindness of Captain
Barnes, and felt that she should like to please him. Still, there was a
fascination in the wild independence of her street life which was likely
for some time to interfere with her enjoyment of the usages of a more
civilized state. There was little prospect of her taming down into an
average girl all at once. The change must come slowly.
“My brother will be very much pleased if he finds that you have improved
when he returns from his voyage.”
“When is he goin’ to sea?”
“In two or three days.”
“I asked him to take me with him,” said Tom; “but he wouldn’t.”
“You would only be in the way on a ship, Jenny.”
“No, I shouldn’t. I could be a cabin-boy.”
“But you are not a boy.”
“I could climb the masts as well as a boy. If there was only a pole
here, I’d show you.”
“What a child you are!”
“Did you ever read about the female pirate captain?” asked Tom.
“No.”
“Jim Morgan told me all about it. He’d read it in some book. It was a
bully story.”
“Such stories are not fit to read.”
“I’d like to be a pirate captain,” said Tom, thoughtfully.
“You mustn’t talk so, Jenny,” said Mrs. Merton, shocked.
“But I would, though, and carry two pistols and a dagger in my belt, and
then if anybody sassed me I’d give ’em all they wanted.”
“My brother wouldn’t like to hear you talk so, Jenny. I’m sure I don’t
know what has got into you to say such dreadful things.”
“Then I won’t,” said Tom. “I wonder what granny would say if she saw me
in these fixin’s. She wouldn’t know me.”
“When my brother comes, you shall go down and open the door for him, and
see if he knows you.”
“That will be bully.”
“Now I must be thinking what I can find for you to do. You will be
willing to help me?”
“Yes,” said Tom, promptly.
“Do you know how to make beds?”
“I can learn,” said Tom.
“Didn’t your grandmother ever teach you?” asked Mrs. Merton, who, though
for a long time a resident of New York, had a very imperfect knowledge
of how the poorest classes lived.
“Granny never made her bed,” said Tom. “She just gave it a shake, and
tumbled into it.”
“Bless me, how shiftless she must be!” ejaculated Mrs. Merton, in
surprise.
“Oh, granny don’t mind!” said Tom, carelessly.
“Did you ever sweep?”
“Lots of times. That’s the way I got money to carry to granny.”
“Were you paid for sweeping, then?” asked Mrs. Merton.
“Yes, people that came along would give me money. If they wouldn’t I’d
muddy their boots.”
“What do you mean, child? Where did you sweep?”
“Corner of Broadway and Chambers’ Streets.”
“Oh, you swept the crossing, then.”
“In course I did. If you’ll give me a broom, I’ll go out and sweep front
of your house; but I guess there aint so many people come along here as
in Broadway.”
“I don’t want you to do that,” said Mrs. Merton, hastily. “I want you to
sweep the rooms in the house. Sarah, the chambermaid, will show you how,
and also teach you to make beds.”
“All right,” said Tom. “Bring her on, and I’ll help her.”
“We will defer that till to-morrow. Now you may come down to the kitchen
with me, and I’ll see if I can find anything for you to do there.”
Tom felt ready for any enterprise, and started to follow Mrs. Merton
downstairs, but rather startled the good lady by making a rapid descent
astride the banisters.
“Don’t you do that again, Jenny,” she said reprovingly.
“Why not?” asked Tom. “It’s jolly fun.”
                               CHAPTER XI
                       THE MISTAKES OF A MORNING.
On the way to the kitchen they met Sarah, the chambermaid, going
upstairs to make the beds.
“Sarah,” said Mrs. Merton, “here is a little girl who is going to stay
with me, and help about the house. You may take her upstairs, and show
her how to help you make the beds.”
If Tom had been in her street costume, Sarah would have preferred to
dispense with her assistance, but she looked quite civilized and
respectable now, and she accepted the offer. Tom accompanied her
upstairs to the second floor. The first chamber was that of Mr.
Craven,—a gentleman in business down town. It was of course vacant,
therefore.
Tom looked about her curiously.
“Now,” said Sarah, “do you know anything about making beds?”
“No,” said Tom.
“Then stand on one side, and I will tell you what to do.”
Tom followed directions pretty well, but, as the task was about
finished, an impish freak seized her, and she caught the pillow and
threw it at Sarah’s head, disarranging that young lady’s hair, and
knocking out a comb.
“What’s that for?” demanded Sarah, angrily.
Tom sat down and laughed boisterously.
“It’s bully fun!” she said. “Throw it at me.”
“I’ll give you a shaking, you young imp,” said Sarah. “You’ve broke my
comb.”
She picked up the comb, and dashed round the bed after Tom, who, seeing
no other way for escape, sprang upon the bed, where she remained
standing.
“Come down from there,” demanded Sarah.
“Let me alone, then!”
“I’ll tell the missis, just as sure as you live!”
“What’ll she do? Will she lick me?”
“You’ll see.”
This would not have checked Tom, but it occurred to her, all at once,
that her freak would be reported to the captain, and might displease
him.
“I’ll stop,” said she. “I was only in fun.”
By this time, Sarah had ascertained that the comb was not broken, after
all, and this made her more inclined to overlook Tom’s offence.
“Now behave decent!” she said.
She gave Tom further directions about the proper way of doing
chamber-work, which Tom followed quite closely, being resolved
apparently to turn over a new leaf. But her reformation was not
thorough. She caught sight of Mr. Craven’s shaving materials, which he
had carelessly left on the bureau, and before Sarah anticipated her
intention, she had seized the brush and spread the lather over her
cheeks.
“What are you doing, you little torment?” asked Sarah.
“I’m goin’ to shave,” said Tom. “It must feel funny.”
“Put that razor down!” said Sarah, approaching.
Tom brandished the razor playfully, in a manner that considerably
startled the chamber-maid, who stopped short in alarm:—
“I’ll go and tell the missis how you cut up,” said she, going to the
door.
This was unnecessary, however, for at this moment Mrs. Merton, desirous
of learning how Tom was getting along, opened the door. She started back
in dismay at the spectacle which greeted her view, and, in a tone
unusually decided for so mild a woman, said, “Jenny, put down that razor
instantly, and wipe the soap from your cheeks. Not so,” she added
hastily, seeing that Tom was about to wipe it off upon her skirt. “Here,
take the towel. Now, what do you mean by such conduct?”
“Wouldn’t he like it?” asked Tom, somewhat abashed.
“Do you mean my brother?”
“Yes, the sailor man.”
“No, he would be very angry.”
“Then I won’t do so again;” and Tom seemed quite decided in her
repentance.
“What possessed you to touch those things, Jenny?”
“That isn’t all she did, mum,” said Sarah. “She threw the pillow at me,
and almost druv the comb into my head. She’s the craziest creetur’ I
ever sot eyes on.”
“Did you do that?” asked Mrs. Merton.
“Yes,” said Tom. “I told her she might pitch it at me. It’s bully fun.”
“I can’t allow such goings-on,” said Mrs. Merton. “If you do so again, I
must send you back to your grandmother.”
“You don’t know where she lives,” said Tom.
“At any rate I won’t keep you here.”
Tom thought of the three square meals which she would receive daily, and
decided to remain. She continued quiet, therefore, and really helped
Sarah in the remaining rooms. When this task was completed she went
downstairs. At this moment a ring was heard at the door-bell. Thinking
that it might be the captain, Tom answered the summons herself. She
opened the door suddenly, but found herself mistaken.
A young gentleman was the visitor.
“Can I see Mrs. Merton?” he inquired.
“Yes,” said Tom; “come in.”
He stepped into the hall.
“Come right along. I’ll show you where she is.”
She knew that the landlady was in the kitchen, and supposed that this
was the proper place to lead the visitor.
The latter followed Tom as far as the head of the stairs, and then
paused.
“Where are you leading me?” he asked.
“She’s down in the kitchen. Come right along.”
“No, I will stay here. You may tell her there is a gentleman wishes to
see her.”
Tom went down, and found the landlady.
“There’s a feller upstairs wants to see you,” she said. “He wouldn’t
come down here. I asked him.”
“Good gracious! You didn’t invite him down into the kitchen?”
“Why not?” said Tom.
“You should have carried him into the parlor.”
“All right!” said Tom. “I’ll know better next time.”
Mrs. Merton smoothed her hair, and went upstairs to greet her visitor,
who proved to be an applicant for board.
Only fifteen minutes later Tom had a chance to improve on her first
mistake. Again the door-bell rang, and again Tom opened the door. A
wrinkled old woman, with a large basket, stood before her.
“I’m a poor widder,” she whined, “with four childer that have nothing to
ate. Can’t you give me a few pennies, and may the blessings of Heaven
rest upon you!”
“Come in,” said Tom.
The old woman stepped into the hall.
“Come right in here,” said Tom, opening the door of the parlor.
The old beggar, not accustomed to being received with so much attention,
paused doubtfully.
“Come in, if you’re comin’,” said Tom, impatiently. “The lady told me to
put everybody in here.”
The old woman followed, and took a seat on the edge of a sofa, placing
her basket on the carpet. Before Tom had a chance to acquaint her
mistress with the fact that a visitor awaited her, the bell rang again.
This time Tom found herself confronted by a fashionably dressed and
imposing-looking lady.
“I wish to see Mrs. Merton,” she said.
“All right!” said Tom. “Just you come in, and I’ll call her.”
The visitor entered, and was ushered also into the parlor. Leaving her
to find a seat for herself, Tom disappeared in pursuit of the landlady.
Mrs. Courtenay did not at first observe the other occupant of the room.
When her eyes rested on the old crone sitting on the sofa, with her
basket, which was partly stored with cold victuals, resting on the
carpet, she started in mingled astonishment and disgust. Her
aristocratic nostrils curved, and, taking a delicate handkerchief, she
tried to shut out the unsavory presence. The old woman saw the action,
and fidgeted nervously, feeling that she ought not to be there. While
the two guests were in this uncomfortable state of feeling, Mrs. Merton,
quite unsuspicious of anything wrong, opened the door.
“Is this Mrs. Merton?” asked Mrs. Courtenay.
“Yes, madam.”
“I called to inquire about a servant who referred me to you,” continued
Mrs. Courtenay, haughtily; “but I didn’t anticipate the company I should
find myself in.”
Following her glance, Mrs. Merton was struck with dismay, as she saw the
second visitor.
“How came you here?” she demanded hastily.
“The little gal brought me. It wasn’t my fault indeed, mum,” whined the
old woman.
“What do you want?”
“I’m a poor widder, mum. If you could be so kind as to give me a few
pennies.”
“I have nothing for you to-day. You can go,” said Mrs. Merton, who was
too provoked to be charitable, as otherwise she might have been. She
pointed to the door, and the applicant for charity hobbled out hastily,
feeling that she was not likely to obtain anything under present
circumstances.
“I must beg your pardon,” said Mrs. Merton, “for the mistake of an
inexperienced child, who has never before waited upon the door; though,
how she could have made such an absurd blunder, I cannot tell.”
Mrs. Courtenay deigned to be appeased, and opened her business. When she
had left the house, Mrs. Merton called Tom.
“Jenny,” she said, “how came you to show that beggar into the parlor?”
“She asked for you,” said Tom, “and you told me to take everybody that
asked for you into the parlor.”
“Never take such a woman as that in.”
“All right!” said Tom.
“That comes of taking a girl in from the street,” thought Mrs. Merton.
“I wish I hadn’t agreed to take her.”
                              CHAPTER XII
                         THE VANQUISHED BULLY.
Notwithstanding Tom’s mistake, she was still intrusted with the duty of
answering the bell. At length, to her satisfaction, she opened the door
to her friend of the morning.
He looked at her in surprise.
“What, is this Tom?” he asked.
“Yes,” she said, enjoying his surprise. “Didn’t you know me?”
“Hardly. Why, you look like a young lady!”
“Do I?” said Tom, hardly knowing whether or not to feel pleased at the
compliment, for she fancied she should prefer to be a boy.
“Yes, you are much improved. And how have you been getting on this
morning?”
“I’ve been cutting up,” said Tom, shaking her head.
“Not badly, I hope.”
“I’ll tell you what I did;” and Tom in her own way gave an account of
the events related in the previous chapter.
The captain laughed heartily.
“You aint mad?” questioned Tom.
“Did you think I would be?”
“She said so,” said Tom.
“Who is she?”
“Your sister.”
The captain recovered his gravity. He saw that his merriment might
encourage Tom in her pranks, and so increase the difficulties his sister
was likely to find with her.
“No, I am not angry,” he said, “but I want you very much to improve. You
will have a good home here, and I want you to do as well as you can, so
that when I get home from my voyage I may find you very much improved.
Do you think I shall?”
Tom listened attentively.
“What do you want me to do?” she asked.
“To learn, as fast as you can, both about work and study. I shall leave
directions to have you sent to school. Will you like that?”
“I don’t know,” said Tom. “I’m afraid I’ll be bad, and get licked.”
“Then try not to be bad. But you want to know something when you grow
up,—don’t you?”
“Yes.”
“Then you will have to go to school and study. Can you read?”
“Not enough to hurt me,” said Tom.
“Then, if you find yourself behind the rest, you must work all the
harder. Will you promise me to do it?”
Tom nodded.
“And will you try to behave well?”
“Yes,” said Tom. “I’ll do it for you. I wouldn’t do it for granny.”
“Then do it for me.”
Here Mrs. Merton appeared on the scene, and Tom was directed to go
downstairs to assist the cook.
“Well, what do you think of her, Martha?”
“She’s a regular trial. I’ll tell you what she did this morning.”
“I know all.”
“Did she tell you?” asked his sister, in surprise.
“Yes, she voluntarily told me that she had been ‘cutting up;’ and, on my
questioning her, confessed how. However, it was partly the result of
ignorance.”
“I wish I hadn’t undertaken the charge of her.”
“Don’t be discouraged, Martha. There’s some good in her, and she’s as
smart as a steel trap. She’s promised me to turn over a new leaf, and do
as well as she can.”
“Do you rely upon that?”
“I do. She’s got will and resolution, and I believe she means what she
says.”
“I hope it’ll prove so,” said Mrs. Merton, doubtfully.
“I find she knows very little. I should like to have her sent to school
as soon as possible. She can assist you when at home, and I will take
care that you lose nothing by it.”
To this Mrs. Merton was brought to agree, but could not help expressing
her surprise at the interest which her brother took in that child. She
was a good woman, but it was not strange if the thought should come to
her that she had two daughters of her own, having a better claim upon
their uncle’s money than this wild girl whom he had picked up in the
streets. But Captain Barnes showed that he had not forgotten his nieces,
as two handsome dress-patterns, sent in from Stewart’s during the
afternoon, sufficiently evinced.
Tom had not yet met Mrs. Merton’s daughters, both being absent at
school. They returned home about three o’clock. Mary, a girl of about
Tom’s age, had rather pretty, but insipid, features, and was vain of
what she regarded as her beauty. Fanny, who was eight, was more
attractive.
“Children, can’t you speak to your uncle?” said Mrs. Merton; for the
captain declared himself tired, and did not go out after lunch.
“How do you do, uncle?” said Mary, advancing and offering her hand.
“Why, Mary, you have become quite a young lady,” said her uncle.
Mary simpered and looked pleased.
“And Fanny too. Martha, where is that doll I brought for her?”
The doll was handed to the delighted child.
“I suppose you are too old for dolls, Mary,” said the captain to his
eldest niece.
“I should think so, Uncle Albert,” answered Mary, bridling.
“Then it’s lucky I didn’t bring you one. But I’ve brought you a
playmate.”
Mary looked surprised.
Tom was passing through the hall at the moment, and her guardian called
her.
“Come in, Tom.”
Mary Merton stared at the new-comer, and her quick eyes detected that
the dress in which she appeared was one of her own.
“Why, she’s got on my dress,” she said.
“She is about your size, Mary, so I gave her your dress.”
“Didn’t she have any clothes of her own?”
“Were you unwilling to let her have that dress?” asked her uncle.
Mary pouted, and Captain Barnes said, “Martha, I will put money in your
hands to supply Jenny with a suitable wardrobe. I had intended to give
Mary new articles for all which been appropriated to Tom’s use; but I
have changed my mind.”
“She can have them,” said Mary, regretting her selfishness, from an
equally selfish motive.
“I won’t trouble you,” said her uncle, rather coldly.
Tom had listened attentively to this conversation, turning her bright
eyes from one to the other.
“Come here, Tom, and shake hands with these two little girls.”
“I’ll shake hands with her,” said Tom, indicating Fanny.
“And won’t you shake hands with Mary?”
“I don’t want to.”
“Why not?”
“I don’t like her.”
“Shake hands with her, for my sake.”
Tom instantly extended her hand, but now it was Mary who held back. Her
mother would have forced her to give her hand, but Captain Barnes said,
“It don’t matter. Leave them to become friends in their own time.”
Two days afterwards the captain sailed. Tom renewed her promise to be a
good girl, and he went away hopeful that she would keep it.
“I shall have somebody to come home to, Jenny,” he said. “Will you be
glad to see me back?”
“Yes, I will,” she said; and there was a heartiness in her tone which
showed that she meant what she said.
The next day Tom went to school. She was provided with two or three
books such as she would need, and accompanied Fanny; for, though several
years older, she was not as proficient as the latter.
In the next street there was a boy, whose pleasure it was to bully
children smaller than himself. He had more than once annoyed Fanny, and
when the latter saw him a little in advance, she said, nervously, “Let
us cross the street, Jenny.”
“Why?” asked Tom.
“There’s George Griffiths just ahead.”
“What if he is?”
“He’s an awful bad boy. Sometimes he pulls away my books, and runs away
with them. He likes to plague us.”
“He’d better not try it,” said Tom.
“What would you do?” asked Fanny, in surprise.
“You’ll see. I won’t cross the street. I’m goin’ right ahead.”
Fanny caught her companion’s arm, and advanced, trembling, hoping that
George Griffiths might not see them. But he had already espied them,
and, feeling in a bullying mood, winked to a companion and said, “You’ll
see how I’ll frighten these girls.”
He advanced to meet them, and took off his hat with mock politeness.
“How do you do this morning, young ladies?” he said.
“Go away, you bad boy!” said little Fanny, in a flutter.
“I’ll pay you for that,” he said, and tried to snatch one of her books,
but was considerably startled at receiving a blow on the side of the
head from her companion.
“Just let her alone,” said Tom.
“What have you got to say about it?” he demanded insolently.
“You’ll see.”
Hereupon he turned his attention to Tom, and tried to snatch her books,
but was rather astounded when his intended victim struck him a sounding
blow in the face with her fist.
“Take my books, Fanny,” she said, and, dropping them on the sidewalk,
squared off scientifically.
“Come on, if you want to!” said Tom, her eyes sparkling with excitement
at the prospect of a fight.
“I don’t want to fight with a girl,” he said, considerably astonished at
vigorous resistance where he had expected timid submission.
“You’re afraid!” said Tom, triumphantly.
“No, I’m not,” said George, backing out all the while; “I don’t want to
hurt you.”
“You can’t do it,” said Tom; “I can lick you any day.”
“How could you do it?” asked Fanny, as the dreaded bully slunk away.
“How brave you are, Jenny! I’m awful afraid of him.”
“You needn’t be,” said Tom, taking her books. “I’ve licked boys bigger’n
him. I can lick him, and he knows it.”
She was right. The story got about, and George Griffiths was so laughed
at, for being vanquished by a girl, that he was very careful in future
whom he attempted to bully.
                              CHAPTER XIII
              GRANNY IS COMPELLED TO EARN HER OWN LIVING.
Leaving Tom in her new home, we return to Mrs. Walsh, which was the
proper designation of the old woman whom she called granny. Though Tom
had escaped from her clutches, granny had no idea that she intended to
stay away permanently. She did not consider that all the advantages of
the connection between them had been on her side, and that Tom had only
had the privilege of supporting them both. If she had not carried
matters so far our heroine would have been satisfied to remain; but now
she had fairly broken away, and would never come back unless brought by
force.
When six o’clock came granny began to wonder why Tom did not come back.
She usually returned earlier, with whatever money she had managed to
obtain.
“She’s afraid of a lickin’,” thought granny. “She’ll get a wuss one if
she stays away.”
An hour passed, and granny became hungry; but unfortunately she was
penniless, and had nothing in the room except a crust of hard bread
which she intended for Tom’s supper. Hunger compelled her to eat this
herself, though it was not much to her taste. Every moment’s additional
delay irritated her the more with the rebellious Tom.
“I wish I had her here,” soliloquized granny, spitefully.
When it was half-past seven granny resolved to go out and hunt her up.
She might be on the sidewalk outside playing. Perhaps—but this was too
daring for belief—she might be spending her afternoon’s earnings on
another square meal.
Granny went downstairs, and through the archway into the street. There
were plenty of children, living in neighboring tenement houses, gathered
in groups or playing about, but no Tom was visible.
“Have you seen anything of my gal, Micky Murphy?” asked granny of a boy
whom she had often seen with Tom.
“No,” said Micky. “I haven’t seen her.”
“Haven’t any of you seen her?” demanded Mrs. Walsh, making the question
a general one.
“I seen her sellin’ papers,” said one boy.
“When was that?” asked granny, eagerly.
“’Bout four o’clock.”
“Where was she?”
“Greenwich Street.”
This was a clue at least, but a faint one. Tom had been seen at four
o’clock, and now it was nearly eight. Long before this she must have
sold her papers, and the unpleasant conviction dawned upon granny that
she must have spent her earnings upon herself.
“If I could only get hold of her!” muttered granny, vengefully.
She went as far as the City Hall, and followed along down by the Park
fence, looking about her in all directions, in the hope that she might
espy Tom. But the latter was at this time engaging lodgings for the
night, as we know, and in no danger of being caught.
Unwilling to give up the pursuit, Mrs. Walsh wandered about for an hour
or more, occasionally resting on one of the seats in the City Hall Park,
till the unwonted exertion began to weary her, and she realized that she
was not likely to encounter Tom.
There was one chance left. Tom might have got home while she had been in
search of her. Spurred by this hope, Mrs. Walsh hurried home, and
mounted to her lofty room. But it was as desolate as when she left it.
It was quite clear that Tom did not mean to come back that night. This
was provoking; but granny still was confident that she would return in
the course of the next day. So she threw herself on the bed,—not without
some silent imprecations upon her rebellious charge,—and slept till
morning.
Morning brought her a new realization of her loss. She found her
situation by no means an agreeable one. Her appetite was excellent, but
she was without food or money to buy a supply. It was certainly
provoking to think that she must look out for herself. However, granny
was equal to the occasion. She did not propose to work for a living, but
decided that she would throw herself upon charity. To begin with, she
obtained some breakfast of a poor but charitable neighbor, and then
started on a walk up town. It was not till she got as far as Fourteenth
Street that she commenced her round of visits.
The first house at which she stopped was an English basement house.
Granny rang the basement bell.
“Is your mistress at home?” she asked.
“Yes; what’s wanted?”
“I’m a poor widder,” whined granny, in a lugubrious voice, “with five
small children. We haven’t got a bit of food in the house. Can’t you
give me a few pennies?”
“I’ll speak to the missis, but I don’t think she’ll give any money.”
She went upstairs, and soon returned.
“She won’t give you any money, but here’s a loaf of bread.”
Mrs. Walsh would much have preferred a small sum of money, but muttered
her thanks, and dropped the loaf into a bag she had brought with her.
She went on to the next block, and intercepted a gentleman just starting
down town to his business.
“I’m a poor widder,” she said, repeating her whine; “will you give me a
few pennies? and may the Lord bless you!”
“Why don’t you work?” asked the gentleman, brusquely.
“I’m too old and feeble,” she answered, bending over to assume the
appearance of infirmity. This did not escape the attention of the
gentleman, who answered unceremoniously, “You’re a humbug! You won’t get
anything from me! If I had my way, I’d have you arrested and locked up.”
Granny trembled with passion, but did not think it politic to give vent
to her fury.
Her next application was more successful, twenty-five cents being sent
to the door by a compassionate lady, who never doubted the story of the
five little children suffering at home for want of food.
Granny’s eyes sparkled with joy as she hastily clutched the money. With
it she could buy drink and tobacco, while food was not an object of
barter.
“The missis wants to know where you live,” said the servant.
Mrs. Walsh gave a wrong address, not caring to receive charitable
callers, who would inevitably find out that her story was a false one,
and her children mythical.
At the next house she got no money; but on declaring that she had eaten
nothing for twenty-four hours, was invited into the kitchen, where she
was offered a chair, and a plate of meat and bread was placed before
her. This invitation was rather an embarrassing one; for, thanks to her
charitable neighbor, granny had eaten quite a hearty breakfast not long
before. But, having declared that she had not tasted food for
twenty-four hours, she was compelled to keep up appearances, and eat
what was set before her. It was very hard work, and attracted the
attention of the servants, who had supposed her half famished.
“You don’t seem very hungry,” said Annie, the cook.
“It’s because I’m faint-like,” muttered granny. At this moment her bag,
containing the loaf of bread, tumbled on the floor.
“What’s that?” asked the cook, suspiciously.
“It’s some bread I’m goin’ to carry home to the childers,” said Mrs.
Walsh, a little confused. “They was crying for something to ate when I
come away.”
“Then you’d better take it home as soon as you can,” said Annie,
surveying the old woman with some suspicion.
Granny was forced to leave something on her plate, nature refusing the
double burden she sought to impose upon it, and went out with an
uncomfortable sense of fulness. Resuming her rounds, she was repulsed at
some places, at others referred to this or that charitable society, but
in the end succeeded in raising twenty-five cents more in money. Fifty
cents, a loaf of bread, and a little cold meat represented her gains of
the morning, and with these she felt tolerably well satisfied. She had
been compelled to walk up town, but now she had money and could afford
to ride. She entered a Sixth Avenue car, therefore, and in half an hour
or thereabouts reached the Astor House. She walked through the Park,
looking about her carefully, in the hope of seeing Tom, who would
certainly have fared badly if she had fallen into the clutches of the
angry old woman. But Tom was nowhere visible.
So granny plodded home, and, mounting to her room, laid away the bread
and meat, and, throwing herself upon the bed, indulged in a pipe. Tom
was not at home, and granny began to have apprehensions that she meant
to stay away longer than she had at first supposed.
“But I’ll come across her some day,” said granny, vindictively. “When I
do I’ll break every bone in her body.”
The old woman lay on the bed two or three hours, and then went out, with
the double purpose of investing a part of her funds in a glass of
something strong, and in the hope that she might fall in with Tom.
Notwithstanding the desire of vengeance, she missed her. She had not the
slightest affection for the young girl who had been so long her charge,
but she was used to her companionship. It seemed lonely without her.
Besides, granny had one of those uncomfortable dispositions that feel
lost without some one to scold and tyrannize over, and, although Tom had
not been so yielding and submissive as many girls would have been under
the same circumstances, Mrs. Walsh had had the satisfaction of beating
her occasionally, and naturally longed for the presence of her customary
victim.
So, after making the purchase she intended, granny made another visit to
the Park and Printing House Square, and inspected eagerly the crowds of
street children who haunt those localities as paper-venders, peddlers,
and boot-blacks. But Tom, as we know, was by this time an inmate of Mrs.
Merton’s boarding-house,—the home found for her by her friend, the
sea-captain. This was quite out of Mrs. Walsh’s beat. She had not
anticipated any such contingency, but supposed that Tom would be forced
to earn her living by some of those street trades by means of which so
many children are kept from starvation. It did not enter her
calculations that, so soon after parting from her, Tom had also ceased
to be a street Arab, and obtained a respectable home. Of course,
therefore, disappointment was again her portion, and she was forced to
return home and go to bed without the exquisite satisfaction of
“breaking every bone in Tom’s body.”
Granny felt that she was ill-used, and that Tom was a monster of
ingratitude; but on that subject there may, perhaps, be a difference of
opinion.
                              CHAPTER XIV
                     TOM IS CAPTURED BY THE ENEMY.
We pass over two months, in which nothing of striking interest occurred
to our heroine, or her affectionate relative, who continued to mourn her
loss with more of anger than of sorrow. My readers may be interested to
know how far Tom has improved in this interval. I am glad to say that
she has considerably changed for the better, and is rather less of an
Arab than when she entered the house. Still Mrs. Merton, on more than
one occasion, had assured her intimate friend and gossip, Miss Betsy
Perkins, that Tom was “a great trial,” and nothing but her promise to
her brother induced her to keep her.
Tom was, however, very quick and smart. She learned with great rapidity,
when she chose, and was able to be of considerable service in the house
before and after school. To be sure she was always getting into hot
water, and from time to time indulged in impish freaks, which betrayed
her street-training. At school, however, she learned very rapidly, and
had already been promoted into a class higher than that which she
entered. If there was one thing that Tom was ashamed of, it was to find
herself the largest and oldest girl in her class. She was ambitious to
stand as well as other girls of her own age, and, with this object in
view, studied with characteristic energy, and as a consequence improved
rapidly.
She did not get along very well with Mary Merton. Mary was languid and
affected, and looked down scornfully upon her mother’s hired girl, as
she called her; though, as we know, money was paid for Tom’s board. Tom
did not care much for her taunts, being able to give as good as she
sent; but there was one subject on which Mary had it in her power to
annoy her. This was about her defective education.
“You don’t know any more than a girl of eight,” said Mary,
contemptuously.
“I haven’t been to school all my life as you have,” said Tom.
“I know that,” said Mary. “You were nothing but a beggar, or rag-picker,
or something of that kind. I don’t see what made my uncle take you out
of the street. That was the best place for you.”
“I wish you had to live with granny for a month,” retorted Tom. “It
would do you good to get a lickin’ now and then.”
“Your grandmother must have been a very low person,” said Mary,
disdainfully.
“That’s where you’re right,” said Tom, whose affection for granny was
not very great.
“I’m glad I haven’t such a grandmother. I should be ashamed of it.”
“She wasn’t my grandmother. She only called herself so,” said Tom.
“I’ve no doubt she was,” said Mary, “and that you are just like her.”
“Say that again, and I’ll punch your head,” said Tom, belligerently.
As Mary knew that Tom was quite capable of doing what she threatened,
she prudently desisted, but instead taunted her once more with her
ignorance.
“Never mind,” said Tom, “wait a while and I’ll catch up with you.”
Mary laughed a spiteful little laugh.
“Hear her talk!” she said. “Why, I’ve been ever so far in English;
besides, I am studying French.”
“Can’t I study French too?”
“That would be a great joke for a common street girl to study French!
You’ll be playing the piano next.”
“Why not?” asked Tom, undauntedly.
“Maybe your granny, as you call her, had a piano.”
“Perhaps she did,” said Tom; “but it was to the blacksmith’s to be
mended, so I never saw it.”
Tom was not in the least sensitive on the subject of granny, and however
severe reflections might be indulged in upon granny’s character and
position, she bore them with equanimity, not feeling any particular
interest in the old woman.
Still she did occasionally feel a degree of curiosity as to how granny
was getting along in her absence. She enjoyed the thought that Mrs.
Walsh, no longer being able to rely upon her, would be compelled to
forage for herself.
“I wonder what she’ll do,” thought Tom. “She’s such a lazy old woman
that I think she’ll go round beggin’. Work don’t agree with her
constitution.”
It so happened that granny, though in her new vocation she made frequent
excursions up town, had never fallen in with Tom. This was partly
because Tom spent the hours from nine to two in school, and it was at
this time that granny always went on her rounds. But one Saturday
forenoon Tom was sent on an errand some half a mile distant. As she was
passing through Eighteenth Street her attention was drawn to a tall,
ill-dressed figure a few feet in advance of her. Though only her back
was visible, Tom remembered something peculiar in granny’s walk.
