fever ; one of the women was light-headed ; 
not any of them would touch what Matilda 
had brought. The poor girl who was still on 
her feet was crying. There was no fire, no 
friend ; no comfort or help of any sort. Norton and his little companion made the rounds 
helplessly, and then went out to consult together. 
" Norton, they are dreadfully sick," whis 
pered Matilda. " I know they are." 
" I guess you are right," said Norton. " But 
you and I can't do anything." 
" I can," said Matilda. " I can give them 
water, and I can give them beef tea. And 
you, Norton, I will tell you what you can do. 
Go for Miss Redwood." 
" Miss Redwood ? who's she ? " 
" Don't you remember ? Mr. Richmond's 
housekeeper. She'll come, I know." 
 
" She'll be very good if she does," said 
Norton. " But I'll tell her you said so. Do 
you think she would come ? " 
" I'm certain of it" 
CHAPTER XL 
NORTON made his way to the brown 
door of the parsonage, and knocked 
but the person that opened it was the minister himself. Norton was a little confused 
now, remembering what his errand meant 
there. 
"Norton Laval, isn't it?" said Mr. Rich 
mond. " You are very welcome, Norton, at 
my house. Will you come in ? " 
" No, sir. If you please " 
"What is it? Something you would 
rather say to me here ? " 
" No, sir. I was coming " 
"To see me, I hope?" 
" No, sir," said Norton, growing desperate 
and colouring, which he was very unapr, to 
do. " If you please, Mr. Richmond, I was 
 
sent to speak to I forget what her name is 
the woman who lives here." 
" Miss Redwood ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" Who sent you ? " 
" Matilda Englefield." 
" Did she ! Pray why did not Matilda 
come with you ? " 
" She could not, sir ; she was very busy. 
She asked me to come." 
" You can see Miss Redwood," said Mr. 
Richmond smiling. " I believe she is always 
ready to receive visiters ; at least I never saw 
a time when she was not. You have only to 
walk right in and knock at her door there. 
When are you coming to see me, Norton? 
You and I ought to be better friends." 
"I don't know, sir," said Norton. "I 
would not intrude." 
" Ask your friend Matilda if I do not like 
such intrusions. I shall have to invite you 
specially, I see. Well, go in and find Miss 
Redwood. I will not detain you now." 
 
Norton went in, glad to be released, for he 
did not exactly want to tell his errand to the 
minister; knocked at the kitchen door and 
was bade to enter. It was full, the kitchen 
was, of the sweet smell of baking bread ; and 
Miss Redwood was busily peering into her 
stove oven. 
" Who's there ? " she asked, too much 
engaged in turning her loaves to give her 
eyes to anything else, even a visiter. Norton 
told his name, and waited till the oven doors 
shut to with a clang; and then Miss Red 
wood, very pink in the face, rose up to look 
at him. 
" I've seen you before," was her remark. 
" Yes. I brought Matilda Englefield here 
one day," Norton answered. 
" Hm. I thought she brought you. What 
brings you now?" 
" Matilda wanted me to come with a mes 
sage to you." 
" Well you can sit down and tell it, if 
you're a mind to. Why didn't the child 
 
come herself? that's the first idee that comes 
to me." 
" She is busy trying to nurse some sick 
folks, and they are more than she can man 
age ; and she wants your help. At least she 
sent me to ask you if you wouldn't come." 
"Who's sick?" 
" Some people just come from Switzerland 
to be my mother's servants." 
" Switzerland," repeated Miss Redwood. 
" I have heard o' Switzerland, more than 
once in my life. I should like to know 
whereabouts it is. I never knew any one 
yet that could tell me." 
" Mr. Richmond knows, I suppose," said 
Norton. 
" I suppose he knows Greek," said Miss 
Redwood, " and ever so many other queer 
tongues too, I've no doubt ; but I should like 
to see myself askin' him to learn me. No, I
mean, as I never knew nobody that I'd ask. 
La! there's folks enough that knows. Only I 
never had no chances for them things." 
 
" I could shew you where Switzerland is, 
if you had a map," said Norton. 
" I guess I know as much as that myself," 
said the housekeeper quietly, opening the 
stove door again for a peep at the oven. 
" But what does that tell me ? I see a little 
spot o' paper painted green, and a big spot 
along side of it painted some other colour ; 
and the map is all spots; and somebody tells 
me that little green spot is Switzerland. And 
I should like to know, how much wiser am I 
for that? That's paper and green paint; 
but what I want to know is, where is the 
place ? " 
" It's hard to tell," said Norton, so much 
amused that he forgot his commission. 
" Well, these folks come from Switzerland, 
you say. How did they corne ? " 
" They came in a ship part of the way." 
" How fur in a ship ? " 
" Three thousand miles." 
" Three thousand," repeated Miss Redwood. " When you get up there, I don't 
 
know what miles mean, no more than if you 
spoke another language. I understand a 
hundred miles. It's nigh that to New York." 
" They came that hundred miles, over and 
above," said Norton. 
" Well, how long now, does it take a ship 
to go that fur ? Three thousand miles." 
" It depends on how fast the wind blows." 
" The wind goes awful fast sometimes," 
said Miss Redwood. " When it goes at that 
rate as will carry a chimney off a house, and 
pick up a tree by the roots as I would a baby 
under my arm, seems to me a ship would 
travel at a powerful speed." 
" It would certainly, if there was nothing to 
hinder," said Norton ; " but at those times, 
you see, the wind picks up the water, and 
sends such huge waves rolling about that it 
is not very safe to be where they can give you 
a slap. Ships don't get along best at such 
times." 
" Well, I'm thankful I'm not a sailor," said 
Miss Redwood. "I'd rather stay home and 
know less. How many o' these folks o' yourn 
is sick ? " 
" All of them, pretty much," said Norton. 
" Two men and two women." 
" Fever nagur?" 
" No, 'tisn't that. I don't know what it is. 
The doctor is attending them. He ordered 
beef tea to-day ; and Matilda made some ; 
but they seem too sick to take it now they've 
got it." 
Miss Redwood dropped her towel, with 
which she was just going to open the oven 
again, and stood upright. 
" Beef tea ? " she echoed. " How long 
have these folks been sick ? " 
"Ever since they came ashore almost. 
They came straight up here, and began to be 
ill immediately. That was a few days ago ; 
not a week." 
" Beef tea ! " said Miss Redwood again. 
" And just come to shore. How do they 
look? Did you see them?" 
" Yes, I saw them," said Norton. " I went 
 
with Matilda when she took the beef tea to 
them. How did they look ? I can't tell ; they 
looked bad. The men were mahogany col 
our ; and one of the women was out of her 
head, I think." 
" And you two children going to see them ! " 
exclaimed Miss Redwood, in a tone that 
savoured of strong disapprobation, not to say 
dismay. 
" Because there was no one else," said Nor 
ton. " Mamma has gone to New York to 
get more people ; for all ours went off when 
they knew of the sickness at the farmhouse." 
" Why ? " said Miss Redwood sharply. 
"I don't know. I suppose they were jealous of these strangers." 
" Hm," said Miss Redwood, beginning 
now to take her bread out of the oven with a 
very hurried hand ; " there's jealousy enough 
in the world, no doubt, and unreason enough ; 
but it don't usually come like an epidemic 
neither. You go home, and tell Matilda I'm 
a comin' as fast as ever I kin get my chores 
 
done and my hood and shawl on. And you 
tell her will she do what you tell her ? " 
" I don't know," said Norton. " What is 
it?" 
" Where is it these folks are sick ? Not to 
your house ? " 
" O no. Down at the farmhouse you 
know our farmhouse under the bank." 
" Did you leave the child there ? " 
" She was there when I came away." 
" Well, you run home as fast as your legs 
can carry you and fetch her out of that. 
Bring her home, and don't you nor she go 
down there again. Maybe it's no harm, but 
it's safe to do as I tell you. Now go, and 
I'll come. Don't let the grass grow under 
your feet." 
Norton was not used to be ordered about 
quite so decidedly ; it struck him as an amusing variety in his life. However he divined 
that Miss Redwood might have some deep 
reason for being so energetic, and he was not 
slow in getting back to Briery Bank ; so his 
 
mothers place was called. The house was 
shut up, as he and Matilda had left it ; and 
he went on down to the home of the sick 
people. There he found Matilda as he had 
left her. Norton only put his head into the 
sick room and called her out. 
" Miss Redwood is coming," he said. 
" I'm so glad ! I knew she would," said 
Matilda. " She will know what to do. They 
all seem stupid, Norton, except the woman 
who is out of her head." 
" Yes, she will know what to do," said 
Norton ; " and you had better come away now. 
You don't." 
" I can do something, though," said Matilda. " I can give the medicine and the 
beef tea. Why there was nobody even to 
give the medicine, Norton. I found it here 
with the doctor's directions ; and nobody had 
taken it till I came ; not one of these sick 
people. But oh, the rooms are so disagreeable, with so many sick people in them ! you 
can't think." 
 
" I can, for I've been in them," said Nor 
ton. " And once is enough. They have got 
the medicine now, Pink; you needn't stay 
any longer." 
" O yes, but I must. I must till Miss Redwood comes. The medicine, will have to be 
taken again in a little while." 
" It can wait till she gets here. You come 
away, Pink. Miss Redwood said you 
should." 
" She didn't know what there was for me 
to do, or she wouldn't have said it. I can't 
go, Norton." 
" But you must, Pink. She said so. Suppose these people should be sick with some 
thing dreadful? you can't tell." 
" I am sure they would want a nurse 
then." 
' But you might get sick, you know." 
Well, Norton, I'm not afraid." 
" You might get sick, all the same, if 
you're not afraid," said Norton impatiently. 
" Come, Pink, you must come." 
 
" I can't, Norton. I must go in and give 
them some more beef tea, now in a minute. 
They can't take but ever so little at a time. 
It would be very wrong to leave them as they 
are." 
" You might get sick, and die," said Norton. 
" Well, Norton," said Matilda slowly, "'I 
don't think I am afraid of that. I belong to 
Jesus. He will take care of me." 
" I don't think you know what you are 
talking of ! " said Norton, very impatient and 
very much at a loss how to manage Matilda. 
" O yes, I do ! " she said smiling. " Now 
I must go in. You needn't come, for there 
wouldn't be anything for you to do." 
Matilda disappeared ; and Norton, wishing 
very much that he could lay hold of her and 
carry her away by force, did not however feel 
that it would exactly do. He sat down on 
the door stone of the house, he would not go 
further, and waited. There was a delicious 
calm sunlight over all the world that October 
 
afternoon ; it puzzled Norton how there could 
be a sick house anywhere under such a sky. 
He heard th'e ponies stamping their idle hoofs 
against the barn floor ; they were spoiling for 
exercise ; why were he and Matilda not out 
driving, instead of having this state of things ? 
Then some gayly disposed crows went flying 
overhead, calling a cheery reminder to each 
other as they went along; they were having 
a good time. Norton chafed against the barriers that hindered him. Suddenly a swift 
footstep came over the grass, and Mr. Rich 
mond stood before him. 
" Is this the house ? " he asked. " Is Ma 
tilda here ? " 
" Yes, sir ; and I've tried to get her out, 
and I can't." 
Mr. Richmond went in, without more 
words. A moment after, Matilda opened the 
door he had shut. 
" Well! will you go now? " said Norton. 
" I must. Mr. Richmond will not let me 
stay." 
 
Mr. Richmond himself came again to the 
door. 
" Norton," said he, " I am going to ask you 
to take Matilda to the parsonage. The best 
thing will be for you and her to make your 
home there, until Mrs. Laval gives further 
orders. You will both be heartily welcome. 
Will you take her there and take care of her 
until I come home ? " 
" Thank you, sir," said Norton, " it is not 
necessary " 
" You must let my word go for that," said 
the minister smiling. " If not necessary, I 
think it prudent. I wish it; and I invite 
both of you. It would be treating me very 
ill to refuse me, and I am sure you will not 
do that. I trust you to take care of Matilda 
until I get home. The house will be quite 
alone when Miss Redwood leaves it. Is any 
body in the house on the bank? " 
" No, sir ; nobody." 
" I will lock it up, then, and bring the 
key. Go in and put up anything you will 
want for a day or two, and I will send it after 
you." 
With a nod and a smile at them, Mr. Richmond went in again. The two children 
looked at each other, and then began to 
mount the bank. 
" You do what Mr. Richmond tells you," 
remarked Norton. 
" Of course," said Matilda. " So do you." 
" It wouldn't be civil to do anything else," 
said Norton. " But isn't it jolly, that you 
and I should go to make a visit at the 
parsonage! What is a parsonage like? It 
isn't like other houses, I suppose." 
" Why yes, it is," said Matilda ; "just like; 
only a minister lives in it." 
" That makes the difference," said Norton. 
" Don't you feel as if you were in church all 
the time ? I shall, I know." 
" Why no, Norton ! what an idea. Mr. 
Richmond's house is not like a church." 
". Isn't he like a minister ? " 
" Why yes, of course ! " said Matilda with 
 
some indignation. " He isn't like your minister, Norton." 
"Why ? " said Norton laughing. 
" I don't know. He isn't stiff. He don't 
dress unlike other people. He is just as 
pleasant as anybody else can be ; and a great 
deal pleasanter, I think." 
" What you call good people, generally are 
stiff," said Norton. 
" O no, Norton, they are not. What makes 
you think so ? " 
" You were very stiff just now," said Nor 
ton. 
" O, do you mean that sort of stiffness ? 
But Norton, I thought there was something 
I could do there, you know, and I didn't think 
I ought to come away." 
Getting to the top of the bank broke off 
the discussion. Matilda and Norton each had 
things to get together to go to the parsonage ; 
and it was necessary to change their dress. 
The sun was well on his westing way when 
they left the iron gate of Briery Bank, bag in 
hand ; and in the little lane of the parsonage 
the elm trees cast broad and long shadows. 
As they came up on the piazza, Miss Redwood opened the door. Her hood and shawl 
were on, and she had a basket in her hand. 
She stopped suddenly. 
" What is it now ? " she said. " What's 
wanting ? " 
" Nothing," said Matilda; " only Mr. Rich 
mond has sent us here." 
" He has ! " said the housekeeper. " You've 
come to stop ? " 
" Mr. Richmond says so. He wished it." 
Well, what'll you do ? " said Miss Redwood coming to a sort of pause. " There 
ain't a living soul in the house, and there 
won't be; 'cept the minister himself; and 
how he'll get along I don't know. I can't be 
in two places at once." 
" Can't I get the tea, Miss Redwood?" 
" La, I don't know but what you kin. 
Come along in, and let me tell you. There's 
bread all baked, this afternoon it ain't cold 
 
yet enough to last a siege ; it's in that 
pantry, Matilda, in the bread box. You know 
there's all the cups and saucers and tea things, 
for you've seen me get 'em out ; and the tea 
canister; and the sugar. And the milk is 
down cellar, in a pan, and there's cream onto 
it. Can you skim it off and keep it cream 
yet, for the minister's tea?" 
" O yes ; I can do that, Miss Redwood." 
" Then you'll get along for to-night; and 
I'll try and be round in the morning, if I kin. 
But you'll want sheets There's the bed in 
the spare room off the hall ; that's all ready 
for one of ye ; I got it fixed up Saturday for 
somebody that never come; 'tain't everybody 
as sticks to his word like the minister. La, I 
get weary with the folks that are like Job's 
brooks ; they say and don't do ; and when 
you expect 'em they ain't there. I was put 
out, o' Saturday, when I found out that was 
how it was with this man ; but there's good 
in everything, if you can keep your patience ; 
now the room's ready, and it wouldn't ha' 
 
been ready ; for I had a lot o' apples there 
dryin', and a board full o' fresh turnpikes was 
on the bed ; they was gettin' finished ; and I 
had a quilt in a corner that I had sot up on 
the sticks and it was a'rnost done quiltin' ; 
and all them things I had to fly round and 
get rid of; and I've no time for anything now. 
So dear, that room'll do for one of ye ; and 
the other you can put the sheets on the 
bed, can't ye ? for the minister'll be playin' 
nurse till I come, and I wish I had Jack's 
seven-mile boots to get to Briery Bank with." 
While this talk was going on, Miss Redwood had brought Matilda upstairs, and was 
taking out linen and coverlets from a press 
in one of the rooms. Matilda said she could 
manage everything, with Norton's help. 
" Then I'll go," said Miss Redwood. " But 
if I shouldn't be able fur to run away in the 
morning and see to the breakfast!" 
She stopped, thinking. 
" Dear Miss Redwood, won't you trust me 
to do it ? I think I can." 
 
" What sort of a breakfast will it be ? " said 
the housekeeper meditatively. 
" I'll try to have it right." 
" La, yes, if it depended on your tryin'," 
said the housekeeper ; " your will is as good 
as gold ; but will won't cook a beefsteak." 
" I'll try," said Matilda again. 
" Well," said Miss Redwood, " we must 
walk till we get out o' the woods, and then 
we'll run. The minister ain't accustomed to 
have his steak any way but as he likes it ; 
maybe it'll do him no harm. Everything's 
down cellar, Matilda, 'cept the things in the 
kitchen pantry ; and you'll find out which is 
which. And I'll go." 
So she did. And as the door closed after 
her, the two children in the hall looked at 
each other. 
" Nobody in the house ? " said Norton. 
" Nobody but ourselves." 
That's jolly," said Norton. " Pink, I 
have got that catalogue in my pocket ; let us 
sit down somewhere and make out a list of 
those hyacinths." 
 
" O Norton ! Yes, I will in a little while. 
I must go get the table ready for tea ; and I 
had better do it now before Mr. Richmond 
comes home." 
" You and I seem to have a great deal of 
getting tea to do," said Norton, as he followed 
Matilda into the little dining room. " What 
do you want me to do ? " 
" O Norton ! if you would just look and 
see if the tea-kettle is on, and if not, put it on. 
Will you ? " 
Where, Pink ? " 
" Just open that door. There is the 
kitchen." 
" I remember," said Norton. " No, the ket 
tle isn't on. Here goes." 
There was a little busy, pleasant bustle, 
for a time ; and then Matilda with Norton's 
help had got everything in order for the 
evening meal. The sun was near setting, 
and threw bright lines of light in at the two 
little west windows, filling the small dining 
room with pure gold ; then it went down, and 
 
the gold was gone, and only in the low western sky the brightness remained. 
" It's time for the minister to be at home," 
Norton said. 
" He has a great deal to do," Matilda answered. 
" What ? " said Norton. " I always thought 
the parsons had an easy time of it. I could 
write two themes a week, I think, if I tried 
hard." 
" Norton ! " Matilda exclaimed, " it isn't 
that; and Mr. Richmond doesn't write 
themes, as you call it, to begin with." 
" That must be harder then," said Norton ; 
" to stand up and speak to people without 
anything to say." 
" Why he doesn't ! " said Matilda. " Mr. 
Richmond always has plenty to say. I suppose he could talk all day, if he didn't get 
tired." 
" I mean preaching," said Norton. 
" Yes, and I mean preaching," said Matilda. 
 
" Where is it to come from ? " said the 
ooy, pursing his lips ready for a whistle. 
" Why, out of his head, and out of his 
heart," said Matilda. " Where should it 
come from ? " 
" I say, Pink," said Norton, " it's very funny 
for me to be here. I don't think I can stand 
it long." 
"Stand what?" 
" This. Being at the parsonage, and get 
ting talked to. I suppose I shall." 
" Norton," said Matilda confidently, " you'll 
like it. It's just nice." 
" I don't know about that," said Norton. 
" It feels queer. I believe I am afraid." 
Matilda laughed at his very un-fear-like 
face ; and then the front door opened and 
shut. Mr. Richmond had come. 
It was a jolly tea they had, Norton confessed afterwards. Mr. Richmond went rum 
maging among Miss Redwood's stores and 
brought out a jar of sweetmeats ; in honour, 
he said, of his guests. The sweetmeats were 
good, and so was Miss Redwood's fresh bread. 
And there was indeed plenty of talk at the 
table; but it was not in the least like preaching. From the sick Swiss, and their voyage, 
Mr. Richmond and Norton somehow got 
upon the subject of navigation, and commerce, 
with ships ancient and modern, and a little 
touch here and there shewing how much these 
things have had to do with the history of the 
world and the life of nations. Mr. Richmond 
and Norton talked and talked ; and Matilda 
listened, and made the tea, and enjoyed it all 
very much, seeing too what a good time Norton was having. 
After tea, they removed into the study. 
Mr. Richmond asked them to come there, say 
ing he was going to play this evening. He 
built up a beautiful fire, and gave Norton a 
book to look at; while he himself sat for 
awhile quite silent, looking into the blaze, and 
only moving now and then to take care that 
it was kept up. So Matilda found the two, 
when she had put the tea things away and 
 
followed them to the study. The red curtains 
were drawn across the windows, the red light 
of the fire leaped and shone all through the 
room ; in the glow of it Norton sat brooding 
over his book, and before it Mr. Richmond 
sat thinking. But he held out his hand as 
Matilda came in, and asked if his little house 
keeper had got all things straight. Matilda 
came to his outstretched hand, which drew 
her to his side ; and the room was still again. 
Matilda stood motionless. By and by Nor 
ton glanced up at her from his book, and 
covertly smiled. It started Matilda's thoughts. 
" Are you not going to be busy, Mr. Rich 
mond ? " she ventured gently. 
" Not doing anything at all," said Mr. Richmond rousing himself. " I have been busy 
all day, Matilda. I arn going to do nothing 
to-night. What is it ? " 
" Will it be doing anything, to talk to Nor 
ton and me ? " 
" I can't say," Mr. Richmond replied, laughing a little. " Perhaps you will find me work 
 
to do, but I'll risk it. What do you want to 
talk about ? " 
" There was a question Norton and I 
could not tell what the answer ought to be. 
I believe he thought one way, and I thought 
another." 
" What was the question ? " said Mr. Rich 
mond ; while Norton's face looked up from 
his book, bright with the same query. 
" We were talking it was about opportunities, you know, Mr. Richmond; the 
opportunities that having money gives people; 
and we couldn't tell, Norton and I, how far 
one ought to go. Norton said people must 
stop somewhere ; and I suppose they must. 
Where ought they to stop ? " 
Matilda's face looked very earnest. Norton's, comical. 
" Where ought they to stop in giving money, 
you mean ? " 
" Yes, sir. For doing good, you know, 
and making other people comfortable." 
" It is rather a large question. Were you 
afraid of giving too much, or of giving too 
little?" 
" I think one of us was afraid of giving too 
much, and the other of giving too little." 
" The best way is to go to the Bible and 
see what that says. May I trouble one of 
you to open it at the second epistle to the 
Corinthians, and read what you find in the 
seventh verse of the ninth chapter ? " 
Norton dropped his book and sprang to 
do the service asked for. He read the 
words, 
'" Every man according as he purposeth in 
his heart, so let him give ; not grudgingly, or 
of necessity : for God loveth a cheerful 
giver.' " 
Norton read, and looked up, as much as to 
say, What now ? how does this help ? 
" I don't see how that tells, Mr. Richmond," 
said Matilda. 
" It tells one or two things. You are to 
give out of your heart ; not because somebody 
else asks you, or some other body says you 
 
ought. That would not please God. You 
are to do what you like to do ; much or little, 
as you feel." 
" But ought it to be much or little ? " 
" As you feel. As your heart says." 
" Bat then, Mr. Richmond, will the Lord be 
just as well pleased whether it is much or 
little ? " 
" Norton will please read the sixth verse." 
" ' But this I say, He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly ; and he which 
soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully.' " 
" But that don't tell either," said Norton, 
when he had read. 
" I think it does," said Matilda slowly. " It 
tells one thing. Mr. Richmond, it doesn't tell 
how much one ought to like to give. That 
was the very question between Norton and 
me ; and we could not settle it." 
" Don't you see, Matilda, that everybody's 
heart would give its own answer to that 
question ? " 
 
" But Mr. Richmond, surely there is a right 
and a wrong answer ? " 
" I am afraid, a good many wrong answers," said Mr. Richmond. 
Norton looked as if he would like to say 
something, but modestly kept back before the 
minister. Mr. Richmond caught the look. 
"Speak out, Norton," said he smiling. 
" Truth will always bear to be looked at." 
" I don't know much about it, sir," said 
Norton. " Only it seems to rne, that if one 
begins to help other people all one can, one 
will soon want helping himself." 
"Ah!" said Mr. Richmond. "Read the 
next verse now." 
" The next to the seventh, sir ? ' And 
God is able to make all grace abound toward 
you; that ye, always having all sufficiency 
in all things, may abound to every good 
work.'" 
" That does not sound as if Matilda were 
in any danger of growing poor through helping Mrs. Eldridge, does it ? " 
 
" But sir ! " said Norton, " the more one 
gives away, the less one has for oneself? " 
" It does not always work so," said Mr. 
Richmond. " The Bible says, ' There is that 
scattereth, and yet increaseth.' ' 
Norton did not know exactly how to fight 
for his opinions, and so was silent, like a well- 
bred boy as he was ; but Matilda's feeling 
was different. 
" I understand," she said ; " at least I think 
I do ; but Mr. Richmond, this does not get 
Norton and me out of our puzzle. You don't 
mean, that people ought to keep nothing for 
themselves ? " 
" ' Every man according as he purposeth in 
his heart,' " Mr. Richmond repeated. " That 
is the order. There have been people, Ma 
tilda, who have given their all for the sake of 
the Lord Jesus, and kept, as you say, nothing 
for themselves. It was in their heart. I can 
not blame them, for one. He did not." 
" But ought every one to do so ? " 
" Matilda, I dare not set any rule but the 
 
rule my Master has set. Tie said, ' He that 
forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be 
my disciple.' " 
" People don't do that, sir," said Norton 
eagerly. 
" Ought they to do it, sir?" said Matilda 
timidly. " To give away all they have got ? " 
" He did not say, ' give away,' but ' forsake.' 
The word means literally ' to take leave of.' 
They give up thinking that what they have is 
their own ; and from that time stand ready to 
give it away entirely, if the Master says so." 
" Is that religion, sir ? " Norton asked. 
" But, Mr. Richmond," Matilda said in 
another tone, " that is the very thing. How 
are they to know when he does tell them to 
give these thing? away ? " 
" We are coming to it now," said Mr. Richmond. " You want -to know what religion is, 
Norton. Please turn to the fifth chapter of 
that same epistle to the Corinthians, and read 
aloud the let me see, I think it is the 
fourteenth and fifteenth verses." 
 
Norton obeyed. 
" ' For the love of Christ constraineth us ; 
because we thus judge, that if one died for 
all, then were all dead : and that he died for 
all, that they which live should not henceforth 
live unto themselves, but unto him which 
died for them and rose again.' " 
" That is your answer," said Mr. Richmond ; 
" that is religion. Now for Matilda's answer 
Norton, turn to the epistle to the Colossians, and the third chapter, and read the 
seventeenth verse." 
" ' And whatsoever ye do, in word or deed, 
do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving 
thanks to God and the Father, by him.' " 
" There is your rule, Matilda. It is carry 
ing out the former words. You have only to 
apply that to everything you do." 
" What is doing all .in the name of the 
Lord ? " Norton asked. 
" Not in your own name ; not as though 
you were your own master; not as seeking 
first your own pleasure or advancement; not 
 
as using your own things. Correlatively, for 
the Lord; for his pleasure, for his service, as 
belonging to him." 
" 'In word or deed,' " said Matilda. " That 
means giving and everything." 
" But then, in religion one would never be 
free," said Norton. 
" How, never be free ? " 
" Why one must act as if one never belonged to oneself." 
" We don't," said Mr. Richmond. " We 
are not our own ; we are bought with a price. 
And we never were free till now." 
" But if I go to buy a coat " said Nor 
ton ; and he stopped. 
" Yes, if you go to buy a coat ; you will 
remember that you and the coat are the 
Lord's together ; and you will buy that coat 
which you think is the one he would like you 
to wear, and in which you can best work for 
him ; and not use his money for any other." 
Norton was silent, not because he had no 
thoughts to speak. Matilda was silent, but 
 
with a very different face. It was serious, 
sweet, meditative, and content. 
" I see how it is, Mr. Richmond," she said 
at last, looking up to his face. " Thank you, 
sir." 
" It is very nice to have people apply sermons for themselves, Matilda," said the minister. 
CHAPTER XII. 
MISS REDWOOD did not come back 
the next morning to get breakfast. No 
sign of her. Mr. Richmond and Matilda 
managed it, between them. Norton, I am 
afraid, was not up till Matilda called him, and 
that was when the coffee was nearly ready. 
Matilda learned how to get breakfast at the 
parsonage, and Norton learned to be up and 
help her ; for they made a long stay at the old 
brown house. Mrs. Laval's Swiss servants 
were all down with ship fever; and the two 
children were forbidden to come even near the 
house. Mrs. Laval herself staid at home and 
did what she could for the sufferers ; but she 
and Miss Redwood kept house alone together. 
Not a servant would be hired to come within 
reach of the dreadful contagion; and not a 
 
friend thought it was any use to go there just 
then to see anybody. Mrs. Laval and Miss 
Redwood had it all to themselves, with no one 
