near the entrance, where, indeed, the whole beauty of the place is
concentrated.
The railway to Klampenborg is a branch of the one which extends from
Copenhagen to Elsinore, and in another hour the entire party were
transported to the latter place. This town has nine or ten thousand
inhabitants, and is located on a basin of the Sound, nearly
land-locked by natural and artificial dikes. The Danish name of the
place is Helsingör, and is the scene of Shakespeare's tragedy of
Hamlet. The excursionists visited the cathedral, which is the
principal object of interest in Elsinore, and contains several very
old tombs. Near the town, and on the shore of the Sound, is the Castle
of Kronberg, erected in 1580. It is a large, oblong, Gothic structure,
built of a whitish stone. It contains a chapel and other apartments.
Those occupied by the commandant were the prison of Caroline Matilda,
who was confined here for a high crime, of which she is now
universally believed to be innocent.
Under the castle are casemates for a thousand men, one of which is
said to be the abode of Holger Danske, who was the Cid Campeador of
Denmark, and the hero of a thousand legends. When the state is in
peril, he is supposed to march at the head of the armies, but never
shows himself at any other time. A farmer, says the story, happened
into his gloomy retreat by accident, and found him seated at a stone
table, to which his long white beard had grown. The mystic hero
demanded the hand of his visitor, who was afraid to trust flesh and
blood in the grasp of one so mighty, and offered the iron bar used to
fasten the door. Holger Danske seized it, and squeezed it so hard that
he left the print of his fingers on the iron.
"Ha, I see there are still men in Denmark!" said he, with a grim
smile of satisfaction.
Near the castle are a couple of natural ponds, small and round, which
are called "Holger Danske's Spectacles."
"This is where Hamlet lived, I suppose," said Captain Lincoln.
"Where Shakespeare says he lived," replied Dr. Winstock.
"But I was told his grave was here."
"Perhaps Hamlet divided himself up, and occupied a dozen graves, for I
think you may find a dozen of them here," laughed the doctor. "A
resident of this vicinity had what was called the grave of Hamlet in
his grounds, which proved to be a nuisance to him, on account of the
great number of visitors who came to see it. In order to relieve
himself of this injury to his garden, he got up another 'grave of
Hamlet,' in another place, which he proved to be the authentic one."
"It is too bad to trifle with history in that manner," protested the
captain.
"There is no history about it, Lincoln. His residence in this part of
Denmark is all a fiction. Shakespeare makes terrible blunders in his
allusions to this place; for there is no 'eastern hill,' no 'dreadful
summit of the cliff,' or anything of the sort. Hamlet lived in
Jutland, not in Seeland, about four centuries before Christ, and was
the son of a pirate chief, instead of a king, who, with his brother,
was governor of the province. He married the daughter of the king,
who was Hamlet's mother. The chief was murdered by his brother, who
married the widow, and was then the sole governor. Hamlet, in order to
avenge his father's death, feigned madness; but his uncle, suspecting
the trick, sent him to England, with a message carved in wood,
requesting the king to destroy him. During the voyage, he obtained the
wooden letter, and altered it so as to make it ask for the killing of
the two men, creatures of his uncle, who had charge of him, which was
done on their arrival. According to the style of romances, he married
the king's daughter, and afterwards returned to Jutland, where, still
pretending insanity, he contrived to surprise and slay his uncle. He
succeeded his victim as governor, and married a second time, to a
queen of Scotland, and was finally killed in battle. The main features
of the tragedy correspond with the incidents of the story, but the
locality is not correct."
The party walked to Marienlyst, a pleasant watering-place, which
contains a small royal chateau. The view from this place, as from the
tower of Kronberg, is very beautiful. At four o'clock the party took
the steamer, and arrived at Copenhagen before dark.
CHAPTER XVII.
TO STOCKHOLM BY GÖTA CANAL.
The Wadstena, in which the absentees had taken passage at Gottenburg,
was a small steamer, but very well fitted up for one of her size.
Forward was the saloon, in which meals were taken, and saloon
passengers slept. Aft was the cabin, on each side of which were
state-rooms, called "hütte." They were not made with regular berths,
but had a sofa on each side of the door, on which the beds were made
up at night, with a wash-stand between them. Between this cabin and
the forward saloon the main deck was raised about three feet, so as to
cover the engine and boilers. On each side of this higher deck were
more "hütte," which were the best rooms on board. The hurricane-deck,
over the after cabin, was the favorite resort of the passengers.
It was two o'clock in the morning, and the independent excursionists
were tired and sleepy. They had taken first-class tickets, and two of
them had been assigned to each "hütte." As soon as they went on board,
therefore, they retired, and most of them slept, in spite of the fleas
and other vermin that revelled in their banquet of blood. None but
very tired boys could have slumbered under such unfavorable
circumstances, and it is a great pity that a steamer otherwise so
neat and comfortable should be given up to the dominion of these
sleep-destroying insects.
At seven the party turned out, anxious to see the scenery on the banks
of the canal. The steamer was still in the river, a stream not more
than a hundred and fifty feet wide, with occasional rapids, which are
passed by canals, with locks in them. The scenery was pleasant, with
rocky hills on each side. Schooners and other craft were continually
met, loaded with lumber and other articles from the lakes. The scene
was novel and interesting, and though the boys gaped fearfully, they
enjoyed the view.
Presently one of the women, who do all the work of stewards and
waiters, appeared with coffee on deck, passing the cups to the
passengers first, and then filling them. The coffee was delicious,
served with the whitest of sugar and the richest of cream, with some
little biscuits. It waked the boys up, and seemed to make new beings
of them.
"How's this, Sanford?" said Scott.
"First rate! That's the best coffee I ever drank in my life," replied
the coxswain.
"Is it a free blow?"
"I don't know. How is it, Ole?"
"No; you pay at the end of the trip for all you have had," replied the
waif.
"But who keeps the account?" asked Scott.
"Nobody," laughed Ole. "On the boats from Christiania every passenger
tells what he has had, and pays for it."
"Do they think everybody is honest?"
"Certainly; everybody is honest."
"Not much," added Sanford, shaking his head. "Of course you don't
pretend to be honest, Norway."
"But I do."
"You didn't take a sovereign from me, and another from Burchmore--did
you?"
"I take what you give me."
"It may be honest, but I don't see it in that light, Norway."
"Never mind that now, Sanford," interposed Burchmore. "He sold out the
last time for the public good."
"Do you expect to find the ship in Stockholm when we get there?" asked
Scott.
"Of course I do," replied Sanford. "We shall not get there till
Tuesday."
"Then our cruise is almost ended."
"I suppose so. I have been trying hard to join the ship ever since we
left her at Christiansand," continued the coxswain, solemnly.
"Over the left," chuckled Scott.
"Honor bright! I don't believe in running away."
"Nor I; but Laybold and I have put our foot into it. I suppose we
shall have to spend a week in the brig, and make love to Peaks while
the rest of the fellows are seeing Russia."
"You will find some way to get out of the scrape."
"I don't know. We have lost Copenhagen and Denmark already, and I
suppose we shall not see much of Russia."
"We will help you out."
"I don't think you can do it," added Scott, who had evidently come to
the conclusion that running away "did not pay."
The steamer stopped, and the captain informed the party that
passengers usually walked three miles around the series of locks, by
which they were enabled to see the Falls of Trollhätten. The carrying
of the canal around these falls was the most difficult problem in
engineering in the construction of the work. It is cut through the
solid rock, and contains sixteen locks. The passage of the steamer
occupies an hour and a half, which affords ample time for the voyagers
to see the falls. The party immediately landed, and were promptly
beset by a dozen ragged boys, who desired to act as guides, where no
such persons are needed. Not one of them spoke a word of English; but
they led the way to the path, each one selecting his own victims, and
trusting to the magnanimity of the passengers for their pay. A walk,
covered with saw-dust, has been made by some public-spirited persons,
and the excursion is a very pleasant one.
The entire fall of the river is one hundred and twelve feet; but it is
made in four principal cataracts, and three smaller ones. The scenery
in the vicinity is rather picturesque, and at one point the path goes
through a grove, on the banks of a rivulet, where the water dashes
over large cobble-stones, with an occasional pretty cascade. The walk
leads to various eligible spots for examining the falls and the
rapids. On the way, the tourist passes Kungsgrottan, or King's
Grotto. It is a hole in the solid rock, in the shape of half a
globe, on the sides of which are inscribed the names of the various
sovereigns of Sweden, and other distinguished persons who have visited
the spot. Near the village of Trollhätten, which contains several
founderies and saw-mills, the finest part of the falls is seen by
crossing an iron foot-bridge, at the gate of which stands a woman, who
collects a toll of fifty öre for the passage to the little island.
"I don't think much of these falls," said Scott, as he returned from
the island.
"I think they are rather fine," replied Laybold.
"You could cut up the rapids of Niagara into about two hundred just
such falls, to say nothing of the big cataract itself," added Scott.
"It is pleasant, this walk along the river, but you can't call the
Falls of Trollhätten a big thing."
"Of course they don't compare with Niagara."
"Certainly not."
The party walked through the yards of the manufactories, and came to a
small hotel on the bank of the canal. The place looked very much like
many American villages. The canal steamer did not appear for half an
hour, and some of the boys strolled about the place. The regiment of
ragged boys who had followed the tourists, or led the way, pointing
out the various falls and other points of interest in an unknown
tongue, begged lustily for the payment for their services. One of
them, who had taken Scott and Laybold under his protection, was
particularly urgent in his demands.
"Not a red, my hearty," replied Scott. "I didn't engage you, and I
shall not pay you."
The boy still held out his hand, and said something which no one of
the party could understand.
"Exactly so," replied Scott. "You told me the names of all the places,
but I did not understand a word you said. I say, my lad, when did you
escape from the rag-bag?"
The boy uttered a few words in Swedish.
"Is that so?"
The boy spoke again.
"Stick to it, my hearty; but I don't believe a word of it."
"What does he say, Scott?"
"He says the moon is made of green cheese. Didn't you, my lad?"
The boy nodded, and spoke again.
"It is a hard case, Young Sweden; but I can't do anything for you."
"What's a hard case, Scott?" asked Laybold.
"Why, he says he has six fathers and five mothers, and he has to
support them all by guiding tourists round the falls."
"Get out!"
"I am afraid they don't have roast beef for dinner every day."
"Here's the steamer," added Laybold.
The boy became more importunate as the time came to go on board, but
Scott was obstinate.
"Now, out of my way, my lad. Give my regards to your six fathers and
five mothers, and I'll remember you in my will; but I won't give you a
solitary red now, because I don't like the principle of the thing. I
didn't employ you, and I didn't want you. I told you so, and shook my
head at you, and told you to get behind me, Satan, and all that sort
of thing; and now I'm not going to pay you for making a nuisance of
yourself. On the naked question of charity, I could do something for
you, on account of your numerous fathers and mothers. As it is, good
by, Sweden;" and Scott went on board of the steamer.
The boat started again, and soon the bell rang for breakfast. The boys
hastened to the forward saloon, where they found two tables spread. At
a sideboard was the Swedish lunch, or snack, of herring, sliced
salmon, various little fishes, sausage, and similar delicacies, with
the universal decanter of "finkel," flanked with a circle of wine
glasses. The tourists partook of the eatables, but most of them were
wise enough to avoid the drinkable. The Swedish bread, which is a
great brown cracker, about seven inches in diameter, was considered
very palatable. Ordinary white bread is served on steamers and at
hotels, and also a dark-colored bread, which looks like rye, and is
generally too sour for the taste of a foreigner. The breakfast at the
tables consisted of fried veal, and fish, with vegetables, and all the
elements of the snack. When the boys had finished, one of the women
handed Scott a long narrow blank book.
"Thank you, marm; I am much obliged to you," said he. "Will you have
the kindness to inform me what this is for?"
The woman laughed, and answered him in her native tongue.
"Precisely so," added Scott.
"What does she say?" asked Sanford.
"She wants me to write a love letter in this book to her; but as she
is rather ancient, I shall decline in your favor, Sanford."
"Don't do it, old fellow! Face the music."
"Not for Joseph!"
"What did she say, Ole?" inquired Sanford.
"She said you were to keep your account in that book," replied the
interpreter.
"Are we to keep our own reckoning?"
"Yes; every one puts down in this book what he has had."
"That means you, Burchmore. You are the cashier for the party."
"How many fellows had coffee this morning?" asked the cashier, as he
took the book.
"All of them, of course."
Burchmore made the entries for the coffee and the breakfasts of the
whole party.
"Well, that's one way to do the thing," said Scott. "Every man his own
book-keeper. I'll bet everybody doesn't charge what he has had."
Ole was requested to ask the woman about the matter. She said the
Swedes were honest, but the waiters were required to see that
everybody paid for what he had had before leaving the steamer. The
having of this book is certainly a better plan than that of the
Norwegian steamers, by which the passenger, if he means to be honest,
is compelled to recollect all he has had in a passage of thirty hours.
The Wadstena continued on her course through a rather flat country,
just coming into the greenness and beauty of the spring time, till she
came to Wenersberg, a town of five thousand inhabitants, which is
largely engaged in the lumber and iron trade. The boat stopped there
a short time, and the party had an opportunity to examine the lake
craft at the wharves; but, after seeing them, it was difficult to
believe they were not in some New England coast town. The steamers,
however, were very different, all of them being very short, to enable
them to pass through the locks in the canal, and most of them having
the hurricane deck forward and aft, to afford sufficient space for the
cabins. All of them were propellers.
The Wadstena started again, the bridges opening to permit her passage.
The great Wenern Lake lay before them, which is the third in size in
Europe, Onega and Ladoga alone exceeding it in extent. It is about a
hundred miles long by fifty in breadth, very irregular in shape, and
portions of it are densely crowded with islands. Its greatest depth
is three hundred and sixty feet near the Island of Lurö, but a
considerable part of it is very shallow, and difficult of navigation.
It is one hundred and forty-five feet above the level of the Baltic.
Thirty rivers flow into it, and sometimes cause it to rise ten feet
above its ordinary level. But the Göta River is its only outlet, and
is always supplied with an abundant volume of water. The wind was
fresh when the Wadstena steamed out upon the broad expanse, and the
lake had a decidedly stormy aspect.
"Will you be seasick?" asked the captain, as the little steamer began
to bob up and down with a very uncomfortable jerk.
"Seasick!" laughed Scott. "We are all sailors, sir, and we don't
intend to cave in on a fresh-water pond."
"But the lake is very rough to-day."
"If your little tub can stand it, captain, we can."
"I am very glad, for some people are very sick on this part of the
passage. It is sometimes very bad, the worst we have in the whole
trip."
"How long are we on the lake?" asked Scott.
"About seven hours; but not all of it is so bad as this. We go among
the islands by and by."
Doubtless the Wenern Lake fully maintained its reputation on the
present occasion, though none of the young salts were sick. The boat
stood to the northward, and the short steamer and the short chop sea
would have made the passage very trying to landsmen. Nothing but the
distant shores were to be seen, and the monotony of the passage was
the only disagreeable circumstance to our tourists. For the want of
something better to do, they went below, and, lying down on the sofas
in their state-rooms, went to sleep without much difficulty, for
the red-backs and fleas kept shady in the daytime. The boys were
accustomed to being "rocked in the cradle of the deep;" but at the
expiration of three hours, the heavy motion ceased, and the change
waked them. Going on the hurricane deck again, they found the steamer
was among the islands, which were generally low, rocky, and covered
with firs and pines. A crooked channel was carefully buoyed off, and
the boat was threading its tortuous way with no little difficulty.
Presently the Wadstena made a landing at a rude pier on an island
where only a rough shanty was in sight. Several row-boats at the wharf
indicated that passengers came to this station from other islands.
Again the steamer went out upon the open lake, and soon after entered
another group of islands, among which she made a landing at a small
town. Passing over another open space, the entrance to the canal was
discovered, marked by two low light-houses, in the form of the frustum
of a pyramid. As the Wadstena entered a lock, the captain told the
party they might take a walk if they pleased, as there were several
locks to pass in the next three miles. This was a grateful relief to
the voyagers, and they gladly availed themselves of the opportunity.
The country was a dead level, with an occasional small farm-house, and
with many groves and forests. But the walk was interesting, and the
boys would gladly have continued it longer; but at the last lock of
the series, the gate-man told them, through Ole, that they must wait
here in order to go on board, for the steamer could not make a landing
again for several miles. The party remained on the hurricane deck till
the cold and the darkness drove them below. Turning in at an early
hour, they slept as well as the vermin would allow, until six o'clock
the next morning, when the steamer was approaching the Wettern Lake,
the second in size in Sweden. The boat was on a broad arm of the lake,
called the Viken, for the canal is built only across the narrowest
section of country, between two natural bodies of water.
The Wettern Lake is ninety miles long and fifteen miles wide,
surrounded by hills, from which sudden gusts of wind come, producing
violent squalls on the water. This lake is noted for big trout. After
crossing the Wettern, the steamer approached Wadstena, which contains
an ancient church and convent, and a castle built by Gustavus Vasa,
and often occupied by his family. Ten miles farther brought the
steamer to Motala, which contains several iron founderies and
manufactories. Many iron steamers and steam engines are built at this
place. The scenery on this portion of the canal is very beautiful,
though not grand. Going through another portion of the artificial
canal, the boat enters the Roxen Lake, perhaps the most beautiful in
Sweden, and makes a landing at Linköping. There are half a dozen towns
with this termination in the country, as Norrköping, Söderköping,
Jönköping, the last two syllables being pronounced like chepping;
as, Lin-chep-ping.
Leaving the Roxen Lake, the steamer passes through more canals into an
arm of the Baltic, and then into the sea itself, voyaging among a
thousand small islands, stopping at Söderköping and Nyköping,
important commercial and manufacturing towns. Night came, and our
tourists did not stay up to see the lights on the way. The steamer
leaves the Baltic, and passing another piece of canal, enters the
waters of the Mäler Lake, seventy-five miles long, and containing
fourteen hundred islands. The boys were up in season to see the
beauties of this lake. Many of the islands rise to a considerable
height above the water, and are so thick that one hardly believes he
is sailing on a large lake. For quiet beauty and "eternal stillness,"
the Mäler can hardly be surpassed. In the middle of the forenoon,
the spires of Stockholm were to be seen, and the tourists were all
attention. From the lake the city presents a fine appearance. Indeed,
Stockholm, seen from either of its water approaches, is hardly
excelled in beauty by any city in Europe.
The Wadstena made her landing at the Island of Riddarholm. As the
party were not burdened with any baggage, they decided to walk to the
hotel. Ole inquired the way to the Hotel Rydberg, where they had
agreed to go; and crossing a bridge to the largest of the three
islands of the city, called Stadeholm, they arrived at the palace,
beyond which is the quay. Between this island and the main land, on
which the greater portion of the town is built, is the passage from
the Baltic to the Mäler Lake, and in the middle of it is the Island of
Helgeandsholm, or Holy Ghost's Island, with two bridges connecting it
with either side. On it are the king's stables, and a semicircular
garden, improved as a café, with a handsome face wall on the water
side.
"This isn't bad," said Scott, as the party paused to look down into
the garden.
"Not at all," replied Sanford. "I suppose they have music here in the
evening, and it would be a capital place to loaf."
"See the steamers!" exclaimed Laybold, as a couple of the miniature
craft, which abound in the waters of Stockholm, whisked up to the
quay.
"A fellow could put half a dozen of them into his trousers pocket,"
laughed Scott. "We must go on a cruise in some of them, as soon as we
get settled."
"Well, where's the hotel?" asked Sanford.
It was in plain sight from the bridge, which they crossed to the
Square of Gustavus Adolphus, on which the hotel faced.
"Good morning, young gentlemen. I am happy to see you," said Mr.
Blaine, the head steward of the ship, who was the first person to
greet them as they entered the hotel.
"Ah, Mr. Blaine!" exclaimed Sanford, his face glowing with apparent
satisfaction. "I am delighted to see you; for I was afraid we should
never find the ship."
"Were you, indeed? Well, I had the same fear myself. I have been
looking for you ever since the ship sailed."
"We have done our best to find the ship, Mr. Blaine," added Sanford.
"O, of course you have; but of course, as you didn't find her, you
were not so babyish as to sit down and cry about it."
"Certainly not; still we were very anxious to find her."
"Mr. Peaks says you came down from Christiania before he did."
"Yes, sir."
"And you were so anxious to find the ship, that you took a train to
the interior of the country, expecting, no doubt, to come across her
on some hill, or possibly on some of these inland lakes," continued
Mr. Blaine.
"We were looking for the ship's company. We met Scott and Laybold, who
were going into the interior, and we concluded to join them, as they
wanted to find their shipmates," replied Sanford, who was now not
entirely confident that "the independent excursion without running
away" was a success.
"Ah! so you have picked up those two young gentlemen, who ran away,"
added the head steward, glancing at Scott and Laybold.
"Not exactly, sir; they picked us up," answered the coxswain.
"I think it was a mutual picking up, and we picked each other up,"
laughed Scott. "We knew that Sanford and his crew were extremely
anxious to find the ship's company, and if we joined them we should be
sure to come out right."
"Exactly so," laughed Mr. Blaine. "Let me see; after our first day's
run on shore, by some mistake you neglected to come on board at night,
with the others."
"That was the case exactly. The fact is, we were too drunk to go on
board with the others."
"Drunk!" exclaimed Mr. Blaine.
"Such was our melancholy condition, sir," added Scott, shaking his
head. "We were invited, in a restaurant, to drink 'finkel,' and not
knowing what finkel was, we did drink; and it boozed us exceedingly."
"You are very honest about it, Scott."
"We are about everything, sir. We slept at a hotel, and when we went
down to the wharf to go on board, we learned that the ship's company
had gone to Trolldoldiddledy Falls. As we felt pretty well, we thought
we would take a train, see a little of the inside of Sweden, and meet
the ship's company at Squozzlebogchepping."
"Where's that?" asked Mr. Blaine.
"I can't give you the latitude and longitude of the jaw-breaker, but
it was at the junction of the two railways, where the party came down
from the canal. We were sure we should find our fellows there, but
the Swedish figures bothered us, and we made a mistake in the hour the
train was due."
"But the Swedish figures are the same as ours," suggested the head
steward.
"Are they? Well, I don't know what the matter was, except that we were
five minutes too late for the train. That's what's the matter."
"How very unfortunate it was you lost that train!"
"It was, indeed; I couldn't have felt any worse if I had lost my
great-grandmother, who died fifty years before I was born. These
honest fellows felt bad, too."
"Of course they did."
"We took the next train to Gottenburg; but when we arrived, the ship
had sailed for Copenhagen, which I was more anxious to see than any
other place in Northern Europe."
"And for that reason you came on to Stockholm."
"No, sir; you are too fast, Mr. Blaine. Your consequent does not agree
with the antecedent. There was no steamer for Copenhagen for a couple
of days."
"There was a steamer within an hour after you reached Gottenburg in
that train, and an hour before the sailing of the canal steamer; and
Mr. Peaks went down in her," said Mr. Blaine.
"We didn't know it."
"Certainly you did not."
"We knew of no steamer till Monday, and we were afraid, if we went in
her, that we should be too late to join the ship in Copenhagen; and
with heroic self-denial, we abandoned our fondly-cherished hope of
seeing the capital of Denmark, and hastened on to Stockholm, so as
to be sure and not miss the ship again. These honest fellows," said
Scott, pointing to Sanford and his companions, "agreed with us that
this was the only safe course to take."
"I see that you struggled very violently to join your ship, and I only
wonder that such superhuman efforts should have failed."
"They have not failed, sir," protested Scott. "The ship will come
here, and we will join her then, or perish in the attempt."
"Are you not afraid some untoward event will defeat your honest
intentions?"
"If they are defeated it will not be our fault."
"No, I suppose not; but whom have you there?" inquired the head
steward, for the first time observing Ole, who had pressed forward to
hear Scott's remarks. "Ole?"
"Yes, sir; that's the valiant Ole, of Norway," replied the joker.
His presence was satisfactorily explained by the coxswain.
"Why did you desire to leave the ship, Ole? Didn't we use you well?"
asked Mr. Blaine.
"Very well indeed, sir; but I was bashful, and did not wish to see
some people in Christiansand," replied the waif.
"What people?"
Ole evaded all inquiries, as he had a dozen times before, and declined
to explain anything relating to his past history. Mr. Blaine said he
had heard the party had taken the canal steamer, and he immediately
proceeded to Stockholm by railroad. He at once telegraphed to Mr.
Lowington at Copenhagen, that he had found all the absentees, and
asked for instructions.
"Here's a go, and the game is up," said Sanford, in a whisper, when he
met Stockwell alone.
"That's so; what will he do with us?"
"I don't know; I rather like this mode of travelling. But we are
caught now."
"Perhaps not; we may find some way out of it. According to Blaine's
cue we are to be regarded as runaways. If that is the case, I don't
join the ship this summer," said Stockwell, very decidedly.
"Nor I either," added Sanford.
Before dark, Mr. Blaine received a despatch from the principal,
directing him to take the next train to Malmö, which is the town in
Sweden opposite Copenhagen. The head steward did not communicate its
contents to his charge that night, but he called all of them at four
o'clock the next morning, and by good management on his part, they
were on the train which left Stockholm at six o'clock. At
Katherineholm, where the party ate an excellent breakfast, Mr. Blaine
unhappily missed three of his company.
CHAPTER XVIII.
UP THE BALTIC.
The excursionists of the squadron slept soundly after their trip to
Elsinore, and Clyde Blacklock, true to the promise he had made to
himself, kept awake to watch his chances to escape. Not a sound was to
be heard in the ship, and the intense silence was even more trying to
the prisoner in the brig than the noise and bustle of the whole crew
when awake. Ryder, the fourth lieutenant, and two seamen had the
anchor watch on deck. Each officer served two hours, and was required
at the stroke of the bell, every half hour, to walk through the
steerage, where no light was permitted after nine o'clock.
Clyde took the saw from its hiding-place under the stairs, and
commenced work on one of the slats. The instrument was very sharp, but
the noise it made promised to betray him, and he was obliged to use it
with extreme caution. Bracing the slat with one shoulder, he worked
the saw very slowly, so that the wood should not vibrate. The process
was very slow, and twice he was obliged to conceal his saw and lie
down on the bed at the approach of the officer of the watch. After
working more than an hour, he succeeded in cutting off one of the
slats, just far enough above the deck to avoid the nails with which
it was secured. But it was fastened at the top as well as at the
bottom, and when he pulled it in to wrench it from its position, it
creaked horribly, and he was obliged to labor with it another half
hour, before he could pull it in far enough to permit his exit. In the
middle of the operation he was obliged to restore it partly to its
position, and lie down again, to escape the observation of the officer
of the anchor watch.
His care and patience were finally successful, though, if the sleepers
around him had not been very tired, some of them must have been
disturbed even by the little noise he made. The removal of the single
slat gave him an opening of about nine inches, which was narrow even
for him; but he contrived to work himself through it. Putting the slat
back into its original position, and wedging it down with a copper, so
that the means of his escape might not readily be seen, he crept
carefully forward to the ladder under the forecastle, where he paused
to consider the means by which he should escape from the vessel. He
began to realize that this was a more difficult matter than getting
out of the brig. He knew that the anchor watch consisted of an officer
and two seamen.
While he was thinking of the matter, eight bells struck; and he was
aware that the watch was changed at this hour. Retiring to the kitchen
to wait for a more favorable moment, he heard the two seamen come down
the ladder to call the relief. As they entered one of the mess-rooms,
he ran up the ladder, and concealed himself under the top-gallant
forecastle. In a few moments he heard the relief on deck, and from
his hiding-place saw the officer on the quarter-deck with a lantern in
his hand. The two seamen took their places on the top-gallant
forecastle, where they could see the entire deck, and any boat or
vessel that approached the ship.
Clyde did not regard the situation as very hopeful. The night was
chilly, and he did not feel at all inclined to swim ashore, which he
had intended to do, as a last resort. The boats were all hoisted up
at the davits, as if to provide for just such cases as his own. He
listened with interest to the conversation of the watch above him;
but he could not identify their voices, and was unable to determine
whether it was safe for him to address them. In fact he was unable to
determine upon anything, and bell after bell struck without finding
him any better prepared to make a move. At four bells, or two o'clock
in the morning, the watch was relieved again, and Clyde remained in
the same unsettled state of mind. But when the two seamen went below
to call the relief, he changed his position, crawling into the waist,
where he disposed himself under the lee of the rail. Over his head was
the fourth cutter, one of the smallest of the boats.
Clyde could see the dark form of the officer walking to and fro on the
quarter-deck, and his presence was not favorable to any movement. He
found the cleats where the falls of the boat were made fast, and he
was considering the practicability of casting them off, letting the
cutter drop into the water, and then sliding down on a rope. The
officer of the anchor watch seemed to be the only obstacle in his way.
He began to experiment with the falls. Casting off one of them, he
carefully let the rope slip over the cleat till he had lowered the bow
of the cutter about two feet. He repeated the operation upon the stern
fall. He let off the rope so gradually that the noise did not attract
the attention of any of the watch.
Five bells struck, and the officer descended to the steerage. While he
was absent, Clyde dropped each end of the boat about four feet more,
and then coiled himself away until the officer had returned to his
station. But it was nearly daylight, and he was compelled to hurry on
with his work. Little by little he let out the falls, till the fourth
cutter floated in the water. When the officer went below, at six
bells, he climbed upon the rail, and slid down on the bow fall into
the boat. Casting off the falls, he pushed the cutter astern of the
ship, and for the first time began to feel as though he were free. He
was afraid to use an oar, lest the noise should attract the attention
of the watch on deck. He felt that he had managed his escape with
exceeding cleverness, and was unwilling to risk anything now in the
moment of success. The wind carried the boat clear of the ship, and
he lay down in the stern sheets, so that if the officer on the
quarter-deck discovered the cutter, he might suppose no one was in
her.
He had occupied this position but a moment before he heard a rushing
noise near him, and, raising his head, discovered a small schooner,
under full sail, headed directly upon him. He had hardly time to stand
up before the bow of the vessel was within his reach.
"Hallo!" shouted he, in terror, for the thought of being carried under
the keel of the schooner was appalling.
But the cutter was crowded aside by the vessel, and Clyde sprang upon
her deck, while his boat went astern of her.
Too late, the schooner luffed up, and Clyde seated himself on the rail
to catch his breath. Two men came to him, and spoke in Norwegian.
"I speak English," replied Clyde.
"You are English?" said the captain.
"Yes; I don't speak anything else."
"I speak English," replied the skipper, as he went back to the helm,
and Clyde followed him.
"Where are you bound?" asked the runaway.
"To Stockholm."
"You are Danish, I suppose."
"No, Norwegian."
"All the same."
"What shall I do with you?"
"I will go to Stockholm with you, and pay my passage, if you like,"
added Clyde, who wished to get as far as possible from the ship.
"You shall, if you like; or you shall work, if you please. I lose a
young sailor, and I want another, to work in his place."
"No; I will go as a passenger, or not at all," replied Clyde, very
decidedly.
"What you do in a boat so late in the night?" asked the skipper.
"I was going on shore to find a steamer for Stockholm. I will pay you
twenty species for my passage," added the runaway.
"You are very kind to pay so much. You shall have my berth; but it
will be long time to Stockholm in my vessel."
"No matter; I am satisfied."
"I shall pick up the boat you lose?"
"No; never mind the boat," answered Clyde, impatiently, as he glanced
at the ship.
The captain questioned him about the boat more particularly; but the
fugitive gave such answers as he pleased. Though the skipper was very
rough and savage to the two men who formed his crew, he treated his
passenger at first with much consideration. The little cabin of the
schooner was a nasty hole, and if Clyde had not been very sleepy, he
could hardly have closed his eyes there; but before the vessel was out
of sight of Copenhagen, his slumber was deep and heavy.
The shout of the fugitive when he was in danger of being run down had
been heard by the officer on the quarter-deck of the Young America. He
saw the collision, and discovered the cutter when it went astern of
the vessel; but he did not suspect that it belonged to the ship. The
schooner filled away on her course again, after she had luffed up, and
the boat was adrift. He deemed it his duty to secure it before it was
stove by some early steamer from Malmö, or elsewhere, and calling the
two seamen, he directed them to lower the fourth cutter. But the
fourth cutter was already lowered, and the officer began to think that
the boat adrift was the missing one. The third cutter, therefore, was
used, and when the two seamen had pulled off in her, the officer went
below and called Peaks.
The boatswain took his lantern, and went to the brig, as soon as he
was told that the fourth cutter was adrift. The bird had flown. The
door was secure, and all the slats were apparently in their place;
but the appearance of a small quantity of saw-dust indicated where the
breach had been made. A little pressure forced in the sawn slat, and
Peaks understood why the prisoner had only desired to be left alone.
"Were you all asleep on deck?" asked Peaks of the officer.
"No, sir; I have not been asleep on duty," replied Beckwith, the
officer.
"Didn't you see him lower the boat?"
"Of course I did not."
"I don't see how it was done, then," added Peaks. "But where is the
prisoner?"
"I don't know. I suppose he went on board that small schooner that run
down the cutter."
"Where is she?"
Beckwith pointed to a sail headed to the south-east, which was just
visible in the faint light of the early morning.
"He is out of our reach for the present," said Peaks, in utter
disgust, as he descended the steps to the main cabin.
Mr. Lowington was informed of the escape of Clyde, but no steamer
could be obtained at that early hour to chase the schooner, and the
matter was permitted to rest as it was. When all hands turned out in
the morning, a strict investigation was made; but no one who had
served on the anchor watch was able to give any information. No one
had seen the boat lowered, and no one had heard the saw. Peaks went on
shore, and ascertained that the Norwegian schooner Rensdyr had sailed
at an early hour. She had cleared for Stockholm, and was doubtless on
her way there. The principal was so much interested in the fate of
Clyde, or rather in his reformation, that he determined to follow up
the fugitive. The English steamer Newsky, from London to Stockholm,
was then in port, and when she sailed that day, Peaks was sent in her
to intercept the runaway on his arrival at Stockholm.
After breakfast, Mr. Andersen came on board, inspected the ship, and
witnessed some of the evolutions in seamanship, which included the
manning of the yards in honor of his visit. At the invitation of Paul
Kendall he went on board of the Grace, and took a sail up the Sound,
dining on board, and returning in the afternoon. The students again
went on shore, and visited the Rosenberg Palace, an irregular
structure of red brick, with a high peaked roof and four towers.
Connected with it is an extensive and beautiful garden, adorned with
statues. The palace was built for Christian IV., in 1604, but is no
longer a royal residence, being filled with various national
collections of arms, medals, and antiquities, including many
historical mementos of kings and other great men of Denmark. Among
them are the saddle, bridle, and caparisons, the sword and pistols,
presented by King Christian IV. to his eldest son at his marriage.
They are adorned with diamonds, pearls, and gold, and cost a million
francs in Paris.
In the afternoon the students marched to the Palace of Frederiksberg,
whose park is a favorite resort of the people of the city. The
building contains nothing worth seeing; indeed, portions of it have
been rented for the use of private families; but the garden is
beautifully laid out with kiosks, bridges over the winding canal,
on which float a great number of white swans, with little islands,
studded with groves and pleasant grassy slopes. The palace stands on
the only eminence near Copenhagen. On pleasant days, especially on
Sundays, this park is filled with family picnics, little parties
bringing their own lunch, and spending the day in these delightful
groves.
During the remainder of the day the students wandered over the city,
each seeking what pleased him most. When they went on board the
vessels, they were entirely satisfied with what they had seen of
Copenhagen, and were ready to visit some other city. Very early the
next morning, Mr. Blaine, with all but three of the absentees, came on
board. The head steward told his story, and Scott and Laybold told
their story; the former, as usual, being the spokesman. The wag told
the whole truth, exactly as it was; that they were ashamed to come on
board while so tipsy, and had missed the train at the junction.
"Have you drank any finkel since?" asked the principal.
"No, sir; not a drop. One glass was enough for me," replied Scott.
"And you, Laybold?"
"No, sir."
"You may both return to your duty," added the principal.
Both were astonished at being let off so easily; but Mr. Lowington was
satisfied that they spoke the truth, and had not intended to run away.
The others were also ordered to attend to their duty, but with the
intimation that their conduct would be investigated at the return of
Sanford and Stockwell, who, with Ole, had left the party at
Katherineholm.
The signal for sailing was flying on board of the Young America, and
at seven o'clock the squadron was under way, continuing the voyage "up
the Baltic." No notice seemed to be taken of the absence of Sanford
and Stockwell, but everybody believed that the principal knew what he
was about. The wind was tolerably fresh from the west-south-west, and
the squadron made rapid progress through the water, logging ten knots
all day. The students watched with interest the villages on the coast
of Denmark, with their sharp, red roofs, and the swarms of
fishing-boats moored in front of them. The shores of Sweden were in
sight all the time, and at three o'clock in the afternoon land was
also seen on the starboard bow. But the masters, who were constantly
watching the chart, were not at all astonished, though the seamen
were.
"What land is that, Scott?" asked Laybold.
"That? Why, don't you know?"
"I'm sure I don't. I know Germany is over there somewhere, but I
didn't expect to run into it so near Sweden."
"That's Gabogginholm."
"Is it in Germany?"
"No; it's an island, at least a hundred and fifty miles from Germany.
The Baltic is rather a big thing out here."
"How do you remember those long names, Scott?"
"What long names?"
"Such as the name of that island. I couldn't recollect such a word ten
minutes."
"Nor I either. I know them by instinct."
"What did you say the name of the island is?"
"Gastringumboggin."
"That isn't what you said before."
"I've forgotten what I did say it was. You musn't ask me twice about a
name, for I say I can't remember," laughed Scott.
"You are selling me."
"Of course I am; and you go off cheaper than any fellow I ever saw
before. I haven't the least idea what the land is, except that it must
be an island not less than a hundred and fifty miles from Prussia."
"That's Bornholm," said Walker, a seamen, who had heard the name from
the officers. "It's an island twenty-six miles long and fifteen wide,
belongs to Denmark, and has thirty-two thousand inhabitants, and a lot
of round churches on it. That's what the fellows on the quarter-deck
say."
"Precisely so," replied Scott. "You have learned your lesson well.
What is the principal town on that island?"
"I don't know," answered Walker.
"Stubbenboggin," said Scott.
"Who told you so?"
"My grandmother," laughed the wag, as he turned on his heel, and
walked away.
Towards night the wind subsided, and the squadron was almost becalmed;
but a light breeze sprang up after dark, and in the morning the ship
was off the southern point of Oland, an island ninety miles long by
ten wide, and well covered with forests. On the narrow strait which
separates it from the main land is Calmar, a town of historic
interest, in Sweden. At noon the southern point of Gottland was seen,
and Scott insisted upon calling it "Gabungenboggin," though the real
name was soon circulated. It is eighty miles long by thirty-three
wide, and contains fifty-four thousand inhabitants. Wisby is the only
town. The island is noted for its beautiful climate, which makes it a
pleasant resort for summer tourists.
At sunrise on the following morning, the ship leading the squadron was
approaching the islands which cover the entrance to the harbor of
Stockholm. Pilots were taken by the several vessels, and the fleet
entered the archipelago, through which it was to sail for thirty
miles. At first the openings were very wide, and not much of the shore
