Chateaubriand spends every afternoon with Juliet, and every evening with
his invalid wife, like a devoted and dutiful husband, and this state of
things goes on from year to year without trouble and without scandal.
It was with some such sublimated precedent in my head that I allowed
myself to yield to the charming temptation opened to me by my
acquaintance with Eva Van Arsdel. Supposing by Jim's account that she
was already engaged, looking on myself as yet far off from the place
where I could think of marriage, what was there to hinder my enjoying
her society? Of course, there was no possible danger to myself, and it
would be absolute coxcombry to think that there would be any to her.
She, who had been a queen of fashion, and who had the world under her
feet, if she deigned to think kindly of a poor littérateur, it could
surely lead to nothing dangerous. I might have been warned, if I were
wise, by the fact that the night after my first presentation I lay awake
and thought over all she had said, and counted the days that should
intervene before next Wednesday evening. I would not for the world have
had Jim Fellows divine what was going on within me; in fact I took as
much pains to cajole and pacify and take myself in as if I had been a
third party.
I woke about six o'clock in the dim grey of the next morning, from a
dream in which Eva and I were talking together, when she seemed so vivid
that I started up almost feeling that I saw her face in the air.
Suddenly I heard the bell of a neighboring church strike the hour, and
thought of what she had said the evening before about attending morning
services.
What was to hinder my going to the church and seeing her again? There
was a brisk morning walk, that was a good thing, and certainly morning
devotion was something so altogether right and reasonable that I
wondered I never had thought of it before. I dressed myself and turned
out into the streets to seek the little church of the Holy Sepulcher
where the new Rector of whom Eva had spoken held early Lenten services.
There was something quaint and rather exciting to my imagination to be
one of a small band who sought the church at this early hour. The
sunlight of the rising day streamed through the painted window and
touched with a sort of glory the white dress of the priest; the organ
played softly in subdued melody, and the words of the morning service
had a sort of touching lovely sound. "Where two or three are gathered
together in my name, there am I in the midst of them" seemed to come to
my thoughts with new force as I looked on the small number, two or three
in a pew, who were scattered up and down through the church. She was
there in a seat not far from me, shrouded in a simple black dress and
veil, and seemed wholly and entirely absorbed by her prayer-book and
devotions.
As the little company dispersed at the close of the services, I stood in
the door and joined her as she passed out.
"Good morning, Miss Van Arsdel," I said.
She started and looked surprised, and a bright color flushed in her
cheeks.
"Mr. Henderson! you quite astonish me."
"Why so?"
"There are so very few who get out at this hour; and you, I believe, are
not of the church."
"I don't know what you mean by the church, exactly," said I.
"Oh," said she, looking at me with a conscious smile, "I know what
everybody means that says the church--it generally means our
church--the one that is the church for us; but you, I think, belong to
the Bethany," she added.
"I do," said I, "but I have large sympathies for all others,
particularly for yours, which seems to me in some points more worthily
to represent what a church should be, than any other."
She looked pleased, and said with warmth, "Mr. Henderson, you must not
judge our church by such very imperfect specimens as you see among us.
We are very unworthy children of a noble mother; our church has
everything in it to call us to the highest and best life, only we fall
far below her teaching."
"I think I can see," I said, "that if the scheme of living set forth by
the Episcopal Church were carried out with warmth and devotion, it would
make an ideal sort of society."
"It would be a really consecrated life," she said, with warmth. "If all
would agree to unite in daily morning and evening prayers for instance,"
she said, "how beautiful it would be." "I never enjoy reading my Bible
alone in my room as I do to have it read to me here in church; somehow
to me there is a sacred charm about it when I hear it read there, and
then to have friends, neighbors and families meet and pray together as
one, every day, would be beautiful. I often think I should like to live
close by one of those beautiful English cathedrals where they have
choral services every day, and I would go morning and evening, but here,
in this dreadful, flashy, busy, bustling New York, there is no such
thing, I suppose, as getting any number of people to agree to daily
worship."
"In that respect," said I, "we modern Christians seem to be less devout
than the ancient heathen or the Mohammedans; you recollect Huju Buba
sums up the difference between the Englishman and the Persian by saying,
'We Persians pray seven times a day, and they, never.'"
"I like to come to church," she said, "it seems a shelter and a refuge.
Nowadays there are so many things said that one doesn't know what to
think of; so many things disputed that one has always supposed to be
true; such a perfectly fatiguing rush of ideas and assertions and new
ways that for my part I am glad to fall back upon something old and
established, that I feel sure isn't going to melt away into mist before
to-morrow."
"I can well appreciate that feeling," I said, "for I have it myself."
"Do you? Oh, Mr. Henderson, you don't know how it perplexes one. There's
sister Ida, now! she has a circle of friends--the very nicest sort of
people they seem to be!--but, dear me! when I am with them a little
while, I get perfectly bewildered. No two of them seem to believe alike
on any subject; and if you quote the Bible to them, they just open their
eyes and look amazed at you, as if that was something quite behind the
age; and as there is no standard with them, of course there is nothing
settled. You feel as if life was built on water, and everything was
rocking and tilting till you are quite dizzy. Now, I know I am a poor
sort of a specimen of a Christian; but I couldn't live so! I fly back
from this sort of thing, like a frightened bird, and take refuge in the
church--there is something fixed, positive, and definite, that has
stood the test of time; it is noble and dignified, and I abide by
that."
"There is all that about it," said I; "and so very much that is
attractive and charming in the forms of your church, that I think if you
would only open your arms wide, and be liberal as the spirit of this
age, you would indeed be the church of the world."
"You think we are not liberal?" she said.
"When you call yourselves the church, and make no account of all that
true, pure, good souls--true followers of the same Saviour--are doing,
it seems to me you are not."
"Ah, well, Mr. Henderson, perhaps we are wrong there--I cannot say. I
know there are many churches and many dear, good souls in all; it is
only to me that mine is the church; if that is an illusion, it is a
happy one."
"Now," said I, "what a dreary picture should we have of New York
Christianity, if we judged it by the few morning worshipers at Lenten
services!"
"Yes, indeed," she said. "I am often sorry for our rector--he is so
earnest, and so few care to come; and yet he told us in his sermon, last
Sunday, that these Lenten services were an act of union with our
Saviour's self-denials and sufferings."
"Well, Miss Van Arsdel," said I, "I doubt not there are hundreds of
thousands in this city who do really, in spirit, unite with the Saviour
in self-denials and sufferings, daily, who do not express it in this
form. If all who really love the Saviour, and are living in his spirit,
should make a point of early morning service in Lent, I verily believe
the churches would be crowded to overflowing."
"You do really think so?"
"I do. In spite of all that appears, I think ours is really, at heart, a
religious age--it is only that we do not agree in the same external
forms of expression."
"But how beautiful! oh, how beautiful it would be if we could!" she
said. "Oh, it would be lovely if all the good and true could see each
other, and stand side by side! I long for visible unity--and do you
think, Mr. Henderson, we could unite in more beautiful forms than
ours?"
"No; I do not," said I; "for me, for you, for many like us, these are
the true forms, and the best; but we must remember that others have just
as sacred associations, and are as dearly attached to other modes of
worship as we to these."
"Then you really do prefer them yourself?"
"Well, Miss Van Arsdel, I unite with the church of my father and mother,
because I was brought up in it; yet if I were to choose another, it
would be yours."
She looked pleased, and I added: "It seems to me one of the most
beautiful things about it is a daily service."
"Yes," she said, "and it is pleasant to have churches where you feel
that worship is daily offered, whether people attend or not. There was
something sacred and beautiful about the Church of St. Peter's in
Rome--to think that at every hour of day or night worship was going on
in it. I used to like to think of it when I awoke nights--that they were
praying and adoring there--in this cold, dreary world; it seems as if it
was like a Father's house, always light, and warm, and open."
"There is a beauty and use in all these forms and images," I said; "and
I think if we are wise, we may take comfort in them all, without being
enslaved by any."
Here our interview closed, as with a graceful salutation she left me at
the door of her house.
The smile she gave me was so bright and heart-warm, that it lightened
all my work through the day; a subtle sense of a new and charming
companionship began to shed itself through all my labors, and,
unconsciously and unwatched, commenced that process of double thought
which made everything I read or wrote suggest something I wanted to say
to her. The reader will not, therefore, wonder that I proved my sense of
the beauty of a daily morning service by going with great regularity
after this, and as regularly walking home with my enchanting companion.
I was innocently surprised to find how interesting the morning scenery
in prosaic old New York had become. It was April, and the buds in the
Park were swelling, and the green grass springing in the cracks of the
pavement, and little sparrows twittered and nestled in the ivy that
embowered the church--and all these things had a strange, new charm for
me. I told myself, every day, that I was not in love with Eva Van
Arsdel, or going to be; I took myself to witness that all our
conversation was on the most correct and dispassionate subjects, and not
in the slightest degree inclining to any vanity of that nature. Since
then, I have learned that Eva was the kind of woman with whom it made no
difference what the subject matter of conversation was. It might be
religion, or politics, or conic sections, but the animus of it was sure
to be the same thing. It was her vital magnetism that gave the interest.
It was, in fact, hardly any matter what we talked about, or whether we
talked at all, it was the charm of being together that made these
morning interviews so delightful; though I believe we discussed nearly
everything under the sun, with the most astonishing unanimity of
sentiment.
I was very careful to keep the knowledge of my increasing intimacy from
Jim Fellows. Early rising was not his forte, and I, very improperly,
congratulated myself on the fewness of the worshipers at early service.
By and by, I grew so conscious that I got a way of stealing out at an
opposite door, appearing to walk off another way, and joining Eva at the
next corner--lest haply my invariable constancy should attract
attention. She noticed all these things with a droll, amused, little,
half-conscious look. True daughter of Eve as she was, she had probably
seen many a shy fish before, swimming around her golden net as artlessly
as I was doing.
I soon became her obedient slave and servant, interpreting all her
motions and intimations with humble assiduity. Of course I presented
myself duly with Jim in the Wednesday evening receptions, where, as the
rooms were filled with other company, we already began to practice an
involuntary hypocrisy, keeping up our friendly intimacy by that kind of
intuitive and undemonstrative communication natural to those who know
each other by sympathy, and learn to understand each other without
words.
I was a great deal in Ida's studio, probably much to the satisfaction of
Aunt Maria and Mrs. Van Arsdel--while Eva glanced and twinkled in and
out like a fire-fly in a meadow, taking my heart with her as she came
and went, yet awing me with a dutiful reticence, lest "people should
talk."
Ida was one of those calm, quiet, essentially self-poised women, with
whom it would be quite possible for a man to have a very intimate
friendship, without its toning off into anything warm, either on her
part or on his. Everything with her was so positive and definite, that
there was no possibility of going over the limits. I think that she
really had a very warm esteem for me; but she looked at me and judged me
solely in relation to Eva, and with a quiet persistency favored the
intimacy that she saw growing between us. Her plans of life were laid
far ahead; she was wedded to a purpose which she would not have
renounced for any man on earth; but Eva was the very apple of her eye,
and I think she had her own plans as to the settling of her life's
destiny; in short, Ida was from the start the best friend I could have.
CHAPTER XXII.
I AM INTRODUCED TO THE ILLUMINATI.
A young man who commences life as a reformer, and a leader in the party
of progress, while saying the best and most reasonable things in the
world, and advocating what appear to him the most needed reforms, often
finds himself, in consequence, in the condition of one who has pulled
the string of a very large shower-bath. He wanted cold water, and he
gets a deal more than he bargained for; in fact, often catches his
breath, and wonders when this sort of thing is going to stop. My
articles on the "Modern Woman," in the Milky Way, had brought me into
notice in certain enthusiastic circles, and I soon found myself deluged
with letters, appeals, pamphlets, newspapers, all calling for the most
urgent and immediate attention, and all charging me on my allegiance to
"the cause," immediately, and without loss of time, to write articles
for said papers gratuitously, to circulate said pamphlets, to give
favorable notices of said books, and instantly to find lucrative
situations for hosts of distressed women who were tired of the humdrum
treadmill of home-life, and who wished to have situations provided where
there was no drudgery and no labor, but very liberal compensation. The
whole large army of the incapables,--the blind, the halt, the lame,
the weary, and the forlorn,--all seemed inclined to choose me as their
captain, and to train under my banner. Because I had got into a
subordinate position on the Great Democracy, they seemed to consider
that it was my immediate business to make the Great Democracy serve
their wants, or to perish in the attempt.
My friend, Ida Van Arsdel, was a serious, large-minded, large-brained
woman, who had laid a deep and comprehensive plan of life, and was
adhering to it with a patient and silent perseverance. Still she had no
sympathy in that class of society where her lot was cast. Her mother and
her Aunt Maria were women who lived and breathed merely in the opinions
of their set and circle, and were as incapable of considering any higher
ideal of life, or any unworldly purpose, as two canary-birds. Mr. Van
Arsdel, a quiet, silent man, possessed a vein of good sense which led
him to appreciate his eldest daughter at her real worth; and he was not
insensible to the pleasure of having one feminine companion who, as he
phrased it, "understood business," and with whom he could talk and
advise understandingly. But even he had no sympathy with those larger
views of the wants and needs of womanhood, in view of which Ida was
acting. It followed very naturally that as Ida got no sympathy in her
own circle, she was led to seek it in the widening sphere of modern
reformers--a circle in which so much that is fine and excellent and
practical, is inevitably mixed with a great deal that is crude and
excessive.
At her request I accompanied her and Eva one evening to a sort of
New-Dispensation salon, which was held weekly at the house of Mrs.
Stella Cerulean. Mrs. Stella Cerulean was a brilliant woman--beautiful
in person, full of genius, full of enthusiasm, full of self-confidence,
the most charming of talkers, and the most fascinating of women. Her
career from early life had been one of those dazzling successes which
always fall to the lot of beauty, seconded by a certain amount of tact
and genius. Of both these gifts Mrs. Cerulean had just enough to
bewilder the head of any gentleman who made her acquaintance. She had in
her girlhood made the tour of Europe, shone as a star in the courts of
France and Russia, and might be excused for a more than ordinary share
of complacency in her successes. In common with handsome women
generally, she had, during the greater part of her life, never heard
anything but flattery from gentlemen, and it always agreed with her
remarkably well. But Mrs. Cerulean was one of those women, with just
intellect and genius enough to render her impatient of the mere
common-place triumphs of beauty. She felt the intoxicating power of the
personal influence which she possessed, and aspired to reign in the
region of the mind as well as to charm the senses. She felt herself
called to the modern work of society regeneration, and went into it with
all the enthusiasm of her nature, and with all that certainty of success
which comes from an utter want of practical experience. Problems which
old statesmen contemplated with perplexity, which had been the despair
of ages, she took up with a cheerful alacrity.
She had one simple remedy for the reconstruction of society about whose
immediate application she saw not the slightest difficulty. It was
simply and only to be done by giving the affairs of the world into the
hands of women, forthwith. Those who only claim equality for women
were, in Mrs. Cerulean's view, far behind the age. Woman was the
superior sex, the divine sex. Had not every gentleman of her
acquaintance, since she could remember, told her this with regard to
herself? Had they not always told her that she could know everything
without study, simply by the divine intuitions of womanhood; that she
could flash to conclusions without reasoning, simply by the brilliancy
of her eyes; that her purity was incorruptible in its very nature; that
all her impulses were heavenly and God-given? Naturally enough, then, it
was her deduction that all that was wanting to heal the woes and wants
of society was that she and other such inspired beings should
immediately take to themselves their power, and reign.
Such is a general sketch of Mrs. Cerulean's view of the proper method of
introducing the millennium. Meanwhile, she did her part in it by holding
salons once a week, in which people entertaining similar views met for
the purpose, apparently, of a general generation of gas, without any
particular agreement as to the method in which it should be applied.
This was the company of people to whom Eva rather pathetically alluded
in one of her conversations once, as such nice people, who were so very
puzzling to her, because no two of them ever seemed to think alike on
any subject; and all agreed in opening their eyes very wide in
astonishment if anybody quoted the Bible to them as an authority in
faith and practice.
Ida was much courted and petted by this circle. And sensible, good girl
as she was, she was not wholly without pleasure in the admiration they
showed for her. Then, again, there were, every evening, ventilated in
this company quantities of the most splendid and heroic ideas possible
to human beings. The whole set seemed to be inspired with the spirit of
martyrdom, without any very precise idea of how to get martyred
effectually. It was only agreed that everything in the present state
of society was wrong, and was to be pulled down forthwith. But as to
what was to come after this demolition, there were as many opinions in
the circle as there were persons, and all held with a wonderful degree
of tenacity. A portion of them were of opinion that a new dispensation
fresh from the heavenly realms was being inaugurated by means of
spiritualistic communications daily and hourly conveyed to privileged
individuals. It was, however, unfortunate that these communications
were, very many of them, in point-blank opposition to each other; so
that the introduction of revelations from the invisible world seemed
only likely to make the confusion worse confounded. Then again, as to
all the existing relations of life, there was the same charming variety
of opinion. But one thing seemed to be pretty generally conceded among
the whole circle, that in the good time coming, nobody was ever to do
anything that he did not want to do, or feel at the moment just like
doing. The great object of existence apparently was to get rid of
everything that was disagreeable and painful. Thus, quite a party of
them maintained that all marriage relations ought to drop, from the
moment that either party ceased to take pleasure in them, without any
regard to the interest of the other party or the children; because the
fundamental law of existence was happiness--and nothing could make
people happy but liberty to do just as they had a mind to.
I must confess that I found my evening at Mrs. Cerulean's salon a very
agreeable one; the conversation of thoroughly emancipated people has a
sparkling variety to it which is exactly the thing to give one a lively,
pleasant evening. Everybody was full of enthusiasm, and in the very best
of spirits. And there appeared to be nothing that anybody was afraid to
say. Nobody was startled by anything. There was not a question, as it
appeared, that had been agitated since the creation of the world, that
was not still open to discussion.
As we were walking home after spending an evening, Ida asked me:
"Now, Mr. Henderson, what do you think of it?"
"Well, Miss Ida," said I, "after all, I'm a believer in the
old-fashioned Bible."
"What, really, Mr. Henderson?"
"Really and squarely, Miss Ida. And never more so than when I associate
with very clever people who have given it up. There is, to my mind, a
want of common sense about all theories of life that are not built on
that."
"Well," said Ida, "I have long since made up my mind, for my own part,
that if the cause of woman is to be advanced in this world, it is not so
much by meeting together and talking about it, as by each individual
woman proposing to herself some good work for the sex, and setting about
it patiently, and doing it quietly. That is rather my idea; at the same
time, I like to hear these people talk, and they certainly are a great
contrast to the vapid people that are called good society. There is a
freshness and earnestness of mind about some of them that is really very
interesting; and I get a great many new ideas."
"For my part," said Eva, "to be sure I have been a sad idler, but if I
were going to devote myself to any work for women, it should be in the
church, and under the guidance of the church. I am sure there is
something we can do there. And then, one's sure of not running into all
sorts of vagaries."
"Now," said Ida, "all I want is that women should do something; that
the lives of girls, from the time they leave school till the time they
are married, should not be such a perfect waste as they now are. I do
not profess to be certain about any of these theories that I hear; but
one thing I do know: we women will bear being made a great deal more
self-sustaining and self-supporting than we have been. We can be more
efficient in the world, and we ought to be. I have chosen my way, and
mean to keep to it. And my idea is that a woman who really does
accomplish a life-work is just like one that cuts the first path through
a wood. She makes a way where others can walk."
"That's you, Ida," said Eva; "but I am not strong enough to cut first
paths."
I felt a little nervous flutter of her hand on my arm as she said this.
It was in the dark, and involuntarily, I suppose, my hand went upon
hers, and before I thought of it I felt the little warm thing in my own
as if it had been a young bird. It was one of those things that people
sometimes do before they know it. But I noticed that she did not
withdraw her hand, and so I held it, querying in my own mind whether
this little arrangement was one of the privileges of friendship. Before
I quite resolved this question we parted at the house-door.
CHAPTER XXIII.
I RECEIVE A MORAL SHOWER-BATH.
A day or two after, as I was sitting in my room, busy writing, I heard a
light footstep on the stairs, and a voice saying, "Oh yes! this is Mr.
Henderson's room--thank you," and the next moment a jaunty, dashing
young woman, with bold blue eyes, and curling brown hair, with a little
wicked looking cap with nodding cock's-feather set askew on her head,
came marching up and seated herself at my writing-table. I gazed in
blank amazement. The apparition burst out laughing, and seizing me
frankly by the hand, said--
"Look here, Hal! don't you know me? Well, my dear fellow, if you don't
it's time you did! I read your last 'thingumajig' in the Milky Way,
and came round to make your acquaintance."
I gazed in dumb amazement while she went on,
"My dear fellow, I have come to enlighten you,"--and as she said this
she drew somewhat near to me, and laid her arm confidingly on my
shoulder, and looked coaxingly in my face. The look of amazement which I
gave, under these circumstances, seemed to cause her great amusement.
"Ha! ha!" she said, "didn't I tell 'em so? You ain't half out of the
shell yet. You ain't really hatched. You go for the emancipation of
woman; but bless you, boy, you haven't the least idea what it means--not
a bit of it, sonny, have you now? Confess!" she said, stroking my
shoulder caressingly.
"Really, madam--I confess," I said, hesitatingly, "I haven't the
honor"--
[Illustration: THE ADVANCED WOMAN OF THE PERIOD.
"'You go for the emancipation of woman; but bless you, boy, you haven't
the least idea what it means--not a bit of it, sonny, have you now?
Confess?' she said, stroking my shoulder caressingly."]
"Not the honor of my acquaintance, you was going to say; well, that's
exactly what you're getting now. I read your piece in the Milky
Way, and, said I, that boy's in heathen darkness yet, and I'm going
round to enlighten him. You mean well, Hal! but this is a great subject.
You haven't seen through it. Lord bless you, child! you ain't a woman,
and I am--that's just the difference."
Now, I ask any of my readers, what is a modest young man, in this
nineteenth century,--having been brought up to adore and reverence woman
as a goddess--to do, when he finds himself suddenly vis-à-vis with
her, in such embarrassing relations as mine were becoming? I had heard
before of Miss Audacia Dangyereyes, as a somewhat noted character in New
York circles, but did not expect to be brought so unceremoniously, and
without the least preparation of mind, into such very intimate relations
with her.
"Now, look here, bub!" she said, "I'm just a-going to prove to you, in
five minutes, that you've been writing about what you don't know
anything about. You've been asserting, in your blind way, the rights of
woman to liberty and equality; the rights of women, in short, to do
anything that men do. Well, here comes a woman to your room who takes
her rights, practically, and does just what a man would do. I claim my
right to smoke, if I please, and to drink if I please; and to come up
into your room and make you a call, and have a good time with you, if I
please, and tell you that I like your looks, as I do. Furthermore, to
invite you to come and call on me at my room. Here's my card. You may
call me 'Dacia, if you like--I don't go on ceremony. Come round and take
a smoke with me, this evening, won't you? I've got the nicest little
chamber that ever you saw. What rent do you pay for yours? Say, will you
come round?"
"Indeed--thank you, miss--"
"Call me 'Dacia for short. I don't stand on ceremony. Just look on me as
another fellow. And now confess that you've been tied and fettered by
those vapid conventionalities which bind down women till there is no
strength in 'em. You visit in those false, artificial circles, where
women are slaves, kept like canary birds in gilded cages. And you are
afraid of your own principles when you see them carried out in a real
free woman. Now, I'm a woman that not only dares say, but I dare do.
Why hasn't a woman as much a right to go round and make herself
agreeable to men, as to sit still at home and wait for men to come and
make themselves agreeable to her? I know you don't like this, I can see
you don't, but it's only because you are a slave to old prejudices. But
I'm going to make you like me in spite of yourself. Come, now, be
consistent with your principles; allow me my equality as a woman, a
human being."
I was in such a state of blank amazement by this time as seemed to
deprive me of all power of self-possession. At this moment the door
opened, and Jim Fellows appeared. A most ludicrous grimace passed over
his face as he saw the position and he cut a silent pirouette in the
air, behind her. She turned her head, and he advanced.
"Fairest of the sex! (with some slight exceptions)--to what happy
accident are we to attribute this meeting?"
"Hallo, Jim! is this you?" she replied.
"Oh, certainly, it's me," said Jim, seating himself familiarly. "How is
the brightest star of womanhood--the Northern Light; the Aurora
Borealis; the fairest of the fair? Bless its little heart, has it got
its rights yet? Did it want to drink and smoke? Come along with Jim,
now, and let's have a social cocktail."
"Keep your distance, sir," said she, giving him a slight box on his ear.
"I prefer to do my own courting. I have been trying to show your friend
here how little he knows of the true equality of women, and of the good
time coming, when we shall have our rights, and do just as we darn
please, as you do. I'll bet now there aint one of those Van Arsdel girls
that would dare to do as I'm doing. But we're opening the way sir, we're
opening the way. The time will come when all women will be just as free
to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, as men."
"Good heavens!" said I, under my breath.
"My beloved Audacia," said Jim, "allow me to remark one little thing,
and that is, that men also must be left free to the pursuit of
happiness, and also, as the Scripture says, new wine must not be put
into old bottles. Now my friend Hal--begging his pardon--is an old
bottle, and I think you have already put as much new wine into him as
his constitution will bear. And as he and I both have got to make our
living by scratching, and tempus fugit, and we've got articles to
write, and there is always, so to speak, the devil after us folks that
write for the press, may I humbly request that you will withdraw the
confusing light of your bright eyes from us for the present, and, in
short, take your divine self somewhere else?"
As Jim spoke these words, he passed his arm round Miss Audacia's waist,
and drew her to the door of the apartment, which he threw open, and
handed her out, bowing with great ceremony.
"Stop!" she cried, "I aint going to be put out that way. I haven't done
what I came for. You both of you have got to subscribe for my paper,
The Emancipated Woman."
"Couldn't do it, divinest charmer," said Jim, "couldn't do it; too poor;
mill runs low; no water; modest merit not rewarded. Wait till my ship
comes in, and I'll subscribe for anything you like."
"Well, now, you don't get rid of me that way. I tell you I came in to
get a subscription, and I am going to stay till I get one," said Miss
Audacia. "Come, Hal," she said, crossing once more to me, and sitting
down by me and taking my hand, "write your name there, there's a good
fellow."
I wrote my name in desperation, while Jim stood by, laughing.
"Jim," I said, "come, put yours down quick, and let's have it over."
"Well, now," said she, "fork out the stamps--five dollars each."
We both obeyed mechanically.
"Well, well," said she, good naturally, "that'll do for this time, good
morning," and she vanished from the apartment with a jaunty toss of the
head and a nod of the cock's feathers in her hat.
Jim closed the door smartly after her.
"Mercy upon us! Jim," said I, "who, and what is this creature?"
"Oh, one of the harbingers of the new millennium," said Jim. "Won't it
be jolly when all the girls are like her? But we shall have to keep our
doors locked then."
"But," said I, "is it possible, Jim, that this is a respectable woman?"
"She's precisely what you see," said Jim; "whether that's respectable,
is a matter of opinion. There's a woman that's undertaken, in good
faith, to run and jostle in all the ways that men run in. Her principle
is, that whatever a young fellow in New York could do, she'll do."
"Good heavens!" said I, "what would the Van Arsdels think of us, if
they should know that she had been in our company?"
"It's lucky that they don't, and can't," said Jim. "But you see what you
get for belonging to the new dispensation."
"Boys, what's all this fuss?" said Bolton, coming in at this moment.
"Oh, nothing, only Dacia Dangyeeyes has been here," said Jim, "and poor
Hal is ready to faint away and sink through the floor. He isn't up to
snuff yet, for all he writes such magnificent articles about the
nineteenth century."
"Well," said I, "it was woman as woman that I was speaking of, and not
this kind of creature. If I believed that granting larger liberty and
wider opportunities was going to change the women we reverence to things
like these, you would never find me advocating it."
"Well, my dear Hal," said Bolton, "be comforted; you're not the first
reformer that has had to cry out, 'Deliver me from my friends.' Always
when the waters of any noble, generous enthusiasm rise and overflow
their banks, there must come down the drift-wood--the wood, hay, and
stubble. Luther had more trouble with the fanatics of his day, who ran
his principles into the ground, as they say, than he had with the Pope
and the Emperor, both together. As to this Miss Audacia, she is one of
the phenomenal creations of our times; this time, when every kind of
practical experiment in life has got to be tried, and stand or fall on
its own merits. So don't be ashamed of having spoken the truth, because
crazy people and fools caricature it. It is true, as you have said, that
women ought to be allowed a freer, stronger, and more generous education
and scope for their faculties. It is true that they ought, everywhere,
to have equal privileges with men; and because some crack-brained women
draw false inferences from this, it is none the less true. For my part,
I always said that one must have a strong conviction for a cause, if he
could stand the things its friends say for it, or read a weekly paper
devoted to it. If I could have been made a pro-slavery man, it would
have been by reading anti-slavery papers, and vice versa. I had to
keep myself on a good diet of pro-slavery papers, to keep my zeal up."
"But," said I, anxiously, to Jim, "do you suppose that we're going to be
exposed to the visits of this young woman?"
"Well," said Jim, "as you've subscribed for her paper, perhaps she'll
let us alone till she has some other point to carry."
"Subscribe!" said I; "I did it from compulsion, to get her out of the
office; I didn't think the situation respectable; and yet I don't want
her paper, and I don't want my name on her subscription list. What if
the Van Arsdels should find it out? People are apt enough to think that
our doctrines lead to all sorts of outré consequences; and if Mrs.
Wouverman, their Aunt Maria, should once get hold of this, and it should
get all through the circle in which they move, how disagreeable it would
be."
"Oh, never fear," said Jim; "I guess we can manage to keep our own
secrets; and as to any of them ever knowing, or seeing, anything about
that paper, it's out of the question. Bless you! they wouldn't touch it
with a pair of tongs!"
CHAPTER XXIV.
AUNT MARIA.
Aunt Maria came into the parlor where Eva and Alice were chatting over
their embroidery. A glance showed that she had been occupied in that
sensible and time-honored method of keeping up the social virtues, which
is called making calls. She was all plumed and rustling in flowers and
laces, and had on her calling manners. She had evidently been smiling
and bowing and inquiring after people's health, and saying pretty and
obliging things, till the very soul within her was quite dried up and
exhausted. For it must be admitted that to be obliged to remember and
inquire for every uncle, aunt and grandmother, every baby, and young
master and miss in a circle of one's three hundred particular friends,
is an exercise of Christian benevolence very fatiguing. Aunt Maria,
however, always went through with it with exhaustive thoroughness, so
that everybody said, What a kind-hearted, pleasant woman that Mrs.
Wouverman is.
"Well, there!" she said, throwing herself into an arm-chair, "I've
nearly cleared my list, thank heaven! I think Lent is a grand good
season to get these matters off your mind. You know Mr. Selwyn said last
Sunday, that it was the time to bring ourselves up to the disagreeable
duties."
"How many have you made, aunty?" said Eva.
"Just three dozen, my dear. You see I chose a nice day when a good many
are sure to be out. That shortens matters a good deal. Well, girls, I've
been to the Elmore's. You ought to see what a state they are in! In all
my experience I never saw people so perfectly tipped over, and beside
themselves with delight. I'm sure if I were they I wouldn't show it
quite so plain."
"I suppose," said Alice, "they are quite benignant and patronizing to us
now."
"Patronizing! Well, I wish you could have seen Poll Elmore and her airs!
You would have thought her a duchess from the Faubourg St. Germain, and
no less! She was so very sweet and engaging! Dear me, she patronized me
within an inch of my life; and 'How are your dear girls?' she said. 'All
the world is expecting to hear some news of Miss Eva, should we soon
have an opportunity of returning congratulations?'"
"Oh, pshaw! aunt," said Eva uneasily, "what did you say?"
"Oh! I told her that Eva was in no hurry, that she was very reticent of
her private affairs, and did not think it in good taste to proclaim
them. 'Ah, then, there really is something in it,' said she. I was
telling my girls perhaps after all it is mere report; people say so many
things. 'The thing was reported about Maria,' she said, 'long before
there was any truth in it'; and then she went on to tell me how much
Maria had been admired, and how many offers she had rejected, and among
other things she said that Mr. Sidney had been at her disposal,--only
she couldn't fancy him. 'You know,' she said with a sentimental air,
that 'the heart is all in such cases.'"
"How perfectly absurd of her," said Eva.
"I know," said Alice eagerly, "that Wat Sidney doesn't like Maria
Elmore. She was perfectly wild after him, and used to behave so that it
really disgusted him."
"Oh, well," said Eva, "all these things are excessively disagreeable to
me; it seems to me where such matters are handled and talked about and
bandied about, they become like shop-worn goods, utterly disgusting. Who
wants every fool and fop and every gossip who has nothing better to do
talking over what ought to be the most private and delicate affairs of
one's own heart!"
"Well, dear, you can't help it in society. Why, every person where I
have called inquired about your engagement to Wat Sidney. You see you
can't keep a thing of this sort private. Of course you can't. You are
in the world, and the world will have you do as others do. Of course I
didn't announce it, because I have no authority; but the thing is just
as much out as if I had. There was old Mrs. Ellis, dear old soul, said
to me, 'Give my love to dear Eva, and tell her I hope she'll be happy. I
suppose,' she added, 'I may send congratulations, though it isn't
announced.' Oh, said I, Eva doesn't like to have matters of this sort
talked about."
"But aunty," said Eva, who had been coloring with vexation, "this is all
gratuitous--you are all engaging and marrying me in spite of my screams
as appears. I am not engaged to Mr. Sidney, and never expect to be; he
is gone off on a long Southern tour, and I hope out of sight will be out
of mind, and people will stop talking."
"But my dear Eva, really now you ought not to treat a nice man like him
in that way."
"Treat him in what way?" said Eva.
"Why, keep him along in this undecided manner without giving him a
definite answer."
"He might have had a definite answer any time in the last three months
if he had asked for it. It isn't my business to speak till I'm spoken
to."
"You don't mean, Eva, that he has gone off without saying anything
definite--bringing matters to a point."
"I do mean just that, Aunty, and what's more I'm glad he's gone, and I
hope before he comes back he'll see somebody that he likes better, and
then it'll be all off; and, Aunty, if any one speaks to you about it
you'll oblige me by saying decidedly there is nothing in it."
"Well, I shan't say there never has been anything in it. I shall say you
refused him."
"And why so? I am not anxious to have the credit of it, and besides I
think it is indelicate when a man has paid a lady the highest possible
compliment he can pay, to make a public parade of it. Its sufficient to
say there is nothing in it and never will be; its nobody's business how
it happened."
"Oh, come Eva, don't say there never will be anything in it. That is a
subject on which girls are licensed to change their minds."
"For my part," said Alice, "I only wish it were I. I'd have him in a
minute. Aunty, did you see that nobby phæton he was driving the last
day he was on the park; those horses, and that white fur lap-robe, with
the long pluffy hair like silver? I must say, Eva, I think you are a
little goose."
"I've no objection to the park phæton, or horses or lap-robe; but it
isn't those I'm to marry, you see."
"But Eva," said Aunt Maria, "if you wouldn't fancy such a match as Wat
Sidney, who would you? he is a man of correct and temperate habits, and
that's more than you can say of half the men."
"But a woman doesn't necessarily want to make her most intimate and
personal friend of a man merely because he doesn't drink," said Eva.
"But he's good looking."
"So they say, but not to me, not my style. In short, aunty, I don't
love him, and never should; and if I were tied too close to him might
end by hating him. As it is, he and I are the best friends possible. I
hope we always shall stay so."
"Well, I should like to know whoever will suit you Eva," said Aunt
Maria.
"Oh, he will come along, Aunty, never fear! I shall know him when I see
him, and I dare say everybody will wonder what in the world possessed
me, but I shall be content. I know exactly what I want, I'm like the
old party in the Ancient Mariner. I shall know when I see him 'the man
that must have me,' and then I shall 'hold him with my glittering eye.'"
"Well, Eva, you must remember one thing. There are not many men able to
keep you in the way you always have lived."
"Then, when the right one comes I shall live as he is able to keep me."
"Go to housekeeping in three rooms, perhaps. You look like it."
"Yes; and do my own cooking. I'm rather fond of cooking; I have decided
genius that way too. Ask Jane down in the kitchen if I don't make
splendid fritters. The fact is, Aunty, I have so much superfluous
activity and energy that I should be quite thrown away on a rich man. A
poor country rector, very devout, with dark eyes like Longfellow's
Kavanah is rather my ideal. I would get up his surplices myself, and
make him such lovely frontals and altar cloths! Why doesn't somebody of
that sort come after me? I'm quite impatient to have a sphere and show
what I can do."
"Well," said Alice, "you don't catch me marrying a poor man. Not I. No
home missionaries, nor poor rectors, nor distressed artists need apply
at this office."
"Now, girls," said Aunt Maria, "let me tell you it's all very pretty at
your turn of life to dream about love in a cottage and all that, but
when you have seen all of life that I have, you will know the worth of
the solid; when one has been used to a certain way of living, for
example, one can't change; and if you married the angel Gabriel without
money, you would soon repent it."
"Well," said Eva, "I'd risk it if Gabriel would have me, and I'd even
try it with some man a little lower than the angels; so prepare your
mind to endure it, Aunty, for one of these days everybody will be
holding up their hands and saying, What, Eva Van Arsdel engaged to
him! Why, what could have possessed her? That's just the way I heard
Lottie Simmons talking last week about Belle St. John's engagement. She
is going to marry a college professor in New Haven on one of those very
homoeopathic doses of salary that people give to really fine men that
have talent and education, and she's just as happy as she can be about
it, and the girls are all scraping their throats, 'oh-ing and ah-ing'
and wondering what could have led her to it. No engagement ring to
show! private wedding! and just going off together up to his mother's
in Vermont instead of making the bridal tour of all the watering places!
It must be so charming, you see, to be exhibited as a new bride, along
with all the other new brides at Trenton and Niagara and the White
Mountains, so that everybody may have a chance to compare your finery
with everybody else's, also to see how you conduct yourself in new
circumstances. For my part I shall be very glad if my poor rector can't
afford it."
"By the by, speaking of that girl," said Aunt Maria, "what are you going
to wear to the wedding. It's quite time you were attending to that. I
called in at Tullegig's, and of course she was all in a whirl, but I put
in for you. 'Now, Madame,' said I, 'you must leave a place in your mind
for my girls,' and of course she went on with her usual French
rodomontade, but I assure you you'll have to look after her. Tullegig
has no conscience, and will put you off with anything she can make you
take, unless you give your mind to it and follow her up."
"Well, I'm sure, aunty, I don't feel equal to getting a new dress out of
Tullegig," said Eva, with a sigh, "and I have dresses enough, any one of
which will do. I am blasée with dresses, and I think weddings are a
drug. If there's anything that I think downright vulgar and disagreeable
it's this style of blaring, flaring, noisy, crowded disagreeable modern
weddings. It is a crush of finery; a smash of china; a confusion of
voices; and everybody has the headache after it; it's a perfect
infliction to think of being obliged to go to another. For my part I
believe I am going to leave all those cares to Alice; she is come out
now, and I am only Queen Dowager."
"Oh pshaw, Eva, don't talk so," said Aunt Maria, "and now I think of it
you don't look well, you ought to take a tonic in the Spring. Let me
see, Calisaya Bark and iron is just the thing. I'll send you in a
bottleful from Jennings as I go home, and you must take a tablespoonful
three times a day after eating, and be very particular not to fatigue
yourself."
"I think," said Alice, "that Eva gets tired going to all those early
services."
"Oh my dear child, yes; how can you think of such a thing? It's very
inconsiderate in Mr. Selwyn, I think, to have so many services when he
must know many weddings and things are coming off just after Easter.
People will be all fagged out, just as Eva is. Now I believe in the
church as much as anybody, but in our day I think there is danger in
running religion to extremes."
"Ah!" said Eva, "I suppose there is no danger of one running to extremes
in anything but religion--in dress or parties for instance?"
"But you know one has these things to attend to, my dear; one must keep
up a certain style; and of course, there is a proper medium that I hold
to as much as anybody. Nobody is more particular about religion in its
place than I am. I keep Sunday strictly; very few people more so. I
never ride in the park Sundays, nor write a letter, though I have seen
people who called themselves religious that would. No. I believe in
giving full observance to the Lord's day, but then I think one ought to
have the week clear for action. That belongs to us, as I view it, and
our old rector was very easy with us about all the Saint's days, and
week-day services, and things in the prayer-book. To be sure there are
Ash Wednesday and Good Friday. One, of course, should attend to these,
that is no more than is proper, but the way Mr. Selwyn goes on! why, one
wouldn't be able to think of much else than religion if he had his way."
"What a dreadful state of society that would bring on!" said Eva.
"But come, Aunty," said Alice, "don't talk theology, tell us what
discoveries you made at the Elmore's. I know they showed you
everything."
"Oh, of course they did. Well there's the wedding veil, cost two
thousand dollars; for my part I thought it looked ordinary after all;
it's so thick and stiff with embroidery, you see, no lightness to it."
"I wouldn't take it as a gift," said Eva. "I think such expensive things
are simply vulgar."
"Go on, Aunty," said Alice, "what next?"
"Well, then the dress has a new style of trimming, and really is very
elegant. I must do it the justice to say that it's something quite
recherché. And then they took me up stairs to see the trousseau, and
