the mission meeting. There were six in all. 
" There must be sixty folks within sight," ob- 
served Sip, running her quick eye up and down 
the gaudy little street, " as many as sixty loafin', 
I mean." 
Miss Kelso made no answer, and they reached 
and entered her own still, clean, elegantly trimmed 
lawn in silence. 
" Now I 've seen you safe home," said the mill- 
girl, " I shall feel better. The fact was, I didn't 
know but the boys would bother you ; they're a 
rough set ; and you ain't used to 'em." 
" I never thought of such a thing ! " exclaimed 
the young lady. " They all know me, you know." 
" Yes ; they all know you." 
" I supposed they would feel a kind of interest, 
or respect — " 
" What reason have you ever given them," 
said Sip in a low tone, " to feel any special 
interest or respect for you ? " 
" You are right," said Miss Kelso, after a 
moment's thought. " They have no reason. I have 
given them none. I wish you would come in a 
minute." 
" Have I been saucy .' " 
" No ; you have been honest. Come in a 
minute ; come, I want you." 
The lofty, luxurious house was lighted and 
still. Sip held her breath when the heavy front 
door shut her into it. Her feet fell on a carpet 
like thick, wild moss, as she crossed the warm 
wide hall. Miss Kelso took her, scarcely aware, 
it seemed, that she did so, into the parlors, and 
shut their oaken doors upon their novel guest. 
She motioned the girl to a chair, and flung 
herself upon another. 
Now, for a young lady who had had a season 
ticket to the Opera every winter of her 
life, it will be readily conjectured that she had 
passed an exciting evening. In her way, even 
the mill-girl felt this. But in her way, the mill- 
girl was embarrassed and alarmed by the condition 
in which she found Miss Kelso. 
The young lady sat, white to the lips, and 
trembled violently ; her hands covered and 
recovered each other, with a feeble motion, as they 
lay upon her lap ; the eyes had burned to a 
still white heat ; her breath came as if she were 
in pain. 
Suddenly she rose with a little crouch like a 
beautiful leopardess and struck the gray and 
green chess-table with her soft hand ; the blow 
snapped one of her rings. 
" You do not understand," she cried, " you people 
who work and suffer, how it is with us ! We 
are born in a dream, I tell you ! Look at these 
rooms ! Who would think — in such a room as 
this — except he dreamed it, that the mothers 
of very little children died for want of a few 
hundreds and a change of climate ? Why, the 
curtains in this room cost six ! See how it is ! 
You touch us — in such a room — but we dream ; 
we shake you off. If you cry out to us, we only 
dream that you cry. We are not cruel, we are 
only asleep. Sip Garth, when we have clear eyes 
and a kind heart, and perhaps a clear head, and 
are waked up, for instance, without much warn- 
ing, it is nature to spring upon our wealth, to hate 
our wealth, to feel that we have no right to our 
wealth ; no more moral right to it than the 
opium-eater has to his drug ! 
" Why, Sip," rising to pick up the chess-table, 
" I never knew until to-night what it was like to 
be poor. It wasn't that I didn't care, as you 
said. I didn't know. I thought it was a respectable 
thing, a comfortable thing ; a thing that 
couldn't be helped ; a clean thing, or a dirty 
thing, a lazy thing, or a drunken thing ; a thing 
that must be, just as mud must be in April ; a 
thing to put on overshoes for." 
And now what did she think ? 
"Who knows what to think," said Perley 
Kelso, " that is just waked up ? " 
"Miss Kelso.'" said Sip. 
" Yes," said Miss Kelso. 
"I never knew in all my life how grand a 
room could be till I come into this grand room 
to-night. Now, you see, if it was mine — " 
" What would you do, if this grand room were 
yours ? " asked Miss Kelso, curiously. 
" Just supposing it, you know, — am I very 
saucy ? " 
" Not very. Sip." 
" Why," said Sip, " the fact is, I 'd bring Nynee 
Mell in to spend an evening ! " 
An engraving that lay against a rich easel in a 
corner of the room attracted the girl's attention 
presently. She went down on her knees to examine 
it. It chanced to be Lemude's dreaming 
Beethoven. Sip was very still about it. 
" What is that fellow doing.'" she asked, after a 
while, — " him with the stick in his hand." 
She pointed to the leader of the shadowy orchestra, 
touching the baton through the glass, 
with her brown finger. 
" I have always supposed," said Perley, " that 
he was only floating with the rest ; you see the 
orchestra behind him." 
" Floating after those women with their arms 
up .? No, he isn't ! " 
" What is he doing ? " 
" It 's riding over him, — the orchestra. He 
can't master it. Don't you see .' It sweeps him 
along. He can't help himself. They come and 
come. How fast they come ! How he fights 
and falls ! O, I know how they come. That 's 
the way things come to me ; things I could do, 
things I could say, things I could get rid of if I 
had the chance ; they come in the mills mostly ; 
they tumble over me just so ; I never have the 
chance. How he fights ! I didn't know there 
was any such picture as that in the world. I 'd 
like to look at that picture day and night. See ! 
O, I know how they come." 
" Miss Kelso — " after another silence and 
still upon her knees before the driving Dream 
and the restless dreamer. " You see, that 's it. 
That 's hke your pretty things. I 'd keep your 
pretty things if I was you. It ain't that there 
shouldn't be music anywhere, ft 's only that 
the music shouldn't ride over the master. Seems 
to me it is like that." 
CHAPTER VI. 
MOULDINGS AND BRICKS. 
" MAVERICK ! " 
IVX " At your service." 
" But Maverick — " 
" What then ? " 
" Last year, at Saratoga, I paid fifteen dollars 
apiece for having my dresses done up ! " 
"Thus supporting some pious and respectable 
widow for the winter, I have no doubt." 
" Maverick ! how much did  think about the 
widow ? " 
" I should say, from a cursory examination of 
the subject, that your thoughts would be of less 
consequence — excuse me — to a pious and respectable 
widow, than — how many times fifteen ? 
Without doubt, a serious lack of taste on the part 
of a widow ; but, I fear, a fatal fact." 
" But, Maverick ! I know a man on East Street 
whom I never could make up my mind to look in 
the face again, if he should see the bill for
santalina in those carriage cushions ! " 
The bill was on file, undoubtedly, suggested 
Maverick. Allow her friend an opportunity to 
see it, by all means. 
" Maverick ! do you see that shawl on the arm 
of the tete-a-tite ? It cost me three thousand 
dollars .'' 
Why not ? Since she did the thing the honor 
to become it, she must in candor admit, amazingly. 
" And there 's lace up stairs in my bureau 
drawer for which I paid fifty dollars a yard. And, 
Maverick ! I believe the contents of any single 
jewel-case in that same drawer would found a 
free bed in a hospital. And my bill for Farina 
cologne and kid gloves last year would supply a 
sick woman with beefsteak for this. And Mav- 
erick ! " 
" And what .' " very languidly from Maverick. 
" Nothing, only — why, Maverick ! I am a 
member of a Christian church. It has just 
occurred to me." 
" Maverick ! " again, after a pause, in which 
Maverick had languished quite out of the conversation, 
and had entertained himself by draping 
Perky in the shawl from the tete-a-tete, as if she 
had been a lay-figure for some crude and gorgeous 
design which be failed to grasp. Now he made a 
Sibyl of her, now a Deborah, now a Maid of Orleans,
a priestess, a princess, a Juno ; after some 
reflection, a Grace Darling ; after more, a prophetess 
at prayer. 
" Maverick ! we must have a library in our 
mills." 
" Must we .' " mused Maverick, extinguishing 
his prophetess in a gorgeous turban. 
" There ; how will that do .? What a Nour- 
mahal you are ! " 
"And relief societies, and half-time schools, 
and lectures, and reading-rooms, and, I hope, a 
dozen better things. Those will only do to start 
with." 
" A modest request — for Cophetua, for in- 
stance," said Maverick, dropping the shawl in a 
blazing heap at her feet. 
" Maverick ! I 've been a lay-figure in life long 
enough, if you please. Maverick, Maverick ! I 
cannot play any longer. I think you will be sorry 
if you play with me any longer." 
Cophetua said this with knitted brows. Mav- 
erick tossed the shawl away, and sat down beside 
her. The young man's face also had a wrinkle 
between the placid eyes. 
" Those will only do to start with," repeated 
Perley, " but start with those we must. And, 
Maverick," with rising color, " some tenement- 
hou'ses, if you please, that are fit for human beings 
to inhabit ; more particularly human beings who 
pay their rentals to Christian people." 
" It seems to me, Perley," said her lover, pleas- 
antly, " a great blunder in the political economy of 
Hayle and Kelso that you and I should quarrel 
over the business. Why shottldvie. quarrel over the 
business ? It is the last subject in the world that 
' collectively, and as comfortable and amiable en- 
gaged people, can concern us. If you must amuse 
yourself with these people, and must run athwart 
the business, go to father. Have you been to 
father .? " 
" I had a long talk with your father," said Per- 
ley, "yesterday." 
" What did he say to you .-' " 
" He said something about Political Economy ; 
he said something else about Supply and Demand. 
He said something, too, about the State of the 
Market." 
" He said, in short, that we cannot afford any 
more experiments in philanthropy on this town of 
Five Falls ? " 
" He said, in short, just that." 
" He said, undoubtedly, the truth. It would 
be out of the question. Why, we ran the works 
at a dead loss half of last year ; kept the hands 
employed, and paid their wages regularly, when 
the slock was a drug in the market and lay like 
lead on our hands. Small thanks we get for that 
from the hands, or — you." 
" Your machinery, I suppose, would not have 
been iniproved by lying unused .'' " observed Per- 
ley, quietly. 
" It would have been injured, I presume." 
" And it has been found worth while, from a 
business point of view, to retain employes even 
at a loss, rather than to scatter them  " 
" It has been, perhaps," admitted Maverick, 
uneasily. " One would think, however, Perley, that 
you thought me destitute of common human- 
ity, just because you canmL.Jindersta.nd the 
ins and outs of the thousand and one questions 
which perplex a business man. I own that I do 
not find these people as much of a diversion as 
you do, but I protest that I do not abuse them. 
They go about their business, and I go about 
mine. Master and man meet on business grounds, 
and business grounds alone. Bub Mell and a 
young lady with nothing else to do may meet, 
without doubt, upon religious grounds ; upon the 
highest religious grounds." 
"These improvements which I suggest," pursued 
Perley, waving Maverick's last words away 
with her left hand (it was without ornament and 
had a little bruise upon one finger), " have been 
successful experiments, all of them, in other mills ; 
most of them in the great Pacific. Look at the 
great Pacific ! " 
"The great Pacific can afford them," said 
Maverick, shortly. " That 's the way with our 
little country mills always. If we don't bankrupt 
ourselves by reflecting every risk that the great 
concerns choose to run, some soft-hearted and 
soft-headed philanthropist pokes his finger into 
our private affairs, and behold, there 's a hue and 
cry over us directly." 
" For a little country mill," observed Perley, 
making certain figures in the air with her 
bruised white finger, " I think, if I may judge 
from my own income, that a hbrary and a read- 
ing-room would not bankrupt us, at least this 
year. However, if Hayle and Kelso cannot 
afford some few of these little alterations, I think 
their silent partner can." 
" Very well," laughed Maverick ; " we 'll make 
the money and you may spend it." 
" Maverick Hayle," said Perley, after a silence, 
" do you know that every law of this State which 
regulates the admission of children into factories 
is broken in your mills .' " 
" Ah ? " said Maverick. 
" I ask," insisted Perley, " if you know it .' " 
" Why, no," said Maverick, with a smile ; " I 
cannot say that I know it exactly. I know that 
nobody not behind the scenes can conceive of the 
dodges these people invent to scrape and screw 
a few dollars, more or less, out of their children. 
As a rule, I believe the more they earn them- 
selves the more they scrape and screw. I know 
how they can lie about a child's age. Turn a 
child out of one mill for his three months' school- 
ing, and he 's in another before night, half the 
time. Get him fairly to school, and I 've known 
three months' certificates begged or bribed out 
of a school-mistress at the end of three weeks. 
Now, what can I do ? You can't expect a mill- 
master to have 'the time, or devote it to running 
round the streets compelling a few Irish babies 
to avail themselves of the educational privileges 
of this great and glorious country ! " 
" That is a thing," observed Perley, " that I 
can look after in some measure, having, as you 
noticed, nothing else to do." 
" That is a thing," said Maverick, sharply, 
" which I desire, Perley, that you will let alone. 
I must leave it to the overseers, or we shall 
be plunged into confusion worse confounded. 
That is a thing which I must insist upon it 
that you do not meddle with." 
Perley flushed vividly. The little scar upon 
her finger flushed too. She raised it to her lips 
as if it pained her. 
" There is reason," urged Maverick, — " there 
is reason in all things, even in a young lady's 
fancies. Just look at it ! You run all over Five 
Falls alone on a dark night, very improperly, 
to hear mill-people complain of their drains. 
and — unrebuked by you — of their master. You 
come home and break your engagement ring and 
cut your finger. Forthwith you must needs turn 
my mill-hands into lap-dogs, and feed them 
on — what was it ? roast beef .' — out of your 
jewelry-box ! " 
" I do not think," said Perley, faintly smiling, 
" that you understand, Maverick." 
" I do not think I understand," said Maverick. 
" You do not understand," repeated Perley, 
firmly but faintly still. " Maverick ! Maverick ! 
if you cannot understand, I am afraid we shall 
both be very sorry ! " 
Perley got up and crossed the room two or 
three times. There was a beautiful restlessness 
about her which Maverick, leaning back upon 
the tete-a-tite, with his mustache between his 
fingers, noted and admired. 
" I cannot tell you," pursued Perley in a low 
voice, " how the world has altered to me, nor how 
I have altered to myself, within the past few 
weeks. I have no words to say how these people 
seem to me to have been thrust upon my hands, 
— as empty, idle, foolish hands, God knows, as 
ever he filled with an un.sought gift ! " 
" Now I thought," mentioned Maverick, grace- 
fully, " that both the people and the hands did 
well enough as they were." 
Perley spread out the shining hands, as if in 
appeal or pain, and cried out, as before, " Maver- 
ick ! Maverick ! " but hardly herself knowing, 
it seemed, why she cried. 
" One would think," pursued Maverick, with a 
jerk at his mustache, " to hear and to see you, 
Perley, that there were no evils in the country 
but the evils of the factory system ; that there 
was no poverty but among weavers earning ten 
dollars a week. Questions which political economists 
spend life in disputing, you expect a mill- 
master — " 
" Who doesn't care a fig about them," 
interrupted Perley. 
" Who doesn't care a fig about them," admitted 
the mill-master, " you are right ; between you 
and me, you are right ; who doesn't care a fig 
about them — to settle. Now there 's father ; he 
is aufait in all these matters ; has a theory for 
every case of whooping-cough, — and a mission 
school. Once for all, I must beg to have it 
understood that I turn you and the State com- 
mittees over to father. You should hear him 
talk to a State committee ! " 
" And yet," said Perley, sadly, " your father 
and you tie my hands to precisely the same ex- 
tent by different methods." 
" No .' " said Maverick, " really .' " 
" He with Adam Smith, and you with a tete-a- 
tete. He is too learned, and you are too lazy. I 
have not been educated to reason with him, and 
I suppose I am too fond of you to deal with 
you," said the young lady. "But, Maverick, 
there is something in this matter which neither 
of you touch. There is something about the 
relations of rich and poor, of master and man, 
with which the state of the market has nothing 
whatever to do. There is something, — a claim, 
a duty, a puzzle, it is all too new to me to know 
what to call it, — but I am convinced that there 
is something at which a man cannot lie and twirl 
his mustache forever." 
Being a woman, and having no mustache to 
twirl, urged Maverick, nothing could well be more 
natural than that she should think so. An appro- 
priate opinion, and very charmingly expressed. 
Should he order the horses at half past ten .? 
" Maverick ! " cried Perley, thrusting out her 
hands as before, and as before hardly knowing, it 
seemed, why she cried, — "Maverick, Maverick ! " 
Possibly it was a week later that the new 
partner called one evening upon Miss Kelso. 
He was there, he said, at the request of Mr, 
Hayle the junior ; was sorry to introduce busi- 
ness into a lady's parlor ; but there was a little 
matter about the plans — 
" Ah, yes," said Miss Kelso, hastily, " plans of 
the new mill ? " 
" A plan for the new mill ; yes. Mr. Hayle 
desired your opinion about some mouldings, I 
believe ; and, as I go in town to-morrow to meet 
an appointment with the architect, it fell to my 
lot to confer with you. Mr. Hayle desired me to 
express to you our wish — I think he said our 
wish — that any preference you might have in 
the ornamentation of the building should be 
rigidly regarded." 
" Very thoughtful in Mr. Hayle," said Perley, 
" and characteristic. Sit down, if you please, Mr. 
Garrick." 
He was a grave man, this Mr. Garrick ; if there 
were a biting breath in the young lady's even 
voice, if a curl as light as a feather fell across her 
unsmiling mouth, one would suppose that Stephen 
Garrick, sitting gravely down with mill plans in 
his hand, beside her, was the last man upon earth 
to detect either. 
" Now," said Miss Kelso, pulling towards her 
across the table a marvellous green mill on a 
gray landscape, with full-grown umber shade- 
trees where a sand heap rightfully belonged, and 
the architect's name on a sign above the counting- 
room, " what is this vital question concerning 
which Mr. Hayle desires my valuable opinion .' " 
" The question is, whether you would prefer 
that the mouldings — here is a section ; you can 
see the design better about this door — should be 
of Gloucester granite or not." 
" Or what t " asked Terley. 
" Or not," said Mr, Garrick, smiling. 
" I never saw you smile before," said Miss 
Kelso, abruptly, tossing away the plans. " I did 
not know that you could. It is like — " 
" What is it like ? " asked Stephen Garrick, 
smiling again. 
" It is like making a burning-glass out of a 
cast-iron stove. Excuse me. That mill has 
tumbled over the edge of the table, Mr. Garrick. 
Thank you. Is Gloucester granite of a violet 
tint ? " 
" Outside of an architect's privileged imagina- 
tion, not exactly. What shall I tell Mr. Hayle ? " 
" You may tell Mr. Hayle that I do not care 
whether the mouldings are of Gloucester granite 
or of green glass. No ; on the whole, I will tell 
him myself 
" You see, Mr. Garrick," said Miss Kelso after 
an awkward pause, " when you are a woman and 
a silent partner, it is only the mouldings of a 
matter that fall to you." 
Mr. Garrick saw. 
" And so," piling up the plans upon the table 
thoughtfully, " you become a little sensitive upon 
the subject of mouldings. You would so much 
rather be a brick-maker ! " 
" I suppose," said Stephen Garrick, " that I 
have been what you would call a brick-maker." 
" I suppose you have," said Miss Kelso, still 
thoughtfully. " Mr. Garrick ? " 
Mr. Garrick lifted his grave face inquiringly. 
" I suppose you know what it is to be very poor ? " 
" Very poor." 
" And now you will be very rich. That must 
be a singular life ! " 
" It is in some respects a dangerous life, Miss 
Kelso." 
"It is in other respects a privileged life, Mr. 
Garrick." 
" It is proverbial of men with my history," 
said Garrick, slowly, — " men who have crawled on 
their hands and knees from the very quagmires 
of life, — men who know, as no other men can 
know, that the odds are twenty to one when a 
poor man makes a throw in the world's play — " 
" Are they ? " interrupted the lady. 
" Twenty to one," said Stephen Garrick, in a 
dry statistical tone, " against poverty, always. It 
is proverbial, I say, that men who know as God 
knows that it is by ' him who hath no money ' 
that the upright, downright, unmistakable mis- 
eries of life are drained to the dregs, — that such 
men prove to be the hardest of masters and the 
most conservative of social reformers. It has been 
the fancy of my life, I may say that it has been 
more like a passion than a fancy," said the parvenu 
in Hayle and Kelso, laying his hard hand hardly 
clenched upon the colored plates that Perley had 
piled up beside him, " as fast and as far as I got 
out of the mud myself to bring other people, with 
me. I cannot find any dainty words in which to 
put this, Miss Kelso, for it is a very muddy thing 
to be poor." 
" I have thought it — but very lately — to be 
a hard thing," said Perley. 
The hard Hues about Stephen Garrick's mouth 
worked, but he said nothing. Perley, looking up 
suddenly, saw what hard lines they were ; and 
when he met her look he smiled, and she 
thought what a pleasant smile it was. , 
" Mr. Garrick, do you think it is possible, — 
this thing of which you speak .' Possible to be 
Hayle and Kelso, and yet to pick people out of 
the mud .? " 
" I believe it to be possible." 
" You are not in an easj position, it strikes 
me, Mr. Garrick." 
"It strikes me — I beg your pardon— that 
you are not in another. Miss Kelso." 
Stephen Garrick took his leave with this; 
wisely, perhaps ; would have taken his leave with 
a gravely formal bow, but that Miss Kelso held 
out to him a sudden, warm, impulsive woman's 
hand. 
Walking home with his pile of colored plans 
under his arm, Mr. Garrick fell in with two of the 
mill-people, the young watchman Burdock and a 
girl whom he did not recognize. He said, What a 
pleasant evening for a walk it was ! as he went 
by them, cheerily. 
" It 's nothing to say ' A pleasant evening,' I 
know," said Dirk as he passed them ; " but it 's a 
way I like about Mr. Garrick. A man thinks 
better of himself for it ; feels as if he was 
somebody — almost. I mean to be somebody yet. Sip." 
" Do you .'' " said Sip, with a patient smile. He 
said it so often ! She had so little faith that he 
would ever do any more than say it. 
" It's a hard rut to wrench out of, Dirk, — the 
mills. How many folks I 've seen try to get out 
of the mills ! They always came back." 
" But they don't always come back, Sip. Look 
at Stephen Garrick." 
" Yes, yes," said Sip patiently, " I know they 
don't always come back, and I 've looked at Ste- 
phen Garrick ; but the folks as I knew came 
back. I 'd go back. I know I should." 
" It would be never you that would go back," 
urged Dirk, anxiously. " You 're the last girl I 
know for that." 
Sip shook her head. " It 's in the blood, 
maybe. I know I should go back. What a kind of 
a pleasantness there is about the night. Dirk ! " 
There was somehow a great pleasantness to 
Sip about the nights when she had a walk with 
Dirk ; she neither understood nor questioned 
how ; not a passion, only a pleasantness ; she no- 
ticed that the stars were out ; she was apt to hear 
the tiny trail of music that the cascades made 
above the dam ; she saw twice as many lighted 
windows with the curtains up as she did when 
she walked alone ; if the ground were wet, it did 
did not trouble her ; if the ground were dry, it 
had a cool touch upon her feet ; if there were a 
geranium anywhere upon a window-sill, it pleased 
her ; if a child laughed, she liked the sound ; if 
Catty had been lost since supper, she felt sure that 
they should find her at the next corner ; if she 
had her week's ironing to do when she got home, 
she forgot it ; if a rough word sprang to her lips, 
it did not drop ; if her head ached, she smiled ; 
if a boy twanged a jew's-harp, she could have 
danced to it; if poor" little Nynee Mell flitted 
jealously by with Jim, in her blue ribbons, she 
could sit down and cry softly over her, — such a 
gentleness there was about the night. 
It was only pleasantness and gentleness that 
ever lay between her and Dirk. Sip never 
flushed or frowned, never pouted or coquetted 
at her sparse happiness ; it might be said that 
she never hoped or dreamed about it ; it might 
even be that the doggedness of her little brown 
face came over it or into it, and that it was not 
without a purpose that she neither dreamed nor 
hoped. Miss Kelso sometimes wondered. Dirk 
dully perplexed himself about her now and then. 
" I wish," said Sip, as they came into the yard 
of the damp stone house, " that you 'd look in at 
the window for me a minute, Dirk.'' 
" What shall I look at .' " said Dirk, stepping 
up softly to the low sill, " her? " 
Catty was in view from the window ; sitting on 
the floor with her feet crossed, stringing very 
large yellow beads ; she did this slowly, and with 
some hesitation ; now and then a kind of ill-tem- 
pered fright seemed to fall upon her repulsive 
face ; once or twice she dropped the toys, and 
once she dashed them with a little snarl like an 
annoyed animal's upon her lap. 
" I give them to her to try her," whispered Sip. 
" Do you see anything about her that is new ? 
anything, Dirk, that you never took a notice of 
before ? " 
" Why, no," said Dirk, " I don't see nothin' un- 
common. What 's the matter ? " 
" Nothing ! It 's nothing only a fear I had. 
Never mind ! " 
Sip drew a sudden long breath, and turned 
away. 
Now it was pleasant to Sip to share even a fear 
with Dirk. 
" Look in again," she said, with a low laugh, 
" over on the wall beyond Catty. Look what is 
hanging on the wall." 
" O, that big picture over to the left of the 
chiny-closet .' " Dirk pointed to the Beetho- 
ven dreaming wildly in the dingy little room. 
" A little to the left of the cupboard, — yes. 
One night I walked in and found it. Dirk ! She 
hung it there for me to walk in and find. I laid 
awake till three o'clock next morning, I laid and 
looked at it. I don't know anybody but you, 
Dirk, as could guess what a strangeness and a 
forgetting it makes about the room.'' 
Now it was very new to Sip to have a " 
forgetting " that she could share with even Dirk. 
" It looks like the Judgment Day," said Dirk, 
looking over Catty's head at the plunging dream 
and the solitary dreamer. 
There chanced that night two uncommon oc- 
currences ; for one, the watchman at the Old 
Stone was sleepy ; for another, Miss (Kelso was 
not. 
The regulations in Hayle and Kelso were inex- 
orable at night. Two fires and three drunken 
watchmen within the limits of a year had put it 
out of the question to temper justice with mercy. 
To insure the fidelity of the watch, he was 
required- to strike the hour with the factory bell 
from nine at night till four o'clock in the morning. 
Now upon the night in question Miss Kelso's 
little silver clock struck twelve, but the great 
tongue of the Old Stone did not. In perhaps 
twenty minutes, Old Stone woke up with a jerk, 
and rang in the midnight stoutly. 
To be exact, I should have said that there 
chanced that night three uncommon occurrences. 
For that a young lady should get up on a 
chilly and very dark spring midnight, dress her- 
self, steal down stairs, unlock the front door, and 
start off alone to walk a quarter of a mile, and 
save a sleepy young watchman from disgrace, is 
not, it must be allowed, so characteristic an 
event as naturally to escape note. 
It happened, furthermore, that it did not
escape the note of the new partner, coming out 
on precisely the same errand at the same time. 
They met at the lady's gate : she just passing 
through, he walking rapidly by ; she with a smile, 
he with a start. 
" Miss Kelso ! " 
" Mr. Garrick .? " 
" Is anything wrong .' " 
" With the watchman ? Yes, or will be. I had 
hoped I was the only person who knew that mid- 
night came in at twenty minutes past twelve." 
" And I had hoped that I was." 
" It was very thoughtful in you, Mr. Garrick," 
said Perley, heartily. 
He did not say that it was thoughtful in her. 
He turned and looked at her as she stood shiver- 
ing and smiling, with her hand upon the gate, — 
the bare hand on which the bruise had been. 
He would have liked to say what he thought 
it, but it struck him as a difficult thing to do. 
Graceful words came so hardly to him ; he felt 
this hardly at the moment. 
" I suppose I must leave the boy to you then," 
said Perley, slowly. 
" You are taking cold," said the mill-master, in 
his hard way. It was very dark where they 
stood, yet not so dark but that he could see, in 
bowing stiffly, how Miss Kelso, with her bruised 
hand upon the gate, shot after him a warm, sweet, 
impulsive woman's smile. 
Dirk was sitting ruefully upon an old boiler 
in the mill-yard. He rubbed his eyes when Mr. 
Garrick came up. When he saw who it was, the 
boy went white to the lips. 
" Burdock, the bell was not struck to-night at 
twelve o'clock." 
" Certainly, sir," said Dirk, desperately making 
his last throw. 
" Not at twelve o'clock." 
" Punctually, sir, you may be sure ; I never 
missed a bell in Hayle and Kelso yet." 
" The bell rang," observed Mr. Garrick, with 
quiet sternness, " at twenty-one minutes past 
midnight, exactly." 
" Mr. Garrick — " begged the watchman, but 
stammered and stopped. 
" Of course you know the consequences," said 
the master, more gently, sitting down upon the 
rusty boiler beside the man, " of a miss in the 
bell, — of a single miss in a bell." 
" I should think I 'd been in Hayle and Kelso 
long enough to know," said Dirk, with his head 
between his knees. " Mr. Garrick, upon my word 
and honor, I never slept on watch before. I was 
kind of beat out to-night." The truth was, that 
Dirk had been carrying in coal for Sip half the 
afternoon. " Hadn't so much sleep as common 
to-day ; but that 's no excuse for me, I know." 
He thought he would not say anything about 
the coal. " I wouldn't ha' cared so much about 
keepin' the place," broke forth the young man, 
passionately, " but for a reason I had, — I worked 
so hard for the place ! and so long, sir ! And, 
God knows, sir, I had such a reason for lookin' 
on to keep the place ! " 
" Infidelity on the part of a watchman, you see, 
Burdock," urged the master, " is not a matter that 
his employer can dally with." 
" I 'm no fool, sir," said the man ; " I see that. 
Of course I look to lose the place." 
" Suppose I were to offer to you, with a 
reprimand and warning, the trial of the place again .' " 
" Sir ! " Dirk's head came up like a diver's 
from between his knees. " You 're — your 're 
good to me, sir ! I — I didn't look for that, 
sir!" 
Mr. Garrick made no reply, but got up and 
paced to and fro between the boiler and a little 
old, disused cotton-house that stood behind it, 
absorbed in thought. 
" Mr. Garrick," said the watchman, suddenly, 
'' did you get out of bed and come over here to 
save the place for me .'' " 
" For some such reason, I believe." 
" Mr. Garrick, I didn't look to be treated like 
that. I thank you, sir. Mr. Garrick — " 
" Well .'' " said the master, stopping his walk 
between the boiler and the cotton-house. 
" I told you the first lie, sir, that I 've told any 
man since I lied sick to stay to home from the 
warping-room, when I wasn't much above that 
boiler there in highness. I think I 'd not have 
been such a sneak, sir, but for the reason that I 
had." 
It seemed that the master said " Well ? " again, 
though in fact he said nothing, but only stood 
between the boiler and the cotton-house, gravely 
looking at the man. 
" There 's a — girl I know," said Dirk, wiping 
rust from his hands upon his blue overalls, " I 
don't think, sir, there 's a many like her, I don't 
indeed." 
" Ah ! " said Stephen Garrick, restlessly pacing 
to and fro again, in the narrow limit that the 
boiler and the cotton-house shut in. 
" I don't indeed, sir. And I 've always looked 
to being somebody, and pushin' in the mills on 
account of her. And I should have took it very 
hard to lose the place, sir, — on account of her. 
There don't seem to be what you might call a 
fair chance for a man in the mills, Mr. Garrick." 
" No, not what might be called a fair chance, I 
think," said Mr. Garrick. 
" Not comparing with some other calls in life, 
! it don't seem to me,'' urged Dirk, disconsolately. 
' " The men to the top they stay to the top, and 
the men to the bottom they stay to the bottom. 
There isn't a many sifts up like yourself, sir. 
It 's like a strawberry-box packed for market, the 
factory trade is. And when there 's a reason, 
— and a girl comes into the account, it's none 
so easy." 
" No, it 's not easy, I grant you, Burdock. 
What a place this is to spend a night in ! " 
" A kind of a churchly place," said the young 
watchman, glancing over the cotton-house at the 
purple shadow that the mill made against the 
purple sky ; and at purple shadows that the si- 
lent village made, and the river, and the bridge. 
" Takin' in the screech of the dam, it 's a solemn 
place ; a place where if a man knows a reason, — 
or a girl, he thinks o' 't. It 's a place where, if a 
man has ever any longin's for things 't he can 
call hisn, — wife, and home, and children, and 
right and might to make 'em comfortable, you 
know, — he 'll consider of 'em. It is a kind of a 
surprising thing, sir, — the feelin's that a man 
will have for a good woman." 
"A surprising thing," said Stephen Garrick 
CHAPTER VII. 
CHECKMATE ! 
" I DO not love you, Maverick Hayle." 
