 
They walked up and down under the trees until 
all the strangeness wore off. Once, when she spoke 
of his father, he said, "Why don't you call him 
uncle ? I like to feel that he is something to you 
as well. And I am going to claim my right of cous- 
inship in every particular." 
" I have never had any cousins that I remember,' 
she answered, slowly. 
Eob was equally enthusiastic about Aunt Euth. 
"She is something of a stunner, after all," he de- 
clared in his impulsive way. " You ought to see the 
deference the men pay to her, quite as if she were a 
queen. They would any of them go ten miles to 
serve her. I often think of the time I knocked down 
Lu Simonds for his impudence about her. Our poor 
dear crippled Aunt Euth ! It is like a fairy story to 
think of her getting well and marrying such a great 
man.' 
" And very delightful, I am sure." 
Bruce had just four days to stay at Cedarwood. 
He made so many cousinly demands upon Kathie 
that she was afraid Ada would feel herself slighted. 
Eob went half crazy over the boys, as if, when he was 
once swallowed up inside of college walls, he would 
 
 
never see them again. There was a continual going 
and coming, and Hannah declared that any other 
woman beside Mrs. Alston would lose her senses. 
Then there was a sudden scattering of the forces. 
Bruce said a last lingering good-by one morning, after 
making Kathie promise a dozen times over to write, 
and then Mr. and Mrs. Meredith took their depar- 
ture, Jessie extorting a promise from Kathie that she 
would be sure to spend Christmas with them. 
Then began some more important preparations. 
Bob's college outfit was nearly ready. His uncle 
was to go with him to New Haven, stopping over 
one night in New York and making some purchases. 
" I am thankful that he will have Dick Grayson's 
companionship," Mrs. Alston said. " It seems to me 
that he is wilder and more impetuous than ever. I 
do not know as the Western trip was the best thing 
for him, after all. I thought he was getting quite 
calmed down." 
" He is a healthy, irrepressible boy, and we shall be 
able to make nothing else of him for some years 
to come ; but he does grow in wisdom and moral 
strength. Dick's influence will tend to preserve the 
balance, I hope." 
 
Bob, Dick, Fred, and Charlie had some royal good 
rambles and rowing-matches. Fred had pretty nearly 
recovered his strength, but the doctor declared that it 
would not do for him to work as hard another year. 
" He is real heroic," declared Eob. " Here we lazy 
fellows think it a great thing if we study when all the 
rest is done for us, but he works and studies both. 
Xow if he could have an uncle and a fortune drop 
from the clouds as ours did ! " 
" Oh ! " exclaimed Kathie. " I give thanks for it 
every day of my life. It has brought us so much 
happiness." 
CHAPTEE XI. 
FROM PLEASURE TO WORK. 
" GOOD by ! Good by ! " 
With that Rob was off again. Mrs. Alston wiped 
away a few tears. It seemed as if she had so little 
of her boy nowadays. Here was Freddy, to be sure, 
sweet and loving, and not half the trouble of head- 
strong, wayward Eob. And yet, how her heart went 
out to him continually ! He always thought of her 
when he said his prayers night and morning, if at no 
other time ; but she carried him in her heart always. 
Kathie and Ada waved a last adieu. The house 
seemed very quiet now that the raiders had all dis- 
persed. Indeed, they hardly knew what to do after 
so much excitement. 
" I shall have to be thinking about school myself," 
Kathie said. " This lovely, lazy life has been en- 
chanting." 
Ada made no reply. What was she to think 
about ? The season was still exceedingly warm, and 
 
Mrs. Meredith did not propose to return until it was 
cooler. Uncle Edward had asked her to come and 
spend a week or two with them, but Mr. Conover had 
insisted that she should stay and have the utmost 
benefit of the healthful country air. But would it 
not be pleasant for her father's sake ? 
Would she have the courage to take up the duties 
that lay so clearly in her path, to be an earnest, 
helpful daughter, a patient sister ? She had many 
old longings for society, admiration, and pretty dress- 
ing, but none of these would come much in her way 
for the present. Should she refuse the things she 
might have, the simple, inexpensive pleasures, the 
opportunity of making others happy, and sink back 
into her olden sloth and apathy ? 
She was beginning to understand, slowly and 
faintly, like one long blind, that however much the 
kingdom of this world might be from without, the 
kingdom of heaven was within the soul's province ; 
and this it was that added the grand satisfaction to 
life. But it was a strait and narrow path- Could 
she walk in it ? 
Mr. Langdon dropped in a little while at twilight. 
" Brookside will be inconsolable," he said. " It is 
 
about as bad as the war-times when every one went 
marching off. Fred goes in a day or two ; and Emma 
wanted me to ask you to conie over to tea to-morrow 
night. Fred thinks they have done all the visiting." 
" With pleasure,' returned Katliie. " Our time for 
dissipation is nearly ended. It has been a delight- 
ful summer." 
" A very happy one to me." 
There was something peculiar in Mr. Langdon's 
voice. Kathie had never heard it there before, she 
thought. 
" I am glad," she said, earnestly. " There isn't 
anything quite like happiness in this world, at 
least, not so sweet." 
" No. And you have not guessed what event has 
given me mine ? * 
They were out on the porch alone. Kathie raised 
her puzzled face, and a rift of color crossed his. And 
then something came into her mind. A few days ago 
Eob had said, " Mr. Langdon is pretty sweet on Emma 
Lauriston, isn't he ? " Was it anything 
" Emma wanted you to know, but she had not the 
courage to tell. It is not to be a long engagement, 
so we do not care to keep our secret. I can't help 
 
thinking that she is ever so much like you, and I 
believe that was what attracted me first." 
" Oh ! " Kathie exclaimed, in the utmost humility. 
" Yes. She told me all about the old school 
troubles, and how you first came to be such dear 
friends." 
" She was very brave and noble," Kathie rejoined, 
quickly. 
" And we thought it a little ungrateful not to ask 
you in to our feast,' he said, with a smile. " Are you 
not going to wish me all sorts of pleasant things ? 
though I suppose it is quite impossible for you to 
take as much interest in us as in the Merediths." 
" I am sure you have been verv kind to Eob, to us 
all. And I know you will be happy, so I wish you 
everything." 
" Thank you. Didn't you really suspect ? you 
innocent little girl ! I dare say your friend guessed 
it. Come over to-morrow, or Fred will feel that you 
have exhausted your sympathy over the other boys, 
and have none left for him." 
Kathie went up to the sitting-room thoughtfully 
Ada was on Aunt Faith's crimson lounge reading, so 
*he gave her the invitation. 
 
" And Mr. Langdon and Emma are " 
" Engaged ! ' Ada laughed a little. " It has grown 
rather transparent of late, so I supposed it would come 
out soon. It seems to me there has been a great deal 
of falling in love in this house." 
Kathie sat down by the open window to think. It 
seemed so strange. Yes, there had been Jessie and 
Mr. Meredith, Aunt Ruth and General Mackenzie ; 
but she could make them grown-up people in her 
mind, while Emma was almost like herself ; and she 
felt awed with the mystery. 
" She ought to be a very happy girl," Ada said 
presently, with a half-sigh, remembering her own 
foolishly ambitious dreams. " Mr. Langdon is a 
gentleman." 
" And good and noble and i^nerous." 
They had a quiet, pleasant visit, but the atmos- 
phere seemed to have something odd in it. Emma 
blushed if any one looked at her, and her voice was 
full of tremulous breaks. She and Kathie never said 
a word about the secret, but there was a very tender 
sympathy between them. 
" I never saw anything like it in my life," Sue 
Coleman said, a week afterward, on her return 
 
"Here we girls went off husband-hunting, and dis- 
pensed our sweetest smiles around, while Emma 
stayed at home and captured the hero. Why, I 
was keeping an eye on him myself ! I think he is 
fully as nice as your Mr. Meredith." 
Ada had proposed to her father that she should 
return home and get the house in a little order before 
her mother returned, and he gladly acceded. Jessie 
had heard of a neat woman who was willing to come 
and do the cleaning. 
"It shows that Ada has improved," Mrs. Alston 
said, much gratified. " Your summer's work has not 
all been in vain." 
" Everybody has helped me continually. And, 
mamma, I think I am beginning to love Ada 
truly." 
" She is showing herself more worthy of love. I 
used to feel a little afraid of her influence over you, 
lest you might fall into her foolish habits and beliefs." 
They had never been very inviting to a girl like 
Kathie, and the sweet home influence had possessed 
her soul from the first. 
Ada was very sorry to go, even after she had re- 
solved. " It will be so much harder for me at home," 
 
she said to Mrs. Alston. "Our habits of life an. I 
thought are so different. I shall have no one to help 
me in my many discouragements." 
" There is One who never fails, never forgets. You 
must call upon him for strength, my clear child. He 
will answer to the uttermost." 
" If I could believe, could only trust. But it seems 
as if God could not care very much for one, when 
there are so many in the world needing his pity and 
help." 
" Yet if he cares for the flowers of the field and the 
birds of the air, will he so easily forget us ? Only try 
him, Ada." 
" I dare say I shall wish myself back hundreds of 
times," she confessed to Kathie. " I don't wonder 
that everybody gets to loving Cedarwood." 
" And when you are tired out you can come back 
for a week or two to rest. Even if I am in school we 
shall have some time to visit." 
" I shall want to come often." 
It was a really sad parting at the last, and the 
house seemed very lonesome when they were ail 
gone. But school began the next week. 
None of the older girls came back. To make 
amends there were some new ones who were old 
friends of Kathie, Mary Cox and several others. 
'' But much of the charm is gone out of it," she told 
Uncle Eobert. 
" All the duty is left. I suppose ? " and there was a 
half-mirthful, half-grave twinkle in his eye. 
Eob confessed to being homesick the first fortnight. 
The course of study was hard, half of the fellows were 
prigs, and the " Sophs " he hated. He was not sure 
but that he would rather go into some kind of busi- 
ness, or out on the frontier. 
" He will soon get interested. It is only the natu- 
ral reaction." 
" I can understand it, for I feel a little so myself," 
Kathie said, with a smile. 
Ada, meanwhile, had more than satisfied her father 
with her improvement. He was looking thin and 
worn, and showing his age. She had never realized 
how much she might be to him as when he took her 
in his arms and kissed her with a sad tenderness. 
Ah, there had a great deal gone out of his life ! 
The woman made her appearance in a day or two, 
a strong, good-hearted German, willing to under- 
take anything. So they went over to the deserted 
 
house, let in the sunshine, and set about making 
the rooms presentable. 
After her chamber had a thorough sweeping and 
airing, Ada determined to put it in order herself. 
There was a good deal of work in going over closets 
and drawers, and clearing out useless garments, faded 
finery, and half-worn shoes. How had so much rub- 
bish collected ? 
" I am sure I don't know what to do with it," she 
said, hopelessly. 
" Miss Meredith, if there is anything you don't 
want, give it to me ! My sister is a widow, and bar 
five children to clothe, so any trifle comes in good." 
Here was a deed of kindness right in the way. It 
did not seem as if those old, soiled, rumpled garments 
could be of any service, but the widow with five chil- 
dren must be much poorer than she. And somehow 
her heart warmed with the thought of benefiting the 
needy, a new feeling for her. 
The day was almost gone when she finished her 
room. It seemed a very little work to spend so much 
time over, yet she felt tired enough to stop. Chris- 
tine had gone through her father's room and the 
nursery, putting the latter in complete order. 
 
"You may as well take the broken toys, if you 
care for them,' she said, glancing at the miscellane- 
ous pile. 
" thank you, thank you ! ' 
" What a grateful creature ! " she thought. 
Christine found a large basket, and packed them 
in. She would take the key, as she meant to come 
bright and early the next morning. Ada had 
smoothed her hair and changed her dress, and now 
bade the woman good by with thoughtful courtesy. 
Jessie was becoming rather worried about her, and 
welcomed her with a cordial kiss, putting her in the 
great easy-chair, and not allowing her to stir until 
the gentlemen came home. 
" Be a little careful, and do not wear yourself out," 
was Jessie's sage advice the next morning. 
" O, I don't do any of the real hard work. Chris- 
tine is so willing and ready. If we could only get a 
servant like her ! " 
" I do believe a pleasant mistress usually makes 
cheerful servants. They are human beings like our- 
selves, and can feel hurt with sharp words or cross 
looks." 
Ada smiled a little. "I am afraid if Mary lul 
wasted all day arranging my room and closets I 
should have found fault. I know mamma would. 
And yet I worked faithfully myself." 
" I dare say. The trouble is, until we do some of 
these things for ourselves, we do not realize how 
much time they take. We may sometimes scold a 
servant when she has been very faithful, and perhaps 
her only way of retaliating is next time to be care- 
less. We all need more wisdom and patience to make 
the race of mistresses perfect," Jessie said, with her 
bright look. 
Ada went at her work with renewed energy. Her 
mother's belongings she did not touch, but her fa- 
ther's clothes were brushed and put in order, the soiled 
ones being laid aside for the wash. The sitting-room 
needed very little overlooking, so they came to the 
parlors. Christine swept first, and while she washed 
paint and windows, Ada dusted. If they could only 
get through with that before night ! 
" Here is a carriage at the door," exclaimed Chris- 
tine, " and an old gentleman." 
Ada's face was scarlet. She thought in a moment 
of her tumbled hair and her disordered dress. She 
had just taken the music out of the rack and scattered 
 
it over the floor, and hoped sincerely it was no one to 
see her. Then she caught the voice, Dr. Mark- 
ham's. 
" Hey ! hey ! " he exclaimed, marching in. " This 
is a good thing for weak eyes, - - such a sight ! Why, 
child, you are as rosy as a peony, and improved - 
forty per cent ! I would not have believed it ! And 
actually making yourself useful ! ' 
Ada could have cried with a sense of mortification, 
and the apparent ridiculousness of the whole scene. 
But he strode over and seemed to pick her out of the 
ruins, and kissed her, a thing he had not done for years. 
" My child," he said, with deep feeling, " God knows 
how glad I am to find you improved in soul and body. 
I have been very anxious for your welfare, and when 
I heard from Mrs. Edward to-day, I could not resist 
dropping in. You had a pleasant time, and were 
neither bored nor homesick ? " 
" Very pleasant." Her voice quivered a little. 
" I hope it may be the beginning of a new life. 
You are so young that you can make it almost what 
you will. There is something better than vanity and 
frivolity. If our girls would only learn the truth, we 
might hope for a better race of women." 
 
Ada did not reply. Her knowledge was so new 
and uncertain, and she was learning that the deep 
undercurrents of feeling could not so easily be put 
into words. 
" I guess you have done enough for one day. The 
air is very fine, so you had better put on some of 
your fixings and take a drive with me. I want to 
hear all about Cedarwood, like any other old gossip." 
" But I am in such a plight," Ada said, deprecat- 
ingly. 
" O, you can remedy that in a few moments." 
" And I ought not to leave my work unfinished " ; 
with a smile. "You will lead me back into bad 
habits again." 
" Nonsense ! Eun and get ready." 
Ada went up stairs and sat down on the edge of 
her bed in despair. In ten minutes Dr. Markham's 
patience would be exhausted. What could she do ? 
There was her hair to arrange, her dress to change, 
and a little dust surely must be washed off. dear ! 
But she went at it in good earnest. No elaborate 
puffs and braids this time. She combed her hair, 
gave it a loose twist, and slipped a net over it ; and 
somehow everything went smoothly, so that she did 
 
not much exceed the ten minutes. But it was a very 
simple toilet, yet it was seldom indeed that she 
looked prettier. 
" You deserve a bright penny, latest issue, and I 
am sorry I haven't one. What is to be done with 
this woman ? for I doubt if I bring you back here. 
Can she shut up shop herself?" 
l( yes." Then she gave Christine a few direc- 
tions, and, nodding gayly, went out. 
" Kathie will need to look well to her laurels, I 
think. It would be barbarous for an old man like 
me to prove inconstant at the eleventh hour, but you 
have grown quite captivating, Miss Ada. I begin to 
have some misgivings." 
" O, you need not," she replied, laughingly, meet- 
ing the droll twinkle in his eye that always betrayed 
an unusually genial mood. 
" And now tell me what sort of a time you have 
had. Are the headaches gone, and can you sleep 
well ? Have you taken any walks, and how is the 
weakness in your limbs, and the fluttering pulses ? " 
" I believe I am thoroughly well." 
" A blessing to be most thankful for. Don't fritter 
it away again, but live as a reasonable human being 
 
 
should, who was sent into the world for some use a 
trifle above the sloth or the butterfly, though I dare 
say they serve their purpose better than many of us. 
How do you like real good honest earnest living ? " 
Ada turned a blushing and perplexed face towards 
him. 
" I jumble my questions together too much, do I ? 
Well, we will take them a little more moderately. 
Cedarwood was better than the seaside ? " 
" I think it was." 
" You wanted companionship of the right kind, and 
a chance to use your faculties. Too many people in 
this world get rusty and decrepit and helpless before 
they have found out what they can do. If it is true 
that we go to Skitzland when we die, and that what- 
ever powers we fail to use here are taken from us 
there, what a set of cripples we shall be, both men- 
tally and physically ! " 
" That is a new world," returned Ada, in amuse- 
ment. 
" Belonging to an old philosopher. He paid it a 
visit one day, and found people who could not walk, 
others who had lost the cunning of their right hand 
or their left, or the faculties of their mind and soul, 
 
a set of grinning, chattering idiots, I dare say. It 
behooves us to be careful, for fear it might be the 
intermediate sphere " ; and his grim lips relaxed 
mirthfully. 
" What of the boys ? ' ; he asked, after a few mo- 
ments' silence. 
So Ada detailed snatches of her visit. She had 
improved a good deal in health, and perhaps not a 
little in wisdom. The old troublesome self was not 
as obtrusive as formerly. She had been roused to 
take an interest in the things about her. Dr. Mark- 
ham rubbed his hands mentally, and gave Kathie bits 
of quiet praise just under his breath. 
One of the greatest improvements was that she had 
become capable of appreciating the Doctor's sterling 
good sense, even if he was a little brusque. She felt 
attracted to him as she never had been before, and 
when she realized her own weakness, she understood 
the necessity of drawing about her the strong, kind 
friends who would not disdain to aid in an emer- 
gency. 
By Friday Ada and Christine had the house in 
complete order, and it happened very fortunately, for 
Mr. Meredith brought home a letter from his wife, 
desiring him to come down and bring Ada, as she 
had made arrangements to return the first of the fol- 
lowing week. 
" Then we shall begin in earnest," the young girl 
thought. "Heaven give me grace and strength to 
try!" 
CHAPTEK XII. 
EXPERIENCE WORKETH HOPE. 
" THE loveliest of all letters ! " Kathie exclaimed, 
rapturously. " Three, mamma, only think ! Aimt 
Euth expects to be home at Christmas, and will 
spend all the spring with us. Isn't that royal ? 
And Jessie Meredith has the sweetest little boy in 
the world, and his name is Can you guess what ? " 
Mrs. Alston smiled. 
" O, you have heard too ! " 
" Uncle Eobert had a note from Mr. Meredith." 
" And the baby is to be Eobert Conover Meredith. 
They will have to call him Eobin for short, and to 
distinguish him from the others of the same name, 
for fear he will get mixed up. Jessie's baby ! Isn't 
it odd ? I want to see it so much that I can hardly 
wait." 
" And your other letter ? " 
" Is from Ada. Mamma, I do believe she is trying 
to do her very best. I wish there were more bright 
 
and encouraging things in her life, or if she had a 
mother like mine." 
Kathie's arms were around her mother's neck, and 
the warm, eager lips pressed closely against the others, 
so dear. 
" Thank you, my darling." 
The child laughed with a sweet, dainty ring. 
" For wishing other people were like you ? Is it 
so much of a compliment ? But Ada likes you a 
great deal." 
"And it is pleasant to be considered lovable." 
Kathie gave her another tender kiss. 
" And we have heard from Bob," said her mother, 
" so it may be considered a day of letters." 
" O, how is he ? " 
" Well, and getting somewhat accustomed to the 
routine of study. Indeed, he writes in very good 
spirits." 
" There is Uncle Eobert " ; and she was off like a 
bird. 
The new namesake was a marvel. Uncle Eobert 
had been asked to come down to the christening. 
" I will have to endow it with half of mv fortune, 
how will that do ? " he asked, laughingly. 
 
"' No, he can have but a quarter," she answered, in 
a merry tone. 
" But you have been invited as well. Now, if he 
takes a slice of yours ' 
" We will endow him with love instead. O, can I 
really go ? When is it to be ? " 
" In a fortnight, on Tuesday, so it will keep you 
out of school half a week ; but as you had no sum- 
mer excursion, we will be indulgent." 
" But I have something all the time. Uncle Kob- 
ert, did you ever think what a delightful thing it is 
to live and to be so happy, just like a bird ? Why, I 
am brimful ! " 
He looked at the glad little face dimpled with 
smiles and tinted by roses. One always had a re- 
ward in bestowing favors or pleasures upon her, she 
was so glad and enjoyed them so thoroughly. And 
the thing that came was always the best, no matter 
what might have been in its stead. 
Then she had to tell about Aunt Euth. " It will 
seem just like old times to have her back again, and 
to stay for months. It hardly seems true." 
She danced along by his side in the mellow orange 
tint of the October sunshine, verging into Indian 
 
summer, a bright, winsome child in many moods, 
as now, and then shady, thoughtful touches of the 
coming woman. 
At school she was studying hard, intent upon grad- 
uating another year. Her mother managed now that 
the duties outside should be more of pleasure and 
interest than actual work. There were numerous 
pets and proteges in the village, and friends who 
shared her love, but the same judicious hand care- 
fully weeded them out, that the claims should not be 
too onerous. For Kathie's years and station would 
have given her quite a position, had her mother so 
willed. 
" I do not wish her to be a woman too soon," she 
would say. " Every new sphere brings with it fresh 
claims and cares." 
Kathie and Emma had many shy, sweet confidences. 
Eeticent by nature, and having no nearer relative 
than her grandmother, Emma had lived much from 
within, making a world for herself, until she had 
known the Alstons. Some of the truest and tender- 
est graces had come fresh from Kathie, and it always 
gave her a thrill of humility when her lover said, 
playfully, of any little speech, " That is a decided 
Kathie-ism." 
 
Mrs. Adams had taken up the young girl in a kind 
of grave, elder-sister fashion that awed her a trifle. 
They were to be married about the holidays, and 
spend the intervening time until spring with his sis- 
ter. Fortunately a second or third cousin had come 
to visit Grandmother Lauriston, and decided to make 
it her home in future. She was a widow of about 
fifty and possessed of some means. 
"I believe everything always does happen just 
right,' Emma said to Kathie. " I was troubled about 
leaving grandmother alone, but Cousin Esther is such 
a nice, sweet, quiet body that I shall not have a single 
care. And Mr. Langdon is so generous. After I am 
married, he wants me to let Fred have my income to 
help him along for the next two years, so that he will 
not have to work so hard. And I am to go on with 
painting, though I shall never enter the School of 
Design now. How strange it all seems ! " 
Then there were pretty, dainty garments to be 
made, and Cousin Esther came in handy again. 
Emma's slender fingers were always busy, since she 
chose to do most of these things for herself. Kathie 
undertook a small gift of needlework, to fill up her 
spare moments, she said, though they were quite rare 
 
at tliis juncture. But her heart's love went intr 
every stitch and every flower. 
She was doubly grateful for the opportunity of 
visiting New York, as she did want to see Ada. She 
went to school on Friday morning for her recitations 
only, and at noon they started on their journey. 
Jessie was most glad to see them. They found her 
in the loveliest of blue cashmere wrappers, looking 
indescribably sweet, if a little less rosy than usual. 
Master Eobin had been promoted to a pretty crib 
and dainty white blankets, and was so soundly asleep 
that the talking did not wake him. He had a broad 
white forehead and an abundance of black hair, which 
his fond mother brushed into a curl on the top of his 
head. 
" And the most beautiful eyes, Kathie, for all the 
world like a purple pansy. Edward thinks they will 
come out blue, and I am sure they will be dark like 
his. It is so odd to have a baby of one's very own. 
and quite laughable to imagine that ridiculous mite 
growing into a man." 
" Why, I don't see that he looks at all ridiculous," 
Kathie answered, gravely. It seemed to her that he 
was wonderfully pretty, with his rosebud of a mouth, 
 
and ears that were like a delicate shell, to say noth- 
ing of the dimpled fists, doubled up as if he held a 
fortune inside of them. 
Mrs. Darrell came in to welcome Kathie. They 
had waited supper for the travellers, and now all was 
ready. Jessie decided not to go down, as she had 
been about considerably during the day, but begged 
them not to hurry on her account. 
Mr. Meredith declared he was dying to have Ka- 
thie's opinion of the baby. Was it not the smartest 
and most beautiful baby she had ever seen ? 
" I do not feel competent to judge of its abilities 
on so short an acquaintance," she answered, with 
mock seriousness. " He certainly looks pretty." 
" You will have a proof of his ability before this 
time to-morrow," Mr. Meredith returned, laughingly. 
" He is a noisy little youngster when he starts about 
it. I have my suspicions that he means to pattern 
after Eobert the second." 
" I am afraid we all had a touch of the complaint," 
said Uncle Eobert. 
" Noise and boys and Fourth of July and fireworks 
are connected together by an indestructible chain." 
" I am sure he is a very good baby," said Mrs. Dar- 
 
rell, rather resenting the inference. " He would not 
know much if he did not know how to cry." 
" Now really ! " was Mr. Meredith's quizzical re- 
joinder. " Well, we will give him the credit of being 
amiable by spells. I think it would be a good plan 
to keep Kathie here for nurse." 
Kathie smiled. The two gentlemen lingered over 
their dessert, as they had fallen into a business talk, 
and, begging to be excused, she ran up stairs to Jes- 
sie. The baby was up now, staring at the light with 
a wide intentness in his eyes, as if he was determined 
to fathom the mystery. 
" O, can't I hold him a little while ? " Kathie ex- 
claimed, and Jessie put him in her arms. 
He studied her then in his deliberate baby fashion, 
and gave a soft, gurgling sound that was inexpressibly 
sweet. 
" He is a darling ! " said Kathie, delightedly. 
Mr. Meredith asked her. when he came up, if she 
had already engaged, what her wages were, and how 
many days " out " she must have. Baby seemed to 
have forgotten his worrying spell, for he sat quiet in 
her lap, soothed by the caressing voice, until his eye- 
lids began to droop. 
 
" He is on his very best behavior," declared his 
father. " You see he does not wish to frighten you 
in the beginning." 
Jessie laid him in the crib presently, and then she 
book Kathie to her room to show her all his pretty 
clothes. 
" Ada sent me this little skirt. She embroidered it 
herself. You know she has never done any kind of 
sewing, so I thought it was very sweet in her to take 
so much trouble. She is counting on your visit, and 
I suppose I shall have to give you up to-morrow." 
" She has the courage to go on then ? ' 
" Yes, and it does take a good deal, Kathie. If her 
mother could but understand and help her ! She has 
much encouragement from her father, and I believe 
she succeeds in making his home more pleasant and 
inviting. Her mother has begun to go into society 
again, and really urges Ada into dissipation. I trem- 
ble for the good seed sown with so many prayers." 
" O, I hope Ada will be strong ! " 
" I think her soul might be cultured to something 
finer than these paltry shows and aims. Mrs. Mere- 
dith would be much mortified if Ada did not marry 
within a year or two, and she is trying to win her 
 
back to the old creed. It provokes Dr. Markham so 
much. He has taken a wonderful interest in Ada." 
" Dear Dr. Markham ! " Kathie said, with girlish 
fondness. " He is so good to all out-of-the-way suf- 
fering and weakness." 
" That is just it. The ordinary, thrusting itself out 
to every one's notice, he passes by. There are enough 
to minister to such cases, and I believe he has a dis- 
like to evils that glory in parading themselves ; at 
least, he is always sharp and impatient with them." 
" I can never forget how tender he was to Aunt 
Euth. I did feel a good deal afraid of him at first," 
she confessed, with an arch smile. 
" You two inveterate gossips ! " exclaimed Mr. Mer- 
edith. " Come back and help entertain us. Why v re 
girls and women forever lingering in corners and 
nooks and talking over secrets ? ' 
"As if we could not have some business of our 
own ! " Kathie returned, saucily. 
He pinched the peachy cheek. " Sit down here 
and tell me everything about Cedarwood. Mr. Lang- 
don, I hear, has been snared, taken captive. I begin 
to think it a dangerous place " : and he shook his 
head gravely. 
 
" yes,' rejoined Jessie, " mother was speaking 
of it. Emma Lauriston is a lovely girl, and I am glad 
she is going to do so well, though I did not suspect 
him a bit." 
" And what else has happened ? " 
Nothing of importance, it seemed, yet they had a 
pleasant chat before they separated for the night. 
Dr. Markham was in early the next morning, and 
invited Kathie to tea on Monday evening. Then, as 
she was ready, he offered to take her to Ada's. 
" My dear child," he said, when he had settled her 
beside him, " I want to thank you for your pains and 
trouble of last summer, and the self-denial too. I 
heard about your invitation to the White Mountains." 
" O," Kathie said, deprecatingy, " I should not have 
gone anyhow. And you must not give me so much 
credit. There were mamma and Uncle Eobert and 
Emma, who was very sweet, and ' 
" But if the sower planted his seed, and there was 
no rain, or no sun, or no soft dew, would it grow and 
ripen ? You have been a little cheerful sunshine and 
a little softening dew, and gone on with the garden- 
er's tireless patience, and at last a tiny bud has put 
forth. It is the assistance of everything, not any one 
particular word or deed." 
 
" But is it not our duty to keep doing just these 
things for every one ? Some one is always doing 
them for us." 
" My child, yes. It is the little outgrowth of the 
greater love within us, the Divine love speaking in 
our familiar tongue. And if we could learn that it 
does not really impoverish us any ! If you break off 
the top of a plant it sends out two new shoots, and 
those below are strengthened. But sometimes the 
top is so dear to us that we cannot see all the grace 
and beauty and tenderness that may be evolved at 
the very next turn." 
She smiled a little, raising her clear, beaming eyes 
to meet the others so grave yet kindly. 
" I don't suppose Christ came down to save the 
world for his own pleasure." 
" No," she answered, softly. " He thought of us." 
" And he asks us to think of the brethren." 
They stopped at the door. " Some of the lessons 
have been almost forgotten," he said, with a smile, 
" but there is a little remaining." 
He went in and gave the invitation to Ada as well, 
and then left the girls together. 
Ada did not look as bright and cheerful as when 
 
she left Cedarwood. But she was very glad to see 
Kathie, and the parlors wore a cosier aspect than a 
year ago. There was a bouquet in a small vase that 
attracted the child's attention. 
" Papa brings me home a fresh one every day or 
two. I never knew that he cared so much about 
flowers, except to be proud of them when we had 
them in abundance " ; and Ada sighed over the lost 
treasures. 
" What have you been doing ? ' Kathie asked, 
presently. 
" Nothing much, I am afraid. I can't seem to get 
to a place where there is any method. Your house 
is so quiet and orderly that you can hardly under- 
stand the lack of system. We have had dreadful 
times with cooks, and that frets mamma. Then 
Mary had made up her mind to leave when her 
month was up, but I do believe I persuaded her 
out of it." 
" You had some influence then." 
" It was a hard situation. I know I never realized 
how much I demanded of a girl. It kept her always 
busy and always behindhand, for there is so much to 
do. She \iked us all, and was very well satisfied, only 
li 
 
the work was too hard. So I proposed to keep my 
room in order and take charge of the parlors, and 
after we had tried it a few weeks she was content 
to stay." 
Kathie smiled a quick approval. 
" But I get so tired at times. I believe I do not 
like to work, and it seems the same old thing over 
and over. I wish I had Miss Lauriston's gift for 
painting, I would study at once. I have tried a 
little, but I have no especial genius, that is clear." 
" And the music ? " 
" There are so many really good singers that it does 
