“I never was there,” said Tim.
“Maybe it was your twin brother.” suggested Dick. “What made you break
my friend’s fiddle? He wouldn’t have minded it so much, only it belonged
to his grandfather, a noble count, who made boots for a livin’.”
“I don’t believe he had a fiddle at all,” said Tim.
“That’s where your forgetfulness comes in,” said Dick “Have you forgot
the lickin’ I gave you last summer for stealin’ my blackin’ box?”
“You didn’t lick me,” said Tim.
“Then I’ll lick you harder next time,” said Dick.
“You ain’t able,” said Tim, who, glancing over his shoulder, saw the
approach of a policeman, and felt secure.
“I will be soon,” said Dick, who also observed the approach of the
policeman. “I’d do it now, only I’ve got to buy some gold for a friend
of mine. Just let me know when it’s perfectly convenient to take a
lickin’.”
Tim shuffled off, glad to get away unharmed, and Dick turned to Phil.
“I’ll give him a lickin’ the first time I catch him, when there isn’t a
cop around,” he said.
Phil left his friend at this point, for he saw by the clock on Trinity
spire that it was time to go back to join Paul Hoffman, as he had
agreed. I may here add that Phil’s wrongs were avenged that same
evening, his friend, Dick, administered to Tim the promised “lickin’”
 with such good effect that the latter carried a black eye for a week
afterwards.
CHAPTER XV
PHIL’S NEW PLANS
As the clock struck twelve Phil reached the necktie stand of his friend,
Paul Hoffman.
“Just in time,” said Paul. “Are you hungry?”
“A little.”
“That’s right. You’re going to dine with me; and I want you to bring a
good appetite with you.”
“What will your mother say?” asked Phil, doubtfully.
“Wait and see. If you don’t like what she says you can go off without
eating. Where have you been?”
“I went down to Wall Street.”
“On business?” inquired Paul, with a smile.
“No,” said Phil, seriously. “I saw Lucia.”
“Who is she?”
“I forgot. You don’t know Lucia. She lived in my home in Italy, and I
used to play with her. She told me of my mother.”
“That’s lucky, Phil. I hope your mother is well.”
“She is not sick, but she is thin. She thinks of me,” said Phil.
“Of course she does. You will go home and see her some day.”
“I hope so.”
“Of course you will,” said Paul, confidently.
“I saw the boy who stole my fiddle,” continued Phil.
“Tim Rafferty?”
“Yes.”
“What did he say?”
“I was with a bootblack--the one they call ‘Ragged Dick.’ Do you know
him?”
“Yes; I know Dick. He is a bully fellow, always joking.”
“Dick wanted to lick him, but a policeman came, and he went away.”
“Does Dick know that he stole your fiddle?”
“Yes.”
“Then he will be sure to punish him. It will save me the trouble.”
The walk was not long. Soon they were at Paul’s door.
“I have brought company to dinner, mother,” said Paul, entering first.
“I am glad to see you, Phil,” said Mrs. Hoffman. “Why have you not come
before?”
“How is that, Phil? Will you stay now?” said Paul.
Mrs. Hoffman looked at Paul inquiringly.
“Phil was afraid he would not be welcome,” he exclaimed.
“He is always welcome,” said Mrs. Hoffman.
“Where is your fiddle?” asked Jimmy.
“A boy took it,” said Phil, “and threw it into the street, and a wagon
went over it and broke it.”
Jimmy was quite indignant for his friend, when the story had been told.
“It’s lucky for Tim Rafferty that he is not here,” said Paul, “or he
might suffer.”
“If I was a big boy I’d lick him,” said Jimmy, belligerently.
“I never saw you so warlike before, Jimmy,” said Paul.
To Phil this sympathy seemed pleasant. He felt that he was in the midst
of friends, and friends were not so plentiful as not to be valued.
“What are you going to have for dinner, mother?” asked Paul.
“I am sorry, Paul, that I have no warm meat. I have some cold roast
beef, some hot potatoes, and an apple pudding.”
“You needn’t apologize, mother. That’s good enough for anybody. It’s as
good as Phil gets at his boarding house, I am sure. He has got rather
tired of it, and isn’t going to stay.”
“Are you going to leave the padrone?” asked Mrs. Hoffman, with interest.
“Si, signora,” said Phil.
“Will he let you go?”
“I shall run away,” said Phil.
“You see, mother, Phil would be sure of a beating if he went home
without his fiddle. Now he doesn’t like to be beaten, and the padrone
gives harder beatings than you do, mother.”
“I presume so,” said Mrs. Hoffman, smiling. “I do not think I am very
severe.”
“No, you spoil the rod and spare the child.”
“Is Phil going to stay in the city?”
“No; the padrone would get hold of him if he did. He is going to New
Jersey to make his fortune.”
“But he will need a fiddle.”
“I am going to lend him money enough to buy one. I know a pawnbroker who
has one for sale. I think I can get it for three or four dollars. When
Phil gets it he is going around giving concerts. How much can you make
in a day, Phil?”
“Sometimes I make two dollars,” answered Phil.
“That is excellent, especially when you are your own padrone. You will
be able to save up money. You will have to buy a pocketbook, Phil.”
“Where will you sleep, Phil?” asked Jimmy, interested.
Phil shrugged his shoulders. He had not thought of that question
particularly.
“I don’t know,” he said. “I can sleep anywhere.”
“Of course he will stop at the first-class hotels, Jimmy,” said Paul,
“like all men of distinction. I shouldn’t wonder if he married an
heiress in six months, and went back to Italy on a bridal tour.”
“He is too young to be married,” said Jimmy, who, it will be perceived,
understood everything literally.
“I don’t know but he is,” said Paul, “but he isn’t too old to be hungry.
So, mother, whenever dinner is ready we shall be.”
“It is all ready except peeling the potatoes, Paul.”
“We can do that ourselves. It is good exercise, and will sharpen our
appetites. You will have to eat fast or there won’t be much left. Jimmy
is the most tremendous eater I ever saw, and won’t leave much for the
rest of us, if we give him the chance.”
“Now, Paul,” expostulated Jimmy, feeling aggrieved at this charge, “you
know I don’t eat as much as you do.”
“Hear him talk, Phil. I don’t eat more than enough to keep a fly alive.”
“It must be a pretty large fly, Paul,” said Jimmy, slyly.
“Good joke, Jimmy. Mother, you must give Jimmy twelve potatoes to-day
instead of the ten he usually eats.”
“Oh, Paul, how can you tell such stories?” exclaimed Jimmy, shocked at
such an extravagant assertion. Phil laughed, for there was something
ludicrous in the idea of Jimmy, who was a slight boy of seven, making
away with such a large quantity, and the little boy began to see that it
was a joke at his expense.
The dinner went off well. All had a good appetite, and did full justice
to Mrs. Hoffman’s cookery. The pudding in particular was pronounced a
success. It was so flaky and well-seasoned, and the sauce, flavored
with lemon, was so good, that everyone except Mrs. Hoffman took a
second piece. For the first time since he had left Italy, Phil felt
the uncomfortable sensation of having eaten too much. However, with the
discomfort was the pleasant recollection of a good dinner, and to the
mind of the little fiddler the future brightened, as it is very apt to
do under such circumstances, and he felt ready to go out and achieve his
fortune.
“Why won’t you stop with us to-night, Phil, and start on your journey
to-morrow?” asked Mrs. Hoffman. “I am sure Jimmy would be glad of your
company.”
“Yes, Phil, stay,” said Paul.
Phil hesitated. It was a tempting invitation, but, on the other hand, if
he remained in the city till the next day he might be in danger from the
padrone.
He expressed this fear.
“I am afraid the padrone would catch me,” he said.
“No, he won’t. You can go out with me and buy the fiddle now, and then
come back and play to mother and Jimmy. To-morrow morning I will go with
you to the Jersey City Ferry myself, and if we meet the padrone, I’ll
give him a hint to be off.”
Phil still hesitated, but finally yielded to the united request. But it
was now one o’clock, and Paul must be back to his business. Phil took
his cap and went with him to purchase the fiddle, promising to come back
directly.
They went into Chatham Street, and soon halted before a small shop,
in front of which were three gilt balls, indicating that it was a
pawnbroker’s shop.
Entering, they found themselves in a small apartment, about twelve feet
front by twenty in depth, completely filled with pawnable articles in
great variety a large part, however, consisting of clothing; for when
the poor have occasion to raise money at a pawnbroker’s, they generally
find little in their possession to pawn except their clothing. Here was
a shawls pawned for a few shillings by a poor woman whose intemperate
husband threw the burden of supporting two young children upon her.
Next to it was a black coat belonging to a clerk, who had been out of
employment for three months, and now was out of money also. Here was a
child’s dress, pawned by the mother in dire necessity to save the
child from starving. There was a plain gold ring, snatched by a drunken
husband from the finger of his poor wife, not to buy food, but to
gratify his insatiable craving for drink.
Over this scene of confusion presided a little old man with blear eyes
and wrinkled face, but with a sharp glance, fully alive to his own
interests. He was an Englishman born, but he had been forty years
in America. He will be remembered by those who have read “Paul the
Peddler.” Though nearly as poverty-stricken in appearance as his poorest
customers, the old man was rich, if reports were true. His business was
a very profitable one, allowing the most exorbitant rates of interest,
and, being a miser, he spent almost nothing on himself, so that his
hoards had increased to a considerable amount.
He looked up sharply, as Paul and Phil entered, and scanned them closely
with his ferret-like eyes.
CHAPTER XVI
THE FASHIONABLE PARTY
Eliakim Henderson, for this was the pawnbroker’s name, did not remember
Paul, though on one occasion our hero had called upon him. Nearly
all his customers came to pawn articles, not to purchase, and Eliakim
naturally supposed that the two boys had come on this errand. Before
entering, Paul said to Phil, “Don’t say anything; leave me to manage.”
As they entered, Phil espied a fiddle hanging up behind the counter,
and he saw at a glance that it was better than the one he had been
accustomed to play upon. But to his surprise, Paul did not refer to it
at first.
“What will you give me on this coat?” asked Paul, indicating the one he
had on.
He had no intention of selling it, but preferred to come to the fiddle
gradually, that the pawnbroker might not think that was his main object,
and so charge an extra price.
Eliakim scanned the garment critically. It was nearly new and in
excellent condition, and he coveted it.
“I will give you a dollar,” said he, naming a price low enough to
advance upon.
“That is too little,” said Paul, shaking his head.
“I might give you fifty cents more, but I should lose if you didn’t
redeem it.”
“I don’t think you would. I paid ten dollars for it.”
“But it is old.”
“No, it isn’t; I have only had it a few weeks.”
“How much do you want on it?” asked Eliakim, scanning Paul sharply, to
see how much he seemed in want of money.
“I don’t want any to-day. If I should want some next week, I will come
in.”
“It will be older next week,” said Eliakim, not wanting to lose the
bargain, for he hoped it would not be redeemed.
“Never mind; I can get along till then.”
“Can I do no business with you this morning?” asked Eliakim,
disappointed.
“I don’t know,” said Paul, looking carelessly around. “My friend here
would like a fiddle, if he can get one cheap. What do you ask for that
one up there?”
Eliakim took down the fiddle with alacrity. He had had it on hand for
a year without securing a customer. It had originally been pawned by a
poor musician, for a dollar and a quarter, but the unfortunate owner had
never been able to redeem it. Among his customers, the pawnbroker had
not found one sufficiently musical to take it off his hands. Here was a
slight chance, and he determined to effect a sale if he could.
“It is a splendid instrument,” he said, enthusiastically, brushing off
the dust with a dirty cotton handkerchief. “I have had many chances to
sell it.”
“Why didn’t you sell it, then?” demanded Paul, who did not believe a
word of this.
“Because it was only pawned. I kept it for the owner.”
“Oh, well; if you can’t sell it, it doesn’t matter.”
“It is for sale now,” said Eliakim, quickly. “He has not come for
it, and I shall keep it no longer. Just try it. See what a sp-l-endid
instrument it is!” said the pawnbroker, dwelling on the adjective to
give emphasis to it.
Paul tried it, but not knowing how to play, of course created only
discord. He did not offer it to Phil, because the young Italian boy
would have made it sound too well and so enhanced the price.
“It don’t sound very well,” said he, indifferently; “but I suppose it
will do to learn on. What do you want for it?”
“Five dollars,” said Eliakim, studying the face of Paul, to observe the
effect of his announcement.
“Five dollars,” repeated Paul. “Take it back, then, and wait till A. T.
Stewart wants one. I haven’t got five dollars to throw away.”
But the pawnbroker did not expect to get his first price. He named it,
in order to have a chance to fall.
“Stay,” he said, as Paul made a motion to leave; “what will you give me
for it?”
“I’ll give you a dollar and a half,” said Paul, turning back.
“A dollar and a half!” exclaimed Eliakim, holding up both hands in
horror. “Do you want to ruin me?”
“No, I think you want to ruin me. I am willing to pay a fair price.”
“You may have it for three dollars and a half.”
“No doubt you’d be glad to get that. Come, Phil, we’ll go.”
“Stay; you may have it for three dollars, though I shall lose by it.”
“So should I, if I paid you that price. I can wait till some other
time.”
But Eliakim did not intend to let this chance slip. He had found the
fiddle rather unsalable, and feared if he lost his chance of disposing
of it, it might remain on his hands for a year more. He was willing,
therefore, to take less than the profit he usually calculated upon in
the sale of articles which remained unredeemed.
“You may have it for two dollars and a half,” he said.
As far as Paul could judge, though he did not know much about the price
of violins, this was a reasonable price. But he knew that Eliakim must
have got it for considerably less, or he would not so soon have come
down to this sum. He did not hesitate, therefore, to try to get it a
little cheaper.
“I’ll give you two dollars and a quarter,” he said, “and not a penny
more.”
Eliakim tried hard to get ten cents more, but Paul saw that he was sure
of his purchase, and remained obdurate. So, after a pretense of putting
up the fiddle, the pawnbroker finally said, “You may have it, but I tell
you that I shall lose money.”
“All right,” said Paul; “hand it over.”
“Where is the money?” asked Eliakim, cautiously.
Paul drew from his pocket a two-dollar bill and twenty-five cents in
currency, and received the fiddle. The pawnbroker scrutinized the money
closely, fearing that it might be bad; but finally, making up his mind
on that point, deposited it in his money drawer.
“Well, Phil, we may as well go,” said Paul. “We’ve got through our
business.”
The pawnbroker heard this, and a sudden suspicion entered his mind that
Paul had been too sharp for him.
“I might have got twenty-five cents more,” he thought regretfully; and
this thought disturbed the complacency he felt at first.
“Well, Phil, how do you like it?” asked Paul, as they emerged into the
street.
“Let me try it,” said Phil, eagerly.
He struck up a tune, which he played through, his face expressing the
satisfaction he felt.
“Is it as good as your old one?”
“It is much better,” said Phil. “I will pay you for it;” and he drew out
the money the sailors had given him in the morning.
“No, Phil,” said his friend, “you may need that money. Keep it, and pay
me when you have more.”
“But I shall be away.”
“You will come to the city some day. When you do you will know where to
find me. Now go and play a tune to Jimmy. He is waiting for you. If you
remain in the streets, your old enemy, Tim Rafferty, may want to borrow
your fiddle again.”
“You are very kind to me, Paolo,” said Phil, raising his dark eyes with
a sudden impulse of gratitude.
“It’s nothing, Phil,” said Paul, modestly; “you would do the same for me
if I needed it.”
“Yes, I would,” said Phil; “but I am poor, and I cannot help you.”
“You won’t be poor always, Phil,” said Paul, cheerfully, “nor I either,
I hope. I mean to be a merchant some time on a bigger scale than now. As
for you, you will be a great player, and give concerts at the Academy of
Music.”
Phil laughed, but still seemed pleased at the prophecy.
“Well, Phil, I must bid you good-by for a little while, or my clerks
will be cheating me. I will see you at supper.”
“Addio, Paolo,” said Phil.
“Addio,” said Paul, laughing. “Wouldn’t I make a good Italian?”
Paul returned to his stand, and Phil took the direction of Mrs.
Hoffman’s rooms. While on his way he heard the sound of a hand-organ,
and, looking across the way, saw, with some uneasiness, his old enemy
Pietro, playing to a crowd of boys.
“I hope he won’t see me,” said Phil to himself.
He was afraid Pietro would remember his old violin, and, seeing the
difference in the instrument he now had, inquire how he got it. He
might, if not satisfied on this point, take Phil home with him, which
would be fatal to his plans. He thought it prudent, therefore, to
turn down the next street, and get out of sight as soon as possible.
Fortunately for him Pietro had his back turned, so that he did not
observe him. Nothing would have pleased him better than to get the
little fiddler into trouble, for, besides being naturally malicious, he
felt that an exhibition of zeal in his master’s service would entitle
him to additional favors at the hands of the padrone, whom he hoped some
day to succeed.
“Oh, what a beautiful fiddle!” said Jimmy, in admiration, as Phil
reappeared. “Do you think I could play on it?”
Phil shook his head, smiling.
“Don’t let Jimmy have it. He would only spoil it,” said Mrs. Hoffman. “I
don’t think he would succeed as well in music as in drawing.”
“Will you play something?” asked Jimmy.
Phil willingly complied, and for half an hour held Jimmy entranced with
his playing. The little boy then undertook to teach Phil how to draw,
but at this Phil probably cut as poor a figure as his instructor would
have done at playing on the violin.
So the afternoon wore away, happily for all three, and at five Paul
made his appearance. When supper was over Phil played again, and this
attracting the attention of the neighbors, Mrs. Hoffman’s rooms were
gradually filled with visitors, who finally requested Phil to play some
dancing tunes. Finding him able to do so, an impromptu dance was got
up, and Mrs. Hoffman, considerably to her surprise, found that she was
giving a dancing-party. Paul, that nothing might be left out, took a
companion with him and they soon reappeared with cake and ice cream,
which were passed around amid great hilarity; and it was not until
midnight that the last visitor went out, and the sound of music and
laughter was hushed.
“You are getting fashionable in your old age, mother,” said Paul, gayly.
“I think I shall send an account of your party to the Home Journal.”
“I believe it is usual to describe the dresses of the ladies,” said Mrs.
Hoffman, smiling.
“Oh, yes, I won’t forget that. Just give me a piece of paper and see how
I will do it.”
Paul, whose education, I repeat here, was considerably above that of
most boys in his position, sat down and hastily wrote the following
description, which was read to the great amusement of his auditors:
“Mrs. Hoffman, mother of the well-known artist, Jimmy Hoffman, Esq.,
gave a fashionable party last evening. Her spacious and elegant
apartments were crowded with finely dressed gentlemen and ladies from
the lower part of the city. Signor Filippo, the great Italian musician,
furnished the music. Mrs. Hoffman appeared in a costly calico dress, and
had a valuable gold ring on one of her fingers. Her son, the artist,
was richly dressed in a gray suit, purchased a year since. Miss Bridget
Flaherty, of Mott Street, was the belle of the occasion, and danced with
such grace and energy that the floor came near giving away beneath her
fairy tread. [Miss Flaherty, by the way, weighed one hundred and eighty
pounds.] Mr. Mike Donovan, newspaper merchant, handed round refreshments
with his usual graceful and elegant deportment. Miss Matilda Wiggins
appeared in a magnificent print dress, imported from Paris by A. T.
Stewart, and costing a shilling a yard. No gloves were worn, as they
are now dispensed with in the best society. At a late hour the guests
dispersed. Mrs. Hoffman’s party will long be remembered as the most
brilliant of the season.”
“I did not know you had so much talent for reporting, Paul,” said his
mother. “You forgot one thing, however.”
“What is that?”
“You said nothing of yourself.”
“I was too modest, mother. However, if you insist upon it, I will do so.
Anything at all to please you.”
Paul resumed his writing and in a short time had the following:
“Among those present we observed the handsome and accomplished Paul
Hoffman, Esq., the oldest son of the hostess. He was elegantly dressed
in a pepper-and-salt coat and vest, blue necktie, and brown breeches,
and wore a six-cent diamond breastpin in the bosom of his shirt. His
fifteen-cent handkerchief was perfumed with cologne which he imported
himself at a cost of ten cents per bottle. He attracted general
admiration.”
“You seem to have got over your modesty, Paul,” said his mother.
“I am sleepy,” said Jimmy, drowsily rubbing his eyes.
As this expressed the general feeling, they retired to bed at once, and
in half an hour were wandering in the land of dreams.
CHAPTER XVII
THE PADRONE IS ANXIOUS
The next morning Paul and Phil rose later that usual. They slept longer,
in order to make up for the late hour at which they retired. As they sat
down to breakfast, at half-past eight, Paul said: “I wonder whether the
padrone misses you, Phil?”
“Yes,” said Phil; “he will be very angry because I did not come back
last night.”
“Will he think you have run away?”
“I do not know. Some of the boys stay away sometimes, because they are
too far off to come home.”
“Then he may expect you to-night. I suppose he will have a beating ready
for you.”
“Yes, he would beat me very hard,” said Phil, “if he thought I did not
mean to come back.”
“I should like to go and tell him that he need not expect you. I should
like to see how he looks.”
“He might beat you, too, Paolo.”
“I should like to see him try it,” said Paul, straightening up with a
consciousness of strength. “He might find that rather hard.”
Phil looked admiringly at the boy who was not afraid of the padrone.
Like his comrades, he had been accustomed to think of the padrone as
possessed of unlimited power, and never dreamed of anybody defying him,
or resisting his threats. Though he had determined to run away, his soul
was not free from the tyranny of his late taskmaster, and he thought
with uneasiness and dread of the possibility of his being conveyed back
to him.
“Well, mother,” said Paul, glancing at the clock as he rose from the
breakfast table, “it is almost nine o’clock--rather a late hour for a
business man like me.”
“You are not often so late, Paul.”
“It is lucky that I am my own employer, or I might run the risk of
being discharged. I am afraid the excuse that I was at Mrs. Hoffman’s
fashionable party would not be thought sufficient. I guess I won’t have
time to stop to shave this morning.”
“You haven’t got anything to shave,” said Jimmy.
“Don’t be envious, Jimmy. I counted several hairs this morning. Well,
Phil, are you ready to go with me? Don’t forget your fiddle.”
“When shall we see you again, Philip?” said Mrs. Hoffman.
“I do not know,” said the little minstrel.
“Shall you not come to the city sometimes?”
“I am afraid the padrone would catch me,” said Phil.
“Whenever you do come, Phil,” said Paul, “come right to me. I will take
care of you. I don’t think the padrone will carry us both off, and he
would have to take me if he took you.”
“Good-by, Philip,” said Mrs. Hoffman, offering her hand. “I hope you
will prosper.”
“So do I, Phil,” said Jimmy.
Phil thus took with him the farewells and good wishes of two friends
who had been drawn to him by his attractive face and good qualities. He
could not help wishing that he might stay with them permanently, but he
knew that this could not be. To remain in the same city with the padrone
was out of the question.
Meanwhile we return to the house which Phil had forsaken, and inquire
what effect was produced by his non-appearance.
It was the rule of the establishment that all the boys should be back
by midnight. Phil had generally returned an hour before that time. When,
therefore, it was near midnight, the padrone looked uneasily at the
clock.
“Have you seen Filippo?” he asked, addressing his nephew.
“No, signore,” answered Pietro. “Filippo has not come in.”
“Do you think he has run away?” asked the padrone, suspiciously.
“I don’t know,” said Pietro.
“Have you any reason to think he intended to run away?”
“No,” said Pietro.
“I should not like to lose him. He brings me more money than most of the
boys.”
“He may come in yet.”
“When he does,” said the padrone, frowning, “I will beat him for being
so late. Is there any boy that he would be likely to tell, if he meant
to run away?”
“Yes,” said Pietro, with a sudden thought, “there is Giacomo.”
“The sick boy?”
“Yes. Filippo went in this morning to speak to him. He might have told
him then.”
“That is true. I will go and ask him.”
Giacomo still lay upon his hard pallet, receiving very little attention.
His fever had increased, and he was quite sick. He rolled from one side
to the other in his restlessness. He needed medical attention, but the
padrone was indifferent, and none of the boys would have dared to call
a doctor without his permission. As he lay upon his bed, the padrone
entered the room with a hurried step.
“Where is Giacomo?” he demanded, harshly.
“Here I am, signore padrone,” answered the little boy, trembling, as he
always did when addressed by the tyrant.
“Did Filippo come and speak with you this morning, before he went out?”
“Si, signore.”
“What did he say?”
“He asked me how I felt.”
“What did you tell him?”
“I told him I felt sick.”
“Nothing more?”
“I told him I thought I should die.’
“Nonsense!” said the padrone, harshly; “you are a coward. You have a
little cold, that is all. Did he say anything about running away?”
“No, signore.”
“Don’t tell me a lie!” said the tyrant, frowning.
“I tell you the truth, signore padrone. Has not Filippo come home?”
“No.”
“I do not think he has run away,” said the little boy.
“Why not?”
“I think he would tell me.”
“So you two are friends, are you?”
“Si, signore; I love Filippo,” answered Giacomo, speaking the last words
tenderly, and rather to himself than to the padrone. He looked up to
Phil, though little older than himself, with a mixture of respect
and devotion, leaning upon him as the weak are prone to lean upon the
strong.
“Then you will be glad to hear,” said the padrone, with a refinement of
cruelty, “that I shall beat him worse than last night for staying out so
late.”
“Don’t beat him, padrone,” pleaded Giacomo, bursting into tears.
“Perhaps he cannot come home.”
“Did he ever speak to you of running away?” asked the padrone, with a
sudden thought.
Giacomo hesitated. He could not truthfully deny that Filippo had done
so, but he did not want to get his friend into trouble. He remained
silent, looking up at the tyrant with troubled eyes.
“Why do you not speak? Did you hear my question?” asked the padrone,
with a threatening gesture.
Had the question been asked of some of the other boys present, they
would not have scrupled to answer falsely; but Giacomo had a religious
nature, and, neglected as he had been, he could not make up his mind to
tell a falsehood. So, after a pause, he faltered out a confession that
Phil had spoken of flight.
“Do you hear that, Pietro?” said the padrone, turning to his nephew.
“The little wretch has doubtless run away.”
“Shall I look for him to-morrow?” asked Pietro, with alacrity, for to
him it would be a congenial task to drag Phil home, and witness the
punishment.
“Yes, Pietro. I will tell you where to go in the morning. We must have
him back, and I will beat him so that he will not dare to run away
again.”
The padrone would have been still more incensed could he have looked
into Mrs. Hoffman’s room and seen the little fiddler the center of a
merry group, his brown face radiant with smiles as he swept the chords
of his violin. It was well for Phil that he could not see him.
CHAPTER XVIII
PHIL ELUDES HIS PURSUER
Phil had already made up his mind where to go. Just across the river was
New Jersey, with its flourishing towns and cities, settled to a large
extent by men doing business in New York. The largest of these cities
was Newark, only ten miles distant. There Phil decided to make his
first stop. If he found himself in danger of capture he could easily
go farther. This plan Paul approved, and it was to be carried into
execution immediately.
“I will go down to the Cortlandt Street Ferry with you, Phil,” said
Paul.
“I should like to have you, if it will not take you from your business,
Paolo.”
“My business can wait,” said Paul. “I mean to see you safe out of the
city. The padrone may be in search of you already.”
“I think he will send Pietro to find me,” said Phil.
“Who is Pietro?”
Phil explained that Pietro was the padrone’s nephew and assisted in
oppressing the boys.
“I hope he will send him,” said Paul.
Phil looked up in surprise.
“I should like to see this Pietro. What would he do if he should find
you?”
“He would take me back.”
“If you did not want to go?”
“I couldn’t help it,” said Phil, shrugging his shoulders. “He is much
bigger than I.”
“Is he bigger than I am?”
“I think he is as big.”
“He isn’t big enough to take you away if I am with you.”
Paul did not say this boastfully, but with a quiet confidence in his own
powers in which he was justified. Though by no means quarrelsome, he
had on several occasions been forced in self-defense into a contest with
boys of his own size, and in some instances larger, and in every case he
had acquitted himself manfully, and come off victorious.
“I should not be afraid if you were with me, Paolo,” said Phil.
“You are right, Phil,” said Paul, approvingly. “But here we are at the
ferry.”
Cortlandt Street is a short distance below the Astor House, and leads
to the ferry, connecting on the other side with trains bound for
Philadelphia and intermediate places.
Paul paid the regular toll, and passed through the portal with Phil.
“Are you going with me?” asked the little fiddler, in surprise.
“Only to Jersey City, Phil. There might be some of your friends on board
the boat. I want to see you safe on the cars. Then I must leave you.”
“You are very kind, Paolo.”
“You are a good little chap, Phil, and I mean to help you. But the boat
is about ready to start. Let us go on board.”
They walked down the pier, and got on the boat a minute before it
started. They did not pass through to the other end, but, leaning
against the side, kept their eyes fixed on the city they were about to
leave. They had not long to wait. The signal was heard, and the boat
started leisurely from the pier. It was but ten feet distant, when the
attention of Paul and Phil was drawn to a person running down the drop
in great haste. He evidently wanted to catch the boat, but was too late.
Phil clutched at Paul’s arm, and pointed to him in evident excitement.
“It is Pietro,” he said.
At that moment Pietro, standing on the brink, caught sight of the boy
he was pursuing, looking back at him from the deck of the ferry-boat.
A look of exultation and disappointment swept over his face as he saw
Phil, but realized that he was out of his reach. He had a hand-organ
with him, and this had doubtless encumbered him, and prevented his
running as fast as he might otherwise.
“So that is Pietro, is it?” said Paul, regarding him attentively in
order to fix his face in his memory.
“Yes, Paolo,” said Phil, his eyes fixed nervously upon his pursuer, who
maintained his place, and was watching him with equal attention.
“You are not frightened, Phil, are you?”
Phil admitted that he was.
“He will come over in the next boat,” he said.
“But he will not know where you are.”
“He will seek me.”
“Will he? Then I think he will be disappointed. The cars will start
on the other side before the next boat arrives. I found out about that
before we started.”
Phil felt relieved by this intelligence, but still he was nervous.
Knowing well Pietro’s malice, he dreaded the chances of his capturing
him.
“He stays there. He does not go away,” said Phil.
“It will do him no good, Phil. He is like a cat watching a canary bird
beyond his reach. I don’t think he will catch you to-day.”
“He may go in the cars, too,” suggested Phil.
“That is true. On the whole, Phil, when you get to Newark, I advise
you to walk into the country. Don’t stay in the city. He might find you
there.”
“I will do what you say, Paolo. It will be better.”
They soon reached the Jersey shore. The railroad station was close by.
They went thither at once, and Phil bought a ticket for Newark.
“How soon will the cars start?” inquired Paul of a railway official.
“In five minutes,” was the answer.
“Then, Phil, I advise you to get into the cars at once. Take a seat
on the opposite side, though there is no chance of your being seen by
Pietro, who will get here too late. Still, it is best to be on the safe
side. I will stay near the ferry and watch Pietro when he lands. Perhaps
I will have a little conversation with him.”
“I will go, Paolo.”
“Well, good-by, Phil, and good luck,” said Paul, cheerfully. “If you
ever come to New York, come to see me.”
“Yes, Paolo, I will be sure to come.”
“And, Phil, though I don’t think you will ever fall into the power
of that old brute again (I am sure you won’t if you take good care of
yourself), still, if he does get you back again, come to me the first
chance you get, and I will see what I can do for you.”
“Thank you, Paolo. I will remember your kindness always,” said the
little fiddler, gratefully.
“That is all right, Phil. Good-by!”
“Good-by!” said Phil, and, shaking the hand of his new friend, he
ascended the steps, and took a seat on the opposite side, as Paul had
recommended.
“I am sorry to part with Phil,” said Paul to himself. “He’s a fine
little chap, and I like him. If ever that old brute gets hold of him
again, he shan’t keep him long. Now, Signor Pietro, I’ll go back and see
you on your arrival.”
Phil was right in supposing that Pietro would take passage on the next
boat. He waited impatiently on the drop till it touched, and sprang on
board. He cursed the interval of delay, fearing that it would give Phil
a chance to get away. However, there was no help for this. Time and tide
wait for no man, but it often happens that we are compelled to wait for
them. But at length the boat touched the Jersey shore, and Pietro
sprang out and hurried to the gates, looking eagerly on all sides for a
possible glimpse of the boy he sought. He did not see him, for the cars
were already on their way, but his eyes lighted up with satisfaction as
they lighted on Paul, whom he recognized as the companion of Phil. He
had seen him talking to the little fiddler. Probably he would know where
he had gone. He walked up to Paul, who was standing near, and, touching
his cap, said: “Excuse me, signore, but have you seen my little
brother?”
“Your little brother?” repeated Paul, deliberately.
“Si, signore, a little boy with a fiddle. He was so high;” and Pietro
indicated the height of Phil correctly by his hand.
“There was a boy came over in the boat with me,” said Paul.
“Yes, yes; he is the one, signore,” said Pietro, eagerly.
“And he is your brother?”
“Si, signore.”
“That’s a lie,” thought Paul, “I should know it even if Phil had
not told me. Phil is a handsome little chap. He wouldn’t have such a
villainous-looking brother as you.”
“Can you tell me where he has gone?” asked Pietro, eagerly.
“Didn’t he tell you where he was going?” asked Paul, in turn.
“I think he means to run away,” said Pietro. “Did you see where he
went?”
“Why should he want to run away?” asked Paul, who enjoyed tantalizing
Pietro, who he saw was chafing with impatience. “Did you not treat him
well?”
“He is a little rascal,” said Pietro. “He is treated well, but he is a
thief.”
“And you are his brother,” repeated Paul, significantly.
“Did you see where he went?” asked Pietro, getting angry. “I want to
take him back to his father.”
“How should I know?” returned Paul, coolly. “Do you think I have nothing
to do but to look after your brother?”
“Why didn’t you tell me that before?” said Pietro, incensed.
“Don’t get mad,” said Paul, indifferently; “it won’t do you any good.
Perhaps, if you look round, you will see your brother. I’ll tell him you
want him if I see him.”
Pietro looked at Paul suspiciously. It struck him that the latter might
be making a fool of him, but Paul looked so utterly indifferent that
he could judge nothing from his appearance. He concluded that Phil was
wandering about somewhere in Jersey City.
It did not occur to him that he might have taken the cars for some
more distant place. At any rate, there seemed no chance of getting any
information out of Paul. So he adjusted his hand-organ and walked up the
street leading from the ferry, looking sharply on either side, hoping to
catch a glimpse of the runaway; but, of course, in vain.
“I don’t think you’ll find Phil to-day, Signor Pietro,” said Paul to
himself, as he watched his receding form. “Now, as there is nothing more
to be done here, I will go back to business.”
CHAPTER XIX
PIETRO’S PURSUIT
The distance from New York to Newark is but ten miles. Phil had been
there once before with an older boy. He was at no loss, therefore, as to
the proper place to get out. He stepped from the cars and found himself
in a large depot. He went out of a side door, and began to wander about
the streets of Newark. Now, for the first time, he felt that he was
working for himself, and the feeling was an agreeable one. True, he did
not yet feel wholly secure. Pietro might possibly follow in the next
train. He inquired at the station when the next train would arrive.
“In an hour,” was the reply.
It would be an hour, therefore, before Pietro could reach Newark.
He decided to walk on without stopping till he reached the outskirts
of the city, and not venture back till nightfall, when there would be
little or no danger.
Accordingly he plodded on for an hour and a half, till he came where the
houses were few and scattered at intervals. In a business point of view
this was not good policy, but safety was to be consulted first of all.
He halted at length before a grocery store, in front of which he saw a
small group of men standing. His music was listened to with attention,
but when he came to pass his cap round afterward the result was small.
In fact, to be precise, the collection amounted to but eight cents.
“How’s business, boy?” asked a young man who stood at the door in his
shirt-sleeves, and was evidently employed in the grocery.
“That is all I have taken,” said Phil, showing the eight cents.
“Did you come from New York this morning?”
“Yes.”
“Then you haven’t got enough to pay for your ticket yet?”
Phil shrugged his shoulders.
“I don’t believe you’ll make your fortune out here.”
Phil was of precisely the same opinion, but kept silent.
“You would have done better to stay in New York.”
To this also Phil mentally assented, but there were imperative reasons,
as we know, for leaving the great city.
It was already half-past twelve, and Phil began, after his walk, to
feel the cravings of appetite. He accordingly went into the grocery and
bought some crackers and cheese, which he sat down by the stove and ate.
“Are you going farther?” asked the same young man who had questioned him
before.
“I shall go back to Newark to-night,” said Phil.
“Let me try your violin.”
“Can you play?” asked Phil, doubtfully, for he feared that an
unpracticed player might injure the instrument.
“Yes, I can play. I’ve got a fiddle at home myself.”
Our hero surrendered his fiddle to the young man, who played passably.
“You’ve got a pretty good fiddle,” he said. “I think it’s better than
mine. Can you play any dancing tunes?”
Phil knew one or two, and played them.
“If you were not going back to Newark, I should like to have you play
with me this evening. I don’t have anybody to practice with.”
“I would not know where to sleep,” said Phil, hesitatingly.
“Oh, we’ve got beds enough in our house. Will you stay?”
Phil reflected that he had no place to sleep in Newark except such as he
might hire, and decided to accept the offer of his new friend.
“This is my night off from the store,” he said. “I haven’t got to come
back after supper. Just stay around here till six o’clock. Then I’ll
take you home and give you some supper, and then we’ll play this
evening.”
Phil had no objection to this arrangement. In fact, it promised to be an
agreeable one for him. As he was sure of a supper, a bed and breakfast,
there was no particular necessity for him to earn anything more
that day. However, he went out for an hour or two, and succeeded in
collecting twenty-five cents. He realized, however, that it was not so
easy to pick up pennies in the country as in the city--partly because
population is sparser and partly because, though there is less privation
in the country, there is also less money.
A little before six Phil’s new friend, whose name he ascertained was
Edwin Grover, washed his hands, and, putting on his coat, said “Come
along, Phil.”
Phil, who had been sitting near the stove, prepared to accompany him.
“We haven’t got far to go,” said Edwin, who was eighteen. “I am glad of
that, for the sooner I get to the supper table the better.”
After five minutes’ walk they stopped at a comfortable two-story house
near the roadside.
“That’s where I put up,” said Edwin.
He opened the door and entered, followed by Phil, who felt a little
bashful, knowing that he was not expected.
“Have you got an extra plate, mother?” asked Edwin. “This is a professor
of the violin, who is going to help me make some music this evening.”
“He is welcome,” said Mrs. Grover, cheerfully, “We can make room for
him. He is an Italian, I suppose. What is your name?”
“Filippo.”
“I will call you Philip. I suppose that is the English name. Will you
lay down your violin and draw up to the fire?”
“I am not cold,” said Phil.
“He is not cold, he is hungry, as Ollendorf says,” said Edwin, who had
written a few French exercises according to Ollendorf’s system. “Is
supper almost ready?”
“It will be ready at once. There is your father coming in at the front
gate, and Henry with him.”
Mr. Grover entered, and Phil made the acquaintance of the rest of the
family. He soon came to feel that he was a welcome guest, and shared
in the family supper, which was well cooked and palatable. Then Edwin
brought out his fiddle, and the two played various tunes. Phil caught
one or two new dancing tunes from his new friend, and in return taught
him an Italian air. Three or four people from a neighboring family
came in, and a little impromptu dance was got up. So the evening passed
