inside. There is the nave, with its lofty and 
beautiful arched ceiling ; there are the side aisles, 
and two elegant rows of stone pillars, stained so 
as to be a perfect imitation of stucco ; there is 
the apse, with its stained glass and exquisite 
lines ; and there is an organ-loft over the front 
entrance, with a rose window. Nothing was 
wanting, so far as we could see, except that we 
should adapt ourselves to the circumstances ; and 
that we have been trying to do ever since. It 
may be well to relate how we do it, for the bene 
fit of other inchoate Goths. 
It was found that if we put up the organ in 
the loft, it would hide the beautiful rose window. 
Besides, we wanted congregational singing, and 
if we hired a choir, and hung it up there under 
the roof, like a cage of birds, we should not have 
congregational singing. We therefore left the 
organ-loft vacant, making no further use of it 
than to satisfy our Gothic cravings. As for 
choir, several of the singers of the church vol- 
 
unteered to sit together in the front side-seats, 
and as there was no place for an organ, they 
gallantly rallied round a melodeon, or perhaps 
it is a cabinet organ, a charming instrument, 
and, as everybody knows, entirely in keeping 
with the pillars, arches, and great spaces of a real 
Gothic edifice. It is the union of simplicity with 
grandeur, for which we have all been looking. I 
need not say to those who have ever heard a 
melodeon, that there is nothing like it. It is rare, 
even in the finest churches on the Continent. 
And we had congregational singing. And it 
went very well indeed. One of the advantages 
of pure congregational singing is that you can 
join in the singing whether you have a voice or 
not. The disadvantage is, that your neighbor 
can do the same. It is strange what an uncom 
monly poor lot of voices there is, even among 
good people. But we enjoy it. If you do not 
enjoy it, you can change your seat until you get 
among a good lot. 
So far, everything went well. But it was next 
discovered that it was difficult to hear the minister, who had a very handsome little desk in the 
lapse, somewhat distant from the bulk of the congregation ; still, we could most of us see him on a 
clear day. The church was admirably built for 
echoes, and the centre of the house was very 
favorable to them. When you sat in the centre 
of the house, it sometimes seemed as if three 
or four ministers were speaking. It is usually so 
in cathedrals; the Right Reverend So-and-So is 
assisted by the very Reverend Such-and- Such, 
and the good deal Reverend Thus-and-Thus, and 
so on. But a good deal of the minister's voice 
appeared to go up into the groined arches, and, 
as there was no one up there, some of his best 
things were lost. We also had a notion that 
some of it went into the cavernous organ-loft. 
It would have been all right if there had been a 
choir there, for choirs usually need more preach 
ing, and pay less heed to it, than any other part 
of the congregation. Well, we drew a sort of 
screen over the organ-loft ; but the result was not 
as marked as we had hoped. We next devised a 
sounding-board, a sort of mammoth clam-shell, 
painted white, and erected it behind the minis 
ter. It had a good effect on the minister. It 
 
kept him up straight to his work. So long as 
he kept his -head exactly in the focus, his voice 
went out and did not return to him ; but if he 
moved either way he was assailed by a Babel of 
clamoring echoes. There was no opportunity for 
him to splurge about from side to side of the 
pulpit, as some do. And if he raised his voice 
much, or attempted any extra flights, he was 
liable to be drowned in a refluent sea of his own 
eloquence. And he could hear the congregation 
as well as they could hear him. All the coughs, 
whispers, noises, were gathered in the wooden 
tympanum behind him, and poured into his ears. 
But the sounding-board was an improvement, 
and we advanced to bolder measures ; having 
heard a little, we wanted to hear more. Besides, 
those who sat in front began to be discontented 
with the melodeon. There are depths in music 
which the melodeon, even when it is called a 
cabinet organ, with a colored boy at the bellows, 
cannot sound. The melodeon was not, originally, 
designed for the Gothic worship. We determined 
to have an organ, and we speculated whether, by 
erecting it in the apse, we could not fill up that 
 
elegant portion of the church, and compel the 
preacher's voice to leave it, and go out over the 
pews. It would of course do something to efface 
the main beauty of a Gothic church ; but some 
thing must be done, and we began a series of 
experiments to test the probable effects of putting 
the organ and choir behind the minister. We 
moved the desk to the very front of the platform, 
and erected behind it a high, square board screen, 
like a section of tight fence round the fair-grounds. 
This did help matters. The minister spoke with 
more ease, and we could hear him better. If the 
screen had been intended to stay there, we should 
have agitated the subject of painting it. But this 
was only an experiment. 
Our next move was to shove the screen back 
and mount the volunteer singers, melocleon and 
all, upon the platform, some twenty of them 
crowded together behind the minister. The 
effect was beautiful. It seemed as if we had 
taken care to select the finest-looking people in 
the congregation, much to the injury of the 
congregation, of course, as seen from the plat 
form. There are few congregations that can 
 
stand this sort of culling, though ours can en 
dure it as well as any ; yet it devolves upon those 
of us who remain the responsibility of looking as 
well as we can. The experiment was a success, 
so far as appearances went, but when the screen 
went back, the minister's voice went back with it. 
We could not hear him very well, though we 
could hear the choir as plain as day. We have 
thought of remedying this last defect by putting 
the high screen in front of the singers, and close 
to the minister, as it was before. This would make 
the singers invisible, " though lost to sight, to 
memory dear," what is sometimes called an 
" angel choir," when the singers (and the melo- 
deon) are concealed, with the most subdued 
and religious effect. It is often so in cathedrals. 
This plan would have another advantage. The 
singers on the platform, all handsome and well 
dressed, distract our attention from the minister, 
and what he is saying. We cannot help looking 
at them, studying all the faces and all the dresses. 
If one of them sits up very straight, he is a rebuke to us ; if he " lops " over, we wonder why 
he doesn't sit up ; if his hair is white, we wonder 
whether it is age or family peculiaritv ; if he 
 
yawns, we want to yawn ; if he takes up a hymn- 
book, we wonder if he is uninterested in the 
sermon ; we look at the bonnets, and query if 
that is the latest spring style, or whether we are 
to look for another ; if he shaves close, we wonder 
why he doesn't let his beard grow ; if he has long 
whiskers, we wonder why he doesn't trim 'em ; if 
she sighs, we feel sorry ; if she smiles, we would 
like to know what it is about. And, then, sup 
pose any of the singers should ever want to eat 
fennel, or peppermints, or Brown's troches, and 
pass them round ! Suppose the singers, more or 
less of them, should sneeze ! Suppose one or two 
of them, as the handsomest people sometimes will, 
should go to sleep ! In short, the singers there 
take away all our attention from the minister, and 
would do so if they were the homeliest people in 
the world. We must try something else. 
It is needless to explain that a Gothic religious 
life is not an idle one. 
ERHAPS the clothes question is ex- 
hausted, philosophically. I cannot but 
regret that the Poet of the Breakfast- 
Table, who appears to have an uncontrolla 
ble penchant for saying the things you would like 
to say yourself, has alluded to the anachro 
nism of "Sir Coeur de Lion Plantagenet in the 
mutton-chop whiskers and the plain gray suit." 
A great many scribblers have felt the disadvan 
tage of writing after Montaigne ; and it is impos 
sible to tell how much originality in others Dr. 
Holmes has destroyed in this country. In whist 
there are some men you always prefer to have on 
your left hand, and I take it that this intuitive 
essayist, who is so alert to seize the few remain- 
 
ing unappropriated ideas and analogies in the 
world, is one of them. 
No doubt if the Plantagenets of this day were 
required to dress in a suit of chain-armor and 
wear iron pots on their heads, they would be as 
ridiculous as most tragedy actors on the stage. 
The pit which recognizes Snooks in his tin 
breastplate and helmet laughs at him, and Snooks 
himself feels like a sheep ; and when the great 
tragedian comes on, shining in mail, dragging a 
two-handed sword, and mouths the grandiloquence 
which poets have put into the speech of heroes, 
the dress-circle requires all its good-breeding and 
its feigned love of the traditionary drama not to 
titter. 
If this sort of acting, which is supposed to 
have come down to us from the Elizabethan age, 
and which culminated in the school of the Keans, 
Kembles, and Siddonses, ever had any fidelity 
to life, it must have been in a society as artifi 
cial as the prose of Sir Philip Sidney. That 
anybody ever believed in it is difficult to think, 
especially when we read what privileges the 
fine beaux and gallants of the town took behind 
 
the scenes and on the stage in the golden days 
of the drama. When a part of the audience sat 
on the stage, and gentlemen lounged or reeled 
across it in the midst of a play, to speak to 
acquaintances in the audience, the illusion could 
not have been very strong. 
Now and then a genius, like Rachel as Hora- 
tia, or Hackett as Falstafif, may actually seem to 
be the character assumed by virtue of a trans 
forming imagination, but I suppose the fact to 
be that getting into a costume, absurdly anti 
quated and remote from all the habits and asso 
ciations of the actor, largely accounts for the 
incongruity and ridiculousness of most of our 
modern acting. Whether what is called the 
"legitimate drama" ever was legitimate we do not 
know, but the advocates of it appear to think 
that the theatre was some time cast in a mould, 
once for all, and is good for all times and peo 
ples, like the propositions of Euclid. To our 
eyes the legitimate drama of to-day is the one 
in which the day is reflected, both in costume 
and speech, and which touches the affections, 
the passions, the humor, of the present time. 
 
The brilliant success of the few good plays that 
have been written out of the rich life which we 
now live the most varied, fruitful, and dra 
matically suggestive ought to rid us forever 
of the buskin-fustian, except as a pantomimic or 
spectacular curiosity. 
We have no objection to Julius Caesar or Rich 
ard III. stalking about in impossible clothes, and 
stepping four feet at a stride, if they want to, but 
let them not claim to be more " legitimate " than 
" Ours " or " Rip Van Winkle." There will prob 
ably be some orator for years and years to come, 
at every Fourth of July, who will go on asking, 
Where is Thebes ? but he does not care any 
thing about it, and he does not really expect an 
answer. I have sometimes wished I knew the 
exact site of Thebes, so that I could rise y 'the 
audience, and stop that question, at any rate. 
It is legitimate, but it is tiresome. 
If we went to the bottom of this subject, I 
think we should find that the putting upon actors' 
clothes to which they are unaccustomed makes 
them act and talk artificially, and often in a man 
ner intolerable. / An actor who has not the habits 
 
or instincts of a gentleman cannot be made to 
appear like one on the stage by dress ;I he only 
caricatures and discredits what he tries to repre 
sent ; and the unaccustomed clothes and situa 
tion make him much more unnatural and insuf 
ferable than he would otherwise be. Dressed 
appropriately for parts for which he is fitted, he 
will act well enough, probably. What I mean is, 
that the clothes inappropriate to the man make 
the incongruity of him and his part more appar 
ent. Vulgarity is never so conspicuous as in 
fine apparel, on or off the stage, and never so 
self-conscious. Shall we have, then, no refined 
characters on the stage ? Yes ; but let them be 
taken by men and women of taste and refine 
ment, and let us have done with this masquerad 
ing in false raiment, ancient and modern, which 
makes nearly every stage a travesty of nature 
and the whole theatre a painful pretension. We 
do not expect the modern theatre to be a place 
of instruction (that business is now turned over 
to the telegraphic operator, who is making a 
new language), but it may give amusement in 
stead of torture, and do a little in satirizing folly 
 
and kindling love of home and country by the 
way. 
This is a sort of summary of what we all said, 
and no one in particular is responsible for it ; 
and in this it is like public opinion. The Par 
son, however, whose only experience of the thea 
tre was the endurance of an oratorio once, was 
very cordial in his denunciation of the stage 
altogether. 
MANDEVILLE. Yet, acting itself is delightful ; 
nothing so entertains us as mimicry, the person- 
ation of character. We enjoy it in private. I 
confess that I am always pleased with the Par 
son in the character of grumbler. He would be 
an immense success on the stage. I don't know 
but the theatre will have to go back into the 
hands of the priests, who once controlled it. 
THE PARSON. Scoffer ! 
MANDEVILLE. I can imagine how enjoyable 
the stage might be, cleared of all its traditionary 
nonsense, stilted language, stilted behavior, all 
the rubbish of false sentiment, false dress, and 
the manners of times that were both artificial 
and immoral, and filled with living characters, 
 
who speak the thought of to-day, with the wit 
and culture that are current to-day. I Ve seen 
private theatricals, where all the performers were 
persons of cultivation, that 
OUR NEXT DOOR. So have I. For some 
thing particularly cheerful, commend me to ama 
teur theatricals. I have passed some melancholy 
hours at them. 
MANDEVILLE. That 's because the performers 
acted the worn stage plays, and attempted to do 
them in the manner they had seen on the stage. 
It is not always so. 
THE FIRE -TENDER. I suppose Mandeville 
would say that acting has got into a mannerism 
which is well described as stagey ; and is sup 
posed to be natural to the stage, just as half the 
modern poets write in a recognized form of lit 
erary manufacture, without the least impulse from 
within, and not with the purpose of saying any 
thing, but of turning out a piece of literary work. 
That 's the reason we have so much poetry that 
impresses one like sets of faultless cabinet-furni 
ture made by machinery. 
THE PARSON. But you needn't talk of nature 
 
or naturalness in acting or in anything. I tell 
you nature is poor stuff. It can't go alone. 
Amateur acting they get it up at church socia 
bles nowadays is apt to be as near nature as a 
school-boy's declamation. Acting is the Devil's 
art. 
THE MISTRESS. Do you object to such inno  
cent amusement ? 
MANDEVILLE. What the Parson objects to is, 
that he isn't amused. 
THE PARSON. What 's the use of objecting ? 
It 's the fashion of the day to amuse people into 
the kingdom of heaven. 
HERBERT. The Parson has got us off the 
track. My notion about the stage is, that it keeps 
along pretty evenly with the rest of the world ; 
the stage is usually quite up to the level of the 
audience. Assumed dress on the stage, since 
you were speaking of that, makes people no 
more constrained and self-conscious than it 
does off the stage. 
THE MISTRESS. What sarcasm is coming 
now? 
HERBERT. Well, you may laugh, but the 
 
world hasn't got used to good clothes yet. 
The majority do not wear them with ease. 
People who only put on their best on rare and 
stated occasions step into an artificial feeling. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I wonder if that 's the 
reason the Parson finds it so difficult to get 
hold of his congregation. 
HERBERT. I don't know how else to account 
for the formality and vapidity of a set " party," 
where all the guests are clothed in a manner to 
which they are unaccustomed, dressed into a 
condition of vivid self-consciousness. The same 
people, who know each other perfectly well, 
will enjoy themselves together without restraint 
in their ordinary apparel. But nothing can be 
more artificial than the behavior of people to 
gether who rarely " dress up." It seems impos 
sible to make the conversation as fine as the 
clothes, and so it dies in a kind of inane helpless 
ness. Especially is this true in the country, 
where people have not obtained the mastery of 
their clothes that those who live in the city have. 
It is really absurd, at this stage of our civiliza 
tion, that we should be so affected by such an 
 
insignificant accident as dress. Perhaps Mande- 
ville can tell us whether this clothes panic pre 
vails in the older societies. 
THE PARSON. Don't. We 've heard it ; about 
its being one of the Englishman's thirty-nine 
articles that he never shall sit down to dinner 
without a dress-coat, and all that. 
THE MISTRESS. I wish, for my part, that 
everybody who has time to eat a dinner would 
dress for that, the principal event of the day, and 
do respectful and leisurely justice to it. 
THE YOUNG LADY. It has always seemed sin 
gular to me that men who work so hard to build 
elegant houses, and have good dinners, should 
take so little leisure to enjoy either. 
MANDEVILLE. If the Parson will permit me, I 
should say that the chief clothes question abroad 
just now is, how to get any ; and it is the same 
with the dinners. 
II. 
IT is quite unnecessary to say that the talk 
about clothes ran into the question of dress- 
reform, and ran out, of course. You cannot 
 
converse on anything nowadays that you do not 
run into some reform. The Parson says that 
everybody is intent on reforming everything but 
himself. We are all trying to associate ourselves 
to make everybody else behave as we do. Said 
OUR NEXT DOOR. Dress reform ! As if peo 
ple couldn't change their clothes without concert 
of action. Resolved, that nobody should put on 
a clean collar often er than his neighbor does. 
I 'm sick of every sort of reform. I should like 
to retrograde awhile. Let a dyspeptic ascer 
tain that he can eat porridge three times a day 
and live, and straightway he insists that every 
body ought to eat porridge and nothing else. I 
mean to get up a society every member of which 
shall be pledged to do just as he pleases. 
THE PARSON. That would be the most radical 
reform of the day. That would be independence. 
If people dressed according to their means, acted 
according to their convictions, and avowed their 
opinions, it would revolutionize society. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I should like to walk into 
your church some Sunday and see the changes 
under such conditions. 
I Q 
THE PARSON. It might give you a novel sen 
sation to walk in at any time. And I 'm not 
sure but the church would suit your retrograde 
ideas. It 's so Gothic that a Christian of the 
Middle Ages, if he were alive, couldn't see or 
hear in it. 
HERBERT. I don't know whether these reform 
ers who carry the world on their shoulders in 
such serious fashion, especially the little fussy 
fellows, who are themselves the standard of the 
regeneration they seek, are more ludicrous than 
pathetic. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. Pathetic, by all means. 
But I don't know that they would be pathetic 
if they were not ludicrous. There are those 
reform singers who have been piping away 
so sweetly now for thirty years, with never 
any diminution of cheerful, patient enthusi 
asm ; their hair growing longer and longer, their 
eyes brighter and brighter, and their faces, I 
do believe, sweeter and sweeter ; singing always 
with the same constancy for the slave, for the 
drunkard, for the snuff-taker, for the suffragist, 
"There 's-a-good-time-com-ing-boys (nothing of- 
 
fensive is intended by " boys," it is put in for eu 
phony, and sung pianissimo, not to offend the 
suffragists), it 's-almost-here." And what a bright 
ening up of their faces there is when they say, 
" it 's-al-most-here," not doubting for a moment 
that "it V coming to-morrow ; and the accom 
panying melodeon also wails its wheezy sugges 
tion that " it 's-al-most-here," that " good-time " 
(delayed so long, waiting perhaps for the inven 
tion of the melodeon) when we shall all sing and 
all play that cheerful instrument, and all vote, 
and none shall smoke, or drink, or eat meat, 
" boys." I declare it almost makes me cry to 
hear them, so touching is their faith in the 
midst of a jeering world. 
HERBERT. I suspect that no one can be a 
genuine reformer and not be ridiculous. I mean 
those who give themselves up to the unction of 
the reform. 
THE MISTRESS. Doesn't that depend upon 
whether the reform is large or petty ? 
THE FIRE-TENDER. I should say rather that 
the reforms attracted to them all the ridiculous 
people, who almost always manage to become 
the most conspicuous. I suppose that nobody 
dare write out all that was ludicrous in the great 
abolition movement. But it was not at all comi 
cal to those most zealous in it ; they never could 
see more 's the pity, for thereby they lose 
much the humorous side of their perform 
ances, and that is why the pathos overcomes 
one's sense of the absurdity of such people. 
THE YOUNG LADY. It is lucky for the world 
that so many are willing to be absurd. 
HERBERT. Well, I think that, in the main, 
the reformers manage to look out for themselves 
tolerably well. I knew once a lean and faithful 
agent of a great philanthropic scheme, who con 
trived to collect every year for the cause just 
enough to support him at a good hotel com 
fortably. 
THE MISTRESS. That 's identifying one's self 
with the cause. 
MANDEVILLE. You remember the great free- 
soil convention at Buffalo, in 1848, when Van 
Buren was nominated. All the world of hope 
and discontent went there, with its projects of 
reform. There seemed to be no doubt, among 
 
hundreds that attended it, that if they could get 
a resolution passed that bread should be buttered 
on both sides, that it would be so buttered. The 
platform provided for every want and every woe. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. I remember. If you could 
get the millennium by political action, we should 
have had it then. 
MANDEVILLE. We went there on the Erie 
Canal, the exciting and fashionable mode of travel 
in those days. I was a boy when we began the 
voyage. The boat was full of conventionists ; 
all the talk was of what must be done there. I 
got the impression that as that boat-load went so 
would go the convention ; and I was not alone in 
that feeling. I can never be enough grateful for 
one little scrubby fanatic who was on board, who 
spent most of his time in drafting resolutions and 
reading them privately to the passengers. He 
was a very enthusiastic, nervous, and somewhat 
dirty little man, who wore a woollen muffler about 
his throat, although it was summer ; he had 
nearly lost his voice, and could only speak in a 
hoarse, disagreeable whisper, and he always car 
ried a teacup about, containing some sticky com- 
 
pound which he stirred frequently with a spoon, 
and took, whenever he talked, in order to improve 
his voice. If he was separated from his cup for 
ten minutes his whisper became inaudible. I 
greatly delighted in him, for I never saw any one 
who had so much enjoyment of his own impor 
tance. He was fond of telling what he would do 
if the convention rejected such and such resolu 
tions. He 'd make it hot for 'em. I didn't know 
but he 'd make them take his mixture. The con 
vention had got to take a stand on tobacco, for 
one thing. He 'd heard Giddings took snuff; 
he 'd see. When we at length reached Buffalo 
he took his teacup and carpet-bag of resolutions 
and went ashore in a great hurry. I saw him 
once again in a cheap restaurant, whispering a 
resolution to another delegate, but he didn't 
appear in the convention. I have often won 
dered what became of him. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. Probably he 's cr nsul some 
where. They mostly are. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. After all, it 's the easiest 
thing in the world to sit and sneer at eccentrici 
ties. But what a dead and uninteresting world it 
 
would be if we were all proper, and kept within 
the lines ! Affairs would soon be reduced to 
mere machinery. There are moments, even 
days, when all interests and movements appear 
to be settled upon some universal plan of equi 
librium ; but just then some restless and absurd 
person is inspired to throw the machine out of 
gear. These individual eccentricities seem to be 
the special providences in the general human 
scheme. 
HERBERT. They make it very hard work for 
the rest of us, who are disposed to go along 
peaceably and smoothly. 
MANDEVILLE. And stagnate. I 'm not sure 
but the natural condition of this planet is war, 
and that when it is finally towed to its anchorage 
if the universe has any harbor for worlds out 
of commission it will look like the Fighting 
Temeraire in Turner's picture. 
HERBERT. There is another thing I should 
like to understand : the tendency of people who 
take up one reform, perhaps a personal regen 
eration in regard to some bad habit, to run 
into a dozen other isms, and get all at sea in 
 
several vague and pernicious theories and prac 
tices. 
MANDEVILLE. Herbert seems to think there 
is safety in a man's being anchored, even if it is 
to a bad habit. 
HERBERT. Thank you. But what is it in 
human nature that is apt to carry a man who 
may take a step in personal reform into so many 
extremes ? 
OUR NEXT DOOR. Probably it's human nature. 
HERBERT. Why, for instance, should a reformed drunkard (one of the noblest examples of 
victory over self) incline, as I have known the 
reformed to do, to spiritism, or a woman suf 
fragist to " pantarchism " (whatever that is), and 
want to pull up all the roots of society, and 
expect them to grow in the air, like orchids ; or 
a Graham-bread disciple become enamored of 
Communism ? 
MANDEVILLE. I know an excellent Conserva 
tive who would, I think, suit you ; he says that 
he does not see how a man who indulges in the 
theory and practice of total abstinence can be a 
consistent believer in the Christian religion. 
 
HERBERT. Well, I can understand what he 
means : that a person is bound to hold himself in 
conditions of moderation and control, using and 
not abusing the things of this world, practising temperance, not retiring into a convent of artificial restrictions in order to escape the full responsibility of self-control. And yet his theory 
would certainly wreck most men and women. 
What does the Parson say ? 
THE PARSON. That the world is going crazy 
on the notion of individual ability. Whenever a 
man attempts to reform himself, or anybody else, 
without the aid of the Christian religion, he is 
sure to go adrift, and is pretty certain to be 
blown about by absurd theories, and shipwrecked 
on some pernicious ism. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. I think the discussion 
has touched bottom. 
III. 
I NEVER felt so much the value of a house with 
a backlog in it as during the late spring ; for its 
lateness was its main feature. Everybody was 
grumbling about it, as if it were something or 
dered from the tailor, and not ready on the day. 
Day after day it snowed, night after night it blew 
a gale from the northwest ; the frost sunk deep 
er and deeper into the ground ; there was a pop 
ular longing for spring that was almost a prayer ; 
the weather bureau was active ; Easter was set a 
week earlier than the year before, but nothing 
seemed to do any good. The robins sat under 
the evergreens, and piped in a disconsolate mood, 
and at last the bluejays came and scolded in the 
midst of the snow-storm, as they always do scold 
in any weather. The crocuses couldn't be coaxed 
to come up, even with a pickaxe. I 'm almost 
ashamed now to recall what we said of the 
weather, only I think that people are no more 
accountable for what they say of the weather 
than for their remarks when their corns are 
stepped on. 
We agreed, however, that, but for disappointed 
expectations and the prospect of late lettuce and 
peas, we were gaining by the fire as much as we 
were losing by the frost. And the Mistress fell 
to chanting the comforts of modern civilization. 
THE FIRE-TENDER said he should like to know, 
by the way, if our civilization differed essentially 
from any other in anything but its comforts. 
HERBERT. We are no nearer religious unity. 
THE PARSON. We have as much war as 
ever. 
MANDEVILLE. There was never such a social 
turmoil. 
THE YOUNG LADY. The artistic part of our 
nature does not appear to have grown. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. We are quarrelling as to 
whether we are in fact radically different from 
the brutes. 
HERBERT. Scarcely two people think alike 
about the proper kind of human government. 
THE PARSON. Our poetry is made out of 
words, for the most part, and not drawn from 
the living sources. 
OUR NEXT DOOR., And Mr. Gumming is un 
corking his seventh phial. I never felt before 
what barbarians we are. 
THE MISTRESS. Yet you won't deny that the 
life of the average man is safer and every way 
more comfortable than it was even a century ago. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. But what I want to know 
is, whether what we call our civilization has done 
anything more for mankind at large than to in 
crease the ease and pleasure of living ? Science 
has multiplied wealth, and facilitated intercourse, 
and the result is refinement of manners and a 
diffusion of education and information. Are men 
and women essentially changed, however ? I 
suppose the Parson would say we have lost faith, 
for one thing. 
MANDEVILLE. And superstition ; and gained 
toleration. 
HERBERT. The question is, whether toleration 
is anything but indifference. 
THE PARSON. Everything is tolerated now 
but Christian orthodoxy. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. It 's easy enough to make 
a brilliant catalogue of external achievements, 
but I take it that real progress ought to be in 
man himself. It is not a question of what a man 
enjoys, but what can he produce. The best 
sculpture was executed two thousand years ago. 
The best paintings are several centuries old. 
We study the finest architecture in its ruins. 
 
The standards of poetry are Shakespeare, Homer, 
Isaiah, and David. The latest of the arts, music, 
culminated in composition, though not in execu 
tion, a century ago. 
THE MISTRESS. Yet culture in music certainly 
distinguishes the civilization of this age. It has 
taken eighteen hundred years for the. principles 
of the Christian religion to begin to be prac 
tically incorporated in government and in or 
dinary business, and it will take a long time 
for Beethoven to be popularly recognized ; but 
there is growth toward him, and not away 
from him, and when the average culture h#s 
reached his height, some other genius will still 
more profoundly and delicately express the high 
est thoughts. 
HERBERT. I wish I could believe it. The 
spirit of this age is expressed by the Cal 
liope. 
THE PARSON. Yes, it remained for us to add 
church-bells and cannon to the orchestra. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. It 's a melancholy thought 
to me that we can no longer express ourselves 
with the bass-drum ; there used to be the 
 
whole of the Fourth of July in its patriotic 
throbs. 
MANDEVILLE. We certainly have made great 
progress in one art, that of war. 
THE YOUNG LADY. And in the humane alle 
viations of the miseries of war. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. The most discouraging 
symptom to me in our undoubted advance in the 
comforts and refinements of society is the facility 
with which men slip back into barbarism, if the 
artificial and external accidents of their lives are 
changed. We have always kept a fringe of bar 
barism on our shifting western frontier ; and I 
think there never was a worse society than 
that in California and Nevada in their early 
days. 
THE YOUNG LADY. That is because women 
were absent. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. But women are not ab 
sent in London and New York, and they are 
conspicuous in the most exceptionable demon 
strations of social anarchy. Certainly they were 
not wanting in Paris. Yes, there was a city 
widely accepted as the summit of our material 
 
civilization. No city was so beautiful, so luxuri 
ous, so safe, so well ordered for the comfort of 
living, and yet it needed only a month or two 
to make it a kind of pandemonium of savagery. 
Its citizens were the barbarians who destroyed 
its own monuments of civilization. I don't mean 
to say that there was no apology for what was 
done there in the deceit and fraud that preceded 
it, but I simply notice how ready the tiger was to 
appear, and how little restraint all the material 
civilization was to the beast. 
THE MISTRESS. I can't deny your instances, 
and yet I somehow feel that pretty much all you 
have been saying is in effect untrue. Not one 
of you would be willing to change our civilization 
for any other. In your estimate you take no 
account, it seems to me, of the growth of charity. 
MANDEVILLE. And you might add a recogni 
tion of the value of human life. 
THE MISTRESS. I don't believe there was ever 
before diffused everywhere such an element of 
good-will, and never before were women so much 
engaged in philanthropic work. 
THE PARSON. It must be confessed that one 
 
of the best signs of the times is woman's charity 
for woman. That certainly never existed to the 
same extent in any other civilization. 
MANDEVILLE. And there is another thing that 
distinguishes us, or is beginning to. That is, the 
notion that you can do something more with a 
criminal than punish him ; and that society has 
not done its duty when it has built a sufficient 
number of schools for one class, or of decent jails 
for another. 
HERBERT. It will be a long time before we 
get decent jails. 
MANDEVILLE. But when we do they will be 
gin to be places of education and training as 
much as of punishment and disgrace. The pub 
lic will provide teachers in the prisons as it now 
does in the common schools. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. The imperfections of our 
methods and means of selecting those in the com 
munity who ought to be in prison are so great, 
that extra care in dealing with them becomes us. 
We are beginning to learn that we cannot draw 
arbitrary lines with infallible justice. Perhaps 
half those who are convicted of crimes are as 
 
capable of reformation as half those transgressors 
who are not convicted, or who keep inside the 
statutory law. 
HERBERT. Would you remove the odium of 
prison ? 
THE FIRE-TENDER. No ; but I would have 
