"The old fellow had no business to swear, anyhow," said Norton.
"Swear!" said Judy.
"Something very like it," said Norton.
"Go on, Matilda," said Mrs. Lloyd,--"if you have anything more."
"Yes, grandmamma."
"What is David trying to prove?" asked Mrs. Laval.
"We are only trying to find out what the word of the Lord would make us
do, aunt Zara."
The two younger ladies looked annoyed; however silence was restored,
and Matilda began again.
"'He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth; but he that hath mercy on
the poor, happy is he.'"
"Do we despise anybody?" Mrs. Bartholomew asked. No one answered at
first.
"I do," said Judy. "Just two or three."
"'He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the Lord; and that which
he hath given will he pay him again.'"
"You see," said David, "the Lord reckons it his own affair. These are
Messiah's poor people; we are his stewards."
"How much are you going to give them, on that principle?" his mother
inquired.
"I don't know, mamma."
"But speak!" she said impatiently. "You do know what you mean to do;
you have it all mapped out already in your head, I know."
"I don't know how much I shall give, mamma. Whatever I think they want
more than I do."
"You might wear homespun, and eat bread and water, at that rate."
"Mamma," said Judy, "we are very wicked to wear silk dresses. And just
think of your lace shawl, mamma! And grandma's."
Matilda waited, and when nobody carried on the talk and the silence
waited for her, she went on with Isaiah's beautiful words.
"'Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of
wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go
free, and that ye break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the
hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house?
when thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not
thyself from thine own flesh?'"
"What is 'loosing the bands of wickedness'?" asked Mrs. Lloyd.
"Now-a-days, grandmamma, I should say it was breaking up the killing
rents and starving wages, and the whole system of tenement houses; for
one thing."
"Why what do you know about it, Davy, boy?"
"Not very much, ma'am; but I have seen a little, and the doctor I went
for told me a good deal."
"Davy's growing elegant in his speech, as well as modest," said his
sister. "He has 'heard a good deal,' but he 'don't know much.' O Davy,
why don't you make better use of your opportunities!"
"Very unprofitable opportunities, I must say," remarked his mother. "I
have no idea that such a boy has any business with them, or anything to
do in such places. And what does he know about wages and systems of
business?"
"Go on, Matilda," said Mrs. Lloyd. "I am afraid, my dear, David is
right. I have heard the same things from others. Go on, Matilda."
"'Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or
a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen,
nor thy rich neighbours; lest they also bid thee again, and a
recompense be made thee. But when thou makest a feast, call the poor,
the maimed, the lame, the blind: and thou shalt be blessed; for they
cannot recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the
resurrection of the just.'"
Matilda read these words, with a quick remembrance of the time when she
had read them in the company of her two little schoolmates, and the
discussion that had ensued thereupon; curious what their reception
would be now. It was stormy.
"The idea!" said Mrs. Bartholomew.
"That would make a finish of society at once," said Mrs. Laval.
"But what do the words mean?" asked Mrs. Lloyd. "There they are. They
must mean something."
"Something!" echoed Mrs. Bartholomew. "Just imagine, that we are to
gather in a company of cripples round our dinner table! Send out and
ask all the forlorn creatures we can find, and feed them on game and
sweetbreads. It looks like it!"
"And give up entertaining our friends," added Mrs. Laval.
"What friends do we entertain, aunt Zara?" David asked. "You do not
care much for most of them."
"You are a ridiculous, absurd, fanatical boy!" said Judy. "What
nonsense you do talk!"
"Nonsense that would make an end of all civilization," said Mrs. Laval;
not quite logically.
"But do you care much for these people you invite?" David persisted.
"Not singly," Mrs. Laval admitted; "but taken together, I care a great
deal. At least they are people of our own rank and standing in society,
and we can understand what they talk about."
"But what do the words mean?" Mrs. Lloyd asked.
"Why mother," said Mrs. Bartholomew, "you have read them a thousand
times. They mean what they always did."
"I don't think I ever raised the question till this minute," said Mrs.
Lloyd. "In fact, I don't think I knew the words were there. And I
should like to know now what they mean."
"Grandmother," said David, "isn't it safe to conclude they mean just
what they say?"
"Then we should never ask anybody to dinner!" cried his mother.
"And we should never have a party again," said Judy.
"Society would be at an end," said Mrs. Laval.
"And we should fill our house with horrid wretches," cried Judy, "and
have to take up our carpets and clean house every time."
David was silent while these various charges were eagerly poured out.
Norton looked at him a little scornfully; Matilda anxiously; but he was
only sorrowfully quiet, till his grandmother turned to him with her
question.
"What would you do, Davy?"
"He'd do anything absurd and ridiculous," said Judy; "the more the
better. He is just fit for it. What's the use of asking him, grandma?"
"I would like to hear, my dear, if you will let him speak. I would like
to know what the words say to you, Davy."
"Grandmother," said David thoughtfully, "it seems to me the words
forbid that we should ask people just that they may ask us;--or do
anything of that sort."
"But society would fall to pieces," said Mrs. Bartholomew.
"I never heard of the strictest Christians refusing to do polite things
in that way, when they can," added Mrs. Laval.
"But what do the words say?" David answered. "And then, I think, the
Lord meant to forbid our making expensive entertainments for anybody,
except those who can't give us the same again."
"Then we may ask our friends," said Judy, "only we mustn't give them
anything to eat. And of course no wine to drink. I wonder if we might
light the gas? It is expensive, when you burn enough of it. Such
meanness!" exclaimed Judy with concentrated scorn.
"You would put an end to society," repeated Mrs. Laval.
"What would be the use of having a fine house and large rooms and
beautiful things," asked her sister, "if nobody was to see them?"
David cast his eyes round the room where they were, and smiled a little.
"What do you mean?" asked his mother sharply.
"I was thinking, mamma," said David; "I couldn't help thinking."
"Go on, David," Mrs. Lloyd said.
"Well, grandmamma, if one took the money to give poor people a good
time, it would not be necessary at all, as Judy supposed, to have them
brought into our dining room."
"But don't you think people are meant to be sociable, and see their
friends? We are not intended to live alone."
"Surely not," said Mrs. Laval.
"Grandmamma, and aunt Zara," said the boy, "I believe I would like to
look after Messiah's friends first; and then do what I pleased with my
own."
"Do you mean that all those low, miserable people are His friends?"
cried Mrs. Bartholomew.
"He is their friend, mamma; it comes to the same thing; and some of
them are his very own; and he has given us the charge to take care of
them. And his words seem to me very plain."
"He's a ruined boy, mamma!" said Judy.
"I hope he'll grow out of it," said his mother.
"May I read one place more, grandmamma?" Matilda asked.
"I hope it's the last," said Mrs. Bartholomew.
"I like to hear them," said Mrs. Lloyd.
"Read, Matilda."
Matilda read, her voice trembling a little.
"'Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed
of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation
of the world; for I was a hungered, and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty,
and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in; naked, and
ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye
came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when
saw we thee a hungered, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink?
When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed
thee? or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?
"'And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you,
Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren,
ye have done it unto me.'"
There was no remark made by anybody following upon this reading. The
circle broke up. With dissatisfied faces the ladies and Judy and Norton
withdrew their several ways. David presently went off too, but Matilda
had noticed that his face was as serene as summer moonlight. She was
gathering up her books to go too like all the rest, when to her great
surprise Mrs. Lloyd came beside her and drawing her into her arms
bestowed an earnest kiss upon her uplifted wondering face. Then they
both went silently upstairs.
CHAPTER XIV.
The peace of the house was gone. Not, indeed, that quarrelling took its
place; there was no quarrelling; only an uncomfortable feeling in the
air, and looks that were no longer pleased and pleasant. Mrs.
Bartholomew wore a discontented face, and behaved so. Judy was
snappish; not a new thing exactly, but it was invariable now. David was
very quiet and very sober; however in his case the quiet was quiet,
and the soberness was very serene; all the old gloom seemed to be gone.
Norton, Matilda thought, was cross; and she failed to see the occasion.
Even Mrs. Laval looked uncomfortable sometimes, and once remarked to
Matilda that it would be pleasant to get back to Shadywalk. And Matilda
loved Shadywalk and Briery Bank, but she was not ready with a response.
She tried to be very busy with her studies, and hoped that things would
work clear by and by. Once she had the curiosity to ask Norton how
David was getting on at school?
"Well enough," Norton answered shortly.
"Do the boys like him better?"
"Better than what?"
"Why, better than they used to?"
"I don't know. I don't."
"Why not, Norton? O why don't you?"
"No accounting for tastes," Norton replied, rather grumly.
"Does David study well?"
"Yes. He always did."
Norton might have said that David was walking into everything and
through everything; but he did not say anything of the kind. And sundry
other questions that trembled on the tip of Matilda's tongue, only
trembled there, and never got any further.
Meanwhile Mrs. Binn was not forgotten.
"It's worth anything," David said to Matilda one day that week, "to see
the fellow eat strawberries."
"Strawberries! O did you take strawberries to him!" cried Matilda. "And
he liked them?"
"You could almost see the red of the strawberries getting up into his
cheeks. He's not quite so far as that, though. Like them! He raised
himself half up and lay on his elbow to eat them. Think of that! You
should have seen the fellow. Spoons were no go. He just forked them in
with his fingers."
"Does he lie in the entry yet, David?"
"No. His mother has got him into her bit of a room, and the wash tub is
where he was. I do think we might get him into the country next week,
if there was any place he could go to. He's like another boy, with a
bed under him and clean things and food that he can eat. I do believe
he was starving to death. Sick folks can't get along on dry crusts, or
even mush--plain, without butter or molasses," said David smiling.
"David, I have thought of something."
"What is it? Something to help us out of the difficulty?"
"I don't know. See what you think. You heard Miss Redwood and me
talking of Lilac lane, and people that live in it?"
"I heard nothing of Lilac lane; never did, till this minute."
"O you were in the study with Mr. Richmond. It is a place in Shadywalk
where some very poor people live."
"Well?" said David.
"But it is a delightful place compared to Mrs. Binn's tenement house. I
know some of the people there, and Miss Redwood knows more; and I was
thinking, perhaps she could find a house where they would take Josh in
and take care of him till he gets well. Miss Redwood could see to him a
little, you know."
"Why it's a capital idea, Tilly!" cried David. "Did you write and ask
her?"
"No, but I will."
"Do, to-day. That's just what he wants. Write, Tilly. I must be off to
my work."
Nothing stopped David's work, in these days; indeed he never had been
given to playing truant. Matilda pondered the matter a little, and then
wrote a letter to Miss Redwood; upon which letter, when it reached
Shadywalk, the housekeeper and the minister held consultation. The end
was, that after a week Matilda got an answer which said that the poor
family opposite Matilda's old Sally in Lilac lane, the same from whom
she had borrowed the teakettle once upon a time, had room to spare and
would gladly take the sick child in and take care of him, for the
compensation which would be offered. Miss Redwood also engaged herself
to see that proper care was had and proper food given; and in short the
way was clear.
"That will do," said David when he had read the letter. "Now, the thing
is to get him up there."
"Is Mrs. Binn willing?"
"She is one of the willingest persons you ever saw in your life."
"Well, how will you manage, David?"
"I don't see any way but to go myself."
"Go up to Shadywalk, you mean, to take the child there?"
"Yes."
"O, David, would you! And could you?"
"I don't see any other way."
"But school? will you miss a day?"
"Can't do that; and can't even give Saturday, so near the end of term.
I'll manage it."
"How, David?"
"Go up after school some day, and take a night train down."
"Is Josh--I mean, has he any clothes fit to travel in?"
"He has not any fit to sit up in at home. Never mind, I'll manage that,
Tilly."
"David, you tell me some of the things he wants, and I'll get Sarah
Staples and her mother to make them."
"Well.--But I'll pay charges, Tilly; I don't believe you've got much in
that little pocket of yours."
This consultation was private; and in private the new clothes for
Joshua Binn were procured and got ready; very plain and coarse clothes,
for David and Matilda were learning how much there was to do with their
money. All this caused no remark, not being open to it. But when David
took little Josh, wrapped up in an old cloak of his, and drove with him
in a carriage to the station, and took the cars with him to Shadywalk,
there was a general outcry and burst of astonishment and indignation.
David was at breakfast the next morning as usual; and the storm fell
upon him.
"I wonder how you feel this morning," said his grandmother, half in
displeasure and half in sympathy; for David was a favourite.
"After travelling all night," added Mrs. Laval.
"Up to study, Davy?" asked Norton.
"I am so astonished at you, David, that I do not know how to speak,"
began his mother.    "You--always until now a refined, gentlemanly
boy,--you to turn yourself into a head hospital nurse, and Poor
Society agent! travelling in company with the lowest riff-raff! I don't
know what to make of you. Really, I am in despair."
"He always was a poke," said Judy; "and now he's a poor poke."
"It is too bad!" echoed Mrs. Laval; "though that isn't true, Judy."
"He's a spoiled boy," said Judy. "I wash my hands of him. I hope he'll
wash his hands."
"The idea!" said Mrs. Bartholomew. "As if there was nobody else in the
world to look after sick children, but Davy must leave his own business
and go nursing them in the cars! I wouldn't have had anybody see him
for a thousand dollars."
"What harm, mamma?" asked David coolly.
"Harm?" repeated Mrs. Bartholomew. "Is it your business to take all
sick New York and all poor New York on your hands, and send them to
watering places?"
"One poor little child?" said David.
"No matter; what's the use of sending one, if you don't send the other
hundred thousand? Is it your business, David Bartholomew?"
"Hardly, mamma. But I thought the one was my business."
"There you were mistaken. There are two or three poor societies; it is
for them to look after these cases. What is the use of having poor
societies, if we are to do the work ourselves? So low! so undignified!
so degrading! just ask any minister,--ask Dr. Blandford,--what he
thinks."
"David don't care, mamma," said Judy. "David never cares what anybody
thinks."
"Very wrong, then," said Mrs. Bartholomew; "every right-feeling person
cares what other people think. How is the world to get along? David, I
don't know you any more, you are so changed."
"Yes, mamma," said David; "perhaps I am."
"Perhaps you are? Why my patience!"--
"Your patience seems to have given out, daughter," said Mrs. Lloyd.
"Come, let Davy eat his breakfast."
"He's eating it," said Judy. "Nothing will hurt David's appetite."
"I should think nursing poor folks out of tenement houses might,"
observed Mrs. Bartholomew. "It would once."
"I can't imagine, mamma," said Judy, "how we are going to live together
in future. David isn't our sort any more. Life looks dark to me."
"If it was anybody but David," said Mrs. Bartholomew, "I should say he
would grow out of it. Any other young fool would."
"Grow out of what, mamma?" David asked.
"Grow out of the notion of being an agent of the poor societies. It's
too disgusting!"
"Mamma," he said, and he said it with such an unruffled face that
Matilda was comforted, "the poor society would not have done what I did
last night. And I am not doing it for the poor societies, but for the
King Messiah. I am His agent; that's all."
"Where did you get your commission?" Norton asked.
David hesitated, and then said, "Whatsoever ye would that men should do
to you--"
"But that's absolute nonsense!" exclaimed Mrs. Bartholomew.
"What, mamma?" said David, lifting his eyes to her face.
"I mean, of course, the words are not nonsense, but putting such a
meaning to them."
"What meaning do you think belongs to them, then, mamma?"
"Why," said Mrs. Bartholomew in high dudgeon, "if you are to take them
so, then we ought to send our carriage to take poor people to drive,
and we ought to give our grapes and our wine to sick people, instead of
eating them ourselves; and I ought to sell my diamonds and change them
into bread and coffee and feather beds, I suppose; and our silks and
laces ought to go for rents and firing for those who are in want."
"Well, mother?" said David.
"Well; is that what you mean?"
"That's what the words mean, if they mean anything, mamma. I think the
King wants all we have got, to be used in his work; and all mine he
shall have."
There was no braggadocio, but a sweet steadfastness in the words and
manner which impressed all his hearers; though it impressed them
differently.
"Mother, what do you think of him?" Mrs. Bartholomew said, apparently
in despair.
"I don't know what to think, child," said the old lady. "I am puzzled."
"About me, grandmamma?" asked David.
"No, boy; I never was puzzled about you, and I am not now."
"We'll have grandma going over next!" exclaimed Judy, "and
then--What'll be then, mamma? Will this be a hospital, grandmamma? I
shouldn't like to live here in that case, because of the fevers. I
declare, I'm very sorry! Will David be the doctor or the minister,
grandmamma?"
"Hush, Judy!" said her mother. "Things are bad enough without you."
"There's one thing, you vexatious boy," said Judy; "your uncles will
give you up."
"They have done that already," said David quietly.
"Have they? O have they really, mamma? Then they won't give him their
money when they die! nor me neither. You hateful fellow! to go and make
me poor as well as yourself." And Judy began to cry. "I thought we'd be
so rich, mamma!"
"Do hold your tongue, Judy," said her mother. "You've got enough, and
David much more than enough."
But with this the uncomfortable breakfast party broke up.
"Matilda," said Mrs. Laval when they had gone upstairs,--"I don't know
whether you have done good or harm."
"She's done no good, mamma," said Norton. "Just look at Davy. And I can
tell you, grandmamma is beginning to read the Bible to herself; I've
seen her at it."
"But I haven't done anything, mamma," said Matilda.
"Well, my dear, I don't know who has, then," Mrs. Laval replied.
And the subject was dropped. But certainly Mrs. Lloyd did begin after
that to ask Matilda now and then, when they were alone, to read to her;
and Matilda found that David did it constantly, by his grandmother's
desire, in her own room.
The weeks were few now to the time when the household would break up;
Mrs. Laval and her children to return to Briery Bank, Mrs. Bartholomew
and hers for a cottage at Newport. Mrs. Lloyd was accustomed to abide
generally with the latter. All the members of the family were busied
with their various preparations; and the unsettled feeling of coming
change was upon the whole household. Little else was thought of. So
when an invitation came from the mother of Esther Francis, that all the
young ones should join a party of pleasure that were going to spend the
day in Westchester, it was a very unlooked for variety in the general
course of things. Of course they would go. The young people were to eat
strawberries and do everything else that was pleasant, at General
Francis's place. Mrs. Francis was not yet ready to leave town; there
was nobody in possession but the servants; the widest liberty would be
the rule of the day.
"How nice that the boys are out of school!" said Matilda. "Term just
ended."
"Of course. Couldn't have the party without the people," said Judy.
"Will there be a great many, Norton?" Matilda asked.
"Don't know anything about it. You must ask somebody else. Esther
Francis isn't our cousin."
"How dry you are," said David. "I know no more about it, Matilda, than
he does."
"Esther said there would be twenty or thirty," said Judy. "How are we
going? that's what I want to know."
"Take the Harlem railroad to the station," said Norton, "and drive the
rest. That's the way you always go to General Francis's. Mamma! I'd
like to drive Pink out. It's only thirteen miles."
"I'm afraid, Norton. I think you had better all go together."
Norton grumbled a little; however, it was good enough even so.
The day was the first of June; fresh and sweet as the first of June
should be. The four were in the cars early; and as soon as the train
had got quit of the city, the sights and smells of the country roused
Matilda to the highest pitch of delight. Such green fields! such blue
sky! such delicious air! and such varieties of pleasant objects that
she had not seen for some time! The rush to the station was one whirl
of pleasure; then the pleasure grew greater, for they got into a
carriage to drive across the country. Every foot of the way, though it
was not through a very enchanting landscape, was joyous to Matilda's
vision; and when the grounds were reached of General Francis's villa,
there was nothing more left in this world to desire. For there were
plantations of trees, extending far and wide, with roads and paths cut
through them; over which the young fresh foliage cast the sweetest of
shadow. There were meadows, broad and fair, green and smooth, with a
little river winding along in them, and scattered trees here and there
for shade, and fringes of willows and alders to the sides of the
stream. And at a little distance stood the large old house, with groves
of trees encircling it and lawns before and on one side of it; and on
the side lawn, in the edge of the grove, long tables set and spread
with damask.
"Dinner already?" queried Norton. "I am hungry enough."
"Dinner at ten o' clock!" cried Judy. "Breakfast, you mean."
"Esther, is it breakfast?" asked Norton, as their little hostess came
to them.
"It is what you like, Mr. Laval," said the little lady; whose pink bows
were not more in style than her manners.
"Norton is hungry, Esther," David remarked.
"I hope you are, too."
"What are you going to give us, Esther?" said Judy eagerly. "We are all
like bears. Strawberries?"
"We must wait for another carriage. The Grandsons are coming."
"I wouldn't wait," said Judy. "What's the use? Ten o' clock  is late
enough for breakfast."
"But we shall not have the collation till three."
"What have you got for breakfast?"
"Coffee."
"And strawberries?"
"Haven't you had any strawberries this year?"
"Lots; but not in the country, you know, where they grow."
"And not with such yellow cream as we have got from our dairy."
"Will you have cream enough for all, Esther?" David asked, as coming
round the house they saw a small crowd of young people collected near
the tables. Esther smiled and bridled, and then there was no more
private talk, but a whole chorus of greetings and questions and
answers. And then another carriage drew up, with the missing Grandsons;
and the party went to breakfast.
It seemed to Matilda that to eat under the shadow of trees, and on the
carpet of the grass, and with the music of leaves and insects and
breezes, was the very most delightful thing that could be invented. She
was very hungry, no doubt; and Mrs. Francis's excellent cook had made
capital provision for her young mistress; but besides all that, how
pretty it was! The light flickered through the oak leaves upon the
white tablecloths, and gleamed from china and glass and silver in the
most cheery way; it gleamed upon the little river too and upon the
blades of grass on the lawn. Out there the sunshine was full; the eye
went across to the scattered trees and to the further woods on the
other side; a great promising playground it looked. And then the air
was so sweet and fresh. Matilda was not seated very well for her
pleasure; nobody near that she knew very well; nevertheless she eat her
strawberries and cream and devoured rolls and butter with a contented
appreciation of what she had, and an amused observation of what was
around her.
How were they to spend the day?
This question received earnest attention as soon as the business of
breakfast was off their hands.
"Day is pretty well gone already," said Norton consulting his watch.
"It is twelve o' clock. There is not time for anything else but to have
dinner and go home."
"We do not dine till four o' clock," Esther announced.
"Four hours," said somebody. "Time enough to get hungry again. I'll
take anybody that wants to go a row on the river; if somebody'll help
me row."
"Everybody do what everybody likes until three o' clock," said Esther.
"Suppose then, at three o' clock, we all gather in the pavilion and
have games?"
Unanimous acceptance of this proposal. Then a flutter and division and
scattering of the little crowd.
Matilda wondered what she would do, or be asked to do. She would have
liked the sail on the Bronx; but so would a good many more. The little
boat was very soon filled with the eager applicants, and David
volunteered to help row it. One of Matilda's friends was thus removed
from her. She turned to look for Norton. He was not to be seen. A
general stampede of the boys to the stables made it supposable that he
was in the midst of the gay little group rushing that way. Matilda
looked around her. The tables were deserted; the little boat had
disappeared up the stream; all the boys were gone; and one or two
groups of girls, unknown to her, were loitering over the grass towards
the house. A flush of vexation and embarrassment came over Matilda. Was
this civility? and what was she to do with herself for three hours to
come? And how disagreeable, to be regarded as of no consequence and no
concern to anybody. Tears swelled in their fountains, but Matilda was
not going to cry. She would not linger alone by the table; she did not
know her way in the house, and besides would not seek those who should
properly seek her; she turned her steps to the little river. The
flowing water had a great charm for her; the bank was smooth and green;
she wandered along till she came to what she called a nice place, where
a young willow hung over and dipped its long branches in, and the bank
offered a soft shady seat. Matilda sat down, and felt very lonely. But
glimpses taken through the trees and shrubbery shewed her nobody near
or far, except the servants; and Matilda resolved to be quiet and wait
for better things by and by. She looked at her watch; it was half past
twelve. I am bound to confess it was a good half hour more before
Matilda could get the better of a desperate fit of disappointment and
vexation. She had not counted upon spending her holiday in this manner;
and slights and unkindness are pleasant to nobody. There is something
in use, however, and more in a quiet mind. The little girl's roiled
feelings at last ran clear again; and she began to enjoy things after
her own fashion.
The ripple and flow of that water was certainly delicious; it made one
cool only to hear it. She could get down to the brink too and
cautiously dip her hand in. There were little fishes in a shallow
there; their play and movement were very amusing, and Matilda went into
deep speculation about how much they knew, and what they felt, and what
their manner of life amounted to, and how they probably regarded the
strange creature looking down at them. Very much she wondered what they
could eat to live upon. The water plants that grew along the stream had
Matilda's attention too, and the mosses that covered the stones. And
one or two grasshoppers finally proved a great source of entertainment.
She quite forgot to feel lonely, and was taking her enjoyment in a very
harmonious way; when she heard a different swash of the water and the
dip of oars, and the boat shot round a curve and came down the stream.
She watched it, wondering whether its crew would see her. Just opposite
her willow the oars stopped.
"Is that you, Tilly?" David cried.
A small "yes" came from the bank.
"What are you doing there?"
"O, amusing myself."
"Where is everybody else?"
"I don't know."
"Where's Norton?"
"I don't know. I think he went to see the horses."
"Come down to the landing," said David after a moment's pause.
Matilda nodded, and the boat shot forward again. It had turns to take
following the course of the stream; while she on the land could cut
across points, and she reached the landing place the first.
The little party landed with cries of pleasure, and the next thing, set
off on a run for the house. David purposely hung back, so that he and
Matilda in a few minutes were behind all the others.
"Where is everybody?" inquired David.
"I don't know."
"What have you been doing all this while?"
"It was very pretty down by the water, David. I didn't mind;--at least,
not after the first. It was very pleasant there."
"All alone?"
"Yes; except the fishes and the grasshoppers."
"Well--I shall cut out the fishes now."
David kept his word. A deputation of the boys met them and begged him
to go where the others were riding. David went, but kept hold of
Matilda's hand, though warned that "the girls" were finding other
amusements in the house. Matilda was taken into the meadow where the
boys and the horses were congregated; a safe seat was found for her on
the wall, from whence she could survey the whole field; and though
David took his share in the amusements that followed, riding and racing
with the other boys, he never let her feel herself forgotten or alone;
stopping his horse every now and then in front of her to say something
and find out if she was happy. Matilda was very happy, greatly amused,
and intensely pleased that David had constituted himself her protector.
The hours sped along; the soft June sun was never too hot; the little
white clouds that crossed the sky cast shadows not needed for the busy
pleasure seekers, nor even for the quiet spectator. At last Matilda
heard a shout behind her.
CHAPTER XV.
"What are you doing, you boyish girl?" It was Judy, at the head of
the whole bevy of young ones from the house.
"I didn't know what had become of you, Matilda," said Esther.
"Come down!" said Judy. "What business have you there? Who asked you to
watch the boys? Why don't you come down? On the wall, too! Esther
didn't invite you there."
"Esther didn't invite me anywhere," said Matilda, with the old
inevitable set of her head, which said much more than the little girl
knew. Esther felt it, and Judy was incensed.
"I would be ashamed, if I were you," she said. "Tell the boys, will
you, that we are ready for the games. Call somebody. Shout! now you are
up there, make yourself useful."
Matilda preferred not to shout. Instead of that, she waved her
handkerchief. David rode up, the message was given. Then Norton came to
help Matilda down from the wall; and soon the whole party gathered in
the pavilion. This was rather more than a summer house; a large saloon,
with windows and glass doors on all sides, furnished with lounges and
easy chairs and tables, with a carpet on the floor, and kept with all
the nicety of the house itself. Warm and tired and happy, the little
company was ready for quiet amusements; and they played games of
various kinds until the gong called them to dinner. That was to have
been the end of the day's entertainment; but a storm had come up while
they were at the table, and the rain fell too abundantly to let anybody
leave the house except those who could go in close carriages. A few
were thus drafted off, belonging to neighbouring families; a goodly
little company still remained who were forced to accept the
housekeeper's hospitalities for the night. That was additional fun
rather than inconvenience, so voted and so accepted. However, as the
day began to close in and a lull fell upon all their pleasure-seeking,
it began to appear that the little people were tired. Naturally; they
had worked hard all day. Voices changed their tone.
"Oh dear! I wish it wouldn't rain!" cried one young lady, pressing her
face against the window, down the outside of which the streams of rain
drops were running fast.
"Might as well wish something else, Carrie, while you are about it,"
Norton said.
"I can't!"
"I wish I was home," said another.
"Wait till to-morrow, and you will have your wish."
"But I don't want to wait."
"Don't you know some new games, Esther?"
This sort of thing went on for some time till tea and cake made a
diversion, and lights were brought. Then the cry was, "What shall we do
all the rest of the evening?"
"I have a game for you," said David at last.
"What is it? what is it?"
"A new game."
"What is it?"
"It is called, 'Capital and Interest.'"
"I don't understand that," pouted one of the young ladies.
"You will understand it fast enough, when we come to play it."
"How do you play it?"
"You must choose a Judge and a Recorder."
"What's a Recorder?"
"Some one to put down what we say. We all tell our business; the
Recorder sets it down, and the Judge says whose business is worth the
most."
"How can he tell?"
"He can hear what we say, and he can use his judgment, as we all can."
"Must we tell the truth? or say what we have a mind?"
"Either you like."
"That's jolly!" said one of the boys. "I go in for saying what we have
a mind."
"Just imagine the nicest things you can," David went on.
"To eat?" said Esther.
"No, no; you've done enough of that to-day," said Norton. "Imagine what
you have a mind to,--every sort of thing that's pleasant."
"Well you begin, Norton, because you understand it. We'll hear you
play, and so learn."
"We have got to choose the Judge first. And the Recorder."
"What's the Judge to do?"
"Say who has made the best business."
"I don't understand a bit of it," said Esther.
"No, but you will presently. You'll see. Wait till we begin. Who will
you have for Judge?"
There was a general cry of "David Bartholomew!"
"No," said David, "I won't be Judge. I'll be Recorder, if you like. For
Judge, I propose Norton Laval."
Norton was agreed upon unanimously.
"Now we are ready. Esther, we will begin at you. Tell what you have, or
what you would like to have; and then, what you would do with it, or
use it for."
"I don't know what you mean," said Esther.
"You are not tied to facts. Tell what you like. What would you most
like?"
"Most like?" repeated Esther. "Let me see. It's very hard to begin with
me, when I don't know the game. Let us see. I think I should like to
have the most beautiful diamonds in New York."
"Very good," said Norton. "Now tell what you would do with them."
"Do with them? Why, wear them, of  course."
"Of course," said Norton. "But the diamonds are your capital, you
understand; what interest will you get for your capital? What good
will they do you, Esther? that's it."
"What good?" said Esther. "Why, if I had the finest jewels of anybody,
don't you see I should outshine everybody?"
"I don't see it," said Norton; "but then I'm not in that line. It's
your business we are talking of. Put it down properly, Recorder. Now
Bob Francis--what's your idea of a jolly life, eh?"
"I don't know!" said Bob. He was a year older than his sister; not a
year brighter.
"O yes, you do. Fancy--but I don't believe you can fancy. What would
you like best, Bob?--come!"
"I'd like as well as anything to be a cavalry officer, and have nothing
to do but ride."
"A cavalry officer has a great deal to do, I can tell you, my fine
fellow, besides riding," said David.
"O well; I don't want to have anything else to do," said Bob. "I'd
cut school; it's a bore."
"But you can't ride always. What will be the good of your riding when
you are sick, or get old?"
"O then I'll die," said Bob contentedly.
"Let it stand, Davy," said Norton. "Write him down, with a horse and a
saddle for his capital and riding his business. Who's next? Hatty
Delaplaine! What will you have?"
Hatty, a pale, freckled girl, with twinkling gray eyes, was ready with
her answer.
"I'd like to have Stewart's store, all to myself, and a dressmaker."
"The dressmaker all to yourself too, I suppose. Girls are the queerest
things!" said Norton.
"Not a bit queerer than boys," spoke up Judy.
"Well,--see if the present game does not prove them so," said Norton.
"What'll you do with Stewart's and a dressmaker, Hatty Delaplaine?"
"Don't you see? I'd never wear the same dress twice, and I wouldn't
have the same for breakfast or luncheon or dinner; and I would have the
most beautiful dresses that ever were seen."
"What would you do with them, after once wearing?" David asked.
"O I should never know and never care. My maid would dispose of them, I
suppose. I should have enough to do to think of the new ones. But I
do love costumes!" the girl added, clasping her hands.
"Is that a 'costume' you have got on?" Norton asked.
"Nonsense! it isn't anything. I haven't got Stewart's and my dressmaker
yet. When I have, you'll know it."
"Juliet Bracebridge!--speak if you please. I'm finished," said Norton.
"This is the richest game I've seen yet. Juliet?--"
"I think I should like a perfect little carriage, and a perfect pair of
horses, and to go driving over the world."
"Where?" said Norton. "You mean, over the Central Park and the
Boulevards."
"No, I don't. I mean what I say."
"Bad roads in some places," said Norton. "Up Vesuvius, for instance; or
over Mont Blanc in winter. Greece is dangerous, and--"
"Don't talk nonsense, Norton Laval. Of course I should drive where I
could drive, and would like to drive. Over Mont Blanc in winter,
indeed!"
"Well, come to business. A perfect pair of horses and perfect
carriage,--that's your capital; and you'll go driving all over. What
will be the interest on your capital, do you think? in other words,
what will you take by it?"
"I should always have a variety, don't you see, and not have time to
get tired of anything."
"Are there roads enough in the world to last you?" said Norton. "I
declare! these girls--Joe Benton, give us your mind."
"I'll make a fortune, Norton."
"All right. What'll you do with it?"
"I'll have the best house, and the handsomest wife, and the largest
estate in the country."
"You'll buy your wife with your money?" asked Judy.
"Easy,"--said Joe, grinning.
"I don't care--'twont be me," said Judy. "I pity the woman."
"Why?" said Joe. "She'll have everything she wants, too."
"Excepting the right person," said Judy.
"Well I don't care; it won't be you," said Joe; "so you may say what
you like."
"I would if it was," said Judy.
But a chorus of laughter broke them off.
"Judy's next," said Norton. "I should like to hear what you will say,
Judy."
"I should like to be a queen," said Judy.
"That's it! Go to the top at once. Well, you've got to show why. What
would you do if you were a queen?"
"I'd put down all preaching and praying, and people's making fools of
themselves with giving away their money to poor folks, and nursing sick
folks, and all the rest of it."
"Why Judy!" exclaimed one or two. "You'd stop preaching?"
"Wouldn't you be sorry!" said Judy.
"No, but really. Wouldn't you let people be ministers?"
"Ministers like Dr. Blandford. He don't give away his money, I'll be
bound; and he likes his glass of wine and smokes his pipe like other
folks."
"He don't smoke a pipe, Judy."
"You know what I mean. If I had said he likes his grog, you wouldn't
have thought it was made of gin, would you?"
"So you'd be a queen, to stop religious toleration?" said Norton.
"I'd stop any," said Judy. "I don't care whether it's religious or
not."
"But what's given you such a spite at religious people?" asked Esther.
"Mean!" said Judy. "Artful. Conceited to death. Stupid. And insane."
There was again a chorus of "Oh Judy!"'s.
"Never mind," said Norton. "When she's queen, I'll sell out and buy an
estate in some other country. Who's next?"
"I knew you'd be sneaking along presently, at the tail of some black
coat or other," Judy responded. "It's in you. The disease'll break out."
"I don't know what's in me," said Norton. "Something that makes me hot.
I'm afraid it isn't religious. Roswell Holt, what's your idea of
capital and business? Do leave Judy to her own fancies. This game's
getting to be warm work. Roswell!--it's your turn."
"I believe," Roswell began sedately; he was an older boy than most of
them and very quiet; "I believe, what I should like would be, to know
all the languages there are in the world; and then to have a library so
large that all the books in the world should be in it."
"Capital!" said Norton. "What good would that do you?"
"Why, I could read everything," said Roswell.
"And what good would that do you?"
"I should like it," said Roswell. "I should have what I like."
"Solomon tried that once," said David, who was taking diligently his
reporter's notes. "It didn't seem to answer then."
"Ah, but there were not so many books in his day," said Roswell.
"The worse for you, I should say. Besides, there are not so many now as
there will be a thousand years hence. How about that, old fellow?"
"I can't read what there'll be a thousand years hence," said Roswell.
"You couldn't read what there are now, if you had them. You could not
live long enough."
"What a musty old fogy he would be, by the time he had gone half
through!" said Judy. "He would have used up his eyes; his spectacles
would have made a ridge on his nose; he would live in an old coat that
was never brushed; and his books would be all coffee stains, because he
would take his breakfast over them. Poor old creature!"
"You'll be old then yourself, Judy," said some one.
"I won t," said the young lady promptly. "I mean to keep young."
"Ben Johnson--go ahead," said Norton. "It's your turn."
"I'd like to go supercargo in the China trade," said Ben; a
lively-looking fellow enough.
"Good," said Norton. "Say why. Love of the sea wouldn't take you to
China, I suppose."
"Not exactly," said Ben, with a confidential gleam in his eyes. "I
should have nothing to do--and smoke seventy cigars a day."
"Seventy cigars!" cried out two or three of the girls. "Horrid!"
"You couldn't do it, old fellow."
"Easy," said Ben. "My cousins, Will Larkins and Dan Boston, did it
every day."
"They must be of a practical turn of mind, I should think," said
