in which lived the beautiful Agnes Bernauer, daughter 
of a barber, who married Duke Albert III., of Bavaria. 
The house was nought, as old Samuel Pepys would say, 
only a high stone building, in a block of such ; but it is 
enough to make a house attractive for centuries if a 
pretty woman once looks out of its latticed windows, as 
I have no doubt Agnes often did when the duke and his 
retinue rode by in clanking armor. 
But there is no lack of reminders of old times. The 
cathedral, which was begun before the Christian era 
could express its age with four figures, has two fine por- 
tals, with quaint carving, and bronze doors of very old 
work, whereon the story of Eve and the serpent is liter- 
ally given, — a representation of great theological, if of 
small artistic value. And there is the old clock and 
watch tower, which for eight hundred years has enabled 
the Augsburgers to keep the time of day and to look 
out over the plain for the approach of an enemy. The 
city is full of fine bronze fountains, some of them of very 
elaborate design, and adding a convenience and a beauty 
to the town which American cities wholly want. In one 
quarter of the town is the Fuggerei, a little city by 
itself, surrounded by its own wall, the gates of which 
are shut at night, with narrow streets and neat little 
houses. It was built by Hans Jacob Fugger the Rich, 
as long ago as 1519, and is still inhabitated by indigent 
Rom an- Catholic families, according to the intention of 
its founder. In the windows were lovely flowers. I saw 
in the street several of those mysterious, short, old 
women, — so old and yet so little, all body and hardly any 
legs, who appear to have grown down into the ground 
with advancing years. 
It happened to be a rainy day, and cold, on the 30th 
of July, when we left Augsburg; and the flat fields 
through which we passed were uninviting under the 
gray light. Large flocks of geese were feeding on the 
windy plains, tended by boys and women, who are 
the living fences of this country. I no longer wonder at 
the number of feather-beds at the inns, under which we 
are apparently expected to sleep even in the warmest 
nights. Shepherds with the regulation crooks, also were 
watching herds of sheep. Here and there a cluster of 
red-rooted houses were huddled together into a village, 
and in all directions rose tapering spires. Especially we 
marked the steeple of Blenheim, where Jack Churchill 
won the name for his magnificent country-seat, early in 
the last century. All this plain where the silly geese 
feed has been marched over and fought over by armies 
time and again. We effect the passage of the Danube 
without difficulty, and on to Harburg, a little town of 
little red houses, inhabited principally by Jews, huddled 
under a rocky ridge, upon the summit of which is a pic- 
turesque mediasval castle, with many towers and turrets, 
in as perfect preservation as when feudal flags floated 
over it. And so on, slowly, with long stops at many sta- 
tions, to give opportunity, I suppose, for the honest pas- 
sengers to idk.Q in supplies of beer and sausages, to 
Nuremberg. 
 
"VrUKEMBERG, or Nurnberg, was built, I believe, 
about the beginning of time. At least, in an old 
black-letter history of the city which I have seen, illus- 
trated with powerful wood-cuts, the first representation 
is that of the creation of the world, which is immediately 
followed by another of Nuremberg. No one who visits 
it is likely to dispute its antiquity." " Nobody ever goes 
to Nuremberg but Americans," said a cynical British 
officer at Chamouny ; " but they always go there. I 
never saw an American who hadn't been or was not 
going to Nuremberg." Well, I suppose they wish to see 
the oldest-looking, and, next to a true Briton on his 
travels, the oddest thing on the Continent. The city lives 
in the past still, and on its memories, keeping its old 
walls and moat entire, and nearly fourscore waTl-towers, 
in stern array. But grass grows in the moat, fruit-trees 
thrive there, and vines clamber on the walls. One wan- 
ders about in the queer streets with the feeling of beino- 
transported back to the Middle Ages ; but it is difficult 
to reproduce the impression on paper. Who can describe 
the narrow and intricate ways; the odd houses with 
many little gables; great roofs breaking out from eaves 
to ridgepole, with dozens of dormer-windows ; hanging 
balconies of stone, carved and figure-beset, ornamented 
and fi:escoed fronts; the archways, leading into queer 
courts and alleys, and out again into broad "streets ; the 
towers and fantastic steeples ; and the many old bridges, 
with obelisks and memorials of triumphal entries of con- 
querors and princes ? 
The city, as I said, lives upon the memory of what it 
has been, and trades upon relics of its former fame. 
What it would have been without Albrecht Diirer, and 
Adam Kraft the stone-mason, and Peter Vischer the 
bronze-worker, and Viet Stoss who carved in wood, and 
Hans Sachs the shoemaker and poet-minstrel, it is diffi- 
cult to say. Their statues are set up in the streets ; their 
works still live in the churches and city buildings, — pic- 
tures, and groups in stone and wood ; and their statues, 
in all sorts of carving, are reproduced, big and little, in all 
the shop-windows, for sale. So, literally, the city is full 
of the memory of them ; and the business of the city, 
aside from its manufactory of endless, curious toys, seems 
to consist in reproducing them and their immortal works 
to sell to strangers. 
Other cities project new things, and grow with a 
modern impetus : Nuremberg lives in the past, and traf- 
fics on its ancient reputation. Of course, we went to see 
the houses where these old worthies lived, and the works 
of art they have left behind them, — things seen and 
described by everybody. The stone carving about the 
church-portals and on side buttresses is inexpressibly 
quaint and naive. The subjects are sacred ; and with the 
sacred is mingled the comic, here as at Augsburg, where 
over one portal of the cathedral, with saints and angels, 
monkeys climb and gibber. A favorite subject is that 
of our Lord praying in the Garden, while the apostles, 
who could not watch one hour, are sleeping in various 
attitudes of stony comicality. All the stone-cutters seem 
to have tried their chisels on this group, and there are 
dozens of them. The wise and foolish virgins also stand 
at the church-doors in time-stained stone, — the one 
with a perked-up air of conscious virtue, and the other 
with a penitent dejection that seems to merit better treat- 
ment. Over the great portal of St. Lawrence — a mag- 
nificent structure, with lofty twin spires and glorious 
rose-window — is carved " The Last Judgment." Un- 
derneath, the dead are climbing out of their stone coffins ; 
above sits the Judge, with the attending angels. On 
the right hand go away the stiff, prim saints, in flowing 
robes, and with palms and harps, up steps into heaven, 
through a narrow door which St. Peter opens for them ; 
while on the left depart the wicked, with wry faces and 
distorted forms, down into the stone flames, towards 
which the Devil is dragging them by their stony hair. 
The interior of the Church of St. Lawrence is richer 
than any other I remember, with its magnificent pil- 
lars of dark red stone, rising and foliating out to form 
the roof; its splendid windows of stained glass, glowing 
with sacred story ; a high gallery of stone entirely round 
the choir, and beautiful statuary on every column. Here, 
too, is the famous Sacrament House of honest old Adam 
Kraft, the most exquisite thing I ever saw in stone. The 
color is light gray ; and it rises beside one of the dark, 
massive pillars, sixty-four feet, growing to a point, which 
then strikes the arch of the roof, and there curls up like 
a vine to avoid it. The base is supported by the kneel- 
ing figures of Adam Kraft and two fellow-workmen, who 
labored on it for four years. Above is the Last Supper, 
Christ blessing little children, and other beautiful tableaux 
in stone. The Gothic spire grows up and around these, 
now and then throwing out graceful tendrils, like a vine, 
and seeming to be rather a living plant than inanimate 
stone. The faithful artist evidently had this feeling for 
it ; for, as it grew under his hands, he found that it would 
strike the roof, or he must sacrifice something of its grace- 
ful proportion. So his loving and daring genius sug- 
gested the happy design of letting it grow to its curving, 
graceful completeness. 
He who travels by a German railway needs patience 
and a full haversack. Time is of no value. The rate of 
speed of the trains is so slow, that one sometimes has a 
desire to get out and walk, and the stoppages at the sta- 
tions seem eternal ; but then we must remember that it 
is a long distance to the bottom of a great mug of beer. 
We left Lindau on one of the usual trains at half-past 
five in the morning, and reached Augsburg at one o'clock 
in the afternoon : the distance cannot be more than a 
hundred miles. That is quicker than by diligence, and 
one has leisure to see the country as he jogs along. 
There is nothing more sedate than a German train in 
motion; nothing can stand so dead still as a German 
train at a station. But there are express trains. We 
were on one from Augsburg to Nuremberg, and I think 
must have run twenty miles an hour. The fare on the 
express trains is one-fifth higher than on the others. 
The cars are all comfortable ; and the officials, who wear 
a good deal of uniform, are much more civil and obliging 
than officials in a country where they do not wear uni- 
form. So, not swiftly, but safely and in good-humor, we 
rode to the capital of Bavaria. 
OUTSIDE ASPECTS OF MUNICH. 
I SAW yesterday, on the 31st of August, in the 
Englisli Garden, dead leaves whirling down to the 
ground, a too evident sign that the summer weather is 
going. Indeed, it has been sour, chilly weather for a 
week now, raining a little every day, and with a very 
autumn feeling in the air. The nightly concerts in the 
beer-gardens must have shivering listeners, if the bands 
do not, as many of them do, play within doors. The 
line of droschke drivers, in front of the post-office colon- 
nade, hide the red facings of their coats under long over- 
coats, and stand in cold expectancy beside their blanketed 
horses, which must need twice the quantity of black- 
bread in this chilly air ; for the horses here eat bread, 
like people. I see the drivers every day slicing up the 
black loaves, and feeding them, taking now and then a 
mouthful themselves, wetting it down with a pull from 
the mug of beer that stands within reach. And lastly (I 
am still speaking of the weather), the gay military offi- 
cers come abroad in long cloaks, to some extent conceal- 
ing their manly forms and smart uniforms, which I am 
sure they would not do, except under the pressure of 
necessity. 
Yet I think this raw weather is not to continue. It is 
only a rough visit from the Tyrol, which will give place 
to kinder influences. We came up here from hot Swit- 
zerland at the end of July, expecting to find Munich a 
furnace. It will be dreadful in Munich, everybody said. 
So we left Luzerne, where it was warm, not daring to 
 
stay till the expected rival sun, Victoria of England, 
should make the heat overpowering. But the first week 
of August in Munich it was delicious weather, — clear, 
sparkling, bracing air, with no chill in it and no languor 
in it, just as you would say it ought to be on a high, 
gravelly plain, seventeen hundred feet above the sea. 
Then came a week of what the Miincheners call hot 
weather, with the thermometer up to eighty degrees 
Fahrenheit, and the white wide streets and gray build- 
ino-s in a g-lare of lisfht ; since then, weather of the most 
uncertain sort. 
Munich needs the sunlight. Not that it cannot better 
spare it than grimy London ; for its prevailing color is 
light gray, and its many-tinted and frescoed fronts go far 
to relieve the most cheerless day. Yet Munich attempts 
to be an architectural reproduction of classic times ; and, 
in order to achieve any success in this direction, it is 
necessary to have the blue heavens and golden sunshine 
of Greece. The old portion of the city has some remains 
of the Gothic, and abounds in archways and rambling 
alleys, that suddenly become broad streets, and then again 
contract to the width of an alderman, and portions of 
the old wall and city gates ; old feudal towers stand in 
the market-place, and faded frescos on old clock-faces 
and over archways speak of other days of splendor. 
But the Munich of to-day is as if built to order, — raised 
in a day by the command of one man. It was the old 
Kino; Ludwio; I whose flower-wreathed bust stands in 
these days in the vestibule of the Glyptothek, in token 
of his recent death, who gave the impulse for all this, 
though some of the best buildings and streets in the city 
have been completed by his successors. The new city is 
laid out on a magnificent scale of distances, with wide 
streets, fine, open squares, plenty of room for gardens, 
both public and private ; and the art buildings and art 
monuments are well distributed ; in fact, many a stately 
building stands in such isolation that it seems to ask 
every passer what it was put there for. Then, again, 
some of the new adornments lack fitness of location or 
purpose. At the end of the broad, monotonous Ludwig 
Strasse, and yet not at the end, for the road runs straight 
on into the flat country between rows of slender trees, 
stands the Siegesthor, or Gate of Victory, an imitation 
of the Constantine arch at Rome. It is surmounted by a 
splendid group in bronze, by Schwanthaler, — Bavaria in 
her war-chariot, drawn by four lions ; and it is in itself, 
both in its proportions and its numerous sculptural figures 
and bas-reliefs, a fine recognition of the valor " of the 
Bavarian army," to whom it is erected. Yet it is so 
dwarfed by its situation, that it seems to have been placed 
in the middle of the street as an obstruction. A walk 
runs on each side of it. The Propylaeum, another mag- 
nificent gateway, thrown across the handsome Brienner 
Strasse, beyond the Glyptothek, is an imitation of that on 
the Acropolis at Athens. It has fine Doric columns on 
the outside, and Ionic within, and the pediment groups 
are bas-reliefs, by Schwanthaler, representing scenes in 
modern Greek history. The passage-ways for carriages 
are through the side arches ; and thus the '' sidewalk " 
runs into the centre of the street, and foot-passers must 
twice cross the carriage-drive in going through the gate. 
Such things as these give one the feeling that art has 
been forced beyond use in Munich ; and it is increased 
when one wanders through the new churches, palaces, 
galleries, and finds frescos so prodigally crowded out of 
the way, and only occasionally-opened rooms so over- 
loaded with them, and not always of the best, as to sacri- 
fice all effect, and leave one with the sense that some 
demon of unrest has driven painters and sculptors and 
plasterers, night and day, to adorn the eity at a stroke ; 
at least, to cover it with paint and bedeck it with mar- 
bles, and to do it at once, leaving nothing for the sweet 
growth and blossoming of time. 
You see, it is easy to grumble, and especially in a 
cheerful, open, light, and smiling city, crammed with 
works of art, ancient and modern, its architecture a 
study of all styles, and its foaming beer, said by anti- 
quarians to be a good deal better than the mead drunk 
in Odin's halls, only seven and a half kreuzers the 
quart. Munich has so much, that it, of course, contains 
much that can be criticised. The long, wide Ludwig 
Strasse is a street of palaces, — a street built up by the old 
king, and regarded by him with great pride. But all 
the buildings are in the Romanesque style, — a repetition 
of one another to a monotonous degree : only at the 
lower end are there any shops or shop-windows, and a 
more dreary promenade need not be imagined. It has 
neither shade nor fountains ; and on a hot day you can 
see how the sun would pour into it, and blind the passers. 
But few ever walk there at any time. A street that 
leads nowhere, and has no gay windows, does not attract. 
Toward the lower end, in the Odeon Platz, is the eques- 
trian statue of Ludwig, a royally commanding figure, 
with a page on either side. The street is closed (so 
that it flows off on either side into streets of handsome 
shops) by the Feldherrnhalle, Hall of the Generals, an 
imitation of the beautiful Loggia dei Lanzi, at Florence, 
that as yet contains only two statues, which seem lost 
in it. Here at noon, with parade of infantry, comes a 
military band to play for half an hour ; and there are 
always plenty of idlers to listen to them. In the high 
arcade a colony of doves is domesticated; and I like to 
watch them circling about and wheeling round the spires 
of the over-decorated Theatine church opposite, and 
perching on the heads of the statues on the facade. 
The royal palace, near by, is a huddle of buildings 
and courts, that I think nobody can describe or under- 
stand, built at different times and in imitation of many 
styles. The front, toward the Hof Garden, a grassless 
square of small trees, with open arcades on two sides for 
shops, and partially decorated with frescos of land- 
scapes and historical subjects, is " a building of festive 
halls," a facade eight hundred feet long, in the revived 
Italian style, and with a fine Ionic porch. The color is 
loo OUTSIDE ASPECTS OF MUNICH. 
the royal, dirty yellow. On the Max Joseph Plat?, 
which has a bronze statue of King Max, a seated figure, 
and some elaborate bas-reliefs, is another front of the 
palace, the Konigsbau, an imitation, not fully carried 
out, of the Pitti Palace, at Florence. Between these is 
the old Residenz, adorned with fountain groups and 
statues in bronze. On another side are the church and 
theatre of the Residenz. The interior of this court 
chapel is dazzling in appearance : the pillars are, I 
think, imitation of variegated marble ; the sides are imi- 
tation of the same ; the vaulting is covered with rich fres- 
cos on gold ground. The whole effect is rich, but it is 
not at all sacred. Indeed, there is no church in Munich, 
except the old cathedral, the Frauenkirche, with its 
high Gothic arches, stained windows, and dusty old carv- 
ings, that gives one at all the sort of feeling that it is 
supposed a church should give. The court chapel in- 
terior is boastingly said to resemble St. Mark's, in Venice. 
You see how far imitation of the classic and Italian is 
carried here in Munich ; so, as I said, the buildings need 
the southern sunlight. Fortunately, they get the right 
quality much of the time. The Glyptothck, a Grecian 
structure of one story, erected to hold the treasures of 
classic sculpture that King LudAvig collected, has a 
beautiful Ionic porch and pediment. On the outside are 
niches filled with statues. In the pure sunshine and 
under a deep blue sky, its white marble glows with an 
almost ethereal beauty. Opposite stands another suc- 
cessful imitation of the Grecian style of architecture, — a 
building with a Corinthian porch, also of white marble. 
These, with the Propylaeum, before mentioned, come out 
wonderfully against a blue sky. A few squares distant 
is the Pinakothek, with its treasures of old pictures, and 
beyond it the New Pinakothek, containing works of mod- 
ern artists. Its exterior is decorated with frescos, from 
designs by Kaulbach : these certainly appear best in a 
sparkling light ; though I am bound to say that no light 
can make very much of them. 
OUTSIDE ASPECTS OF MUNTCH. loi 
Yet Munich is not all imitation. Its finest street, the 
Maximilian, built by the late king of that name, is of a 
novel and wholly modern style of architecture, not an 
imitation, though it may remind some of the new por- 
tions of Paris. It runs for three-quarters of a mile, be- 
ginning with the post-office and its colonnades, with 
frescos on one side, and the Hof Theatre, with its pedi- 
ment frescos, the largest opera-house in Germany, I 
believe; with stately buildings adorned with statues, 
and elegant shops, down to the swift-flowing Isar, which 
is spanned by a handsome bridge; or rather by two 
bridges, for the Isar is partly turned from its bed above, 
and made to turn wheels and drive machinery. At the 
lower end the street expands into a handsome platz, with 
young shade-trees, plats of grass, and gay beds of flow- 
ers. I look out on it as I write ; and I see across the 
Isar the college building begun by Maximilian for the 
education of government officers ; and I see that it is 
still unfinished, indeed, a staring mass of brick, with 
unsightly scafiblding and gaping windows. Money was 
left to complete it ; but the young king, who does not 
care for architecture, keeps only a mason or two on the 
brick work, and an artist on the exterior frescos. At 
this rate the Cologne Cathedral will be finished and 
decay before this is built. On either side of it, on the 
elevated bank of the river, stretch beautiful grounds, 
with green lawns, fiiie trees, and well-kept walks. 
Not to mention the English Garden in speaking of the 
outside aspects of the city, would be a great oversight. 
It was laid out originally by the munificent American, 
Count Rumford, and is called English, I suppose, because 
it is not in the artificial Continental style. Paris has 
nothing to compare with i"*. for natural beauty, — Paris, 
which cannot let a tree g.ow, but mu«t clip it down to 
suit French taste. It is a noble park four miles in 
length, and perhaps a quarter of that in width, — a park 
of splendid old trees, grand, sweeping avenues, open 
glades of free-growing grass, with delicious, shady walks, 
charming drives, and rivers of water. For the Isar is 
trained to flow through it in two rapid streams, under 
bridges and over rapids, and by willow-hung banks. 
There is not wanting even a lake ; and there is, I am 
sorry to say, a temple on a mound, quite in the classic 
style, from which one can see the sun set behind the 
many spires of Munich. At the Chinese Tower two 
military bands play every Saturday evening in the sum- 
mer ; and thither the carriages drive, and the prome- 
naders assemble there, Between five and six o'clock ; and 
while the bands play, the Germans drink beer, and smoke 
cigars, and the fashionably-attired young men walk round 
and round the circle, and the smart young soldiers ex- 
hibit their handsome uniforms, and stride about with 
clanking swords. 
We felicitated ourselves that we should have no lack 
of music when we came to Munich. I think we have 
not ; though the opera has only just begun, and it is the 
vacation of the Conservatoire. There are first the mili- 
tary bands : there is continually a parade somewhere, 
and the streets are full of military musie, and finely exe- 
cuted too. Then of beer-gardens there is literally no 
end, and there are nightly concerts in them. There are 
two brothers Hunn, each with his band, who, like the 
ancient Huns, have taken the city ; and its gardens are 
given over to their unending waltzes, polkas, and opera 
medleys. Then there is the church music on Sundays 
and holidays, which is largely of a military character ; at 
least, has the aid of drums and trumpets, and the whole 
band of brass. For the first few days of our stay here 
we had rooms near the Maximilian Platz and the Karl's 
Thor. I think there was some sort of a yearly fair in 
progress, for the great platz was filled with temporary 
booths : a circus had set itself up there, and there were 
innumerable side-shows and lottery-stands ; and I believe 
that each little shanty and puppet-show had its band or 
fraction of a band, for there was never heard such a toot- 
ing and blowing and scraping, such a pounding and din- 
ning and slang-whanging, since the day of stopping work 
on the Tower of Babel. The circus band confined itself 
mostly to one tune ; and as it went all day long, and late 
into the night, we got to know it quite well ; at least, the 
bass notes of it, for the lighter tones came to us indis- 
tinctly. You know that blurt, blurt, thump, thump, disso- 
lute sort of caravan tune. That was it. The English Cafe 
was not far off, and there the Hunns and others also 
made night melodious. The whole air was one throb and 
thrump. The only refuge from it was to go into one of 
the gardens, and give yourself over to one band. And so 
it was possible to have delightful music, and see the 
honest Germans drink beer, and gossip in friendly fellow- 
ship and with occasional hilarity. But music we had, 
early and late. We expected quiet in our present quar- 
ters. The first morning, at six o'clock, we were startled 
by the resonant notes of a military band, that set the 
echoes flying between the houses, and a regiment of 
cavalry went clanking down the street. But that is a 
not unwelcome morning serenade and reveille. Not so 
agreeable is the young man next door, who gives hirari- 
ous concerts to lus friends, and sings and bangs his piano 
all day Sunday  nor the screaming young woman oppo- 
site. Yet it is something to be in an atmosphere of 
music. 
THIS morning I was awakened early by the strains 
of a military band. It was a clear, sparkling morning, the air full of life, and yet the sun showing its warm, 
southern side. As the mounted musicians went by, the 
square was quite filled with the clang of drum and trum- 
pet, which became fainter and fainter, and at length was 
lost on the ear beyond the Isar, but preserved the per- 
fection of time and the precision of execution for which 
the military bands of the city are remarkable. After the 
band came a brave array of officers in bright uniform, 
upon horses that pranced and curvetted in the sunshine ; 
and the regiment of cavalry followed, rank on rank of 
splendidly-mounted men, who ride as if born to the sad- 
dle. The clatter of hoofs on the pavement, the jangle 
of bit and sabre, the occasional word of command, the 
onward sweep of the well-trained cavalcade, continued 
for a long time, as if the lovely morning had brought all 
the cavalry in the city out of barracks. But this is an 
almost daily sight in Munich. One regiment after an- 
other goes over the river to the drill-ground. In the hot 
mornings I used quite to pity the troopers who rode away 
in the glare in scorching brazen helmets and breast- 
plates. But only a portion of the regiments dress in that 
absurd manner. The most wear a simple uniform, and 
look very soldierly. The horses are almost invariably 
fine animals, and I have not seen such riders in Europe. 
Indeed, everybody in Munich who rides at all rides 
well. Either most of the horsemen have served in the 
facade 
cavalry, or horsemanship, that noble art " to witch the 
world," is in high repute here. 
Speaking of soldiers, Munich is full of them. There 
are huge caserns in every part of the city crowded 
with troops. This little kingdom of Bavaria has a 
hundred and twenty thousand troops of the Hue. Every 
man is obliged to serve in the army continuously three 
years ; and every man between the ages of twenty-one 
and forty-five must go with his regiment into camp or 
barrack several weeks in each year, no matter if the 
harvest rots in the field, or the customers desert the 
uncared-for shop. The service takes three of the best 
years of a young man's life. Most of the soldiers in Mu- 
nich are young : one meets hundreds of mere boys in 
the uniform of officers. I think every seventh man you 
meet is a soldier. There must be between fifteen and 
twenty thousand troops quartered in the city now. The 
young officers are everywhere, lounging in the cafes, 
smoking and sipping coffee, on all the public promenades, 
in the gardens, the theatres, the churches. And most 
of them are fine-looking fellows, good figures in elegantly- 
fitting and tasteful uniforms ; but they do like to show 
their handsome forms and hear their sword-scabbards 
rattle on the pavement as they stride by. The beer- 
gardens are full of the common soldiers, who empty no 
end of quart mugs in alternate pulls from the same 
earthen jug, with the utmost jolUty and good fellowship. 
On the street, salutes between officers and men are per- 
petual, punctiliously given and returned, — the hand raised 
to the temple, and held there for a second. A young 
gallant, lounging down the Theatiner or the Maximilian 
Strasse, in his shining and snug uniform, white kids, and 
polished boots, with jangling spurs and the long sword 
clanking on the walk, raising his hand ever and°anon in 
condescending salute to a lower in rank, or with affable 
grace to an equal, is a sight worth beholding, and for 
which one cannot be too grateful. We have not all been 
created with the natural shape for soldiers, but we have 
eyes given us that we may behold them. 
Bavaria fought, you know, on the wrong side at Sa- 
dowa ; but the result of the war left her in confederation 
with Prussia. The company is getting to be very dis- 
tasteful, for Austria is at present more liberal than Prus- 
sia. Under Prussia one must either be a soldier or a 
slave, the democrats of Munich say. Bavaria has the 
most liberal constitution in Germany, except that of 
Wiirtemberg, and the people are jealous of any curtail- 
ment of liberty. It seems odd that anybody should look 
to the house of Hapsburg for liberality. The attitude 
of Prussia compels all the little states to keep up armies, 
which eat up their substance, and burden the people with 
taxes. This is the more to be regretted now, when Bava- 
ria is undergoing a peaceful revolution, and throwing off 
the trammels of galling customs in other respects. 
THE EMANCIPATION OF MUNICH. 
THE 1st of September saw go into complete effect 
the laws enacted in 1867, whicli have inaugurated 
the greatest changes in business and social life, and mark 
an era in the progress of the people worthy of fetes and 
commemorative bronzes. We heard the other night at 
the opera-house " William Tell " unmutilated. For many- 
years this liberty-breathing opera was not permitted to 
be given in Bavaria, except with all the life of it cut out. 
It was first presented entire by order of young King 
Ludwig, who, they say, was induced to command its 
unmutilated reproduction at the solicitation of Richard 
Wagner, who used to be, and very likely is now, a 
" Red," and was banished from Saxony in 1848 for fight- 
ing on the people's side of a barricade in Dresden. It is 
the fashion to say of the young king, that he pays no 
heed to the business of the kingdom. You hear that the 
handsome boy only cares for music and horseback exer- 
cise : he plays much on the violin, and rides away into 
the forest attended by only one groom, and is gone for 
days together. He has composed an opera, which has 
not yet been put on the stage. People, when they speak 
of him, tap their foreheads with one finger. But I don't 
believe it. The same liberality that induced him, years 
ago, to restore William Tell to the stage has character- 
ized the government under him ever since. 
Formerly no one could engage in any trade or busi- 
ness in Bavaria without previous examination before, 
and permission from, a magistrate. If a boy wished to 
be a baker, for instance, he had first to serve four years 
of apprenticeship. If then he wished to set up business 
for himself, he must get permission, after passing an 
examination. This permission could rarely be obtained ; 
for the magistrate usually decided that there were 
already as many bakers as the town needed. His only 
other resource was to buy out an existing business, and 
this usually costs a good deal. When he petitioned for 
the privilege of starting a bakery, all the bakers pro- 
tested. And he could not even buy out a stand, and 
carry it on, without strict examination as to qualificar- 
tions. This was the case in every trade. And to make 
matters worse, a master workman could not employ a 
journeyman out of his shop ; so that, if a journeyman 
could not get a regular situation, he had no work. Then 
there were endless restrictions upon the manufacture and 
sale of articles : one person could only make one article, 
or one portion of an article; one might manufacture 
shoes for women, but not for men ; he might make an 
article in the shop and sell it, but could not sell it if any 
one else made it outside, or vice versa. 
Nearly all this mass of useless restriction on trades 
and business, which palsied all effort in Bavaria, is 
removed. Persons are free to enter into any business 
they like. The system of apprenticeship continues, but 
so modified as not to be oppressive ; and all trades are 
left to regulate themselves by natural competition. Al- 
ready Munich has felt the benefit of the removal of 
these restrictions, which for nearly a year has been anti- 
cipated, in a growth of population and increased busi- 
ness. 
But the social change is still more important. The 
restrictions upon marriage were a serious injury to the 
state. If Hans wished to marry, and felt himself ade- 
quate to the burdens and responsibilities of the double 
state, and the honest fraulein was quite willing to under- 
take its trials and risks with him, it was not at all 
enough that in the moonlighted beer-garden, while the 
band played, and they peeled the stinging radish, and 
ate the Switzer cheese, and drank from one mug, she 
allowed his arm to steal around her stout waist. All 
this love and fitness went for nothing in the eyes of the 
magistrate, who referred the application for permission 
to marry to his associate advisers, and they inquired into 
the applicant's circumstances ; and if, in their opinion, 
he was not worth enough money to support a wife prop- 
erly, permission was refused for him to try. The conse- 
quence was late marriages, and fewer than there ought 
to be, and other ill results. Now the matrimonial gates 
are lifted high, and the young man has not to ask per- 
mission of any snuffy old magistrate to marry. I do not 
hear that the consent of the maidens is more difficult to 
obtain than formerly. 
No city of its size is more prolific of pictures than 
Munich. I do not know how all its artists manage to 
live, but many of them count upon the American public. 
I hear everywhere that the Americans like this, and do 
not like that ; and I am sorry to say that some artists, 
who have done better things, paint professedly to suit 
Americans, and not to express their own conceptions of 
beauty. There is one who is now quite devoted to 
dashing off rather lamp-blacky moonhghts, because, he 
says, the Americans fancy that sort of thing. I see one 
of his smirchy pictures hanging in a shop-window, await- 
ing the advent of the citizen of the United States. I 
trust that no word of mine will injure the sale of the 
moonlights. There are some excellent figure-painters 
here, and one can still buy good modern pictures for 
reasonable prices. 
FASHION IN THE STREETS. 
" ITAS there ever elsewhere such a blue, transparent 
sky as this here in Munich? At noon, looking 
up to it from the street, above the gray houses, the color 
and depth are marvellous. It makes a background for 
the Grecian art buildings and gateways, that would 
cheat a risen Athenian who should see it into the behef 
that he was restored to his beautiful city. The color 
holds, too, toward sundown, and seems to be poured, like 
something solid, into the streets of the city. 
You should see then the Maximilian Strasse, when the 
light floods the platz where Maximilian in bronze sits 
in his chair, illuminates the frescos on the pediments 
of the Hof Theatre, brightens the Pompeian red under 
the colonnade of the post-office, and streams down the 
gay thoroughfare to the trees and statues in front of the 
National Museum, and into the gold-dusted atmosphere 
beyond the Isar. The street is filled with promenaders : 
strangers who saunter alons; with the red book in one 
hand, — a man and his wife, the woman dragged reluc- 
tantly past the windows of fancy articles, which are " so 
cheap," the man breaking his neck to look up at the 
buildings, especially at the comical heads and figures in 
stone that stretch out from the little oriel-windows in 
the highest story of the Four-Seasons Hotel, and look 
down upon the moving throng ; Munich bucks in coats 
of velvet, swinging; ligbt canes, and smoking cigars 
through long and elaborately-carved meerschaum hold- 
ers ; Munich ladies in dresses of that inconvenient length 
tliat neither sweeps the pavement nor clears it ; peasants 
from the Tyrol, the men in black, tight breeches, that 
button from the knee to the ankle, short jackets and 
vests set thickly with round silver buttons, and conical 
-hats with feathers, and the women in short quilted and 
quilled petticoats, of barrel-like roundness from the 
broad hips down, short waists ornamented with chains 
and barbarous brooches of white metal, with the oddest 
head-gear of gold and silver heirlooms ; students with 
little red or green embroidered brimless caps, with the 
ribbon across the breast, a folded shawl thrown over one 
shoulder, and the inevitable switch-cane ; porters in red 
caps, with a coil of twine about the waist ; young fellows 
from Bohemia, with green coats, or coats trimmed with 
green, and green felt hats with a stiff feather stuck in 
the side ; and soldiers by the hundreds, of a,ll ranks and 
organizations ; common fellows in blue, staring in at the 
shop-windows, officers in resplendent uniforms, clanking 
their swords as they swagger past. Now and then, an 
elegant equipage dashes by, — perhaps the four horses of 
the handsome young king, with mounted postihons and 
outriders, or a liveried carriage of somebody born with 
a von before his name. As the twilight comes on, the 
shutters of the shop-windows are put up. It is time to 
go to the opera, for the curtain rises at half-past six, or 
to the beer-gardens, where delicious music marks, but 
does not interrupt, the flow of excellent beer. 
Or you may if you choose, and I advise you to do it, 
walk at the same hour in the English Garden, which is 
but a step from the arcades of the Hof Garden, — but a 
step to the entrance, whence you may wander for miles 
and miles in the most enchanting scenery. Art has not 
been allowed here to spoil nature. The trees, which 
are of magnificent size, are left to grow naturally ; the 
Isar, which is turned into it, flows in more than one 
stream with its mountain impetuosity ; the lake is grace- 
fully indented and overhung with trees, and presents 
ever-changing aspects of loveliness as you walk along its 
banks ; there are open, sunny meadows, in whicli single 
giant trees or splendid groups of them stand, and walks 
without end winding under leafy Gothic arches. You 
know already that Munich owes this fine park to the 
foresight and liberality of an American Tory, Benjamin 
Thompson (Count Rumford), born in E,umford, Vt., who 
also relieved Munich of beo-gars. 
I have spoken of the number of soldiers in Munich. 
For six weeks the Landwehr, or militia, has been in 
camp in various parts of Bavaria. There was a grand 
review of them the other day on the Field of Mars, by 
the king, and many of them have now gone home. They 
strike an unmilitary man as a very efficient body of troops. 
So far as I could see, they were armed with breech-load- 
ing rifles. There is a treaty by which Bavaria agreed 
to assimilate her military organization to that of Prussia. 
It is thus that Bismarck is continually getting ready. 
But if the Landwehr is gone, there are yet remaining 
troops enough of the line. Their chief use, so far as it 
concerns me, is to make pageants in the streets, and to 
send their bands to play at noon in the public squares. 
Every day, when the sun shines down upon the mounted 
statue of Ludwig I., in front of the Odeon, a band plays 
in an open Loggia, and there is always a crowd of idlers 
in the square to hear it. Everybody has leisure for that 
sort of thing here in Europe ; and one can easily learn 
how to be idle and let the world wag. They have found 
out here what is disbelieved in America, — that the world 
will continue to turn over once in about twenty-four 
hours (they are not accurate as to the time) without 
their aid. To return to our soldiers. The cavalry most 
impresses me ; the men are so finely mounted, and they 
ride royally. In these sparkling mornings, when the 
regiments clatter past, with swelling music and shining 
armor, riding away to I know not what adventure and 
glory, I confess that I long to follow them. I have long had 
this desire ; and the other morning, determining to satisfy 
it, I seized my hat and went after the prancing proces- 
sion. I am sorry I did. For, after trudging after it 
through street after street, the fine horsemen all rode 
through an arched gateway, and disappeared in barracks, 
to my great disgust ; and the troopers dismounted, and 
led their steeds into stables. 
And yet one never loses a walk here in Munich. I 
found myself that morning by the Isar Thor, a restored 
mediaeval city-gate. The gate is double, with flanking 
octagonal towers, enclosing a quadrangle. Upon the 
inner wall is a fresco of '' The Crucifixion." Over the 
outer front is a representation, in fresco painting, of the 
triumphal entry into the city of the Emperor Louis of 
Bavaria after the battle of Ampfing. On one side of the 
gate is a portrait of the Virgin, on gold ground, and on 
the other a very passable one of the late Dr. Hawes of 
Hartford, with a Pope's hat on. Walking on, I came to 
another arched gateway and clock-tower ; near it an old 
church, with a high wall adjoining, whereon is a fresco 
of cattle led to slaughter, showing that I am in the vicin- 
ity of the Victual Market; and I enter it through a 
narrow, crooked alley. There is nothing there but an 
assemblage of shabby booths and fruit-stands, and au 
ancient stone tower in ruins and overgrown with ivy. 
Leaving this, I came out to the Marian Platz, where 
stands the column, with the statue of the Virgin and 
Child, set up by Maximilian I. in 1638 to celebrate the 
victory in the battle which established the Catholic 
supremacy in Bavaria. It is a favorite praying-place 
for the lower classes. Yesterday was a fete day, and 
the base of the column and half its height are lost in a 
mass of flowers and evergreens. Li front is erected an 
altar with a broad, carpeted platform ; and a strip of the 
platz before it is enclosed with a railing, within which 
are praying-benches. The sun shines down hot ; but 
there are several poor women kneeling there, with their 
baskets beside them. I happen along there at sundown ; 
and there are a score of women kneeling on the hard 
stoneSj outside the railing saying their prayers in loud 
voices. The mass of flowers is still sweet and gay and 
fresh ; a fountain with fantastic figures is flashing near 
by ; the crowd, going home to supper and beer, gives no 
heed to the praying; the stolid drosche-drivers stand 
listlessly by. At the head of the square is an artillery 
station, and a row of cannon frowns on it. On one side 
is a house with a tablet in the wall, recording the fact 
that Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden once lived in it. 
When we came to Munich, the great annual fair was 
in progress ; and the large Maximilian Platz (not to be 
confounded with the street of that name) was filled with 
booths of cheap merchandise, puppet-shows, lottery 
shanties, and all sorts of popular amusements. It was 
