ships lavishly supplied with all manner of food. He returned 
these kindnesses with insult and ill-treatment. Perceivang: that 
the people took him for the long vanished and lamented god 
Lono, he encouraged them in the delusion for the sake of the 
limitless power it gave him ; but during the famous disturbance 
at this spot, and while he and his comrades were surrounded 
by fifteen thousand maddened savages, he received a hurt and 
betrayed his eai'tlily origin with a groan. It was his death- 
warrant. Instantly a shout went up : " He groans ! — he is not, 
a god !" So they closed in upon him and dispatched him. 
His flesh was stripped from the bones and burned (except 
nine pounds of it which were sent on board the ships). The 
heart was hung up in a native hut, where it was found and 
eaten by three children, who mistook it for the heart of a dog. 
One of these children grew to be a very old man, and died in 
Honolulu a few years ago. Some of Cook's bones were recov- 
ered and consigned to the deep by the officers of the ships. 
Small blame should attach to the natives for the killino: of 
Cook. They treated him well. In return, he abused them. 
He and his men inflicted bodily injury upon many of them at 
d.'fferent times, and killed at least three of them before they 
o;'3;ered any proportionate i-etaHation. 
Xear the shore we found " Cook's Monument " — only a cocoa- 
nut stump, four feet high and about a foot in diameter at the 
batt. It had lava boulders piled around its base to hold it up 
and keep it in its place, and it was entirely sheathed over, from 
t(,>p to bottom, with rough, discolored sheets of copper, such as 
ships' bottoms are coppered with. Each sheet had a rude 
inscription scratched upon it — with a nail, apparently — and in 
every case the execution was wretched. Most of these merely 
recorded the visits of British naval commanders to the spot, 
but one of them bore this legend : ' 
" Near this spot fell 
CAPTAIN JAMES COOK, 
The Distinguished Circumnavigator, who Discovered these 
Islands A. D. 1778. 
After Cook's murder, his second in command, on board the 
ship, opened lire upon the swarms of natives on the beach, and 
one of iiis cannon balls cut this cocoanut tree short ofi' and left 
this monumental stump standing. It looked sad and lonely 
enough to us, out there in the rainy twilight. But there is no 
other monument to Captain Cook. True, up on the mountain 
side we had passed by a large inclosure like an ample hog-pen, 
built of lava blocks, which marks the spot where Cook's flesh 
was stripped from his bones and burned ; but this is not prop- 
erly a monument since it was erected by the natives themselves, 
and less to do honor to the circumnavigator than for the sake 
of convenience in roasting him. A thing like a guide-board 
was elevated above this pen on a tall pole, and formerly there 
was an inscription upon it describing the memorable occurrence 
that had there taken place ; but the sun and the wind have long 
ago so defaced it as to render it illegible. 
Toward midnight a fine breeze sprang up and the schooner 
soon worked herself into the bay and cast anchor. The boat 
came ashore for us, and in a little while the clouds and the 
rain were all gone. The moon was beaming tranquilly down 
on land and sea, and we two were stretched upon the deck 
sleeping the refreshing sleep and dreaming the happy dreams 
that are only vouchsafed to the weary and the innocent. 
CHAPTER LXXII. 
IN the breezy morning we went ashore and visited the mined 
temple of the last god Lono. The high chief cook of this 
temple — the priest who presided over it and roasted the hnman 
sacrifices — was uncle to Obookia, and at one time that youth 
was an apprentice-priest under him. Obookia was a young 
native of fine mind, who, together with three other native boys, 
was taken to New England by the captain of a whaleship dur- 
ing the reign of Kamehameha I, and they were the means of 
attracting the attention of the religious world to their country. 
This resulted in the sending of missionaries there. And this 
Obookia was the very same sensitive savage who sat down on 
the church steps and wept because his people did not have the 
Bible. That incident has been very elaborately painted in 
many a charming Sunday School book — aye, and told so plain- 
tively and so tenderly that I have cried over it in Sunday 
School myself, on general principles, although at a time when 
I did not know much and could not understand why the peo- 
ple of the Sandwich Islands needed to worry so much about it 
as long as they did not know there was a Bible at all. 
Obookia was converted and educated, and was to have re- 
turned to his native land with the first missionaries, had he 
lived. The other native youths made the voyage, and two of 
them did good service, but the third, William Kanui, fell from 
grace afterward, for a time, and when the gold excitement 
broke out in California he journeyed thither and went to mining, 
although he was fifty years old. He succeeded pretty 
well, but the failure of Page, Bacon & Co. relieved him of six 
thousand dollars, and then, to all intents and purposes, he was 
a bankrupt in his old age and he resumed service in the pulpit 
again. lie died in Honolulu in 1864. 
Quite a broad tract of land near the temple, extending from 
the sea to the mountain top, was sacred to the god Lono in 
olden times — so sacred that if a common native set his sacrile- 
gious foot U2:)on it it was judicious for him to make his will, 
because his time had come. He might go around it by water, 
but he could not cross it. It was well sprinkled with pagan 
temples and stocked with awkward, homely idols carved out 
of logs of wood. There was a temple devoted to prayers for 
rain — and with fine sagacity it was placed at a point so well 
up on the mountain side that if you prayed there twenty-four 
times a day for rain you would be likely to get it every time. 
You would seldom get to your Amen before you would have 
to hoist your umbrella. 
And there was a large temple near at hand which was built 
in a single night, in the midst of storm and thunder and rain, 
by the ghastly hands of dead men ! Tradition says that by the 
wierd glare of the lightning a noiseless multitude of phantoms 
were seen at their strange labor far np the mountain side at 
dead of night — flitting hither and thither and bearing great 
lava-blocks clasped in their nerveless Angers — appearing and 
disappearing as the pallid lustre fell upon their forms and faded 
away again. Even to this day, it is said, the natives hold this 
dread structure in awe and reverence, and will not pass by it 
in the night. 
At noon I observed a bevy of nude native young ladies bath- 
ing in the sea, and went and sat down on their clothes to keep 
them from being stolen. I begged them to come out, for the 
sea was rising and I was satisfied that they were running some 
risk. But they were not afraid, and presently went on with 
their sport. They were finished swimmers and divers, and
enjoyed themselves to the last degree. They swam races, sjlashed 
and ducked and tumbled each other about, and filled the air 
with their laughter. It is said that the first thing an Islander 
learns is how to swim ; learning to walk being a matter of 
smaller consequence, comes afterward. One hears tales of na- 
tive men and women swimming ashore from vessels many 
miles at sea — more miles, indeed, than I dare vouch for or even 
mention. And they tell of a native diver who went down in 
thirty or forty-foot waters and brought up an anvil ! I think 
he swallowed the anvil afterward, if my memoiy serves me. 
However I will not nrge this point. 
I have spoken, several times, of the god Lono — I may as 
well furnish two or three sentences concerning him. 
The idol the natives worshiped for him was a slender, unor- 
namented staff twelve feet long. Tradition says he was a fa- 
vorite god on the Island of Hawaii — a great king who had 
been deihed for meritorious services — just our own fashion of 
rewarding heroes, with the difference that we would have made 
him a Postmaster instead of a god, no doubt. In an angry 
moment he slew his wife, a goddess named Kaikilani Aiii. 
Remorse of conscience drove him mad, and tradition presents 
us the singular spectacle of a god traveling " on the shoulder ;" 
for in his gnawing grief he wandered about from place to place 
boxing and wrestling with all whom he met. Of course this 
pastime soon lost its novelty, inasmuch as it must necessarily 
have been the case that when so powerful a deity sent a frail 
human opponent " to grass " he never came back any more. 
Therefore, he instituted games called makahiki, and ordered 
that they should be held in his honor, and then sailed for for- 
eign lands on a three-cornered raft, stating that he would return 
some day — and that was the last of Lono. He was never seen 
anv more ; his raft got swamped, perhaps. But the people 
always expected his return, and thus they were easily led to 
accept Captain Cook as the restored god. 
Some of the old natives believed Cook was Lono to the day 
of their death; but many did not, for they could not under- 
stand how he could die if he was a god. 
Only a mile or so from Kealakekua Bay is a spot of historic 
interest — the place where the last battle was fought for idolatry. 
Of course we visited it, and came away as wise as most people 
do who go and gaze upon such mementoes of the past when in 
an unrcflective mood. 
While the first missionaries were on their way around the 
Horn, the idolatrous customs which had obtained in the island, 
as far back as tradition reached were suddenly broken up. Old 
Ivameliamelia I., was dead, and his son, Liholiho, the new King 
was a free liver, a roystering, dissolute fellow, and hated the 
restraints of the ancient tahu. His assistant in the Govern- 
ment, Kaahumanu, the Queen dowager, was proud and high- 
spirited, and hated the tahu because it restricted the privileges 
of her sex and degraded all women very nearly to the level of 
brutes. So the case stood. Liholiho had half a mind to put 
his foot down, Kaahumahu had a whole mind to badger him 
into doing it, and whiskey did the rest. It was probably the 
rest. It was probably the first time whiskey ever prominently 
figured as an aid to civilization. Liholiho came up to Kailua 
as drunk as a piper, and attended a great feast ; the determined 
Queen spurred his drunken courage up to a reckless pitch, and 
then, while all the multitude stared in blank dismay, he moved 
deliberately forward and sat down with the women! They 
saw him eat from the same vessel with them, and were appalled ! 
Terrible moments drifted slowly by, and still the King ate. 
Still he lived, still the lightnings of the insulted gods were 
withheld ! Then conviction came like a revelation — the super- 
stitions of a hundred generations passed from before the people 
like a cloud, and a shout went up, " the tahu is broken ! the 
tcihu is broken !" 
Thus did King Liholiho and his dreadful whiskey preach the 
first sermon and prepare the way for the new gospel that was 
speeding southward over the waves of the Atlantic. 
The tabu broken and destruction failing to follow the awful 
sacrilege, the people, with that childlike precipitancy which has 
ill ways characterized them, jumped to the conclusion that their 
gods were a weak and wretched swindle, just as they formerly 
jumped to the conclusion that Captain Cook was no god, merely 
because he groaned, and promptly killed him without stopping 
to inquire whether a god might not groan as well as a man if 
it suited his convenience to do it ; and satislied that the idols 
were powerless to protect themselves they went to work at once 
and pulled them down — hacked them to pieces — applied the 
torch — annihilated them ! 
The pagan priests were furious. And well they might be; 
they had held the fattest offices in the land, and now they were 
l3eggared ; they had been great — they had stood above the 
chiefs — and now they were vagabonds. They raised a revolt; 
they scared a number of people into joining their standard, and 
Bekuokalani, an ambitious offshoot of royalty, was easily per- 
suaded to become their leader. 
In the first skirmish the idolaters triumphed over the royal 
army sent against them, and full of confidence they resolved 
to march upon Kailua. The King sent an envoy to try and 
conciliate them, and came very near being an envoy short by 
the operation ; the sa'ages not only refused to listen to him, 
but wanted to kill him. So the King sent his men forth under 
Major General Kalaimoku and the two hosts met at Kuamoo. 
The battle was long and fierce — men and women fighting side 
by side, as was the custom — and when the day was done the 
rebels were flying in every direction in hopeless panic, and 
idolatry and the tahu were dead in the land ! 
The royalists marched gayly home to Ivaihia glorifying the 
new dispensation. " There is no power in the gods," said they ; 
' they are a vanity and a lie. The army with idols was weak; 
the army without idols was strong and victorious !" 
The nation was without a religion. 
The missionary ship arrived in safety shortly afterward, timed 
by providential exactness to meet the emergency, and the Gos- 
pel was planted as in a virgin soil. 
CHAPTER LXXIII. 
AT noon, we hired a Kanaka to take us down to the ancient 
ruins at Honaunau in his canoe — price two dollars — rea- 
sonable enough, for a sea voyage of eight miles, counting both 
ways. 
The native canoe is an irresponsible looking contrivance. I 
cannot think of anything to liken it to but a boy's sled runner 
hollowed out, and that does not quite convey the correct idea. 
It is about fifteen feet long, high and pointed at both ends, is a 
foot and a half or two feet deep, and so narrow that if you 
wedged a fat man into it you might not get him out again. It 
sits on top of the water like a duck, but it has an outrig- 
ger and does not upset easily, if you keep still. This outrig- 
ger is formed of two long bent sticks like piow handles, which 
project from one side, and to their outer ends is bound a curved 
beam composed of an extremely light wood, which skims along 
the surffice of the water and thus saves you from an upset on 
that side, while the outrigger's M'eight is not so easily lifted as 
to make an upset on the other side a thing to be greatly feared. 
Still, until one gets used to sitting perched upon this knife- 
blade, he is apt to reason within himself that it M'ould be more 
comfortable if there were just an outrigger or so on the other 
side also. 
I had the bow seat, and Billings sat amidships and faced the 
Kanaka, who occupied the stern of the craft and did the pad- 
dling. "With the first stroke the trim shell of a thing shot out 
from the shore like an arrow. There was not much to see. 
While we were on the shallow water of the reef, it was pastime 
to look down into the limpid depths at the large launches of 
branching coral — the unique shrubbery of the sea. We lost 
that, though, when we got out into the dead blue water of the 
deep. But we had the picture of the surf, then, dashing 
angrily against the crag-bound shore and sending a foaming 
spray high into the air. There was interest in this beetling 
border, too, for it was honey-combed with quaint caves and arches 
and tunnels, and had a rude semblance of the dilapidated architec- 
ture of ruined keeps and castles rising out of the restless sea. 
When this novelty ceased to be a novelty, we turned our eyes 
shoreward and gazed at the long mountain with its rich green 
forests stretching up into the curtaining clouds, and at the 
specks of houses in the rearward distance and the diminished 
schooner riding sleepily at anchor. And when these grew tire- 
some we dashed boldly into the midst of a school of huge, 
beastly porpoises engaged at their eternal game of arching over 
a wave and disappearing, and then doing it over again and keep- 
ing it np — always circling over, in that way, like so many well- 
snbmerged wheels. But the porpoises wheeled themselves 
away, and then we were thrown upon our own resources. It 
did not take many minutes to discover that the sun was blazing 
like a bonfire, and that the weather was of a melting tempera- 
ture. It had a drowsing effect, too. 
In one place we came upon a large company of naked natives, 
of both sexes and all ages, amusing themselves with the 
national pastime of surf-bathing. Each heathen would paddle 
three or four hundred yards out to sea, (taking a short board 
with him), then face the shore and wait for a particularly pro- 
digious billow to come along ; at the right moment he would 
fling his board upon its foamy crest and himself upon the board, 
and here he would come whizzing by like a bombshell ! It did 
not seem that a lightning express train could shoot along at a 
more hair-lifting speed. I tried surf-bathing once, subsequently, 
but made a failure of it. I got the board placed right, and at 
the right moment, too ; but missed the connection myself.- 
board struck the shore in three quarters of a second, 
without any cargo, and I struck the bottom about the 
same time, with a couple of 
barrels of water in me. 
None but natives ever master the art of surf-bathing 
thoroughly. At the end of an hour, we 
had made the four miles, and 
landed on a level point of 
land, upon which was a wide surf-bathing— failure. 
extent of old ruins, with many a tall cocoanut tree growing 
among them. Here was the ancient City of Refuge — a vast 
inclosure, whose stone walls were twenty feet thick at the base 
and fifteen feet high ; an oblong square, a thousand and forty 
feet one way and a fraction under seven hundred the other. 
Within this inclosure, in early times, has been three rude 
temples ; each two hundred and ten feet long by one hundred 
wide, and thirteen high. 
In those days, if a man killed another anywhere on the island 
the relatives were privileged to take the murderer's life; ami 
then a chase for life and liberty began — the outlawed criminal 
flying through pathless forests and over mountain and plain, 
with his hopes fixed upon the protecting walls of the City of 
Refuge, and the avenger of blood following hotly after him  
Sometimes the race was kept up to the very gates of the tem- 
ple, and the panting pair sped through long files of excited 
natives, who watched the contest with flashing eye and dilated 
nostril, encouraging the hunted refugee with sharp, inspiriting- 
ejacidations, and sending up a ringing shout of exultation when 
the saving gates closed upon him and the cheated pursuer sank 
exhausted at the threshold. But sometimes the flying criminal 
fell under the hand of the avenger at the very door, wlien one 
more brave stride, one more brief second of time would have 
brought his feet upon the sacred ground and barred him against 
all harm. Where did these isolated pagans get this idea of a 
City of Refuge — this ancient Oriental custom ? 
This old sanctuary was sacred to all — even to rebels in arms 
and invading armies. Once within its walls, and confession 
made to the priest and absolution obtained, the wretch with a 
price upon his head could go forth without fear and without 
danger — he was tabu, and to harm him was death. The routed 
rebels in the lost battle for idolatry fled to this place to claim 
sanctuary, and many were thus saved. 
Close to the corner of the great in closure is a round structure 
of stone, some six or eight feet high, with a level top about 
ten or twelve in diameter. This was the jlace of execution. 
A high palisade of cocoanut piles shut out the cruel scenes 
from the vulgar multitude. Here criminals were killed, the 
flesh stripped from the bones and burned, and the bones secre- 
ted in holes in the body of the structure. If the man had been 
guilty of a high crime, the entire coi'pse was burned. 
The walls of the temple are a study. The same food for 
speculation that is offered the visitor to the Pyramids of Egypt 
he will find here — the mystery of how they were constructed 
by a people unacquainted with science and mechanics. The 
natives have no invention of their own for hoisting heavy 
weights, they had no beasts of burden, and they have never 
even shown any knowledge of the properties of the lever. 
Yet some of the lava blocks quarried out, brought over rough, 
broken ground, and built into this wall, six or seven feet from 
the ground, are of prodigious size and would weigh tons. How 
did they transport and how raise them ? 
Both the inner .and outer surfaces of the walls present a 
smooth front and are very creditable specimens of masonry. 
The blocks are of all manner of shapes and sizes, but yet are 
fitted together with the neatest exactness. The gradual nar- 
rowing of the wall from the base upward is accurately preserved. 
No cement was used, but the edifice is firm and compact and 
is capable of resisting storm and decay for centui'ies. Who 
built this temple, and how was it built, and when, are myste- 
ries that may never be unraveled. 
Outside of these ancient walls lies a sort of cofl3n-shaped 
stone eleven feet four inches long and three feet square at the 
small end (it would weigh a few thousand pounds), which the 
high chief who held sway over this district many centuries ago 
brought thither on his shoulder one day to use as a lounge ! 
This circumstance is established by the most reliable traditions. 
He used to He down on it, in his indolent way, and keep an 
eye on his subjects at work for him and see that there was no 
*' soldiering " done. And no doubt there was not any done to 
speak of, because he was a man of that sort of build that incites 
to attention to business on the part of an employee. He was 
fourteen or fifteen feet high. AVhen he stretched himself at 
full length on his lounge, his legs hung down over the end, and 
wlien he snored he woke the dead. These facts are all attested 
by irrefragable tradition. 
On the other side of the 
temple is a monstrous seventon rock, eleven feet long, 
seven feet wide and three feet thick. It is raised a foot or a 
foot and a half above the ground, and rests upon half a dozen 
little stony pedestals. The same old fourteen-footer brought 
it down from the mountain, merely for fun (he had his own 
notions about fun), and propped it up as we find it now and 
as others may find it a century hence, for it would take a scoi-e 
of horses to budge it from its position. Tliey say that fifty 
or sixty years ago the proud Queen Kaahumaiui used to fly to 
this rock for safety, whenever she had been making trouljle 
with her fierce husband, and hide under it until his wrath was 
appeased. But these Kanakas will lie, and this statement is 
one of their ablest efforts — for Kaahumanu was six feet high — 
she was bulky — she was built like an ox — and she could no- 
more have squeezed herself under that rock than she could 
have passed between the cylinders of a sugar mill. What could 
she gain by it, even if she succeeded ? To be chased and abused 
by a savage husband could not be otherwise than humiliating; 
to her high spirit, yet it could never make her feel so flat as an 
hour's repose under that rock would. 
We walked a mile over a raised macadamized road of uni- 
form width ; a road paved with flat stones and exhibiting in its 
every detail a considerable degree of engineering skill. Some 
say that that wise old pagan, Kamehameha I. planned and 
built it, but others say it was built so long before his time that 
the knowledge of who constructed it has passed out of the tra- 
ditions. In either case, however, as the handiwork of an 
untaught and degraded race it is a thing of pleasing interest. 
The stones are worn and smooth, and pushed apart in places, 
so that the road has the exact appearance of those ancient paved 
highways leading out of Home which one sees in pictures. 
The object of our tramp was to visit a great natural curiosity 
at the base of the foothills — a congealed cascade of lava. Some 
old forgotten volcanic eruption sent its broad river of fire down 
the mountain side here, and it poured down in a great torrent 
from an overhanging bluff some fifty feet high to the ground 
below. The flaming torrent cooled in the winds from the sea, 
and remains there to-day, all seamed, and frothed and rippled 
a petrified Niagara. It is very picturesque, and withal so nat- 
ural that one might almost imagine it still flowed. A smaller 
stream trickled over the clili' and built up an isolated pyramid 
fiboiit thirty feet high, which has the semblance of a mass of 
large gnarled and knotted vines and roots and stems intricately 
ttisted and woven together. 
"We passed in behind the .cascade and the pyramid, and foimd 
the bluff pierced by sevei-al cavernous tunnels, whose crooked 
courses we followed a long distance. 
Two of these winding tunnels stand as proof of JSTatnre's 
mining abilities. Their floors are level, they are seven feet 
wide, and their roofs are gently arched. Their height is not uni- 
form, however. We passed through one a hundred feet lono- 
which leads through a spur of the hill and opens out well up 
in the sheer wall of a precipice whose foot rests in the waves 
of the sea. It is a commodious tunnel, except that there are 
occasional places in it where one must stoop to pass under. 
The roof is lava, of course, and is thickly studded with little 
lara-pointed icicles an inch long, which hardened as they drip- 
p(d. They project as closely together as the iron teeth of a 
corn-sheller, and if one will stand up straight and walk any 
distance there, he can get his hair combed free of charge. 
CHAPTER LXXIV. 
They got back to the schooner in good time, and then sailed 
down to Kau, where we disembarked and took final 
leave of the vessel. Next day we bought horses and bent onr 
way over the siimmer-clad mountain-terraces, toward the great 
volcano of Kilauea (Ke-low-way-ah). We made nearly a two 
days' journey of it, but that was on account of laziness. To- 
ward sunset on the second day, we reached an elevation of some 
four thousand feet above sea level, and as we picked our careful 
way through billowy wastes of lava long generations ago stricken 
dead and cold in the climax of its tossing fury, we began to 
come upon signs of the near presence of the volcano — signs in 
the nature of ragged fissures that discharged jets of sulphurous 
vapor into the air, hot from the molten ocean down in the bow- 
els of the mountain. 
Shortly the crater came into view. I have seen Yesuvius 
since, but it was a mere toy, a child's volcano, a soup-kettle, 
compared to this. Mount Yesuvius is a shapely cone thirty-six 
hundred feet high ; its crater an inverted cone only three hun- 
dred feet deep, and not more than a thousand feet in diameter, 
if as much as that ; its fires meagre, mo lest, and docile. — But 
here was a vast, perpendicular, walled cellar, nine hundred feet 
deep in some places, thirteen hundred in others, level-floored, 
and ten miles iji circumference ! Here was a yawning pit 
upon whose floor the armies of Russia could camp, and have 
room to spare. 
Perched upon the edge of the crater at the opposite end 
from where we stood, was a small look-out Louse — say three 
miles away. It assisted us, by comparisou, to comjrehend 
and appreciate the great depth of the basin — it looked like a 
tiny martin-box clinging at the eaves of a cathedral. After 
some little time spent in resting and looking and ciphering, we 
hurried on to the hotel. 
By the path it is half a inile from the Volcano House to the 
lookout-house. After a hearty supper we waited until it was 
thoroughly dark and then started to the crater. The lirst glance 
in that direction revealed a scene of wild beauty. There was 
a heavy fog over the crater and it was splendidly illuminated 
by the glare from the fires below. The illumination was two 
miles wide and a mile high, perhaps ; and if you ever, on a 
dark night and at a distance beheld the light from thirty or 
forty blocks of distant buildings all on fire at once, re- 
flected strongly against over-hanging clouds, you can 
form a fair idea of what this looked like. 
A colossal column of cloud towered to a great height in 
the air immediately above 
the crater, and the outer swell of every one of its vast 
folds was dyed with a rich 
crimson luster, which was 
subdued to a pale rose tint 
in the depressions between. 
It glowed like a muflied 
torch and stretched upward 
to a dizzy height toward the 
zenith. I thought it just 
possible that its like had not been seen since the children of 
Israel wandered on their long march through the desert so 
many centuries ago over a path illuminated by the mysterious 
" pillar of fire." And I was sure that I now had a vivid con- 
ception of what the majestic " pillar of fire " was like, which 
almost amounted to a revelation. 
Arrived at the little thatched lookout house, we rested our 
elbows on the railing in front and looked abroad over the wide 
crater and down over the sheer precipice at the seething fires 
beneath us. The view was a startling improvement on my 
daylight experience. I turned to see the effect on the balance 
of the company and found the reddest-faced set of men I almost 
ever saw. In the strong light every countenance glowed like 
red-hot iron, every shoulder was suff'used with crimson and 
shaded rearward into dingy, shapeless obscurity ! The place 
below looked like the infernal regions and these men like 
half-cooled devils just come up on a furlough. 
I turned my eyes upon the volcano again. The "cellar" 
was tolerably well lighted up. For a mile and a half in front 
of us and half a mile on either side, the floor of the abss 
was magnificently illuminated ; beyond these limits the mists 
hung down their gauzy curtains and cast a deceptive gloom 
over all that made the twinkling fires in the remote corners of 
the crater seem countless leagues removed — made them seem 
like the camp-fires of a great army far away. Here was 
room for the imagination to work ! You could imagine 
those lights the width of a continent away — and that hid- 
den under the intervening darkness were hills, and winding 
rivers, and weary wastes of plain and desert — and even then 
the tremendous vista stretched on, and on, and on ! — to the fires 
and far beyond ! Yon could not compass it — it was the idea 
of eternity made tangible — and the longest end of it made vis- 
ible to the naked eye ! 
The greater part of the vast floor of the desert under us was as 
black as ink, and apparently smooth and level ; but over a mile 
square of it was ringed and streaked and striped with a thousand 
branching streams of liquid and gorgeously brilliant fire ! It 
looked like a colossal railroad map of the State of Massachusetts 
done in chain lightning on a midnight sky. Imagine it — imagine 
a coal-black skj shivered into a tangled net-work of snagry 
fire ! 
Here and there were gleaming holes a hundred feet in diam- 
eter, broken in the dark crnst, and in them the melted lava — 
the color a dazzling white just tinged with yellow — was boiling 
and surging fnriously ; and from these holes branched number- 
less bright torrents in many directions, like the spokes of a 
wheel, and kept a tolerably straight course for a while and then 
swept round in huge rainbow curves, or made a long succession 
of sharp worm-fence angles, which looked precisely like the 
fiercest jagged lightning. These streams met other streams, 
and they mingled with and crossed and recrossed each other in 
every conceivable direction, like skate tracks on a popular skating 
ground. Sometimes streams twenty or thirty feet wide 
flowed from the holes to some distance without dividing — and 
through the opera-glasses we could see that they ran down 
small, steep hills and were genuine cataracts of fire, white at 
their source, but soon cooling and turning to the richest red, 
grained with alternate lines of black and gold. Every now 
and then masses of the dark crust broke away and floated slowly 
down these streams like rafts down a river. Occasionally the 
molten lava flowing under the superincumbent crust broke 
through — split a dazzling streak, from five hundred to a thou- 
sand feet long, like a sudden flash of lightning, and then acre 
after acre of the cold lava parted into fragments, turned up 
edgewise like cakes of ice when a great river breaks up, plunged 
downward and were swallowed in the crimson cauldron. Then 
the wide expanse of the " thaw " maintained a ruddy glow for 
a wdiile, but shortly cooled and became black and level again. 
During a " thaw," every dismembered cake was marked by a 
glittering white border which was superbly shaded inward by 
aurora borealis rays, which were a flaming yellow where they 
joined the white border, and from thence toward their points 
tapered into glowing crimson, then into a rich, pale carmine, 
and finally into a faiiit blusli that held its own a moment and 
then dimmed and turned black. Some of the streams preferred 
to mingle together in a tangle of fantastic circles, and then they 
looked something like the confusion of ropes one sees on a 
ship's deck when she has just taken in sail and dropped anchor 
— provided one can imagine those ropes on fire. 
Through the glasses, the little fountains scattered about looked 
very beautiful. They boiled, and coughed, and spluttered, and 
discharged sprays of stringy red fire — of about the consistency 
of mush, for instance — from ten to fifteen feet into the air. 
along with a shower of brilliant white sparks — a quaint and 
unnatural mingling of gouts of blood and snow-flakes ! 
We had circles and serpents and streaks of lightning all 
twined and wreathed and tied together, without a break 
throughout an area more than a mile square (that amount of 
ground was covered, though it was not strictly " square "), and 
it was with a feeling of placid exultation that we reflected that 
many years had elapsed since any visitor had seen such a splen- 
did display — since any visitor had seen anything more than the 
now snubbed and insignificant " North " and " South " lakes 
in action. We ha<l been reading old files of Hawaiian news- 
papers and the " Record Book " at the Volcano House, and 
were posted. 
I could see the North Lake lying out on the black floor 
away oflf in the outer edge of our panorama, and knitted to it 
by a web-M'ork of lava streams. In its individual capacity it 
looked very little more respectable than a schoolhouse on fire- 
True, it was about nine hundred feet long and two or three 
hundred wide, but then, under the present circumstances, it 
necessarily appeared rather insignificant, and besides it was so 
distant from us. 
I forgot to say that the noise made by the bubbling lava is 
not great, heard as we heard it from our lofty perch. It makes 
three distinct sounds — -a rushing, a hissing, and a coughing or 
puffing sound ; and if you stand on the brink and close your 
eyes it is no trick at all to imagine that you are sweeping down 
a river on a large low-pressure steamer, and that you hear the 
hissing of the steam about her boilers, the pufiSng from her 
escape-pipes and the churning rush of the water abaft her 
wheels. The smell of sulphur is strong, but not unpleasant to
a sinner. 
We left the lookout house at ten o'clock in a half cooked 
condition, because of the heat from Pele's furnaces, and wrapping 
up in blankets, for the night was cold, we returned to our 
Hotel. 
CHAPTER LXXV. 
THE next night was appointed for a visit to the bottom of 
the crater, for we desired to traverse its floor and see the 
, ' Xorth Lake " (of fire) which lay two miles away, toward the 
further wall. After dark half a dozen of us. set out, with lan- 
terns and native guides, and climbed down a crazy, thousand- 
foot pathway in a crevice fractured in the crater wall, and 
reached the bottom in safety. 
The irruption of the pi-evious evening had spent its force 
and the floor looked black and cold ; but when we ran out upon 
it we found it hot yet, to the feet, and it was likewise riven 
with crevices which revealed the underlying fires gleaming 
vindictively. A neighboring cauldron was threatening to over- 
flow, and this added to the dubiousness of the situation. So 
the native guides refused to continue the venture, and then 
every body deserted except a stranger named Marlette. He 
said he had been in the crater a dozen times in daylight and 
believed he could find his way through it at night. He thought 
that a run of three hundred yards would cany us over the hot- 
test part of the floor and leave us our shoe-solos. His pluck 
gave me back-bone. We took one lantern and instructed the 
guides to hang the other to the roof of the look-out house to 
serve as a beacon for us in case we got lost, and then the party 
started back up the precipice and Marlette and I made our run. 
We skipped over the hot floor and over the red crevices with 
brisk dispatch and reached the cold lava safe but with pretty 
warm feet. Then we took things leisurely and comfortably, 
jumping tolerably wide and probably bottomless cliasras, and 
threading our way through picturesque lav-a upheavals with 
considerable conlidence. When we got fairly away from the 
cauldrons of boiling lire, we seemed to be in a gloomy desert, 
and a suftoeatingly dark one, surrounded by dim walls that 
seemed to tower to the sky. The only cheerful objects were 
the glinting stars high overhead. 
By and b-y Marlette shouted " Stop !" I never stopped 
quicker in my life. I asked what the matter was. He said 
we were out of the path. *IIe said we must 7iot try to go on 
till we found it again, for we were surrounded with beds of 
rotten lava through which we could easily break and plunge 
down a thousand feet. I thought eight hundred would answer 
for me, and was about to say so when Marlette partly proved 
his statement by accidentally crushing through and disappearing 
to his arm -pits. He got out and we hunted for the path with 
the lantern. He said there was only one path and that it was 
but vaguely defined. "We could not find it. The lava surface 
was all alike in the lantern light. But he was an ingenious 
man. lie said it was not the lantern that had informed him 
that we were out of the path, bat his feet. He had noticed a 
crisp grinding of line lava-needles under his feet, and some 
instinct reminded him that in the path these were all worn 
away. So he put the lantern behind him, and began to search 
with his boots instead of his eyes. It was good sagacity. The 
first time his foot touched a surface that did not grind under 
it he announced that the trail was found again ; and after that 
we kept up a sharp listening for the rasping sound and it always 
warned us in time. 
It was a long tramp, but an exciting one. We reached the 
North Lake between ten and eleven o'clock, and sat down on 
a huge overhanging lava-shelf, tired but satisfied. The specta- 
cle presented was worth coming double the distance to see. 
Under us, and stretching away before us, was a heaving sea of 
molten fire of seemingly limitless extent. The glare from it 
was so blinding that it was some time before we could bear to 
look upon it steadily. It was like gazing at the sun at noon- 
day, except that the glare was not quite so white. At unequal 
distances all around the shores of the lake were nearly white- 
hot chimneys or hollow drums of lava, four or five feet high, 
and up through them were bursting gorgeous sprays of lava- 
gouts and gem spangles, some white, some red and some golden 
— a ceaseless bombardment, and one that fascmated the eye 
with its unapproachable splendor. The more distant jets, 
eparkling up through an intervening gossamer veil of vapor, 
seemed miles away ; and the furtlier the curving ranks of fiery 
fountains receded, the more foiry-like and beautiful they 
appeared. 
Now and then the surging bosom of the lake under our noses 
would calm down ominously and seem to be gatliering streno-th 
for an enterprise ; and then all of a sudden a red dome of lava 
of the bulk of an ordinary dwelling would heave itself aloft 
like an escaping balloon, then burst asunder, and out of its 
heart would flit a jDale-green film of vapor, and float upward 
and vanish in the darkness — a released soul soaring homeward 
from captivity with the damned, no doubt. The crashing 
plunge of the ruined dome into the lake again would send a 
world of seething billows lashing against the shores and shaking 
the foundations of our perch. By and by, a loosened mass of 
the hanging shelf we sat on tumbled into the lake, jarring the 
surroundings like an earthquake and delivering a suggestion 
that may have been intended for a hint, and may not. We did 
not wait to see. ' 
We got lost again on our way back, and were more than an 
hour hunting for the path. We were where we could see the 
beacon lantern at the look-out house at the time, but thought 
it was a star and paid no attention to it. We reached the hotel 
at two o'clock in the morning pretty well fagged out. 
Kilauea never overflows its vast crater, but bursts a passage 
for its lava through the mountain side when relief is necessary, 
and then the destruction is fearful. About 1840 it rent its 
overburdened stomach and sent a broad river of fire careering 
down to the sea, which swept away forests, huts, plantations 
and every thing else that lay in its path.* The stream was fA)e 
"miles broad, in places, and tioo hundred feet deep, and the dis- 
tance it traveled was forty miles. It tore up and bore away 
acre-patches of land on its bosom like rafts — rocks, trees and 
all intact. At night the red glare was visible a hundred miles 
at sea ; and at a distance of forty miles fine print could be read 
at midnight. Tiie atmosphere was poisoned with sulphurous 
vapors and choked with falling ashes, pumice stones and cin- 
ders ; countless columns of smoke rose up and blended together 
in a tumbled canopy that hid the heavens and glowed with a 
ruddy flush reflected froui the iires below ; here and there jets 
of lava sprung hundreds of feet into the air and burst into rocket-sprays 
that returned to earth in a crimson rain ; and all the 
while the laboring mountain shook with Nature's great palsy 
and voiced its distress in moanings and the muflled booming 
of subterranean thunders. 
Fishes 'vero killed for twenty miles along the shore, where 
the lava entered the sea. The earthquakes caused some loss 
of human life, and a prodigious tidal wave swept inland, carry- 
ing every thing before it and drowning a numlier of natives. 
The devastation consummated along the route traversed by the 
river of lava was complete and incalculable. Only a Pompeii 
and a Ilerculaneum were needed at the foot of Kilauea to make 
the story of fhc irrupliou inunortal. 
CHAPTER LXXYI. 
They rode horseback aH around the island of Hawaii (the 
crooked road making the distance two hundred miles), 
and enjoyed the journey very much. We were more than a 
week making the trip, because our Kanaka horses would not 
o by a house or a hut without stopping — whip and spur could 
not alter their minds about it, and so we finally found that it 
•economized time to let them have their way. Upon inquiry 
the mystery was explained : the natives are such thorough- 
going gossips that they never pass a house without stopping to 
swap news, and consequently their horses learn to regard that 
sort of thing as an essential part of the whole duty of man, 
and his salvation not to be compassed without it. However, at a 
former crisis of my life I had once taken an aristocratic young 
lady out driving, behind a horse that had just retired from a 
long and honorable career as the moving impulse of a milk 
wagon, and so this present experience awoke a reminiscent sad- 
ness in me in place of the exasperation more natural to the 
occasion. I remembered how helpless I was that day, and how 
humiliated ; how ashamed I was of having intimated to the girl 
that I had always owned the horse and was accustomed to 
grandeur ; how hard I tried to appear easy, and even vivacious, 
under suffering that was consuming my vitals ; how placidly 
and maliciously tho girl smiled, and kept on smiling, while my 
hot blushes baked themselves into a permanent blood-pudding 
in my face ; how the horse ambled from one side of the street 
to the other and waited complacently before every third house 
two minutes and a quarter while I belabored his back and reviled 
him in my heart ; how I tried to keep him from turning 
corners, and failed ; how I moved heaven and earth to get him 
out of town, and did not succeed ; how he traversed the entire 
settlement and delivered imaginary milk at a hundred and 
sixty-two different domiciles, and how he finally brought up at 
a dairy depot and refused to budge further, thus rounding and 
completing the revealment of what the plebeian service of his 
life had been ; how, in eloquent silence, I walked the girl home, 
and how, when I took leave of her, her parting remark scorched 
my soul and appeared to blister me all over : she said that my 
horse was a fine, capable animal, and I must have taken great 
comfort in him in my time — but that if I would take along 
some milk-tickets next time, and appear to deliver them at the 
various halting places, it might expedite his movements a little. 
There was a coolness between us after that. 
In one place in the island of Hawaii, we saw a laced and 
ruffled cataract of limpid water leaping from a sheer precipice 
fifteen hundred feet high ; but that sort of scenery finds its 
stanchest ally in the arithmetic rather than in spectacular effect. 
If one desires to be so stirred by a poem of Nature wrought in 
the happily commingled graces of picturesque rocks, glimpsed 
distances, foliage, color, shifting lights and shadows, and falling 
water, that the tears almost come into his eyes so potent is the 
charm exerted, he need not go away from America to enjoy 
such an experience. The Rainbow Fall, in Watkins Glen 
(N. Y.), on the Erie railway, is an example. It would recede 
into pitiable insignificance if the callous tourist drew an arith- 
metic on. it ; but left to compete for the honors simply on scenic 
grace and beauty — the grand, the august and the sublime being- 
barred the contest — it could challenge the old world and the 
new to produce its peer. 
In one locality, on our journey, we saw some horses that 
had been bom and reared on top of the mountains, above the 
range of running water, and consequently they had never drank 
that fluid in their lives, but had been always accustomed to 
quenching their thirst by eating dew-laden or shower- wetted 
leaves. And now it was destructively funny to see them sniff* 
suspiciously at a pail of water, and then put in their noses and 
try to take a hite out of the fluid, as if it were a solid. Find- 
