himself walked the same dreary and perilous way, 
and walked it safely. He knew just what I needed 
and how the strength to keep on my feet must come. 
So he said to me on the morning of the day I went 
to work, 

" I will call for you this evening at your board 
ing-house. I want you at the " Blessing." 

" So I waited for him after supper. 

"As we walked toward Independence Hall he 
said, Now, brother Oldham, as God has saved you, 
you must gratefully consecrate yourself to the work 
of saving others. That was what I did. I was just 
as near destruction as you, and in my weakness and 
despair I looked to my Father in heaven, and he 
helped me, and as I felt a little strength of purpose 
coming in answer to my prayer, I promised that if I 
were saved I would give my very life to save others, 
if that must be. And so as soon as I had strength 
to get out I began to work among the intemperate, 
and my heart got so full of this work in a little while 
that I had stimulus enough, and so the old craving 
died. Now, what I want you to do to-night is to 
tell in the " Blessing " the story of your deliverance. 
It will come home to somebody, and help somebody. 
And I want you, if you see a poor worn-down 
drunkard drag himself up and sign the pledge just 
as you did, to look after him as I looked after you. 



 

It is God 's cause, and his strength will go into you 
if you put your hand to his work. It will make you 
strong and brave. You will soon be able to pass the 
most inviting saloon in the city, and not feel the 
smallest desire to enter its fatal doors. 

" I went to the Blessing and told as best I could 
my story, not without tears. The whole company 
was greatly moved. I saw many eyes as wet as my 
own. As I sat down a white-headed man rose from 
his seat, and coming forward, stood by the railing 
and faced the audience. 

" Mr. Chairman, he said, in a clear, earnest voice, 
and like one used to public speaking, I noticed your 
sign a little while ago, and came in to see what you 
were doing. I am an old worker in this cause, but 
not in your city. I have seen a great many men sign 
the pledge and a great many break it. I have seen 
one movement after another gain favor with the 
people, and then lose its hold upon them. I have 
myself lost heart many times and felt like giving 
up. They that were against us seemed more and 
stronger than all who were on our side. Now, I 
learn that in three years over two thousand five 
hundred persons have signed your pledge. Are 
they keeping it ? I have been out of heart with the 
pledge. I have even gone so far, sometimes, in my 
discouragement, as to think it utterly useless. But 
I stand on higher ground now. I believe in the 
pledge, because it is a man 's act, and what a man 
does always gives him strength beyond what he can 



 

possibly have by mere willing and thinking. The 
good purpose is made strong by the good act. And 
so every man who has signed your pledge to-night 
is stronger for sobriety than he was before, and more 
able to resist than he was before. 

" But what I want especially to say is this : The 
mere act of signing a pledge does not give all the 
strength a man with a craving appetite requires. It 
takes from him a sensual enjoyment that has been 
indulged for years, and gives him little or nothing in 
its place. Good resolutions, as we all know, are 
weak when a repressed appetite begins to assert it 
self and clamors for the old indulgence. 

" * Shall I tell you how to supplement the pledge ? 
how to give it a power against which the very gates 
of hell cannot prevail ? Let every man who pledges 
himself not to drink consecrate himself at the same 
time to the work of saving others. If you have 
been low down low as the brother who has just 
spoken you will know better than any others the 
need and peril of those in a like condition. You will 
know that they must be wisely cared for, helped and 
encouraged, and you will be more patient and watch 
ful and tender with them than others might be. Oh, 
brothers, you must work if you would be in 
safety. 

" Shall I tell you how, in this living and working 
for others, there are strength and safety ? It is all 
very plain. A child can understand it. Two thou 
sand years ago our dear Lord and Saviour came 



 

down to seek and to save that which was lost came 
down to the lowest and the vilest came down vis 
ibly to the eyes of men and invisibly to their souls. 
He withdrew from them only as to the visible and 
external, but remained ever after invisibly near God 
with us ; a present help in time of trouble ; a Saviour 
and a deliverer, a guide and refuge and comforter for 
all who look to and desire him. You all believe this. 
Well, the work of saving men is God 's work, and 
whoever becomes a co-worker with him gets nearer 
to God, and the nearer we are to him, the farther off 
we are from hell and all its enticements. Go over, 
all of you, to the side of God in the work of saving 
men, and you shall surely dwell in safety. Make 
your pledge of freedom something more than a mere 
effort to save yourselves ; let it be a sign that you 
are set apart to the work of saving others. 

" It is because this is not done that the pledge so 
often fails. It is because men try only to save them 
selves, not caring, it may be, who else goes to ruin. 
Nearly three thousand names on the pledge-book of 
the "Temperance Blessing!" What an army for 
work and battle in our good cause ! There is not 
one in this great army who might not, if he set him 
self earnestly to work, rescue some poor soul from 
the pit or hold back some heedless one whose feet 
are wellnigh slipping. Brothers, be up and doing. 
If you would be in safety, give yourselves to the 
work of saving others, and you shall stand secure, 
firm as the everlasting hills. 


" As this man spoke a sense of power and safety 
pervaded my soul. I understood him thoroughly. 
I saw that in going out of myself, and giving will, 
thought and effort to the work of saving other men 
from misery and degradation, I would be lifted so far 
away from old desires, habits and associations that 
they could have little or no influence over me. And 
then, too, I would be on God 's side, working with 
Him for the salvation of men, and being on His side, 
nearer to him and so farther away from hell, I would 
be encompassed by the sphere of His protection, I 
would be safe, not through the power of the pledge 
I had taken, but safe because His arm was about me. 

"From that hour I have been doing all that I 
could to lead men out of the paths of intemperance, 
but especially to help, sustain and encourage those 
who have been down into the mire, and now, with 
clean garments, are trying to walk in safety. I never 
went back a step. The old appetite often returned, 
but I was too much interested in my work to give it 
any heed, and so it was never able to take me un 
awares. I soon had my wife and children again 
around me, and to-day I do not think there is in all 
this great city a happier home than ours." 



CHAPTER XXII. 

ONE and another dropped in while this story was 
being told and drew to the little crowd about 
the speaker, instead of coming to the bar. Lloyd 
was almost furious. But I got him away by telling 
him that his face looked dreadfully, and that he had 
better go up stairs or home, and keep out of sight 
for a while. 

Very few of those who heard the story called for 
anything to drink after it was ended. They broke 
up into groups as they happened to be acquainted, 
all talking about Phil Oldham and the " Temperance 
Blessing." 

There was a marked falling off in business that day. 
Not many men came in from the bindery. Most of 
these were among the hardest drinkers in the estab 
lishment. But even they were not cordial toward us, 
as of old. There had evidently been an excitement 
about the assault on Jacobs, and I gathered that a 
strong feeling had been aroused against us. I did 
not imagine this would last long. I felt pretty cer 
tain that our good cheer was stronger to attract than 
any little excitement over a miserable old toper was 
to hold men away from our tavern. I put the case 
here as it shaped itself in my own thoughts. 

 



 

I wasn 't very far wrong. In a day or two we had 
in nearly as much custom from the printing-office 
and bindery as before. 

About a week afterward a printer, while drinking 
at the bar, said, 

" Old Jacobs is back again." 

" Back where ?" I inquired. 

"In the office." 

" No !" 

" Fact ! And what 's more, he 's as sober as a 
judge. Signed the pledge." 

I laughed incredulously. 

" You may laugh," he returned. " It 's all so. The 
old man looks as if he 'd come out of a spell of sick 
ness. But I tell you he is in earnest has roped 
in old Wilson already." 

" How roped him in ?" I asked. 

" Got him to sign the pledge." 

" Faugh ! They 'll both be as full as their skins 
will hold before a week goes over their heads," I re 
plied, with some contempt and a good deal of irri 
tation. 

"Will you take a bet on that?" demanded the 
printer. 

Before I had time to reply, another printer who 
stood at the bar said, looking at me, 

" There 's mischief brewing round in Harvey street 
mischief for ycu ; I mean." 

" Indeed ! Who 's at the bottom of it ?" 

"Old Jacobs." 



 

I thought of the blow he 'd received from Lloyd, 
and made answer, 

"I guess he 'll not do much harm. Can t show 
any special damage. But anyhow, it 's Tom Lloyd 's 
affair, not mine." 

"Oh, tisn 't about the assault-and-battery case," 
was returned. " It 's your affair just as much as 
Lloyd s." 

"Out with it, then! Let 's have the worst;" and 
I put on a mock serious air. 

" He 's going into a conspiracy against you means 
to cripple your business." 

" Indeed ! Well, tell him from me to go ahead." 

"Oh, it isn 't any joke. Jacobs means business. 
He 's going to get every man in the establishment to 
sign the pledge." 

" You don 't  say so !" I responded in affected alarm. 
" Then I guess we 'd as well shut up at once." 

" It wouldn 't be healthy for your business if he 
should succeed," our customer said. 

" No, not exactly," I replied, dashed at the sug 
gestion in spite of myself. I remembered at the 
moment what I had heard a little while before about 
the self-consecration of a few reformed drunkards to 
the work of saving men from the terrible depths of 
suffering into which they had fallen, and out of which 
they had come as brands plucked from a fire. I 
thought of the three thousand men who had, through 
the efforts of a single earnest, untiring worker in the 
cause of temperance, been led to sign the pledge in 





 

less than four years, and how this very man had 
lifted old Jacobs out of the mire and stood him on 
firm ground. Jacobs was strong willed, earnest and 
resolute. If he put his hand to work like this, it 
would have to move. There was no help for it. For 
good or for evil, a single strong-willed, restless, per 
severing, one-idea man often exerts a vast influence. 
I understood this. The old pressman I had despised 
and almost loathed a week ago now commanded my 
respect. He stood before my thought as one having 
power and influence, and I will confess it that then 
and there I feared him. 

And I had cause. On the next day I missed 
two printers who had been in the habit of spending 
not less than three or four dollars a week in our 
saloon. 

" Is Tom Hagan at work ?" I asked of one who 
came in from the printing-office late in the after 
noon. 

" Yes," was replied. 

" Oh ! Ah ! I thought maybe he was sick." 

" You haven t seen him here to-day ?" I saw a 
comical look in the man 's face, as if he were enjoy 
ing something at my expense. 

"No," I replied. 

"Got him, too;" and the man laughed. "Old 
Wilson yesterday, and Tom Hagan and Bill Wines 
to-day. Jacobs is a whole team. No getting away 
from him. Pitched into me this morning, and 
blamed if I hadn 't the hardest time to get away from 



 

him. Expect to be caught before the week 's out. 
Fact !" 

And he laughed in a serious kind of way. It was 
the last time he came to our bar. I heard of him on 
the next day as over on the other side. Jacobs had 
" roped him in " also. 

The tide had fairly set against us in the Harvey- 
street establishment. Day by day we missed one 
familiar face after another, and in little over a week, 
instead of our forty or fifty customers from the bind 
ery and printing-office, we hadn 't much over a dozen. 
Things began to look squally. We received regular 
reports of what was going on, and affected to laugh 
over it as a good joke, but the laugh was a little too 
far on the wrong side of the mouth. The falling off 
in our receipts was beginning to be a serious matter. 
Something must be done. What? We were en 
tirely at fault. Our best customers had gone over to 
the enemy, and still the defection went on, until we 
might as well have been in China for all the good 
Harvey street did us. A nightly band of music 
helped a little, but " The Retreat " was too far out 
of the way to gain much by a diversion of this kind. 
Our day custom had fallen off until it was hardly 
worth keeping open for. 

Meantime, an association called the " Harvey- 
street League " had been formed, with Jacobs at its 
head. Its members not only pledged themselves to 
total abstinence, but to the work of saving others 
from the evils of intemperance. They had already 



 

got nearly every one of the hardest drinkers in the 
establishment to break off, and were standing close 
about them, holding them up and giving them the 
strength of a brotherhood. 

I looked, day after day, for the return of old 
friends, but they came not. Our lunches stood al 
most untasted on the bar, except for those who 
dropped in from neighboring stores and manufac 
tories. 

" What 's the matter ?" was often asked by those 
who missed the lively crowd that usually rilled the 
saloon from ten to twelve o clock every day. 

" Better shut up this place," said one of the few 
who came in occasionally from the printing-office. 
" The last man in the bindery joined the league to 
day, and only six printers are holding back. Jacobs 
will have them before a week, sure." 

" It 's nothing but a mere spirt," I replied. " Can t 
last long. These things always die out in a little 
while." 

" I don 't  know," he replied, " how it 's going to be. 
Good, I 've heard it said and I guess it 's true is 
stronger than evil and must prevail in the end. And 
there 's no getting away from the fact, friend Hiram, 
that liquor-drinking is a great evil, cursing our land 
in all its length and breadth. You understand this 
as well as I do, and perhaps better. You 've had a 
chance to know. Maybe there 's going to be a new 
order of things. There certainly is a great rising of 
the people all over the land. They are getting ter- 



 

ribly in earnest, and when the people move against 
anything, it must go down." 

I pooh-poohed, but felt uncomfortable. It might 
be as he said. As to the evil that was being done, 
he was right in saying that I knew as much about it 
as he did, and perhaps more. 

The movement, under the lead of old Jacobs, did 
not prove to be a mere spirt, but took the form of a 
strong and effective organization, and in a little while 
changed its character, and became aggressive as well 
as protective. It was in vain that we got up new, 
costlier and more tempting lunches. We had " game 
lunches," and " snapper soup lunches," and " kid 
ney lunches," but the Harvey-street men were on 
guard and watchful over each other. We could not 
draw them in, and it didn 't pay to keep up this style 
of attraction. The lunches cost more than we got 
for the drinks. 

All this had a bad effect on Lloyd. He drank 
still more freely and grew more and more irritable. 
It was as much as I could do, often, to keep him out 
of quarrels with men as irritable and full of liquor as 
himself. Our lighter business, now that we had lost 
the Harvey-street men, gave him an excuse for being 
away a great deal. I did not like the men with 
whom he was beginning to associate. They were a 
fast, reckless, unscrupulous set, without any regular 
business, ward politicians many of them, and some 
of them gamblers by profession. 

I had my suspicion that Lloyd was losing money. 

 



 

There was something in his silent, brooding, troubled 
manner when he came to the saloon in the morning 
that boded no good. After Maggy 's death he had 
lost, apparently, all interest in his family, and never 
spoke of them. His wife, as far as I could learn, was 
a sad and almost broken-hearted woman. Tom was 
going fast to ruin, and she had no power to hold him 
back. The reader already knows hcfw far along this 
road the boy had gone. Love of liquor, as well as 
love of vicious company, had both done sad work 
upon him. The taste formed in his father 's saloon 
had been fed ever since, and was now an appetite 
against which he opposed no restraint. I had heard 
often of his being seen with half-tipsy boys and men, 
as much the worse for drink as any of them. It was 
because his father knew this that he refused to in 
terfere when he was sent to prison until the fine for 
being caught in a cock-pit was paid. His "All 
right !" which seemed utterly unfeeling, was not born 
wholly of anger or indifference. The lesson and re 
straint of a few days or weeks in prison might, he 
felt, have a good effect, and he was too blind with 
excitement to act or speak in any other than the way 
he did. 

Three weeks had gone by, and still Lloyd gave no 
sign of relenting toward his poor boy. I spoke to 
him about it two or three times, but he said he might 
lie there : twas a safer place than low groggeries and 
cock-pits. I would have paid the fine and got Tom 
out, but I didn 't care to take the responsibility of 



 

going between him and his father. And I wasn 't 
sure that a few weeks imprisonment would do him 
any harm. It might do good. 

One morning I was pleased to see the face of an 
old friend from the bindery. A great many dollars 
of his hard earnings had gone into our till quite 
enough during the past two or three years to have 
paid the rent of his house. You think this a pretty 
strong statement? Well, count it up for yourself. 
Five drinks a day was his lowest average. At ten 
cents a drink what he always paid at our bar the 
amount would be fifty cents a day, or a hundred and 
eighty dollars a year. 

I was pleased, as I said, to see his familiar face. 
He was one of the men old Jacobs had " roped in." 

" Good-morning, Fred. Glad to see you," fell in 
a hearty greeting from my tongue. " Thought you 
were dead and buried." 

" Not yet, thank God !" he answered, with a grav 
ity of tone and manner that dashed me considerably. 
"Where 's Lloyd?" 

" About somewhere," I replied. " Do you wish 
to see him particularly ?" 

"Yes." His eyes looked into mine coldly and 
steadily. I did not feel at ease. 

Lloyd came into the bar-room at this moment. 

" Good-morning," said our visitor. 

" Oh ! Good-morning, Fred. Glad to see your 
face again. Thought you 'd left the city." 

I noticed that Lloyd 's voice, which was hearty at 



 

first, toned down rapidly, and was not very cheery 
at the close. 

" I have a note for you ;" and the man handed him 
a letter, watching him keenly as he read it. My 
eyes were also on him. I saw him glance at the 
signature and then knit his brows in a hard, angry 
way. But when he read the letter a change that I 
could not understand swept across his face. It was 
not out-and-out pleasure, though relief of mind was 
plainly expressed. Twice he read the letter, and 
then, as he folded it, said, in a repressed voice, 

"Very well," and turned away. Our old cus 
tomer eyed him curiously for a moment and then 
went out. He didn 't call for a drink. 

Lloyd made no remark on the incident, but seated 
himself at a table with his back toward me and 
leaned his head on his hand. He sat for a long time 
like one half asleep, he was so still. 

" Hiram," he called, after nearly ten minutes had 
gone by. I went to him, and he handed me, without 
speaking, the letter he had just received. I opened 
it and read : 

"DEAR FATHER: Harry Glenn came down to 
the prison this morning and said if I 'd take the 
pledge and join The Harvey-street League the 
men would pay my fine and Mr. Ashley would give 
me a chance in the bindery, and I 've done it. I 've 
seen Mr. Ashley, and he 's spoken kindly to me, and 
says if I 'll go to work and do right he 'll be my 
friend. I'm to begin to-morrow, and am to have 



 

three dollars a week now, and more when I can earn 
it. I'm sorry I 've done so badly, and mean to be a 
better boy. I'm going right home to see mother. 
" Your affectionate son, TOM." 

I don 't  think I was ever taken more aback by 
anything in my life. I read the letter again, and 
then, without saying a word, handed it to Lloyd and 
went back to the bar. A customer came in at the 
moment, and I was glad of the diversion. 

Lloyd went out, and I did not see him until the 
next day. He came in about ten o clock in company 
with a professional gambler, and seemed more ex 
cited than usual. They went up stairs together, and 
I did not see them again. Late in the afternoon 
Lloyd made his appearance, but so much the worse 
for drink that I had to get him out of the way of 
customers. I began to feel very much troubled 
about him troubled on my own account as well as 
his. Our interests were too closely bound together 
for one to make sudden shipwreck without damage 
to the other. Three years of liquor-selling, profit 
able as the business proved, had not made either of 
us rich. We could not afford to retire. Our " pile " 
was yet a thing of the future. Lloyd was in the 
hands of a set of men who would rob him of every 
dollar he possessed with as little compunction as we 
had felt in our work of getting gain. And if he 
were utterly fleeced, and involved in gambling debts 
besides, where would I be ? 


 

Troubles seem never to come alone. Something 
occurred almost every day to keep my mind in a 
worry. A year before, I felt safe in one thing. The 
main chance, as we called it that is, the money 
chance was all right. We were heaping up our 
" pile." " The Retreat " was a success, and no mis 
take. I would get rich, whatever else might happen. 

But I was beginning to feel less confident, to have 
uncomfortable doubts, to be conscious of a weight 
resting all the while upon my feelings. A shadow 
of coming evil had fallen on my path. With an un 
accountable unanimity, temperance men had aroused 
themselves, and were showing front in all directions. 
No movement yet attempted looked so disastrous as 
that in favor of " local option," or the right of the 
people of each ward or county to decide at the polls 
whether they would have bars and drinking-saloons 
or not. The matter was often discussed in our bar 
room, and I did not fail to observe that the weight 
of argument as well as sentiment of a majority of our 
customers, even the hardest drinkers among them, 
was on the side of the new movement. There was 
one man who always put the argument in this form, 
and I never heard it successfully combated. He 
said : 

" Let us take fifty men. They settle together, 
and go to work to build up a town. Their interests 
being mutual, they meet for consultation, and adopt 
certain laws for protection and government. They say 
the freedom of the individual must be maintained, and 



 

yet the good of the whole secured ; therefore every 
man shall be permitted to follow the occupation he 
chooses, provided it does no harm to his neighbor. 
The carpenter, the baker, the merchant, the manu 
facturer, the tailor, the blacksmith, the gardener, 
and all who produce or help the people in any way, 
shall be free in their callings. But no business that 
hurts, depraves or in any way injures the people 
shall be carried on among us. We will not have 
dram-shops and liquor-saloons, nor gambling-hells, 
nor obscene shows, nor vile publications, in our town. 
No man shall have permission to get gain by hurt 
ing or corrupting his neighbor, and if any violate our 
laws against these evil things, he shall be punished." 

Who will say that this community of fifty men 
has not a natural as well as a civil right to do all 
this? And if a community of fifty men has this 
natural and civil right, is it any less the right of a 
community of a thousand or of five hundred thou 
sand? As just said, I never heard the argument 
answered, and could never answer it to myself. 

" You can t get the Legislature to pass any such 
law," was boldly affirmed by a liquor man one even 
ing when the subject of a " local option " law was 
under discussion. " I 've been to Harrisburg a good 
many times, and know the ropes about as well as 
the next man. Politicians can t get on without 
whisky. The liquor interest rules the State. We 
have too much money. I could tell you a thing or 
two if I chose. It was tried last winter, and the 



 

temperance men thought they had the game. But 
it was no go. It cost us a good many thousands of 
dollars, but we were ready to put down twice as 
much more if need be. Why, gentlemen," he con 
tinued, " pass a local option law, as it is called, and 
four-fifths of us might as well shut up shop. Give 
the people a right- to say whether we shall live or no, 
and it 's all up with us. I don 't  believe there are five 
wards in this city maybe not one that, if fairly 
polled, wouldn 't vote down the saloons." 

" I 'll bet on that," returned a half-tipsy customer. 
" Hurrah for local option ! I'm on that side. Told 
Betsey only yesterday that I was going for that ticket." 

" And what did Betsey say ?" asked one who was 
amused at the man 's drunken enthusiasm. 

"Why, she just put her hand on my shoulder and 
said, Pray God the time come soon, Andy ! And 
I said Amen. I hadn 't been drinking anything 
for two or three days. But, you see, one can t go a 
square without being tempted. Tisn 't possible for 
us poor devils to pass a hundred or more saloons 
every day, and not feel a craving for liquor. If I 
were off in the country, or anywhere out of sight of 
your man-traps, I could keep sober as a judge, but, 
confound it ! it 's no use to try, with your gilt signs 
and red lights and windows full of bottles staring 
me in the face at every turn. Yes, sir ! Give us a 
local option law, and we 'll vote you all out of ex 
istence. Hurrah for local option, say I." 

" It 's bound to come," said another, in a confident 



 

voice. " The great body of the people seem to be 
getting awake on this subject, and if they once 
move against anything, it must go down. Rings 
break into helpless fragments and combinations 
lose their power. Nothing is too strong for the 
people. Whatever exists in our social or political 
organizations, for good or for evil, is by sufferance 
of the people. They set up and throw down at 
will." 

" They 'll never stop the sale of liquor," was an 
swered to this. " They can t do it." 

The response was so weak that everybody 
laughed. 

" What is to hinder them, if they resolve to do 
it?" some one inquired. 

"They won t stop it. They can t stop it," was 
returned in a dogged, half-angry way. " It 's a free 
country. It 's against the constitution. I 'd like to 
see them stop me." 

I didn 't feel much comforted by the line of argu 
ment taken by this man. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

EVERY day the aggressive movement of the 
temperance people, was becoming more and more 
pronounced. Morning after morning I read in the 
papers an account of some ward local option meet 
ing. Petitions were being circulated asking the 
Legislature to give the people a local option law, 
and public opinion seemed steadily setting in that 
direction. In our own ward this movement was 
very active, and had its centre of influence in Harvey 
street. 

And now a new demonstration was begun. There 
was a law forbidding the sale of liquor on Sunday 
our best day but it had been for years a dead letter, 
because the people themselves were indifferent and 
suffered us to violate this law with impunity. Most 
of the constables were in league with us, and so no 
official notice was taken of the matter. Now and 
then, under pressure from some judge who saw and 
deplored the evils that sprung from this Sunday 
traffic, the grand jury would in solemn inquest, 
present the matter. But it ended there, and we 
laughed. It was nobody 's business to see that the 
law was executed. Mayors were appealed to in vain. 
They had no authority to shut our doors or close 



our windows. Somebody must see somebody drink 
on Sunday, and must be able to swear that what he 
saw drawn or poured into a tumbler and drank there 
from was actually malt, spirituous or vinous liquor, 
and he must swear to the paying of money for the 
same, or else there could be no conviction. And 
even if all this were sworn to, if a liquor-seller could 
be got on the jury conviction was impossible. So it 
