awakened. I taxed her, to-day, with having deceived you as to the
extent of her lassitude and depression. I surprised her lying on the
sofa in her room, with the traces of fresh and copious tears upon
her cheeks. She tried to laugh me out of my fears by talk of
nervousness and hysteria, and would doubtless have succeeded, such
are her spirit and address--but, Mr. Fordham! her precise likeness
in look and manner at that moment to her sainted mother sent a
poignant fear through my soul! Far be it from me to censure the
dead, but I have always maintained--I shall ever believe that my
precious Ginevra's life might have been spared--prolonged for
years--had her husband conferred with those who were conversant
with her idiosyncrasies--spiritual and physical. Although--I will
reveal to you, my dear sir, under the seal of a secrecy you will see
the expediency of respecting, what I have never lisped to her
daughter, or even to the best of husbands and men--Dr. Baxter. My
cousin Ginevra carried a blighted heart to Dundee when she went
thither as Mr. Kirke's bride. An unfortunate misunderstanding had
alienated her from one to whom her girlish affections were given. It
is needless to enter into particulars. It is enough to say that they
had loved and they were parted. She had not seen or heard from him
for two years, most of which time she had passed abroad; indeed, she
believed him to be the husband of another when she accepted Mr.
Kirke. I own to you that my instinct and my reason opposed this
fatal step. I expostulated with her.
"'Jane!' said she (you can imagine how Jessie would utter it!) 'say
no more. My resolution is taken. This is a good man, and he loves
me! In this union I shall--I may find rest, quiet, and in some
measure, peace. I have been storm-tossed until I have no strength
left for struggling!'
"Upon the eve of her marriage, the man whom she loved returned and
sought an interview. I was with her in her chamber when his card,
requesting this favor, was handed her. At sight of the familiar
characters the buried love sprang up alive, strong, importunate! It
was a fearful scene--that resurrection! What should she have done?"
"Confessed all to her promised husband!" came low and sternly from
the man's heart. "He would have resigned her to her lover without a
word of blame. I knew Mr. Kirke well. I do not speak unadvisedly."
"Such was my counsel. But she would not heed it. She refused to look
again upon the face of him whose heart was breaking with love and
vain regrets, and went right on to her bridal. And her daughter, if
subjected to a like test, would act as she did."
"You say that Jessie is not well?" said Roy, shortly.
There were limits to his fortitude. He could not hear other lips
tell what would be Jessie's action were an abhorrent marriage forced
upon her by conscience or honor.
"In my estimation, she is very far"--arms again divergent--"very
far from well, even taking into consideration the provocatives to
languor you alluded to, just now. Furthermore--and again let me
beg you to receive this intimation in the spirit in which I offer
it!--furthermore, she is homesick for Dundee and her sister. I
adverted to them casually to assure myself that my views on this
point were correct, and her eyes filled again directly.
"'I had hoped to see Euna this month,' she said, 'but the change in
the college vacation, abolishing the intermediate, and making one
long term instead of two short ones, has prevented it.'
"But when I remarked--'I wish Eunice could pay you a visit, were it
only from Saturday to Monday!' the loyal wife (such a stanch
advocate as you have in her, Mr. Fordham!), took alarm.
"'Indeed, Cousin Jane, no one could take kinder care of me than Roy
does!' she said, warmly. 'He spoils and pets me beyond reason, and
when he is in the house, I desire no other society.'
"'But my precious girl!' I remonstrated; 'he cannot be with you all
the time?'
"I wish you had seen the smile with which she replied--'Ah! but I
have the memory of his goodness to live on in his absence!'
"She is true and fond, Mr. Fordham! Nevertheless, she does need
change of air and scene. Her mother pined herself into an untimely
grave in her longing for a sight of her old home and the faces of
beloved ones."
Roy was silent; his eyes downcast, his lips whitening with the
pressure this story had brought to bear upon him. It was not so much
the consciousness that, in sending his wife away, he would rob his
life of repression and self-denial of the little sunshine left to
it, as the thought that she was sickening of his companionship;
could not live and grow in his shadow. This was the naked truth,
disguise it as she might from her cousin; deny it to herself as she
probably did. In every point of Mrs. Baxter's description, he
recognized this terrible sense of bondage, crushing spirit and life;
heard, even in her tribute to his loving watchfulness over her
health and bodily comfort, the plaint embodied in the poem he had
learned by heart:
    "Like a chainèd thing, caressed
    By the hand it knows the best,
    By the hand which, day by day,
    Visits its imprisoned stay,
    Bringing gifts of fruit and blossom
    From the green earth's plenteous bosom;
    All but that for which it pines,
    In these narrow, close confines,
    With a sad and ceaseless sigh,--
    Wild and wingèd Liberty!"
With a deep inspiration which was the farewell to more hopeful
dreams than he knew, until then, he had nursed, he collected his
senses to reply.
"It was my intention to take Jessie to Dundee in June, at the
beginning of my vacation. She set the time herself--I can see now,
in compliance with what she believed were my wishes. But she shall
go at once. I thank you for your more than friendly concern for her,
your frank dealing with me."
He arose to go. The lady scanned his face somewhat uneasily. There
was something there that foiled her penetration.
"You understand, my dear sir, that nothing would have tempted me
to intermeddle in this affair, were the case precisely what you have
supposed. But there is an undercurrent, Mr. Fordham, the effect of
which I can trace, that seriously complicates anything like
hysterical depression. And loving the child as we do--as every one
does, it behooves us to watch her warily, minister to her
intelligently as tenderly. The affection between the sisters is
unusually strong, and we should remember that the dear lamb has
known no other mother."
"I have offered, several times during the winter, to take her to
visit Eunice. We were to have gone at Christmas, but Jessie had a
severe cold that confined her to the house a fortnight."
"I remember! To be quite sincere with you--not that I consider it
a dangerous symptom--but I wish she were rid of that little
hacking cough. She makes light of it. Says it is nervous, or from
the stomach. But I do not like it!"
She attended him to the portico, disclaiming, cautioning, and
thanking him,--gesticulating through it all--as the wickedest of the
wicked quintette of observers had it--"like a lunatic windmill."
They espied no change in the Professor's gait or air. He walked
firmly, head erect and countenance composed. And their distance
from him was too great to allow them to note the want of color in
his complexion.
He entered his own house, more slowly than he had trodden the
pavement. Jessie had fallen into the habit common to wives who hail
their husbands' return as cheering events, of meeting him in the
hall, sometimes at the front door. She appeared from the
sitting-room, while he was hanging up his hat and dusting his boots.
He was particular in all that pertained to personal neatness.
"Your step sounds weary," she said. "It is very warm, really
debilitating, to-day--is it not?"
During his brief answer he surveyed her narrowly, the dread that had
been gnawing his heart all the way home sharpening his vision in the
search for signs of debility and disease.
She, too, wore a white dress, but a black grenadine shawl was folded
over her chest, and Roy's eye rested aghast upon the thin hand that
held it together. What had he been thinking of, not to discern the
inroads of the destroyer in this, and in the finer oval of her face;
in the slight cough that succeeded her question, and the hurried
breathing he could hear in approaching her? If his awakening should
have come too late!
"I believe I have the Spring fever," he said, affecting to suppress
a yawn. "This weather puts one in mind of country delights; makes
him crave the smell of the freshly upturned earth, and the sight of
green land growing things."
"Then take a look at my conservatory," she returned, playfully,
leading the way to the open bay-window.
The sill, without and within, was crowded with plants. She had been
at work among them for an hour, and they were in their freshest
trim. The pruning-scissors lay upon the shelf, and, taking them up,
she clipped a sprig of heliotrope, another of mignonette, a
rose-bud, and a bit of citron-aloes, bound them together with silk
from her work-basket, and offered them smilingly.
"Thank you. They are very sweet, very beautiful! How does the
jessamine thrive?"
"Not so well as it should--ungrateful little thing!" touching the
leaves of a stunted vine which was honored with a china flower-pot
and the sunniest stand in the window. "I am afraid it cannot
flourish in this high latitude. It needs warmer earth, less fitful
sunshine. Or it may be that I am killing it with kindness," she
added, shaking her head pensively.
Roy detected another meaning in her thoughtfulness. Ungenial
influences, unwelcome assiduity of attention, were sapping her
vitality, and the analogy between her lot and that of her fading
favorite was wearing upon her imagination.
"We will try again."
He had to clear his throat before he could speak. Jessie smiled
slightly, with no misgiving of the communication that awaited her.
She even stooped to pick off a few withered leaves that had
previously escaped her notice. The two were side by side within the
recess; so near together that the warm breeze blew the light folds
of the wife's dress over the husband's arm; but she recked no more
of the wretchedness kept down by his strong will than if a thousand
leagues of ocean divided them.
"I have been thinking seriously all the way home of taking you to
Dundee, and leaving you in Eunice's charge for a time," continued
Roy, presently. "You are not so rosy and light-footed here as you
were among the mountains. And the sudden variations of our climate
affect the human Jessamine also! You should have a change, and
without delay."
"I am very well--entirely contented!" she interposed, reddening
vividly.
"You are kind to say so!" gratefully. "But there are other reasons
why you should anticipate the date originally set for your visit to
your old home. Eunice has been very self-denying and patient, and
she should have her reward. While you are regaining health and
strength, winning back your lost roses, you can accumulate a
plentiful supply of seeds and roots of all descriptions, besides
studying floriculture with your sister--if it be true, as you would
make me believe, that she excels you in skill. For in your absence I
shall have a real conservatory built back of this room, and our long
talked of oriel run out here."
Jessie made a desperate effort to jest away the discussion.
"Oh! as to the oriel, I have quite abandoned the project since Mrs.
Wyllys told me--having learned from the Provosts that we meditated
something of the sort--that oriels had 'gone out entirely; that no
stylish house nowadays is disfigured by them.' The only thing
resembling the obsolete excrescences that would be admitted into a
modern 'establishment' is a mullioned window, my good sir! I should
never hold up my head in Hamilton again if I were to offend so
boldly against the rules of art governing the best society!"
The toss of her head and her tones were Mrs. Orrin's to the life.
But Roy had hard work to smile. In his state of mind, badinage was
like jesting over a death-bed.
"Mrs. Wyllys must look the other way, then--at the majestic
proportions of her cupola, if she likes, for the oriel is to be a
fact next month. The work will be better done if I am on the ground
to oversee operations, and it would not be pleasant for you to
remain in the house while it is in confusion, not to mention the
risk of taking cold from the damp walls and the open room, while the
wall is down. It will be a convenience all around, you see."
"If you really think that I will be in the way--"
"I did not say that!" The correction was so prompt as to sound
sharp. "But my judgment tells me that the plan I suggest is the best
for both of us. My mind will be easier with regard to you if you are
safe and happy in Eunice's care."
Jessie had turned her face quite away, and seemed to be gazing at
some object in the street.
"I see!" she said, finally. "When do you wish me to go?"
"Whenever it suits your convenience. If you desire my escort, we had
best leave Hamilton on Saturday of this or the next week."
"I can travel alone easily if it is not convenient for you to leave
your classes. If you go on Saturday you lose Monday also. This is
Tuesday. I can be ready by Thursday morning. If the change be as
needful as you suppose, the sooner it is made the better. As to an
escort, a lady needs none when there is no change of cars."
Roy pinched the succulent stems of his flowers until the perfume
was hot and sickly. How impatient she was to be gone! She had gasped
when he opened the door of escape from her cage, as if she already
saw "wild and wingèd liberty" beyond.
"You do not think it necessary to notify Eunice of your coming,
then?" he inquired.
"You can telegraph on Thursday morning, when you are fairly rid of
me. Euna is always at home, and always ready and glad to see me. My
visit will make her very happy."
The rising tears broke through her assumed lightness. She struggled
to drive them back, and failing, walked abruptly from the room.
And thus the question was settled.
Jessie began to pack that afternoon; working so diligently as to be
wan and appetiteless by supper time. Fanny Provost and her
betrothed, Lieutenant Averill, who was in Hamilton on furlough,
called in the evening. Warren Provost and Selina Bradley came in
afterward, and the hostess revived visibly in their society. Her
eyes and color were brilliant; her laugh ready; her repartee pointed
and felicitous. The young people, regretting the near prospect of
her departure, fell to rallying her upon her partiality for country
life, and she defended the preference with spirit. Then, at Fanny's
earnest request, she told the authentic legend of Dundee and "auld
Davie," appearing to forget herself and her slavery (thought Roy),
in her enthusiasm.
"The women fought too!" ejaculated Selina, when it was finished.
"They were made of different stuff from me, or any other young lady
of this generation that I know. I go into convulsions at the sight
of an empty gun."
"They were warring for home and freedom!" rejoined Jessie. "To avoid
captivity I would fight in the open field in the ranks. And so would
you. But the love of liberty is oftener a passion with us
mountaineers, than with lowlanders."
She caught her breath strangely--something between a sob and a
laugh--which she tried to cover with a cough.
    "A sad and ceaseless sigh!"
repeated the haunting demon in Roy's heart.
The hilarious talk went on, unchecked by his occasional fits of
abstraction. Jessie was like another being in the anticipation of
liberation.
"Heartlessly cheerful!" said Selina, with her usual aptitude for
making unlucky observations.
"One would think you two were tired of each other already!" she
subjoined. "And you haven't been married more than half a year! I
shall tell this to papa. He raved over your mutual attachment and
your devoted attentions to Mr. Fordham when he was sick, Jessie!"
"Say, at the same time, that she does not go, of her own accord!"
said Roy--"but because I try to be as careful of her health as she
was of mine. Although, if you had ever visited Dundee, you would not
be scandalized by her desire to revisit it."
Fanny, observing Jessie's quick, hot blush and averted eyes, and
divining that something was ajar, came to the relief of the hardly
pressed couple.
"Did Jessie ever tell you, Mr. Fordham," she said, in her liveliest
tone--"of the astounding poetical effort put forth by her admirer,
Mr. Lowndes, the rich student, they used to call him--entitled,
'Jessie the flower o' Dundee'! The graceless youths of his class
set it to the good old Scotch tune of that name. It was in a
different metre--very uncommon, I believe, and the fun of the joke
was in fitting the words in, after the manner of 'Ancient Uncle
Edward.' I will get you a copy, and Warren here shall teach you how
to sing it."
CHAPTER XXVI.
The weather changed on the morrow.
Coming home at nightfall, Roy found Jessie standing at the western
window, surveying sorrowfully the unfavorable aspect of the heavens.
"It will be very unpleasant travelling in the rain!" she remarked as
he entered. "The sun went down behind a portentous bank of clouds.
And the wind is veering to the storm-quarter."
It was evident that the possibility of a single day's delay made her
restless and anxious.
"The signs portend nothing worse than April showers, I hope," he
encouraged her to believe. "Or, should there be a steady rain, you
will soon run out of it into the region of blue skies and milder
airs. I see no reason for altering your arrangements. You will be
sheltered and dry in the cars."
"True!" she answered, musingly, returning to her contemplation of
the unpromising horizon.
She was perturbed, however, and unusually taciturn while they were
at supper; dull and spiritless during the hour they spent together
in the sitting-room; arousing herself with apparent effort to reply
to his remarks, and rarely offering one of her own accord. Roy's
attempts at cheerful conversation were less evenly sustained than
was customary with him in her presence. It was not his intention
that this last evening should be one of gloomy constraint, but it
approximated this more nearly every moment. Both were abstracted,
and each was unwilling that the other should discover the direction
in which his and her thoughts were straying. So the pauses in the
sluggish flow of talk became more and more frequent, until, at nine
o'clock, Jessie arose, with a sigh of relief.
"I must get a good night's rest, if I am to travel, to-morrow. Will
you excuse me if I go upstairs, thus early?"
"Do not let me detain you a moment. Is there nothing I can do to
assist you?"
"Nothing--thank you! There will be time to strap my trunks in the
morning. You still think I had better go--whatever may be the
weather?" stopping with the door in her hand.
"I do, certainly; that is, if you are not afraid of adding to your
cold--if you are well enough."
"My cold is nothing. I have ordered breakfast at half-past six. I am
glad the train does not leave so early as it did last year.
Good-night!"
The cold, indifferent accents sank to the bottom of his heart like
lead. What a millstone about this woman's neck was her marriage vow!
His endeavors to make it lighter, and her existence endurable--the
work to which he had given his best energies and wisest
deliberations; the self-abnegation and prayerful struggle he had
accepted as the penalty of his grievous indiscretion, had proved
futile. He had guarded eye, tongue, and action for five months;
drilled them in friendly looks, words, and deeds, lest a glimmer of
the affection that glowed--a pent but consuming fire in his
soul--should offend or dismay her; had ministered to her with a
lover's constancy and tenderness without a hint of love's reward.
And this was the end! Some significant glance, an intonation, an
excess of solicitude for her welfare, had betrayed his design to win
her anew, and she had taken the alarm; was terrified and reluctant,
without the power of escape. Or her constitution--physical and
spiritual--had succumbed to the attrition of duty against womanly
instinct. With vain care he had kept her shackles out of sight.
Everything in her surroundings; the very pronunciation of her name
by acquaintances, had reminded her continually of her anomalous
position. Neither wife, nor maid, she stood, according to her morbid
perceptions, alone and banned, without so much as a title to the
shelter of his roof, except as a bondwoman. She could not forget
that she was a slave. The untamable heart--in which the "love of
liberty" was a "passion," was beating itself to death against the
bars he had foolishly hoped to cushion and wreathe until she should
cease to feel them as a restraint.
She had not loved him when she married him. That this change in her
sentiments was not a passing girlish caprice, he had evidence in the
words she had written to him while the right of free speech remained
to her.
"Months of doubt and suffering have brought me to the determination
to confess this without reserve."
"Doubt and suffering!" What were these to the horrors of her actual
bondage?
"From which I cannot release her!" he repeated, for the thousandth
time.
His habit was to go to the library when she left him for the night,
but he lingered, this evening, in the apartment he had fitted up for
her with such fond pride; which she had made a sacred place by her
abiding. There was a cruel pleasure in noting the tokens of her
recent presence; in inhaling the odors of the flowers she had
tended; in touching the books she had handled. She could never be
more to him than she was now. He believed that she must, from this
hour, be less; that the solace of her friendship would be withheld.
Else, why her anxiety to be away from him? her chafing at the
threatened delay of a day in her flight back to the only real home
she had ever known? Was the memory of the evanescent phantasy of her
girlhood--the brief space during which she had deluded herself into
the belief that she loved him, so sore and hateful that she would
shun the sight of one who kept it in constant remembrance? Could it
be true that he had, in the face of these frightful odds, cherished
a hope that he might yet persuade her into a preference for his
companionship?
A loud ring at the door-bell startled him into consciousness of the
hour and place. Phoebe had gone up to bed, and Mr. Fordham went
himself to admit the unseasonable visitor.
"Good-evening!" said a familiar voice when the door was unclosed,
and Dr. Baxter walked in as naturally and coolly as if it were not
ten o'clock at night, and he plentifully besprinkled with rain. "I
was out thinking--and walking, after the warm day--and chancing to
observe that I was at your door, I stopped to say 'Good-bye' to the
lassie--to your wife. Mrs. Baxter mentioned to-night, at tea, that
she was-going to Dundee to-morrow."
He had obeyed Roy's impulse in the direction of the sitting-room,
but declined to take a chair. His cravat was a damp string; the
handkerchief twisted about his left hand bore marks of terrific
usage, and when he removed his hat, every one of his stiff gray
hairs appeared to have gone into business on its own account, so
distinct was its independent existence. His eyes were like those of
a partially awakened somnambulist, and his voice had dreamy
inflections. Had his own mood been less sad, Roy must have smiled at
the grotesque apparition, uncouth even to one so familiar with the
peculiarities of the good man, as was his coadjutor in the business
of his life. As it was, he appreciated gratefully the love the old
scholar bore his former ward, and the new proof of this, evinced by
his stepping without the charmed circle of metaphysical or
scientific lucubrations to pay this, for him, rare visit of
neighborly courtesy and affectionate interest.
"I am sorry Jessie has retired," he said, sincerely. "She would have
been happy to see you. But, in view of to-morrow's journey, she went
up to her chamber an hour ago. I am afraid she is asleep by this
time."
The doctor shook himself out of a menacing relapse.
"Eh! asleep--is she? Ah, well! that is as it should be. Don't
disturb her! I merely called to kiss her, and bid her 'God speed.'
She is a dear and a good girl. Her price is above rubies. She
carries our love and best wishes with her into her retirement.
Since she is not up, I will leave my message with you. I believe--it
seems to me that I had a message"--with an ominous twitch of the
handkerchief, and a dreamier accent.
"She will appreciate your kind remembrance of her, sir. She prizes
your friendship very fondly."
"Ah!" another mental shoulder-jog. "We shall hardly see her again
until autumn, I presume? I infer as much from what Mrs. Baxter has
told me of her plans."
"There has been no definite time set for her return," said Roy,
evasively, his heart heavier than before at the thought that Jessie
had expressed to her cousin a desire for a long sojourn in the
country.
Yet if he had failed to keep her with him now, what warrant had he
for confidence in his ability to lure her back?
"You will be lonely without her!" the worthy President observed,
something in the atmosphere of this, her especial apartment,
conveying to his straying wits an indistinct perception of the void
her absence would make in the daily life of the man before him. In
his own way, he missed his restless and faithful Jane when she was
not at home.
"I shall!"
Not another word before the lips were closely sealed.
The doctor looked at him quickly and keenly, then put out his hand
to pat his shoulder.
"Keep up a brave heart, my lad! although the desire of your eyes be
removed from your side, for a few weeks. Nothing cheats time of
heaviness, like work and hope. One you will find here in your
accustomed avocations. The second will culminate in fruition when
you are reunited to her you love, and, please GOD--in the
blessedness of a father's love and delight, when your firstborn is
given into your arms. It is a joy HE has seen fit to deny me. I
shall take my name down into the grave with me. HIS will be done!
But I have not, on that account, the less sympathy with you at this
juncture. Say to our Jessie that our prayers will follow her. You
will go to her at the beginning of vacation, of course. And should
you wish to run down to Dundee, for a day or two, each week during
the remainder of term-time, I will gladly take your classes. You can
recompense me by letting me christen the heir"--a fatherly smile
overspreading the dry face. "The advent is expected towards the last
of July, Mrs. Baxter says."
Conscious that, in the drunkenness of his astonishment, he returned
a lame and seemingly ungracious reply to offer and congratulations,
Roy made no movement to detain the eccentric guest, when he, after
another dazed look around the apartment, as if wondering how he had
got there, espied the door, and approached it with the briefest of
"Good-nights." While the master of the house stood rooted to the
floor, the visitant accomplished his exit, unchallenged and
unattended. Another man would have taken mortal offence at the lack
of respectful ceremony. The doctor, in his semi-trance, had not an
idea of the commotion he had excited.
"I am not surprised that I am an offence in her eyes--that she must
accuse me in her heart, of being less than man," muttered the
husband, at length, passing a shaking hand over his pale forehead.
"She ought to hate me for my seeming indifference--my unfeeling
silence. She would if she were not an angel. My poor girl! And she
has borne it all, without a murmur; like the brave, true woman she
is. GOD forgive me! I can never pardon myself!"
He was sitting, his arms crossed upon the table, and his head laid
upon them, when Jessie glided in stealthily. Over her white wrapper
she had thrown a crimson shawl, and her long hair was loose upon her
shoulders. Whatever resolve had drained her cheeks and lips of
bloom, and lighted the steady flame in her eyes, had been acted upon
with precipitancy, lest her nerve should fail.
She halted upon the threshold, on seeing the bowed figure; then
advanced more rapidly, but without noise.
"Roy! are you awake?"
"Yes."
But he did not lift his face.
"Are you sick?"
"No!"
"Can you listen to me for a few minutes!"
"As long as you wish."
His voice was hollow and tremulous to plaintiveness; but she took
heart from its exceeding, if mournful, gentleness.
"I cannot sleep to-night," she commenced, hurriedly, "still less can
I leave you to-morrow, without expressing to you, however feebly, my
sense of the goodness and mercy you have showed me from the hour I
entered this house, until now. I may have appeared unobservant and
unthankful; may have seemed to accept your benefits as if they were
my due, when, in reality, I was unworthy of the least of them all;
but it was because I did not know in what form to express my
gratitude. If, in my acquiescence in your proposal that I should go
to my sister for a season, I have used few words; have not thanked
you for this fresh proof of your delicate watchfulness over my
comfort and happiness, I beg you to attribute my shortcomings to
other reasons than insensibility or misconstruction of your motives.
I was entirely unprepared for the suggestion. It was a shock to me,
because I had dared to believe that you would see fit to let me
remain here with you until vacation, when we could go to Dundee
together."
Standing on the other side of the table, she saw a slight but eager
change in the expression of the mute form. It was as if his hearing
were strained for her next utterance, but the features were still
concealed.
On the roof of the bay-window, the soft, large drops of the April
shower were beginning to fall in musical whispers.
Jessie put out a hand upon the marble top of the table to steady
herself, as she resumed. There was that in this continued silence
that awed and made her incoherent. It was unlike Roy's usual
reception of her advances--his ready and indulgent courtesy. Her
heart beat painfully and fast, but she did not swerve from her
resolution.
"I know you so well--your purity of purpose; the standard of
excellence you set for your motive and deed; your earnest desire to
make me happy--that I fear you will, when I am gone, accuse yourself
of want of skill or judgment in your treatment of me. I want you to
remember then, that I broke through the reserve we have aided one
another to maintain, to assure you that, in no one particular would
I have had your action different from what it has been--that, in
language and demeanor you have been alike noble. Deserving your
reprobation, I have received tender respect; having forfeited by my
fickleness and falsehood all claim to kindness, I have been
cherished as the truest wife in the land might hope to be. Something
tells me that, when we part to-morrow, it will be to meet no more in
time. It may be that the presentiment is born of my distempered
imagination; but it has drawn my whole soul out in a longing I
cannot frame into speech, to be at peace with you; to feel your hand
again upon my head; to hear you call me once--just once more, by the
holy name of Wife!
"For I am your wife, Roy! Unworthy as I am of the title, it is the
only glory I have. Until yesterday, I had dreamed of saying this to
you in very different language and circumstances. It is just that
this expectation should be disappointed. I do not appeal from my
sentence of exile. But, by the memory of the love you once had for
me--and I was full of faults then as now--do not send me away,
unforgiven, and starving for your affection--my husband!"
When he looked up, she was kneeling at his side, her eyes streaming
with the tears that had impeded her utterance.
Still dumbly, he drew her to him; put back the hair from her face,
every line of his own astir with a passion of pity and adoration she
hardly dared to look upon. It was a minute before he could
articulate. Then the tense lips were moved into womanly softness.
"You can forgive me, then, my Wife! Thank GOD!"
He laid his cheek to hers, and she felt the great sobs of the breast
against which she leaned.
But for a long time, there was nothing more said.
Except by the rain-drops whispering over their heads, broken, now
and then, by the wind into little gushes that sounded like laughter,
happy to tearfulness.
CHAPTER XXVII.
In the plenitude of her cousinly compassion for the lonely husband,
Mrs. Baxter coaxed her spouse into escorting her to Mr. Fordham's,
on Thursday evening. The wind had settled into an easterly gale,
after yesterday's genial warmth; the day had been unpleasant, and
the clouds were still dripping at irregular intervals, as if wrung
by impatient hands.
"But it is an act of common humanity to visit the poor fellow in his
solitude, my dear, while his desolation is fresh upon him!" she
sighed, sympathetically.
"Mr. Fordham was in the library," said Phoebe, with an air of
bewilderment at the lady's query, and to the library the consoler
accordingly tripped, with footfall of down, and countenance robed in
decorous and becoming pensiveness.
Her light tap was unanswered, but uncertain of this, she took the
benefit of the doubt, and entering bouncingly, as was her habit, she
surprised Jessie, sitting upon her husband's knee, one hand buried
in his hair, the other clutching his beard, in a fashion at once
undignified and saucy. Both were laughing so heartily that their
neglect of the warning knock was explained.
When the confusion of mutual explanations was over, Mrs. Baxter
learned, to her amazement, that the journey to Dundee was postponed
until after the College Commencement.
"I wouldn't go when I found that Roy wanted to get rid of me!"
said the transformed wife. "When I put him into the confessional, he
owned who was his fellow-conspirator in the scheme for my
banishment. For shame, Cousin Jane! I have long suspected you of a
weakness for the handsome Professor, but you sit convicted of a
deliberate attempt to remove him from the guardianship of his legal
protector, that your designs upon his affections might be more
vigorously prosecuted. And no sooner do you suppose that the coast
is clear, than you present yourself, arrayed in your best dress and
choicest smiles, and with actually a rose-bud in your brooch! to
make sure of your game. I shall never trust in human friendship
again!"
"You are ungenerous to triumph over me so openly--and in the poor,
dear doctor's hearing!" returned her cousin, holding her fan before
her face, with a theatrical show of detected guilt.
"I ought to have some compensation for the excruciating anguish the
discovery cost me," retorted Jessie. "Tongue cannot describe the
tremendous struggle I went through before I could bring myself to
undertake the investigation of your perfidy and his susceptibility.
I know just how Esther felt when she screwed her courage to the
sticking-point, and made up her mind and her toilette to face
Ahasuerus and a possible gallows."
Roy was pretending to listen to the doctor's elaborate disquisition
upon an important political question, but he stole a sidelong glance
at the sparkling face, across the hearth, and smiled, in gladness of
content.
She was his blithe, lovesome witch again. The baleful enchantment
that had ensnared her fancy and distracted her thoughts from
dwelling upon him and his love--(he refused to believe that he had
ever lost her heart)--was destroyed, and, by him, remembered no more
as a thing of dread. More to spare him pain than to shield Orrin,
Jessie had not entered into the particulars of her estrangement, or
revealed who was the prime agent in bringing it about. Wyllys' name
was not mentioned by either.
"I had a bad, wild dream--" she thus explained her defection. "A
dream that made me doubt you--Heaven--myself--everything! that
robbed me of love and hope, with faith. I was susceptible, giddy,
undisciplined; and I was grievously tempted by an evil spirit.
Maybe"--humbly--"I am no better or wiser now; but I am ready and
thankful to give myself up to your guidance. I ought to be a good
woman in future; for I have been dealt with very tenderly by my
Heavenly Father--and by you, my best earthly friend!"
Roy had no fear. His second wooing was, he felt, crowned with
richer, more enduring success than the first had been. He cared not
to ask, or to conjecture by what art his image had been clouded
over, since he saw it now clearly mirrored in a heart tried by
refining fires.
The christening feast was not held until December, at which date
Master Kirke Lanneau Fordham was four months old.
Eunice had taken her school and cottage for a year, and the
interesting fête could not be appointed until she could make her
arrangements to be with her sister. Work for the good of others, and
wholesome meditation, had brought to her, as they must to all
healthy, GOD-fearing souls, healing and peace during the months she
had spent in her new domicile. With the June vacation had come
Jessie and her husband; and when the little claimant upon their love
and care arrived, the lonely woman, who had put thoughts of her own
wifehood and maternity from her forever, when she turned the key
upon the souvenirs of her one love-dream, opened her heart and took
in, with the babe, comfort and hope that were, to her, fresh and
beautiful life. What Roy's arguments and Jessie's entreaties could
not accomplish, the innocent young eyes and clinging baby-fingers
effected within a month after her nephew's birth. If Kirke went to
Hamilton, she would follow, she promised, and early December saw her
domesticated in the Fordham household.
"I wish Orrin Wyllys and his wife were not coming, this evening!"
said Jessie, confidentially, to her sister, as they were arraying
the boy for the grand occasion.
Eunice looked in no wise surprised at the impetuous exclamation,
albeit it was the first avowal of dislike of Roy's relative she had
ever heard from Jessie's lips.
"It would not have been expedient to omit them from your list of
invitations, my dear!" she returned, with her slow, bright smile.
"For Roy's sake, you must disguise your antipathy."
"Antipathy isn't too strong a word, Euna! You cannot understand what
reason I have to distrust that man! to despise both himself and his
wife! And the dêbut of Papa's boy ought to be all brightness to
Mamma!" suspending the process of the toilette to strangle him with
caresses.
"He cannot hurt you now, love. Even poisonous breath soon passes
from finely-tempered steel."
The look and tone silenced the other. Eunice's insight of the
tempter's true character was deeper than she had imagined. Even she
never dreamed how, and at what cost, the knowledge was gained.
Miss Kirke was an attractive feature of the assembly that night.
Many thought her handsomer than her more lively sister. There was
not one present who would not have ridiculed the idea of a
comparison between her classic beauty and Mrs. Wyllys' shrewish
physiognomy. Once, the two ladies talked together for five minutes,
near the centre of the front parlor, the light from the chandelier
streaming on both. Eunice was dressed with her usual just taste, in
a lustreless mourning silk, a tiny illusion ruff enhancing the
fairness of neck and face, her abundant hair arranged simply without
ornament. She possessed the rare accomplishment of standing still
without stiffness, and no nervous play of fingers or features marred
the exquisite repose of her bearing, as she listened to or replied
to her companion.
Hester was in the full glory of brocade, diamonds, and point lace,
with French flowers twisted in her pale tresses, and trailing
bramble-wise down her back. She fidgeted incessantly; her skin was
muddy with biliousness and discontent; she perked her faint eyebrows
into a frown, every other minute; her laugh was forced, and the
viscid tones had a twang of pain or ill-humor. She was getting very
tired of keeping up the appearance of conjugal felicity with so
little assistance from her lord; growing bitterly conscious of the
motives that had impelled him to the uncongenial marriage, and
disposed to eye jealously every woman to whom he paid the most
trifling attention.
"I suppose you are baby-mad, like the rest?" she said, pulling
viciously at the golden chain of her bouquet-holder. "I am in a
deplorable minority here, to-night. Christening-parties are always a
bore to me. I am so sincere, you know, so apt to say what I think,
that I can never go into raptures over the little monkeys, as
everybody else does. I presume, now, that it is considered rather a
nice child--if there is such a thing--isn't it?"
"We think him a noble little fellow; but we do not require the rest
of the world to agree with us," replied Eunice, with unruffled
politeness.
"I detest children! just perfectly abominate babies! I wouldn't
have one for a kingdom. And Orrin loves his own ease too much to
want them. He is an awful hypocrite, Miss Kirke. You were very
wise not to get married. He can't abide children"--raising her
voice--"although he is making a fool of himself over that bundle
of lace, lawn, and flannel yonder."
Eunice, inwardly provoked at the irreverent and inelegant
description of the royal cherub, could yet respond, with apparent
composure.
"He does it from a sense of duty, or a desire to please, probably."
She followed the direction of the wife's scornful eyes.
The folding doors were open, and through the archway, they had a
view of the mother, tempting her boy with a flower she had taken
from a bouquet, near by, laughing at his open mouth, starting eyes,
and fluttering arms, as he tried to seize it. Orrin had approached
her while his wife was speaking to Eunice; accosted her before she
was aware of his vicinity. His remark, delivered with his most
insinuating smile, and in his inimitable manner, was evidently a
compliment to the beauty of the child; but she met it with lightness
bordering upon contempt. Dropping the flower, she lifted the babe
from his temporary throne on the stuffed back of an easy chair, and
walked away.
Mrs. Wyllys tittered shrilly, and clapped her hands.
"A decided rebuff!" she sneered, more loudly than good breeding
would have counselled. "It is strange, Miss Kirke, that your
lady-killer is so slow to learn the mortifying fact that he ceases
to be irresistible when he has been guilty of the mistake of
matrimony."
Orrin, nervously sensitive to her tones, heard and saw her, while he
affected to do neither; saw, likewise, by whom she was standing, and
that she showed beside her neighbor as a tawdry, artificial rose,
faded and tumbled, does when near a stately, living lily.
Seeing and admitting all this, he heaved an inaudible sigh that did
not touch his eyes or chasten his careless smile. His inward moan
was not--"Me miserable!" or "Fool that I was!" or anything else
poetical or tragic; but--"If I could have afforded it!"
"The fair Euna will wear better than mia cara sposa!" he owned,
candidly. "But money outlasts beauty, and is more necessary to a
man's happiness. Love is only a luxury; an indulgence too costly
for the enjoyment of most wedded pairs. Beryl eyes and a Greek
profile would not have paid my debts, nor the future claims of
carriage makers, and horse-jockeys, and yacht-builders, No! I have
done all that man could, in the like circumstances. Better bread
buttered on both sides by Hester, than a dry slice with Eunice."
He owed Miss Kirke no grudge; found placid satisfaction in reviewing
their intercourse, akin to that he experienced in the contemplation
of a fine, mezzo-tinto engraving or a moonlit landscape. But Jessie
irritated and piqued him. If her gay insensibility were bravado, he
would yet make her drop the mask. His wife was right in affirming
that the passion for conquest was not extinct after a year of
married bliss.
"She did worship me in those days!" he ruminated. "Worshipped me
madly and entirely, as men are seldom loved, as few women are
capable of loving. Does she take me for an idiot in supposing that I
credit the thoroughness of her cure!"
Lounging in a desultory way through the rooms, bowing to this, and
exchanging a pleasant word with that one of the friends collected to
do honor to the infant scion of the house, he contrived to waylay
Jessie in the hall. She had transferred the baby to the nurse's
care, and was returning to her guests. A fierce impulse possessed
him as he marked her happy face, flushed by excitement into
loveliness that had never been hers in her girlhood. She was passing
him with a slight and nonchalant bow, when he arrested her.
"Can I speak with you for a moment?"
"Now?" she said, dubiously, looking toward the parlors crowded with
company.
"Now! I can wait no longer! Is any one in the library?"
Before she could reply, he had pushed the door back, and led her in.
The room was not needed for the use of the guests, and was unlighted
except by the low fire in the grate.
"I will light the gas!" said Jessie, trying to withdraw her hand
from his clutch.
He tightened the grasp. It is said that every man is a savage at
some time of his life. The brutish devil was rampant now in the
polished citizen of the world, the indolent epicure. If he were ever
to regain his lost influence, it must be by a coup d'état--by
threats, rather than flattery. He would show her what she risked in
attempting to dupe and foil him. A desperate expedient, but the case
was not a hopeful one.
"What affectation of prudery is this?" he asked, roughly. "Time was
when you were less scrupulous about granting me interviews in the
firelight. Do you imagine, silly child, that your overacted farce of
wifely devotion blinds me as it does the fools you have called
together to-night to witness this pretty display of domestic
felicity? Or"--his tone changing suddenly--"that any amount of
coldness and cruelty can extinguish my love for you? the love you
once confessed--in my arms--was reciprocated by yourself, then the
betrothed of him, who now believes you to be his loyal consort? You
have found it an easy task to deceive him, because it is not in him
to worship you as I do. You may struggle to escape from me, but you
know I am speaking the truth, and leaving half of it untold. Don't
drive me to distraction, Jessie! or I shall divulge that which your
husband, with all his phlegmatic philosophy, may resent. Resent,
possibly, upon me--certainly upon you--in treatment you will find it
hard to bear. I have warned you before, that generous forgiveness of
an offence to his dignity and self-love is a height of virtue
unknown to Roy Fordham. I warn you that you are dealing with a
desperate, because a miserable man!"
"This is a specimen of the superior manliness, the lofty magnanimity
you vaunt as your characteristics--is it?"
She had wrested her hand from him. The faint, red glare revealed the
outlines of a figure drawn up to its full height, and instinct with
anger and defiance. The clear accents were stinging hailstones.
"I am not afraid of you, if I do shrink from your touch. I am glad
you have given me this opportunity to say what you ought to know.
