All passion had died out of it.
He waited, but she added nothing more. After a long silence she waved
her hand slightly, and without looking at her husband, said,
“I would rather be alone.”
Mr. Dinneford took Edith’s letter from the floor, where it had dropped
from his wife’s hand, and withdrew from her presence. She arose quickly
as he did so, crossed the room and silently turned the key, locking
herself in. Then her manner changed; she moved about the room in a
half-aimless, half-conscious way, as though some purpose was beginning
to take shape in her mind. Her motions had an easy, cat-like grace, in
contrast with their immobility a little while before. Gradually her step
became quicker, while ripples of feeling began to pass over her face,
which was fast losing its pallor. Gleams of light began shooting from
her eyes, that were so dull and stony when her husband found her with
Edith’s letter crushed in her grasp. Her hands opened and shut upon
themselves nervously. This went on, the excitement of her forming
purpose, whatever it was, steadily increasing, until she swept about
the room like a fury, talking to herself and gesticulating as one half
insane from the impelling force of an evil passion.
“Baffled, but not defeated.” The excitement had died out. She spoke
these words aloud, and with a bitter satisfaction in her voice, then sat
down, resting her face in her hands, and remaining for a long time in
deep thought.
When she met her husband, an hour afterward, there was a veil over her
face, and he tried in vain to look beneath it. She was greatly changed;
her countenance had a new expression--something he had never seen there
before. For years she had been growing away from him; now she seemed
like one removed to a great distance--to have become almost stranger. He
felt half afraid of her. She did not speak of Edith, but remained cold,
silent and absorbed.
Mrs. Dinneford gave no sign of what was in her heart for many weeks.
The feeling of distance and strangeness perceived by her husband went on
increasing, until a vague feeling of mystery and fear began to oppress
him. Several times he had spoken of Edith, but his wife made no
response, nor could he read in her veiled face the secret purposes she
was hiding from him.
No wonder that Mr. Dinneford was greatly surprised and overjoyed, on
coming home one day, to meet his daughter, to feel her arms about his
neck, and to hold her tearful face on his bosom.
“And I’m not going away again, father dear,” she said as she kissed him
fondly. “Mother has sent for me, and George is to come. Oh, we shall be
so happy, so happy!”
And father and daughter cried together, like two happy children, in very
excess of gladness. They had met alone, but Mrs. Dinneford came in, her
presence falling on them like a cold shadow.
“Two great babies,” she said, a covert sneer in her chilling voice.
The joy went slowly out of their faces, though not out of their
hearts. There it nestled, and warmed the renewing blood. But a vague,
questioning fear began to creep in, a sense of insecurity, a dread of
hidden danger. The daughter did not fully trust her mother, nor the
husband his wife.
CHAPTER II.
THE reception of young Granger was as cordial as Mrs. Dinneford
chose to make it. She wanted to get near enough to study his character
thoroughly, to discover its weaknesses and defects, not its better
qualities, so that she might do for him the evil work that was in her
heart. She hated him with a bitter hatred, and there is nothing so
subtle and tireless and unrelenting as the hatred of a bad woman.
She found him weak and unwary. His kindly nature, his high sense of
honor, his upright purpose, his loving devotion to Edith, were nothing
in her eyes. She spurned them in her thoughts, she trampled them under
her feet with scorn. But she studied his defects, and soon knew every
weak point in his character. She drew him out to speak of himself,
of his aims and prospects, of his friends and associates, until she
understood him altogether. Then she laid her plans for his destruction.
Granger was holding a clerkship at the time of his marriage, but was
anxious to get a start for himself. He had some acquaintance with a
man named Lloyd Freeling, and often spoke of him in connection with
business. Freeling had a store on one of the best streets, and, as
represented by himself, a fine run of trade, but wanted more capital.
One day he said to Granger,
“If I could find the right man with ten thousand dollars, I would take
him in. We could double this business in a year.”
Granger repeated the remark at home, Mrs. Dinneford listened, laid it up
in her thought, and on the next day called at the store of Mr. Freeling
to see what manner of man he was.
Her first impression was favorable--she liked him. On a second visit she
likes him better. She was not aware that Freeling knew her; in this he
had something of the advantage. A third time she dropped in, asking to
see certain goods and buying a small bill, as before. This time she drew
Mr. Freeling into conversation about business, and put some questions
the meaning of which he understood quite as well as she did.
A woman like Mrs. Dinneford can read character almost as easily as she
can read a printed page, particularly a weak or bad character. She knew
perfectly, before the close of this brief interview, that Freeling was a
man without principle, false and unscrupulous, and that if Granger were
associated with him in business, he could, if he chose, not only involve
him in transactions of a dishonest nature, but throw upon him the odium
and the consequences.
“Do you think,” she said to Granger, not long afterward, “that your
friend, Mr. Freeling, would like to have you for a partner in business?”
The question surprised and excited him.
“I know it,” he returned; “he has said so more than once.”
“How much capital would he require?”
“Ten thousand dollars.”
“A large sum to risk.”
“Yes; but I do not think there will be any risk. The business is well
established.”
“What do you know about Mr. Freeling?”
“Not a great deal; but if I am any judge of character, he is fair and
honorable.”
Mrs. Dinneford turned her head that Granger might not see the expression
of her face.
“You had better talk with Mr. Dinneford,” she said.
But Mr. Dinneford did not favor it. He had seen too many young men go
into business and fail.
So the matter was dropped for a little while. But Mrs. Dinneford had
set her heart on the young man’s destruction, and no better way of
accomplishing the work presented itself than this. He must be involved
in some way to hurt his good name, to blast his reputation and drive him
to ruin. Weak, trusting and pliable, a specious villain in whom he
had confidence might easily get him involved in transactions that were
criminal under the law. She would be willing to sacrifice twice ten
thousand dollars to accomplish this result.
Neither Mr. Dinneford nor Edith favored the business connection with
Freeling, and said all they could against it. In weak natures we often
find great pertinacity. Granger had this quality. He had set his mind on
the copartnership, and saw in it a high road to fortune, and no argument
of Mr. Dinneford, nor opposition of Edith, had power to change his
views, or to hold him back from the arrangement favored by Mrs.
Dinneford, and made possible by the capital she almost compelled her
husband to supply.
In due time the change from clerk to merchant was made, and the new
connection announced, under the title of “FREELING & GRANGER.”
Clear seeing as evil may be in its schemes for hurting others, it
is always blind to the consequent exactions upon itself; it strikes
fiercely and desperately, not calculating the force of a rebound. So
eager was Mrs. Dinneford to compass the ruin of Granger that she stepped
beyond the limit of common prudence, and sought private interviews
with Freeling, both before and after the completion of the partnership
arrangement. These took place in the parlor of a fashionable hotel,
where the gentleman and lady seemed to meet accidentally, and without
attracting attention.
Mrs. Dinneford was very confidential in these interviews not concealing
her aversion to Granger. He had come into the family, she said, as an
unwelcome intruder; but now that he was there, they had to make the best
of him. Not in spoken words did Mrs. Dinneford convey to Freeling the
bitter hatred that was in her heart, nor in spoken words let him know
that she desired the young man’s utter ruin, but he understood it
all before the close of their first private interview. Freeling was
exceedingly deferential in the beginning and guarded in his speech. He
knew by the quick intuitions of his nature that Mrs. Dinneford cherished
an evil purpose, and had chosen him as the agent for its accomplishment.
She was rich, and occupied a high social position, and his ready
conclusion was that, be the service what it might, he could make it pay.
To get such a woman in his power was worth an effort.
One morning--it was a few months after the date of the
copartnership--Mrs. Dinneford received a note from Freeling. It said,
briefly,
“At the usual place, 12 M. to-day. Important.” There was no signature.
The sharp knitting of her brows and the nervous crumpling of the note
in her hand showed that she was not pleased at the summons. She had come
already to know her partner in evil too well. At 12 M. she was in
the hotel parlor. Freeling was already there. They met in external
cordiality, but it was very evident from the manner of Mrs. Dinneford,
that she felt herself in the man’s power, and had learned to be afraid
of him.
“It will be impossible to get through to-morrow,” he said, in a kind of
imperative voice, that was half a threat, “unless we have two thousand
dollars.”
“I cannot ask Mr. Dinneford for anything more,” Mrs. Dinneford replied;
“we have already furnished ten thousand dollars beyond the original
investment.”
“But it is all safe enough--that is, if we do not break down just here
for lack of so small a sum.”
Mrs. Dinneford gave a start.
“Break down!” She repeated the words in a husky, voice, with a paling
face. “What do you mean?”
“Only that in consequence of having in store a large stock of unsalable
goods bought by your indiscreet son-in-law, who knows no more about
business than a child, we are in a temporary strait.”
“Why did you trust him to buy?” asked Mrs. Dinneford.
“I didn’t trust him. He bought without consulting me,” was replied,
almost rudely.
“Will two thousand be the end of this thing?”
“I think so.”
“You only think so?”
“I am sure of it.”
“Very well; I will see what can be done. But all this must have an end,
Mr. Freeling. We cannot supply any more money. You must look elsewhere
if you have further need. Mr. Dinneford is getting very much annoyed and
worried. You surely have other resources.”
“I have drawn to the utmost on all my resources,” said the man, coldly.
Mrs. Dinneford remained silent for a good while, her eyes upon the
floor. Freeling watched her face intently, trying to read what was in
her thoughts. At last she said, in a suggestive tone,
“There are many ways of getting money known to business-men--a little
risky some of them, perhaps, but desperate cases require desperate
expedients. You understand me?”
Freeling took a little time to consider before replying.
“Yes,” he said, at length, speaking slowly, as one careful of his words.
“But all expedients are ‘risky,’ as you say--some of them very risky. It
takes a long, cool head to manage them safely.”
“I don’t know a longer or cooler head than yours,” returned Mrs.
Dinneford, a faint smile playing about her lips.
“Thank you for the compliment,” said Freeling, his lips reflecting the
smile on hers.
“You must think of some expedient.” Mrs. Dinneford’s manner grew
impressive. She spoke with emphasis and deliberation. “Beyond the sum of
two thousand dollars, which I will get for you by to-morrow, I shall not
advance a single penny. You may set that down as sure. If you are not
sharp enough and strong enough, with the advantage you possess, to hold
your own, then you must go under; as for me, I have done all that I can
or will.”
Freeling saw that she was wholly in earnest, and understood what she
meant by “desperate expedients.” Granger was to be ruined, and she was
growing impatient of delay. He had no desire to hurt the young man--he
rather liked him. Up to this time he had been content with what he could
draw out of Mrs. Dinneford. There was no risk in this sort of business.
Moreover, he enjoyed his interviews and confidences with the elegant
lady, and of late the power he seemed to be gaining over her; this power
he regarded as capital laid up for another use, and at another time.
But it was plain that he had reached the end of his present financial
policy, and must decide whether to adopt the new one suggested by Mrs.
Dinneford or make a failure, and so get rid of his partner. The question
he had to settle with himself was whether he could make more by a
failure than by using Granger a while longer, and then throwing him
overboard, disgraced and ruined. Selfish and unscrupulous as he was,
Freeling hesitated to do this. And besides, the “desperate expedients”
 he would have to adopt in the new line of policy were fraught with
peril to all who took part in them. He might fall into the snare set for
another--might involve himself so deeply as not to find a way of escape.
“To-morrow we will talk this matter over,” he said in reply to Mrs.
Dinneford’s last remark; “in the mean time I will examine the ground
thoroughly and see how it looks.”
“Don’t hesitate to make any use you can of Granger,” suggested the lady.
“He has done his part toward getting things tangled, and must help to
untangle them.”
“All right, ma’am.”
And they separated, Mrs. Dinneford reaching the street by one door of
the hotel, and Freeling by another.
On the following day they met again, Mrs. Dinneford bringing the two
thousand dollars.
“And now what next?” she asked, after handing over the money and taking
the receipt of “Freeling & Granger.” Her eyes had a hard glitter, and
her face was almost stern in its expression. “How are you going to raise
money and keep afloat?”
“Only some desperate expedient is left me now,” answered Freeling,
though not in the tone of a man who felt himself at bay. It was said
with a wicked kind of levity.
Mrs. Dinneford looked at him keenly. She was beginning to mistrust the
man. They gazed into each other’s faces in silence for some moments,
each trying to read what was in the other’s thought. At length Freeling
said,
“There is one thing more that you will have to do, Mrs. Dinneford.”
“What?” she asked.
“Get your husband to draw two or three notes in Mr. Granger’s favor.
They should not be for less than five hundred or a thousand dollars
each. The dates must be short--not over thirty or sixty days.”
“It can’t be done,” was the emphatic answer.
“It must be done,” replied Freeling; “they need not be for the business.
You can manage the matter if you will; your daughter wants an India
shawl, or a set of diamonds, or a new carriage--anything you choose. Mr.
Dinneford hasn’t the ready cash, but we can throw his notes into bank
and get the money; don’t you see?”
But Mrs. Dinneford didn’t see.
“I don’t mean,” said Freeling, “that we are to use the money. Let the
shawl, or the diamond, or the what-not, be bought and paid for. We get
the discounts for your use, not ours.”
“All very well,” answered Mrs. Dinneford; “but how is that going to help
you?”
“Leave that to me. You get the notes,” said Freeling.
“Never walk blindfold, Mr. Freeling,” replied the lady, drawing herself
up, with a dignified air. “We ought to understand each other by this
time. I must see beyond the mere use of these notes.”
Freeling shut his mouth tightly and knit his heavy brows. Mrs. Dinneford
watched him, closely.
“It’s a desperate expedient,” he said, at length.
“All well as far as that is concerned; but if I am to have a hand in it,
I must know all about it,” she replied, firmly. “As I said just now, I
never walk blindfold.”
Freeling leaned close to Mrs. Dinneford, and uttered a few sentences in
a low tone, speaking rapidly. The color went and came in her face, but
she sat motionless, and so continued for some time after he had ceased
speaking.
“You will get the notes?” Freeling put the question as one who has
little doubt of the answer.
“I will get them,” replied Mrs. Dinneford.
“When?”
“It will take time.”
“We cannot wait long. If the thing is done at all, it must be done
quickly. ‘Strike while the iron is hot’ is the best of all maxims.”
“There shall be no needless delay on my part. You may trust me for
that,” was answered.
Within a week Mrs. Dinneford brought two notes, drawn by her husband
in favor of George Granger--one for five hundred and the other for one
thousand dollars. The time was short--thirty and sixty days. On this
occasion she came to the store and asked for her son-in-law. The meeting
between her and Freeling was reserved and formal. She expressed regret
for the trouble she was giving the firm in procuring a discount for her
use, and said that if she could reciprocate the favor in any way she
would be happy to do so.
“The notes are drawn to your order,” remarked Freeling as soon as the
lady had retired. Granger endorsed them, and was about handing them to
his partner, when the latter said:
“Put our name on them while you are about it.” And the young man wrote
also the endorsement of the firm.
After this, Mr. Freeling put the bank business into Granger’s hands.
Nearly all checks were drawn and all business paper endorsed by the
younger partner, who became the financier of the concern, and had the
management of all negotiations for money in and out of bank.
One morning, shortly after the first of Mr. Dinneford’s notes was paid,
Granger saw his mother-in-law come into the store. Freeling was at the
counter. They talked together for some time, and then Mrs. Dinneford
went out.
On the next day Granger saw Mrs. Dinneford in the store again. After
she had gone away, Freeling came back, and laying a note-of-hand on his
partner’s desk, said, in a pleased, confidential way.
“Look at that, my friend.”
Granger read the face of the note with a start of surprise. It was drawn
to his order, for three thousand dollars, and bore the signature of
Howard Dinneford.
“A thing that is worth having is worth asking for,” said Freeling.
“We obliged your mother-in-law, and now she has returned the favor. It
didn’t come very easily, she said, and your father-in-law isn’t feeling
rather comfortable about it; so she doesn’t care about your speaking of
it at home.”
Granger was confounded.
“I can’t understand it,” he said.
“You can understand that we have the note, and that it has come in the
nick of time,” returned Freeling.
“Yes, I can see all that.”
“Well, don’t look a gift-horse in the mouth, but spring into the saddle
and take a ride. Your mother-in-law is a trump. If she will, she will,
you may depend on’t.”
Freeling was unusually excited. Granger looked the note over and over
in a way that seemed to annoy his partner, who said, presently, with a
shade of ill-nature in his voice,
“What’s the matter? Isn’t the signature all right?”
“That’s right enough,” returned the young man, after looking at it
closely. “But I can’t understand it.”
“You will when you see the proceeds passed to our accounted in bank--ha!
ha!”
Granger looked up at his partner quickly, the laugh had so strange a
sound, but saw nothing new in his face.
In about a month Freeling had in his possession another note, signed by
Mr. Dinneford and drawn to the order of George Granger. This one was for
five thousand dollars. He handed it to his partner soon after the latter
had observed Mrs. Dinneford in the store.
A little over six weeks from this time Mrs. Dinneford was in the store
again. After she had gone away, Freeling handed Granger three more
notes drawn by Mr. Dinneford to his order, amounting in all to fifteen
thousand dollars. They were at short dates.
Granger took these notes without any remark, and was about putting them
in his desk, when Freeling said,
“I think you had better offer one in the People’s Bank and another in
the Fourth National. They discount to-morrow.”
“Our line is full in both of these banks,” replied Granger.
“That may or may not be. Paper like this is not often thrown out. Call
on the president of the Fourth National and the cashier of the People’s
Bank. Say that we particularly want the money, and would like them to
see that the notes go through. Star & Giltedge can easily place the
other.”
Granger’s manner did not altogether please his partner. The notes lay
before him on his desk, and he looked at them in a kind of dazed way.
“What’s the matter?” asked Freeling, rather sharply.
“Nothing,” was the quiet answer.
“You saw Mrs. Dinneford in the store just now. I told her last week that
I should claim another favor at her hands. She tried to beg off, but I
pushed the matter hard. It must end here, she says. Mr. Dinneford won’t
go any farther.”
“I should think not,” replied Granger. “I wouldn’t if I were he. The
wonder to me is that he has gone so far. What about the renewal of these
notes?”
“Oh, that is all arranged,” returned Freeling, a little hurriedly.
Granger looked at him for some moments. He was not satisfied.
“See that they go in bank,” said Freeling, in a positive way.
Granger took up his pen in an abstracted manner and endorsed the notes,
after which he laid them in his bank-book. An important customer coming
in at the moment, Freeling went forward to see him. After Granger was
left alone, he took the notes from his bank-book and examined them
with great care. Suspicion was aroused. He felt sure that something
was wrong. A good many things in Freeling’s conduct of late had seemed
strange. After thinking for a while, he determined to take the notes at
once to Mr. Dinneford and ask him if all was right. As soon as his mind
had reached this conclusion he hurried through the work he had on hand,
and then putting his bank-book in his pocket, left the store.
On that very morning Mr. Dinneford received notice that he had a note
for three thousand dollars falling due at one of the banks. He went
immediately and asked to see the note. When it was shown to him, he was
observed to become very pale, but he left the desk of the note-clerk
without any remark, and returned home. He met his wife at the door, just
coming in.
“What’s the matter?” she asked, seeing how pale he was. “Not sick, I
hope?”
“Worse than sick,” he replied as they passed into the house together.
“George has been forging my name.”
“Impossible!” exclaimed Mrs. Dinneford.
“I wish it were,” replied Mr. Dinneford, sadly; “but, alas! it is too
true. I have just returned from the Fourth National Bank. They have a
note for three thousand dollars, bearing my signature. It is drawn
to the order of George Granger, and endorsed by him. The note is a
forgery.”
Mrs. Dinneford became almost wild with excitement. Her fair face grew
purple. Her eyes shone with a fierce light.
“Have you had him arrested?” she asked.
“Oh no, no, no!” Mr. Dinneford answered. “For poor Edith’s sake, if for
nothing else, this dreadful business must be kept secret. I will take up
the note when due, and the public need be none the wiser.”
“If,” said Mrs. Dinneford, “he has forged your name once, he has, in all
probability, done it again and again. No, no; the thing can’t be hushed
up, and it must not be. Is he less a thief and a robber because he is
our son-in-law? My daughter the wife of a forger! Great heavens! has it
come to this Mr. Dinneford?” she added, after a pause, and with intense
bitterness and rejection in her voice. “The die is cast! Never again, if
I can prevent it, shall that scoundrel cross our threshold. Let the law
have its course. It is a crime to conceal crime.”
“It will kill our poor child!” answered Mr. Dinneford in a broken voice.
“Death is better than the degradation of living with a criminal,”
 replied his wife. “I say it solemnly, and I mean it; the die is cast!
Come what will, George Granger stands now and for ever on the outside!
Go at once and give information to the bank officers. If you do not, I
will.”
With a heavy heart Mr. Dinneford returned to the bank and informed the
president that the note in question was a forgery. He had been gone from
home a little over half an hour, when Granger, who had come to ask him
about the three notes given him that morning by Freeling, put his key in
the door, and found, a little to his surprise, that the latch was down.
He rang the bell, and in a few moments the servant appeared. Granger was
about passing in, when the man said, respectfully but firmly, as he held
the door partly closed,
“My orders are not to let you come in.”
“Who gave you those orders?” demanded Granger, turning white.
“Mrs. Dinneford.”
“I wish to see Mr. Dinneford, and I must see him immediately.”
“Mr. Dinneford is not at home,” answered the servant.
“Shut that door instantly!”
It was the voice of Mrs. Dinneford, speaking from within. Granger heard
it; in the next moment the door was shut in his face.
The young man hardly knew how he got back to the store. On his arrival
he found himself under arrest, charged with forgery, and with fresh
evidence of the crime on his person in the three notes received that
morning from his partner, who denied all knowledge of their existence,
and appeared as a witness against him at the hearing before a
magistrate. Granger was held to bail to answer the charge at the next
term of court.
It would have been impossible to keep all this from Edith, even if there
had been a purpose to do so. Mrs. Dinneford chose to break the dreadful
news at her own time and in her own way. The shock was fearful. On the
night that followed her baby was born.
CHAPTER III.
“IT is a splendid boy,” said the nurse as she came in with the
new-born baby in her arms, “and perfect as a bit of sculpture. Just look
at that hand.”
“Faugh!” ejaculated Mrs. Dinneford, to whom this was addressed. Her
countenance expressed disgust. She turned her head away. “Hide the thing
from my sight!” she added, angrily. “Cover it up! smother it if you
will!”
“You are still determined?” said the nurse.
“Determined, Mrs. Bray; I am not the woman to look back when I have once
resolved. You know me.” Mrs. Dinneford said this passionately.
The two women were silent for a little while. Mrs. Bray, the nurse, kept
her face partly turned from Mrs. Dinneford. She was a short, dry, wiry
little woman, with French features, a sallow complexion and very black
eyes.
The doctor looked in. Mrs. Dinneford went quickly to the door, and
putting her hand on his arm, pressed him back, going out into the entry
with him and closing the door behind them. They talked for a short time
very earnestly.
“The whole thing is wrong,” said the doctor as he turned to go, “and I
will not be answerable for the consequences.”
“No one will require them at your hand, Doctor Radcliffe,” replied
Mrs. Dinneford. “Do the best you can for Edith. As for the rest, know
nothing, say nothing. You understand.”
Doctor Burt Radcliffe had a large practice among rich and fashionable
people. He had learned to be very considerate of their weaknesses,
peculiarities and moral obliquities. His business was to doctor them
when sick, to humor them when they only thought themselves sick, and to
get the largest possible fees for his, services. A great deal came under
his observation that he did not care to see, and of which he saw as
little as possible. From policy he had learned to be reticent. He held
family secrets enough to make, in the hands of a skillful writer, more
than a dozen romances of the saddest and most exciting character.
Mrs. Dinneford knew him thoroughly, and just how far to trust him. “Know
nothing, say nothing” was a good maxim in the case, and so she divulged
only the fact that the baby was to be cast adrift. His weak remonstrance
might as well not have been spoken, and he knew it.
While this brief interview was in progress, Nurse Bray sat with the baby
on her lap. She had taken the soft little hands into her own; and evil
and cruel though she was, an impulse of tenderness flowed into her heart
from the angels who were present with the innocent child. It grew
lovely in her eyes. Its helplessness stirred in her a latent instinct of
protection. “No no, it must not be,” she was saying to herself, when the
door opened and Mrs. Dinneford came back.
Mrs. Bray did not lift her head, but sat looking down at the baby and
toying with its hands.
“Pshaw!” ejaculated Mrs. Dinneford, in angry disgust, as she noticed
this manifestation of interest. “Bundle the thing up and throw into that
basket. Is the woman down stairs?”
“Yes,” replied Mrs. Bray as she slowly drew a light blanket over the
baby.
“Very well. Put it in the basket, and let her take it away.”
“She is not a good woman,” said the nurse, whose heart was failing her
at the last moment.
“She may be the devil for all I care,” returned Mrs. Dinneford.
Mrs. Bray did as she was ordered, but with an evident reluctance that
irritated Mrs. Dinneford.
“Go now and bring up the woman,” she said, sharply.
The woman was brought. She was past the prime of life, and had an evil
face. You read in it the record of bad passions indulged and the signs
of a cruel nature. She was poorly clad, and her garments unclean.
“You will take this child?” said Mrs. Dinneford abruptly, as the woman
came into her presence.
“I have agreed to do so,” she replied, looking toward Mrs. Bray.
“She is to have fifty dollars,” said the nurse.
“And that is to be the last of it!” Mrs. Dinneford’s face was pale, and
she spoke in a hard, husky voice.
Opening her purse, she took from it a small roll of bills, and as she
held out the money said, slowly and with a hard emphasis,
“You understand the terms. I do not know you--not even your name. I
don’t wish to know you. For this consideration you take the child away.
That is the end of it between you and me. The child is your own as much
as if he were born to you, and you can do with him as you please. And
now go.” Mrs. Dinneford waved her hand.
“His name?” queried the woman.
“He has no name!” Mrs. Dinneford stamped her foot in angry impatience.
The woman stooped down, and taking up the basket, tucked the covering
that had been laid over the baby close about its head, so that no one
could see what she carried, and went off without uttering another word.
It was some moments before either Mrs. Dinneford or the nurse spoke.
Mrs. Bray was first to break silence.
“All this means a great deal more than you have counted on,” she said,
in a voice that betrayed some little feeling. “To throw a tender baby
out like that is a hard thing. I am afraid--”
“There, there! no more of that,” returned Mrs. Dinneford, impatiently.
“It’s ugly work, I own, but it had to be done--like cutting off a
diseased limb. He will die, of course, and the sooner it is over, the
better for him and every one else.”
“He will have a hard struggle for life, poor little thing!” said the
nurse. “I would rather see him dead.”
Mrs. Dinneford, now that this wicked and cruel deed was done, felt ill
at ease. She pushed the subject away, and tried to bury it out of sight
as we bury the dead, but did not find the task an easy one.
What followed the birth and removal of Edith’s baby up to the time of
her return to reason after long struggle for life, has already been
told. Her demand to have her baby--“Oh, mother, bring me my baby!
I shall die if you do not!” and the answer, “Your baby is in
heaven!”--sent the feeble life-currents back again upon her heart. There
was another long period of oblivion, out of which she came very slowly,
her mind almost as much a blank as the mind of a child.
She had to learn again the names of things, and to be taught their use.
It was touching to see the untiring devotion of her father, and the
pleasure he took in every new evidence of mental growth. He went
over the alphabet with her, letter by letter, many times each day,
encouraging her and holding her thought down to the unintelligible signs
with a patient tenderness sad yet beautiful to see; and when she began
to combine letters into words, and at last to put words together, his
delight was unbounded.
Very slowly went on the new process of mental growth, and it was months
before thought began to reach out beyond the little world that lay just
around her.
Meanwhile, Edith’s husband had been brought to trial for forgery,
convicted and sentenced to the State’s prison for a term of years. His
partner came forward as the chief witness, swearing that he had believed
the notes genuine, the firm having several times had the use of Mr.
Dinneford’s paper, drawn to the order of Granger.
Ere the day of trial came the poor young man was nearly broken-hearted.
Public disgrace like this, added to the terrible private wrongs he was
suffering, was more than he had the moral strength to bear. Utterly
repudiated by his wife’s family, and not even permitted to see Edith, he
only knew that she was very ill. Of the birth of his baby he had but
a vague intimation. A rumor was abroad that it had died, but he could
learn nothing certain. In his distress and uncertainty he called on Dr.
Radcliffe, who replied to his questions with a cold evasion. “It was
put out to nurse,” said the doctor, “and that is all I know about it.”
 Beyond this he would say nothing.
Granger was not taken to the State’s prison after his sentence, but
to an insane asylum. Reason gave way under the terrible ordeal through
which he had been made to pass.
“Mother,” said Edith, one day, in a tone that caused Mrs. Dinneford’s
heart to leap. She was reading a child’s simple story-book, and looked
up as she spoke. Her eyes were wide open and full of questions.
“What, my dear?” asked Mrs. Dinneford, repressing her feelings and
trying to keep her voice calm.
“There’s something I can’t understand, mother.” She looked down at
herself, then about the room. Her manner was becoming nervous.
“What can’t you understand?”
Edith shut her hands over her eyes and remained very still. When
she removed them, and her mother looked into her face the childlike
sweetness and content were all gone, and a conscious woman was before
her. The transformation was as sudden as it was marvelous.
Both remained silent for the space of nearly a minute. Mrs. Dinneford
knew not what to say, and waited for some sign from her daughter.
“Where is my baby, mother?” Edith said this in a low, tremulous whisper,
leaning forward as she spoke, repressed and eager.
“Have you forgotten?” asked Mrs. Dinneford, with regained composure.
“Forgotten what?”
“You were very ill after your baby was born; no one thought you could
live; you were ill for a long time. And the baby--”
“What of the baby, mother?” asked Edith, beginning to tremble violently.
Her mother, perceiving her agitation, held back the word that was on her
lips.
“What of the baby, mother?” Edith repeated the question.
“It died,” said Mrs. Dinneford, turning partly away. She could not look
at her child and utter this cruel falsehood.
“Dead! Oh, mother, don’t say that! The baby can’t be dead!”
A swift flash of suspicion came into her eyes.
“I have said it, my child,” was the almost stern response of Mrs.
Dinneford. “The baby is dead.”
A weight seemed to fall on Edith. She bent forward, crouching down until
her elbows rested on her knees and her hands supported her head. Thus
she sat, rocking her body with a slight motion. Mrs. Dinneford watched
her without speaking.
“And what of George?” asked Edith, checking her nervous movement at
last.
Her mother did not reply. Edith waited a moment, and then lifted herself
erect.
“What of George?” she demanded.
“My poor child!” exclaimed Mrs. Dinneford, with a gush of genuine pity,
putting her arms about Edith and drawing her head against her bosom. “It
is more than you have strength to bear.”
“You must tell me,” the daughter said, disengaging herself. “I have
asked for my husband.”
“Hush! You must not utter that word again;” and Mrs. Dinneford put her
fingers on Edith’s lips. “The wretched man you once called by that name
is a disgraced criminal. It is better that you know the worst.”
When Mr. Dinneford came home, instead of the quiet, happy child he
had left in the morning, he found a sad, almost broken-hearted woman,
refusing to be comforted. The wonder was that under the shock of this
terrible awakening, reason had not been again and hopelessly dethroned.
After a period of intense suffering, pain seemed to deaden sensibility.
She grew calm and passive. And now Mrs. Dinneford set herself to the
completion of the work she had begun. She had compassed the ruin of
Granger in order to make a divorce possible; she had cast the baby
adrift that no sign of the social disgrace might remain as an impediment
to her first ambition. She would yet see her daughter in the position
to which she had from the beginning resolved to lift her, cost what it
might. But the task was not to be an easy one.
After a period of intense suffering, as we have said, Edith grew calm
and passive. But she was never at ease with her mother, and seemed to
be afraid of her. To her father she was tender and confiding. Mrs.
Dinneford soon saw that if Edith’s consent to a divorce from her husband
was to be obtained, it must come through her father’s influence; for
if she but hinted at the subject, it was met with a flash of almost
indignant rejection. So her first work was to bring her husband over to
her side. This was not difficult, for Mr. Dinneford felt the disgrace
of having for a son-in-law a condemned criminal, who was only saved from
the State’s prison by insanity. An insane criminal was not worthy to
hold the relation of husband to his pure and lovely child.
After a feeble opposition to her father’s arguments and persuasions,
Edith yielded her consent. An application for a divorce was made, and
speedily granted.
CHAPTER IV.
OUT of this furnace Edith came with a new and purer spirit. She had
been thrust in a shrinking and frightened girl; she came out a woman in
mental stature, in feeling and self-consciousness.
The river of her life, which had cut for itself a deeper channel, lay
now so far down that it was out of the sight of common observation. Even
her mother failed to apprehend its drift and strength. Her father knew
her better. To her mother she was reserved and distant; to her father,
warm and confiding. With the former she would sit for hours without
speaking unless addressed; with the latter she was pleased and social,
and grew to be interested in what interested him. As mentioned, Mr.
Dinneford was a man of wealth and leisure, and active in many public
charities. He had come to be much concerned for the neglected and
cast-off children of poor and vicious parents, thousands upon thousands
of whom were going to hopeless ruin, unthought of and uncared for by
Church or State, and their condition often formed the subject of his
conversation as well at home as elsewhere.
Mrs. Dinneford had no sympathy with her husband in this direction. A
dirty, vicious child was an offence to her, not an object of pity, and
she felt more like, spurning it with her foot than touching it with
her hand. But it was not so with Edith; she listened to her father, and
became deeply interested in the poor, suffering, neglected little ones
whose sad condition he could so vividly portray, for the public duties
of charity to which he was giving a large part of his time made him
familiar with much that was sad and terrible in human suffering and
degradation.
One day Edith said to her father,
“I saw a sight this morning that made me sick. It has haunted me ever
since. Oh, it was dreadful!”
“What was it?” asked Mr. Dinneford.
“A sick baby in the arms of a half-drunken woman. It made me shiver to
look at its poor little face, wasted by hunger and sickness and purple
with cold. The woman sat at the street corner begging, and the people
went by, no one seeming to care for the helpless, starving baby in her
arms. I saw a police-officer almost touch the woman as he passed. Why
did he not arrest her?”
“That was not his business,” replied Mr. Dinneford. “So long as she did
not disturb the peace, the officer had nothing to do with her.”
“Who, then, has?”
“Nobody.”
“Why, father!” exclaimed Edith. “Nobody?”
“The woman was engaged in business. She was a beggar, and the sick,
half-starved baby was her capital in trade,” replied Mr. Dinneford.
“That policeman had no more authority to arrest her than he had to
arrest the organ-man or the peanut-vender.”
“But somebody should see after a poor baby like that. Is there no law to
meet such cases?”
“The poor baby has no vote,” replied Mr. Dinneford, “and law-makers
don’t concern themselves much about that sort of constituency; and even
if they did, the executors of law would be found indifferent. They are
much more careful to protect those whose business it is to make drunken
beggars like the one you saw, who, if men, can vote and give them place
and power. The poor baby is far beneath their consideration.”
“But not of Him,” said Edith, with eyes full of tears, “who took little
children in his arms and blessed them, and said, Suffer them to come
unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven.”
“Our law-makers are not, I fear, of his kingdom,” answered Mr.
Dinneford, gravely, “but of the kingdom of this world.”
A little while after, Edith, who had remained silent and thoughtful,
said, with a tremor in her voice,
“Father, did you see my baby?”
Mr. Dinneford started at so unexpected a question, surprised and
disturbed. He did not reply, and Edith put the question again.
“No, my dear,” he answered, with a hesitation of manner that was almost
painful.
After looking into his face steadily for some moments, Edith dropped her
eyes to the floor, and there was a constrained silence between them for
a good while.
“You never saw it?” she queried, again lifting her eyes to her father’s
face. Her own was much paler than when she first put the question.
“Never.”
“Why?” asked Edith.
She waited for a little while, and then said,
“Why don’t you answer me, father?”
“It was never brought to me.”
“Oh, father!”
“You were very ill, and a nurse was procured immediately.”
“I was not too sick to see my baby,” said Edith, with white, quivering
lips. “If they had laid it in my bosom as soon as it was born, I would
never have been so ill, and the baby would not have died. If--if--”
She held back what she was about saying, shutting her lips tightly. Her
face remained very pale and strangely agitated. Nothing more was then
said.
A day or two afterward, Edith asked her mother, with an abruptness that
sent the color to her face, “Where was my baby buried?”
“In our lot at Fairview,” was replied, after a moment’s pause.
Edith said no more, but on that very day, regardless of a heavy rain
that was falling, went out to the cemetery alone and searched in the
family lot for the little mound that covered her baby--searched, but did
not find it. She came back so changed in appearance that when her mother
saw her she exclaimed,
“Why, Edith! Are you sick?”
“I have been looking for my baby’s grave and cannot find it,” she
answered. “There is something wrong, mother. What was done with my baby?
I must know.” And she caught her mother’s wrists with both of her hands
in a tight grip, and sent searching glances down through her eyes.
“Your baby is dead,” returned Mrs. Dinneford, speaking slowly and with
a hard deliberation. “As for its grave--well, if you will drag up the
miserable past, know that in my anger at your wretched mesalliance I
rejected even the dead body of your miserable husband’s child, and would
not even suffer it to lie in our family ground. You know how bitterly I
was disappointed, and I am not one of the kind that forgets or forgives
easily. I may have been wrong, but it is too late now, and the past may
as well be covered out of sight.”
“Where, then, was my baby buried?” asked Edith, with a calm resolution
of manner that was not to be denied.
“I do not know. I did not care at the time, and never asked.”
“Who can tell me?”
“I don’t know.”
“Who took my baby to nurse?”
“I have forgotten the woman’s name. All I know is that she is dead. When
the child died, I sent her money, and told her to bury it decently.”
“Where did she live?”
“I never knew precisely. Somewhere down town.”
“Who brought her here? who recommended her?” said Edith, pushing her
inquiries rapidly.
“I have forgotten that also,” replied Mrs. Dinneford, maintaining her
coldness of manner.
“My nurse, I presume,” said Edith. “I have a faint recollection of
her--a dark little woman with black eyes whom I had never seen before.
What was her name?”
“Bodine,” answered Mrs. Dinneford, without a moment’s hesitation.
“Where does she live?”
“She went to Havana with a Cuban lady several months ago.”
“Do you know the lady’s name?”
“It was Casteline, I think.”
Edith questioned no further. The mother and daughter were still sitting
together, both deeply absorbed in thought, when a servant opened the
door and said to Mrs. Dinneford,
“A lady wishes to see you.”
“Didn’t she give you her card?”
“No ma’am.”
“Nor send up her name?”
“No, ma’am.”
“Go down and ask her name.”
The servant left the room. On returning, she said,
“Her name is Mrs. Bray.”
Mrs. Dinneford turned her face quickly, but not in time to prevent Edith
from seeing by its expression that she knew her visitor, and that her
call was felt to be an unwelcome one. She went from the room without
speaking. On entering the parlor, Mrs. Dinneford said, in a low, hurried
voice,
“I don’t want you to come here, Mrs. Bray. If you wish to see me send me
word, and I will call on you, but you must on no account come here.”
“Why? Is anything wrong?”
“Yes.”
“What?”
“Edith isn’t satisfied about the baby, has been out to Fairview looking
for its grave, wants to know who her nurse was.”
“What did you tell her?”
“I said that your name was Mrs. Bodine, and that you had gone to Cuba.”
“Do you think she would know me?”
“Can’t tell; wouldn’t like to run the risk of her seeing you here. Pull
down your veil. There! close. She said, a little while ago, that she had
a faint recollection of you as a dark little woman with black eyes whom
she had never seen before.”
“Indeed!” and Mrs. Bray gathered her veil close about her face.
“The baby isn’t living?” Mrs. Dinneford asked the question in a whisper.
