did not eat." "Then said Elkanah unto her, Hannah, why weepest thou?
and why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? Am I not
better to thee than ten sons?"
Hannah was one of a class of women in whom genius and a poetic
nature are struggling with a vague intensity, giving the keenest
edge to desire and to disappointment. All Judæan women desire
children, but Hannah had that vivid sense of nationality, that
identification of self with the sublime future of her people, that
made it bitter to be excluded from all share in those hopes and
joys of motherhood from which the earth's deliverer was to spring.
She desired a son, as poets desire song, as an expression of all
that was heroic and unexpressed in herself, and as a tribute to the
future glories of her people. A poet stricken with paralysis might
suffer as she suffered. But it was a kind and degree of sorrow, the
result of an exceptional nature, which few could comprehend. To some
it would afford occasion only for vulgar jests. Even her husband,
devoted as he was, wondered at rather than sympathised with it.
It appears that there rose at last one of those flood-tides of
feeling when the soul cries out for relief, and must have a
Helper; and Hannah bethought her of the words of Moses, "What nation
is there that hath their God so nigh unto them as the Lord our
God is unto us, for all that we call unto him for?" It is precisely
for such sorrows--intimate, private, personal, and not to be
comprehended fully by any earthly friend--that an All-seeing, loving
Father is needed. And Hannah followed the teachings of her religion
when she resolved to make a confidant of her God, and ask of him the
blessing her soul fainted for. She chose the sacred feast at Shiloh
for the interview with the gracious Helper; and, after the festival,
remained alone in the holy place in an ecstasy of fervent prayer.
The narrative says: "And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed
unto the Lord and wept sore. And she vowed a vow and said, O Lord of
Hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid,
and remember me, and not forget thine handmaid, but will give unto
thine handmaid a man-child, then will I give him unto the Lord all
the days of his life. And it came to pass as she continued praying
before the Lord, that Eli marked her mouth. Now Hannah she spake
in her heart, only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard;
therefore Eli thought she had been drunken."
He--dear, kind-hearted, blundering old priest--reproved her with
about as much tact as many similar, well-meaning, obtuse people use
nowadays in the management of natures whose heights and depths they
cannot comprehend. Hannah meekly answers: "No, my lord, I am a woman
of a sorrowful spirit; I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink,
but have poured out my soul before the Lord. Count not thy handmaid
for a daughter of Belial, for out of the abundance of my complaint
and grief have I spoken hitherto. Then Eli answered and said, Go in
peace, the God of Israel grant thee thy petition thou hast asked of
him. And she said, Let thine handmaid find grace in thy sight. So
the woman went her way and did eat, and her countenance was no more
sad."
This experience illustrates that kind of prevailing prayer that
comes when the soul, roused to the full intensity of its being by
the pressure of some anguish, pours itself out like a wave into the
bosom of its God. The very outgush is a relief; there is healing in
the very act of self-abandonment, as the whole soul casts itself
on God. And though there be no present fulfillment, yet, in point
of fact, peace and rest come to the spirit. Hannah had no voice
of promise, no external sign, only the recorded promise of God to
hear prayer; but the prayer brought relief. All the agony of desire
passed away. Her countenance was no more sad. In due time, the
visible answer came. Hannah was made the happy mother of a son, whom
she called Samuel, or "Asked of God."
This year, when the family went up to Shiloh, Hannah remained with
her infant; for she said to her husband, "I will not go up until
the child be weaned; and then will I bring him that he may appear
before the Lord, and there abide forever." The period of weaning
was of a much later date among Jewish women than in modern times;
and we may imagine the little Samuel three or four years old when
his mother prepares, with all solemnity, to carry him and present
him in the temple as her offering to God. "And when she had weaned
him she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of
flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of the
Lord in Shiloh; and the child was young. And they slew a bullock,
and brought the child to Eli. And she said, O my lord, as thy soul
liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here praying
unto the Lord. For this child I prayed, and the Lord hath given me
my petition which I asked of him. Therefore also have I lent him to
the Lord; as long as he liveth he shall be lent to the Lord. And she
worshiped the Lord there."
And now the depths of this silent woman's soul break forth into
a song of praise and thanksgiving. Hannah rises before us as the
inspired poetess, and her song bears a striking resemblance in theme
and in cast of thought to that of Mary the mother of Jesus, years
after. Indeed, there is in the whole history of this sacred and
consecrated child, a foreshadowing of that more celestial flower of
Nazareth that should yet arise from the Judæan stock. This idea of
a future Messiah and King permeated every pious soul in the nation,
and gave a solemn intensity to the usual rejoicings of motherhood;
for who knew whether the auspicious child might not spring from
her lineage! We see, in the last verse of this poem, that Hannah's
thoughts in her hour of joy fix themselves on the glorious future of
the coming King and Anointed One as the climax of her joy.
It will be interesting to compare this song of Hannah with that of
Mary, and notice how completely the ideas of the earlier mother
had melted and transfused themselves into the heart of Mary. Years
after, when the gathering forces of the Church and State were
beginning to muster themselves against Martin Luther, and he stood
as one man against a world, he took refuge in this song of the happy
woman; printed it as a tract, with pointed commentaries, and spread
it all over Europe; and in thousands of hamlets hearts were beating
to the heroic words of the Judæan mother:--
    "My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah,
    My horn is exalted in Jehovah;
    My speech shall flow out over my enemies,
    Because I rejoice in thy salvation.
    There is none holy as Jehovah:
    For there is none beside thee:
    Neither is there any rock like our God.
    Talk no more so exceeding proudly;
    Let not arrogance come out of thy mouth:
    For Jehovah is a God of knowledge,
    By him are actions weighed.
    The bows of mighty men are broken,
    But the weak are girded with strength.
    The rich have hired out for bread;
    But the hungry cease from want.
    The barren woman hath borne seven;
    The fruitful one hath grown feeble.
    Jehovah killeth and maketh alive;
    He bringeth down to the grave and bringeth up.
    Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich;
    He bringeth low, and lifteth up.
    He raiseth the poor out of the dust,
    He lifteth the beggar from the dunghill,
    To set them among princes,
    To make them inherit the throne of glory;
    For the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's,
    He hath set the world upon them.
    He will keep the feet of his saints,
    The wicked shall be silent in darkness;
    For by strength no man shall prevail.
    The adversaries of Jehovah shall be broken to pieces;
    Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them.
    Jehovah shall judge the ends of the earth;
    He shall give strength unto his King,
    And exalt the horn of his Anointed."
This song shows the fire, the depth, the fervency of the nature of
this woman, capable of rising to the sublimest conceptions. It is
the ecstasy of the triumph of conscious weakness in an omnipotent
protector. Through her own experience, as it is with every true
soul, she passes to the experience of universal humanity; in her
Deliverer she sees the Deliverer and Helper of all the helpless and
desolate; and thus, through the gate of personal experience, she
comes to a wide sympathy with all who live. She loves her God, not
mainly and only for what he is to her, but for what he is to all.
How high and splendid were these conceptions and experiences that
visited and hallowed the life of the simple and lowly Jewish woman
in those rugged and unsettled periods, and what beautiful glimpses
do we get of the good and honest-hearted people that lived at that
time in Palestine, and went up yearly to worship at Shiloh!
After this we have a few more touches in this beautiful story. The
little one remained in the temple; for it is said, "And Samuel
ministered before the Lord, being a child, girded with a linen
ephod. Moreover, his mother made him a little coat and brought it to
him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer
the yearly sacrifice." How the little one was cared for the story
does not say. In some passages of the Bible, we have intimations
of an order of consecrated women who devoted themselves to the
ministries of the temple, like Anna the prophetess, "who departed
not from the temple, but served God with fasting and prayer, night
and day." Doubtless from the hands of such were motherly ministries.
One rejoices to hear that the Gracious Giver blessed this mother
abundantly more than she asked or thought; for we are told that a
family of three sons and two daughters were given to her.
We cannot forbear to add to this story that of the sacred little
one, who grew fair as the sheltered lily in the house of God. Child
of prayer, born in the very ardor and ecstasy of a soul uplifted
to God, his very nature seemed heavenly, and the benignant Father
early revealed himself to him, choosing him as a medium for divine
messages. One of the most thrilling and poetic passages in the Bible
describes the first call of the Divine One to the consecrated child.
The lamps burning in the holy place; the little one lying down to
sleep; the mysterious voice calling him; his innocent wonder, and
the slow perception of old Eli of the true significance of the
event,--all these form a beautiful introduction to the life of the
last and most favored of those prophetic magistrates who interpreted
to the Jewish people the will of God. Samuel was the last of the
Judges,--the strongest, the purest, and most blameless,--the worthy
son of such a mother.
RUTH THE MOABITESS.
The story of Ruth is a beautiful idyl of domestic life, opening to
us in the barbarous period of the Judges. In reading some of the
latter chapters of that book, one might almost think that the system
of Moses had proved a failure, and that the nation was lapsing back
into the savage state of the heathen world around them; just as,
in reading the history of the raids and feuds of the Middle Ages,
one might consider Christianity a failure. But in both cases there
were nooks and dells embosomed in the wild roughness of unsettled
society, where good and honest hearts put forth blossoms of immortal
sweetness and perfume. This history of Ruth unveils to us pictures
of the best people and the best sort of life that were formed by the
laws and institutes of Moses,--a life pastoral, simple, sincere,
reverential, and benevolent.
The story is on this wise: A famine took place in the land of Judah,
and a man named Elimelech went with his wife and two sons to sojourn
in the land of Moab. The sons took each of them a wife of the
daughters of Moab, and they dwelt there about ten years. After that,
the man and both the sons died, and the mother, with her two widowed
young daughters, prepared to return to her kindred. Here the scene
of the little drama opens.
The mother, Naomi, comes to our view, a kind-hearted, commonplace
woman, without any strong religious faith or possibility of heroic
exaltation,--just one of those women who see the hard, literal
side of a trial, ungilded by any faith or hope. We can fancy her
discouraged and mournful air, and hear the melancholy croak in
her voice as she talks to her daughters, when they profess their
devotion to her, and their purpose to share her fortunes and go with
her to the land of Israel.
"Turn again, my daughters; why will ye go with me? Are there yet any
more sons in my womb, that they may be your husbands? Turn again, my
daughters, go your way, for I am too old to have an husband. If I
should say that I have hope to-night that I should have an husband,
and bear sons, would ye tarry for them till they were grown? Would
ye stay from having husbands? Nay, my daughters, it grieveth me for
your sake that the hand of the Lord hath gone out against me."
This pre-eminently literal view of the situation seemed to strike
one of the daughters as not to be gainsaid; for we read: "And
they lifted up their voices and wept again, and Orpah kissed her
mother-in-law, but Ruth clave unto her."
All the world through, from that time to this, have been these two
classes of friends. The one weep, and kiss, and leave us to our
fate, and go to seek their own fortunes. There are plenty of that
sort every day. But the other are one with us for life or death.
The literal-minded, sorrowful old woman has no thought of inspiring
such devotion. Orpah, in her mind, has done the sensible and only
thing in leaving her, and she says to Ruth: "Behold, thy sister has
returned unto her people and unto her gods; return thou after thy
sister-in-law."
We see in this verse how devoid of religious faith is the mother. In
a matter-of-course tone she speaks of Orpah having gone back to her
gods, and recommends Ruth to do the like. And now the fair, sweet
Ruth breaks forth in an unconscious poetry of affection, which has
been consecrated as the language of true love ever since: "Entreat
me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee; for
whither thou goest I will go, and where thou lodgest I will lodge:
thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. Where thou diest
I will die, and there will I be buried: the Lord do so to me, and
more also, if aught but death part thee and me."
Troth-plight of fondest lovers, marriage-vows straitest and most
devoted, can have no love-language beyond this; it is the very
crystallized and diamond essence of constancy and devotion. It
is thus that minds which have an unconscious power of enthusiasm
surprise and dominate their literal fellow-pilgrims. It is as if
some silent dun-colored bird had broken out into wondrous ecstasies
of silver song. Naomi looked on her daughter, and the narrative
says, "When she saw that she was steadfastly minded to go with her,
then she left speaking to her." But Ruth is ignorant of the beauty
of her own nature; for Love never knows herself or looks in a mirror
to ask if she be fair; and though her superior moral and emotive
strength prevail over the lower nature of the mother, it is with a
sweet, unconscious, yielding obedience that she follows her.
When they came back to their kindred, the scene is touchingly
described. In her youth the mother had been gay and radiant, as
her name, Naomi, "pleasant," signifies. "And it came to pass that
when they came in, all the village was moved about them, and they
said: Is this Naomi? And she said: "Call me not Naomi, call me Marah
[bitterness]; for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. I
went out full, and the Lord hath brought me again empty. Why then
call ye me Naomi, seeing the Lord hath testified against me, and the
Almighty hath afflicted me?"
We see here a common phase of a low order of religion. Naomi does
not rebel at the Divine decree. She thinks that she is bitterly
dealt with, but that there is no use in complaining, because it is
the Almighty that has done it. It does not even occur to her that
in going away from the land of true religion, and encouraging her
sons to form marriages in a heathen land, she had done anything to
make this affliction needful; and yet the whole story shows that but
for this stroke the whole family would have settled down contentedly
among the Moabites, and given up country and religion and God. There
are many nowadays to whom just such afflictions are as needful, and
to whom they seem as bitter and inexplicable.
The next scene shows us the barley-field of the rich proprietor,--"a
mighty man, a man of wealth," the narrative calls him. Young men
and maidens, a goodly company, are reaping, binding, and gathering.
In the shade are the parched corn and sour wine, and other
provisions set forth for the noontide rest and repast.
The gracious proprietor, a noble-minded, gentle old man, now comes
upon the scene. "And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said to
the reapers, The Lord be with you; and they answered, The Lord bless
thee." The religious spirit of the master spread itself through all
his hands, and the blessing that he breathes upon them was returned
to him. The sacred simplicity of the scene is beyond praise.
He inquires of his men the history of this fair one who modestly
follows the reapers, and, finding who she is, says: "Hearest thou,
my daughter, go not to glean in any other field, but abide here with
my maidens. Let thine eyes be upon the field that they reap, and go
after them: have I not charged the young men not to touch thee? and
when thou art athirst, go to the vessels and drink of that that the
young men have drawn." Then she bowed herself and said: "Why have I
found grace in thine eyes, that thou shouldst take knowledge of me,
seeing I am a stranger?" And he said: "It hath been fully shown unto
me all that thou hast done to thy mother-in-law since the death of
thy husband; how thou hast left thy father and thy mother, and the
land of thy nativity, and art come to a people that thou knewest not
heretofore. The Lord recompense thy work, and a full reward be given
thee of the God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to trust."
We have afterwards the picture of the young gleaner made at home at
the noontide repast, where the rich proprietor sat with his servants
in parental equality,--"And she sat beside the reapers, and he did
reach her parched corn, and she did eat and was sufficed."
There is a delicacy in the feeling inspired by the timid, modest
stranger, which is expressed in the orders given by Boaz to the
young men. "And it came to pass when she rose to glean, that Boaz
commanded his young men, saying: Let her glean even among the
sheaves, and reproach her not; and let fall also some handfuls of
purpose for her, that she may glean them, and rebuke her not."
Gleaning, by the institutes of Moses, was one of the allotted
privileges of the poor. It was a beautiful feature of that system
that consideration for the poor was interwoven with all the acts of
common life. The language of the laws of Moses reminded the rich
that they were of one family with the poor. "Thou shalt not harden
thy heart nor shut thy hand from thy poor brother. Thou shalt
surely give to him, and thy heart shall not be grieved when thou
givest, because for this the Lord thy God shall bless thee." "And
when ye reap the harvest of your land thou shalt not wholly reap
the corners of the field, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings
of thy harvest; and thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither
shalt thou gather every grape of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave
them for the poor and the stranger. I am the Lord." This provision
for the unfortunate operated both ways. It taught consideration and
thoughtfulness to the rich, and industry and self-respect to the
poor. They were not humbled as paupers. They were not to be beggars,
but gleaners, and a fair field for self-respecting labor was opened
to them. In the spirit of these generous laws the rich proprietor
veils his patronage of the humble maid. Ruth was to be abundantly
helped, as it were, by a series of fortunate accidents.
We see in the character of Boaz the high-minded, chivalrous
gentleman, devout in his religion Godward, and considerately
thoughtful of his neighbor; especially mindful of the weak and
helpless and unprotected. It was the working out, in one happy
instance, of the ideal of manhood the system of Moses was designed
to create.
And now the little romance goes on to a happy termination. The
fair gleaner returns home artlessly triumphant with the avails of
her day's toil, and tells her mother of the kind patronage she
has received. At once, on hearing the name, the prudent mother
recognizes the near kinsman of the family, bound, by the law of
Moses and the custom of the land, to become the husband and
protector of her daughter. In the eye of Jewish law and Jewish
custom Ruth already belonged to Boaz, and had a right to claim the
position and protection of a wife. The system of Moses solved the
problem of woman by allotting to every woman a man as a protector.
A widow had her son to stand for her; but if a widow were left
without a son, then the nearest kinsman of the former husband
was bound to take her to wife. The manner in which Naomi directs
the simple-minded and obedient daughter to throw herself on the
protection of her rich kinsman is so far removed from all our modern
ideas of propriety that it cannot be judged by them. She is directed
to seek the threshing-floor at night, to lie down at his feet, and
draw over her his mantle; thus, in the symbolic language of the
times, asserting her humble right to the protection of a wife. Ruth
is shown to us as one of those artless, confiding natures that see
no evil in what is purely and rightly intended. It is enough for
her, a stranger, to understand that her mother, an honored Judæan
matron, would command nothing which was not considered decorous and
proper among her people. She obeys without a question. In the same
spirit of sacred simplicity in which the action was performed it was
received. There is a tender dignity and a chivalrous delicacy in the
manner in which the bold yet humble advance is accepted.
"And Boaz awoke, and, behold, a woman lay at his feet. And he said,
Who art thou? And she said, I am Ruth, thy handmaid. Spread thy
skirt over me, for thou art my near kinsman. And he said, Blessed
art thou of the Lord, my daughter, for thou hast shown more kindness
at the end than in the beginning, inasmuch as thou followedst not
the young men, poor or rich. And now, my daughter, fear not; I will
do for thee all that thou requirest, for all the city of my people
doth know that thou art a virtuous woman."
The very crucial test of gentlemanly delicacy and honor is
the manner in which it knows how to receive an ingenuous and
simple-hearted act of confidence. As in the fields Boaz did not
ostentatiously urge alms upon the timid maiden, but suffered her
to have the pleasure of gleaning for herself, so now he treats this
act by which she throws herself upon his protection as an honor
done to him, for which he is bound to be grateful. He hastens to
assure her that he is her debtor for the preference she shows him.
That courtesy and chivalric feeling for woman which was so strong a
feature in the character of Moses, and which is embodied in so many
of his laws and institutes, comes out in this fine Hebrew gentleman
as perfectly, but with more simplicity, than in the Sir Charles
Grandison of the eighteenth century. And so, at last, the lovely
stranger, Ruth the Moabitess, becomes the wife of the rich landed
proprietor, with the universal consent of all the people. "And
all the people that were in the gates and the elders said, We are
witnesses. The Lord make this woman that is come into thy house like
Rachel and like Leah, which two did build the house of Israel."
From this marriage of the chivalrous, pious old man with the devoted
and loving Ruth the Moabitess, sprang an auspicious lineage. The
house of David, the holy maiden of Judæa and her son, whom all
nations call blessed, were the illustrious seed of this wedding.
In the scene at the birth of the first son of Ruth, we have a fine
picture of the manners of those days. "And the women said unto
Naomi, Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee this day without
a kinsman, that his name may be famous in Israel. And he shall be
unto thee a restorer of thy life and a nourisher of thy old age:
for thy daughter-in-law, which loveth thee, and is better to thee
than seven sons, hath borne him. And Naomi took the child and
laid it in her bosom, and became nurse unto it. And the women her
neighbors gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to Naomi, and
they called his name Obed; he is the father of Jesse, the father of
David."
In all this we see how strong is the impression which the loving
nature of Ruth makes in the narrative. From the union of this
woman so tender and true, and this man so gracious and noble and
chivalric, comes the great heart-poet of the world. No other songs
have been so dear to mankind, so cherished in the heart of high and
low, rich and poor, in every nation and language, as these Psalms of
David.
    "It is that music to whose tone
      The common pulse of man keeps time,
    In cot or castle's mirth or moan,
      In cold or fervid clime."
In the tender friendship of David for Jonathan, we see again the
loving constancy of Ruth in a manly form,--the love between soul
and soul, which was "wonderful, passing the love of women." In the
ideal which we form of Mary, the mother of Jesus, lowly, modest,
pious, constant, rich in the power of love and in a simple, trustful
faith, we see the transmission of family traits through generations.
Dante, in his "Paradise," places Ruth among the holy women who sit
at the feet of the glorified Madonna. The Providence that called a
Moabitish ancestress into that golden line whence should spring the
Messiah was a sort of morning star of intimation that He should be
of no limited nationality; that he was to be the Son of Man, the
Lord and brother of all mankind.
THE WITCH OF ENDOR.
What was a witch, according to the law of Moses, and why was
witchcraft a capital offense? A witch was the dark shadow of a
prophetess.
A prophetess was a holy woman drawing near to the spiritual world
by means of faith and prayer, and thus inspired by God with a
knowledge beyond the ordinary power of mortals. Her prophecies and
her guidance were all from the only true source of knowledge; the
spirits that attended her were true and heavenly spirits, and she
became a medium by whom the will of God and the perplexed path of
duty were made plain to others. A witch, on the contrary, was one
who sought knowledge of the future, not from the one supreme God,
but through all those magical charms, incantations, and ceremonies
by which the spirits of the dead were sought for interference in the
affairs of men. The guilt and the folly of seeking these consisted
in the fact that there was another and a legitimate supply for that
craving of the human heart.
Man is consciously weak, helpless, burdened with desires and fears
which he knows not how to supply or allay. Moses distinctly stated
to the Jews that their GOD was "nigh unto them for ALL they
should call upon him for." The examples of holy men and women in
sacred history show that, even for private and personal griefs,
and intimate sorrows and perplexities, there was immediate access
to the gracious Jehovah, there were direct answers to prayer. Had
Hannah, in her childless longings and misery, sought a woman who had
a familiar spirit, she would have broken the law of the land, and
committed an act of rebellion against her King and Father. But she
went directly to God, and became a joyful mother.
Besides the personal access of the individual by prayer, there
were always holy mediums raised up from time to time in the nation,
who were lawful and appointed sources of counsel and aid. There
were always the prophet and prophetess, through whom there was
even nearer access to the guardian God, and we repeatedly read of
application made to these sources in case of sickness or sorrow or
perplexity. The high-priest, by virtue of his office, was held to
possess this power. Exactly what the Urim and Thummim were, the
learned do not seem to agree; it is sufficient to know that they
were in some way the instruments of a lawful mode appointed by God,
through which questions asked of the high-priest might be answered,
and guidance given in perplexing cases.
And now, on the other hand, as to the witch, and how her unlawful
processes were carried on, we get more help from one vivid, graphic
picture than by all the researches of archæologists. We therefore
give entire the singular and poetic story in the First Book of
Samuel.
"Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried
him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away those
that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land. And
the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and pitched
in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they pitched
in Gilboa. And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was
afraid, and his heart greatly trembled. And when Saul inquired of
the Lord, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim,
nor by prophets. Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman
that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of
her. And his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman that
hath a familiar spirit at Endor. And Saul disguised himself, and
put on other raiment, and he went, and two men with him, and they
came to the woman by night: and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me
by the familiar spirit, and bring me him up whom I shall name unto
thee. And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul
hath done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits,
and the wizards, out of the land: wherefore then layest thou a
snare for my life, to cause me to die? And Saul sware to her by
the Lord, saying, As the Lord liveth, there shall no punishment
happen to thee for this thing. Then said the woman, Whom shall I
bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel. And when the
woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman spake
to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me? for thou art Saul. And
the king said unto her, Be not afraid; for what sawest thou? And
the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth.
And he said unto her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man
cometh up; and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul perceived that
it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and
bowed himself. And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted
me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for
the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me,
and answereth me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams:
therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me
what I shall do. Then said Samuel, Wherefore then dost thou ask
of me, seeing the Lord is departed from thee, and is become thine
enemy? And the Lord hath done to him, as he spake by me: for the
Lord hath rent the kingdom out of thine hand, and given it to thy
neighbor, even to David: Because thou obeyedst not the voice of the
Lord, nor executedst his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath
the Lord done this thing unto thee this day. Moreover the Lord will
also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines: and
to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me: the Lord also shall
deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines. Then
Saul fell straightway all along on the earth, and was sore afraid,
because of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him;
for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night. And the
woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said
unto him, Behold, thine handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have
put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which
thou spakest unto me: now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also
unto the voice of thine handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread
before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou
goest on thy way. But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his
servants, together with the woman, compelled him, and he hearkened
unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
And the woman had a fat calf in the house, and she hasted, and
killed it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened
bread thereof. And she brought it before Saul, and before his
servants; and they did eat. Then they rose up, and went away that
night."
We do not need to inquire what a witch was, or why she was
forbidden, further than this story shows. She is placed here as
exactly the contrary alternative to God, in the wants and sorrows
of life. The whole tenor of instruction to the Jews was, that there
was no Divine anger that might not be appeased and turned away by
deep, heartfelt repentance and amendment. In the GREAT NAME revealed
to Moses, the Jehovah declares himself "merciful and gracious, slow
to anger, of great kindness, forgiving iniquity, transgression, and
sin,"--there is but a single clause added on the side of admonitory
terror,--"who will by no means clear the guilty." A favorite mode
in which the guardian God is represented as speaking is that he
"repenteth of the evil" he thought to do, in response to penitent
prayer.
Saul had broken with his God on the score of an intense self-will,
and he did not repent. The prophet Samuel had announced wrath, and
threatened final rejection, but no humiliation and no penitence
followed. In this mood of mind, when his fear came as desolation,
all the avenues of knowledge or aid which belonged to God's children
were closed upon him, and he voluntarily put himself in the hands of
those powers which were his declared enemies.
The scene as given is so exactly like what is occurring in our
day, like incidents that so many among us have the best reason for
knowing to be objectively facts of daily occurrence, that there
is no reason to encumber it with notes and comments as to the
probability of the account. The woman was a medium who had the power
of calling up the spirits of the dead at the desire of those who
came to her. She is not represented at all as a witch after the
Shakespearean style. There is no "eye of newt and toe of frog,"
no caldron or grimaces to appall. From all that appears, she was
a soft-hearted, kindly, cowardly creature, turning a penny as she
could, in a way forbidden by the laws of the land; quite ready to
make up by artifice for any lack of reality; who cast her line into
the infinite shadows, and was somewhat appalled by what it brought
up.
There is a tone of reproof in the voice of the departed friend: "Why
hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up?" And when Saul says, "God
hath forsaken us, and will not answer," the reproving shade replies,
"Wherefore come to me, seeing God hath become thine enemy?" In all
this is the voice of the true and loyal prophet, who from a child
had sought God, and God alone, in every emergency, and ever found
him true and faithful.
This story has its parallel in our days. In our times there is a God
and Father always nigh to those who diligently seek him. There is
communion with spirits through Jesus, the great High-Priest. There
are promises of guidance in difficulties and support under trials to
all who come to God by Him.
In our days, too, there are those who propose, for the relief of
human perplexities and the balm for human sorrows, a recourse to
those who have familiar spirits, and profess to call back to us
those who are at rest with God.
Now, while there is no objection to a strict philosophical
investigation and analysis and record of these phenomena considered
as psychological facts, while, in fact, such investigation is loudly
called for as the best remedy for superstition, there is great
danger to the mind and moral sense in seeking them as guides in our
perplexities or comforters in our sorrows. And the danger is just
this, that they take the place of that communion with God and that
filial intercourse with him which is alone the true source of light
and comfort. Most especially, to those whose souls are weakened by
the anguish of some great bereavement, is the seeking of those that
have familiar spirits to be dreaded. Who could bear to expose to
the eye of a paid medium the sanctuary of our most sacred love and
sorrow? and how fearful is the thought that some wandering spirit,
in the voice and with the tone and manner of those dearest to us,
may lead us astray to trust in those who are not God!
The most dangerous feature we know of in these professed
spirit-messages is their constant tendency to place themselves
before our minds as our refuge and confidence rather than God. "Seek
us, trust us, believe in us, rely on us,"--such is always the voice
that comes from them.
In Isaiah viii. 19, the prophet describes a time of great affliction
and sorrow coming upon the Jews, when they would be driven to seek
supernatural aid. He says: "And when they shall say unto you, Seek
unto them that have familiar spirits, and to wizards that peep and
mutter; should not a nation seek unto their God? should the living
seek unto the dead? To the law, and to the testimony; if they speak
not according to this word, there is no light in them." The prophet
goes on to say that those who thus turn from God to these sources
of comfort "shall be hardly bestead and hungry, and shall fret
themselves."
All our observation of those who have sought to these sources of
comfort has been that they fall into just this restless hunger of
mind, an appetite forever growing and never satisfied; and as their
steps go farther and farther from the true source of all comfort,
the hunger and thirst increase. How much more beautiful, safe,
and sure that good old way of trust in God! The writer has had a
somewhat large observation of the very best and most remarkable
phenomena of that which is claimed to be spirit communion; she
does not doubt the reality of many very remarkable appearances
and occurrences; she has only respectful and tender sympathy for
those whose heart-sorrows they have consoled. But when this way
of guidance and consolation is put in the place of that direct
filial access to God through Jesus which the Bible reveals, it
must be looked upon as the most illusive and insidious of dangers.
The phenomena, whatever they are, belong to forces too little
understood, to laws too much unknown, that we should trust ourselves
to them in the most delicate, critical, and sacred wants of our life.
Better than all is the way spoken of by Jesus when he, the
Comforter, Guide, Teacher, Friend, will manifest himself to the
faithful soul as he does not to the world: "If a man love me, he
will keep my words, and my Father will love him, and we will come
and make our abode with him."
QUEEN ESTHER.
The story of Esther belongs to that dark period in Jewish history
when the national institutions were to all human view destroyed. The
Jews were scattered up and down through the provinces captives and
slaves, with no rights but what their conquerors might choose to
give them. Without a temple, without an altar, without a priesthood,
they could only cling to their religion as a memory of the past, and
with some dim hopes for the future. In this depressed state, there
was a conspiracy, armed by the regal power, to exterminate the whole
race, and this terrible danger was averted by the beauty and grace,
the courage and prudence, of one woman. The portrait of this heroine
comes to us in a flush of Oriental splendor. Her story reads like a
romance, yet her memory, in our very prosaic days, is embalmed as a
reality, by a yearly festival devoted to it. Every year the festival
of Purim in every land and country whither the Jews are scattered,
reminds the world that the romance has been a reality, and the woman
whose beauty and fascination were the moving power in it was no
creation of fancy.
The style of the book of Esther is peculiar. It has been held by
learned Jews to be a compilation made by Mordecai from the Persian
annals. The name of Jehovah nowhere occurs in it, although frequent
mention is made of fasting and prayer. The king Ahasuerus is
supposed by the best informed to be the Xerxes of Herodotus, and
the time of the story previous to the celebrated expedition of that
monarch against Greece. The hundred and twenty-seven provinces over
which he reigned are picturesquely set forth by Herodotus in his
celebrated description of the marshaling of this great army. The
vanity, ostentation, childish passionateness, and disregard of human
life ascribed to the king in this story are strikingly like other
incidents related by Herodotus.
When a father came to him imploring that he would spare one of his
sons from going to the war, Xerxes immediately commanded the young
man to be slain and divided, and the wretched father was obliged to
march between the mangled remains. This was to illustrate forcibly
that no human being had any rights but the king, and that it was
presumptuous even to wish to retain anything from his service.
The armies of Xerxes were not led to battle by leaders in front,
but driven from behind with whips like cattle. When the king's
bridge of boats across the Hellespont was destroyed by a storm, he
fell into a fury, and ordered the sea to be chastised with stripes,
and fetters to be thrown into it, with the admonition, "O thou
salt and bitter water, it is thus that thy master chastises thy
insolence!" We have the picture, in Herodotus, of the king seated
at ease on his royal throne, on an eminence, beholding the various
ranks of his army as they were driven like so many bullocks into
battle. When the battle went against him, he would leap from his
throne in furies of impotent rage.
It is at the court of this monarch, proud, vain, passionate, and
ostentatious, that the story opens, with a sort of dazzle of Eastern
splendor. "Now it came to pass, in the days of Ahasuerus, which
reigned from India even unto Ethiopia, over an hundred and twenty
and seven provinces, that in those days, when King Ahasuerus sat on
the throne of his kingdom, which was in Shushan the palace, in the
third year of his reign, he made a feast unto all his princes and
his servants; the powers of Persia and Media, the nobles and princes
of the provinces, being before him: when he showed them the riches
of his glorious kingdom and the honor of his excellent majesty."
On the last seven days of the feast the royal palace is thrown open
to the populace of Shushan. The writer goes on to amplify and give
particulars: In the courts of the king's garden were couches of
gold and silver, on a pavement of colored marbles, with hangings
of white, green, and blue, fastened by cords of purple and fine
linen to silver rings in marble pillars. There was wine poured
forth in costly goblets of very quaint and rare device. Vashti,
the queen, at the same time made a feast to all the women in the
royal house which belonged to the king. In the year 1819 Sir Robert
Ker Porter visited and explored the ruins of this city of Shushan.
His travels were printed for private circulation, and are rare and
costly. They contain elegant drawings and restorations of the palace
at Persepolis which would well illustrate this story, and give an
idea of the architectural splendor of the scenery of the drama here
presented.
Of Shushan itself,--otherwise Susa,--he gives only one or two
drawings of fragmentary ruins. The "satyrs have long danced and the
bitterns cried" in these halls then so gay and glorious, though
little did the king then dream of that.
At the close of the long revel, when the king was inflated to the
very ultimatum of ostentatious vanity, he resolves, as a last
glorification of self, to exhibit the unveiled beauty of his Queen
Vashti to all the princes and lords of his empire.
Now, if we consider the abject condition of all men in that day
before the king, we shall stand amazed that there was a woman found
at the head of the Persian empire that dared to disobey the command
even of a drunken monarch. It is true that the thing required was,
according to Oriental customs, an indecency as great as if a modern
husband should propose to his wife to exhibit her naked person.
Vashti was reduced to the place where a woman deliberately chooses
death before dishonor. The naïve account of the counsel of the
king and princes about this first stand for woman's rights--their
fear that the example might infect other wives with a like spirit,
and weaken the authority of husbands--is certainly a most delightful
specimen of ancient simplicity. It shows us that the male sex, with
all their force of physical mastery, hold everywhere, even in the
undeveloped states of civilization, an almost even-handed conflict
with those subtler and more ethereal forces which are ever at the
disposal of women. It appears that the chief councilors and mighty
men of Persia could scarcely hold their own with their wives, and
felt as if the least toleration would set them all out into open
rebellion. So Vashti is deposed, nem. con., by the concurrent
voice of all the princes of the Medes and Persians.
Then comes the account of the steps taken to secure another queen.
All the beautiful virgins through all the hundred and twenty-seven
provinces are caught, caged, and sent traveling towards Shushan,
and delivered over to the keeping of the chief eunuch, like so many
birds and butterflies, waiting their turn to be sent in to the
king. Among them all a Jewish maiden, of an enslaved, oppressed
race, is the favored one. Before all the beauties of the provinces
Esther is preferred, and the crown royal is set upon her head. What
charmed about Esther was, perhaps, the reflection of a soul from her
beautiful face. Every one of the best class of Jewish women felt
secretly exalted by her conception of the dignity of her nation as
chosen by the one true God, and destined to bring into the world
the great prince and Messiah who should reign over the earth.
These religious ideas inspired in them a lofty and heroic cast of
mind that even captivity could not subdue. At all events there was
something about Esther that gave her a power to charm and fix the
passions of this voluptuous and ostentatious monarch. Esther is the
adopted daughter of her kinsman Mordecai, and the narrative says
that "Esther did the commandment of Mordecai, like as when she was
brought up with him." At his command she forbears to declare her
nationality and lineage, and Mordecai refrains from any connection
with her that would compromise her as related to an obscure captive,
though the story says he walked every day before the court of the
woman's house to know how Esther did, and what should become of her.
In these walks around the palace he overhears a conspiracy of two
chamberlains to murder the king, and acquaints Esther of the danger.
The conspirators are executed, and the record passes into the
Persian annals with the name of Mordecai the Jew, but no particular
honor or reward is accorded to him at that time. Meanwhile, a
foreign adventurer named Haman rises suddenly to influence and
power, and becomes prime minister to the king. This story is a sort
of door, opening into the interior of a despotic court, showing the
strange and sudden reverses of fortune which attended that phase of
human existence. Haman, inflated with self-consequence, as upstart
adventurers generally are, is enraged at Mordecai for neglecting to
prostrate himself before him as the other hangers-on of the court
do. Safe in his near relationship to the queen, Mordecai appears to
have felt himself free to indulge in the expensive and dangerous
luxury of quiet contempt for the all-powerful favorite of the king.
It is most astounding next to read how Haman, having resolved to
take vengeance on Mordecai by exterminating his whole nation, thus
glibly and easily wins over the king to his scheme. "There is a
nation," he says, "scattered abroad throughout all the provinces
of the king's kingdom, and their laws are diverse from all people,
neither keep they the king's laws, therefore it is not for the
king's profit to suffer them." "If it please the king let it be
written that they may be destroyed, and I will pay ten thousand
talents of silver to the hands of them that have the charge of the
business, to bring it into the king's treasury."
It is fashionable in our times to speak of the contempt and
disregard shown to women in this period of the world among Oriental
races, but this one incident shows that women were held no cheaper
than men. Human beings were cheap. The massacre of hundreds
of thousands was negotiated in an easy, off-hand way, just as a
gardener ordains exterminating sulphur for the green bugs on his
plants. The king answered to Haman, "The silver is given thee, and
the people also, to do as seemeth to thee good."
Then, says the story, "the king's scribes were called on the
thirteenth day of the first month, and there was written according
to all that Haman had commanded, and the letters were sent by post
into all the provinces, to destroy and to kill and cause to perish
all Jews, both old and young, little children and women, in one day,
of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, to take the spoil of
them for a prey. The posts went out, being hastened by the king's
commandment, and the king and Haman sat down to drink, but the
city of Shushan was perplexed." And when Mordecai heard this he
rent his clothes and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went into the
midst of the city, and came even before the king's gate, for none
might enter into the king's gate clothed in sackcloth. The Oriental
