cheese. This, it is understood, is to come off to-morrow morning.
Tuesday Morning, Feb. 27.--Such was to have been my programme; but,
alas! this morning, though the day rose bright and clear, there was not
a breath of wind. The river has looked all day like a sheet of glass.
There is a drowsy, hazy calm over every thing. All our windows and doors
are open; and every sound seems to be ringingly distinct. The chatter
and laughing of the children, (God bless 'em!) who are all day long
frolicking on the end of the wharf, or rowing about in the boats; the
leisurely chip, chip, of the men who are busy in mending the steamboat
wharf; the hammer of the carpenters on the yet unfinished part of our
neighbor's house; the scream of the jays in the orange-trees,--all
blend in a sort of dreamy indistinctness.
To-day is one of the two red-letter days of our week,--the day of the
arrival of the mail. You who have a driblet two or three times a day
from the mail cannot conceive the interest that gathers around these two
weekly arrivals. The whole forenoon is taken up with it. We sit on the
veranda, and watch the mail-boat far down the river,--a mere white speck
as she passes through the wooded opening above Jacksonville. She grows
larger and larger as she comes sailing up like a great white stately
swan, first on the farther side of the river till she comes to Reed's
Landing; and then, turning her white breast full toward Mandarin Wharf,
she comes ploughing across, freighted with all our hopes and fears. Then
follows the rush for our mail; then the distribution: after which all
depart to their several apartments with their letters. Then follow
readings to each other, general tidings and greetings; and when the
letters are all read twice over, and thoroughly discussed, come the
papers. Tuesday is "The Christian Union" day, as well as the day for
about a dozen other papers; and the Professor is seen henceforward with
bursting pockets, like a very large carnation bursting its calyx. He is
a walking mass of papers.
The afternoon has been devoted to reflection, gossiping, and various
expeditions. B. and G. have gone boating with Mr. ----; and come home,
on the edge of the evening, with the animating news that they have seen
the two first alligators of the season. That shows that warm weather is
to be expected; for your alligator is a delicate beast, and never comes
out when there is the least danger of catching cold. Another party have
been driving "Fly" through the woods to Julington Creek, and come back
reporting that they have seen an owl. The Professor gives report of
having seen two veritable wild-turkeys and a blue crane,--news which
touches us all tenderly; for we have as yet had not a turkey to our
festive board. We ourselves have been having a quiet game of croquet out
under the orange-trees, playing till we could see the wickets no longer.
So goes our day,--breezy, open-aired, and full of variety. Your world,
Mr. Union, is seen in perspective, far off and hazy, like the opposite
shores of the river. Nevertheless, this is the place to read papers
and books; for every thing that sweeps into this quiet bay is long and
quietly considered. We shall have something anon to say as to how you
all look in the blue perspective of distance.
Meanwhile, we must tell the girls that Phoebus has wholly accommodated
himself to his situation, and wakes us, mornings, with his singing.
"What cheer! what cheer!" he says. Whether he alludes to the four cats,
or to his large cage, or to his own internal determination, like Mark
Tapley, to be jolly, isn't evident.
Last week, Aunt Katy brought a mate for him, which was christened Luna.
She was a pretty creature, smaller, less brilliant, but gracefully
shaped, and with a nice crest on her head. We regret to say that she
lived only a few hours, being found dead in the cage in the morning. A
day or two since, great sympathy was expressed for Phoebus, in view of
the matrimonial happiness of a pair of red-birds who came to survey our
yellow jessamine with a view to setting up housekeeping there. Would not
the view of freedom and wedded joys depress his spirits? Not a bit of
it. He is evidently cut out for a jolly bachelor; and, as long as he has
fine chambers and a plenty of rough rice, what cares he for family life?
The heartless fellow piped up, "What cheer! what cheer!" the very day
that he got his cage to himself. Is this peculiar? A lady at our table
has stated it as a universal fact, that, as soon as a man's wife dies,
he immediately gets a new suit of clothes. Well, why shouldn't he?
Nothing conduces more to cheerfulness. On the whole, we think Phoebus
is a pattern bird.
P. S.--Ask the author of "My Summer in a Garden" if he can't condense
his account of "Calvin's" virtues into a tract, to be distributed among
our cats. Peter is such a hardened sinner, a little Calvinism might
operate well on him.
  [Illustration]
PICNICKING UP JULINGTON.
      MANDARIN, FLA., Feb. 29, 1872.
This twenty-ninth day of February is a day made on purpose for a
fishing-party. A day that comes only once in four years certainly ought
to be good for something; and this is as good a day for picnicking up
Julington as if it had been bespoken four years ahead. A bright sun, a
blue sky, a fresh, strong breeze upon the water,--these are Nature's
contributions. Art contributes two trim little white yachts, "The
Nelly" and "The Bessie," and three row-boats. Down we all troop to the
landing with our luncheon-baskets, kerosene-stove, tea-kettle, and
coffee-pot, baskets of oranges, and fishing-reels.
Out flutter the sails, and away we go. No danger to-day of being left in
the lurch in the middle of the river. There is all the breeze one wants,
and a little more than the timorous love; and we go rippling and racing
through the water in merry style. The spray flies, so that we need our
water-proofs and blankets; but the more the merrier. We sweep gallantly
first by the cottage of your whilom editor in "The Union," and get a
friendly salute; and then flutter by D----'s cottage, and wave our
handkerchiefs, and get salutes in return. Now we round the point, and
Julington opens her wide blue arms to receive us. We pass by Neighbor
H----'s, and again wave our handkerchiefs, and get answering salutes.
We run up to the wharf to secure another boat and oarsman in the person
of Neighbor P----, and away we fly up Julington. A creek it is called,
but fully as wide as the Connecticut at Hartford, and wooded to the
water on either side by these glorious Florida forests.
It is a late, backward spring for Florida; and so these forests are
behindhand with their foliage: yet so largely do they consist of bright
polished evergreen trees, that the eye scarcely feels the need of the
deciduous foliage on which the bright misty green of spring lies like an
uncertain vapor. There is a large admixture in the picture of the cool
tints of the gray moss, which drapes every tree, and hangs in long
pendent streamers waving in the wind. The shores of the creek now begin
to be lined on either side with tracts of a water-lily which the natives
call bonnets. The blossom is like that of our yellow pond-lily; but the
leaves are very broad and beautiful as they float like green islands on
the blue waters. Here and there, even in the centre of the creek, are
patches of them intermingled with quantities of the water-lettuce,--a
floating plant which abounds in these tracts. Along the edges of these
water-lily patches are the favorite haunts of the fish, who delight to
find shelter among the green leaves. So the yachts come to anchor; and
the party divides into the three row-boats, and prepares to proceed to
business.
We have some bustle in distributing our stove and tea-kettle and
lunch-baskets to the different boats, as we are to row far up stream,
and, when we have caught our dinner, land, and cook it. I sit in the
bow, and, being good for nothing in the fishing-line, make myself of
service by holding the French coffee-pot in my lap. The tea-kettle being
at my feet on one side, the stove on the other, and the luncheon-basket
in full view in front, I consider myself as, in a sense, at
housekeeping. Meanwhile the fishing-reels are produced, the lines
thrown; and the professional fishermen and fisherwomen become all
absorbed in their business. We row slowly along the bobbing, undulating
field of broad green bonnet-leaves, and I deliver myself to speculations
on Nature. The roots of these water-lilies, of the size of a man's arm,
often lie floating for yards on the surface, and, with their scaly
joints, look like black serpents. The ribbed and shining leaves, as they
float out upon the water, are very graceful. One is struck with a
general similarity in the plant and animal growths in these regions: the
element of grotesqueness seems largely to enter into it. Roots of plants
become scaly, contorted, and lie in convolutions like the coils of a
serpent. Such are the palmetto-shrubs, whose roots lie in scaly folds
along the ground, catching into the earth by strong rootlets, and then
rising up here and there into tall, waving green fans, whose graceful
beauty in the depths of these forests one is never tired of admiring.
Amid this serpent-like and convoluted jungle of scaly roots, how natural
to find the scaly alligator, looking like an animated form of the
grotesque vegetable world around! Sluggish, unwieldy, he seems a
half-developed animal, coming up from a plant,--perhaps a link from
plant to animal. In memory, perhaps, of a previous woodland life, he
fills his stomach with pine-knots, and bits of board, wherever he can
find one to chew. It is his way of taking tobacco. I have been with a
hunter who dissected one of these creatures, and seen him take from his
stomach a mass of mingled pine-knots, with bits of brick, worn smooth,
as if the digestive fluids had somewhat corroded them. The fore leg and
paw of the alligator has a pitiful and rather shocking resemblance to a
black human hand; and the muscular power is so great, that in case of
the particular alligator I speak of, even after his head was taken off,
when the incision was made into the pectoral muscle for the purpose of
skinning, this black hand and arm rose up, and gave the operator quite a
formidable push in the chest.
We hope to see some of these creatures out; but none appear. The
infrequency of their appearance marks the lateness and backwardness of
our spring. There!--a cry of victory is heard from the forward boat; and
Mademoiselle Nelly is seen energetically working her elbows: a scuffle
ensues, and the captive has a free berth on a boat, without charge for
passage-ticket. We shout like people who are getting hungry, as in truth
we are. And now Elsie starts in our boat; and all is commotion, till a
fine blue bream, spotted with black, is landed. Next a large black
trout, with his wide yellow mouth, comes up unwillingly from the
crystal flood. We pity them; but what are we to do? It is a question
between dinner and dinner. These fish, out marketing on their own
account, darted at our hook, expecting to catch another fish. We catch
them; and, instead of eating, they are eaten.
After all, the instinct of hunting and catching something is as strong
in the human breast as in that of cat or tiger; and we all share the
exultation which sends a shout from boat to boat as a new acquisition is
added to our prospective dinner-store.
And now right in front of us looms up from the depth of a group of pines
and magnolias a white skeleton of a tree, with gnarled arms, bleached by
years of wind and sun, swathed with long waving folds of gray moss. On
the very tip-top of this, proudly above all possibility of capture, a
fish-hawk's nest is built. Full eighty feet in the air, and about the
size of a flour-barrel; built like an old marauding baron's stronghold
in the middle ages, in inaccessible fastnesses; lined within and swathed
without with gray moss,--it is a splendid post of observation. We can
see the white head and shoulders of the bird perched upon her nest; and
already they perceive us. The pair rise and clap their wings, and
discourse to each other with loud, shrill cries, perhaps of indignation,
that we who have houses to dwell in, and beef and chickens to eat,
should come up and invade their fishing-grounds.
The fish-hawk--I beg his pardon, the fish-eagle; for I can see that he
is a bird of no mean size and proportions--has as good a right to think
that the river and the fish were made for him as we; and better too,
because the Creator has endowed him with wonderful eyesight, which
enables him, from the top of a tree eighty feet high, to search the
depths of the river, mark his prey, and dive down with unerring
certainty to it. He has his charter in his eyes, his beak, his claws;
and doubtless he has a right to remonstrate, when we, who have neither
eyes, beaks, nor claws adapted to the purpose, manage to smuggle away
his dinner. Thankful are we that no mighty hunter is aboard, and that
the atrocity of shooting a bird on her nest will not be perpetrated
here. We are a harmless company, and mean so well by them, that they
really might allow us one dinner out of their larder.
We have rowed as far up Julington as is expedient, considering that we
have to row down again; and so we land in the immediate vicinity of our
fish-eagle's fortress, greatly to his discontent. Wild, piercing cries
come to us now and then from the heights of the eyry; but we, unmoved,
proceed with our dinner-preparations.
Do you want to know the best way in the world of cooking fish? Then
listen.
The fish are taken to the river by one, and simply washed of their
superfluous internals, though by no means scaled. A moment prepares them
for the fire. Meanwhile a broad hole has been dug in the smooth white
sand; and a fire of dry light wood is merrily crackling therein. The
kerosene-stove is set a-going; the tea-kettle filled, and put on to
boil; when we disperse to examine the palmetto-jungles. One or two
parties take to the boats, and skim a little distance up stream, where
was a grove of youthful palmetto-trees. The palmetto-shrub is
essentially a different variety from the tree. In moist, rich land, the
shrub rears a high head, and looks as if it were trying to become a
tree; but it never does it. The leaf, also, is essentially different.
The full-grown palm-leaf is three or four yards long, curiously plaited
and folded. In the centre of both palmetto and palm is the bud from
whence all future leaves spring, rising like a green spike. This bud is
in great request for palmetto-hats; and all manner of palm-work; and it
was for these buds that our boating-party was going. A venturesome boy,
by climbing a neighboring tree and jumping into the palm, can succeed in
securing this prize, though at some risk of life and limb. Our party
returned with two palm-buds about two yards long, and one or two of the
long, graceful leaves.
But now the fire has burned low, and the sand-hole is thoroughly heated.
"Bring me," says the presiding cook, "any quantity of those great broad
bonnet-leaves." And forth impetuous rush the youth; and bonnet-leaves
cool and dripping are forthcoming, wherewith we double-line the hole in
the sand. Then heads and points, compactly folded, go in a line of
fish, and are covered down green and comfortable with a double blanket
of dripping bonnet-leaves. Then, with a flat board for our shovel, we
rake back first the hot sand, and then the coals and brands yet
remaining of the fire. Watches are looked at; and it is agreed by old
hands experienced in clam-bakes that half an hour shall be given to
complete our dinner.
Meanwhile the steaming tea-kettle calls for coffee, and the French
coffee-pot receives its fragrant store; while the fish-hawk, from his
high tower of observation, interjects plaintive notes of remonstrance. I
fancy him some hoarse old moralist, gifted with uncomfortable
keen-sightedness, forever shrieking down protests on the ways of the
thoughtless children of men.
What are we doing to those good fish of his, which he could prepare for
the table in much shorter order? An old hunter who has sometimes
explored the ground under the fish-hawk's nest says that bushels of
fish-bones may be found there, neatly picked, testifying to the
excellent appetite which prevails in those cloud-regions, and to the
efficiency of the plan of eating fish au naturel.
We wander abroad, and find great blue and white violets and
swamp-azaleas along the river's brink; and we take advantage of the not
very dense shade of a long-leaved pine to set out the contents of our
luncheon-baskets. Ham-sandwiches, hard-boiled eggs, cakes in tempting
variety, jellies and fruits, make their appearance in a miscellaneous
sort of way. And now comes the great operation of getting out our fish.
Without shovel, other than a bit of inflammable pine-board, the thing
presents evident difficulties: but it must be done; and done it is.
A platter is improvised of two large palmetto-leaves. The fire is raked
off, and the fish emerge from their baking-place, somewhat the worse as
to external appearance; but we bear them off to the feast. In the trial
process we find that the whole external part of the fish--scales, skin,
and fins--comes off, leaving the meat white and pure, and deliciously
juicy. A bit well salted and peppered is forthwith transferred to each
plate; and all agree that never fish was better and sweeter. Then coffee
is served round; and we feast, and are merry. When the meal is over, we
arrange our table for the benefit of the fish-hawks. The fragments of
fish yet remaining, bits of bread and cake and cheese, are all
systematically arranged for him to take his luncheon after we are gone.
Mr. Bergh himself could not ask more exemplary conduct.
For now the westering sun warns us that it is time to be spreading our
sails homeward; and, well pleased all, we disperse ourselves into our
respective boats, to fish again as we pass the lily-pads on the shore.
The sport engages every one on board except myself, who, sitting in the
end of the boat, have leisure to observe the wonderful beauty of the
sky, the shadows of the forests-belts in the water, and the glorious
trees.
One magnolia I saw that deserved to be called an archangel among the
sons of the forest. Full a hundred feet high it stood, with a trunk
rising straight, round, and branchless for full fifty feet, and crowned
with a glorious head of rich, dark, shining leaves. When its
lily-blossoms awake, what a glory will it become, all alone out there in
the silent forest, with only God to see!
No: let us believe, with Milton, that
      "Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth
      Unseen, both when we wake and when we sleep;"
and the great magnolia-trees may spring and flower for them.
The fishing luck still continues; and the prospects for a breakfast
to-morrow morning are bright. One great fellow, however, makes off with
hook, spoon, and all; and we see him floundering among the lily-pads
with it in his mouth, vastly dissatisfied with his acquisition. Like
many a poor fellow in the world's fishing, he has snapped at a fine
bait, and got a sharp hook for his pains.
Now we come back to the yachts, and the fishing is over. The sun is just
going down as we raise our white sails and away for the broad shining
expanse of the St. John's. In a moment the singers of our party break
forth into song and glee; and catches roll over the water from one yacht
to the other as we race along neck and neck.
The evening wind rises fresh and fair, and we sweep down the beautiful
coast. Great bars of opal and rose-color lie across the western sky:
the blue waves turn rosy, and ripple and sparkle with the evening light,
as we fly along. On the distant wharf we see all the stay-at-homes
watching for us as we come to land after the most successful picnic that
heart could conceive. Each fisherwoman has her fish to exhibit, and her
exploits to recount; and there is a plentiful fish-breakfast in each of
the houses.
So goes the 29th of February on the St. John's.
  [Illustration]
MAGNOLIA.
      MANDARIN, FLA., March 6, 1872.
Magnolia is a name suggestive of beauty; and, for once, the name does
not belie the fact. The boarding-house there is about the pleasantest
winter resort in Florida. We have been passing a day and night there as
guest of some friends, and find a company of about seventy people
enjoying themselves after the usual fashions of summer watering-places.
The house is situated on a little eminence, and commands a fine sweep
of view both up and down the river. In the usual fashion of Southern
life, it is surrounded with wide verandas, where the guests pass most of
their time,--the ladies chatting, and working embroidery; the gentlemen
reading newspapers, and smoking.
The amusements are boating and fishing parties of longer or shorter
duration, rides and walks along the shore, or croquet on a fine, shady
croquet-ground in a live-oak grove back of the house.
We tried them all. First we went in a row-boat about a couple of miles
up a little creek. The shore on either side was ruffled with the green
bonnet-leaves, with here and there a golden blossom. The forest-trees,
which were large and lofty, were almost entirely of the deciduous kind,
which was just bursting into leaf; and the effect was very curious and
peculiar. One has often remarked what a misty effect the first buddings
of foliage have. Here there was a mist of many colors,--rose-colored,
pink, crimson, yellow, and vivid green, the hues of the young leaves, or
of the different tags and keys of the different species of trees. Here
and there a wild plum, sheeted in brilliant white, varied the tableau.
We rowed up to shore, drew down a branch, and filled the laps of the
ladies with sprays of white flowers. The sun beat down upon us with the
power of August; and, had it not been for the fresh breeze that blew up
from the creek, we should have found it very oppressive. We returned
just in time to rest for dinner. The dining-hall is spacious and
cheerful; and the company are seated at small tables, forming social
groups and parties. The fare was about the same as would be found in a
first-class boarding-house at the North. The house is furnished
throughout in a very agreeable style; and an invalid could nowhere in
Florida have more comforts. It is more than full, and constantly obliged
to turn away applicants; and we understand that families are now waiting
at Green Cove for places to be vacated here. We are told that it is in
contemplation, another season, to put up several cottages, to be rented
to families who will board at the hotel. At present there is connected
with the establishment one house and a cottage, where some of the guests
have their rooms; and, as the weather is so generally mild, even
invalids find no objection to walking to their meals.
The house is a respectable, good-sized, old-fashioned structure; and,
being away from the main building, is preferred by some who feel the
need of more entire quiet. Sitting on the front steps in the warm
afternoon sunshine, and looking across to the distant, hazy shores,
miles away, one could fancy one's self in Italy,--an illusion which the
great clumps of aloes, and the tall green yuccas, and the gold-fruited
orange-trees, help to carry out. Groups of ladies were seated here and
there under trees, reading, working, and chatting. We were called off by
the making-up of a croquet-party.
The croquet-ground is under the shade of a fine grove of live-oaks,
which, with their swaying drapery of white moss, form a graceful shade
and shelter. We shared the honor of gaining a victory or two under the
banner of a doctor of divinity, accustomed, we believe, to winning
laurels on quite other fields in the good city of New York. It has been
our general experience, however, that a man good for any thing else is
commonly a good croquet-player. We would notify your editor-in-chief,
that, if ever he plays a game against Dr. C----, he will find a foeman
worthy of his steel.
In the evening the whole company gathered in the parlors, made cheerful
by blazing wood-fires. There were song-singing and piano-playing,
charades and games, to pass the time withal; and all bore testimony to
the very sociable and agreeable manner in which life moved on in their
circle.
Magnolia is about three-quarters of a mile from Green-Cove Springs,
where are two or three large, well-kept boarding-houses. There is a very
pleasant, shady walk through the woods from one place to the other; and
the mail comes every day to Green Cove, and is sent for, from the
Magnolia House, in a daily morning carriage. It is one of the amusements
of the guests to ride over, on these occasions, for a little morning
gossip and shopping, as Magnolia, being quite sequestered, does not
present the opportunity to chaffer even for a stick of candy. Of course,
fair ones that have been accustomed to the periodical excitement of a
shopping-tour would sink into atrophy without an opportunity to spend
something. What they can buy at Green Cove is a matter of indifference.
It is the burning of money in idle purses that injures the nervous
system.
There are no orange-groves on this side of the river. The orange-trees
about the house are entirely of the wild kind; and, for merely
ornamental purposes, no tree more beautiful could be devised. Its vivid
green, the deep gold-color of its clusters of fruit, and the exuberance
with which it blossoms, all go to recommend it. Formerly there were
extensive orange-groves, with thousands of bearing trees, on this side
of the river. The frost of 1835 killed the trees, and they have never
been reset. Oranges are not, therefore, either cheap or plenty at
Magnolia or Green Cove. Nothing shows more strikingly the want of
enterprise that has characterized this country than this. Seedling
oranges planted the very next day after the great frost would have been
in bearing ten years after, and would, ere now, have yielded barrels and
barrels of fruit; and the trees would have grown and taken care of
themselves. One would have thought so very simple and easy a measure
would have been adopted.
At eleven o'clock the next morning we took steamer for Mandarin, and
went skimming along the shores, watching the white-blossoming plum-trees
amid the green of the forest. We stopped at Hibernia, a pleasant
boarding-house on an island called Fleming's, after a rich Col. Fleming
who formerly had a handsome plantation there. There is a fine,
attractive-looking country-house, embowered in trees and with shaded
verandas, where about forty boarders are yearly accommodated. We have
heard this resort very highly praised as a quiet spot, where the
accommodations are homelike and comfortable. It is kept by the widow of
the former proprietor; and we are told that guests who once go there
return year after year. There is something certainly very peaceful and
attractive about its surroundings.
But now our boat is once more drawing up to the wharf at Mandarin; and
we must defer much that we have to say till next week. Phoebus, we are
happy to say to our girl correspondents, is bright and happy, and in
excellent voice. All day long, at intervals, we can hear him from the
back veranda, shouting, "What cheer! what cheer!" or sometimes
abbreviating it as "Cheer, cheer, cheer!"
Since we have been writing, one of those characteristic changes have
come up to which this latitude is subject. The sun was shining, the
river blue, the windows open, and the family reading, writing, and
working on the veranda, when suddenly comes a frown of Nature,--a black
scowl in the horizon. Up flies the wind; the waves are all white-caps;
the blinds bang; the windows rattle; every one runs to shut every thing;
and for a few moments it blows as if it would take house and all away.
Down drop oranges in a golden shower; here, there, and everywhere the
lightning flashes; thunder cracks and rattles and rolls; and the big
torrents of rain come pouring down: but, in the back-porch, Phoebus
between each clap persists in shouting, "What cheer! what cheer!" Like a
woman in a passion, Nature ends all this with a burst of tears; and it
is raining now, tenderly and plaintively as if bemoaning itself.
Well, we wouldn't have missed the sight if we had been asked; and we
have picked up a bushel of oranges that otherwise somebody must have
climbed the trees for.
Meanwhile the mail is closing. Good-by!
  [Illustration]
YELLOW JESSAMINES.
      MANDARIN, FLA., March 14, 1872.
"They talk about Florida being the land of flowers: I'm sure I don't
see where the flowers are."
The speaker was a trim young lady, with pretty, high-heeled boots,
attired in all those charming mysteries behind and before, and up and
down, that make the daughter of Eve look like some bright, strange,
tropical bird. She had come to see Florida; that is, to take board at
the St. James. She had provided herself with half a dozen different
palmetto-hats, an orange-wood cane tipped with an alligator's tooth,
together with an assortment of cranes' wings and pink curlews' feathers,
and talked of Florida with the assured air of a connoisseur. She had
been on the boat up to Enterprise; she had crossed at Tekoi over to St.
Augustine, and come back to the St. James; and was now prepared to speak
as one having authority: and she was sure she did not see why it was
called a land of flowers. She hadn't seen any.
"But, my dear creature, have you ever been where they grow? Have you
walked in the woods?"
"Walked in the woods? Gracious me! Of course not! Who could walk in sand
half up to one's ankles? I tried once; and the sand got into my boots,
and soiled my stockings: besides, I'm afraid of snakes."
"Then, my dear, you will never be a judge on the question whether
Florida is or is not a land of flowers. Whoever would judge on that
question must make up her mind to good long tramps in the woods; must
wear stout boots, with India-rubbers, or, better still, high
India-rubber boots. So equipped, and with eyes open to see what is to be
seen, you will be prepared to explore those wild glades and mysterious
shadows where Nature's beauties, marvels, and mysteries are wrought. The
Venus of these woods is only unveiled in their deepest solitudes."
For ourselves, we claim to have experience in this matter of flowers;
having always observed them in all lands. We were impressed more by the
flowers of Italy than by any thing else there; yes, more than by the
picture-galleries, the statues, the old ruins. The sight of the green
lawns of the Pamfili Doria, all bubbling up in little rainbow-tinted
anemones; the cool dells where we picked great blue-and-white violets;
the damp, mossy shadows in the Quirinal gardens, where cyclamen grow in
crimson clouds amid a crush of precious old marbles and antiques; the
lovely flowers, unnamed of botany, but which we should call a sort of
glorified blue-and-white daisies, that we gathered in the shadowy dells
near Castle Gandolpho,--these have a freshness in our memory that will
last when the memory of all the "stun images" of the Vatican has passed
away.
In our mind's eye we have compared Florida with Italy often, and asked
if it can equal it. The flowers here are not the same, it is true. The
blue violets are not fragrant. We do not find the many-colored anemones,
nor the cyclamen. Both can be planted out here, and will grow readily;
but they are not wild flowers, not indigenous.
"Well, then, are there others to compensate?" We should say so.
The yellow jessamine itself, in its wild grace, with its violet-scented
breath, its profuse abundance, is more than a substitute for the
anemones of Italy.
If you will venture to walk a little way in the sand beyond our
back-gate, we will show you a flower-show this morning such as Chiswick
or the Crystal Palace cannot equal.
About a quarter of a mile we walk: and then we turn in to what is called
here an oak-hammock; which is, being interpreted, a grove of
live-oak-trees, with an underbrush of cedar, holly, and various
flowering-shrubs. An effort has been made to clear up this hammock. The
larger trees have some of them been cut down, but not removed. The work
of clearing was abandoned; and, the place being left to Nature, she
proceeded to improve and beautify it after a fashion of her own. The
yellow jessamine, which before grew under the shadow of the trees, now,
exultant in the sunshine which was let in upon it, has made a triumphant
and abounding growth, such as we never saw anywhere else. It is the very
Ariel of flowers,--the tricksy sprite, full of life and grace and
sweetness; and it seems to take a capricious pleasure in rambling
everywhere, and masquerading in the foliage of every kind of tree. Now
its yellow bells twinkle down like stars from the prickly foliage of the
holly, where it has taken full possession, turning the solemn old
evergreen into a blossoming garland. Now, sure enough, looking up full
sixty feet into yonder water-oak, we see it peeping down at us in long
festoons, mingling with the swaying, crapy streamers of the gray moss.
Yonder a little live-oak-tree has been so completely possessed and
beflowered, that it shows a head of blossoms as round as an apple-tree
in May. You look below, and jessamine is trailing all over the ground,
weaving and matting, with its golden buds and open bells peeping up at
you from the huckleberry-bushes and sedge-grass.
Here is a tree overthrown, and raising its gaunt, knotted branches in
air, veiled with soft mossy drapery. The jessamine springs upon it for a
trellis: it weaves over and under and around; it throws off long sprays
and streamers with two golden buds at the axil of every green leaf, and
fluttering out against the blue of the sky. Its multiform sprays twist
and knot and tie themselves in wonderful intricacies; and still where
every green leaf starts is a yellow flower-bud. The beauty of these buds
is peculiar. They have little sculptured grooves; and the whole looks as
if it might have been carved of fairy chrysolite for a lady's ear-drop.
Our little brown chambermaid wears them dangling in her ears; and a
very pretty picture she makes with them. Coal-black Frank looks
admiringly after her as she trips by with them shaking and twinkling to
his confusion, as he forgets for a moment to saw wood, and looks
longingly after her. No use, Frank. "Trust her not: she is fooling
thee." Her smiles are all for lighter-colored beaux. But still she wears
yellow jessamine in her crapy hair, and orders Frank to bring her
wreaths and sprays of it whenever she wants it; and Frank obeys. That's
female sovereignty, the world over!
In this same hammock are certain tall, graceful shrubs, belonging, as we
fancy, to the high-huckleberry tribe, but which the Floridians call
sparkleberry. It is the most beautiful white ornamental shrub we have
ever seen. Imagine a shrub with vivid green foliage, hanging profusely
with wreaths of lilies-of-the-valley, and you have as near as possible
an idea of the sparkleberry. It is only in bud now, being a little
later than the jessamine, and coming into its glory when the jessamine
is passing away.
The regular employment now of every afternoon is to go out in the
mule-cart with old Fly into the woods, flower-hunting.
It is as lovely an afternoon-work as heart could wish; the sky is so
blue, the air so balmy, and at every step there is something new to
admire. The coming-out of the first leaves and tags and blossom-keys of
the deciduous trees has a vividness and brilliancy peculiar to these
regions. The oak-hammock we have been describing as the haunt of yellow
jessamine is as picturesque and beautiful a tree-study as an artist
could desire. There are tall, dark cedars, in which the gray films of
the long moss have a peculiarly light and airy appearance. There is the
majestic dome of the long-leaved Southern pine, rising high over all the
other trees, as in Italy the stone-pine. Its leaves are from twelve to
eighteen inches long; and the swaying of such pines makes a susurrus
worth listening to. The water-oak is throwing out its bright young
leaves of a gold-tinted green; and the live-oak, whose leaves are
falling now, is bursting into little velvety tags, premonitory of new
foliage. Four species of oaks we notice. The live-oak, the water-oak,
and a species of scrub-tree which they call the olive-leaved oak, are
all evergreens, and have narrow, smooth leaves. Then there are what are
familiarly called black-jacks,--a deciduous oak, which bears a large,
sharply-cut, indented leaf, of a character resembling our Northern ones.
Besides these, the prickly-ash, with its curiously knobbed and pointed
branches, and its graceful, feathery leaves, forms a feature in the
scene. Underneath, great clumps of prickly-pear are throwing out their
queer buds, to be, in turn, followed by bright yellow blossoms.
To an uninstructed eye, the pine-woods in which we ride look like a
flat, monotonous scene. The pines rise seventy, eighty, and a hundred
feet in the air, so that their tops are far above, and cast no shade.
This is a consideration of value, however, for a winter's ride; for one
enjoys the calm sunshine. Even in days when high winds are prevailing
along the river-front, the depth of these pine-woods is calm, sunny, and
still; and one can always have a pleasant walk there. When the hotter
months come on, the live-oaks and water-oaks have thick, new foliage,
and the black-jacks and hickory and sweet-gum trees throw out their
shade to shelter the traveller. Every mile or two, our path is traversed
by a brook on its way to the St. John's. The natives here call a brook a
"branch;" and a branch is no small circumstance, since all the finest
trees and shrubbery grow upon its banks. You can look through the high,
open pillars of the pine-trees, and watch the course of a branch half a
mile from you by the gorgeous vegetation of the trees which line its
shores.
We jog along in our mule-cart, admiring every thing as we go. We are
constantly exclaiming at something, and tempted to get out to gather
flowers. Here and there through the long wire-grass come perfect gushes
of blue and white violets. The blue violets are large, and, of
necessity, are obliged to put forth very long stems to get above the
coarse, matted grass. The white are very fragrant, and perfectly whiten
the ground in some moist places. There is a large, fragrant kind, very
scarce and rare, but of which we have secured several roots. We are
going this afternoon to the "second branch" after azaleas. We stop at a
little distance, when its wall of glossy verdure rises up before us.
There is no accomplishment of a mule in which Fly is better versed than
stopping and standing still. We fancy that we hear him, in his inner
consciousness, making a merit of it, as we all do of our pet virtues. He
is none of your frisky fellows, always wanting to be going, and
endangering everybody that wants to get in or out with prances and
curvets,--not he! He is a beast that may be trusted to stand for any
length of time without an attempt at motion. Catch him running away!
So we leave Fly, and determine to explore the branch.
The short palmettoes here are grown to the height of fifteen feet. Their
roots look like great scaly serpents, which, after knotting and
convoluting a while, suddenly raise their crests high in air, and burst
forth into a graceful crest of waving green fans. These waving clumps of
fan-like leaves are the first and peculiar feature of the foliage. Along
the shore here, clumps of pale pink azaleas grow high up, and fill the
air with sweetness. It is for azaleas we are come; and so we tread our
way cautiously,--cautiously, because we have heard tales of the
moccasin-snake--fearful gnome!--said to infest damp places, and banks of
rivers. In all our Floridian rambles, we never yet have got sight of
this creature; though we have explored all the moist places, and sedgy,
swampy dells, where azaleas and blue iris and white lilies grow. But the
tradition that such things are inspires a wholesome care never to set a
foot down without looking exactly where it goes. "The branch," we find,
is lighted up in many places by the white, showy blossoms of the
dogwood, of which, also, we gather great store. We pile in
flowers--azalea and dogwood--till our wagon is full, and then proceed
with a trowel to take up many nameless beauties.
There is one which grows on a high, slender stalk, resembling in its
form a primrose, that has the purest and intensest yellow that we ever
saw in a flower. There is a purple variety of the same species, that
grows in the same neighborhoods. We have made a bed of these woodland
beauties at the roots of our great oak, so that they may finish their
growth, and seed, if possible, under our own eye.
By the by, we take this occasion to tell the lady who writes to beg of
us to send her some seeds or roots of Florida plants or flowers, that we
have put her letter on file, and perhaps, some day, may find something
to send her. Any one who loves flowers touches a kindred spot in our
heart. The difficulty with all these flowers and roots sent North is,
that they need the heat of this climate to bring them to perfection.
Still there is no saying what a real plant-lover may do in coaxing along
exotics. The "run" we have been exploring has, we are told, in the
season of them, beautiful blue wisteria climbing from branch to branch.
It does not come till after the yellow jessamine is gone. The
coral-honeysuckle and a species of trumpet-creeper also grow here, and,
in a little time, will be in full flower. One of our party called us
into the run, and bade us admire a beautiful shrub, some fifteen feet
high, whose curious, sharply-cut, deep-green leaves were shining with
that glossy polish which gives such brilliance. Its leaves were of waxen
thickness, its habit of growth peculiarly graceful; and our colored
handmaiden, who knows the habits of every plant in our vicinity, tells
us that it bears a white, sweet blossom, some weeks later. We mentally
resolve to appropriate this fair Daphne of the woods on the first
opportunity when hands can be spared to take it up and transport it.
But now the sun falls west, and we plod homeward. If you want to see a
new and peculiar beauty, watch a golden sunset through a grove
draperied with gray moss. The swaying, filmy bands turn golden and
rose-colored; and the long, swaying avenues are like a scene in
fairyland. We come home, and disembark our treasures. Our house looks
like a perfect flower-show. Every available vase and jar is
full,--dogwood, azaleas, blue iris, wreaths of yellow jessamine, blue
and white violets, and the golden unknown, which we christen primroses.
The daily sorting of the vases is no small charge: but there is a hand
to that department which never neglects; and so we breathe their air and
refresh our eyes with their beauty daily.
Your cold Northern snow-storms hold back our spring. The orange-buds
appear, but hang back. They are three weeks later than usual. Our
letters tell us frightful stories of thermometers no end of the way
below zero. When you have a snow-storm, we have a cold rain: so you
must keep bright lookout on your ways up there, or we shall get no
orange-blossoms.
We have received several letters containing questions about Florida. It
is our intention to devote our next paper to answering these. We are
perfectly ready to answer any number of inquiries, so long as we can
lump them all together, and answer them through "The Christian Union."
One class of letters, however, we cannot too thankfully remember. Those
who have read our papers with so much of sympathy as to send in
contributions to our church here have done us great good. We have now a
sum contributed with which we hope soon to replace our loss. And now, as
the mail is closing, we must close.
P. S.--We wish you could see a gigantic bouquet that Mr. S---- has just
brought in from the hummock. A little shrub-oak, about five feet high,
whose spreading top is all a golden mass of bloom with yellow jessamine,
he has cut down, and borne home in triumph.
What an adornment would this be for one of the gigantic Japanese vases
that figure in New-York drawing-rooms! What would such a bouquet sell
for?
  [Illustration]
"FLORIDA FOR INVALIDS."
We find an aggrieved feeling in the minds of the Floridian public in
view of a letter in "The Independent," by Dr. ----, headed as above; and
we have been urgently requested to say something on the other view of
the question.
Little did we suppose when we met our good friend at Magnolia,
apparently in the height of spirits, the life of the establishment, and
head promoter of all sorts of hilarity, that, under all this delightful
cheerfulness, he was contending with such dreary experiences as his
article in "The Independent" would lead one to suppose. Really, any one
who should know the doctor only from that article might mistake him for
a wretched hypochondriac; whereas we saw him, and heard of him by
universal repute at Magnolia, as one of the cheeriest and sunniest of
the inmates, taking every thing by the smoothest handle, and not only
looking on the bright side himself, but making everybody else do the
same. Imagine, therefore, our utter astonishment at finding our buoyant
doctor summing up his Florida experience in such paragraphs as these:--
"From what I have observed, I should think Florida was nine-tenths
water, and the other tenth swamp. Many are deceived by the milder
climate here; and down they come--to die. The mildness, too, is
exaggerated. Yesterday morning, the thermometer was at thirty-six
degrees. Outside, our winter overcoats were necessary; and great
wood-fires roared within. Now and then the thermometer reaches eighty
degrees at mid-day; but, that very night, you may have frost.
"Another fact of Florida is malaria. How could it be otherwise? Souse
Manhattan Island two feet deep in fresh water, and wouldn't the price of
quinine rise?
"I have no objection to the term 'sunny South;' it is a pretty
alliteration: but I object to its application to Georgia and Florida in
February. I wish you could have seen me last Friday night. We were
riding two hundred and sixty miles through a swamp,--Okefinokee of the
geographies. I was clad in full winter suit, with heavy Russian
overcoat."
But a careful comparison of the incidents in his letter solves the
mystery. The letter was written in an early date in the doctor's
Floridian experience, and before he had had an opportunity of
experiencing the benefit which he subsequently reaped from it.
We perceive by the reference to last Friday night, and the ride through
Okefinokee Swamp, that the doctor was then fresh from the North, and
undergoing that process of disenchantment which many Northern travellers
experience, particularly those who come by railroad. The most ardent
friends of Florida must admit that this railroad is by no means a
prepossessing approach to the land of promise; and the midnight cold
upon it is something likely to be had in remembrance. When we crossed
it, however, we had a stove, which was a small imitation of
Nebuchadnezzar's furnace, to keep us in heart. Otherwise there is a
great deal of truth in our friend's allegations. As we have elsewhere
remarked, every place, like a bit of tapestry, has its right side and
its wrong side; and both are true and real,--the wrong side with its
tags and rags, and seams and knots, and thrums of worsted, and the right
side with its pretty picture.
It is true, as the doctor says, that some invalids do come here, expose
themselves imprudently, and die. People do die in Florida, if they use
the means quite as successfully as in New York. It is true that
sometimes the thermometer stands at seventy at noon, and that the nights
are much cooler; it is true we have sometimes severe frosts in Florida;
it is true we have malaria; it is true that there are swamps in Florida;
and it is quite apt to be true, that, if a man rides a hundred miles
through a swamp at night, he will feel pretty chilly.
All these are undeniable truths. We never pretended that Florida was the
kingdom of heaven, or the land where they shall no more say, "I am
sick." It is quite the reverse. People this very winter have in our
neighborhood had severe attacks of pneumonia; and undoubtedly many have
come to Florida seeking health, and have not found it.
Yet, on the other hand, there are now living in Florida many old
established citizens and land-owners who came here ten, twenty, and
thirty years ago, given over in consumption, who have here for years
enjoyed a happy and vigorous life in spite of Okefinokee Swamp and the
malaria.
Undoubtedly the country would be much better to live in if there were no
swamps and no malaria; and so, also, New England would be better to live
in if there were not six months winter and three more months of cold
weather there. As to malaria, it is not necessary to souse Manhattan
Island under water to get that in and around New York. The new lands in
New York will give you chills and fever quite as well as Florida. You
can find malarial fevers almost anywhere in the towns between New York
and New Haven; and it is notorious that many estates in the vicinity of
New York and Philadelphia sell cheap on that very account, because they
are almost as malarious as some Italian villas.
Florida is not quite so bad as that yet, although it has its share of
that malaria which attends the development of land in a new country. But
the malarial fevers here are of a mild type, and easily managed; and
they are generally confined to the fall months. The situation of
Florida, surrounded by the sea, and the free sweep of winds across it,
temper the air, and blow away malarious gases.
In regard to consumptives and all other invalids, the influence of a
Floridian climate depends very much on the nature of the case and the
constitution of the individual.
If persons suffer constitutionally from cold; if they are bright and
well only in hot weather; if the winter chills and benumbs them, till,
in the spring, they are in the condition of a frost-bitten hot-house
plant,--alive, to be sure, but with every leaf gone,--then these persons
may be quite sure that they will be the better for a winter in Florida,
and better still if they can take up their abode there.
But if, on the contrary, persons are debilitated and wretched during hot
weather, and if cool weather braces them, and gives them vigor and life,
then such evidently have no call to Florida, and should be booked for
Minnesota, or some other dry, cold climate. There are consumptives
belonging to both these classes of constitution; and the coming of one
of the wrong kind to Florida is of no use to himself, and is sure to
bring discredit on the country. A little good common sense and
reflection will settle that matter.
Again: there is a form of what passes for consumption, which is, after
all, some modification of liver-complaint; and, so far as we have heard
or observed, Florida is no place for these cases. The diseases here are
of the bilious type; and those who have liver-complaint are apt to grow
worse rather than better. But there are classes of persons on whom the
climate of Florida acts like a charm.
There are certain nervously-organized dyspeptics who require a great
deal of open, out-door life. They are in comfortable health during those
months when they can spend half their time in the open air. They have no
particular disease; but they have no great reserved strength, and cannot
battle with severe weather. They cannot go out in snow or wind, or on
chilly, stormy days, without risking more harm than they get good. Such,
in our Northern climate, are kept close prisoners for six months. From
December to May, they are shut in to furnace-heated houses or air-tight
stoves. The winter is one long struggle to keep themselves up. For want
of the out-door exercise which sustains them in summer, appetite and
sleep both fail them. They have restless nights and bad digestion, and
look anxiously to the end of winter as the only relief. For such how
slowly it drags! They watch the almanac. The sun crosses the line; the
days grow a minute longer: spring will come by and by. But by what cruel
irony was the month of March ever called spring?--March, which piles
snow-storms and wind-storms on backs almost broken by endurance. The
long agony of March and April is the breaking-point with many a delicate
person who has borne pretty well the regular winter.
