hinted before, and as Nellie and Don John had several times repeated,
the day was intensely hot. The sun where the man worked was absolutely
scorching, and the hired man had experienced a sun-stroke. Captain
Patterdale and his visitors bore him to his room in the L, and Don John
ran for the doctor, who appeared in less than ten minutes. The visitors
all did what they could, Mr. Laud Cavendish behaving very well.
Michael's wife and other friends soon arrived, and there was nothing
more for Laud to do. He went down stairs, and, finding Nellie in the
hall, he tried to comfort her; for she was very much concerned for poor
Michael.
"Do you think he will die, Mr. Cavendish?" asked she, almost as much
moved as though the poor man had been her father.
"O, no! I think he will recover. These Irishmen have thick heads, and
they don't die so easily of sun-stroke; for that's what the doctor says
it is," replied Laud, knowingly.
Nellie thought, if this was a true view of coup de soleil, Laud would
never die of it. She thought this; but she was not so impolite as to say
it. She asked him no more questions; for she saw Don John approaching
through the dining-room.
"Good afternoon, Miss Patterdale," said Laud, with a bow and a flourish,
as he retired towards the library, where he had left his hat.
In a few moments more, the rattle of the wagon, with which he delivered
goods to the customers, was heard as he drove off. Don John came into
the hall, and Nellie asked him ever so many questions about the
condition of Michael, and what the doctor said about him; all of which
the young man answered to the best of his ability.
"Do you think he will die, Don John?" she asked.
"I am sure I can't tell," replied Donald; "I hope not."
"Michael is real good, and I am so sorry for him!" added Nellie.
But Michael is hardly a personage in our story, and we do not purpose to
enter into the diagnosis of his case. He has our sympathies on the merit
of his sufferings alone, and quite as much for Nellie's sake; for it was
tender, and gentle, and kind in her to feel so much for a poor Irish
laborer. While she and Donald were talking about the case, Mr. Hasbrook
came down stairs, and passed through the hall into the library, where
he, also, had left his hat. In a few moments more the rattle of his
wagon was heard, as he drove off, indignant and disgusted at the
indifference of the nabob in refusing to take an interest in his
brilliant enterprise. He was angry with himself for having paid his note
before he had enlisted the payee in his cause.
"How is he, father?" asked Nellie, as Captain Patterdale entered the
hall.
"The doctor thinks he sees some favorable symptoms."
"Will he die?"
"The doctor thinks he will get over it. But he wants some ice, and I
must get it for him."
"I suppose you will not go in the Sea Foam now?" asked Donald.
"No; it is impossible," replied the captain, as he passed into the
dining-room to the refrigerator.
The father was like the daughter; and though he was a millionnaire, or
a demi-millionnaire--we don't know which, for we were never allowed to
look over his taxable valuation--though he was a nabob, he took right
hold, and worked with his own hands for the comfort and the recovery of
the sufferer. It was creditable to his heart that he did so, and we
never grudge such a man his "pile," especially when he has earned it by
his own labor, or made it in honorable, legitimate business. The captain
went up stairs again with a large dish of ice, to assist the doctor in
the treatment of his patient.
Donald staid in the hall, talking with Miss Nellie, as long as he
thought it proper to do so, though not as long as he desired, and then
entered the library where he, also, had left his hat. Perhaps it was a
singular coincidence that all three of the visitors had left their hats
in that room; but then it was not proper for them to sit with their hats
on in the presence of such a magnate as Captain Patterdale, and no
decent man would stop for a hat when a person had fallen in a fit.
Captain Patterdale's hat was still there; and, unluckily, there was
something else belonging to him which was not there.
CHAPTER II.
ABOUT THE TIN BOX.
Captain Patterdale worked with the doctor for a full hour upon poor
Michael, who at the end of that time opened his eyes, and soon declared
that he was "betther entirely." He insisted upon getting up, for it was
not "the likes of himself that was to lay there and have his honor
workin' over him." But the doctor and the nabob pacified him, and left
him, much improved, in the care of his wife.
"How is he, Dr. Wadman?" asked the sympathizing Nellie, as they came
down stairs together.
"He is decidedly better," replied the physician.
"Will he die?"
"O, no; I think not. His case looks very hopeful now."
"I thought folks always died with sun-stroke," said Nellie, more
cheerfully.
"No; not unless their heads are very soft," laughed the doctor.
"Well, I shouldn't think Laud Cavendish would dare to go out when the
sun shines," added the fair girl, with a snap of her bright eyes.
"It isn't quite safe for him to do so. Unfortunately, such people don't
know their own heads. I will come in again after tea," said the doctor,
as he went out of the house, at the front door; for he had not left his
hat in the library.
"I am so glad Michael is better!" continued Nellie. "When I saw him
drop, I felt as cold as ice, and I was afraid I should drop too before I
could get to the library."
"Did you see him fall, Nellie?" asked her father.
"Yes; he gave a kind of groan, and then fell; he was--"
"Gracious!" exclaimed Captain Patterdale, interrupting her all of a
sudden.
He turned on his heel, and walked rapidly into the library. Nellie was
startled, and was troubled with a suspicion that her father had a coup
de soleil, or coup de something-else; for he did not often do
anything by fits and starts. She followed him into the library. It was a
fact that the captain had left his hat there; but it was not for this
article, so necessary in a hot day, that he hastened thus abruptly into
the room. Nellie found him flying around the apartment in a high state
of excitement for him. He was looking anxiously about, and seemed to be
very much disturbed.
"What in the world is the matter, father?" asked Nellie.
"Where is your mother?"
"She has gone over to Mrs. Rodman's."
"Hasn't she been back?"
"No, certainly not; I was just going over to tell her what had happened
to Michael, when you came down."
"Who has been in here, Nellie?"
"I don't know that anybody has. I haven't seen any one. What's the
matter, father? what in the world has happened?"
"I left my tin box here when I went out to see to Michael, and now it is
gone," answered Captain Patterdale, anxiously. "I didn't know but that
your mother had come in and taken care of it."
"The tin box gone?" exclaimed Nellie. "Why, what can have become of it?"
"That is just what I should like to know," added the captain, as he
renewed his search in the room for the treasure chest.
It was not in the library, and then he looked in the great hall and in
the little hall, in the drawing-room, the sitting-room, and the
dining-room; but it was not in any of these. He knew he had left it on
the chair near where he was sitting when he went out of the room. Then
he examined the spring-lock on the door of the library which led into
the side street. It was closed and securely fastened. The door shut
itself with a patent invention, and when shut it locked itself, so that
anybody could get out, but no one could get in unless admitted.
"Where were you when I was up stairs, Nellie?" asked Captain Patterdale,
as he seated himself in his arm-chair, to take a cool view of the whole
subject.
"I was in the hall most of the time," she replied.
"Who has been in the library?"
"Let me see; Laud Cavendish came down first, and went out through the
library."
The captain rubbed his bald head, and seemed to be asking himself
whether it was possible for Mr. Laud Cavendish to do so wicked a deed as
stealing that tin box. He did not believe the young swell had the
baseness or the daring to commit so great a crime. It might be, but he
could not think so.
"Who else has been in here?" he inquired, when he had hastily considered
all he knew about the moral character of Laud.
"That other man who was with you--I don't know his name--the one that
was here when I came in with Don John."
"Mr. Hasbrook."
"He went out through the library. I thought he looked real ugly too,"
added Nellie. "He kept fidgeting about all the time I was here."
"And all the time he was here himself. He went out through the
library--did he?"
"Yes, sir."
Captain Patterdale mentally overhauled the character of Mr. Hasbrook. It
was unfortunate for his late debtor that his character was not first
class, and between him and Laud Cavendish the probabilities were
altogether against Hasbrook. He had evidently been vexed and angry
because he failed to carry his point, and his cupidity might have been
stimulated by revenge. But the captain was a fair and just man, and in a
matter of this kind, involving the reputation of any person, he kept his
suspicions to himself.
"Who else has been in the library, Nellie?" he asked.
"No one but Don John," replied she. And whatever Laud or Hasbrook might
have done in wickedness, Nellie had too much regard for her friend and
schoolmate to admit for one instant the possibility of his doing
anything wrong, much less his committing so gross a crime as the
stealing of the tin box and its valuable contents.
Captain Patterdale was hardly less confident of the integrity of Donald.
Certainly it was not necessary to suspect him when the possibilities of
guilt included two such persons as Laud and Hasbrook. Donald was rather
distinguished, in school and out, as a good boy, and he ought to have
the full benefit of his reputation.
"You don't think Don John took the box--do you, father?" asked Nellie,
as her father was meditating on the circumstances.
"Certainly not, Nellie," protested the captain, warmly; "I don't know
that anybody has taken it."
"I know Don John would not do such a thing."
"I don't believe he would."
"I know he would not."
Her father thought she was just a little more earnest in her
uncalled-for defence of the young man than was necessary, and for the
first time in his life it occurred to him that she was more interested
in him than he wished her to be; for, as Donald was only the son of a
poor boat-builder, such a strong friendship might be embarrassing in the
future. However, this was only the shadow of a passing thought, which
divided his attention only for a moment. The loss of the tin box was the
question of the hour, and "society" topics were not just then in order.
"I have no idea that Don John took the box," replied Captain Patterdale.
"I am more willing to believe either of the other two who were in the
library took it than that he did. But he was the last of the three who
went out through this room. He may be able to give me some information,
and I will go down and see him. He and his father were going off in the
new yacht--were they not?"
"Yes, sir."
"You need not say a word about the box to any one, Nellie, nor even that
it is lost," added the captain. "If I do not find it, I shall employ a
skilful detective to look it up, and he may prefer to work in the dark."
"I will not mention it, father," replied Nellie. "What was in the box?
Was it money?"
"I put thirteen hundred and fifty dollars into it, but I took out twenty
to pay the bill that Laud brought. It contains my deeds, leases,
policies of insurance, and my notes, and these papers are really more
valuable to me than the money. Luckily, my bonds and securities are in
another box, in the vault of the bank."
"Then you will lose over thirteen hundred dollars if you don't find the
box?"
"More than that, I am afraid, for I shall hardly be able to collect all
the money due on the notes if I lose them," replied the captain, as he
left the house.
He walked down to the boat shop of Mr. Ramsay. It was on the shore, and
near it was the house in which the boat-builder lived. Neither Don John
nor his father was at the shop, but a sloop yacht, half a mile out in
the bay, seemed to be the Sea Foam. She was headed towards the shore,
however, and Captain Patterdale seated himself in the shade of the shop
to await its arrival, though he hardly expected to obtain any
information in regard to the box from Donald. While he was sitting
there, Mr. Laud Cavendish appeared with a large basket in his hand. The
counter-jumper started when he turned the corner of the shop, and saw
the nabob seated there.
"Going a-fishing?" asked the captain.
"Yes, sir; I'm going over to Turtle Head to camp out over Sunday,"
replied Laud. "How is Michael, sir?"
"He is much better, and is doing very well."
"I'm glad of it," added Laud, as he carried his basket down to a
sail-boat which was partly aground, and deposited it in the forward
cuddy.
Captain Patterdale wanted to talk with Laud, but he did not like to
excite any suspicions on his part. If the young man had taken the box
he would not be likely to go off on an island to stay over Sunday.
Besides, it was evident from the position of the boat, and the fact that
it contained several articles necessary for a fishing excursion, in
addition to those in the basket, that Laud had made his arrangements for
the trip before he visited the library of the elegant mansion. If he had
taken the box, he would probably have changed his plans. It was not
likely, therefore, that Laud was the guilty party.
"Are you going alone?" asked the captain, walking down the beach to the
boat.
"Yes, sir; I couldn't get any one to go with me. I tried Don John, but
he won't go off to stay over Sunday," replied Laud, with a sickly grin.
"I commend his example to you. I don't think it is a good way to spend
Sunday."
"It's the only time I can get to go. I've been trying to got off for a
month."
"Saturday must be a bad time for you to leave," suggested the captain.
"It is rather bad," added Laud, as he shoved off the bow of the boat,
for he seemed to be in haste to get away.
"By the way, Laud, did you notice a tin box in my library when you were
there this afternoon?" asked the nabob, with as much indifference in his
manner and tone as he could command.
"A tin box?" repeated Laud, busying himself with the jib of the
sail-boat.
"Yes; it was painted green."
"I don't remember any box," answered Laud.
"Didn't you see it? I opened it to take out the money I paid you."
"I didn't mind. I was receipting the bill while you were getting the
money ready. You know I sat down at your desk."
"Yes; I know you did; but didn't you see the box?"
"No, sir; I don't remember seeing any box," said Laud, still fussing
over the sail, which certainly did not need any attention.
"You went out through the library when you came down from Michael's
room--didn't you?" continued the captain.
"Yes, sir; I did. I left my hat in there."
"Did you see the box then?"
"Of course I didn't. If I had, I should have remembered it," replied
Laud, with a grin. "I just grabbed my hat, and ran, for I had been in
the house some time; and I got a blessing for being away so long when I
went back to the store."
"You didn't see the box, then?"
"If it was there, I suppose I saw it; but I didn't take any notice of
it. Why? is the box lost?"
"I want to get another like it. Haven't you anything of the sort in the
store?"
"We have some cake and spice boxes. They are tin, and painted on the
outside."
"Those will not answer the purpose. It's a very hot day," added the
captain, as he wiped the perspiration from his face, and walked back to
the shade of the shop.
Mr. Laud Cavendish stepped into the sail-boat, hoisted the sails, and
shoved her off into deep water with an oar. Captain Patterdale thought,
and then he did not know what to think. Was it possible Laud had not
noticed that tin box, which had been on a chair out in the middle of
the room? If he had not, why, then he had not; but if he had Laud had
more cunning, more self-control, and more ingenuity than the captain had
ever given him the credit, or the discredit, of possessing, for there
was certainly no sign of guilt in his tone or his manner, except that he
did not look the inquirer square in the face when he answered his
questions, though some guilty people can even do this without wincing.
Captain Patterdale watched the departing and the approaching boats,
still considering the possible relation of Laud Cavendish to the tin
box. If the fellow had stolen it, he would not go off on an island to
stay over Sunday, leaving the box behind to betray him; and this
argument seemed to be conclusive in his favor. The captain had looked
into the boat, and satisfied himself that the box was not there; unless
it was in the basket, which appeared to contain so many other things
that there was no room for it. On the whole, the captain was willing to
acquit Mr. Laud Cavendish of the act, partly, perhaps, because this had
been his first view of the matter. It was more probable that Hasbrook,
angry and disappointed at his failure, had put the box into his wagon,
and returned to the neighboring town, where, as before stated, his
reputation was not first class, though, perhaps, not many people
believed him capable of stealing outright, without the formality of
getting up a mining company, or making a trade of some sort. But Donald
had been the last of the trio of visitors who passed through the
library, and the captain wanted to see him.
The Sea Foam, with snowy sails just from the loft, and glittering in her
freshly-laid coat of white paint, ran up to a wharf just below the boat
shop. Donald was at the helm, and he threw her up into the wind just
before she came to the pier, so that when she forged ahead, with her
sails shaking in the wind, her head came up within a few inches of the
landing-place. Mr. Ramsay fended her off, and went ashore with a line in
his hand, which he made fast to a ring. Captain Patterdale walked around
to the wharf, as soon as he saw where she was to make a landing.
"Well, how do you like her, Sam?" said Donald to a young man of his own
age in the standing-room with him.
"First rate; and I hope your father will go to work on mine at once,"
replied the passenger.
"You will lay down the keel on Monday--won't you, father?"
"What?" asked Mr. Ramsay, who had seated himself on a log on the wharf.
"You will lay down the keel of the boat for Mr. Rodman on Monday--won't
you?" repeated Donald.
"Yes, if I am able; I don't feel very well to-day." And the boat-builder
doubled himself up, as though he was in great pain.
The young man in the standing-room of the Sea Foam was Samuel Rodman, a
schoolmate of Donald, whose father was a wealthy man, and had ordered
another boat like the Skylark, which had been the model for the new
yacht. He had come down to see the craft, and had been invited to take a
sail in her; but an engagement had prevented him from going as far as
Turtle Head, and the boat-builder and his son had returned to land him,
intending still to make the trip. By this time Captain Patterdale had
reached the end of the wharf. He went on board of the Sea Foam, and
looked her over with a critical eye, and was entirely satisfied with
her. He was invited to sail in her for as short a time as he chose, but
he declined.
"By the way, Donald, did you see the green tin box when you were in my
library this afternoon?" he asked, when all the topics relating to the
yacht had been disposed of.
"Yes, sir; I saw you take some money from it," replied Donald.
"Then you remember the box?"
"Yes, sir."
"Did you notice it when you came out--I mean, when you left the house?"
"I don't remember seeing it when I came out," answered Donald, wondering
what these questions meant.
"I want to get another box just like that one. Did you take particular
notice of it?"
"No, sir; I can't say I did."
"You didn't stay any time in the library after you came down from
Michael's room, did you?"
"No, sir; I only went for my hat, and didn't stay there a minute."
"And you didn't notice the tin box?"
"No, sir; I didn't see it at all when I came out."
"Then of course you didn't see any marks upon it," added the captain,
with a smile.
"If I didn't see the box, I shouldn't have been likely to see the
marks," laughed Donald. "What marks were they, sir?"
"It's of no consequence, if you didn't see them. The box was in the
library--wasn't it?--when you went out."
"I don't know whether it was or not. I only know that I don't remember
noticing it," said Donald, who thought the captain's question was a very
queer one, after those he had just answered.
The nabob was no better satisfied with Donald's answers than he had been
with those of Laud Cavendish, except that the former looked him full in
the face when he spoke. He obtained no information, and went home to
seek it at other sources.
"I think I won't go out again, Donald," said Mr. Ramsay, when Captain
Patterdale had left. "I don't feel very well, and you may go alone."
"Do you feel very sick, father?" asked the son, in tones of sympathy.
"No; but I think I will go into the house and take some medicine. You
can run over to Turtle Head alone," added the boat-builder, as he walked
towards the house.
"Can't you go any how, Sam?" said Donald, turning to his friend.
"No, I must go home now. I have to drive over to Searsport after my
sister," replied Sam, as he left the yacht, and walked up the wharf.
Donald hoisted the jib of the Sea Foam, shoved off her head, and laid
her course, with the wind over the quarter, for Turtle Head--distant
about seven miles.
CHAPTER III
THE YACHT CLUB AT TURTLE HEAD.
The Sea Foam was a sloop yacht, thirty feet in length, and as handsome
as a picture in an illustrated paper, than which nothing could be finer.
It was a fact that she had cost twelve hundred dollars; but even this
sum was cheaper than she could have been built and fitted up in Boston
or Bristol. She was provided with everything required by a first class
yacht of her size, both for the comfort and safety of the voyager, as
well as for fast sailing. Though Mr. Ramsay, her builder, was a ship
carpenter, he was a very intelligent and well-read man. He had made
yachts a specialty, and devoted a great deal of study to the subject. He
had examined the fastest craft in New York and Newport, and had their
lines in his head. And he was a very ingenious man, so that he had the
tact to make the most of small spaces, and to economize every spare
inch in lockers, closets, and stow-holes for the numerous articles
required in a pleasure craft. He had learned his trade as a ship
carpenter and joiner in Scotland, where the mechanic's education is much
more thorough than in our own country, and he was an excellent workman.
The cabin of the Sea Foam was about twelve feet long, with transoms on
each side, which were used both as berths and sofas. They were supplied
with cushions covered with Brussels carpet, with a pillow of the same
material at each end. Through the middle, fore and aft, was the
centre-board casing, on each side of which was a table on hinges, so
that it could be dropped down when not in use. The only possible
objection to this cabin, in the mind of a shoreman, would have been its
lack of height. It was necessarily "low studded," being only five feet
from floor to ceiling, which was rather trying to the perpendicularity
of a six-footer. But it was a very comfortable cabin for all that,
though tall men were compelled to be humble within its low limits.
It was entered from the standing-room by a single step covered with
plate brass, in which the name of the yacht was wrought with bright
copper nails. On each side of the companion-way was a closet, one of
which was for dishes, and the other for miscellaneous stores. The trunk,
which readers away from boatable waters may need to be informed is an
elevation about a foot above the main deck, to afford head-room in the
middle of the cabin, had three deck lights, or ports, on each side. At
one end of the casing of the centre-board was a place for the water-jar,
and a rack for tumblers. In the middle were hooks in the trunk-beams for
the caster and the lantern. The brass-covered step at the entrance was
movable, and when it was drawn out it left an opening into the run under
the standing-room, where a considerable space was available for use. In
the centre of it was the ice-chest, a box two feet square, lined with
zinc, which was rigged on little grooved wheels running on iron rods,
like a railroad car, so that the chest could be drawn forward where the
contents could be reached. On each side of this box was a water-tank,
holding thirty gallons, which could be filled from the standing-room.
The water was drawn by a faucet lower than the bottom of the tank in a
recess at one side of the companion-way. The tanks were connected by a
pipe, so that the water was drawn from both. At the side of the step was
a gauge to indicate the supply of fresh water on board.
Forward of the cabin, in the bow of the yacht, was the cook-room, with a
scuttle opening into it from the forecastle. The stove, a miniature
affair, with an oven large enough to roast an eight-pound rib of beef,
and two holes on the top, was in the fore peak. It was placed in a
shallow pan filled with sand, and the wood-work was covered with sheet
tin, to guard against fire. Behind the stove was a fuel-bin. On each
side of the cook room was a shelf eighteen inches wide at the bulk-head
and tapering forward to nothing. Under it were several lockers for the
galley utensils and small stores. The room was only four feet high, and
a tall cook in the Sea Foam would have found it necessary to discount
himself. On the foremast was a seat on a hinge, which could be dropped
down, on which the "doctor" could sit and do his work, roasting himself
at the same time he roasted his beef or fried his fish. Everything in
the cook-room and the cabin, as well as on deck, was neat and nice. The
cabin was covered with a handsome oil-cloth carpet, and the wood was
white with zinc paint, varnished, with gilt moulding to ornament it.
Edward Patterdale, who was to be the nominal owner and the real skipper
of this beautiful craft, intended to have several framed pictures on the
spaces between the deck lights, a clock in the forward end over the
cook-room door, and brass brackets for the spy-glass in the
companion-way.
On deck the Sea Foam was as well appointed as she was below. Her
bowsprit had a gentle downward curve, her mast was a beautiful spar, and
her topmast was elegantly tapered and set up in good shape. Unlike most
of the regular highflyer yachts, her jib and mainsail were not
unreasonably large. Mr. Ramsay did not intend that it should be
necessary to reef when it blew a twelve-knot breeze, and, like the
Skylark, she was expected to carry all sail in anything short of a full
gale. But she was provided with an abundance of "kites," including an
immense gaff-topsail, which extended on poles far above the topmast
head, and far beyond the peak, a balloon-jib, a jib-topsail, and a
three-cornered studding-sail. The balloon-jib, or the jib-topsail, was
bent on with snap-hooks when it was needed, for only one was used at the
same time. These extra sails were to be required only in races, and they
were kept on shore. One stout hand could manage her very well, though
two made it easier work, and six were allowed in a race.
Donald seated himself in the standing-room, with the tiller in his right
hand. As soon as he had run out a little way, his attention was excited
by discovering three other sloop yachts coming down the bay. In one of
them he recognized the Skylark, and in another the Christabel, while the
third was a stranger to him, though he had heard of the arrival that day
of a new yacht from Newport, and concluded this was she. He let off his
sheet, and ran up to meet the little fleet.
"Sloop, ahoy!" shouted Robert Montague, from the Skylark, as Donald came
within hailing distance.
"On board the Skylark!" replied the skipper of the Sea Foam.
"Is that you, Don John?"
"Ay, ay."
"What sloop is that?" demanded Robert.
"The Sea Foam."
"Where bound?"
"Over to Turtle Head."
"We are bound there; come with us."
"Ay ay."
"Hold on a minute, Don John," shouted some one from the Christabel.
Each of the yachts had a tender towing astern, and that from the
Christabel, with five boys in it, immediately put off, and pulled to the
Sea Foam.
"Will you take us on board, Don John?" asked Gus Barker, as the tender
came alongside.
"Certainly; I'm glad to have your company," replied Donald, who had
thrown the yacht up into the wind.
Three of the party in the tender jumped upon the deck of the Sea Foam,
and the boat returned to the Christabel. Each of the yachts appeared to
have half a dozen or more on board of her, so that there was quite a
party on the way to Turtle Head. The sloops filled away again, the
Skylark and the new arrival having taken the lead, while the other two
were delayed.
"What sloop is that with the Skylark?" asked Donald.
"That's the Phantom. She got here from Newport this forenoon. Joe
Guilford's father bought her for him. She is the twin sister of the
Skylark, and they seem to make an even thing of it in sailing," replied
Gus Barker.
"You have quite a fleet now," added Donald.
"Yes; and we are going to form a Yacht Club. We intend to have a meeting
over at Turtle Head. Will you join, Don John?"
"I haven't any boat."
"Nor I, either. All the members can't be skippers," laughed Gus. "I am
to be mate of the Sea Foam, and that's the reason I wanted to come on
board of her."
"And I am to be one of her crew," added Dick Adams.
"And I the steward," laughed Ben Johnson. "I am going down into the
cook-room to see how things look there."
"You will join--won't you, Don?"
"Well, I don't know. I can't afford to run with you fellows with rich
fathers."
"O, get out! That don't make any difference," puffed Gus. "The owner of
the yacht has to foot the bills. Besides, we want you, Don John, for you
know more about a boat than all the rest of the fellows put together."
"Well, I shall be very glad to do anything I can to help the thing
along; but there are plenty of fellows that can sail a boat better than
I can."
"But you know all about a boat, and they want you for measurer. We have
the printed constitution of a Yacht Club, which Bob Montague got in
Boston, and according to that the measurer is entitled to ten cents a
foot for measuring a yacht; so you may make something out of your
office."
"I don't want to make any money out of it," protested Donald.
"You can make enough to pay your dues, for we have to raise some money
for prizes in the regattas; and we talk of having a club house over on
Turtle Head," rattled Gus, whose tongue seemed to be hung on a pivot in
his enthusiasm over the club. "Every fellow must be voted in, and pay
five dollars a year for membership. We shall have some big times.--We
are gaining on the Skylark, as true as you live!"
"I think we are; but I guess Bob isn't driving her," added Donald.
"She carries the same sail as the Sea Foam. I would give anything to
beat her. Make her do her best, Don John."
"I will," laughed the skipper, who had kept one eye on the Skylark all
the time.
He trimmed the sails a little, and began to be somewhat excited over the
prospect of a race. The Christabel was three feet longer than the other
yachts, and it was soon evident that in a light wind she was more than a
match for them, for she ran ahead of the Sea Foam. Her jib and mainsail
were much larger in proportion to her size than those of the other
sloops, but she was not an able boat, not a heavy-weather craft, like
them. The Sea Foam continued to gain on the Skylark, till she was
abreast of her, while the Phantom kept about even with her. But then
Robert Montague was busy all the time talking with his companions about
the Yacht Club, and did not pay particular attention to the sailing of
his boat. The Sea Foam began to walk ahead of him, and then, for the
first time, it dawned upon him that the reputation of the Skylark was at
stake. He had his crew of five with him, and he placed them in position
to improve the sailing of his craft. He ordered one of his hands to give
a small pull on the jib-sheet, another to let off the main sheet a
little, and a third to haul up the centre-board a little more, as she
was going free.
The effect of this attention on the part of the skipper of the Skylark
was to lessen the distance between her and the Sea Foam; they were abeam
of each other, with the Phantom in the same line. The Christabel was
about a cable's length ahead of them.
"She's game yet," said Gus Barker, his disappointment evident in the
tones of his voice, as the Skylark came up to the Sea Foam.
"This is a new boat, and I haven't got the hang of her yet," Donald
explained. "Haul up that fin a little, Dick."
"What fin?"
"The centre-board."
"Ay, ay," replied Dick, as he obeyed the order.
"Steady! that's enough," continued Donald, who now narrowly watched the
sailing of the Sea Foam, to assure himself that she did not make too
much leeway.
"That was what she wanted!" exclaimed Gus, when the yacht began to gain
again, and in a few minutes was half a length ahead.
"But not quite so much of it," replied Donald, when he saw that his
craft was sliding off a very little. "Give her just three inches more
fin, Dick."
The centre-board was dropped this distance, and the tendency to make
leeway thus corrected.
"She is gaining still!" cried Gus, delighted.
"Not much; it is a pretty even thing," added Donald.
"No matter; we beat her, and I don't care if it's only half an inch in a
mile."
"But the Christabel is leading us all. She is sure of all the first
prizes."
"Not a bit of it. She has to reef when there's a capful of wind. In a
calm she will beat us, but when it blows we shall wax her all to
pieces."
"Hallo!" shouted Mr. Laud Cavendish, whose small sail-boat was
overhauled about half way over to Turtle Head. "Is that you, Don John?"
"I believe so," replied Donald.
"Where you going?"
"Over to Turtle Head. Want us to give you a tow?"
"No; you needn't brag about your old tub. She don't belong to you; and
I'm going to have a boat that will beat that one all to splinters,"
replied Laud.
"All right; fetch her along."
"I say, Don John, I'm going to stop over Sunday on Turtle Head. Won't
you stay with me?"
"No, I thank you. I must go home to-night," answered Donald.
Mr. Laud Cavendish knew very well that Donald would not spend Sunday in
boating and fishing; and he did not ask because he wanted him. Besides,
for more reasons than one, he did not desire his company. The Sea Foam
ran out of talking distance of the sail-boat in a moment. Robert
Montague was doing his best to keep up the reputation of the Skylark;
but when the fleet came up to Turtle Head, she was more than a length
behind. The jib was hauled down, the yachts came up into the wind, and
the anchors were let go.
"Beat you," shouted Gus Barker.
"Not much," replied Robert. "We will try that over again some time."
"We are willing," added Donald.
The mainsails were lowered, and the young yachtmen embarked in the
tenders for the shore. Turtle Head is a rocky point at the northern
extremity of Long Island, in Penobscot Bay. There were a few trees near
the shore, and under these the party purposed to hold their meeting.
Though the weather was intensely hot on shore, it was comfortably cool
at the Head, where the wind came over five or six miles of salt water
cool from the ocean. The boys leaped ashore, and hauled up their boats
where the rising tide could not float them off. There were over twenty
of them, all members of the High School.
"The Sea Foam sails well," said Robert Montague, as he walked over to
the little grove with Donald.
"Very well, indeed. This is the first time she has been out, and I find
she works first rate," replied Donald.
"I want to try it with her some day, when everything is right."
"Wasn't everything right to-day?" asked Donald, smiling, for he was well
aware that every boatman has a good excuse for the shortcomings of his
craft.
"No; my tender is twice as heavy as yours," added Robert. "I must get
your father to build me one like that of the Sea Foam."
"We will try it without any tenders, which we don't want in a race."
"Of course I don't know but the Sea Foam can beat me; but I haven't seen
the boat of her inches before that could show her stern to the Skylark,"
said Robert; and it was plain that he was a little nettled at the slight
advantage which the new yacht had gained.
"I should like to sail her when you try it, for I have great hopes of
the Sea Foam. If my father has built a boat that will beat the Skylark
in all weathers, he has done a big thing, and it will make business good
for him."
"For his sake I might be almost willing to be whipped," replied Robert,
good-naturedly, as they halted in the grove.
Charley Armstrong was the oldest member of the party, and he was to call
the meeting to order, which he did with a brief speech, explaining the
object of the gathering, though everybody present knew it perfectly
well. Charles was then chosen chairman, and Dick Adams secretary. It was
voted to form a club, and the secretary was called upon to read the
constitution of the "Dorchester Yacht Club." The name was changed to
Belfast, and the document was adopted as the constitution of the Belfast
Yacht Club. The second article declared that the officers should consist
of a "Commodore, Vice-Commodore, Captain of the Fleet, Secretary,
Treasurer, Measurer, a Board of Trustees, and a Regatta Committee;" and
the next business was to elect them, which had to be done by written or
printed ballots. As the first three officers were required to be owners
in whole, or in part, of yachts enrolled in the club, there was found to
be an alarming scarcity of yachts. The Skylark, Sea Foam, Phantom, and
Christabel were on hand. Edward Patterdale and Samuel Rodman had
signified their intention to join, though they were unable to be present
at the first meeting. The Maud, as Samuel Rodman's new yacht was to be
called, was to be built at once: she was duly enrolled, thus making a
total of five, from whom the first three officers must be chosen.
The secretary had come supplied with stationery, and a slip was handed
to each member, after the constitution had been signed. A ballot was
taken for commodore; Robert B. Montague had twenty votes, and Charles
Armstrong one. Robert accepted the office in a "neat little speech,"
and took the chair, which was a sharp rock. Edward Patterdale was
elected vice-commodore, and Joseph Guilford captain of the fleet. Donald
was chosen measurer, and the other offices filled to the satisfaction of
those elected, if not of the others. It was then agreed to have a review
and excursion on the following Saturday, to which the ladies were to be
invited.
The important business of the day was happily finished, and the fleet
sailed for Belfast. Having secured the Sea Foam at her mooring, Donald
hastened home. As he approached the cottage, he saw a doctor's sulky at
the door, and the neighbors going in and out. His heart rose into his
throat, for there was not one living beneath that humble roof whom he
did not love better than himself.
CHAPTER IV.
A SAD EVENT IN THE RAMSAY FAMILY.
Donald's heart beat violently as he hastened towards the cottage. Before
he could reach it, another doctor drew up at the door, and it was
painfully certain that one of the family was very sick--dangerously so,
or two physicians would not have been summoned. It might be his father,
his mother, or his sister Barbara; and whichever it was, it was terrible
to think of. His legs almost gave away under him, when he staggered up
to the cottage. As he did so, he recalled the fact that his father had
been ailing when he went away in the Sea Foam. It must be his father,
therefore, who was now so desperately ill as to require the attendance
of two doctors.
The cottage was a small affair, with a pretty flower garden in front of
it, and a whitewashed fence around it. But small as it was, it was not
owned by the boat-builder, who, though not in debt, had hardly anything
of this world's goods--possibly a hundred dollars in the savings' bank,
and the furniture in the cottage. Though he was as prudent and thrifty
as Scotchmen generally are, and was not beset by their "often
infirmity," he had not been very prosperous. The business of
ship-building had been almost entirely suspended, and for several years
only a few small vessels had been built in the city. Ramsay had always
obtained work; but he lived well, and gave his daughter and his son an
excellent education.
Alexander Ramsay's specialty was the building of yachts and boats, and
he determined to make a better use of his skill than selling it with his
labor for day wages. He went into business for himself as a
boat-builder. When he established himself, he had several hundred
dollars, with which he purchased stock and tools. He had built several
sail-boats, but the Sea Foam was the largest job he had obtained.
Doubtless with life and health he would have done a good business.
Donald had always been interested in boats, and he knew the name and
shape of every timber and plank in the hull of a vessel, as well as
every spar and rope. Though only sixteen, he was an excellent mechanic
himself. His father had taken great pains to instruct him in the use of
tools, and in draughting and modelling boats and larger craft. He not
only studied the art in theory, but he worked with his own hands. In the
parlor of the little cottage was a full-rigged brig, made entirely by
him. The hull was not a log, shaped and dug out, but regularly
constructed, with timbers and planking. When he finished it, only a few
months before his introduction to the reader, he felt competent to build
a yacht like the Sea Foam, without any assistance; but boys are
generally over-confident, and possibly he overrated his ability.
With his heart rising up into his throat, Donald walked towards the
cottage. As he passed the whitewashed gate, one of the neighbors came
out at the front door. She was an elderly woman, and she looked very sad
as she glanced at the boy.
"I'm glad you have come, Donald; but I'm afraid he'll never speak to you
again," said she.
"Is it my father?" gasped the poor fellow.
"It is; and he's very sick indeed."
"What ails him?"
"That's more than the doctors can tell yet," added the woman. "They say
it's very like the cholera; and I suppose it's cholera-morbus. He has
been ailing for several days, and he didn't take care of himself. But go
in, Donald, and see him while you may."
The young man entered the cottage. The doctors, his mother and sister,
were all doing what they could for the sufferer, who was enduring, with
what patience he could, the most agonizing pain. Donald went into the
chamber where his father lay writhing upon the bed. The physicians were
at work upon him; but he saw his son as he entered the room and held out
his hand to him. The boy took it in his own. It was cold and convulsed.
"I'm glad you've come, Donald," groaned he, uttering the words with
great difficulty. "Be a good boy always, and take care of your mother
and sister."
"I will, father," sobbed Donald, pressing the cold hand he held.
"I was afraid I might never see you again," gasped Mr. Ramsay.
"O, don't give up, my man," said Dr. Wadman. "You may be all right in a
few hours."
The sick man said no more. He was in too much pain to speak again, and
Dr. Wadman sent Donald to the kitchen for some hot water. When he
returned with it he was directed to go to the apothecary's for an ounce
of chloroform, which the doctors were using internally and externally,
and had exhausted their supply. Donald ran all the way as though the
life of his father depended upon his speed. He was absent only a few
minutes, but when he came back there was weeping and wailing in the
little cottage by the sea-side. His father had breathed his last, even
while the doctors were hopefully working to save him.
"O, Donald, Donald!" cried Mrs. Ramsay, as she threw her arms around his
neck. "Your poor father is gone!"
The boy could not speak; he could not even weep, though his grief was
not less intense than that of his mother and sister. They groaned, and
sobbed, and sighed together, till kind neighbors led them from the
chamber of death, vainly endeavoring to comfort them. It was hours
before they were even tolerably calm; but they could speak of nothing,
think of nothing, but him who was gone. The neighbors did all that it
was necessary to do, and spent the night with the afflicted ones, who
could not separate to seek their beds. The rising sun of the Sabbath
found them still up, and still weeping--those who could weep. It was a
long, long Sunday to them, and every moment of it was given to him who
had been a devoted husband and a tender father. On Monday, all too soon,
was the funeral; and all that was mortal of Alexander Ramsay was laid in
the silent grave, never more to be looked upon by those who had loved
him, and whom he had loved.
The little cottage was like a casket robbed of its single jewel to those
who were left. Earth and life seemed like a terrible blank to them. They
could not accustom themselves to the empty chair at the window where he
sat when his day's work was done; to the vacant place at the table,
where he had always invoked the blessing of God on the frugal fare
before them; and to the silent and deserted shop on the other side of
the street, from which the noise of his hammer and the clip of his adze
had come to them. A week wore away and nothing was done but the most
necessary offices of the household. The neighbors came frequently to
beguile their grief, and the minister made several visits, bearing to
them the consolations of the gospel, and the tender message of a genuine
sympathy.
But it is not for poor people long to waste themselves in idle
lamentations. The problem of the future was forced upon Mrs. Ramsay for
solution. If they had been able only to live comfortably on the earnings
of the dead husband, what should they do now when the strong arm that
delved for them was silent in the cold embrace of death? They must all
work now; but even then the poor woman could hardly see how she could
keep her family together. Barbara was eighteen, but she had never done
anything except to assist her mother, whose health was not very good,
about the house. She was a graduate of the High School, and competent,
so far as education was concerned, to teach a school if she could obtain
a situation. Mrs. Ramsay might obtain work to be done at home, but it
was only a pittance she could earn besides doing her housework. She
wished to have Donald finish his education at the High School, but she
was afraid this was impossible.
Donald, still mourning for his father, who had so constantly been his
companion in the cottage and in the shop, that he could not reconcile
himself to the loss, hardly thought of the future, till his mother spoke
to him about it. He had often, since that bitter Saturday night,
recalled the last words his father had ever spoken to him, in which he
had told him to be a good boy always and take care of his mother and
sister; but they had not much real significance to him till his mother
spoke to him. Then he understood them; then he saw that his father was
conscious of the near approach of death, and had given his mother and
his sister into his keeping. Then, with the memory of him who was gone
lingering near and dear in his heart, a mighty resolution was born in
his soul, though it did not at once take a practical form.
"Don't worry about the future, mother," said he, after he had listened
to her rather hopeless statement of her views.
"I don't worry about it, Donald, for while we have our health and
