himself upon the sympathy of summer visitors in this way. You can't
offer a man so little as shilling and sixpence who's taken you into his
confidence. Did you find enough that was novel in his place to justify
him in bringing us here, Miss Ellison?" he asked with an air he had of
taking you of course to be of his mind, and which equally offended you
whether you were so or not.
Every face that they had seen in their drive had told its pathetic story
to Kitty; every cottage that they passed she had entered in thought, and
dreamed out its humble drama. What their host had said gave breath and
color to her fancies of the struggle of life there, and she was startled
and shocked when this cold doubt was cast upon the sympathetic tints of
her picture. She did not know what to say at first; she looked at Mr.
Arbuton with a sudden glance of embarrassment and trouble; then she
answered, "I was very much interested. I don't agree with you, I
believe"; which, when she heard it, seemed a resentful little speech,
and made her willing for some occasion to soften its effect. But nothing
occurred to her during the brief drive back to the boat, save the fact
that the morning air was delicious.
"Yes, but rather cool," said Mr. Arbuton, whose feelings apparently had
not needed any balm; and the talk fell again to the others.
On the pier he helped her down from the wagon, for the colonel was
intent on something the driver was saying, and then offered his hand to
Mrs. Ellison.
She sprang from her place, but stumbled slightly, and when she touched
the ground, "I believe I turned my foot a little," she said with a
laugh. "It's nothing, of course," and fainted in his arms.
Kitty gave a cry of alarm, and the next instant the colonel had relieved
Mr. Arbuton. It was a scene, and nothing could have annoyed him more
than this tumult which poor Mrs. Ellison's misfortune occasioned among
the bystanding habitans and deck-hands, and the passengers eagerly
craning forward over the bulwarks, and running ashore to see what the
matter was. Few men know just how to offer those little offices of
helpfulness which such emergencies demand, and Mr. Arbuton could do
nothing after he was rid of his burden; he hovered anxiously and
uselessly about, while Mrs. Ellison was carried to an airy position on
the bow of the boat, where in a few minutes he had the great
satisfaction of seeing her open her eyes. It was not the moment for him
to speak, and he walked somewhat guiltily away with the dispersing
crowd.
Mrs. Ellison addressed her first words to pale Kitty at her side. "You
can have all my things, now," she said, as if it were a clause in her
will, and perhaps it had been her last thought before unconsciousness.
"Why, Fanny," cried Kitty, with an hysterical laugh, "you're not going
to die! A sprained ankle isn't fatal!"
"No; but I've heard that a person with a sprained ankle can't put their
foot to the ground for weeks; and I shall only want a dressing-gown, you
know, to lie on the sofa in." With that, Mrs. Ellison placed her hand
tenderly on Kitty's head, like a mother wondering what will become of a
helpless child during her disability; in fact she was mentally weighing
the advantages of her wardrobe, which Kitty would now fully enjoy,
against the loss of the friendly strategy which she would now lack.
Helpless to decide the matter, she heaved a sigh.
"But, Fanny, you won't expect to travel in a dressing-gown."
"Indeed, I wish I knew whether I could travel in anything or not.
But the next twenty-four hours will show. If it swells up, I shall have
to rest awhile at Quebec; and if it doesn't, there may be something
internal. I've read of accidents when the person thought they were
perfectly well and comfortable, and the first thing they knew they were
in a very dangerous state. That's the worst of these internal injuries:
you never can tell. Not that I think there's anything of that kind the
matter with me. But a few days' rest won't do any harm, whatever
happens; the stores in Quebec are quite as good and a little cheaper
than in Montreal; and I could go about in a carriage, you know, and put
in the time as well in one place as the other. I'm sure we could get on
very pleasantly there; and the colonel needn't be home for a month yet.
I suppose that I could hobble into the stores on a crutch."
Whilst Mrs. Ellison's monologue ran on with scarcely a break from Kitty,
her husband was gone to fetch her a cup of tea and such other light
refreshment as a lady may take after a swoon. When he returned she
bethought herself of Mr. Arbuton, who, having once come back to see if
all was going well, had vanished again.
"Why, our friend Boston is bearing up under his share of the morning's
work like a hero--or a lady with a sprained ankle," said the colonel as
he arranged the provision. "To see the havoc he's making in the ham and
eggs and chiccory is to be convinced that there is no appetizer like
regret for the sufferings of others."
"Why, and here's poor Kitty not had a bite yet!" cried Mrs. Ellison.
"Kitty, go off at once and get your breakfast. Put on my--"
"O, don't, Fanny, or I can't go; and I'm really very hungry."
"Well, I won't then," said Mrs. Ellison, seeing the rainy cloud in
Kitty's eyes. "Go just as you are, and don't mind me." And so Kitty
went, gathering courage at every pace, and sitting down opposite Mr.
Arbuton with a vivid color to be sure, but otherwise lion-bold. He had
been upbraiding the stars that had thrust him further and further at
every step into the intimacy of these people, as he called them to
himself. It was just twenty-four hours, he reflected, since he had met
them, and resolved to have nothing to do with them, and in that time the
young lady had brought him under the necessity of apologizing for a
blunder of her own; he had played the eavesdropper to her talk; he had
sentimentalized the midnight hour with her; they had all taken a morning
ride together; and he had ended by having Mrs. Ellison sprain her ankle
and faint in his arms. It was outrageous; and what made it worse was
that decency obliged him to take henceforth a regretful, deprecatory
attitude towards Mrs. Ellison, whom he liked least among these people.
So he sat vindictively eating an enormous breakfast, in a sort of angry
abstraction, from which Kitty's coming roused him to say that he hoped
Mrs. Ellison was better.
"O, very much! It's just a sprain."
"A sprain may be a very annoying thing," said Mr. Arbuton dismally.
"Miss Ellison," he cried, "I've been nothing but an affliction to your
party since I came on board this boat!"
"Do you think evil genius of our party would be too harsh a term?"
suggested Kitty.
"Not in the least; it would be a mere euphemism,--base flattery, in
fact. Call me something worse."
"I can't think of anything. I must leave you to your own conscience. It
was a pity to end our ride in that way; it would have been such a
pleasant ride!" And Kitty took heart from his apparent mood to speak of
some facts of the morning that had moved her fancy. "What a strange
little nest it is up here among these half-thawed hills! and imagine the
winter, the fifteen or twenty months of it, they must have every year. I
could almost have shed tears over that patch of corn that had escaped
the early August frosts. I suppose this is a sort of Indian summer that
we are enjoying now, and that the cold weather will set in after a week
or two. My cousin and I thought that Tadoussac was somewhat retired and
composed last night, but I'm sure that I shall see it in its true light,
as a metropolis, going back. I'm afraid that the turmoil and bustle of
Eriecreek, when I get home--"
"Eriecreek?--when you got home?--I thought you lived at Milwaukee."
"O no! It's my cousins who live at Milwaukee. I live at Eriecreek, New
York State."
"Oh!" Mr. Arbuton looked blank and not altogether pleased. Milwaukee was
bad enough, though he understood that it was largely peopled from New
England, and had a great German element, which might account for the
fact that these people were not quite barbaric. But this Eriecreek, New
York State! "I don't think I've heard of it," he said.
"It's a small place," observed Kitty, "and I believe it isn't noted for
anything in particular; it's not even on any railroad. It's in the
north-west part of the State."
"Isn't it in the oil-regions?" groped Mr. Arbuton.
"Why, the oil-regions are rather migratory, you know. It used to be in
the oil-regions; but the oil was pumped out, and then the oil-regions
gracefully withdrew and left the cheese-regions and grape-regions to
come back and take possession of the old derricks and the rusty boilers.
You might suppose from the appearance of the meadows, that all the
boilers that ever blew up had come down in the neighborhood of
Eriecreek. And every field has its derrick standing just as the last
dollar or the last drop of oil left it."
Mr. Arbuton brought his fancy to bear upon Eriecreek, and wholly failed
to conceive of it. He did not like the notion of its being thrust within
the range of his knowledge; and he resented its being the home of Miss
Ellison, whom he was beginning to accept as a not quite comprehensible
yet certainly agreeable fact, though he still had a disposition to cast
her off as something incredible. He asked no further about Eriecreek,
and presently she rose and went to join her relatives, and he went to
smoke his cigar, and to ponder upon the problem presented to him in this
young girl from whose locality and conjecturable experiences he was at
loss how to infer her as he found her here.
She had a certain self-reliance mingling with an innocent trust of
others which Mrs. Isabel March had described to her husband as a charm
potent to make everybody sympathetic and good-natured, but which it
would not be easy to account for to Mr. Arbuton. In part it was a
natural gift, and partly it came from mere ignorance of the world; it
was the unsnubbed fearlessness of a heart which did not suspect a sense
of social difference in others, or imagine itself misprized for anything
but a fault. For such a false conception of her relations to polite
society, Kitty's Uncle Jack was chiefly to blame. In the fierce
democracy of his revolt from his Virginian traditions he had taught his
family that a belief in any save intellectual and moral distinctions was
a mean and cruel superstition; he had contrived to fix this idea so
deeply in the education of his children, that it gave a coloring to
their lives, and Kitty, when her turn came, had the effect of it in the
character of those about her. In fact she accepted his extreme theories
of equality to a degree that delighted her uncle, who, having held them
many years, was growing perhaps a little languid in their tenure and was
glad to have his grasp strengthened by her faith. Socially as well as
politically Eriecreek was almost a perfect democracy, and there was
little in Kitty's circumstances to contradict the doctor's teachings.
The brief visits which she had made to Buffalo and Erie, and, since the
colonel's marriage, to Milwaukee, had not sufficed to undeceive her; she
had never suffered slight save from the ignorant and uncouth; she
innocently expected that in people of culture she should always find
community of feeling and ideas; and she had met Mr. Arbuton all the more
trustfully because as a Bostonian he must be cultivated.
In the secluded life which she led perforce at Eriecreek there was an
abundance of leisure, which she bestowed upon books at an age when most
girls are sent to school. The doctor had a good taste of an
old-fashioned kind in literature, and he had a library pretty well
stocked with the elderly English authors, poets and essayists and
novelists, and here and there an historian, and these Kitty read
childlike, liking them at the time in a certain way, and storing up in
her mind things that she did not understand for the present, but whose
beauty and value dawned upon her from time to time, as she grew older.
But of far more use and pleasure to her than these now somewhat mouldy
classics were the more modern books of her cousin Charles,--that pride
and hope of his father's heart, who had died the year before she came to
Eriecreek. He was named after her own father, and it was as if her Uncle
Jack found both his son and his brother in her again. When her taste for
reading began to show itself in force, the old man one day unlocked a
certain bookcase in a little upper room, and gave her the key, saying,
with a broken pride and that queer Virginian pomp which still clung to
him, "This was my son's, who would one day have been a great writer; now
it is yours." After that the doctor would pick up the books out of this
collection which Kitty was reading and had left lying about the rooms,
and look into them a little way. Sometimes he fell asleep over them;
sometimes when he opened on a page pencilled with marginal notes, he
would put the volume gently down and go very quickly out of the room.
"Kitty, I reckon you'd better not leave poor Charley's books around
where Uncle Jack can get at them," one of the girls, Virginia or Rachel,
would say; "I don't believe he cares much for those writers, and the
sight of the books just tries him." So Kitty kept the books, and herself
for the most part with them, in the upper chamber which had been Charles
Ellison's room, and where, amongst the witnesses of the dead boy's
ambitious dreams, she grew dreamer herself and seemed to inherit with
his earthly place his own fine and gentle spirit.
The doctor, as his daughter suggested, did not care much for the modern
authors in whom his son had delighted. Like many another simple and
pure-hearted man, he thought that since Pope there had been no great
poet but Byron, and he could make nothing out of Tennyson and Browning,
or the other contemporary English poets. Amongst the Americans he had a
great respect for Whittier, but he preferred Lowell to the rest because
he had written The Biglow Papers, and he never would allow that the last
series was half so good as the first. These and the other principal
poets of our nation and language Kitty inherited from her cousin, as
well as a full stock of the contemporary novelists and romancers, whom
she liked better than the poets on the whole. She had also the advantage
of the magazines and reviews which used to come to him, and the house
over-flowed with newspapers of every kind, from the Eriecreek Courier to
the New York Tribune. What with the coming and going of the eccentric
visitors, and this continual reading, and her rides about the country
with her Uncle Jack, Kitty's education, such as it was, went on very
actively and with the effect, at least, to give her a great liveliness
of mind and several decided opinions. Where it might have warped her out
of natural simplicity, and made her conceited, the keen and wholesome
airs which breathed continually in the Ellison household came in to
restore her. There was such kindness in this discipline, that she never
could remember when it wounded her; it was part of the gayety of those
times when she would sit down with the girls, and they took up some work
together, and rattled on in a free, wild, racy talk, with an edge of
satire for whoever came near, a fantastic excess in its drollery, and
just a touch of native melancholy tingeing it. The last queer guest,
some neighborhood gossip, some youthful folly or pretentiousness of
Kitty's, some trait of their own, some absurdity of the boys if they
happened to be at home, and came lounging in, were the themes out of
which they contrived such jollity as never was, save when in Uncle
Jack's presence they fell upon some characteristic action or theory of
his and turned it into endless ridicule.
But of such people, of such life, Mr. Arbuton could have made nothing if
he had known them. In many things he was an excellent person, and
greatly to be respected for certain qualities. He was very sincere; his
mind had a singular purity and rectitude; he was a scrupulously just
person so far as he knew. He had traits that would have fitted him very
well for the career he had once contemplated, and he had even made some
preliminary studies for the ministry. But the very generosity of his
creed perplexed him, his mislikers said; contending that he could never
have got on with the mob of the redeemed. "Arbuton," said a fat young
fellow, the supposed wit of the class, "thinks there are persons of
low extraction in heaven; but he doesn't like the idea." And Mr. Arbuton
did not like the speaker very well, either, nor any of his poorer
fellow-students, whose gloveless and unfashionable poverty, and meagre
board and lodgings, and general hungry dependence upon pious bequests
and neighborhood kindnesses, offended his instincts. "So he's given it
up, has he?" moralized the same wit, upon his retirement. "If Arbuton
could have been a divinely commissioned apostle to the best society, and
been obliged to save none but well-connected, old-established, and
cultivated souls, he might have gone into the ministry." This was a
coarse construction of the truth, but it was not altogether a
perversion. It was long ago that he had abandoned the thought of the
ministry, and he had since travelled, and read law, and become a man of
society and of clubs; but he still kept the traits that had seemed to
make his vocation clear. On the other hand he kept the prejudices that
were imagined to have disqualified him. He was an exclusive by training
and by instinct. He gave ordinary humanity credit for a certain measure
of sensibility, and it is possible that if he had known more kinds of
men, he would have recognized merits and excellences which did not now
exist for him; but I do not think he would have liked them. His doubt of
these Western people was the most natural, if not the most justifiable
thing in the world, and for Kitty, if he could have known all about her,
I do not see how he could have believed in her at all. As it was, he
went in search of her party, when he had smoked his cigar, and found
them on the forward promenade. She had left him in quite a lenient mood,
although, as she perceived with amusement, he had done nothing to merit
it, except give her cousin a sprained ankle. At the moment of his
reappearance, Mrs. Ellison had been telling Kitty that she thought it
was beginning to swell a little, and so it could not be anything
internal; and Kitty had understood that she meant her ankle as well as
if she had said so, and had sorrowed and rejoiced over her, and the
colonel had been inculpated for the whole affair. This made Mr.
Arbuton's excuses rather needless, though they were most graciously
received.
III.
ON THE WAY BACK TO QUEBEC.
By this time the boat was moving down the river, and every one was alive
to the scenery. The procession of the pine-clad, rounded heights on
either shore began shortly after Ha-Ha Bay had disappeared behind a
curve, and it hardly ceased, save at one point, before the boat
re-entered the St. Lawrence. The shores of the stream are almost
uninhabited. The hills rise from the water's edge, and if ever a narrow
vale divides them, it is but to open drearier solitudes to the eye. In
such a valley would stand a saw-mill, and huddled about it a few poor
huts, while a friendless road, scarce discernible from the boat, wound
up from the river through the valley, and led to wildernesses all the
forlorner for the devastation of their forests. Now and then an island,
rugged as the shores, broke the long reaches of the grim river with its
massive rock and dark evergreen, and seemed in the distance to forbid
escape from those dreary waters, over which no bird flew, and in which
it was incredible any fish swam.
Mrs. Ellison, with her foot comfortably and not ungracefully supported
on a stool, was in so little pain as to be looking from time to time at
one of the guide-books which the colonel had lavished upon his party,
and which she was disposed to hold to very strict account for any
excesses of description.
"It says here that the water of the Saguenay is as black as ink. Do
you think it is, Richard?"
"It looks so."
"Well, but if you took some up in your hand?"
"Perhaps it wouldn't be as black as the best Maynard and Noyes, but it
would be black enough for all practical purposes."
"Maybe," suggested Kitty, "the guide-book means the kind that is light
blue at first, but 'becomes a deep black on exposure to the air,' as the
label says."
"What do you think, Mr. Arbuton?" asked Mrs. Ellison with unabated
anxiety.
"Well, really, I don't know," said Mr. Arbuton, who thought it a very
trivial kind of talk, "I can't say, indeed. I haven't taken any of it up
in my hand."
"That's true," said Mrs. Ellison gravely, with an accent of reproval for
the others who had not thought of so simple a solution of the problem,
"very true."
The colonel looked into her face with an air of well-feigned alarm. "You
don't think the sprain has gone to your head, Fanny?" he asked, and
walked away, leaving Mr. Arbuton to the ladies. Mrs. Ellison did not
care for this or any other gibe, if she but served her own purposes; and
now, having made everybody laugh and given the conversation a lively
turn, she was as perfectly content as if she had not been herself an
offering to the cause of cheerfulness. She was, indeed, equal to any
sacrifice in the enterprise she had undertaken, and would not only have
given Kitty all her worldly goods, but would have quite effaced herself
to further her own designs upon Mr. Arbuton. She turned again to her
guide-book, and left the young people to continue the talk in unbroken
gayety. They at once became serious, as most people do after a hearty
laugh, which, if you think, seems always to have something strange and
sad in it. But besides, Kitty was oppressed by the coldness that seemed
perpetually to hover in Mr. Arbuton's atmosphere, while she was
interested by his fastidious good looks and his blameless manners and
his air of a world different from any she had hitherto known. He was one
of those men whose perfection makes you feel guilty of misdemeanor
whenever they meet you, and whose greeting turns your honest good-day
coarse and common; even Kitty's fearless ignorance and more than Western
disregard of dignities were not proof against him. She had found it easy
to talk with Mrs. March as she did with her cousin at home: she liked to
be frank and gay in her parley, to jest and to laugh and to make
harmless fun, and to sentimentalize in a half-earnest way; she liked to
be with Mr. Arbuton, but now she did not see how she could take her
natural tone with him. She wondered at her daring lightness at the
breakfast-table; she waited for him to say something, and he said, with
a glance at the gray heaven that always overhangs the Saguenay, that it
was beginning to rain, and unfurled the slender silk umbrella which
harmonized so perfectly with the London effect of his dress, and held it
over her. Mrs. Ellison sat within the shelter of the projecting roof,
and diligently perused her book with her eyes, and listened to their
talk.
"The great drawback to this sort of thing in America," continued Mr.
Arbuton, "is that there is no human interest about the scenery, fine as
it is."
"Why, I don't know," said Kitty, "there was that little settlement round
the saw-mill. Can't you imagine any human interest in the lives of the
people there? It seems to me that one might make almost anything out of
them. Suppose, for example, that the owner of that mill was a
disappointed man who had come here to bury the wreck of his life
in--sawdust?"
"O, yes! That sort of thing; certainly. But I didn't mean that, I meant
something historical. There is no past, no atmosphere, no traditions,
you know."
"O, but the Saguenay has a tradition," said Kitty. "You know that a
party of the first explorers left their comrades at Tadoussac, and came
up the Saguenay three hundred years ago, and never were seen or heard of
again. I think it's so in keeping with the looks of the river. The
Saguenay would never tell a secret."
"Um!" uttered Mr. Arbuton, as if he were not quite sure that it was the
Saguenay's place to have a legend of this sort, and disposed to snub the
legend because the Saguenay had it. After a little silence, he began to
speak of famous rivers abroad.
"I suppose," Kitty said, "the Rhine has traditions enough, hasn't it?"
"Yes," he answered, "but I think the Rhine rather overdoes it. You can't
help feeling, you know, that it's somewhat melodramatic and--common.
Have you ever seen the Rhine?"
"O, no! This is almost the first I've seen of anything. Perhaps," she
added, demurely, yet with a tremor at finding herself about to make
light of Mr. Arbuton, "if I had had too much of tradition on the Rhine I
should want more of it on the Saguenay."
"Why, you must allow there's a golden mean in everything, Miss Ellison,"
said her companion with a lenient laugh, not feeling it disagreeable to
be made light of by her.
"Yes; and I'm afraid we're going to find Cape Trinity and Cape Eternity
altogether too big when we come to them. Don't you think eighteen
hundred feet excessively high for a feature of river scenery?"
Mr. Arbuton really did have an objection to the exaggerations of nature
on this continent, and secretly thought them in bad taste, but he had
never formulated his feeling. He was not sure but it was ridiculous, now
that it was suggested, and yet the possibility was too novel to be
entertained without suspicion.
However, when after a while the rumor of their approach to the great
objects of the Saguenay journey had spread among the passengers, and
they began to assemble at points favorable for the enjoyment of the
spectacle, he was glad to have secured the place he held with Miss
Ellison, and a sympathetic thrill of excitement passed through his loath
superiority. The rain ceased as they drew nearer, and the gray clouds
that had hung so low upon the hills sullenly lifted from them and let
their growing height he seen. The captain bade his sight-seers look at
the vast Roman profile that showed itself upon the rock, and then he
pointed out the wonderful Gothic arch, the reputed doorway of an
unexplored cavern, under which an upright shaft of stone had stood for
ages statue-like, till not many winters ago the frost heaved it from its
base, and it plunged headlong down through the ice into the unfathomed
depths below. The unvarying gloom of the pines was lit now by the
pensive glimmer of birch-trees, and this gray tone gave an indescribable
sentiment of pathos and of age to the scenery. Suddenly the boat rounded
the corner of the three steps, each five hundred feet high, in which
Cape Eternity climbs from the river, and crept in under the naked side
of the awful cliff. It is sheer rock, springing from the black water,
and stretching upward with a weary, effort-like aspect, in long impulses
of stone marked by deep seams from space to space, till, fifteen hundred
feet in air, its vast brow beetles forward, and frowns with a scattering
fringe of pines. There are stains of weather and of oozing springs upon
the front of the cliff, but it is height alone that seems to seize the
eye, and one remembers afterwards these details, which are indeed so few
as not properly to enter into the effect. The rock fully justifies its
attributive height to the eye, which follows the upward rush of the
mighty acclivity, steep after steep, till it wins the cloud-capt summit,
when the measureless mass seems to swing and sway overhead, and the
nerves tremble with the same terror that besets him who looks downward
from the verge of a lofty precipice. It is wholly grim and stern; no
touch of beauty relieves the austere majesty of that presence. At the
foot of Cape Eternity the water is of unknown depth, and it spreads, a
black expanse, in the rounding hollow of shores of unimaginable wildness
and desolation, and issues again in its river's course around the base
of Cape Trinity. This is yet loftier than the sister cliff, but it
slopes gently backward from the stream, and from foot to crest it is
heavily clothed with a forest of pines. The woods that hitherto have
shagged the hills with a stunted and meagre growth, showing long
stretches scarred by fire, now assume a stately size, and assemble
themselves compactly upon the side of the mountain, setting their
serried stems one rank above another, till the summit is crowned with
the mass of their dark green plumes, dense and soft and beautiful; so
that the spirit perturbed by the spectacle of the other cliff is calmed
and assuaged by the serene grandeur of this.
There have been, to be sure, some human agencies at work even under the
shadow of Cape Eternity to restore the spirit to self-possession, and
perhaps none turns from it wholly dismayed. Kitty, at any rate, took
heart from some works of art which the cliff wall displayed near the
water's edge. One of these was a lively fresco portrait of
Lieutenant-General Sherman, with the insignia of his rank, and the other
was an even more striking effigy of General O'Neil, of the Armies of the
Irish Republic, wearing a threatening aspect, and designed in a bold
conceit of his presence there as conqueror of Canada in the year 1875.
Mr. Arbuton was inclined to resent these intrusions upon the sublimity
of nature, and he could not conceive, without disadvantage to them, how
Miss Ellison and the colonel should accept them so cheerfully as part of
the pleasure of the whole. As he listened blankly to their exchange of
jests he found himself awfully beset by a temptation which one of the
boat's crew placed before the passengers. This was a bucket full of
pebbles of inviting size; and the man said, "Now, see which can hit the
cliff. It's farther than any of you can throw, though it looks so near."
The passengers cast themselves upon the store of missiles, Colonel
Ellison most actively among them. None struck the cliff, and suddenly
Mr. Arbuton felt a blind, stupid, irresistible longing to try his
chance. The spirit of his college days, of his boating and ball-playing
youth, came upon him. He picked up a pebble, while Kitty opened her eyes
in a stare of dumb surprise. Then he wheeled and threw it, and as it
struck against the cliff with a shock that seemed to have broken all the
windows on the Back Bay, he exulted in a sense of freedom the havoc
caused him. It was as if for an instant he had rent away the ties of
custom, thrown off the bonds of social allegiance, broken down and
trampled upon the conventions which his whole life long he had held so
dear and respectable. In that moment of frenzy he feared himself capable
of shaking hands with the shabby Englishman in the Glengarry cap, or of
asking the whole admiring company of passengers down to the bar. A cry
of applause had broken from them at his achievement, and he had for the
first time tasted the sweets of popular favor. Of course a revulsion
must come, and it must be of a corresponding violence; and the next
moment Mr. Arbuton hated them all, and most of all Colonel Ellison, who
had been loudest in his praise. Him he thought for that moment
everything that was aggressively and intrusively vulgar. But he could
not utter these friendly impressions, nor is it so easy to withdraw from
any concession, and he found it impossible to repair his broken
defences. Destiny had been against him from the beginning, and now why
should he not strike hands with it for the brief half-day that he was to
continue in these people's society? In the morning he would part from
them forever, and in the mean time why should he not try to please and
be pleased? There might, to be sure, have been many reasons why he
should not do this; but however the balance stood he now yielded himself
passively to his fate. He was polite to Mrs. Ellison, he was attentive
to Kitty, and as far as he could he entered into the fantastic spirit of
her talk with the colonel. He was not a dull man; he had quite an apt
wit of his own, and a neat way of saying things; but humor always seemed
to him something not perfectly well bred; of course he helped to praise
it in some old-established diner-out, or some woman of good fashion,
whose mots it was customary to repeat, and he even tolerated it in
books; but he was at a loss with these people, who looked at life in so
bizarre a temper, yet without airiness or pretension, nay, with a
whimsical readiness to acknowledge kindred in every droll or laughable
thing.
The boat stopped at Tadoussac on her return, and among the spectators
who came down to the landing was a certain very pretty,
conscious-looking, silly, bridal-faced young woman,--imaginably the
belle of the season at that forlorn watering-place,--who before coming
on board stood awhile attended by a following of those elderly imperial
and colonial British who heavily flutter round the fair at such resorts.
She had an air of utterly satisfied vanity, in which there was no harm
in the world, and when she saw that she had fixed the eyes of the
shoreward-gazing passengers, it appeared as if she fell into a happy
trepidation too blissful to be passively borne; she moistened her pretty
red lips with her tongue, she twitched her mantle, she settled the bow
at her lovely throat, she bridled and tossed her graceful head.
"What should you do next, Kitty?" asked the colonel, who had been
sympathetically intent upon all this.
"O, I think I should pat my foot," answered Kitty; and in fact the
charming simpleton on shore, having perfected her attitude, was tapping
the ground nervously with the toe of her adorable slipper.
After the boat started, a Canadian lady of ripe age, yet of a vivacity
not to be reconciled with the notion of the married state, capered
briskly about among her somewhat stolid and indifferent friends, saying,
"They're going to fire it as soon as we round the point"; and presently
a dull boom, as of a small piece of ordnance discharged in the
neighborhood of the hotel, struck through the gathering fog, and this
elderly sylph clapped her hands and exulted: "They've fired it, they've
fired it! and now the captain will blow the whistle in answer." But the
captain did nothing of the kind, and the lady, after some more girlish
effervescence, upbraided him for an old owl and an old muff, and so sank
into such a flat and spiritless calm that she was sorrowful to see.
"Too bad, Mr. Arbuton, isn't it?" said the colonel; and Mr. Arbuton
listened in vague doubt while Kitty built up with her cousin a touching
romance for the poor lady, supposed to have spent the one brilliant and
successful summer of her life at Tadoussac, where her admirers had
agreed to bemoan her loss in this explosion of gunpowder. They asked him
if he did not wish the captain had whistled; and "Oh!" shuddered
Kitty, "doesn't it all make you feel just as if you had been doing it
yourself?"--a question which he hardly knew how to answer, never having,
to his knowledge, done a ridiculous thing in his life, much less been
guilty of such behavior as that of the disappointed lady.
At Cacouna, where the boat stopped to take on the horses and carriages
of some home-returning sojourners, the pier was a labyrinth of equipages
of many sorts and sizes, and a herd of bright-hooded, gayly blanketed
horses gave variety to the human crowd that soaked and steamed in the
fine, slowly falling rain. A draught-horse was every three minutes
driven into their midst with tedious iteration as he slowly drew baskets
of coal up from the sloop unloading at the wharf, and each time they
closed solidly upon his retreat as if they never expected to see that
horse again while the world stood. They were idle ladies and gentlemen
under umbrellas, Indians and habitans taking the rain stolidly erect or
with shrugged shoulders, and two or three clergymen of the curate type,
who might have stepped as they were out of any dull English novel. These
were talking in low voices and putting their hands to their ears to
catch the replies of the lady-passengers who hung upon the rail, and
twaddled back as dryly as if there was no moisture in life. All the
while the safety-valves hissed with the escaping steam, and the boat's
crew silently toiled with the grooms of the different horses to get the
equipages on board. With the carriages it was an affair of mere muscle,
but the horses required to be managed with brain. No sooner had one of
them placed his fore feet on the gangway plank than he protested by
backing up over a mass of patient Canadians, carrying with him half a
dozen grooms and deck-hands. Then his hood was drawn over his eyes, and
he was blindly walked up and down the pier, and back to the gangway,
which he knew as soon as he touched it. He pulled, he pranced, he shied,
he did all that a bad and stubborn horse can do, till at last a groom
mounted his back, a clump of deck-hands tugged at his bridle, and other
grooms, tenderly embracing him at different points, pushed, and he was
thus conveyed on board with mingled affection and ignominy. None of the
Canadians seemed amused by this; they regarded it with serious composure
as a fitting decorum, and Mr. Arbuton had no comment to make upon it.
But at the first embrace bestowed upon the horse by the grooms the
colonel said absently, "Ah! long-lost brother," and Kitty laughed; and
as the scruples of each brute were successively overcome, she helped to
give some grotesque interpretation to the various scenes of the
melodrama, while Mr. Arbuton stood beside her, and sheltered her with
his umbrella; and a spice of malice in her heart told her that he viewed
this drolling, and especially her part in it, with grave misgiving. That
gave the zest of transgression to her excess, mixed with dismay; for the
tricksy spirit in her was not a domineering spirit, but was easily
abashed by the moods of others. She ought not to have laughed at Dick's
speeches, she soon told herself, much less helped him on. She dreadfully
feared that she had done something indecorous, and she was pensive and
silent over it as she moved listlessly about after supper; and she sat
at last thinking in a dreary sort of perplexity on what had passed
during the day, which seemed a long one.
The shabby Englishman with his wife and sister were walking up and down
the cabin. By and by they stopped, and sat down at the table facing
Kitty; the elder woman, with a civil freedom, addressed her some
commonplace, and the four were presently in lively talk; for Kitty had
beamed upon the woman in return, having already longed to know something
of them. The world was so fresh to her, that she could find delight in
those poor singing or acting folk, though she had soon to own to herself
that their talk was not very witty nor very wise, and that the best
thing about them was their good-nature. The colonel sat at the end of
the table with a newspaper; Mrs. Ellison had gone to bed; and Kitty was
beginning to tire of her new acquaintance, and to wonder how she could
get away from them, when she saw rescue in the eye of Mr. Arbuton as he
came down to the cabin. She knew he was looking for her; she saw him
check himself with a start of recognition; then he walked rapidly by the
group, without glancing at them.
"Brrrr!" said the blond girl, drawing her blue knit shawl about her
shoulders, "isn't it cold?" and she and her friends laughed.
"O dear!" thought Kitty, "I didn't suppose they were so rude. I'm afraid
I must say good night," she added aloud, after a little, and stole away
the most conscience-stricken creature on that boat. She heard those
people laugh again after she left them.
IV.
MR. ARBUTON'S INSPIRATION.
The next morning, when Mr. Arbuton awoke, he found a clear light upon
the world that he had left wrapped in fog at midnight. A heavy gale was
blowing, and the wide river was running in seas that made the boat
stagger in her course, and now and then struck her bows with a force
that sent the spray from their seething tops into the faces of the
people on the promenade. The sun, out of rifts of the breaking clouds,
launched broad splendors across the villages and farms of the level
landscape and the crests and hollows of the waves; and a certain joy of
the air penetrated to the guarded consciousness of Mr. Arbuton.
Involuntarily he looked about for the people he meant to have nothing
more to do with, that he might appeal to the sympathies of one of them,
at least, in his sense of such an admirable morning. But a great many
passengers had come on board, during the night, at Murray Bay, where the
brief season was ending, and their number hid the Ellisons from him.
When he went to breakfast, he found some one had taken his seat near
them, and they did not notice him as he passed by in search of another
chair. Kitty and the colonel were at table alone, and they both wore
preoccupied faces. After breakfast he sought them out and asked for Mrs.
Ellison, who had shared in most of the excitements of the day before,
helping herself about with a pretty limp, and who certainly had not, as
her husband phrased it, kept any of the meals waiting.
"Why," said the colonel, "I'm afraid her ankle's worse this morning, and
that we'll have to lie by at Quebec for a few days, at any rate."
Mr. Arbuton heard this sad news with a cheerful aspect unaccountable in
one who was concerned at Mrs. Ellison's misfortune. He smiled, when he
ought to have looked pensive, and he laughed at the colonel's joke when
the latter added, "Of course, this is a great hardship for my cousin,
who hates Quebec, and wants to get home to Eriecreek as soon as
possible."
Kitty promised to bear her trials with firmness, and Mr. Arbuton said,
not very consequently, as she thought, "I had been planning to spend a
few days in Quebec, myself, and I shall have the opportunity of
inquiring about Mrs. Ellison's convalescence. In fact," he added,
turning to the colonel, "I hope you'll let me be of service to you in
getting to a hotel."
And when the boat landed, Mr. Arbuton actually busied himself in finding
a carriage and putting the various Ellison wraps and bags into it. Then
he helped to support Mrs. Ellison ashore, and to lift her to the best
place. He raised his hat, and had good-morning on his tongue, when the
astonished colonel called out, "Why, the deuce! You're going to ride up
with us!"
Mr. Arbuton thought he had better get another carriage; he should
incommode Mrs. Ellison; but Mrs. Ellison protested that he would not at
all; and, to cut the matter short, he mounted to the colonel's side. It
was another stroke of fate.
At the hotel they found a line of people reaching half-way down the
outer steps from the inside of the office.
"Hallo! what's this?" asked the colonel of the last man in the queue.
"O, it's a little procession to the hotel register! We've been three
quarters of an hour in passing a given point," said the man, who was
plainly a fellow-citizen.
"And haven't got by yet," said the colonel, taking to the speaker. "Then
the house is full?"
"Well, no; they haven't begun to throw them out of the window."
"His humor is degenerating, Dick," said Kitty; and "Hadn't you better go
inside and inquire?" asked Mrs. Ellison. It was part of the Ellison
travelling joke for her thus to prompt the colonel in his duty.
"I'm glad you mentioned it, Fanny. I was just going to drive off in
despair." The colonel vanished within doors, and after long delay came
out flushed, but not with triumph. "On the express condition that I have
ladies with me, one an invalid, I am promised a room on the fifth floor
some time during the day. They tell me the other hotel is crammed and
it's no use to go there."
Mrs. Ellison was ready to weep, and for the first time since her
accident she harbored some bitterness against Mr. Arbuton. They all sat
silent, and the colonel on the sidewalk silently wiped his brow.
Mr. Arbuton, in the poverty of his invention, wondered if there was not
some lodging-house where they could find shelter.
"Of course there is," cried Mrs. Ellison, beaming upon her hero, and
calling Kitty's attention to his ingenuity by a pressure with her well
foot. "Richard, we must look up a boarding-house."
"Do you know of any good boarding-houses?" asked the colonel of the
driver, mechanically.
"Plenty," answered the man.
"Well, drive us to twenty or thirty first-class ones," commanded the
colonel; and the search began.
The colonel first asked prices and looked at rooms, and if he pronounced
any apartment unsuitable, Kitty was despatched by Mrs. Ellison to view
it and refute him. As often as she confirmed him, Mrs. Ellison was sure
that they were both too fastidious, and they never turned away from a
door but they closed the gates of paradise upon that afflicted lady. She
began to believe that they should find no place whatever, when at last
they stopped before a portal so unboarding-house-like in all outward
signs, that she maintained it was of no use to ring, and imparted so
much of her distrust to the colonel that, after ringing, he prefaced his
demand for rooms with an apology for supposing that there were rooms to
let there. Then, after looking at them, he returned to the carriage and
reported that the whole affair was perfect, and that he should look no
farther. Mrs. Ellison replied that she never could trust his judgment,
he was so careless. Kitty inspected the premises, and came back in a
transport that alarmed the worst fears of Mrs. Ellison. She was sure
that they had better look farther, she knew there were plenty of nicer
places. Even if the rooms were nice and the situation pleasant, she was
certain that there must be some drawbacks which they did not know of
yet. Whereupon her husband lifted her from the carriage, and bore her,
without reply or comment of any kind, into the house.
Throughout the search Mr. Arbuton had been making up his mind that he
would part with his friends as soon as they found lodgings, give the day
to Quebec, and take the evening train for Gorham, thus escaping the
annoyances of a crowded hotel, and ending at once an acquaintance which
he ought never to have let go so far. As long as the Ellisons were
without shelter, he felt that it was due to himself not to abandon them.
But even now that they were happily housed, had he done all that
nobility obliged? He stood irresolute beside the carriage.
"Won't you come up and see where we live?" asked Kitty, hospitably.
"I shall be very glad," said Mr. Arbuton.
"My dear fellow," said the colonel, in the parlor, "I didn't engage a
room for you. I supposed you'd rather take your chances at the hotel."
"O, I'm going away to-night."
"Why, that's a pity!"
"Yes, I've no fancy for a cot-bed in the hotel parlor. But I don't quite
like to leave you here, after bringing this calamity upon you."
"O, don't mention that! I was the only one to blame. We shall get on
splendidly here."
Mr. Arbuton suffered a vague disappointment. At the bottom of his heart
was a formless hope that he might in some way be necessary to the
Ellisons in their adversity; or if not that, then that something might
entangle him further and compel his stay. But they seemed quite equal in
themselves to the situation; they were in far more comfortable quarters
than they could have hoped for, and plainly should want for nothing;
Fortune put on a smiling face, and bade him go free of them. He fancied
it a mocking smile, though, as he stood an instant silently weighing one
thing against another. The colonel was patiently waiting his motion;
Mrs. Ellison sat watching him from the sofa; Kitty moved about the room
with averted face,--a pretty domestic presence, a household priestess
ordering the temporary Penates. Mr. Arbuton opened his lips to say
farewell, but a god spoke through them,--inconsequently, as the gods for
the most part do, saying, "Besides, I suppose you've got all the rooms
here."
"O, as to that I don't know," answered the colonel, not recognizing the
language of inspiration, "let's ask." Kitty knocked a photograph-book
off the table, and Mrs. Ellison said, "Why, Kitty!" But nothing more was
spoken till the landlady came. She had another room, but doubted if it
would answer. It was in the attic, and was a back room, though it had a
pleasant outlook. Mr. Arbuton had no doubt that it would do very well
for the day or two he was going to stay, and took it hastily, without
going to look at it. He had his valise carried up at once, and then he
went to the post-office to see if he had any letters, offering to ask
also for Colonel Ellison.
Kitty stole off to explore the chamber given her at the rear of the
house; that is to say, she opened the window looking out on what their
hostess told her was the garden of the Ursuline Convent, and stood there
in a mute transport. A black cross rose in the midst, and all about this
wandered the paths and alleys of the garden, through clumps of
lilac-bushes and among the spires of hollyhocks. The grounds were
enclosed by high walls in part, and in part by the group of the convent
edifices, built of gray stone, high gabled, and topped by
dormer-windowed steep roofs of tin, which, under the high morning sun,
lay an expanse of keenest splendor, while many a grateful shadow dappled
the full-foliaged garden below. Two slim, tall poplars stood against the
gable of the chapel, and shot their tops above its roof, and under a
porch near them two nuns sat motionless in the sun, black-robed, with
black veils falling over their shoulders, and their white faces lost in
the white linen that draped them from breast to crown. Their hands lay
quiet in their laps, and they seemed unconscious of the other nuns
walking in the garden-paths with little children, their pupils, and
answering their laughter from time to time with voices as simple and
innocent as their own. Kitty looked down upon them all with a swelling
heart. They were but figures in a beautiful picture of something old and
poetical; but she loved them, and pitied them, and was most happy in
them, the same as if they had been real. It could not be that they and
she were in the same world: she must be dreaming over a book in
Charley's room at Eriecreek. She shaded her eyes for a better look, when
the noonday gun boomed from the citadel; the bell upon the chapel
jangled harshly, and those strange maskers, those quaint black birds
with white breasts and faces, flocked indoors. At the same time a small
dog under her window howled dolorously at the jangling of the bell; and
Kitty, with an impartial joy, turned from the pensive romance of the
convent garden to the mild comedy of the scene to which his woeful note
attracted her. When he had uttered his anguish, he relapsed into the
quietest small French dog that ever was, and lay down near a large,
tranquil cat, whom neither the bell nor he had been able to stir from
her slumbers in the sun; a peasant-like old man kept on sawing wood, and
a little child stood still amidst the larkspurs and marigolds of a tiny
garden, while over the flower-pots on the low window-sill of the
neighboring house to which it belonged, a young, motherly face gazed
peacefully out. The great extent of the convent grounds had left this
poor garden scarce breathing-space for its humble blooms; with the low
paling fence that separated it from the adjoining house-yards it looked
like a toy-garden or the background of a puppet-show, and in its way it
was as quaintly unreal to the young girl as the nunnery itself.
When she saw it first, the city's walls and other warlike ostentations
had taken her imagination with the historic grandeur of Quebec; but the
fascination deepened now that she was admitted, as it were, to the
religious heart and the domestic privacy of the famous old town. She was
romantic, as most good young girls are; and she had the same pleasure in
the strangeness of the things about her as she would have felt in the
keeping of a charming story. To Fanny's "Well, Kitty, I suppose all this
just suits you," when she had returned to the little parlor where the
sufferer lay, she answered with a sigh of irrepressible content, "O yes!
could anything be more beautiful?" and her enraptured eye dwelt upon the
low ceilings, the deep, wide chimneys eloquent of the mighty fires with
which they must roar in winter, the French windows with their curious
and clumsy fastenings, and every little detail that made the place alien
and precious.
Fanny broke into a laugh at the visionary absence in her face.
"Do you think the place is good enough for your hero and heroine?" asked
she, slyly; for Kitty had one of those family reputes, so hard to
survive, for childish attempts of her own in the world of fiction where
so great part of her life had been passed; and Mrs. Ellison, who was as
unliterary a soul as ever breathed, admired her with the heartiness
