free. There's nothing decided." 
" Thanks," said Mrs. Vervain; "then it's all 
settled. You can bring him as soon as you like, to 
our new place. We've taken that apartment we 
looked at the other day, and we re going into it 
this afternoon. Here's the landlord's letter," she 
added, drawing a paper out of her pocket. " If 
he's cheated us, I suppose you can see justice done. 
I didn t want to trouble you before." 
" you're a woman of business, Mrs. Vervain," 
said Ferris. "The man's a perfect Jew or a 
perfect Christian, one ought to say in Venice ; we 
true believers do gouge so much more infamously 
 
here and you let him get you in black and white 
before you come to me. Well," lie continued, as 
he glanced at the paper, u you've done it ! He 
makes you pay one half too much. However, it's 
cheap enough ; twice as cheap as your hotel." 
" But I don 't care for cheapness. I hate to be 
imposed upon. What's to be done about it ? " 
" Nothing ; if he has your letter as you have his. 
It's a bargain, and you must stand to it." 
" A bargain ? Oh nonsense, now, Mr. Ferris. 
This is merely a note of mutual understanding." 
" Yes, that's one way of looking at it. The 
Civil Tribunal would call it a binding agreement 
of the closest tenure, if you want to go to law 
about it." 
" I will go to law about it." 
" Oh no, you won 't unless you mean to spend 
your remaining days and all your substance in Ven 
ice. Come, you haven 't done so badly, Mrs. Ver 
vain. I don 't call four rooms, completely furnished 
for housekeeping, with that lovely garden, at all 
dear at eleven francs a day. Besides, the landlord 
is a man of excellent feeling, sympathetic and 
obliging, and a perfect gentleman, though he is 
such an outrageous scoundrel. He'll cheat you, of 
course, in whatever he can ; you must look out for 
that ; but he'll do you any sort of little neighborly 
kindness. Good-by," said Ferris, getting to the 
door before Mrs. Vervain could intercept him. 
" I'll come to your new place this evening to see 
how you are pleased." 
 
" Florida," said Mrs. Vervain, " this is outra 
geous." 
" I would n t mind it, mother. We pay very 
little, after all." 
"Yes, but we pay too much. That's what I 
can 't bear. And as you said yesterday, I don 't 
think Mr. Ferris's manners are quite respectful to 
me." 
" He only told you the truth ; I think he advised 
you for the best. The matter could n t be helped 
now." 
" But I call it a want of feeling to speak the 
truth so bluntly." 
"We won 't have to complain of that in our land 
lord, it seems," said Florida. " Perhaps not in our 
priest, either," she added. 
" Yes, that was kind of Mr. Ferris," said Mrs. 
Vervain. " It was thoroughly thoughtful and con 
siderate what I call an instance of true delicacy. 
I'm really quite curious to see him. Don Ippolito ! 
How very odd to call a priest Don ! I should have 
said Padre. Don always makes you think of a 
Spanish cavalier. Don Rodrigo : something like 
that." 
They went on to talk, desultorily, of Don Ippo 
lito, and what he might be like. In speaking of 
him the day before, Ferris had hinted at some mys 
terious sadness in him ; and to hint of sadness in a 
man always interests women in him, whether they 
are old or young : the old have suffered, the young 
 
forebode suffering. Their interest in Don Ippolito 
had not been diminished by what Ferris had told 
them of his visit to the priest's house and of the 
things he had seen there ; for there had always 
been the same strain of pity in his laughing ac 
count, and he had imparted none of his doubts to 
them. They did not talk as if it were strange that 
Ferris should do to-day what he had yesterday said 
he would not do ; perhaps as women they could not 
find such a thing strange ; but it vexed him more 
and more as he went about all afternoon thinking 
of his inconsistency, and wondering whether he had 
not acted rashly. 
IV. 
THE palace in which Mrs. Vervain had taken an 
apartment fronted on a broad campo, and hung its 
empty marble balconies from gothic windows above 
a silence scarcely to be matched elsewhere in Ven 
ice. The local pharmacy, the caffe, the grocery, 
the fruiterer s, the other shops with which every 
Venetian campo is furnished, had each a certain 
life about it, but it was a silent life, and at midday 
a frowsy-headed woman clacking across the flags in 
her wooden-heeled shoes made echoes whose garrul 
ity was interrupted by no other sound. In the 
early morning, when the lid of the public cistern in 
the centre of the campo was unlocked, there was 
a clamor of voices and a clangor of copper vessels, 
as the housewives of the neighborhood and the lo 
cal force of strong-backed Friulan water-girls drew 
their day's supply of water ; and on that sort of 
special parochial holiday, called a sagra, the campo 
hummed and clattered ad shrieked with a multi 
tude celebrating the day around the stands where 
pumpkin seeds and roast pumpkin and anisette- 
water were sold, and before the movable kitchen 
where cakes were fried in caldrons of oil, and up 
roariously offered to the crowd by the cook, who 
did not suffer himself to be embarrassed by the 
 
rival drama of adjoining puppet-shows, but contin 
ued to bellow forth his bargains all day long and 
far into the night, when the flames under his ket 
tles painted his visage a fine crimson. The sagra 
once over, however, the campo relapsed into its 
habitual silence, and no one looking at the front of 
the palace would have thought of it as a place for 
distraction-seeking foreign sojourners. But it was 
not on this side that the landlord tempted his 
tenants ; his principal notice of lodgings to let wag 
affixed to the water-gate of the palace, which opened 
on a smaller channel so near the Grand Canal 
that no wandering eye could fail to see it. The 
portal was a tall arch of Venetian gothic tipped 
with a carven flame ; steps of white Istrian stone 
descended to the level of the lowest ebb, irregularly 
embossed with barnacles, and dabbling long fringes 
of soft green sea-mosses in the rising and falling 
tide. Swarms of water-bugs and beetles played 
over the edges of the steps, and crabs scuttled side- 
wise into deeper water at the approach of a gon 
dola. A length of stone-capped brick wall, to 
which patches of stucco still clung, stretched from 
the gate on either hand under cover of an ivy that 
flung its mesh of shining green from within, where 
there lurked a lovely garden, stately, spacious for 
Venice, and full of a delicious, half -sad surprise for 
wli so opened upon it. In the midst it had a 
broken fountain, with a marble naiad standing on 
a shell, and looking saucier than the sculptor 
 
meant, from having lost the point of her nose ; 
nymphs and fauns, and shepherds and shejjierdesses, 
her kinsfolk, coquetted in and out among the green 
ery in flirtation not to be embarrassed by the frac 
ture of an arm, or the casting of a leg or so ; one 
lady had no head, but she was the boldest of all. 
In this garden there were some mulberry and pome 
granate trees, several of which hung about the 
fountain with seats in their shade, and for the rest 
there seemed to be mostly roses and oleanders, with 
other shrubs of a kind that made the greatest show 
of blossom and cost the least for tendance. A wide 
terrace stretched across the rear of the palace, drop 
ping to the garden path by a flight of balustraded 
steps, and upon this terrace opened the long win 
dows of Mrs. Vervain's parlor and dining-room. 
Her landlord owned only the first story and the 
basement of the palace, in some corner of which he 
cowered with his servants, his taste for pictures and 
bric-a-brac, and his little branch of inquiry into 
Venetian history, whatever it was, ready to let 
himself or anything he had for hire at a mo 
ment's notice, but very pleasant, gentle, and un 
obtrusive ; a cheat and a liar, but of a kind heart 
and sympathetic manners. Under his protection 
Mrs. Vervain set up her impermanent household 
gods. The apartment was taken only from week 
to week, and as she freely explained to the pa 
drone hovering about with offers of service, she 
knew herself too well ever to unpack anything that 
 
would not spoil by remaining packed. She made 
her trunks yield all the appliances necessary for 
an invalid's comfort, and then left them in a 
state to be strapped and transported to the station 
within half a day after the desire of change or the 
exigencies of her feeble health caused her going. 
Everything for housekeeping was furnished with 
the rooms. There was a gondolier and a sort of 
house-servant in the employ of the landlord, of 
whom Mrs. Vervain hired them, and she caressingly 
dismissed the padrone at an early moment after her 
arrival, with the charge to find a maid for herself 
and daughter. As if she had been waiting at the 
next door this maid appeared promptly, and be 
ing Venetian, and in domestic service, her name 
was of course Nina. Mrs. Vervain now said to 
Florida that everything was perfect, and content 
edly began her life in Venice by telling Mr. Ferris, 
when he came in the evening, that he could bring 
Don Ippolito the day after the morrow, if he liked. 
She and Florida sat on the terrace waiting for 
them on the morning named, when Ferris, with the 
priest in his clerical best, came up the garden path 
in the sunny light. Don Ippolito's best was a little 
poverty-stricken ; he had faltered a while, before 
leaving home, over the sad choice between a shabby 
cylinder hat of obsolete fashion and his well-worn 
three-cornered priestly beaver, and had at last put 
on the latter with a sigh. He had made his ser 
vant polish the buckles of his shoes, and instead of 
 
a band of linen round his throat, he wore a strip of 
cloth covered with small white beads, edged above 
and below with a single row of pale blue ones. 
As lie mounted the steps with Ferris, Mrs. Ver 
vain came forward a little to meet them, while 
Florida rose and stood beside her chair in a sort of 
proud suspense and timidity. The elder lady was 
in that black from which she had so seldom been 
able to escape ; but the daughter wore a dress of 
delicate green, in which she seemed a part of the 
young season that everywhere clothed itself in the 
same tint. The sunlight fell upon her blonde 
hair, melting into its light gold ; her level brows 
frowned somewhat with the glance of scrutiny 
which she gave the dark young priest, who was 
making his stately bow to her mother, and trying 
to answer her English greetings in the same tongue. 
; My daughter," said Mrs. Vervain, and Don 
Ippolito made another low bow, and then looked at 
the girl with a sort of frank and melancholy won 
der, as she turned and exchanged a few words with 
Ferris, who was assailing her seriousness and hau 
teur with unabashed levity of compliment. A quick 
light flashed and fled in her cheek as she talked, 
and the fringes of her serious, asking eyes swept 
slowly up and down as she bent them upon him a 
moment before she broke abruptly, not coquettishly, 
away from him, and moved towards her mother, 
while Ferris walked off to the other end of the ter 
race, with a laugh. Mrs. Vervain and the priest 
 
were trying each other in French, and not making 
great advance ; he explained to Florida in Italian, 
and she answered him hesitatingly ; whereupon he 
praised her Italian in set phrase. 
" Thank you," said the girl sincerely, " I have 
tried to learn. I hope," she added as before, " you 
can make me see how little I know." The depre 
cating wave of the hand with which Don Ippolito 
appealed to her from herself, seemed arrested mid 
way by his perception of some novel quality in her. 
He said gravely that he should try to be of use, and 
then the two stood silent. 
" Come, Mr. Ferris," called out Mrs. Vervain, 
"breakfast is ready, and I want you to take me 
in." 
" Too much honor," said the painter, coming for 
ward and offering his arm, and Mrs. Vervain led 
the way indoors. 
" I suppose I ought to have taken Don Tppolito's 
arm," she confided in under-tone, " but the fact is, 
our French is so unlike that we don 't understand 
each other very well." 
"Oh," returned Ferris, " I've known Italians and 
Americans whom Frenchmen themselves couldn t 
understand." 
" You see it's an American breakfast," said Mrs. 
Vervain with a critical glance at the table before 
she sat down. " All but hot bread ; that you cant 
have," and Don Ippolito was for the first time in 
his life confronted by a breakfast of hot beef-steak, 
 
f&gt; 
eggs and toast, fried potatoes, and coffee with milk, 
with a choice of tea. He subdued all signs of the 
wonder he must have felt, and beyond cutting his 
meat into little bits before eating it, did nothin^ to 
o o 
betray his strangeness to the feast. 
The breakfast had passed off very pleasantly, 
with occasional lapses. " We break down under 
the burden of so many languages," said Ferris. " It 
is an embarras de richesses. Let us fix upon a com 
mon maccheronic. May I trouble you for a poco 
piu di sugar dans mon cafe, Mrs. Vervain ? What 
do you think of the bellazza de ce weather magni- 
fique, Don Ippolito ? " 
" How ridiculous ! " said Mrs. Vervain in a tone 
of fond admiration aside to Don Ippolito, who 
smiled, but shrank from contributing to the new 
tongue. 
" Very well, th-n," said the painter. " I shall 
stick to my native Bergamask for the future ; and 
Don Ippolito may translate for the foreign ladies." 
He ended by speaking English with everybodv ; 
Don Ippolito eked out his speeches to Mrs. Vervain 
in that tongue with a little French ; Florida, con 
scious of Ferris's ironical observance, used an em 
barrassed but defiant Italian with the priest. 
" I in so pleased ! " said Mrs. Vervain, rising 
when Ferris said that he must go, and Florida 
shook hands with both guests. 
"Thank you, Mrs. Vervain ; I could have gone 
before, if I d thought you would have liked it," an 
swered the painter. 
 
" Oh nonsense, now," returned the lady. " You 
know what I mean. I'm perfectly delighted with 
him," she continued, getting Ferris to one side, 
" and I know he must have a good accent. So very 
kind of you. Will you arrange with him about the 
pay ? SU ch a shame ! Thanks. Then I needn 't 
say anything to him about that. I'm so glad I had 
him to breakfast the first day ; though Florida 
thought not. Of course, one needn 't keep it 
up. But seriously, it isn t an ordinary case, you 
know." 
Ferris laughed at her with a sort of affection 
ate disrespect, and said good-by. Don Ippolito lin 
gered for a while to talk over the proposed lessons, 
and then went, after more elaborate adieux. Mrs. 
Vervain remained thoughtful a moment before she 
said : 
" That was rather droll, Florida." 
" What, mother ? " 
"His cutting his meat into small bites, before he 
began to eat. But perhaps it's the Venetian cus 
tom. At any rate, my dear, he's a gentleman in 
virtue of his profession, and I couldn t do less than 
ask him to breakfast. He has beautiful manners ; 
and if he must take snuff, I suppose it's neater to 
carry two handkerchiefs, though it does look odd. 
I wish he would n t take snuff." 
"I don 't see why we need care, mother. At any 
rate, we cannot help it." 
" That's true, my dear. And his nails. Now, 
 
when they re spread out on a book, you know, to 
keep it open, won 't it be unpleasant? " 
" They seem to have just such fingernails all over 
Europe except in England." 
" Oh, yes ; I know it. I dare say we shouldn 't 
care for it in him, if he didn 't seem so very nice 
otherwise. How handsome he is ! " 
V. 
IT was understood that Don Ippolito should come 
every morning at ten o clock, and read and talk 
with Miss Vervain for an hour or two ; but Mrs. 
Vervain's hospitality was too aggressive for the let 
ter of the agreement. She oftener had him to 
breakfast at nine, for, as she explained to Ferris, 
she could not endure to have him feel that it was 
a mere mercenary transaction, and there was no 
limit fixed for the lessons on these days. When 
she could, she had Ferris come, too, and she missed 
him when he did not come. " I like that bluntness 
of his," she professed to her daughter, " and I don 't 
mind his making light of me. You are so apt to 
be heavy if you're not made light of occasionally. 
I certainly shouldn 't want a son to be so respectful 
and obedient as you are, my dear." 
The painter honestly returned her fondness, and 
with not much greater reason. He saw that she 
took pleasure in his talk, and enjoyed it even when 
she did not understand it ; and this is a kind of 
flattery not easy to resist. Besides, there was very 
little ladies society in Venice in those times, and 
Ferris, after trying the little he could get at, had 
gladly denied himself its pleasures, and consorted 
with the young men he met at the caffes, or in the 
 
Piazza. But when the Vervains came, they re 
called to him the younger days in which he had de 
lighted in the companionship of women. After so 
long disuse, it was charming to be with a beautiful 
girl who neither regarded him with distrust nor ex 
pected him to ask her in marriage because he sat 
alone with her, rode out with her in a gondola, 
walked with her, read with her. All young men 
like a house in which no ado is made about their 
coming and going, and Mrs. Vervain perfectly un 
derstood the art of letting him make himself at 
home. He perceived with amusement that this 
amiable lady, who never did an ungraceful thing 
nor wittingly said an ungracious one, was very 
much of a Bohemian at heart, the gentlest and 
most blameless of the tribe, but still lawless, 
whether from her campaigning married life, or the 
rovings of her widowhood, or by natural disposi 
tion ; and that Miss Vervain was inclined to be 
conventionally strict, but with her irregular training 
was at a loss for rules by which to check her moth 
er's little waywardnesses. Her anxious perplexity, 
at times, together with her heroic obedience and 
unswerving loyalty to her mother had something 
pathetic as well as amusing in it. He saw her tried 
almost to tears by her mother's helpless frankness, 
for Mrs. Vervain was apparently one of those 
ladies whom the intolerable surprise of having any 
thing come into their heads causes instantly to say 
I do it, and he observed that she never tried to 
 
pass off her endurance with any feminine arts ; but 
seemed to defy him to think what he would of it. 
Perhaps she was not able to do otherwise : he 
thought of her at times as a person wholly aban 
doned to the truth. Her pride was on the alert 
against him ; she may have imagined that he was 
covertly smiling at her, and she no doubt tasted the 
ironical flavor of much of his talk and behavior, 
for in those days he liked to qualify his devotion 
to the Vervains with a certain nonchalant slight, 
which, while the mother openly enjoyed it, filled 
the daughter with anger and apprehension. Quite 
at random, she visited points of his informal man 
ner with unmeasured reprisal ; others, for which he 
might have blamed himself, she passed over with 
strange caprice. Sometimes this attitude of hers 
provoked him, and sometimes it disarmed him ; but 
whether they were at feud, or keeping an armed 
truce, or, as now and then happened, were in an 
entente cordiale which he found very charming, the 
thing that he always contrived to treat with silent 
respect and forbearance in Miss Vervain was that 
sort of aggressive tenderness with which she has 
tened to shield the foibles of her mother. That 
was something very good in her pride, he finally de 
cided. At the same time, he did not pretend to 
understand the curious filial self-sacrifice which it 
involved. 
Another thing in her that puzzled him was her 
devoutness. Mrs* Vervain could with difficulty be 
 
got to church, but her daughter missed no service 
of the English ritual in the old palace where the 
British and American 'tourists assembled once a 
week with their guide-books in one pocket and their 
prayer-books in the other, and buried the tomahawk 
under the altar. Mr. Ferris was often sent with 
her; and then his thoughts, which were a young 
man s, wandered from the service to the beautiful 
girl at his side, the golden head that punctiliously 
bowed itself at the proper places in the liturgy : 
the full lips that murmured the responses ; the 
silken lashes that swept her pale cheeks as she pe 
rused the morning lesson. He knew that the Ver 
vains were not Episcopalians when at home, for 
Mrs. Vervain had told him so, and that Florida 
went to the English service because there was no 
other. He conjectured that perhaps her touch of 
ritualism came from mere love of any form she 
could make sure of. 
The servants in Mrs. Vervain's lightly ordered 
household, with the sympathetic quickness of the 
Italians, learned to use him as the next friend of 
the family, and though they may have had their 
decorous surprise at his untrammeled footing, they 
probably excused the whole relation as a phase of 
that foreign eccentricity to which their nation is so 
amiable. If they were not able to cast the same 
mantle of charity over Don Ippolito's allegiance, 
and doubtless they had their reserves concerning 
such frankly familiar treatment of so dubious a 
 
character as priest, still as a priest they stood 
somewhat in awe of him ; they had the spontane 
ous loyalty of their race to the people they served, 
and they never intimated by a look that they found 
it strange when Don Ippolito freely came and went. 
Mrs. Vervain had quite adopted him into her fam 
ily ; while her daughter seemed more at ease with 
him than with Ferris, and treated him with a grave 
politeness which had something also of compassion 
and of child-like reverence in it. Ferris observed 
that she was always particularly careful of his sup- 
posable sensibilities as a Roman Catholic, and that 
the priest was oddly indifferent to this deference, as 
if it would have mattered very little to him whether 
his church was spared or not. He had a way of 
lightly avoiding, Ferris fancied, not only religious 
points on which they could disagree, but all phases 
of religion as matters of indifference. At such 
times Miss Vervain relaxed her reverential attitude, 
and used him with something like rebuke, as if it 
did not please her to have the representative of even 
an alien religion slight his office ; as if her respect 
were for his priesthood and her compassion for him 
personally. That was rather hard for Don Ippolito, 
Ferris thought, and waited to see him snubbed out 
right some day, when he should behave without suf 
ficient gravity. 
The blossoms came and went upon the pome 
granate and almond trees in the garden, and some 
of the earliest roses were in their prime ; every- 
 
where was so full leaf that the wantonest of the 
strutting nymphs was forced into a sort of decent 
seclusion, but the careless naiad of the fountain 
burnt in sunlight that subtly increased its fervors 
day by day, and it was no longer beginning to be 
warm, it was warm, when one morning Ferris and 
Miss Vervain sat on the steps of the terrace, wait 
ing for Don Ippolito to join them at breakfast. 
By this time the painter was well on with the 
picture of Don Ippolito which the first sight of the 
priest had given him a longing to paint, and he had 
been just now talking of it with Miss Vervain. 
"But why do you paint him simply as a priest ? " 
she asked. " I should think you would want to 
make him the centre of some famous or romantic 
scene, she added, gravely looking into his eyes as 
he sat with his head thrown back against the balus 
trade. 
" No, I doubt if you think" answered Ferris, 
" or you d see that a Venetian priest doesn 't need 
any tawdry accessories. What do you want ? 
Somebody administering the extreme unction to a 
victim of the Council of Ten ? A priest stepping 
into a confessional at the Frari tomb of Canova 
in the distance, perspective of one of the naves, and 
so forth with his eye on a pretty devotee coming 
up to unburden her conscience ? I Ve no patience 
with the follies people think and say about Ven 
ice ! " 
Florida stared in haughty question at the painter. 
 
" you're no worse than the rest," he continued 
with indifference to her anger at his bluntness. 
" You all think that there can be no picture of Ven 
ice without a gondola or a Bridge of Sighs in it. 
Have you ever read the merchant of Venice, or 
Othello ? There isn 't  a boat nor a bridge nor a 
canal mentioned in either of them ; and yet they 
breathe and pulsate with the very life of Venice. 
I'm going to try to paint a Venetian priest so that 
you'll know him without a bit of conventional Ven 
ice near him." 
" It was Shakespeare who wrote those plays," 
said Florida. Ferris bowed in mock suffering from 
her sarcasm. " You d better have some sort of 
symbol in your picture of a Venetian priest, or 
people will wonder why you came so far to paint 
Father O Brien." 
" I don 't say I shall succeed," Ferris answered. 
" In fact I've made one failure already, and I'm 
pretty well on with a second; but the principle 
is right, all the same. I don 't expect everybody to 
see the difference between Don Ippolito and Father 
O Brien. At any rate, what I'm going to paint at 
is the lingering pagan in the man, the renunciation 
first of the inherited nature, and then of a person 
ality that would have enjoyed the world. I want 
to show that baffled aspiration, apathetic despair, 
and rebellious longing which you catch in his face 
when he's off his guard, and that suppressed look 
which is the characteristic expression of all Austrian 
 
Venice. Then," said Ferris laughing, " I mast 
work in that small suspicion of Jesuit which there 
is in every priest. But it's quite possible I may 
make a Father O Brien of him." 
" You won 't make a Don Ippolito of him," said 
Florida, after serious consideration of his face to see 
whether he was quite in earnest, " if you put all 
that into him. He has the simplest and openest 
look in the world," she added warmly, " and there's 
neither pagan, nor martyr, nor rebel in it." 
Ferris laughed again. " Excuse me ; I don 't 
think you know. I can convince you." .... 
Florida rose, and looking down the garden path 
said, "He's coming;" and as Don Ippolito drew 
near, his face lighting up with a joyous and inno 
cent smile, she continued absently, " he's got on 
new stockings, and a different coat and hat." 
The stockings were indeed new and the hat was 
not the accustomed nicchio, but a new silk cylinder 
with a very worldly, curling brim. Don Ippolito's 
coat, also, was of a more mundane cut than the 
talare ; he wore a waistcoat and small-clothes, meet 
ing the stockings at the knee with a sprightly 
buckle. His person showed no traces of the snuff 
with which it used to be so plentifully dusted ; in 
fact, he no longer took snuff in the presence of the 
ladies. The first week he had noted an inexplica 
ble uneasiness in them when he drew forth that 
blue cotton handkerchief after the solace of a pinch ; 
shortly afterwards, being alone with Florida, he 
saw her give a nervous start at its appearance. 
He blushed violently, and put it back into the 
pocket from which he had half drawn it, and whence 
it never emerged again in her presence. The con- 
tessina his former pupil had not shown any aversion 
to Don Ippolito's snuff or his blue handkerchief ; 
but then the contessina had never rebuked his fin 
ger-nails by the tints of rose and ivory with which 
Miss Vervain's hands bewildered him. It was a 
little droll how anxiously he studied the ways of 
these Americans, and conformed to them as far as 
he knew. His English grew rapidly in their so 
ciety, arid it happened sometimes that the only Ital 
ian in the day's lesson was what he read with Flor 
ida, for she always yielded to her mother's wish to 
talk, and Mrs. Vervain preferred the ease of her 
native tongue. He was Americanizing in that good 
lady's hands as fast as she could transform him, and 
he listened to her with trustful reverence, as to a 
woman of striking though eccentric mind. Yet he 
seemed finally to refer every point to Florida, as if 
with an intuition of steadier and stronger character 
in her ; and now, as he ascended the terrace steps 
in his modified costume, he looked intently at her. 
She swept him from head to foot with a glance, and 
then gravely welcomed him with unchanged coun 
tenance. 
At the same moment Mrs. Vervain came out 
through one of the long windows, and adjusting 
her glasses, said with a start, " Why, my dear Don 
Ippolito, I shouldn 't ha ye known you ! " 
 
" Indeed, madama ? " asked the priest with a 
painful smile. "Is it so great a change ? We can 
wear this dress as well as the other, if we please." 
" Why, of course it's very becoming and all that ; 
but it does look so out of character," Mrs. Vervain 
said, leading the way to the breakfast-room. " It's 
like seeing a military man in a civil coat." 
" It must be a great relief to lay aside the uni 
form now and then, mother," said Florida, as they 
sat down. " I can remember that papa used to be 
glad to get out of his." 
" Perfectly wild," assented Mrs. Vervain. " But 
he never seemed the same person. Soldiers and 
clergymen are so much more stylish in their own 
dress not stylish, exactly, but taking ; don 't you 
know ? " 
"There, Don Ippolito," interposed Ferris, "you 
had better put on your talare and your nicchio 
again. Your ablate's dress isn 't  acceptable, you 
see." 
The painter spoke in Italian, but Don Ippolito 
answered with certain blunders which it would 
be tedious to reproduce in his patient, conscien 
tious English, half sadly, half playfully, and glan 
cing at Florida, before he turned to Mrs. Vervain, 
" You are as rigid as the rest of the world, madama. 
I thought you would like this dress, but it seems 
that you think it a masquerade. As madamigella 
says, it is a relief to lay aside the uniform, now and 
then, for us who fight the spiritual enemies as well 
\) 
as for the other soldiers. There was one time, 
when I was younger and in the subdiaconate orders, 
that I put off the priest's dress altogether, and wore 
citizen's clothes, not an abbate's suit like this. We 
were in Padua, another young priest and I, my 
nearest and only friend, and for a whole night we 
walked about the streets in that dress, meeting the 
students, as they strolled singing through the moon 
light ; we went to the theatre and to the caffc, we 
smoked cigars, all the time laughing and trembling 
to think of the tonsure under our hats. But in the 
morning we had to put on the stockings and the 
talare and the nicchio again." 
Don Ippolito gave a melancholy laugh. He had 
thrust the corner of his napkin into his collar ; see 
ing that Ferris had not his so, he twitched it out, 
and made a feint of its having been all the time in 
his lap. Every one was silent as if something 
shocking had been said ; Florida looked with grave 
rebuke at Don Ippolito, whose story affected Fer 
ris like that of some girl's adventure in men's 
clothes. He was in terror lest Mrs. Vervain should 
be going to say it was like that ; she was going to 
say something ; he made haste to forestall her, and 
turn the talk on other things. 
The next day the priest came in his usual dress, 
and he did not again try to escape from it. 
VI. 
ONE afternoon, as Don Ippolito was posing to 
Ferris for his picture of A Venetian Priest, the 
painter asked, to make talk, " Have you hit upon 
that new explosive yet, which is to utilize your 
breech-loading cannon ? Or are you engaged upon 
something altogether new ? " 
" No," answered the other uneasily, " I have not 
touched the cannon since that day you saw it at my 
house ; and as for other things, I have not be en able 
to put my mind to them. I have made a few trifles, 
which I have ventured to offer the ladies." 
Ferris had noticed the ingenious reading-desk 
which Don Ippolito had presented to Florida, and 
the footstool, contrived with springs and hinges so 
that it would fold up into the compass of an ordi 
nary portfolio, which Mrs. Vervain carried about 
with her. 
An odd look, which the painter caught at and 
missed, came into the priest's face, as he resumed : 
"I suppose it is the distraction of my new occu 
pation, and of the new acquaintances so very 
strange to me in every way that I have made in 
your amiable country-women, which hinders me 
from going about anything in earnest, now that 
their munificence has enabled me to pursue my aims 
 
with greater advantages than ever before. But 
this idle mood will pass, and in the mean time I am 
very happy. They are real angels, and madam a is 
a true original." 
" Mrs. Vervain is rather peculiar," said the 
painter, retiring a few paces from his picture, and 
quizzing it through his half -closed eyes. " She is a 
woman who has had affliction enough to turn a 
stronger head than hers could ever have been," he 
added kindly. " But she has the best heart in the 
world. In fact," he burst forth, " she is the most 
extraordinary combination of perfect fool and per 
fect lady I ever saw." 
" Excuse me ; I don 't understand," blankly fal 
tered Don Ippolito. 
" No ; and I in afraid I could n t explain to 
you," answered Ferris. 
There was a silence for a time, broken at last by 
Don Ippolito, who asked, " Why do you not marry 
madamigella ? " 
He seemed not to feel that there was anything 
out of the way in the question, and Ferris was too 
well used to the childlike directness of the most 
maneuvering of races to be surprised. Yet he was 
displeased, as he would not have been if Don Ippo 
lito were not a priest. He was not of the type of 
priests whom the American knew from the preju 
dice and distrust of the Italians ; he was alienated 
from his clerical fellows by all the objects of his 
life, and by a reciprocal dislike. About other priests 
 
there were various scandals ; but Don Ippolito was 
like that pretty match-girl of the Piazza of whom it 
was Venetianly answered, when one asked if so 
sweet a face were not innocent, " Oh yes, she is 
mad ! " He was of a purity so blameless that he 
was reputed crack-brained by the caffe -gossip that 
in Venice turns its searching light upon whomever 
you mention ; and from his own association with 
the man Ferris perceived in him an apparent single- 
heartedness such as no man can have but the rarest 
of Italians. He was the albino of his species ; a 
gray crow, a white fly ; he was really this, or he 
knew how to seem it with an art far beyond any 
common deceit. It was the half expectation of com 
ing sometime upon the lurking duplicity in Don 
Ippolito, that continually enfeebled the painter in 
his attempts to portray his Venetian priest, and 
that gave its undecided, unsatisfactory character to 
the picture before him its weak hardness, its pro 
voking superficiality. He expressed the traits of 
melancholy and loss that he imagined in him, yet 
he always was tempted to leave the picture with a 
touch of something sinister in it, some airy and sub 
tle shadow of selfish design. 
He stared hard at Don Ippolito while this per 
plexity filled his mind, for the hundredth time ; 
then he said stiffly, " I don 't know. I don 't want 
to marry anybody. Besides," he added, relaxing 
into a smile of helpless amusement, u it's possi 
ble that Miss Vervain might not want to marry 
me." 
 
"As to that," replied Don Ippolito, " you never 
can 'tell. All young girls desire to be married, I 
suppose," he continued with a sigh. " She is very 
beautiful, is she not ? It is seldom that we see 
such a blonde in Italy. Our blondes are dark ; they 
have auburn hair and blue eyes, but their com 
plexions are thick. Miss Vervain is blonde as the 
morning light ; the sun's gold is in her hair, his 
noonday whiteness in her dazzling throat ; the flush 
of his coming is on her lips ; she might utter the 
dawn ! " 
"you're a poet, Don Ippolito," laughed the 
painter. " What property of the sun is in her 
angry-looking eyes ? " 
" His fire ! Ah, that is her greatest charm ! Those 
strange eyes of hers, they seem full of tragedies. 
She looks made to be the heroine of some stormy 
romance ; and yet how simply patient and good 
she is!" 
" Yes," said Ferris, who often responded in Eng 
lish to the priest's Italian ; and he added half mus 
ingly in his own tongue, after a moment, " but I 
don 't think it would be safe to count upon her. I'm 
afraid she has a bad temper. At any rate, I always 
expect to see smoke somewhere when I look at 
those eyes of hers. She has wonderful self-control, 
however ; and I don 't exactly understand why. 
Perhaps people of strong impulses have strong 
wills to overrule them ; it seems no more than 
fair." 
 
" Is it the custom," asked Don Ippolito, after a 
moment, " for the American young ladies always 
