"Twelve hundred in gold," said Leopold, musingly.
"Yes; and I have agreed to give you nearly half of it."
"If we find it," added the young man, who considered the information
rather too indefinite for entire success.
"I think we can find it."
"Did Harvey Barth tell you just where the money was buried?"
"He said it was buried on the beach. He talked a great deal about it the
day before he died, and said, if he ever got well enough, he should go
and get it; and then he would pay me handsomely for all I had done for
him. I was a nurse in the hospital, you see, and was his only companion.
He felt very bad about the loss of his diary, and told me all about it.
He said he put it in the flue of the fireplace, because there was no
closet in the room. Now, if nobody stole it, the diary must be there
yet. I have looked into the flue, but I couldn't see anything of it; and
I have made up my mind that it dropped down somewhere."
"The room is directly over this parlor, and if it dropped into the
chimney, it must have come down into this fireplace," replied Leopold.
"I am sure nothing was ever seen of it."
They examined the flue of the Franklin stove, and Miss Liverage was
satisfied with the young man's statement in regard to its construction.
"Some one may have picked it up and put it away," suggested the nurse.
"There was a summer piece fastened into the front of this stove, which
was not taken down till I removed it to make the fire when you came. If
the diary had been there, I should have found it. But I will search the
whole house for it, though I am of Harvey Barth's opinion, that some one
stole the book. If any person saw him put it into the flue, as Harvey
thought the drummer did, he might have supposed it was something very
valuable. Why should he take so much pains to hide it, if it was not? If
the drummer did not take it himself, he may have told somebody else, who
did steal it. If he had left the diary on the table, nobody would have
touched it, I know. It was all because he hid it, that he lost it."
Miss Liverage was sure the diary was still in the house, and during that
and the next day, while the storm lasted, Leopold searched the hotel
from cellar to garret. He did not find the key to the hidden treasure of
High Rock. The nurse searched for herself, so far as she could do so
without exciting the suspicions of the hotel people; but she was no more
successful than her confidant in the secret. If the diary was in the
house, it could not be found. The structure of the chimney, in which the
flue of the fireplace was built, was carefully examined; and Leopold's
conclusion seemed to be fully verified. Miss Liverage was reluctantly
compelled to abandon all hope of finding the coveted volume.
The storm ended, and the sun shone again. The wind came fresh and cold
from the north-west. The nurse looked from the windows of the hotel upon
the waters of the river, which, sheltered from the force of the blast,
were as smooth as an inland pond though the waves rolled up white and
angry beyond the point. The guest at the Cliff House, though she had
given up all expectation of finding the diary, had not abandoned the
hope of obtaining the hidden treasure.
"Now, Leopold, we must go to the beach under High Rock," said she, after
the storm was over.
"What is the use of going there, if you don't know where the money is
hidden?" demanded the boatman.
"I think I can find the place," replied Miss Liverage. "Harvey told me
where it was; but I can't think of the names he used in telling me. I
was pretty sure I should find the diary, when I left New York."
"If you want to go to High Rock, I will take you down there in the
boat," added Leopold.
"I'm afraid of boats. Can't we go by land?"
"Not very well. My boat is as stiff as a man-of-war, and you can go a
great deal easier in her than you can climb over the rocks on the other
side of the river."
Miss Liverage considered the matter, and after dinner she decided to
undertake the hazardous trip, as she regarded it. She had an engagement
the next week in New York, and she could not remain in Rockhaven more
than a day or two longer. What she did must be done at once. Mr.
Bennington was astonished when he saw his son taking her out to sail on
such a chilly, blustering day; but he always allowed his guests to suit
themselves, and offered no objection to the expedition. Leopold seated
his timid passenger in the standing-room, and shoved off the boat. In
the river she made smooth sailing of it; but the instant she passed the
range of the high bluff on the north shore, the No-Name plunged into a
heavy sea, burying her bow deep in a foam-crested billow, whose dense
spray drenched the water-proof of Miss Liverage, and it seemed to her as
if the end of all things had come.
"Mercy on us!" screamed she, trying to rise from her seat, as the bow of
the boat was lifted far up by the wave.
"Sit down, Miss Liverage," said Leopold, pushing her back into her seat.
"We shall be drowned!" cried the terrified passenger.
"This is nothing; the boat is doing first rate," answered Leopold.
"I shall be wet to the skin," she added, as another cloud of spray was
dashed over her. The skipper went to the cuddy, forward, and brought
from it an old oil-cloth coat, which he spread over his passenger.
Though this garment protected her from the spray, the angry waves were
still a vivid terror to her, and the skipper vainly assured her there
was no danger. Letting off the main sheet, he put the boat before the
wind, and then she rolled, pitched, and floundered, till Miss Liverage
declared she was frightened out of her life.
"Don't be alarmed. There! you can see the ledges now where the Waldo
went to pieces," added Leopold, pointing to the black rocks, now in
sight, upon which the white foam broke at every surge of the sea.
"I can't see anything, Leopold," gasped Miss Liverage, holding on to the
washboard with both hands. "Do go back as fast as you can."
"But you can't find the money if you don't go and look for it."
"I don't care for the money. I wouldn't stay out here another minute for
the whole of it," protested the passenger.
She pleaded so earnestly that Leopold finally came about, and beat his
way back to the river, and soon landed her in front of the hotel. She
declared she would not get into a boat again for all the treasure hidden
in the bowels of the earth.
Miss Liverage was satisfied that Leopold was both honest and zealous,
and she finally concluded to commit to him the search for the buried
money. The next day she started for home, disappointed and disheartened
at the result of her visit to Rockhaven, though she had some hope that
her confidant might yet discover the treasure.
CHAPTER VIII.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
The landlord of the Cliff House was a man who attended to his own
business to the exclusion of that of others, and he did not trouble
himself any further about the affairs of his guest, though his curiosity
was somewhat excited at first. Leopold "was not happy" in being obliged
to conceal his thoughts and actions from his father; but then Mr.
Bennington did not question him in regard to her conduct after he was a
little accustomed to the ways of Miss Liverage. The young man did not
place much reliance upon the statements of the nurse. He had heard and
read about "money-diggers" before. He was familiar with the story of
Wolfert Webber, who had dug over the whole of his cabbage garden in
search of hidden treasure, and he had no little contempt for those who
allowed themselves to be carried away by such vain and silly illusions.
While he had no doubt that Miss Liverage was in earnest, he had little
confidence in the existence of the hidden treasure at High Rock.
Though Leopold did not intend to become a Wolfert Webber, and dig over
half a mile of beach under the cliffs, he admitted to himself the
possibility of the existence of the treasure. He had promised the nurse
that he would search for the money, and he did so; but he felt that the
task was like "looking for a needle in a hay-mow," and he abandoned it
before he had made himself ridiculous in his own estimation. He wrote a
letter to the nurse, who had given him her address in New York,
informing her of the ill success of his endeavors. She answered the
letter, giving him further instructions, saying that the money was
buried not more than a foot below the surface of the beach, and near a
projecting rock. Probably when she was less excited than during her
visit to Rockhaven, her memory had recalled some of the statements of
Harvey Barth; for certainly she had said nothing so definite as this
when she was with Leopold.
The young man, aided by these directions, which certainly were not very
precise, made another attempt to find the treasure. There was more than
one "projecting rock," and he dug over all the sand and gravel to the
depth of a foot in the vicinity of every part of the cliff which
answered to the description given. He worked very hard, and the boatmen
who saw him at his labors wondered if he expected to find clams so far
up on the beach.
He found neither clams nor money; and when he had finished the search he
was more than ever dissatisfied with himself for being led away by such
a chimera. He wrote to Miss Liverage again, informing her of the
continued failure of his efforts, and declaring that he would not "fool
with the matter" any longer. The nurse did not answer his last letter
and it was evident that she too had "lost hope." Leopold never heard
anything more from her or about her, and in a few weeks he had forgotten
all about the "hidden treasure of High Rock," for he did not believe
there was any treasure there, and it was not pleasant for him to
remember that he had made a fool of himself.
Leopold and Stumpy went to school together during the winter, and
continued to be as good friends as ever. Mrs. Wormbury struggled with
her hard lot, and Squire Moses still threatened to take possession of
the cottage. The Cliff House prospered in its small way, and the
landlord still nursed his grand project of having a big hotel in
Rockhaven. During the next season Leopold did very well with his boat,
both with the fishing and with the "jobs" from the hotel. He saved his
money and still kept it in the iron safe of Herr Schlager, who was as
proud of and as devoted as ever to his nephew. In the spring, the
question for the name of the new boat came up again, and the skipper was
prepared to settle the question. Among the guests at the hotel in the
summer, was the family of the Hon. Franklin Hamilton, a wealthy merchant
of New York, who was a native of Rockhaven. They had spent a few days at
the Cliff House for several seasons, though it was painfully apparent to
the landlord that his accommodations were not satisfactory to his
distinguished and wealthy guests, for the time they spent at the house
was very brief. The family consisted of Mr. Hamilton, his wife and an
only daughter. They always wanted to sail when they came to Rockhaven,
but Ben Chipman's boat did not suit them. Leopold did not buy his sloop
till after they had gone; but he congratulated himself upon the fact
that when they came the next season he should be able to sail them in a
boat which was good enough for any nabob in the land.
Being in funds in the spring, he fitted up the sloop very nicely, and
could not help anticipating the pleasure it would afford him to sail the
Hamiltons, especially the daughter, who, at the age of fourteen, was a
very pretty girl. Revelling in these delightful thoughts, it suddenly
occurred to him that he might give the young lady's name to the boat. It
was certainly a very pretty name for so jaunty a craft as the sloop. It
was Rosabel. In another week it appeared in gilt letters on the stern of
the boat. In the summer the family came again. Rosabel was taller and
prettier than ever, and Leopold actually realized all his pleasant and
romantic anticipations, as he sailed her and her parents about the bay.
Mr. Hamilton engaged the boat for every day during his stay, which was
prolonged to a whole week, or twice as long as he usually remained; for
Rosabel was so pleased with the water excursions that her father
extended his visit at her desire. Probably Leopold had as much romance
in his nature as most young men of seventeen, and after his first full
season in the Rosabel, the beautiful face and form of Miss Hamilton were
a very distinct image in his mind, often called up, and often the
subject of his meditations, though he could not help thinking of the
wide gulf that yawned between the daughter of the rich merchant and the
son of the humble landlord of a small hotel.
In the fall of the year, Leopold observed that his father was making
frequent visits to Squire Moses Wormbury; and it soon came out that the
rich man was to loan the landlord six thousand dollars, to enable the
latter to make his contemplated improvements upon the hotel. The squire
was to have this sum on the first of January, and though Mr. Bennington
did not want it for several months, he consented to take it at that
time; for Squire Moses would not allow it to remain a single month
uninvested. The landlord was confident that he could make money enough
on the new hotel to pay off the mortgage in three years. As soon as the
snow melted in the spring, the work was commenced. The old portion of
the hotel was partly torn to pieces, and for a time business was very
good at the Island Hotel, for the Cliff House was closed.
Both the landlord and his son, pleasurably excited by the alterations in
progress, worked with their own hands. Among other changes, the parlor
chimney was taken down, and Leopold took a hand in the job, enjoying the
operation of tumbling down to the cellar great masses of brick.
"Hold on, Le," shouted the mason who was at work with him, when they had
removed the chimney as far as the level of the parlor floor. "What's
that?"
The mason pointed to a bundle which was lodged in an opening back of the
flue of the Franklin stove that had stood in the parlor. It was covered
with bricks and lime dust, but the mason brought it to the surface with
his iron bar.
"I know what it is," exclaimed Leopold, as he picked up the package, and
knocked it several times against a partition in order to remove the soot
and dust from it.
It was the oil-cloth containing the diary of Harvey Barth.
Leopold was somewhat excited by the discovery, and all the incidents of
Miss Sarah Liverage's visit to the hotel came back fresh to his mind,
though they had occurred eighteen months before.
"What is it?" asked the mason, whose curiosity was excited by the event.
"It is a book that belonged to Harvey Barth, the steward of the Waldo,
which was wrecked off High Rock," replied Leopold. "I will take care of
it."
"But how came it in the chimney?" asked the workman.
"He put it in the flue of the fireplace, and it tumbled down."
"What did he put it in there for?"
"Because there was no closet in the room, and he was a very queer
fellow. He is dead now."
"What are you going to do with the book, then?"
"Send it to his friends, if I can find where they are."
Leopold carried the diary to his room, in a part of the house which was
not to be disturbed, and locked it up in his chest. He wanted to read
the portion which related to the wreck of the Waldo, and the burying of
the money, if such an event had occurred, of which he had some grave
doubts. But he could not stop then, for he was doing a man's work for
his father, and his conscience would not allow him to waste his time.
The mason asked more questions when Leopold returned to his work, and
they were answered as definitely as the circumstances would permit. The
young man examined the construction of the chimney, and found another
flue besides that of the Franklin stove, into which the diary had
fallen. It had formerly served for a fireplace in an adjoining
apartment, and had been bricked up before the landlord purchased the
estate. The Franklin stove, which was merely an iron fire place set into
the chimney, had the less direct flue of the two, so that the package
had fallen where it was found.
During the rest of the day, Leopold's thoughts were fixed upon the
long-lost diary, for which Miss Liverage and himself had vainly
searched. Doubtless she would claim the diary, if it was found; but had
she any better right to it than its present possessor? Leopold
considered this question with no little interest. The secret of the
hidden treasure was certainly in his keeping, and after the "trade" made
between them, he felt that she had some rights in the matter which he
was bound to respect. But the affair was no longer a secret; for after
the "humbug was exploded," as Leopold expressed it, he told his father
all about it. The landlord only laughed at it, and insisted that the
nurse was crazy; and her excited conduct at the hotel rather confirmed
his conclusion.
The result of Leopold's reflections during the day was a determination
to write to Miss Liverage again, if he found anything in the diary which
would enable him to discover the hidden treasure. The day seemed longer
to him than usual, so anxious was he to examine the pages of the diary.
When at last his work was done, and he had eaten his supper, he
hastened to his chamber, and opened the oil-cloth package. He was
greatly excited, as most people are when long-continued doubts are to be
settled. In a few moments he would know whether or not Miss Liverage was
crazy, and whether or not there was any foundation to the story of the
hidden treasure. He locked the door of his room before he opened the
package, for he felt now that the secret was not his own exclusive
property. If there was twelve hundred dollars in gold buried in the
sands under High Rock which belonged to nobody, he felt bound in honor
by his agreement with the nurse to make the division of it with her, in
accordance with the conditions of the contract.
He desired very much to speak to his father about the diary; but he did
not feel at liberty to do so. It did not appear that the mason with whom
Leopold was at work had told Mr. Bennington, or any person, of the
finding of the package. After his questions had been answered, he seemed
to feel no further interest in the diary, and probably forgot all about
it before he went home to dinner. The discovery of it did not seem to
him to be a matter of any importance, and Leopold kept his information
all to himself.
Removing the string from the package, the young man proceeded to unwrap
the oil-cloth, shaking the soot and lime dust into the fireplace as he
did so. The diary came out clean and uninjured from its long
imprisonment in the chimney. Leopold's agitation increased as he
continued the investigation, and he could hardly control himself as he
opened the book and looked at the large, clear, round hand of the
schoolmaster. The writing was as plain as print.
He turned the leaves without stopping to read anything, till he came to
the record of the last day whose events Harvey Barth had written in the
book; but those pages contained only an account of his illness, and a
particular description of his symptoms, which might have interested a
physician, but did not secure the attention of the young man. He turned
back to the narrative of the loss of the Waldo. It was very minute in
its details, and contained much "fine writing," such as the editor of
the newspaper had struck out in the manuscript for publication.
Leopold had read the account in the newspaper, and he skipped what he
had seen in print, till the name of "Wallbridge" attracted his
attention. The first mention of the passenger that he saw was made when
he went into the cabin, after his recovery from the effects of the
lightning, and returned with something in his hand. The reader followed
the narrative, which was already quite familiar to him, till he came to
the landing of the party in the whale-boat on the beach; and at this
point he found something which Harvey Barth had not written in his
newspaper article, or mentioned during his stay at the hotel. Leopold
read as follows:--
"As soon as we had landed on the beach, Wallbridge told me he had twelve
hundred dollars in gold, which he had earned by his two years' work in
Cuba. By the light of the flashes of lightning I saw the bag in his
hand. It was an old shot-bag, tied up with a piece of white tape.
Wallbridge said he was afraid the bag might cost him his life, if he
held on to it, and I suppose he thought he might have to swim, and the
weight of the gold would sink him.
"I have figured up the weight of twelve hundred dollars in gold, and I
found it would be almost five pounds and a half Troy, or nearly four and
a half Avoirdupois. I don't blame him now for wanting to get rid of it;
but I did not think before I figured it up, that the money would weigh
so much. Four and a half pounds is not much for a man to carry on land,
but I should not want to be obliged to swim with this weight in my
trousers' pocket, even when I was in good health.
"Wallbridge said he would bury the money in the sand, under a projecting
rock in the cliff, so that he could come and get it when he wanted it.
Just then a flash of lightning came, and I looked up at the cliff under
which he stood. I saw the projecting rock, and it looked to me, in the
blaze of the lightning, just like a coffin, from where I stood. It
seemed to me then just like a sign from Heaven that I should soon need a
coffin, if the sea did not carry me off; but if the sign meant anything,
it did not apply to me, but to Wallbridge, who in less than half an hour
afterwards was swallowed up in the waves. I am sorry for him, and I only
hope he had not done anything very bad, for I could not help thinking he
had committed some crime."
Leopold did not see why the writer should think so; but then he had not
read the preceding pages of the diary, which Harvey Barth had written
just before the passenger came to the galley to light his pipe. The
narrative, after a digression of half a page of reflections upon the
unhappy fate of Wallbridge, continued:--
"Wallbridge got down on his knees, and scooped out a hole not more than
a foot deep in the sand, and dropped the bag into it. I looked up at the
projecting rock again, when another flash of lightning came, and there
was the coffin, just as plain as though it had been made for one of us.
It was not a whole coffin, but only the head end of one. It seemed to
project and overhang the beach at an angle of about forty-five degrees,
and a man could have sat down on the upper end, which was about twenty
feet high. The shape of it startled me so that I did not think any more
of what the passenger was doing, though I saw him raking the sand into
the hole with his hands. I thought the thing was a bad sign, and I did
not like to look at it, though I could not help doing so when the
lightning flashed. I walked along to get out of the way of it, and
passed the place where Wallbridge was at work. When I looked up at the
cliff again, I could not see the coffin any more. There was the
projecting rock, but on this side it did not look at all like a coffin.
"I walked along to the end of the beach, where an angle in the cliff
carried it out into the water. I expected every moment to be carried off
by the sea or to be crushed against the rocks. I did not expect to save
myself, and I could not help feeling that the coffin I had seen was for
me. Just then a flash of lightning showed me a kind of opening in the
cliff, near the angle."
Leopold knew this part of the story by heart, and had often passed up
and down through the ravine, which Harvey Barth described in his diary
with as much precision as though the locality had contained a gold mine.
"A projecting rock shaped like a coffin!" said the reader, as he raised
his eyes from the book to consider what he had read. "I don't remember
any such rock, though there may be such a one there. I must go down to
High Rock in a thunder-storm, and then perhaps it will look to me as it
did to him."
But the nurse was right, after all; there was a solid foundation to the
story she had told, though she had not mentioned any rock shaped like
the head of a coffin. Probably Harvey Barth, who at the time he told the
nurse the story had expected to get well enough to go to his home, had
not intended to describe the locality of the hidden treasure so that she
could find it, but only to assure her that he should have money with
which to reward her, if she took good care of him during his sickness.
Leopold read the account of the burying of the money again; but he could
not recall any rock answering to the description in the book. He had dug
up the sand under every projecting rock that overhung the beach, to the
depth of a foot, without finding the treasure. By the death of every
person on board of the brig except Harvey Barth, the knowledge of the
acts of Wallbridge was necessarily confined to him. If the money had
ever been buried on the beach, Leopold was confident it was there now.
No one could have removed it, for no one could have suspected its
existence.
Faithful to the agreement he had made, Leopold wrote a letter that
evening to Miss Liverage, directing it to the address she had given him.
The letter contained but a few lines, merely intimating that he had
important business with her. The young man was now anxious to visit the
beach under High Rock, for the purpose of identifying the mortuary
emblem which had so strongly impressed the author of the journal, in the
lightning and the hurricane; but he could not be spared from his work,
and it was several months before he was able to verify the statements in
the diary.
Weeks and months passed away, and no answer to his letter came. In June
he wrote another letter, to the "Superintendent of Bellevue Hospital,
New York City," in which Harvey Barth died, requesting information in
regard to Miss Sarah Liverage. A reply soon came, to the effect that the
nurse had married one of her patients, and now lived somewhere in
Oregon, the writer did not know where.
CHAPTER IX.
COFFIN ROCK.
Miss Sarah Liverage had taken herself out of the reach of all further
communication in regard to the hidden treasure. Leopold had no hope of
being able to see or hear from her. She had not sent him her last
address, and he had used all the means in his power to carry out the
terms of the agreement. He considered himself, therefore, released from
all responsibility, so far as she was concerned. But even then he did
not feel like going to High Rock and taking the money for his own or his
father's use. He could not get rid of the idea that the money belonged
to somebody. If Wallbridge had saved this money from the earnings of two
years in Cuba, it certainly ought to go to his heirs, now that he was
dead.
The remarks of Harvey Barth in his diary seemed to indicate that the
passenger had committed some crime, or at least that he was open to the
suspicion of having done so. Leopold considered, whether this might not
be the reason why no one had yet claimed any relationship to him. The
young man was sorely perplexed in regard to his duty in the matter; and
he was really more afraid of doing wrong than he was of losing twelve
hundred dollars in gold. He did not like to confess it even to himself;
but he was afraid that his father's views, if he told him about the
hidden treasure, might he looser than his own. He believed that the
landlord was even more honest than the majority of men; but, after he
had commenced upon the extensive improvements of the hotel, the son
feared that the father might be tempted to do what was not exactly
right.
While all these questions remained unsettled in the mind of Leopold, he
did nothing to recover the money, until the hotel was nearly completed.
In fact, he had no time to do so, for his father kept him busy from
morning till night, and then he was so tired that he did not even feel
like reading the diary. After he had obtained the important facts in
regard to the buried money, he did not feel any further interest in the
journal of Harvey Barth. He had tried to read portions of it; but each
day commenced with a detailed account of the writer's health, with
remarks on the weather, and similar topics, which did not hold the
attention of the young man. The enlargement of the hotel was a subject
which engrossed his whole mind, after the novelty of finding the diary
had worked itself off. He was deeply interested in the progress of the
work; and when the putting up of the partitions gave form and shape to
the interior, not many other matters occupied his mind.
The mechanics finished their labors, and the hotel was ready to receive
the new furniture which had been purchased for it. Leopold was busier
than ever, and hardly a thought of the hidden treasure came to his mind.
He put down carpets and put up bedsteads, till he was nearly worn out
with hard work, though the excitement of seeing the various apartments
of the new house assume their final aspect prevented him from feeling
the fatigue of his labor. By the middle of June everything was ready
for the reception of guests, though not many of them were expected to
arrive till the middle of July. Now the hotel was called the "Sea Cliff
House," and its opening was advertised in the principal cities of New
York and New England. As the Island Hotel lost its "trade" and the new
house obtained it all, Ethan Wormbury was correspondingly angry.
As usually happens to those who rebuild and remodel private or public
houses, the expense far exceeded the estimates. The war of the rebellion
was in progress, and the prices of everything in the shape of building
material and furniture had fearfully increased. The nine thousand
dollars which Mr. Bennington had on hand to pay his bills, was exhausted
long before the work was completed. The landlord was sorely troubled,
and he went to Squire Wormbury to obtain a further loan on his property;
but the money-lender declared that he would not risk another dollar on
the security. Then Mr. Bennington mortgaged his furniture for two
thousand dollars,--all he could obtain on it,--in order to relieve the
pressure upon him; but even then the "floating debt" annoyed him very
seriously. He had always paid his bills promptly, and kept out of debt,
so that his present embarrassment was doubly annoying to him, on account
of its novelty. With all his mind, heart and soul he regretted that he
had undertaken the great enterprise, and feared that it would end in
total ruin to him.
The landlord talked freely with his wife and Leopold about his
embarrassments, and the son suffered quite as much as the father on
account of them. There were guests enough in the hotel to have met the
expenses of the old establishment, but not of the new one; and the
landlord found it difficult even to pay the daily demands upon him. He
was almost in despair, and a dollar seemed larger to him now than ever
before, and hardly a single one of them would stay in his pocket over
night. The interest on the mortgage note would be due on the first of
July, and Mr. Bennington knew not where to obtain the first dollar with
which to pay it. The landlord was in great distress, for he knew that
Squire Moses was as relentless as death itself, and would show him no
mercy.
"I don't see but I must fail," said Mr. Bennington, with a deep sigh, as
the day of payment drew near.
"Fail, father!" exclaimed Leopold.
"That will be the end of it all. If I don't pay my interest on the day
it is due, Squire Wormbury will foreclose his mortgage, and take
possession of the house," groaned the landlord.
"Can't something be done, father?" asked the son.
"I don't know what I can do, I have borrowed of everybody who will lend
me a dollar. With one good season I could pay off every dollar I owe,
except Squire Wormbury's mortgage. It seems hard to go to the wall just
for the want of a month's time. I am sure I shall make money after the
season opens, for I have engaged half the rooms in the house after the
middle of July. Half a dozen families from Chicago are coming then, and
when I was in Boston a dozen people told me they would come here for the
summer."
"I think you will find some way to raise the money, father," added
Leopold, more hopeful than his father.
"I don't see where it is coming from. The bank won't discount any more
for me. I feel like a beggar already; and all for the want of a month's
time."
Leopold was very sad; but in this emergency he thought of the hidden
treasure of High Rock. But he had already made up his mind that this
money did not belong to him. He even felt that it would be stealing for
him to take it. In his father's sore embarrassment he was tempted to
appropriate the treasure, and let him use it as a loan. But then, if his
father should fail, and the heirs of Wallbridge should appear, he could
not satisfy them, or satisfy his own conscience.
But the temptation was very great; and the next time he went out alone
in the Rosabel, he visited the beach under High Rock. It was the first
time he had been there this season. He landed, and commenced the search
for the projecting rock which was shaped like a coffin. He walked from
one end of the beach to the other, without discovering any rock which
answered to Harvey Barth's description. He started to retrace his steps,
remembering that the writer of the journal had been unable to observe
the singular form of the rock after he had changed his position. The
tide was low, and he walked on the edge of the water; but by going in
this direction he had no better success. After spending an hour in
looking for it, he could discover no rock which looked like the emblem
of death. He returned to Rockhaven, almost convinced that Harvey Barth
had imagined the scene he had described in his diary.
The next day, just at dark, a thunder-storm, the first of the season,
came up. The weather had been warm and sultry for a week, and the
farmers declared that the season was a fortnight earlier than usual. The
roaring thunder and the flashing lightning reminded Leopold of the scene
described in Harvey's journal, and especially of the burying of the
twelve hundred dollars in gold. Without saving anything to any one of
his intention, he left the hotel, and embarked in the Rosabel, with no
dread of the rain, or a squall. There was wind enough to take him down
as far as the ledges, and then it suddenly subsided. Leopold furled his
mainsail, for the calm indicated a coming squall. It wanted an hour of
high tide, and he anchored the Rosabel at a considerable distance from
the shore, paying out the cable till the stern of the boat was in water
not more than three feet deep. Pulling upon the rope till he was
satisfied that the anchor had hooked upon one of the sharp rocks below
the beach, he prepared to go on shore. The beach sloped so sharply that
the sands were not more than twenty feet from the stern of the Rosabel.
It was now quite dark, but the scene was frequently lighted up by the
sharp lightning. The tide had risen so that the water was within a rod
of the cliffs. Taking an oar in his hand, he planted the blade end of it
in the water as far as he could reach from the stern, and grasping the
other end, he made a flying leap with its aid, and struck at a spot
where the water was only knee-deep. He had scarcely reached the beach
before the squall came; but it blew out of the north-west, so that the
Rosabel was partially sheltered from its fury by the projecting cliffs
between High Rock and the mouth of the river. She swung around, abreast
of the cliffs, into the deep water between the beach and the ledges.
Leopold watched her for a few moments, fearful that the change of
position might have unhooked the anchor; but it held on till the squall,
which expended its force in a few moments, was over. Then the rain came
down in torrents, drenching the boatman to the skin.
Leopold, with the oar in his hand, walked along the narrow beach,
watching the play of the lightning on the rocks of the cliff.
Occasionally he halted to observe the shapes they assumed, and he could
not help perceiving that the glare of the electric fluid gave them an
entirely different appearance from that which they usually wore. He had
landed near the ravine by which Harvey Earth had escaped from the angry
billows, and he walked to the farther end of the beach without seeing
any rock which bore the least resemblance to a coffin. The tide was
rising all the time, driving him nearer and nearer to the cliff. Leopold
was not much excited, for his former failure to find the hidden treasure
had almost convinced him that no such thing existed. He was cool
enough--drenched to the skin as he was--to reason about the movements
of the shipwrecked party on the beach.
"When Harvey Barth left Wallbridge filling up the hole in which he had
put the bag of gold," thought Leopold, "he must have walked towards the
'Hole in the Wall'"--as the ravine was called by those who visited High
Rock. "If he hadn't walked towards it, he wouldn't have found it. If he
had walked up and down the beach, he would have seen Wallbridge and the
mate when they went off in the whale-boat to return to the wreck. This
shows plainly enough that he only walked one way before he came to the
Hole. That way must have been the opposite direction from that I have
just come; for if he had walked the way I have, he could not have
reached the Hole; and there is no beach to walk on beyond it.
"When Harvey Barth looked behind him, he could not see the coffin; and
of course I couldn't see it when I came this way. I suppose it only
shows itself, like the man's head near the light-house, from one
particular point. The head can only be made out from a boat, when it
ranges between the island and the light, one way, and in line with the
dead tree and Jones's barn on the north shore, the other way. Twenty
feet from this position, nothing that looks like a head can be seen.
Probably this coffin works by the same rule. If it don't, it is strange
that I have never noticed it. Now I will walk in the direction that
Harvey Barth did, and if there is any coffin here I shall see it."
The bright flashes of lightning still illuminated the cliffs, as Leopold
walked slowly towards the Hole in the Wall, scrutinizing the rocks with
the utmost care. By the rising of the tide his line of march was now
within ten feet of the cliff, and the beach was of about the same width
as when the shipwrecked party had sought a refuge upon it; but the sea
was comparatively calm, and there was no peril on its smooth sands.
Leopold had gone about one third of the length of the beach, when his
eye rested upon a formation in the cliff, which, as the lightning played
upon it, assured him he had found what he sought. The view he had
obtained of it was only for an instant. He halted, waiting again till
the lightning again, enabled him to see the rock.
"That's it, as sure as I live!" exclaimed the boatman.
Again and again he saw it, as the lightning glared upon it; and the
resemblance to a coffin was certainly very striking. Harvey Barth was
justified again, and Leopold acknowledged to himself the correctness of
the description in the diary. Thrusting the oar down into the sand on
the spot where he was, so as not to loose the locality, he stood for
some time observing the phenomenon on the rocks. He understood now why
he had not seen it before. In his previous search, he had walked on the
beach twenty feet farther out from the cliff. Changing his position by
wading into the water, the shape of the coffin on the rock was lost
before he had moved ten feet from the oar. From this point it assumed a
new form, looking like nothing in particular but a mass of rock.
Leopold returned to the stake which he had set up, and then walked from
it to the cliff. When he stopped, the projecting rock was directly over
his head. He knew the spot very well. He had baked clams there for
Rosabel Hamilton during one of his visits to High Rock with her; and he
had dug over every foot of sand beneath it, in search of the hidden
treasure, without finding it. But Harvey Barth was so correct in regard
to his description of the locality that the boatman was more disposed to
rely upon his statements in other matters than he had ever been before.
He gathered a pile of stones to mark the place, and then gave himself up
to a careful consideration of the circumstances of the case. He could
not now escape the conclusion that the money was actually buried beneath
the projecting rock--"Coffin Rock" he had already named in his own mind;
and he proceeded to inquire why he had not found it, when he dug the
ground all over.
"Miss Liverage told me the hole which Wallbridge dug was not more than a
foot deep; and Harvey Barth's diary contained the same statement," said
the boatman to himself. "I dug a foot down, and the money was not there.
I remember I found a piece of boat-hook, with the iron on it about that
distance below the surface. What does that prove? How happened that
piece of a boat-hook, to be a foot under ground? On the top of the
cliffs the sand and gravel, with a little soil on top, is six feet
deep, and this beach is formed by the caving down of the earth. There is
no beach beyond the Hole, because the rocks are all bare on the top of
the cliff. I suppose the sand keeps dropping down, and the roll of the
sea has spread it out as it fell. I have no doubt that the hurricane
piled the sand up a foot or more next to the cliff. That's the reason I
didn't find the money. I will dig deeper now."
Satisfied with this reasoning, Leopold waded off to the Rosabel which
the tide had swung in towards the beach again. In the cuddy he had a
lantern,--for use when he was out after dark,--which he lighted. As he
was obliged to supply bait for parties who went out fishing with him, he
kept under the seat in the standing-room a boy's shovel, which his
father had given him years before, with which he dug clams on the
beaches. Letting out the cable, the boat drifted still nearer to the
beach, and the skipper landed, with his lantern and shovel. Throwing off
his wet coat, he began to dig under Coffin Rock. He allowed considerable
latitude in marking out the size of the hole, to allow for any possible
want of accuracy in Harvey Barth's observation.
It was pitch dark after the shower, for the sky and the stars were
obscured by dense clouds. Leopold had only the light of his lantern to
enable him to work, and his task was gloomy enough to satisfy the
veriest money-digger that ever delved into the earth for hidden
treasure. In half an hour, more or less, he had dug the hole a foot
deep, and then felt that he had reduced this part of the beach to its
former elevation, at the time of the wreck of the Waldo. A descent of
another foot would decide whether or not the treasure had an existence,
save in the brain of the sick man.
It was hard work, after a full day's labor at the hotel; but Leopold
redoubled his exertions after he had removed the first foot of sand. As
he proceeded, he examined every stone he threw out of the hole, to
assure himself that he did not miss the bag of gold. The task began to
be somewhat exciting, as the solution of the problem drew nearer.
The hole which he had laid out was six feet square; and when he had
thrown out all the sand and gravel to this depth, in order to save any
unnecessary labor he began to dig in the middle of the excavation, for
this was directly under the centre of the projecting rock. If Harvey
Barth's statement was exactly correct, the bag would be found where
Leopold was now at work. Faster and faster he plied the shovel, the
deeper he went, and, when he judged that the lower hole was nearly a
foot deep, his excitement of mind was intense. He had come to the last
layer of sand he had to remove in making the second foot in depth.
Placing his heel upon the shovel, he attempted to force it down the
length of the blade; but something impeded his progress. It was not a
rock, for it yielded slightly, and gave forth no sharp sound. Scraping
out the sand with the shovel, Leopold began to paw it away with his
hands. Presently he felt something which was neither sand nor gravel. He
drew it forth from the hole, and held it up where the light of the
lantern struck upon it.
It was the hidden treasure.
The bag was just what Harvey Barth had described, and it weighed at
least the four pounds and a half Avoirdupois which he had made it by his
calculations. Leopold was tremendously excited, as he seated himself on
the brink of the hole, with the shot-bag in his hand.
"Hallo, Le! Is that you?" shouted a voice from the water.
It was Stumpy in Leopold's old boat.
CHAPTER X.
DOUBTS AND DEBTS.
Leopold was terribly startled when he heard the voice of Stumpy. He was
the possessor of a mighty secret, and he felt that he had been very
imprudent in exposing it to discovery. It would have been better to dig
up the hidden treasure in the daytime, when the light would have enabled
him to observe the approach of an intruder. But he was glad it was
Stumpy, rather than any other person, who had detected him in his
strange and unseasonable labor. If need be, he could reveal the great
secret to his friend, which he would have been very unwilling to do to
any one else. But he did not wish to say a word about the hidden
treasure even to Stumpy.
He was startled when he heard the voice of his friend, and, without
deciding at that moment upon his future course, he dropped the shot-bag
into the hole from which he had taken it, and hastily covered it with
sand to the depth of a foot, in fact, filling up the smaller hole he had
made. This was the work of a moment; and before Stumpy had time to
approach the spot, Leopold, with the lantern in his hand, walked to the
place where his friend had landed.
"What are you doing here in the dark?" demanded Stumpy, as Leopold
approached him.
"Lighting up the darkness," replied the money-digger, lightly.
"What were you doing with that shovel?" added Stumpy, as his friend
stepped into the old boat, the bow of which rested on the beach.
"Digging, of course," answered the possessor of the mighty secret, not
yet decided whether or not to reveal what he knew, and what he had been
doing.
"I don't think there is much fun in digging down here where it is as
dark as a stack of black cats."
"I was not digging for the fun of it. But what brought you down here in
the darkness, Stumpy?" asked Leopold, willing to change the subject.
"I wanted to see you, and went over to the Sea Cliff House. Your father
told me you had gone out in your boat just at dark; and, as a smart
squall had just stirred up the bay, he was somewhat worried about you."
"Was he? I didn't know that he ever worried about me when I was on the
water. I think I know how to take care of myself."
"No doubt you do; but the smartest boatmen get caught sometimes. I think
we had better hurry back, for the longer you are out, the more anxious
your folks will be about you."
"That's so," replied the considerate Leopold. "But we have two boats
here, and we can't both return in the Rosabel."
"Can't we tow the old boat?"
"We can, but I don't like to do it, for the old boat will be sure to
bump against the Rosabel, and scrape the paint off. Now, Stumpy, if you
will take the new boat, and sail back in her, I will follow you in the
old tub. You will get to the house long before I do, and you can tell
the folks I am right side up."
"Why don't you go in the Rosabel, and tell them yourself?" suggested
Stumpy.
Just at this point Leopold was bothered. If Stumpy reached the hotel
first, he would tell Mr. Bennington where he had found his son, on the
beach under High Rock, with a lantern and shovel in his hand. Of course
his father would wish to know what he was doing there; and under present
circumstances this would be a hard question, for Leopold was deeply
indoctrinated with the "little hatchet" principle. In a word, he could
not tell a deliberate lie. He could not place himself in a situation
where a falsehood would be necessary to extricate himself from a
dilemma. Unhappily, like thousands of other scrupulous people, he could
"strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel;" for it was just as much a lie
to deceive his father by his silence as it was by his speech.
But, after all Leopold's motive was good. He was afraid his father would
use the hidden treasure to relieve his embarrassments in money matters,
and he was not willing to subject him to this temptation. The young man
was still firm in his faith that the money belonged to somebody, and
just as firm in the belief that it was his duty to seek out the owner
thereof, which he had not yet done, or had time to do.
He had thought a great deal about the ownership of the treasure; and,
arguing the question as he might to himself, he always reached the same
conclusion--that the money did not belong to him, and that it did belong
to somebody else. He had considered the possibility of finding the
proprietor of the twelve hundred dollars in gold through the owners of
the Waldo, and the consignees or agents of the brig in Havana. This was
before he found the old shot-bag; and, now that he had held it in his
hand, this conclusion was even more forcible than before. Satisfied that
the secret would be safer in the possession of Stumpy than of his
father, he was tempted to tell him the whole story.
"After all, I guess we will go back in the Rosabel, Stumpy," added
Leopold, when he had considered the matter. "You can keep your eye on
the old boat, and see that she don't do any harm."
"I can keep her from doing any mischief," said Stumpy.
Leopold asked his companion to haul the Rosabel up to the beach, and,
shoving off the old boat, he returned to the spot under Coffin Rock
where he had been digging. Using his shovel vigorously for a few
moments, he filled up the excavation he had made, and levelled off the
sand and gravel, so that no chance visitor at the place should discover
the traces of his labor.
By the time he had finished the work, the Rosabel had been hauled up to
the beach, and the painter of the old boat attached to her stern. In a
few moments the money-digger and his friend were under way, standing
towards the mouth of the river.
"I don't see why my father should be worried about me," said Leopold, as
he seated himself at the tiller.
"You don't very often go out in the night, and in a thunder-storm, too.
I was worried about you myself, Le, for any fellow might be caught in a
squall. Without saying anything to your father, or any other person, I
took the old boat, and stood out of the river. I shouted to you with all
my might. When I got out beyond the point, I saw the light on the beach,
under High Rock, and went for it."
"Well, I'm much obliged to you for the trouble you have taken," added
Leopold.
"But what in the world were you doing on the beach with the lantern and
the shovel?" asked Stumpy. "You couldn't catch any clams under the rocks
where you were."
"I didn't catch any. When you sung out, I was sitting on the beach. I
had anchored the Rosabel, with a long cable, and when the squall came,
it blew her off so far from the shore that I could not get on board of
her without swimming."
"O, that's it--was it?" exclaimed Stumpy, entirely satisfied with this
explanation.
Certainly every word which Leopold had uttered was strictly and
literally true; but Stumpy's deception was as complete as though it had
been brought about by a lie. The money-digger was not quite satisfied
with himself, though he had an undoubted right to "keep his own
counsel," if he chose to do so. But while he was thus bothered about the
situation, his friend changed the topic.
"I wanted to see you," said Stumpy, after he had accepted his
companion's explanation.
"What for?"
"That old hunks had gone and done it!" added Stumpy, whose chief
emotion seemed to be a violent indignation.
