With that, Joe sat her up on his shoulder, and she laughed gleefully.

Granny lighted a candle, and began to prepare for supper. While Charlie
set the table, Granny brought out the griddle, and commenced frying
some Indian cakes in a most tempting manner. Joe dropped on an old
stool, and delighted Dot with a vigorous ride to Banbury Cross.

Kit stood beside him, inhaling the fragrance of the cakes, and
wondering at the dexterity with which Granny turned them on a slender
knife.

"I don't see how you do it. Suppose you should let 'em fall?"

"Ho!" said Charlie, with a sniff of disdain. "Women always know how."

"But they can't come up to the miners," suggested Joe. "They keep house
for themselves; and their flapjacks are turned,--as big as Granny's
griddle here."

"One cake?"

"Yes. That's where the art comes in."

"They must take a shovel," said Charlie.

"No, nor a knife, nor any thing."

With that Joe shook his head mysteriously.

"With their fingers," announced Kit triumphantly.

"My mother used to bake them in a frying-pan," said Granny. "Then she'd
twirl it round and round, and suddenly throw the cake over."

"There!"

Kit gave a nod as much as to say, "Beat that if you can."

"That isn't a circumstance," was Joe's solemn comment.

"But how then?" asked Charlie, who was wound up to a pitch of
curiosity.

"Why, they bake them in a pan too, and twirl it round and round, and
then throw it up and run out of doors. The cake goes up chimney, and
comes down on the raw side, all right, you see, and drops into the pan
before you can count six black beans."

"Oh, I don't believe it!" declared Charlie. "Do you, Granny?"

"They'd have to be pretty quick," was the response.

"You see, a woman never could do it, Charlie," Joe continued in a
tormenting manner.

"But, Charlie, a miner's cabin is not very high; and the chimney is
just a great hole in the roof," explained Hal.

"'Tory, 'tory," said Dot, who was not interested in the culinary art.

"O Dotty! you'll have a piece worn off the end of my tongue, some day.
It's high time you were storing your mind with useful facts; so, if you
please, we will have a little English history."

"What nonsense, Joe! As if she could understand;" and Florence looked
up from her pretty worsted crocheting.

"To be sure she can. Dot comes of a smart family. Now, Midget;" and
with that he perched her up on his knee.

Charlie and Kit began to listen.

    "'When good King Arthur ruled the land,
        He was a goodly king:
     He stole three pecks of barley-meal
      To make a bag pudding.'"

"I don't believe it," burst out Charlie. "I was reading about King
Arthur"--

"And he was a splendid cook. Hear his experience,--

    'A bag pudding the king did make,
      And stuffed it well with plums;
    And in it put great lumps of fat,
      As big as my two thumbs.'"

Dot thought the laugh came in here, and threw back her head, showing
her little white teeth.

"It really wasn't King Arthur," persisted Charlie.

"It is a fact handed down to posterity. No wonder England became great
under so wise and economical a rule; for listen--

    'The king and queen did eat thereof,
      And noblemen beside;
    And what they could not eat that night,
      The queen next morning fried,'--

as we do sometimes. Isn't it wonderful?"

"Hunnerful," ejaculated Dot, wide-eyed.

"I hope you'll take a lesson, and"--

"Come to supper," said Granny.

Irrepressible Charlie giggled at the ending.

They did not need a second invitation, but clustered around eagerly.

"I'm afraid there won't be any left to fry up in the morning," said Joe
solemnly.

After the youngsters were off to bed that evening, Joe began to talk
about his good fortune again.

"And a dollar and a half a week, regularly, is a good deal," he said.
"Why, I can get a spick and span new suit of clothes for twelve
dollars,--two months, that would be; and made at a tailor's too."

"The two months?" asked Florence.

"Oh! you know what I mean."

"You will get into worse habits than ever," she said with a wise
elder-sister air.

"I don't ever expect to be a grand gentleman."

"But you might be a little careful."

"Flo acts as if she thought we were to have a great fortune left us by
and by, and wouldn't be polished enough to live in state."

"The only fortune we shall ever have will come from five-finger land,"
laughed Hal good-naturedly.

"And I'm going to make a beginning. I do think it was a streak of luck.
I am old enough to do something for myself."

"I wish I could find such a chance," said Hal, with a soft sigh.

"Your turn will come presently," Granny answered, smiling tenderly.

Joe went on with his air-castles. The sum of money looked so large in
his eyes. He bought out half of Mr. Terry's store, and they were to
live like princes,--all on a dollar and a half a week.

Granny smiled, and felt proud enough of him. If he would only keep to
business, and not go off to sea.

So on Friday Joe piled up his books, and turned a somerset over them,
and took a farewell race with the boys. They were all sorry enough to
lose him. Mr. Fielder wished him good luck.

"You will find that work is not play," he said by way of caution.

Early Monday morning Joe presented himself bright as a new button.
He had insisted upon wearing his best suit,--didn't he mean to have
another soon? for the school clothes were all patches. He had given his
hair a Sunday combing, which meant that he used a comb instead of his
fingers. Mr. Terry was much pleased with his promptness.

A regular country store, with groceries on one side and dry goods on
the other, a little sashed cubby for a post-office, and a corner for
garden and farm implements. There was no liquor kept on the premises;
for the mild ginger and root beer sold in summer could hardly be placed
in that category.

Joe was pretty quick, and by noon had mastered many of the intricacies.
Old Mr. Terry was in the store part of the time,--"father" as everybody
called him. He was growing rather childish and careless, so his son
instructed Joe to keep a little watch over him. Then he showed him how
to harness the horse, and drove off with some bulky groceries that he
was to take home.

"All things work together for good, sonny," said Father Terry with a
sleepy nod, as he sat down by the stove.

"What things?"

"All things," with a sagacious shake of the head.

This was Father Terry's favorite quotation, and he used it in season
and out of season.

The door opened, and Mrs. Van Wyck entered. She gave Joe a sharp look.

"So you're here?" with a kind of indignant sniff.

"Yes. What will you have?"

There was a twinkle in Joe's eye, and an odd little pucker to his lips,
as if he were remembering something.

"You needn't be so impudent."

"I?" and Joe flushed in surprise.

"Yes. You're a saucy lot, the whole of you."

With that Mrs. Van Wyck began to saunter round.

"What's the price of these cranberries?"

"Eighteen cents," in his most respectful tone.

"They're dear, dreadful dear. Over to Windsor you can get as many as
you can carry for a shillin' a quart."

Joe was silent.

"Say sixteen."

"I couldn't," replied Joe. "If Mr. Terry were here"--

"There's Father Terry." She raised her voice a little. "Father Terry,
come and look at these cranberries. They're a poor lot, and you'll do
well to get a shillin' a quart."

Joe ran his fingers through them. Plump and crimson, very nice he
thought for so late in the season.

"I don't s'pose I'd get more'n two good quarts out of three. They'll
spile on your hands. Come now, be reasonable."

Father Terry looked undecided. Joe watched him, thinking in his heart
that he ought not fall a penny.

"Say a shillin'."

The old man shook his head.

"Well, fifteen cents. I want three quarts, and I won't give a penny
more."

The old gentleman studied Joe's face, which was full of perplexity.

"Well," he said with some reluctance.

Joe measured them. Mrs. Van Wyck gave each quart a "settle" by shaking
it pretty hard, and Joe had to put in another large handful.

"Now I want some cheese."

The pound weighed two ounces over.

"You can throw that in. Mr. Terry always does."

"How much?"

"Twenty-three cents."

"No: you can't fool me, youngster. I never pay more than twenty cents."

"I'm sure Mr. Terry told me that it was twenty-three."

Father was appealed to again, and of course went over to the
domineering enemy.

Then two pounds of butter passed through the same process of
cheapening. Joe began to lose his temper. Afterward a broom, some tape
and cotton, and finally a calico dress.

"Now, here's three dozen eggs for part pay. They're twenty-four cents a
dozen."

"Why, that's what we sell them for," said astonished Joe, mentally
calculating profit and loss.

"Oh! they've gone up. Hetty Collins was paid twenty-five over to
Windsor. I'd gone there myself if I'd had a little more time."

"I wish you had," ejaculated Joe inwardly.

She haggled until she got her price, and the settlement was made.

"She's a regular old screwer," said Joe rather crossly. "I don't
believe it was right to let her have those things in that fashion."

"All things work together for good."

"For her good, it seems."

Father Terry went back to his post by the stove. Joe breathed a little
thanksgiving that Flossy was not Mrs. Van Wyck's maid-of-all-work.

Joe's next customer was Dave Downs, as the boys called him. He shuffled
up to the counter.

"Got any reel good cheese?"

"Yes," said Joe briskly.

"Let's see."

Joe raised the cover. Dave took up the knife, and helped himself to a
bountiful slice.

"Got any crackers?"

"Yes," wondering what Dave meant.

"Nice and fresh?"

"I guess so."

"I'll take three or four."

"That will be a penny's worth."

When Dave had the crackers in his hand he said, raising his shaggy
brows in a careless manner,--

"Oh! you needn't be so perticelar."

Then he took a seat beside Father Terry, and munched crackers and
cheese. "Cool enough," thought Joe.

Old Mrs. Skittles came next. She was very deaf, and talked in a high,
shrill key, as if she thought all the world in the same affliction.

She looked at every thing, priced it, beat down a cent or two, and
then concluded she'd rather wait until Mr. Terry came in. At last she
purchased a penny's worth of snuff, and begged Joe to give her good
measure.

After that two customers and the mail. Father Terry bestirred himself,
and waited upon a little girl with a jug.

Joe was rather glad to see Mr. Terry enter, for he had an uncomfortable
sense of responsibility.

"Trade been pretty good, Joe?" with a smile.

"I've put it all down on the slate, as you told me."

"Hillo! What's this!"

A slow stream of something dark was running over the floor back of the
lower counter.

"Oh, molasses!" and with a spring Joe shut off the current, but there
was an ominous pool.

"I did not get that: it was"--and Joe turned crimson.

"Father. We never let him go for molasses, vinegar, oil, or burning
fluid. He is sure to deluge us. Run round in the kitchen, and get a
pail and a mop."

"It's my opinion that this doesn't work together for good," said Joe to
himself as he was cleaning up the mess.

"So you had Mrs. Skittles?" exclaimed Mr. Terry with a laugh. "And Mrs.
Van Wyck. Why, Joe!"

"She beat down awfully!" said Joe; "and she wanted every thing thrown
in. Mr. Terry"--

"She called on father, I'll be bound. But she has taken off all the
profits; and then to make you pay twenty-four cents for the eggs."

"I'd just like to have had my own way. If you'll give me leave"--

"You will have to look out a little for father. He's getting old, you
know; and these sharp customers are rather too much for him."

"I'll never fall a penny again;" and Joe shook his head defiantly.

"You will learn by degrees. But it is never necessary to indulge such
people. There's the dinner-bell."

Dave Downs had finished his crackers and cheese, and now settled
himself to a comfortable nap. Joe busied himself by clearing up
a little, giving out mail, and once weighing some flour. Then he
discovered that he had scattered it over his trousers, and that with
the molasses dabs it made a not very delightful mixture. So he took
a seat on a barrel-head and began to scrub it off; but he found it
something like Aunt Jemima's plaster.

"Run in and get some dinner, Joe," said Mr. Terry after his return to
the store.

"But I was going home," replied Joe bashfully.

"Oh! never mind. We will throw in the dinner."

So Joe ran around, but hesitated at the door of Mrs. Terry's clean
kitchen. She was motherly and cordial, however, and gave him a bright
smile.

"I told Mr. Terry that you might as well come in here for your dinner.
It is quite a long run home."

"You are very kind," stammered Joe, feeling that he must say something,
in spite of his usual readiness of speech deserting him.

"You ought to have an apron, Joe, or a pair of overalls," she said
kindly. "You will find grocery business rather dirty work sometimes."

"And my best clothes!" thought Joe with a sigh.

But the coffee was so delightful, and the cold roast beef tender as a
chicken. And Joe began to think it was possible for a few things to
work together for good, if they were only the right kind of things.

Altogether he went home at night in very good spirits.

"But my trousers will have to go in the wash-tub, Granny," he
exclaimed. "I believe I wasn't cut out for a gentleman, after all."

"O Joe, what a sight! How could you?"

"It was all easy enough. If you'd had molasses to scrub up, and flour
to get before it was dry, you would have found the sticking process not
at all difficult. And oh! Mrs. Van Wyck came in."

Florence flushed a little at this.

"Yes, wait till I show you." With that, Joe sprang up, and wrapped
Granny's old shawl about him, and began in his most comical fashion. In
a moment or two the children were in roars of laughter.

"I don't know as it is quite right, Joe dear," interposed Granny
mildly, "to make fun of any one."

"My conscience don't trouble me a bit;" for now he was in a high glee.
"I owe her a grudge for making me pay twenty-four cents for eggs. And,
Granny, when you come to the store, don't beat me down a penny on any
thing; nor ask me to throw in a spool of cotton nor a piece of tape,
nor squeeze down the measure. I wonder how people can be so mean!"

"Rich people too," added Florence in an injured tone of voice, still
thinking of Mrs. Van Wyck's overture.

"There's lots of funny folks in the world," said Joe with a grave air.
"But I like Mr. Terry, and I mean to do my very best."

"That's right;" and Granny smiled tenderly over the boy's resolve.

"And I'll put on my old clothes to-morrow. Who knows but I may fall
into the mackerel-barrel before to-morrow night?"

Kit laughed at this. "They'll have to fish you out with a harpoon,
then."

"Oh! I might swim ashore."

The next day Joe improved rapidly. To be sure, he met with a mishap or
two; but Mr. Terry excused him, and only charged him to be more careful
in future. And Father Terry administered his unfailing consolation on
every occasion.

But on Saturday night Joe came home in triumph.

"There's the beginning of my fortune," he said, displaying his dollar
and a half all in hard cash. For that was a long while ago, when the
eagle, emblem of freedom, used to perch on silver half-dollars.




CHAPTER VI.

  FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES.


"I think I'll go into business," said Hal one evening, as he and Granny
and Florence sat together.

They missed Joe so much! He seldom came home until eight o'clock; and
there was no one to stir up the children, and keep the house in a
racket.

"What?" asked Granny.

"I am trying to decide. I wonder how chickens would do?"

"It takes a good deal to feed 'em," said Granny.

"But they could run about, you know. And buckwheat is such a splendid
thing for them. Then we can raise ever so much corn."

"But where would you get your buckwheat?" asked Florence.

"I was thinking. Mr. Peters never does any thing with his lot down
here, and the old apple-trees in it are not worth much. If he'd let me
have it ploughed up! And then we'd plant all of our ground in corn,
except the little garden that we want."

"What a master hand you are to plan, Hal!"

Granny's face was one immense beam of admiration.

"I want to do something. It's too hard, Granny, that you should have to
go out washing, and all that."

Hal's soft brown eyes were full of tender pity.

"Oh! I don't mind. I'm good for a many day's work yet, Hal."

"I hope some of us will get rich at last."

Florence sighed softly.

"I thought you were going to have a green-house," she said.

"I'm afraid I can't manage the green-house now, though I mean to try
some day. And I noticed old Speckly clucking this morning."

"But we haven't any eggs," said Granny.

"I could get some."

"How many chickens would you raise?" asked Florence.

"Well, if we should set the five hens,--out of say sixty-four eggs we
ought to raise fifty chickens; oughtn't we, Granny?"

"With good luck; but so many things happen to 'em."

"And if I could clear thirty dollars. Then there's quite a good deal of
work to do in the summer."

"I shall soon be a fine lady, and ride in my carriage," Granny
commented with a cheerful chirrup of a laugh.

"Mrs. Kinsey's chickens are splendid," said Florence.

"Yes. Shall I get some eggs, and set Speckly?"

"It's rather airly to begin."

"But I'll make a nice coop. And eggs are not twenty-four cents a dozen."

Hal finished off with a quiet smile at the thought of Mrs. Van Wyck.

So he went to Mrs. Kinsey's the next morning, and asked her for a dozen
of eggs, promising to come over the first Saturday there was any thing
to do, and work it out.

"I'll give you the eggs," she said; "but we will be glad to have you
some Saturday, all the same."

So old Speckly was allowed to indulge her motherly inclinations to
her great satisfaction. Hal watched her with the utmost solicitude.
In the course of time a tiny bill pecked against white prison walls;
and one morning Hal found the cunningest ball of soft, yellow down,
trying to balance itself on two slender legs, but finding that the
point of gravity as often centred in its head. But the little fellow
winked oddly, as much as to say, "I know what I'm about. I'll soon find
whether it is the fashion to stand on your head or your feet in this
queer world."

One by one the rest came out. Hal had a nice coop prepared, and set
Mrs. Speckly up at housekeeping. Dot caught one little "birdie," as she
called it, and, in running to show Granny, fell down. And although Dot
wasn't very heavy, it was an avalanche on poor "birdie." He gave two
or three slow kicks with his yellow legs, and then was stiff for all
time.

"Hal's boofer birdie," said Dot. "See, Danny!"

"O Dot! what have you done?"

"Him 'oont 'alk;" and Dot stood him down on the doorstep, only to see
him tumble over.

"Oh, you've killed Hal's birdie! What will he say?"

"I 'ell down. Why 'oont him run, Danny?"

What could Granny do? Scolding Dot was out of the question. And just
then Hal came flying up the road.

Granny had seen the fall, and explained the matter.

"But she mustn't catch them! You're a naughty little Dot!"

Dot began to cry.

"Poor little girl!" said Hal, taking her in his arms. "It is wrong to
catch them. See, now, the little fellow is dead, and can never run
about any more. Isn't Dot sorry? She won't ever touch Hal's birdies
again, will she?"

So Dot promised, and Hal kissed her. But she carried the dead birdie
about, petting it with softest touches, and insisting upon taking it to
bed with her.

One more of the brood met with a mishap, but the other ten throve and
grew rapidly. By the time the next hen wanted to set, Hal had a dozen
eggs saved.

He asked Farmer Peters about the lot. It was just below their house,
between that and the creek, a strip of an acre and a half perhaps.
The old trees were not worth much, to be sure; and Mr. Peters never
troubled himself to cultivate the plot, as it was accounted very poor.

"Yes, you may have it in welcome; but you won't git enough off of it to
pay for the ploughin'?"

"I'm going to raise chickens; and I thought it would be nice to sow
buckwheat, and let them run in it."

"Turnin' farmer, hey? 'Pears to me you're makin' an airly beginnin'."

Hal smiled pleasantly.

"You'll find chickens an awful sight o' bother."

"I thought I'd try them."

"Goin' to garden any?"

"A little."

"Hens and gardens are about like fox an' geese. One's death on the
other. But you kin have the lot."

So Hal asked Abel Kinsey to come over and plough. In return he helped
plant potatoes and drop corn for two Saturdays. By this time there was
a third hen setting.

House-cleaning had come on, and Granny was pretty busy. But she and
Hal were up early in the morning garden-making. The plot belonging to
the cottage was about two acres. Hal removed his chicken-coops to the
lot, and covered his young vegetables with brush to protect them from
incursions,--pease, beans, lettuce, beets, and sweet-corn; and the
rest was given over to the chickens.

"I am going to keep an account of all that is spent for them," he said;
"and we will see if we can make it pay."

When Joe had saved three dollars, he teased Granny to let him order his
clothes.

"I don't like running in debt, Joe," she said with a grave shake of the
head.

"But this is very sure. Mr. Terry likes me, and I shall go on staying.
There will be four dollars and a half to pay down by the time they are
done, and in five weeks I can earn the rest."

"How nice it seems!" said Hal. "You and Flo earn a deal of money."

Flo gave a small sniff. She wanted some new clothes also. And Kit and
Charlie were going to shreds and patches. Charlie, indeed, was shooting
up like Jack's bean-stalk, Joe declared, being nearly as tall as Hal.
She was wild as a colt, climbed trees, jumped fences, and wouldn't be
dared by any of the boys.

"I'm sure I don't know what you'll come to," Granny would say with a
sigh.

Joe carried his point, and ordered his clothes; for he insisted that
he could not think of going to Sunday school until he had them. It was
quite an era in his life to have real store clothes. He felt very grand
one day when he went to Mr. Briggs the tailor, and selected the cloth.
There were several different patterns and colors; but he had made up
his mind that it should be gray, just like Archie Palmer's.

He was so dreadfully afraid of being disappointed, that he dropped in
on Friday to see if they were progressing. There was the jacket in the
highest state of perfection.

"But the pants?" he questioned.

"Never you mind. Them pants'll be done as sure as my name's Peter
Briggs."

"All right," said Joe; and he ran on his way whistling.

"Kit," he announced that evening, "I've just found out a good business
for you."

"What?" and Kit roused himself.

"You shall be a tailor. I was thinking to-day how you would look on the
board, with your scalp-lock nodding to every stitch."

"I won't," said Kit stoutly; and he gave a kick towards Joe's leg.

"It's a good business. You will always have plenty of cabbage."

"You better stop!" declared Kit.

"It will be handy to have him in the house, Granny. He can do the
ironing by odd spells. And on the subject of mending old clothes he
will be lovely."

With that Kit made another dive.

Granny gave a sudden spring, and rescued the earthen jar that held the
cakes she had just mixed and set upon the stove-hearth.

"O Kit! Those precious pancakes! We are not anxious to have them
flavored with extract of old shoes."

"Nor to go wandering over the floor."

Kit looked sober and but half-awake.

"Never mind," said Granny cheerily. "You mustn't tease him so much,
Joe."

"Why, I was only setting before him the peculiar advantages of this
romantic and delightful employment;" and with that, Joe executed a
superior double-shuffle quickstep, accompanied by slapping a tune on
his knee.

"You'd do for a minstrel," said Kit.

Joe cleared his voice with a flourish, and sang out,--

    "I'd be a tailor,
      Jolly and free,
    With plenty of cabbage,
      And a goose on my knee.
    Monday would be blue,
      Tuesday would be shady,
    Wednesday I'd set out
      To find a pretty lady."

"Much work you would do in that case," commented Florence.

"It's time to go to bed, children," said Granny.

"Yes," Joe went on gravely. "For a rising young man, who must take
time by the fore-lock, or scalp-lock, and who longs to distinguish
himself by some great and wonderful discovery, there's nothing like,--

    'Early to bed, and early to rise,
    To make a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.'"

With that Joe was up stairs with a bound.

"Joe!" Charlie called in great earnest.

"Well?"

"You better take a mouthful of Granny's rising before you go."

"Good for you, Charlie; but smart children always die young. Granny,
won't you put a stone on Charlie's head for fear?"

Hal said his good-night in a tenderer manner.

They were all wonderfully interested in Joe's clothes; and, though it
was always later on Saturday night when he reached home, they begged to
sit up, but Kit took a nap by the chimney-corner with Tabby. Granny sat
nodding when they heard the gay whistle without.

"Hurrah! The country's safe!" exclaimed Joe. "Get out your spectacles,
all hands."

"You act as if you never had any thing before, Joe," said Florence,
with an air of extreme dignity.

"But these are real 'boughten' clothes," said Joe, "and gilt buttons
down the jacket. I shall feel like a soldier-boy. Just look now."

The bundle came open with a flourish of the jack-knife. All the heads
crowded round, though the one candle gave a rather dim light.

Such exclamations as sounded through the little room, from every voice,
and in almost every key.

"But where are the trousers?" asked Hal.

"The trousers?--why"--

Granny held up the beautiful jacket. There was nothing else in the
paper.

"Why--he's made a mistake. He never put them in, I am sure."

"You couldn't have lost 'em?" asked Granny mildly.

"Lost them--and the bundle tied with this strong twine! Now, that's
mean! I'll have to run right back."

Off went Joe like a flash. He hardly drew a breath until his hand was
on Mr. Brigg's door-knob.

"Well, what now, Joe?" asked the astonished Mr. Briggs.

"You didn't put in the trousers!"

"Didn't? Dan done 'em up. Dan!"

Dan emerged from a pile of rags under the counter, where he was taking
a snooze.

"You didn't put in Joe's trousers."

"Yes I did."
