"Say a little prayer for me, if you don't think 
I am too wicked ; ' he murmured faintly, turn- 
ing his face away. 
How peculiar he was ! When I thought him 
softening, he was always sure to draw back into 
his shell again, and his confidences invariably 
came unexpectedly. Then too, they puzzled me, 
I was not fit to cope with them. They seemed 
to jar and jangle with the every day smoothness 
of my own life. 
Mr. Ogden was at church alone that evening, 
and though the Maynard girls were there, walked 
home in our circle. I was going to stay with 
Fannie, but Dick Fairlie was on the other side 
of her, and George and Allie West swallowed 
me up in the narrow path. 
" I am coming in to-morrow morning to tell 
you of the picnic plans," said Allie as we were 
about to separate. 
"Can't I come in the evening and hear?' 
asked Mr. Ogden. " Or am I the man on the 
other side?' 
" No indeed," spoke up Allie,' ! we shall be 
glad to have you. I will leave a special 
message. 
They were a little acquainted with him, hav- 
ing met him at the Maynards the summer before. 
The young ladies of that family had declined 
participating in the affair. 
We heard all the plans on Monday morn. 
They were to go out to Longmeadow in wagons 
and carriages, taking refreshments and conven- 
iences. There was just a nice party. "The kind 
of people who harmonize," said Miss West. "I 
never can endure Tom, Dick and Harry every- 
body and his wife." 
" Of course you wouldn't want everybody in 
a small party," I returned. 
"I wish you were going, Rose." 
"The Sunday School picnic comes the week 
after. I could not go to both." 
" This will be ever so much nicer.' 
" O, I am not sure. There will be more en- 
joyment at that, because there will be so many 
more to enjoy everything." 
"Your way of thinking! Well, if I was" a 
clergyman's daughter I should have to go I sup- 
pose. I am glad that I can choose my pleas- 
 
ures. Fanny Enclicott, if Mr. Ogden calls this 
evening give him my compliments and a special 
invitation." 
Fan colored and made some laughing retort. 
He did come over with a message from his 
aunts, asking us to tea on Thursday evening if 
it was convenient. Then he wanted to know 
about the picnic, and said that he might be ex- 
pected, sure. 
Dick and Kate came over for Fanny. Mrs. 
Faiiiie was in the wagon and leaned out to make 
some inquiries about Mr. Duncan. Stuart had 
taken a knapsack and started on foot. 
I went a few steps further on to fasten up a 
spray of clematis. Dick followed. 
"I don't see why you couldn't have gone 
too ; ' he said rather crossly. 
''Should I have added so very much?' 
"I suppose that grand chap of the Churchills' 
will be there ? ' he went on without noticing 
my remark. 
"Yes. He was invited by Allie West, you 
know. ' 
He snapped off a piece of honey-suckle. What 
was the matter with him this morning ? 
Fan came down in her new pique dress, hel 
broad sun hat trimmed with light blue, and her 
white parasol lined with the same tint. She 
was pretty and stylish enough for any lady's 
daughter. Kate was in a silvery, much be-ruf- 
fled poplin, and a jaunty round hat that scarcely 
shaded her eyes. 
Louis was considerably improved that day. 
He walked into the next room, arranged some 
flowers that I brought him, and was quite cheer- 
ful. He wanted very much to go down stairs, 
but mamma thought he had better not, so he 
acquiesced pleasantly. 
"If you are no worse to-morrow you may try 
it," she promised. 
Fan had a royal time, though she declared 
she was half tired to death. 
Up in our room she told me all the particu- 
lars. 
"Everything was just lovely! Servants to do 
the work, make fires and coffee, and spread tables, 
while we sat, or walked in the shade, or ram- 
Lied through the woods. We had the violins 
and quadrilles and gallops and laughing, and 
may be a little flirting. It was absolutely funny 
to see young Ogden." 
"Oh, Fan, I hope you didn't" 
My dear little grandmother, I am afraid I 
did, just the least Lit. You see Kate and Allie 
West tried so hard for Mr. Ogden, and he kept 
by my side so easily. I had only to look. And 
Dick Fairlie was like a bear. Something has 
vexed him." 
"I thought he was cross this morning. But, 
oh, Fan, I wouldn't have you do any thing to 
to displease the Churchills." 
"And I wouldn't, honestly Hose. This is 
nothing beyond summer pastime. Why can't we 
all be bright and nice and social? It is a hum- 
bug to think of everybody's falling in love. I 
don't believe young people would think of it, 
only some one is afraid and speaks before the 
time, making a tangle of it all. I do not expect 
any one to fall in love with nie at present." 
CHAPTER IX. 
EXCTEMENTS and engagements 
multiplied with us. One and another had 
The visitors from the city and we were sent 
for to tea or to spend the evening. Stuart was 
asked every where as well. Louis came down 
the next day and sat in the hall with us, where 
we were sewing as usual. Then on Thursday 
we went to the Churchills. They sent the car- 
riage over early, before we were ready, indeed. 
Louis eyed the soft cushions wistfully. 
"Oh," I spoke out before I thought, but I 
was glad an instant after, "if you would spare 
a few moments,- -if you would take an invalid 
a short drive v 
"With pleasure Miss. The sick young man, 
I suppose ? ' 
" Yes," and I ran to beg papa to help him 
out. Louis was delighted, I coidd see. 
They drove down the quiet street, where the 
trees met overhead. Quaint and old fashioned, 
with great gardens, many of the houses being 
owned by widows, or elderly people whose chil- 
dren were married and gone. Less than a 
quarter of a mile away the road curved, and in 
this little three-cornered space stood our pretty 
gray stone church, the shady side covered with ivy, 
It was delightful ; ' said Louis on his return. 
" But I never thought of the great liberty we 
were taking." 
"Do not fret about that," I made answer gaily. 
"Be just as good as you can, while I am gone." 
I was glad they had asked no one else at the 
Churchills. The Maynards had been over the 
day before. Miss Churchill received us very 
cordially. I explained what I had done, and 
made a small apology. 
" My dear child, I am pleased that you thought 
of it," returned Miss Churchill. "Why, we 
might send over almost every day. I am glad 
he is improving so nicely." 
" It would be a charitable work for me, Aunt 
Esther. Such a little satisfies Aunt Lu that I 
do not keep half busy," said Mr. Ogden. 
"I never knew you to have such an industri- 
ous fit;" replied his aunt. 
" But I have been in business for a year you 
see, and have ceased to be an idler ;" and he made 
a comical face. 
Miss Lucy came down soon after. Then we 
had a nice cordial time talking about books and 
looking over pictures. 
Sometimes two or three voices sounded at once, 
not from any ill breeding, but because we all 
had so much to say. Then we would laugh and 
subside, and begin again. I almost wondered 
how we dared feel so much at home, and utter 
our every day thoughts unreservedly. 
Mr. Churchill joined us, and the conversation, 
asking about church matters, and if we were 
going to take the Sunday School to the cascade 
again? Were there many sick in the parish? 
" Not very many for this season of the year," 
I made answer. 
" Our town is about as healthy as any location 
I know. Why people must be running off to 
watering places and leaving comfortable houses, 
I can not understand." 
" The grand thing is change. Most of us do 
get tired of running along in one groove." 
"Why Esther! I thought you considered the 
doctrine of change a great heresy!" and Mr. 
Churchill looked surprised. 
I have been thinking lately that we might 
make our lives too narrow, too self -satisfying. 
So if we get outside we may have our ideas 
broadened, and find something new to do, or if 
we are dissatisfied with our surroundings, we 
may come back quite content." 
"Do you want to go any where?' 
"Not just now." 
Fan and Lucy had been talking over the pic- 
nic. 
"Can't we drive there in the afternoon?" she 
asked of her. brother, "I should like to see a 
crowd of happy children." 
"Are you going, Winthrop?" 
" I expect to be field marshal. Miss Endicott 
has engaged my services at an enormous salary. 
You will be able to tell me by a blue ribbon 
around my left arm, and a primrose in the lappel 
of my coat. I am to see that the rear guard is 
prompt at dinner." 
He looked at me very soberly, and the others 
glanced in the same direction. I could not help 
blushing to the roots of my hair, and exclaim- 
ing : 
Why Mr. Ogden ! " 
Aunt Lucy will tell you that I have a great 
deal of executive ability." 
They all laughed. 
The tea-table \vas exquisite as usual. After- 
ward we had music, Fan and I singing duets, 
or Mr. Ogden joining us with a very promising 
tenor voice. 
"Can we not all sing?' asked Fanny pres- 
ently. " Let me play some familiar hymns." 
Mr. Churchill came and stood behind her 
watching the graceful fingers that dropped such 
soft, sweet notes. As if he could not resist he 
added his base voice, and then we had quite a 
choir. 
" Young ladies, you have given me an exceed- 
ingly pleasant evening;' he said as we were 
preparing to leave. " I hope it may soon be 
repeated." 
TVinthrop and Fanny laughed at each other 
all the wav home. They were not a bit sentimental, 
and I felt quite relieved. Since the 
Churchills were so cordial about it, why should 
I worry ? 
He came over the next morning with the 
barouche and two horses to take out Mr. Duncan. 
"You didn't ask such a favor for me?' and 
Louis' eyes almost flashed. 
"I did not ask anything, or even hint. 
can you not go and enjoy it ? 
"I don't choose to be patronized." 
"I think this was Mr. Ogden's own planning. 
You will like him I am sure. Oh please go," 
I entreated. 
In the meanwhile Winthrop had been admiring 
the baby and bantering some one else to fill 
up the carriage. Oddly enough mamma con- 
sented to take Edith. When Louis heard that 
he made no further objection. 
The result of this was that Winthrop came 
back and staid to dinner. We were all going 
to the Fairlie's to tea and croquet. And Fan 
absolutely sent him home or I believe he would 
have staid until we started. 
Mamma liked him. Stuart pronounced him 
jolly, but Louis withheld his verdiat. I must 
confess that I admired him ever so much. You 
could get on with him so nicely. 
I was very glad that Fan did not monopolize 
him during the evening. Dick appeared quite 
elated with her notice of him. It was moonlight 
and we walked home together, but somehow 
then Dick fell to my share. 
The next week we hardly had a moment to 
breathe. What with our engagements and get- 
ing everything in train for the picnic we were 
 
as busy as bees. The aristocratic part seldom 
joined us, but papa always obeyed the scriptural 
injunction. The lame, and the halt, and the 
blind were hunted up, the whimsical old people 
who would not go without a special invitation, 
the poor who were sure they had nothing to 
wear, and the children who were always ready, 
but needed getting in order. 
Mamma remained behind with baby and Louis. 
I was to act for her as well as I could. The 
stronger portion of the community w r ere to meet 
on the church green and march in regular order. 
Fan had beguiled Dick Fairlie into taking Jen- 
nie Ryder and her mother, who was quite dis- 
abled from a stroke of paralysis two years before. 
All the others were to 0*0 in wagons or stages 
or wheel-barrows, she said. 
Winthrop came over and helped us manage 
the children. At nine we took up our line of 
march under the shady trees. There was a 
shorter way in the sun, but we had time enough. 
This road wound round the hilly district, crossed 
the river once, and then seemed to lose itself, in 
the woods. At least there was the hill and the 
trees on one side. Here a craggy declivity stood 
out bold and brown amid the waving green, 
ferns and wild flowers grew in the clefts, or 
shrubs with precarious footing. A spur of the 
creek ran along the height, and presently be- 
gan to find its way down through a sort of 
sloping river, purling over rocks and stones and 
fallen trees, and in two places pouring down a 
precipitous pathway, making very pretty falls, 
the larger one at least ten feet high. Then it 
ran off and joined the river. 
There was one lovely nook, though art had 
assisted nature here. A clearing had been made 
years ago, and now the turf of clover and grass 
was like velvet. 
It was a small basin between the mountains. 
Down one side of it came the cascade, wandering 
off through the woods in curves that made a 
picturesque way. The place was used consider- 
ably for pleasure parties, and kept in tolerable 
order. The committee had been down the day 
before, put up swings, made some long tables and 
seats, and given the place quite a homelike air. 
The walk was beautiful with varied scenery, 
fresh, crisp air, and clearest of skies. Mr. Ogden 
made acquaintance with Mr. Trafton, our super- 
intendent, in about five minutes, and they mar- 
shalled the children in a jolly fashion. All heavy 
 
baskets and bundles were put in a great farm 
wagon, and we had nothing to do but march 
along triumphantly to the carol of the birds. 
The youngsters were wild, of course. They 
shouted at a little gray squirrel which ran along 
the path, they gave sundry shrill whistles that 
exceeded the birds, they laughed and chattered, 
stepped out of line to gather wild flowers or pick 
up some uncommon pebble, beginning their day's 
pleasure at the very outset. But papa did not 
care. Indeed he was as merry as any of them. 
I thought several times how Stephen Duncan 
would have liked it. I wondered what should 
have brought him so plainly before my mind on 
this particular day ! 
Through winding ways we trooped. Over 
beyond there were broad meadows and waving 
corn-fields, scattered farm buildings and cottages, 
with a bit of road, gleaming dusty white in the 
sunshine, the river broadening into lakes or 
bending abruptly ; and nearer, the changing 
glooms and shadows, the points of the hills in 
blue and purple and bronze. All the air was so 
clear and sweet, it sent the rushes of warm blood 
to heart and brain, and then to very finger 
ends. 
 
The infantry, as Winthrop called it, reached 
the ground a long while first. We had to dis< 
band and the children ran around as if they had 
Ziever seen a bit of country before. Shawls and 
baskets were stowed in out-of-the-way corners 
or suspended from trees. Some of the hardier 
boys pulled off shoes and stockings, preparatory 
to having a good time. As for us elders, we 
began to straighten out our affairs and set up 
for house-keeping. There were so many lovely 
people. Miss Oldways, who taught the bible- 
class of larger girls, in her soft, pearl gray dress, 
and ribbon of the same shade on her bonnet, 
with a bit of pale blue inside. She was always 
so sweet and lady-like. She and her widowed 
sister, Mrs. Bromley, kept a little thread and 
needle store in the village, and, though they 
were business women, I did not see that it de- 
tracted in the least from their refinement. 
Annie and Chris Fellows were with us, and 
Mrs. Elsden, though she had four children in 
ihe Sunday School, but I think she would have 
enjoyed herself any way. Mrs. Fairlie and Kate 
had gone to the sea-shore the day before, with 
the Wests and some others. Then there were 
Mothers and Aunts of the children, and several 
of the farmer families near by. 
We had stowed our luggage in a cool, shady 
place and sent the wagon home when the cara^ 
van arrived. Old ladies who could not have 
walked, but were in holiday white apron and 
kerchief, or Lest gingham dress, and some with 
their knitting. We placed shawls on the mossy 
rocks or benches, and seated them. 
"Here is your precious cargo," said Dick to 
Fannie. "Come and welcome them." 
" Oh, Mrs. Ryder, I am so glad you could 
come.' 
" I couldn't if it had not been for you, dear. 
You are always thinking of something pleasant. 
I was so surprised when Dick told me 
He was Dick to almost everybody, for his 
father was a plain, sociable farmer, and the son 
had grown up with the village boys. It was a 
great mortification to Mrs. Fairlie that he did 
not want to go to college and liked farming. 
But then Kate kindly took " cultivation" enough 
for two. 
"What will you do with her ?" asked Dick, 
lifting her out in his strong arms. 
"Right here. O Jennie!' and she went on 
making a soft corner. 
Dick put Mrs. Ryder in it. The neighbors 
 
crowded round, glad to see her out. A pale, 
fe^eet, motherly looking woman, who had been 
very handsome in her day, and now her cordial 
thankfulness was good to behold. 
"You are just splendid;" Fan whispered to 
Dick. 
We all liked Jennie Ryder ever so much, and 
felt a peculiar interest in her, beside. Two 
years ago,- -or it would be in September, after 
Jennie had graduated with honors she obtained 
a situation in an excellent school some twenty 
miles away, where she could only come home 
every Friday, but then the salary was too good to 
be declined. Just after she had taught two 
months, the stroke had fallen upon her mother. 
A cousin who had always lived with them was 
taken ill with a fever and died. For weeks Mrs. 
Ryder lay between life and death. Jennie was 
compelled to relinquish her school. It was a 
sore disappointment, for she loved teaching. But 
by spring Mrs. Ryder had partially recovered her 
nealth, yet her limbs were well nigh useless. 
She would hobble around a little with crutches, 
but Jennie knew that it would never do to leave 
her alone. 
They owned a small cottage and garden, but 
 
the sickness had made sad inroads in the little 
fortune. Jennie felt compelled to earn some- 
thing at home, so she bought a sewing machine 
and did fine work. I suppose every town or 
llae thinks it must draw a line somewhere. 
There were the exclusive West Side people, 
who only expected to exchange calls with each 
other, there were the rich people who had been 
poor thirty or forty years ago, and then there 
was the circle who wanted to get on and up, 
by pushing others down and clinging to the 
skirts of those just above them. Somehow Jen- 
nie Ryder was pushed down. The richer girls 
who were at the Academy with her dropped 
her by degrees when she sewed for their moth- 
ers. One and another left off inviting her out 
to little sociables, or croquet. I think she felt 
it keenly, but she made no complaint. 
She had so many pretty refined ways and 
accomplishments. If she had been in a city she 
could have made them useful, but here all the 
places were filled. She. painted in water colors, 
drew in crayons, that were almost equal to chro- 
mos, made moss baskets and ferneries and picture 
scrap-books, and had their house looking like a 
little fairy nest. And she was so sunny and 
 
cheery, and really charming when her true self 
had a chance to peep out from the fence that 
circumstances and ignorant people built about 
her. 
" Oh," she said glancing around; " it is like 
a bit of heaven framed in, isn't it? just look at 
the sky over head and the tree tops and moun- 
tain tops holding it up, as it were. And a whole 
long, lovely day! I did not expect on Sunday 
that I could come." 
" It's the daily bread for this day ;" said papa 
softly, as he was shaking hands with her mother. 
" And cake and cream and fruit off of the 
twelve trees. And the seventy palms with their 
shade and beauty." 
"You have brought some sunshine,- -you sel- 
dom go empty-handed, Jennie," said papa. 
Dick turned and looked at her just then. She 
had such a clear, sweet, tender expression, the 
nameless something better than beauty. A slen- 
der, graceful "figure, white and peachy-pink tints 
with brown hair and eyes. Her dress was white 
and a marvel of workmanship, with its bias 
tucking and straight tucking and bands of em- 
broidery that she had done herself. Fan once 
quoted her, but mamma reminded her that there 
were seven of us, and that tucks must be divi- 
ded by that number. 
" And I am going to have a splendid time. 
Mother, here is your book. Are you quite com- 
fortable? If you don't mind, I will take a 
ramble with the girls. You and Mrs. Conklin 
can have a nice talk." 
"No dear, go on." 
Mrs Conklin had taken out her knitting. 
She was from one of the farms over the river, 
a healthy, happy, rosy-cheeked grandmother, her 
fingers flying fondly in and out of the tiny red 
clouded stocking. 
"Where will you go first?' asked Dick of 
the group of girls. 
"To the Cascade," replied Mr. Ogden. 
"You are not girls," said Fan saucily. 
"But you know vou wouldn't that one of us 
were left behind ; ' he quoted sentimentally. 
" Don't flatter yourself too much. Modesty is 
becoming to young people." 
" Do you expect to find the old ones sitting 
on the steps of time, with faces grimly un- 
covered ? ' 
They all laughed. Fan took Jennie Ryder's 
arm, and Dick filled up the path beside them, 
 
so Winthrop fell back with me. Stuart was right 
behind with the prettiest girl he could find, as 
usual. On we started, but ere we had reached 
the first ascent we saw numerous followers in 
our wake. 
"It is like a picture," exclaimed Winthrop. 
" Or better still, a series of pictures. Oh, look 
at this moss ! and these tiny ferns ! ' 
They all stopped. How beautiful it was in 
this wide, glowing, redundant life, the trailing 
riotous vines, the long streamers of last year's 
Aaron's beard, the rustling of the leaves and 
the rippling, tinkling sound of the water. 
"How curious;' said Jennie. "That is a 
walking fern." 
" Ah, you know it?' and Winthrop glanced up 
in a pleased fashion. 
"I have a fern bed at home. I like them so 
much. And these grow in such a peculiar man- 
ner.' 
"And she has the cunningest winter fern- 
eries that you ever saw, Mr. Ogden," declared 
Fan. 
" I like them too. They always give me a 
peculiar sensation of the quiet and shade in 
which they grew. They are like the Quakers,
never surprising you by any gaudy freaks of blos- 
soming. Oh, were any of you here a month ago? ' 
"I came for rhododendrons one day;' Jennie; 
answered. 
" That was what entered my mind. What 
crowds and crowds of trees ! I am generally here 
in August, so I miss that. How perfectly glori- 
ous they must be. What colors? 
Pure white and pale, blossomy pink.' 
Those are my favorites. I sometimes think 
I was meant for a country life. I like the grow- 
ing and blossoming, the ripening and the fruit. 
Autumn rounds everything so perfectly." 
"Yes,' said Dick, "there is always a great 
richness in Autumn. The smells of the drying 
fields, of the stacked corn, the apples and pears 
and grapes. And the leaves all aglow, the chest- 
nuts full of yellow burrs. You ought to come 
then, Mr. Ogden!" 
"I believe I will. Can we all go nutting? 
That is after the frosts, though." 
"Yes, late in October." 
"Oh, look!" 
We had been going on for a few moments, 
now we paused again. It was so all the way 
up. Something to see and to feel, to pause and 
 
drink in with all one's soul. Here a rock sculp- 
tured and set as if by an artist hand. Richest 
moss, great, feathery fronds, pellucid waters, 
breaks of sunshine, and haunts of deep gloom. 
Now we were serious, then we laughed gaily at 
some quick jest. It takes so little to amuse 
when one is young and happy. 
We passed the stream at length and went on 
to the mountain-top. What a fair outlying 
prospect ! There was the village below, the 
church spires, some tall factory chimneys, and 
beyond it all mountains again. I thought of 
the hills standing about Jerusalem, and the Lord 
everywhere, standing about his people. 
" O," exclaimed Fan at length, "we must go 
back, who will get our dinner ? ' 
" Who will eat it ? is a subject for our more 
serious consideration ; ' said Winthrop. 
"And if 
' When we get there 
The cupboard is bare ? ' 
"That would be a dire misfortune. By the 
time we reach the bottom again, we shall be as 
hungry as bears." 
"You might comfort yourself like the old man 
of Kilkenny." 
 
"How was that?' inquired Winthrop. 
Stuart's eyes twinkled with their fun-loving 
light as he began : 
" There was an old man of Kilkenny. 
Who never had more than a penny. 
He spent all that money in onions and honey, 
This wayward old man of Kilkenny." 
They all laughed heartily. We began our 
descent but were changed about somehow. Every 
body helped the one who came to hand. Now 
it was Dick, then Mr. Ogden or Stuart. We 
slipped and scrambled and uttered small shrieks, 
making the way very lively. 
"See here!' exclaimed Winthrop --" a wild 
rose and buds, I think them so especially beauti- 
ful. Who is queen of the May to be crowned ? 
"You are too late ;' laughed Fan, "May has 
gone." 
" Queen of Midsummer, then. Miss Endicott 
accept this late treasure. Let it blossom and 
wither on your heart- -sweets to the sweet." 
This was to Fan. Her blue eyes laughed 
saucily. 
"The sweet in both cases being about alike," 
she made answer. 
He gave it to her in a mock sentimental 
fashion just as his speech had been. She fast- 
 
ened it in the bosom of her dress, making a 
sweeping courtesy. 
A strange flash glowed over Dick FairnVs 
face. I do not think any one else observed it, 
but it sent my heart up to my throat in a 
moment. I understood with a kind of secret 
sense that it was both love and jealousy. Then 
I glanced at gay laughing Fan. Did she mis- 
trust ? 
I felt strangely, sadly wise, as if in five 
minutes I had grown years older. A thing like 
this coming into our very midst ! Well, among 
so many girls there would probably be one or 
two marriages, and who more likely than win- 
some, beguiling Fanny. 
In the valley they were at work. A fire had 
been kindled and a great tea kettle was swing- 
ing in the blaze. Baskets were being unpacked. 
Table cloths and dishes laid out, and everybody 
talked at once. 
"Rose," said papa, "I have been looking for 
you. Miss Old ways wants you to help with the 
table. Where are Daisy, Lil and Tim ? ' 
"Nelly promised to keep watch and ward to- 
day ; ' and with that I shook out my large 
white kitchen apron which nearly covered the 
skirt of my dress, and went to work in good 
earnest. 
"I suppose we do enjoy things better when 
we have to work for them,' said old Mrs. 
Granby. "We rush round helter skelter, get 
our puddings shaken up and our nice crisp pie- 
crust jammed and broken, and eat biscuits that 
have been spread for three hours, and a bite of 
cold meat, and after we have gone home to 
think it over it seems ever so much better than 
a great dinner." 
" The good-fellowship adds. I never go on a 
picnic bat I think of the Apostles having all 
things in common ; ' returned Miss Oldways. 
"Yes," said papa, "they gave of their time 
and interest, and love, as well. It was not 
merely a little money. They brought in the 
whole family and bestowed with the open-handed 
tenderness that blesses the giver as well." 
I heard snatches of their talk as I ran onward, 
and snatches of other talk. Here were sand- 
witches dripping with jelly, that had somehow 
been upturned in the basket. 
' Jelly is fashionable with meats," suggested 
some one. 
" There ! I haven't put in a single spoon. 
And I took the trouble to tie red threads 
around each handle, then left them on the dress- 
er. That was smart ! ' 
" we will' reverse the order of things and have' 
two creams with one spoon, the second to wait 
until the first is served." 
"Is every plate used? Let's count. All the 
elders must come first thirty, thirty-one, and 
the young girls wait on the table thirty-eight 
it is but fair that their mothers should have the 
best once in a while. Sixty-one ! Now ring the 
bell." 
They filled up the first table, putting a lit- 
tle child in here and there. The tea and coffee 
steamed out their appetizing fragrance, and as 
we had no vases, we placed mounds of fern, 
grasses and wild flowers on the table. Every 
body ate and drank and had a good time. The 
dishes were washed, wiped, and put on again, 
the children summoned, and after a while all 
had been feasted. Then there was a general 
clearing away, except at one end of the long 
table where the fragments were collected for 
those who might get hungry by and by. 
CHAPTER X 
the eating and drinking, the elders 
gathered for a sociable chat. It was as 
i?W good as old-fashioned country visiting. 
Modern calls seem to have carried away the 
charm of social intercourse. After you have 
staid five minutes you begin to think you must 
go. You cannot stop to tell this or that bit of 
pleasantness, or get near to each other. But 
there was no hurry here. Phases of religious 
experiences were compared in a homely way, 
mixed up with the turning of a gown, or buy- 
ing of a new carpet. With others grace and 
gardening went hand in hand. Such magnifi- 
cent clove pinks, great double lucious blossoms! 
blue salvias that were quite a rarity- -ivies, 
geraniums sick neighbors who enjoyed them 
odd enough snatches where one couldn't unc" 
stand, 
 
Well, is it not the true living after all? Is 
religion the sacred Sunday thing that must be 
laid by and not profaned by common every-day 
uses? Did anyone ever hear of it wearing out? 
When these people had exchanged thoughts on 
trials and mercies, faith that could see, and 
weak faith that stumbled, compared and com- 
forted each other, who shall say it was not as 
good as a sermon ? Why should we not help 
to lift each other up in our common needs? 
Great things come to very few, only. 
I lingered for quite a while, resting myself 
and answering questions about mamma, baby 
and Mr. Duncan. It was so dreamily pleasant. 
The sun high over head had found our little 
nook and was making it all alight with quiver- 
ing golden rays. Hill seemed to lapse into hill, 
tree interlaced with tree, nook, corner and ravine 
added their suggestive tender gloom. People 
came and went, groups of children rushed in and 
devoured plates of fragments. They played vari- 
ous games, and at last settled to a tremendous 
circle of Copenhagen. 
" Where is your sister? ' asked Winthrop, " I 
been hunting everywhere for her. Will 
not take a walk with me?" 
We had not gone very far before the bell 
rang. 
"The children are to sing their carols now. 
" I suppose you have heard them fifty times ? v 
" Fifty-one will not surfeit me. Besides, I 
must look after my class." 
" O, bother ! Look after me a little while. I 
am going back to the city on Saturday, and I 
shall not see you for ever so long. I actually 
envy that dolt of a Duncan who is sick at your 
house. I never met two girls that I liked so 
well. I don't see how there is any goodness 
left for the parish." 
He uttered all this in a rather cross, aggrieved 
tone which made it sound so comically I could 
not forbear laughing. 
. " O, you don't know I wonder if I might 
trust you with a secret ? ' 
He flushed to the roots of his hair. An un- 
comfortable chill went over me. 
" There are your Aunts ! ' I said, glad to be 
relieved from the sudden embarrassment. 
The carriage came up through the opening. 
Miss Lucy dressed in white and looking very 
sweet. Papa went to speak to them. 
The children were gathering from " near and 
from far." We teachers "counted noses," begged 
the groups not to disperse, ran hither and thith- 
er, and at last settled to the business before us. 
I was so glad that Miss Churchill and Miss 
Lucy had reached us in time for the singing. 
What if dresses were a little limp and stained 
and soiled, hats awry and curls blown in tangles, 
there were hosts of happy faces and lightsome, 
ringing voices. 
Papa generally wrote a childish hymn for 
special occasions and mamma arranged the mu- 
sic. They sang that, then several Easter 
Carols. 
Miss Lucy beckoned me toward her. 
"How delightful it is ! " she exclaimed. "And 
you've had a good time all day long. I wish 
I was a little girl! Oh, they are not going to 
stop? Please ask them to sing again. Would 
Christmas carols be out of place?' 
I mentioned it to papa who smiled in his sweet 
fashion and acquiesced. We had the "Kings of 
Orient," "Wonderful Night," and "Ring out 
merry bells for Christmas." How sweet those 
young voices sounded on the summer air ! I 
was really proud of the children. 
"Now," began papa after the last echoes had 
dropped from the tree-tops, " we must form a 
line for our homeward march. We have had a 
pleasant day and enjoyed ourselves to the utter- 
most. Let us thank God for this great blessing." 
They stood reverently until he dismissed them 
