
1 onion, sliced.

Parsley, pepper, salt and browned flour.

1 glass of wine.

1 table-spoonful currant jelly.

Let the rabbit lie, after it is jointed, for half an hour in cold
salt-and-water. Wipe dry, and fry to a fine brown with the onion. Have
ready a tin pail, or the inner vessel of a farina-kettle; put in the
bottom a layer of fat salt pork, cut into thin strips; then, one of
rabbit, seasoning well with pepper, but scantily with salt. Sprinkle
the fried onion over the rabbit, and proceed in this order until your
meat is used up. Cover the vessel, and set in another of warm water.
Bring slowly to a boil, and let it stand where it will cook steadily,
but not fast, for three-quarters of an hour, if the rabbit be large.
Take out the meat, arrange it on a dish, add the jelly, beaten up with
the browned flour, to the gravy, then the wine. Boil up quickly and
pour over the rabbit.

Do not fail to give this a trial.


CURRIED RABBIT.

1 rabbit, jointed.

½ pound fat salt pork.

1 onion, sliced.

½ cup cream.

1 table-spoonful corn-starch.

Pepper, salt and parsley, and 2 eggs well beaten.

1 dessert spoonful good curry-powder.

Soak the jointed rabbit half an hour in cold salt-and-water, then put
into a saucepan with the pork cut into strips, the onion and parsley,
and stew steadily, not fast, in enough cold water to cover all, for
an hour, or until the rabbit is tender. Take out the meat and lay on
a covered chafing-dish to keep warm, while you boil the gravy five
minutes longer. Let it stand a few minutes for the fat to rise, skim it
and strain. Return to the fire; let it almost boil, when put in the
corn-starch. Stir to thickening, put in the curry-powder, the rabbit
and pork, and let all stand covered, in a vessel of boiling water,
fifteen minutes. Take up the meat, pile upon the chafing-dish; add to
the gravy the cream and eggs, and stir one minute before pouring over
the meat. All should stand, covered, in the hot-water chafing-dish
about five minutes before going to table.

No arbitrary rule can be given as to the length of time it is necessary
to cook game before it will be tender, since there are so many degrees
of toughness in the best of that recommended by your reliable provision
merchant as “just right.”

Hence, my oft-reiterated clause, “or, until tender.”

You can curry chicken in the same manner as rabbit.


DEVILLED RABBIT.

1 rabbit, jointed, as for fricassee.

3 table-spoonfuls butter.

A little cayenne, salt and mustard.

1 teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, and 1 table-spoonful vinegar.

Parboil the rabbit, and let it get perfectly cold; then score to the
bone, the gashes about half an inch apart. Melt together in a saucepan
the butter and seasoning. Stir up well, and rub each piece of the
rabbit with the mixture, working it into the gashes. Broil over a clear
fire, turning as soon as they begin to drip. When they are brown lay
on a hot dish, and pour melted butter over them. Let them lie in this,
turning several times, for three or four minutes. Put the rest of the
mixture on them, if any be left, and serve.


DEVILLED FOWL.

Use only the legs and upper part of the wings of roasted or boiled
fowls. Treat precisely as you do the rabbit in the foregoing receipt.


SALMI OF GAME. +

An underdone roast duck, pheasant, or grouse.

1 great spoonful of butter.

2 onions, sliced and fried in butter.

1 large cup strong gravy.

Parsley, marjoram and savory.

Pepper and salt.

A pinch of cloves, and same of nutmeg.

Cut your game into neat joints and slices, taking all the skin off.
Put refuse bits, fat, skin, etc., into a saucepan with the gravy, the
fried onions, herbs, spice, pepper and salt. Boil gently one hour; let
it cool until the fat rises, when skim it off and strain the gravy.
Return it to the saucepan, and, when it heats, stir into it the butter
and thicken with browned flour. Boil up sharply for five minutes and
put in the pieces of duck. After this, the salmi must not boil.
Neglect of this rule ruins most of the so-called salmis one sees upon
private as well as upon hotel tables. Set the saucepan in a vessel of
boiling water, and heat it through, letting it stand thus ten minutes.
Arrange the meat upon a hot dish, and pour the gravy over it. Garnish
with triangles of fried bread, and serve a piece to each guest with the
salmi.


ROAST RABBITS. +

A pair rabbits.

½ pound fat salt pork, cut into thin slices.

2 table-spoonfuls butter, and 1 glass of wine.

Bread-crumbs, chopped pork, parsley, grated lemon-peel, salt and pepper
for the stuffing.

1 egg, beaten light, and 1 onion, sliced.

Skin and clean the rabbits (or hares), and lay in cold salt-and-water
half an hour. Prepare the dressing as above directed, binding with
the egg. Wipe the rabbits dry inside and out, stuff with the prepared
mixture, and sew them up closely. Cover the backs of the rabbits with
the sliced pork, binding it in place with packthread wound around and
around the bodies. Lay them in the baking-pan, backs uppermost; pour
into it about two cupfuls of cold water, cover closely, and steam for
an hour, raising the upper pan now and then to pour a few spoonfuls of
the boiling water about the rabbits over their backs, that the pork may
not crisp; then remove the cover, clip the packthread, and take off
the pork. Brown the rabbits, basting bountifully and frequently with
butter. Chop the pork, and crisp in a frying-pan with the sliced onion.
When the rabbits are done transfer to a hot dish; pour the gravy into
a saucepan with the pork and onion. Boil up once, and strain before
thickening with browned flour. Add the wine, give a final boil, and
pour over and about the rabbits, sending up the surplus in a tureen.

Pigeons and grouse are very fine roasted in this way, also partridges.


BRAISED WILD DUCK OR GROUSE. +

A pair of ducks or grouse.

1 onion, minced fine.

Bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, a pinch of sage, and a little chopped
pork for stuffing.

4 table-spoonfuls of butter, or good dripping.

1 cup gravy.

Browned flour.

Prepare and stuff the fowls as for roasting. Have ready the butter or
dripping hot in a large frying-pan, and fry first one fowl, then the
other in this, turning as it browns below. Then lay them in a large
sauce-pan and pour the gravy, previously heated, in with them. Cover
closely and stew gently for an hour, or until the game is tender.
Transfer the fowls to a hot dish and cover it, to keep in flavor and
warmth while you strain the gravy. Let it cool a little to throw up the
grease. Skim, thicken with browned flour, and boil up well for five
minutes. Skim again, put back the duck into the gravy, and let all
stand heating—not boiling—five minutes more, before dishing. Pour
a few spoonfuls of gravy over the ducks on the dish; the rest into a
tureen.

Send around green peas and currant jelly with them.


ROAST QUAILS. +

6 plump quails.

12 fine oysters.

3 table-spoonfuls butter.

Pepper and salt, and fried bread for serving.

Clean the quails and wash out very carefully with cold water in which
been dissolved a little soda. Cleanse finally with pure water and wipe
dry, inside and out. Place within the body of each bird a couple of
oysters or one very large one, sew it up and range all, side by side,
in a baking-pan. Pour a very little boiling water over them to harden
the outer skin and keep in the juices, and roast, covered, about half
an hour. Then uncover and baste frequently with butter while they are
browning. Serve upon rounds of fried bread, laid on a hot dish. Put a
spoonful of gravy upon each, and send up the rest in a boat, when you
have thickened and strained it.

If you like, you may add a glass of claret and a table-spoonful of
currant jelly to the gravy after the quails are taken up.

Be careful to sew up small game with fine cotton that will not tear the
meat when it is drawn out.


FRICASSEED CHICKEN à l’Italienne (Fine).

Pair of chickens.

½ pound fat salt pork, cut into strips.

2 sprigs of parsley.

1 sprig thyme.

1 bay leaf.

A dozen mushrooms.

1 small onion.

1 clove.

1 table-spoonful of butter.

1 table-spoonful of salad oil.

2 glasses wine—white, or pale sherry.

Cut the chickens into joints; put them with the pork into a saucepan
with a very little water, and stew, covered, until tender. Remove the
chicken to a hot-water chafing-dish and keep warm while you prepare
the gravy. Turn the liquor in which the chickens were cooked into a
frying-pan, thicken with browned flour; put into it the herbs, onion,
clove and the mushrooms chopped very fine. Boil up sharply; add the
butter and stew fast half an hour. Then add the wine and oil. Simmer a
few minutes, and strain through a coarse cullender over the chicken.

I have understated the merits of this admirable fricassee by styling
it “fine.” The dear friend upon whose table I first saw it, will, I am
sure, earn the thanks of many other housewives, with my own, by giving
the receipt.


MINCED CHICKEN AND EGGS. +

Remains of roast or boiled chicken.

Stuffing of the same.

1 onion cut fine.

½ cup of cream.

1 table-spoonful flour or corn-starch.

Parsley, salt, and pepper.

6 or 8 eggs.

½ cup gravy, and handful of bread-crumbs.

Cut the meat of the fowls into small, neat squares. Put the bones, fat,
and skin into a saucepan, with the onion and enough cold water to cover
them, and stew gently for an hour or more. Strain, let it stand for a
little while that the fat may rise, skim, and return to the saucepan.
When hot to boiling, add the cream and thickening, with the seasoning.
When it thickens, put in the chicken, after which it must not boil.
Butter a deep dish; cover the bottom with the stuffing of the fowls,
crumbled or mashed up; wet with gravy; pour in the mince; strew fine,
dry bread-crumbs over this, and break the eggs carefully upon the
surface. More, and if possible, finer crumbs should cover these; put a
bit of butter on each egg, pepper and salt, and bake in a quick oven
until the top begins to bubble and smoke. The whites of the eggs should
be well “set,” the yolks soft.

I can safely recommend this receipt. Few “pick-up” dishes are more
popular with those for whom it is my duty and delight to cater.

A mince of veal can be made in the same way, in which case a little ham
is an improvement, also two or three hard-boiled eggs, cut into dice,
and mixed with the meat.


QUENELLES. +

Some cold, white meat of fowls or veal.

1 cup fine bread-crumbs.

3 table-spoonfuls cream or milk.

2 table-spoonfuls melted butter.

1 egg, well beaten.

1 cup well-flavored gravy.

Pepper and salt.

Chop the meat very fine. Wet the crumbs with milk, and drain as dry as
you can. Work into this paste the meat and egg, seasoning well. Flour
your hands, and make the mixture into round balls, rolling these in
flour when formed. Have ready the gravy hot in a saucepan; drop in the
quenelles, and boil fast five minutes. Take them up and pile upon a hot
dish; thicken the gravy with browned flour; boil up once and pour over
them.

Or,

After making out the quenelles, roll them in beaten egg, then in
cracker-crumbs, and fry in good dripping seasoned with onion. Dry every
drop of grease from them by rolling them upon paper, and serve with the
gravy poured over them.

These quenelles are nice served up with fricasseed sweetbreads, or as a
garnish for them, or game.


RECHAUFFÉE OF VEAL AND HAM.

Cold veal (if underdone all the better) and ham.

2 eggs, beaten light.

Handful of very fine bread-crumbs.

A little tart jelly.

Dripping or butter for frying.

Pepper, salt, and made mustard, or catsup.

Cut the veal and ham into rather thick slices of exactly the same size.
Spread one side of a slice of veal with jelly, one side of the ham
with mustard or thick catsup. Press these firmly together, that they
may adhere closely, dip in the beaten egg, and roll in the bread (or
cracker) crumbs, which should be seasoned with pepper and salt. Fry
very quickly; dry off the grease by laying them on soft paper, and pile
upon a dish.


ROULADES OF BEEF.

Some slices of rare roast beef.

Some slices of boiled ham.

2 eggs, beaten light.

Butter or dripping for frying.

Pepper and mustard.

A little thick gravy.

Cut the beef into even, oblong slices, the ham rather thinner and
smaller. Spread one side of the beef with mustard, and pepper the ham.
Lay the ham upon the beef and roll up together as tightly as possible;
roll in the egg, then the cracker, and pierce with a slender steel, tin
or wooden skewer in such a manner as to keep the roll pinned together.
Put several on each skewer, but do not let them touch one another. Fry
brown; lay on a dish, and gently withdraw the skewers. Pour the gravy
boiling hot over them.

Small roulades are a convenient and toothsome garnish for game and
roast poultry.


ROULADES OF MUTTON.

Can be made in the same way, but leaving out the ham, and spreading the
inside of each slice with currant jelly.


FRIED CHICKEN. +

1 tender young chicken, cut into joints.

2 eggs, beaten light.

½ cup of cracker-crumbs.

Sweet lard, dripping, or the best salad-oil for frying.

Lay the chicken in salt-and-water fifteen minutes; wipe dry, pepper and
salt, dip in the egg, then in the cracker-crumbs, and fry slowly in
hot lard or dripping. Drain dry, pile on a hot dish, and lay sprigs of
parsley over it.


CHICKEN FRIED WHOLE.

1 young, tender chicken, trussed as for roasting, but not stuffed.

Butter or very nice dripping for frying.

Clean the chicken, wash out well, and dry, inside and out. Put it in
your steamer, or cover in a cullender over a pot of boiling water,
keeping it at a fast boil for fifteen or twenty minutes. Have ready the
boiling hot fat in a deep frying-pan, or cruller-kettle. It should half
cover the chicken, when having floured it all over, you put it in. When
one side is a light brown, turn it. When both are cooked, take up, put
into a covered kettle or tin pail, and set in a pot of hot water, which
keep at a slow boil, half an hour. If you like a delicate flavor of
onion, put a few slices in the bottom of the kettle before the chicken
goes in. Anoint the chicken plentifully, after laying it on a hot dish,
with melted butter in which you have stirred pepper and chopped parsley.

This is a new and attractive manner of preparing chickens for the
table. None but tender ones should be fried in any way.


“SMOTHERED” CHICKEN. +

2 tender chickens, roasting size, but not very large.

Pepper, salt and browned flour for gravy.

Clean and wash the chickens, and split down the back as for broiling.
Lay flat in a baking-pan, dash a cupful of boiling water upon them;
set in the oven, and invert another pan over them so as to cover
tightly. Roast at a steady, but moderate heat, about half an hour,
then lift the cover and baste freely with butter and a little of the
water in which the fowls are cooking. In ten minutes more, baste again
with gravy from the baking-pan. In five more, with melted butter and
abundantly, going all over the fowls, which should now begin to brown.
Increase the heat, still keeping the chickens covered. A few minutes
before dishing them, test with a fork to ascertain if they are tender.
When done they should be of a mellow brown hue all over the upper
part—a uniform and pleasing tint. Dish, salt and pepper them; thicken
the gravy left in the pan with browned flour, adding a little water, if
necessary, season with pepper, salt and parsley, and send up in a gravy
boat.

The flavor of “smothered” chicken—so named by the Virginia housewife of
the olden time—is peculiar, and to most palates delightful.


SMOTHERED CHICKEN WITH OYSTERS. +

1 fine, fat chicken.

1 pint of oysters, or enough to fill the chicken.

Dressing of chopped oysters, parsley and crumbs.

1 table-spoonful butter.

3 table-spoonfuls cream.

1 table-spoonful corn-starch.

Yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs.

Pepper and salt to taste, with chopped parsley for sauce.

Clean the chicken, washing it out with two or three waters. Fill the
“craw” with the prepared stuffing, tying up the neck very securely.
Then, pack the main cavity of the body with oysters and sew up the
vent. Have ready a clean tin pail with a closely-fitting top. Put the
fowl, neatly trussed, into it, cover and set in a pot of cold water.
Bring to a boil, and cook slowly for more than an hour after the water
in the outer vessel begins to boil. If the fowl be not young, it may
be needful to keep it in two hours. Do not open the inner vessel in
less than an hour. Having ascertained that the chicken is tender
throughout, take it out and lay on a hot dish, covering immediately.
Turn the gravy into a saucepan, thicken with the corn-starch, add the
cream, parsley, seasoning and the boiled yolks chopped fine. Boil
up once; pour a little over the chicken, and serve the rest in a
sauce-boat.


FONDU OF CHICKEN OR OTHER WHITE MEAT.

Some cold chicken, veal, or turkey minced fine.

1 cupful bread-crumbs—baker’s bread is best.

1 cupful boiling milk.

1 table-spoonful butter.

1 slice cold boiled ham—minced.

½ onion boiled in, and then strained out of the milk.

2 eggs, beaten very light.

A pinch of soda, dissolved in the milk.

Pepper and salt to taste.

Soak the crumbs in the boiling milk, stir in the batter, and beat very
light. Let the mixture cool, while you mince the meat and whip the
eggs. Stir in the meat first when the bread is nearly cold, season,
and lastly put in the beaten eggs. Beat all up well and pour into a
well-greased baking-dish. Set in a brisk oven. When the fondu is a
light, delicately-browned puff, send at once to table in the dish in
which it was baked.


GALANTINE. +

“A sort of glorified head-cheese—isn’t it?” said a blunt collegian at
the height of his vacation-appetite, in passing his plate for a third
reinforcement from the dish in front of his hostess.

The phrase always recurs to me, when I taste or see a galantine, for
this was the foreign name of the spicy relish aptly characterized by
the youth. If spicy and appetizing, it is also a convenient stand-by
for the lunch or supper-table, since it keeps well and pleases most
people, even those who do not affect “head-cheese” proper.

A rind of fat salt pork, about six inches wide and eight long.

A little sausage, some minced ham, and odds and ends of game and
poultry, with giblets of all kinds, chopped up.

Salt, pepper, cloves, allspice, mace and cinnamon; sweet marjoram,
savory, thyme, a little grated lemon-peel; a pinch of cayenne.

1 small onion, minced very fine.

1 cup rich gravy, thick and savory.

A little butter and bits of fat meat cut into dice.

A pint of weak broth, seasoned with pepper, salt and onion.

Cut from a piece of fat salt pork (the loin or sides) the rind in one
piece, leaving on about a half-inch of fat. Soak in water over night
to make it more pliable. Spread, next day, upon a flat dish, and lay
on it layers of sausage (or, if you have it, potted ham or tongue),
game, poultry, giblets—minced meat of almost any kind, although
these named are most savory—well seasoned with the condiments above
enumerated, and sprinkled sparsely with onion. Moisten as you go on,
with the rich broth; put in occasional bits of butter and fat meat,
else it will be dry. Fold all up in the pork rind, joining the edges
neatly.

About the roll wrap a stout cloth, fitting closely and sew it up
on all sides. Bind, for further security, stout tape all about the
bundle. Put the weak broth into a pot, and while it is still cold,
drop the galantine into it, and boil slowly for five hours. The broth
should cover it entirely all the time. Let it get perfectly cold in
the liquor; then take it out, and without removing tape or cloth, put
it under heavy weights between two plates, and do not touch it for
twenty-four hours. At the end of that time, cut tape and threads,
remove the cloth carefully, trim the ragged edges of the galantine,
and send to table whole. Cut as it is asked for, with a keen knife, in
smooth, thin slices.


JELLIED TONGUE. +

1 large boiled tongue (cold).

2 ounces of gelatine dissolved in

½ pint of water.

1 tea-cup of browned veal gravy.

1 pint of liquor in which the tongue was boiled.

1 table-spoonful sugar.

1 table-spoonful burnt sugar for coloring.

3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar.

1 pint boiling water.

Put together the gravy, liquor, sugar, vinegar and a table-spoonful of
burnt sugar dissolved in cold water.

Add the dissolved gelatine and mix well—then the boiling water, and
strain through flannel. Cut the tongue in slices as for the table. Let
the jelly cool and begin to thicken. Wet a mould with cold water, put a
little jelly in the bottom, then a layer of tongue, more jelly, and so
on, until the mould is full. Cover and set in a cool place.

To turn it out, dip the mould in hot water for an instant, invert upon
a dish, and garnish with celery-sprigs, and nasturtium-flowers. Cut
with a thin, sharp knife, perpendicularly.

This is a handsome and delicious dish, and easily made.


GAME OR POULTRY IN SAVORY JELLY. +

A knuckle of veal, weighing 2 pounds.

1 slice of lean ham.

1 shallot, minced.

Sprig of thyme and one of parsley.

6 pepper-corns (white), and one teaspoonful salt.

3 pints of cold water.

Boil all these together until the liquor is reduced to a pint, when
strain without squeezing, and set to cool until next day. It should
then be a firm jelly. Take off every particle of fat.

1 package Coxe’s gelatine, soaked in

1 cup cold water for 3 hours.

1 table-spoonful sugar.

2 table-spoonfuls strained lemon-juice.

2 table-spoonfuls currant jelly, dissolved in cold water, and strained
through a muslin cloth.

Nearly a quart of boiling water.

Pour the boiling water over the gelatine, stir swiftly for a moment;
add the jellied “stock,” and when this is dissolved, the sugar,
lemon-juice and coloring. Stir until all are mixed and melted together.
Strain through a flannel bag until quite clear. Do not shake or squeeze
the bag.

Have ready—4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs.

The remains of roast game, roast or boiled poultry, cut in neat thin
slices, with no jagged edges, and salted slightly.

Wet a mould with cold water, and when the jelly begins to congeal, pour
some in the bottom. Cut the whites of the eggs in pretty shapes—stars,
flowers, leaves, with a keen penknife. If you have sufficient skill,
carve the name or initials of some one whom you wish to honor. Unless
you can do this, however, content yourself with smooth thin rings
overlapping one another, like a chain, when they are arranged on the
lowest stratum of jelly, which, by the way, should be a thin one, that
your device may be visible. Pour in more jelly, and on this lay slices
of meat, close together. More jelly, and proceed in this order until
the mould is full, or all the meat used up.

Set in a cool place until next day, when turn out upon a flat dish.

An oblong or round mould, with smooth, upright sides, is best for this
purpose.

There is no need for even a timid housekeeper to be appalled at the
suggestion of attempting a task such as is described above, or
below. The very minuteness with which I have detailed the by-no-means
difficult process should encourage, not daunt the tyro. “Nothing
venture, nothing have,” is a telling motto, in this connection.


A TONGUE JELLIED WHOLE.

Make the jelly and stock as in preceding receipt, leaving out the
currant jelly, and coloring with a little burnt sugar, dissolved in
cold water. This gives an amber tinge to the jelly. Should it not be
clear after first straining, run it through the bag—a clean one—again.

Trim a small tongue—boiled and perfectly cold—neatly, cutting away the
root and paring it skilfully from tip to root with a sharp, thin-bladed
knife. Wet an oblong mould (a baking-pan used for “brick” loaves of
bread will do) with cold water, and put a thin layer of the congealing
jelly in the bottom. Upon this lay the tongue, bearing in mind that
what is the bottom now will be the top when the jelly is turned out.
Encircle it with a linked chain made of rings of white of egg, or, if
you prefer, let the rings barely touch one another, and fit in the
centre of each a round of bright pickled beet. The effect of this is
very pretty. Fill up the mould with jelly; cover and set in a cold
place for twelve hours.

This is a beautiful show-piece for luncheon or supper, and when it has
served the end of its creation in this respect, can easily be carved
with a sharp knife and remain, even in partial ruin, a thing of beauty.




GRAVY.


“PRESIDING over an establishment like this makes sad havoc with the
features, my dear Miss Pecksniffs,” said Mrs. Todgers. “The gravy alone
is enough to add twenty years to one’s age. The anxiety of that one
item, my dears, keeps the mind continually upon the stretch.”

Without following the worthy landlady further into the depths of her
dissertation upon the fondness of commercial gentlemen for the “item,”
I would answer a question addressed to me by a correspondent who
“believes”—she is so kind as to inform me—“in Common Sense.”

“I notice that many of your made dishes are dependent for savoriness
upon ‘a cup of good broth,’ or, ‘half a cup of strong gravy.’ Let me
ask, in the spirit of sincere desire for useful information, where is
the gravy or broth to come from?”

In return I plagiarize the words of a lady who accomplishes more with
less noise and fretting than any other person I ever saw.

“I don’t see how you find time for it all!” exclaimed an admiring
visitor.

“I make it, if I can get it in no other way,” was the rejoinder.

Never throw away so much as a teaspoonful of gravy of any kind. Season
it rather highly, and set it away in a cool place until it is wanted.
For a while you will have some difficulty in impressing the importance
of this rule upon your cook, especially if she is allowed to have all
the “soap-fat” she can save as one of her “perquisites.” This is a
ruinous leak in any household, whether the oleaginous “savings” be
exchanged for soap (hard or soft), or for money. It is so easy to “let
it go into the fat-crock,” and when the cook is to gain anything for
herself by the laisser-aller the temptation is cruelly strong—even if
she have a conscience. I have known the pile of unclean fat collected
for the soap-man to be swelled not only by the bits of butter left
upon the plates after meals, but by quarter and half-pounds abstracted
bodily from butter tub or pot, and the abstraction never, in the
phraseology of the “conveyer,” to be “scrupled.” “The wise convey it
call!” said honest Pistol, and to no other ethical motto has heartier
response been made by the comptrollers of culinary treasuries.

In a family of ordinary size nothing should find its way into the
buckets of the unsavory caller at basement-door or back-gate. The
drippings from most kinds of roast meat, if settled, strained and
skimmed, and kept in a clean vessel, answer for many purposes quite
as well as butter, and better than lard. Even that from mutton should
be “tried out,” strained through muslin, slightly salted, and, if you
choose, perfumed with rose-water, in which shape it is better than cold
cream, or glycerine for chapped hands, and is a useful cerate for cuts,
scratches, etc. The oil-cake should be removed from the top of all
gravies before they are used upon the table; for, be it understood,
grease is not gravy.

How often I have wished, from the depths of a loathing stomach, that
certain well-meaning housekeepers—at whose boards I have sat as guest
or boarder—who fry beefsteak in lard, and send ham to table swimming in
fat; upon the surface of whose soups float spheroids of oil that encase
the spoon with blubber, and coat the lips and tongue of the eater
with flaky scales—that these dear souls who believe in “old-fashioned
cookery,” understood this simple law of digestive gravity!

A “rich gravy,” or “a strong broth,” is not of necessity, then, one
surcharged with fat. Beef-tea—which is the very essence of the meat,
and contains more nourishment in small bulk than any other liquid
used in the sick-room—should be made of lean, but tender beef, and
every particle of suet be removed from the cooled surface before it is
re-heated for the patient’s use.

If you have no gravy ready when you wish to prepare ragoût, or other
dish requiring this ingredient, “make it.” Crack up the bones from
which you have cut the flesh, and put them into a saucepan with the
refuse bits of meat, gristle, skin, etc.; cover with cold water,
and stew very gently until you have extracted all the nourishment,
and from two cups of liquid in the pot when the boiling commenced,
you have one cup of tolerable gravy. A few minutes of thought and
preparation in your kitchen after breakfast will enable you to have
anything of this kind in season for a luncheon dish, or an entrée
at the early dinner. Foresight in these matters is to be forearmed.
Teach your cook, furthermore, never to toss “that carcass” of fowl,
or the ham, or mutton-bone, “with next to nothing upon it,” to the
dogs, or into the scavenger’s barrel. It will not, by itself, make
good soup, unless it be very much underdone, and even then the broth
will not be equal to that made from raw meat or marrow bones. But,
seasoned and thickened—adding sweet herbs and a dash of catsup to the
flavoring—it will be useful as gravy in many ways; always remembering
that it must be skimmed before it is used. It is also well worth your
while to see for yourself, when the meat comes home from market, that
it has been properly trimmed for the table. Much goes into the oven or
upon the spit to be roasted, or upon the gridiron to be broiled, that
is unfit to be eaten after it has been baked or grilled. All bits of
tough skin—all gristly portions, soft bones, and the cartilage known
as “whitleather” should be removed before cooking from roasts, chops,
and steaks, when this can be done without injuring the shape of the
meat. The place for these is the stew-pot. Cover them with cold water;
put in no seasoning until they have simmered slowly for a long time
in a close vessel, and the liquid is reduced to at most one-half of
the original quantity; then season, boil up once hard, strain, and set
aside until you want to try a receipt in which “a little good gravy” is
a desideratum.

If you buy meat for gravy—which you need not do very often, if you
(and your cook) are reasonably careful about “scraps,” cooked and
raw—get the coarser pieces and marrow-bones pounded to bits. Cut up
the meat fine, also. You cannot, by never so long boiling; extract the
strength so completely from a solid “chunk” of flesh as from the same
quantity shred into strips or cut into dice. It should be reduced to
rags for gravies and soups, and invariably put on in cold water. Fast
boiling hardens the meat and injures the flavor of the gravy. For the
