could smile over it. And yet, if he had been different 
that night, softer in speech, tenderer in mood ! Her 
unjust accusation had roused a feeling of bitterness in 
him, given him strength to put her away, until her hour 
of repentance came. But had he been altogether 
right? Was there not something more glorious than 
justice? meek-eyed mercy ! 

Yet what could he have done ? To have a divided 
heart, to be suspicious and restless over everj T word and 
look : no, that would be unendurable. Better, a thou- 
sand times, the desolate life that would be his. He was 
more than ever thankful that he was going away. 

Then he started up. He must see her, once more, 
must hear from her own lips that she had not been 
forced to any decision. He put on his hat in a curious, 
bewildered way, walked out, and took the first car that 
passed. It seemed as if the horses crawled every step 
of the way, and yet he was there, before he had resolved 
upon a single sentence. How odd the place appeared ! 
He touched the great, old-fashioned knocker, and won* 
dered what he would say to Dora, — another man's wife. 

Catherine answered the summons. In her surprise, 







she held up both hands and ejaculated — "Mr. Tre- 
maine ! " 

" Dora?—" His colorless lips trembled, and his fin- 
gers nervously caught at each other. 

" She went away last night. It is a long story. Will 
you not come in, Mr. Tremaine?" 

Too late ! The whole world seemed mingling into 
chaos again. He raised his hand to his head, and stared 
vacantly. 

" Yes — she went away with — " 

" I know," he interrupted with a sudden gesture. " I 
heard the story, an hour ago. I hope she may be 
happy. Catherine — " lowering his voice almost to a 
whisper, " some day I shall come up to talk about Jier, 
but not now. It is best. Yes, I hope she maybe happy." 

Then he walked away in a rapid, uncertain manner. 
IIopc was at an end. He must accept the life that lay 
before him. 

" He looks quite like an old man ; " mused Catherine, 
while her heart unconsciously softened towards him. 
" Yet I would have said, six months ago, that he wor» 
ghipped her. How. can a. inan bo so obdurate ! " 



dbyGoogk 



CHAPTER XXV. 

PLANNING ANEW. 

HRS. WALSINGHAM soon understood, that 
her legal affairs were very easy of adjustment. 
Indeed, she could not be considered, in any 
sense, a Walsinghani heir ; for the money was distinctly 
willed to the children of Giles "Walsingham. Dora's 
claim was proven to lawful satisfaction, without the aid 
of the purloined papers. 

The story soon found its way to light. Now, that 
matters had reached a crisis, Leonard Colby found him- 
self quite the hero of the passing hour. Friends poured 
in upon him, with condolence, and, though this could 
not replace the lost money, it was pleasant to receive. 

Mr. "Walsingham had allowed his trustee, a liberal 
allowance, for the supervision of the property. A re- 
cent lucky speculation, and the generosity of the heirs, 
enabled him to come out of the affair with clean hands, 
but it left him penniless. 

There was great consternation at Lake George. Mrs, 
Colby would not believe the worst, and carried herliead 
loftily. Arthur Harleigh, to the honor of his manhood, 
be it said, comforted his betrothed, and abated not a 
tithe of his love. Mrs. 'Harleigh was deeply dis- 


appointed, but it was too late for her son to draw back 
with honor, and, finding him so staunchly true, she 
yielded with the current, and the wedding day drew 
nigh. 

Mrs. Walsingham won golden opinions, on every 
hand. She was so winsome and gracious, and her 
vivacious manner corresponded so exactly with her 
fair, eager face, that would have a long holiday, before 
growing old. . Among the many changes, her early 
married life was scarcely remembered, save in her own 
heart, and that of her son, who reverenced her, for the 
hard struggle, they did not care to have the world know. 
For it was over now, and they had chanced upon gala 
days. 

She had taken a small, tastefully-furnished house, 
and when the three had once settled there, you would 
have thought it an affair of years, rather than daj*s. 
Everything was so cosy and charming. The old French 
domestic fell into her groove, as naturally, as if she 
had been born there, but only tender, mother fingers 
were allowed to minister to Dora. 

She and Stacy were longer in becoming friends. Hav- 
ing grown up, with so few family ties, and those not of 
a tender kind, it was difficult to realize the possession 
of a brother, but, if he had failed to find any other path 
to her heart, his devotion to their mother would have 
done it. 

As Ralph Tremaine's wife, Dora had been kept quite 



in the back-ground. Seclusion was her own wish, and 
one, very easy to manage. But Stacy was often the 
companion of her drives, and they soon discovered 
many mutual tastes. Most delightful of all, were the 
tales of life abroad, their odd German home, while he 
was studying, his mother being the presiding genius, 
and the bits of dainty economy she used to practice. 
There were romances, too, of her stage life, that always 
fascinated Dora. 

They were sitting together, one evening, over these 
mutual confidences, when Dora started up, all anima- 
tion. 

"Stacy," sbc said, " I have just had a thought. I 
want you to agree with it, and let us put it into execu- 
tion, immediately ." 

He laughed, as he watched her, then said — 

"Dora, that impulsiveness is so like mamma. At 
such moments, you look like her, though she is so much 
smaller than jou, and different in so many ways." 

"I am glad to be ever so little like her. And it is 
her welfare, I was thinking of. My fortune seems so 
large, Stacy, I sLall never know what to do with it 
all ; and it does seem unjust, that mamma, who had all 
the burthen, and sorrow, and hard work, should be 
crowded out of the prosperity. I want us each, to give 
ber one quarter of Qur fortune. That, with her little 
income, will make her quite a rich woman." 

" Pora, mine is ail at her disposal," 





 



" But I want it settled upon her, so that she can feel 
quite independent. We shall have sufficient left, and 
we are of age, our own masters." 

" My deaf Dora, I would do more than that to please 
you. Perhaps it would be more agreeable, for her to 
have a separate portion, though we have shared one 
purse so long, that we can never have divided interests. 
I am not going to sink into indolence, or selfish ease, 
Dora. I have youth, health and ambition, and I owe 
it to her, that I have no vicious habits. How carefully 
she guarded all my early years, I can never tell you. 
I realized what I had been saved from, when he came 
back to die." 

Dora's eyes were full of tears. Why had she been 
shut out of that life ? Why did not she have a mother's 
guidance and sympathy ? Always adrift on the sea of 
fate — this had been her bitter lot. 

"Yes, Dora, it shall be as you sa}\ If you like, we 
will go to-morrow and execute *i deed. Or I might 
give her half." 

"No," said Dora, with a peculiar smile. U I think 
she would feel better satisfied with a smaller gift. She 
has her little ways of pride." 

They went to Mr. Eastman, and he arranged the 
matter for them. 

Mrs. Walsingham was deeply moved, perhaps the 
more so, by its being Dora's suggestion. 

For the mother was trying now, by every care and 



attention, to make amends for what looked so like 
neglect in the past. And yet, it had not been. How 
many times during those early struggles, she had 
thanked God that her little daughter was in such good 
hands, and removed from the temptations of such a 
life as hers, where, at the best, she must have been 
trusted to the care of schools and servants. 

It was Mrs. Denver's misfortune, after she became a 
devotee, that her spiritualized letters were hardly true 
exponents of herself. She was led astray by her own 
narrow and extravagant views, until, in her fear of 
Dora being recalled, and au exaggerated sense of duty, 
she thought to pluck this brand from the burning, as 
she phrased it, to save Dora from such association as 
this stage-connected mother must inevitably bring her 
into. Swayed powerfully by this mood of fanaticism, 
she had announced Dora's death, and then bent all her 
energies to the task of making the child a religious 
enthusiast. For this, Dora had no fancy, and the life 
had been one of repression and warfare. 

It seemed, now, at times, as if Dora had come to per- 
fect freedom. No doubtful secrets hidden away, no 
haunting phantoms shadowing their free and unre- 
strained intercourse, and a phase of delightful social 
life that she had never before experienced. For, at 
Woodlea, Mrs. Maybin had seemed almost as much 
mistress as herself. Always, she had stood in awe of 
some one. 



They had heard of Mr. Tremaine's departure, and 
not only that, but Catherine's brief interview with him, 
as well. It puzzled Dora, a little, and }et she accepted 
the fact. She could be nothing more to him. She 
must school her yearning, longing heart into something 
like content. Ah, how hard it was. 

With September, the Colbys returned to the city. 
A quiet marriage for Isabel, and then a change in posi- 
tion and" living. Mrs. Colby would fain have kept her 
house, forming many impossible plans for economical 
management, but she was compelled to relinquish her 
dreams. Yet, it must be admitted that Mr. Colby stood 
higher with sterling business men, than if he bad re- 
sorted to dishonest expedients to preserve his social 
standing. Circumstances, and a strand of weakness in 
his own character, rather than caution, had kept him 
from rushing headlong into Jasper Cameron's villain- 
ous schemes, yet, now that all had ended, he plumed 
himself upon his strict integrity. 

Dora was deeply interested in the family. Perhaps 
she felt, most truly, what his disappointment had been. 
She fancied, too, that he had in some way delaj-ed or 
frustrated Cameron's plans. 

" I think we ought to do something for him, mam- 
ma," she said one day. " It must be very hard, when 
he was so near to being the heir. And to give up such 
a fortune ! " 

" My dear, it was the merest honesty to be true tc 



his trust. An energetic and well directed effort might 
have found us much earlier. Then, he was well paid 
for his trouble. I do, of course, sympathize with him 
in his disappointment." 

" And the daughter was married?" 

"Yes." Mrs. Walsingham's face warmed with a 
tender light. "You would hardly believe, my dear, 
how much interest I take in love affairs, but I want 
them to end happily. There are troubles enough, after- 
wards." 

Dora flushed. " Are there any more girls, mamma?" 
she asked, presently. 

' 'Yes, a daughter almost grown, then two bojs, and 
a charming little sprite, NeUy, by name. Mrs. Colby 
is very lady-like, but rather haughty, I think. 

Dora was casting about in her mind, to discover some 
plan whereby she might benefit these children, whom, it 
appeared to her, they had unwittingly wronged. 

"Mamma," she began again, "I have just thought 
of a pleasant surprise for these two girls. Their father 
will be poor now, and they must miss many of the lux- 
uries to which they have been accustomed. And I 
mean to bestow upon them a small portion, out of my 
abundance." 

" Dora ! " Yet her mother smiled. 

" Yes. Five thousand, apiece, will not be much, to 
be sure, but I spent no more than the interest of that 
yearly, when I lived with uncle Gilbert. — It will give 





 



them a wedding outfit, too, when they come to have a 
brave young lover ;" and Dora smiled brightly, though 
her face still wore its peculiar delicacy and languor. 

" But ten thousand, Dora ! " 

" Well, I have twelve thousand, that would not have 
come to me if I had not been considered Mr. Verner's 
niece. — I ought to devote that to some benevolent pur- 
pose, seeing what an impostor I have been all my life ? " 

"But if, some day, you were called to an account 
for spending it?" 

"That will never be, mamma." 

There was a perceptible sadness in Dora's tone. 

" But, my dear child, I do dream of seeing you happy 
again," the mother said, softly, with a look of ineffable 
tenderness in her eyes. 

"With jxra only," and Dora leaned her face upon 
her hands. " Let me give up all hope, frankly." 

"Then your Mr. Tremaine is a hard, cruel man, 
Dora, as Catherine seems to think. I believe any ten- 
ded, generous person would forgive, for it was a sad 
mistake, rather than any intentional sin." 

"I have never asked him, mamma, do not forget 
that. I wish now, I had gone, on that first fatal day, 
and told him the whole truth. But you can never know 
my fright and horror at seeing Jasper Cameron. I was 
so afraid, that I could not think. And, being deceived 
is the one thing Mr. Tremaine cannot bear. I feel that 
he was hard, too, but he had great provocation. _ And 



then — I bad never loved him half enough, "before. A 
troubled phantom always stood between me and perfect 
trust. I was often capricious, when I should have been 
tender, because it seemed dishonest to take so much 
love, without telling my secret, though I could never 
imagine that Cameron was alive." 

" Foolish child. He will return. Three months is 
not a life time." 

 ' Not to me, mamma. And you know — " flatteringly, 
' ' that I saw him. When I think of that night, I feel that 
reconciliation is quite impossible. " 

"Still, you do not know just what a highly colored 
version Cameron gave him, or how false it might have 
been." 

" He could have said nothing worse than that I mar- 
ried him, and that was true. No, mamma, help me to 
be strong and patient, and comfort me with your love. 
This is so much better than my cruel loneliness and 
despair at Catherine's. It was my own fault, and I 
must bear the punishment." 

Mrs. Walsingham was far from being satisfied, but 
in their arguments, Dora always overruled her, in that 
sweet, submissive way, so hard to controvert. And 
yet, because she knew her child's heart was with this 
still adored husband, she would have made every over- 
ture possible. Had Tremaine been at home, she would 
have gone herself, and learned if there was the slightest 
basis of hope. 



" It is best not to annoy her at present," Mr. 
Eastman had said, confidentially. Her first marriage 
can be easily set aside, as it was procured by fraud. 
And I do not quite despair of Tremaine, who has the 
name of being a most honorable man." 

So Dora pleased herself by her gifts to the Colby 
daughters, though Mr. Eastman laughingly declared, 
they would have to appoint a guardian for her, or she 
would soon be reduced to poverty. 

"It does not look much like it, as yet," she returned 
gaily ; "but I am going to stop awhile." 

The little household of three, were very happy in each 
other's lore. Dora's nature was a grateful one, and 
there had not been so much affection in her path, hith- 
erto, that she felt at all inclined to undervalue this. 
Stacy was rapidly becoming very dear. His architect- 
ural studies evinced a high order of genius in this par- 
ticular branch, and his aim was to establish himself at 
this, his favorite pursuit. But he had many endearing 
home graces ; indeed, to Dora, who had studied so few 
men, he was a piquant and interesting revelation. 

More than one effort had been made to find Mrs. 
Cameron, but without success. Her nephew had so 
worked upon her fears, by an exaggerated confession of 
the failure of their schemes, that she was led into prom- 
ising anything for safety. He took possession of the 
important papers, and, in spite of her entreaties, left 
her, without the slightest clue as to his destination. 



Her love for this child had been the one passion of 
her solitary life. Having none of her own, she had 
spent her early days in efforts for his education. He 
had grown up, the possessor of a certain dangerous 
beauty, and hosts of dangerous vices — yet she, poor 
woman, had been blind to the latter. During the last 
year of Mr. Walsingham's life, she had filled the posi- 
tion of nurse and housekeeper, and so, became familiar 
with the provisions of the old man's will, which had no 
special interest for her, just then. Years afterward, she 
learned, Or fancied that she had, the secret of Dora's 
birth, when the idea entered her mind of marrying her 
to Jasper. It was not abaci speculation, the young 
man thought, but Dora was too immature to awaken 
any interest for herself. He married her, expecting to 
gain control of the fortune with little difficult}', when 
he announced the fact triumphantly to Mrs. Denver, 
keeping the secret of the fortune to himself, but declar- 
ing that he knew Dora to be the grandchild of Giles 
Walsingham. 

Mrs. Denver remembered well, the bitter enmity 
between Dora's mother and Giles Walsingham, and also 
her own oath that she would never divulge Dora's par- 
entage. Besides, she was filled with rage at the, thought 
of Dora's imprudent marriage. That Mr. Walsingham 
was dead, and Dora's relation to him of the slightest 
importance, never once occurred to her. 

In her anger, she dared Jasper Cameron to take any 



step. Where was his proof? " Bring Giles Walsing- 
ham here," she said, u and I will swear that Dora is my 
own child ! If you married her, thiuking it might ever 
prove a benefit to you, you were a fool for your pains." 

Indeed, Jasper thought so, when he came to take a 
cool survej* of the case. His aunt's suspicions hung on 
so slight a thread, that even the most astute lawyer 
could make nothing of them. So he cursed the luck, 
denounced his aunt for a prying, suspicious old fool, 
and made good Ins word to Dora, though it had been 
but the invention of the moment, to hurry her into mar- 
riage. She did not promise, in her fright and remorse, 
to be a very entertaining companion, and the trip to 
China, which might be made profitable, appeared the 
easiest way of getting out of the complication. 

After he was" gone beyond recall, the proofs fell into 
Mrs. Cameron's hands, by the death of Mrs. Denver. 
She resolved to hoard them, for her dearly loved Jasper. 
If she could but gain possession of Dora, also ! 

This effort failed. Gilbert Verner's treatment of her, 
and Dora's unwillingness, to listen to the least friendly 
overture, so exasperated her, that she kept her secret, 
for revenge. 

Then came the tidings of the wreck, and Jasper's 
death but she held to a strange, desperate faith, in his 
still being alive. 

She brooded over it, in her solitary home, until she 
actually began to count the days, for Jasper's return. 



There was something absolutely touching in this, more 
than mother's love. She had taken several old ladies 
to board, who had become trials to their families, and 
every penny of her earnings was scrupulously saved. 
Some day, he would comeback — the handsome gentle- 
man that he always was ! 

After seven j*ears of adventure, he had returned. 
Instead of being softened, by the devotion of the silly 
old idiot, as he called her, he had taken her money, 
and fallen in with her plans, at once. After his first 
interview with Colby, he had no further doubt. It 
was to his advantage, to make it appear, that there 
were no other heirs. Vhen he found that he had suc- 
ceeded in alarming the lawyer, he meant, if possible, 
to compromise, in some manner, and take a part of the 
fortune, without Dora. 

Mr. Colby had not the courage to bring the matter 
to a straightforward issue, but he did hope, by throw- 
ing himself upon Dora's pit}*, and espousing her cause, 
to make a better bargain for himself, and still preserve 
his good name. Cameron had frustrated this, in the 
very beginning, and Colby had weakly fallen into the 
toils, when a man of more honor, would have rescued 
both himself and Mrs. Tremaine. 

But through all their scheming, there had been an 
undercurrent, little suspected by either. At the ad- 
vent of Mrs. Walsingham, Colby had yielded to instant " 
despair, and thought only, how he could best extricate 
himself, for there was no longer any fortune to save. 


When Jasper Cameron took a survey of the rains, he 
laughed, with his usual indifference. He had made a 
thousand dollars out of Colby, and another thousand 
out of the Walsinghams. He tried to gain an interview 
with Dora, but these plans being frustrated, his fertile 
brain turned to others. For the present, nothing could 
be done. Mr. Tremaine was away, and it seemed hard- 
ly likely, that Dora would commence immediate pro- 
ceedings, for a legal separation from him. It would 
give her a public prominence, to which she did not as- 
pire, and connect her with the romantic story of the 
fortune. 

But presently, when the matter had died away, and 
he disappeared, as they, no doubt, charitably hoped he 
would, Mr. Eastman would undertake the case, in a 
quiet way. If, at this auspicious moment, he could 
pounce down upon Dora, probably she would be will- 
ing to pay him handsomely for his silence. Especially, 
if by this time, there had been some explanation, be- 
tween herself and Mr. Tremaine, as these 'misunder- 
standings rarely lasted a life time. 

Mr. Cameron was not wanting in resources, and he 
fancied, now, that a trip westward might prove bene- 
ficial. He did not wish his real character to become 
too well known, in New York, before his final denoue- 
ment. He certainly bore his reverses, with much phil- 
osophy. 

And so, the world went on its olden way, buying and 

selling, marrying and being given in marriage, little 
tragedies on every hand, making scarce a ripple on the 
broad surface. But Dora, looking from her window 
on the throngs below, seemed to have no part nor lot 
in the matter. A quiet life was to be hers, henceforth, 
and, if the day should come, when an added charm ren- 
dered it more endurable, she would thank God for His 
mercy. That was all the hope of her future. 






CHAPTER XXVI. 

jasper Cameron's last stake. 

IT was a frosty October night, with a keen, 
clear air. There was a cheerful grate fire, 
burning in the library at Woodlea, but the 
curtains were not drawn. Edith Merrivour thought 
the light, shining out on the lawn, would look pleasant 
to the homeward bound traveller, whom they had been 
expecting, for the last hour. She was seated at the 
center-table, with a basket of soft wools at her side, 
the brightest admissible color being purple, but that 
formed a pleasing contrast to the slender white fingers. 
Instead of the usual crape collar, her dress was relieved 
at the throat, by a fold or two of tulle, that was all soft- 
ness and grace. 

Her seat, there, might have been mere accident, but, 
to the man coming up the path, she, as well as the 
light, was a grateful vision. *The beautiful face in pro- 
file, the dainty fingers threading their way through the 
mazes of crocheting, and-now, the eyes, raised in anxious 
thought, that made his pulse beat more quickly, for an 
instant. 

She came to the door, herself. "Uh, Ralph!", she

exclaimed, and there was a world of welcome relief in 
the tone. It said that she had missed him, and was 
more than glad to have him back. How pleasant it 
was to be the object of some one's care. And then 
aunt* Lester with her motherly kisses, her smiles and 
tears. 

"How well you are looking, Ralph," Edith said. 

His six weeks' absence had indeed worked wonders. 
Dora would have pronounced him handsome, in an 
ecstacy of delight. For he was no longer gray and 
thin, the furrows in his brow and lines in his cheeks 
had filled out, and a fresh, healthy color, taken the place 
of the sallowness. Change, activity, and woik, instead 
of corroding thoughts, had wrought the alteration. 
And somehow, he could not help feeling in better heart 
and spirits, than two months ago. 

" And, what is the news?" he asked, cheerfully, as he 
dropped into his arm-chair before the fire. Everything 
about looked so snug and cosy, a little vase here and 
there, with a few flowers or geranium leaves, the maga- 
zines and papers, and aunt Lester, with her easy : indo- 
lence — a pretty enough picture of home. 

" Oh, do not ask u^for news ;" and Edith laughed, 
musically. "We have turned regular hermits, mamma 
and I. Why, we have not. been to the city in three 
weeks, I think." 

" And were you not lonesome?" 

" We missed you. But for the rest, the world and 





 



all that — when you have been kept year after year 
upon the treadmill, yon learn to love the quiet sanctity 
of home." 

She spoke truly. The only woman in the world to 
be envied, would be the presiding genius of this sweet 
home — Ralph Tremaine's happy wife I 

" And the servants ? " 

"Mrs. Maybin is certainly perfection! We have 
been delightfully comfortable, Ralph." 

"I am so glad." Then he gave a long gaze into the 
fire. 

Mrs. Lester began to question him concerning his 
own trip, and if it had been successful. 

" Unusually so," he said, " and very pleasant." 

Then the dinner bell rang. 

Mrs. Maybin received her master with stately cour- 
tesy. There seemed no break anywhere, no sense of 
loss. It startled him that the void should have been 
filled up so soon. 

A chatty, enjoyable meal, with much lingering over 
the desert ; Mrs. Lester's spirits rising, as she saw her 
nephew so well content. Now and then, she strayed 
into old times, or a careless woTd brought a vision be- 
fore Edith, that warmed the blood in her smooth cheek. 

"Did you keep the old papers?" he asked, when 
they returned to the library. 

Yes. Edith had saved them all. She brought them 
from a deep drawer in the book case. 

" Newspapers always seem a connecting link between 
you and the world," he said, as he began to glance 
them over. Trials, criminal proceedings, and arrests 
— he could not tell why he should haunt these columns, 
keeping up, the while, a desultory conversation with his 
cousin. A few failures of acquaintances, some changes 
in the political sky ; but, on the whole, the world had 
wagged as usual. Not a word of her, neither by land 
nor sea. 

Mrs. Lester nodded in her chair — indeed, slept so 
soundly presently, that she gave a little purring snore, 
that startled her daughter's fine ear. 

<x No, do not disturb her ! " Ralph reached out his 
hand, and barred Edith in her attempt to rise, and both 
smiled. " See how comfortable she looks ! Edith, did 
you ever think that a mother was necessary to make a 
home complete? I have, often ;" and his eyvs dropped 
fireward. . 

" Dear mamma ! She is so contented." 

" I have half a mind to bargain for her — that if j-ou 
go away, you shall leave her here ! " 

" Ralph, I think we have been trespassers on }*our 
hospitality, a long while." 

•' I asked you to come. I am glad to have you 
here. Somehow I could not bear to close the house — 
and to live in it alone — " 

' Have you never heard — " 

Edith asked the question under her breath, and 
paused, startled at her own temerity. 




" I ought to have told you before I went away, but 
my heart was so sad and sore — that she — decided to 
live with Jasper Cameron. I never liked the man, and 
could hardly resolve, whether he came to me so frankly 
out of revenge, or from some latent feeling of honor. 
But he was always her messenger." 

" You saw her, though? " 

" Only once. At times, I think it might have been 
very different, if she had come to me earlier, or I had 
gone to her. Perhaps I was too proud. I wanted her 
to love me so much better than him, that she would fly 
to me, at once — trust to my love and mercy. And 
then, the remembrance of being deceived, did rankle 
in my heart. I may have been cold, or too exacting. 
God forgive me, for nry heart was torn with anguish. 
He knows best." 

"Ralph," Edith said, with unconscious admiration, 
" if all men were as generous as you ! " 
" I do not deserve the praise. I think I would have 
taken her back, any time — because I needed her, be- 
cause I loved her so much." 

" She did care for him, it seems." 

There was a feeling of triumph and satisfaction in 
Edith's heart. 

" Yes ; " in a sad, dreamy fashion. " And so she is 
as one buried out of sight. But I like pleasant home 
associations ; and when you tire of the sameness and 
grave air, the old house must always carry, will you 
leave your mother here to comfort me?^ tize( 




" I shall never tire of it. Oh, Ralph, when I think 
of that long, dreary servitude, do yon wonder that I 
shrink from the idea of another master*— for tender 
and generous men are rare? " 

Her deep eyes were swimming in tears. How very, 
very lovely she looked ! Once she might have been his ! 
„ He did not follow out the train of thought, but sim- 
ply said, in his grave fashion — 

" Then I shall keep you both." 

And Edith, feeling that delicacy forbade any warmer 
demonstration, was quite content. 

For the next few days, Mr. Tremaine found himself 
much engrossed by the cares of business. No tidings 
of Dora or Cameron reached him — and yet it seemed 
as if he were in momentary expectation of something. 
Would he never get over the impression? When he 
was a little more at leisure, he would go to Catherine 
