" Does it need the asking ? " answered Waring with 
a short laugh ; " am I not giving up my name, my life, 
into her hands ? " 
" You could not give them into hands more pure." 
"I know it; I am content. And yet, I sacrifice 
something," replied the young man, thinking of his 
home, his family, his friends. 
Old Fog looked at him. " Do you hesitate ? " he 
said, breaking the pause. 
" Of course I do not ; why do you ask ? " replied 
Waring, irritably. " But some things may be par- 
doned, I think, in a case like mine." 
" I pardon them." 
" I can teach her, of course, and a year or so among 
cultivated people will work wonders ; I think I shall 
take her abroad, first. How soon did you say we 
could go ? " 
" The ice is moving. There will be vessels through 
the straits in two or three weeks," replied Fog. His 
voice shook. Waring looked up ; the old man was 
weeping. " Forgive me," he said, brokenly, " but the 
little girl is very dear to me." 
The younger man was touched. " She shall be as 
dear to me as she has been to you," he said ; " do not 
fear. My IOTO is proved by the very struggle I have 
 
made against it. I venture to say no man ever fought 
harder against himself than I have in this old castle 
of yours. I kept that Titian picture as a counter- 
charm. It resembles a woman who, at a word, will 
give me herself and her fortune, a woman high in the 
cultivated circles of cities both here and abroad, beauti- 
ful, accomplished, a queen in her little sphere. But all 
was useless. That long night in the snow, when I 
crawled backwards and forwards to keep myself from 
freezing, it came to me with power that the whole 
of earth and all its gifts compared not with this love. 
Old man, she will be happy with me." 
"I know it." 
" Did you foresee this end ? " asked Waring after a 
while, watching, as he spoke, the expression of the 
face before him. He could not rid himself of the be- 
lief that the old man had laid his plans deftly. 
"I could only hope for it: I saw that she loved 
you." 
" Well, well," said the younger man, magnanimously, 
"it was natural, after all. Your expiation has ended 
better than you hoped ; for the little orphan child you 
have reared has found a home and friends, and you 
yourself need work no more. Choose your abode here 
or anywhere else in the West, and I will see that you 
are comfortable." 
" I will stay on here." 
"As you please. Silver will not forget you; she 
 
will write often. I think I will go first up the Ehine 
and then into Switzerland," continued Waring, going 
back to himself and his plans with the matter-of- 
course egotism of youth and love. And old Fog lis- 
tened. 
What need to picture the love-scene that followed ? 
The next morning a strong hand knocked at the door 
of the flower-room, and the shy little maiden within 
had her first lesson in love, or rather in its expression, 
while all the blossoms listened and the birds looked 
on approvingly. To do him justice, Waring was an 
humble suitor when alone with her ; she was so fair, so 
pure, so utterly ignorant of the world and of life, that 
he felt himself unworthy, and bowed his head. But 
the mood passed, and Silver liked him better when the 
old self-assertion and quick tone of command came 
uppermost again. She knew not good from evil, she 
could not comprehend or analyze the feeling in her 
heart; but she loved this stranger, this master, with 
the whole of her being. Jarvis Waring knew good 
from evil (more of the latter knew he than of the for- 
mer), he comprehended and analyzed fully the feeling 
that possessed him ; but, man of the world as he was, 
he loved this little water-maiden, this fair pagan, this 
strange isolated girl, with the whole force of his nature. 
"Silver," he said to her, seriously enough, "do you 
know how much I love you? I am afraid to think 
what life would seem without you." 
 
" Why think of it, then, since I am here ? " replied 
Silver. " Do you know, Jarvis, I think if I had not 
loved you so much, you would not have loved me, 
and then it would have been that is, I mean 
it would have been different " She paused; un- 
used to reasoning or to anything like argument, her 
own words seemed to bewilder her. , 
Waring laughed, but soon grew serious again. " Sil- 
ver," he said, taking her into his arms, " are you sure 
that you can love me as I crave ? " (For he seemed 
at times tormented by the doubt as to whether she 
was anything more than a beautiful child.) He held 
her closely and would not let her go, compelling her 
to meet his ardent eyes. A change came over the 
girl, a sudden red flashed up into her temples and 
down into her white throat. She drew herself impet- 
uously away from her lover's arms and fled from the 
room. "I am not sure but that she is a water- 
sprite, after all," grumbled Waring, as he followed her. 
But it was a pleasure now to grumble and pretend 
to doubt, since from that moment he was sure. 
The next morning Fog seemed unusually cheerful. 
"No wonder," thought Waring. But the character 
of benefactor pleased him, and he appeared in it 
constantly. 
"We must have the old castle more comfortable; 
I will try to send up furniture from below," he re- 
marked, while pacing to and fro in the evening. 
"Isn't it comfortable now?" said Silver. "I am 
sure I always thought this room beautiful." 
"What, this clumsy imitation of a second-class 
Western steamer? Child, it is hideous!" 
"Is it?" said Silver, looking around in innocent 
surprise, while old Fog listened in silence. Hours of 
patient labor and risks not a few over the stormy lake 
were associated with each one of the articles Waring 
so cavalierly condemned. 
Then it was, " How you do look, old gentleman ! 
I must really send you up some new clothes. Silver, 
how have you been able to endure such shabby rags 
so long ? All the years before I came, did it never 
force itself upon you ? " 
" I do not know, I never noticed ; it was always 
just papa, you know," replied Silver, her blue eyes 
resting on the old man's clothes with a new and per- 
plexed attention. 
But Fog bore himself cheerily. "He is right, Sil- 
ver," he said, " I am shabby indeed. But when you 
go out into the world, you will soon forget it." 
" Yes," said Silver, tranquilly. 
The days flew by and the ice moved out. This is 
the phrase that is always used along the lakes. The 
ice "moves out" of every harbor from Ogdensburg 
to Duluth. You can see the great white floes drift 
away into the horizon, and the question comes, 
Where do they go ? Do they not meet out there the 
 
counter floes from the Canada side, and then do they 
all join hands and sink at a given signal to the bot- 
tom ? Certainly, there is nothing melting in the 
mood of the raw spring winds and clouded skies. 
" What are your plans ? " asked old Fog, abruptly, 
one morning when the gulls had flown out to sea, 
and the fog came stealing up from the south. 
For what ? " 
" For the marriage." 
" Aha ! " thought Waring, with a smile of covert 
amusement, "he is in a hurry to secure the prize, is 
he ? The sharp old fellow ! " Aloud he said, " I 
thought we would all three sail over to Mackinac; 
and there we could be married, Silver and I, by the 
fort chaplain, and take the first Buffalo steamer; 
you could return here at your leisure." 
" Would it not be a better plan to bring a clergy- 
man here, and then you two could sail without me ? 
I am not as strong as I was; I feel that I cannot 
bear I mean that you had better go without me." 
" As you please ; I thought it would be a change 
for you, that was all" 
"It would only prolong No, I think, if you 
are willing, we will have the marriage here, and then 
you can sail immediately." 
"Very well; but I did not suppose you would be 
in such haste to part with Silver," said Waring, un- 
able to resist showing his comprehension of what he 
 
considered the manoeuvres of the old man. Then, 
waiving further discussion, " And where shall we 
find a clergyman ? " he asked. 
" There is one over on Beaver." 
"He must be a singular sort of a divine to be 
living there ! " 
i " He is ; a strayed spirit, as it were, but a genuine 
clergyman of the Presbyterian church, none the less. 
I never knew exactly what he represented there, but 
I think he came out originally as a sort of mission- 
ary." 
" To the Mormons," said Waring, laughing ; for he 
had heard old Fog tell many a story of the Latter- 
Day Saints, who had on Beaver Island at that time 
their most eastern settlement. 
"No; to the Indians, sent out by some of those 
New England societies, you know. When he reached 
the islands, he found the Indians mostly gone, and 
those who remained were all Eoman Catholics. But 
he settled down, farmed a little, hunted a little, fished 
a little, and held a service all by himself occasionally in 
an old log-house, just often enough to draw his salary 
and to write up in his semiannual reports. He isn't a 
bad sort of a man in his way." 
" And how does he get on with the Mormons ? " 
"Excellently. He lets them talk, and sells them 
fish, and shuts his eyes to everything elsa" 
" What is his name ? " 
 
" "Well, over there they call him the Preacher, princi- 
pally because he does not preach, I suppose. It is a 
way they have over on Beaver to call people names ; 
they call me Believer." 
" Believer ? " 
"Yes, because I believe nothing; at least so they 
think" 
A few days later, out they sailed over the freed 
water, around the point, through the sedge-gate grow- 
ing green again, across the channelled marsh, and out 
towards the Beavers, Fog and Waring, armed as if 
for a foray. 
" Why ? " asked Waring. 
" It 's safer ; the Mormons are a queer lot," was the 
reply. 
When they came in sight of the islands, the younger 
man scanned them curiously. Some years later an ex- 
pedition composed of exasperated crews of lake schoon- 
ers, exasperated fishermen, exasperated mainland set- 
tlers, sailed westward through the straits bound for 
these islands, armed to the teeth and determined upon 
vengeance and slaughter. False lights, stolen nets, 
and stolen wives were their grievances; and no aid 
coming from the general government, then as now 
sorely perplexed over the Mormon problem, they took 
justice into their own hands and sailed bravely out, 
with the stars and stripes floating from the mast of 
their flag-ship, an old scow impressed for military 
 
service. But this was later ; and when Fog and Waring 
came scudding into the harbor, the wild little village 
existed in all its pristine outlawry, a city of refuge for 
the flotsam vagabondage of the lower lakes. 
" Perhaps he will not come with us," suggested 
Waring. 
" I have thought of that, but it need not delay us 
long," replied Fog ; " we can kidnap him." 
" Kidnap him ? " 
" Yes ; he is but a small chap," said the old man, 
tranquilly. 
They fastened their boat to the long log-dock, 
and started ashore. The houses of the settlement 
straggled irregularly along the beach and inland to- 
wards the fields where fine crops were raised by the 
Saints, who had made here, as is their custom every- 
where, a garden in the- wilderness; the only defence 
was simple but strong, an earthwork on one of the 
white sand-hills back of the village, over whose ram- 
part peeped two small cannon, commanding the harbor. 
Once on shore, however, a foe found only a living, 
moving rampart of flesh and blood, as reckless a set of 
villains as New World history can produce. But this 
rampart came together only in times of danger ; ordi- 
nary visitors, coming by twos and threes, they wel- 
comed or murdered as they saw fit, or according to 
the probable contents of their pockets, each man for 
himself and his family. Some of these patriarchal gen- 
 
tlemen glared from their windows at Fog and. Waring 
as they passed along ; but the worn clothes not promis- 
ing much, they simply invited them to dinner ; they 
liked to hear the news, when there was nothing else 
going on. Old Fog excused himself. They had bus- 
iness, he said, with the Preacher ; was he at home ? 
He was ; had anything been sent to him from the 
East, any clothes, now, for the Indians ? 
Old Fog had heard something of a box at Mackinac, 
waiting for a schooner to bring it over. He was glad 
it was on the way, it would be of so much use to the 
Indians, they wore so many clothes. 
The patriarchs grinned, and allowed the two to pass 
on. Waring had gazed within, meanwhile, and discov- 
ered the plural wives, more or less good-looking, gen- 
erally less ; they did not seem unhappy, however, not 
so much so as many a single one he had met in more 
luxurious homes, and he said to himself, " Women of 
the lower class are much better and happier when well 
curbed." It did not occur to him that possibly the 
evil tempers of men of the lower class are made 
more endurable by a system of co-operation ; one reed 
bends, breaks, and dies, but ten reeds together can 
endure. 
The Preacher was at home on the outskirts, a lit- 
tle man, round and rosy, with black eyes and a cheery 
voice. He was attired entirely in blanket-cloth, baggy 
trousers and a long blouse, so that he looked not un- 
 
like a Turkish Santa Glaus, Oriental as to under, and 
arctic as to upper rigging. " Are you a clergyman ? " 
said Waring, inspecting him with curious eyes. 
" If you doubt it, look at this," said the little man ; 
and he brought out a clerical suit of limp black cloth, 
and a ministerial hat much the worse for wear. These 
articles he suspended from a nail, so that they looked 
as if a very poor lean divine had hung himself there. 
Then he sat down, and took his turn at staring. " I do 
not bury the dead," he remarked after a moment, as 
if convinced that the two shabby hunters before him 
could have no other errand. 
Waring was about to explain, but old Fog stopped 
him with a glance. " You are to come with us, sir," 
he said courteously ; " you will be well treated, well 
paid, and returned in a few days." 
" Come with you ! Where ? " 
" Never mind where ; will you come ? " 
" No," said the little blanket-man, stoutly. 
In an instant Fog had tripped him up, seized a 
sheet and blanket from the bed, bound his hands and 
feet with one, and wrapped him in the other. " Now, 
then," he said shouldering the load, " open the door." 
" But the Mormons," objected Waring. 
" O, they like a joke, they will only laugh ! But if, 
by any chance, they should show fight, fire at once," 
replied the old man, leading the way. Waring fol- 
lowed, his mind anything but easy ; it seemed to him 
 
like running the gantlet. He held his pistols ready, 
and glanced furtively around as they skirted the town 
and turned down towards the beach. " If any noise 
is made," Fog had remarked, "I shall know what 
to do." 
Whereupon the captive swallowed down his wrath 
and a good deal of woollen fuzz, and kept silence. He 
was no coward, this little Preacher. He held his own 
manfully on the Beavers j but no one had ever carried 
him off in a blanket before. So he silently considered 
the situation. 
When near the boat they came upon more patri- 
archs. "Put a bold face on it," murmured old Fog. 
" Whom do you suppose we have here ? " he began, 
as they approached. "Nothing less than your little 
Preacher; we want to borrow him for a few days." 
The patriarchs stared. 
" Don't you believe it ? Speak up, Preacher ; are 
you being carried off?" 
No answer. 
"You had better speak," said Fog, jocosely, at the 
same time giving his captive a warning touch with 
his elbow. 
The Preacher had revolved the situation rapidly, 
and perceived that in any contest his round body 
would inevitably suffer from friend and foe alike. He 
was not even sure but that he would be used as a 
missile, a sort of ponderous pillow swung by one end. 
 
So he replied briskly, "Yes, I am being carried as 
you see, dear brethren; I don't care about walking 
to-day." 
The patriarchs laughed, and followed on to the boat, 
laughing still more when Fog gayly tossed in his load 
of blanket, and they could hear the little man growl 
as he came down. " I say, though, when are you going 
to bring him back, Believer ? " said one. 
" In a few days," replied Fog, setting sail 
Away they flew ; and, when out of harbor, the cap- 
tive was released, and Waring told him what was 
required. 
" Why didn't you say so before ? " said the little 
blanket-man ; " nothing I like better than a wedding, 
and a drop of punch afterwards." 
His task over, Fog relapsed into silence ; but War- 
ing, curious, asked many a question about the island 
and its inhabitants. The Preacher responded freely in 
all things, save when the talk glided too near himself. 
The Mormons were not so bad, he thought ; they had 
their faults, of course, but you must take them on the 
right side. 
" Have they a right side ? " asked Waring. 
" At least they haven't a rasping, mean, cold, starv- 
ing, bony, freezing, busy-bodying side," was the reply, 
delivered energetically ; whereat Waring concluded the 
little man had had his own page of history back some- 
where among the decorous New England hills. 
 
Before they came to the marsh they blindfolded 
their guest, and did not remove the bandage until he 
was safely within the long room of the castle. Silver 
met them, radiant in the firelight. 
"Heaven grant you its blessing, maiden," said the 
Preacher, becoming Biblical at once. He meant it, 
however, for he sat gazing at her long with moistened 
eyes, forgetful even of the good cheer on the table; 
a gleam from his far-back youth came to him, a snow- 
drop that bloomed and died in bleak New Hampshire 
long, long before. 
The wedding was in the early morning. Old Fog 
had hurried it, hurried everything; he seemed driven 
by a spirit of unrest, and wandered from place to place, 
from room to room, his eyes fixed in a vacant way 
upon the familiar objects. At the last moment he 
appeared with a prayer-book, its lettering old, its 
cover tarnished. "Have you. any objection to using 
the Episcopal service ? " he asked in a low tone. " I 
I have heard the Episcopal service." 
"None in the world," replied the affable little 
Preacher. 
But he too grew sober and even earnest as Silver 
appeared, clad in white, her dress and hair wreathed 
with the trailing arbutus, the first flower of spring, 
plucked from under the vanishing snows. So beauti- 
ful her face, so heavenly its expression, that Waring, 
as he took her hand, felt his eyes grow dim, and he 
 
vowed to himself to cherish her with tenderest love 
forever. 
"We are gathered together here in the sight of 
God," began the Preacher solemnly; and old Fog, 
standing behind, shrank into the shadow, and bowed 
his head upon his hands. But when the demand 
came, " Who giveth this woman to be married to this 
man ? " he stepped forward, and gave away his child 
without a tear, nay, with even a smile on his brave 
old face. 
" To love, cherish, and to obey," repeated Silver in 
her clear sweet voice. 
And then Waring placed upon her finger the little 
ring he himself had carved out of wood. " It shall 
never be changed," he said, "but coated over with 
heavy gold, just as it is." 
Old Orange, radiant with happiness, stood near, and 
served as a foil for the bridal white. 
It was over ; but they were not to start until noon. 
Fog put the Preacher almost forcibly into the boat 
and sailed away with him, blindfolded and lamenting. 
"The wedding feast," he cried, "and the punch! 
You are a fine host, old gentleman." 
. "Everything is here, packed in those baskets. I 
have even given you two fine dogs. And there is 
your fee. I shall take you in sight of the Beavers, 
and then put you into the skiff and leave you to row 
over alone. The weather is fine, you can reach there 
to-morrow." 
 
Remonstrance died away before the bag of money; 
old Fog had given his all for his darling's marriage- 
fee. " I shall have no further use for it," he thought, 
mechanically. 
So the little blanket-man paddled away in his skiff 
with his share of the wedding-feast beside him; the 
two dogs went with him, and became good Mormons. 
Old Fog returned in the sail-boat through the chan- 
nels, and fastened the sedge-gate open for the out- 
going craft. Silver, timid and happy, stood on the 
balcony as he approached the castle. 
"It is time to start," said the impatient bride- 
groom. " How long you have been, Fog ! " 
The old man made no answer, but busied himself 
arranging the boat ; the voyage to Mackinac would 
last two or three days, and he had provided every 
possible comfort for their little camps on shore. 
" Come," said Waring, from below. 
Then the father went up to say good by. Silver 
flung her arms around his neck and burst into tears. 
" Father, father," she sobbed, " must I leave you ? 
father, father!" 
He soothed her gently; but something in the ex- 
pression of his calm, pallid face touched the deeper 
feelings of the wakening woman, and she clung to 
him desperately, realizing, perhaps, at this last mo- 
ment, how great was his love for her, how great 
his desolation. Waring had joined them on the bal- 
cony. He bore with her awhile and tried to calm 
her grief, but the girl turned from him and clung to 
the old man; it was as though she saw at last how 
she had robbed him. " I cannot leave him thus," she 
sobbed ; " father, father ! " 
Then Waring struck at the root of the difficulty. 
(Forgive him ; he was hurt to the core.) " But he 
is not your father," he said, " he has no claim upon 
you. I am your husband now, Silver, and you must 
come with me; do you not wish to come with me, 
darling?" he added, his voice sinking into fondness. 
"Not my father!" said the girl. Her arms fell, 
and she stood as if petrified. 
" No, dear ; he is right. I am not your father," 
said old Fog, gently. A spasm passed over his fea- 
tures, he kissed her hastily, and gave her into her 
husband's arms. In another moment they were afloat, 
in two the sail filled and the boat glided away. The 
old man stood on the castle roof, smiling and wav- 
ing his hand ; below, Orange fluttered her red hand- 
kerchief from the balcony, and blessed her darling 
with African mummeries. The point was soon round- 
ed, the boat gone. 
That night, when the soft spring moonlight lay 
over the water, a sail came gliding back to the cas- 
tle, and a shape flew up the ladder ; it was the bride 
of the morning. 
 
"O father, father, I could not leave you so, I 
made him bring me back, if only for a few days! 
father, father ! for you are my father, the only fa- 
ther I can ever know, and so kind and good ! " 
In the gloom she knelt by his bedside, and her 
arms were around his neck. Waring came in after- 
wards, silent and annoyed, yet not unkind. He 
stirred the dying brands into a flame. 
" What is this ? " he said, starting, as the light fell 
across the pillow. 
"It is nothing," replied Fog, and his voice sound- 
ed far away; "I am an old man, children, and all 
is well." 
They watched him through the dawning, through 
the lovely day, through the sunset, Waring repent- 
ant, Silver absorbed in his every breath; she lav- 
ished upon him now all the wealth of love her 
unconscious years had gathered. Orange seemed to 
agree with her master that all was well. She came 
and went, but not sadly, and crooned to herself some 
strange African tune that rose and fell more like a 
chant of triumph than a dirge. She was doing her 
part, according to her light, to ease the going of the 
soul out of this world. 
Grayer grew the worn face, fainter the voice, 
colder the shrivelled old hands in the girl's fond 
clasp. 
"O Jarvis, Jarvis, what is this?" she murmured, 
fearfully. 
 
"Waring came to her side and put his strong arm 
around her. " My little wife," he said, " this is Death. 
But do not fear." 
And then he told her the story of the Cross; and, 
as it came to her a revelation, so, in the telling, it 
became to him, for the first time, a belief. 
Old Fog told them to bury him out in deep water, 
as he had buried the others; and then he lay placid, 
a great happiness shining in his eyes. 
"It is well," he said, "and God i very good to 
me. Life would have been hard without you, dar- 
ling. Something seemed to give way when you said 
good by; but now that I am called, it is sweet to 
know that you are happy, and sweeter still to think 
that you came back to me at the last. Be kind to 
her, Waring. I know you love her; but guard her 
tenderly, she is but frail. I die content, my child, 
quite content ; do not grieve for me." 
Then, as the light faded from his eyes, he folded 
his hands. " Is it expiated, God ? Is it expiated ? " 
he murmured. 
There was no answer for him on earth. 
They buried him as he had directed, and then they 
sailed away, taking the old black with them. The 
castle was left alone ; the flowers bloomed on through 
the summer, and the rooms held the old furniture 
bravely through the long winter. But gradually the 
 
walls fell in, and the water entered. The fogs still 
steal across the lake, and wave their gray draperies 
up into the northern curve ; but the sedge - gate is 
gone, and the castle is indeed Nowhere. 
IN November, 1850, a little mining settlement 
stood forlornly on the shore of Lake Superior. 
A log-dock ran out into the dark water; a roughly 
built furnace threw a glare against, the dark sky ; 
several stamping-mills kept up their monotonous 
tramping day and night; and evil-minded saloons 
beset the steps on all sides. Back into the pine 
forest ran the white-sand road leading to the mine, 
and on the right were clustered the houses, which 
were scarcely better than shanties, although adorned 
with sidling* porches and sham -windowed fronts. 
Winter begins early in these high latitudes. Navi- 
gation was still open, for a scow with patched sails 
was coming slowly up the bay ; but the air was cold, 
and the light snow of the preceding night clung un- 
melted on the north side of the trees. The pine 
forest had been burned away to make room for the 
village ; blackened stumps rose everywhere in the 
weedy streets, and, on the outskirts of the clearing, 
grew iiito tall skeletons, bleached white without, but 
 
black and charred within, a desolate framing for a 
desolate picture. Everything was bare, jagged, and 
unfinished ; each poor house showed hasty make- 
shifts, no doors latched, no windows fitted. Pigs 
were the principal pedestrians. At four o'clock this 
cold November afternoon, the saloons, with their pine 
fires and red curtains, were by far the most cheer- 
ful spots in the landscape, and their ruddy invita- 
tions to perdition were not counterbalanced by a 
single opposing gleam, until the Eev. Herman Peters 
prepared his chapel for vespers. 
Herman "Warriner Peters was a slender little man, 
whose blue eyes, fair hair, and unbearded face misled 
the observer into the idea of extreme youth. There 
was a boyishness in his air, or, rather, lack of air, 
and a nervous timidity in his manner, which stamped 
him as a person of no importance, one of those 
men who, not of sufficient consequence to be dis- 
liked, are simply ignored by a well-bred world, which 
pardons anything rather than insignificance. And if 
ignored by a well-bred world, what by an ill-bred ? 
Society at Algonquin was worse than ill-bred, inasmuch 
as it had never been bred at all. Like all mining 
settlements, it esteemed physical strength the highest 
good, and next to that an undaunted demeanor and 
flowing vocabulary, designated admiringly as " pow- 
erful sassy." Accordingly it made unlimited fun 
of the Eev. Herman "Warriner Peters, and derived 
 
much enjoyment from calling him "Peter," pretend- 
ing to think it was his real name, and solemnly per- 
sisting in the mistake in spite of all the painstaking 
corrections of the unsuspecting little man. 
The Eev. Herman wrapped himself in his thin 
old cloak and twisted a comforter around his little 
throat, as the clock warned him of the hour. He 
was not leaving much comfort behind him ; the room 
was dreary and bare, without carpet, fire, or easy- 
chair. A cot-bed, which sagged hopelessly, a wash- 
bowl set on a dry-goods box, flanked by a piece of 
bar- soap and a crash towel, a few pegs on the cracked 
wall, one wooden chair and his own little trunk, 
completed the furniture. The Eev. Herman boarded 
with Mrs. Malone, and ate her streaked biscuit and 
fried meat without complaint. The woman could rise 
to yeast and a gridiron when the surveyors visited 
Algonquin, or when the directors of the iron com- 
pany came up in the summer; but the streaked bis- 
cuit and fried steak were " good enough for the little 
parson, bless 'him !" 
There were some things in the room, however, 
other than furniture, namely, a shelf full of religious 
books, a large and appalling picture of the crucifix- 
ion, and a cross six feet in height, roughly made of 
pine saplings, and fixed to the floor in a wooden 
block. There was also a small colored picture, with 
the words "Santa Margarita" inscribed beneath. The 
 
picture stood on a bracket fashioned of shingles, and 
below it hung a poor little vase filled with the last 
colored leaves. 
"Ye only want the Howly Vargin now, to be all 
right, yer riverence," said Mrs. Malone, who was, in 
name at least, a Eoman Catholic. 
" All honor and affection are, no doubt, due to the 
Holy Mary," answered the Eev. Herman, nervous- 
ly; "but the Anglican Church does not at pres- 
ent allow her claim to to adoration." And he 
sighed. 
"Why don't yer jest come right out now, and be 
a rale Catholic ? " said Mrs. Malone, with a touch of 
sympathy. " You 're next door to it, and it 's aisy 
to see yer ain't happy in yer mind. If yer was a 
rale praste, now, with the coat and all, 'stead of be- 
ing a make-believe, the boys ud respect yer more, 
and wouldn't notice yer soize so much. Or yer 
might go back to the cities (for I don't deny they 
do loike a big fist up here), and loikely enough yer 
could find aisy work there that ud suit yer." 
"I like hard work, Mrs. Malone," said the little 
parson. 
"But you're not fit for it, sir. You'll niver get 
on here if yer stay till judgment day. Why, yer ain't 
got ten people, all told, belongin' to yer chapel, and 
you 're here a year already ! " 
The Eev. Herman sighed again, but made no an- 
 
swer. He sighed now as he left his cold room and 
stepped out into the cold street. The wind blew as 
he made his way along between the stumps, carefully 
going round the pigs, who had selected the best places 
for their siestas. He held down his comforter with 
one bare hand; the other clutched the end of a row 
of books, which filled his thin arm from the shoulder 
down. He limped as he walked. An ankle had been 
cruelly injured some months previously; the wound 
had healed, but he was left permanently and awkward- 
ly lame. At the time, the dastardly injury had roused 
a deep bitterness in the parson's heart, for grace and 
activity had been his one poor little bodily gift, his 
one small pride. The activity had returned, not the 
grace. But he had learned to limp bravely along, and 
the bitterness had passed away. 
Lights shone comfortably from the Pine-Cone Saloon 
as he passed. 
"Hallo! Here's Peter the Parson," sang out a 
miner, standing at the door; and forth streamed all 
the loungers to look at him. 
" Say, Peter, come in and have a drop to warm yer," 
said one. 
"Look at his poor little ribs, will yer?" said an- 
other, as his cloak blew out like a sail. 
" Let him alone ! He 's going to have his preach- 
ing all to himself, as usual," said a third. "Them 
books is all the congregation he can get, poor little 
chap ! " 
 
The parson's sensitive ears heard every word. He 
quickened his steps, and, with his usual nervous awk- 
wardness, stumbled and fell, dropping all the books, 
amid the jeering applause of the bystanders. Silently 
he rose and began collecting his load, the wind every 
now and then blowing his cloak over his head as he 
stooped, and his difficulties increased by the occasional 
gift of a potato full in the breast, and a flood of 
witty commentaries from the laughing group at the 
saloon door. As he picked up the last volume and 
turned away, a missile, deftly aimed, took off his 
hat, and sent it over a fence into a neighboring field. 
The parson hesitated ; but as a small boy had already 
given chase, not to bring it back, but to send it fur- 
ther away, he abandoned the hat, his only one, 
and walked on among the stumps bareheaded, his 
thin hair blown about by the raw wind, and his blue 
eyes reddened with cold and grief. 
The Episcopal Church of St. John and St. James 
was a rough little building, with recess-chancel, ill- 
set Gothic windows, and a half-finished tower. It 
owed its existence to the zeal of a director's wife, 
who herself embroidered its altar-cloth and book- 
marks, and sent thither the artificial flowers and 
candles which she dared not suggest at home ; the 
poor Indians, at least, should not be deprived of 
them! The director's wife died, but left by will a 
pittance of two hundred dollars per annum towards 
 
the rector's salary. In her fancy she saw Algonquin 
a thriving town, whose inhabitants believed in the 
Anglican succession, and sent their children to Sun- 
day school. In reality, Algonquin remained a lawless 
mining settlement, whose inhabitants believed in 
nothing, and whose children hardly knew what Sun- 
day meant, unless it was more whiskey than usual 
The two hundred dollars and the chapel, however, 
remained fixed facts ; and the Eastern directors, there- 
fore, ordered a picturesque church to be delineated on 
their circulars, and themselves constituted a non- 
resident vestry. One or two young missionaries had 
already tried the field, failed, and gone away ; but the 
present incumbent, who had equally tried and equally 
failed, remained. 
On this occasion he unlocked the door and entered 
the little sanctuary. It was cold and dark, but he 
made no fire, for there was neither stove nor hearth. 
Lighting two candles, one for the congregation and 
one for himself, he distributed the books among 
the benches and the chancel, and dusted carefully 
the little altar, with its faded embroideries and flow- 
ers. Then he retired into the shed which served as 
a vestry-room, and in a few minutes issued forth, 
clad in his robes of office, and knelt at the chancel 
rail. There was no bell to summon the congregation, 
and no congregation to summon ; but still he began 
in his clear voice, "Dearly beloved brethren," and 
 
continued on unwavering through the Confession, the 
Absolution, and the Psalms, leaving a silence for the 
corresponding responses, and devoutly beginning the 
first lesson. In the midst of "Zephaniah" there was 
a slight noise at the door and a step sounded over 
the rough floor. The solitary reader did not raise 
his eyes; and, the lesson over, he bravely lifted up 
his mild tenor in the chant, "It is a good thing to 
give thanks unto the Lord, and to sing praises unto 
thy name, Most Highest." A girl's voice took up 
the air; the mild tenor dropped into its own part, 
and the two continued the service in a duet, spoken 
and sung, to its close. Then the minister retired, 
with his candle, to the shed, and, hanging up his 
surplice, patiently waited, pacing to and fro in the 
cold. Patiently waited; and for what? For the 
going away of the only friend he had in Algonquin. 
The congregation lingered; its shawl must be re- 
fastened; indeed, it must be entirely refolded. Its 
hat must be retied, and the ribbons carefully smoothed. 
Still there was no sound from the vestry-room. It 
collected all the prayer-books, and piled them near 
the candle, making a separate journey for each little 
volume. Still no one. At last, with lingering step 
and backward glance, slowly it departed and carried 
its disappointed face homeward. Then Peter the Par- 
son issued forth, lifted the careful pile of books with 
tender hand, and, extinguishing the lights, went out 
 
bareheaded into the darkness. The vesper service 
of St. John and St. James was over. 
After a hot, unwholesome supper the minister re- 
turned to his room and tried to. read; but the candle 
flickered, the cold seemed to blur the book, and he 
found himself gazing at the words without taking in 
their sense. Then he began to read aloud, slowly 
walking up and down, and carrying the candle to 
light the page ; but through all the learned sentences 
there still crept to the surface the miserable con- 
sciousness of bodily cold. "And mental, too, Heaven 
help me ! " he thought. " But I cannot afford a fire 
at this season, and, indeed, it ought not to be neces- 
sary. This delicacy must be subdued ; I will go out 
and walk." Putting on his cloak and comforter, (O, 
deceitful name !) he remembered that he had no hat. 
Would his slender store of money allow a new one? 
Unlocking his trunk, he drew out a thin purse hidden 
away among his few carefully folded clothes, the 
poor trunk was but half full, and counted its con- 
tents. The sum was pitifully small, and it must yet 
last many weeks. But a hat was necessary, whereas 
a fire was a mere luxury. "I must harden myself," 
thought the little parson, sternly, as he caught him- 
self shuddering with the cold; "this evil tendency 
