"It'll be good for your stomach. However, I won't give you much."
He poured out a little in one tumbler for Sam and a considerably
larger amount for himself.
"Your health," he said, nodding.
"Thank you," said Sam,
Sam tasted the whiskey, but the taste did not please him. He set down
the glass, but his host drained his at a draught.
"Don't you like it?" asked Brown.
"Not very much."
"Don't you care to drink it?"
"I guess not."
"It's a pity it should be wasted."
To prevent this, Mr. Brown emptied Sam's glass also.
"Now, if you are not sleepy, we might have a game of cards," suggested
Brown.
"I think I'd rather go to bed," said Sam, yawning.
"All right! Go to bed any time. I dare say you are tired. Do you go to
sleep easily?"
"In a jiffy."
"Then you won't mind my absence. I've got to make a call on a sick
friend, but I shan't be out late. Just make yourself at home, go to
sleep, and you'll see me in the morning."
"Thank you, sir."
"Don't bolt the door, as I don't want to wake you up when I come in."
"All right."
Again Mr. Brown went out, and Sam undressed and got into bed. It was
not very comfortable, and the solitary sheet looked as if it had not
been changed for three months or more. However, Sam was not
fastidious, and he was sleepy. So he closed his eyes, and was soon in
the land of dreams.
It was about two hours afterward that Clarence Brown entered the room.
He walked on tiptoe to the bed, and looked at Sam.
"He's fast asleep," he said to himself. "Did he undress? Oh, yes, here
are his clothes. I'll take the liberty of examining his pockets, to
see whether my trouble is likely to be rewarded."
Brown explored one pocket after the other. He found no pocket-book,
for Sam did not possess any. In fact he had never felt the need of one
until he appropriated the deacon's money. The balance of this was
tucked away in his vest-pocket.
"Six dollars and ten cents," said Brown, after counting it. "It isn't
much of a haul, that's a fact. I thought he had twice as much, at the
least. Still," he added philosophically, "it's better than nothing. I
shall find a use for it without doubt."
He tucked the money away in his own pocket, and sat on the edge of the
bedstead in meditation.
"I may as well go to bed," he reflected. "He won't find out his loss
in the night, and in the morning I can be off before he is up. Even if
I oversleep myself, I can brazen it out. He's only a green country
boy. Probably he won't suspect me, and if he does he can prove
nothing."
He did not undress, but lay down on the bed dressed as he was. He,
too, was soon asleep, and Sam, unconscious of his loss, slept on. So
the money was doubly stolen, and the first thief suffered at the hands
of a more experienced thief.
The sun had been up nearly three hours the next morning before
Clarence Brown awoke. As he opened his eyes, his glance fell on Sam
still asleep, and the events of the evening previous came to his
mind.
"I must be up, and out of this," he thought, "before the young
greenhorn wakes up."
Being already dressed, with the exception of his coat, he had little
to do beyond rising. He crept out of the room on tiptoe, and, making
his way to a restaurant at a safe distance, sat down and ordered a
good breakfast at Sam's expense.
Meanwhile Sam slept on for half an hour more.
Finally he opened his eyes, and, oblivious of his changed
circumstances, was surprised that he had not been called earlier. But
a single glance about the shabby room recalled to his memory that he
was now beyond the deacon's jurisdiction.
"I am in New York," he reflected, with a thrill of joy. "But where is
Mr. Brown?"
He looked in vain for his companion, but no suspicion was excited in
his mind.
"He didn't want to wake me up," he thought. "I suppose he has gone to
his business."
He stretched himself, and lay a little longer. It was a pleasant
thought that there was no stern taskmaster to force him up. He might
lie as long as he wanted to, till noon, if he chose. Perhaps he might
have chosen, but the claims of a healthy appetite asserted themselves,
and Sam sprang out of bed.
"I'll have a good breakfast," he said to himself, "and then I must
look around and see if I can't find something to do; my money will
soon be out."
It was natural that he should have felt for his money, at that moment,
but he did not. No suspicion of Mr. Brown's integrity had entered his
mind. You see Sam was very unsophisticated at that time, and, though
he had himself committed a theft, he did not suspect the honesty of
others.
"I suppose I shall have to go without thanking Mr. Brown, as he don't
seem to be here," he reflected. "Perhaps I shall see him somewhere
about the streets. I've saved a dollar anyway, or at least
seventy-five cents," he added, thinking of the quarter he had lent his
hospitable entertainer the evening before. "Perhaps he'll let me sleep
here again to-night. It'll be a help to me, as long as I haven't got
anything to do yet."
Still Sam did not feel for his money, and was happily unconscious of
his loss.
He opened his door, and found his way downstairs into the street
without difficulty. The halls and staircases looked even more dingy
and shabby in the daytime than they had done in the evening. "It isn't
a very nice place to live," thought Sam. "However, I suppose Mr. Brown
will be rich when his uncle dies. I wish he was rich now; he might
give me a place."
"Shine yer boots?" asked a small knight of the brush.
"No," said Sam, who had grown economical; "they don't need it."
He walked on for five minutes or more. Presently he came to an
eating-house. He knew it by the printed bills of fare which were
placarded outside.
"Now, I'll have some breakfast," he thought, with satisfaction, and he
entered confidently.
CHAPTER XIV.
BOUNCED!
Sam sat down at a table, and took up the bill of fare. A colored
waiter stood by, and awaited his orders.
"Bring me a plate of beefsteak, a cup of coffee, and some
tea-biscuit," said Sam, with the air of a man of fortune.
"All right, sir," said the waiter.
"After all, it's pleasant living in New York," thought Sam, as he
leaned back in his chair, and awaited in pleasant anticipation the
fulfilment of his order. "It's different from livin' at the deacon's.
Here a feller can be independent."
"As long as he has money," Sam should have added; but, like some
business men, he was not aware of his present insolvency. Ignorance is
bliss, sometimes; and it is doubtful whether our hero would have eaten
his breakfast with as good a relish when it came, if he had known that
he had not a cent in his pocket.
Sam was soon served, and he soon made way with the articles he had
ordered. You can't get a very liberal supply of beefsteak for fifteen
cents, which was what Sam was charged for his meat. He felt hungry
still, after he had eaten what was set before him. So he took the bill
of fare once more, and pored over its well-filled columns.
"They must have a tremendous big kitchen to cook so many things," he
thought. "Why, there are as many as a hundred. Let me see--here's
buckwheat cakes, ten cents. I guess I'll have some."
"Anything more, sir?" asked the waiter, approaching to clear away the
dirty dishes.
"Buckwheat cakes, and another cup of coffee," ordered Sam.
"All right, sir."
"They treat me respectful, here," thought Sam. "What would the deacon
say to hear me called sir? I like it. Folks have better manners in the
city than in the country."
This was rather a hasty conclusion on the part of Sam, and it was not
long before he had occasion enough to change his mind.
He ate the buckwheat cakes with a relish, and felt tolerably
satisfied.
"Anything more, sir?" asked the waiter.
Sam was about to say no, when his eye rested on that portion of the
bill devoted to pastry, and he changed his mind.
"Bring me a piece of mince-pie," he said.
Sam was sensible that he was ordering breakfast beyond his means, but
he vaguely resolved that he would content himself with a small dinner.
He really could not resist the temptation of the pie.
At last it was eaten, and the waiter brought him a ticket, bearing the
price of his breakfast, fifty cents. Now, for the first time, he felt
in his vest-pocket for his money. He felt in vain. Still he did not
suspect his loss.
"I thought I put it in my vest-pocket," he said to himself. "I guess I
made a mistake, and put it in some other."
He felt in another pocket, and still another, till he had explored
every pocket he possessed, and still no money.
Sam turned pale, and his heart gave a sudden thump, as the extent of
his misfortune dawned upon him. It was not alone that he was without
money in a strange city, but he had eaten rather a hearty breakfast,
which he was unable to pay for. What would they think of him? What
would they do to him? He saw it all now. That specious stranger,
Clarence Brown, had robbed him in his sleep. That was why he had
invited him to spend the night in his room without charge. That was
why he had got up so early and stolen out without his knowledge, after
he had purloined all his money.
Sam was not particularly bashful; but he certainly felt something like
it, as he walked up to the cashier's desk. A man stood behind it,
rather stout, and on the whole not benevolent in his looks. There was
no softness about his keen business face. Sam inferred with a sinking
heart that he was not a man likely to sympathize with him in his
misfortunes, or seem to give credence to them.
Sam stood at the counter waiting while the proprietor was making
change for another customer. He was considering what he could best say
to propitiate his creditor.
"Now, then," said the man behind the counter, a little impatiently,
for another had come up behind Sam, "where's your ticket?"
"Here, sir," said Sam, laying it on the counter.
"Fifty cents. Pay quick, and don't keep me waiting."
"I am very sorry, sir," Sam began, faltering, "but--"
"But what!" exclaimed the proprietor, with an ominous scowl.
"I can't pay you now."
"Can't pay me now!" repeated the other, angrily; "what do you mean?"
"I've lost my money," said Sam, feeling more and more uncomfortable.
By this time the patience of the restaurant-keeper was quite gone.
"What business had you to come in here and order an expensive
breakfast when you had no money?" he demanded, furiously.
"I thought I had some money," said Sam, fervently wishing himself back
at the deacon's for the first time since his arrival in the city.
"How could you think you had some when you hadn't any?"
"I had some last night," said Sam, eagerly; "but I slept in Mr.
Brown's room, and he must have robbed me in the night."
"That's a likely story!" sneered the proprietor. "What do you think of
it, Mr. Jones?" he asked, turning to a customer, whom he knew by
name.
Mr. Jones shrugged his shoulders.
"Too thin!" he replied, briefly.
"Of course it is," said the proprietor, angrily. "This boy's evidently
a beat."
"A what?" inquired Sam, who had not been in the city long enough to
understand the meaning of the term.
"A dead beat; but you don't play any of your games on me, young man.
I've cut my eye-teeth, I have. You don't swindle me out of a
fifty-cent breakfast quite so easily. Here, John, call a policeman."
"Oh, don't call a policeman!" exclaimed Sam, terror-stricken. "It's
true, every word I've told you. I'm from the country. I only got to
the city yesterday, and I've been robbed of all my money, over six
dollars. I hope you'll believe me."
"I don't believe a word you say," said the restaurant-keeper, harshly.
"You are trying to come it over me. I dare say you've been round the
streets half your life."
"I think you are wrong, Mr. Chucks," said another customer, who was
waiting to pay his bill. "He's got a country look about him. He don't
look like one of the regular street boys. Better let him go. I
wouldn't call a policeman."
"I ought to," grumbled the proprietor. "Fancy his impudence in
ordering a fifty-cent breakfast, when he hadn't a cent to pay his
bill."
"I wouldn't have come in, if I had known," said Sam.
"Don't tell me," said the man, sharply, "for I don't believe it. Do
you think I can afford to give you breakfast for nothing?"
"I'll pay you as soon as I get some money," said Sam. "Only don't send
me to prison."
"I won't give you in charge this time, though I ought to; but I'll
give you something to settle your breakfast. Here, Peter, you waited
on this young man, didn't you?"
"Yes, sir."
"He hasn't paid for his breakfast, and pretends he hasn't got any
money. Bounce him!"
If Sam was ignorant of the meaning of the word "bounce," he was soon
enlightened. The waiter seized him by the collar, before he knew what
was going to happen, pushed him to the door, and then, lifting his
foot by a well-directed kick, landed him across the sidewalk into the
street.
This proceeding was followed by derisive laughter from the other
waiters who had gathered near the door, and it was echoed by two
street urchins outside, who witnessed Sam's ignominious exit from the
restaurant.
Sam staggered from the force of the bouncing, and felt disgraced and
humiliated to think that the waiter who had been so respectful and
attentive should have inflicted upon him such an indignity, which he
had no power to resent.
"I wish I was back at the deacon's," he thought bitterly.
"How do you feel?" asked one of the boys who had witnessed Sam's
humiliation, not sympathetically, but in a tone of mockery.
"None of your business!" retorted Sam, savagely.
"He feels bad, Mickey," said the other. "He's heard bad news, and
that's what made him in such a hurry."
Here both the boys laughed, and Sam retorted angrily, "I'll make you
feel bad, if you aint careful."
"Hear him talk, Mickey,--aint he smart?"
"I'll make you both smart," said Sam, beginning to roll up his
sleeves; for he was no coward, and the boys were only about his own
size.
"He wants to bounce us, like he was bounced himself," said Pat Riley.
"How did it feel, Johnny?"
Sam gave chase, but his tormentors were better acquainted with the
city than he, and he did not succeed in catching them. Finally he gave
it up, and, sitting down on a convenient door-step, gave himself up to
melancholy reflections.
CHAPTER XV.
ANY WAY TO MAKE A LIVING.
Boys who have a good home are apt to undervalue it. They do not
realize the comfort of having their daily wants provided for without
any anxiety on their part. They are apt to fancy that they would like
to go out into the great world to seek their fortunes. Sometimes it
may be necessary and expedient to leave the safe anchorage of home,
and brave the dangers of the unknown sea; but no boy should do this
without his parents' consent, nor then, without making up his mind
that he will need all his courage and all his resolution to obtain
success.
Sam found himself penniless in a great city, and with no way open,
that he could think of, to earn money. Even the business of the
boot-black, humble as it is, required a small capital to buy a brush
and box of blacking. So, too, a newsboy must pay for his papers when
he gets them, unless he is well known. So Sam, sitting on the
door-step, felt that he was in a tight place. Where was he to get his
dinner from? He did not care to repeat his operation of the morning,
for it was not pleasant to be "bounced."
"I wonder if I couldn't get a chance in a store," he thought. "That
wouldn't need any money. There seems to be a lot of stores in the
city. I guess there must be a place for me somewhere."
This thought encouraged Sam. He rose from his lowly seat, and
determined to look about for a place. Presently he came to a
real-estate office. Sam did not understand very well what kind of a
business that was, but on the window a piece of paper was pasted, on
which was written, "A Boy Wanted."
"I guess I'll go in," thought Sam. "Maybe they'll take me."
There were three boys ahead of him; but they were not very
eligible-looking specimens. So they were dismissed with small
ceremony, and Sam was beckoned to the desk.
"I suppose you have come about the place," said a man with black
whiskers, and a pen behind his ear.
"Yes," answered Sam.
"How old are you?"
"Twelve."
"Rather young. Still you are large of your age."
"I am pretty strong," said Sam, anxious to succeed in his
application.
"There isn't any work to be done that requires strength," said the
black-whiskered man. "How is your education?"
"Pretty good," said Sam, with hesitation.
"Do you live in the city?"
"Yes, sir."
"With your parents?"
"No, sir. They are dead."
"That is an objection. Perhaps, however, you live with an aunt or
uncle. That will answer as well."
"Yes," said Sam, determined to obviate this objection. "I live with my
uncle."
"Where does he live?"
"In New York," answered Sam.
"Don't you understand me? I mean to ask the street and number."
Sam was posed. He could not at the moment think of the name of any
street except Broadway. But it would not do to hesitate. So he said
promptly, "He lives at No. 656 Broadway."
"What is his business?" inquired the black-whiskered man.
"He keeps a store," answered Sam, feeling that he was getting deeper
and deeper into the mire.
"What sort of a store?"
"A grocery store."
"What, at 656 Broadway?" demanded the other, in surprise. "I didn't
know there was a grocery store in that neighborhood."
"Oh, murder!" thought Sam. "I'm found out."
He made no answer, because he could not think of any.
"Why don't your father give you a place in his own store?" asked the
real-estate agent, with some suspicion in his tone.
"He's got all the help he wants," said Sam, quickly.
Here another boy entered the office, a boy neatly dressed, and
intelligent in appearance.
"Sit down a moment," said the agent to Sam, "while I speak with this
other lad."
Sam took a seat, and listened to the conversation with the other boy.
The conclusion of the matter was, that the other boy was engaged and
Sam was obliged to go out to offer his services in some other
quarter.
"What a lot of lies I had to tell!" he reflected. "What's the use of
their asking so many questions? I don't see. I'll have to try
somewhere else."
As Sam was sauntering along he was accosted by a tall man, evidently
from the country.
"Boy, can you direct me to the 'Tribune' office?"
"Yes, sir," said Sam, "but it's some ways from here. It'll be worth
ten cents to lead you there."
The gentleman hesitated.
"Well," he said after a pause, "I'll give it to you."
"Will you give it to me now?" asked Sam.
"I will pay you when you have done your work."
"The reason I asked was, because I showed a man the other day, and
then he wouldn't pay me."
"That was mean," said the stranger. "I hope you don't think I would
serve you so."
"Oh, no, sir. You're a gentleman," said Sam. "You wouldn't cheat a
poor boy that hasn't had any breakfast this mornin'."
"Dear me! you don't say so?" ejaculated the compassionate stranger,
shocked at Sam's fiction. "Here, take this twenty-five cents. Do you
often have to go without your breakfast?"
"Often, sir," said Sam, unblushingly. "It's hard times for poor boys
like me."
"There's another quarter," said the stranger, his compassion still
more deeply moved.
Sam did feel some compunction now, for he was about to make a very
poor return for the kindness of his new acquaintance. The fact was, he
had not the slightest idea where the "Tribune" office was, and he had
therefore undertaken what he was unable to perform. But he had gone
too far to recede. Besides, he did not feel prepared to give up the
money which he had obtained through false pretences. So counterfeiting
a confidence which he did not feel he led the way up Centre street,
saying, "This way, sir. I'll lead you right to the office."
"I never was at the office," said the stranger, "though I've been a
subscriber to the weekly 'Tribune' for ten years."
"That's a good while," said Sam.
"It is indeed, my boy. I live in Illinois, more than a thousand miles
from this city. Indeed, I have never been in New York before."
"Haven't you?"
"No; now you, I suppose, my young friend, know your way all about the
city."
"Of course I do," said Sam, in an off-hand manner.
"If I had more time, I would get you to guide me round the city," said
the stranger.
"Wouldn't I lead you a wild-goose chase, old gentleman?" thought Sam.
"You'd be pretty well taken in, I guess."
"I am obliged to go away to-night," continued the old gentleman, "but
I thought I would renew my subscription to the 'Tribune' before I
went."
"All right, sir; it's a nice paper," said Sam, who had never read a
line in the "Tribune."
"So I think. Are we almost at the office?"
"Almost," said Sam. "If you don't mind waiting I'll run over and speak
to my cousin a minute."
There was a boot-black on the opposite side of the street. It struck
Sam, who did not like to deceive so generous a patron, that he could
obtain the information he needed of this boy.
"Can you tell me where the 'Tribune' office is?" he asked hurriedly.
The boot-black had no more scruples about lying than Sam, and
answered, glibly, pointing to the Tombs prison, a little farther on,
"Do you see that big stone buildin'?"
"Yes," said Sam.
"That's it."
"Thank you," said Sam, feeling relieved, and never doubting the
correctness of this statement.
He returned to the stranger, and said, cheerfully, "We're almost
there."
"Is that boy your cousin?" asked his acquaintance.
"Yes," said Sam.
"He blacks boots for a living."
"Yes, sir."
"Does he do well at it?"
"Pretty well."
"Did you ever black boots?"
"No, sir," answered Sam, telling the truth by way of variety.
"That's the Tribune office," said Sam, a moment later, pointing to the
gloomy-looking prison.
"Is it?" echoed the stranger, in surprise. "Really, it's a very
massive structure."
"Yes," said Sam, mistaking the word employed, "it's very massy."
"It doesn't look much like a newspaper office."
For the first time Sam began to suspect that he had been deceived, and
he naturally felt in a hurry to get away.
"You go right in," he said, confidently, "and they'll attend to you
inside. Now I'll go and get some breakfast."
"To be sure. You must be hungry."
The stranger walked up the massive steps, and Sam hurried away.
"I wonder what place that is, anyhow," he said to himself. "Now I've
got money enough for dinner."
For a country boy Sam was getting along fast.
CHAPTER XVI.
SAM MEETS BROWN AND IS UNHAPPY,
Never doubting Sam's assurance, the stranger entered the gloomy
building, the lower part of which is divided into court-rooms. Out of
one of these a man came, to whom he addressed this question: "Where is
the counting-room?"
"The counting-room!" repeated the man, staring. "There isn't any here,
that I know of."
"I want to subscribe for the weekly edition," explained the man from
Illinois.
"It strikes me you're a weakly edition of a man yourself," thought the
other. "He must be a lunatic," was the next thought. "I may as well
humor him."
"Go in at that door," he said.
The stranger entered as directed, and at once recognized it as a
court-room.
"It is very singular that there should be a courtroom in the 'Tribune'
office," he thought. He took a seat, and whispered to a man at his
side: "Can you tell me where the 'Tribune' office is?"
"Printing-house Square," was the whispered reply.
"Where's that?"
"Not much over a quarter of a mile from here."
"The boy deceived me," thought the stranger indignantly, "and I gave
him fifty cents for doing it. He must be a young rascal."
"What building is this?" he asked, still in a whisper.
"The Tombs."
"What, the prison!"
"Yes; didn't you know it?" asked the informant, in surprise.
"I am a stranger in the city," said the Illinois man apologetically.
"Did you want to go to the 'Tribune' office?"
"Yes; I wished to subscribe for the paper."
"I am going that way. I will show you if you desire it."
"Thank you. I shall consider it a favor."
So the two retraced their steps, and this time our Illinois friend
found the office of which he was in quest. He came near finding Sam
also, for as he stood in front of French's Hotel, he saw his recent
acquaintance approaching, and quickly dodged inside the hotel till he
had passed. A boot-black to whom he had been speaking followed him in
surprise.
"I say, what's up, Johnny?" he asked. "Yer didn't see a copp, did
yer?"
"No, it's that man that just went by."
"Who's he?"
"He's the man I ran away from," said Sam, not caring to tell the
truth.
"What would he do if he should catch you?" asked the boot-black, with
curiosity.
"Lick me," said Sam, laconically.
"Then you did right. Is he going to stay here long?"
"No; he's going away to-day."
"Then you're safe. You'd better go the other way from him."
"So I will," said Sam. "Where's the Park I've heard so much about?"
"Up that way."
"Is it far?"
"Four or five miles."
"It's a long way to walk."
"You can ride for five cents."
"Can I?"
"Yes; just go over to the Astor House, and take the Sixth avenue cars,
and they'll take you there."
Sam had intended to spend his entire fifty cents in buying dinner when
the time came, but he thought he would like to see Central Park.
Besides, he would be safe from pursuit, and the punishment which he
felt he deserved. Following the directions of his boy friend, he
entered a Sixth avenue car, and in a little less than an hour was set
down at one of the gates of the Park. He entered with a number of
others, and followed the path that seemed most convenient, coming out
at last at the lake. Until now Sam had thought rather slightingly of
the Park. Green fields were no novelty to him, but he admired the lake
with the boats that plied over its surface filled with lively
passengers. He would have invested ten cents in a passage ticket; but
he felt that if he did this, he must sacrifice a part of his intended
dinner, and Sam was growing prudent. He wandered about the Park two or
three hours, sitting down at times on the benches that are to be found
here and there for the convenience of visitors. He felt ready to go
back; but it was only noon, and he was not sure but he might fall in
with the gentleman from Illinois, whom he had left at the entrance of
the Tombs.
He was destined to meet an acquaintance, but this time it was some one
that had cheated him. Looking up from the bench on which he was
seated, he saw his host of the preceding night, Mr. Clarence Brown,
lounging along, smoking a cigar, with a look of placid contentment on
his face.
"That cigar was bought with my money," thought Sam, bitterly; and in
this conclusion he was right.
Sam jumped from his seat, and advanced to meet his enemy.
"Look here, Mr. Brown!"
Clarence Brown started as he saw who addressed him, for he was far
from expecting to meet Sam here. He saw from the boy's looks that he
was suspected of robbing him, and decided upon his course.
"Oh, it's you, is it?" he said, smiling. "How do you like the Park?"
"Never mind about that," said Sam, impatiently. "I want my money."
Mr. Brown arched his eyes in surprise.
"Really, my young friend, I don't comprehend you," he said,
withdrawing his cigar from his mouth. "You speak as if I owed you some
money."
"Quit fooling!" said Sam, provoked at the other's coolness. "I want
that money you took from me while I was asleep last night."
"It strikes me you have been dreaming," said Brown, composedly. "I
don't know anything about your money. How much did you have?"
"Nearly seven dollars."
"Are you sure you had it when you went to bed?"
"Yes. I kept it in my vest-pocket."
"That was careless. You should have concealed it somewhere. I would
have kept it for you if you had asked me."
"I dare say you would," said Sam, with withering sarcasm.
"Certainly, I wouldn't refuse so small a favor."
"Are you sure you didn't keep it for me?" said Sam.
"How could I, when you didn't give it to me?" returned the other,
innocently.
"If you didn't take it," said Sam, rather staggered by the other's
manner, "where did it go to?"
"I don't know, of course; but I shouldn't be surprised if it fell out
of your vest-pocket among the bed-clothes. Did you look?"
"Yes."
"You might have overlooked it."
"Perhaps so," said Sam, thoughtfully.
He began to think he had suspected Mr. Brown unjustly. Otherwise, how
could he be so cool about it?
"I am really sorry for your loss," said Brown, in a tone of sympathy;
"all the more so, because I am hard up myself. I wish I had seven
dollars to lend you."
"I wish you had," muttered Sam. "I can't get along without money."
"Did you have any breakfast?"
"Yes."
Sam did not furnish particulars, not liking to acknowledge the
treatment he had received.
"Oh, you'll get along," said Brown, cheerfully. "Come and lodge with
me again to-night."
"I don't know but what I will," said Sam, reflecting that he had no
money to lose now, as he intended to spend all he had for dinner.
"Sit down and let us have a friendly chat," said Clarence Brown.
"Won't you have a cigar? I've got an extra one."
"I never smoked," said Sam.
"Then it's time you learned. Shall I show you how?"
"Yes," said Sam.
The fact is, our very badly behaved hero had long cherished a desire
to see how it seemed to smoke a cigar; but in the country he had never
had the opportunity. In the city he was master of his own actions, and
it occurred to him that he would never have a better opportunity.
Hence his affirmative answer.
Clarence Brown smiled slightly to himself, for he anticipated fun. He
produced the cigar, lighted it by his own, and gave Sam directions how
to smoke. Sam proved an apt pupil, and was soon puffing away with
conscious pride. He felt himself several years older. But all at once
he turned pale, and drew the cigar from his mouth.
"What's the matter?" asked Brown, demurely.
"I--don't--know," gasped Sam, his eyes rolling; "I--feel--sick."
"Do you? Don't mind it; it'll pass off."
"I think I'm going to die," said Sam, in a hollow voice. "Does smoking
ever kill people?"
"Not often," said Brown, soothingly.
"I think it's goin' to kill me," said Sam, mournfully.
"Lie down on the bench. You'll feel better soon."
Sam lay down on his back, and again he wished himself safely back at
the deacon's. New York seemed to him a very dreadful place. His head
ached; his stomach was out of tune, and he felt very unhappy.
"Lie here a little while, and you'll feel better," said his companion.
"I'll be back soon."
He walked away to indulge in a laugh at his victim's expense, and Sam
was left alone.
CHAPTER XVII.
TIM BRADY.
An hour passed, and Clarence Brown did not reappear. He had intended
to do so, but reflecting that there was no more to be got out of Sam
changed his mind.
Sam lay down on the bench for some time, then raised himself to a
sitting posture. He did not feel so sick as at first, but his head
ached unpleasantly.
"I won't smoke any more," he said to himself. "I didn't think it would
make me feel so bad."
I am sorry to say that Sam did not keep the resolution he then made;
but at the time when he is first introduced to the reader, in the
first chapter, had become a confirmed smoker.
"Why don't Mr. Brown come back?" he thought, after the lapse of an
hour.
He waited half an hour longer, when he was brought to the conviction
that Brown had played him false, and was not coming back at all. With
this conviction his original suspicion revived, and he made up his
mind that Brown had robbed him after all.
"I'd like to punch his head," thought Sam, angrily.
It did not occur to him that the deacon, from whom the money was
originally taken, had the same right to punch his head. As I have
said, Sam's conscience was not sensitive, and self-interest blinded
him to the character of his own conduct.
His experience in smoking had given him a distaste for the Park, for
this afternoon at least, and he made his way to the horse-cars
determined to return. It did make him feel a little forlorn to reflect
that he had no place to return to; no home but the streets. He had not
yet contracted that vagabond feeling which makes even them seem
homelike to the hundreds of homeless children who wander about in them
by day and by night.
He was in due time landed at the Astor House. It was about four
o'clock in the afternoon, and he had had nothing to eat since
breakfast. But for the cigar, he would have had a hearty appetite. As
it was, he felt faint, and thought he should relish some tea and
toast. He made his way, therefore, to a restaurant in Fulton street,
between Broadway and Nassau streets. It was a very respectable place,
but at that time in the afternoon there were few at the tables. Sam
had forty cents left. He found that this would allow him to buy a cup
of tea, a plate of beefsteak, a plate of toast, and a piece of pie. He
disposed of them, and going up to the desk paid his bill. Again he
found himself penniless.
"I wonder where I am going to sleep," he thought. "I guess I'll ask
some boot-blacks where they live. They can't afford to pay much."
The tea made his head feel better; and, though he was penniless, he
began to feel more cheerful than an hour before.
He wandered about till he got tired, leaning against a building
sometimes. He began to feel lonely. He knew nobody in the great city
except Clarence Brown, whom he did not care to meet again, and the
boot-black whose acquaintance he had made the day before.
"I wish I had some other boy with me," thought Sam; "somebody I knew.
It's awful lonesome."
Sam was social by temperament, and looked about him to see if he could
not make some one's acquaintance. Sitting on the same bench with
him--for he was in City Hall Park--was a boy of about his own age
apparently. To him Sam determined to make friendly overtures.
"What is your name, boy?" asked Sam.
The other boy looked round at him. He was very much freckled, and had
a sharp look which made him appear preternaturally old.
"What do you want to know for?" he asked.
"I don't know anybody here. I'd like to get acquainted."
The street boy regarded him attentively to see if he were in earnest,
and answered, after a pause, "My name is Tim Brady. What's yours?"
"Sam Barker."
"Where do you live?"
"Nowhere," said Sam. "I haven't got any home, nor any money."
"That's nothing!" said Tim. "No more have I."
"Haven't you?" said Sam, surprised. "Then where are you going to sleep
to-night?"
"I know an old wagon, up an alley, where I can sleep like a top."
"Aint you afraid of taking cold, sleeping out of doors?" asked Sam,
who, poor as he had always been, had never been without a roof to
cover him.
"Take cold!" repeated the boy, scornfully. "I aint a baby. I don't
take cold in the summer."
"I shouldn't think you could sleep in a wagon."
"Oh, I can sleep anywhere," said Tim. "It makes no difference to me
where I curl up."
"Is there room enough in the wagon for me?" asked Sam.
"Yes, unless some other chap gets ahead of us."
"May I go with you?"
"In course you can."
"Suppose we find somebody else ahead of us."
"Then we'll go somewhere else. There's plenty of places. I say,
Johnny, haven't you got no stamps at all?"
"Stamps!"
"Yes, money. Don't you know what stamps is?"
"No. I spent my last cent for supper."
"If you'd got thirty cents we'd go to the theatre."
"What theatre?"
"The Old Bowery."
"Is it good?"
"You bet!"
"Then I wish I had money enough to go. I never went to the theatre in
my life."
"You didn't! Where was you raised?" said Tim, contemptuously.
"In the country."
"I thought so."
"They don't have theatres in the country."
"Then I wouldn't live there. It must be awful dull there."
"So it is," said Sam. "That's why I ran away."
"Did you run away?" asked Tim, interested. "Was it from the old man?"
"It was from the man I worked for. He wanted me to work all the time,
and I got tired of it."
"What sort of work was it?" asked Tim.
"It was on a farm. I had to hoe potatoes, split wood, and such
things."
"I wouldn't like it. It's a good deal more jolly bein' in the city."
"If you've only got money enough to get along," added Sam.
"Oh, you can earn money."
"How?" asked Sam, eagerly.
"Different ways."
"How do you make a livin'?"
"Sometimes I black boots, sometimes I sell papers, then again, I smash
baggage."
"What's that?" asked Sam, bewildered.
"Oh, I forgot," exclaimed Tim. "You're from the country. I loaf round
the depots and steamboat landin's, and carry carpet-bags and such
things for pay."
"Is that smashing baggage?"
"To be sure."
"I could do that," said Sam, thoughtfully. "Can you make much that
way?"
"'Pends on how many jobs you get, and whether the cove's liberal.
Wimmen's the wust. They'll beat a chap down to nothin', if they can."
"How much do you get anyway for carrying a bundle?"
"I axes fifty cents, and generally gets a quarter. The wimmen don't
want to pay more'n ten cents."
"I guess I'll try it to-morrow, if you'll tell me where to go."
"You can go along of me. I'm goin smashin' myself to-morrer."
"Thank you," said Sam. "I'm glad I met you. You see I don't know much
about the city."
"Didn't you bring no money with you?"
"Yes, but it was stolen."
"Was your pockets picked?"
"I'll tell you about it. I was robbed in my sleep."
So Sam told the story of his adventures with Clarence Brown. Tim
listened attentively.
"He was smart, he was," said Tim, approvingly.
"He's a rascal," said Sam, hotly, who did not relish hearing his
spoiler praised.
"Course he is, but he's smart too. You might a knowed he'd do it."
"How should I know? I thought he was a kind man, that wanted to do me
a favor."
Tim burst out laughing.
"Aint you green, though?" he remarked. "Oh my eye, but you're jolly
green."
"Am I?" said Sam, rather offended. "Is everybody a thief in New
York?"
"Most everybody, if they gets a chance," said Tim, coolly. "Didn't you
ever steal yourself?"
Sam colored. He had temporarily forgotten the little adventure that
preceded his departure from his country home. After all, why should he
be so angry with Clarence Brown for doing the very same thing he had
done himself? Why, indeed? But Sam had an answer ready. The deacon did
not need the money, while he could not get along very well without it.
So it was meaner in Clarence Brown to take all he had, than in him to
take what the deacon could so well spare.
I hope my readers understand that this was very flimsy and
unsatisfactory reasoning. Stealing is stealing, under whatever
circumstances. At any rate Sam found it inconvenient to answer Tim's
pointed question.
They talked awhile longer, and then his companion rose from the
bench.
"Come along, Johnny," he said. "Let's go to roost."
"All right," said Sam, and the two left the Park.
CHAPTER XVIII.
SAM TURNS IMPOSTOR.
Tim conducted our hero to an alley-way, not far from the North river,
in which an old wagon had come to temporary anchor.
"This is my hotel," he said. "I like it cause it's cheap. They don't
trouble you with no bills here. Tumble in."
Tim, without further ceremony, laid himself down on the floor of the
wagon, and Sam followed his example. There is everything in getting
used to things, and that is where Tim had the advantage. He did not
mind the hardness of his couch, while Sam, who had always been
accustomed to a regular bed, did. He moved from one side to another,
and then lay on his back, seeking sleep in vain.
"What's up?" muttered Tim, sleepily. "Why don't you shut your
peepers?"
"The boards are awful hard," Sam complained.
"It aint nothin' when you're used to it," said Tim. "You go to sleep,
and you won't mind it."
"I wish I could," said Sam, turning again.
Finally he succeeded in getting to sleep, but not till some time after
his companion. He slept pretty well, however, and did not awaken till,
at six o'clock, he was shaken by his companion.
"What's the matter? Where am I?" asked Sam, feeling bewildered at
first.
"Why, here you are, in course," said the matter-of-fact Tim. "Did you
think you was in the station-house?"
"No, I hope not," answered Sam. "What time is it?"
"I don't know. A chap stole my watch in the night. I guess it's after
six. Have you got any stamps?"
"No."
"Nor I. We've got to stir round, and earn some breakfast."
"How'll we do it?"
"We'll go down to the pier, and wait for the Boston boat. Maybe we'll
get a chance to smash some baggage."
"I hope so," said Sam, "for I'm hungry."
"I'm troubled that way myself," said Tim. "Come along."
When they reached the pier, they found a number of boys, men, and
hack-drivers already in waiting. They had to wait about half an hour,
when they saw the great steamer slowly approaching the wharf.
Instantly Tim was on the alert.
"When they begin to come ashore, you must go in and try your luck.
Just do as I do."
This Sam resolved to do.
A tall man emerged from the steamer, bearing a heavy carpet-bag.
"Smash yer baggage?" said Tim.
