the most amusing thing is to see how she has come down about Mr. St.
John's ritualism. Think of her actually going up there to church last
Sunday, and not saying a word about the candles, or the chantings, or
any of the abominations! She only remarked that she was sure she never
heard a better Gospel sermon than Mr. St. John preached--which was
true enough. Harry and I were so amused we could hardly keep our faces
straight; but we said not a word to remind her of past denunciations."
"The danger of going to Rome is sensibly abated, it appears," said
Alice.
"Oh, yes. I believe Aunt Maria must be cherishing distant visions of a
time when she shall be aunt to Mr. St. John, and set him all straight."
"She'll have her match for once," said Alice, "if she has any such
intentions."
"One thing is a comfort," said Eva. "Aunt Maria has her hands so full,
getting up Angie's trousseau, and buying her sheets and towels and
table-cloths, and tearing all about, up stairs and down, and through
dark alleys, to get everything of the very best at the smallest
expense, that her nervous energies are all used up, and there is
less left to be expended on you and me. A wedding in the family is a
godsend to us all."
The conversation here branched off into an animated discussion of
some points in Angie's wedding-dress, and went on with an increasing
interest till it was interrupted by a dolorous voice from the top of
the entry staircase.
"Girls, have you the least idea what time it is?"
"Why, there's Harry, to be sure," said Eva. "Dear me, Alice, what time
is it?"
"Half-past one! Mercy on us! isn't it a shame?"
"Coming, Harry, coming this minute," called Eva, as the two sisters
began turning down the gas and raking up the fire; then, gathering
together collars, hair-pins, ribbons, sashes and scarfs, they flew
up the stairway, and parted with a suppressed titter of guilty
consciousness.
"It was abominable of us," said Eva; "but I never looked at the
clock."
CHAPTER XLIV.
FLUCTUATIONS.
Midnight conversations of the sort we have chronicled between Alice
and Eva, do not generally lead to the most quiet kind of sleep. Such
conversations suggest a great deal, and settle nothing; and Alice,
after retiring, lay a long time with her great eyes wide open, looking
into the darkness of futurity, and wondering, as girls of twenty-two
or thereabouts do wonder, what she should do next.
There is no help for it; the fact may as well be confessed at once,
that no care and assiduity in fencing and fortifying the conditions of
a friendship between an attractive young woman and a lively, energetic
young man, will ensure their always remaining simply and purely those
of companionship and good fellowship, and never becoming anything more.
In the case of St. John and Angie, the stalk of friendship had had but
short growth before developing the flower of love; and now, in Alice's
mind and conscience, it was becoming quite a serious and troublesome
question whether a similar result were not impending over her.
The wise man of old said: "He that delicately bringeth up his servant
from a child shall have him for his son at last." The proverb is
significant, as showing the gradual growth of kindly relations into
something more and more kindly, and more absorbing.
So, in the night-watches, Alice mentally reviewed all those looks,
words and actions of Jim's which produced a conviction in her mind
that he was passing beyond the allotted boundaries, and approaching
towards a point in which there would inevitably be a crisis, calling
for a decision on her part which should make him either more or less
than he had been. Her talk with Eva had only set this possibility more
distinctly before her.
Was she, then, willing to give him up entirely, and to shut the door
resolutely on all intimacy tending to keep up and encourage feelings
that could come to no result? When she proposed this to herself,
she was surprised at her own unwillingness to let him go. She could
scarcely fancy herself able to do without his ready friendship,
his bright, agreeable society--without the sense of ownership and
power which she felt in him. Reviewing the matter strictly in the
night-watches, she was obliged to admit to herself that she could
not afford to part with Jim; that there was no woman she could
fancy--certainly none in the circle of her acquaintance--whom she
could be sincerely glad to have him married to; and when she fancied
him absorbed in any one else, there was a dreary sense of loss which
surprised her. Was it possible, she asked herself, that he had become
necessary to her happiness--he whom she never thought of otherwise
than as a pleasant friend, a brother, for whose success and good
fortune she had interested herself?
Well then, was she ready for an engagement? Was the great ultimate
revelation of woman's life--that dark Eleusinian mystery of fate about
which vague conjecture loves to gather, and which the imagination
invests with all sorts of dim possibilities--suddenly to draw its
curtains and disclose to her neither demi-god nor hero, but only the
well-known, every-day features of one with whom she had been walking
side by side for months past--"only Jim and nothing more?"
Alice could not but acknowledge to herself that she knew no man
possible or probable that she liked better; and yet this shadowy,
ideal rival--this cross between saint and hero, this Knight of the
Holy Grail--was as embarrassing to her conclusions as the ghost in
"Hamlet." It was only to be considered that the ideal hero had not
put in an actual appearance. He was nowhere to be found or heard
from; and here was this warm-hearted, helpful, companionable Jim,
with faults as plenty as blackberries, but with dozens of agreeable
qualities to every fault; and the time seemed to be rapidly coming
when she must make up her mind either to take him or leave him, and
she was not ready to do either! No wonder she lay awake, and studied
the squares of the dim window and listened to the hours that struck,
one after another, bringing her no nearer to fixed conclusions than
before! A young lady who sees the time coming when she must make a
decision, and who doesn't want to take either alternative presented,
is certainly to be pitied. Alice felt herself an abused and afflicted
young woman. She murmured at destiny. Why would men fall in love? she
queried. Why wouldn't they remain always devoted, admiring friends,
and get no further? She was having such good times! and why must they
end in a dilemma of this sort? How nice to have a gentleman friend,
all devotion, all observance, all homage, without its involving any
special consequences!
When she came to shape this feeling into words and look at it, she
admitted that it savored of the worst kind of selfishness, and might
lead to trifling with what is most precious and sacred. Alice was a
conscientious, honorable girl, and felt all the force of this. She had
justified herself all along by saying that her intimacy with Jim had
so far been for his good; that he had often expressed to her his sense
that she was leading him to a higher and better life, to more worthy
and honorable aims and purposes: but how if he should claim that this
very ministry had made her necessary to him, and that, if she threw
him off, it would be worse than if she had never known him? Looking
over the history of the last few months, she could not deny to herself
that, as their acquaintance had grown more and more confidential, her
manners possibly had expressed a degree of kindness which might justly
have inspired hopes. Was she not bound to fulfill such hopes if she
could?
These were most uncomfortable inquiries, and she was glad of morning
and a cheerful breakfast-table to dispel them. Things never look so
desperate by daylight, and Alice managed a good breakfast with a
tolerable appetite. Then there was the tarlatan dress to be made over
and rearranged, and Eva's toilette to be put into party order--quite
enough to keep two young women of active fancy and skillful fingers
busy for one day. It was a snowy, unpleasant day, and, as they lived
on an out-of-the-way street, they were secure from callers and took
their work into the parlor so soon as Harry had gone for the day.
The little room soon became a brilliant maelstrom of gauzy stuffs
and bright ribbons, among which the two sat chatting, arranging,
combining, compounding; as of old, one might imagine a pair of
heathen goddesses in the clouds, getting up rainbows. No matter how
solemn and serious we of womankind are in our deepest hearts, or how
philosophically we may look down on the vanity of dress, we must all
confess that a party is a party; and the sensible, economical woman
who does not often go, and does not make a point of having all the
paraphernalia in constant readiness, has to give all the more care
and thought to the exceptional occasion when she does. Even Scripture
recognizes the impossibility of appearing at a feast without the
appropriate garment; and so Eva and Alice cut and fitted and trimmed
and tried experiments in head-dresses and arrangements of hair, and
meanwhile Alice had the comfort of talking over and over to Eva all
the varying shades of the subject that was on her mind.
What woman does not appreciate the blessing of a patient, sympathetic
listener, who will hear with unabated interest the same story repeated
over and over as it rises in one's thoughts? Eva listened complacently
and with the warmest interest to the same things that Alice had said
the night before, and went on repeating to her the same lessons of
matronly wisdom with which she had then enriched her, neither of
them betraying the slightest consciousness that the things they were
saying were not just fresh from the mint--entirely new and hitherto
unconsidered.
Jim's character was discussed, and with that fine, skillful faculty
of analysis and synthesis which forms the distinctive interest of
feminine conversation. In the course of these various efforts of
character portrait-painting, it became quite evident to Eva that Alice
was in just that state in which some people's admitted faults are
more interesting and agreeable than the virtues of some others. When
a woman gets thus far, her final decision is not a matter of doubt to
any far-sighted reader of human nature.
Alice was by nature exact and conscientious as to all rules, forms,
and observances. Her pronunciation, whether of English or French, was
critically perfect; her hand-writing and composition were faultless
to a comma. She was an enthusiastic and thorough maintainer of all
the boundaries and forms of good society and of churchly devotion.
Jim, without being in any sense really immoral or wicked, was a sort
of privileged Arab, careering in and out through the boundaries of
all departments, shocking respectable old prejudices and fluttering
reverential usages, talking slang and making light of dignitaries with
a free and easy handling that was alarming.
But it is a fact that very correct people, who would not violate in
their own persons one of the convenances, are often exceedingly
amused and experience a peculiar pleasure in seeing them tossed hither
and thither by somebody else. Nothing is so tiresome as perfect
correctness, and we all know that everything that amuses us and makes
us laugh lies outside of it; and Alice, if the truth were to be told,
liked Jim all the better for the very things in which he was most
unlike herself. Well, such being the state of the garrison on the one
side, what was the position of the attacking party?
Jim had gone home discontented at not having a private interview with
Alice, but more and more resolved, with every revolving hour since
the accession of good fortune which had given him a settled position,
that he would have a home of his own forthwith, and that the queen of
that home should be Alice Van Arsdel. She must not, she could not,
she would not say him Nay; and if she did, he wouldn't take No for
an answer. He would have her, if he had to serve for her as long as
Jacob did for Rachel. But when Jim remembered how many times he had
persuaded Alice to his own way, how many favors she had granted him,
he was certain that it was not in her to refuse. He had looked with
new interest at the advertisements of houses to let, and the furniture
stores for the last few days had worn a new and suggestive aspect.
He had commenced transactions with regard to parlor furniture, and
actually bought a pair of antique brass andirons, which he was sure
would be just the thing for their fireside. Then he had bought an
engagement ring, which lay snugly ensconced in its satin case in a
corner of his vest pocket, and he was inly resolved that he would
make to himself a chance to lodge it on the proper finger in the next
twenty-four hours. How he was to get an interview did not yet appear;
but he trusted to Providence. It is a fact on record, that before the
twenty-four hours were up the deed was done, and Jim and Alice were
engaged; but it came about in a way far different from any foreseen by
any party, as we shall proceed to show.
CHAPTER XLV.
THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW.
It wanted yet twenty minutes to eight o'clock, and Jim was sitting
alone in the glow of the evening fireside. The warm, red light,
flickering and shadowing, made the room seem like a mysterious grotto.
Jim, in best party trim, sat gazing dreamily into the fire, turning
the magic ring now and then in his vest pocket, and looking at his
watch at intervals, while the mysterious rites of the toilet were
going on upstairs.
Alice had never made a more elaborate or more careful toilet. Did
she want to precipitate that which she said to herself she dreaded?
Certainly she did not spare one possible attraction. She evidently
saw no reason, under present circumstances, why she should not make
herself look as well as she could.
As the result of the whole day's agitations and discussions, she had
come to the conclusion that if Jim had anything to say she would
listen to it advisedly, and take it into mature consideration. So she
braided her long, dark hair, and crowned herself therewith, and then
earrings and brooches came twinkling out here and there like stars,
and bits of ribbon and velvet fluttered hither and thither, and fell
into wonderfully apposite places, and the woman grew and brightened
before the glass, as a picture under the hands of the artist.
It wanted yet a quarter of an hour of the time for the carriage,
when there came a light fluff of gauzy garments, and the two party
goddesses floated in in all misty splendor, and seemed to fill the
whole room with the flutter of dresses.
Alice was radiant; her eyes were never more brilliant, and she
was full of that subtle brightness which comes from the tremor of
fully-awakened feeling. She was gayer than was her usual wont as she
swept about the room and courteseyed with much solemnity to Jim, and
turned herself round and round after the manner of a revolving figure
in the shop windows.
Suddenly--and none of them knew how--there was a quick flash; the
gauzy robe had swept into the fire, and, before any of them could
speak, the dress was in flames. There was a scream, an utterance of
agony from all parties at once, and Eva was just doing the most fatal
thing possible in rushing desperately towards her sister, when Jim
came between them, caught the woolen cloth from the table, and wrapped
it around Alice; then, taking her in his arms, he laid her on the
sofa, and crushed out the fire, beating it with his hands, and tearing
the burning fragments away and casting them under foot. It all passed
in one fearful, awe-struck moment, while Eva stood still, with the
very shadow of death upon her, and saw Jim fighting back the fire,
which in a moment or two was entirely extinguished. Alice had fainted,
and Jim and Eva looked at each other as people do who have just seen
death rising up between them.
"She is safe now," said Jim, as he stood there, pale as death and
quivering from head to foot, while the floor around was strewed with
the blackened remains of the gauzy material which he had torn away.
"She is all right," he added; "the cloth has saved her throat and
lungs."
It seemed now the most natural thing in the world that Jim should lay
Alice's head upon his arm and administer restoratives; and, when she
opened her eyes, that he should call her his darling, his life, his
love. They had been in the awful valley of the shadow together--that
valley where all that is false perishes and drops off, and what is
true becomes the only reality. Alice felt that she loved Jim--that she
belonged to him, and she did not dispute his right to speak as he did,
and to care for her as one had a right to care for his own.
"Well," said Eva, drawing a long breath, when the bell rang and the
carriage was announced, "we cannot go to the party, that is certain;
and, Jim, tell him to go for Doctor Campbell. Mary, bring down a
wrapper; we'll slip it over your torn finery, Alice, for the present,"
said Eva, endeavoring to be practical and self-possessed, though with
a little hysterical sob every now and then betraying the shock to her
nerves. "Then there must be a note sent to Aunt Maria, or what will
she think?" pursued Eva, when Alice had been made comfortable on the
sofa, where Jim was devoting himself to her.
"Don't, pray, tell all about it," said Alice. "One doesn't want to
become the talk of all New York."
"I'll tell her that you have met with an accident that will detain you
and me, but that you are not dangerous," said Eva, as she wrote her
note and sent Mary up with it.
It was not until tranquillity had somewhat settled down on the party
that Jim began to feel that his own hands were blistered; for, though
a man under strong excitement may handle fire for a while and not feel
it, yet nature keeps account and brings in her bill in due season.
"Why, Jim, you brave fellow," said Alice, suddenly raising herself, as
she saw an expression of pain on his face, "here I am thinking only of
myself, and you are suffering."
"Oh, nothing; nothing at all," said Jim; but Eva and Alice, now
thoroughly aroused, were shocked at the state of his hands.
"The doctor will have you to attend to first," said Alice. "You have
saved me by sacrificing yourself."
"Thank God for that!" said Jim, fervently.
Well, the upshot of the story is that Eva would not hear of Jim's
leaving them that night. Doctor Campbell pronounced that the burns on
his hands needed serious attention, and the prospect was that he would
be obliged to rest from using them for a day or two.
But these two or three days of hospital care were not on the whole the
worst of Jim's life, for Alice insisted on being his amanuensis, and
writing his editorials for him, and, as she wrote with the engagement
ring sparkling on her finger, Jim thought that he had never seen it
appear to so great advantage. It was said that Jim's editorials, that
week, had a peculiar vigor and pungency. We should not at all wonder,
under the circumstances, if that were the case.
CHAPTER XLVI.
WHAT THEY ALL SAID ABOUT IT.
And so Jim Fellows and Alice Van Arsdel were engaged at last. The
reader who has cared to follow the workings of that young lady's mind
has doubtless seen from the first that she was on the straight highway
to such a result.
Intimate friendship--what the French call "camaraderie"--is, in
fact, the healthiest and the best commencement of the love that is
needed in married life; because it is more like what the staple of
married life must at last come to. It gives opportunity for the
knowledge of all those minor phases of character under which a married
couple must at last see each other.
Alice and Jim had been side by side in many an every-day undress
rehearsal. They had laughed and frolicked together like two children;
they had known each other's secrets; they had had their little miffs
and tiffs, and had gotten over them; but, through all, there had been
a steady increase on Jim's part of that deeper feeling which makes
a woman the ideal guide and governor and the external conscience of
life. But his habit of jesting, and of talking along the line of his
most serious feelings in language running between joke and earnest,
had prevented the pathos and the power of what was really deepest in
him from making itself felt. There wanted something to call forth the
expression of the deep manly feeling that lay at the bottom of his
heart. There wanted, on her part, something to change friendship to a
warmer feeling. Those few dreadful moments, when they stood under the
cloud of a sudden and frightful danger, did more to reveal to them how
much they were to each other than years of ordinary acquaintance. It
was as if they had crossed the river of death together, and saw each
other in their higher natures. Do we not all remember how suffering
and danger will bring out in well-known faces a deep and spiritual
expression never there before? It was a marked change in the faces of
our boys who went to the recent war. Looking in a photograph book, one
sees first the smooth lines of a boyish face indicating nothing more
than a boy's experience, but, as he turns the following pages, he sees
the same face, after suffering and danger and death have called up the
strength of the inner man, and imparted a higher and more spiritual
expression to the countenance.
The sudden nearness into which they had come to the ever possible
tragedy that underlies human life, had given a deep and solemn
tenderness to their affection. It was a baptism into the love which is
stronger than death. Alice felt her whole heart going out, without a
fear or a doubt, in return for the true love that she felt was ready
to die for her.
Those few first days that they spent mostly in each other's society,
were full of the real, deep, enthusiastic tenderness of that
understanding of each other which had suddenly arisen between them.
So, to her confidential female correspondent--the one who had always
held her promise to be the first recipient of the news of her
engagement--she wrote as follows:
     "Yes, dear Belle, I have to tell you at last that I am
     engaged--engaged, with all my heart and soul, to Jim
     Fellows. I see your wonder, I hear you saying, 'You said it
     never was to be; that there never would be anything in
     it.' Well, dear Belle, when I said that I thought it; but
     it seems I didn't know myself or him. But Eva has told you
     of the dreadful danger I ran; the shock to my nerves, the
     horror, the fright, were something I never shall forget. By
     God's mercy he saved my life, and I saw and felt at that
     time how dear I was to him, and how much he was willing to
     suffer for me. The poor fellow is not yet fully recovered,
     and I cannot recall that sudden fright without being
     almost faint. I cared a good deal for him before, and knew
     he cared for me; but this dreadful shock revealed us to
     each other as we had never known each other before. I am
     perfectly settled now and have not a doubt. There is all
     the seriousness and all the depth that is in me in the
     promise I have at last given him.
     "Jim is not rich, but he has just obtained a good position
     as one of the leading editors of the Forum, enough to
     make it prudent for him to think of having a home of his
     own; and I thank God for the reverses of fortune that have
     taught me how to be a helpful and sensible wife. We don't
     either of us care for show or fashion, but mean to have
     another fireside like Eva's. Exactly when this thing is to
     be, is not yet settled; but you shall have due notice to
     get your bridesmaid's dress ready."
So wrote Alice to her bridesmaid that was to be. Meanwhile, the
declared engagement went its way, traveling through the circle, making
everywhere its sensation.
We believe there is nothing so generally interesting to human nature
as a newly-declared engagement. It is a thing that everybody has an
opinion of; and the editorial comments, though they do not go into
print, are fully as numerous and as positive as those following a new
appointment at Washington.
Especially is this the case where the parties, being long under
suspicion and accusation, have denied the impeachment, and vehemently
protested that "there was, and there would be, nothing in it," and
that "it was only friendship." When, after all the strength of such
asseveration, the flag is finally struck, and the suspected parties
walk forth openly, hand in hand, what a number of people immediately
rise in their own opinion, saying with complacency: "There! what did I
tell you? I knew it was so. People may talk as much as they please,
they can't deceive me!"
Among the first to receive the intelligence was little Mrs. Betsey,
who, having been over with Jack to make a morning call at the
Henderson house, had her very cap lifted from her head with amazement
at the wonderful news. So, panting with excitement, she rushed back
across the way to astonish Miss Dorcas, and burst in upon her, with
Jack barking like a storming party in the rear.
"Good gracious, Betsey, what's the matter now?" said Miss Dorcas.
"What has happened?"
"Well, what should you think? You can't guess! Jack, be still! stop
barking! Stop, sir!"--as Jack ran under a chair in a distant corner of
the room, and fired away with contumacious energy.
"Yes, Dorcas, I have such a piece of news! I declare, that dog!--I'll
kill him if he don't stop!" and Mrs. Betsey, on her knees, dragged
Jack out of his hiding-place, and cuffed him into silence, and then
went on with her news, which she determined to make the most of, and
let out a bit at a time, as children eat gingerbread.
"Well, now, Betsey, since the scuffle is over between you and Jack,
perhaps you will tell me what all this is about," said Miss Dorcas,
with dignity.
"Well, Dorcas, it's another engagement; and who do you guess it is?
You never will guess in the world, I know; now guess."
"I don't know," said Miss Dorcas, critically surveying Mrs. Betsey
over her spectacles, "unless it is you and old Major Galbraith."
"Aren't you ashamed, Dorcas?" said the little old lady, two late pink
roses coming in either cheek. "Major Galbraith!--old and deaf and with
the rheumatism!"
"Well, you wanted me to guess, and I guessed the two most improbable
people in the circle of our acquaintance." Now, Major Galbraith was an
old admirer of Mrs. Betsey's youth, an ancient fossil remain of the
distant period to which Miss Dorcas and Mrs. Betsey belonged.
He was an ancient bachelor, dwelling in an ancient house on Murray
hill, and subsisting on the dry hay of former recollections. Once a
year, on Christmas or New Year's, the old major caused himself to be
brought carefully in a carriage to the door of the Vanderheyden house,
creaked laboriously up the steps, pulled the rusty, jangling old bell,
and was shown into the somber twilight of the front parlor, where he
paid his respects to the ladies with the high-shouldered, elaborate
stateliness and gallantry of a former period. The compliments which
the major brought out on these occasions were of the most elaborate
and well-considered kind, for he had an abundance of leisure to
compose them, and very few ladies to let them off upon. They had, for
the parties to whom they were addressed, all the value of those late
roses and violets which one now and then finds in the garden, when
the last black frosts have picked off the blooms of summer. The main
difficulty of the interview always was the fact that the poor major
was stone-deaf, and, in spite of both ladies screaming themselves
hoarse, he carried away the most obviously erroneous impressions, to
last him through the next year. Yet, in ages past, the major had been
a man of high fashion, and he was, if one only could get at him, on
many accounts better worth talking to than many modern beaux; but
as age and time had locked him in a case and thrown away the key,
the suggestion of tender relations between him and Mrs. Betsey was
impossible enough to answer Miss Dorcas's purpose.
But Mrs. Betsey was bursting to begin on the contents of her news-bag,
and so, out it came.
"Well now, Dorcas, if you won't go to being ridiculous, and talking
about Major Galbraith, I'll tell you who it is. It's that dear, good
Mr. Fellows that got Jack back again for us, and I'm sure I never feel
as if I could do enough for him when I think of it, and besides that,
he always is so polite and considerate, and talks with one so nicely
and is so attentive, seems to think something of you, if you are
an old woman, so that I'm glad with all my heart, for I think it's a
splendid thing, and she's just the one for him, and do you know I've
been thinking a great while that it was going to be? I have noticed
signs, and have had my own thoughts, but I didn't let on. I despise
people that are always prying and spying and expressing opinions
before they know."
This lucid exposition might have proceeded at greater length, had
not Miss Dorcas, whose curiosity was now fully roused, cut into the
conversation with an air of judicial decision.
"Well now, after all, Betsey, will you have the goodness, since you
began to tell the news, to tell it like a reasonable creature? Mr.
Fellows is the happy man, you say. Now, who--is--the woman?"
"Oh, didn't I tell you? Why, what is the matter with me to-day? I
thought I said Miss Alice Van Arsdel. Won't she make him a splendid
wife? and I'm sure he'll make a good husband; he's so kind-hearted.
Oh! you ought to have seen how kind he was to Jack that day he brought
him back; and such a sight as Jack was, too--all dirt and grease! Why
it took Dinah and me at least two hours to get him clean, and there
are not many young gentlemen that would be so patient as he was. I
never shall forget it of him."
"Patient as who was?" said Miss Dorcas. "I believe Jack was the last
nominative case in that sentence; do pray compose yourself, Betsey,
and don't take entire leave of your senses."
"I mean Mr. Fellows was patient, of course, you know."
"Well, then, do take a little pains to say what you mean," said Miss
Dorcas.
"Well, don't you think it a good thing--and were you expecting it?"
"So far as I know the parties, it's as good a thing as engagements in
general," said Miss Dorcas. "They have my very best wishes."
"Well, did you ever think it would come about?"
"No; I never troubled my head with speculations on what plainly is
none of my concern," said Miss Dorcas.
It was evident that Miss Dorcas was on the highest and most serene
mountain-top of propriety this morning, and all her words and actions
indicated that calm superiority to vulgar curiosity which, in her
view, was befitting a trained lady. Perhaps a little pique that Betsey
had secured such a promising bit of news in advance of herself, added
to her virtuous frigidity of demeanor. We are all mortal, and the
best of us are apt to undervalue what we did not ourselves originally
produce. But if Miss Dorcas wished in a gentle manner to remind Mrs.
Betsey that she was betraying too much of an inclination for gossip,
she did not succeed. The clock of time had gone back on the dial of
the little old lady, and she was as full of chatter and detail as
a school-girl, and determined at any rate to make the most of her
incidents, and to create a sensation in her sister's mind--for what
is more provoking than to have people sit calm and unexcited when we
have a stimulating bit of news to tell? It is an evident violation of
Christian charity. Mrs. Betsey now drew forth her next card.
"Oh, and, Dorcas! you've no idea. They've been having the most
dreadful time over there! Miss Alice has had the greatest escape! The
most wonderful providence! It really makes my blood run cold to think
of it. Don't you think, she was all dressed to go to Mrs. Wouvermans's
party, and her dress caught on fire, and if it hadn't been for Mr.
Fellows's presence of mind she might have been burned to death--really
burned to death! Only think of it!"
"You don't say so!" said Miss Dorcas, who now showed excitement enough
to fully satisfy Mrs. Betsey. "How very dreadful! Why, how was it?"
"Yes--she was passing in front of the fire, in a thin white tarlatan,
made very full, with flounces, and it was just drawn in and flashed up
like tinder. Mr. Fellows caught the cloth from the table, wrapped her
in it and laid her on the sofa, and then tore and beat out the fire
with his hands."
"Dear--me! dear--me!" said Miss Dorcas, "how dreadful! But he did just
the right thing."
"Yes, indeed; you ought to have seen! Mrs. Henderson showed me what
was left of the dress, and it was really awful to see! I could not
help thinking, 'In the midst of life we are in death.' All trimmed up
with scarlet velvet and bows, and just hanging in rags and tatters,
where it had been burned and torn away! I never saw any thing so
solemn in my life."
"A narrow escape, certainly," said Miss Dorcas. "And is she not
injured at all?"
"Nothing to speak of, only a few slight burns; but poor Mr. Fellows
has to have his hands bandaged and dressed every day; but of course he
doesn't mind that since he has saved her life. But just think of it,
Dorcas, we shall have two weddings, and it'll make two more visiting
places. I'm going to tell Dinah all about it," and the little woman
fled to the kitchen, with Jack at her heels, and was soon heard going
over the whole story again.
Dinah's effusion and sympathy, in fact, were the final refuge of Mrs.
Betsey on every occasion, whether of joy or sorrow or perplexity--and
between her vigorous exclamations and loud responses, and Jack's
running commentary of unrestrained barking, there was as much noise
over the announcement as could be made by an average town meeting.
Thus were the tidings received across the way. In the Van Arsdel
family, Jim was already an established favorite. Mr. Van Arsdel always
liked him as a bright, agreeable evening visitor, and, now that he
had acquired a position that promised a fair support, there was no
opposition on his part to overcome. Mrs. Van Arsdel was one of the
motherly, complying sort of women, generally desirous of doing what
the next person to her wanted her to do; and, though she was greatly
confused by remembering Alice's decided asseverations that "it never
was and never would be anything, and that Jim was not at all the
person she ever should think of marrying," yet, since it was evident
that she was now determined upon the affair, Mrs. Van Arsdel looked at
it on the bright side.
"After all, my dear," she said to her spouse, "if I must lose both my
daughters, it's a mercy to have them marry and settle down here in
New York, where I can have the comfort of them. Jim will always be
an attentive husband and a good family man. I saw that when he was
helping us move; but I'm sure I don't know what Maria will say now!"
"No matter what Maria says, my dear," said Mr. Van Arsdel. "It don't
make one hair white or black. It's time you were emancipated from
Maria."
But Aunt Maria, like many dreaded future evils, proved less formidable
on this occasion than had been feared.
The very submissive and edifying manner in which Mr. Jim Fellows had
received her strictures and cautions on a former occasion, and the
profound respect he had shown for her opinion, had so far wrought upon
her as to make her feel that it was really a pity that he was not a
young man of established fortune. If he only had anything to live
on, why, he might be a very desirable match; and so, when he had a
good position and salary, he stood some inches higher in her esteem.
Besides this, there was another balm which distilled resignation in
the cup of acquiescence, and that was the grand chance it gave her
to say, "I told you so." How dear and precious this privilege is to
the very best of people, we need not insist. There are times when it
would comfort them, if all their dearest friends were destroyed, to
be able to say, "I told you so. It's just as I always predicted!" We
all know how Jonah, though not a pirate or a cut-throat, yet wished
himself dead because a great city was not destroyed, when he had taken
the trouble to say it would be. Now, though Alice's engagement was not
in any strict sense an evil, yet it was an event which Aunt Maria had
always foreseen, foretold and insisted on.
So when, with heart-sinkings and infinite precautions, Mrs. Van Arsdel
had communicated the news to her, she was rather relieved at the
response given, with a toss of the head and a vigorous sniff:
"Oh, that's no news to me; it's just what I have foreseen all
along--what I told you was coming on, and you wouldn't believe it.
Now I hope all of you will see that I was right."
"I think," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, "that it was Jim's presence of mind
in saving her life that decided Alice at last. She always liked him;
but I don't think she really loved him till then."
"Well, of course, it was a good thing that there was somebody at hand
who had sense to do the right thing, when girls will be so careless;
but it wasn't that. She meant to have him all along; and I knew it,"
said Aunt Maria. "Well, Jim Fellows, after all, isn't the worst match
a girl could make, either, now that he has some prospects of his
own--but, at any rate, it has turned out just as I said it would. I
knew she'd marry him, six months ago, just as well as I know it now,
unless you and she listened to my advice then. So now all we have to
do is to make the best of it. You've got two weddings on your hands,
now Nellie, instead of one, and I shall do all I can to help you. I
was out all day yesterday looking at sheeting, and I think that at
Shanks & Maynard's is decidedly the firmest and the cheapest, and I
ordered three pieces sent home; and I carried back the napkins to
Taggart's, and then went rambling off up by the Park to find that
woman that does marking."
"I'm sure, Maria, I am ever so much obliged to you," said Mrs. Van
Arsdel.
"Well, I hope I'm good for something. Though I'm not fit to be out;
I've such a dreadful cold in my head, I can hardly see; and riding in
these New York omnibuses always makes it worse."
"Dear Maria, why will you expose yourself in that way?"
"Well, somebody's got to do it--and your judgment isn't worth a fip,
Nellie. That sheeting that you were thinking of taking wasn't half
so good, and cost six cents a yard more. I couldn't think of having
things go that way."
"But I'm sure we don't any of us want you to make yourself sick."
"Oh, I sha'n't be sick. I may suffer; but I sha'n't give up. I'm not
one of the kind. If you had the cold in your head that I have, Nellie,
you'd be in bed, with both girls nursing you; but that isn't my way.
I keep up, and attend to things. I want these things of Angie's to be
got up properly, as they ought to be, and there's nobody to do it but
me."
And little Mrs. Van Arsdel, used, from long habit, to be thus
unceremoniously snubbed, dethroned, deposed, and set down hard by her
sister when in full career of labor for her benefit, looked meekly
into the fire, and comforted herself with the reflection that it "was
just like Maria. She always talked so; but, after all, she was a good
soul, and saved her worlds of trouble, and made excellent bargains for
her."
CHAPTER XLVII.
"IN THE FORGIVENESS OF SINS."
This article of faith forms a part of the profession of all
Christendom, is solemnly recited every Sunday and many week-days in
the services of all Christian churches that have a liturgy, whether
Roman or Greek or Anglican or Lutheran, and may, therefore, bid fair
to pass for a fundamental doctrine of Christianity.
Yet, if narrowly looked into, it is a proposition under which there
are more heretics and unbelievers than all the other doctrines of
religion put together.
Mrs. Maria Wouvermans, standing, like a mother in Israel, in the
most eligible pew of Dr. Cushing's church, has just pronounced these
words with all the rest of the Apostles' Creed, which she has recited
devoutly twice a day every Sunday for forty years or more. She always
recited her creed in a good, strong, clear voice, designed to rebuke
the indolent or fastidious who only mumbled or whispered, and made a
deep reverence in the proper place at the name of Jesus; and somehow
it seemed to feel as if she were witnessing a good confession, and
were part and parcel with the protesting saints and martyrs that, in
blue and red and gold, were shining down upon her through the painted
windows. This solemn standing up in her best bonnet and reciting
her Christian faith every Sunday, was a weekly testimony against
infidelity and schism and lax doctrines of all kinds, and the good
lady gave it with unfaltering regularity. Nothing would have shocked
her more than to have it intimated to her that she did not believe
the articles of her own faith; and yet, if there was anything in the
world that Mrs. Maria Wouvermans practically didn't believe in, and
didn't mean to believe in, it was "the forgiveness of sins."
As long as people did exactly right, she had fellowship and sympathy
with them. When they did wrong, she wished to have nothing more to do
with them. Nay, she seemed to consider it a part of public justice and
good morals to clear her skirts from all contact with sinners. If she
heard of penalties and troubles that befell evil doers, it was with a
face of grim satisfaction. "It serves them right--just what they ought
to expect. I don't pity them in the least," were familiar phrases
with her. If anybody did her an injury, crossed her path, showed her
disrespect or contumely, she seemed to feel as free and full a liberty
of soul to hate them as if the Christian religion had never been heard
of. And, in particular, for the sins of women, Aunt Maria had the true
ingrain Saxon ferocity which Sharon Turner describes as characteristic
of the original Saxon female in the earlier days of English history,
when the unchaste woman was pursued and beaten, starved and frozen,
from house to house, by the merciless justice of her sisters.
It is the same spirit that has come down through English law and
literature, and shows itself in the old popular ballad of "Jane
Shore," where, without a word of pity, it is recorded how Jane Shore,
the king's mistress, after his death, first being made to do public
penance in a white sheet, was thereafter turned out to be frozen and
starved to death in the streets, and died miserably in a ditch, from
that time called Shoreditch. A note tells us that there was one man
who, moved by pity, at one time sheltered the poor creature and gave
her food, for which he was thrown into prison, to the great increase
of her sorrow and misery.
It was in a somewhat similar spirit that Mrs. Wouvermans regarded
all sinning women. Her uniform ruling in such cases was that they
were to be let alone by all decent people, and that if they fell into
misery and want, it was only just what they deserved, and she was
glad of it. What business had they to behave so? In her view, all
efforts to introduce sympathy and mercy into prison discipline--all
forbearance and pains-taking with the sinful and lost in all places
in society--was just so much encouragement given to the criminal
classes, and one of the lax humanitarian tendencies of the age. It is
quite certain that had Mrs. Wouvermans been a guest in old times at a
certain Pharisee's house, where the Master allowed a fallen woman to
kiss His feet, she would have joined in saying: "If this man were a
prophet he would have known what manner of woman this is that toucheth
him, for she is a sinner." There was certainly a marked difference
of spirit between her and that Jesus to whom she bowed so carefully
whenever she repeated the creed.
On this particular Sunday, Eva had come to church with her aunt, and
was going to dine with her, intent on a mission of Christian diplomacy.
Some weeks had now passed since she left Maggie in the mission
retreat, and it was the belief of the matron there, and the attending
clergyman, that a change had taken place in her, so radical and so
deep that, if now some new and better course of life were opened to
her, she might, under careful guidance, become a useful member of
society. Whatever views modern skepticism may entertain in regard
to what is commonly called the preaching of the gospel, no sensible
person conversant with actual facts can help acknowledging that it
does produce in some cases the phenomenon called conversion, and
that conversion, when real, is a solution of all difficulties in our
days as it was in those of the first apostles.
The first Christians were gathered from the dregs of society, and
the Master did not fear to say to the Pharisees, "The publicans and
harlots go into the kingdom of heaven before you;" and St. Paul
addresses those who he says had been thieves and drunkards and
revilers and extortioners, with the words, "Ye are washed; ye are
sanctified; ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the
spirit of God."
It is on the power of the Divine spirit to effect such changes, even
in the most hopeless and forlorn subjects, that Christians of every
name depend for success; and by this faith such places as the Home for
the Fallen are undertaken and kept up.
What people look for, and labor for, as is proved by all experience,
is more liable to happen than what they do not expect and do not
labor for. The experiment of Mr. James was attended by many marked
and sudden instances of conversion and permanent change of character.
Maggie had been entrapped and drawn in by Mother Moggs in one of those
paroxysms of bitter despair which burned in her bosom, when she saw,
as she thought, every respectable door of life closed upon her and
the way of virtue shut up beyond return. When she thought how, while
she was cast out as utterly beyond hope, the man who had betrayed
her and sinned with her was respected, flattered, rich, caressed,
and joined in marriage to a pure and virtuous wife, a blind and keen
sense of injustice awoke every evil or revengeful passion within her.
"If they won't let me do good, I can do mischief," she thought, and
she was now ready to do all she could to work misery and ruin for a
world that would give her no place to do better. Mother Moggs saw
Maggie's brightness and smartness, and the remains of her beauty. She
flattered and soothed her. To say the truth, Mother Moggs was by no
means all devil. She had large remains of that motherly nature which
is common to warm-blooded women of easy virtue. She took Maggie's
part, was indignant at her wrongs, and offered her a shelter and a
share in her business. Maggie was to tend her bar; and by her talents
and her good looks and attractions Mother Moggs hoped to double her
liquor sales. What if it did ruin the men? What if it was selling them
ruin, madness, beggary--so much the better;--had they not ruined her?
If Maggie had been left to her own ways, she might have been the
ruin of many. It was the Christ in the heart of a woman who had the
Christian love and Christian courage to go after her and seek for her,
that brought to her salvation. The invisible Christ must be made known
through human eyes; he must speak through a voice of earthly love, and
a human hand inspired by his spirit must be reached forth to save.
The sight of Eva's pure, sweet face in that den of wickedness, the
tears of pity in her eyes, the imploring tones of her voice, had
produced an electric revulsion in Maggie's excitable nature. She was
not, then, forsaken: she was cared for, loved, followed even into
the wilderness, by one so far above her in rank and station. It was
an illustration of what Christian love was, which made it possible
to believe in the love of Christ. The hymns, the prayers, that spoke
of hope and salvation, had a vivid meaning in the light of this
interpretation. The enthusiasm of gratitude that arose first towards
Eva, overflowed and bore the soul higher towards a Heavenly Friend.
Maggie was now longing to come back and prove by her devotion and
obedience her true repentance, and Eva had decided to take her again.
With two weddings impending in the family, she felt that Maggie's
skill with the needle and her facility in matters pertaining to the
female toilet might do good service, and might give her the sense of
usefulness--the strength that comes from something really accomplished.
Her former experience made her careful, however, of those sore and
sensitive conditions which attend the return to virtue in those who
have sinned, and which are often severest where there is the most
moral vitality, and she was anxious to prevent any repetition on Aunt
Maria's part of former unwise proceedings. All the other habitués
of the house partook of her own feeling; Alice and Angie were warmly
interested for the poor girl; and if Aunt Maria could be brought to
tolerate the arrangement, the danger of a sudden domiciliary visit
from her attended with inflammatory results might be averted.
So Eva was very sweet and very persuasive in her manner to-day, for
Aunt Maria had been devoting herself so entirely to the family service
during the few weeks past, that she felt in some sort under a debt
of obligation to her. The hardest person in the world to manage is a
sincere, willful, pig-headed, pertinacious friend who will insist on
doing you all sorts of kindnesses in a way that plagues about as much
as it helps you.
But Eva was the diplomatist of the family; the one with the precise
mixture of the suaviter in modo with the fortiter in re. She
had hitherto carried her points with the good lady in a way that
gave her great advantage, for Aunt Maria was one of those happily
self-complacent people who do not fail to arrogate to themselves the
after the most strenuous efforts, to hinder, and Eva's credit of all
the good things that they have not been able, housekeeping and social
successes, so far, were quite a feather in her cap. So, after dinner,
Eva began with:
"Well, you know, Aunt Maria, what with these two weddings coming on,
there is to be a terrible pressure of work--both coming the week after
Easter, you see. So," she added quickly, "I think it quite lucky that
I have found Maggie and got her back again, for she is one of the
quickest and best seamstresses that I know of." Aunt Maria's brow
suddenly darkened. Every trace of good-humor vanished from her face as
she said:
"Now do tell me, Eva, if you are going to be such a fool, when
