destroyed. The boy seemed to be numerously if not well connected in the
city; he was always exchanging a glance and a smile with some
pretty, dark-eyed Greek girl whom we met in the way, and when I said,
“Demetrius, who was that?” he always answered, “That is my
cousin.”
The boy was so intelligent, so vivacious, and full of the spirit of
adventure,—begging me a dozen times a day to take him with me anywhere
in the world,—and so modern, that he had not till this moment seemed
to belong to Jerusalem, nor to have any part in its decay. This chance
discovery of his intimate relation to this necropolis gave, if I may say
so, a living interest to it, and to all the old burying-grounds about
the city, some of which link the present with the remote past by an
uninterrupted succession of interments for nearly three thousand years.
Just beyond this expanse, or rather in part of it, is a small plot of
ground surrounded by high whitewashed walls, the entrance to which is
secured by a heavy door. This is the American cemetery; and the stout
door and thick wall are, I suppose, necessary to secure its graves
from Moslem insult. It seems not to be visited often, for it was with
difficulty that we could turn the huge key in the rusty lock. There
are some half-dozen graves within; the graves are grass-grown and
flower-sprinkled, and the whole area is a tangle of unrestrained weeds
and grass. The high wall cuts off all view, but we did not for the time
miss it, rather liking for the moment to be secured from the sight of
the awful desolation, and to muse upon the strange fortune that had
drawn to be buried here upon Mount Zion, as a holy resting-place for
them, people alien in race, language, and customs to the house of David,
and removed from it by such spaces of time and distance; people to whom
the worship performed by David, if he could renew it in person on Zion,
would be as distasteful as is that of the Jews in yonder synagogue.
Only a short distance from this we came to the mosque which contains
the tomb of David and probably of Solomon and other Kings of Judah. No
historical monument in or about Jerusalem is better authenticated than
this. Although now for many centuries the Moslems have had possession of
it and forbidden access to it, there is a tolerably connected tradition
of its possession. It was twice opened and relieved of the enormous
treasure in gold and silver which Solomon deposited in it; once by
Hyrcanus Maccabæus, who took what he needed, and again by Herod,
who found very little. There are all sorts of stories told about the
splendor of this tomb and the state with which the Moslems surround it.
But they envelop it in so much mystery that no one can know the truth.
It is probable that the few who suppose they have seen it have seen only
a sort of cenotaph which is above the real tomb in the rock below. The
room which has been seen is embellished with some display of richness
in shawls and hangings of gold embroidery, and contains a sarcophagus of
rough stone, and lights are always burning there. If the royal tombs are
in this place, they are doubtless in the cave below.
Over this spot was built a church by the early Christians; and it is a
tradition that in this building was the Conaculum. This site may very
likely be that of the building where the Last Supper was laid, and it
may be that St. Stephen suffered martyrdom here, and that the Virgin
died here; the building may be as old as the fourth century, but the
chances of any building standing so long in this repeatedly destroyed
city are not good. There is a little house north of this mosque in which
the Virgin spent the last years of her life; if she did, she must have
lived to be over a thousand years old.
On the very brow of the hill, and overlooking the lower pool of Gibon,
is the English school, with its pretty garden and its cemetery. We
saw there some excavations, by which the bedrock had been laid bare,
disclosing some stone steps cut in it. Search is being made here for
the Seat of Solomon, but it does not seem to me a vital matter, for
I suppose he sat down all over this hill, which was covered with his
palaces and harems and other buildings of pleasure, built of stones
that “were of great value, such as are dug out of the earth for the
ornaments of temples and to make fine prospects in royal palaces, and
which make the mines whence they are dug famous.” Solomon’s palace
was constructed entirely of white stone, and cedar-wood, and gold and
silver; in it “were very long cloisters, and those situate in
an agreeable place in the palace, and among them a most glorious
dining-room for feastings and compotations”; indeed, Josephus finds
it difficult to reckon up the variety and the magnitude of the royal
apartments,—“how many that were subterraneous and invisible, the
curiosity of those that enjoyed the fresh air, and the groves for the
most delightful prospect, for avoiding the heat, and covering their
bodies.” If this most luxurious of monarchs introduced here all the
styles of architecture which would represent the nationality of his
wives, as he built temples to suit their different religions, the hill
of Zion must have resembled, on a small scale, the Munich of King Ludwig
I.
Opposite the English school, across the Valley of Hinnom, is a long
block of modern buildings which is one of the most conspicuous
objects outside the city. It was built by another rich Jew, Sir Moses
Montefiore, of London, and contains tenements for poor Jews. Sir Moses
is probably as rich as Solomon was in his own right, and he makes a most
charitable use of his money; but I do not suppose that if he had at his
command the public wealth that Solomon had, who made silver as plentiful
as stones in the streets of Jerusalem, he could materially alleviate the
lazy indigence of the Jewish exiles here. The aged philanthropist made
a journey hither in the summer of 1875, to ascertain for himself
the condition of the Jews. I believe he has a hope of establishing
manufactories in which they can support themselves; but the minds of the
Jews who are already restored are not set upon any sort of industry. It
seems to me that they could be maintained much more cheaply if they were
transported to a less barren land.
We made, one day, an exploration of the Jews’ quarter, which enjoys
the reputation of being more filthy than the Christian. The approach to
it is down a gutter which has the sounding name of the Street of David;
it was bad enough, but when we entered the Jews’ part of the city we
found ourselves in lanes and gutters of incomparable unpleasantness,
and almost impassable, with nothing whatever in them interesting or
picturesque, except the inhabitants. We had a curiosity to see if there
were here any real Jews of the type that inhabited the city in the
time of our Lord, and we saw many with fair skin and light hair, with
straight nose and regular features. The persons whom we are accustomed
to call Jews, and who were found dispersed about Europe at a very early
period of modern history, have the Assyrian features, the hook nose,
dark hair and eyes, and not at all the faces of the fair-haired race
from which our Saviour is supposed to have sprung. The kingdom of
Israel, which contained the ten tribes, was gobbled up by the Assyrians
about the time Rome was founded, and from that date these tribes do
not appear historically. They may have entirely amalgamated with their
conquerors, and the modified race subsequently have passed into Europe;
for the Jews claim to have been in Europe before the destruction of
Jerusalem by Titus, in which nearly all the people of the kingdom of
Judah perished.
Some scholars, who have investigated the problem offered by the two
types above mentioned, think that the Jew as we know him in Europe and
America is not the direct descendant of the Jews of Jerusalem of the
time of Herod, and that the true offspring of the latter is the person
of the light hair and straight nose who is occasionally to be found in
Jerusalem to-day. Until this ethnological problem is settled, I
shall most certainly withhold my feeble contributions for the
“restoration” of the persons at present doing business under the
name of Jews among the Western nations.
But we saw another type of Jew, or rather another variety, in this
quarter. He called himself of the tribe of Benjamin, and is, I think,
the most unpleasant human being I have ever encountered. Every man who
supposes himself of this tribe wears a dark, corkscrew, stringy
curl hanging down each side of his face, and the appearance of nasty
effeminacy which this gives cannot be described. The tribe of Benjamin
does not figure well in sacred history,—it was left-handed; it was
pretty much exterminated by the other tribes once for an awful crime; it
was held from going into the settled idolatry of the kingdom of
Israel only by its contiguity to Judah,—but it was better than its
descendants, if these are its descendants.
More than half of the eight thousand Jews in Jerusalem speak Spanish as
their native tongue, and are the offspring of those expelled from Spain
by Ferdinand. Now and then, I do not know whether it was Spanish or
Arabic, we saw a good face, a noble countenance, a fine Oriental and
venerable type, and occasionally, looking from a window, a Jewish
beauty; but the most whom we met were debased, mis-begotten, the
remnants of sin, squalor, and bad living.
We went into two of the best synagogues,—one new, with a conspicuous
green dome. They are not fine; on the contrary, they are slatternly
places and very ill-kept. On the benches near the windows sat squalid
men and boys reading, the latter, no doubt, students of the law; all the
passages, stairs, and by-rooms were dirty and disorderly, as if it were
always Monday morning there, but never washing-day; rags and heaps of
ancient garments were strewn about; and occasionally we nearly stumbled
over a Jew, indistinguishable from a bundle of old clothes, and asleep
on the floor. Even the sanctuary is full of unkempt people, and of the
evidences of the squalor of the quarter. If this is a specimen of the
restoration of the Jews, they had better not be restored any more.
The thing to do (if the worldliness of the expression will be pardoned)
Friday is to go and see the Jews wail, as in Constantinople it is to see
the Sultan go to prayer, and in Cairo to hear the darwishes howl. The
performance, being an open-air one, is sometimes prevented by rain or
snow, but otherwise it has not failed for many centuries. This ancient
practice is probably not what it once was, having in our modern days,
by becoming a sort of fashion, lost its spontaneity; it will, however,
doubtless be long kept up, as everything of this sort endures in the
East, even if it should become necessary to hire people to wail.
The Friday morning of the day chosen for our visit to the wailing place
was rainy, following a rainy night. The rough-paved open alleys were
gutters of mud, the streets under arches (for there are shops in
subterranean constructions and old vaulted passages) were damper and
darker than usual; the whole city, with its narrow lanes, and thick
walls, and no sewers, was clammy and uncomfortable. We loitered for a
time in the dark and grave-like gold bazaars, where there is but a poor
display of attractions. Pilgrims from all lands were sopping about in
the streets; conspicuous among them were Persians wearing high,
conical frieze hats, and short-legged, big-calfed Russian peasant
women,—animated meal-bags.
We walked across to the Zion Gate, and mounting the city wall there—an
uneven and somewhat broken, but sightly promenade—followed it round to
its junction with the Temple wall, and to Robinson’s Arch. Underneath
the wall by Zion Gate dwell, in low stone huts and burrows, a
considerable number of lepers, who form a horrid community by
themselves. These poor creatures, with toeless feet and fingerless
hands, came out of their dens and assailed us with piteous cries for
charity. What could be done? It was impossible to give to all. The
little we threw them they fought for, and the unsuccessful followed us
with whetted eagerness. We could do nothing but flee, and we climbed the
wall and ran down it, leaving Demetrius behind as a rear-guard. I
should have had more pity for them if they had not exhibited so
much maliciousness. They knew their power, and brought all their
loathsomeness after us, thinking that we would be forced to buy their
retreat. Two hideous old women followed us a long distance, and
when they became convinced that further howling and whining would be
fruitless, they suddenly changed tone and cursed us with healthful
vigor; having cursed us, they hobbled home to roost.
This part of the wall crosses what was once the Tyrophoan Valley, which
is now pretty much filled up; it ran between Mount Moriah, on which
the Temple stood, and Mount Zion. It was spanned in ancient times by a
bridge some three hundred and fifty feet long, resting on stone arches
whose piers must have been from one hundred to two hundred feet in
height; this connected the Temple platform with the top of the steep
side of Zion. It was on the Temple end of this bridge that Titus stood
and held parley with the Jews who refused to surrender Zion after the
loss of Moriah.
The exact locality of this interesting bridge was discovered by Dr.
Robinson. Just north of the southwest corner of the Harem wall (that
is, the Temple or Mount Moriah wall) he noticed three courses of huge
projecting stones, which upon careful inspection proved to be the
segment of an arch. The spring of the arch is so plainly to be seen now
that it is a wonder it remained so long unknown.
The Wailing Place of the Jews is on the west side of the Temple
enclosure, a little to the north of this arch; it is in a long, narrow
court formed by the walls of modern houses and the huge blocks of stone
of this part of the original wall. These stones are no doubt as old as
Solomon’s Temple, and the Jews can here touch the very walls of the
platform of that sacred edifice.
Every Friday a remnant of the children of Israel comes here to weep and
wail. They bring their Scriptures, and leaning against the honey-combed
stone, facing it, read the Lamentations and the Psalms, in a wailing
voice, and occasionally cry aloud in a chorus of lamentation, weeping,
blowing their long noses with blue cotton handkerchiefs, and kissing
the stones. We were told that the smoothness of the stones in spots was
owing to centuries of osculation. The men stand together at one part of
the wall and the women at another. There were not more than twenty Jews
present as actors in the solemn ceremony the day we visited the spot,
and they did not wail much, merely reading the Scriptures in a mumbling
voice and swaying their bodies backward and forward. Still they formed
picturesque and even pathetic groups: venerable old men with long white
beards and hooked noses, clad in rags and shreds and patches in all
degrees of decadence; lank creatures of the tribe of Benjamin with the
corkscrew curls; and skinny old women shaking with weeping, real or
assumed.
Very likely these wailers were as poor and wretched as they appeared
to be, and their tears were the natural outcome of their grief over the
ruin of the Temple nearly two thousand years ago. I should be the last
one to doubt their enjoyment of this weekly bitter misery. But the
demonstration had somewhat the appearance of a set and show performance;
while it was going on, a shrewd Israelite went about with a box to
collect mites from the spectators. There were many more travellers.
there to see the wailing than there were Jews to wail. This also lent
an unfavorable aspect to the scene. I myself felt that if this were
genuine, I had no business to be there with my undisguised curiosity,
and if it were not genuine, it was the poorest spectacle that Jerusalem
offers to the tourist. Cook’s party was there in force, this being
one of the things promised in the contract; and I soon found myself more
interested in Cook’s pilgrims than in the others.
The Scripture read and wailed this day was the fifty-first Psalm of
David. If you turn to it (you may have already discovered that the
covert purpose of these desultory notes is to compel you to read your
Bible), you will see that it expresses David’s penitence in the matter
of Bathsheba.
III.—HOLY PLACES OP THE HOLY CITY.
THE sojourner in Jerusalem falls into the habit of dropping in at the
Church of the Holy Sepulchre nearly every afternoon. It is the centre
of attraction. There the pilgrims all resort; there one sees, in a day,
many races, and the costumes of strange and distant peoples; there one
sees the various worship of the many Christian sects. There are always
processions making the round of the holy places, sect following
sect, with swinging censers, each fumigating away the effect of its
predecessor.
The central body of the church, answering to the nave, as the rotunda,
which contains the Holy Sepulchre, answers to choir and apse, is the
Greek chapel, and the most magnificent in the building. The portion of
the church set apart to the Latins, opening also out of the rotunda,
is merely a small chapel. The Armenians have still more contracted
accommodations, and the poor Copts enjoy a mere closet, but it is in a
sacred spot, being attached to the west end of the sepulchre itself.
On the western side of the rotunda we passed through the bare and
apparently uncared-for chapel of the Syrians, and entered, through a low
door, into a small grotto hewn in the rock. Lighted candles revealed to
us some tombs, little pits cut in the rock, two in the side-wall and two
in the floor. We had a guide who knew every sacred spot in the city,
a man who never failed to satisfy the curiosity of the most credulous
tourist.
“Whose tombs are these?” we asked.
“That is the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, and that beside it is the
tomb of Nicodemus.”
“How do you know?”
“How do I know? You ask me how I know. Have n’t I always lived in
Jerusalem? I was born here.”
“Then perhaps you can tell us, if this tomb belonged to Joseph of
Arimathea and this to Nicodemus, whose is this third one?”
“O yes, that other,” replied the guide, with only a moment’s
paralysis of his invention, “that is the tomb of Arimathea himself.”
One afternoon at four, service was going on in the Greek chapel, which
shone with silver and blazed with tapers, and was crowded with pilgrims,
principally Russians of both sexes, many of whom had made a painful
pilgrimage of more than two thousand miles on foot merely to prostrate
themselves in this revered place. A Russian bishop and a priest, in
the resplendent robes of their office, were intoning the service
responsively. In the very centre of this chapel is a round hole covered
with a grating, and tapers are generally burning about it. All the
pilgrims kneeled there, and kissed the grating and adored the hole. I
had the curiosity to push my way through the throng in order to see the
object of devotion, but I could discover nothing. It is, however, an
important spot: it is the centre of the earth; though why Christians
should worship the centre of the earth I do not know. The Armenians have
in their chapel also a spot that they say is the real centre; that makes
three that we know of, for everybody understands that there is one in
the Kaaba at Mecca.
We sat down upon a stone bench near the entrance of the chapel, where we
could observe the passing streams of people, and were greatly diverted
by a blithe and comical beggar who had stationed himself on the pavement
there to intercept the Greek charity of the worshippers when they passed
into the rotunda. He was a diminutive man with distorted limbs; he
wore a peaked red cap, and dragged himself over the pavement, or rather
skipped and flopped about on it like a devil-fish on land. Never was
seen in a beggar such vivacity and imperturbable good-humor, with so
much deviltry in his dancing eyes.
As we appeared to him to occupy a neutral position as to him and his
victims, he soon took us into his confidence and let us see his mode
of operations. He said (to our guide) that he was a Greek from
Damascus,—O yes, a Christian, a pilgrim, who always came down here at
this season, which was his harvest-time. He hoped (with a wicked wink)
that his devotion would be rewarded.
It was very entertaining to see him watch the people coming out, and
select his victims, whom he would indicate to us by a motion of his head
as he hopped towards them. He appeared to rely more upon the poor and
simple than upon the rich, and he was more successful with the former.
But he rarely, such was his insight, made a mistake. Whoever gave him
anything he thanked with the utmost empressement of manner; then he
crossed himself, and turned around and winked at us, his confederates.
When an elegantly dressed lady dropped the smallest of copper coins into
his cap, he let us know his opinion of her by a significant gesture
and a shrug of his shoulders. But no matter from whom he received it,
whenever he added a penny to his store the rascal chirped and laughed
and caressed himself. He was in the way of being trodden under foot by
the crowd; but his agility was extraordinary, and I should not have been
surprised at any moment if he had vaulted over the heads of the throng
and disappeared. If he failed to attract the attention of an eligible
pilgrim, he did not hesitate to give the skirt of his elect a jerk, for
which rudeness he would at once apologize with an indescribable grimace
and a joke.
When the crowd had passed, he slid himself into a corner, by a motion
such as that with which a fish suddenly darts to one side, and set
himself to empty his pocket into his cap and count his plunder, tossing
the pieces into the air and catching them with a chuckle, crossing
himself and hugging himself by turns. He had four francs and a half.
When he had finished counting his money he put it in a bag, and for a
moment his face assumed a grave and business-like expression. We thought
he would depart without demanding anything of us. But we were mistaken;
he had something in view that he no doubt felt would insure him a
liberal backsheesh. Wriggling near to us, he set his face into an
expression of demure humility, held out his cap, and said, in English,
each word falling from his lips as distinctly and unnaturally as if he
had been a wooden articulating machine,—
“Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give
you rest.”
The rascal’s impiety lessened the charity which our intimacy with him
had intended, but he appeared entirely content, chirped, saluted with
gravity, and, with a flop, was gone from our sight.
At the moment, a procession of Franciscan monks swept by, chanting in
rich bass voices, and followed, as usual, by Latin pilgrims, making
the daily round of the holy places; after they had disappeared we could
still hear their voices and catch now and again the glimmer of their
tapers in the vast dark spaces.
Opposite the place where we were sitting is the Chapel of the
Apparition, a room not much more than twenty feet square; it is the
Latin chapel, and besides its contiguity to the sepulchre has some
specialties of its own. The chapel is probably eight hundred years old.
In the centre of the pavement is the spot upon which our Lord stood when
he appeared to the Virgin after the resurrection; near it a slab marks
the place where the three crosses were laid after they were dug up by
Helena, and where the one on which our Lord was crucified was identified
by the miracle that it worked in healing a sick man. South of the altar
is a niche in the wall, now covered over, but a round hole is left
in the covering. I saw pilgrims thrust a long stick into this hole,
withdraw it, and kiss the end. The stick had touched a fragment of the
porphyry column to which the Saviour was bound when he was scourged.
In the semicircle at the east end of the nave are several interesting
places: the prison where Christ was confined before his execution, a
chapel dedicated to the centurion who pierced the side of our Lord, and
the spot on which the vestments were divided. From thence we descend,
by a long flight of steps partly hewn in the rock, to a rude, crypt-like
chapel, in the heavy early Byzantine style, a damp, cheerless place,
called the Chapel of Helena. At the east end of it another flight of
steps leads down into what was formerly a cistern, but is now called the
Chapel of the Invention of the Cross. Here the cross was found, and at
one side of the steps stands the marble chair in which the mother of
Constantine sat while she superintended the digging. Nothing is wanting
that the most credulous pilgrim could wish to see; that is, nothing is
wanting in spots where things were. This chapel belongs to the Latins;
that of Helena to the Greeks; the Abyssinian convent is above both of
them.
On the south side of the church, near the entrance, is a dark room
called the Chapel of Adam, in which there is never more light than a
feeble taper can give. I groped my way into it often, in the hope of
finding something; perhaps it is purposely involved in an obscurity
typical of the origin of mankind. There is a tradition that Adam
was buried on Golgotha, but the only tomb in this chapel is that of
Melchizedek! The chapel formerly contained that of Godfrey de Bouillon,
elected the first king of Jerusalem in 1099, and of Baldwin, his
brother. We were shown the two-handed sword of Godfrey, with which he
clove a Saracen lengthwise into two equal parts, a genuine relic of a
heroic and barbarous age. At the end of this chapel a glimmering light
lets us see through a grating a crack in the rock made by the earthquake
at the crucifixion.
The gloom of this mysterious chapel, which is haunted by the spectre
of that dim shadow of unreality, Melchizedek, prepared us to ascend to
Golgotha, above it. The chapels of Golgotha are supported partly upon
a rock which rises fifteen feet above the pavement of the church. The
first is that of the Elevation of the Cross, and belongs to the Greeks.
Under the altar at the east end is a hole in the marble which is over
the hole in the rock in which the cross stood; on either side of it
are the holes of the crosses of the two thieves. The altar is rich with
silver and gold and jewels. The chamber, when we entered it, was blazing
with light, and Latin monks were performing their adorations, with
chanting and swinging of incense, before the altar. A Greek priest stood
at one side, watching them, and there was plain contempt in his face.
The Greek priests are not wanting in fanaticism, but they never seem to
me to possess the faith of the Latin branch of the Catholic church. When
the Latins had gone, the Greek took us behind the altar, and showed us
another earthquake-rent in the rock.
Adjoining this chapel is the Latin Chapel of the Crucifixion, marking
the spot where Christ was nailed to the cross; from that we looked
through a window into an exterior room dedicated to the Sorrowing
Virgin, where she stood and beheld the crucifixion. Both these latter
rooms do not rest upon the rock, but upon artificial vaults, and of
course can mark the spots commemorated by them only in space.
Perhaps this sensation of being in the air, and of having no
standing-place even for tradition, added something to the strange
feeling that took possession of me; a mingled feeling that was no more
terror than is the apprehension that one experiences at a theatre from
the manufactured thunder behind the scenes. I suppose it arose
from cross currents meeting in the mind, the thought of the awful
significance of the events here represented and the sight of this
theatrical representation. The dreadful name, Golgotha, the gloom of
this part of the building,—a sort of mount of darkness, with its rent
rock and preternatural shadow,—the blazing contrast of the chapel
where the cross stood with the dark passages about it, the chanting and
flashing lights of pilgrims ever coming and going, the neighborhood of
the sepulchre itself, were well calculated to awaken an imagination the
least sensitive. And, so susceptible is the mind to the influence of
that mental electricity—if there is no better name for it—which
proceeds from a mass of minds having one thought (and is sometimes
called public opinion), be it true or false, that whatever one may
believe about the real location of the Holy Sepulchre, he cannot
witness, unmoved, the vast throng of pilgrims to these shrines,
representing as they do every section of the civilized and of the
uncivilized world into which a belief in the cross has penetrated. The
undoubted sincerity of the majority of the pilgrims who worship here
makes us for the time forget the hundred inventions which so often
allure and as often misdirect that worship.
The Church of the Holy Sepulchre offers at all times a great spectacle,
and one always novel, in the striking ceremonies and the people who
assist at them. One of the most extraordinary, that of the Holy Fire, at
the Greek Easter, which is three weeks later than the Roman, and which
has been so often described, we did not see. I am not sure that we saw
even all the thirty-seven holy places and objects in the church. It may
not be unprofitable to set down those I can recall. They are,—
The Stone of Unction.
The spot where the Virgin Mary stood when the body of our Lord was
anointed.
The Holy Sepulchre.
The stone on which the angel sat.
The tombs of Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus.
The well of Helena.
The stone marking the spot where Christ in the form of a gardener
appeared to Mary Magdalene.
The spot where Mary Magdalene stood.
The spot where our Lord appeared to the Virgin after his resurrection.
The place where the true cross, discovered by Helena, was laid, and
identified by a miracle.
The fragment of the Column of Flagellation.
The prison of our Lord.
The “Bonds of Christ,” a stone with two holes in it.
The place where the title on the cross was preserved.
The place of the division of the vestments.
The centre of the earth (Greek).
The centre of the earth (Armenian).
The altar of the centurion who pierced the body of Christ.
The altar of the penitent thief.
The Chapel of Helena.
The chair in which Helena sat when the cross was found.
The spot where the cross was found.
The Chapel of the Mocking, with a fragment of the column upon which
Jesus sat when they crowned him with thorns.
The Chapel of the Elevation of the Cross.
The spot where the cross stood.
The spots where the crosses of the thieves stood.
The rent rock near the cross.
The spot where Christ was nailed to the cross.
The spot where the Virgin stood during the crucifixion.
The Chapel of Adam.
The tomb of Melchizedek.
The rent rock in the Chapel of Adam.
The spots where the tombs of Godfrey and Baldwin stood.
No, we did not see them all. Besides, there used to be a piece of the
cross in the Latin chapel; but the Armenians are accused of purloining
it. All travellers, I suppose, have seen the celebrated Iron Crown of
Lombardy, which is kept in the church at Monza, near Milan. It is all of
gold except the inner band, which is made of a nail of the cross brought
from Jerusalem by Helena. The Church of the Holy Sepulchre has not all
the relics it might have, but it is as rich in them as any church of its
age.
A place in Jerusalem almost as interesting to Christians as the Holy
Sepulchre, and more interesting to antiquarians, is the Harem, or Temple
area, with its ancient substructions and its resplendent Saracenic
architecture. It is largely an open place, green with grass; it is clean
and wholesome, and the sun lies lovingly on it. There is no part of the
city where the traveller would so like to wander at will, to sit and
muse, to dream away the day on the walls overhanging the valley of the
Kidron, to recall at leisure all the wonderful story of its splendor and
its disaster. But admission to the area is had only by special permit.
Therefore the ordinary tourist goes not so much as he desires to the
site of the Temple that Solomon built, and of the porch where Jesus
walked and talked with his disciples. When he does go, he feels that he
treads upon firm historical ground.
We walked down the gutter (called street) of David; we did not enter
the Harem area by the Bab es-Silsileh (Gate of the Chain), but
turned northward and went in by the Bab el-Katanm (Gate of the
Cotton-Merchants), which is identified with the Beautiful Gate of the
Temple. Both these gates have twisted columns and are graceful examples
of Saracenic architecture. As soon as we entered the gate the splendor
of the area burst upon us; we passed instantly out of the sordid city
into a green plain, out of which—it could have been by a magic wand
only—had sprung the most charming creations in stone: minarets, domes,
colonnades, cloisters, pavilions, columns of all orders, horseshoe
arches and pointed arches, every joyous architectural thought expressed
in shining marble and brilliant color.
Our dragoman, Abd-el-Atti, did the honors of the place with the air of
proprietorship. For the first time in the Holy City he felt quite at
home, and appeared to be on the same terms with the Temple area that
he is with the tombs of the Pharaohs. The Christian antiquities are too
much for him, but his elastic mind expands readily to all the marvels
of the Moslem situation. The Moslems, indeed, consider that they have
a much better right to the Temple than the Christians, and Abd-el-Atti
acted as our cicerone in the precincts with all the delight of a boy and
with the enthusiasm of faith. It was not unpleasant to him, either,
to have us see that he was treated with consideration by the mosque
attendants and ulemas, and that he was well known and could pass readily
into the most reserved places. He had said his prayers that morning, at
twelve, in this mosque, a privilege only second to that of praying in
the mosque at Mecca, and was in high spirits, as one who had (if the
expression is allowable) got a little ahead in the matter of devotion.
Let me give in a few words, without any qualifications of doubt, what
seem to be the well-ascertained facts about this area. It is at present
a level piece of ground (in the nature of a platform, since it is
sustained on all sides by walls), a quadrilateral with its sides not
quite parallel, about fifteen hundred feet long by one thousand feet
broad. The northern third of it was covered by the Fortress of Antonia,
an ancient palace and fortress, rebuilt with great splendor by Herod.
The small remains of it in the northeast corner are now barracks.
This level piece of ground is nearly all artificial, either filled in or
built up on arches. The original ground (Mount Moriah) was a rocky hill,
the summit of which was the rock about which there has been so much
controversy. Near the centre of this ground, and upon a broad raised
platform, paved with marble, stands the celebrated mosque Kubbet
es-Sukhrah, “The Dome of the Rock.” It is built over the Sacred
Rock.
This rock marks the site of the threshing-floor of Oman, the Jebusite,
which David bought, purchasing at the same time the whole of Mount
Moriah. Solomon built the Temple over this rock, and it was probably
the “stone of sacrifice.” At the time Solomon built the Temple, the
level place on Moriah was scarcely large enough for the naos of that
building, and Solomon extended the ground to the east and south by
erecting arches and filling in on top of them, and constructing a heavy
retaining-wall outside. On the east side also he built a porch, or
magnificent colonnade, which must have produced a fine effect of
Oriental grandeur when seen from the deep valley below or from the Mount
of Olives opposite.
To this rock the Jews used to come, in the fourth century, and anoint it
with oil, and wail over it, as the site of the Temple. On it once stood
a statue of Hadrian. When the Moslems captured Jerusalem, it became,
what it has ever since been, one of their most venerated places. The
Khalif Omar cleared away the rubbish from it, and built over it a
mosque. The Khalif Abd-el-Melek began to rebuild it in a. d. 686. During
the Crusades it was used as a Christian church. Allowing for decay and
repairs, the present mosque is probably substantially that built by
Abd-el-Melek.
At the extreme south of the area is the vast Mosque of Aksa, a splendid
basilica with seven aisles, which may or may not be the Church of St.
Mary built by Justinian in the sixth century; architects differ about
it. This question it seems to me very difficult to decide from the
architecture of the building, because of the habit that Christians
and Moslems both had of appropriating columns and capitals of ancient
structures in their buildings; and because the Moslems at that time used
both the round and the pointed arch.
This platform is beyond all comparison the most beautiful place in
Jerusalem, and its fairy-like buildings, when seen from the hill
opposite, give to the city its chief claim to Oriental picturesqueness.
The dome of the mosque Kubbet-es-Sukhrah is perhaps the most beautiful
in the world; it seems to float in the air like a blown bubble; this
effect is produced by a slight drawing in of the base. This contraction
of the dome is not sufficient to give the spectator any feeling of
insecurity, or to belittle this architectural marvel to the likeness
of a big toy; the builder hit the exact mean between massiveness and
expanding lightness. The mosque is octagonal in form, and although its
just proportions make it appear small, it is a hundred and fifty feet in
diameter; outside and in, it is a blaze of color in brilliant marbles,
fine mosaics, stained glass, and beautiful Saracenic tiles. The lower
part of the exterior wall is covered with colored marbles in intricate
patterns; above are pointed windows with stained glass; and the spaces
between the windows are covered by glazed tiles, with arabesque designs
and very rich in color. In the interior, which has all the soft warmth
and richness of Persian needlework, are two corridors, with rows of
columns and pillars; within the inner row is the Sacred Rock.
This rock, which is the most remarkable stone in the world, if half we
hear of it be true, and which by a singular fortune is sacred to three
religions, is an irregular bowlder, standing some five feet above the
pavement, and is something like sixty feet long. In places it has been
chiselled, steps are cut on one side, and various niches are hewn in
it; a round hole pierces it from top to bottom. The rock is limestone,
a little colored with iron, and beautiful in spots where it has been
polished. One would think that by this time it ought to be worn smooth
all over.
If we may believe the Moslems and doubt our own senses, this rock is
suspended in the air, having no support on any side. It was to this rock
that Mohammed made his midnight journey on El Burak; it was from
here that he ascended into Paradise, an excursion that occupied him
altogether only forty minutes. It is, I am inclined to think, the
miraculous suspension of this stone that is the basis of the Christian
fable of the suspension of Mohammed’s coffin,—a miracle unknown to
all Moslems of whom I have inquired concerning it.
“Abd-el-Atti,” I said, “does this rock rest on nothing?”
“So I have hunderstood; thim say so.”
“But do you believe it?”
“When I read him, I believe; when I come and see him, I can’t help
what I see.”
At the south end of the rock we descended a flight of steps and stood
under the rock in what is called the Noble Cave, a small room about six
feet high, plastered and whitewashed. This is supposed to be the sink
into which the blood of the Jewish sacrifices drained. The plaster and
whitewash hide the original rock, and give the Moslems the opportunity
to assert that there is no rock foundation under the big stone.
“But,” we said to Abd-el-Atti, “if this rock hangs in the air,
why cannot we see all around it? Why these plaster walls that seem to
support it?”
“So him used to be. This done so, I hear, on account of de women. Thim
come here, see this rock, thim berry much frightened. Der little shild,
what you call it, get born in de world before him wanted. So thim make
this wall under it.”
There are four altars in this cave, one of them dedicated to David; here
the Moslem prophets, Abraham, David, Solomon, and Jesus, used to pray.
In the rock is a round indentation made by Mohammed’s head when he
first attempted to rise to heaven; near it is the hole through which
he rose. On the upper southeast corner of the rock is the print of the
prophet’s foot, and close to it the print of the hand of the angel
Michael, who held the rock down from following Mohammed into the skies.
In the mosque above, Abd-el-Atti led us, with much solemnity, to a small
stone set in the pavement near the north entrance. It was perforated
with holes, in some of which were brass nails.
“How many holes you make ‘em there?”
“Thirteen.”
“How many got nails?”
“Four.”
“Not so many. Only three and a half nails. Used to be thirteen nails.
Now only three and a half. When these gone, then the world come to an
end. I t’ink it not berry long.”
“I should think the Moslems would watch this stone very carefully.”
“What difference? You not t’ink it come when de time come?”
We noticed some pieces of money on the stone, and asked why that was.
“Whoever he lay backsheesh on this stone, he certain to go into
Paradise, and be took by our prophet in his bosom.”
We wandered for some time about the green esplanade, dotted with
cypress-trees, and admired the little domes: the Dome of the Spirits,
the dome that marks the spot where David sat in judgment, etc.; some
of them cover cisterns and reservoirs in the rock, as old as the
foundations of the Temple.
In the corridor of the Mosque of Aksa are two columns standing close
together, and like those at the Mosque of Omar, in Cairo, they are a
test of character; it is said that whoever can squeeze between them is
certain of Paradise, and must, of course, be a good Moslem. I suppose
that when this test was established the Moslems were all lean. A black
stone is set in the wall of the porch; whoever can walk, with closed
eyes, across the porch pavement and put his finger on this stone may be
sure of entering Paradise. According to this criterion, the writer of
this is one of the elect of the Mohammedan Paradise and his dragoman is
shut out. We were shown in this mosque the print of Christ’s foot in
a stone; and it is said that with faith one can feel in it, as he can
in that of Mohammed’s in the rock, the real flesh. Opening from this
mosque is the small Mosque of Omar, on the spot where that zealous
khalif prayed.
The massive pillared substructions under Aksa are supposed by Moslems
to be of Solomon’s time. That wise monarch had dealings with the
invisible, and no doubt controlled the genii, who went and came and
built and delved at his bidding. Abd-el-Atti, with haste and an air of
mystery, drew me along under the arches to the window in the south end,
and showed me the opening of a passage under the wall, now half choked
up with stones. This is the beginning of a subterranean passage made
by the prophet Solomon, that extends all the way to Hebron, and has an
issue in the mosque over the tomb of Abraham. This fact is known only
to Moslems, and to very few of them, and is considered one of the great
secrets. Before I was admitted to share it, I am glad that I passed
between the two columns, and touched, with my eyes shut, the black
stone.
In the southeast corner of the Harem is a little building called the
Mosque of Jesus. We passed through it, and descended the stairway into
what is called Solomon’s Stables, being shown on our way a stone
trough which is said to be the cradle of the infant Jesus. These
so-called stables are subterranean vaults, built, no doubt, to sustain
the south end of the Temple platform. We saw fifteen rows of massive
square pillars of unequal sizes and at unequal distances apart (as if
intended for supports that would not be seen), and some forty feet high,
connected by round arches. We were glad to reascend from this wet and
unpleasant cavern to the sunshine and the greensward.
I forgot to mention the Well of the Leaf, near the entrance, in the
Mosque of Aksa, and the pretty Moslem legend that gave it a name, which
Abd-el-Atti relates, though not in the words of the hand-book:—
“This well berry old; call him Well of the Leaf; water same as Pool
of Solomon, healthy water; I like him very much. Not so deep as Bir
el-Arwâh; that small well, you see it under the rock; they say it goes
down into Gehenna.”
“Why is this called the Well of the Leaf?”
“Once, time of Suleiman [it was Omar], a friend of our prophet come
here to pray, and when he draw water to wash he drop the bucket in the
bottom of the well. No way to get it up, but he must go down. When he
was on the bottom, there he much surprised by a door open in the ground,
and him berry cur’ous to see what it is. Nobody there, so he look
in, and then walk through berry fast, and look over him shoulder to
the bucket left in the well. The place where he was come was the most
beautiful garden ever was, and he walk long time and find no end, always
more garden, so cool, and water run in little streams, and sweet smell
of roses and jasmine, and little birds that sing, and big trees and
dates and oranges and palms, more kind, I t’ink, than you see in the
garden of his vice-royal. When the man have been long time in the garden
he begin to have fright, and pick a green leaf off a tree, and run back
and come up to his friends. He show ‘em the green leaf, but nobody
have believe what he say. Then they tell him story to the kadi, and the
kadi send men to see the garden in the bottom of the well. They not
find any, not find any door. Then the kadi he make him a letter to the
Sultan—berry wise man—and he say (so I read it in our history),
‘Our prophet say, One of my friends shall walk in Paradise while he
is alive. If this is come true, you shall see the leaf, if it still keep
green.’ Then the kadi make examine of the leaf, and find him green. So
it is believe the man has been in Paradise.”
“And do you believe it?”
“I cannot say edzacly where him been. Where you t’ink he done got
that leaf?”
Along the east wall of the Harem there are no remains of the long
colonnade called Solomon’s Porch, not a column of that resplendent
marble pavilion which caught the first rays of the sun over the
mountains of Moab, and which, with the shining temple towering behind
it, must have presented a more magnificent appearance than Babylon, and
have rivalled the architectural glories of Baalbek. The only thing in
this wail worthy of note now is the Golden Gate, an entrance no longer
used. We descended into its archways, and found some fine columns with
composite capitals, and other florid stone-work of a rather tasteless
and debased Roman style.
We climbed the wall by means of the steps, a series of which are placed
at intervals, and sat a long time looking upon a landscape, every foot
of which is historical. Merely to look upon it is to recall a great
portion of the Jewish history and the momentous events in the brief life
of the Saviour, which, brief as it was, sufficed to newly create the
earth. There is the Mount of Olives, with its commemorative chapels,
heaps of stone, and scattered trees; there is the ancient foot-path up
which David fled as a fugitive by night from the conspiracy of Absalom,
what time Shimei, the relative of Saul, stoned him and cursed him; and
down that Way of Triumph, the old road sweeping round its base, came the
procession of the Son of David, in whose path the multitude cast their
garments and branches of trees, and cried, “Hosanna in the highest.”
There on those hills, Mount Scopus and Olivet, were once encamped the
Assyrians, and again the Persians; there shone the eagles of Rome, borne
by her conquering legions; and there, in turn, Crusaders and Saracens
pitched their tents. How many times has the air been darkened with
missiles hurled thence upon this shining prize, and how many armies
have closed in about this spot and swarmed to its destruction! There the
Valley of Jehoshaphat curves down until it is merged in the Valley of
the Brook Kidron. There, at the junction of the roads that run over and
around Olivet, is a clump of trees surrounded by a white wall; that is
the Garden of Gethsemane. Near it is the tomb of Mary. Farther down
you see the tomb of Absalom, the tomb of St. James, the monolith
pyramid-tipped tomb of Zacharias (none of them apparently as old as they
claim to be), and the remains of a little temple, the model of which
came from the banks of the Nile, that Solomon built for his Egyptian
wife, the daughter of Pharaoh, wherein they worshipped the gods of her
country. It is tradition also that near here were some of the temples he
built for others of his strange wives: a temple to Chemosh, the Moabite
god, and the image of Moloch, the devourer of children. Solomon was
wiser than all men, wiser than Heman, and Chalcol, and Darda, the sons
of Mahol; his friend Hiram of Tyre used to send riddles to him which no
one in the world but Solomon could guess; but his wisdom failed him with
the other sex, and there probably never was another Oriental court so
completely ruled and ruined by women as his.
This valley below us is perhaps the most melancholy on earth: nowhere
else is death so visibly master of the scene; nature is worn out, man
tired out; a gray despair has settled down upon the landscape. Down
there is the village of Siloam, a village of huts and holes in the
rocks, opposite the cave of that name. If it were the abode of wolves it
would have a better character than it has now. There is the grim cast
of sin and exhaustion upon the scene. I do not know exactly how much of
this is owing to the Jewish burying-ground, which occupies so much of
the opposite hill. The slope is thickly shingled with gray stones, that
lie in a sort of regularity which suggests their purpose. You fall to
computing how many Jews there may be in that hill, layer upon layer; for
the most part they are dissolved away into the earth, but you think that
if they were to put on their mortal bodies and come forth, the valley
itself would be filled with them almost to the height of the wall. Out
of these gates, giving upon this valley of death, six hundred thousand
bodies of those who had starved were thrown during the siege, and long
before Titus stormed the city. I do not wonder that the Moslems think of
this frightful vale as Gehenna itself.
From an orifice in the battlemented wall where we sat projects a round
column, mounted there like a cannon, and perhaps intended to deceive
an enemy into the belief that the wall is fortified. It is astride this
column, overhanging this dreadful valley, that Mohammed will sit at
the last, the judgment day. A line finer than a hair and sharper than a
razor will reach from it to the tower on the Mount of Olives, stretching
over the valley of the dead. This is the line Es-Serat. Mohammed will
superintend the passage over it. For in that day all who ever lived,
risen to judgment, must walk this razor-line; the good will cross in
safety; the bad will fall into hell, that is, into Gehenna, this blasted
gulf and side-hill below, thickly sown with departed Jews. It is in view
of this perilous passage that the Moslem every day, during the ablution
of his feet, prays: “O, make my feet not to slip on Es-Serat, on that
