sooner. They had now arrived there, and the stranger bade Ben good-by,
handing him at the same time the fifty cents agreed upon.
"He's a brick," Ben soliloquized, "even if he did say he'd smash my
head. I hope I'll meet some more like him."
Ben's objection to leaving the city is felt in an equal degree by many
boys who are situated like himself. Street life has its privations and
actual sufferings; but for all that there is a wild independence and
freedom from restraint about it, which suits those who follow it. To be
at the beck and call of no one; to be responsible only to themselves,
provided they keep from violating the law, has a charm to these young
outcasts. Then, again, they become accustomed to the street and its
varied scenes, and the daily excitement of life in a large city becomes
such a matter of necessity to them, that they find the country lonesome.
Yet, under the auspices of the Children's Aid Society, companies of boys
are continually being sent out to the great West with the happiest
results. After a while the first loneliness wears away, and they become
interested in the new scenes and labors to which they are introduced,
and a large number have already grown up to hold respectable, and, in
some cases, prominent places, in the communities which they have
joined. Others have pined for the city, until they could no longer
resist their yearning for it, and have found their way back to the old,
familiar scenes, to resume the former life of suffering and privation.
Such is the strange fascination which their lawless and irresponsible
mode of life oftentimes exerts upon the minds of these young Arabs of
the street.
When Ben parted from the passenger by the Albany boat, he did not
immediately seek another job. Accustomed as he was to live from "hand to
mouth," he had never troubled himself much about accumulating more than
would answer his immediate needs. Some boys in the Lodging House made
deposits in the bank of that institution; but frugality was not one of
Ben's virtues. As long as he came out even at the end of the day, he
felt very well satisfied. Generally he went penniless to bed; his
business not being one that required him to reserve money for capital to
carry it on. In the case of a newsboy it was different. He must keep
enough on hand to buy a supply of papers in the morning, even if he were
compelled to go to bed supperless.
With fifty cents in his pocket, Ben felt rich. It would buy him a good
supper, besides paying for his lodging at the Newsboys' Home, and a
ticket for the Old Bowery besides,--that is, a fifteen-cent ticket,
which, according to the arrangement of that day, would admit him to one
of the best-located seats in the house, that is, in the pit,
corresponding to what is known as the parquette in other theatres. This
arrangement has now been changed, so that the street boys find
themselves banished to the upper gallery of their favorite theatre. But
in the days of which I am speaking they made themselves conspicuous in
the front rows, and were by no means bashful in indicating their
approbation or disapprobation of the different actors who appeared on
the boards before them.
Ben had not gone far when he fell in with an acquaintance,--Barney
Flynn.
"Where you goin', Ben?" inquired Barney.
"Goin' to get some grub," answered Ben.
"I'm with you, then. I haven't eat anything since mornin', and I'm awful
hungry."
"Have you got any stamps?"
"I've got a fifty."
"So have I."
"Where are you goin' for supper?"
"To Pat's, I guess."
"All right; I'll go with you."
The establishment known as "Pat's" is located in a basement in Nassau
Street, as the reader of "Mark, the Match Boy," will remember. It is, of
coarse, a cheap restaurant, and is considerably frequented by the street
boys, who here find themselves more welcome guests than at some of the
more pretentious eating-houses.
Ben and Barney entered, and gave their orders for a substantial repast.
The style in which the meal was served differed considerably from the
service at Delmonico's; but it is doubtful whether any of the guests at
the famous up-town restaurant enjoyed their meal any better than the two
street boys, each of whom was blest with a "healthy" appetite. Barney
had eaten nothing since morning, and Ben's fast had only been broken by
the eating of a two-cent apple, which had not been sufficient to satisfy
his hunger.
Notwithstanding the liberality of their orders, however, each of the
boys found himself, at the end of the meal, the possessor of twenty-five
cents. This was not a very large sum to sleep on, but it was long since
either had waked up in the morning with so large a capital to commence
operations upon.
"What shall we do?" asked Ben.
"Suppose we go to the Old Bowery," suggested Barney.
"Or Tony Pastor's," amended Ben.
"I like the Bowery best. There's a great fight, and a feller gets killed
on the stage. It's a stunnin' old play."
"Then let us go," said Ben, who, as well as his companion, liked the
idea of witnessing a stage fight, which was all the more attractive on
account of having a fatal termination.
As the theatre tickets would cost but fifteen cents each, the boys felt
justified in purchasing each a cheap cigar, which they smoked as they
walked leisurely up Chatham Street.
CHAPTER XV.
THE ROOM UNDER THE WHARF.
It was at a late hour when the boys left the theatre. The play had been
of a highly sensational character, and had been greeted with
enthusiastic applause on the part of the audience, particularly the
occupants of the "pit." Now, as they emerged from the portals of the
theatre, various characteristic remarks of a commendatory character were
interchanged.
"How'd you like it, Ben?" asked Barney.
"Bully," said Ben.
"I liked the fight best," said Barney. "Jones give it to him just about
right."
"Yes, that was good," said Ben; "but I liked it best where Alphonso says
to Montmorency, 'Caitiff, beware, or, by the heavens above, my trusty
sword shall drink thy foul heart's blood!'"
Ben gave this with the stage emphasis, so far as he could imitate it.
Barney listened admiringly.
"I say, Ben," he replied, "you did that bully. You'd make a tip-top
actor."
"Would I?" said Ben, complacently. "I think I'd like to try it if I knew
enough. How much money have you got, Barney?"
"Nary a red. I spent the last on peanuts."
"Just my case. We'll have to find some place to turn in for the night."
"I know a place," said Barney, "if they'll let us in."
"Whereabouts is it?"
"Down to Dover Street wharf."
"What sort of a place is it? There aint any boxes or old wagons, are
there?"
"No, it's under the wharf,--a bully place."
"Under the wharf! It's wet, isn't it?"
"No, you just come along. I'll show you."
Having no other place to suggest, Ben accepted his companion's guidance,
and the two made their way by the shortest route to the wharf named. It
is situated not far from Fulton Ferry on the east side. It may be called
a double wharf. As originally built, it was found too low for the class
of vessels that used it, and another flooring was built over the first,
leaving a considerable space between the two. Its capabilities for a
private rendezvous occurred to a few boys, who forthwith proceeded to
avail themselves of it. It was necessary to carry on their proceedings
secretly; otherwise there was danger of interference from the city
police. What steps they took to make their quarters comfortable will
shortly be described.
When they reached the wharf, Barney looked about him with an air of
caution, which Ben observed.
"What are you scared of?" asked Ben.
"We mustn't let the 'copp' see us," said Barney, "Don't make no noise."
Thus admonished, Ben followed his companion with as little noise as
possible.
"How do you get down there?" he asked.
"I'll show you," said Barney.
He went to the end of the wharf, and, motioning Ben to look over, showed
him a kind of ladder formed by nailing strips of wood, at regular
intervals, from the outer edge down to the water's edge. This was not
an arrangement of the boys, but was for the accommodation of river-boats
landing at the wharf.
"I'll go down first," whispered Barney. "If the 'copp' comes along, move
off, so he won't notice nothin'."
"All right!" said Ben.
Barney got part way down the ladder, when a head was protruded from
below, and a voice demanded, "Who's there?"
"It's I,--Barney Flynn."
"Come along, then."
"I've got a fellow with me," continued Barney.
"Who is it?"
"It's Ben, the baggage-smasher. He wants to stop here to-night."
"All right; we can trust him."
"Come along, Ben," Barney called up the ladder.
Ben quickly commenced the descent. Barney was waiting for him, and held
out his hand to help him off. Our hero stepped from the ladder upon the
lower flooring of the wharf, and looked about him with some curiosity.
It was certainly a singular spectacle that met his view. About a dozen
boys were congregated in the room under the wharf, and had evidently
taken some pains to make themselves comfortable. A carpet of good size
was spread over a portion of the flooring. Upon this three beds were
spread, each occupied by three boys. Those who could not be accommodated
in this way laid on the carpet. Some of the boys were already asleep;
two were smoking, and conversing in a low voice. Looking about him Ben
recognized acquaintances in several of them.[A]
"Is that you, Mike Sweeny?" he asked of a boy stretched out on the
nearest bed.
"Yes," said Mike; "come and lay alongside of me."
There was no room on the bed, but Ben found space beside it on the
carpet, and accordingly stretched himself out.
[A] The description of the room under the wharf, and the circumstances
of its occupation by a company of street boys, are not imaginary. It was
finally discovered, and broken up by the police, the details being
given, at the time, in the daily papers, as some of my New York readers
will remember. Discovery did not take place, however, until it had been
occupied some time.
"How do you like it?" asked Mike.
"Tip-top," said Ben. "How'd you get the carpet and beds? Did you buy
'em?"
"Yes," said Mike, with a wink; "but the man wasn't in, and we didn't pay
for 'em."
"You stole them, then?"
"We took 'em," said Mike, who had an objection to the word stole.
"How did you get them down here without the copp seein' you?"
"We hid 'em away in the daytime, and didn't bring 'em here till night.
We came near gettin' caught."
"How long have you been down here?"
"Most a month."
"It's a good place."
"Yes," said Mike, "and the rent is very reasonable. We don't have to pay
nothin' for lodgin'. It's cheaper'n the Lodge."
"That's so," said Ben. "I'm sleepy," he said, gaping. "I've been to the
Old Bowery to-night. Good-night!"
"Good-night!"
In five minutes Ben was fast asleep. Half an hour later, and not a sound
was heard in the room under the wharf except the occasional deep
breathing of some of the boys. The policeman who trod his beat near by
little suspected that just at hand, and almost under his feet, was a
rendezvous of street vagrants and juvenile thieves, for such I am sorry
to say was the character of some of the boys who frequented these cheap
lodgings.
In addition to the articles already described there were two or three
chairs, which had been contributed by different members of the
organization.
Ben slept soundly through the night. When he woke up, the gray morning
light entering from the open front towards the sea had already lighted
up indistinctly the space between the floors. Two or three of the boys
were already sitting up, yawning and stretching themselves after their
night's slumber. Among these was Mike Sweeny.
"Are you awake, Ben?" he asked.
"Yes," said Ben; "I didn't hardly know where I was at first."
"It's a bully place, isn't it?"
"That's so. How'd you come across it?"
"Oh, some of us boys found it out. We've been sleepin' here a month."
"Won't you let a feller in?"
"We might let you in. I'll speak to the boys."
"I'd like to sleep here," said Ben. "It's a good deal better than
sleepin' out round. Who runs the hotel?"
"Well, I'm one of 'em."
"You might call it Sweeny's Hotel," suggested Ben, laughing.
"I aint the boss; Jim Bagley's got most to do with it."
"Which is he?"
"That's he, over on the next bed."
"What does he do?"
"He's a travellin' match merchant."
"That sounds big."
"Jim's smart,--he is. He makes more money'n any of us."
"Where does he travel?"
"Once he went to Californy in the steamer. He got a steerage ticket for
seventy-five dollars; but he made more'n that blackin' boots for the
other passengers afore they got there. He stayed there three months, and
then came home."
"Does he travel now?"
"Yes, he buys a lot of matches, and goes up the river or down into
Jersey, and is gone a week. A little while ago he went to Buffalo."
"Oh, yes; I know where that is."
"Blest if I do."
"It's in the western part of York State, just across from Canada."
"Who told you?"
"I learned it in school."
"I didn't know you was a scholar, Ben."
"I aint now. I've forgot most all I ever knew. I haven't been to school
since I was ten years old."
"Where was that?"
"In the country."
"Well, I never went to school more'n a few weeks. I can read a little,
but not much."
"It costs a good deal to go to Buffalo. How did Jim make it while he was
gone?"
"Oh, he came home with ten dollars in his pocket besides payin' his
expenses."
"What does Jim do with all his money?"
"He's got a mother and sister up in Bleecker Street, or somewheres round
there. He pays his mother five dollars a week, besides takin' care of
himself."
"Why don't he live with his mother?"
"He'd rather be round with the boys."
I may remark here that Jim Bagley is a real character, and all that has
been said about him is derived from information given by himself, in a
conversation held with him at the Newsboys' Lodging House. He figures
here, however, under an assumed name, partly because the record in which
his real name is preserved has been mislaid. The impression made upon
the mind of the writer was, that Jim had unusual business ability and
self-reliance, and might possibly develop into a successful and
prosperous man of business.
Jim by this time was awake.
"Jim Bagley," said Mike, "here's a feller would like to put up at our
hotel."
"Who is he?" asked Jim.
The travelling match merchant, as Mike had described him, was a boy of
fifteen, rather small of his age, with a keen black eye, and a quick,
decided, business-like way.
"It's this feller,--he's a baggage-smasher," explained Mike.
"All right," said Jim; "he can come if he'll pay his share."
"How much is it?" asked Ben.
Mike explained that it was expected of each guest to bring something
that would add to the comforts of the rendezvous. Two boys had
contributed the carpet, for which probably they had paid nothing; Jim
had supplied a bed, for which he did pay, as "taking things without
leave" was not in his line. Three boys had each contributed a chair.
Thus all the articles which had been accumulated were individual
contributions. Ben promised to pay his admission fee in the same way,
but expressed a doubt whether he might not have to wait a few days, in
order to save money enough to make a purchase. He never stole himself,
though his association with street boys, whose principles are not
always very strict on this point, had accustomed him to regard theft as
a venial fault, provided it was not found out. For his own part,
however, he did not care to run the risk of detection. Though he had cut
himself off from his old home, he still felt that he should not like to
have the report reach home that he had been convicted of dishonesty.
At an early hour the boys shook off their slumbers, and one by one left
the wharf to enter upon their daily work. The newsboys were the first to
go, as they must be on hand at the newspaper offices early to get their
supply of papers, and fold them in readiness for early customers. The
boot-blacks soon followed, as most of them were under the necessity of
earning their breakfast before they ate it. Ben also got up early, and
made his way to the pier of the Stonington line of steamers from Boston.
These usually arrived at an early hour, and there was a good chance of a
job in Ben's line when the passengers landed.
CHAPTER XVI.
BEN MEETS AN OLD FRIEND.
Ben had about half an hour to wait for the arrival of the steamer. Among
the passengers who crossed the plank from the steamer to the pier was a
gentleman of middle age, and a boy about a year younger than Ben. The
boy had a carpet-bag in his hand; the father, for such appeared to be
the relationship, carried a heavy valise, besides a small bundle.
"Want your baggage carried?" asked Ben, varying his usual address.
The gentleman hesitated a moment.
"You'd better let him take it, father," said the boy.
"Very well, you may take this;" and the valise was passed over to Ben.
"Give me the bag too," said Ben, addressing the boy.
"No, I'll take that. You'll have all you want to do, in carrying the
valise."
They crossed the street, and here the gentleman stood still, evidently
undecided about something.
"What are you thinking about, father?"
"I was thinking," the gentleman said, after a slight pause, "what I had
better do."
"About what?"
"I have two or three errands in the lower part of the city, which, as my
time is limited, I should like to attend to at once."
"You had better do it, then."
"What I was thinking was, that it would not be worth while for you to go
round with me, carrying the baggage."
"Couldn't I go right up to Cousin Mary's?" asked his son.
"I am afraid you might lose the way."
"This boy will go with me. I suppose he knows the way all about the
city. Don't you?" he asked, turning to Ben.
"Where do you want to go?" asked Ben.
"To No.--Madison Avenue."
"Yes, I can show you the way there well enough, but it's a good way
off."
"You can both take the cars or stage when you get up to the Astor
House."
"How will that do?" asked Charles, for this was his name.
"I think that will be the best plan. This boy can go with you, and you
can settle with him for his services. Have you got money enough?"
"Yes, plenty."
"I will leave you here, then."
Left to themselves, it was natural that the two boys should grow social.
So far as clothing went, there was certainly a wide difference between
them. Ben was attired as described in the first chapter. Charles, on the
other hand, wore a short sack of dark cloth, a white vest, and gray
pants. A gold chain, depending from his watch-pocket, showed that he was
the possessor of a watch. His whole appearance was marked by neatness
and good taste. But, leaving out this difference, a keen observer might
detect a considerable resemblance in the features of the two boys. Both
had dark hair, black eyes, and the contour of the face was the same. I
regret to add, however, that Ben's face was not so clean as it ought to
have been. Among the articles contributed by the boys who lived in the
room under the wharf, a washstand had not been considered necessary, and
it had been long since Ben had regarded washing the face and hands as
the first preparation for the labors of the day.
Charles Marston looked at his companion with some interest and
curiosity. He had never lived in New York, and there was a freshness and
novelty about life in the metropolis that was attractive to him.
"Is this your business?" he asked.
"What,--smashin' baggage?" inquired Ben.
"Is that what you call it?"
"Yes."
"Well, is that what you do for a living?"
"Yes," said Ben. "It's my profession, when I aint attendin' to my duties
as a member of the Common Council."
"So you're a member of the city government?" asked Charles, amused.
"Yes."
"Do you have much to do that way?"
"I'm one of the Committee on Wharves," said Ben. "It's my business to
see that they're right side up with care; likewise that nobody runs away
with them in the night."
"How do you get paid?"
"Well, I earn my lodgin' that way just now," said Ben.
"Have you always been in this business?"
"No. Sometimes I've sold papers."
"How did you like that?"
"I like baggage-smashin' best, when I get enough to do. You don't live
in the city, do you?"
"No, I live just out of Boston,--a few miles."
"Ever been in New York before?"
"Once. That was four years ago. I passed through on the way from
Pennsylvania, where I used to live."
"Pennsylvania," repeated Ben, beginning to be interested. "Whereabouts
did you live there,--in Philadelphy?"
"No, a little way from there, in a small town named Cedarville."
Ben started, and he nearly let fall the valise from his hand.
"What's the matter?" asked Charles.
"I came near fallin'," said Ben, a little confused. "What's your name?"
he asked, rather abruptly.
"Charles Marston."
Ben scanned intently the face of his companion. He had good reason to do
so, for though Charles little suspected that there was any relationship
between himself and the ragged and dirty boy who carried his valise, the
two were own cousins. They had been school-mates in Cedarville, and
passed many a merry hour together in boyish sport. In fact Charles had
been Ben's favorite playmate, as well as cousin, and many a time, when
he lay awake in such chance lodgings as the street provided, he had
thought of his cousin, and wished that he might meet him again. Now they
had met most strangely; no longer on terms of equality, but one with all
the outward appearance of a young gentleman, the other, a ragged and
ignorant street boy. Ben's heart throbbed painfully when he saw that his
cousin regarded him as a stranger, and for the first time in a long
while he felt ashamed of his position. He would not for the world have
revealed himself to Charles in his present situation; yet he felt a
strong desire to learn whether he was still remembered. How to effect
this without betraying his identity he hardly knew; at length he thought
of a way that might lead to it.
"My name's shorter'n yours," he said.
"What is it?" asked Charles.
"It's Ben."
"That stands for Benjamin; so yours is the longest after all."
"That's so, I never thought of that. Everybody calls me Ben."
"What's your other name?"
Ben hesitated. If he said "Brandon" he would be discovered, and his
pride stood in the way of that. Finally he determined to give a false
name; so he answered after a slight pause, which Charles did not notice,
"My other name is Hooper,--Ben Hooper. Didn't you ever know anybody of
my name?"
"What,--Ben Hooper?"
"No, Ben."
"Yes. I had a cousin named Ben."
"Is he as old as you?" asked Ben, striving to speak carelessly.
"He is older if he is living; but I don't think he is living."
"Why, don't you know?"
"He ran away from home when he was ten years old, and we have never seen
him since."
"Didn't he write where he had gone?"
"He wrote one letter to his mother, but he didn't say where he was. That
is the last any of us heard from him."
"What sort of a chap was he?" inquired Ben. "He was a bad un, wasn't
he?"
"No, Ben wasn't a bad boy. He had a quick temper though; but whenever he
was angry he soon got over it."
"What made him run away from home?"
"His father punished him for something he didn't do. He found it out
afterwards; but he is a stern man, and he never says anything about him.
But I guess he feels bad sometimes. Father says he has grown old very
fast since my cousin ran away."
"Is his mother living,--your aunt?" Ben inquired, drawn on by an impulse
he could not resist.
"Yes, but she is always sad; she has never stopped mourning for Ben."
"Did you like your cousin?" Ben asked, looking wistfully in the face of
his companion.
"Yes, he was my favorite cousin. Poor Ben and I were always together. I
wish I knew whether he were alive or not."
"Perhaps you will see him again some time."
"I don't know. I used to think so; but I have about given up hopes of
it. It is six years now since he ran away."
"Maybe he's turned bad," said Ben. "S'posin' he was a ragged
baggage-smasher like me, you wouldn't care about seein' him, would you?"
"Yes, I would," said Charles, warmly. "I'd be glad to see Ben again, no
matter how he looked, or how poor he might be."
Ben looked at his cousin with a glance of wistful affection. Street boy
as he was, old memories had been awakened, and his heart had been
touched by the sight of the cousin whom he had most loved when a young
boy.
"And I might be like him," thought Ben, looking askance at the rags in
which he was dressed, "instead of a walkin' rag-bag. I wish I was;" and
he suppressed a sigh.
It has been said that street boys are not accessible to the softer
emotions; but Ben did long to throw his arm round his cousin's neck in
the old, affectionate way of six years since. It touched him to think
that Charlie held him in affectionate remembrance. But his thoughts were
diverted by noticing that they had reached the Astor House.
"I guess we'd better cross the street, and take the Fourth Avenue cars,"
he said. "There's one over there."
"All right!" said Charles. "I suppose you know best."
There was a car just starting; they succeeded in getting aboard, and
were speedily on their up town.
CHAPTER XVII.
BEN FORMS A RESOLUTION.
"Does this car go up Madison Avenue?" asked Charles, after they had
taken their seats.
"No," said Ben, "it goes up Fourth Avenue; but that's only one block
away from Madison. We'll get out at Thirtieth Street."
"I'm glad you're with me; I might have a hard time finding the place if
I were alone."
"Are you going to stay in the city long?" asked Ben.
"Yes, I am going to school here. Father is going to move here soon.
Until he comes I shall stay with my Cousin Mary."
Ben felt quite sure that this must be his older sister, but did not like
to ask.
"Is she married?"
"Yes, it is the sister of my Cousin Ben. About two years ago she married
a New York gentleman. He is a broker, and has an office in Wall Street.
I suppose he's rich."
"What's his name?" asked Ben. "Maybe I've seen his office."
"It is Abercrombie,--James Abercrombie. Did you ever hear that name?"
"No," answered Ben, "I can't say as I have. He aint the broker that does
my business."
"Have you much business for a broker?" asked Charles, laughing.
"I do a smashin' business in Erie and New York Central," answered Ben.
"You are in the same business as the railroads," said Charles.
"How is that?"
"You are both baggage-smashers."
"That's so; only I don't charge so much for smashin' baggage as they
do."
They were on Centre Street now, and a stone building with massive stone
columns came in view on the west side of the street.
"What building is that?" asked Charles.
"That's a hotel, where they lodge people free gratis."
Charles looked at his companion for information.
"It's the Tombs," said Ben. "It aint so popular, though, as the hotels
where they charge higher."
"No, I suppose not. It looks gloomy enough."
"It aint very cheerful," said Ben. "I never put up there, but that's
what people say that have enjoyed that privilege."
"Where is the Bowery?"
"We'll soon be in it. We turn off Centre Street a little farther up."
Charles was interested in all that he saw. The broad avenue which is
known as the Bowery, with its long line of shops on either side, and the
liberal display of goods on the sidewalk, attracted his attention, and
he had numerous questions to ask, most of which Ben was able to answer.
He had not knocked about the streets of New York six years for nothing.
His business had carried him to all parts of the city, and he had
acquired a large amount of local information, a part of which he
retailed now to his cousin as they rode side by side in the horse-cars.
At length they reached Thirtieth Street, and here they got out. At the
distance of one block they found Madison Avenue. Examining the numbers,
they readily found the house of which they were in search. It was a
handsome four-story house, with a brown-stone front.
"This must be Mr. Abercrombie's house," said Charles. "I didn't think
Cousin Mary lived in such a nice place."
Ben surveyed the house with mingled emotions. He could not help
contrasting his own forlorn, neglected condition with the position of
his sister. She lived in an elegant home, enjoying, no doubt, all the
advantages which money could procure; while he, her only brother, walked
about the streets in rags, sleeping in any out-of-the-way corner. But he
could blame no one for it. It had been his own choice, and until this
morning he had been well enough contented with it. But all at once a
glimpse had been given him of what might have been his lot had he been
less influenced by pride and waywardness, and by the light of this new
prospect he saw how little hope there was of achieving any decent
position in society if he remained in his present occupation. But what
could he do? Should he declare himself at once to his cousin, and his
sister? Pride would not permit him to do it. He was not willing to let
them see him in his ragged and dirty state. He determined to work and
save up money, until he could purchase a suit as handsome as that which
his cousin wore. Then he would not be ashamed to present himself, so far
as his outward appearance went. He knew very well that he was ignorant;
but he must trust to the future to remedy that deficiency. It would be a
work of time, as he well knew. Meanwhile he had his cousin's assurance
that he would be glad to meet him again, and renew the old, affectionate
intimacy which formerly existed between them.
While these thoughts were passing through Ben's mind, as I have said,
they reached the house.
"Have you had any breakfast?" asked Charles as they ascended the steps.
"Not yet," answered Ben. "It isn't fashionable to take breakfast early."
"Then you must come in. My cousin will give you some breakfast."
Ben hesitated; but finally decided to accept the invitation. He had two
reasons for this. Partly because it would give him an opportunity to see
his sister; and, secondly, because it would save him the expense of
buying his breakfast elsewhere, and that was a consideration, now that
he had a special object for saving money.
"Is Mrs. Abercrombie at home?" asked Charles of the servant who answered
his summons.
"Yes, sir; who shall I say is here?"
"Her cousin, Charles Montrose."
"Will you walk into the parlor?" said the servant, opening a door at the
side of the hall. She looked doubtfully at Ben, who had also entered the
house.
"Sit down here, Ben," said Charles, indicating a chair on one side of
the hat-stand. "I'll stop here till Mrs. Abercrombie comes down," he
said.
Soon a light step was heard on the stairs, and Mrs. Abercrombie
descended the staircase. She is the same that we last saw in the modest
house in the Pennsylvania village; but the lapse of time has softened
her manners, and the influence of a husband and a home have improved
her. But otherwise she has not greatly changed in her looks.
Ben, who examined her face eagerly, recognized her at once. Yes, it was
his sister Mary that stood before him. He would have known her anywhere.
But there was a special mark by which he remembered her. There was a
dent in her cheek just below the temple, the existence of which he could
account for. In a fit of boyish passion, occasioned by her teasing him,
he had flung a stick of wood at her head, and this had led to the mark.
"Where did you come from, Charles?" she said, giving her hand cordially
to her young cousin.
"From Boston, Cousin Mary."
"Have you just arrived, and where is your father? You did not come on
alone, did you?"
"No, father is with me, or rather he came on with me, but he had some
errands down town, and stopped to attend to them. He will be here soon."
"How did you find the way alone?"
"I was not alone. There is my guide. By the way, I told him to stay, and
you would give him some breakfast."
"Certainly, he can go down in the basement, and the servants will give
him something."
Mrs. Abercrombie looked at Ben as she spoke; but on her part there was
no sign of recognition. This was not strange. A boy changes greatly
between ten and sixteen years of age, and when to this natural change is
added the great change in Ben's dress, it will not be wondered at that
his sister saw in him only an ordinary street boy.
Ben was relieved to find that he was not known. He had felt afraid that
something in his looks might remind his sister of her lost brother; but
the indifferent look which she turned upon him proved that he had no
ground for this fear.
"You have not breakfasted, I suppose, Charles." said his cousin.
"You wouldn't think so, if you knew what an appetite I have," he
answered, laughing.
"We will do our best to spoil it," said Mrs. Abercrombie.
She rang the bell, and ordered breakfast to be served.
"We are a little late this morning," she said.
"Mr. Abercrombie is in Philadelphia on business; so you won't see him
till to-morrow."
When the servant appeared, Mrs. Abercrombie directed her to take Ben
downstairs, and give him something to eat.
"Don't go away till I see you, Ben," said Charles, lingering a little.
"All right," said Ben.
He followed the servant down the stairs leading to the basement. On the
way, he had a glimpse through the half-open door of the breakfast-table,
at which his sister and his cousin were shortly to sit down.
"Some time, perhaps, I shall be invited in there," he said to himself.
But at present he had no such wish. He knew that in his ragged garb he
would be out of place in the handsome breakfast-room, and he preferred
to wait until his appearance was improved. He had no fault to find with
the servants, who brought him a bountiful supply of beefsteak and bread
and butter, and a cup of excellent coffee. Ben had been up long enough
to have quite an appetite. Besides, the quality of the breakfast was
considerably superior to those which he was accustomed to take in the
cheap restaurants which he frequented, and he did full justice to the
food that was spread before him.
When he had satisfied his appetite, he had a few minutes to wait before
Charles came down to speak to him.
"Well, Ben, I hope you had a good breakfast," he said.
"Tip-top," answered Ben.
"And I hope also that you had an appetite equal to mine."
"My appetite don't often give out," said Ben; "but it aint so good now
as it was when I came in."
"Now we have a little business to attend to. How much shall I pay you
for smashing my baggage?" Charles asked, with a laugh.
"Whatever you like."
"Well, here's fifty cents for your services, and six cents for your
car-fare back."
"Thank you," said Ben.
"Besides this, Mrs. Abercrombie has a note, which she wants carried down
town to her husband's office in Wall Street. She will give you fifty
cents more, if you will agree to deliver it there at once, as it is of
importance."
"All right," said Ben. "I'll do it."
"Here is the note. I suppose you had better start with it at once.
Good-morning."
"Good-morning," said Ben, as he held his cousin's proffered hand a
moment in his own. "Maybe I'll see you again some time."
"I hope so," said Charles, kindly.
A minute later Ben was on his way to take a Fourth Avenue car down
town.
CHAPTER XVIII.
LUCK AND ILL LUCK.
"That will do very well for a beginning," thought Ben, as he surveyed,
with satisfaction, the two half dollars which he had received for his
morning's services. He determined to save one of them towards the fund
which he hoped to accumulate for the object which he had in view. How
much he would need he could not decide; but thought that it would be
safe to set the amount at fifty dollars. This would doubtless require a
considerable time to obtain. He could not expect to be so fortunate
every day as he had been this morning. Some days, no doubt, he would
barely earn enough to pay expenses. Still he had made a beginning, and
this was something gained. It was still more encouraging that he had
determined to save money, and had an inducement to do so.
As Ben rode down town in the horse-cars, he thought of the six years
which he had spent as a New York street boy; and he could not help
feeling that the time had been wasted, so far as any progress or
improvement was concerned. Of books he knew less than when he first came
to the city. He knew more of life, indeed, but not the best side of
life. He had formed some bad habits, from which he would probably have
been saved if he had remained at home. Ben realized all at once how much
he had lost by his hasty action in leaving home. He regarded his street
life with different eyes, and felt ready to give it up, as soon as he
could present himself to his parents without too great a sacrifice of
his pride.
At the end of half an hour, Ben found himself at the termination of the
car route, opposite the lower end of the City Hall Park.
As the letter which he had to deliver was to be carried to Wall Street,
he kept on down Broadway till he reached Trinity Church, and then turned
into the street opposite. He quickly found the number indicated, and
entered Mr. Abercrombie's office. It was a handsome office on the lower
floor. Two or three clerks were at work at their desks.
"So this is my brother-in-law's office," thought Ben. "It's rather
better than mine."
"Well, young man, what can I do for you to-day?" inquired a clerk, in a
tone which indicated that he thought Ben had got into the wrong shop.
"You can tell me whether your name is Sampson," answered Ben, coolly.
"No, it isn't."
"That's what I thought."
"Suppose I am not; what then?"
"Then the letter I've got isn't for you, that's all."
"So you've got a letter, have you?"
"That's what I said."
"It seems to me you're mighty independent," sneered the clerk, who felt
aggrieved that Ben did not show him the respect which he conceived to be
his due.
"Thank you for the compliment," said Ben, bowing.
"You can hand me the letter."
"I thought your name wasn't Sampson."
"I'll hand it to Mr. Sampson. He's gone out a moment. He'll be in
directly."
"Much obliged," said Ben; "but I'd rather hand it to Mr. Sampson myself.
Business aint particularly pressin' this mornin', so, if you'll hand me
the mornin' paper, I'll read till he comes."
"Well, you've got cheek," ejaculated the clerk.
"I've got two of 'em if I counted right when I got up," said Ben.
Here there was a laugh from the other two clerks.
"He's too smart for you, Granby," said one.
"He's impudent enough," muttered the first, as he withdrew discomfited
to his desk.
The enemy having retreated, Ben sat down in an arm-chair, and, picking
up a paper, began to read.
He had not long to wait. Five minutes had scarcely passed when a man of
middle age entered the office. His manner showed that he belonged there.
"If you're Mr. Sampson," said Ben, approaching him, "here is a letter
for you."
"That is my name," said the gentleman, opening the note at once.
"You come from Mrs. Abercrombie," he said, glancing at Ben, as he
finished reading it.
"Yes, sir," said Ben.
"How did she happen to select you as her messenger?"
"I went up there this morning to carry a valise."
"I have a great mind to send you back to her with an answer; but I
hesitate on one account."
"What is that?" asked Ben.
"I don't know whether you can be trusted."
"Nor I," said Ben; "but I'm willin' to run the risk."
"No doubt," said Mr. Sampson, smiling; "but it seems to me that I should
run a greater risk than you."
"I don't know about that," answered Ben. "If it's money, and I keep it,
you can send the copps after me, and I'll be sent to the Island. That
would be worse than losing money."
"That's true; but some of you boys don't mind that. However, I am
inclined to trust you. Mrs. Abercrombie asks for a sum of money, and
wishes me to send it up by one of the clerks. That I cannot very well
do, as we are particularly busy this morning. I will put the money in an
envelope, and give it to you to deliver. I will tell you beforehand that
it is fifty dollars."
"Very good," said Ben; "I'll give it to her."
"Wait a moment."
Mr. Sampson went behind the desk, and reappeared almost directly.
"Mrs. Abercrombie will give you a line to me, stating that she has
received the money. When you return with this, I will pay you for your
trouble."
"All right," said Ben.
As he left the office the young clerk first mentioned said, "I am
afraid, Mr. Sampson, Mrs. Abercrombie will never see that money."
"Why not?"
"The boy will keep it."
"What makes you think so?"
"He's one of the most impudent young rascals I ever saw."
"I didn't form that opinion. He was respectful enough to me."
"He wasn't to me."
Mr. Sampson smiled a little. He had observed young Granby's assumption
of importance, and partly guessed how matters stood.
"It's too late to recall him," he said. "I must run the risk. My own
opinion is that he will prove faithful."
Ben had accepted the commission gladly, not alone because he would get
extra pay for the additional errand, but because he saw that there was
some hesitation in the mind of Mr. Sampson about trusting him, and he
meant to show himself worthy of confidence. There were fifty dollars in
the envelope. He had never before been trusted with that amount of
money, and now it was rather because no other messenger could be
conveniently sent that he found himself so trusted. Not a thought of
appropriating the money came to Ben. True, it occurred to him that this
was precisely the sum which he needed to fit him out respectably. But
there would be greater cause for shame if he appeared well dressed on
stolen money, than if he should present himself in rags to his sister.
However, it is only just to Ben to say that had the party to whom he
was sent been different, he would have discharged his commission
honorably. Not that he was a model boy, but his pride, which was in some
respects a fault with him, here served him in good stead, as it made him
ashamed to do a dishonest act.
Ben rightly judged that the money would be needed as soon as possible,
and, as the distance was great, he resolved to ride, trusting to Mr.
Sampson's liberality to pay him for the expense which he would thus
incur in addition to the compensation allowed for his services.
He once more made his way to the station of the Fourth Avenue cars, and
jumped aboard one just ready to start.
The car gradually filled, and they commenced their progress up town.
Ben took a seat in the corner next to the door. Next to him was a man
with black hair and black whiskers. He wore a tall felt hat with a bell
crown, and a long cloak. Ben took no particular notice of him, being too
much in the habit of seeing strange faces to observe them minutely. The
letter he put in the side pocket of his coat, on the side nearest the
stranger. He took it out once to look at it. It was addressed to Mrs.
Abercrombie, at her residence, and in one corner Mr. Sampson had written
"Money enclosed."
Now it chanced, though Ben did not suspect it, that the man at his side
was a member of the swell mob, and his main business was picking
pockets. He observed the two words, already quoted, on the envelope when
Ben took it in his hand, and he made up his mind to get possession of
it. This was comparatively easy, for Ben's pocket was on the side
towards him. Our hero was rather careless, it must be owned, but it
happened that the inside pocket of his coat had been torn away, which
left him no other receptacle for the letter. Besides, Ben had never been
in a situation to have much fear of pick pockets, and under ordinary
circumstances he would hardly have been selected as worth plundering.
But the discovery that the letter contained money altered the case.
While Ben was looking out from the opposite window across the street,
the stranger dexterously inserted his hand in his pocket, and withdrew
the letter. They were at that moment just opposite the Tombs.
Having gained possession of the letter, of course it was his interest to
get out of the car as soon as possible, since Ben was liable at any
moment to discover his loss.
