him ? Oh, I will do my duty, mother ; I will 
obey ; I have obeyed, and I know how. Papa 
can't demand anything of me now that isn't easy. 
I have forgiven everything, and if you give me 
time I can forget. I have forgotten. I have been 
laughing at something so foolish, it ought to make 
me cry for shame." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Constance, you try me beyond all 
endurance ! You talk of forgiving, you talk of 
forgetting, you talk of that wretch ! Forgive him, 
forget him, if you can. If he had been half a man, 
if he had ever cared a tithe as much for you as for 
himself, all the hate of all the fathers in the world 
could not have driven him from you. You talk of 
obeying " 
Mary, the serving woman, flying into the room : 
" Oh, please, Mrs. Wyatt ! There are four men 
carrying somebody up the hill. And General Wy- 
att just went down, and I can't see him anywhere, 
and " 
 
Mrs. Wyatt : " You 're crazy, Mary ! He hasn't 
been gone a moment ; there isn't time ; it can't be 
he ! " Mrs. "Wyatt rushes to the gallery that over- 
looks the road to verify her hope or fear, and then 
out of one of the doors into the corridor, while 
Constance springs frantically to her feet and runs 
toward the other door. 
Constance : " Oh, yes, yes ! It 's papa ! It 's 
my dear, good, kind papa ! He 's dead ; he 's 
drowned ; I drove him away ; I murdered him ! 
Ah-h-h-h!" She shrinks back with a shriek at 
sight of Bartlett, whose excited face appears at the 
door : " Go ! It was you, you who made me hate 
my father! You made me kill him and now I 
abhor you! I" 
Bartlett: "Wait! Hold on! Wfcat is it all?" 
Constance : " Oh, forgive me ! I didn't mean 
I didn't know it was you, sir ! But where is he? 
Oh, take me to him! Is he dead?" She seizes his 
arm, and clings to it trembling. 
Bartlett: "Dead? No, he isn't dead. He was 
knocked over by a team coming behind him down 
the hill, and was slightly bi*uised. There 's no 
 
cause for alarm. He sent me to tell you ; they 've 
carried him to your rooms." 
Constance: "Oh, thank Heaven!" She bows 
her head with a sob, upon his shoulder, and then 
lifts her tearful eyes to his : " Help me to get to 
him ! I am weak." She totters and Bartlett me- 
chanically passes a supporting arm about her. 
"Help me, and don't don't leave me!" She 
moves with him a few paces toward the door, her 
head drooping; but all at once she raises her face 
again, stares at him, stiffly releases .herself, and with 
a long look of reproach walks proudly away to 
the other door, by which she vanishes without a 
word. 
Bartlett) remaining planted, with a bewildered 
glance at his empty arm : " Well, I wonder who 
and what and where I am ! " 
III. 
NOT AT ALL LIKE. 
BARTLETT and CUMMINGS. 
Bartlett : " Six weeks since you were here ? I 
shouldn't have thought that." Bartlett's easel 
stands before the window, in the hotel parlor ; he 
has laid a tint upon the canvas, and has retired a 
few paces for the effect, his palette and mahl-stick 
in hand, and his head carried at a critical angle. 
Cummings, who has been doing the duty of art- 
culture by the picture, regards it with renewed in- 
terest. Bartlett resumes his work : " Pretty good, 
Cummings ? " 
Cummings : " Capital ! The blue of that dis- 
tance " 
Bartlett with a burlesque sigh : " Ah, I looked 
into my heart and painted for that! Well, you 
find me still here, Cummings, and apparently more 
at home than ever. The landlord has devoted this 
 
parlor to the cause of art, makes the transients 
use the lower parlor, now, and we have this all 
to ourselves: Miss Wyatt sketches, you know. 
Her mother brings her sewing, and the General his 
bruises ; he hasn't quite scrambled up, yet, from 
that little knock-down of his ; a man doesn't, at 
his time of life, I believe ; and we make this our 
family-room ; and a very queer family we are ! 
Fine old fellow, the General ; he 's behaved himself 
since his accident like a disabled angel, and hasn't 
sworn, well, anything worth speaking of. Yes, 
here I am. I suppose it 's all right, but for all I 
know it may be all wrong." Bartlett sighs in un- 
guarded sincerity, "I don't know what I 'm here 
for. Nature began shutting up shop a fortnight 
ago at a pretty lively rate, and edging loafers to 
the door, with every sign of impatience ; and yet, 
here I am, hanging round still. I suppose this 
glimpse of Indian Summer is some excuse just 
now ; it 's a perfect blessing to the landlord, and 
he 's making hay rowen crop while the sun 
shines ; I 've been with him so long now, I take 
quite an interest in his prosperity, if eight dollars 
a week of it do come out of me ! What is talked 
of in < art-circles' down in Boston, brother Cuin- 
mings ? " 
Cummings : " Your picture." 
Bartlett, inattentively, while he comes up to his 
canvas, and bestows an infinitesimal portion of paint 
upon a destitute spot in the canvas : " Don't be 
sarcastic, Cummings." 
Cummings : " I 'm not, I assure you." 
Bartlett, turning toward him incredulously : " Do 
you mean to say that The First Gray Hair is 
liked?" 
Cummings: "I do. There hasn't been any pic- 
ture so much talked of this season." 
Bartlett: u Then it's the shameless slop of the 
name. I should think you 'd blush for your part 
in that swindle. But clergymen have no con- 
science, where they 've a chance to do a fellow a 
kindness, I 've observed." He goes up to Cum- 
mings with his brush in his mouth, his palette on 
one hand, and his mahl-stick in the other, and con- 
trives to lay hold of his shoulders with a few dis- 
engaged fingers. As Cummings shrinks a little 
 
from his embrace : " Oh, don't be afraid ; I shan't 
get any paint on you. You need a whole coat of 
whitewash, though, you unscrupulous saint!" He 
returns to his easel. " So The Old Girl that 's 
what I shall call the picture is a success, is she ? 
The admiring public ought to see the original elm- 
tree now; she hasn't got a hair, gray or green, 
on her head ; she 's perfectly bald. I say, Cum- 
mings, how would it do for me to paint a pendant, 
The Last Gray Hair ? I might look up a leaf or 
two on the elm, somewhere : stick it on to the point 
of twig ; they wouldn't know any better." 
Gumming s : "The leafless elm would make a 
good picture, whatever you called it." Bartlett 
throws back his shaggy head and laughs up at the 
ceiling. u The fact is, Bartlett, I Ve got a little 
surprise for you." 
Barthtt, looking at him askance : " Somebody 
wanting to chromo The Old Girl ? No, no ; it 
isn't quite so bad as that ! " 
Cummings, in a burst : " They did want to 
chromo it. But it 's sold. They Ve got you two 
hundred dollars for it." Bartlett lays down his 
 
brush, palette, and mahl-stick, dusts his fingers, 
puts them in his pockets, and comes and stands 
before Cummings, on whom, seated, he bends a 
curious look. 
Bartlett : " And do you mean to tell me, you 
hardened atheist, that you don't believe in the doc- 
trine of future punishments ? What are they going 
to do with you in the next world ? And that pic- 
ture dealer ? And me ? Two hund It 's an 
outrage ! It 's The picture wasn't worth fifty, 
by a stretch of the most charitable imagination ! 
Two hundred d Why, Cummings, I 'll paint no 
end of Old Girls, First and Last Gray Hairs 
I 'll flood the market ! Two Good Lord ! " 
Bartlett goes back to his easel, and silently re- 
sumes his work. After a while : " Who 's been 
offered up ? " 
Cummings : " What ? " 
Bartlett : " Who 's the victim ? My patron ? 
The noble and discriminating and munificent pur- 
chaser of The Old Girl?" 
Cummings : " Oh ! Mrs. Bellingham. She 's 
going to send it out to her daughter in Omaha." 
 
Bartlett: " Ah ! Mrs. Blake wishes to found an 
art-museum with that curiosity out there ? Sorry 
for the Omaha-has." Cummings makes a gesture 
of impatience. " Well, well ; I won't then, old 
fellow ! I 'm truly obliged to you. I accept my 
good fortune with compunction, but with all the 
gratitude imaginable. I say, Cummings ! " 
Cummings: "Well?" 
Bartlett : " What do you think of my taking to 
high art, mountains twelve hundred feet above 
the sea, like this portrait of Porikwasset?" 
Cummings: "I 've always told you that you had 
only to give yourself scope, attempt something 
worthy of your powers" 
Bartlett: "Ah, I thought so. Then you be- 
lieve that a good big canvas and a good big sub- 
ject would be the making of me? Well, I 've 
come round to that idea myself. I used to think 
that if there was any greatness in me, I could get 
it into a small picture, like Meissonier or Corot. 
But I can't. I must have room, like the Yellow- 
stone and Yo-Semite fellows. Don't you think 
Miss Wyatt is looking wonderfully improved?" 
Cummings : " Wonderfully ! And how beautiful 
she is ! She looked lovely that first day, in spite 
of her ghostliness ; but now" 
JBartlett: "Yes; & phantom of delight is" good 
enough . in its way, but a well woman is the pret- 
tiest, after all. Miss Wyatt sketches, I think I 
told you." 
Cummings: " Yes, you mentioned it." 
Bartlett: " Of course. Otherwise, I couldn't 
possibly have thought of her while I was at work 
on a great picture like this. She sketches " 
Bartlett puts his nose almost on the canvas in the 
process of bestowing a delicate touch " she 
sketches about as badly as any woman I ever saw, 
and that 's saying a good deal. But she looks un- 
commonly well while she 's at it. The fact is, Cum- 
mings," Bartlett retires some feet from the can- 
vas and squints at it, "this very picture which 
you approve of so highly is Miss Wyatt's. I 
couldn't attempt anything of the size of Ponk- 
wasset ! But she allows me to paint at it a little 
when she 's away." Bartlett steals a look of joy at 
his friend's vexation, and then continues seri- 
 
ously : " I 've been having a curious time, Cum- 
mings." The other remains silent. "Don't you 
want to ask me about it ? " 
Cummings: "I don't know that I do!' 
Bartlett : " Why, my dear old fellow, you' re 
hurt ! It was a silly joke, and I honestly ask your 
pardon." He lays down his brush and palette, and 
leaves the easel. " Cummings, I don't know what 
to do. I 'm in a perfect deuce of a state. I 'm hit 
awfully hard; and I don't know what to do 
about it. I wish I had gone at once the first 
day. But I had to stay, I had to stay." He 
turns and walks away from Cummings, whose eyes 
follow him in pardon and sympathy. 
Cummings : " Do you really mean it, Bartlett ? 
I didn't dream of such a thing. I thought you 
were still brooding over that affair with Miss Har- 
lan." 
Bartlett: " Oh, child's play ! A prehistoric illu- 
sion ! A solar myth ! The thing never was." He 
rejects the obsolete superstition with a wave of his 
left hand. " I 'm in love with this girl, and I feel 
like a sneak and a brute about it. At the very 
 
best it would be preposterous. Who am I, a poor 
devil of a painter, the particular pet of Poverty, to 
think of a young lady whose family and position 
could command her the best ? But putting that aside, 
putting that insuperable obstacle lightly aside, as 
a mere trifle, the thing remains an atrocity. It 's 
enormously indelicate to think of loving a woman 
who would never have looked twice at me if I 
hadn't resembled an infernal scoundrel who tried 
to break her heart ; and I 've nothing else to com- 
mend me. I Ve the perfect certainty that she 
doesn't and can't care anything for me in myself; 
and it grinds me into the dust to realize on what 
terms she tolerates me. I could carry it off as a 
joke, at first ; but when it became serious, I had to 
look it in the face; and that's what it amounts to, 
and if you know of any more hopeless and humili- 
ating tangle, I don't." Bartlett, who has ap- 
proached his friend during this speech, walks away 
again; and there is an interval of silence. 
Oummings, at last, musingly : " You in love with 
Miss Wyatt? I can't imagine it!" 
Bartlett, fiercely : "You can't imagine it? What's 
 
 
the reason you can't imagine it? Don't be offen- 
sive, Cummings ! " He stops in his walk and lowers 
upon his friend. "Why shouldn't I be in love 
with Miss Wyatt?" 
Cummings : " Oh, nothing. Only you were say- 
ing" 
Bartlett: "I was saying! Don't tell me what I
was saying. Say something yourself." 
Cummings: "Really, Bartlett, you can't expect 
me to stand this sort of thing. You 're preposter- 
ous." 
Bartlett: "I know it! But don't blame me. I 
beg your pardon. Is it because of the circumstan- 
ces that you can't imagine my being in love with 
her?" 
Cummings: "Oh, no; I wasn't thinking of the 
circumstances; but it seemed so out of character 
, for you" 
Bartlett, impatiently : " Oh, love 's always out 
of character, just as it 's always out of reason. I 
admit freely that I 'm an ass. And then?" 
Cummings : " Well, then, I don't believe you 
have any more reason to be in despair than you 
 
have to be in love. If she tolerates you, as you 
say, it can't be because you look like the man who 
jilted her." 
Bartlett : "Ah ! But if she still loves him? " 
Gummings : " You don't know that. That strikes 
me as a craze of jealousy. What makes you think 
she tolerates you for that reason or no-reason ? " 
Bartlett: "What makes me think it? From the 
very first she interpreted me by what she knew of 
him. She expected me to be this and not to be 
that; to have one habit and not another; and I 
could see that every time the fact was different, it 
was a miserable disappointment to her, a sort of 
shock. Every little difference between me and that 
other rascal gave her a start ; and whenever I 
looked up I found her wistful eyes on me as if they 
were trying to puzzle me out ; they used to follow 
me round the room like the eyes of a family por- 
trait. You wouldn't have liked it yourself, Cum- 
mings. For the first three weeks I simply existed 
on false pretenses, involuntary false pretenses, at 
that. I wanted to explode ; I wanted to roar out, 
'If you think I'm at all like that abandoned scoun- 
 
drel of yours ID anything but looks, I'm not!' But 
I was bound by everything that was decent, to hold 
my tongue, and let my soul be rasped out of me in 
silence and apparent unconsciousness. That was 
your fault. If you hadn't told me all about the 
thing I could have done something outrageous and 
stopped it. But I was tied hand and foot by what 
I knew. I had to let it go on." 
Oummings: "I'm very sorry, Bartlett, but" 
Barllett: "Oh, I dare say you wouldn't have 
done it if you hadn't had a wild ass of the desert 
to deal with. Well, the old people got used to 
some little individuality in me, by and by, and be- 
yond a suppressed whoop or two from the mother 
when I came suddenly into the room, they didn't 
do anything to annoy me directly. But they were 
anxious every minute for the effect on her ; and 
it worried me as much to have them watching her 
as to have her watching me. Of course I knew 
that she talked this confounded resemblance over 
with her mother every time I left them, and avoided 
talking it over with the father." 
Cummings : " But you say the trouble 's over 
now." 
Not at all Like. Ill 
Bartlett: "Oh over! No, it isn't over. When 
she's with me a while she comes to see that I am 
not a mere doppelganger. She respites me to that 
extent. But I have still some small rags of self- 
esteem dangling about me; and now suppose I 
should presume to set up for somebody on my own 
account; the first hint of my caring for her as I 
do, if she could conceive of anything so atrocious, 
would tear open all the old sorrows. Ah! I can't 
think of it. Besides, I tell you, it isn't all over. 
It 's only not so bad as it was. She 's subject to 
relapses, when it 's much worse than ever. Why " 
Bartlett stands facing his friend, with a half- 
whimsical, half-desperate smile, as if about to illus- 
trate his point, when Constance and her mother 
enter the parlor. 
II. 
CONSTANCE, MRS. WYATT, BARTLETT, and CUM- 
MINGS. 
Constance, with a quick, violent arrest, "Ah! 
Oh!" 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Constance, Constance, darling! 
What ? H the matter ? " 
Constance: " Oh, nothing nothing." She 
laughs, nervously. " I thought there was nobody 
here; and it startled me. How do you do, 
Mr. Cummings?" She goes quickly up to that 
gentleman, and gives him her hand. " Don't you 
think it wonderful to find such a day as this, 
up here, at this time of year?" She struggles 
to control the panting breath in which she speaks. 
Gumming s : "Yes, I supposed I had come quite 
too late for anything of the sort. You must make 
haste with your Ponkwasset, Miss Wyatt, or you'll 
have to paint him with his winter cap on." 
 
Constance : " Ah, yes ! My picture. Mr. Bart- 
lett has been telling you." Her eyes have already 
wandered away from Cummings, and they now 
dwell, with a furtive light of reparation and im- 
ploring upon Bartlett's disheartened patience : 
" Good morning.'  It is a delicately tentative salu- 
tation, in a low voice, still fluttered by her nervous 
agitation. 
Bartlett, in dull despair : " Good morning." 
Constance : " How is the light on the mountain 
this morning ? " She drifts deprecatingly up to the 
picture, near which Bartlett has stolidly kept his 
place. 
 Bartlett, in apathetic inattention : " Oh, very 
well, very well, indeed, thank you." 
Constance, after a hesitating glance at him : 
" Did you like what I had done on it yesterday ? " 
Bartlett, very much as before : " Oh, yes ; why 
not ? " 
Constance, with meek subtlety : " I was afraid I 
had vexed you by it." She bends an appealing 
glance upon him, to which Bartlett remains im- 
pervious, and she drops her eyes with a faint sigh. 
 
Then she lifts them again : " I was afraid I had 
made the distance too blue." 
Bartlett : " Oh, no ; not at all." 
Constance : " Do you think I had better try to 
finish it?" 
Bartlett: "Oh, certainly. Why not? If it 
amuses you! " 
Constance, perplexedly : " Of course." Then 
with a sad significance : " But I know I am trying 
your patience too far. You have been so kind, so 
good, I can't forgive myself for annoying you." 
Bartlett : " It doesn't annoy me. I 'm very glad 
to be useful to you." 
Constance, demurely : " I didn't mean painting ; 
I meant screaming." She lifts her eyes to Bart- 
lett's face, with a pathetic, inquiring attempt at 
lightness, the slightest imaginable experimental 
archness in her self-reproach, which dies out as 
Bartlett frowns and bites the corner of his mus- 
tache in unresponsive silence. " I ought to be well 
enough now to stop it ; I 'm quite well enough to 
be ashamed of it." She breaks off a miserable 
little laugh. 
Bartlett, with cold indifference : " There 's no 
reason why you should stop it if it amuses you." 
She looks at him in surprise at this rudeness. " Do 
you wish to try your hand at Ponkwasset this 
morning ? " 
Constance, with a flash of resentment : " No ; 
thanks." Then with a lapse into her morbid self- 
abasement : " I shall not touch it again. Mam- 
ma!" 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Yes, Constance." Mrs. Wyatt 
and Cummings, both intent on Bartlett and Con- 
stance, have been heroically feigning a polite in- 
terest in each other, from which pretense they 
now eagerly release themselves. 
Constance : " Oh nothing. I can get it of 
Mary. I won't trouble you." She goes toward 
the door. 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Mary isn't up from her breakfast, 
yet. If you want anything, let me go with you, 
dear." She turns to follow Constance. u Good 
morning, Mr. Cummings ; we shall see you at din- 
ner. Good morning," with an inquiring glance 
at Bartlett. Constance slightly inclines towards 
 
the two gentlemen without looking at them, in 
going out with her mother ; and Cummings moves 
away to the piano, and affects to examine the 
sheet-music scattered over it. Bartlett remains in 
his place near the easel. 
III. 
BARTLETT and CUMMINGS. 
Bartlett, harshly, after a certain silence which 
his friend is apparently resolved not to break : 
" Sail in, Cummings ! " 
Gummings : " Oh, I Ve got nothing to say." 
Bartlett: "Yes, you have. You think I'm a 
greater fool and a greater brute than you ever 
supposed in your most sanguine moments. Well, 
I am ! What then ? " 
Gummings, turning about from the music at 
which he has been pretending to look, and facing 
Bartlett, with a slight shrug : " If you choose to 
characterize your own behavior in that way, I shall 
not dispute you at any rate." 
Bartlett : " Go on ! " 
Gummings: "Go on? You saw yourself, I 
suppose, how she hung upon every syllable you 
spoke, every look, every gesture ? " 
 
Bartlctt: "Yes, I saw it." 
Cummings : " You saw how completely crushed 
she was by your tone and manner. You 're not 
blind. Upon my word, Bartlett, if I didn't know 
what a good, kind-hearted fellow you are, I should 
say you were the greatest ruffian alive." 
Bartlett) with a groan : " Go on ! That 's some- 
thing like." 
Cummings : " I couldn't hear what was going 
on I 'll own I tried but I could see ; and to 
see the delicate amende she was trying to offer 
you, in such a way that it should not seem an 
amende, a perfect study of a woman's gra- 
cious, unconscious art, and then to see your sour 
refusal of it all, it made me sick." 
Bartlett with a desperate clutch at his face, like 
a man oppressed with some stifling vapor : " Yes, 
yes ! I saw it all, too ! And if it had been for me, 
I would have given anything for such happiness. 
Oh, gracious powers ! How dear she is ! I would 
rather have suffered any anguish than give her 
pain, and yet I gave her pain ! I knew how it 
entered her heart : I felt it in my own. But 
what could I do ? If I am to be myself, if I am 
not to steal the tenderness meant for another 
man, the love she shows to me because I 'in like 
somebody else, I must play the brute. But have a 
little mercy on me. At least, I 'm a baited brute. 
I don't know which way to turn, I don't know 
what to do. She 's so dear to me, so dear in 
every tone of her voice, every look of her eyes, 
every aspiration or desire of her transparent soul, 
that it seems to me my whole being is nothing but 
a thought of her. I loved her helplessness, her 
pallor, her sorrow ; judge how I adore her return 
to something like life ! Oh, you blame me ! You 
simplify this infernal perplexity of mine and label 
it brutality, and scold me for it. Great heaven ! 
And yet you saw, you heard how she entered this 
room. In that instant the old illusion was back 
on her, and I was nothing. All that I had been 
striving and longing to be to her, and hoping and 
despairing to seem, was swept out of existence ; I 
was reduced to a body without a soul, to a shadow, 
a counterfeit! You think I resented it? Poor 
girl, I pitied her so ; and my own heart all the 
 
time like lead in my breast, a dull lump of ache! 
I swear, I wonder I don't go mad. I suppose 
why, I suppose I am insane. No man in his senses 
was ever bedeviled by such a maniacal hallucina- 
tion. Look here, Cummings: tell me that this 
damnable coil isn't simply a matter of my own 
fancy. It'll be some little relief to know that it's 
real. 
Cummings: "It's real enough, my dear fellow. 
And it is a trial, more than I could have be- 
lieved such a fantastic thing could be." 
Bartlett: " Trial? Ordeal by fire! Torment! I 
can't stand it any longer." 
Cumminys, musingly : " She is beautiful, isn't 
she, with that faint dawn of red in her cheeks, 
not a color, but a colored light like the light that 
hangs round a rose-tree's boughs in the early 
spring! And what a magnificent movement, what 
a stately grace ! The girl must have been a god- 
dess!" 
Bartlett: "And now she's a saint for sweet- 
ness and patience! You think she 's had nothing 
to suffer before from me ? You know me better ! 
Well, I 'm going away." 
 
Cummings: Perhaps it will be the best. You 
can go back with me to-morrow." 
Bartlett: "To morrow? Go back with you to- 
morrow? What are you talking about, man?" 
Cummings smiles. "I can't go to-morrow. I 
can't leave her hating me." --. 
Cummin gs: " I knew you never meant to go. 
Well, what will you do ? " 
Bartlett: "Don't be so cold-blooded! What 
would you do ? " 
Cummings: "I would have it out, somehow." 
Bartlett : " Oh, you talk ! How ? " 
Cummings: "I am not in love with Miss 
Wyatt." 
Bartlett : " Oh, don't try to play the cynic with 
me ! It doesn't become you. I know I Ve used 
you badly at times, Cummings. I behaved abomi- 
nably in leaving you to take the brunt of meeting 
General Wyatt that first day ; I said so then, and 
f shall always say it. But I thought you had for- 
given that." 
Cummings, with a laugh : " You make it hard to 
treat you seriously, Bartlett. What do you want 
 
me to do ? Do you want me to go to Miss Wyatt, 
and explain your case to her?" 
Bartlett, angrily: "No!" 
Gumming s : "Perhaps to Mrs. Wyatt?" 
Bartlett, infuriate : " No ! " 
, Cummings : " To the General ? " 
Bartlett, with sudden quiet: "You had better 
go away from here, Cummings while you can." 
Cummings : " I see you don't wish me to do 
anything, and you 're quite right. Nobody can do 
anything but yourself." 
Bartlett : " And what would you advise me to 
do?" 
Cummings: "I've told you that I would have 
it out. You can't make matters worse. You can't 
go on in this way indefinitely. It's just possible 
that you might find yourself mistaken, that Miss 
Wyatt cares for you in your own proper identity." 
Bartlett: "For shame!" 
Cummings: "Oh, if you like!" 
Bartlett, after a pause: "Would you would 
you see the General?" 
Cummings: "If I wanted to marry the General. 
 
Come, Bartlett; don't be ridiculous. You know 
you don't want my advice, and I haven't any to 
give. I must go to my room a moment." 
Bartlett: "Well, go! You're of no advantage 
here. You 'd have it out, would you ? Well, then, 
I wouldn't. I 'm a brute, I know, and a fool, but 
I 'm not such a brute and fool as that ! " Cum- 
mings listens with smiling patience, and then goes 
without reply, while Bartlett drops into the chair 
near the easel, and sulkily glares at the picture. 
Through the window at his back shows the mel- 
low Indian summer landscape. The trees have all 
dropped their leaves, save the oaks which show 
their dark crimson banners among the deep green 
of the pines and hemlocks on the hills; the mead- 
ows, verdant as in June, slope away toward the 
fringe of birches and young maples along the 
borders of the pond ; the low-blackberry trails like 
a running fire over the long grass limp from the 
first frosts, which have silenced all the insect voices. 
No sound of sylvan life is heard but the harsh 
challenge of a jay, answered from many trees of the 
nearest wood-lot. The far-off hill-tops are molten 
 
 
in the soft azure haze of the season ; the nearer 
slopes and crests sleep under a grayer and thinner 
veil. It is to this scene that the painter turns 
from the easel, with the sullen unconsciousness in 
which he has dwelt upon the picture. Its beauty 
seems at last to penetrate his mood ; he rises and 
looks upon it ; then he goes out on the gallery, and, 
hidden by the fall of one of the curtains, stands 
leaning upon the rail and rapt in the common 
revery of the dreaming world. While he lingers 
there, Cummings appears at the door, and looks 
in ; then with an air of some surprise, as if wonder- 
ing not to see Bartlett, vanishes again, to give 
place to General Wyatt, who after a like research 
retires silently and apparently disconcerted. A 
few moments later Mrs. Wyatt comes to the thresh- 
old, and calling gently into the room, "Con- 
stance!" waits briefly and goes away. At last, 
the young girl herself appears, and falters in the 
doorway an instant, but finally comes forward and 
drifts softly and indirectly up to the picture, at 
which she glances with a little sigh. At the same 
moment Bartlett's voice, trolling a snatch of song, 
comes from the gallery without: 
 
ROMANCE. 
Here apart our paths, then, lie : 
This way you wend, that way I ; 
Speak one word before you go : ' 
Do not, do not leave me so ! 
n. 
What is it that I should say ? 
Tell me quick ; I cannot stay ; 
Quick ! I am not good at guessing : 
Night is near, and time is pressing. 
Nay, then, go ! But were I you, 
I will tell you what I 'd do : 
Rather than be baffled so, 
I would never, never go ! " 
As the song ends, Bartlett reappears at the gallery 
door giving into the parlor, and encounters Con- 
stance turning at his tread from the picture on 
which she has been pensively gazing while he 
sang. He puts up a hand on either side of the 
door. 
IV. 
BARTLETT and CONSTANCE. 
Bartlett: "I didn't know you were here." 
Constance: "Neither did I know you were, 
till I heard you singing." 
Bartlett, smiling ironically: "Oh, you didn't 
suppose I sang ! " 
Constance, confusedly: "I I don't know" 
Bartlett: " Ah, you thought I did! I don't. I 
was indulging in a sort of modulated howling 
which I flatter myself is at least one peculiarity 
that 's entirely my own. I was baying the land- 
scape merely for my private amusement, and I 'd 
not have done it, if I 'd known you were in hear- 
ing. However, if it's helped to settle the fact 
one way or other, concerning any little idiosyncrasy 
of mine, I shan't regret it. I hope not to disappoint 
you in anything, by and by." He drops his hands 
 
from the doorposts and steps into the room, while 
Constance, in shrinking abeyance, stands trembling 
at his harshness. 
Constance, in faltering reproach: "Mr. Bart- 
lett!" 
Bartlett: " Constance ! " 
Constance, struggling to assert herself, but break- 
ing feebly in her attempt at hauteur: "Constance? 
What does this mean, Mr. Bartlett?" 
Bartlett, with a sudden burst: "What does it 
mean ? It means that I 'm sick of this nightmare 
masquerade. It means that I want to be some- 
thing to you all the world to you in and for 
myself. It means that I can't play another man's 
part any longer and live. It means that I love 
you, love you, love you, Constance!" He starts 
involuntarily toward her with outstretched arms, 
from which she recoils with a convulsive cry. 
Constance: "You love me? Me? Oh, no, no! 
How can you be so merciless as to talk to me of 
love?" She drops her glowing face into her hands. 
Bartlett: "Because I 'm a man. Because love 
is more than mercy better, higher, wiser. Listen 
 
to me, Constance! yes, I will call you so now, 
if never again : you are so dear to me that I must 
say it at last if it killed you. If loving you is 
cruel, I 'm pitiless ! Give me some hope, tell me 
to breathe, my girl ! " 
Constance: "Oh go, while I can still forgive 
you." 
Bartlett : " I won't go ; I won't have your for- 
giveness ; I will have all or nothing ; I want your 
love ! " 
Constance, uncovering her face and turning its 
desolation upon him ; " My love ? I have no love 
to give. My heart is dead." 
Bartlett: "No, no! That's part of the ugly 
trance that we 've both been living in so long. 
Look ! You 're better now than when you came 
here ; you 're stronger, braver, more beautiful. 
My angel, you 're turned a woman again ! Oh 
you can love me if you will ; and you will ! Look 
at me, darling ! " He takes her listless right hand 
in his left, and gently draws her toward him. 
Constance, starting away : " You 're wrong ; 
you're all wrong! You don't understand; you 
don't know Oh, listen to me ! " 
 
Bartlett, still holding her cold hand fast : " Yes, 
a thousand years. But you must tell me first that 
I may love you. That first ! " 
Constance : " No ! That never ! And since you 
speak to me of love, listen to what it 's my right 
you should hear!' 
Bartlett, releasing her : " I don't care to hear. 
Nothing can ever change me. But if you bid me, 
I will go ! " 
Constance : " You shall not go now till you 
know what despised and hated and forsaken thing 
you Ve offered your love to." 
Bartlett, beseechingly : " Constance, let me go 
while I can forgive myself. Nothing you can say 
will make me love you less ; remember that ; but 
I implore you to spare yourself. Don't speak, my 
love." 
Constance: "Spare myself? Not speak? Not 
speak what has been on my tongue and heart and 
brain, a burning fire, so long ? Oh, I was a happy 
girl once ! The days were not long enough for 
my happiness ; I woke at night to think of it. I 
was proud in my happiness and believed myself, 
poor fool, one to favor those I smiled on ; and I 
had my vain and crazy dreams of being the hap- 
piness of some one who should come to ask for 
what you ask now. Some one came. At first 
I didn't care for him, but he knew how to make 
me. He knew how to make my thoughts of him 
part of my happiness and pride and vanity till he 
was all in all, and I had no wish, no hope, no life 
but him ; and then he left me ! " She buries 
her face in her hands again, and breaks into a low, 
piteous sobbing. 
Bartlett, with a groan of helpless fury and com- 
passion : " The fool, the sot, the slave ! Constance, 
I knew all this, I knew it from the first." 
Constance, recoiling in wild reproach : " You 
knew it? " 
Bartlett, desperately : " Yes, I knew it in 
spite of myself, through my own stubborn fury I 
knew it, that first day, when I had obliged my 
friend to tell me what your father had told him, 
before I would hear reason. I would have given 
anything not to have known it then, when it was 
too late, for I had at least the grace to feel the 
 
wrong, the outrage of my knowing it. You can 
never pardon it, I see ; but you must feel what a 
hateful burden I had to bear, when I found that I 
had somehow purloined the presence, the looks, 
the voice of another man- a man whom I would 
have joyfully changed myself to any monstrous 
shape not to resemble, though I knew that my 
likeness to him, bewildering you in a continual 
dream of him, was all that ever made you look at 
me or think of me. I lived in the hope Heaven 
only knows why I should have had the hope ! 
that I might yet be myself to you; that you might 
wake from your dream of him and look on me in 
the daylight, and see that I was at least an honest 
man, and pity me and may be love me at last, as I 
loved you at first, from the moment I saw your 
dear, pale face, and heard your dear, sad voice." 
