them: now it was permitted to give them a little snap in order to bring
the horses up in good style; and the boy was rather proud of the horse
if it pranced a little while the timid "women-folks" were trying to get
in. The boy had an eye for whatever life and stir there was in a New
England Sunday. He liked to drive home fast. The old house and the farm
looked pleasant to him. There was an extra dinner when they reached
home, and a cheerful consciousness of duty performed made it a pleasant
dinner. Long before sundown the Sunday-school book had been read, and
the boy sat waiting in the house with great impatience the signal that
the "day of rest" was over. A boy may not be very wicked, and yet not
see the need of "rest." Neither his idea of rest nor work is that of
older farmers.
VI
THE GRINDSTONE OF LIFE
If there is one thing more than another that hardens the lot of the
farmer-boy it is the grindstone. Turning grindstones to grind scythes
is one of those heroic but unobtrusive occupations for which one gets
no credit. It is a hopeless kind of task, and, however faithfully the
crank is turned, it is one that brings little reputation. There is a
great deal of poetry about haying—I mean for those not engaged in it.
One likes to hear the whetting of the scythes on a fresh morning and
the response of the noisy bobolink, who always sits upon the fence
and superintends the cutting of the dew-laden grass. There is a sort
of music in the "swish" and a rhythm in the swing of the scythes in
concert. The boy has not much time to attend to it, for it is lively
business "spreading" after half a dozen men who have only to walk
along and lay the grass low, while the boy has the whole hayfield on
his hands. He has little time for the poetry of haying, as he struggles
along, filling the air with the wet mass which he shakes over his head,
and picking his way with short legs and bare feet amid the short and
freshly cut stubble.
But if the scythes cut well and swing merrily it is due to the boy
who turned the grindstone. Oh, it was nothing to do, just turn the
grindstone a few minutes for this and that one before breakfast; any
"hired man" was authorized to order the boy to turn the grindstone.
How they did bear on, those great strapping fellows! Turn, turn, turn,
what a weary go it was. For my part, I used to like a grindstone that
"wabbled" a good deal on its axis, for when I turned it fast, it put
the grinder on a lively lookout for cutting his hands, and entirely
satisfied his desire that I should "turn faster." It was some sport to
make the water fly and wet the grinder, suddenly starting up quickly
and surprising him when I was turning very slowly. I used to wish
sometimes that I could turn fast enough to make the stone fly into a
dozen pieces. Steady turning is what the grinders like, and any boy who
turns steadily, so as to give an even motion to the stone, will be much
praised, and will be in demand. I advise any boy who desires to do this
sort of work to turn steadily. If he does it by jerks and in a fitful
manner, the "hired men" will be very apt to dispense with his services
and turn the grindstone for each other.
This is one of the most disagreeable tasks of the boy farmer, and,
hard as it is, I do not know why it is supposed to belong especially
to childhood. But it is, and one of the certain marks that second
childhood has come to a man on a farm is that he is asked to turn
the grindstone as if he were a boy again. When the old man is good
for nothing else, when he can neither mow nor pitch, and scarcely
"rake after," he can turn grindstone, and it is in this way that he
renews his youth. "Ain't you ashamed to have your granther turn the
grindstone?" asks the hired man of the boy. So the boy takes hold and
turns himself, till his little back aches. When he gets older he
wishes he had replied, "Ain't you ashamed to make either an old man or
a little boy do such hard grinding work?"
Doing the regular work of this world is not much, the boy thinks, but
the wearisome part is the waiting on the people who do the work. And
the boy is not far wrong. This is what women and boys have to do on a
farm,—wait upon everybody who "works." The trouble with the boy's life
is that he has no time that he can call his own. He is, like a barrel
of beer, always on draught. The men-folks, having worked in the regular
hours, lie down and rest, stretch themselves idly in the shade at noon,
or lounge about after supper. Then the boy, who has done nothing all
day but turn grindstone, and spread hay, and rake after, and run his
little legs off at everybody's beck and call, is sent on some errand or
some household chore, in order that time shall not hang heavy on his
hands. The boy comes nearer to perpetual motion than anything else in
nature, only it is not altogether a voluntary motion. The time that
the farm-boy gets for his own is usually at the end of a stent. We used
to be given a certain piece of corn to hoe, or a certain quantity of
corn to husk in so many days. If we finished the task before the time
set, we had the remainder to ourselves. In my day it used to take very
sharp work to gain anything, but we were always anxious to take the
chance. I think we enjoyed the holiday in anticipation quite as much
as we did when we had won it. Unless it was training-day, or Fourth
of July, or the circus was coming, it was a little difficult to find
anything big enough to fill our anticipations of the fun we would have
in the day or the two or three days we had earned. We did not want to
waste the time on any common thing. Even going fishing in one of the
wild mountain brooks was hardly up to the mark, for we could sometimes
do that on a rainy day. Going down to the village store was not very
exciting, and was on the whole a waste of our precious time. Unless
we could get out our military company, life was apt to be a little
blank, even on the holidays for which we had worked so hard. If you
went to see another boy, he was probably at work in the hayfield or
the potato-patch, and his father looked at you askance. You sometimes
took hold and helped him, so that he could go and play with you; but
it was usually time to go for the cows before the task was done. There
has been a change, but the amusements of a boy in the country were
few then. Snaring "suckers" out of the deep meadow brook used to be
about as good as any that I had. The North American sucker is not an
engaging animal in all respects; his body is comely enough, but his
mouth is puckered up like that of a purse. The mouth is not formed for
the gentle angle-worm nor the delusive fly of the fishermen. It is
necessary therefore to snare the fish if you want him. In the sunny
days he lies in the deep pools, by some big stone or near the bank,
poising himself quite still, or only stirring his fins a little now
and then, as an elephant moves his ears. He will lie so for hours,—or
rather float,—in perfect idleness and apparent bliss.
The boy who also has a holiday, but cannot keep still, comes along
and peeps over the bank. "Golly, ain't he a big one!" Perhaps he is
eighteen inches long, and weighs two or three pounds. He lies there
among his friends, little fish and big ones, quite a school of them,
perhaps a district school, that only keeps in warm days in the summer.
The pupils seem to have little to learn, except to balance themselves
and to turn gracefully with a flirt of the tail. Not much is taught
but "deportment," and some of the old suckers are perfect Turveydrops
in that. The boy is armed with a pole and a stout line, and on the end
of it a brass wire bent into a hoop, which is a slipnoose, and slides
together when anything is caught in it. The boy approaches the bank
and looks over. There he lies, calm as a whale. The boy devours him
with his eyes. He is almost too much excited to drop the snare into
the water without making a noise. A puff of wind comes and ruffles the
surface, so that he cannot see the fish. It is calm again, and there
he still is, moving his fins in peaceful security. The boy lowers his
snare behind the fish and slips it along. He intends to get it around
him just back of the gills and then elevate him with a sudden jerk. It
is a delicate operation, for the snare will turn a little, and if it
hits the fish he is off. However, it goes well, the wire is almost in
place, when suddenly the fish, as if he had a warning in a dream, for
he appears to see nothing, moves his tail just a little, glides out
of the loop, and, with no seeming appearance of frustrating any one's
plans, lounges over to the other side of the pool; and there he reposes
just as if he was not spoiling the boy's holiday.
This slight change of base on the part of the fish requires the boy to
reorganize his whole campaign, get a new position on the bank, a new
line of approach, and patiently wait for the wind and sun before he can
lower his line. This time, cunning and patience are rewarded. The hoop
encircles the unsuspecting fish. The boy's eyes almost start from his
head as he gives a tremendous jerk, and feels by the dead-weight that
he has got him fast. Out he comes, up he goes in the air, and the boy
runs to look at him. In this transaction, however, no one can be more
surprised than the sucker.
VII
FICTION AND SENTIMENT
The boy farmer does not appreciate school vacations as highly as
his city cousin. When school keeps he has only to "do chores and go
to school,"—but between terms there are a thousand things on the
farm that have been left for the boy to do. Picking up stones in the
pastures and piling them in heaps used to be one of them. Some lots
appeared to grow stones, or else the sun every year drew them to the
surface, as it coaxes the round cantelopes out of the soft garden soil;
it is certain that there were fields that always gave the boys this
sort of fall work. And very lively work it was on frosty mornings for
the barefooted boys, who were continually turning up the larger stones
in order to stand for a moment in the warm place that had been covered
from the frost. A boy can stand on one leg as well as a Holland stork;
and the boy who found a warm spot for the sole of his foot was likely
to stand in it until the words, "Come, stir your stumps," broke in
discordantly upon his meditations. For the boy is very much given to
meditations. If he had his way he would do nothing in a hurry; he likes
to stop and think about things, and enjoy his work as he goes along. He
picks up potatoes as if each one was a lump of gold just turned out of
the dirt, and requiring careful examination.
Although the country boy feels a little joy when school breaks up (as
he does when anything breaks up, or any change takes place), since he
is released from the discipline and restraint of it, yet the school
is his opening into the world,—his romance. Its opportunities for
enjoyment are numberless. He does not exactly know what he is set at
books for; he takes spelling rather as an exercise for his lungs,
standing up and shouting out the words with entire recklessness of
consequences; he grapples doggedly with arithmetic and geography as
something that must be cleared out of his way before recess, but
not at all with the zest he would dig a woodchuck out of his hole. But
recess! Was ever any enjoyment so keen as that with which a boy rushes
out of the school-house door for the ten minutes of recess? He is
like to burst with animal spirits; he runs like a deer; he can nearly
fly; and he throws himself into play with entire self-forgetfulness,
and an energy that would overturn the world if his strength were
proportioned to it. For ten minutes the world is absolutely his;
the weights are taken off, restraints are loosed, and he is his own
master for that brief time,—as he never again will be if he lives
to be as old as the king of Thule, and nobody knows how old he was.
And there is the nooning, a solid hour, in which vast projects can be
carried out which have been slyly matured during the school-hours;
expeditions are undertaken, wars are begun between the Indians on one
side and the settlers on the other, the military company is drilled
(without uniforms or arms), or games are carried on which involve
miles of running, and an expenditure of wind sufficient to spell the
spelling-book through at the highest pitch.
Friendships are formed, too, which are fervent if not enduring, and
enmities contracted which are frequently "taken out" on the spot,
after a rough fashion boys have of settling as they go along; cases
of long credit, either in words or trade, are not frequent with boys;
boot on jack-knives must be paid on the nail; and it is considered
much more honorable to out with a personal grievance at once, even if
the explanation is made with the fists, than to pretend fair, and then
take a sneaking revenge on some concealed opportunity. The country
boy at the district school is introduced into a wider world than he
knew at home, in many ways. Some big boy brings to school a copy of
the Arabian Nights, a dog-eared copy, with cover, title-page, and the
last leaves missing, which is passed around, and slyly read under the
desk, and perhaps comes to the little boy whose parents disapprove
of novel-reading, and have no work of fiction in the house except a
pious fraud called "Six Months in a Convent," and the latest comic
almanac. The boy's eyes dilate as he steals some of the treasures out
of the wondrous pages, and he longs to lose himself in the land of
enchantment open before him. He tells at home that he has seen the most
wonderful book that ever was, and a big boy has promised to lend it to
him. "Is it a true book, John?" asks the grandmother; "because if it
isn't true, it is the worst thing that a boy can read." (This happened
years ago.) John cannot answer as to the truth of the book, and so does
not bring it home; but he borrows it, nevertheless, and conceals it in
the barn, and lying in the hay-mow is lost in its enchantments many an
odd hour when he is supposed to be doing chores. There were no chores
in the Arabian Nights; the boy there had but to rub the ring and summon
a genius, who would feed the calves and pick up chips and bring in wood
in a minute. It was through this emblazoned portal that the boy walked
into the world of books, which he soon found was larger than his own,
and filled with people he longed to know.
And the farmer-boy is not without his sentiment and his secrets, though
he has never been at a children's party in his life, and, in fact,
never has heard that children go into society when they are seven, and
give regular wine-parties when they reach the ripe age of nine. But one
of his regrets at having the summer school close is dimly connected
with a little girl, whom he does not care much for,—would a great deal
rather play with a boy than with her at recess,—but whom he will not
see again for some time,—a sweet little thing, who is very friendly
with John, and with whom he has been known to exchange bits of candy
wrapped up in paper, and for whom he cut in two his lead-pencil, and
gave her half. At the last day of school she goes part way with John,
and then he turns and goes a longer distance towards her home, so that
it is late when he reaches his own. Is he late? He didn't know he was
late, he came straight home when school was dismissed, only going a
little way home with Alice Linton to help her carry her books. In a box
in his chamber, which he has lately put a padlock on, among fish-hooks
and lines and bait-boxes, odd pieces of brass, twine, early sweet
apples, popcorn, beech-nuts, and other articles of value, are some
little billets-doux, fancifully folded, three-cornered or otherwise,
and written, I will warrant, in red or beautifully blue ink. These
little notes are parting gifts at the close of school, and John, no
doubt, gave his own in exchange for them, though the writing was an
immense labor, and the folding was a secret bought of another boy for a
big piece of sweet flag-root baked in sugar, a delicacy which John used
to carry in his pantaloons pocket until his pocket was in such a state
that putting his fingers into them was about as good as dipping them
into the sugar-bowl at home. Each precious note contained a lock or
curl of girl's hair,—a rare collection of all colors, after John had
been in school many terms, and had passed through a great many parting
scenes,—black, brown, red, tow-color, and some that looked like spun
gold and felt like silk. The sentiment contained in the notes was that
which was common in the school, and expressed a melancholy foreboding
of early death, and a touching desire to leave hair enough this side
the grave to constitute a sort of strand of remembrance. With little
variation, the poetry that made the hair precious was in the words,
and, as a Cockney would say, set to the hair, following:—
      "This lock of hair,
      Which I did wear,
  Was taken from my head;
      When this you see,
      Remember me,
  Long after I am dead."
John liked to read these verses, which always made a new and fresh
impression with each lock of hair, and he was not critical; they were
for him vehicles of true sentiment, and indeed they were what he used
when he inclosed a clip of his own sandy hair to a friend. And it did
not occur to him until he was a great deal older and less innocent to
smile at them. John felt that he would sacredly keep every lock of hair
intrusted to him, though death should come on the wings of cholera and
take away every one of these sad, red-ink correspondents. When John's
big brother one day caught sight of these treasures, and brutally told
him that he "had hair enough to stuff a horse-collar," John was so
outraged and shocked, as he should have been, at this rude invasion
of his heart, this coarse suggestion, this profanation of his most
delicate feeling, that he was only kept from crying by the resolution
to "lick" his brother as soon as ever he got big enough.
VIII
THE COMING OF THANKSGIVING
One of the best things in farming is gathering the chestnuts,
hickory-nuts, butternuts, and even beech-nuts, in the late fall,
after the frosts have cracked the husks and the high winds have
shaken them, and the colored leaves have strewn the ground. On a
bright October day, when the air is full of golden sunshine, there is
nothing quite so exhilarating as going nutting. Nor is the pleasure of
it altogether destroyed for the boy by the consideration that he is
making himself useful in obtaining supplies for the winter household.
The getting-in of potatoes and corn is a different thing; that is the
prose, but nutting is the poetry, of farm life. I am not sure but the
boy would find it very irksome, though, if he were obliged to work at
nut-gathering in order to procure food for the family. He is willing
to make himself useful in his own way. The Italian boy, who works day
after day at a huge pile of pine-cones, pounding and cracking them and
taking out the long seeds, which are sold and eaten as we eat nuts (and
which are almost as good as pumpkin-seeds, another favorite with the
Italians), probably does not see the fun of nutting. Indeed, if the
farmer-boy here were set at pounding off the walnut-shucks and opening
the prickly chestnut-burs as a task, he would think himself an ill-used
boy. What a hardship the prickles in his fingers would be! But now he
digs them out with his jack-knife, and he enjoys the process, on the
whole. The boy is willing to do any amount of work if it is called play.
In nutting, the squirrel is not more nimble and industrious than the
boy. I like to see a crowd of boys swarm over a chestnut-grove; they
leave a desert behind them like the seventeen-years locusts. To climb
a tree and shake it, to club it, to strip it of its fruit and pass
to the next, is the sport of a brief time. I have seen a legion of
boys scamper over our grassplot under the chestnut-trees, each one
as active as if he were a new patent picking-machine, sweeping the
ground clean of nuts, and disappear over the hill before I could go to
the door and speak to them about it. Indeed, I have noticed that boys
don't care much for conversation with the owners of fruit-trees. They
could speedily make their fortunes if they would work as rapidly in
cotton-fields. I have never seen anything like it except a flock of
turkeys removing the grasshoppers from a piece of pasture.
Perhaps it is not generally known that we get the idea of some of
our best military manoeuvres from the turkey. The deploying of the
skirmish-line in advance of an army is one of them. The drum-major
of our holiday militia companies is copied exactly from the turkey
gobbler; he has the same splendid appearance, the same proud step,
and the same martial aspect. The gobbler does not lead his forces
in the field, but goes behind them, like the colonel of a regiment,
so that he can see every part of the line and direct its movements.
This resemblance is one of the most singular things in natural
history. I like to watch the gobbler manoeuvring his forces in a
grasshopper-field. He throws out his company of two dozen turkeys in a
crescent-shaped skirmish-line, the number disposed at equal distances,
while he walks majestically in the rear. They advance rapidly, picking
right and left, with military precision, killing the foe and disposing
of the dead bodies with the same peck. Nobody has yet discovered how
many grasshoppers a turkey will hold; but he is very much like a boy at
a Thanksgiving dinner,—he keeps on eating as long as the supplies last.
The gobbler, in one of these raids, does not condescend to grab a
single grasshopper,—at least, not while anybody is watching him. But I
suppose he makes up for it when his dignity cannot be injured by having
spectators of his voracity; perhaps he falls upon the grasshoppers when
they are driven into a corner of the field. But he is only fattening
himself for destruction; like all greedy persons, he comes to a bad
end. And if the turkeys had any Sunday-school, they would be taught
this.
The New England boy used to look forward to Thanksgiving as the great
event of the year. He was apt to get stents set him,—so much corn to
husk, for instance, before that day, so that he could have an extra
play-spell; and in order to gain a day or two, he would work at his
task with the rapidity of half a dozen boys. He had the day after
Thanksgiving always as a holiday, and this was the day he counted on.
Thanksgiving itself was rather an awful festival,—very much like
Sunday, except for the enormous dinner, which filled his imagination
for months before as completely as it did his stomach for that day and
a week after. There was an impression in the house that that dinner
was the most important event since the landing from the Mayflower.
Heliogabalus, who did not resemble a Pilgrim Father at all, but who
had prepared for himself in his day some very sumptuous banquets in
Rome, and ate a great deal of the best he could get (and liked peacocks
stuffed with asafoetida, for one thing), never had anything like
a Thanksgiving dinner; for do you suppose that he, or Sardanapalus
either, ever had twenty-four different kinds of pie at one dinner?
Therein many a New England boy is greater than the Roman emperor or the
Assyrian king, and these were among the most luxurious eaters of their
day and generation. But something more is necessary to make good men
than plenty to eat, as Heliogabalus no doubt found when his head was
cut off. Cutting off the head was a mode the people had of expressing
disapproval of their conspicuous men. Nowadays they elect them to a
higher office, or give them a mission to some foreign country, if they
do not do well where they are.
For days and days before Thanksgiving the boy was kept at work
evenings, pounding and paring and cutting up and mixing (not being
allowed to taste much), until the world seemed to him to be made of
fragrant spices, green fruit, raisins, and pastry,—a world that he
was only yet allowed to enjoy through his nose. How filled the house
was with the most delicious smells! The mince-pies that were made!
If John had been shut in solid walls with them piled about him, he
couldn't have eaten his way out in four weeks. There were dainties
enough cooked in those two weeks to have made the entire year luscious
with good living, if they had been scattered along in it. But people
were probably all the better for scrimping themselves a little in order
to make this a great feast. And it was not by any means over in a day.
There were weeks deep of chicken-pie and other pastry. The cold buttery
was a cave of Aladdin, and it took a long time to excavate all its
riches.
Thanksgiving Day itself was a heavy day, the hilarity of it being
so subdued by going to meeting, and the universal wearing of the
Sunday clothes, that the boy couldn't see it. But if he felt
little exhilaration, he ate a great deal. The next day was the
real holiday. Then were the merry-making parties, and perhaps the
skatings and sleighrides, for the freezing weather came before the
governor's proclamation in many parts of New England. The night after
Thanksgiving occurred, perhaps, the first real party that the boy had
ever attended, with live girls in it, dressed so bewitchingly. And
there he heard those philandering songs, and played those sweet games
of forfeits, which put him quite beside himself, and kept him awake
that night till the rooster crowed at the end of his first chicken-nap.
What a new world did that party open to him! I think it likely that
he saw there, and probably did not dare say ten words to, some tall,
graceful girl, much older than himself, who seemed to him like a new
order of being. He could see her face just as plainly in the darkness
of his chamber. He wondered if she noticed how awkward he was, and how
short his trousers-legs were. He blushed as he thought of his rather
ill-fitting shoes; and determined, then and there, that he wouldn't
be put off with a ribbon any longer, but would have a young man's
necktie. It was somewhat painful thinking the party over, but it was
delicious too. He did not think, probably, that he would die for that
tall, handsome girl; he did not put it exactly in that way. But he
rather resolved to live for her,—which might in the end amount to the
same thing. At least, he thought that nobody would live to speak twice
disrespectfully of her in his presence.
IX
THE SEASON OF PUMPKIN-PIE
What John said was, that he didn't care much for pumpkin-pie; but that
was after he had eaten a whole one. It seemed to him then that mince
would be better.
The feeling of a boy towards pumpkin-pie has never been properly
considered. There is an air of festivity about its approach in the
fall. The boy is willing to help pare and cut up the pumpkin, and
he watches with the greatest interest the stirring-up process and
the pouring into the scalloped crust. When the sweet savor of the
baking reaches his nostrils, he is filled with the most delightful
anticipations. Why should he not be? He knows that for months to come
the buttery will contain golden treasures, and that it will require
only a slight ingenuity to get at them.
The fact is, that the boy is as good in the buttery as in any part
of farming. His elders say that the boy is always hungry; but that is
a very coarse way to put it. He has only recently come into a world
that is full of good things to eat, and there is on the whole a very
short time in which to eat them; at least he is told, among the first
information he receives, that life is short. Life being brief, and pie
and the like fleeting, he very soon decides upon an active campaign. It
may be an old story to people who have been eating for forty or fifty
years, but it is different with a beginner. He takes the thick and thin
as it comes, as to pie, for instance. Some people do make them very
thin. I knew a place where they were not thicker than the poor man's
plaster; they were spread so thin upon the crust that they were better
fitted to draw out hunger than to satisfy it. They used to be made up
by the great oven-full and kept in the dry cellar, where they hardened
and dried to a toughness you would hardly believe. This was a long time
ago, and they make the pumpkin-pie in the country better now, or the
race of boys would have been so discouraged that I think they would
have stopped coming into the world.
The truth is, that boys have always been so plenty that they are
not half appreciated. We have shown that a farm could not get along
without them, and yet their rights are seldom recognized. One of the
most amusing things is their effort to acquire personal property. The
boy has the care of the calves; they always need feeding or shutting
up or letting out; when the boy wants to play, there are those calves
to be looked after,—until he gets to hate the name of calf. But in
consideration of his faithfulness, two of them are given to him. There
is no doubt that they are his; he has the entire charge of them. When
they get to be steers, he spends all his holidays in breaking them in
to a yoke. He gets them so broken in that they will run like a pair
of deer all over the farm, turning the yoke, and kicking their heels,
while he follows in full chase, shouting the ox language till he is
red in the face. When the steers grow up to be cattle, a drover one
day comes along and takes them away, and the boy is told that he can
have another pair of calves; and so, with undiminished faith, he goes
back and begins over again to make his fortune. He owns lambs and young
colts in the same way, and makes just as much out of them.
There are ways in which the farmer-boy can earn money, as by gathering
the early chestnuts and taking them to the Corner store, or by finding
turkeys' eggs and selling them to his mother; and another way is to
go without butter at the table,—but the money thus made is for the
heathen. John read in Dr. Livingstone that some of the tribes in
Central Africa (which is represented by a blank spot in the atlas) use
the butter to grease their hair, putting on pounds of it at a time;
and he said he had rather eat his butter than have it put to that use,
especially as it melted away so fast in that hot climate.
Of course it was explained to John that the missionaries do not
actually carry butter to Africa, and that they must usually go without
it themselves there, it being almost impossible to make it good from
the milk in the cocoanuts. And it was further explained to him that,
even if the heathen never received his butter or the money for it, it
was an excellent thing for a boy to cultivate the habit of self-denial
and of benevolence, and if the heathen never heard of him he would be
blessed for his generosity. This was all true.
But John said that he was tired of supporting the heathen out of his
butter, and he wished the rest of the family would also stop eating
butter and save the money for missions; and he wanted to know where the
other members of the family got their money to send to the heathen; and
his mother said that he was about half right, and that self-denial was
just as good for grown people as it was for little boys and girls.
The boy is not always slow to take what he considers his rights.
Speaking of those thin pumpkin-pies kept in the cellar cupboard, I used
to know a boy who afterwards grew to be a selectman, and brushed his
hair straight up like General Jackson, and went to the legislature,
where he always voted against every measure that was proposed, in the
most honest manner, and got the reputation of being the "watch-dog of
the treasury." Rats in the cellar were nothing to be compared to this
boy for destructiveness in pies. He used to go down, whenever he could
make an excuse, to get apples for the family, or draw a mug of cider
for his dear old grandfather (who was a famous story-teller about the
Revolutionary War, and would no doubt have been wounded in battle if
he had not been as prudent as he was patriotic), and come up stairs
with a tallow candle in one hand and the apples or cider in the other,
looking as innocent and as unconscious as if he had never done anything
in his life except deny himself butter for the sake of the heathen.
And yet this boy would have buttoned under his jacket an entire round
pumpkin-pie. And the pie was so well made and so dry that it was not
injured in the least, and it never hurt the boy's clothes a bit more
than if it had been inside of him instead of outside; and this boy
would retire to a secluded place and eat it with another boy, being
never suspected, because he was not in the cellar long enough to eat a
pie, and he never appeared to have one about him. But he did something
worse than this. When his mother saw that pie after pie departed, she
told the family that she suspected the hired man; and the boy never
said a word, which was the meanest kind of lying. That hired man was
probably regarded with suspicion by the family to the end of his days,
and if he had been accused of robbing they would have believed him
guilty.
I shouldn't wonder if that selectman occasionally has remorse now about
that pie; dreams, perhaps, that it is buttoned up under his jacket and
sticking to him like a breastplate; that it lies upon his stomach like
a round and red-hot nightmare, eating into his vitals. Perhaps not. It
is difficult to say exactly what was the sin of stealing that kind of
pie, especially if the one who stole it ate it. It could have been used
for the game of pitching quoits, and a pair of them would have made
very fair wheels for the dog-cart. And yet it is probably as wrong to
steal a thin pie as a thick one; and it made no difference because
it was easy to steal this sort. Easy stealing is no better than easy
lying, where detection of the lie is difficult. The boy who steals his
mother's pies has no right to be surprised when some other boy steals
his watermelons. Stealing is like charity in one respect,—it is apt to
begin at home.
X
FIRST EXPERIENCE OF THE WORLD
If I were forced to be a boy, and a boy in the country,—the best kind
of boy to be in the summer,—I would be about ten years of age. As soon
as I got any older, I would quit it. The trouble with a boy is that
just as he begins to enjoy himself he is too old, and has to be set to
doing something else. If a country boy were wise he would stay at just
that age when he could enjoy himself most, and have the least expected
of him in the way of work.
Of course the perfectly good boy will always prefer to work, and to do
"chores" for his father and errands for his mother and sisters, rather
than enjoy himself in his own way. I never saw but one such boy. He
lived in the town of Goshen,—not the place where the butter is made,
but a much better Goshen than that. And I never saw him, but I heard
of him; and being about the same age, as I supposed, I was taken once
from Zoar, where I lived, to Goshen to see him. But he was dead. He had
been dead almost a year, so that it was impossible to see him. He died
of the most singular disease: it was from not eating green apples in
the season of them. This boy, whose name was Solomon, before he died
would rather split up kindling-wood for his mother than go a-fishing:
the consequence was, that he was kept at splitting kindling-wood
and such work most of the time, and grew a better and more useful
boy day by day. Solomon would not disobey his parents and eat green
apples,—not even when they were ripe enough to knock off with a
stick,—but he had such a longing for them that he pined and passed
away. If he had eaten the green apples he would have died of them,
probably; so that his example is a difficult one to follow. In fact, a
boy is a hard subject to get a moral from. All his little playmates who
ate green apples came to Solomon's funeral, and were very sorry for
what they had done.
John was a very different boy from Solomon, not half so good, nor half
so dead. He was a farmer's boy, as Solomon was, but he did not take
so much interest in the farm. If John could have had his way he would
have discovered a cave full of diamonds, and lots of nail-kegs full of
gold-pieces and Spanish dollars, with a pretty little girl living in
the cave, and two beautifully caparisoned horses, upon which, taking
the jewels and money, they would have ridden off together, he did not
know where. John had got thus far in his studies, which were apparently
arithmetic and geography, but were in reality the Arabian Nights, and
other books of high and mighty adventure. He was a simple country boy,
and did not know much about the world as it is, but he had one of his
own imagination, in which he lived a good deal. I dare say he found out
soon enough what the world is, and he had a lesson or two when he was
quite young, in two incidents, which I may as well relate.
If you had seen John at this time, you might have thought he was only
a shabbily dressed country lad, and you never would have guessed what
beautiful thoughts he sometimes had as he went stubbing his toes along
the dusty road, nor what a chivalrous little fellow he was. You would
have seen a short boy, barefooted, with trousers at once too big and
too short, held up, perhaps, by one suspender only; a checked cotton
shirt; and a hat of braided palm-leaf, frayed at the edges and bulged
up in the crown. It is impossible to keep a hat neat if you use it to
catch bumble-bees and whisk 'em; to bail the water from a leaky boat;
to catch minnows in; to put over honey-bees' nests; and to transport
pebbles, strawberries, and hens' eggs. John usually carried a sling
in his hand, or a bow, or a limber stick sharp at one end, from which
he could sling apples a great distance. If he walked in the road, he
walked in the middle of it, shuffling up the dust; or, if he went
elsewhere, he was likely to be running on the top of the fence or the
stone-wall, and chasing chipmunks.
John knew the best place to dig sweet-flag in all the farm; it was in a
meadow by the river, where the bobolinks sang so gayly. He never liked
to hear the bobolink sing, however, for he said it always reminded
him of the whetting of a scythe, and that reminded him of spreading
hay; and if there was anything he hated it was spreading hay after the
mowers. "I guess you wouldn't like it yourself," said John, "with the
stubs getting into your feet, and the hot sun, and the men getting
ahead of you, all you could do."
Towards evening once, John was coming along the road home with some
stalks of the sweet-flag in his hand; there is a succulent pith in the
end of the stalk which is very good to eat, tender, and not so strong
as the root; and John liked to pull it, and carry home what he did
not eat on the way. As he was walking along he met a carriage, which
stopped opposite to him; he also stopped and bowed, as country boys
used to bow in John's day. A lady leaned from the carriage and said,—
"What have you got, little boy?"
She seemed to be the most beautiful woman John had ever seen; with
light hair, dark, tender eyes, and the sweetest smile. There was that
in her gracious mien and in her dress which reminded John of the
beautiful castle ladies, with whom he was well acquainted in books. He
felt that he knew her at once, and he also seemed to be a sort of young
prince himself. I fancy he didn't look much like one. But of his own
appearance he thought not at all, as he replied to the lady's question,
without the least embarrassment,—
"It's sweet-flag stalk; would you like some?"
"Indeed, I should like to taste it," said the lady, with a most winning
smile. "I used to be very fond of it when I was a little girl."
John was delighted that the lady should like sweet-flag, and that she
was pleased to accept it from him. He thought himself that it was about
the best thing to eat he knew. He handed up a large bunch of it. The
lady took two or three stalks, and was about to return the rest, when
John said,—
"Please keep it all, ma'am. I can get lots more. I know where it's ever
so thick."
"Thank you, thank you," said the lady; and as the carriage started she
reached out her hand to John. He did not understand the motion, until
he saw a cent drop in the road at his feet. Instantly all his illusion
and his pleasure vanished. Something like tears were in his eyes as he
shouted,—
"I don't want your cent. I don't sell flag!"
John was intensely mortified. "I suppose," he said, "she thought I was
a sort of beggar-boy. To think of selling flag!"
At any rate, he walked away and left the cent in the road, a humiliated
boy. The next day he told Jim Gates about it. Jim said he was green not
to take the money; he'd go and look for it now, if he would tell him
about where it dropped. And Jim did spend an hour poking about in the
dirt, but he did not find the cent. Jim, however, had an idea: he said
he was going to dig sweet-flag, and see if another carriage wouldn't
come along.
John's next rebuff and knowledge of the world was of another sort.
He was again walking the road at twilight, when he was overtaken by
a wagon with one seat, upon which were two pretty girls, and a young
gentleman sat between them driving. It was a merry party, and John
could hear them laughing and singing as they approached him. The wagon
stopped when it overtook him, and one of the sweet-faced girls leaned
from the seat and said, quite seriously and pleasantly,—
"Little boy, how's your mar?"
John was surprised and puzzled for a moment. He had never seen the
young lady, but he thought that she perhaps knew his mother; at any
rate his instinct of politeness made him say,—
"She's pretty well, I thank you."
"Does she know you are out?"
And thereupon all three in the wagon burst into a roar of laughter and
dashed on.
It flashed upon John in a moment that he had been imposed on, and it
hurt him dreadfully. His self-respect was injured somehow, and he felt
as if his lovely, gentle mother had been insulted. He would like to
have thrown a stone at the wagon, and in a rage he cried,—
"You're a nice"—But he couldn't think of any hard, bitter words quick
enough.
Probably the young lady, who might have been almost any young lady,
never knew what a cruel thing she had done.
XI
HOME INVENTIONS
The winter season is not all sliding down hill for the farmer-boy by
any means; yet he contrives to get as much fun out of it as from any
part of the year. There is a difference in boys: some are always jolly,
and some go scowling always through life as if they had a stone-bruise
on each heel. I like a jolly boy.
I used to know one who came round every morning to sell molasses candy,
offering two sticks for a cent apiece; it was worth fifty cents a day
to see his cheery face. That boy rose in the world. He is now the owner
of a large town at the West. To be sure, there are no houses in it
except his own; but there is a map of it and roads and streets are laid
out on it, with dwellings and churches and academies and a college and
an opera-house, and you could scarcely tell it from Springfield or
Hartford, on paper. He and all his family have the fever and ague, and
shake worse than the people at Lebanon: but they do not mind it; it
makes them lively, in fact. Ed May is just as jolly as he used to be.
He calls his town Mayopolis, and expects to be mayor of it; his wife,
however, calls the town Maybe.
The farmer-boy likes to have winter come, for one thing, because it
freezes up the ground so that he can't dig in it; and it is covered
with snow, so that there is no picking up stones, nor driving the cows
to pasture. He would have a very easy time if it were not for the
getting up before daylight to build the fires and do the "chores."
Nature intended the long winter nights for the farmer-boy to sleep;
but in my day he was expected to open his sleepy eyes when the cock
crew, get out of the warm bed and light a candle, struggle into his
cold pantaloons, and pull on boots in which the thermometer would have
gone down to zero, rake open the coals on the hearth and start the
morning fire, and then go to the barn to "fodder." The frost was thick
on the kitchen windows; the snow was drifted against the door; and
the journey to the barn, in the pale light of dawn, over the creaking
snow, was like an exile's trip to Siberia. The boy was not half awake
when he stumbled into the cold barn, and was greeted by the lowing and
bleating and neighing of cattle waiting for their breakfast. How their
breath steamed up from the mangers, and hung in frosty spears from
their noses! Through the great lofts above the hay, where the swallows
nested, the winter wind whistled and the snow sifted. Those old barns
were well ventilated.
I used to spend much valuable time in planning a barn that should be
tight and warm, with a fire in it if necessary in order to keep the
temperature somewhere near the freezing point. I couldn't see how the
cattle could live in a place where a lively boy, full of young blood,
would freeze to death in a short time if he did not swing his arms and
slap his hands, and jump about like a goat. I thought I would have a
sort of perpetual manger that should shake down the hay when it was
wanted, and a self-acting machine that should cut up the turnips and
pass them into the mangers, and water always flowing for the cattle
and horses to drink. With these simple arrangements I could lie in
bed, and know that the "chores" were doing themselves. It would also
be necessary, in order that I should not be disturbed, that the crow
should be taken out of the roosters, but I could think of no process
to do it. It seems to me that the hen-breeders, if they know as much
as they say they do, might raise a breed of crowless roosters, for the
benefit of boys, quiet neighborhoods, and sleepy families.
There was another notion that I had, about kindling the kitchen fire,
that I never carried out. It was, to have a spring at the head of my
bed, connecting with a wire, which should run to a torpedo which I
would plant overnight in the ashes of the fireplace. By touching the
spring I could explode the torpedo, which would scatter the ashes and
uncover the live coals, and at the same time shake down the sticks
of wood which were standing by the side of the ashes in the chimney,
and the fire would kindle itself. This ingenious plan was frowned on
by the whole family, who said they did not want to be waked up every
morning by an explosion. And yet they expected me to wake up without
an explosion. A boy's plans for making life agreeable are hardly ever
heeded.
I never knew a boy farmer who was not eager to go to the district
school in the winter. There is such a chance for learning, that he
must be a dull boy who does not come out in the spring a fair skater,
an accurate snowballer, and an accomplished slider downhill, with or
without a board, on his seat, on his stomach, or on his feet. Take a
moderate hill, with a foot-slide down it worn to icy smoothness, and a
"go-round" of boys on it, and there is nothing like it for whittling
away boot-leather. The boy is the shoemaker's friend. An active lad
can wear down a pair of cowhide soles in a week so that the ice will
scrape his toes. Sledding or coasting is also slow fun compared to
the "bareback" sliding down a steep hill over a hard, glistening
crust. It is not only dangerous, but it is destructive to jacket and
pantaloons to a degree to make a tailor laugh. If any other animal wore
out his skin as fast as a schoolboy wears out his clothes in winter,
it would need a new one once a month. In a country district-school,
patches were not by any means a sign of poverty, but of the boy's
courage and adventurous disposition. Our elders used to threaten to
dress us in leather and put sheet-iron seats in our trousers. The
boy said that he wore out his trousers on the hard seats in the
school-house ciphering hard sums. For that extraordinary statement
he received two castigations,—one at home, that was mild, and one
from the schoolmaster, who was careful to lay the rod upon the boy's
sliding-place, punishing him, as he jocosely called it, on a sliding
scale, according to the thinness of his pantaloons.
What I liked best at school, however, was the study of history, early
history, the Indian wars. We studied it mostly at noontime, and we had
it illustrated as the children nowadays have "object-lessons,"—though
our object was not so much to have lessons as it was to revive real
history.
Back of the school-house rose a round hill, upon which tradition said
had stood in colonial times a block-house, built by the settlers for
defense against the Indians. For the Indians had the idea that the
whites were not settled enough, and used to come nights to settle them
with a tomahawk. It was called Fort Hill. It was very steep on each
side, and the river ran close by. It was a charming place in summer,
where one could find laurel, and checkerberries, and sassafras roots,
and sit in the cool breeze, looking at the mountains across the river,
and listening to the murmur of the Deerfield. The Methodists built a
meeting-house there afterwards, but the hill was so slippery in winter
that the aged could not climb it, and the wind raged so fiercely
that it blew nearly all the young Methodists away (many of whom were
afterwards heard of in the West), and finally the meeting-house
itself came down into the valley and grew a steeple, and enjoyed
itself ever afterwards. It used to be a notion in New England that a
meeting-house ought to stand as near heaven as possible.
The boys at our school divided themselves into two parties; one was the
Early Settlers and the other the Pequots, the latter the most numerous.
The Early Settlers built a snow fort on the hill, and a strong fortress
it was, constructed of snowballs rolled up to a vast size (larger than
the Cyclopean blocks of stone which form the ancient Etruscan walls
in Italy), piled one upon another, and the whole cemented by pouring
on water which froze and made the walls solid. The Pequots helped the
whites build it. It had a covered way under the snow, through which
only could it be entered, and it had bastions and towers and openings
to fire from, and a great many other things for which there are no
names in military books. And it had a glacis and a ditch outside.
When it was completed, the Early Settlers, leaving the women in the
school-house, a prey to the Indians, used to retire into it, and await
the attack of the Pequots. There was only a handful of the garrison,
while the Indians were many, and also barbarous. It was agreed that
they should be barbarous. And it was in this light that the great
question was settled whether a boy might snowball with balls that he
had soaked over night in water and let freeze. They were as hard as
cobblestones, and if a boy should be hit in the head by one of them
he could not tell whether he was a Pequot or an Early Settler. It
was considered as unfair to use these ice-balls in an open fight, as
it is to use poisoned ammunition in real war. But as the whites were
protected by the fort, and the Indians were treacherous by nature, it
was decided that the latter might use the hard missiles.
The Pequots used to come swarming up the hill, with hideous war-whoops,
attacking the fort on all sides with great noise and a shower of balls.
The garrison replied with yells of defiance and well-directed shots,
hurling back the invaders when they attempted to scale the walls.
The Settlers had the advantage of position, but they were sometimes
overpowered by numbers, and would often have had to surrender but for
the ringing of the school-bell. The Pequots were in great fear of the
school-bell.
I do not remember that the whites ever hauled down their flag and
surrendered voluntarily; but once or twice the fort was carried by
storm and the garrison were massacred to a boy, and thrown out of the
fortress, having been first scalped. To take a boy's cap was to scalp
him, and after that he was dead, if he played fair. There were a great
many hard hits given and taken, but always cheerfully, for it was in
the cause of our early history. The history of Greece and Rome was
stuff compared to this. And we had many boys in our school who could
imitate the Indian war-whoop enough better than they could scan arma,
