his heart, reminding him that he was a member 
of the great body of the people. He was the still 
lake, reflecting sky and tree, and holding peace in 
his bosom. The still lake of the soul is arfected 
by moral laws in strict correspondence with natu 
ral laws. As it was with the lake on the lower 
and material plane, so it must be on a higher and 
spiritual plane. There was no escape for him. 
Reason would have taught him this, if he could 
have gone so far above his sensuous self as to 
comprehend her clear inductions. 
I did not meet him again for years after he 
dropped away from our social and business world, 
lost to us as an instrument from an orchestra, or a 
fine voice from a choir. There was gain on nei 
ther side, I think; but loss to both. A few let 
ters had passed between us ; then communication 
ceased. Our minds were not in harmony they 
did not chord in the music of life. 
Two or three months ago, I was in a neighbor 
ing city. The call for a public meeting attracted 
my attention, and I went to note the proceedings. 
The organization was going on as I entered the 
hall, and greatly to my surprise, I saw my friend 
take the chair. I could not be mistaken in him, 
for his physique was peculiar. If I had been in 
doubt, his voice would have assured me. Time, 
and life, had been at work with him, and through 
both, his true manhood was coming out. There 
was an air of strength r.bout him of self-poise 
of will that knoweth no hindrance. I lost half 
 
my interest in the meeting, because of interest in 
my friend. How quietly, yet with a full con 
sciousness of what the assembling involved, did 
he, as chairman, hold all its proceedings in the 
bonds of that rational order out of which so 
much right action comes. He gave rythm to the 
whole. 
When I stood face to face with him, grasping 
his hands, and looking into his clear, thoughtful 
eyes, I saw that he was a new man. That there 
had been deaths and births losses and gains 
the laying aside of lower things, and the putting 
on of what were higher and purer. 
" I thought you were vegetating in your coun 
try hermitage," I said to him, " and lo ! I find 
you in the very heart, as it were, of the world of 
action." 
" Come home with me," he answered. " We 
must talk about that. I have thought of you a 
great many times." 
I went with him and passed the night. He 
was in business again. The fret and fever of life 
were all about him. He was once nore in con 
tact with things that chafe and worry, that hurt 
and agitate if we will let them. 
" Tell me," I said, " of your states and experi 
ences during the time you lived separate from the 
world, and alone with nature. You wrote me 
that you were at one with her; that all her 
peace and harmony and order flowed into your 
life ; that she spoke to you in a language clearly 
understood; that she was leading you in green 
pastures and beside still waters." 
He dropped his eyes, and looked thoughtful. 
"A mere fancy," he replied. "You know in 
what state of mind I broke away from society 
dropped out of the orchestra, to use your own 
figure, and went away with my solitary instru 
ment, to enjoy its music alone. An athlete, ex 
hausted in the arena, finds sweet repose on a soft 
bed in a quiet chamber. It fills, for a time, his 
idea of heaven. But, when the weary limbs have 
rested, and every organ and fibre is flushed with 
blood and animal spirits, the chamber becomes as 
 
a prison. He could not live there. He would 
grow sick for want of freedom and action. A si 
milar state was mine. The peaceful retreat into 
which I withdrew myself, was as the bed and 
chamber to the strained athlete. 
" There was far more of fancy than experience," 
he continued, " in those fine words about my in 
telligent intercourse with nature. I expressed 
what I believed possible, rather than what I had 
experienced. It seemed to me that I was stand 
ing at the door opening into the arena of nature, 
and that a hand was moving it on the inner side. 
My heart bounded in confident anticipations 
which were not realized. The door never turned 
on its hinges the mystery of nature was not revealed. I soon wearied of asking vague ques 
tions of the trees and stones of the birds and 
brooks of the earth and sky. If they answered 
me, I did not comprehend their language. The 
peace, the beauty, the order o^ external life, did 
not long transfuse themselves into my soul nay, 
transfuse is not the word did not long reflect 
themselves from the surface. The old disquiet 
came back upon me ; and I awoke, gradually, to 
the truth, that disturbing causes were within me, 
rather than without ; that my instrument was not 
in tune. It was a painful awakening. After 
thjs, nature, which at first seemed flushing with 
intelligence, grew stupid and dumb. I knew no 
thing of botany, of mineralogy, of entomology ; 
and the science wanting, there was no basis for a 
true interest in things below or above the earth 's 
surface. 
"A few years of dull, weary, soul-corroding 
life, and I came back into the world again, some 
thing wiser than when I went away to live by 
myself. I do not see that we have changed in 
anything since my first experience; and yet I find 
my action accordant with the general action in 
hundreds of cases where it was discordant before. 
The change is in myself; my instrument is in 
better tune, and chords more perfectly with other 
instruments in the grand chorus of life. There 
is, I find, a great deal around us that we speak 
of as discord, when the fault is in ourselves. Of 
one thing I am satisfied, and that is, that in 
the great social body, marred and diseased as it 
is, there is a life as harmonious and reciprocal as 
in the single body of a man a life inflowing 
from the source of life, and order, and by virtue 
of that Source, in the perpetual endeavor to reform, restore, and bring back humanity to its lost 
image and likeness of God. We see this in the 
effort of every community to get just laws, and 
have them executed for the common good ; in the 
devotion of men to useful employment, each in 
his sphere ; in concerted benevolent, sanitary and 
corrective movements, by which diseased and 
hurtful things may be cast out. Now, just in the 
degree that each individual brings himself into 
harmony with this higher circle of life, which is 
common to the whole, will he find discord and 
obstruction ceasing. The world will put on a 
new face for him. She will speak to him in a 
different language. He will not need to go away 
into the still places of jiature to find rest and 
peace, for they will abide with him. But, if he 
narrow his life down to the merest selfish ends, 
seeking, as some disordered member of the body, 
to appropriate only, and not to give to act for 
himself alone, and not in concert with the whole 
for the health and well-being of the whole then 
he will be out of tune. His life will be jarred by 
perpetual discords, and he will vainly imagine 
that he is suffering from defect of harmony in 
society, when the defect is in himself. 
" This," added my friend, " is the lesson I have 
learned. Taking my peculiar mental construction, 
there was no way for me to learn it but by the 
hard one of experience. I had to drop out of the 
orchestra and try my instrument alone. What 
poor music I'm ade, sitting afar off in solitary 
places by myself! I thought it passing sweet at 
first; but its thinness and monotony soon wearied, 
and at last disgusted me. I longed for choral 
harmonies. How they ravished my ears when 
their chorded delights broke into them again !" 
 
VI. 
SUNDAY RELIGION. 
" "IT ERE Sunday religion, and not worth anything," 
said a lady, whose age and appear 
ance gave weight to her words. The remark 
seemed to occasion something like surprise in the 
little group around her. 
"What do you mean by Sunday religion?" 
was asked. 
"Pious observances of any kind singing, 
praying, listening to sermons, reading the Bible, 
receiving the sacraments, and the like." 
"And do you mean to say that these are worth 
nothing as means to the attainment of a heavenly 
life?" 
"No; far from it. They are of inestimable 
value ; I'm ight almost say of essential value." 
"Then," said the other, "I am at a loss to 
comprehend your meaning. Sunday religion not 
worth anything !" 
"Mere Sunday religion, I said, which is about 
all the religion possessed by the large class to 
whom I was referring. An exterior of sanctity, 
without a living principle of charity in the heart ; 
that is the Sunday religion I'm eant to condemn." 
"There is too much of that, I fear," was an 
swered. 
" Too much, alas !" 
" It is a self-deceiving form of hypocrisy," remarked 
one of the company. 
"And as such," said the lady, "without any 
saving principle. Men and women may sing and 
pray devoutly read the w r ord of God in all so 
lemnity of utterance hear preachings receive 
the sacred correspondential elements in the com 
munion give of their substance to churches 
and yet be in the broad way to destruction, in 
stead of in the narrow way to heaven. All these 
things will be as nothing if the week-day life fail. 
If, from Monday morning until Saturday night, 
 
love of self and the world rule the whole mind, 
all Sunday service will go for nothing in our ac 
count with heaven. In every day of every week 
we are writing down that history of our lives by 
which we shall be judged when this mortal puts 
on immortality ; and will not six days of God- 
forgetting selfishness stand in fearful contrast with 
a Sunday record of constrained worship ?" 
"Must religion come down into everything?" 
was asked. " How can you bring piety into 
trade ? It does not follow, because a man is ear 
nest in his employment, that he is sinning against 
God. Nothing can be done rightly, unless the 
mind goes into it with full vigor ; and a man can 
not think of business and religion at the same 
time. He who made us, comprehended this, and 
set apart one day in seven for religious thoughts 
and duties. I'm  afraid you depress the value of 
our Sabbath ceremonials." 
" It is not in my heart to do so, for I find in 
them both help and comfort," replied the lady, 
whose remark had led the conversation in this di- 
 
rection. " Of all good gifts from our heavenly 
Father, I prize, as among the bast, this Chris 
tian Sabbath, when we may lay down our bur 
dens of care and work, and gather up strength, 
hope, encouragement, and lessons of spiritual wis 
dom, by which to lead truer, because more unself 
ish, lives, in the days to come. But, if it is used 
as the only means of advancing heavenward, 
through devotional acts, and neither God nor the 
neighbor be regarded in the weeks that follow, 
then will its services be in vain. There must be 
religion in business, or there can be no religion at 
all." 
" I am at fault as to your entire meaning," said 
the one who had previously spoken. " Religion 
in business ! that is a novel proposition. Would 
you have a man praying and psalm-singing in his 
shop, store, office, or manufactory ?" 
"No." 
" Then, how is he to bring down his religion 
into his business ?" 
" Religion is life," was answered  " that is, a 
 
life in obedience to the precepts of religion. 
Now, men live through the week as well as on 
Sunday in their stores and shops as well as in 
their homes or closets; and they can lead only 
one of two lives religious or irreligious the life 
of heaven or the life of hell. This is true of 
every day, and hour, and moment. Think 
must it not be so?" 
There followed a thoughtful silence. 
" What I'm ean by religion in business," said 
the lady, "is that justice and integrity which ne 
ver loses sight of the neighbor 's well being 
which is based on the divine law, Whatsoever 
ye would that men should do unto you, do ye 
even so to them. It is in business that men 
come in contact with men under the peculiar 
temptations that love of self inspires; and here it 
is that they are more especially called upon to 
live that life of religious trust in God by which 
they can overcome the evil inclinings of their 
hearts. In church, and on the business-free Sabbath, they are not in the soul-trying temptations 
that meet them in their world 's work, and the 
armor of religion is not so needful for defence. 
It is to him who overcometh that the promise is 
given ; and life 's battle is not on the Sabbath, nor 
in church. Our way to heaven is through the 
world. A Sunday religion, therefore, which is 
not the complement of religion in daily life, is of 
no avail whatever, and to them who trust therein 
will come a sad awakening in that time, when all 
hearts will be seen as they are. God is a spirit, 
and they who worship him must worship him in 
spirit and in truth. It is the heart 's quality that 
gives acceptance in the eyes of God not prostrations of the body, nor any mere acts of devotion. 
There can be no true external worship without 
the internal worship of a good life ; and a good 
life consists in a faithful and just discharge of all 
our neighborly duties from a principle of obedience to Divine laws. When such obedience is 
rendered, external Sabbath worship will flow in 
natural sequence, and be a form of that genuine 
worship which brings us near to God, and fills us 
 
with his spirit a spirit not of self-love and nar 
row self-seeking, but of genuine regard for others. 
When that spirit rules in a man 's heart, he will 
be just in dealing, and careful that no one has 
loss through his gain. He will take no advan 
tages in trade, nor profit through another 's ignorance. Charity, or neighborly good-will, will 
make one with his piety. In the ground of love 
for the neighbor, whom he has seen, will the 
seeds of love to God, whom he" hath not seen, be 
planted." 
" You make the way to heaven very narrow. 
Who can walk in it?" said one of the company. 
A sigh came faintly from the lips of the lady 
who had spoken so wisely and well. 
" If we would go to heaven we must come into 
the life of heaven," she said, " and that is a life 
of mutual love and service. God is love not 
self-love, such as we cherish, but a love of doing 
good. And the religion that leads to heaven is 
an everyday religion of good-will to the neighbor, showing itself in justice, integrity, truth, 
 
honor, and genuine humanity. Without this religion, Sunday worship is nothing ; with it, conjunction with heaven, and a joy unspeakable. 
If the way is narrow, it is, nevertheless, the way 
marked out by God himself. It is not my way 
but his. And it is hard only because self-love is 
strong. Deny this self-love, and heavenly love 
will flow in. Then the way will become plain, 
and its rough places smooth. Flowers will spring 
along its margin, as it winds upward and upward 
into clear mountain regions, from which new 
worlds of beauty will open successively to the 
vision. So I read the laws of heavenly life, as 
written in God 's word." 
VII. 
THE LIFE TO COME. 
" mHANK God for the life to come !" said a 
- pale, sad-looking woman, in a voice marked 
less by the patience of Christian hope, than by 
fretfulness and despondency. 
" What life to come, Aunt Lucy ?" 
The questioner was a slender girl, not over se 
venteen or eighteen in appearance, but, really, in 
her twenty-first summer. 
"Are you a heathen, Grace?" The woman 's 
dark eyes flashed half-angrily. " Did you never 
hear of the life to come, pray ? What kind of 
people have you been amongst? Didn 't they 
teach you anything about God and heaven ?" 
" Oh, yes." A gentle smile parted the maid 
en 's lips. 
"Well, then, you know what I'm ean by the 
 
life to come life in the next world life in hea 
ven. Of this bitter life, with its sorrows, be 
reavements, disappointments, and pains, I am 
weary, and, therefore, say in my heart, Thank 
God for the life to come !" 
The countenance of Grace did not lighten up 
with the satisfied expression of one who under 
stands and appreciates another. A gentle sigh, 
that was half involuntary, parted her lips. Her 
eyes fell away from the eyes of her aunt a shade 
of thought crept over her quiet face. Mrs. Fleet- 
wood looked at her curiously, and with a falling 
brow. 
Nearly ten years had passed since this sister 's child had been left motherless and among 
strangers, and not once, until now, during these 
ten years, had Mrs. Fleetwood seen her niece. 
Her own life had been too worldly and selfish to 
admit of a generous, loving sentiment toward the 
child of a sister, whose marriage with a man of 
no " position or promise," as she expressed it, had 
been felt as a humiliation ; and so, she had been 
 
content to let her remain with those who had received her to their hearts and homes when God removed her widowed mother. But a change in her 
own life had come, bringing sorrow, bereavement, 
and misfortune ; and now her thought went out 
towards Grace, her sister 's child not lovingly, 
but selfishly not with a desire to be miuistrant to 
her conditions of life, but with a desire of being 
ministered to herself. From this state she sum 
moned, rather than invited, her niece ; and from 
this state sought to read her character and disposition, when she came, with eyes that endeavored 
to look into her very consciousness. That she 
was baffled in this will hardly be a matter of surprise. Persons of her class are without the key 
that unlocks the inner chambers of a soul whose 
life-mansions are not built on earthly foundations. 
Mrs. Fleetwood was a church- woman whose religion, up to the time when her sky became over 
cast, consisted in formal service alone. Beyond 
this she had no conception of duty to God. 
After all the blessedness of her natural life had 
 
been extinguished after children, fortune, 
frienis, were gone, and darkness drew down 
over her world like a curtain, then her selfish 
heart began to sigh for the blessedness of a life 
to come then she lifted her eyes toward the 
far-off mountains of heaven, which her imagina 
tion painted as beautiful with verdure, and balmy 
with the odors of immortal flowers. And still, as 
the pictures spread themselves all lovely to be 
hold, and fancy, as she dwelt upon them, gave 
ever multiplying attractions, she grew almost im 
patient to put off the poor, torn vestments of 
mortality, and rise into life eternal. 
You understand Mrs. Fleetwood now, and are 
not surprised at the curious look and falling brow 
with which she regarded her niece, whose coun 
tenance did not answer to her warmly uttered 
" Thank God for the life to come !" As the eyes 
of Grace fell away from those of her aunt, and 
thought-shadows crept about her lips and brow, 
Mrs. Fleetwood said, with a slight tremor of im 
patience in her tones 
 
" Maybe you don 't believe in another life." 
Instantly the eyes of Grace flashed up into 
those of Mrs. Fleetwood; not with any fire of in 
dignation in them, but with a light as pure as 
that which dew-drops gather from sunbeams a 
light full of hope and sweet anticipation. 
" I have been taught to thank God for the life 
to come, aunt, and to seek for it in duty and self- 
denial," replied Grace, a smile playing softly 
around her lips. 
A change was apparent in Mrs. Fleetwood 's 
face. Its expression was slightly puzzled. The 
brief answer was not satisfactory to her state, for 
it involved things admitted by common percep 
tion, yet not clearly seen. 
"I'm ean life in another world life in heaven, 
Grace." Mrs. Fleetwood 's manner was subdued. 
" There is no life in another world that is not 
born in this, aunt. So I have been taught." 
Mrs. Fleetwood gazed at her niece with a look 
of half perplexed inquiry. 
 
" The life to come must come here, or it can 
never come at all," added Grace. 
" Child, you talk in riddles !" said Mrs. Fleet- 
wood, moving impatiently. " I can 't get at your 
meaning. Life in this world is the present life, 
and life in the next world is the life to come. 
Isn 't that so ?" 
" There is natural life and there is spiritual life, 
aunt." 
" Well, child ?" 
" Natural life is the earthly life, and spiritual 
life the heavenly life." 
" Yes. Every Christian knows that." 
"Natural life, that into which we are born, 
and spiritual life, the life to come," said Grace, 
speaking slowly, and with significant emphasis. 
Mrs. Fleetwood, with lips slightly apart, sat 
looking into the earnest face of her niece, which 
seemed all at once to become instinct with 
thought. 
"The beginning in each of us of this life to 
come - -this heavenly life, aunt I have been 
taught to regard as the new-birth, without which, 
as our Lord has expressly said, we cannot en 
ter the kingdom of heaven. That which is 
born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born 
of the spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I said 
unto you, ye must be born again. This is the 
life to come, aunt ; this is the actual rising into 
another state of existence. Death can make no 
change in the quality of our lives, aunt so I 
have been taught, and so do I believe. As our 
life is at death, so will it remain to eternity. We 
shall only pass from the world of material, to the 
world of spiritual things; and these spiritual things 
will be such as agree with our states and qualities 
of soul such as we have loved and delighted in 
here. If we have passed, by regeneration a new 
birth and a new growth into the full stSture of a 
spiritual man, then, our lives having been in hea 
ven while our bodies were yet upon the earth, we 
shall simply rise, by death, out of the material 
into the spiritual plane of existence, and live con 
sciously, as we lived before actually, among the 
 
angels. But, if our lives have been selfish and 
worldly, we shall pass by death into a conscious 
association with spirits of a like character, who 
have been our soul 's companions while our bo 
dies and our thoughts have been in this outward 
world." 
" You bewilder me, Grace," said Mrs. Fleet- 
wood, with a troubled look. " I can 't see clear. 
By God 's mercy, I hope to pass into heaven, 
when I leave this world. My Saviour died for 
me. I trust in him. He is able to save to the 
uttermost." 
" Dear aunt," said Grace, " we must be like- 
minded with the Saviour if we would dwell with 
him forever. His infinite mercy has redeemed us 
from the power of hell. He bowed the heavens, 
and came down, that he might raise us out of our 
sad condition; and as he bowed the heavens once 
for all mankind, so he bows it now and forever 
for each individual of the human race, and thus 
makes redemption perpetual. But we must be 
born again natural life, which is selfish, must 
 
die in us through self-denial, in order that spirit 
ual life may be born in our souls. As He loved 
us, and gave himself for us, so must we love 
others, and give ourselves for them. This life of 
love is the life to come, and without its birth in 
our hearts here, we cannot enter heaven." 
The shadow fell deeper on Mrs. Fleetwood 's 
countenance. This same doctrine may have been 
preached in her ears again and again, many times 
over, but, certainly, never before had it gone down 
to the region of conviction. Loving others, and 
giving her life for others, had been no part of 
Mrs. Fleetwood 's creed. Self bounded her world. 
And as her thought went forward to that " life to 
come" of which she had spoken, it was pictured 
as a life in which all delight was selfish instead 
of reciprocal or beneficent. But that common 
perception of truth, which, when a truth is first 
stated, gives it a real embodiment, now struck 
her mind with conviction, and sobered her feel 
ings. Grace had moved the foundations of her 
hope in heaven. 
From that hour there was a change in Mrs. 
Fleetwood. In the walk and conversation of her 
niece, she saw a beautiful illustration of her more 
interior doctrine. Grace never seemed to think 
of herself, nor to feel that in serving another she 
was robbing her own spirit. Always cheerful, 
always ready to communicate, always reaching 
forth the willing hand, she so embodied for Mrs. 
Fleetwood the true life of heaven, that she grew 
at last to comprehend and to desire it. 
"Thank God for the life to come!" It was 
many years afterward that Mrs. Fleetwood said 
this again, but with what a new and Higher 
meaning in her thought ! 
VIII. 
THE FACE AND THE LIFE. 
" YI THAT kind of a looking man was he ?" I 
asked. 
"I saw his face only for a moment. It did 
not impress me favorably. But faces in repose 
do not always give a right index of character." 
" I am not sure of that," said I. " The face in 
repose is, I think, the true face. We all have 
two lives, the external for the world, the internal 
for ourselves. And we are with ourselves, living 
our own internal lives, more than we are with the 
world living our external lives. Our external is 
a constrained and superficial thing, to be put on 
and off as interest, pleasure, or love of reputation 
may dictate. But our internal is made up of our 
real ends and purposes is our very self, and si 
lently, but surely, day by day, and year by year, 
 
is it writing on our faces a true record of our cha 
racters. This is why the countenances of the 
good grow beautiful as they grow old ; and why 
the countenances of the selfish and evil grow 
more and more repulsive with age." 
" I think there must be exceptions to this," remarked my friend. 
"There may be apparent exceptions, but no 
real ones, for there is an eternal relation between 
cause and effect." 
" Look at Dr. Mayfield," said he. 
" You cite a strong case," I answered. 
" Did you ever know a better man ?" 
" I think him one of the best of men," said I. 
"And yet, his face in repose is as hard as 
iron." 
" It is very hard, and very homely," I ad 
mitted. 
" Yet all this fades when it lights up in con 
versation, and you wonder if it can be the same 
face you looked upon a little while before." 
" If you study that face when the glow of ex- 
ternal thought and feeling has died away," said I, 
"you will not find among its hard angles and 
deep lines any lurking signs of cruelty." 
" No ; it is not a cruel face." 
" Nor do we find covetousness there." 
" It could not be there," ray friend answered, 
promptly ; " for of all vices, Doctor Mayfield is 
freest of this." 
" Nor envy, discontent, or fretfulness." 
"No." 
" Hard and homely as his face is, it does not 
repel you." 
"No," replied my friend, "there is nothing 
about Doctor Mayfield to repel. Everybody is 
attracted by him." 
"If internally he were cruel, selfish, envious 
and discontented, these repulsive qualities would 
radiate from his countenance when in repose, and 
no one could mistake the signs. And so, in 
looking more narrowly at this strong case, I 
find that it does not invalidate the theory. In 
the instance of Doctor Mayfield, it seems that a 
 
spirit of more than ordinary purity had become 
enshrined in a body of less than ordinary beauty, 
and of such an unyielding substance, that scarcely 
perceptible impressions were made, even in the 
lapse of years. But the artist-soul is at work, 
and that hard face shall yet put on lineaments 
that to some eyes will only thinly veil the beau 
tiful." 
"And so you think the face in repose a right 
index to character?" 
" I do, and for the reason given." 
" There is the face of Mrs. Lawson," said my 
friend. "The thought of her has just come into 
my mind. No one questions her goodness. Yet 
her face when in repose is anything but pleasing 
to contemplate. Her mouth has a troubled ex 
pression, singularly in contrast with its sweetness 
when she smiles." 
"Mrs. Lawson has known trouble," I remarked. " She has passed through many fires of 
affliction." 
 
" Yes ; the cup of life placed to her lips was 
bitter indeed, and she drank to the dregs." 
" Through many years, she drank." 
" Yes through many years." 
" Do you wonder that her face grew in all these 
painful years into an expression of her inner life? 
That the perpetual trouble in her heart should 
have left its unattractive signs upon her counte 
nance ? Was it possible for her to pass long sea 
sons of terrible suspense and fear? to watch, 
day by day, the light of life grow fainter and 
fainter in a beloved face, until it went out forever 
in this world ? to see a destructive vice gaining 
by slow yet sure accumulations of strength, power 
over a son, and finally bearing him down, and 
binding him in fetters that were never broken ? 
Was all this possible to be borne without a dis 
figuring line of pain ? I think not." 
"No, it were impossible," said my friend. 
" Impossible," he repeated, in a half absent way, 
his eyes fixed, as if some image in his thought 
had made itself outwardly visible. 
 
" But she has reached her tranquil days, thank 
God!" I remarked. "The long years of suspense 
are over the worst, as they say, has come to the 
worst death has made still the hearts whose 
every throb of pain ran thrilling down the wires 
of sympathy that bound them to her own. Like 
a brave, true Christian woman, she walked stead 
ily onward in the ways of duty, and by duty and 
suffering she has been purified. But the marks 
of fire are still upon her. She was but human. 
The old lines of trouble are not yet chiselled 
away ; may never be wholly obliterated." 
"And so," persisted my friend, " the counte 
nance in repose does not always give the index of 
character." 
" As instance Mrs. Lawson ?" 
"Yes." 
" I say, yea, and instance Mrs. Lawson." I 
was persistent in my view of the case. 
" You do ?" 
" I do." was my firmly spoken reply. " The 
face of Mrs. Lawson, when not lighted up by 
 
thought and feeling, is brooding and troubled, 
and gives the character of her inner life and con 
sciousness, through a long, long series of years, 
during which time the denser fibres that move in 
expression, hardened in one direction ; and they retain that direction still. Facile they are, of course, 
to predominant emotions; but, when released from 
tension, draw back to their old position." 
" Then," said my friend, " I'm ust still ques 
tion the proposition that the face in repose is the 
true face. You argue against yourself. Mrs. 
Lawson 's inner life is now serene ; but her coun 
tenance indicates trouble and sadness." 
"Memory is not lost, nor old states entirely 
obliterated," I answered. "As to her inner life 
being serene, I am not sure that such a condition 
is yet possible to her. It is, no doubt, in comparison to what it has been. But, after such storms 
as have agitated her soul, the deep ground-swell 
must long continue. And, moreover, the best of 
people have often the most painful discipline to 
endure." 
 
"T have heard that before," said my friend 
ioubtfully. 
"And, if I draw a correct inference from your 
tone of voice, do not credit the proposition," I 
remarked. 
" I have not said that I question the truth of 
your remark." 
" It is only not agreeable ?" 
" If your position is true, it is very far from 
being an agreeable one," he answered. 
"The Bible says that the Lord loveth whom 
he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he 
receiveth." 
" I know ; but, not to speak irreverently, I do 
not fancy that way of showing affection." 
" The love," said I, letting my voice fall into a 
low tone, " that consents to the infliction of pain, 
must be of the truest and deepest kind. Divine 
love has for its end the salvation in heaven of 
every one. But the Lord can only save us in the 
degree that he can lead us out of our hereditary 
and actual evils, and bestow upon us good affec- 
 
tions. All who will permit him to lead them, 
whether it be through light troubles or fiery 
trials, he draws heavenward. In the beginning 
of this heavenward journey, the walk is in the 
path of external obedience to Divine precepts. 
Truth shines into the mind, and shows us the 
way of life. It seems for awhile, an easy thing 
to move onward. But after a time, our heavenly 
Father, who is really seeking to work a change in 
the quality of our affections, so that we shall not 
merely do right in obedience to a law, but right 
because we love what is good, so disposes the 
things of our natural lives that we come into sor 
row, trouble, or misfortune. By this means, he 
seeks to produce a separation in the mind between 
worldly things and the things of heaven be 
tween what is of time, and what is of eternity. 
If there should be in the mind, stored up in in 
fancy, childhood, and youth, by means of pa 
rents, teachers, and preachers, good affections, as 
well as holy truths from the holy Book, the Lord 
can by means of these lift the striving soul out 
 
of the darkness of natural life, into the light of 
spiritual perception. With this state is given a 
foretaste of celestial blessedness, in the temporary 
fruition of which all earthly delights sink into 
meanness. Only for a time does this state abide. 
It is like a temple made suddenly visible in the 
air, yet having no foundation to rest upon, whose 
ravishing beauty forever after dwells in the ima 
gination, and dims by contrast even the grandest 
works of men. 
"But," I continued, "this beatific vision this 
foretaste of celestial blessedness is not given to 
mock the soul, born with infinite longings after 
the good and the true, and with almost infinite 
capabilities, but as a lure. There is a temple to 
be builded, gorgeous and beautiful ; but the foun 
dations must be laid, stone upon stone, with labor 
and care. First is given the fair ideal, as it is 
given to the architect who is to construct some 
grand earthly temple. It is seen, only as in a vi 
sion ; then becomes fixed in the idea ; and after 
wards is wrought out and built into an abiding 
structure. It is to incite us to the work of lay 
ing, in patience, self-denial, and good deeds among 
our fellow-men, the foundations of a temple into 
which He may enter and dwell that God gives to 
us, in this first state of separation between things 
that are of heaven and the world, glimpses of 
celestial beauty. 
" The regeneration of a human soul, fallen into 
the low deeps of selfishness, is no light task. It 
cannot be accomplished in a day, nor in an hour. 
It is the achievement of years. Weak, human 
hands must do the work though not unassisted. 
If divine aid were not given, the case would be 
hopeless. But this help comes only in the de 
gree that effort can be inspired in man. He 
must work as of himself; yet with the conscious 
ness and acknowledgment that power to act is 
from God. Is it not plain, that in the beginning 
of the effort to resist and overcome the natural in 
clinations, which are all selfish, he would soon 
grow weary? That after struggle and conquest 
on the first field of battle, the exhausted spirit 
 
would shrink from a renewal of strife? And 
now it is, that we see the operation of that divine 
love, which consents to the infliction of pain in 
order to save the objects of its love. There must 
be another, another, and another battle j and the 
weary soldier must be pricked to the contest. 
"And thus it will be through the whole of this 
spiritual battle prolonged for years. God loves 
his children too well to spare the chastening of 
natural life, whenever it is needed, in order that 
true spiritual life may be born. But after every 
battle there is given a season of rest and peace; 
after the pains of birth, delicious tranquility, and 
joy for the oifspring and these are so far above 
natural rest and joy, that no degree of comparison 
exists between them. 
"And this is why the best of people have often 
the most painful discipline to endure ; such disci 
pline as would destroy those in whom is no spi 
ritual strength as baser metals are consumed in 
the fires by which gold is made pure." 
I had grown unusually earnest in this effort to 
 
demonstrate the proposition at which my friend 
had seemed to demur. 
