against its background of wood and hill, the house looked 
rather cosy. It had been put in nice order, and even the 
little plot of ground in front had been cleared of thistles 
and hollyhocks, which had held a divided reign, and trimmed into neatness, though there had not been time yet for 
grass or flowers to grow. 
Within the house about this time, at one of the two 
lower front windows, a little woman stood looking out and 
 
speculating on the extreme solitariness of the situation. 
She had nobody to communicate her sentiments to, or she 
could have been eloquent on the subject. The golden glow 
and shimmer of the setting sun all over the wide landscape, it may be said with truth, she did not see ; to her it 
was nothing but " sunshine," a natural and necessary acces- 
sory of the sun's presence, when clouds did not happen to 
come over the sky. I think she really saw nothing but 
the extreme emptiness of the picture before her ; just that 
one fact, that there was nothing to see. Therefore it was 
on various accounts an event, when the rockaway hove in 
sight and the grey horse stopped before the gate. It did 
not occur to Miss Collins then to go out to the carriage to 
receive bundles or baskets or render help generally ; she 
had got something to look at, and she looked. Only when 
the minister, having tied Saladin's head, came leading the 
way through the little courtyard to the front door, did it 
occur to his ' help ' to open the same. There she stood, 
smiling the blankest of smiles, which made Diana want to 
get rid of her on the instant. 
' Well of all things ! ' was her salutation uttered in a 
high key. ' If it ain't you ! I never was so beat. Why I 
didn't look for ye this long spell yet.' 
' Won't you let us come in, Miss Collins, seeing we 
are here ? ' 
' La ! I'm glad to see ye, fust-rate,' was the answer as 
she stepped back; and stepping further back as Mr. Masters 
advanced, at last she pushed open the door of her kitchen, 
which was the front room on that side, and backed in, followed by the minister and, at a little interval, by his wife. 
Miss Collins went on talking. ' How do, Mis' Masters ? 
I speck I can't be under no mistake as to the personality, 
though I hain't had the pleasure o' a introduction. But 
I thought honeymoon folks allays make it last as long as 
they could ? ' she went on, turning her eyes from Diana to 
the minister again ; ' and you hain't been no time at all.' 
' What have you got in the house, Miss Collins ? anything for supper ? I am hungry,' said the latter. 
' Wall happiness makes some folks hungry, and some, 
they say, it feeds 'em,' Miss Collins returned. ' Folks is so 
unlike ! But if you're hungry, Mr. Masters, you'll have to 
have sun'thin.' 
Leaving her to prepare it, with a laughing twinkle in 
his eye the minister led Diana out of that room and along 
a short passage to another door. The passage was very 
narrow, the ceiling was low, the walls whitewashed, the 
wainscotting blue ; and yet the room which they entered, 
though sharing in all the items of this description, was 
homely and comfortable. It was furnished in a way that 
made It seem elegant to Diana. A warm coloured dark 
carpet on the floor ; two or three easy chairs, a wide lounge 
covered with chintz, and chintz curtains at the windows. 
On the walls here and there single shelves of dark wood 
put up for books, and filled with them ; a pretty lamp on 
the little leaf table, and a wide fireplace with bright brass 
andirons. The windows looked out upon the wooded 
mountain side. Diana uttered an exclamation of surprise 
and admiration. 
' This is your room, Di,' said the minister. ' The kitchen has the view ; I did think of changing about and making 
the kitchen here : but the other room has so long been 
used in that way, I was afraid it would be a bad exchange. 
However, we will do it yet, if you like.' 
' Change ? why this room is beautiful ! ' cried Diana. 
' Looks out into the hill. ' 
' O I like that.' 
' Don't make it a principle to like everything I do,' said 
he smiling. 
' But I do like it, Basil ; I like it better than the other 
side,' said Diana. ' I just love the trees and the rocks. 
And you can hear the birds sing. And the room is most 
beautiful.' 
Mr. Masters had opened the windows, and there came 
in a spicy breath from the woods, together with the wild 
warble of a wood thrush. It was so wild and sweet, they 
both were still to listen. The notes almost broke Diana's 
heart, but she would not shew that. 
' What do you think that bird is saying? ' she asked. 
' I don't know what it may be to his mind ; I know what 
it to mine. Pray, what does it say to yours ? ' 
'It is too plaintive for the bird to know what it means,' 
said Diana. 
' Probably. I have no doubt the ancients were right when 
they felt certain animals to be types of good and others of 
evil. I think it is true, in detail and variety. I have the same 
feeling. And in like manner, carrying out the principle, I 
hear one bird say one thing and another another, in their 
countless varieties of song.' 
' Did the ancients think that ? ' 
' Don't you remember the distinction between clean 
beasts and unclean ? ' 
' I thought that was ordered.' 
' It was ordered to be observed. The distinction was 
felt before.' 
They were again silent a moment, while the thrush's song 
filled the air with liquid rejoicing. 
' That bird,' said Diana slowly, ' sings as if he had got 
somewhere above all the sins and troubles and fights of life 
I mean, as if he were a human being who had got there.' 
' That will do,' said the minister. 
' But that's impossible ; so why should he sing it ? ' 
' Take it the other way,' said the minister smiling. 
' You mean ' said Diana looking up, for she had sat 
down before the open window and he stood by her side ; 
' you mean, he would not sing a false note ? ' 
' Nor God make a promise he would not fulfil. Come 
up stairs.' 
' But Basil ! how could the bird's song be a promise 
from God ? ' 
' Think ; he gave the song, Diana. As has been said 
of visible things in nature, so it may be said of audible 
things, every one of them is the expression of a thought of 
God: 
He did not wait for an answer, and Diana's mind was 
too full to give one. Up stairs they went. The room over 
Diana's was arranged to be Mr. Masters' study ; the other, 
above the kitchen, looked out upon a glorious view of the 
rich valley and its encompassing hills ; both were exceedingly neat and pretty in their furniture and arrangements, 
in all of which Diana's comfort had been sedulously cared 
for. Her husband shewed her the closet for her boxes and 
opened the huge press prepared for her clothes ; and taking off her bonnet, welcomed her tenderly home. But it 
seemed to Diana as if everything stifled her, and she would 
have liked to flee to the hills, like the wHd creatures that 
had their home there. Her outward demeanour, for all that, 
was dignified and sweet. Whatever she felt, she would 
not give pain. 
' You are too good to me,' she murmured. ' I will be 
as good as I can, Basil, to you.' 
' I know it,' said he. 
' And I think I had better begin,' she presently added 
more lightly, ' by going down and seeing how Miss Collins 
and supper are getting on.' 
 
' I dare say they will get on to some sort of consumma-tion.' 
' It will be a better consummation, if you let me go.' 
Perhaps he divined something of her feeling, for he 
made no objection, and Diana escaped ; with a sense that 
her only refuge was in action. To do something, no matter what, and stop thinking. Yet when she went down 
stairs she went first to the back room and to the open window, to see if she could catch the note of the thrush once 
more. It came to her like a voice from the other world. 
He was still singing ; somewhere up amid the cool shades 
of the hemlocks and oaks on the hill, from out the dusky 
twilight of their tops ; sending his tremulous trills of 
triumph down the hillside, he was undoubtedly having a 
good time. Diana listened a minute ; and then went to 
the kitchen. Miss Collins was standing in front of the 
fire contemplating it, or the kettle she had hung over it. 
' Where is Mr. Masters' supper ? ' Diana began. 
' Don't you take none ? ' was the rejoinder. 
' I mean, what can we have ? ' 
' You can have all there is. And there ain't nothin' in 
the house but what's no 'count. If I'd ha' knowed honey- 
moon folks wants sun'thin' tip-top, been livin' on the fat o' 
the land, I expect ; and now ye're come home to pork ; and 
that's the hull on't.' 
' Pork will do,' said Diana, ' if it is good. Have you 
no ham ? ' 
' Lots. That's pork, ain't it.' 
'Eggs?' . 
' Yes, there's eggs.' 
' Potatoes ? ' 
' La, I didn't expect ye'd want potatoes at this time o' 
day.' 
Diana informed herself of the places of things, and set 
herself and Miss Collins vigorously to work. The hand- 
maid looked on somewhat ungraciously at the quiet, compe- 
tent energy of her superior, the smile on her broad mouth 
gradually fading. ' 
' Reckon you don't know me,' she remarked presently. 
' Yes, I do,' said Diana ; ' you are Jemima Collins, that 
used to live at the post office. How came you here ? ' 
' Wall, there's nothin' but changes in the world, I expect ; 
that's my life. Mis' Reems, to the post office, had her 
mother come home to live with her ; owin' to her father 
gettin' his arm took off in some 'chinery, which was the 
death o' him ; so the mother come home to her daughter, 
and then they made it out as they two was equal to all 
there was to do ; and I don't say they warn't ; but that 
was reason enough why they didn't want me no longer. 
And then I staid with Miss Gunn a spell, helpin' her get 
her house cleaned ; and then the minister made out as he 
wanted a real 'sponsible person for to take care o' his 
house, and Miss Gunn she told him what she knowed about 
me ; and so I moved in. La, it's a change from the post 
office ! It was sort o' lively there ; allays comin' and goin', 
and lots o' news.' 
Diana made no answer. The very mention of the post 
office gave her a sort of pang ; about that spot her hopes 
had hovered for so long, and with such bitter disillusionizing. She sent Miss Collins to set the table in the other 
room, and presently, having finished her cookery, followed 
with it herself. 
CHAPTER XXIII. 
SUPPER AT HOME. 
THE windows were open still and the dusky air without 
was full of cool freshness. In the wide fireplace the minister had kindled a fire ; and in a little blue teapot he was 
just making the tea ; the kettle stood on the hearth. It 
was as pretty and cheerful a home view as any bride need 
wish to see for the first evening in her new house. Diana 
knew it and took the effect, which possibly was only heightened by the consciousness that she wished herself five 
hundred miles away. What the picture was to her husband, 
she had no idea, nor that the crowning feature of it was her 
own beautiful, sweet presence. Miss Collins brought in 
the prepared dishes, and left the two alone. 
' I see I have fallen into new hands,' the minister 
remarked presently. ' Mrs. Persimmon never cooked these 
eggs.' 
' You must have been tired of living in that way, I 
should think.' 
' No, I never get tired of anything.' 
' Not of bad things ? ' 
' No. I get rid of them.' 
' But how can you ? ' 
' Different ways.' 
- ' Can you do everything you want to, Basil ? ' his wife 
asked with an incredulous sort of admiration. 
' I'll do everything you want me to do.' 
' You have already, and more,' she said with a sigh. 
' How will your helpmeet in the other room answer the 
purpose ? ' 
' I have never been used to have anybody, you know, 
Basil ; and I do not need any one. I can do all easily 
myself.' 
' I know you can. I do not wish you should.' 
' Then what will you give me to do ? ' 
' Plenty.' 
' I don't care what if I can only be busy. I cannot 
bear to be idle. What shall I do, Basil ? ' 
' Is there nothing you would like to study, that you 
have never had a chance to learn ? ' 
' Learn ? ' said Diana, a whole vista of possible new 
activities opening all at once before her mind's eye ; ' O 
yes ! I would like to learn to study. What, Basil ? ' 
' What would you like to take hold of ? ' 
' I would like Latin.' 
' Latin ! ' cried the minister. ' That's an excellent 
choice. Greek too ? ' 
' I would like to learn Greek, very much. But I suppose I must begin with one at once.' 
How about modern languages ? ' 
' You know,' said Diana shyly, ' I can have no teacher 
but you.' 
' And you stand in doubt as to my qualifications ? 
Prudent ! ' 
' I will learn anything you like to teach me,' said 
Diana ; and her look was both very sweet and very hum- 
ble ; withal had something of an anxious strain in it. 
' Then there's another thing ; don't you want to help 
me?' 
' How ? ' 
' In my work. 
' How can I ? ' 
' I don't believe you know what my work is,' said the 
minister dryly. ' Do you, now ? ' 
' I thought I did,' said Diana. 
' Preaching sermons, to wit ! ' said the minister. ' But 
that is only one item. My business is to work in my Master's vineyard.' 
' Yes, and I thought that was how you did it.' 
' But a man may preach many sermons, and do never a 
bit of work, of the sort I mentioned.' 
' What is the sort then, Basil ? ' 
'I'll shew you, when we get away from the table. It 
is time you knew.' 
So when the supper tray and Miss Collins were gone, 
the minister took his Bible and made Diana sit down be 
side him where they could both look over it. 
' Your notion of a minister is, that he is a sort of ma- 
chine to make sermons ? ' 
' I never thought you were a machine, of any sort,' said 
Diana gently. 
' No, of course not ; but you thought that was my 
special business, didn't you ? Now look here. " Son of 
man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of 
Israel: therefore hear the word at my mouth and give 
them warning from me." ' 
' A watchman ' Diana repeated. 
' It is a responsible post too, for see over here, " If 
the watchman see the sword come, and blow not the trumpet, 
and the people be not warned ; if the sword come, and take 
any person from among them, he is taken away in his iniquity ; but his blood will I require at the watchman s hind" 
' Do you mean, Basil ' 
' Yes, I mean all that. You can understand now what 
was in Saul's mind, and what a great word it was, when he 
said to the Ephesian elders, " I take you to record this day, 
that I am pure from the blood of all men." He had 
done his whole duty in that place ! ' 
' I never felt that old Mr. Hardenburgh warned us 
against anything,' Diana remarked. 
' Did I ? ' 
' You began to make me uncomfortable almost as soon 
as you came.' 
' That's good,' said the minister quietly. ' Now see 
these words, Diana -" Go ye into all the world and tell 
the good news to everybody." ' 
' " Preach the gospel " ' said Diana. 
' That is simply, telling the good news.' 
'Is it?' 
' Certainly.' 
'But, Basil, it never seemed so.' 
' There was a reason for that. " As cold waters to a 
thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country." You 
were not thirsty, that is all.' 
' Basil,' said Diana almost tremulously, ' I think I am 
now.' 
' Well,' said her husband tenderly, ' you know who 
could say, and did say, " If any man thirst, let him come 
unto ME and drink." " I am the bread of life ; he that 
cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that believeth on 
me shall never thirst." ' 
That bringing together of need and supply, while yet 
Need does not see how it is to stretch out its hand to take 
the supply how sharp and how pitiful it makes the sense 
of longing! Diana drooped her head till it touched 
Basil's arm ; it seemed to her that her heart would fairly 
break. 
' But that doesn't mean ' she said, bringing out her 
words with hesitation and difficulty, 'that does not mean 
hunger of every sort ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' Of earthly sorts, Basil ? how can it ? people's desires 
for so many things ? ' 
' Is there any limit or qualification to the promise ? ' 
' No ; not there.' 
' Is there anywhere else ? ' 
Diana was silent. 
' There is none anywhere, except the limit put by the 
faith of the applicant. I have known a person starving to 
death, relieved for the time even from the pangs of bodily 
hunger by the food which Christ gave her. There is no condition of human extremity, for which he is not sufficient' 
' But,' said Diana, still speaking with difficulty, ' that is 
for some people.' 
' For some people and for everybody else.' 
' But he would not like to have anybody go to him 
just for such a reason.' 
' He will never ask why you came, if you come. He 
was in this world to relieve misery, and to save from it. 
" Him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out," is his 
own word. He will help you if you will let him, Diana.' 
Diana's head pressed more heavily against Basil's arm ; 
the temptation was to break out into wild weeping at this 
contact of sympathy, but she would not. Did her husband 
guess how much she was in want of help ? That thought 
half frightened her. Presently she raised her head and sat 
up. 
' Here is another verse,' said her husband, ' which tells 
 
of a part of my work. " Go ye into the highways, and as 
many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage" ' 
' I don't understand ' 
' " The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king 
which made a marriage for his son," it means rather a 
wedding entertainment.' 
' How, Basil ? ' 
' The Bridegroom is Christ. The bride is the whole 
company of his redeemed. The time is by and by, when 
they shall be all gathered together, all washed from defilement, all dressed in the white robes of the king's court 
which are given them, and delivered from the last shadow 
of mortal sorrow and infirmity. Then in glory begins their 
perfected, everlasting union with Christ ; then the wedding 
is celebrated ; and the supper signifies the fulness and 
communion of His joy in them and their joy in Him.' 
Basil's voice was a little subdued as he spoke the last 
words, and he paused a few minutes. 
' It is my business to bid people to that supper,' he said 
then ; ' and I bid you, Di.' 
' I will go, Basil.' 
But the words were low and the tears burst forth, and 
Diana hurried away. 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
THE MINISTER'S WIFE. 
DIANA plunged herself now into business. She was 
quite in earnest in the promise she had made at the end 
of the conversation last recorded ; but to set about a work 
is one thing and to carry it through is another ; and Diana 
did not immediately see light. In the meanwhile, the pressure of the bonds of her new existence was only to be 
borne by forgetting it in intense occupation. Her husband 
wanted her to study many things ; for her own sake and for 
his own sake he wished it, knowing that her education 
had been exceedingly orie-sided and imperfect ; he wanted 
all sources of growth and pleasure to be open to her, and 
he wanted full communion with his wife in his own life 
and life-work. So he took her hands from the frying-pan 
and the preserving kettle, and put dictionaries and philosophies into them. On her part, besides the negative incitement of losing herself and her troubles in books, Di- 
ana's mental nature was too sound and rich- not to take 
kindly the new seeds dropped into the soil. She had gone 
just far enough in her own private reading and thinking to 
be all ready to spring forward in the wider sphere to which 
she was invited, and in which a hand took hers to help her 
along. The consciousness of awakening power, too, and of 
enlarging the bounds of her world, drew her on. Sometimes in Basil's study, where he had arranged a place for her, 
 
sometimes down stairs in her own little parlour, Diana pored 
over books and turned the leaves of dictionaries ; and felt 
her way along the mazes of Latin stateliness, or wondered 
and thrilled at the beauty of the Greek words of the New 
Testament as her husband explained them to her. Or she 
wrought out problems ; or she wrote abstracts ; or she dived 
into depths of philosophical speculation. Then Diana began 
to learn French, and very soon was delighting herself in 
one or other of a fine collection of French classics which 
filled certain shelves in the library. There was, besides all 
the motives above-mentioned which quickened and stimulated her zeal for learning, another very subtle underlying 
cause which had not a little to do with her unflagging energy in pursuit of her objects. Nay, there were two. Diana did earnestly wish to please her husband, and for his sake to become, so far as cultivation would do it, a fit com- 
panion for him. That she knew. But she scarcely knew, 
how beneath all that and mightier than all that, was the 
impulse to make herself worthy of the other man whose 
companion now she would never be. Subtle, as so many 
of our springs of action are, unrecognized, it drove her 
with an incessant impulse. To be such a woman as Evan 
would have been proud of ; such a one as he would have liked 
to stand by his side anywhere ; one that he need not have 
feared to present in any society. Diana strove for it, and 
that although Evan would never know it and it did not in the 
least concern him. And as she felt from time to time that 
she was attaining her end and coming nearer and nearer 
to what she wished to be, Diana was glad with a secret joy 
which was not the love of knowledge, nor the pride of personal ambition, nor the duty of an affectionate wife. As 
I said, she did not recognize it ; if she had, I think she 
would have tried to banish it. 
 
One afternoon she was sitting by her table at the study 
window, where she had been very busy but was not busy 
now. The window was open ; the warm summer air came 
in, and over the hills and the lowland the brilliance and 
glow of the evening sunlight was just at its brightest. Diana 
sat gazing out, while her thoughts went wandering. Suddenly she pulled them up ; and her question was rather a 
departure, though standing in a certain negative connection 
with them. 
' Basil, I can't make out just what faith is.' 
' Cannot you ? ' 
' No. Can you help me ? The Bible says, " believe" 
' believe." I believe. I believe everything it tells me, and 
you tell me ; but I have not faith.' 
' How do you know that ? ' 
' If I had, I should be a Christian.' 
' And you think you are not ? ' 
' I am sure I am not.' 
' Are you willing ? ' 
' I think I am willing,' Diana answered slowly, looking out into the sunlight. 
' If you are right, then faith must be something more 
than mere belief.' 
'What more is it?' she said eagerly, turning her face 
towards him now. 
' I think, the heart has its part in it, as well as the head 
and it is with the heart that the difficulty lies. In true 
Bible faith, the heart gives its confidence where the intellect 
has given its assent. " With the heart man believeth unto 
righteousness." That is what the Lord wants ; our per 
sonal trust in him ; unreserved and limitless trust ' 
' Trust ? ' said Diana. ' Then why cannot I give it ? 
why don't I ? ' 
 
' That is the question to be answered. But Di, the 
heart cannot yield that confident trust, so long as there is 
any point in dispute between it and God ; so long as there 
is any consciousness of holding back something from him 
or refusing something to him. Disobedience and trust 
cannot go together. It is not the child who is standing 
out in rebellion, who can stretch out his hand for his 
father's gifts and know that they will be given.' 
' Do you think I am rebelling, Basil ? ' 
' I cannot see into your heart, Di.' 
' What could I be " holding back " from God ? ' 
' Unconditional surrender.' 
' Surrender of what ? ' 
'Yourself your will. When you have made that 
surrender, there will be no difficulty about trusting. There 
never is.' 
Diana turned to the window again, and leaning her 
head on her hand sat motionless for a long time. Sunlight 
left the bottom lands and crept up the hills and faded out 
of the sky. Dusk and dews of twilight fell all around, and 
the dusk deepened till the stars began to shine out here 
and there. Sweet summer scents came in on the dew- 
freshened air ; sweet chirrup of insects made their gentle 
running commentary on the silence ; Miss Collins had long 
ago caused the little bell with which she was wont to notify 
her employers that their meals were ready, to sound its 
tinkling call to supper ; but Diana had not heard it, and 
the minister would not disturb her. It was after a very 
long time of this silence that she rose, came to the table 
where he was sitting, and knelt down beside it. 
' I believe,' she said. ' And I trust, Basil.' 
He took her hand, but said nothing otherwise. He 
could not see her face, for she had laid it down upon some 
 
books, and besides the room was very dusky now. But 
when he expected some further words which should tell of 
relief, or joy, to his surprise he felt that Diana was weeping, and then that her tears had grown into a storm. Most 
strange for her, who very rarely let him or anyone see the 
outbursts of such feeling ; indeed even by herself she was 
very slow to come to the indulgence of tears. It was not 
her way. Now, before she was aware, they were flowing ; 
and as it is with some natures, if you open the sluice gates 
at all, a flood pours forth which makes it impossible to shut 
them again for a while. And this time I think she forgot 
that anybody was by. He was puzzled. Was it joy or 
sorrow ? Hard for herself to tell, there was so much of both 
in it. For with the very first finding of a sufficient refuge 
and help for her trouble, Diana had brought her burden 
to His feet, and there was weeping convulsively; partly 
from the sense of the burden, partly with the sense of laying it down, and with the might of that infinite sympathy 
the apprehension of which was beginning to dawn upon 
her now for the first time. What is it like ? O what is it 
like ! It is the " Dayspring from on high." Basil could not 
read all she was feeling and spell it out. But I think he 
had a sort of instinct of it, and felt that his wife was very 
far from him, in this her agony of joy and sorrow ; for he 
kept motionless, and his broad brow, which never was 
wrinkled, was very grave. One hand he laid lightly upon 
Diana's shoulder, as if so to remind her of his presence 
and close participation in all that concerned her ; otherwise 
he did not interrupt her nor make any claim upon her 
attention. 
Gradually Diana's sobs ceased ; and then she grew 
utterly still ; and the two sat so together, for neither of 
them knew how long. At last Diana raised her head. 
 
' You have had no supper all this while ! ' she said. 
' I have had something much better,' said he, gently 
kissing her cheek. 
' To see me cry ? ' said Diana. ' I don't know why I 
cried.' 
' I think I do. Don't you feel better for it ? 
' Yes. Or else, for that which made me do so. Come 
down, Basil.' 
At tea she was perfectly herself and quite as usual, 
except for the different expression in her face. It was 
hardly less grave than before, but something dark had gone 
out and something light had come in. 
' I can face the Sewing Society now,' she remarked 
towards the end of the meal. 
' The Sewing Society ! ' her husband echoed. ' Is that 
much to face ? ' 
' I have not been once since I was married. And they 
make so much fuss about it, I must go now. They meet 
to-morrow at mother's.' 
' What do they sew ? ' 
' They pretend to be making up a box for some mis- 
sionary out west.' 
' I guess there is no pretence about it.' 
' Yes, there is. They have been eight months at work 
upon a box to go to Iowa somewhere, to a family very much 
in want of everything ; and the children and mother are 
almost, or quite I guess, in rags, and the ladies here are 
comfortably doing a little once a week, and don't even 
expect to have the box made up till Christmas time. Think 
of the people in Iowa waiting and waiting, with hardly 
anything to put on, while we meet once a week and sew a 
little and talk and have supper.' 
' How would you manage it ? ' 
 
' I would send off the box next week, Basil.' 
' So would I. Suppose now we do ? ' 
' Send off a box ? ' 
' Yes. I will give you the money you can go I will 
drive you down to Gunn's, and you can get there whatever you think would be suitable, and we will have the fun 
to ourselves.' 
The colour flushed into Diana's face ; it was the first 
flush of pleasure that had come there in a long while. 
' You are very good, Basil ! ' she said. ' Don't you 
think I could drive Saladin ? ' 
' Where ? ' 
' Anywhere. I mean, that I could go to places then 
without troubling you to drive me.' 
' I can stand so much trouble. It is not good for a man 
to live too easy.' 
' But it might be convenient for you sometimes.' 
' So it might. And pleasant for you. No, I should not 
like to trust you to Saladin. I wonder rf your mother would 
let me have Prince, if I offer her a better horse in exchange. 
Perhaps I can do better than that. We will see.' 
' O Basil, you must not get another horse for me ! ' 
' I will get anything I like for you.' 
' But do you mean, and keep Saladin too ? ' 
' I mean that. Saladin is necessary to me.' 
' Then don't Basil. I can tell you, people will say you are 
extravagant if you have two horses.' 
' I cannot help people talking scandal.' 
' No, but it will hurt your influence.' 
' Well, we will feel the pulse of the public to-morrow. 
But I think they would stand it.' 
They drove down to Mrs. Starling's the next day. Mr. 
Masters had other business and must go further. Diana went 
 
in alone. She was early, for she had come to help her 
mother make the preparations ; and at first these engrossed 
them both. 
' Well,' said Mrs. Starling, when some time had passed, 
'how do you get along with your husband? ' 
Diana's eyes opened slightly. ' It would be a very strange 
person that could not get on with Mr. Masters,' she answered. 
' Easy, is he ? I hate easy men ! The best of 'em are 
helpless enough ; but when you get one of the easy soft, 
they are consented if every door hangs on one hinge.' 
Diana made no answer. 
' How does your girl get along ? 
' Very well. Pretty well.' 
' What you want with a girl, I don't see.' 
' I didn't either. But Mr. Masters wants me to do other 
things.' 
' Set you up to be a lady ! Well, the world's full o' 
fools.' 
' I am as busy, mother, as ever I was in my life.' 
' Depends on what you call business. Making yourself 
unfit for business, I should say. Call it what you like. I 
suppose he is your humble servant, and just gives you your 
own way.' 
' He is not that sort of man at all, mother. He is as 
kind as he can be ; but he is nobody's humble servant.' 
' Then I suppose you are his. There is somebody now, 
Diana ; it's Kate Boddington. Do go i-n and take care of 
her you can do so much, and keep her from coming out 
here where I am.' 
' Well, Di ! ' exclaimed her relative as Diana met her. 
'Ain't it a sight to see. you at the sewin' meetin' ! Why 
haven't you been before ? Seems to me, you make an uncommon long honeymoop of it.' 
Diana's natural sweetness and dignity, and further- 
more, the great ballast of old pain and new gladness which 
lay deep down in her heart, kept her quite steady and unruffled under all such breezes. She had many of the like 
to meet that day ; and the sweet calm and poise of her 
manner through them all would have done honour to the 
most practrsed woman of the world. Most of her friends 
and neighbours here collected had scarce seen her since her 
marriage, unless in church ; and they were curious to 
know how she would carry herself, and curious in general 
about many things. It was a sort of battery that Diana 
had to face, and sometimes a masked battery ; but it was 
impossible to tell whether a shot hit. 
'What I want to know,' said Mrs. Boddington, 'is, 
where the minister and you made it up, Di. You were 
awful sly about it ! ' 
' Ain't that so ? ' chimed in Mrs. Carpenter. ' I never 
had no notion o' what was goin' on ; not the smallest 
idee ; and I was jest a sayin' one day to Miss Gunn, or 
somebody I declare I don't know now who 'twas, I was 
so dumbfounded when the news come, it took all my 
memory away ; but I was jes' a sayin' to somebody, and 
I remember it because I'd jes' been after dandelion greens 
and couldn't find none ; they was jest about past by then, 
and bitter ; and we was a settin' with our empty baskets : 
and I was jes' tellin' somebody, I don't know who 'twas, 
who I thought would make a good wife for the minister ; 
when up comes Mrs. Starling's Josiah and reaches me the 
invitation. " There ! " says I ; "if he ain't a goin' to have 
Diana Starling! " I was beat.' 
' I dare say you could have fitted him just as well,' 
remarked Mrs. Starling. 
' Wall, I don't know. I was thinkin', but I guess 
it's as well not to say now what I was thinkin'.' 
' That so ! ' assented Miss Barry. ' I don't believe he 
thinks nobody could ha' chosen for him no better than he 
has chosen for himself.' 
' Men never do know what is good for them,' Mrs. 
Salter remarked, but not ill-naturedly ; on the contrary, 
there was a gleam of fun in her face. 
' I'm thankful anyway he hain't done worse,' said another lady. ' I used to be afraid he would go and get himself hitched to a fly-away.' 
' Euphemie Knowlton ? ' said Mrs. Salter. ' Yes, I 
used to wonder if we shouldn't get our minister's wife 
from Elmfield. It looked likely at one time.' 
' Those two wouldn't ha' pulled well together, ne ver,' 
said another. 
' I should like to know how he and Di's goin' to pull 
together ? ' said Mrs. Flandin acidly. ' He goin' one way, 
and she another.' 
' Do you think so, Mrs. Flandin ? ' asked the lady thus, 
in a very uncomplimentary manner, referred to. 
' Wall ain't it true ? ' said Mrs. Flandin judicially. 
' I do not think it is true.' 
'Wall, I'm glad to hear it, I'm sure,' said the other ; 
'but there's a word in the Scriptur about two walking 
together when they ain't agreed.' 
' Mr. Masters and I are agreed, ' said Diana, while 
her lips parted in a very slight smile and a lovely tinge of 
rose-colour came over her cheeks. 
' But not in everything, I reckon ? ' 
' In everything I know,' said Diana steadily, while a 
- considerable breeze of laughter went round the room. 
Mrs. Flandin was getting the worst of it. 
' Then it'll be the worse for him ! ' she remarked with 
a jerk at her sewing. Diana was silent now, but Mrs. 
Boddington took it up. 
' Do you mean to say, Mis' Flandin, you approve of 
quarrels between man and wife ? and quarrels in high 
places too ? ' 
' High places ! ' echoed Mrs. Flandin. ' When it says 
that a minister is to be the servant of all ! ' 
' And ain't he ? ' said Mrs. Carpenter. ' Is there a place 
or a thing our minister don't go to if he's wanted ? and 
does he mind whether it's night or day, or rough or smooth, 
and does he care how fur it is, or how long he goes without his victuals ? I will say, I never did see a no more 
self-forgetful man than is Mr. Masters; and I've a good 
right to know, and I say it with feelin's of gratitude.' 
'That's jes' so,' said Miss Barry, her eyes glistening 
over her knitting, which they did not need to watch. And 
there was a hum of assent through the room. 
' I'm not sayin' nothin' agin him,' said Mrs. Flandin in 
an injured manner; 'but what I was hintin' I warn't 
sayin' nothin', is that he's married a ' 
' A beauty ' said Mrs. Boddington. 
' I don't set no count on beauty,' said the other. ' I 
allays think, ef a minister is a servant of the Lord, and I 
hope Mr. Masters is, it's a pity his wife shouldn't be too. 
That's all.' 
' But I am, Mrs. Flandin,' said Diana quietly. 
' What ? ' 
' A servant of the Lord.' 
' Since when ? ' demanded the other incredulously. 
' Does it matter, since when ? ' said Diana, with a calm 
gentleness which spoke for her. ' I was not always so, 
but I am now.' 
' Hev' you met with a change ? ' the other asked, again 
judicially, and critically. 
' Yes.' 
 
' Ain't that good news, now ! ' said Miss Barry dropping 
her knitting and fairly wiping her eyes. 
' I hope your evidences is clear,' said the other lady. 
' Do you want to hear what they are ? ' said Diana. ' I 
have come to know the Lord Jesus I have come to believe in him I have given myself to be his servant. As 
truly his servant, though not so good a one, as my husband 
is. But what he bids me, I'll do.' 
The little assembly was silent, silent all round. Both 
the news and the manner of the teller of it were imposing. Decided, clear, calm, sweet, Diana's grey eyes as 
well as her lips gave her testimony ; they did not shrink 
from other eyes, nor droop in hesitation or difficulty ; as 
little was there a line of daring or self-assertion about 
them. The dignity of the woman struck and hushed her 
companions. 
' Our minister'll be a happy man, I'm thinkin',' said 
good Mrs. Carpenter, speaking out what was the secret 
thought of many present. 
'You haven't joined the church, Diana,' said Mrs. 
Starling harshly. 
' I will do that the first opportunity, mother.' 
' That's your husband's doing. I allays knew he'd wile 
a bird off a bush ! ' 
' I am very thankful to him' said Diana calmly. 
That calm of hers was unapproachable. It would 
neither take offence nor give it ; although it is true it did 
irritate some of her neighbours and companions by the very 
distance it put between them and her. Diana was different from them, and growing more different ; yet it was 
hard to find fault. She was so handsome too ; that helped 
the effect of superiority ; and her dress, what was there 
about her dress ? It was a pale lilac muslin, no way remarkable in itself ; but it fell around lines so soft and noble, 
and about so queenly a carriage, it waved with so quiet 
and graceful motions ; there was a temptation to think Diana must have called in dressmaking aid that was not lawful for the minister's wife. As the like often happens, Diana was set apart by a life-long sorrow from all their world 
of experience, and they thought she was proud. 
' What did you pay for that muslin, Diana ? ' Mrs. Flandin asked. 
' Fifteenpence.' 
' Du tell ! well I should ha' thought it was more,' remarked Miss Gunn. ' It's made so elegant.' 
' I made it myself,' said Diana smiling. 
' Du tell ! ' said Miss Gunn again, reviewing the gown. 
For, as I hinted, its draperies were graceful, their lovely 
lines being unbroken by furbelows and flummery ; and the 
sleeves were open and half long with a full ruffle which fell 
away from Diana's beautiful arms. 
' How Phemie Knowlton used to dress ! ' Miss Gunn 
went on, moved by some hidden association of ideas. 
' I wonder is nobody ever comin' back to Elmfield ? ' 
said Mrs. Boddington. ' They don't do nothin' with the 
place, and it's just waste.' 
The talk wandered on ; but Diana's thoughts remained 
fixed. They had flown back over the two years since 
Evan and she had their explanation in the blackberry field, 
and for a little while she sat in a dream, feeling the stings 
of pain that seemed, she thought, to grow more lively now, 
instead of less. The coming in of Mr. Masters roused her, 
and with a sort of start she put away the thought of Evan 
and of days and joys past for ever, and forcibly swung herself back to present things. People were very well-behaved! 
after her husband came, and she did her part, she knew, 
 
satisfactorily; for she saw his eye now and then resting on 
her or meeting her's with the hidden smile in it she had 
learned to know. And besides, nothing was ever dull 
or commonplace where he was ; so even in Mrs. Starling's 
house and Mrs. Flandin's presence the rest of the evening 
went brightly off. And then, driving home, through the 
light of a young moon and over the quiet country, Diana 
watched the wonderful calm line where the hill-tops met 
the sky ; and thought, surely, with the talisman she had 
just found, of heavenly love and sympathy and strength, 
she could walk the rest of her way through life and bear 
it till the end. Then, by and by, beyond that dividing 
line of eternity, there would be bright heaven, instead of 
the dusky earth. If only she could prevent Basil from 
knowing how she felt and so losing all peace in life himself. But his peace was so fixed in heaven, she wondered 
if anything on earth could destroy it ? She would not try 
that question. 
CHAPTER XXV. 
MISS COLLINS' WORK. 
IT was well for Diana that she had got a talisman, of better power than the world can manufacture. It was well for 
her too that she followed up earnestly the clue to life which 
had been given her. If you have a treasure house of supplies, and are going to have to get to it in the dark by 
and by, it is good to learn the way very well while the light 
is there. For weeks Diana gave herself before all other 
things to the study of her Bible and to better understanding 
of faith's duties and privileges. In all this Basil was a great 
