wanted to know how they could be so much worse, and yet so much
better, than people nowadays."
"How 'so much better'?"
"They told the truth, Uncle Eden."
"There were no cowards and no marriage-breakers among them," Meredith
added.
"And then how 'so much worse'?"
"Oh, they were cruel! they offered human sacrifices; they were
frightfully cruel."
"Yes," said Mr. Murray thoughtfully; "the contrast seems strange. They
were a noble people in many ways."
"But Pastor Harms says they are not half so good now that they are
Christians," Maggie went on.
"If that is true, there must be a reason for it."
"Yes, Uncle Eden, of course."
"And that reason cannot be found, in their Christianity."
"But how is it, Uncle Eden?"
"Human nature is very much alike at all times, my child."
"But the old Saxons were not like the old Romans, Uncle Eden. The word
of a Saxon was better than a Roman's oath."
"And the modern Saxons are not like their forefathers," said Meredith;
"at least, according to Pastor Harms."
"I have no doubt he is right."
"And Frenchmen are very different from Englishmen," added Flora.
"And both from Americans. And the Dutch from all three. We might go on
indefinitely."
"Yet they are all descended from Noah's sons," Meredith remarked.
"It is a very curious subject, and rather deep for some of the present
company. Many things go to make the differences between one nation and
another. In the first place, the several families of Shem, Ham and
Japheth are all strongly marked."
"Are they, sir?"
"Then, among the tribes of any one family, differences grow up from many
causes. From the sort of country they inhabit, the climate that
prevails, the scenery their eyes rest on, the ease or difficulty of
obtaining food, and the means necessary to that end; from the religion
they believe in, their situation with respect to commerce and
intercourse with other nations; their habits of life superinduced upon
all these."
"But the modern Saxons live where the old Saxons did, sir?"
"Barely. The country was at that time all one wild tract of forest and
moor, where life had need be of the simplest; and where it was sustained
in great measure by the chase and by a rude husbandry. No cities, no
churches, no libraries, no merchants, no lawyers, no fine furniture, no
delicate living. Nobody therefore wanted money, and nobody tried to get
it. That makes all the difference in the world, children."
"Money, Uncle Eden?"
"Look at the map of Germany now; run your eye over the cities. Remember
the treasures of art in this and that gallery; the beautiful old
buildings almost everywhere; the great trading houses; the life of
complicated interests, political, literary, scientific, social,
critical, artistic, mercantile; think of the books, the pictures, the
statuary, the jewellery, the carvings and engravings, the luxurious and
magnificent living. Everybody wants money now, and nearly everybody
either has it, or is working hard for it."
"Does money make so much odds in national character?" Meredith asked.
"It is the root of all evil," Mr. Murray said smiling.
"But, Mr. Murray, you do not seriously mean that?" said Flora.
"The Bible says it, Miss Flora; not I."
"But what can you have, or do, that is worth anything, without money?"
"Exactly! That is the general opinion. So everybody is striving to get
money."
"Well, people would stagnate if they did not strive for something."
"Quite true. Nevertheless, the Bible award proves itself. If you examine
facts, you will find that the love of money is at the bottom of nearly
all the crimes that are committed; and at the root of all the
meannesses, speaking generally."
"Then you would make out money to be a bad thing, Mr. Murray!"
"Not money necessarily. But 'if any man will be rich, he shall fall
into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts,
which drown men in destruction and perdition.'"
"Then was that the reason, Uncle Eden, why those old Saxons were so
noble, because they had no money?"
"One reason, I fancy. Along with trade and riches, don't you see, comes
the temptation to underhand and false dealings, that money may be got
faster; and so comes cringing for the sake of advantage, and flattery
for the same. And then, with luxury comes dislike of hardships, and
neglect of manly living, and people's moral sense gets weak along with
their bodily powers. Self-indulgence drives out the noble uprightness
that was maintained when people feared nothing."
"But religion--Christianity?" said Meredith. "That ought to have made
more difference the other way."
"So it would if it prevailed. But a name is not Christianity; and the
real thing is only here and there. The wheat in the midst of tares, as
the Lord said it would be."
Maggie drew a long sigh.
"The wheat must show itself for what it is," said her uncle smiling at
her, "and bear a fine head of fruit, to rebuke the tares. Your old
Saxons, however, were a fine stock to begin with."
"I think I understand this question," said Meredith.
"I do, too," said Maggie.
"I am sorry Mr. Murray thinks so ill of money," remarked Flora.
"Of the love of it, say."
"But how can one have it--or not have it, for that matter--and help
loving it?"
"So the danger comes in. And the difficulty of giving it all to Christ."
"O Uncle Eden! you are getting upon another of our questions now."
"And we have had enough serious talk for one time. Leave it till
to-morrow, Maggie."
"Shall I read some more?" said Meredith. "Or have you heard enough?"
"By all means, read. This is luxury."
And Mr. Murray stretched himself comfortably on the pine needles and
clasped his hands under his head, repeating, "This is luxury!" while
Meredith opened his book again.
"Another Saxon story, Ditto?" Flora asked.
"Out of the Saxon chronicles. Yes. 'The story that I am going to tell
you now, happened in ancient times and at a place called Dageförde.
"'Our forefathers, the old Saxons, were then divided into ediling or
nobles, freiling or free peasants, and serfs. A freiling, by name
Henning, lived on this farm, in the days when Hermann Billing was Duke
of Saxony. At that time--it is 900 years ago--our country was already a
Christian country, but still had hard fights to go through with the
heathenish Wends, who made inroads almost yearly into our Eastphalian
land, plundering and killing, and showing a special rage against the
churches and the priests. The strong arm of the two excellent emperors,
Heinrich and Otto, it is true, kept back these heathen and held them in
awe; but, notwithstanding, they availed themselves of every opportunity
to renew their murderous onslaughts.
"'Now when once Kaiser Otto was gone to Italy, and staying a long while
away, they were minded to profit by his absence; for they supposed that
now they could burn and lay waste to their heart's desire, and with no
hindrance. So they came with a great host, burned down the churches,
killed the priests, dragged off men, women, and children, and treasures
of booty, and came as far as to this part of the country. It is told of
their frightful rage against Christianity, that on one occasion they
took more than twenty Christian priests, stripped off their clothes, cut
bloody crosses on their faces, breasts, bodies, and backs, and then tied
them by their feet to the tails of their horses, which they drove round
and round till their victims were dragged to death.'"
"It cost something in those days to be a Christian," said Meredith with
something of a shudder.
"There have been many such days in the history of the Church," said Mr.
Murray. "And yet, it pays to be a Christian. It did then."
"I do not see, for my part, how people stood it, there and in other
places," said Flora. "I should think they would not have dared to
confess they were Christians."
"They could not be Christians and not confess--neither in those days nor
in these days."
"Why, Uncle Eden?" said Esther, who seldom said anything.
"You know the Lord's declaration--He will own those publicly who own Him
publicly, and nobody else."
"But why couldn't they own Him privately?"
"Will you tell me how that is to be done, my dear?"
"Why, by beautiful Christian living and acting," said Flora.
"Don't you see, if such living could be found among those who are in
name and profession not the Lord's, it would fight all against His
cause and Him? What sort of confessing of Him is that?"
Nobody answered, and Meredith went on.
"'In the meanwhile the valiant Duke Hermann had gathered his faithful
followers and moved forward to meet the enemy. All the ediling and
freiling were called upon for such expeditions of war, none other having
the right to bear arms. The ediling served on horseback and the freiling
on foot, and each one brought his own weapons with him. And Henning, the
freiling of Dageförde, was among the Christian warriors who accompanied
the Duke. Not far from here is the Hünenburg, an extent of heath on
which there are a number of burial mounds. There it came to a battle
between the Christians and the heathen. The fight was long and bloody;
Christ led the one host, Satan the other. The Christians fought for
their faith, the heathen fought for their prey. Before the battle,
Hermann with his warriors had cast himself upon his knees and besought
the Lord Christ that He would be their leader. Therewith came the storm
of the heathen upon them, already certain of victory, for they were many
and the Christian number was small; Hermann, in his noble eagerness to
protect his poor people, not having had patience to wait for further
reinforcements. But the Christians stood immovable, like a wall, and the
heathen fell in heaps under their swords and spears. In the Christian
army there were twelve priests wearing white garments, who bore a white
banner with a red cross; and wherever the fight raged most madly,
thither they carried their banner, singing, "Kyrie Eleison, Christe
Eleison, Kyrie Eleison;" the Christian warriors dashing after them,
joining in the holy song, wielding their hacked swords, and with
irresistible force driving the heathen back. In vain the heathen sought
to slay the priests and to seize their white banner; every Christian
presented his breast as its bulwark against the foe. Whichever way the
banner turned, victory went with it. Louder and louder sounded the
"Kyrie Eleison," with more and more valour and joy of victory the
Christians pressed forward. Then one of the Wendish leaders, Zwentibold
by name, gathered once more the bravest of his people to make a stormy
effort for the banner of the cross. His rage of onset broke through some
ranks of the Christians; already he had penetrated to the near
neighbourhood of the priests; when a foot-soldier from among the
Christians manfully planted himself in his way and thrust his sharp
spear against the heathen's broad breast, so that the coat of chain
armour he had on was broken, and the spear pierced through his heart.
Now there was no stand made any longer; the heathen fled, and in terror
they cried out, "Christ has conquered! Christ has conquered!"
"'Duke Hermann looked about him to see the brave freiling who had done
such a deed of heroism; it was Henning, the freiling of Dageförde. For
his reward, Hermann dubbed the brave man knight upon the field of
battle, and Henning returned to his house as an ediling. Though but for
a little while. For Hermann was minded to profit by his victory and
compel his stubborn enemies to keep the peace in future. So he pushed on
with his army, now greatly reinforced, into the country of the Wends,
and Henning went with his Duke.
"'Not far from the Elbe there was a temple of the heathenish idol
Radegast; this temple stood within a strong fortress, called the
fortress of Radegast, where now the village of Radegast lies. The
heathen had collected and carried to this place all the treasures of the
prey they had seized in their plundering incursions. Hermann resolved to
storm this fortress, and therewith to destroy the bulwark of heathenism
on this side the Elbe. The heathen defended themselves with the bravery
of despair; many assaults were beaten back, and many a Christian fell in
death before the ramparts of the fortress. The tenth day of the siege,
the Christians held divine service and on their knees prayed the Lord of
hosts to give them victory. Then they rushed upon the place to take it
by storm; and among the foremost of those who clambered up the ramparts
of the fortress was Henning of Dageförde, who in order to inspirit the
Christians and terrify the heathen set up the field-song of the
Hünenburg--"Kyrie Eleison, Christe Eleison, Kyrie Eleison!" Just as he
had sung it through, an arrow from one of the enemy pierced his bold
heart; he fell to the ground in death, but as a dying conqueror, who has
gained the battle for Christ and with Christ. The fortress was won;
those of the heathen who would not yield were put to death. Hermann
dashed away a tear from his manly eye as he buried the brave Henning,
and he said to Hilmer, Henning's oldest son, a boy of sixteen, who had
come along to the war, "My son, you are early fledged. Your father was a
true Christian and a true Saxon; follow in his steps, and so long as I
live, I will be your father." Of all the enormous booty which Hermann
found in the Wendenburg Radegast, this noble man kept nothing for
himself. One half of the treasures he set apart, to rebuild with them
all the churches which the Wends had burned down; the other half he
distributed among his knights and warriors. Hilmer of Dageförde got his
share too, and indeed a double portion, one for himself and one for his
father. When he returned home, he took counsel with his mother what they
should do with it; and they agreed together that it should be used for
the glory of God. They erected a chapel in their own house, with an
altar and all the fittings of a church. Part of the money was applied to
this use, and with the remainder a chaplaincy was founded in the church
at Hermannsburg, which at that time was the only church in the whole
Oerze valley, with the stipulation that the chaplain should come every
Sunday to Dageförde and hold divine service in the chapel there. A
servant, with a led horse, must go to fetch him every time from
Hermannsburg, and bring him back thither again. This service at
Dageförde lasted till the Reformation. But when the evangelical faith
was preached in Hermannsburg by the valiant Pastor Grünhagen, who, as I
told you awhile ago in Tiefenthal, was converted to the pure Lutheran
doctrine by an artisan fellow who read him the little Lutheran
catechism, then this service at Dageförde ceased, because the possessors
of Dageförde held stiffly and firmly by the Catholic faith, and
obstinately rejected the pure doctrine. But now for a long time there
have been lords of Dageförde no more. The race died out; and when one
only of the family was left, he entered a Catholic cloister, where, in
the year 1616, he died. Then the reigning Duke gave the manor of
Dageförde to the lords of Lüneburg, and they again sold it to some
peasants, after they had divided the farm into two. So these farms have
again become what they were originally--peasant farms. God grant to the
present owners that they may stand firm and true to the pure faith of
our beloved church, that they may earnestly strive to be genuine
Christians and genuine Saxon peasants; then will it go well with them
and with those that come after them.'"
CHAPTER XII.
Meredith paused, half closed his book, was evidently pondering for a
minute, and then exclaimed, "I have learned something!"
"Why, so have we all," said his sister. "What now particularly?"
"I have got a hint."
"What about? There is no fortress for you to storm, and you do not want
the treasure."
"I think I should like to have lived in those times," Meredith went on.
"People were in earnest, Mr. Murray."
"Yes. So are some people in these times."
"But not the world generally; or only about making money. Then people
were in earnest about things worth the while."
"It does seem so from these stories," said Mr. Murray; "but, dear
Meredith, you may be equally in earnest about the same things now, and
with as good reason."
"Isn't it more difficult, sir, when nobody else, or only a few here and
there, think and feel with you?"
"Yes, more difficult; or rather, more easy to go to sleep; but so much
the greater need of men who are not asleep. What is your hint? I am
curious, with Miss Flora."
"The way that fellow spent his treasure, sir. I was thinking, wouldn't a
chapel--that is, a little church--a little free church, at Meadow Park
be a good thing? The nearest church is two miles off; we can drive to
it, but the people who have no horses cannot, and the poor people"----
Meredith got a variety of answers to this suggestion. His sister opened
her mouth for an outcry of dismay. Maggie clapped her hands with a burst
of joy. Esther stared; and a smile, very sweet and wise, showed itself
on Mr. Murray's lips.
"Quixotic!--ridiculous!" said Flora. "Isn't it, Mr. Murray? Ditto has
not money enough for everything, either. A church!--and then, I suppose,
a minister!"
"Is it a bad notion, Mr. Murray?" inquired Meredith.
"I should think not very."
"Is it extravagant?"
"Miss Flora thinks so."
"Well, Mr. Murray, think what it would cost!" cried the young lady.
"Not so much as a large evening party--that is, it ought not. I suppose
Meredith is not thinking of stone carvings and painted windows, but of a
neat, pleasant, pretty, plain house, where people can worship God and
hear the words of life."
"That is it exactly," said Meredith.
"Then I should say that one very fine evening entertainment would build
two."
"But the minister! he must be paid," said Flora.
"Yes, and I am not for starving a minister, either," said Mr. Murray.
"But what is Meredith to do with his income, Miss Flora?"
"That's just what I want to know," remarked Meredith in an undertone;
while Flora answered with some irritation--
"He can let it accumulate till he has made up his mind."
"'Riches kept for the owners of them, to their hurt,'" said Mr. Murray.
"Better not, Miss Flora. Remember, Meredith is only a steward. 'The
silver is mine, and the gold is mine,' saith the Lord of hosts."
"Do you mean, Mr. Murray, that we cannot do what we like with our
money?"
"You can do what you like with it, certainly."
"But I mean, isn't it right for us to do what we like with it?"
"I should like to do that," murmured Meredith.
"Miss Flora, the question is, rightly stated,--May a steward use his
lord's money for his own or his lord's pleasure?"
Flora coloured and pouted. "But that makes religion----Why, I never
thought religion was strict like that. Then it isn't right to buy
jewels or dresses?"
"Dresses--certainly."
"But I mean, rich dresses--dresses for company. And pictures--and
horses--and books--and"----
"Stop, Miss Flora. The servant himself belongs to his lord; therefore he
must make of himself the very best he can. For this, books will
certainly be needed, and to some degree all the other things you have
named, except jewels and what you call rich dresses. The only question
in each case is--'How can I do the Lord's work best? how can I spend
this money to honour and please Him most?' That will not always be by
the cheapest dress that can be bought, nor by checking the cultivation
of taste and the acquiring of knowledge, nor even by the foregoing of
arts and accomplishments. Only the question comes back at every step,
and must at every step be answered--'What does the Lord want me to do
here? Does He wish me to spend this money--or time--on myself, or on
somebody else?'"
"Why it would be always on somebody else," said Flora looking ready to
burst into tears; "and there would be no real living at all--no enjoying
of life."
"A mistake," said Mr. Murray quietly. "The Lord told us long ago--'He
that will save his life shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for
my sake, the same shall find it.'"
Flora put up her hand over her eyes, but Meredith's eyes sparkled.
"Then you think well of my plan, Mr. Murray?" he said.
"As far as I understand it."
"How would the Pavilion do, for a skeleton of the church?"
"O Ditto! the dear old Pavilion!" exclaimed Maggie.
"Why not? I do not want to shut myself off from everybody now; and I
have the whole house--more than enough. And the Pavilion stands in a
good place near the road."
Mr. Murray and Meredith went into a discussion of the plan, and Maggie
listened, while Flora after a while resumed her work and went moodily on
with it. At last Mr. Murray remarked--
"This is not so interesting to everybody, Meredith, and we have time
enough to talk it over. Suppose you go on reading."
"Do you like these Saxon stories?" said Meredith pleased.
"Very much."
"There is some more hero about--not Dageförde exactly; but that same
fight, which I think you would like perhaps to hear."
"And, Meredith, you did not read us about that minister who was
converted by the catechism," said Maggie.
"No, that is another story--Pastor Grünhagen. I will read to you first
about the fight at the Hünenburg.
"'The Hünenburg is situated in a deep dell in the midst of the heath
about an hour from Hermannsburg; and I will relate to you what I have
found in the chronicle about it. It is nine hundred years now since a
hard-fought and terrible battle took place here, which was fought
between the Christians and the heathen. At that time the pious and
Christian Kaiser, Otto the Great, ruled in Germany (A.D. 936-973), who
loved the Lord his God with all his heart. He had gone away out of
Germany into Italy, in order to free a captive queen who was kept in
prison there by some godless folk. But he would not leave Germany
without protection; therefore he made over this country to Duke Hermann,
to govern it and to take care of it. In like manner Adaldag, Archbishop
of Hamburg and Bremen, who went with the Kaiser, confided his dominions
to the same guardianship. Now the Wends, who lived on the other side of
the Elbe, especially in Mechlenburg, and had spread themselves abroad on
this side the Elbe also, were at that time still heathen. And now when
the Kaiser was absent, they thought the time was come for marauding and
plundering, hunting the Christians out of their country, or utterly
destroying them. So they summoned up all their warriors, and that so
secretly that the Christians knew nothing of it until they came breaking
into the country. As there was nowhere any preparation for defence
against them, they robbed and plundered all that came in their way,
burned down the churches, killed the priests, and dragged the rest into
captivity for slaves. Duke Hermann was just then in the Bremen
territory, from whence he had expelled the piratical Northmen (the
Danes). There the terrible news found him. In the greatest haste he
collected his warriors to come and save his country. For the Wends had
already penetrated to Lüneburg, as far as this heath, and had laid
everything waste with fire and sword; the Hermannsburg church was
destroyed by them at that time. Here upon this ground they had made a
strong encampment, and surrounded it with ditches and fortifications
like a fortress; they were from fifty to sixty thousand men strong, in
horsemen and footmen, and all of them alive with the same enraged hatred
of the Christians, and determined that every trace of Christianity
should be wiped away from the land. In August of the year 945 Duke
Hermann marched hither out of the Bremen country, over the northern
heights of Liddernhausen and Dohnsen. When he saw himself with his eight
thousand men on foot and two thousand horsemen confronted by the great
host of the Wends, he said to his faithful followers--"We must fight;
whether God will give us the victory, we must leave with Him." Then
stepped up one of his knights before him, who is called in the chronicle
"the brave Conrad," of the now extinct race of them of Haselhorst, and
spoke:--
"'"Let us get a token from God. I will go forward and challenge one of
the enemy to single combat; so will the Lord show us to whom He has
allotted the victory."
"'Duke Hermann gave permission. The knight, followed at some distance by
a hundred men, who were to see that all was done in order, rode alone
into the defile and challenged Mistewoi, the leader of the Wends, to
send one of his people to meet him in single combat. Then stepped
forward Zwentibold, a Wend of giant stature, clad in a dragon skin and
with a shirt of link-mail over it, and on the head of his helmet the
black image of his god Zernebok; behind him also a hundred men to look
on. The Christian knight first called upon God to be his helper and
protection: "Lord remember how Thou gavest strength to Thy servant David
against the giant Goliath who had reviled Thy name; so now to-day
establish Thy glory among the heathen, and show plainly that Thou art
the true God."
"'Upon that, with lances in rest, they charged upon each other; and when
the spears were splintered in that first shock, then it came to a fight
with swords, man against man. Suddenly comes a traitor's arrow from the
Wends flying through the air and kills the Christian's horse. But their
wickedness turns to their own knight's ruin. For as the Wend gallops up
to the fallen Christian, and is about to cut him down with a stroke from
above, up springs the Christian knight and thrusts his sword in under
the other's shoulder, so that he falls dead from his horse. The victory
is won! But hereupon comes new treachery. For now those hundred Wends
charge straight down upon the German knight. As his own attendants
perceive this, they hasten to his help, nothing loath; the armies on
both sides close in, and the fight soon becomes general. It is fought
with the utmost bitterness and bravery on both sides till evening fall.
But the Christians all the while press steadily forward.
"'While the men wielded the sword, the wives of the Christians came out
to the field, drew away the wounded and sucked the blood from their
wounds (because they believed that the arrows of the Wends were
poisoned), bound them up, and encouraged their husbands and sons to make
brave fight. A company of twelve priests carried a banner with a red
cross on a white ground. The priests sang, "Kyrie Eleison!" ("Lord, have
mercy upon us!") "Christe Eleison! Kyrie Eleison!" and the people chimed
in. A terror of God went with them wherever they went and scattered the
Wends from every place where the white banner came. As one of the
heathen leaders with a company was making a determined rush upon the
banner, the peasant of Dageförde drove his spear through the chieftain's
coat of mail into his breast. Thereupon the heathen all fled. And all
the Christians fell upon their knees, and all cried out, "Lord God, we
praise Thee!" Then the priests spoke the benediction over the victorious
host. And they left nothing remaining of the enemy's camp, but destroyed
it entirely, because they would not suffer any heathen works upon their
ground. But the name has remained; for Hühnen was the name our
forefathers gave to all heathen; that came from the Huns in the first
place, who fell upon the Christians with such heathenish rage. So that
place is called Hühnenburg until this day.
"'The church at Hermannsburg was rebuilt again after that time. And soon
also Christianity came to the Wends, and the Lord Jesus was conqueror
over them all.'"
"You read part of that before," said Maggie.
"Part of the story; but I thought you would like to have the whole."
"Oh, I do. But I thought it was Zwentibold that Henning of Dageförde
killed, when he was trying to get at the white banner."
"Maybe there were two Zwentibolds; or the story got a little confused
among the old chroniclers."
"Then how is one to know which is true?"
"It is difficult, very often, Maggie," her uncle said smiling. "Human
testimony is a strange thing, and very susceptible of getting confused."
"What will you read next, Ditto? About the minister who was converted?"
"Oh, no," said Flora. "Let the catechism alone. Haven't you got some
more Saxon stories, Meredith?"
"Plenty. Which shall it be, Mr. Murray?"
"Saxon, for this time."
"'THE REMMIGA FARM.
"'As in my former narrations I have told of the glorious victory which
with God's help Landolf gained over the old priest Heinrich and his
children, I will tell you now of a third victory which the Lord granted
him. An hour from here was a farm which in the chronicle is called the
Remmiga manor; it was inhabited by a free man named Walo. His wife's
name was Odela, sometimes the chronicle calls her Adela. The name is
one, for the word Adel is often written and spoken as Odel in the old
manuscripts. The pair had a son, who bore his father's name.
"'As owner of a head manor, Walo was at the same time priest of the
community, which dignity always went along with the possession of a
chief manor among the old Saxons. All the councils and courts of the
community were held under his presidency; he brought the sacrifices
thereto pertaining; and it is easy to imagine what consideration on all
these accounts he enjoyed. This consideration was still further
heightened by the fact of his knowledge of the old laws and customs, and
by his incorruptible truth and uprightness. Like Heinrich, he too was at
the beginning a determined enemy of the Christian religion. Landolf
visited him frequently and told him about the Lord Jesus, but Walo's ear
was deaf to the truth of the gospel. He knew from old legends that once
upon a time two brothers, the white and the black Ewald, who had
preached Christianity among the Saxons, had been by them sacrificed to
their idols. And so, with Saxon tenacity holding fast to the old
traditions, he told Landolf to his face that in justice he ought to
suffer the same fate which had fallen upon the two Ewalds; and that it
could not be carried out upon him, simply because the decision of the
people, taken by the national assembly at the stone-houses, once taken
became a law, according to which the free preaching of the gospel was
permitted. Landolf did not allow himself to be daunted by this, but
continued his visits and his teachings; for he observed that Walo, in
spite of all that, always listened with attention when he told about the
Lord Christ.
"'One day Landolf came again to Remmiga. He found Walo sitting in front
of his dwelling, by the place of sacrifice, where the assemblies of the
district were wont to be held, still and sunk in his own thoughts. Near
him stood his wife Odela and his little son, who was perhaps twelve
years old. The boy ran joyously to meet Landolf and said--"It is nice
that you have come. I have just been asking father to let me go away
with you; I would like to hear a great deal about the Lord Jesus; I want
to be His disciple. Mother is glad; and," he whispered softly, "she
loves the Son of God too; but father feels very troubled, and don't like
it; he says he has lost his wife and his son to-day!" Odela gave Landolf
her hand and spoke aloud. "Yes, I love Jesus; I want to be His disciple;
but Walo will have none of it; and so I too will go with you, that I may
hear about Jesus and be baptized."
"'Landolf hardly knew where he stood. Until this time Odela and her son
had listened in silence when he talked about Jesus, but never a word had
they spoken. Now they told him how, while he talked, the Lord Jesus had
so grown in their hearts that they could not get loose from Him again;
and they did not wish to get loose; for they wanted to be saved and to
come into the Christian's heaven, where Jesus is and the holy angels.
"'Then up rose Walo, turned a dark look upon Landolf, and said to him,
"Thou hast led astray my wife and my son with thy words, and now I have
no wife and no son any more. Go out of my grounds; take my wife and my
son with thee; they have no love for me any longer; their love is for
Jesus."
"'"O Walo!" Landolf answered, "seest thou not yet that thy gods are dead
idols? Dost thou not see that Jesus is the true, the living God? Jesus
has won their hearts; thine idols cannot win hearts; thou mayest see
that by thy wife and thy son. Let Jesus gain thy heart too. You shall
all three be saved."
"'Walo shook his head. "He wins not my heart!"
"'"Then," cried the servant of the Lord joyfully, "then shall thy wife
and thy son win thy heart for Jesus. Thy wife and thy son desire to be
baptized. Thou canst not hinder them: they are free; they are noble
born. I am going to baptize them now, this day, in thy presence; for
they believe in Jesus that He is the Son of God. But I know that thy
wife and thy son are dear to thee, and thou art very dear to them, only
Jesus is dearer yet. Let them remain with thee after they are baptized;
do not thrust them out from thy house. And if, when they are baptized,
they love thee still better than formerly, if they are more dutiful to
thee than formerly, wilt thou then believe that Jesus is mightier than
thine idols? Thou hast often told me that Odela is proud and passionate,
though in all else good and noble. Now if when she is baptized she
becomes humble and gentle, wilt thou then believe that Jesus can give
people new hearts?"
"'Walo looked at the glad Landolf with an astonished face. "Odela humble
and gentle!" said he. "Yes, then I will believe that Jesus can make the
heart new; I will believe that He is God, and I will worship Him."
"'"Give me thy right hand, Walo," said Landolf; "I know a Saxon keeps
his word and never tells a lie, and Walo before all others."
"'They shook hands. Landolf did not delay. He went immediately for
Hermann and Heinrich, and fetched them to share in his joy and to act as
the sponsors. And oh, how gladly they came! That same evening Adela and
her son were baptized in the name of the Triune God; and Landolf
joyously reminded them that he had promised Walo his wife and his son
should win his heart for Christ.
"'A year passed away, and on the very day on which Adela and her son had
been baptized, Walo also received baptism; for the Christianised Adela
had become humble and gentle, because Jesus dwelt in her heart; and
after their baptism she and her son had loved the husband and father
still more ardently, and had been more obedient to him than before. Walo
confessed, "they are better than I." Oh, the Christian walk, the
Christian walk! how mighty it is to convert! The walk of Christians is
the living preaching of the living God.
"'And now a Christian chapel was erected by Walo at Remmiga, on the
place of sacrifice; and around the chapel there rose up a Christian
village, which established itself upon his soil and territory; a brook
ran through the new village, which was therefore called Bekedorf, and is
called so at the present day; it lies in the parish of Hermannsburg. The
chapel stood till the Thirty Years' War; it was burnt down then by
Tilly's marauders, and has never been built up again. But there is more
of the story. Walo died old and full of days, in the arms of his wife
and son. Landolf had gone home long before, and so had old Hermann and
Heinrich. But the young Walo had grown to be the most faithful friend of
Hermann's son, who was also named Hermann, and who by Kaiser Otto the
Great was made Duke of Saxony. So then, when Hermann Billing was made
the Kaiser's lieutenant of the kingdom in Northern Germany, upon
occasion of Otto's journey into Italy, Hermann made his faithful Walo a
graf, that is, one of the chief judges of the country; and he travelled
about and wrought justice and righteousness, and was, as the Scripture
says of an upright judge, "for a terror to evil-doers and the praise of
them that did well." He married Odelinde, a noble young lady, who also
loved the Saviour, and had been brought up by the good cloister ladies
at the Quänenburg. They led a happy and God-fearing life, but they had
no children. When now both of them were old and advanced in years,
Odelinde one day was reminding her husband of the blessing she had
received from the pious training of the cloister ladies; and she asked
him whether, as they had no children, and were rich, they might not
found another cloister with their money, in which noble young girls
should be educated by good cloister sisters. Walo complied with her wish
gladly; for he loved the kingdom of God, and at that time the cloisters
were simply the abodes of piety; they were not yet places of idleness,
but of diligence; not homes of lawlessness, but of modesty; not of
superstition, but of faith.
"'About four miles from his place on the river Böhme lay a wide tract of
meadow land, bordered by a magnificent thick wood of oaks and beeches.
When Walo travelled through the country as graf, he had often been
greatly pleased with this spot; and it had occurred to him that such
beauty ought not to remain any longer given up to wild beasts, but
should become a dwelling-place for men. This thought recurred now
vividly to his mind. His wife desired to see the place too. So they went
to view it, and decided to build a cloister there, around which then
other human dwellings would grow up, but the cloister itself should be
the home of pious ladies whose special business should be the bringing
up of nobly-born young girls. The wood was rooted up' (roden is to
root up); 'and on the Rode' (that is, the space cleared) 'the cloister
was built, which thereupon was called Walo's Rode; about which later
the village Walsrode was settled, which still later spread itself out
into a little city, having the cloister to thank for its origin. Walo
not only built the cloister at his own expense, but also endowed it for
its support with the tithes of the Bekedorf village, which belonged to
the manor. It is but a little while since the Bekedorfers bought off
these tithes.
"'I must state, however, that in my extracts from the chronicle there
occurs a divergence from the usual dates. That is, I have formerly read
under a picture of Graf Walo in the cloister church at Walsrode the
number of the year 986. In my extracts, on the other hand, it is said
that the cloister was founded by Walo in the year of grace 974, and
consecrated by Bishop Landward of Münden. The last can be explained by
the fact that the valley of the Oerze belonged to the see of Münden and
not to the nearer Verden, and therefore Walsrode also being founded from
hence, must be consecrated by the Münden bishop. But as to the
difference of the two dates, I can do nothing further to clear that up,
since I am no investigator of history, but have singly written down what
I have found.'"
CHAPTER XIII.
"I like that," said Maggie sedately.
"How curiously near it seems to bring the Middle Ages!" said Meredith.
"The picture of Graf Walo!--and Pastor Harms has seen it."
"Why couldn't Walo build a schoolhouse without making a cloister of it?"
asked Maggie.
"There were really reasons, apart from religious ones," Mr. Murray
replied. "You remember your views of old castles on the Rhine, perched
up on inaccessible heights?"
"It must have been very inconvenient," said Flora. "Imagine it!"
"It would have been worse than inconvenient to live below in the valley.
A rich noble could not have been sure of keeping any precious thing his
house held--unless his retainers were very numerous and always on duty;
and in that case the lands would have come by the worst. The only really
secure places, Maggie, were the religious houses."
"What dreadful times!" said Flora.
"So these stories show them."
"Uncle Eden," said Esther, "it is time to go in and get ready for
dinner."
"Is it? Oh, this pine wood is better than dinner! Look how the light is
coming red through the boles of the trees! Feel this air that is playing
about my face! Smell the pines!"
"But you will want dinner, Uncle Eden, all the same, and it will be
ready."
"Well," said Mr. Murray, rousing himself so far as to get up on one
elbow.
"Where shall we go for our reading to-morrow afternoon?" said Maggie.
"The Lookout rock," suggested Meredith.
"Do you like that, Uncle Eden?"
"I like it all, Maggie. If to-morrow is like to-day, I think the Lookout
rock will be very enjoyable."
"And then you can look at the sky while you are talking to us," said
Maggie comfortably.
"Why precisely at the sky?" Meredith asked laughing.
"Oh, it's so beautiful up there sometimes."
They sauntered slowly back to the house, through the sweet pines, under
the illuminating red rays which were coming level against the
tree-stems. Then out of the wood and among the flower-beds and shrubbery
surrounding the house; with the open view of sky and river, purple-brown
and ruddy gold lights flowing upon the sides of the hills, reflecting
the western brilliance, which yet was warm and rich rather than
dazzling.
"I never saw such a place as this!" exclaimed Meredith for the fourth or
fifth time.
"The world is a wonderful place generally," observed Mr. Murray
thoughtfully. "Rich--rich! 'the riches of His grace,' and the riches of
His wisdom."
They were a very happy party at dinner. Fenton, it is true, came out
singularly in the conversation, and gave a number of details respecting
life at school and his views of life in the world. Mr. Murray's answers
however were so humorous, and so wise and sweet at the same time, that
it seemed Fenton only furnished a text for the most pleasant discourse.
And after dinner Maggie got out stereoscopic views, and she and others
delighted themselves with a new look at the Middle Ages.
"What a strange thing it must be," said Meredith, "to live where every
farm and every church has a history; of course every village."
"Haven't farms and villages in our country a history?" Maggie inquired.
"No," said Esther; "of course not."
"A few," said Mr. Murray. "Such New England farms, for instance, as
still bear the names 'Lonesome' and 'Scrabblehard.' But the histories
are not very old, and refer to nothing more picturesque than the
struggles of the early settlers."
"What struggles?" Maggie wanted to know.
"Struggles for life. With the hard soil, with the hard climate, and with
the wild Indians. But such struggles, Maggie, left an inheritance of
strength, patience, and daring to their children."
"Why haven't we stories like those of the Saxons?"
"Why!" exclaimed Fenton impatiently, "are you such a simple? There was
nothing here but red Indians till a little while ago."
"We have not been a nation for more than a hundred years, Maggie," said
Meredith.
"And before that, were the Indians here at Mosswood?"
"No, no," said Fenton. "You had better study history."
"As you have," put in his uncle. "Won't you tell Maggie when the first
settlements of the English were made in America?"
However, Fenton could not.
"In the beginning of the seventeenth century it was, Maggie, that the
first colonies were established here. The Dutch came to New York, and
the Puritans to New England, and a little earlier the English colonists
to Virginia. We are a young country."
"Is it better to be a young country, or to be an old one?"
"The young country has its life before it," said Mr. Murray
smiling;--"like a young girl."
"How, Uncle Eden?"
"She has the chance still to make it noble and beautiful."
"We can't have these grand old castles, though," said Meredith, looking
at the view of Sonneck.
"Those are the picturesque scars remaining of a time which was not
beautiful--except to the eye. I suppose it was that."
The conversation took a turn too historical to be reported here.
The next day was a worthy successor of the preceding. All the party went
to church in the morning; on account of the distance, nobody went in the
afternoon. Mr. Candlish would not have his horses and servants called
out in the latter half of the day. The dinner was early; and so then
after dinner the party set out upon a slow progress to the Lookout rock,
carrying Bibles, and Meredith with his little German volume in his
pocket.
Another such afternoon as the yesterday's had been! Warm, still,
fragrant, hazy; more hazy than ever. The outlines of the distant hills
were partially veiled; the colours on the middle distance glowing,
mellow and soft, all the sun's glitter being shielded off. Slowly and
enjoyingly the little company wandered along, leaving the lawns and
pleasure ground of flowers behind them; through the cedars, past the
spot where a day or two ago they had sat and read and eaten their
chicken pie. Past that, and then up a winding steep mountain road that
led up to the height of the point above. Just before the top was reached
they turned off from the way towards the left, whence glimpses of the
river had been coming to them, and after a few steps over stones and
under the trees which covered all the higher ground, emerged from both
upon a broad, smooth, top of a great outlying mass of granite rock which
overhung the river. Not literally; a stone dropped from the edge would
have rolled, not fallen, into the water; a stone thrown from the hand
easily might have done the latter. The precipice was too sheer to let
any but those sitting on the very edge of the rock look down its rugged,
tree-bedecked side. However, Mr. Murray and Meredith at once placed
themselves on that precise edge of the platform, while the girls and
Fenton sat down in what they considered a safer position. A hundred feet
below, just below, rolled the broad river; Mosswood's projecting point
to the right still shutting off all view of the upper stream, while the
jutting forth of Gee's point below on the other side equally cut off the
southern reach of the river. The trees at hand, right and left, above
and below, standing in autumn's gay colours; the hillsides and curves of
the opposite shore showing the same hues more mild under the veil of
haze and the distance. Not a leaf fluttered on its stem in the deep
stillness; but far down below one could hear the soft lapping of the
water as it flowed past the rocks. The stillness and the light filled up
the measure of each other's beauty.
For a while everybody was silent. There was a spell of nature, which
even the young people did not care to break. Flora drew a long breath,
at last, and then Maggie spoke.
"Uncle Eden, we came here to talk."
"Did we?"
"I thought we did--to talk and to read."
"Nature is doing some talking, and we are listening."
"What does Nature say?"
"Do you hear nothing?"
Maggie thought she did, and yet she could not have told what. "It is
not very plain, Uncle Eden," she remarked.
"It becomes plainer and plainer the older you grow, Maggie,--that is,
supposing you keep your ears open."
"But I would like to know what your ears hear, Uncle Eden."
"It will be more profitable to go into the subjects you wanted to
discuss. What are they?"
"I made a list of them, Uncle Eden," said Maggie, foisting a crumpled
bit of paper out of her pocket. "Uncle Eden, Ditto read to us some
stories which you didn't hear,--it was just before you came,--about poor
people who gave the only pennies they had to pay for sending
missionaries, and went without their Sunday lunch to have a penny to
give; and Flora said she thought it was wrong; and we couldn't decide
how much it was right to do."
"It is a delicate question."
"Well, how much ought one, Uncle Eden?"
"You do not want to go without your lunch?"
"No, sir. Ought I, Uncle Eden?"
"My dear, the Lord's rule is, 'Every man according as he purposeth in
his heart, so let him give. What you want to give, that is what the
Lord likes to receive."
"Don't He like to receive anything but what we like to give?"
"He says, 'The Lord loveth a cheerful giver.'"
There was a pause.
"But, Mr. Murray," said Flora, "isn't there such a thing as a duty of
giving?"
"There is such a thing."
"That is what we want to know. What is it? What is the duty, I mean?"
"What does the Bible say it is, you mean?"
"Yes, sir, certainly."
"I am afraid you will think the rule a sweeping one. The Lord said,
'This is my commandment, that ye love one another as I have loved you.'"
Another pause.
"But we were talking of giving, Mr. Murray."
"Love will give where it is needful."
"But will nothing but love give?"
"Not to the Lord."
"To what, then?" said Flora hastily.
"To custom--to public opinion--to entreaty--to conscience--to fear--to
kindness of heart."
"And isn't that right?"
"It is not giving to the Lord."
"Well, Mr. Murray, take it so; how much ought one to give, as you say,
to the Lord?"
"All."
"And be a beggar!" said Flora quickly.
