“You are right; yet Roger was the wronged one, and the others deserved
to suffer.”
“They did; but Hester’s suffering ennobled her, because nobly borne;
Dimmesdale’s destroyed him, because he paltered weakly with his
conscience. Roger let his wrong turn him from a man into a devil, and
deserves the contempt and horror he rouses in us. The keeping of the
secret makes the romance; the confession of it is the moral, showing how
falsehood can ruin a life, and truth only save it at the last.”
“Never have a secret, Gladys: they are hard masters, whom we hate, yet
dare not rebel against.”
His accent of sad sincerity seemed to clear the way for her, and she
spoke out, briefly and bravely,—
“Sir, you dare any thing! Tell me what it is which makes Felix obey
you against his will. He owns it, but will not speak till you consent.
Tell me, I beseech you!”
“Could you bear it?” he asked, admiring her courage, yet doubtful of the
wisdom of purchasing a moment’s satisfaction at such a cost; for, though
he could cast down her idol, he dared not set up another in its place.
“Try me!” she cried: “nothing can lessen my love, and doubt afflicts me
more than the hardest truth.”
“I fear not: with you love and respect go hand in hand, and some sins
you would find very hard to pardon.”
Involuntarily Gladys shrunk a little, and her eye questioned his
inscrutable face, as she answered slowly, thinking only of her husband,—
“Something very mean and false would be hard to forgive; but not some
youthful fault, some shame borne for others, or even a crime, if a very
human emotion, a generous but mistaken motive, led to it.”
“Then this secret is better left untold; for it would try you sorely to
know that Felix had been guilty of the fault you find harder to
forgive than a crime,—deceit. Wait a little, till you are accustomed to
the thought, then you shall have the facts; and pity, even while you
must despise, him.”
While he spoke, Gladys sat like one nerving herself to receive a blow;
but at the last words she suddenly put up her hand as if to arrest it,
saying, hurriedly,—
“No! do not tell me; I cannot bear it yet, nor from you. He shall tell
me; it will be easier so, and less like treachery. O sir,” she added, in
a passionately pleading tone, “use mercifully whatever bitter knowledge
you possess! Remember how young he is, how neglected as a boy, how
tempted he may have been; and deal generously, honorably with him,—and
with me.”
Her voice broke there. She spread her hands before her eyes, and fled
out of the room, as if in his face she read a more disastrous confession
than any Felix could ever make. Helwyze stood motionless, looking as he
looked the night she spoke more frankly but less forcibly: and when she
vanished, he stole away to his own room, as he stole then; only now his
usually colorless cheek burned with a fiery flush, and his hand went
involuntarily to his breast, as if, like Dimmesdale, he carried an
invisible scarlet letter branded there.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  XVI.
Neither had heard the door of that inner room open quietly; neither had
seen Canaris stand upon the threshold for an instant, then draw back,
looking as if he had found another skeleton to hide in the cell where he
was laboring at the third act of the tragedy which he was to live, not
write.
He had heard the last words Gladys said, he had seen the last look
Helwyze wore, and, like a flash of lightning, the truth struck and
stunned him. At first he sat staring aghast at the thing he plainly saw,
yet hardly comprehended. Then a sort of fury seized and shook him, as he
sprang up with hands clenched, eyes ablaze, looking as if about to
instantly avenge the deadliest injury one man could do another. But the
half savage self-control adversity had taught stood him in good stead
now, curbing the first natural but reckless wrath which nerved every
fibre of his strong young body with an almost irresistible impulse to
kill Helwyze without a word.
The gust of blind passion subsided quickly into a calmer, but not less
dangerous, mood; and, fearing to trust himself so near his enemy,
Canaris rushed away, to walk fast and far, unconscious where he went,
till the autumnal gloaming brought him back, master of himself, he
thought.
While he wandered aimlessly about the city, he had been recalling the
past with the vivid skill which at such intense moments seems to bring
back half-forgotten words, apparently unnoticed actions, and unconscious
impressions; as fire causes invisible letters to stand out upon a page
where they are traced in sympathetic ink.
Not a doubt of Gladys disturbed the ever-deepening current of a love the
more precious for its newness, the more powerful for its ennobling
influence. But every instinct of his nature rose in revolt against
Helwyze, all the more rebellious and resentful for the long subjection
in which he had been held.
A master stronger than the ambition which had been the ruling passion of
his life so far asserted its supremacy now, and made it possible for him
to pay the price of liberty without further weak delay or unmanly
regret.
This he resolved upon, and this he believed he could accomplish safely
and soon. But if Helwyze, with far greater skill and self-control, had
failed to guide or subdue the conflicting passions let loose among them,
how could Canaris hope to do it, or retard by so much as one minute the
irresistible consequences of their acts? “The providence of God cannot
be hurried,” and His retribution falls at the appointed time, saving,
even when it seems to destroy.
Returning resolute but weary, Canaris was relieved to find that a still
longer reprieve was granted him; for Olivia was there, and Gladys
apparently absorbed in the tender toil women love, making ready for the
Christmas gift she hoped to give him. Helwyze sent word that he was
suffering one of his bad attacks, and bade them all good-night; so there
was nothing to mar the last quiet evening these three were ever to pass
together.
When Canaris had seen Olivia to the winter quarters she inhabited near
by, he went up to his own room, where Gladys lay, looking like a child
who had cried itself to sleep. The sight of the pathetic patience
touched with slumber’s peace, in the tear-stained face upon the pillow,
wrung his heart, and, stooping, he softly kissed the hand upon the
coverlet,—the small hand that wore a wedding-ring, now grown too large
for it.
“God bless my dearest!” he whispered, with a sob in his throat. “Out of
this accursed house she shall go to-morrow, though I leave all but love
and liberty behind me.”
Sleepless, impatient, and harassed by thoughts that would not let him
rest, he yielded to the uncanny attraction which the library now had for
him, and went down again, deluding himself with the idea that he could
utilize emotion and work for an hour or two.
The familiar room looked strange to him; and when the door of Helwyze’s
apartment opened quietly, he started, although it was only Stern, coming
to nap before the comfortable fire. Something in Canaris’s expectant air
and attitude made the man answer the question his face seemed to ask.
“Quiet at last, sir. He has had no sleep for many nights, and is fairly
worn out.”
“You look so, too. Go and rest a little. I shall be here writing for
several hours, and can see to him,” said Canaris, kindly, as the poor
old fellow respectfully tried to swallow a portentous gape behind his
hand.
“Thank you, Mr. Felix: it would be a comfort just to lose myself. Master
is not likely to want any thing; but, if he should call, just step and
give him his drops, please. They are all ready. I fixed them myself: he
is so careless when he is half-asleep, and, not being used to this new
stuff, an overdose might kill him.”
Giving these directions, Stern departed with alacrity, and left Canaris
to his watch. He had often done as much before, but never with such a
sense of satisfaction as now; and though he carefully abstained from
giving himself a reason for the act, no sooner had the valet gone than
he went to look in upon Helwyze, longing to call out commandingly,
“Wake, and hear me!”
But the helplessness of the man disarmed him, the peaceful expression of
the sharp, white features mutely reproached him, the recollection of
what he would awaken to made Canaris ashamed to exult over a defeated
enemy; and he turned away, with an almost compassionate glance at the
straight, still figure, clearly defined against the dusky background of
the darkened room.
“He looks as if he were dead.”
Canaris did not speak aloud, but it seemed as if a voice echoed the
words with a suggestive emphasis, that made him pause as he approached
the study-table, conscious of a quick thrill of comprehension tingling
through him like an answer. Why he covered both ears with a sudden
gesture, he could not tell, nor why he hastily seated himself, caught up
the first book at hand and began to read without knowing what he read.
Only for an instant, however, then the words grew clear before him, and
his eyes rested on this line,—
              “σύ θην ἃ χρῄζεις, ταῦτ’ ἐπιγλωσσᾷ Διός.”[1]
Footnote 1:
  “Thy ominous tongue gives utterance to thy wish.”
                                                               ÆSCHYLUS.
He dropped the book, as if it had burnt him, and looked over his
shoulder, almost expecting to see the dark thought lurking in his mind
take shape before him. Empty, dim, and quiet was the lofty room; but a
troubled spirit and distempered imagination peopled it with such vivid
and tormenting phantoms of the past, the present and the future, that he
scarcely knew whether he was awake or dreaming, as he sat there alone,
waiting for midnight, and the spectre of an uncommitted deed.
His wandering eye fell on a leaf of paper, lying half-shrivelled by the
heat of the red fire. This recalled the hour when, in the act of burning
that first manuscript, Helwyze had saved him, and all that followed
shortly after.
Not a pleasant memory, it seemed; for his face darkened, and his glance
turned to a purple-covered volume, left on the low chair where Gladys
usually sat, and often read in that beloved book. A still more bitter
recollection bowed his head at sight of it, till some newer, sharper
thought seemed to pierce him with a sudden stab, and he laid his
clenched hand on the pile of papers before him, as if taking an oath
more binding than the one made there nearly three years ago.
He had been reading Shakespeare lately, for one may copy the great
masters; and now, as he tried with feverish energy to work upon his
play, the grim or gracious models he had been studying seemed to rise
and live before him. But one and all were made subject to the strong
passions which ruled him; jealousy, ambition, revenge, and love wore
their appropriate guise, acted their appropriate parts, and made him one
with them. Othello would only show himself as stabbing the perfidious
Iago; Macbeth always grasped at the air-drawn dagger; Hamlet was
continually completing his fateful task; and Romeo whispered, with the
little vial at his lips,—
                               “Oh, true apothecary!
                   Thy drugs are quick.”
Canaris tried to chase away these troubled spirits; but they would not
down, and, yielding to them, he let his mind wander as it would, till he
had “supped full of horrors,” feeling as if in the grasp of a nightmare
which led him, conscious, but powerless, toward some catastrophe
forefelt, rather than foreseen. How long this lasted he never knew; for
nothing broke the silence growing momently more terrible as he listened
to the stealthy tread of the temptation coming nearer and nearer, till
it appeared in the likeness of himself, while a voice said, in the
ordinary tone which so often makes dreams grotesque at their most
painful climax,—
“Master is so careless when half-asleep; and, not being used to this new
stuff, an overdose might kill him.”
As if these words were the summons for which he had been waiting,
Canaris rose up suddenly and went into that other room, too entirely
absorbed by the hurrying emotions which swept him away to see what
looked like a new phantom coming in. It might have been the shade of
young Juliet, gentle Desdemona, poor Ophelia, or, better still the
eidolen of Margaret wandering, pale and pensive, through the baleful
darkness of this Walpurgis Nacht.
He did not see it; he saw nothing but the glass upon the table where the
dim light burned, the little vial with its colorless contents, and
Helwyze stirring in his bed, as if about to wake and speak. Conscious
only of the purpose which now wholly dominated him, Canaris, without
either haste or hesitation, took the bottle, uncorked, and held it over
the glass half-filled with water. But before a single drop could fall a
cold hand touched his own, and, with a start that crushed the vial in
his grasp, he found himself eye to eye with Gladys.
Guilt was frozen upon his face, terror upon hers; but neither spoke, for
a third voice muttered drowsily, “Stern, give me more; don’t rouse me.”
Canaris could not stir; Gladys whispered, with white lips, and her hand
upon the cup,—“Dare I give it?”
He could only answer by a sign, and cowered into the shadow, while she
put the draught to Helwyze’s lips, fearing to let him waken now. He
drank drowsily, yet seemed half-conscious of her presence; for he looked
up with sleep-drunken eyes, and murmured, as if to the familiar figure
of a dream,—
“Mine asleep, his awake,” then whispering brokenly about “Felix, Vivien,
and daring any thing,” he was gone again into the lethargy which alone
could bring forgetfulness.
Gladys feared her husband would hear the almost inaudible words; but he
had vanished, and when she glided out to join him, carefully closing the
door behind her, a glance showed that her fear was true.
Relieved, yet not repentant, he stood there looking at a red stain on
his hand with such a desperate expression that Gladys could only cling
to him, saying, in a terror-stricken whisper,—
“Felix, for God’s sake, come away! What are you doing here?”
“Going mad, I think,” he answered, under his breath; but added, lifting
up his hand with an ominous gesture, “I would have done it if you had
not stopped me. It would be better for us all if he were dead.”
“Not so; thank Heaven I came in time to save you from the sin of
murder!” she said, holding fast the hand as yet unstained by any blood
but its own.
“I have committed murder in my heart. Why not profit by the sin, since
it is there? I hate that man! I have cause, and you know it.”
“No, no, not all! You shall tell me every thing; but not now, not here.”
“The time has come, and this is the place to tell it. Sit there and
listen. I must untie or cut the snarl to-night.”
He pointed to the great chair; and, grateful for any thing that could
change or stem the dangerous current of his thoughts, Gladys sank down,
feeling as if, after this shock, she was prepared for any discovery or
disaster. Canaris stood before her, white and stern, as if he were both
judge and culprit; for a sombre wrath still burned in his eye, and his
face worked with the mingled shame and contempt warring within him.
“I heard and saw this afternoon, when you two talked together yonder,
and I knew then what made you so glad to go away, so loath to come back.
You have had a secret as well as I.”
“I was never sure until to-day. Do not speak of that: it is enough to
know it, and forget it if we can. Tell your secret: it has burdened you
so long, you will be glad to end it. He would have done so, but I
would not let him.”
“I thought it would be hard to tell you, yet now my fault looks so small
and innocent beside his, I can confess without much shame or fear.”
But it was not easy; for he had gone so far into a deeper, darker world
that night, it was difficult to come to lesser sins and lighter
thoughts. As he hesitated for a word, his eye fell upon the
purple-covered book, and he saw a way to shorten his confession.
Catching up a pen, he bent over the volume an instant, then handed it to
Gladys, open at the title-page. She knew it,—the dear romance, worn with
much reading,—and looked wonderingly at the black mark drawn through the
name, “Felix Canaris,” and the words, “Jasper Helwyze,” written boldly
below.
“What does it mean?” she asked, refusing to believe the discovery which
the expression of his averted face confirmed.
“That I am a living lie. He wrote that book.”
“He?”
“Every line.”
“But not the other?” she said; clinging to a last hope, as every thing
seemed falling about her.
“All, except half a dozen of the songs.”
Down dropped the book between them,—now a thing of little worth,—and,
trying to conceal from him the contempt which even love could not
repress, Gladys hid her face, with one reproach, the bitterest she could
have uttered,—
“O my husband! did you give up honor, liberty, and peace for so poor a
thing as that?”
It cut him to the soul: for now he saw how high a price he had paid for
an empty name; how mean and poor his ambition looked; how truly he
deserved to be despised for that of which he had striven to be proud.
Gladys had so rejoiced over him as a poet, that it was the hardest task
of all to put off his borrowed singing-robes, and show himself an
ordinary man. He forgot that there was any other tribunal than this, as
he stood waiting for his sentence, oppressed with the fear that out of
her almost stern sense of honor she might condemn him to the loss of the
respect and confidence which he had lately learned to value as much as
happiness and love.
“You must despise me; but if you knew”—he humbly began, unable to bear
the silence longer.
“Tell me, then. I will not judge until I know;” and Gladys, just, even
in her sorrow, looked up with an expression which said plainer than
words, “For better, for worse; this is the worse, but I love you still.”
That made it possible for him to go on, fast and low, not stopping to
choose phrases, but pouring out the little story of his temptation and
fall, with a sense of intense relief that he was done with slavery for
ever.
“Neither of us coolly planned this thing; it came about so simply and
naturally, it seemed a mere accident.—And yet, who can tell what he
might have planned, seeing how weak I was, how ready to be tempted.—It
happened in that second month, when I promised to stay; he to help me
with my book. It was all mine then; but when we came to look at it,
there was not enough to fill even the most modest volume; for I had
burnt many, and must recall them, or write more. I tried honestly, but
the power was not in me, and I fell into despair again; for the desire
to be known was the breath of my life.”
“You will be, if not in this way, in some other; for power of some sort
is in you. Believe it, and wait for it to show itself,” said Gladys,
anxious to add patience and courage to the new humility and sincerity,
which could not fail to ennoble and strengthen him in time.
“Bless you for that!” he answered, gratefully, and hurried on. “It came
about in this wise: one day my master—he was then, but is no longer,
thank God!—sat reading over a mass of old papers, before destroying
them. Here he came upon verses written in the diaries kept years ago,
and threw them to me, ‘to laugh over,’ as he said. I did not laugh: I
was filled with envy and admiration, and begged him to publish them. He
scorned the idea, and bade me put them in the fire. I begged to keep
them, and then,—Gladys, I swear to you I cannot tell whether I read the
project in his face, or whether my own evil genius put it into my
head,—then I said, audaciously, though hardly dreaming he would consent,
‘You do not care for fame, and throw these away as worthless: I long for
it, and see more power in these than in any I can hope to write for
years, perhaps; let me add them to mine, and see what will come of it.’
‘Put your own name to them, if you do, and take the consequences,’ he
answered, in that brusque way of his, which seems so careless, yet is so
often premeditated. I assented, as I would have done to any thing that
promised a quick trial of my talent; for in my secret soul I thought
some of my songs better than his metaphysical verses, which impressed,
rather than charmed me. The small imposture seemed to amuse him; I had
few scruples then, and we did it, with much private jesting about
Beaumont and Fletcher, literary frauds, and borrowed plumage. You know
the rest. The book succeeded, but he saved it; and the critics left me
small consolation, for my songs were ignored as youthful ditties, his
poems won all the praise, and I was pronounced a second Shelley.”
“But he? Did he claim no share of the glory? Was he content to let you
have it all?” questioned Gladys, trying to understand a thing so foreign
to her nature that it seemed incredible.
“Yes; I offered to come down from my high place, as soon as I realized
how little right I had to it. But he forbade me, saying, what I was fool
enough to believe, that my talent only needed time and culture, and the
sunshine of success to ripen it; that notoriety would be a burden to
him, since he had neither health to sustain nor spirits to enjoy it;
that in me he would live his youth over again, and, in return for such
help as he could give, I should be a son to him. That touched and won
me; now I can see in it a trap to catch and hold me, that he might amuse
himself with my folly, play the generous patron, and twist my life to
suit his ends. He likes curious and costly toys; he had one then, and
has not paid for it yet.”
“This other book? Tell me of that, and speak low, or he may hear us,”
whispered Gladys, trembling lest fire and powder should meet.
With a motion of his foot Canaris sent the book that lay between them
spinning across the hearth-rug out of sight, and answered, with a short,
exultant laugh,—
“Ah! there the fowler was taken in his own snare. I did not see it then,
and found it hard to understand why he should exert himself to please
you by helping me. I thought it was a mere freak of literary rivalry;
and, when I taxed him with it, he owned that, though he cared nothing
for the world’s praise, it was pleasant to know that his powers were
still unimpaired, and be able to laugh in his sleeve at the deluded
critics. That was like him, and it deceived me till to-day. Now I know
that he begrudged me your admiration, wanted your tears and smiles for
himself, and did not hesitate to steal them. The night he so adroitly
read his work for mine, he tempted me through you. I had resolved to
deserve the love and honor you gave me; and again I tried, and again I
failed, for my romance was a poor, pale thing to his. He had read it;
and, taking the same plot, made it what you know, writing as only such a
man could write, when a strong motive stimulated him to do his best.”
“But why did you submit? Why stand silent and let him do so false a
thing?” cried poor Gladys, wondering when the end of the tangle would
come.
“At first his coolness staggered me; then I was curious to hear, then
held even, against my will, by admiration of the thing—and you. I meant
to speak out, I longed to do it; but it was very hard, while you were
praising me so eloquently. The words were on my lips, when in his face I
saw a look that sealed them. He meant that I should utter the
self-accusation which would lower me for ever and raise him in your
regard. I could not bear it. There was no time to think, only to feel,
and I vowed to make you happy, at all costs. I hardly thought he would
submit; but he did, and I believed that it was through surprise at being
outwitted for the moment, or pity towards you. It was neither: he
fancied I had discovered his secret, and he dared not defy me then.”
“But when I was gone? You were so late that night: I heard your voices,
sharp and angry, as I went away.”
“Yes; that was my hour, and I enjoyed it. He had often twitted me with
the hold he had on my name and fame, and I bore it; for, till I loved
you, they were the dearest things I owned. That night I told him he
should not speak; that you should enjoy your pride in me, even at his
expense, and I refused to release him from his bond, as he had, more
than once, refused to release me: for we had sworn never to confess till
both agreed to it. Good heavens! how low he must have thought I had
fallen, if I could consent to buy your happiness at the cost of my
honor! He did think it: that made him yield; that is the cause of the
contempt he has not cared to hide from me since then; and that adds a
double edge to my hatred now. I was to be knave as well as fool; and
while I blinded myself with his reflected light, he would have filched
my one jewel from me. Gladys, save me, keep me, or I shall do something
desperate yet!”
Beside himself with humiliation, remorse, and wrath, Canaris flung
himself down before her, as if only by clinging to that frail spar could
he ride out the storm in which he was lost without compass or rudder.
Then Gladys showed him that such love as hers could not fail, but, like
an altar-fire, glowed the stronger for every costly sacrifice thrown
therein. Lifting up the discrowned head, she laid it on her bosom with a
sweet motherliness which comforted more than her tender words.
“My poor Felix! you have suffered enough for this deceit; I forgive it,
and keep my reproaches for the false friend who led you astray.”
“It was so paltry, weak, and selfish. You must despise me,” he said,
wistfully, still thinking more of his own pain than hers.
“I do despise the sin, not the dear sinner who repents and is an honest
man again.”
“But a beggar.”
“We have each other. Hush! stand up; some one is coming.”
Canaris had barely time to spring to his feet, when Stern came in, and
was about to pass on in silence, though much amazed to see Gladys there
at that hour, when the expression of the young man’s face made him
forget decorum and stop short, exclaiming, anxiously,—
“Mr. Felix, what’s the matter? Is master worse?”
“Safe and asleep. Mrs. Canaris came to see what I was about.”
“Then, sir, if I may make so bold, the sooner she gets to bed again the
better. It is far too late for her to be down here; the poor young lady
looks half-dead,” Stern whispered, with the freedom of an old servant.
“You are right. Come, love;” and without another word Canaris led her
away, leaving Stern to shake his gray head as he looked after them.
Gladys was utterly exhausted; and in the hall she faltered, saying,
with a patient sigh, as she looked up the long stairway, “Dear, wait a
little; it is so far,—my strength is all gone.”
Canaris caught her in his arms and carried her away, asking himself,
with a remorseful pang that rent his heart,—
“Is this the murder I have committed?”
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 XVII.
“Stern!”
“Yes, sir.”
“What time is it?”
“Past two, sir.”
“What news? I see bad tidings of some sort in that lugubrious face of
yours; out with it!”
“The little boy arrived at dawn, sir,” answered old Stern, with a
paternal air.
“What little boy?”
“Canaris, Jr., sir,” simpered the valet, venturing to be jocose.
“The deuce he did! Precipitate, like his father. Where is Felix?”
“With her, sir. In a state of mind, as well he may be, letting that
delicate young thing sit up to keep him company over his poetry stuff,”
muttered Stern, busying himself with the shutters.
“Sit up! when? where? what are you maundering about, man?” and Helwyze
himself sat up among the pillows, looking unusually wide-awake.
“Last night, sir, in the study. Mr. Felix made me go for a wink of
sleep, and when I came back, about one, there sat Mrs. Canaris as white
as her gown, and him looking as wild as a hawk. Something was amiss, I
could see plain enough, but it wasn’t my place to ask questions; so I
just made bold to suggest that it was late for her to be up, and he took
her away, looking dazed-like. That’s all I know, sir, till I found the
women in a great flustration this morning.”
“And I slept through it all?”
“Yes, sir; so soundly, I was a bit anxious till you waked. I found the
glass empty and the bottle smashed, and I was afraid you might have
taken too much of that choral while half-asleep.”
“No fear; nothing kills me. Now get me up;” and Helwyze made his toilet
with a speed and energy which caused Stern to consider “choral” a
wonderful discovery.
A pretence of breakfast; then Helwyze sat down to wait for further
tidings,—externally quite calm, internally tormented by a great anxiety,
till Olivia came in, full of cheering news and sanguine expectations.
“Gladys is asleep, with baby on her arm, and Felix adoring in the
background. Poor boy! he cannot bear much, and is quite bowed down with
remorse for something he has done. Do you know what?”
As she spoke, Olivia stooped to pick up a book half-hidden by the fringe
of a low chair. It lay face downward, and, in smoothing the crumpled
leaves before closing it, she caught sight of a black and blotted name.
So did Helwyze; a look of intelligence flashed over his face, and,
taking the volume quickly, he answered, with his finger on the
title-page,—
“Yes, now I know, and so may you; for if one woman is in the secret, it
will soon be out. Felix wrote that, and it is true.”
“I thought so! One woman has known it for a long time; nevertheless,
the secret was kept for your sake;” and Olivia’s dark face sparkled with
malicious merriment, as she saw the expression of mingled annoyance,
pride, and pleasure in his.
“My compliments and thanks: you are the eighth wonder of the world. But
what led you to suspect this little fraud of ours?”
“I did not, till the last book came; then I was struck here and there by
certain peculiar phrases, certain tender epithets, which I think no one
ever heard from your lips but me. These, in the hero’s mouth, made me
sure that you had helped Canaris, if not done the whole yourself, and
his odd manner at times confirmed my suspicion.”
“You have a good memory: I forgot that.”
“I have had so few such words from you that it is easy to remember
them,” murmured Olivia, reproachfully.
It seemed to touch him; for just then he felt deserted, well knowing
that he had lost both Felix and Gladys; but Olivia never would desert
him, no matter what discovery was made, or who might fall away. He
thanked her for her devotion, with the first ray of hope given for
years, as he said, in the tone so seldom heard,—
“You shall have more henceforth; for you are a staunch friend, and now I
have no other.”
“Dear Jasper, you shall never find me wanting. I will be true to the
death!” she cried, blooming suddenly into her best and brightest beauty,
with the delight of this rare moment. Then, fearing to express too much,
she wisely turned again to Felix, asking curiously, “But why did you let
this young daw deck himself out in your plumes? It enrages me, to think
of his receiving the praise and honor due to you.”
He told her briefly, adding, with more than his accustomed bitterness,—
“What did I want with praise and honor? To be gaped and gossiped about
would have driven me mad. It pleased that vain boy as much as fooling
the public amused me. A whim, and, being a dishonest one, we shall both
have to pay for it, I suppose.”
“What will he do?”
“He has told Gladys, to begin with; and, if it had been possible, would
have taken some decisive step to-day. He can do nothing sagely and
quietly: there must be a dramatic dénouement to every chapter of his
life. I think he has one now.” Helwyze laughed, as he struck back the
leaves of the book he still held, and looked at the dashing signature of
his own name.
“He wrote that, then?” asked Olivia.
“Yes, here, at midnight, while I lay asleep and let him tell the tale as
he liked to Gladys. No wonder it startled her, so tragically given. The
sequel may be more tragic yet: I seem to feel it in the air.”
“What shall you do?” asked Olivia, more anxiously than before; for
Helwyze looked up with as sinister an expression as if he knew how
desperate an enemy had stood over him last night, and when his own turn
came, would be less merciful.
“Do? Nothing. They will go; I shall stay; tongues will wag, and I shall
be tormented. I shall seem the gainer, he the loser; but it will not be
so.”
Involuntarily his eye went to the little chair where Gladys would sit no
longer, and darkened as if some light had gone out which used to cheer
and comfort him. Olivia saw it, and could not restrain the question that
broke from her lips,—
“You do love her, Jasper?”
“I shall miss her; but you shall take her place.”
Calm and a little scornful was his face, his voice quite steady, and a
smile was shed upon her with the last welcome words. But Olivia was not
deceived: the calmness was unnatural, the voice too steady, the smile
too sudden; and her heart sank as she thanked him, without another
question. For a while they sat together playing well their parts, then
she went away to Gladys, and he was left to several hours of solitary
musing.
Had he been a better man, he would not have sinned; had he been a worse
one, he could not have suffered; being what he was, he did both, and,
having no one else to study now, looked deeply into himself, and was
dismayed at what he saw. For the new love, purer, yet more hopeless than
the old, shone like a star above an abyss, showing him whither he had
wandered in the dark.
Sunset came, filling the room with its soft splendor; and he watched the
red rays linger longest in Gladys’s corner. Her little basket stood as
she left it, her books lay orderly, her desk was shut, a dead flower
drooped from the slender vase, and across the couch trailed a soft white
shawl she had been wont to wear. Helwyze did not approach the spot, but
stood afar off looking at these small familiar things with the
melancholy fortitude of one inured to loss and pain. Regret rather than
remorse possessed him as he thought, drearily,—
“A year to-morrow since she came. How shall I exist without her? Where
will her new home be?”
An answer was soon given to the last question; for, while his fancy
still hovered about that nook, and the gentle presence which had
vanished as the sunshine was fast vanishing, Canaris came in wearing
such an expression of despair, that Helwyze recoiled, leaving
half-uttered a playful inquiry about “the little son.”
“I have no son.”
“Dead?”
“Dead. I have murdered both.”
“But Gladys?”
“Dying; she asks for you,—come!” No need of that hoarse command; Helwyze
was gone at the first word, swiftly through room and hall, up the stairs
he had not mounted for months, straight to that chamber-door. There a
hand clutched his shoulder, a breathless voice said, “Here I am
first;” and Canaris passed in before him, motioning away a group of
tearful women as he went.
Helwyze lingered, pale and panting, till they were gone; then he looked
and listened, as if turned to stone, for in the heart of the hush lay
Gladys, talking softly to the dead baby on her arm. Not mourning over
it, but yearning with maternal haste to follow and cherish the creature
of her love.
“Only a day old; so young to go away alone. Even in heaven you will want
your mother, darling, and she will come. Sleep, my baby, I will be with
you when you wake.”
A stifled sound of anguish recalled the happy soul, already half-way
home, and Gladys turned her quiet eyes to her husband bending over her.
“Dear, will he come?” she whispered.
“He is here.”
He was; and, standing on either side the bed, the two men seemed
unconscious of each other, intent only upon her. Feebly she drew the
white cover over the little cold thing in her bosom, as if too sacred
for any eyes but hers to see, then lifted up her hand with a beseeching
glance from one haggard face to the other. They understood; each gave
the hand she asked, and, holding them together with the last effort of
failing strength, she said, clear and low,—
“Forgive each other for my sake.”
Neither spoke, having no words, but by a mute gesture answered as she
wished. Something brighter than a smile rested on her face, and, as if
satisfied, she turned again to Canaris, seeming to forget all else in
the tender farewell she gave him.
“Remember, love, remember we shall be waiting for you. The new home will
not be home to us until you come.”
As her detaining touch was lifted, the two hands fell apart, never to
meet again. Canaris knelt down to lay his head beside hers on the
pillow, to catch the last accents of the beloved voice, sweet even now.
Helwyze, forgotten by them both, drew back into the shadow of the deep
red curtains, still studying with an awful curiosity the great mystery
of death, asking, even while his heart grew cold within him,—
“Will the faith she trusted sustain her now?”
It did; for, leaning on the bosom of Infinite Love, like a confiding
child in its father’s arms, without a doubt or fear to mar her peace, a
murmur or lament to make the parting harder, Gladys went to her own
place.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 XVIII.
“For in that sleep of death, what dreams may come. Is this one?” was the
vague feeling, rather than thought, of which Helwyze was dimly
conscious, as he lay in what seemed a grave, so cold, so dead he felt;
so powerless and pent, in what he fancied was his coffin. He remembered
the slow rising of a tide of helplessness which chilled his blood and
benumbed his brain, till the last idea to be distinguished was, “I am
dying: shall I meet Gladys?” then came oblivion, and now, what was this?
Something was alive still—something which strove to see, move, speak,
yet could not, till the mist, which obscured every sense, should clear
away. A murmur was in the air, growing clearer every instant, as it rose
and fell, like the muffled sound of waves upon a distant shore.
Presently he recognized human voices, and the words they uttered,—words
which had no meaning, till, like an electric shock, intelligence
returned, bringing with it a great fear.
Olivia was mourning over him, and he felt her tears upon his face; but
it was not this which stung him to sudden life,—it was another voice,
saying, low, but with a terrible distinctness,—
“There is no hope. He may remain so for some years; but sooner or later
the brain will share the paralysis of the body, and leave our poor
friend in a state I grieve to think of.”
“No!” burst from Helwyze, with an effort which seemed to dispel the
trance which held his faculties. Stir he could not, but speak he did,
and opened wide the eyes which had been closed for hours. With the
unutterable relief of one roused from a nightmare he recognized his own
room, Olivia’s tender face bent over him, and his physician holding a
hand that had no feeling in it.
“Not dead yet;” he muttered, with a feeble sort of exultation, adding,
with as feeble a despair and doubt, “but she is. Did I dream that?”
“Alas, no!” and Olivia wiped away her own tears from the forehead which
began to work with the rush of returning memory and thought.
“What does this numbness mean? Why are you here?” he asked, as his eye
went from one face to the other.
“Dear Jasper, it means that you are ill. Stern found you unconscious in
your chair last night. You are much better now, but it alarmed us, for
we thought you dead,” replied Olivia, knowing that he would have the
truth at any cost.
“I remember thinking it was death, and being glad of it. Why did you
bring me back? I had no wish to come.”
She forgave the ingratitude, and went on chafing the cold hand so
tenderly, that Helwyze reproached no more, but, turning to the
physician, demanded, with a trace of the old imperiousness coming back
into his feeble voice,—
“Is this to be the end of it?”
“I fear so, Mr. Helwyze. You will not suffer any more, let that comfort
you.”
“My body may not, but my mind will suffer horribly. Good heavens, man,
do you call this death in life a comfortable end? How long have I got to
lie here watching my wits go?”
“It is impossible to say.”
“But certain, sooner or later?”
“There is a chance,—your brain has been overworked: it must have rest,”
began the doctor, trying to soften the hard facts, since his patient
would have them.
“Rest! kill me at once, then; annihilation would be far better than such
rest as that. I will not lie here waiting for imbecility,—put an end to
this, or let me!” cried Helwyze, struggling to lift his powerless right
hand; and, finding it impossible, he looked about him with an impotent
desperation which wrung Olivia’s heart, and alarmed the physician,
although he had long foreseen this climax.
Both vainly tried to soothe and console; but after that one despairing
appeal Helwyze turned his face to the wall, and lay so for hours.
Asleep, they hoped, but in reality tasting the first bitterness of the
punishment sent upon him as an expiation for the sin of misusing one of
Heaven’s best gifts. No words could describe the terror such a fate had
for him, since intellect had been his god, and he already felt it
tottering to its fall. On what should he lean, if that were taken? where
see any ray of hope to make the present endurable? where find any
resignation to lighten the gloom of such a future?
Restless mind and lawless will, now imprisoned in a helpless body,
preyed on each other like wild creatures caged, finding it impossible to
escape, and as impossible to submit. Death would not have daunted him,
pain he had learned to endure; but this slow decay of his most precious
possession he could not bear, and suffered a new martyrdom infinitely
sharper than the old.
How time went he never knew; for, although merciful unconsciousness was
denied him, his thoughts, like avenging Furies, drove him from one
bitter memory to another, probing his soul as he had probed others, and
tormenting him with an almost supernatural activity of brain before its
long rest began. Ages seemed to pass, while he took no heed of what went
on about him. People came and went, faces bent over him, hands
ministered to him, and voices whispered in the room. He knew all this,
without the desire to do so, longing only to forget and be forgotten,
with an increasing irritation, which slowly brought him back from that
inner world of wordless pain to the outer one, which must be faced, and
in some fashion endured.
Olivia still sat near him, as if she had not stirred, though it was
morning when last he spoke, and now night had come. The familiar room
was dim and still, every thing already ordered for his comfort, and the
brilliant cousin had transformed herself into a quiet nurse. The
rustling silks were replaced by a soft, gray gown; the ornaments all
gone; even the fine hair was half-hidden by the little kerchief of lace
tied over it. Yet never had Olivia been more beautiful; for now the
haughty queen had changed to a sad woman, wearing for her sole ornaments
constancy and love. Worn and weary she looked, but a sort of sorrowful
content was visible, a jealous tenderness, which plainly told that for
her, at least, there was a drop of honey even in the new affliction,
since it made him more her own than ever.
“Poor soul! she promised to be faithful to the death; and she will
be,—even such a death as this.”
A sigh, that was almost a groan, broke from Helwyze as the thought came,
and Olivia was instantly at his side.
“Are you suffering, Jasper? What can I do for you?” she said, with such
a passionate desire to serve or cheer, that he could not but answer,
gently,—
“I am done with pain: teach me to be patient.”
“Oh, if I could! we must learn that together,” she said, feeling with
him how sorely both would need the meek virtue to sustain the life
before them.
“Where is Felix?” asked Helwyze, after lying for a while, with his eyes
upon the fire, as if they would absorb its light and warmth into their
melancholy depths.
“Mourning for Gladys,” replied Olivia, fearing to touch the dangerous
topic, yet anxious to know how the two men stood toward one another; for
something in the manner of the younger, when the elder was mentioned,
made her suspect some stronger, sadder tie between them than the one she
had already guessed.
“Does he know of this?” and Helwyze struck himself a feeble blow with
the one hand which he could use, now lying on his breast.
“Yes.”
“What does he say of me?”
“Nothing.”
“I must see him.”
“You shall. I asked him if he had no word for you, and he answered, with
a strange expression, ‘When I have buried my dead I will come, for the
last time.’”
“How does he look?” questioned Helwyze, curious to see, even through
another’s eyes, the effect of sorrow upon the man whom he had watched so
long and closely.
“Sadly broken; but he is young and sanguine: he will soon forget, and be
happy again; so do not let a thought of him disturb you, Jasper.”
“It does not: we made our bargain, and held each other to it, till he
chose to break it. Let him bear the consequences, as I do.”
“Alas, they fall on him far less heavily than on you! He has all the
world before him where to choose, while you have nothing left—but me.”
He did not seem to hear her, and fell into a gloomy reverie, which she
dared not break, but sat, patiently beguiling her lonely watch with sad
thoughts of the twilight future they were to share together,—a future
which might have been so beautiful and happy, had true love earlier made
them one.
Another day, another night, then there were sounds about the house which
told Helwyze what was passing, without the need of any question. He
asked none; but lay silent for the most part, as if careless or
unconscious of what went on around him. He missed Olivia for an hour,
and when she returned, traces of tears upon her cheeks told him that she
had been to say farewell to Gladys. He had not spoken that name even to
himself; for now an immeasurable space seemed to lie between him and its
gentle owner. She had gone into a world whither he could not follow her.
A veil, invisible, yet impenetrable, separated them for ever, he
believed, and nothing remained to him but a memory that would not die,—a
memory so bitter-sweet, so made up of remorse and reverence, love and
longing, that it seemed to waken his heart from its long sleep, and
kindle in it a spark of the divine fire, whose flame purified while it
consumed; for even in his darkness and desolation he was not forgotten.
Late that day Canaris came, looking like a man escaped from a great
shipwreck, with nothing left him but his life. Unannounced he entered,
and, with the brevity which in moments of strong feeling is more
expressive than eloquence, he said,—
“I am going.”
“Where?” asked Helwyze, conscious that any semblance of friendship, any
word of sympathy, was impossible between them.
“Out into the world again.”
“What will you do?”
“Any honest work I can find.”
“Let me”—
“No! I will take nothing from you. Poor as I came, I will go,—except the
few relics I possess of her.”
A traitorous tremor in the voice which was stern with repressed emotion
warned Canaris to pause there, while his eye turned to Olivia, as if
reminded of some last debt to her. From his breast he drew a little
paper, unfolded it, and took out what looked like a massive ring of
gold; this he laid before her, saying, with a softened mien and accent,—
“You were very kind,—I have nothing else to offer,—let me give you this,
in memory of Gladys.”
Only a tress of sunny hair; but Olivia received the gift as if it were a
very precious one, thanking him, not only with wet eyes, but friendly
words.
“Dear Felix, for her sake let me help you, if I can. Do not go away so
lonely, purposeless, and poor. The world is hard; you will be
disheartened, and turn desperate, with no one to love and hope and work
for.”
“I must help myself. I am poor; but not purposeless, nor alone.
Disheartened I may be: never desperate again; for I have some one to
love and hope and work for. She is waiting for me somewhere: I must make
myself worthy to follow and find her. I have promised; and, God helping
me, I will keep that promise.”
Very humble, yet hopeful, was the voice; and full of a sad courage was
the young man’s altered face,—for out of it the gladness and the bloom
of youth had gone for ever, leaving the strength of a noble purpose to
confront a life which hereafter should be honest, if not happy.
Helwyze had not the infinite patience to work in marble; the power to
chisel even his own divided nature into harmony, like the sculptor, who,
in the likeness of a suffering saint, hewed his own features out of
