
BAKED BEANS.

Soak dried beans all night in soft water, exchanging this in the
morning for lukewarm, and this, two hours later, for still warmer. Let
them lie an hour in this, before putting them on to boil in cold water.
When they are soft, drain and turn them into a bake-dish. Season with
pepper and salt, with a liberal spoonful of butter. Add enough boiling
water to prevent them from scorching and bake, covered, until they
smoke and bubble. Remove the cover, and brown. Serve in the bake-dish.


APPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING.

  1 teacupful tapioca, soaked for five hours in 3 teacupfuls of warm
          (not hot) water.
  8 juicy pippins, pared and cored.
  3 tablespoonfuls of sugar and a saltspoonful of salt, with a few
          whole cloves.

Arrange the apples in a deep dish; add a cup of cold water; cover, and
steam in a moderate oven until tender all through, turning them once
or twice. Turn off half the liquid and pour the tapioca, which should
have been soaked in a warm place, over the apples, when you have filled
the hollows left by the cores with sugar and put a clove in each.
The tapioca should be slightly salted. Bake one hour, or until the
tapioca is clear and crusted on top. Serve in pudding-dish.


HARD SAUCE.

To two cups of powdered sugar add half a cup of butter, slightly
warmed, so that the two can be worked up together. When they are well
mixed, beat in half a teaspoonful of nutmeg and the juice of a lemon.
Whip smooth and light, mound neatly upon a butter-plate, and set in the
cold to harden.



  First Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Split Pea Soup.
  Halibut Steaks.      Boiled Leg of Mutton.
  Caper Sauce.
  Spinach.      Stewed Potatoes.
  ——
  Cottage Pudding with Liquid Sauce.
  ——


SPLIT PEA SOUP.

  1 pint of split peas.
  4 quarts of water.
  2 lbs. of beef and some bones.
  ¼ lb. of lean bacon or ham.
  3 stalks of celery, the white part only, cut fine.
  Juice of a lemon.
  Stale bread cut into dice and fried.

Soak the peas all night in soft water, changing it in the morning for
warm—not hot. Throw this off after an hour and cover the peas with
four quarts of cold water. Boil in this—adding the meat, cut small,
the bones well cracked and the celery—four hours. Always boil soups
slowly. The neglect of this rule leaves in the kettle a mass of
toughened meat and an ocean of dish-water.

When you are ready to take up your soup, strain in a colander, picking
out and casting aside bits of bones and shreds of meat. Rub the peas
and celery through the holes of the strainer until nothing more will
pass. Season with pepper and salt; add the juice of a small lemon, and
return to the kettle, which must first be rinsed with hot water. Let
all boil together two minutes. Should it not seem so thick as you would
like, you can put in, while it is boiling, a little corn-starch wet up
with cold water. Put a couple of slices of stale bread, cut into dice
and fried crisp in dripping, in the heated tureen, and pour the soup
upon them.


HALIBUT STEAKS—FRIED.

Wash and wipe the steaks. Roll each in flour, and fry upon a buttered
griddle, turning carefully with a spatula, or cake-turner, when
the lower side is done. They should be of a nice brown, and tender
throughout. Remove to a hot dish and garnish with sliced lemon; in
carving, see that a bit of the lemon goes to each person, as many
prefer it to any other sauce for fish. Send around potatoes with the
steak. Worcestershire is a good store-sauce for fish and game. Anchovy
is pre-eminently a fish sauce, but many do not like it.


LEG OF MUTTON—BOILED.

Do not have the mutton too fat or too large. Cut off the shank, which
the butcher will have nicked for you, leaving about two inches beyond
the ham. Wash and wipe carefully and boil in hot water, with a little
salt, until a fork will readily pierce the thickest part. About ten
or twelve minutes to the pound is a good rule in boiling fresh meat.
Serve with caper sauce. Since you intend to use the liquor in which the
meat is boiled for to-morrow’s soup, do not oversalt it. But sprinkle,
instead, salt over the leg of mutton after it is dished; rub it all
over with butter and set in a hot oven for a single minute.


CAPER SAUCE.

  1 cup of the liquor in which the meat has been boiled.
  2 teaspoonfuls of flour rubbed smooth in a little water. Salt to taste.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter.
  About two dozen capers or green nasturtium-seed.

Heat the liquor to boiling, and skim before stirring in the flour,
which must be perfectly free from lumps, and rubbed smooth in cold
water. Stir until the sauce thickens evenly. It is best to cook all
sauces in a vessel set within a larger one of hot water. When it has
boiled about a minute, add the butter gradually, stirring each bit in
well before putting in more. Salt, and drop in the capers. Let it just
boil, and turn into a sauce-boat.


SPINACH.

Pull the spinach from the stalks, leaf by leaf; wash carefully, and
leave in cold water one hour. Boil in hot water fifteen minutes. Drain
very dry in a colander; chop extremely fine in a wooden bowl, then
return to the saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter, a little salt,
and a teaspoonful of white sugar. As it heats beat it up with a wooden
spoon until it is a soft paste. Let it bubble up once, and dish. Lay
a hard-boiled egg or two, cut in thin slices, upon the surface. Few
vegetables are more often ruined in the cooking than spinach. The above
receipt is simple and good.


STEWED POTATOES.

Pare and cut into large dice some good potatoes. Lay in cold water half
an hour. Stew in cold water, a little salted. There should be enough
water to cover them well. When they are tender and begin to crumble
at the edges, drain off half the water, and pour in as much milk. When
they are again scalding hot, stir in a lump of butter the size of
an egg (for a large dish) rolled in flour, salt, pepper and chopped
parsley to taste. Boil up once and serve in a covered dish.


COTTAGE PUDDING.

  1 cup of powdered sugar.
  1 cup of sweet milk.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  2 eggs, beaten light, yolks and whites separately.
  Saltspoonful of salt.
  About 3 cups of Hecker’s prepared flour, enough for cake-batter.

Rub the butter well into the sugar; add beaten yolks; the milk, salt,
then whipped whites and yolks alternately. Bake in a buttered mould.
When you can bring out the testing-straw clean from the middle of the
loaf, turn it out upon a dish. Cut in slices while hot, as it is wanted.

One who has never tried it can hardly believe that the result of a
receipt which may be tried fearlessly by a novice in cookery, could be
the really elegant pudding just described.

It is also as economical as toothsome.


SAUCE FOR COTTAGE PUDDING.

  2 cups of powdered sugar.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter.
  1 cup of boiling water.
  1 glass sherry wine.
  Nutmeg or cinnamon to taste.

Rub the butter into the sugar; add hot water gradually; then spice and
wine. Cover tightly to keep in the strength of the wine, and set for
twenty minutes in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir up and send to
table.


  First Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Vermicelli Soup.
  Scalloped Oysters.      Mince of Mutton with Potato Frill.
  Baked Tomatoes.      Celery.
  ——
  Tipsy Trifle.
  Apples and Nuts.
  ——


VERMICELLI SOUP.

Take off all the fat from the broth in which your mutton was cooked
yesterday, and boil it down slowly to two-thirds of the original
quantity. Stew to pieces, in another vessel, a stalk of celery, one
small onion, a carrot, and a bunch of sweet herbs—all cut up fine. A
ham-bone, if you have it, or a couple of slices of lean ham, will be an
improvement to the broth. Strain the soup; rub the vegetables through a
fine colander with the water in which they were boiled; return to the
fire with a double handful of vermicelli broken into short pieces; boil
for ten minutes; add a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour; boil up
and serve.

Send around a saucer of grated cheese with vermicelli and macaroni
soups. It is a great improvement to the flavor and consistency. Each
person may take as much or as little as he likes.


SCALLOPED OYSTERS.

  1 quart of fine oysters.
  1 coffee-cupful of pounded cracker.
  2 great spoonfuls of butter.
  ½ cupful of cream or rich milk.
  Pepper and salt to taste.

Butter a baking-dish and cover the bottom pretty thickly with pounded
cracker. Wet with oyster liquor and a few spoonfuls of cream. Next, lay
oysters, one deep, closely over these. Pepper and salt, and stick a
bit of butter upon each. Another layer of crumbs, wet as before; more
oysters, and proceed in like order until your dish is full, making the
top layer of crumbs with butter dotted over it. Set in the oven, invert
a plate or tin pan over the dish, and bake until the juice bubbles up
to the top. Uncover; set upon the upper grating of the oven to brown,
and send to table in the bake-dish. Pass around sliced lemon with it.

Oysters, like fish, follow immediately after soup, and are a course by
themselves.


MINCE OF MUTTON WITH POTATO FRILL.

  The remains of yesterday’s mutton, minced, but not very fine.
  1 cupful of drawn butter.
  2 tablespoonfuls of cream, or rich milk.
  Pepper, salt, and mace to taste, also chopped parsley.
  1 button onion.
  2 eggs, well beaten.

Heat the sauce to a boil, add the seasoning and the onion, chopped very
fine; then, the meat. Draw the saucepan to the side of the range, and
let it stand, closely covered, in boiling water for ten minutes. Set
again over the fire and bring to boiling point. Add the eggs and milk
and set back at the side for five minutes, still covered. The mince
should never really boil after the meat goes in.


POTATO FRILL.

Boil and mash some potatoes; working in a little milk and butter, but
not so much as to make the paste very soft. Season with salt, and,
while still hot, knead in a beaten egg. Shape this paste into a fence,
on the inside round of a shallow dish; fluting it regularly with the
round handle of a knife. Set for one minute in a hot oven, but not long
enough to cause the fence to crack. Glaze quickly with butter, and pour
the meat carefully within the wall. The mince should not be so thin as
to wash away the “frill.” If well managed this is a pretty and a savory
dish.


BAKED TOMATOES.

  1 can of tomatoes.
  Stale bread, crumbed fine.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  Pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and white sugar.

Drain off two-thirds of the liquor from the tomatoes; salt it and
set aside for another day’s soup. One has no excuse for waste whose
“stock-pot” is always near at hand. Little comes amiss to it. Cover the
bottom of a bake-dish with crumbs; lay the tomatoes evenly upon this
bed; season with pepper, salt, sugar, and parsley, with bits of butter
here and there. Strew bread-crumbs over all, a thicker layer than at
the bottom; put tiny pieces of butter upon this, and bake, covered,
about thirty-five minutes. Take off the cover and brown upon the upper
shelf of the oven. Do not let it stay there long enough to get dry.


CELERY—RAW.

Wash, trim, and scrape the stalks, selecting those that are white and
tender. Crisp by leaving them in very cold water until they are wanted
for the table. Arrange neatly in a celery-stand. Pass between the
oysters and meat.


TIPSY TRIFLE.

  1 quart of milk.
  3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.
  1 stale sponge-cake.
  1 cup of sugar.
  Flavoring of vanilla.
  1 cup of sherry wine.
  A few spoonfuls of currant jelly.

Make a custard of the milk, sugar, the yolks of the eggs and the whites
of two. Put in the latter ingredients when the milk almost boils,
and stir until it begins to thicken. Flavor when cold. Put a layer of
sliced cake in the bottom of a glass bowl. Wet with the wine and a few
spoonfuls of custard, and when it is quite soaked, put on more cake.
Proceed in this manner until the cake and wine are used up, when pour
on, a little at a time, the remainder of the custard; holding down
the cake with a bread spoon as you do this to keep it from floating.
Lay a heavy plate upon it, for the same purpose, while you prepare a
méringue by whipping stiff the rest of the whites, and then beating in
the currant jelly. Cover the trifle with this just before dinner-time.


APPLES AND NUTS.

Polish the apples, and crack the nuts, unless you have plenty of
nut-crackers. Give a knife to each apple-plate, and teach the children
to pare them neatly for themselves, instead of “munching” like rabbits
at family dinners, and being awkwardly ill at ease when “company” is
present. Silver or ivory knives are better for fruit than steel.



  First Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Soupe Maigre.
  Boiled Cod.      Roast Duck with Bread Sauce.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Rice Croquettes.
  Stewed Celery.
  ——
  Apple Pie.
  ——


SOUPE MAIGRE.

  1 quart of milk.
  3 pints of water.
  1 onion.
  1 turnip.
  3 stalks of celery.
  1 potato (large).
  Quarter of a small cabbage, sliced.
  ½ cup of bread-crumbs, very dry.
  2 eggs, beaten light.
  Parsley, pepper, and salt to taste.
  4 tablespoonfuls of butter.

Clean, scrape, and mince the vegetables, and put on to cook in cold
water, enough to cover them well. When they are scalding hot, drain,
and cover them with three pints of boiling water. Stew slowly in this
until they are reduced to pulp. Rub through a colander, season, and
heat again to boiling. Stir in the bread-crumbs; then the butter, very
gradually. Have the milk ready, heated in another vessel, and pour into
the soup-kettle at this juncture. Let the soup get very hot, but not
boil. Set upon the side of the range, and, dipping out a cupful, add
it, a little at a time, to the beaten eggs. When well mixed, return
eggs and liquor to the rest of the soup; stir over the fire for an
instant, but never to boiling, and serve in a hot tureen.

The eggs should not be allowed to curdle in the liquor; hence the need
of carefulness in following the directions above given. A little grated
cheese is a pleasant accompaniment to this soup, each person adding it
as pleases him.


BOILED COD.

Lay the fish in cold water, a little salt, for half an hour. Wipe dry,
and sew up in a linen cloth, coarse and clean, fitted to the shape
of the piece of cod. Have but one fold over each part. Lay in the
fish-kettle, cover with boiling water, salted at discretion. Allow
nearly an hour for a piece weighing four pounds.


SAUCE.

To one gill of boiling water allow as much milk; stir into this, while
boiling, two tablespoonfuls of butter, added gradually, a tablespoonful
of flour wet up with cold water, and, as it thickens, the chopped yolk
of a boiled egg and one raw egg, beaten light. Take directly from the
fire, season with pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley and the juice
of a lemon, and set, covered, in boiling water, but not over the fire,
for five minutes, stirring occasionally. Pour part of the sauce over
the fish when dished; the rest in a boat. Send around mashed potatoes
with it.


ROAST DUCK.

Clean the duck very carefully, rinsing it out with a little soda and
water, and afterwards with fresh water. Lay in cold, salted water
for an hour. Wipe dry, inside and out, and stuff with a dressing of
bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, a very little powdered
sage and a “suspicion” of minced onion. Sew up; dash a cup of boiling
water over them, as they lie in the dripping-pan, and roast, covered,
for the first half-hour. Remove the cover, and baste freely—three times
with butter and water, four or five times with the gravy from the pan.
Stew the giblets in a little salted water, and reserve to piece out
to-morrow’s salmi. Dish the ducks upon a hot platter.


BREAD SAUCE.

Skim the fat well from the gravy left in the dripping-pan; have ready
a handful of bread-crumbs (stale), wet up with hot water. Thicken the
gravy with these when it has come to a boil; season with pepper, salt,
and a pinch of mace. Boil all together once and serve.


MASHED POTATOES.

See receipt for Sunday.

While I would spare you all waste of time and pains in looking up
receipts in other parts of this volume, I yet deem it hardly worth
while to write out in full the same directions twice for the same
week—or month.


RICE CROQUETTES.

  1 cup of cold boiled rice.
  1 teaspoonful of sugar, and half as much salt.
  1 teaspoonful of melted butter.
  1 egg, beaten light.
  Enough milk to make the rice into stiff paste.
  Sweet lard for frying.

Work rice, butter, egg, etc., into an adhesive paste, beating each
ingredient thoroughly into the mixture. Flour your hands and make
the rice into oval balls. Dip each in beaten egg, then in flour, or
cracker-dust, and fry in boiling lard, a few at a time, turning each
with great care. When the croquettes are of a fine yellow-brown, take
out with a wire spoon and lay within a heated colander to drain off
every drop of fat. Serve hot, with sprigs of parsley laid about them,
in an uncovered dish.


STEWED CELERY.

Cut the celery into inch lengths; cover with cold water and stew until
tender. Turn off the water and supply its place with enough milk to
cover the celery. When this begins to boil stir in a good lump of
butter rolled in flour; pepper and salt to taste, and stew gently five
minutes.

You will like this vegetable thus prepared. Eat, if you like, with a
little lemon-juice or vinegar.


APPLE PIE.

  1 quart of flour, dried and sifted.
  ½ lb. of lard.
  ¼ lb. of butter.
  Ice-water to make stiff paste.

Chop the lard into the dry flour. Wet with ice-water into stiff paste,
touching as little as may be with your hands. Roll out very thin,
always from you. Stick bits of butter all over the sheet; roll up
tightly as you would a sheet of paper. Beat flat with your rolling-pin,
roll out again, and again baste with butter. Repeat the operations of
rolling up, rolling out, and basting until your butter is used up. Set
the roll of pastry in a cold, dry place for at least one hour. All
night would not be too long. When it is crisp and firm, roll out and
line your buttered pie-plates. The bottom crust should be thinner than
the upper. And, as a rule, you would do well to give the roll of pastry
intended for the latter a “baste” or two more than that meant for the
lower.

Pare, core and slice juicy, tart apples; put a layer upon the inner
crust, sprinkle with sugar thickly—scatter a few cloves upon the sugar;
then another layer of apples, and so on, until the dish is full. Cover
with crust, pressed down firmly at the edges, and bake. Eat warm, or
cold, with white sugar sifted over the top.

Apple pie is very good with cream poured over each slice.



  First Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Macaroni Soup.
  Ham and Eggs.      Salmi of Duck.
  Fried Parsnips.      Stewed Salsify.
  Sweet Potatoes—in Jackets.
  ——
  Rosie’s Rice Custard.
  ——


MACARONI SOUP.

  4 quarts of cold water.
  3 lbs. of coarse, lean beef, cut into thin strips.
  2 or 3 lbs. of bones, broken small.
  4 onions, sliced.
  1 bunch of sweet herbs, chopped.
  Tomato juice or catsup.
  ¼ lb. of macaroni.
  A few salt pork bones.

Fry the meat until half done, in a very little dripping. Take it
out and fry the onions and bones in the same gravy. Put all into a
soup-kettle with the herbs, and cover with 4 quarts of water (cold).
Bring to a slow boil, and, at the end of four hours, strain into a
great bowl to cool, in order that the fat may rise and be taken off.
Meanwhile, make ready your macaroni by breaking it into short bits,
covering well with boiling water, a little salted, and stewing slowly
twenty minutes, or until tender. Add a lump of butter the size of a
walnut; let it stand, covered, for a few minutes, while you season the
soup, adding the tomato-juice or catsup. Boil, skim, and thicken with
a tablespoonful of corn-starch wet up with cold water. When it is again
on the boil, turn in the macaroni, taking care not to break it. Heat to
scalding, but do not boil; pour out, and serve.


HAM AND EGGS.

Cut your slices of ham of a uniform size and shape, cutting off the
rind. Fry quickly in their own fat. Remove from the pan with a wire
spoon so soon as they are done, and arrange upon a hot dish, setting
this within the open oven, or upon a pot of boiling water to keep
warm. Drop the eggs, as you break them, into the hot fat left in the
frying-pan. Do not put so many in as to crowd one another. Each egg
should preserve its individuality. Cook about three minutes, without
turning. Take up with a spatula, or cake-turner, and lay one upon each
slice of ham. Do not send the gravy to table. Strain, and use for
dripping.


SALMI OF DUCK.

From the cold ducks left after yesterday’s dinner cut all the meat in
as neat slices as you can, leaving the joints of legs and wings whole.
Take off the skin; break the carcass into pieces, and put these, with
the stuffing, into a saucepan with a fried onion, some sweet herbs,
pepper, salt, and a pinch of allspice. Cover with cold water and stew
gently, after it reaches the boil, for one hour. Cool, that the fat
may rise and be taken off. Strain the gravy when you have skimmed
it; return to the saucepan, boil and skim again, and stir in two
tablespoonfuls of browned flour, wet with cold water; lastly, stir in
a great spoonful of butter. Stew five minutes longer, and put in the
meat. Draw to one side of the range, and set, closely covered, in a pot
of boiling water for ten minutes. The meat must be thoroughly heated
and steeped in the gravy, but not boil. Take the meat out with a
perforated spoon, pile neatly upon a dish and pour the gravy over it.
Garnish with triangles of stale bread fried crisp, and send a piece to
each person who is helped to salmi.


FRIED PARSNIPS.

Boil, until tender, in hot water slightly salted; let them get almost
cold, scrape off the skin, and cut in thick, long slices. Dredge with
flour and fry in hot dripping, turning as they brown. Drain very dry in
a hot colander; pepper and salt and serve.


STEWED SALSIFY.

Scrape the roots, dropping each into cold water as you do this, that
they may not change color. Cut in pieces an inch long; cover with hot
water and stew until tender. Drain off two-thirds of the water and add
enough milk to cover the salsify. Stew ten minutes in this; put in a
good lump of butter rolled thickly in flour. Pepper and salt. Boil up
for one minute.


SWEET POTATOES—IN JACKETS.

Parboil in their skins when you have washed them, selecting such as
are of like size. Then put in a moderate oven and bake until soft all
through. You can ascertain this by pinching the largest. Wipe off and
serve in their skins.


ROSIE’S RICE CUSTARD.

  1 quart of milk.
  3 eggs, well beaten.
  4 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  1 cup boiled rice.
  A little salt.
  Half the grated rind of a lemon.

Boil the rice, drain, and stir, while hot, into the milk. Beat the eggs
well; rub butter and sugar to a cream with lemon-peel and a little
salt, and stir into the warm milk. Mix well and bake in a buttered dish
in a brisk oven. Eat warm or cold. We like it better warm, with a
little cream poured over it when served in saucers.


  Second Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Soupe au Julienne.
  Roast Turkey.      Cranberry Sauce.
  Mashed Potatoes, Browned.      Stewed Corn.
  Celery.
  ——
  Tropical Snow.
  Light Cakes and Coffee.
  ——


SOUPE AU JULIENNE.

  6 lbs. of lean beef. If possible, get it from the shin and have
          the accompanying bones cracked to bits.
  6 quarts of water—cold.

Prepare the stock on Saturday. Put meat and bones into a pot with a
close cover, pour on the water, and set it where it will heat very
slowly. Boil, also very slowly, six hours, at the back of the range.
Should the water sink fast in the pot, replenish from the boiling
tea-kettle. At the end of six hours, turn the soup, meat, bones and
all, into an earthenware vessel; pepper and salt it and set on the
cellar floor, covered, until next day. Take off, then, the cake of
excellent dripping from the top; strain the soup and set over the fire,
about an hour before dinner, and heat gradually.

The vegetables should be—

  2 carrots.
  3 turnips.
  Half a head of cabbage.
  1 pint Shaker corn, soaked overnight.
  6 stalks of celery.
  1 quart of tomatoes.
  1 large onion.

Clean, scrape, and mince all these, except the corn and tomatoes. Cut
the carrot into dice and stew, by itself, in a little cold water. Boil
the corn in enough water to cover it, and add more hot water as it
swells. Cover the minced vegetables with cold water, and so soon as
it boils, turn it off, and replenish with boiling, from the kettle.
This will take away the rank taste from cabbage and onion. When they
are soft enough to pulp, strain well, but without pressing, into the
soup. It is needless to add the vegetables, as the strength is in the
liquor. Boil up and skim the soup before putting in the boiled corn and
the canned tomatoes, which should be cut up small, and the unripe parts
removed. Boil fifteen minutes, add the carrot, season to taste, and
serve.[B]


ROAST TURKEY.

Rinse out the turkey well with soda and water; then with salt, lastly
with fair water. Stuff with a dressing made of bread-crumbs, wet up
with butter and water and seasoned to your taste. Stuff the craw and
tie up the neck. Fill the body and sew up the vent. I need hardly
say that these strings are to be clipped and removed after the fowl
is roasted. Tie the legs to the lower part of the body that they may
not “sprawl,” as the sinews shrink. Put into the dripping-pan, pour a
teacupful of boiling water over it, and roast, basting often, allowing
about ten minutes’ time for every pound. Be careful not to have your
oven too hot—especially during the first half-hour or so. The turkey
would, otherwise, be dry and blackened on the outside and raw within.
And remember how much of the perfection of roasting meats and poultry
depends upon basting faithfully. Boil the giblets tender in a little
water. When the turkey is done, set it where it will keep warm; skim
the gravy left in the pan; add a little boiling water; thicken slightly
with browned flour; boil up once and add the giblets minced fine.
Season to taste; give another boil, and send to table in a gravy-boat.


CRANBERRY SAUCE.

Wash and pick over the cranberries; put on to cook in a tin or
porcelain vessel, allowing a teacupful of water to each quart. Stew
slowly, stirring often until they are as thick as marmalade. Take from
the fire in little over an hour, if they have cooked steadily, sweeten
plentifully with white sugar, and strain through coarse tarlatan, or
mosquito-net, into a mould wet with cold water.

Do this on Saturday. On Sunday, turn out into a glass dish.


MASHED POTATOES—BROWNED.

Having mashed them in the usual manner, mound them smoothly upon
a shallow earthenware dish and set them in a quick oven, glazing
them with butter as they color. They should be of a light brown.
Slip the mound from a coarser to a finer platter by the help of
your cake-turner. It is still better if you have one of the pretty
“enamelled” bake-dishes lined with porcelain, with silver stands for
the table. They are invaluable for puddings, scallops, etc.


STEWED CORN.

Stew one quart of canned corn in its own liquor, setting the
vessel containing it in an outer, of hot water. Should the corn be
exceptionally dry, add a little cold water. When tender, pour in enough
milk to cover the corn, bring to a boil, and put in a tablespoonful
of butter rolled in flour, and salt to taste. Stew gently, stirring
well, three or four minutes, and turn into a deep dish. Keep the vessel
containing the corn closely covered while it is cooking. The steam
facilitates the process and preserves the color of the corn.


CELERY

Is the usual accompaniment of roast turkey. Prepare by selecting
the blanched stalks, scraping off the rust, cutting off all but the
youngest and tenderest tops, and laying these in cold water to crisp
until wanted for the table. Garnish your turkey with alternate light
and dark green sprigs of celery.


TROPICAL SNOW.

  8 sweet oranges.
  1 grated cocoanut.
  1 glass of pale sherry.
  1 cup of powdered sugar.
  5 red bananas.

Peel and cut the oranges into small pieces by dividing each lobe
crosswise into thirds. Extract the seeds and put a layer of the fruit
in the bottom of a glass dish. Pour a little wine upon it, and strew
with powdered sugar. The cocoanut must have been prepared by removing
the rind and throwing it into cold water for some time before grating
it. Over the layer of oranges spread one of cocoanut; cut the bananas
into very thin, round slices, and lay these, one deep, upon the
cocoanut. Repeat the order just given until your dish is full and the
oranges and bananas used up. The top layer must be of cocoanut, heaped
high, sprinkled with powdered sugar and garnished about the base with
slices of banana. Eat soon, as the oranges toughen in the wine.

      

Supplement this pretty, but not substantial dessert by a salver of
lady’s-fingers, and macaroons, and a good cup of coffee.



  Second Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Next Day’s Soup.
  Turkey Scallop.      Panned Oysters.
  Roast Potatoes.      Tomato Sauce.
  ——
  Floating Island.
  Tea.
  ——


NEXT DAY’S SOUP.

Julienne soup, like most other soups the base of which is meat, is
better when warmed over the second day. Set it over the fire where it
will heat, not too quickly, almost to a boil. It will not “put back”
the business of the day twenty minutes, and be a welcome addition to
your dinner.


TURKEY SCALLOP.

Cut the meat from yesterday’s turkey. Crack the carcass to pieces, and
put, with bits of skin, fat, and gristle, into a saucepan; cover with
cold water, and set on to stew slowly into gravy. Chop the meat very
fine; strew the bottom of a greased bake-dish with crumbs, and cover
this with a thick stratum of minced turkey, stuffing, and tiny bits of
butter. Pepper and salt, and put on more crumbs, then meat, and so on.
Stale bread is better for this scallop than cracker-dust. Having used
up all your meat and reserved enough crumbs for a thick upper crust,
cover the dish and put aside in a cool place until your gravy is ready.
It is economy of time, on Monday, to slip in such work as this between
the many “must be’s” of the season. Your scallop will be none the worse
for waiting some hours before, or after, the gravy is added, provided
you keep it covered. When the gravy has drawn all the substance from
bones, etc., strain it and return to the saucepan with what was left
in yesterday’s gravy-boat, having first skimmed the latter. Boil up,
thicken with browned flour wet up with cold water; bring to another
boil; pour over the scallop, saving a little to wet the top. Now comes
your layer of fine bread-crumbs. Wet these with the gravy in a bowl,
season to taste, beat to a soft paste with a couple of eggs and spread
evenly over the scallop. Invert a plate over the bake-dish and set in
the oven. When, at the end of half an hour or so, the gravy bubbles up
at the sides, remove the cover and brown. Serve in the pudding-dish.


PANNED OYSTERS.

A four-course dinner is hardly in order in most households on Monday.
You can, if you like, and have an efficient table-waiter, bring
on oysters, as usual, between soup and meat. But there will be no
violation of the “unities of the drama” of a family dinner, if you
send around your oysters, scallop, and vegetables together.

  1 quart of oysters.
  Some thin slices of toast.
  Butter, salt, and pepper.

Have ready some “patty pans”—the more nearly upright the sides the
better. Cut stale bread in rounds to fit the bottoms of these. Toast,
and lay a piece in each. Wet with oyster liquor and put into each pan
as many oysters as it will conveniently hold. Pepper and salt; put a
bit of butter upon each; arrange all in a large dripping-pan; invert
another of the same size over it, and bake eight minutes, or until the
oysters “ruffle.” Send hot to table in the pans.
