am afraid you have never had a trouble." 
" Oh, yes, I have!" Felix declared, with some 
spirit ; " before I kflew better. But you don't 
catch me at it again." 
Mr. Wentworth maintained for a while a silence 
more expressive than a deep-drawn sigh. " You 
have no children," he said at last. 
" Don't tell me," Felix exclaimed, " that your 
 
charming young people are a source of grief to 
you ! " 
"I don't speak of Charlotte." And then, af- 
ter a pause, Mr. Wentworth continued, " I don't 
speak of Gertrude. But I feel considerable anx- 
iety about Clifford. I will tell you another time." 
The next time he gave Felix a sitting his 
nephew reminded him that he had taken him into 
his confidence. " How is Clifford to-day ? " Felix 
asked. " He has always seemed to me a young 
man of remarkable discretion. Indeed, he is only 
too discreet ; he seems on his guard against me 
as if he thought me rather light company. The 
other day he told his sister Gertrude repeated 
it to me that I was always laughing at him. If 
I laugh it is simply from the impulse to try and 
inspire him with confidence. That is the only way 
I have." 
" Clifford's situation is no laughing matter," 
said Mr. Wentworth. "It is very peculiar, as I 
suppose you have guessed." 
"Ah, you mean his love affair with his cousin ? " 
Mr. Wentworth stared, blushing a little. "I 
mean his absence from college. He has been sus- 
pended. We have decided not to speak of it un- 
less we are asked." 
" Suspended ? " Felix repeated. 
" He has been requested by the Harvard au- 
  
thorities to absent himself for six months. Mean- 
while he is studying with Mr. Brand. We think 
Mr. Brand will help him ; at least we hope so." 
" What befell him at college ? " Felix asked. 
" He was too fond of pleasure ? Mr. Brand cer- 
tainly will not teach him any of those secrets ! " 
" He was too fond of something of which he 
should not haye been fond. I suppose it is con- 
sidered a pleasure." 
Felix gave his light laugh. " My dear uncle, 
is there any doubt about its being a pleasure ? 
(Test de son dge, as they say in France." 
" I should have said rather it was a vice of later 
life of disappointed old age." 
Felix glanced at his uncle, with his lifted eye- 
brows, and then, " Of what are you speaking?" 
he demanded, smiling. 
" Of the situation in which Clifford was found." 
" Ah, he was found he was caught ? " 
" Necessarily, he was caught. He could n't 
walk ; he staggered.'' 
" Oh," said Felix, " he drinks ! I rather sus- 
pected that, from something I observed the first 
day I came here. I quite agree with you that it 
is a low taste. It 's not a vice for a gentleman. 
He ought to give it up." 
" We hope for a good deal from Mr. Brand's 
influence," Mr. Wentworth went on. " He has 
talked to him from the first. And he never 
touches anything himself." 
" I will talk to him I will talk to him ! " 
Felix declared, gayly. 
"What will you say to him?" asked his uncle, 
with some apprehension. 
Felix for some moments answered nothing. " Do 
you mean to marry him to his cousin ? " he asked 
at last. 
" Marry him ? " echoed Mr. Wentworth. " I 
should n't think his cousin would want to marry 
him." 
"You have no understanding, then, with Mrs. 
Acton?" 
Mr. Wentworth stared, almost blankly. " I 
have never discussed such subjects with her." 
" I should think it might be time," said Felix. 
" Lizzie Acton is admirably pretty, and if Clifford 
is dangerous . . . . " 
" They are not engaged," said Mr. Wentworth. 
" I have no reason to suppose they are engaged." 
" Par exemple ! " cried Felix. " A clandestine 
engagement? Trust me, Clifford, as I say, is a 
charming boy. He is incapable of that. Lizzie Ac- 
ton, then, would not be jealous of another woman." 
" I certainly hope not," said the old man, with 
a vague sense of jealousy being an even lower vice 
than a love of liquor. 
 
   
" The best thing for Clifford, then," Felix pro- 
pounded, " is to become interested in some clever, 
charming woman." And he paused in his paint- 
ing, and, with his elbows on his knees, looked 
with bright communicativeness at his uncle. " You 
see, I believe greatly in the influence of women. 
Living with women helps to make a man a gentle- 
man. It is very true Clifford has his sisters, who 
are so charming. But there should be a different 
sentiment in play from the fraternal, you know. 
He has Lizzie Acton ; but she, perhaps, is rather 
immature." 
" I suspect Lizzie has talked to him, reasoned 
with him," said Mr. Wentworth. 
" On the impropriety of getting tipsy on the 
beauty of temperance ? That is dreary work for 
a pretty young girl. No," Felix continued ; " Clif- 
ford ought to frequent some agreeable woman, 
who, without ever mentioning such unsavory sub- 
jects, would give him a sense of its being very ri- 
diculous to be fuddled. If he could fall in love 
with her a little, so much the better. The thing 
would operate as a cure." 
"Well, now, what lady should you suggest?" 
asked Mr. Wentworth. 
" There is a clever woman under your hand. 
My sister." 
"Your sister under my hand?" Mr. Went- 
worth repeated. 
 
" Say a word to Clifford. Tell him to be bold. 
He is well disposed already; he has invited her 
two or three times to drive. But I don't think he 
comes to see her. Give him a hint to come to 
come often. He will sit there of an afternoon, 
and they will talk. It will do him good." 
Mr. Wentworth meditated. " You think she 
will exercise a helpful influence ? " 
" She will exercise a civilizing I may call it a 
sobering influence. A charming, clever, witty 
woman always does especially if she is a little 
of a coquette. My dear uncle, the society of such 
women has been half my education. If Clifford 
is suspended, as you say, from college, let Euge- 
nia be his preceptress." 
Mr. Wentworth continued thoughtful. "You 
think Eugenia is a coquette ? " he asked. 
" What pretty woman is not ? " Felix demanded 
in turn. But this, for Mr. Wentworth, could at 
the best have been no answer, for he did not think 
his niece pretty. " With Clifford," the young 
man pursued, " Eugenia will simply be enough of 
a coquette to be a little ironical. That 's what he 
needs. So you recommend him to be nice with 
her, you know. The suggestion will come best 
from you." 
"Do I understand," asked the old man, "that I 
am to suggest to my son to make a a profession 
of of affection to Madame Miinster?" 
   
"Yes, yes a profession!" cried Felix sym- 
pathetically. 
" But, as I understand it, Madame Miinster is 
a married woman." 
" Ah," said Felix, smiling, " of course she can't 
marry him. But she will do what she can." 
Mr. Went worth sat for some time with his eyes 
on the floor ; at last he got up. " I don't think," 
he said, " that I can undertake to recommend my 
son any such course." And without meeting Fe- 
lix's surprised glance he broke off his sitting, which 
was not resumed for a fortnight. 
Felix was very fond of the little lake which oc- 
cupied so many of Mr. Wentworth's numerous 
acres, and of a remarkable pine grove which lay 
upon the further side of it, planted upon a steep 
embankment and haunted by the summer breeze. 
The murmur of the air in the far off tree-tops 
had a strange distinctness ; it was almost articu- 
late. One afternoon the young man came out of 
his painting-room and passed the open door of 
Eugenia's little salon. Within, in the cool dim- 
ness, he saw his sister, dressed in white, buried 
in her arm-chair, and holding to her face an 
immense bouquet. Opposite to her sat Clifford 
Wentworth, twirling his hat. He had evidently 
just presented the bouquet to the Baroness, whose 
fine eyes, as she glanced at him over the big roses 
 
and geraniums, wore a conversational smile. Fe- 
lix, standing on the threshold of the cottage, hes- 
itated for a moment as to whether he should re- 
trace his steps and enter the parlor. Then he 
went his way and passed into Mr. Wentworth's 
garden. That civilizing process to which he had 
suggested that Clifford should be subjected ap- 
peared to have come on of itself. Felix was 
very sure, at least, that Mr. Wentworth had not 
adopted his ingenious device for stimulating the 
young man's aesthetic consciousness. u Doubtless 
he supposes," he said to himself, after the conver- 
sation that has been narrated, u that I desire, out 
of fraternal benevolence, to procure for Eugenia 
the amusement of a flirtation or, as he probably 
calls it, an intrigue with the too susceptible Clif- 
ford. It must be admitted and I have noticed it 
before that nothing exceeds the license occa- 
sionally taken by the imagination of very rigid 
people." Felix, on his own side, had of course 
said nothing to Clifford ; but he had observed to 
Eugenia that Mr. Wentworth was much mortified 
at his son's low tastes. " We ought to do some- 
thing to help them, after all their kindness to us," 
he had added. " Encourage Clifford to come and 
see you, and inspire him with a taste for conversa- 
tion. That will supplant the other, which only 
comes from his puerility, from his not taking his 
   
position in the world that of a rich young man 
of ancient stock seriously enough. Make him 
a little more serious. Even if he makes love to 
you it is no great matter." 
" I am to offer myself as a superior form of in- 
toxication a substitute for a brandy bottle, eh ? " 
asked the Baroness. " Truly, in this country one 
comes to strange uses." 
But she had not positively declined to under- 
take Clifford's higher education, and Felix, who 
had not thought of the matter again, being haunted 
with visions of more personal profit, now reflected 
that the work of redemption had fairly begun. 
The idea in prospect had seemed of the happiest, 
but in operation it made him a trifle uneasy. 
" What if Eugenia what if Eugenia " he asked 
himself softly ; the question dying away in his 
sense of Eugenia's undetermined capacity. But 
before Felix had time either to accept or to reject 
its admonition, even in this vague form, he saw 
Robert Acton turn out of Mr. Wentworth's in- 
closure, by a distant gate, and come toward the 
cottage in the orchard. Acton had evidently 
walked from his own house along a shady by-way 
and was intending to pay a visit to Madame Mini- 
ster. Felix watched him a moment ; then he 
turned away. Acton could be left to play the part 
of Providence and interrupt if interruption were 
needed Clifford's entanglement with Eugenia. 
 
Felix passed through the garden toward the 
house and toward a postern gate which opened 
upon a path leading across the fields, beside a little 
wood, to the lake. He stopped and looked up at 
the house ; his eyes rested more particularly upon 
a certain open window, on the shady side. Pres- 
ently Gertrude appeared there, looking out into 
the summer light. He took off his hat to her and 
bade her good-day ; he remarked that he was go- 
ing to row across the pond, and begged that she 
would do him the honor to accompany him. She 
looked at him a moment; then, without saying 
anything, she turned away. But she soon reap- 
peared below in one of those quaint and charming 
Leghorn hats, tied with white satin bows, that 
were worn at that period ; she also carried a green 
parasol. She went with him to the edge of the 
lake, where a couple of boats were always moored ; 
they got into one of them, and Felix, with gentle 
strokes, propelled it to the opposite shore. The 
day was the perfection of summer weather; the 
little lake was the color of sunshine ; the plash of 
the oars was the only sound, and they found them- 
selves listening to it. They disembarked, and, by 
a winding path, ascended the pine-crested mound 
which overlooked the water, whose white expanse 
glittered between the trees. The place was de- 
lightfully cool, and had the added charm that in 
   
the softly sounding pine boughs you seemed to 
hear the coolness as well as feel it. Felix and 
Gertrude sat down on the rust-colored carpet of 
pine-needles and talked of many things. Felix 
spoke at last, in the course of talk, of his going 
away; it was the first time he had alluded to it. 
" You are going away ? " said Gertrude, looking 
at him. 
" Some day when the leaves begin to fall. 
You know I can't stay forever." 
Gertrude transferred her eyes to the outer pros- 
pect, and then, after a pause, she said, " I shall 
never see you again." 
" Why not ? " asked Felix. " We shall proba- 
bly both survive my departure." 
But Gertrude only repeated, " I shall never see 
you again. I shall never hear of you," she went 
on. " I shall know nothing about you. I knew 
nothing about you before, and it will be the same 
again." 
" I knew nothing about you then, unfortu- 
nately," said Felix. " But now I shall write to 
you." 
" Don't write to me. I shall not answer you," 
Gertrude declared. 
"I should of course burn your letters," said 
Felix. 
Gertrude looked at him again. " Burn my let- 
ters ? You sometimes say strange things." 
 
" They are not strange in themselves," the young 
man answered. " They are only strange as said 
to you. You will come to Europe." 
" With whom shall I come ? " She asked this 
question simply ; she was very much in earnest. 
Felix was interested in her earnestness ; for some 
moments he hesitated. " You can't tell me that," 
she pursued. "You can't say that I shall go 
with my father and my sister; you don't believe 
that." 
"I shall keep your letters," said Felix, pres- 
ently, for all answer. 
" I never write. I don't know how to write." 
Gertrude, for some time, said nothing more ; and 
her companion, as he looked at her, wished it had 
not been "disloyal " to make love to the daughter 
of an old gentleman who had offered one hospital- 
ity. The afternoon waned ; the shadows stretched 
themselves ; and the light grew deeper in the 
western sky. Two persons appeared on the op- 
posite side of the lake, coming from the house and 
crossing the meadow. " It is Charlotte and Mr. 
Brand," said Gertrude. " They are coming over 
here." But Charlotte and Mr. Brand only came 
down to the edge of the water, and stood there, 
looking across ; they made no motion to enter the 
boat that Felix had left at the mooring-place. Fe- 
lix waved his hat to them ; it was too far to call. 
   
They made no visible response, and they pres- 
ently turned away and walked along the shore. 
" Mr. Brand is not demonstrative," said Felix. 
" He is never demonstrative to me. He sits silent, 
with his chin in his hand, looking at me. Some- 
times he looks away. Your father tells me he is 
so eloquent ; and I should like to hear him talk. 
He looks like such a noble young man. But with 
me he will never talk. And yet I am so fond of 
listening to brilliant imagery ! " 
" He is very eloquent," said Gertrude ; " but he 
has no brilliant imagery. I have heard him talk 
a great deal. I knew that when they saw us they 
would not come over here." 
" Ah, he is making la cour, as they say, to your 
sister ? They desire to be alone ? " 
" No," said Gertrude, gravely, " they have no 
such reason as that for being alone." 
"But why does n't he make la cour to Char- 
lotte ? " Felix inquired. u She is so pretty, so 
gentle, so good." 
Gertrude glanced at him, and then she looked 
at the distantly-seen couple they were discussing. 
Mr. Brand and Charlotte were walking side by 
side. They might have been a pair of lovers, and 
yet they might not. " They think I should not 
be here," said Gertrude. 
" With me ? J thought you did n't have those 
ideas." 
 
" You don't understand. There are a great 
many things you don't understand." 
" I understand my stupidity. But why, then, 
do not Charlotte and Mr. Brand, who, as an elder 
sister and a clergyman, are free to walk about to- 
gether, come over and make me wiser by breaking 
up the unlawful interview into which I have lured 
you ? " 
" That is the last thing they would do," said 
Gertrude. 
Felix stared at her a moment, with his lifted 
eyebrows. " Je n'y comprends rien ! " he ex- 
claimed ; then his eyes followed for a while the 
retreating figures of this critical pair. " You may 
say what you please," he declared ; " it is evident 
to me that your sister is not indifferent to her 
clever companion. It is agreeable to her to be 
walking there with him. I can see that from 
here." And in the excitement of observation 
Felix rose to his feet. 
Gertrude rose also, but she made no attempt to 
emulate her companion's discovery ; she looked 
rather in another direction. Felix's words had 
struck her; but a certain delicacy checked her. 
" She is certainly not indifferent to Mr. Brand ; 
she has the highest opinion of him." 
" One can see it one can see it," said Felix, 
in a tone of amused contemplation, with his head 
on one side. Gertrude turned her back to the op- 
   
posite shore; it was disagreeable to her to look, 
but she hoped Felix would say something more. 
" Ah, they have wandered away into the wood," 
he added. 
Gertrude turned round again. " She is not in 
love with him," she said ; it seemed her duty to 
say that. 
" Then he is in love with her ; or if he is not, 
he ought to be. She is such a perfect little woman 
of her kind. She reminds me of a pair of old- 
fashioned silver sugar-tongs ; you know I am very 
fond of sugar. And she is very nice with Mr. 
Brand ; I have noticed that; very gentle and 
gracious." 
Gertrude reflected a moment. Then she took 
a great resolution. " She wants him to marry 
me," she said. " So of course she is nice." 
Felix's eyebrows rose higher than ever. " To 
marry you ! Ah, ah, this is interesting. And you 
think one must be very nice with a man to induce 
him to do that ? " 
Gertrude had turned a little pale, but she went 
on, " Mr. Brand wants it himself." 
Felix folded his arms and stood looking at her. 
" I see I see," he said quickly. " Why did you 
never tell me this before?" 
"It is disagreeable to me to speak of it even 
now. I wished simply to explain to you about 
Charlotte." 
 
" You don't wish to marry Mr. Brand, then ? " 
" No," said Gertrude, gravely. 
" And does your father wish it ? " 
" Very much." 
" And you don't like him you have refused 
him?" 
" I don't wish to marry him." 
"Your father and sister think you ought to, 
eh?" 
" It is a long story," said Gertrude. " They 
think there are good reasons. I can't explain it. 
They think I have obligations, and that I have en- 
couraged him." 
Felix smiled at her, as if she had been telling 
him an amusing story about some one else. " I 
can't tell you how this interests me," he said. 
" Now you don't recognize these reasons these 
obligations ? " 
k ' I am not sure ; it is not easy." And she 
picked up her parasol and turned away, as if to 
descend the slope. 
" Tell me this," Felix went on, going with her : 
" are you likely to give in to let them persuade 
you?" 
Gertrude looked at him with the serious face 
that she had constantly worn, in opposition to his 
almost eager smile. " I shall never marry Mr. 
Brand," she said. 
" I see ! " Felix rejoined. And they slowly de- 
   
scended the hill together, saying nothing till they 
reached the margin of the pond. " It is your 
own affair," he then resumed ; " but do you know, 
I am not altogether glad ? If it were settled that 
you were to marry Mr. Brand I should take a cer- 
tain comfort in the arrangement. I should feel 
more free. I have no right to make love to you 
myself, eh ? " And he paused, lightly pressing his 
argument upon her. 
" None whatever," replied Gertrude quickly 
too quickly. 
" Your father would never hear of it ; I have n't 
a penny. Mr. Brand, of course, has property of 
his own, eh ? " 
" I believe he has some property ; but that has 
nothing to do with it." 
" With you, of course not ; but with your father 
and sister it must have. So, as I say, if this were 
settled, I should feel more at liberty." 
*' More at liberty ? " Gertrude repeated. " Please 
unfasten the boat." 
Felix untwisted the rope and stood holding it. 
" I should be able to say things to you that I can't 
give myself the pleasure of saying now," he went 
on. "I could tell you how much I admire you, 
without seeming to pretend to that which I have 
no right to pretend to. I should make violent 
love to you," he added, laughing, " if I thought 
you were so placed as not to be offended by it." 
 
" You mean if -I were engaged to another man ? 
That is strange reasoning ! " Gertrude exclaimed. 
" In that case you would not take me seri- 
ously." 
" I take every one seriously," said Gertrude. 
And without his help she stepped lightly into the 
boat. 
Felix took up the oars and sent it forward. 
" Ah, this is what you have been thinking about ? 
It seemed to me you had something on your mind. 
I wish very much," he added, " that you would 
tell me some of these so-called reasons these ob- 
ligations." 
" They are not real reasons good reasons," 
said Gertrude, looking at the pink and yellow 
gleams in the water. 
" I can understand that ! Because a handsome 
girl has had a spark of coquetry, that is no rea- 
son." 
" If you mean me, it 's not that. I have not 
done that." 
" It is something that troubles you, at any 
rate," said Felix. 
" Not so much as it used to," Gertrude re- 
joined. 
He looked at her, smiling always. " That is 
not saying much, eh ? " But she only rested her 
eyes, very gravely, on the lighted water. She 
   
seemed to him to be trying to hide the signs of 
the trouble of which she had just told him. Felix 
felt, at all times, much the same impulse to dissi- 
pate visible melancholy that a good housewife feels 
to brush away dust. There was something he 
wished to brush away now ; suddenly he stopped 
rowing and poised his oars. " Why should Mr. 
Brand have addressed himself to you, and not to 
your sister ? " he asked. " I am sure she would 
listen to him." 
Gertrude, in her family, was thought capable of 
a good deal of levity; but her levity had never 
gone so far as this. It moved her greatly, how- 
ever, to hear Felix say that he was sure of some- 
thing ; so that, raising her eyes toward him, she 
tried intently, for some moments, to conjure up 
this wonderful image of a love-affair between her 
own sister and her own suitor. We know that 
Gertrude had an imaginative mind ; so that it is 
not impossible that this effort should have been 
partially successful. But she only murmured, "Ah, 
Felix! ah, Felix!" 
" Why should n't they marry ? Try and make 
them marry ! " cried Felix. 
" Try and make them ? " 
" Turn the tables on them. Then they will 
leave you alone. I will help you as far as I can." 
Gertrude's heart began to beat ; she was greatly 
 
excited ; she had never had anything so interest- 
ing proposed to her before. Felix had begun to 
row again, and he now sent the boat home with 
long strokes. " I believe she does care for him ! " 
said Gertrude, after they had disembarked. 
" Of course she does, and we will marry them 
off. It will make them happy ; it will make every 
one happy. We shall have a wedding and I will 
write an epithalamium." 
" It seems as if it would make me happy," said 
Gertrude. 
" To get rid of Mr. Brand, eh ? To recover 
your liberty ? " 
Gertrude walked on. " To see my sister mar- 
ried to so good a man." 
Felix gave his light laugh. " You always put 
things on those grounds ; you will never say any- 
thing for yourself. You are all so afraid, here, of 
being selfish. I don't think you know how," he 
went on. " Let me show you ! It will make me 
happy for myself, and for just the reverse of what 
I told you a while ago. After that, when I make 
love to you, you will have to think I mean it." 
" I shall never think you mean anything," said 
Gertrude. " You are too fantastic." 
" Ah," cried Felix, " that 's a license to say 
everything ! Gertrude, I adore you ! " 
 
VIII. 
CHARLOTTE and Mr. Brand had not returned 
when they reached the house ; but the Baroness 
had come to tea, and Robert Acton also, who now 
regularly asked for a place at this generous repast 
or made his appearance later in the evening. 
Clifford Wentworth, with his juvenile growl, re- 
marked upon it. 
" You are always coming to tea nowadays, Rob- 
ert," he said. " I should think you had drunk 
enough tea in China." 
" Since when is Mr. Acton more frequent ? " 
asked the Baroness. 
" Since you came," said Clifford. " It seems 
as if you were a kind of attraction." 
" I suppose I am a curiosity," said the Bar- 
oness. " Give me time and I will make you a 
salon." 
" It would fall to pieces after you go ! " ex- 
claimed Acton. 
" Don't talk about her going, in that familiar 
way," Clifford said. " It makes me feel gloomy." 
Mr. Wentworth glanced at his son, and taking 
 
note of tliese words, wondered if Felix had been 
teaching him, according to the programme he had 
sketched out, to make love to the wife of a Ger- 
man prince. 
Charlotte came in late with Mr. Brand ; but 
Gertrude, to whom, at least, Felix had taught 
something, looked in vain, in her face, for the 
traces of a guilty passion. Mr. Brand sat down 
by Gertrude, and she present^ asked him why 
they had not crossed the pond to join Felix and 
herself. 
" It is cruel of you to ask me that," he an- 
swered, very softly. He had a large morsel of 
cake before him ; but he fingered it without eat- 
ing it. " I sometimes think you are growing 
cruel," he added. 
Gertrude said nothing ; she was afraid to speak. 
There was a kind of rage in her heart ; she felt as 
if she could easily persuade herself that she was 
persecuted. She said to herself that it was quite 
right that she should not allow him to make her 
believe she was wrong. She thought of what 
Felix had said to her ; she wished indeed Mr. 
Brand would marry Charlotte. She looked away 
from him and spoke no more. Mr. Brand ended 
by eating his cake, while Felix sat opposite, de- 
scribing to Mr. Wentworth the students' duels at 
Heidelberg. After tea they all dispersed them- 
   
selves, as usual, upon the piazza and in the gar- 
den ; and Mr. Brand drew near to Gertrude again. 
" I did n't come to you this afternoon because 
you were not alone," he began ; " because you 
were with a newer friend." 
" Felix ? He is an old friend by this time." 
Mr. Brand looked at the ground for some mo- 
ments. "I thought I was prepared to hear you 
speak in that way," he resumed. " But I find it 
very painful." 
" I don't see what else I can say," said Ger- 
trude. 
Mr. Brand walked beside her for a while in 
silence; Gertrude wished he would go away. 
" He is certainly very accomplished. But I think 
I ought to advise you." 
" To advise me ? " 
" I think I know your nature." 
" I think you don't," said Gertrude, with a soft 
laugh. 
" You make yourself out worse than you are 
to please him," Mr. Brand said, gently. 
" Worse to please him ? What do you 
mean ? " asked Gertrude, stopping. 
Mr. Brand stopped also, and with the same soft 
straightforwardness, " He doesn't care for the 
things you care for the great questions of life." 
Gertrude, with her eyes on his, shook her head. 
 
" I don't care for the great questions of life. They 
are much beyond me." 
" There was a time when you did n't say that," 
said Mr. Brand. 
" Oh," rejoined Gertrude, " I think you made 
me talk a great deal of nonsense. And it de- 
pends," she added, " upon what you call the great 
questions of life. There are some things I care 
for." 
" Are they the things you talk about with your 
cousin ? " 
" You should not say things to me against my 
cousin, Mr. Brand," said Gertrude. 4t That is 
dishonorable." 
He listened to this respectfully ; then he an- 
swered, with a little vibration of the voice, 4t I 
should be very sorry to do anything dishonorable. 
But I don't see why it is dishonorable to say that 
your cousin is frivolous." 
" Go and say it to himself ! " 
" I think he would admit it," said Mr. Brand. 
" That is the tone he would take. He would not 
be ashamed of it." 
" Then I am not ashamed of it ! " Gertrude 
declared. " That is probably what I like him for. 
I am frivolous myself." 
" You are trying, as I said just now, to lower 
yourself." 
   
" I am trying for once to be natural ! " cried 
Gertrude passionately. u I have been pretend- 
ing, all my life ; I have been dishonest ; it is you 
that have made me so! " Mr. Brand stood gaz- 
ing at her, and she went on, " Why should n't I 
be frivolous, if I want ? One has a right to be 
frivolous, if it 's one's nature. No, I don't care 
for the great questions. I care for pleasure for 
amusement. Perhaps I am fond of wicked things ; 
it is very possible ! " 
Mr. Brand remained staring ; he was even a 
little pale, as if he had been frightened. " I don't 
think you know what you are saying ! " he ex- 
claimed. 
" Perhaps not. Perhaps I am talking nonsense. 
But it is only with you that I talk nonsense. I 
never do so with my cousin." 
" I will speak to you again, when you are less 
excited," said Mr. Brand. 
" I am always excited when you speak to me. 
I must tell you that even if it prevents you 
altogether, in future. Your speaking to me irri- 
tates me. With my cousin it is very different. 
That seems quiet and natural." 
He looked at her, and then he looked away, 
with a kind of helpless distress, at the dusky gar- 
den and the faint summer stars. After which, 
suddenly turning back, " Gertrude, Gertrude ! " 
he softly groaned. "Am I really losing you ? " 
 
She was touched she was pained ; but it had 
already occurred to her that she might do some- 
thing better than say so. It would not have alle- 
viated her companion's distress to perceive, just 
then, whence she had sympathetically borrowed 
this ingenuity. " I am not sorry for you," Ger- 
trude said ; " for in paying so much attention to 
me you are following a shadow you are wast- 
ing something precious. There is something else 
you might have that you don't look at some- 
thing better than I am. That is a reality ! " And 
then, with intention, she looked at him and tried 
to smile a little. He thought this smile of hers 
very strange ; but she turned away and left him. 
She wandered about alone in the garden won- 
dering what Mr. Brand would make of her words, 
which it had been a singular pleasure for her to 
utter. Shortly after, passing in front of the house, 
she saw at a distance two persons standing near 
the garden gate. It was Mr. Brand going away 
and bidding good-night to Charlotte, who had 
walked down with him from the house. Gertrude 
saw that the parting was prolonged. Then she 
turned her back upon it. She had not gone very 
far, however, when she heard her sister slowly 
following her. She neither turned round nor 
waited for her; she knew what Charlotte was 
going to say. Charlotte, who at last overtook 
   
her, in fact presently began ; she had passed her 
arm into Gertrude's. 
" Will you listen to me, dear, if I say something 
very particular ? " 
" I know what you are going to say," said Ger- 
trude. " Mr. Brand feels very badly." 
" Oh, Gertrude, how can you treat him so ? '" 
Charlotte demanded. And as her sister made no 
answer she added, " After all he has done for 
you ! " 
" What has he done for me ? " 
" I wonder you can ask, Gertrude. He has 
helped you so. You told me so yourself, a great 
many times. You told me that he helped you to 
struggle with your your peculiarities. You told 
me that he had taught you how to govern your 
temper." 
For a moment Gertrude said nothing. Then, 
" Was my temper very bad? " she asked. 
" I am not accusing you, Gertrude," said Char- 
lotte. 
" What are you doing, then ? " her sister de- 
manded, with a short laugh. 
" I am pleading for Mr. Brand reminding you 
of all you owe him." 
" I have given it all back," said Gertrude, still 
with her little laugh. " He can take back the 
virtue he imparted ! I want to be wicked again." 
 
Her sister made her stop in the path, and fixed 
upon her, in the darkness, a sweet, reproachful 
gaze. " If you talk this way I shall almost be- 
lieve it. Think of all we owe Mr. Brand. Think 
of how he has always expected something of you. 
Think how much he has been to us. Think of 
his beautiful influence upon Clifford." 
" He is very good," said Gertrude, looking at 
her sister. " I know he is very good. But he 
should n't speak against Felix." 
" Felix is good," Charlotte answered, softly but 
promptly. " Felix is very wonderful. Only he 
is so different. Mr. Brand is much nearer to us. 
I should never think of going to Felix with a 
trouble with a question. Mr. Brand is much 
more to us, Gertrude." 
" He is very very good," Gertrude repeated. 
" He is more to you ; yes, much more. Charlotte," 
she added suddenly, " you are in love with him ! " 
" Oh, Gertrude ! " cried poor Charlotte ; and 
her sister saw her blushing in the darkness. 
Gertrude put her arm round her. " I wish he 
would marry you ! " she went on. 
Charlotte shook herself free. " You must not 
say such things ! " she exclaimed, beneath her 
breath. 
" You like him more than you say, and he likes 
you more than he knows." 
   
" This is very cruel of you ! " Charlotte Went- 
worth murmured. 
But if it was cruel Gertrude continued pitiless. 
" Not if it 's true," she answered. " I wish he 
