afraid Lord Lambeth and Mr. Beaumont were not 
very comfortable at their hotel ; that it was not, 
as one of them said, " so private as those dear 
little English inns of yours." This last gentle 
man went on to say that unfortunately, as yet, 
perhaps, privacy was not quite so easily obtained 
in America as might be desired ; still, he con 
tinued, you could generally get it by paying for 
it ; in fact, you could get every thing in America 
nowadays by paying for it. American life was 
certainly growing a great deal more private ; it 
was growing very much like England. Every 
thing at Newport, for instance, was thoroughly 
private ; Lord Lambeth would probably be struck 
with that. It was also represented to the strangers that it mattered very little whether their 
hotel was agreeable, as every one would want 
them to make visits ; they would stay with other 
people, and, in any case, they would be a great 
deal at Mrs. Westgate's. They would find that 
very charming; it was the pleasantest house in 
Newport. It was a pity Mr. Westgate was al 
ways away ; he was a man of the highest ability 
very acute, very acute. lie worked like a 
horse, and he left his wife well, to do about as 
she liked. He liked her to enjoy herself, and 
she seemed to know how. She was extremely 
brilliant, and a splendid talker. Some people 
preferred her sister; but Miss Alden was very 
different ; she was in a different style altogether. 
Some people even thought her prettier, and, certainly, she was not so sharp. She was more in 
the Boston style ; she had lived a great deal in 
Boston, and she was very highly educated. Boston girls, it was propounded, were more like 
English young ladies. 
' Lord Lambeth had presently a chance to test 
the truth of this proposition, for on the company rising in compliance with a suggestion from 
their hostess that they should walk down to the 
rocks and look at the sea, the young Englishman 
again found himself, as they strolled across the 
grass, in proximity to Mrs. Westgate 's sister. 
Though she was but a girl of twenty, she appeared to feel the obligation to exert an active hospitality ; and this was, perhaps, the more to be 
noticed as she seemed by nature a reserved and 
retiring person, and had little of her sister 's fraternizing quality. She was perhaps rather too 
thin, and she was a little pale ; but as she moved 
slowly over the grass, with her arms hanging at 
her sides, looking gravely for a moment at the 
sea and then brightly, for all her gravity, at him, 
Lord Lambeth thought her at least as pretty as 
Mrs. Westgate, and reflected that if this was the 
Boston style the Boston style was very charming. 
He thought she looked very clever; he 
could imagine that she was highly educated ; but 
at the same time she seemed gentle and graceful. 
For all her cleverness, however, he felt that she 
had to think a little what to say; she didn 't say 
the first thing that came into her head ; he had 
come from a different part of the world and 
from a different society, and she was trying to 
adapt her conversation. The others were scattering themselves near the rocks ; Mrs. Westgate had charge of Percy Beaumont. 
" Very jolly place, isn't it ?" said Lord Lambeth. 
" It 's a very jolly place to sit." 
" Very charming," said the young girl. " I often sit here ; there are all kinds of cozy corners 
as if they had been made on purpose." 
" Ah ! I suppose you have had some of them 
made," said the young man. 
Miss Alden looked at him a moment. " Oh no, 
we have had nothing made. It 's pure nature." 
" I should think you would have a few little 
benches rustic seats and that sort of thing. It 
might be so jolly to sit here, you know," Lord 
Lambeth went on. 
" I am afraid we haven 't so many of those things 
as you," said the young girl, thoughtfully. 
" I dare say you go in for pure nature, as you 
were saying. Nature over here must be so grand, 
you know." And Lord Lambeth looked about him. 
The little coast-line hereabouts was very pretty, but it was not at all grand, and Miss Aldeu 
appeared to rise to a perception of this fact. " I 
am afraid it seems to you very rough," she said. 
"It 's not like the coast scenery in Kingsley 's 
novels." 
"Ah, the novels always overdo it, you know," 
Lord Lambeth rejoined. " You must not go by 
the novels." 
They were wandering about a little on the rocks, 
and they stopped and looked down into a narrow 
chasm where the rising tide made a curious bellowing sound. It was loud enough to prevent 
their hearing each other, and they stood there for 
some moments in silence. The young girl looked 
at her companion, observing him attentively, but 
covertly, as women, even when very young, know 
how to do. Lord Lambeth repaid observation; 
tall, straight, and strong, he was handsome as certain young Englishmen, and certain young English 
men almost alone, are handsome; with a perfect 
finish of feature and a look of intellectual repose 
and gentle good temper which seemed somehow 
to be consequent upon his well-cut nose and chin. 
And to speak of Lord Lambeth 's expression of intellectual repose is not simply a civil way of say 
ing that he looked stupid. He was evidently not 
a young man of an irritable imagination ; he was 
not, as he would himself have said, tremendously 
clever; but though there was a kind of appealing dullness in his eye, he looked thoroughly reasonable and competent, and his appearance pro 
claimed that to be a nobleman, an athlete, and an 
excellent fellow was a sufficiently brilliant combination of qualities. The young girl beside him, 
it may be attested without further delay, thought 
him the handsomest young man she had ever seen ; 
and Bessie Alden 's imagination, unlike that of her 
companion, was irritable. He, however, was also 
making up his mind that she was uncommonly 
pretty. 
" I dare say it 's very gay here, that you have 
lots of balls and parties," he said ; for, if he was 
not tremendously clever, he rather prided himself 
on having, with women, a sufficiency of conversation. 
" Oh yes, there is a great deal going on," Bessie Alden replied. " There are not so many balls, 
but there are a good many other things. You will 
see for yourself ; we live rather in the midst of 
it." 
" It 's very kind of you to say that. But I thought 
you Americans were always dancing." 
" I suppose we dance a good deal ; but I have 
never seen much of it. We don 't do it much, at 
any rate, in summer. And I am sure," said Bessie 
Alden, " that we don 't have so many balls as 
you have in England." 
" Really !" exclaimed Lord Lambeth. " Ah, in 
England it all depends, you know." 
"You will not think much of our gayeties," 
said the young girl, looking at him with a little 
mixture of interrogation and decision which was peculiar to her. The interrogation seemed earnest and the decision seemed arch ; but the mixture, at any rate, was charming. " Those things, 
with us, are much less splendid than in Eng 
land." 
" I fancy you don 't mean that," said Lord Lam 
beth, laughing. 
" I assure you I mean every thing I say," the 
young girl declared. " Certainly, from what I 
have read about English society, it is very different." 
"Ah well, you know," said her companion, 
" those things are often described by fellows who 
know nothing about them. You mustn't mind 
what you read." 
" Oh, I shall mind what I read !" Bessie Alden 
rejoined. " When I read Thackeray and George 
Eliot, how can I help minding them ?" 
"Ah well, Thackeray, and George Eliot," said 
the young nobleman ; " I haven 't read much of 
them." 
  
" Don 't you suppose they know about society ?" 
asked Bessie Alden. 
" Oh, I dare say they know ; they were so very 
clever. But these fashionable novels," said Lord 
Lambeth, " they are awful rot, you know." 
His companion looked at him a moment with 
her dark blue eyes, and then she looked down in 
the chasm where the water was tumbling about. 
" Do you mean Mrs. Gore, for instance ?" she said, 
presently, raising her eyes. 
" I am afraid I haven 't read that, either," was 
the young man 's rejoinder, laughing a little and 
blushing. " I am afraid you'll think I am not 
very intellectual." 
" Reading Mrs. Gore is no proof of intellect. 
But I like reading every thing about English 
life even poor books. I am so curious about 
it." 
"Aren't ladies always curious?" asked the 
young man, jestingly. 
But Bessie Alden appeared to desire to answer 
his question seriously. "I don 't think so I 
don 't think we are enough so that we care 
about many things. So it 's all the more of a 
compliment," she added, " that I should want to 
know so much about England." 
The logic here seemed a little close ; but Lord 
Lambeth, made conscious of a compliment, found 
his natural modesty just at hand. " I am sure 
you know a great deal more than I do." 
"I really think I know a great deal for a 
person who has never been there." 
"Have you really never been there?" cried 
Lord Lambeth. " Fancy !" 
"Never except in imagination," said the 
young girl. 
."Fancy!" repeated her companion. "But I 
dare say you'll go soon, won 't you ?" 
" It 's the dream of my life !" declared Bessie 
Alden, smiling. 
" But your sister seems to know a tremendous 
lot about London," Lord Lambeth went on. 
The young girl was silent a moment. "My 
sister and I are two very different persons," she 
presently said. " She has been a great deal in 
Europe. She has been in England several times. 
She has known a great many English people." 
"But you must have known some, too," said 
Lord Lambeth. 
"I don 't think that I have ever spoken to one 
before. You are the first Englishman that to 
my knowledge I have ever talked with." 
Bessie Alden made this statement with a certain gravity almost, as it seemed to Lord Lambeth, an impressiveness. Attempts at impressiveness 
always made him feel awkward, and he 
now began to laugh and swing his stick. " Ah, 
you would have been sure to know !" he said. 
And then he added, after an instant, "I'm sorry I am not a better specimen." 
The young girl looked away ; but she smiled, 
laying aside her impressiveness. " You must remember that you are only a beginning," she said. 
Then she retraced her steps, leading the way 
back to the lawn, where they saw Mrs. Westgate 
come toward them with Percy Beaumont still at 
her side. " Perhaps I shall go to England next 
year," Miss Alden continued ; " I want to, immensely. My sister is going to Europe, and she 
has asked me to go with her. If we go, I shall 
make her stay as long as possible in London." 
" Ah, you must come in July," said Lord Lam 
beth. " That 's the time when there is most go 
ing on." 
" I don 't think I can wait till July," the young 
girl rejoined. " By the first of May I shall be 
very impatient. They had gone further, and 
Mrs. Westgate and her companion were near 
them. " Kitty," said Miss Alden, " I have given 
out that we are going to London next May. So 
please to conduct yourself accordingly." 
Percy Beaumont wore a somewhat animated 
even a slightly irritated air. He was by no 
means so handsome a man as his cousin, although 
in his cousin 's absence he might have 
passed for a striking specimen of the tall, muscular, fair-bearded, clear-eyed Englishman. Just 
now Beaumont 's clear eyes, which were small 
and of a pale gray color, had a rather troubled 
light, and, after glancing at Bessie Alden while 
she spoke, he rested them upon his kinsman. 
Mrs. Westgate meanwhile, with her superfluously pretty gaze, looked at every one alike. 
"You had better wait till the time comes," 
she said to her sister. " Perhaps next May you 
won 't care so much about London. Mr. Beaumont and I," she went on, smiling at her companion, "have had a tremendous discussion. 
We don 't agree about any thing. It 's perfectly 
delightful." 
" Oh, I say, Percy !" exclaimed Lord Lambeth. 
"I disagree," said Beaumont, stroking down 
his back hair, " even to the point of not thinking 
it delightful." 
" Oh, I say !" cried Lord Lambeth again. 
" I don 't see any thing delightful in my disagreeing with Mrs. Westgate," said Percy Beaumont. 
" Well, I do !" Mrs. Westgate declared ; and 
she turned to her sister. " You know you have 
to go to town. The phaeton is there. You had 
better take Lord Lambeth." 
At this point Percy Beaumont certainly looked 
straight at his kinsman ; he tried to catch his 
eye. But Lord Lambeth would not look at him ; 
his own eyes were better occupied. " I shall be 
very happy," cried Bessie Alden. "I am only 
going to some shops. But I will drive you about 
and show you the place " 
" An American woman who respects herself," 
said Mrs. Westgate, turning to Beaumont with 
her bright expository air, " must buy something 
every day of her life. If she can not do it herself, she must send out some member of her family for the purpose. So Bessie goes forth to fulfill my mission." 
The young girl had walked away, with Lord 
Lambeth by her side, to whom she was talking 
still ; and Percy Beaumont watched them as they 
passed toward the house. " She fulfills her own 
mission," he presently said ; " that of being a 
very attractive young lady." 
" I don 't know that I should say very attractive," Mrs. Westgate rejoined. "She is not so 
much that as she is charming when you really 
know her. She is very shy." 
" Oh, indeed !" said Percy Beaumont. 
"Extremely shy," Mrs. Westgate repeated. 
" But she is a dear good girl ; she is a charming 
species of girl. She is not in the least a flirt; 
that isn't at all her line ; she doesn 't know the 
alphabet of that sort of thing. She is very simple, very serious. She has lived a great deal in 
Boston, with another sister of mine the eldest 
of us who married a Bostonian. She is very 
cultivated, not at all like me ; I am not in the 
least cultivated. She has studied immensely and 
read every thing ; she is what they call in Boston  thoughtful. " 
"A rum sort of girl for Lambeth to get hold 
of !" his lordship 's kinsman privately reflected. 
"I really believe," Mrs. Westgate continued, 
"that the most charming girl in the world is a 
Boston superstructure upon a New York fonds ; 
or perhaps a New York superstructure upon a 
Boston fonds. At any rate, it 's the mixture," 
said Mrs. Westgate, who continued to give Percy 
Beaumont a great deal of information. 
Lord Lambeth got into a little basket-phaeton 
with Bessie Alden, and she drove him down the 
long avenue, whose extent he had measured on 
foot a couple of hours before, into the ancient 
town, as it was called in that part of the world, 
of Newport. The ancient town was a curious af 
fair a collection of fresh-looking little wooden 
houses, painted white, scattered over a hill-side 
and clustered about a long straight street, paved 
with enormous cobble-stones. There were plenty 
of shops a large proportion of which appeared 
to be those of fruit vendors, with piles of huge 
water-melons and pumpkins stacked in front of 
them ; and, drawn up before the shops, or bump 
ing about on the cobble-stones, were innumera 
ble other basket-phaetons freighted with ladies 
of high fashion, who greeted each other from 
vehicle to vehicle, and conversed on the edge of 
the pavement in a manner that struck Lord Lambeth as demonstrative, with a great many "Oh, 
my dears," and little quick exclamations and 
caresses. His companion went into seventeen 
shops he amused himself with counting them 
and accumulated at the bottom of the phaeton 
a pile of bundles that hardly left the young Englishman a place for his feet. As she had no 
groom nor footman, he sat in the phaeton to hold 
the ponies, where, although he was not a par 
ticularly acute observer, he saw much to entertain him especially the ladies just mentioned, 
who wandered up and down with the appearance 
of a kind of aimless intentness, as if they were 
looking for something to buy, and who, tripping 
in and out of their vehicles, displayed remarkably pretty feet. It all seemed to Lord Lambeth 
very odd, and bright, and gay. Of course, before 
they got back to the villa, he had had a great 
deal of desultory conversation with Bessie Alden. 
The young Englishmen spent the whole of that 
day and the whole of many successive days in 
what the French call the intimite of their new 
friends. They agreed that it was extremely jolly, that they had never known any thing more 
agreeable. It is not proposed to narrate minutely the incidents of their sojourn on this charming shore ; though if it were convenient I might 
present a record of impressions none the less 
delectable that they were not exhaustively ana 
lyzed. Many of them still linger in the minds of 
our travellers, attended by a train of harmonious 
images images of brilliant mornings on lawns 
and piazzas that overlooked the sea ; of innumerable pretty girls ; of infinite lounging and 
talking and laughing and flirting and lunching 
and dining ; of universal friendliness and frankness ; of occasions on which they knew every one 
and every thing, and had an extraordinary sense 
of ease ; of drives and rides in the late afternoon 
over gleaming beaches, on long sea-roads, beneath a sky lighted up by marvellous sunsets ; 
of suppers, on the return, informal, irregular, 
agreeable ; of evenings at open windows or on 
the perpetual verandas, in the summer star 
light, above the warm Atlantic. The young 
Englishmen were introduced to every body, entertained by every body, intimate with every 
  
body. At the end of three days they had removed their luggage from the hotel, and had 
gone to stay with Mrs. Westgate a step to 
which Percy Beaumont at first offered some conscientious opposition. I call his opposition conscientious, because it was founded upon some talk 
that he had had, on the second day, with Bessie 
Alden. He had indeed had a good deal of talk 
with her, for she was not literally always in conversation with Lord Lambeth. He had medita 
ted upon Mrs. Westgate 's account of her sister, 
and he discovered for himself that the young 
lady was clever, and appeared to have read a 
great deal. She seemed very nice, though he 
could not make out that, as Mrs. Westgate had 
said, she was shy. If she was shy, she carried it 
off very well. 
" Mr. Beaumont," she had said, " please tell 
me something about Lord Lambeth 's family. 
How would you say it in England his position ?" 
" His position ?" Percy Beaumont repeated. 
"His rank, or whatever you call it. Unfor 
tunately we haven 't got a Peerage, like the 
people in Thackeray." 
" That 's a great pity," said Beaumont. " You 
would find it all set forth there so much better 
than I can do it." 
" He is a peer, then ?" 
" Oh yes, he is a peer." 
" And has he any other title than Lord Lainbeth ?" 
"His title is the Marquis of Lambeth," said 
Beaumont ; and then he was silent. Bessie Alden 
appeared to be looking at him with interest. 
" He is the son of the Duke of Bayswater," he 
added, presently. 
" The eldest son ?" 
" The only son." 
" And are his parents living ?" 
" Oh yes ; if his father were not living he 
would be a duke." 
" So that when his father dies," pursued Bessie 
Alden, with more simplicity than might have 
been expected in a clever girl, " he will become 
Duke of Bayswater ?" 
" Of course," said Percy Beaumont. " But his 
father is in excellent health." 
" And his mother ?" 
Beaumont smiled a little. "The Duchess is 
uncommonly robust." 
" And has he any sisters ?" 
" Yes, there are two." 
" And what are they called ?" 
" One of them is married. She is the Countess 
of Pimlico." 
"And the other?" 
  
"The other is unmarried; she is plain Lady 
Julia." 
Bessie Alden looked at him a moment. " Is 
she very plain ?" 
Beaumont began to laugh again. " You would 
not find her so handsome as her brother," he said ; 
and it was after this that he attempted to dissuade 
the heir of the Duke of Bayswater from accepting 
Mrs. Westgate 's invitation. "Depend upon it," 
he said, " that girl means to try for you." 
" It seems to me you are doing your best to make 
a fool of me," the modest young nobleman answered. 
" She has been asking me," said Beaumont, 
"all about your people and your possessions." 
" I am sure it is very good of her !" Lord Lambeth 
rejoined. 
" Well, then," observed his companion, " if you 
go, you go with your eyes open." 
"Damn my eyes!" exclaimed Lord Lambeth. 
" If one is to be a dozen times a day at the house, 
it is a great deal more convenient to sleep there. 
I am sick of travelling up and down this beastly 
avenue." 
Since he had determined to go, Percy Beaumont 
would, of course, have been very sorry to allow 
him to go alone ; he was a man of conscience, and 
he remembered his promise to the Duchess. It 
was obviously the memory of this promise that 
made him say to his companion a couple of days 
later that he rather wondered he should be so fond 
of that girl. 
" In the first place, how do you know how fond 
I am of her ?" asked Lord Lambeth. " And, in 
the second place, why shouldn 't I be fond of her ?" 
" I shouldn 't think she would be in your line." 
" What do you call my line ? You don 't set 
her down as fast ? " 
" Exactly so. Mrs. Westgate tells me that there 
is no such thing as the  fast girl in America ; that 
it 's an English invention, and that the term has 
no meaning here." 
" All the better. It 's an animal I detest." 
" You prefer a blue-stocking." 
" Is that what you call Miss Alden ?" 
" Her sister tells me," said Percy Beaumont, 
"that she is tremendously literary." 
" I don 't know any thing about that. She is 
certainly very clever." 
" Well," said Beaumont, " I should have sup 
posed you would have found that sort of thing 
awfully slow." 
"In point of fact," Lord Lambeth rejoined, "I 
find it uncommonly lively." 
After this, Percy Beaumont held his tongue ; 
but on the 10th of August he wrote to the Duchess 
of Bayswater. He was, as I have said, a man 
of conscience, and he had a strong, incorruptible 
sense of the proprieties of life. His kinsman, 
meanwhile, was having a great deal of talk with 
Bessie Alden on the red sea-rocks beyond the 
lawn; in the course of long island rides, with a 
slow return in the glowing twilight ; on the deep 
veranda late in the evening. Lord Lambeth, 
who had staid at many houses, had never staid at 
a house in which it was possible for a young man 
to converse so frequently with a young lady. This 
young lady no longer applied to Percy Beaumont 
for information concerning his lordship. She ad 
dressed herself directly to the young nobleman. 
She asked him a great many questions, some of 
which bored him a little ; for he took no pleasure 
in talking about himself. 
" Lord Lambeth," said Bessie Alden, " are you 
a hereditary legislator ?" 
" Oh, I say !" cried Lord Lambeth, " don 't make 
me call myself such names as that." 
" But you are a member of Parliament," said 
the young girl. 
" I don 't like the sound of that, either." 
" Don 't you sit in the House of Lords ?" Bessie 
Alden went on. 
" Very seldom," said Lord Lambeth. 
" Is it an important position ?" she asked. 
" Oh dear no," said Lord Lambeth. 
" I should think it would be very grand," said 
Bessie Alden, " to possess, simply by an accident 
of birth, the right to make laws for a great nation." 
"Ah, but one doesn 't make laws. It 's a great 
humbug." 
" I don 't believe that," the young girl declared- 
" It must be a great privilege, and I should think 
that if one thought of it in the right way from a 
high point of view it would be very inspiring." 
"The less one thinks of it the better," Lord 
Lambeth affirmed. 
" I think it 's tremendous," said Bessie Alden ; 
and on another occasion she asked him if he had 
any tenantry. Hereupon it was that, as I have 
said, he was a little bored. 
" Do you want to buy up their leases ?" he asked. 
"Well, have you got any livings?" she de 
manded. 
" Oh, I say !" he cried. " Have you got a clergyman that is looking out ?" But she made him tell 
her that he had a castle ; he confessed to but one. 
It was the place in which he had been born and 
brought up, and, as he had an old-time liking for 
it, he was beguiled into describing it a little, and 
saying it was really very jolly. Bessie Alden list 
ened with great interest, and declared that she 
would give the world to see such a place. Whereupon
" It would be awfully kind of you to come 
and stay there," said Lord Lambeth. He took a 
vague satisfaction in the circumstance that Percy 
Beaumont had not heard him make the remark I 
have just recorded. 
Mr. Westgate all this time had not, as they 
said at Newport, "come on." His wife more 
than once announced that she expected him on 
the morrow ; but on the morrow she wandered 
about a little, with a telegram in her jewelled 
lingers, declaring it was very tiresome that his 
business detained him in New York ; that he 
could only hope the Englishmen were having a 
good time. " I must say," said Mrs. Westgate, 
"that it is no thanks to him if you are." And 
she went on to explain, while she continued that 
slow-paced promenade which enabled her well- 
adjusted skirts to display themselves so advan 
tageously, that unfortunately in America there 
was no leisure class. It was Lord Lambeth 's 
theory, freely propounded when the young men 
were together, that Percy Beaumont was having 
a very good time with Mrs. Westgate, and that, 
under the pretext of meeting for the purpose of 
animated discussion, they were indulging in practices that imparted a shade of hypocrisy to the 
lady 's regret for her husband 's absence. 
"I assure you we are always discussing and 
differing," said Percy Beaumont. "She is awfully argumentative. American ladies certainly 
don 't mind contradicting you. Upon my word I 
don 't think I was ever treated so by a woman 
before. She 's so devilish positive." 
Mrs. Westgate 's positive quality, however, evidently had its attractions, for Beaumont was 
constantly at his hostess 's side. He detached 
himself one day to the extent of going to  New 
York to talk over the Tennessee Central with Mr. 
Westgate ; but he was absent only forty-eight 
hours, during which, with Mr. Westgate 's assist 
ance, he completely settled this piece of business. 
" They certainly do things quickly in New York," 
he observed to his cousin ; and he added that 
Mr. Westgate had seemed very uneasy lest his 
wife should miss her visitor he had been in 
such an awful hurry to send him back to her. 
"I'm afraid you'll never come up to an American 
husband, if that 's what the wives expect," ho 
said to Lord Lambeth. 
Mrs. Westgate, however, was not to enjoy much 
longer the entertainment with which an indulgent 
husband had desired to keep her provided. On 
the 21st of August Lord Lambeth received a telegram from his mother, requesting him to return 
immediately to England; his father had been 
taken ill, and it was his filial duty to come to him. 
  
The young Englishman was visibly annoyed. 
"What the deuce does it mean?" he asked of 
his kinsman. " What am I to do ?" 
Percy Beaumont was annoyed as well ; he had 
deemed it his duty, as I have narrated, to write 
to the Duchess, but he had not expected that 
this distinguished woman would act so promptly 
upon his hint. "It means," he said, "that your 
father is laid up. I don 't suppose it 's any thing 
serious ; but you have no option. Take the first 
steamer ; but don 't be alarmed." 
Lord Lambeth made his farewells; but the 
few last words that he exchanged with Bessie 
Alden are the only ones that have a place in our 
record. " Of course I needn 't assure you," he 
said, " that if you should come to England next 
year, I expect to be the first person that you in 
form of it." 
Bessie Alden looked at him a little and she 
smiled. "Oh, if we come to London," she an 
swered, "I should think you would hear of it." 
Percy Beaumont returned with his cousin, and 
his sense of duty compelled him, one windless 
afternoon, in mid- Atlantic, to say to Lord Lambeth that he suspected that the Duchess 's tele 
gram was in part the result of something he him 
self had written to her. " I wrote to her as I 
explicitly notified you I had promised to do 
that you were extremely interested in a little 
American girl." 
Lord Lambeth was extremely angry, and he in 
dulged for some moments in the simple language 
of indignation. But I have said that he was a 
reasonable young man, and I can give no better 
proof of it than the fact that he remarked to his 
companion at the end of half an hour, " You 
were quite right, after all. I am very much in 
terested in her. Only, to be fair," he added, 
" you should have told my mother also that she 
is not seriously interested in me." 
Percy Beaumont gave a little laugh. " There 
is nothing so charming as modesty in a young 
man in your position. That speech is a capital 
proof that you are sweet on her." 
"She is not interested she is not!" Lord 
Lambeth repeated. 
" My dear fellow," said his companion, " you 
are very far gone." 
IN point of fact, as Percy Beaumont would 
have said, Mrs. Westgate disembarked on the 
18th of May on the British coast. She was accompanied by her sister, but she was not attended by any other member of her family. To the deprivation of her husband 's society Mrs. West- 
gate was, however, habituated; she had made 
half a dozen journeys to Europe without him, and 
she now accounted for his absence, to interrogative friends on this side of the Atlantic, by allusion to the regrettable but conspicuous fact that 
in America there was no leisure class. The two 
ladies came up to London and alighted at Jones 's 
Hotel, where Mrs. Westgate, who had made on 
former occasions the most agreeable impression 
at this establishment, received an obsequious 
greeting. Bessie Alden had felt much excited 
about coming to England ; she had expected the 
"associations" would be very charming, that it 
would be an infinite pleasure to rest her eyes 
upon the things she had read about in the poets 
and historians. She was very fond of the poets 
and historians, of the picturesque, of the past, 
of retrospect, of mementos and reverberations 
of greatness ; so that on coming into the great 
English world, where strangeness and familiarity 
would go hand in hand, she was prepared for a 
multitude of fresh emotions. They began very 
promptly these tender, fluttering sensations ; 
they began with the sight of the beautiful English landscape, whose dark richness was quick 
ened and brightened by the season; with the 
carpeted fields and flowering hedge-rows, as she 
looked at them from the window of the train; 
with the spires of the rural churches peeping 
above the rook-haunted tree-tops ; with the oak- 
studded parks, the ancient homes, the cloudy 
light, the speech, the manners, the thousand differences. Mrs. Westgate 's impressions had, of 
course, much less novelty and keenness, and she 
gave but a wandering attention to her sister 's 
ejaculations and rhapsodies. 
" You know my enjoyment of England is not 
so intellectual as Bessie s," she said to several of 
her friends in the course of her visit to this 
country. " And yet if it is not intellectual, I 
can't say it is physical. I don 't think I can 
quite say what it is, my enjoyment of England." 
When once it was settled that the two ladies 
should come abroad and should spend a few 
weeks in England on their way to the Continent, 
they of course exchanged a good many allusions 
to their London acquaintance. 
" It will certainly be much nicer having friends 
there," Bessie Alden had said one day, as she 
sat, on the sunny deck of the steamer at her sister 's feet on a large blue rug. 
" Whom do you mean by friends ?" Mrs. West- 
gate asked. 
" All those English gentlemen whom you have 
known and entertained. Captain Littledale, for 
instance. And Lord Lambeth and Mr. Beau 
mont," added Bessie Alden. 
" Do you expect them to give us a very grand 
reception ?" 
Bessie reflected a moment ; she was addicted, 
as we know, to reflection. " Well, yes." 
" My poor sweet child," murmured her sister. 
" W r hat have I said that is so silly ?" asked 
Bessie. 
" You are a little too simple ; just a little. It 
is very becoming, but it pleases people at your 
expense." 
" I am certainly too simple to understand you," 
said Bessie. 
" Shall I tell y6u a story ?" asked her sister. 
"If you would be so good. That is what they 
do to amuse simple people." 
Mrs. Westgate consulted her memory, while 
her companion sat gazing at the shining sea. 
"Did you ever hear of the Duke of Green-Erin ?" 
"I think not," said Bessie. 
" Well, it 's no matter," her sister went on. 
"It 's a proof of my simplicity." 
" My story is meant to illustrate that of some 
other people," said Mrs. Westgate. " The Duke 
of Green-Erin is what they call in England a 
great swell, and some five years ago he came to 
America. He spent most of his time in New 
York, and in New York he spent his days and 
his nights at the Butterworths . You have heard, 
at least, of the Butterworths. JBien. They did 
every thing in the world for him they turned 
themselves inside out. They gave him a dozen 
dinner parties and balls, and were the means of 
his being invited to fifty more. At first he used 
to come into Mrs. Butterworth 's box at the opera 
in a tweed travelling suit ; but some one stopped 
that. At any rate, he had a beautiful time, and 
they parted the best friends in the world. Two 
years elapse, and the Butterworths come abroad 
and go to London. The first thing they see in 
all the papers in England those things are in. 
the most prominent place is that the Duke of 
Green-Erin has arrived in town for the Season. 
They wait a little, and then Mr. Butterworth as 
polite as ever goes and leaves a card. They 
  
wait a little more ; the visit is not returned ; they 
wait three weeks silence de mort the Duke 
gives no sign. The Butter worths see a lot of 
other people, put down the Duke of Green-Erin 
as a rude, ungrateful man, and forget all about 
him. One fine day they go to Ascot Races, and 
there they meet him face to face. He stares a 
moment, and then comes up to Mr. Butterworth, 
taking something from his pocket-book some 
thing which proves to be a bank-note. I'm glad 
to see you, Mr. Butterworth, he says, so that I 
can pay you that ten pounds I lost to you in New 
York. I saw the other day you remembered our 
bet; here are the ten pounds, Mr. Butterworth. 
Good-by, Mr. Butterworth. And off he goes, 
and that 's the last they see of the Duke of Green- 
Erin." 
"Is that your story?" asked Bessie Alden. 
" Don 't you think it 's interesting ?" her sister 
replied. 
" I don 't believe it," said the young girl. 
"Ah," cried Mrs. Westgate, "you are not so 
simple after all ! Believe it or not, as you please ; 
there is no smoke without fire." 
"Is that the way," asked Bessie, after a mo 
ment, "that you expect your friends to treat 
you ?" 
" I defy them to treat me very ill, because I 
shall not give them the opportunity. With the 
best will in the world, in that case they can 't be 
very offensive." 
Bessie Alden was silent a moment. " I don 't 
see what makes you talk that way," she said. 
" The English are a great people." 
"Exactly; and that is just the way they have 
grown great by dropping you when you have 
ceased to be useful. People say they are not 
clever ; but I think they are very clever." 
" You know you have liked them all the Eng 
lishmen you have seen," said Bessie. 
" They have liked me," her sister rejoined ; " it 
would be more correct to say that. And, of course, 
one likes that." 
Bessie Alden resumed for some moments her 
studies in sea-green. " Well," she said, " whether they like me or not, I mean to like them. 
And happily," she added, "Lord Lambeth does 
not owe me ten pounds." 
During the first few days after their arrival at 
Jones 's Hotel our charming Americans were 
much occupied with what they would have called 
looking about them. They found occasion to 
make a large number of purchases, and their opportunities for conversation were such only as 
were offered by the deferential London shop-men. 
Bessie Alden, even in driving from the station, 
  
took an immense fancy to the British metropolis, 
and at the risk of exhibiting her as a young woman of vulgar tastes it must be recorded that for 
a considerable period she desired no higher pleasure than to drive about the crowded streets in a 
hansom cab. To her attentive eyes they were 
full of a strange picturesque life, and it is at 
least beneath the dignity of our historic muse to 
enumerate the trivial objects and incidents which 
this simple young lady from Boston found so entertaining. It may be freely mentioned, however, that whenever, after a round of visits in 
Bond Street and Regent Street, she was about to 
return with her sister to Jones 's Hotel, she made 
an earnest request that they should be driven 
home by way of Westminster Abbey. She had 
begun by asking whether it would not be possi 
ble to take the Tower on the way to their lodg 
ings ; but it happened that at a more primitive 
stage of her culture Mrs. Westgate had paid a 
visit to this venerable monument, which she 
spoke of ever afterward vaguely as a dreadful 
disappointment; so that she expressed the liveliest disapproval of any attempt to combine historical researches with the purchase of hair 
brushes and note-paper. The most she would 
consent to do in this line was to spend half an 
hour at Madame Tussaud s, where she saw several dusty wax effigies of members of the royal 
family. She told Bessie that if she wished to 
go to the Tower she must get some one else to 
take her. Bessie expressed hereupon an earnest 
disposition to go alone ; but upon this proposal 
as well Mrs. Westgate sprinkled cold water. 
" Remember," she said, " that you are not in 
your innocent little Boston. It is not a question 
of walking up and down Beacon Street." Then 
she went on to explain that there were two classes of American girls in Europe those that walk 
ed about alone and those that did not. "You 
happen to belong, my dear," she said to her sister, " to the class that does not." 
" It is only," answered Bessie, laughing, " be 
cause you happen to prevent me." And she devoted much private meditation to this question 
of effecting a visit to the Tower of London. 
Suddenly it seemed as if the problem might be 
solved ; the two ladies at Jones 's Hotel received 
a visit from Willie Woodley. Such was the so 
