"Nonsense! Don't make a fool of yourself. Mother'll come all right."
"The doctor said"--said Abner.
"Don't tell me nothin' what the doctor said; I don't want to hear
on't," said Zeph, in a high voice; and the two hoes worked on in
silence for a while, till finally Zeph broke out again.
"Wal! what did the doctor say? Out with it; as good say it 's think
it. What did the doctor say? Why don't you speak?"
"He said she was a very sick woman," answered Abner.
"He's a fool. I don't think nothin' o' that doctor's jedgment. I'll
have Dr. Sampson over from East Poganuc. Your mother's got the best
constitution of any woman in this neighborhood."
"Yes; but she hasn't been well lately, and I've seen it," said Abner.
"That's all croakin'. Don't believe a word on't. Mother's been right
along, stiddy as a clock; 'taint nothin' but one o' these 'ere pesky
spring colds she's got. She'll be up and 'round by to-morrow or next
day. I'll have another doctor, and I'll get her wine and bark, and
strengthenin' things, and Nabby shall do the work, and she'll come
all right enough."
"I'm sure I hope so," said Abner.
"Hope! what d'ye say hope for? I ain't a goin' to hope nothin'
'bout it. I know so; she's got to git well--ain't no two ways 'bout
that."
Yet Zeph hurried home an hour before his usual time and met Nabby at
the door.
"Wal, ain't your mother gettin' better?"
There were tears in Nabby's eyes as she answered,
"Oh, dear! she's been a raisin' blood. Doctor says it's from her
lungs. Mis' Persis says it's a bad sign. She's very weak--and she
looks so pale!"
"They must give her strengthenin' things," said Zeph. "Do they?"
"They're givin' what the Doctor left. Her fever's beginnin' to rise
now. Doctor says we mustn't talk to her, nor let her talk."
"Wal, I'm a goin' up to see her, anyhow. I guess I've got a right to
speak to my own wife." And Zeph slipped off his heavy cowhide boots,
and went softly up to the door of the room, and opened it without
stopping to knock.
The blinds were shut; it seemed fearfully dark and quiet. His wife
was lying with her eyes closed, looking white and still; but in the
center of each pale cheek was the round, bright, burning spot of the
rising hectic.
Mis' Persis was sitting by her with the authoritative air of a nurse
who has taken full possession; come to stay and to reign. She was
whisking the flies away from her patient with a feather fan, which
she waved forbiddingly at Zeph as he approached.
"Mother," said he in an awe-struck tone, bending over his wife,
"don't you know me?"
She opened her eyes; saw him; smiled and reached out her hand. It was
thin and white, burning with the rising fever.
"Don't you feel a little better?" he asked. There was an imploring
eagerness in his tone.
"Oh, yes; I'm better."
"You'll get well soon, won't you?"
"Oh, yes; I shall be well soon," she said, looking at him with that
beautiful bright smile.
His heart sank as he looked. The smile was so strangely sweet--and
all this quiet, this stillness, this mystery! She was being separated
from him by impalpable shadowy forces that could not be battled
with or defied. In his heart a warning voice seemed to say that
just so quietly she might fade from his sight--pass away, and be
forever gone. The thought struck cold to his heart, and he uttered an
involuntary groan.
His wife opened her eyes, moved slightly, and seemed as if she would
speak, but Mis' Persis put her hand authoritatively over her mouth.
"Don't you say a word," said she.
Then turning with concentrated energy on Zeph, she backed him out of
the room and shut the door upon him and herself in the entry before
she trusted herself to speak. When she did, it was as one having
authority.
"Zephaniah Higgins," she said, "air you crazy? Do you want to kill
your wife? Ef ye come round her that way and git her a-talkin' she'll
bleed from her lungs agin, and that'll finish her. You've jest got to
shet up and submit to the Lord, Zephaniah Higgins, and that's what
you hain't never done yit; you've got to know that the Lord is goin'
to do his sovereign will and pleasure with your wife, and you've
got to be still. That's all. You can't do nothin'. We shall all do
the best we can; but you've jest got to wait the Lord's time and
pleasure."
So saying, she went back into the sick-room and closed the door,
leaving Zeph standing desolate in the entry.
Zeph, like most church members of his day, had been trained in
theology, and had often expressed his firm belief in what was in
those days spoken of as the "doctrine of divine sovereignty."
A man's idea of his God is often a reflection of his own nature. The
image of an absolute monarch, who could and would always do exactly
as he pleased, giving no account to any one of his doings, suited
Zeph perfectly as an abstract conception; but when this resistless
awful Power was coming right across his path, the doctrine assumed
quite another form.
The curt statement made by Mis' Persis had struck him with a sudden
terror, as if a flash of lightning had revealed an abyss opening
under his feet. That he was utterly helpless in his Sovereign's hands
he saw plainly; but his own will rose in rebellion--a rebellion
useless and miserable.
His voice trembled that night as he went through the familiar words
of the evening prayer; a rush of choking emotions almost stopped his
utterance, and the old words, worn smooth with use, seemed to have no
relation to the turbulent tempest of feeling that was raging in his
heart.
After prayers he threw down the Bible with an impatient bang, bolted
for his room and shut himself in alone.
"Poor Father! he takes it hard," said Nabby, wiping her eyes.
"He takes everything hard," said Abner. "I don't know how we'll get
along with him, now Mother isn't round."
"Well, let's hope Mother's goin' to get well," said Nabby. "I
can't--I ain't goin' to think anything else."
CHAPTER XXV.
DOLLY BECOMES ILLUSTRIOUS.
At the Parsonage the illness in Zeph's household brought social
revolution.
The whole burden of family ministration, which had rested on Nabby's
young and comely shoulders, fell with a sudden weight upon those of
Mrs. Cushing. This was all the more unfortunate because the same
exigency absorbed the services of Mis' Persis, who otherwise might
have been relied on to fill the gap.
But now was Dolly's hour for feeling her own importance and assuming
womanly cares. She rushed to the front with enthusiasm and attacked
every branch of domestic service, with a zeal not always according to
knowledge but making her on the whole quite an efficient assistance.
She washed and wiped dishes, and cleared, and cleaned, and dusted,
and set away, as she had seen Nabby do; she propped herself on a
stool at the ironing-table and plied the irons vigorously; and,
resenting the suggestion that she should confine herself to towels
and napkins, struck out boldly upon the boys' shirts and other
complicated tasks, burning her fingers and heating her face in the
determination to show her prowess and ability.
"Dolly is really quite a little woman," she overheard her mother
saying to her father; and her bosom swelled with conscious pride and
she worked all the faster.
"Now, you boys must be very careful not to make any more trouble than
you can help," she said with an air of dignity as Will and Bob burst
into the kitchen and surprised her at the ironing-table. "Nabby is
gone, and there is nobody to do the work but me."
"Upon my word, Mrs. Puss!" said Will, stopping short and regarding
the little figure with a serio-comic air. "How long since you've been
so grand? How tall we're getting in our own eyes--oh my!" and Will
seized her off the ironing stool and, perching her on his shoulder,
danced round the table with her in spite of her indignant protests.
Dolly resented this invasion of her dignity with all her little
might, and the confusion called her mother down out of the chamber
where she had been at work.
"Boys, I'm astonished at you," said she. Now Mrs. Cushing had been
"astonished" at these same boys for about thirteen or fourteen
years, so that the sensation could not be quite overpowering at this
time.
"Well, Mother," said Will, with brisk assurance, setting Dolly down
on her stool, "I was only giving Dolly a ride," and he looked up in
her face with the confident smile that generally covered all his
sins, and brought out an answering smile on the face of his mother.
"Come now, boys," she said, "Nabby has gone home; you must be good,
considerate children, make as little trouble as possible and be all
the help you can."
"But, Mother, Dolly was taking such grown-up airs, as if she was our
mother. I had just to give her a lesson, to show her who she was."
"Dolly is a good, helpful little girl, and I don't know what I should
do without her," said Mrs. Cushing; "she does act like a grown-up
woman, and I am glad of it."
Dolly's face flushed with delight; she felt that at last she had
reached the summit of her ambition: she was properly appreciated!
"And you boys," continued Mrs. Cushing, "must act like grown-up men,
and be considerate and helpful."
"All right, Mother; only give the orders. Bob and I can make the
fires, and bring in the wood, and fill the tea-kettle, and do lots
of things." And, to do the boys justice, they did do their best to
lighten the domestic labors of this interregnum.
The exigency would have been far less serious were it not that the
minister's house in those days was a sort of authorized hotel, not
only for the ministerial brotherhood but for all even remotely
connected with the same, and all that miscellaneous drift-wood of
hospitality that the eddies of life cast ashore. The minister's
table was always a nicely-kept one; the Parsonage was a place where
it was pleasant to abide; and so the guest-chamber of the Parsonage
was seldom empty. In fact, this very week a certain Brother Waring,
an ex-minister from East Poganuc, who wanted to consult the Poganuc
Doctor, came, unannounced, with his wife and trunk, and they settled
themselves comfortably down.
Such inflictions were in those days received in the literal spirit
of the primitive command to "use hospitality without grudging;" but
when a week had passed and news came that Mrs. Higgins was going down
to the grave in quick consumption, and that Nabby would be wanted at
home for an indefinite period, it became necessary to find some one
to fill her place at the Parsonage, and Hiel Jones's mother accepted
the position temporarily--considering her services in the minister's
family as a sort of watch upon the walls of Zion. Not that she was by
any means insensible to the opportunity of receiving worldly wages;
but she wished it explicitly understood that she was not going out
to service. She was "helpin' Mis' Cushing." The help, however, was
greatly balanced in this case by certain attendant hindrances such as
seem inseparable from the whole class of "lady helps."
Mrs. Jones had indeed a very satisfactory capability in all domestic
processes; her bread was of the whitest and finest, her culinary
skill above mediocrity, and she was an accomplished laundress. But
so much were her spirits affected by the construction that might
possibly be put on her position in the family that she required
soothing attentions and expressions of satisfaction and confidence
every hour of the day to keep her at all comfortable. She had
stipulated expressly to be received at the family table, and, further
than this, to be brought into the room and introduced to all callers;
and, this being done, demeaned herself in a manner so generally
abused and melancholy that poor Mrs. Cushing could not but feel that
the burden which had been taken off from her muscles had been thrown
with double weight upon her nerves.
After a call of any of the "town-hill" aristocracy, Mrs. Jones would
be sure to be found weeping in secret places, because 'Mrs. Colonel
Davenport had looked down on her,' or the Governor's lady 'didn't
speak to her,' and she 'should like to know what such proud folks
was goin' to do when they got to heaven!' Then there was always
an implication that if ministers only did their duty all these
distinctions of rank would cease, and everybody be just as good as
everybody else. The poor body had never even dreamed of a kingdom of
heaven where the Highest was "as him that serveth;" and what with
Mrs. Jones's moans, and her tears, and her frequent sick headaches,
accompanied by abundant use of camphor, Mrs. Cushing, in some
desperate moments, felt as if she would rather die doing her own work
than wear herself out in the task of conciliating a substitute.
Then, though not a serious evil, it certainly was somewhat
disagreeable to observe Mrs. Jones's statistical talents and habits
of minute inspection, and to feel that she was taking notes which
would put all the parish in possession of precise information as
to the condition of Mrs. Cushing's tablecloths, towels, napkins,
and all the minutiæ of her housekeeping arrangements. There is, of
course, no sin or harm in such particularity; but almost every lady
prefers the shades of poetic obscurity to soften the details of her
domestic interior. In those days, when the minister was the central
object of thought in the parish, it was specially undesirable that
all this kind of information should be distributed, since there were
many matrons who had opinions all ready made as to the proper manner
in which a minister's wife should expend his salary and order his
household.
It was therefore with genuine joy that, after a fortnight's care of
this kind, a broad-faced, jolly African woman was welcomed by Mrs.
Cushing to her kitchen in place of Mrs. Jones. Dinah was picked up
in a distant parish, and entered upon her labors with an unctuous
satisfaction and exuberance that was a positive relief after the
recent tearful episode. It is true she was slow, and somewhat
disorderly, but she was unfailingly good-natured, and had no dignity
to be looked after; and so there was rest for a while in the
Parsonage.
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE VICTORY.
Summer with its deep blue skies was bending over the elms of Poganuc.
The daisies were white in the meadows and the tall grass was nodding
its feathery sprays of blossom. The windows of the farm houses stood
open, with now and then a pillow or a bolster lounging out of them,
airing in the sunshine. The hens stepped hither and thither with a
drowsy continuous cackle of contentment as they sunned themselves in
the warm embracing air.
In the great elm that overhung the roof of Zeph Higgins's farm house
was a mixed babble and confusion of sweet bird voices. An oriole
from her swinging nest caroled cheerfully, and bobolinks and robins
replied, and the sounds blended pleasantly with the whisper and
flutter of leaves, as soft summer breezes stirred them.
But over one room in that house rested the shadow of death; there,
behind the closed blinds, in darkened stillness days passed by; and
watchers came at night to tend and minister; and bottles accumulated
on the table; and those who came entered softly and spoke with bated
breath; and the doctor was a daily visitor; and it was known that the
path of the quiet patient who lay there was steadily going down to
the dark river.
Every one in the neighborhood knew it: for, in the first place,
everybody in that vicinity, as a matter of course, knew all about
everybody else: and then, besides that, Mrs. Higgins had been not
only an inoffensive, but a much esteemed and valued neighbor. Her
quiet step, her gentle voice, her skillful ministry had been always
at hand where there had been sickness or pain to be relieved, and
now that her time was come there was a universal sympathy. Nabby's
shelves were crowded with delicacies made up and sent in by one or
another good wife to tempt the failing appetite. In the laborious,
simple life that they were living in those days, there was small
physiological knowledge, and the leading idea in most minds in
relation to the care of sickness was the importance of getting the
patient to eat; for this end, dainties that might endanger the
health of a well person were often sent in as a tribute to the sick.
Then almost every house-mother had her own favorite specific, of
sovereign virtue, which she prepared and sent in to increase the
army of bottles which always gathered in a sick-room. Mis' Persis,
however, while graciously accepting these tributes, had her own
mental reservations, and often slyly made away with the medicine in a
manner that satisfied the giver and did not harm the patient. Quite
often, too, Hiel Jones, returning on his afternoon course, stopped
his horses at the farm-house door and descended to hand in some
offering of sympathy and good will from friends who lived miles away.
Hiel did not confine himself merely to transmitting the messages
of neighbors, but interested himself personally in the work of
consolation, going after Nabby wherever she might be found--at the
spinning wheel, in the garret, or in the dairy below--and Nabby,
in her first real trouble, was so accessible and so confiding that
Hiel found voice to say unreproved what the brisk maiden might have
flouted at in earlier days.
"I'm sure I don't know what we can do without Mother," Nabby said one
day, her long eye-lashes wet with tears. "Home won't ever seem home
without her."
"Well," answered Hiel, "I know what I shall want you to do, Nabby:
come to me; and you and I'll have a home all to ourselves."
And Nabby did not gainsay the word, but only laid her head on his
shoulder and sobbed, and said he was a real true friend and she
should never forget his kindness; and Hiel kissed and comforted her
with all sorts of promises of future devotion. Truth to say, he found
Nabby in tears and sorrow more attractive than when she sparkled in
her gayest spirits.
But other influences emanated from that shadowy room--influences felt
through all the little neighborhood. Puritan life had its current
expressions significant of the intense earnestness of its faith in
the invisible, and among these was the phrase "a triumphant death."
There seemed to be in the calm and peaceful descent of this quiet
spirit to the grave a peculiar and luminous clearness that fulfilled
the meaning of that idea. The "peace that passeth understanding"
brightened, in the sunset radiance, into "joy unspeakable and full of
glory." Her decline, though rapid and steady, was painless: and it
seemed to those who looked upon her and heard her words of joy and
trust that the glory so visible to her must be real and near--as if
in that sick-chamber a door had in very deed been opened into heaven.
When she became aware that the end was approaching she expressed a
wish that her own minister should be sent for, and Dr. Cushing came.
The family gathered in her room. She was propped up on pillows,
her eyes shining and cheeks glowing with the hectic flush, and an
indescribable brightness of expression in her face that seemed almost
divine.
The Doctor read from Isaiah the exultant words: "Arise, shine, for
thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.
For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the
people, but the Lord shall arise on thee, and his glory shall be
seen on thee. The sun shall no more be thy light by day, neither for
brightness shall the moon give light to thee, but the Lord shall be
unto thee an everlasting light, and thy God thy glory. Thy sun shall
no more go down nor thy moon withdraw itself, for the Lord shall be
thy everlasting light, and the days of thy mourning shall be ended."
In the prayer that followed he offered thanks that God had given
unto our sister the victory, and enabled her to rejoice in hope of
the glory of God, while yet remaining with them as a witness of the
faithfulness of the promise. He prayed that those dear to her might
have grace given them to resign her wholly to the will of God and to
rejoice with her in her great joy.
When they rose from prayer, Zeph, who had sat in gloomy silence
through all, broke out:
"I can't--I can't give her up! It's hard on me. I can't do it,
and I won't."
She turned her eyes on him, and a wonderful expression of love and
sorrow and compassion came into her face. She took his hand, saying,
with a gentle gravity and composure:
"I want to see my husband alone."
When all had left the room, he sunk down on his knees by the bed and
hid his face. The bed was shaken by his convulsive sobbing. "My dear
husband," she said, "you know I love you."
"Yes--yes, and you are the only one that does--the only one that can.
I'm hard and cross, and bad as the devil. Nobody could love me but
you; and I can't--I won't--give you up!"
"You needn't give me up; you must come with me. I want you to come
where I am; I shall wait for you; you're an old man--it won't be
long. But oh, do listen to me now. You can't come to heaven till
you've put away all hard feeling out of your heart. You must make up
that quarrel with the church. When you know you've been wrong, you
must say so. I want you to promise this. Please do!"
There was silence; and Zeph's form shook with the conflict of his
feelings.
But the excitement and energy which had sustained the sick woman thus
far had been too much for her; a blood vessel was suddenly ruptured,
and her mouth filled with blood. She threw up her hands with a slight
cry. Zeph rose and rushed to the door, calling the nurse.
It was evident that the end had come.
CHAPTER XXVII.
THE FUNERAL.
On that morning, before Dr. Cushing had left the Parsonage to go to
the bedside of his dying parishioner, Dolly, always sympathetic in
all that absorbed her parents, had listened to the conversation and
learned how full of peace and joy were those last days.
When her father was gone, Dolly took her little basket and went out
into the adjoining meadow for wild strawberries. The afternoon was
calm and lovely; small patches of white cloud were drifting through
the intense blue sky, and little flutters of breeze shook the
white hats of the daisies as she wandered hither and thither among
them looking for the strawberries. Over on the tallest twig of the
apple-tree in the corner of the lot a bobolink had seated himself,
swinging and fluttering up and down, beating his black and white
wings and singing a confused lingo about "sweetmeats and sweetmeats,"
and "cheer 'em and cheer 'em."
This bobolink was one of Dolly's special acquaintances. She had
often seen him perched on this particular twig of the old apple-tree,
doubtless because of a nest and family establishment that he had
somewhere in that neighborhood, and she had learned to imitate
his jargon as she crept about in the tall grass; and so they two
sometimes kept up quite a lively conversation.
But this afternoon she was in no mood for chattering with the
bobolink, for the strings of a higher nature than his had been set
vibrating; she was in a sort of plaintive, dreamy revery--so sorry
for poor Nabby, who was going to lose her mother, and so full of awe
and wonder at the bright mystery now opening on the soul that was
passing away.
Dolly had pondered that verse of her catechism which says that "the
souls of believers at their death are made perfect in holiness, and
do immediately pass into glory," and of what that unknown glory, that
celestial splendor, could be she had many thoughts and wonderings.
She had devoured with earnest eyes Bunyan's vivid description of the
triumphal ascent to the Celestial City through the River of Death,
and sometimes at evening, when the west was piled with glorious
clouds which the setting sun changed into battlements and towers of
silvered gold, Dolly thought she could fancy it was something like
that beautiful land. Now it made her heart thrill to think that one
she had known only a little while before--a meek, quiet, patient,
good woman--was just going to enter upon such glory and splendor, to
wear those wonderful white robes and sing that wonderful song.
She filled her basket and then sat down to think about it. She lay
back on the ground and looked up through the white daisies into the
deep intense blue of the sky, wondering with a vague yearning, and
wishing that she could go there too and see what it was all like.
Just then, vibrating through the sunset air, came the plaintive
stroke of the old Meeting-house bell. Dolly knew what that sound
meant--a soul "made perfect in holiness" had passed into glory; and
with a solemn awe she listened as stroke after stroke tolled out the
years of that patient earth-life, now forever past.
It was a thrilling mystery to think of where she now was. She
knew all now! she had seen! she had heard! she had entered in! Oh,
what joy and wonder!
Dolly asked herself should she too ever be so happy--she, poor little
Dolly; if she went up to the beautiful gate, would they let her
in? Her father and mother would certainly go there; and they would
surely want her too: couldn't she go in with them? So thought Dolly,
vaguely dreaming, with the daisy-heads nodding over her, and the
bobolink singing, and the bell tolling, while the sun was sinking in
the west. At last she heard her father calling her at the fence, and
made haste to take up her basket and run to him.
The day but one after this Dolly went with her father and mother to
the funeral. Funerals in those old days had no soothing accessories.
People had not then learned to fill their houses with flowers, and
soften by every outward appliance the deadly severity of the hard
central fact of utter separation.
The only leaves ever used about the dead in those days were the tansy
and rosemary--bitter herbs of affliction. Every pleasant thing in the
house was shrouded in white; every picture and looking-glass in its
winding-sheet. The coffin was placed open in the best front room, and
the mourners, enveloped in clouds of black crape, sat around. The
house on this occasion was crowded; wagons came from far and near;
the lower rooms were all open and filled, and Dr. Cushing's voice
came faintly and plaintively through the hush of silence.
He spoke tenderly of the departed:--"We have seen our sister for many
weeks waiting in the land of Beulah by the River of Death. Angels
have been coming across to visit her; we have heard the flutter of
their wings. We have seen her rejoicing in full assurance of hope,
having laid down every earthly care; we have seen her going down the
dark valley, leaning on the Beloved; and now that we have met to pay
the last tribute to her memory, shall it be with tears alone? If we
love our sister, shall we not rejoice because she has gone to the
Father? She has gone where there is no more sickness, no more pain,
no more sorrow, no more death, and she shall be ever with the Lord.
Let us rejoice, then, and give thanks unto God, who hath given her
the victory, and let us strive like her, by patient continuance in
well-doing, to seek for glory and honor and immortality."
And then arose the solemn warble of the old funeral hymn:
    "Why should we mourn departing friends
      Or shake at death's alarms?
    'Tis but the voice that Jesus sends
      To call them to his arms.
    "Why should we tremble to convey
      Their bodies to the tomb?
    There the dear form of Jesus lay,
      And scattered all the gloom.
    "Thence He arose, ascending high,
      And showed our feet the way;
    Up to the Lord we, too, shall fly
      At the great rising day.
    "Then let the last loud trumpet sound,
      And bid our kindred rise;
    Awake! ye nations under ground;
      Ye saints! ascend the skies!"
The old tune of "China," with its weird arrangement of parts,
its mournful yet majestic movement, was well fitted to express
that mysterious defiance of earth's bitterest sorrow, that solemn
assurance of victory over life's deepest anguish, which breathes
in those words. It is the major key invested with all the mournful
pathos of the minor, yet breathing a grand sustained undertone of
triumph--fit voice of that only religion which bids the human heart
rejoice in sorrow and glory in tribulation.
Then came the prayer, in which the feelings of the good man,
enkindled by sympathy and faith, seemed to bear up sorrowing souls,
as on mighty wings, into the regions of eternal peace.
In a general way nothing can be more impressive, more pathetic and
beautiful, than the Episcopal Church funeral service, but it had been
one of the last requests of the departed that her old pastor should
minister at her funeral; and there are occasions when an affectionate
and devout man, penetrated with human sympathy, can utter prayers
such as no liturgy can equal. There are prayers springing heavenward
from devout hearts that are as much superior to all written ones
as living, growing flowers out-bloom the dried treasures of the
herbarium. Not always, not by every one, come these inspirations; too
often what is called extemporary prayer is but a form, differing from
the liturgy of the church only in being poorer and colder.
But the prayer of Dr. Cushing melted and consoled; it was an uplift
from the darkness of earthly sorrow into the grand certainties of the
unseen; it had the undertone that can be given only by a faith to
which the invisible is even more real than the things that are seen.
After the prayer one and another of the company passed through the
room to take the last look at the dead. Death had touched her gently.
As often happens in the case of aged people, there had come back to
her face something of the look of youth, something which told of a
delicate, lily-like beauty which had long been faded. There was too
that mysterious smile, that expression of rapturous repose, which
is the seal of heaven set on the earthly clay. It seemed as if the
softly-closed eyes must be gazing on some ineffable vision of bliss,
as if, indeed, the beauty of the Lord her God was upon her.
Among the mourners at the head of the coffin sat Zeph Higgins, like
some rugged gray rock--stony, calm and still. He shed no tear, while
his children wept and sobbed aloud; only when the coffin-lid was
put on a convulsive movement passed across his face. But it was
momentary, and he took his place in the procession to walk to the
grave in grim calmness.
The graveyard was in a lovely spot on the Poganuc River. No care
in those days had been bestowed to ornament or brighten these last
resting-places, but Nature had taken this in hand kindly. The blue
glitter of the river sparkled here and there through a belt of pines
and hemlocks on one side, and the silent mounds were sheeted with
daisies, brightened now and then with golden buttercups, which bowed
their fair heads meekly as the funeral train passed over them.
Arrived at the grave, there followed the usual sounds, so terrible to
the ear of mourners--the setting down of the coffin, the bustle of
preparation, the harsh grating of ropes as the precious burden was
lowered to its last resting-place. And then, standing around the open
grave, they sang:
    "My flesh shall slumber in the ground
    Till the last trumpet's joyful sound.
    Then burst the chains, with sweet surprise,
    And in my Saviour's image rise."
Then rose the last words of prayer, in which the whole finished
service and all the survivors were commended to God.
It was customary in those days for the head of a family to return
thanks at the grave to the friends and neighbors who had joined in
the last tribute of respect to the departed. There was a moment's
pause, and every eye turned on Zeph Higgins. He made a movement and
stretched out his hands as if to speak; but his voice failed him, and
he stopped. His stern features were convulsed with the vain effort to
master his feeling.
Dr. Cushing saw his emotion and said, "In behalf of our brother I
return thanks to all the friends who have given us their support and
sympathy on this occasion. Let us all pray that the peace of God may
rest upon this afflicted family." The gathered friends now turned
from the grave and dispersed homeward.
With the instinct of a true soul-physician, who divines mental states
at a glance, Dr. Cushing forbore to address even a word to Zeph
Higgins; he left him to the inward ministration of a higher Power.
But such tact and reticence belong only to more instructed natures.
There are never wanting well-meaning souls who, with the very best
intentions, take hold on the sensitive nerves of sorrow with a coarse
hand.
Deacon Peaslee was inwardly shocked to see that no special attempt
had been made to "improve the dispensation" to Zeph's spiritual
state, and therefore felt called on to essay his skill.
"Well, my friend," he said, coming up to him, "I trust this
affliction may be sanctified to you."
Zeph glared on him with an impatient movement and turned to walk
away; the Deacon, however, followed assiduously by his side, going on
with his exhortation.
"You know it's no use contendin' with the Lord."
"Well, who's ben a contendin' with the Lord?" exclaimed Zeph, "I
haint."
The tone and manner were not hopeful, but the Deacon persevered.
"We must jest let the Lord do what he will with us and ours."
"I hev let him--how was I goin' to help it?"
"We mustn't murmur," continued the Deacon in a feebler voice, as he
saw that his exhortation was not hopefully received.
"Who's ben a murmurin? I haint!"
"Then you feel resigned, don't you?"
"I can't help myself. I've got to make the best on't," said Zeph,
trying to out-walk him.
"But you know----"
"LET ME ALONE, can't ye?" cried Zeph in a voice of thunder; and the
Deacon, scared and subdued, dropped behind, murmuring, "Drefful state
o' mind! poor critter, so unreconciled!--really awful!"
CHAPTER XXVIII.
DOLLY AT THE WICKET GATE.
The next Sunday rose calm and quiet over the hills of Poganuc.
There was something almost preternatural in the sense of stillness
and utter repose which the Sabbath day used to bring with it in those
early times. The absolute rest from every earthly employment, the
withholding even of conversation from temporal things, marked it off
from all other days. To the truly devout the effect was something the
same as if the time had been spent in heaven.
On this particular dewy, fresh summer morning it seemed as if Nature
herself were hushing her breath to hear the music of a higher
sphere. Dolly stood at her open window looking out on the wooded
hills opposite, feathered with their varied green, on the waving
meadows with their buttercups and daisies, on the old apple tree in
the corner of the lot where the bobolink was tilting up and down,
chattering and singing with all his might. She was thinking of what
she had heard her father saying to her mother at breakfast: how the
sickness and death of one good woman had been blessed to all that
neighborhood, and how a revival of religion was undoubtedly begun
there.
All this made Dolly very serious. She thought a great deal about
heaven, and perfectly longed to be quite sure she ever should get
there. She often had wished that there were such a thing in reality
as a Wicket Gate, and an old Interpreter's house, and a Palace
Beautiful, for then she would set right off on her pilgrimage at
once, and in time get to the Celestial City. But how to get this
spiritual, intangible preparation she knew not. To-day she knew was
a sacramental Sunday, and she should see all the good people taking
that sacrificial bread and wine, but she should be left out.
And how to get in! There were no Sunday-schools in those days,
no hymns or teachings specially adapted to the child; and Dolly
remembered to have heard serious elderly people tell of how they were
brought "under conviction" and suffered for days and weeks before
the strange secret of mercy was revealed to them, and she wondered
how she ever should get this conviction of sin. Poor Dolly had often
tried to feel very solemn and sad and gloomy, and to think herself a
dreadful sinner, but had never succeeded. She was so young and so
healthy--the blood raced and tingled so in her young veins; and if
she was pensive and sad a little while, yet, the first she knew, she
would find herself racing after Spring, or calling to her brothers,
or jumping up and down with her skipping rope, and feeling full as
airy and gay as the bobolink across in the meadow. This morning she
was trying her best to feel her sins and count them up; but the birds
and the daisies and the flowers were a sad interruption, and she went
to meeting quite dissatisfied.
When she saw the white simple table and the shining cups and snowy
bread of the Communion she inly thought that the service could have
nothing for her--it would be all for those grown-up, initiated
Christians. Nevertheless, when her father began to speak she was
drawn to listen to him by a sort of pathetic earnestness in his voice.
The Doctor was feeling very earnestly and deeply, and he had chosen
a theme to awaken responsive feeling in his church. His text was the
declaration of Jesus: "I call you not servants, but friends;" and his
subject was Jesus as the soul-friend offered to every human being.
Forgetting his doctrinal subtleties, he spoke with all the simplicity
and tenderness of a rich nature concerning the faithful, generous,
tender love of Christ, how he cared for the soul's wants, how he
was patient with its errors, how he gently led it along the way of
right, how he was always with it, teaching its ignorance, guiding its
wanderings, comforting its sorrows, with a love unwearied by faults,
unchilled by ingratitude, till he brought it through the darkness of
earth to the perfection of heaven.
Real, deep, earnest feeling inclines to simplicity of language, and
the Doctor spoke in words that even a child could understand. Dolly
sat absorbed, her large blue eyes gathering tears as she listened;
and when the Doctor said, "Come, then, and trust your soul to this
faithful Friend," Dolly's little heart throbbed "I will." And she
did. For a moment she was discouraged by the thought that she had not
had any conviction of sin; but like a flash came the thought that
Jesus could give her that as well as anything else, and that she
could trust him for the whole. And so her little earnest child-soul
went out to the wonderful Friend. She sat through the sacramental
service that followed, with swelling heart and tearful eyes, and
walked home filled with a new joy. She went up to her father's study
and fell into his arms, saying, "Father, I have given myself to
Jesus, and he has taken me."
The Doctor held her silently to his heart a moment, and his tears
dropped on her head.
"Is it so?" he said. "Then has a new flower blossomed in the Kingdom
this day."
CHAPTER XXIX.
THE CONFLICT.
There is one class of luckless mortals in this world of ours whose
sorrows, though often more real than those of other people, never
bring them any sympathy. It is those in whom suffering excites an
irritating conflict, which makes them intolerable to themselves and
others. The more they suffer the more severe, biting and bitter
become their words and actions. The very sympathy they long for, by a
strange contrariness of nature they throw back on their friends as an
injury. Nobody knows where to have them, or how to handle them, and
when everybody steers away from them they are inwardly desolate at
their loneliness.
After the funeral train had borne away from the old brown farm-house
the silent form of her who was its peace, its light, its comfort,
Zeph Higgins wandered like an unquiet spirit from room to room,
feeling every silent memorial of her who was no longer there as a
stab in the yet throbbing wound. Unlovely people are often cursed
with an intense desire to be loved, and the more unlovely they grow
the more intense becomes this desire. His love for his wife had been
unusually strong in the sense of what is often called loving--that
is, he needed her, depended on her, and could not do without her. He
was always sure that she loved him; he was always sure of her patient
ear to whatever he wished to say, of her wish to do to her utmost
whatever he wanted her to do. Then he was not without a certain
sense of the beauty and purity of her character, and had a sort of
almost superstitious confidence in her prayers and goodness, like
what the Italian peasant has in his patron saint. He felt a sort
of helplessness and terror at the idea of facing life without her.
Besides this, he was tormented by a secret unacknowledged sense of
his own unloveliness: he was angry with himself--cursed himself,
called himself hard names; and he who quarrels with himself has this
disadvantage, that his adversary is inseparably his companion--lies
down and rises, eats, drinks and sleeps with him.
What intensified this conflict was the remembrance of his wife's
dying words, enjoining on him the relinquishment of the bitter
quarrel which had alienated him from his church and his neighbors,
and placed her in so false a position.
He knew that he was in the wrong; he knew that she was in the right,
and that those words spoken on her death-bed were God's voice to him.
But every nerve and fiber in him seemed to rebel and resist; he would
not humble himself; he would not confess; he would not take a step
toward reconciliation.
The storm that was raging within expressed itself outwardly in an
impatience and irritability which tried his children to the utmost.
Poor Nabby did her best to assume in the family all her mother's
cares, but was met at every turn by vexatious fault-finding.
"There now!" he said, coming out one morning, "where's my stockings?
Everything's being neglected--not a pair to put on!"
"Oh yes, Father, I sat up and mended your stockings last night before
I went to bed. I didn't go into your room, because I was afraid of
waking you; but here they are on my basket."
"Give 'em here, then!" said Zeph harshly. "I want my things where I
know where they are. Your mother always had everything ready so I
didn't have to ask for it."
"Well, I never shall be as good as Mother if I try till I'm gray,"
said Nabby, impatiently.
"Don't you be snapping back at me," said Zeph. "But it's jest so
everywhere. Nobody won't care for me now. I don't expect it."
"Well, Father, I'm sure I try the best I can, and you keep scolding
me all the time. It's discouraging."
"Oh, yes, I'm a devil, I suppose. Everybody 's right but me. Well, I
shall be out of the way one of these days, and nobody'll care. There
ain't a critter in the world cares whether I'm alive or dead--not
even my own children."
The sparks flashed through the tears in Nabby's eyes. She was cut to
the soul by the cruel injustice of these words, and a hot and hasty
answer rose to her lips, but was smothered in her throat.
Nabby had become one of the converts of the recently-commenced
revival of religion, and had begun to lay the discipline of the
Christian life on her temper and her tongue, and found it hard work.
As yet she had only attained so far as repression and indignant
silence, while the battle raged tempestuously within.
"I'd like just to go off and leave things to take care of
themselves," she said to herself, "and then he'd see whether I don't
do anything. Try, and try, and try, and not a word said--nothing
but scold, scold, scold. It's too bad! Flesh and blood can't stand
everything! Mother did, but I ain't Mother. I must try to be like
her, though; but it's dreadful hard with Father. How did Mother ever
keep so quiet and always be so pleasant? She used--to pray a great
deal. Well, I must pray."
Yet if Nabby could have looked in at that moment and seen the misery
in her father's soul her indignation would have been lost in pity;
for Zeph in his heart knew that Nabby was a good, warm-hearted girl,
honestly trying her very best to make her mother's place good. He
knew it, and when he was alone and quiet he felt it so that tears
came to his eyes; and yet this miserable, irritable demon that
possessed him had led him to say these cruel words to her--words that
he cursed himself for saying, the hour after. But on this day the
internal conflict was raging stronger than ever. The revival in the
neighborhood was making itself felt and talked about, and the Friday
evening prayer-meeting in the school-house was at hand.
Zeph was debating with himself whether he would take the first step
towards reconciliation with his church by going to it. His wife's
dying words haunted him, and he thought he might at least go as far
as this in the right direction; but the mere suggestion of the first
step roused a perfect whirlwind of opposition within him.
Certain moral conditions are alike in all minds, and this stern,
gnarled, grizzled old New England farmer had times when he felt
exactly as Milton has described a lost archangel as feeling:
    "Oh, then, at last relent! Is there no place
    Left for repentance? none for pardon left?
    None left but by submission, and that word
    Disdain forbids me and my dread of shame."
It is curious that men are not generally ashamed of any form of
anger, wrath or malice; but of the first step towards a nobler
nature--the confession of a wrong--they are ashamed.
Never had Zeph been more intolerable and unreasonable to his sons in
the field-work than on this day.
He was too thoroughly knit up in the habits of a Puritan education
to use any form of profane language, but no man knew so well how to
produce the startling effect of an oath without swearing; and this
day he drove about the field in such a stormy manner that his sons,
accustomed as they were to his manners, were alarmed.
"Tell you what," said one of the boys to Abner, "the old man's awful
cranky to-day. Reely seems as if he was a little bit sprung. I don't
know but he's going crazy!"
CHAPTER XXX.
THE CRISIS.
It was a warm, soft June evening. The rosy tints of sunset were just
merging into brown shadows over the landscape, the frogs peeped and
gurgled in the marshes, and the whippoorwills were beginning to
answer each other from the thick recesses of the trees, when the old
ministerial chaise of Dr. Cushing might have been seen wending its
way up the stony road to the North Poganuc school-house.
The Doctor and his wife were talking confidentially, and Dolly,
seated between them, entered with eager sympathy into all they were
saying.
They were very happy, with a simple, honest, earnest happiness, for
they hoped that the great object of his life and labors was now
about to be accomplished, that the power of a Divine Influence was
descending to elevate and purify and lift the souls of his people to
God.
"My dear, I no longer doubt," he said. "The presence of the Lord is
evidently with us. If only the church will fully awaken to their
duty we may hope for a harvest now."
"What a pity," answered Mrs. Cushing, "that that old standing quarrel
of Zeph Higgins and the church cannot be made up; his children are
all deeply interested in religion, but he stands right in their way."
"Why don't you talk to him, Papa?" asked Dolly.
"Nobody can speak to him but God, my child; there's a man that nobody
knows how to approach."
Dolly reflected silently on this for some minutes, and then said,
"Papa, do you suppose Christ loves him? Did he die for him?"
"Yes, my child. Christ loved and died for all."
"Do you think he believes that?" asked Dolly, earnestly.
"I'm afraid he doesn't think much about it," answered her father.
Here they came in sight of the little school-house. It seemed already
crowded. Wagons were tied along the road, and people were standing
around the doors and windows.
The Doctor and Mrs. Cushing made their way through the crowd to
the seat behind the little pine table. He saw in the throng not
merely the ordinary attendance at prayer-meetings, but many of the
careless and idle class who seldom were seen inside a church. There
were the unusual faces of Abe Bowles and Liph Kingsley and Mark
Merrill, who had left the seductions of Glazier's bar-room to come
