had given him a reputation for shrewdness.
"I think this boy will suit you," he said. "Do you wish him to go with
you now?"
"Yes; I may want him a week."
"Very well."
Frank accompanied the gentleman into the street.
"Have you no other clothes except this uniform?" asked Mr. Hartley.
"Yes, sir."
"Then go and put them on. Then report to me at No. -- Broadway."
"All right, sir."
"It is fortunate I have a good suit," thought Frank.
He was not long in exchanging his uniform for the neat suit given him by
Mr. Bowen. Thus attired, he presented himself in Mr. Hartley's
counting-room. The merchant surveyed him with approval.
"You will enter my service as errand-boy," he said. "You will be sent to
the post-office, the bank, and on similar errands, in order not to
excite suspicion of the real object of your presence. Keep your eyes
open, and I will take an opportunity of explaining to you later what I
wish you to do."
Frank bowed.
"Mr. Haynes," said the merchant, calling a thin, sallow young man, "I
have engaged this boy as an errand-boy. Has any one been to the
post-office this morning?"
"No, sir."
"Then he will go."
Haynes regarded Frank with disfavor.
"I have a nephew who would have liked the position," he said.
"Too late now," said the merchant, curtly.
"What is your name, boy?" asked Haynes, coldly..
"Frank Kavanagh."
"How did Mr. Hartley happen to engage you?" asked the subordinate.
"A gentleman recommended me," Frank answered.
"I had already mentioned my nephew to him. I am surprised he said
nothing to me about engaging a boy."
Frank said nothing, feeling no particular interest in the matter. As he
was only filling temporarily the position of errand boy, it made little
difference to him whether he was acceptable to Mr. Haynes or not.
In the course of the day Mr. Hartley handed Frank a card, containing the
street and number of his residence, with a pencilled invitation to call
that evening.
Of course Frank did so.
Seated alone with the merchant in his back parlor, the latter said, "I
have invited you here because I could not speak with you freely at the
store. How do you like Mr. Haynes?"
Frank was surprised at the abruptness of the question.
"I don't like him," he answered, candidly.
"Why not?"
"There is no good reason that I know of," said Frank; "but I think his
manner is disagreeable."
"Our instincts are often to be trusted," said the merchant,
thoughtfully. "I confess that I myself don't like Haynes, nor do I feel
implicit confidence in him, though he has been eight years in the
service of our house. He is outwardly very circumspect, and apparently
very faithful, but there is something in his eye which I don't like."
Frank had noticed this, but Mr. Hartley's remark called fresh attention
to its furtive, crafty expression.
Frank's curiosity was aroused, naturally enough. He wondered what Mr.
Haynes had to do with his mission. He did not have long to wait for
information.
"I will come to the point," said Mr. Hartley, after a pause. "I am an
importing merchant, and deal, among other articles, in silks. During the
last year I have discovered that some one is systematically robbing me,
and that parts of my stock have been spirited away. The loss I have
sustained is already considerable, and unless the leakage is put a stop
to, I may as well give up business. You can now guess why I have engaged
you. No one will suspect an errand boy of being a detective, while a man
would very probably excite distrust, and put the rogue on his guard."
Frank listened attentively to his employer.
"Do you suspect any one in particular, Mr. Hartley?" he asked.
"It must be some one in my employ," he said. "The man who, more than any
other, has facilities for robbing me is the man of whom I have spoken to
you."
"Mr. Haynes?"
"Yes, Mr. Haynes. He holds an important position, and enjoys special
privileges. On the other hand, so far as I can learn, he lives in a
sober, inexpensive way, quite within his salary, which is liberal. He is
prominently connected with an up-town church, and it seems very
improbable that he would be guilty of robbery, or breach of trust; yet
there have been such cases before. At any rate, I cannot wholly divest
myself of suspicion."
"What do you wish me to do?" asked Frank.
"To watch Mr. Haynes carefully, both in and out of the store, to
ascertain whether he has any unexplained expenses, or any questionable
companions. I want to know how he spends his time out of the office. It
may be that the result of my investigation will be to his credit. It may
be that he is all that he seems,--a reputable member of the church and
of society, with nothing against him but an unpleasant manner. Should
this be the case, I shall be glad to correct my suspicions, and give him
back my confidence. In that case, we must look elsewhere for the rogue
who is robbing me."
"Have you any particular instructions to give me?" asked Frank.
"No, only to follow Haynes, and find out all you can about him. Use
great care in doing it, not to arouse his or any one else's suspicion. I
will find an opportunity for you to make your reports."
"Very well, sir."
       *       *       *       *       *
When Frank got home, he found a letter awaiting him from his country
home. It was in answer to one which he had written to his uncle, Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh, in reference to a trunk which had belonged to his
father.
This is the letter:--
     MY DEAR NEPHEW,--I am glad to learn that you are making a living in
     the city. It is much better that you should earn your own living
     than to be a burden upon me, though of course I would not see you
     suffer. But a man's duty is to his own household, and my income
     from the farm is very small, and Hannah and I agreed that we had
     little to spare for others.
     There is an old trunk, belonging to your deceased father, in the
     attic. It contains some old clothes, which may be made over for
     you, and so save you expense. I would use them myself, and allow
     you for them, but your father was a much smaller man than I, and
     his clothes would not fit me. I will send the trunk by express to
     the address which you gave me. Of course I shall expect you to pay
     the express, as I have no interest in it, or its contents.
     Your cousin Jonathan has left school, and is working on the farm. I
     feel so glad that he has no extravagant tastes, but inherits the
     careful and economical habits of his mother and myself. I am sure
     he will never waste or squander the little property which I hope to
     leave him.
"I don't believe he will," thought Frank, "for he is about as mean as
his mother, and that is saying a good deal."
     Your aunt and I hope that you will steer clear of the temptations
     of the city. Do not seek after vain amusements, but live a sober
     life, never spending a cent unnecessarily, and you will in time
     become a prosperous man. I would invite you to come and stop with
     us over Sunday, but for the railroad fare, which is high. It will
     be better to save your money, and put off the visit till you can
     afford it.
     Your uncle,
     PELATIAH KAVANAGH.
Reading this letter, it would hardly be supposed that the writer owned
ten thousand dollars in stocks, bonds, and mortgages, over and above an
excellent farm. Such, however, was the worldly position of the man who
sent Frank to the city in quest of a living, because he could not afford
to provide for him. With some men prudence is a virtue; with Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh it was carried so far as to be a positive defect.
CHAPTER XXI.
FRANK'S FIRST DISCOVERY.
So far as Frank could observe, Mr. Haynes was an active, energetic
salesman. He appeared to understand his duties thoroughly, and to go
about them in a straightforward manner. So far as his personal habits
were concerned, they seemed irreproachable. He was neatly but plainly
dressed, wore no jewelry, and carried a plain silver watch, which, when
new, probably did not cost over twenty dollars.
Frank had no difficulty in ascertaining where he lived. It was in a
brick house, on Waverley place, very unpretentious and certainly not
fashionable. In order to find out how much he paid for his
accommodations Frank visited the house on pretence of being in search of
board.
"We have a hall bed-room on the third floor, at five dollars a week,
including board," said the landlady. "How would that suit you?"
"I may have a friend board with me," said Frank. "In that case we should
need a large room. Have you any vacant?"
"There is the front room on the third floor. We would let it to two
gentlemen at eleven dollars for the two."
"Isn't the back room cheaper?" inquired our hero.
"Yes; but it is occupied by a business gentleman."
"Can you tell me his name? I may be acquainted with him."
"His name is Haynes."
"How much does he pay?"
"He pays eight dollars a week, and has the room alone."
"I suppose his room is not likely to become vacant soon?"
"Oh, dear, no. He has been with us for several years. We should be sorry
to lose him. Last Christmas he gave my daughter a present of a nice
silk-dress pattern."
Frank was struck by this information.
"I don't believe he paid anything for the silk," thought he. "I wish I
could find out."
He had learned all he cared for, and left, saying he might call again.
"His expenses seem very moderate for a man in his position," thought
Frank. "I wonder if he makes any investments."
Fortune favored our hero in the prosecution of his inquiry. Keeping
Haynes in sight, as was his custom, he observed that the latter, in
pulling out a handkerchief from the breast-pocket of his coat, had
brought with it a letter also. Frank, quickly and unobserved, picked it
up, and when he was alone looked at the address. It was directed to
James Haynes, at his residence in Waverley place. On the envelope was
the printed address of a real-estate broker in Brooklyn.
Frank knew that there was at that time considerable speculation in
Brooklyn real estate, and he examined the letter. It ran thus:--
     We have found a corner lot, with several lots adjoining, near
     Prospect Park, which may be obtained for five thousand dollars,
     half cash. We have no hesitation in recommending the purchase,
     being convinced, from the tendencies of the market, that the buyer
     will double his money in a comparatively short time. If you are
     engaged at other times, come over on Sunday afternoon, and we will
     show you the property. The house you purchased of us last year is
     worth fully a thousand dollars more than the price you gave.
"I wonder how much he gave," said Frank to himself.
The letter was signed "Henderson & Co., No. -- Fulton street."
Our hero was elated by the discovery he had made, and he sought an
interview with Mr. Hartley.
"Have you discovered anything?" asked the merchant, noticing the eager
look of his young detective.
Without attaching especial importance to the fact, Frank answered, "I
have found out that Mr. Haynes owns a house in Brooklyn."
"Indeed!" said Hartley, quickly. "But," he continued more slowly, "he
might buy one with the money saved from his salary."
"He is also thinking of buying some lots near Prospect Park."
"How did you learn this?" asked the merchant, surprised.
"I would rather not tell you," said Frank, who was not quite sure
whether Mr. Hartley would sanction his examination of a private letter.
"You may be sure that it is true."
"Very well; I will rest contented with that assurance. I will leave you
to work in your own way. Your information is important, for it seems to
show that Mr. Haynes has made investments beyond his ability, if he were
dependent upon his savings alone."
"That is what I thought," said Frank. "I must try to find out where he
gets this extra money."
"If you do that, and prove my suspicions correct, I will make you a
handsome present, besides paying the company regular rates for your
services."
"Thank you, sir. I will try to earn your gifts."
CHAPTER XXII.
FOLLOWING UP A CLUE.
This is not a detective story, and I shall not, therefore, detail the
steps by which our young hero succeeded in tracing out the agency of
Haynes in defrauding the firm by which he was employed. It required not
one week, but three, to follow out his clues, and qualify himself to
make a clear and intelligible report to Mr. Hartley. He had expressly
requested the merchant not to require any partial report, as it might
interfere with his working unobserved. Towards the end of the third week
he asked an interview with Mr. Hartley.
"Well, Frank," said the merchant, familiarly, "who is the rogue?"
"Mr. Haynes," answered our hero.
"You speak confidently," said his employer; "but surmise will not do. I
want proof, or I cannot act."
"I will tell you what I have discovered," said Frank; "and I leave you
to judge for yourself."
"Have you a customer in Hartford named Davis?" he asked.
"Yes; and a very good customer. He is frequent in his orders, and makes
prompt payments. I wish I had more like him."
"If you had more like him you would soon be bankrupt," said Frank,
quietly.
"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Hartley, in genuine surprise. "How can a
customer who buys largely, and pays promptly, be undesirable?"
"Did you know that Mr. Davis is a brother-in-law of Mr. Haynes?"
"No; but even if he is I have to thank Mr. Haynes for securing me so
excellent a customer."
Hartley spoke confidently, evidently believing that Frank was on the
wrong tack.
"I have noticed," said Frank, "that when goods are packed to go to Mr.
Davis, Mr. Haynes personally superintends the packing, and employs one
particular man to pack."
"What then?"
"I think he has something to conceal."
"I don't understand what he can have to conceal. If Davis is his
brother-in-law, it is natural that he should feel a special interest in
filling his orders."
"I shouldn't wonder if Mr. Haynes were a partner as well as a
brother-in-law of Mr. Davis."
Mr. Hartley looked surprised.
"That may be true; though I don't know why you should conjecture it.
Admitting that you are right, I don't know that I have any right to
object. I should like it better, however, if I were frankly told by Mr.
Haynes of this circumstance."
"I will tell you what I think I have discovered," continued Frank. "The
cases that are shipped to Mr. Davis not only contain the goods he has
ordered, but valuable silks that he has not ordered, and does not
propose to pay for."
"I see, I see," exclaimed Mr. Hartley, a light dawning upon him for the
first time. "I was stupid not to comprehend your meaning earlier. What
warrant have you for suspecting this?"
"First, your steady losses of goods; next, the ease with which Mr.
Haynes, in his position of trust, could carry out this plan. Why should
he superintend the packing of Mr. Davis's goods, alone of all your
customers?"
"There is weight in what you say, Frank. You are certainly an
extraordinary boy. You have shown so much shrewdness that I now ask your
advice. What steps shall I take to ascertain whether Mr. Haynes is
really guilty of what we suspect him?"
"There is an order now being filled for Mr. Davis," answered Frank.
"When the order is filled, can't you open the case, and find out whether
the contents correspond exactly to the bill?"
"The very thing. To facilitate matters I will send Mr. Haynes to
Brooklyn on a confidential errand. Fortunately there is a matter that
will give me a good excuse for doing so. Go back to your post, and when
Mr. Haynes appears to be at liberty send him to me."
Half an hour later Mr. Haynes entered the counting room of his
employer.
"You sent for me, sir?" he said, a little uneasily; for, when conscience
accuses, the mind is always apprehensive.
"Yes, Mr. Haynes," said the merchant, in his usual tone. "Have you any
objection to go to Brooklyn for me, on a confidential errand?"
"None in the world, sir," said Haynes, relieved. "I shall be glad to
take the trip this fine morning. It is almost too pleasant to remain
in-doors."
"Thank you; I will give you your instructions, and shall be glad to have
you go at once."
It is not necessary to our story that we should know the nature of the
errand on which Haynes was sent. It served the purpose of getting him
out of the way.
When the suspected clerk was fairly on his way Mr. Hartley went to the
packing-room, and looked about him till he discovered the case addressed
to
    H. L. DAVIS & CO.,
    HARTFORD, CONN.
"Open this case," said he to one of the workmen. "There was a mistake
recently in sending some goods to Davis, and I wish to compare these
with the bill."
"I think they are all right, sir," said the man addressed. "Mr. Haynes
saw them packed."
"Mr. Haynes will not be responsible for any mistake," said Mr. Hartley.
"I would rather see for myself."
The case was opened, and the merchant discovered about two hundred
dollars' worth of silk, which was not included in the bill.
"Go and call Mr. Hunting," said Mr. Hartley, quietly.
Mr. Hunting filled one of the most important positions in the
establishment. To him his employer explained the nature of his
discovery.
"Mr. Hunting," he said, "I wish you to see and attest the fraud that has
been attempted upon me. This case was packed under the special charge of
Mr. Haynes."
"Is it possible that Mr. Haynes knew of this?" exclaimed his
fellow-clerk.
"Davis is his brother-in-law," said Mr. Hartley, significantly.
"Has this been going on long, do you think, sir?"
"For several years, I suspect. Mr. Haynes has, no doubt, found it very
profitable."
"Shall I close up the case again, sir?" asked the workman.
"Yes, but it is not to go. You may await my further orders."
The silk was taken out, and replaced in the silk department.
"So much has been saved, at least," said the merchant.
"When Mr. Haynes comes back," he said to the usher, "send him to me."
CHAPTER XXIII.
BROUGHT TO BAY.
Mr. Haynes had a private reason for accepting readily the commission to
visit Brooklyn. It occurred to him at once that it would give him an
excellent chance to call on his real-estate agent, and confer with him
upon future investments. For James Haynes had the comfortable
consciousness that he was a prosperous man. Month by month, and year by
year, he was adding largely to his gains, and while he was still a young
man he would be rich, if all went well.
Of course this meant if his peculations remained undiscovered. Why
should they not be? He plumed himself on the skill with which he managed
to rob his employer. He was no vulgar bungler to break into the store,
or enter into an alliance with burglars. Not he! The property he took
was carried off openly before Mr. Hartley's very eyes, and he knew
nothing of it. He did not even suspect that he was being robbed. This is
what Mr. Haynes thought; but, as we know, he was mistaken. Even now he
was in a net; but did not know it.
After attending to Mr. Hartley's commission Haynes went to see his
broker. The conversation he had with the broker was of a very
encouraging character. He was congratulated upon his investments, and
assured that they would pay him handsomely.
James Haynes returned from Brooklyn in a very pleasant mood.
"A year or two more of life as a clerk, and I will throw off the yoke,"
he said to himself. "I must be worth at least fifteen thousand dollars
now, apart from any rise in the value of my investments. When I reach
twenty-five thousand I will resign my position, and go to Europe. I
shall than possess an income adequate to my simple wants."
"Is Mr. Hartley in the counting-room?" he asked, as he reëntered the
store.
"Yes, sir, and he wishes to see you."
"Of course he wants to see me,--to hear my report."
The merchant looked up as Haynes entered the counting-room.
"So you are back?" he said, gravely.
"Yes, sir; I was detained a little, but I fulfilled my commission."
"That is well."
Here Haynes made his report. Mr. Hartley listened with an abstracted
air, for his thoughts were upon the defalcation of the man before him.
Finishing his statement, James Haynes turned to leave the office, but
his employer called him back.
"Wait a minute, Mr. Haynes," he said, gravely. "I wish to ask you one or
two questions."
"Certainly, sir."
"I believe we have transactions with a party in Hartford, with the
firm-name of H. L. Davis & Co.?"
"Yes, sir," said Haynes, starting and flushing a little.
"Is Mr. Davis a relative of yours?"
"Yes, sir. I wonder where he heard that?" Haynes asked himself. "Is
there any trouble? Is he behind in his payments?" inquired the clerk.
"No; he has always settled his bills with commendable promptness."
"I insisted on that," said Haynes, in a satisfied tone. "I didn't want
you to lose by any connection of mine."
"And you are quite sure that I have lost nothing by Mr. Davis?" demanded
the merchant, regarding Haynes intently.
The latter changed color.
"How is that possible," he inquired, "since he has met his payments
promptly?"
"You have personally seen to the packing of Mr. Davis's goods, I
believe, Mr. Haynes?"
"Well--generally," stammered the rather disconcerted clerk.
"At all events, you did so this morning?"
"Ye-es."
"After you started for Brooklyn, I had the case opened, and found some
patterns of silk not included in the bill."
"I suppose there was a mistake," said Haynes, turning pale.
"You think this has not happened before?"
"I am sure of it."
"Mr. Haynes," said his employer, sternly, "you may as well drop the mask
of innocence. I have been robbed systematically for the last three
years, and I now understand how it was done. You and Davis, between you,
have plundered me in an exceedingly ingenious manner. It will go hard
with you before a jury."
"You won't have me arrested!" exclaimed Haynes, his pallor indicating
his dismay.
"Why should I not?"
"You could prove nothing."
"I will take my chance of that. Have you nothing more to say?"
"I--though I do not admit that your charge is correct--I am willing to
make over to you the greater part of my property, to avoid the scandal
of a trial."
"That will not do, Mr. Haynes. Were I to accept this upon such a ground,
you could rightfully bring against me a charge of blackmail."
"What, then, are your terms?" asked Haynes, sullenly.
"You must write out a confession of your guilt, which I shall put among
my private papers, and not make public unless necessary, and in addition
you must make over to me property to the amount of ten thousand dollars.
It will not make up my losses, but I will accept it as restitution in
full."
Against this James Haynes most strongly protested, alleging that the sum
demanded was far beyond the amount of his purloinings; but finally he
yielded, being privately resolved to make his brother-in-law pay
one-half of the forfeiture.
"You will leave my service at the end of the week, Mr. Haynes," said his
employer, "and during next week you must attend to the transfer."
"How did he find out?" said Haynes to himself, as with grave face he
went about the duties of the place he was so soon to leave. "If I could
find out, I would have my revenge."
CHAPTER XXIV.
AN OPEN ENEMY.
Frank remained with Mr. Hartley till the guilty clerk left the
establishment. This was at the special request of the merchant, who did
not care to let Mr. Haynes suspect who had been instrumental in bringing
his guilt to light.
"I suppose you have no further use for me, now, Mr. Hartley?" said the
telegraph boy.
"Not at present, Frank," said his employer, kindly.
"Then I will report for duty at the telegraph office."
"Wait a moment. You have done me a great service."
"I am glad of that sir," answered Frank, modestly.
"You have shown uncommon shrewdness and intelligence."
Frank looked gratified, and expressed his thanks for the compliment.
"I want to make you a present, in addition to the wages which you
receive from the office," said Mr. Hartley.
"Thank you, sir."
Mr. Hartley drew from his desk a five-twenty government bond, of one
hundred dollars, and handed it to our hero.
"Do you mean all this for me?" asked Frank, quite overwhelmed by the
magnitude of the gift.
"It is not more than you deserve. I might have given you the money value
of the bond; but I give it to you in this shape, because I hope you will
keep it as an investment. It will yield you six dollars interest
annually in gold. I hope the time will come when you will have more
interest in the same way."
"I hope I shall, sir. I shall feel quite rich now."
"You are richer in the qualities which have won you this acknowledgment.
How do you like the telegraph service?"
"Very well, sir, for the present. It is much better than being a
newsboy."
"Exactly; but there are positions you would prefer?"
"Yes, sir; I would like to be in some mercantile business, where I might
work my way up. In a few years I shall be too old for a telegraph boy,
and then I shall be out of place."
"I will relieve your fears on that score. In six months I shall make
some changes in the list of employees. When that time comes I will find
a place for you."
"There is nothing I should like better, sir," said Frank, his face
flushing with pleasure.
"I am satisfied that you will make a useful and intelligent clerk. Until
I want you, remain where you are. The discipline of your present office
will do you no harm, but will help qualify you for usefulness and
success in the mercantile career."
"Thank you, sir. Now I have something to look forward to I shall work
much more cheerfully."
Frank went back to the office, and resumed his ordinary duties. One day
he was riding down Broadway in a stage, when he became sensible that he
had attracted the attention of a gentleman sitting opposite. This led
him to scan the face of the man who was observing him. He at once
recognized Mr. Haynes.
The stage was not full, and the latter came over, and took a seat next
to the telegraph boy.
"Isn't your name Frank Kavanagh?" he asked, abruptly.
"Yes, sir."
"Were you not for a short time in the employ of Mr. Hartley?"
"Yes," answered Frank, feeling embarrassed, for he knew that he was
suspected.
"I infer from your uniform that you have left Mr. Hartley."
"Yes."
"Why did you leave him?" asked Haynes, sharply.
"Because he had no further occasion for my services. Why did you
leave him?" asked Frank, in turn.
James Haynes colored, and looked angry. However, he answered the
question.
"I have other business views," he said, briefly.
"So have I."
The next question was also of an embarrassing character.
"Were you a telegraph boy before you entered Mr. Hartley's employ?"
"I was," answered Frank.
"Were you detailed for duty there?"
Our hero thought that he had answered questions enough by this time, and
signified as much to his questioner.
"If I had been," he said, "I shouldn't be permitted to inform a
stranger."
"I have particular reasons for asking the question," said Haynes.
"Then you can ask Mr. Hartley, or the superintendent of my office.
Good-morning, sir, I get out here."
Frank pulled the strap, and got out. But he was not rid of his
questioner. Haynes got out too, and walked beside our hero.
"I believe," he said, sternly, "that you were sent for to act as a spy
on me."
"What makes you think so?" asked the telegraph boy, looking him in the
eye.
"There was a difficulty between Mr. Hartley and myself, occasioned by a
base and groundless charge, concocted by some enemy. I believe that you
had something to do with this."
"I have brought no groundless charge against any one," said Frank.
"Did you make any report to Mr. Hartley in regard to me?"
"I must refer you to Mr. Hartley for information," said Frank. "I have
an errand in here;" and he entered a store in the lower part of
Broadway.
"There is no doubt about it," thought Haynes.
"That boy was a spy upon me. I have learned all I cared to. I owe you a
debt of gratitude for this, Frank Kavanagh, and mean to pay the debt."
When Frank came out he thought it possible that Haynes might be waiting
for him; but the disgraced clerk was gone.
"I suppose he would injure me if he had a chance," thought the telegraph
boy. "I won't give him the chance if I can help it."
CHAPTER XXV.
WHAT THE OLD TRUNK CONTAINED.
Mention has been made of an old trunk belonging to Frank's father,
which, had been forwarded to him from the country by his Uncle Pelatiah.
It may be mentioned here that our hero's father had been agent of a
woollen mill in a large manufacturing town. For a considerable number of
years he had been in receipt of a handsome salary, and had lived in good
style, but still within his income. He was naturally supposed to possess
a comfortable property.
His death was sudden. He was thrown from a carriage, and, striking his
head upon the curbstone, was picked up senseless, and died unconscious.
Upon examining into his affairs his administrator was unable to find any
property beyond what was needed to pay the few debts he left behind him.
So it came about that Frank was left a penniless orphan. His Uncle
Pelatiah was his nearest relative, and to him he was sent. Pelatiah
Kavanagh was not a bad man, nor was he intentionally unkind; but he was
very close. All his life he had denied himself, to save money; and in
this he had been ably assisted by his wife, who was even closer and
meaner than her husband. It may readily be supposed that it was very
disagreeable to both husband and wife to have a penniless nephew thrown
upon their care and protection.
"How could your brother be so thoughtless and inconsiderate as to use up
all his money, and leave his son destitute? Didn't he have a handsome
income?"
"Yes," said Pelatiah. "He got two thousand dollars a year, and maybe
more."
"You don't say so!" ejaculated his wife. "He'd ought to have saved
two-thirds of it. I declare it's scandalous for a man to waste his
substance in that way."
"My brother was allus free with his money. He wasn't so keerful as you
and I be."
"I should think not, indeed. We don't begin to spend half as much as he
did, and now he comes upon us to support his child."
"It don't seem right," said Pelatiah.
"Right? It's outrageous!" exclaimed Mrs. Kavanagh, energetically. "I
declare I have no patience with such a man. It would only be right to
send this boy Frank to the poor-house."
"The neighbors would talk," protested Pelatiah, who was half inclined to
accept his wife's view, but was more sensitive to the criticism of the
community in which he lived.
"Let 'em talk!" said his more independent helpmate. "It isn't right that
this boy should use up the property that we have scraped together for
his cousin Jonathan."
"We must keep him for a while, Hannah; but I'll get rid of him as soon I
can consistently."
With this Mrs. Kavanagh had to be satisfied; but, during her nephew's
stay of two months in the farm-house, she contrived to make him
uncomfortable by harsh criticisms of his dead father, whom he had
tenderly loved.
"You must have lived very extravagant," she said, "or your father would
have left a handsome property."
"I don't think we did, Aunt Hannah."
"You father kept a carriage,--didn't he?"
"Yes; he had considerable riding to do."
"How much help did he keep?"
"Only one servant in the kitchen, and a stable-boy."
"There was no need of a boy. You could have done the work in the
stable."
"I was kept at school."
"Oh, of course!" sneered his aunt. "You must be brought up as a young
gentleman. Our Jonathan never had any such chances, and now you're
livin' on him, or about the same. I suppose you kept an extravagant
table too. What did you generally have for breakfast?"
So Aunt Hannah continued her catechising, much to Frank's discomfort.
She commented severely upon the wastefulness of always having pastry for
dinner.
"We can't afford it," she said, emphatically; "but then again we don't
mean to have our Jonathan beholden to anybody in case your uncle and I
are cast off sudden. What did you have for dinner on Sunday?"
"Meat and pudding and ice-cream,--that is, in warm weather."
"Ice-cream!" ejaculated Aunt Hannah, holding up both hands. "No wonder
your father didn't leave nothin'. Why, we don't have ice-cream more'n
once a year, and now we can't afford to have it at all, since we've got
another mouth to feed."
"I am sorry that you have to stint yourself on my account," replied
Frank, feeling rather uncomfortable.
"I suppose it's our cross," said Mrs. Kavanagh, gloomily; "but it does
seem hard that we can't profit by our prudence because of your father's
wasteful extravagance."
Such remarks were very disagreeable to our young hero, and it was hard
for him to hear his father so criticised. He supposed they must have
lived extravagantly, since it was so constantly charged by those about
him, and he felt puzzled to account for his father's leaving nothing.
When, after two months, his uncle and aunt, who had deliberated upon
what was best to be done, proposed to him to go to New York and try to
earn his own living, he caught at the idea. He knew that he might suffer
hardships in the new life that awaited him, but if he could support
himself in any way he would escape from the cruel taunts to which he was
now forced to listen every day. How he reached the city, and how he
succeeded, my readers know. We now come to the trunk, which, some time
after its reception, Frank set about examining.
He found it was filled with clothing belonging to his father. Though a
part were in good condition it seemed doubtful whether they would be of
much service to him. It occurred to him to examine the pockets of the
coats. In one he found a common yellow envelope, bearing his father's
name. Opening it, he found, to his great astonishment, that it was a
certificate of railroad stock, setting forth his father's ownership of
one hundred shares of the capital stock of the said railway.
Our hero was greatly excited by his discovery. This, then, was the form
in which his father had invested his savings. What the shares were worth
he had no idea; but he rejoiced chiefly because now he could defend his
father from the charge of recklessly spending his entire income, and
saving nothing. He resolved, as soon as he could find time, to visit a
Wall-street broker, by whom he had occasionally been employed, and
inquire the value of the stock. Two days afterwards the opportunity
came, and he availed himself of it at once.
"Can you tell me the value of these shares, Mr. Glynn?" he asked.
"They are quoted to-day at one hundred and ten," answered the broker,
referring to a list of the day's stock quotations.
"Do you mean that each share is worth a hundred and ten dollars?" asked
Frank, in excitement.
"Certainly."
"Then the whole are worth five thousand five hundred dollars?"
"Rather more; for the last semi-annual dividend has not been collected.
To whom do they belong?"
"They did belong to my father. Now I suppose they are mine."
"Has your father's estate been administered upon?"
"Yes; but these shares had not then been found."
"Then some legal steps will be necessary before you can take possession,
and dispose of them. I will give you the address of a good lawyer, and
advise you to consult him at once."
Frank did so, and the lawyer wrote to Uncle Pelatiah to acquaint him
with the discovery. The news created great excitement at the farm.
"Why, Frank's a rich boy!" ejaculated Aunt Hannah.
"And my brother wasn't so foolishly extravagant as we supposed."
"That may be; but with his salary we could have saved more."
"Perhaps we might; but these shares are worth almost six thousand
dollars. That's a good deal of money, Hannah."
"So it is, Pelatiah. I'll tell you what we'd better do."
"What?"
"Invite Frank to come back and board with us. He can afford to pay
handsome board, and it seems better that the money should go to us than
a stranger."
"Just so, Hannah. He could board with us, and go to school."
"You'd better write and invite him to come. I allus liked the boy, and
if we could have afforded it, I'd have been in favor of keepin' him for
nothing."
"So would I," said his uncle; and he probably believed it, though after
what had happened it will be rather difficult for the reader to credit
it.
The letter was written, but Frank had no desire to return to the old
farm, and the society of his uncle's family.
"I have got used to the city," he wrote, "and have made a good many
friends here. I don't know yet whether I shall take a business position,
or go to school; but, if the latter, the schools here are better than in
the country. I hope to come and see you before long; but, I would prefer
to live in New York."
"He's gettin' uppish," said Aunt Hannah, who was considerably
disappointed, for she had made up her mind just how much they could
venture to charge for board, and how this would increase their annual
savings.
"I suppose it's natural for a boy to prefer the city," said his uncle.
"If the boy has a chance to handle his money there won't be much of it
left by the time he's twenty-one," said Aunt Hannah. "You ought to be
his guardian."
"He has the right to choose his own guardian," said Uncle Pelatiah.
"He'll take some city man likely."
Frank did, in fact, select the lawyer, having learned that he was a man
of high reputation for integrity. He offered it to Mr. Bowen; but that
gentleman, while congratulating his young friend upon his greatly
improved prospects, said that he was a man of books rather than of
business, and would prefer that some other person be selected.
The next thing was to resign his place as telegraph boy.
"We are sorry to lose you," said the superintendent. "Your are one of
our best boys. Do you wish to go at once?"
"No, sir; I will stay till the end of the month."
"Very well. We shall be glad to have you."
Three weeks yet remained till the close of the month. It was not long,
but before the time had passed Frank found himself in a very unpleasant
predicament, from no fault of his own, but in consequence of the enmity
of the clerk whom he had been instrumental in displacing.
CHAPTER XXVI.
A TRAP, AND WHO FELL INTO IT.
No one rejoiced more sincerely at Frank's good luck than Mrs. Vivian.
Her interest in our hero had increased, and while at first she regarded
herself as his patroness she had come now to look upon him as a member
of the family. Fred had already returned, and Frank, bearing in mind
that he had only been invited to remain during his absence, proposed to
find another home, but Mrs. Vivian would not hear of it.
"No," she said, "Fred needs a young companion, and I prefer you to any
one I know of."
As Fred was of his mother's opinion, Frank readily agreed to stay. He
occupied a room adjoining the one assigned to Fred, and during his hours
of leisure the two were constantly together.
"I shall be glad when you leave the telegraph office," said Fred. "Then
we can be together more."
"You may get tired of me."
"If I do I will let you know."
Two days afterwards Frank was riding down town in a Sixth-avenue car.
Until he had taken his seat he was not aware that James Haynes was a
passenger. When a lady who sat between them got out, Haynes moved up, so
as to sit next to our hero.
"I see you are still in the telegraph service," he said.
"Yes, sir," answered Frank, briefly.
"I wonder Mr. Hartley didn't offer you a permanent position in his
employ," said Haynes, with a sneer. "Spies are useful sometimes."
"He may give me a position sometime," said Frank, not regarding the
sneer.
"You earned it," said Haynes, unpleasantly.
"Thank you," said Frank, knowing that Haynes would be provoked by his
appearing to accept the compliment in good faith.
Haynes scowled, but said no more. He drew a morning paper from his
pocket, and appeared to be absorbed in reading it.
At Canal street Frank rose to leave the car. He had not yet reached the
door, when Haynes sprang to his feet, followed him quickly, and,
grasping him by the arm, said, "Not so fast young man! Give me back my
pocket-book."
Frank was struck with amazement.
"What do you mean?" he asked, indignantly.
"I mean that you have relieved me of my pocket-book. Gentlemen," turning
to his fellow-passengers, "I demand that this boy be searched."
"You can search me if you like," said Frank. "You know very well that
your accusation is false."
"I shall be satisfied if you produce what is in your pockets."
"That's fair," said a passenger.
Our hero thrust his hand into his pocket. To his dismay he drew out a
Russia-leather pocket-book, of which he knew nothing.
"That is my pocket-book, gentlemen," said Haynes, triumphantly. "I can
tell you exactly what is in it. You will find two five-dollar bills, a
two and a one. Be kind enough to examine it, sir."
The pocket-book was examined, and, of course, Haynes was correct.
Suspicious glances were directed at poor Frank. Innocent as he was, he
was so overwhelmed by the suddenness of the charge, and the apparent
proof of it, that he looked confused and embarrassed.
"You are beginning early, my boy," said a tall gentleman, in a white
cravat,--a clergyman. "It is well that you are checked in the beginning
of a guilty career."
"Sir," said Frank, "I am as innocent as you are. This man is my enemy,
and he must have put the pocket-book in my pocket. He threatened some
time since to get me into a scrape."
"That story is rather too thin," said Haynes, looking around him with a
sneer. "You won't find any one here quite verdant enough to believe
it."
"There you are mistaken," said a gentleman who was seated directly
opposite to Haynes and Frank. "I believe it."
Haynes scowled at him malignantly.
"I really don't think it very important what you believe, sir. The boy
is evidently a professional thief, and you may belong to the same gang
for aught I know. I propose to give him in charge to the next policeman
we meet."
"Do so," said the stranger, coolly. "I shall be present at his trial,
and offer some important testimony."
"Indeed!" said Haynes, uneasily. "May I ask what it is?"
"Certainly. I saw you thrust the wallet into the boy's pocket! Of that
I am willing to make oath."
James Haynes turned pale. There was a sudden change in public opinion.
It was he who now had become an object of suspicion.
"Young man," said the clergyman, solemnly, "what could have induced you
to enter into such a wicked conspiracy against the poor boy?"
"Mind your own business!" said Haynes, rudely. "It is a lie."
"It is the truth," said the volunteer witness, calmly.
Here a policeman became visible from the car-window, leisurely walking
his beat on the western sidewalk.
"There's a policeman," said Frank's new friend. "Call him, and have the
boy arrested."
"He would be cleared by false testimony," said Haynes, sullenly. "I have
my money back, and will let him go."
"Then," said the stranger, rising, and displaying the badge of a
detective, "I shall arrest you on a charge of conspiracy."
Haynes was fairly caught in his own trap.
"This is a put-up job, gentlemen," he said. "Am I to be robbed first,
and arrested afterwards for exposing the thief?"
He looked about him appealingly; but in vain. Public sentiment was
wholly against him now.
"O you ould villain!" said a stout Irish woman, "to try to ruin the
poor b'ye. Hangin's too good for you."
This was rather an extreme sentiment; but Haynes saw that he was in
peril. He gave an unexpected spring, and, reaching the platform, sprang
out, running up a side street.
"Do you know him?" asked the detective of Frank.
"Yes, sir."
"How do you account for his hostility to you?"
Frank briefly recounted the story already known to the reader.
"He can easily be found then."
"I hope you will not arrest him, sir," said Frank. "He has been pretty
well punished already, and I don't think he will trouble me again."
"If he does, send for me," and the detective handed Frank his card and
address.
"It is fortunate for me," said the telegraph boy, "that you saw him put
the money in my pocket."
"You would have experienced some inconvenience; but the story you have
