the next six months. He said he did not desire to exceed ten thousand
dollars. She would make it twelve, however. After the notes were duly
signed, she took him to her bank, and introduced him. As he had some
other parties to see, she drove him about in her carriage, and insisted
upon taking him home with her presently.
What an elegant old lady she was in her sables and velvets, and her
royal air! her eyes bright with spirit and energy, her cheeks a little
pink with the crisp air, glad sunshine, and perhaps her own hearty,
wholesome mood. Occasionally she leaned out and nodded to some friend;
and once her carriage drew up to the sidewalk as she summoned a fine,
portly-looking gentleman to her.
"Mr. Throckmorton," she said, with gracious dignity, "I want to
introduce my young friend Mr. Darcy, of Hope Mills, Yerbury, to you. If
you can serve him in any business-way, I shall be glad to have you."
The gentleman bowed, and held out his hand, with cordial fine breeding.
"Hope Mills! It belonged to my friend Lawrence, did it not,--David
Lawrence?"
"Until his death, yes."
"Sad misfortune, that. He ought to have retired years before. There was
some villany in his manager, was there not? It is difficult to find a
purely honest man nowadays; but I do believe Lawrence was one. We dealt
with him a great many years, but toward the last there was some
dissatisfaction,--goods not coming quite up to samples."
"We try to do our business on the square, Mr. Throckmorton," returned
Jack, with a proud curve of the lips that was almost a smile, and
illumined his face. "If any thing is not exactly as represented, we
shall make it good; but we try never to have occasion to do that. We
should be glad to have you test our honesty and skill."
"Thank you,--I will, I will;" and, touching his hat to Miss McLeod, they
parted.
"If men were as generous as you!" cried Jack, with enthusiastic candor,
"how splendid a place this world would be for business! Did you ever
have a jealous thought in all your life?"
She laughed brightly. "I have had nearly all the things I wanted," she
answered, with tender solemnity. "There would have been little excuse.
Mr. Darcy, we do not always realize how hard life is to some; and, where
everybody's man's hand is against one, it is natural for him to be
against every man."
Their four-o'clock meal was an elegant little dinner. They were quite
alone, which pleased Jack. She questioned him about Maverick, his
practice, his friends, and wondered if he ever meant to marry. Jack said
laughingly no one in Yerbury dared to make fascinating eyes at him.
Did she care so much for Maverick? Surely these two ought to be
together, yet what would he do without his trusty comrade?
They veered round to the mills presently, and discussed honesty. Jack
admitted that Mr. Throckmorton and other customers had a right to
complain. There had been a deal of cheap wool used, and many poor
workmen employed, during Eastman's last year or two.
"Mr. Darcy," she began energetically, "why do you not think up something
new? We import pretty material for ladies' wear, that could as well be
made here, for we women are growing sensible enough to believe something
beside silk admissible. And though men may cling to superannuated coats,
with an affection most commendable in hard times, I never heard of a
woman being attached to an old gown."
"I never thought of it," he admitted frankly.
"That is what you were put in the world for,--to think," and she smiled
with quaint humor. "Invent something. I'll take a sample to every store
to match, and lift my brows in surprise when clerks confess they have
not seen it. Give it a pretty name, of course."
"That is worth considering, surely;" and his eyes sparkled. "Hope Mills
ought presently to be the grandest place in the country, you take so
much interest in it," and his whole face expressed his admiration.
"I do hope to see you a successful manufacturer, Mr. Darcy; and,
woman-like, I want the scheme to succeed. I should like to see even a
small party of men trained to honesty and fair play. And, if I lose my
money, it is no worse than a downfall in stocks."
"I shall do my best now and ever," he answered heartily.
They parted with much warm gratitude on the honest fellow's side. He
took the evening train for home; and his mother had a good cup of tea
awaiting him, along with her smile. He related his grand good luck, and
there were not two happier people in all Yerbury. When the bank found he
had an account at New York, and a good backer, they were extremely
affable again.
Jack broached the new idea to Winston and Cameron.
"To be sure," admitted Winston. "Some one will do it presently, and we
might get the lead. Darcy, your old lady is a trump, and always carries
the honors. There will have to be some new processes: see here, talk to
Ben Hay about it; he's made two or three improvements, and has some
brains. Gad! It'll be quite jolly to have a new line of goods. Get the
ladies on your side, and you're all right!"
He had not a spare moment until after his late supper, when he told his
mother he must run over to the Lawrences, and stop a moment at the
doctor's, though he had despatched the good news to him in the morning.
He found matters worse than he had feared. There had been an alarming
change in Miss Lawrence. Martha ushered him through the hall to the
library, where Fred was sitting. The two clasped hands, and then sat
down together. A hard, dry sob seemed to tear its way up from Fred's
very soul.
"Jack," he cried in a strained, despairing tone, "could I have done any
thing to save her? I have been engrossed with my own affairs, my own
dreams of advancement. I wanted to have money again, but it was for her
sake and my mother's," with a lingering tremulous intonation. "She has
been too solitary, she has brooded over every thing. But she would not
go out, or see any company; and somehow it was our misfortune to grow up
without any warm, vital interest in each other. When I was a boy I used
to like it at your house, because your father and mother took such a
real delight in you. It is the pith of life. Poor father--he was very
proud of me, he gave his life for our pleasure and grandeur and reckless
extravagance, yet all the later years we were well-nigh strangers. Why
can't people get nearer to each other, Jack, or is it only given to the
very few? Does the greedy world swallow up every sentiment, every bit of
tenderness, and make a mock of it?"
"No, no! Nothing can quite kill it, thank God! You and I have proved
that. It may be smothered under dust and rubbish, and frozen with
neglect, but the germ will revive,--just as the brown woolly ball
evolves the fine delicate fern-leaf that it has held in its heart
through winter storms, you know. Don't blame yourself. Every soul has to
fight its own battle somewhere, with no day's-man between but God. We
get back to the old truth in spite of the new philosophies, and own in
our vanquished moments that we cannot make strength, that ours is
only a broken reed, and the true upholding force must come from some
knowledge higher than our own."
Jack paused, strangely stirred in every fibre. He seldom essayed
sentiment: with him the deeds of life had to answer, rather than any
eloquence of words. He laid his strong, warm arm over Fred's shoulder,
the old boyish caress with which he had often comforted unknowingly.
"I think you have been doing nobly," he went on presently. "I did not
look to find you so brave and persevering, so earnest in thinking of
others; for, after all, a man's training does throw a great many
shackles about him."
Dr. Maverick entered at that moment. He had hurried off his
office-patients to come and spend an hour watching this case, which held
a fascinating interest for him. Some most unfavorable symptoms had
supervened, but he did not despair. The nurse had been regularly
trained, he had kept her busy in Yerbury the last year. He could trust
her to note the slightest variations.
Just now Miss Lawrence lay in a heavy stupor, so like death that one
could not detect it from any motion. Her eyes were half open, her face
had a dull purplish tint. The abundant hair had been confined in a thick
plait, and brushed straight across her forehead. How distinct and finely
clear the brows were pencilled, how haughtily sweet the curve of the
pallid, fever-burned lips, how exquisitely round and perfect the chin,
the slope of the throat and neck! Jack stole one glance,--they had both
gone in with the doctor,--but it seemed almost sacrilegious, now when
she was powerless to frown the intruder out of her presence. And he had
carried her in his arms!
"O Darcy," Maverick exclaimed presently, "I did not go to Miss Barry's,
after all. I have been so desperately busy to-day."
Fred glanced up, and his eye met that of his friend. Both flushed, and
both mistook the cause.
It was a curiously auspicious moment. Jack went over to him. "I wonder,"
he began, with a marked persuasiveness in his tone, "if you would like
to have Sylvie Barry come over? She and your sister used to be such
friends. And, in times like these, animosities and foolish prejudices
ought to die out."
Fred gave him a startled look, and half turned, his lids drooping to
veil the secret in his eyes. Jack waited with breath that half strangled
him. He had marvelled how these two souls were to be brought into
friendly contact again; how Sylvie was to have an opportunity of knowing
that Fred was redeeming the manliness of manhood, instead of grounding
among its trivial shoals, and, if she ever had cared for him, to
understand that he was not utterly unworthy. He had spoken--what if the
chance should fail!
Fred very naturally misinterpreted the emotion. Jack offered this out of
the boundless tenderness of his heart, so confident was he of Sylvie's
regard.
"You think--she would come?"
His own voice, under the great stress, sounded miles away to him, quite
as if some other person had spoken.
How often the tense strain of feeling is relieved by a tone or an
incident quite out of the magnetic current!
"Some one ought to drop in occasionally, for your mother's sake," said
Dr. Maverick. "We shall have her in a fever from sympathy," putting the
fact more delicately in words than it was in his thought.
"She would be glad to come, I know. She would feel hurt if-- You empower
me to ask her?" with an abrupt transition of tone.
Fred Lawrence bowed his head. He could not trust his voice.
The sick girl started, opened wide her eyes, threw up her arms, and
began in weird, passionate tones, as if it were a stage declamation. Oh
the lurid thought that seemed to travel from regions of bliss to the
nethermost hell; to display a boundless capacity for enjoyment, for
pleasure or pain, for tenderness and bitter, brilliant satire, a keen
knowledge of the world to the very dregs,--the dust and ashes! She
implored her lost idols to come near, and in the next breath she tossed
them from her with a mocking laugh. She had no faith in God or man, and
before her was a blank wall of despair.
Jack led him away. He took him out in the keen air of the starry winter
night, and began to talk of Hope Mills and the new projects. It was too
late afterward to call on Sylvie, so he waited until the next morning.
She was inexpressibly shocked. "Of course she would go," she made
answer; and she went that very afternoon, with her aunt for companion.
They found Mrs. Lawrence in a dreadfully disturbed and apprehensive
state. She was so weary of solitude that she welcomed them gladly, quite
forgetting this girl had insulted her by rejecting her son. In a weak,
shuffling manner she excused herself for not having accepted their
overtures before. She had been so utterly overwhelmed by the death of
Mr. Lawrence, that, in her state of nervous prostration, it had been
impossible to see any one. And now she was positive she should take the
fever. Her health was so delicate, her nerves so susceptible, and to
hear the raving of delirium,--the laughs that were quite like a
maniac,--would be sure to shatter her beyond any help. If it were not in
the dead of winter, she should go to New York at once, and stay with
Mrs. Minor until all danger of infection was over. She did not seem to
comprehend the gravity of Irene's case, though she wept over her
suffering in a soft self-pity.
"If you could be removed to our house," suggested Miss Barry, in her
gentle way, "we would take the best of care of you; and it must be
extremely wearing for you here."
"Ah, you have no idea! I never slept last night. I have heard of people
in these dreadful fevers who have left their beds when the nurse was
absent, and committed some horrible crime. I locked my door last night;
then I was afraid I might faint away alone, and Fred had to come and
stay with me. It was terrible!" and the washed-out eyes dilated with
real fear.
Martha was despatched for the doctor, who not only came himself, but
brought a close coach, thankful to dispose of one patient so
comfortably. Before dusk Mrs. Lawrence was snugly settled in Miss
Barry's best room, where a cheerful open-front stove made amends for a
grate, and the new surroundings served to take her mind from her late
apprehensions. Indeed, she felt so much better for the change, that she
insisted upon coming down to tea.
It was beneficial in many ways. They removed Irene again to her own
room, and used her mother's for various convenient purposes. Sylvie went
back and forth, and shared the day-watching, beside entertaining Mrs.
Lawrence. The two dropped insensibly into their olden positions. Sylvie
listened patiently to the death, the loss of fortune, the changes, which
Mrs. Lawrence dwelt upon with the exaggerating vividness of a nature
completely engrossed with its own sorrows.
Dr. Maverick had to come every day. Mrs. Lawrence had arrived at that
stage when a woman depends upon the doctor as a sort of bulletin for her
own health. Fred, too, must visit his mother frequently; but at first he
chose the hours he knew Sylvie would be with Irene.
Dr. Maverick used to watch Sylvie Barry with an interest and admiration
that grew upon him. Her tact was something marvellous, born of a certain
exquisite harmony and almost divine unselfishness. But of this last she
appeared serenely unconscious. I think, indeed, that she was. A higher
love and faith had interpenetrated her soul, her very being. Instead of
agonizing introspections and lightning flashes to the inward depths of
her nature, she seemed to live continually on the outside of herself,
radiating warmth and light as the sun. Her patience was of a rare, fine
quality, born of health, and spirits not easily wearied.
It would have been quite impossible for any two people to go through
such a strain of feeling, and not be drawn together in love and
sympathy, or friendship. With Fred and Sylvie it was unconsciously a
little of all. If he had gone back with the old love, even exalted and
refined, he would surely have blundered again. But now she was
another's, sacred in his eyes. And though in his blind pride he had once
thought the greatest favor he could do her would be to save her from any
such mésalliance, he recognized now that Jack Darcy was immeasurably
above him in all the qualities that went to make up pure manhood. Even
in his work: Jack's ambition was not for himself, but a cause; and
his--ah, how poor and paltry it seemed! So he accepted his place with
outward bravery, and a great wrench of all a man holds most dear. For
now he loved her.
The days passed slowly on. It seemed at the last as if the fever would
prove the victor. A consultation was held, and new remedies employed.
Irene's beautiful hair was cut off and laid away, the clear skin seemed
to grow brown and shrivelled, the hands lost their plump whiteness, and
the rosy nails were dull and gray. There came a time when human skill
had done all, and they could only wait for that Higher power to whose
eternal force death and love alike submit.
There followed upon that awful night of suspense, days when she was but
just alive, when a turn of her head on the pillow caused a lapse into
unconsciousness. But the spring came on; and she did rally, at first, it
appeared, at the entire sacrifice of her regal beauty. Would she care to
take life on such terms?
They brought Mrs. Lawrence home. Mrs. Minor came up, and insisted that
both mother and sister should be removed to the city at once. She had
her horses and carriage, her servants, her luxuries, and she could make
them so much more comfortable.
Dr. Maverick interposed a decided negative. The body had not yet resumed
its normal state; but the brain was to be ministered to, as only those
of experience and study could minister. It was to be brought out of the
hell of its own despairing self-torture, and enfranchised, set free from
the demons that, standing in the present abeyance of weakness, had lost
neither strength nor desire, and were only waiting the auspicious moment
to seize their prey again. And he was too much fascinated to relinquish
the study.
Sylvie persuaded her aunt to indulge in a pony-carriage. Miss Barry was
breaking a little; but she still kept her interest in good works, and
found she was much more useful with this aid. Winsome little Sylvie
looked more piquant than ever with the reins in her hands, flashing
hither and thither through the streets of Yerbury, gathering a harvest
of smiles and nods. She fairly compelled Mrs. Lawrence to trust her
precious self to what she laughingly declared was superior
horsewomanship.
Dr. Maverick used to stop her often, just to catch a delicious ripple of
laughter, or a bit of trenchant talk. If it were not for Jack Darcy--did
Jack love her? At all events, she loved him: any one could see that by
her frank, fearless manner. Oh, sapient Dr. Maverick, with all your
knowledge of brains and nerves, of occult causes and mysterious effects!
So it happens that sometimes a simple, direct truth is the greatest
puzzle of all.
The schools and clubs had not been neglected with all this excitement.
But this winter Mary Moran had been teacher at a small salary; and a
bakery and refreshment or dining room had been opened down stairs, which
really made quite a little money. Wholesomely cooked food was offered
for sale, with bread, rolls, and biscuit. The club had also given two
successful suppers. When Jane Morgan was home, Sylvie was relieved of
the actual care: she would have it. She had come back to Yerbury a
thousand dollars richer for her relative's death, and she and Jack were
drawing plans for a co-operative store.
CHAPTER XXI.
"I'D rather lose five thousand dollars than do it."
Jack Darcy leaned back in his office-chair. He had just made up the
third half-yearly account. It was bad enough. They had known this all
along, and had not concealed it from the men. Now it was to be
confronted in black and white, with searching eyes.
It was not that they had not made any thing: that would have been
endurable, considering the kind of winter. But they had gone back, and
eaten up the profits of last year.
"You see, there co-operation comes in," said Bob Winston. "It isn't
your loss alone. It's mine and every man's. That's what we agreed to
when we went in. Labor and capital should share in the ups and downs.
See here, Jack, I've learned a good deal myself. I have more sympathy
with employers. Gad! what a pull we've had this winter! If it hadn't
been for your fairy godmother"--
"Well, it must be done!" and Jack pulled a long face. "There, it is all
ready to print. Now old fellow, we must brace ourselves up for the shot
and shell. We'll have to do the fighting all over again. If every man
had as easy, philosophical a mind as you, or as sensible, reasonable a
one as Cameron, I should not have so many misgivings."
The statement was printed and distributed. The men looked blue and
cross. Had they really lost nearly all of last year's balance?
Winston asked them to stop one evening while he went into a slight
explanation. He was well armed. Without having a logical mind or
parliamentary training, he had a woman's quick intuitions, and often
jumped at very decent conclusions with hardly a glance at the premises.
He had a way of massing his forces, too, that was very telling.
Now, after what he called a little skirmishing, he read that the
Barnable Mills had been running on three-quarter time all winter. Wages
had been a trifle lower than with them. Middleham Mills had been closed
for two months. He gave the figures of loss to the workmen. Crowley and
Dawson had gone into bankruptcy, owing their men in the aggregate more
than all Hope Mills had used of last year's profits. Then he read a
statement from an eminent manufacturer, that he had used fifty-four
thousand dollars of accrued capital rather than turn off his workmen to
starve. There had been strikes in several other places, in which the
workmen had lost much more than at Yerbury.
"So that our showing, bad as it is, is not the worst," said he. "In the
very dullest of times we cast in our lots together, and we must take the
good and bad. If you had been living this winter on the private capital
of any one man or corporation, you would never have given the matter a
thought. You know now, by experience, that capital does not always float
on a serene and indolent sea, and gather in treasures for which it has
cast out no net. You can appreciate the struggle we have gone through;
though, while you have been going along placidly, with the larger weight
of care lifted off your shoulders, a man with less energy and pluck than
our intrepid pilot, John Darcy, might have let us founder. We help him
now with the readiness and good-humor with which we relinquish the
profits which were dear to us, and the product of our industry; but he
has taken us through a very narrow channel, on a dark night, without
striking rock or snag. He and I thank you heartily for your fidelity to
our keystone,--co-operation."
"Three cheers for Darcy!" sang out some one in the crowd, "and three
cheers for Bob Winston!"
It was given heartily.
"And three cheers for the men of Hope Mills," responded Winston.
They shook hands, and dispersed with a little better feeling. Several of
the men seemed to breathe a clearer mental atmosphere immediately.
"You may be sure it's right, whichever way it is," said one man
sturdily. "I've known Jack Darcy, boy and man, and his father afore him.
He comes of good, clean stock, and, if he says a thing can't be
bettered, it can't; and, if it can, he's just the man to do it. Give him
a long tether, say I."
Then Winston procured a list of weekly wages ruling in this country, and
in many places abroad, the hours of work, and the average cost of
living, with the articles in most general use. The mill-men had their
flour and coal cheaper, and altogether their winter was proved as
satisfactory. This was pasted up in the hall.
The matter was discussed through the town, of course. Some people saw in
it a speedy dissolution of the plan,--a plan that never had worked, and
never would. Others did not see that this method of getting back part of
the men's wages was any better than any other swindling scheme. They
never had any faith in Bob Winston,--Darcy might be honest, but he
wasn't very bright,--and in five years Winston would own every thing
there was in the mill!
Winston laughed over the gossip. Jack could not take it so
light-heartedly. He was an earnest, honest reformer, and hated to have
things go awry. Winston, not believing there was very much capacity for
reform in human nature, did not distress himself.
Ben Hay, and a dozen or so others, did their best with the new cloth,
and succeeded in producing a really creditable article. The heads
discussed the feasibility of having an auction-sale to clear out some of
the piles of goods; then concluded that it might be misconstrued at this
present juncture. They could hold on until fall.
But the delightful esprit du corps had vanished. The men did not seem
to work with a will. There were moody faces and discourteous greetings,
half-insolent nods, and more than one wrangle at the workmen's meeting.
Hurd felt anxious and discouraged. Yardley took a low fever, not severe
enough to confine him to the house, but it made him irritable, and every
sneer or innuendo cut him to the quick. Cameron was a great comfort to
Jack, with his queer, wrinkled, grizzled face, and an expression that
always puzzled you as to whether nature meant him to laugh or cry.
"I am not surprised," said he, one day, in the office. "I knew we would
have to come to just this time. A wife shares your joys and sorrows,
gen'ally speaking; but you see there it's a force put, she can't well
get away. Other partners like your joys, but they make a wry face over
the sorrows, and like to squirm out of them if they can. But it is the
only way to train men to the real responsibilities of business. Now, I'm
sorry enough to lose, but it stands to reason that times will come
better. We're getting through the panic; but after the battle there's
some dead to bury, and some wounded to care for, and you see that's
tedjus. You can't march straight home, covered with glory. Here's our
money in the hospital, first up, then down, and all the doctors in the
land tinkering with allopathic doses and homoeopathic doses, and
blisters and poultices and remedies, when all it wants is a little
honest letting-alone. It doesn't occur to these long-headed doctors that
the best way out is to show everybody that we're willing to go to work
and pay our debts just as fast as we can. And any fool might know that
when you are paying up back debts you can't have much money to sport
around on. Never you mind, Jack: we're coming out straight in five years
time,--I'll bet my old hat on that!"
Jack wrung his hand warmly.
In May there was quite a jollification over the marriage of two
mill-hands. Ben Hay took to wife pretty Rose Connelly; and the
coffee-house parlor was denuded of tables and benches, trimmed with
evergreens and flowers, and such a merry-making as did one's heart good.
There was a bountiful supper, plenty of tea, coffee, and lemonade,
dancing, and ice-cream, and the utmost good-humor and good wishes.
Connelly père had gone back to his cups, thrown up his situation, come
home and stirred up a general "ruction," and had now gone off on a
tramp. Ben Hay was to cast his lot with the Connelly household for the
present.
"But I tell you what it is, Mr. Darcy," said he, "if any luck comes to
Hope Mills, in five years' time I'll have my own little house and
garden. I tramped around a bit in the dull times, but I didn't see many
prettier places than Yerbury. And, the more I study this business of
co-operation, the more I think it will succeed in the end."
Jack experienced a great throb of comfort when he heard such words as
these.
Another mill-hand had married Mary Moran. She was not the beauty of
Yerbury, by any means, but everybody declared she had improved
wonderfully, and that she was the smartest girl in town. Their
wedding-party was given at the club-room. It was a larger and rather
more boisterous affair; and some of the Morans' warm-hearted Irish
friends brought a "dhrop of the craythur" in their pockets, to drink the
bride's health. Everybody admitted that there wasn't such another
bread-maker in town, unless it was Miss Morgan.
In fact, it was quite astonishing to see what a revolution had been
worked in this most important article of diet. The women had learned to
distinguish between poor and good flour, and Kilburn's trade in the
former had fallen off largely. Of the bread that in Samantha Allen's
view "required cast-iron principle to back it up," very little was seen.
It had been rather hard work to convince some of the mothers that bread
wasn't naturally born into the world heavy and sour, but it had been
done.
If Hope Mills failed, the impetus to general knowledge that had been
diffused throughout Yerbury would remain and bear fruit. An
evening-school had been opened for boys too large to stay at home
evenings, and just the right age to fall into temptations. It began with
the mill-boys, but it soon drew in others. There was a short session of
study, then a talk about some useful art or science. Maverick had
treated them to sundry experiments, and explained many general rules of
health. Mr. Winston had described Western cities in a vivid and
picturesque manner. There had been some astronomy within the reach of
all, some philosophy of common every-day things; and it had given the
boys ideas above "high, low, Jack."
Darcy tried to find comfort in this when other matters looked dark to
him. A little good seed had been sown. The generation growing up would
not be quite so dull and brutish. One thing was remarked,--the saloons
were not as full. This was laid to dull times, and ascribed to the
"revival" of two years ago; but that had not touched the poorer class of
Irish and English, who, even during the hardest winter, had managed to
find drink-money, when their families were being supported by the
relief-store.
Business did "pick up" a little. Prices went lower and lower, however.
They looked at their great store of goods with dismay. If the currency
question could ever be settled, if we could export more and import
less,--though there were people who argued that, the more money we spent
abroad, the more it really strengthened us, and money lying idle in our
treasury at home was no evidence of prosperity: partly true and partly
false reasoning; and, to our astonishment, while we were brilliantly
theorizing how to do it, our vain and superficial neighbors across the
water, crushed and beaten down by a useless and costly war, and a
government of gigantic selfishness, went to work with intrepid courage
and industry, and did it.
Meanwhile it must be confessed that Jack's interests were very much
divided. The practical part of him never lost sight of the mill. He had
the dogged tenacity that holds on with a deathless grip until it
conquers, or is wholly beaten. It seemed to him this summer that he had
several distinct individualities. He was so deeply interested in Fred
and Sylvie! They had slipped into an easy friendship,--a friendship in
which neither crossed a certain line, but from widely different motives.
Fred's strongest and highest one was honor toward his friend. He began
dimly to realize that high culture and refinement of the intellectual
senses, a perfect state of outward finish and polish, did not always
strengthen the soul's morality and purity. Patience, self-sacrifice,
obedience to a creed simpler in words, and yet more comprehensive, than
any of his grand philosophies, were needed to form a strong and manful
soul. His had been so long bound about with swaddling-clothes, airy,
sensuous, fine as a gossamer web, yet strong in beliefs and prejudices.
There were times when he felt, through that instinctive knowledge we can
never wholly define or explain, that Sylvie Barry belonged to him, that
they two could reach a point in mental and artistic life, that she and
Jack would never attain. His whole soul cried out for her. With the
charm of self-satisfying and blinding theories swept away, he clung
passionately to the love that had been only a complacent fancy three
years ago. The mere touch of her hand, or glance of her eye, quickened
and kindled his entire soul, and made him acutely and agonizingly
conscious of the wealth of adoration he had hardly dreamed of
possessing. There were moments when her presence filled him with a
heavenly satisfaction, when he understood that divine fusion of spirit
with spirit in its entirety, when love overcame pride, and he was humble
enough to go to her in his poverty.
He tried honestly to crush out the passion, but found that neither will
nor duty could destroy love. It rose up and swept imperiously through
every pulse of his being, it flooded his heart like a mighty current, it
would fain have drowned out his sense of honor to his friend; and he
learned presently that it was of no avail to fight battles with this
unconquerable foe. He must always love her, therefore he could only bury
the passion out of the sight of all other eyes. To him it would be the
root of higher resolves and purer motives. When he had made this great
sacrifice for his friend, he had offered silently the highest atonement
in his power.
But his temptation was not to end so soon. He was to be led through the
fire, that he might be purified and ennobled in other virtues beside
that of abnegation. He was to learn how sacred a thing strength might
become; he was to hold the soft hand on his arm, and never clasp it, to
feel the pressure of the dainty fingers, and make no sign; to meet her
bewildering smiles with the calmness of a strong spirit held in thrall;
to listen to words that seemed cruelly pregnant with the dangerous
glamour of hope, and yet to steel his heart against it all. In such
times as these we come to believe in a living, loving God, who gathers
up these great drops of agony as he "makes up his jewels," and that to
him this pearl of inward anguish is above price. Then, of all times, we
need to know that he cares for us, that we are not mere atoms floating
in unregarded space.
Dr. Maverick decided that his patient must have a change. She had
attained a certain amount of physical strength while her brain still lay
dormant, utterly exhausted after the great drain upon it. Now it began
to act again, and, not being in sympathy with the body, consequently
re-acted upon it. She walked about her room a little; she viewed herself
in the mirror, a horrid shadow, a mere caricature of her former beauty.
Dr. Maverick had tried his best to save her hair; but the fever had
burned out its vital essence, making it dry and harsh, so he had uttered
his reluctant edict. It was cropped short, and had lost its gloss; her
brilliant complexion was a ghostly, sallow, opaque white, her eyes large
and melancholy, every feature sharpened into that thin, worn, hungry
appearance. "A perfect fright," she said to herself. Why had they not
let her die? Of what avail was life to her?
Before her illness, in her desperate impatience with circumstances, she
had fancied herself a martyr, with the fagot and stake of a conventional
marriage on one hand, and the dreary desert of neglect and enforced
seclusion on the other. She had tried to make her own wretched and
passionate imaginings consume her very soul. She could rule no longer.
She could not exact homage and admiration from society; and, though in
her secret soul she despised it, yet what was there to life beside it?
No one wanted or needed her. No human being cared for her above all
others. She had gone on in ruthless pride, trampling, crushing, and now
the great world would be only too glad to pay her back; but it never
should. Even in this extreme bitterness of spirit an acknowledgment of
that divine rule of love was wrested from her. She had never offered
love and tenderness and sympathy to others, and it would not come back
to her: it was just and right that it should not.
Why then vegetate through a narrow, dreary existence? She was only a
drag on Fred. Even if she were willing to make an essay of work, he
would not consent, partly from pride, but still more from that innate
sense of chivalry, a part of some men, who would be more cruelly wounded
to see a woman dear to them, struggling with distasteful toil, than to
make any sacrifice on their own part. If she were a man she would starve
in secret before it should be done. David Lawrence had in him some of
this pure, nobly generous blood; and many of his finer virtues seemed to
have been transmitted to these two children. The mother's individuality
had been absorbed by the two elder ones. Gertrude would be just such a
woman when she came to her mother's time of life.
Mr. Eastman had floated into another channel of prosperity. He was to go
to Russia as a railroad-director at a large salary, and ample chance for
speculation. Gertrude was all elation. She wrote to Irene, generously
forgiving her for not having submitted to be buried alive at Frodsham
Park, and proposed that she should rejoin her as soon as she was able to
travel. They would go to Vienna and Berlin, and spend the winter in St.
Petersburg. "I hope your beauty has not gone off," she wrote very
kindly. "One needs it to compare with some of the Russian women I have
seen."
Mrs. Minor had taken a summer cottage at Long Branch. Servants,
children, horses and carriages, were to go thither. Irene and her mother
must spend the season with them.
"You do look dreadfully," she said to Irene; "but moping here will not
mend you. It was a most absurd step for Fred to come back to Yerbury,
and take that paltry position! He has no real Lawrence pride, and I
don't see that his elegant education has done much for him. Why didn't
he study law, and go into politics? With his style and Mr. Minor's
connection, he might have filled some high position."
"Really," returned Irene, with a touch of the old sarcasm, "I suppose he
thought starving hardly a pleasant process while he was waiting for this
high position. I have sometimes wondered why Mr. Minor did not take him
into his office, and induct him into the mysteries of stock-broking."
Agatha bit her lip.
"Because he did not know enough," she flung out. "And he will potter
away his best days there at Garafield's, never amounting to any thing!
Father had better have put him in the business."
"Jack Darcy is master at Hope Mills. He was once quite a bête noir of
yours, I believe. He and Fred have floated together again, an
exemplification of the power of early attraction."
"He will not be master of Hope Mills long, if what I hear is true," said
Agatha in a vengeful tone, as if she would be glad to bring about such a
greatly-to-be-desired downfall. "Fred always did have low tastes. But
about yourself: you had better come to Long Branch, and recruit for two
months, or so, and then go out to join Gertrude. Of course, Irene, you
know your best time has gone by here. I intend that my daughters shall
be married before they are twenty. I will not have them wasting their
best years."
There was a long pause. Agatha studied Irene's apathetical face, and
wondered how she could have changed into such a fright.
"Irene!" in a commanding tone.
"Agatha, I may as well tell you,"--the voice was slow and incisive, as
if every word was measured,--"that I shall not go to Long Branch nor
abroad. No one shall be troubled by my failing looks and possibly poor
health. I will live my own secluded life, asking nothing of the world
but to be let alone."
"You are a fool, Irene!" Mrs. Minor scanned her with her pitiless black
eyes, and raised her own tall figure to its most impressive height. "You
are a deliberate, wilful fool! You will maunder and groan and sigh
through the next few years, and become one of those wretched bundles of
nerves and whims and conceits, a miserable old maid, whom the world
holds up to ridicule, and rightly too; a faded, insipid, querulous,
worn-out belle, whose past triumphs are remembered only to her disfavor.
We can forgive a woman of mother's age, who has had her day; but the
other shallow creatures are fit only to be bundled into a convent, out
of sight."
A dull scarlet had slowly mounted Irene's face. She did not raise her
eyes. In an emotionless tone she merely said, "Thank you. I wish there
were convents without the fuss of religion. I should go into one now."
"The best place for you certainly."
Then Mrs. Minor gave Fred a piece of her mind, and washed her hands of
Yerbury.
The result of sundry after-discussions was that Dr. Maverick found a
pretty seaside place not many miles distant, with just enough interest
to keep one entertained, and no fashionable, exhausting life. He managed
to persuade Miss Barry and Sylvie and Mrs. Lawrence to go, and insisted
upon Irene having the variety of air and scene. There was a roomy
furnished cottage at their disposal: they could cook their meals, or
have them sent in. Fred should come down once or twice a week, and he
and Darcy would enliven them with flying visits. Miss Barry must take
her pony and carriage.
Jack approved of the plan at once. It would bring the two beings in whom
he was so warmly interested more closely in contact with each other,
give them those bits and fragments of leisurely indolence so conducive
to sentiment. Sylvie would judge more truly and tenderly than it was
possible to do at present; and he could not see her alone, could not be
her companion in walks and drives, without betraying his regard.
While the plan was still under consideration, Dame Fortune resolved to
smile upon Fred Lawrence. Late in the winter he had sent a paper on
household art, with several exquisite designs, to a magazine, and for
once happened to hit the prevailing fancy. He was asked for a series of
such articles, with the offer of having them collected in book form
afterward. It more than encouraged him: it gave him a feeling of
certainty that he had struck the right vein, that here was a fair and
appreciative field for his talent, his fine taste, and high culture. A
little utilitarian, perhaps; and he smiled, thinking of some past
dreams. And was true art so ethereal that it must exist only in the
exalted states of the mind? Was it not to embellish and beautify all
lives, rather than crowd out the thousands that the few might feast on
some exquisite vision? Was any art higher than that which boldly thrust
aside shams, and went to the shaping of true, strong, faithful aims in
the work placed before one? Were those wonderful Greek fragments,
wrought in times of social depravity such as the world now shrank from
mentioning, to be one's guide and inspirer, to the despising of purer if
less sensuous forms of beauty? If one enlightened and sweetened the life
of to-day with the work of to-day, would it not be as worthy as hugging
to the soul some useless theory?
He mentioned his new offer to Mr. Garafield. It would not be honest to
take the time that was another's; and surely Fred Lawrence's mental
capacity had largely cleared when he came to put into every-day work the
fine sense of honor that he had hitherto supposed belonged only to a
liberal education.
Mr. Garafield was a shrewd business-man, although fanciful in taste. He
should be the gainer by associating this true artist with him.
Decorative art was coming to be a truly recognized branch; and its
leaders and apostles would reap not only credit, but financial success.
Fred was amazed. Only yesterday, it seemed, he had well-nigh been
refused the privilege of earning his bread. To-day, in an unexpected
quarter, prosperity opened upon him.
"I have no capital, as you well know," he said stammeringly to Mr.
Garafield.
Garafield smiled and nodded in a satisfied manner.
"The brain-work and the ideas are sufficient capital, Mr. Lawrence. By
this partnership you will be free of drudgery: some other clerk can keep
books and take orders for us. You will gain time for your literary
labors, and those in turn will carry weight in the business. Neither do
I think you will regret taking my offer."
Fred went down to Jack Darcy's that evening, and told over his plans, as
in other years he had confessed his college ambitions and the laurels he
was to win. And Jack's face lighted up with honest enthusiasm, while his
voice took on a curious little tremble. He was so glad! for Sylvie's
sake and love's sake.
CHAPTER XXII.
WHEN Fred Lawrence came next day into Sylvie Barry's presence, there was
a certain proud humility shining in his handsome face, that was now
quite worn and thin; a dignity born of honor in having achieved at least
a standing-place in the world. He was not her hero, never had been
indeed; and his pale face flushed at the remembrance of his once
complacent claim to her regard.
She was sitting in the room with his mother, but she sprang up from the
low ottoman.
"I am so glad! your mother has been telling me the news. Why, it is"--
She had held out her hands as she began her sentence, but as he took
them she made a sudden pause. His were icy cold.
"More than I could have expected in such a brief while, hardly at all.
Both offers have surprised me greatly."
He strove so hard to render his tone calm, that it was absolutely cold.
She turned with a petulant but charming gesture, while her peachy cheek
took on a riper tint.
"You are not a bit enthusiastic," in that pretty, imperious, chiding
tone. "I suppose you think good fortune ought to fall down upon you, be
thrust on you, like greatness."
"No. I am very thankful for it. I can give my mother and sister some
needed indulgences that it would have pained me very much to see them go
without. How is Irene?"
"I don't know," said Mrs. Lawrence fretfully. "She does mope so. I shall
be so glad to get away."
"I have just come from the doctor's. We are to start on Thursday.
Sylvie, are you all ready?"
"Yes," with a positive little nod.
He stepped into the next room. Irene had been worse after Mrs. Minor's
visit, but was the same again now, quiet, cold, impassible. It made no
difference to her whether they remained here, or went to Depford Beach.
She evinced neither pain, pleasure, nor interest; but she liked best to
be alone. She endured Sylvie with rather more equanimity than she did
her mother, but even the fault-finding energy would have been welcome to
the doctor. Nothing mattered: that was the trouble.
She heard now they were to go in two days. The cottage was all ready.
Martha and Miss Barry's trusty handmaiden were to do the housekeeping.
The place was so arranged, with the spacious hall through the middle,
that each family could be by itself.
"I have ordered a carriage to come every day for you and mother," Fred
said quietly. "I thought you would like it better than being dependent
on Miss Barry."
Irene gave a slow, acquiescent nod.
"Good-by," cried Sylvie, looking in. "I will run over again to-morrow."
"I wanted her to stay to tea," said Mrs. Lawrence complainingly. "It is
so dull!"
"I will come up and take tea with you. I will order it at once." And he
ran down.
There was a subtle perfume in the hall. She had a bunch of violets in
her belt, he remembered. He said over softly Ben Jonson's quaint
lines,--
          "Here she was wont to go, and here, and here,
           Just where the daisies, pinks, and violets grow:
           The world may find the spring by following her."
But he could not follow. Had fate smiled on him to make the
renunciation more bitter? For now he could work his way up to something
worthy of her acceptance. And had he not learned the past winter, had he
not been slowly learning ever since the death and loss, that the manhood
of a gentleman was his thoughtfulness for others, his courteous
delicacy, his consideration, often his denial of self, rather than the
exquisite polish of cultivation, and the veneer of society's
affectations? How blind he must have been, ever to have offered these
last to a woman so true and pure of soul!
But a still larger sacrifice had been demanded of him. He must see her
in seductive solitudes, in still more intimate association. If he could
stay away from Depford Beach! but that was not possible. He was to spend
Sundays with them. But surely Jack would be there then. An almost
careless lover he thought his friend. Was every smile so dear to him?
The doctor and Fred went down with them. Darcy had decided to take a
business trip, so presently Mrs. Darcy joined the seaside household. In
the bygone years Mrs. Lawrence would not have deigned to notice her; but
she found this delicate, mild-mannered, middle-aged woman very
companionable. Circumstances had rendered Mrs. Darcy exclusive, rather
than any inherent trait of birth or breeding. She had lived with a few
people always, and two or three strong attachments had given to her
character the kind of concentration that passes for strength. Yet all of
these had been more positive people than herself; and while this had
softened the tendency to that querulous exactingness that weak, sweet
natures are apt to possess, it had also shaped to certain generous
instincts that were quite free from vanity. Her natural kindliness gave
her the charm of good-breeding, and this settled her in the estimation
of Mrs. Lawrence. She might have possessed all the virtues in the
calendar, but an inharmonious, unpolished turn or act would have
tabooed her. We generally ascribe this grace to life-long culture, or a
certain inheritance of blood, but it occasionally springs from other
causes.
The three women, with natures and aims widely different, fraternized in
the most amiable manner. Sylvie glanced in and out between them as a
gleam of sunshine penetrates the interstices of a wood, and brings out
all lights and tints, itself untouched by any. Their greatest diversion
was driving. Back of the little settlement--it was hardly large enough
for a village, and had a powerful rival some seven miles farther
on--there were country lanes and by-ways, sleepy-looking farms, and
picturesquely careless houses. Below them there was a great fish
entrepôt, with fishing-boats plying up and down, brawny fishermen
trilling their musical half-chant, half-song, as they floated over the
bay.
It was curious how, presently, Sylvie came to watch for Fred. Truth to
tell, she found Depford Beach a trifle monotonous. No interest of
schools or clubs or young people's affairs, no strong energetic talks
with Jack about mill business, few people coming and going that she
cared about; the three ladies purring through the drowsy hours on topics
that she fancied she had exhausted years ago; and Irene, between whom
and her there had never been any real electric sympathy, and who was now
coldly indifferent to all matters. For hours she would sit with her
hands dropped nerveless in her lap, glancing over the wide sea out to
the farther horizon. What thoughts were in her mind, Sylvie wondered?
She could not even provoke her to the wordy combats of old. The flashes
of temper and imperiousness had alike died out. She was courteously
polite, and acknowledged all favors with a punctiliousness that built
the wall around her still more firmly. "If one could only rouse her,"
Dr. Maverick said; but that seemed just the thing no one could do.
Yet she certainly was improving in health. Her step became more assured,
her eye less languid, and her complexion cleared up to the hopeful tints
of renewed bodily vigor. Her slender hands filled out a trifle; and
sometimes she would take a book, as if she needed an interest beside her
own sombre thoughts to while away the hours.
So Sylvie established her easel, and had recourse to painting. Oddly
enough she began to ask herself what it was all for? Filling her own
rooms, and bestowing gifts upon friends, was very well for a season; but
was there not a higher purpose in all art, or at least a wider purpose?
It surely did not tend to isolation. She thought of her winter in
Philadelphia,--of the friends she had made, of the desires that had been
