"Have you been fortunate so far in California, Mr. Onthank?"
"Can't say I have. I guess I've wandered round too much. Been a sort of
rollin' stone; and my granny used to say that a rollin' stone gathers no
moss. I've got about enough money to get me to San Francisco, and I own
this animal; but I haven't made a fortune yet. What luck have you two
had?"
"Pretty fair, but it will take a good while to make our fortunes. We own
this team, and that's about all we do own."
"A sort of an express wagon, isn't it?"
"Yes."
"Ain't goin' into the express business, be you?"
"Probably not. We bought it on speculation."
"That reminds me of old Sam Bailey in our town. He was always tradin'
horses. Sometimes he made money, and then again he didn't. How much did
you give?"
Tom told him.
"That was a pretty stiff price, wasn't it?"
"It would be considered so at home, but we hope to get a good deal more,
when we come to sell it."
Their new friend kept on with them, amusing them with his homely
sayings, and original views of things. His conversation beguiled the
tedium of the journey, so that all were surprised when the shadows
deepened, and supper-time came. Selecting a favorable place they
encamped for the night.
CHAPTER XV.
A GRIZZLY BEAR.
Ebenezer Onthank was an early riser. He had been brought up on a farm,
where, during a part of the year it was the custom for the "menfolks" to
rise between four and five o'clock in the morning to begin the labors of
the day. His old habit clung to him, and at five o'clock, when Tom and
Ferguson were yet asleep, Mr. Onthank sprang from his leafy couch
refreshed and vigorous.
Seeing his companions yet sleeping, he concluded to take a walk.
"It'll give me an appetite for breakfast," thought he, "and a chance to
see something of the country."
As to the appetite, Ebenezer was generally well provided. Indeed,
latterly his appetite had exceeded his means of gratifying it, and more
than once he had longed to be back at his old home in the Vermont
farm-house, where the table was always generously, if not elegantly,
furnished. If Ebenezer had a special weakness it was for doughnuts,
which he called nut-cakes.
"If I only had a few of marm's nut-cakes," he had said the night before
to his new-found friends, "I'd be a happy man."
"What are nut-cakes?" asked the Scotchman, puzzled.
"Don't you know what nut-cakes are?" inquired Ebenezer, astonished at
Ferguson's ignorance.
"I never heard of them before," said Ferguson.
"Well, I declare! I thought everybody knew what nut-cakes are,"
ejaculated the Yankee. "Don't you ever make 'em in Scotland?"
"Not that I ever heard."
"Then you don't know what is good. You know what they are, Tom?"
"Oh, yes," said Tom, smiling. "We often have them at home. Perhaps Mr.
Ferguson would understand better if he heard them called doughnuts or
crullers."
Thus defined Mr. Ferguson acknowledged that he had heard of them, and he
thought he had once tasted one. Scotland, however, fell considerably in
the estimation of Mr. Onthank, when he learned that his favorite article
of food was almost unknown in that distant country.
"You Scotchmen don't know what is good," he said. "If you ever come to
Green Mountain Mills, I'll get marm to fry a batch of nut-cakes, and
you'll say they're goloptious."
This last word was not familiar to Ferguson, but the smack of the lips
with which it was accompanied made it sufficiently intelligible. He
assured Ebenezer politely that he hoped some day to accept his kind
invitation.
When Ebenezer left the camp he had no definite plan of exploration.
Everything was alike new to him, and it mattered little in what
direction his steps led him. It was a charming morning. The sun had
risen, and hill and valley were glorified by its slanting rays. The air
was bracing, and Ebenezer, though neither a poet nor a sentimentalist,
felt his spirits rise, as with vigorous steps he strode on, letting his
eyes wander at will over the landscape.
"Looks kinder han'some," he said to himself. "I wish Susan Jones was
with me now. Gals like to walk round and look at scenery, and pick
flowers, and so on. As for me, a good field of corn suits me better than
all the flowers in the world. They're only good to smell of; out here
though I'd like a good 'claim' best. It seems cu'rus to think how much
money you can get sometimes from a hole in the ground. Beats cornfields
for profit, by a great sight, if you only get hold of the right place. I
just wish I could find a big nugget, as big as my head. I guess it would
make me the richest man in Green Mountain Mills. I'd be a bigger man
than the old deacon. They'd be glad to make me selectman, and perhaps
send me to Montpelier after a while to make laws. Well, there's no
knowin' what may turn up. Why shouldn't I light on a nugget as well as
the next man?"
In this pleasant channel the thoughts of our Yankee adventurer were
running as he strode over the uneven ground, with all the vigor gained
by his hardy training. But his walk was destined to be interrupted in a
decidedly unpleasant manner. All at once he became conscious of a huge
object, scarcely thirty yards distant, whose attention he had already
attracted. Mr. Onthank had been long enough in California to recognize
in the huge, unwieldy figure--a grizzly bear!
Ebenezer Onthank was no coward, but it must be admitted that when he saw
the eyes of the grizzly fixed upon him he turned pale, and his limbs
trembled. He had heard from fellow-miners stories of the great strength
and ferocity of this most formidable beast. The grizzly bear shows no
fear of man. He is always ready to make an attack, even when not
stimulated by hunger. Even the lion is crafty and cunning, and likes to
attack his enemy unawares; but the grizzly boldly advances to the attack
without seeking to surprise his adversary. If out of humor it makes no
account of odds, but will as readily attack a party as a single foe.
Col. Albert S. Evans, the author of an interesting volume, containing
sketches of life in California, says, "I am satisfied that an average
grizzly could at any time whip the strongest African lion in a fair
stand-up fight, while a full-grown bull is no more to him than a rat is
to the largest house-cats."
Twenty-five years ago the grizzly was to be found in various parts of
California. As the State has become settled his haunts have become
contracted, but even now, as the writer just quoted assures us, he is
still found in great numbers in the Coast Range Mountains from San Diego
to Del Norte. In describing Samson, a famous specimen once on exhibition
in San Francisco, we are told that "his strength was that of an
elephant, and his claws, eight inches in length, curved like a rainbow
and sharp as a knife, would enable him to tear open anything made of
flesh and blood as you or I would open a banana."
Such was the new acquaintance who confronted Mr. Onthank, and barred
his progress.
"Jerusalem!" ejaculated the surprised and dismayed Yankee, and he
instinctively felt for his rifle. But, alas! he had left it in the camp.
It was thoughtless and imprudent to venture out unarmed; but the scene
was so quiet and peaceful that no thought of danger had entered the mind
of our unlucky friend.
The bear sat upon his haunches, and stared at the intruder. Ebenezer,
brought to a stand-still, returned his gaze. They were less than a
hundred feet apart, and the situation was decidedly critical.
"I guess he wants to chaw me up for his breakfast," thought Ebenezer,
despairingly, "and I don't see what I can do to prevent it."
The bear, however, seemed in no hurry to commence the attack. He
surveyed our Yankee with dignified gravity, conscious that he had him at
advantage. When Ebenezer felt for his rifle he uttered a low growl,
being possibly aware of his purpose. Possibly he laughed in his sleeve
(some of my young critics may suggest that bears have no sleeves) at his
failure.
Ebenezer looked about him despairingly. No man will surrender at
discretion to a grizzly, for he can hope for no mercy. But what could be
done? Once subjected to the terrible hug, and the life would be crushed
out of him in less than a minute.
"If Ferguson and Tom were only here!" thought poor Ebenezer.
But the camp was at least two miles away, and his two companions,
unconscious of his terrible peril, were calmly sleeping, and not likely
to awaken till he was a crushed and bleeding corpse.
In great crises the mind travels rapidly. I shall not attempt to record
the thoughts that chased one another through the mind of the luckless
adventurer. But they were by no means pleasant.
"I shall never see Green Mountain Mills again," he thought, with an
inward groan. "I shall never marry Susan Jones, or eat any of marm's
nut-cakes. If I only had my rifle here, I'd make one effort for my life.
I'd spoil the beauty of that ugly devil anyhow."
Still, as if charmed, he stood staring open-eyed at the grizzly.
Bruin, deciding that this had lasted long enough, began in a slow and
dignified manner to approach the intruder upon his solitude.
This broke the charm. With a wild shout Ebenezer Onthank took to his
heels and flew over the ground at a rate of speed which Weston, the
champion runner, would scarcely be able to equal.
The grizzly accepted the challenge, and increased his own speed,
developing an activity hardly to be expected of his huge and unwieldy
form.
It was man against beast, with the odds decidedly in the favor of the
latter.
CHAPTER XVI.
UP A TREE.
The race between the Yankee and the bear was an exciting one, to the
former at least. He was fleet of foot, and in a hundred yards' dash
would have won without great difficulty; but in wind and endurance the
grizzly excelled him. So, as the race continued, Mr. Onthank, looking
back from time to time, was painfully conscious that his enemy was
gaining upon him. The perspiration came out upon his face in large
drops, and he panted painfully. He felt that the chances were against
him, and he could almost feel in advance the fatal hug which would
slowly press the life out of him. As he felt his strength failing he
looked around him despairingly. Just before him was a moderate-sized
tree. Though he knew that bears can climb, he gathered his remaining
strength, seized a low hanging branch, and swung himself up just in
time to avoid his persistent foe, who was close upon his heels. He did
not tarry where he was, but climbed higher up, until from a height of
twenty feet he could look down upon the bear.
Bruin looked up placidly, but did not begin to climb at once. Probably
he was fatigued with his race. Moreover he knew that his intended victim
could not get away. The latter was emphatically and literally "treed."
The bear sat upon his haunches and complacently regarded the Yankee.
Ebenezer Onthank made himself as comfortable as he could under the
circumstances. He was by no means easy in mind, however. He was "holding
the fort," it is true; but the enemy was in force outside, and evidently
intended to remain. Worse still, he would probably after a while climb
the tree, and this would bring matters to a crisis.
"You pesky critter! Why don't you go along about your business?"
exclaimed the unhappy adventurer, shaking his fist at the foe.
Bruin deigned no reply, but continued to survey him with steady,
unwinking eyes.
"If I only had a gun, I'd pepper you," continued Ebenezer. "I should
like to put a bullet into that impudent eye of yours."
Though the bear had never received an English education, his instinct
probably enabled him to understand the feelings of his intended victim,
but he remained as placid as ever.
So an hour passed. At the end of that time the situation remained
unchanged. The unfortunate Yankee was getting hungry, as well as tired
of his somewhat constrained position. Bears probably have more patience
than the human family, for Bruin had scarcely moved, except occasionally
to wag his great head. He felt that in the game that was being played it
was his adversary's turn to make the next move.
"I wish Tom and the Scotchman would find me out," thought Onthank. "What
on earth makes them sleep so late?" he continued, irritably. "They must
be naturally lazy."
He may be excused for feeling irritated, though there was no particular
reason to expect his two friends to curtail their hours of slumber
because he had done so. But he was not in a position where it is easy to
be reasonable, and in his situation every minute seemed to him as long
as five.
Meanwhile, in the camp, a mile away, Tom and Ferguson had awakened.
"How did you sleep, Tom?" asked the Scotchman.
"Tip-top. Did you rest well?"
"I have a gift of sleep," replied Ferguson. "But where is our Yankee
friend?"
"I suppose he has taken an early walk," said Tom. "He will be back
before long, I guess. We'd better not wait breakfast for him. I'm hungry
for one."
The two friends proceeded to break their fast, washing down the rather
stale provisions with water from a spring near by.
"I wish it were coffee," said Tom. "I'm tired of cold water."
"Doubtless the coffee would be more gratifying to the palate, Tom; but
it's likely the water is better for the health."
"I suppose you would refuse a cup of hot coffee, Mr. Ferguson, if it
were offered you," said Tom, smiling.
"I don't say that, Tom. I would risk its effect upon my health for once.
But, as we haven't got it, we may as well make the best of what we
have."
Soon after their simple meal, which did not consume much time, Tom
suggested to his companion that they set out in search of Mr. Onthank.
He did not suspect that their missing companion was in trouble, but he
thought that it would be pleasant to take a walk.
"You can go, if you like, Tom," said Ferguson, with characteristic
caution. "I will remain behind to look after the camp."
"All right, Mr. Ferguson. I'll soon be back."
"Don't go too far away, my lad; and mind your bearings, so that you can
find your way back."
"Never fear, Mr. Ferguson. It wouldn't be very easy to be lost here.
I'll keep my eyes open, and bring Mr. Onthank back with me if I see him
anywhere."
Ferguson sat down, and indulged himself in reading, probably for the
hundredth time, Walter Scott's Marmion, of which he had a small pocket
edition; while Tom went on his way.
A fortunate chance directed our hero by an almost straight course to the
very tree where Ebenezer Onthank was still perched with the grizzly
standing guard beneath. From time to time he looked about him anxiously,
in the hope of seeing the approach of one of his travelling companions.
It was with a feeling of joy, not wholly unmingled with anxiety, that he
descried Tom descending a hillock not many rods away. As yet it was
evident that our hero had not caught sight of the bear and his prisoner.
It was very necessary to put him on his guard.
"Tom!" shouted Mr. Onthank, at the top of his voice.
Tom heard the call in spite of the distance, and looked about him, but
did not immediately catch sight of the speaker. It did not occur to him
to look upwards.
"Tom!" shouted the Yankee again. "Here I am. Look up in the tree."
That time Tom's glance detected his companion, and, not yet having
discovered the bear, he was led to wonder why Mr. Onthank had climbed
the tree. As he was advancing incautiously, Onthank shouted again,
"There's a cursed grizzly under the tree. Don't come too near."
Tom saw the bear, and he paused suddenly. He was startled in truth, for
he had been long enough in California to be aware that it was a
dangerous beast.
"Isn't Ferguson with you?" asked Onthank, anxiously, for he knew that a
boy of sixteen, even if armed, was no match for the king of the
California sierras.
"No, he's behind in the camp," shouted Tom, in reply.
By this time the bear became aware that there was a second intruder
within his precincts. He turned his head deliberately and surveyed our
hero. It is not within the range of the author to read the thoughts of a
grizzly, but, from the indifference with which he turned away and
resumed his watch, it may be inferred that he considered Tom too small
game to merit his attention. This was rather satisfactory to our young
hero, who was not ambitious to come in close quarters with so formidable
an antagonist.
Startled as he was, Tom maintained his ground. He wanted to help
Onthank; but he did not know how to do it.
"What can I do to help you, Mr. Onthank?" shouted Tom.
"Blamed if I know," answered the Yankee, helplessly. "I wish Ferguson
were here. It won't do for you to attack the beast single-handed."
"Shall I go back for Ferguson?" asked Tom.
"I don't know; how far away is the camp?"
"It must be as much as a mile."
"While you are away the brute may take it into his head to climb the
tree, and then I am gone up."
"Haven't you any weapon?"
"No."
"I'll fire at the bear if you say so."
"It would be of no use. If you missed, or only grazed him, he would make
for you."
"I wish you had my rifle," said Tom.
"So do I. I'd let him have it straight in the eye. Have you had
breakfast?"
"Yes."
"I'm as hungry as a bear--as this bear who probably wants me for his
breakfast. O Tom, if I was only back at Green Mountain Mills once more,
I'd be content to live and die there, and all the gold in California
wouldn't bring me out here again."
Tom stood silent and perplexed. While he was considering whether he
could do anything to help his friend, the bear slowly rose, approached
the tree, and, grasping it between his paws, prepared to climb. He was
evidently tired of waiting.
"He's coming, Tom!" shouted Onthank. "O Lord, what shall I do?"
CHAPTER XVII.
AN EXCITING PURSUIT.
Mr Onthank's reflections when the grizzly was slowly but steadily
climbing the tree were by no means pleasant.
"If he once grips me, I am gone," he said, despairingly.
"Shall I shoot?" asked Tom, looking on in excitement.
"You might hit me," said Ebenezer, who knew nothing of Tom's skill as a
marksman.
"No, I won't."
"I think I'll swing off," said the Yankee, "and join you."
Whether this was or was not a wise thing to do Tom did not feel
qualified to decide. It was evident that Onthank must do something
speedily, or he would be in the power of the bear. He waited nervously
till Bruin was uncomfortably near, and then, seizing the branch with
his hands, swung to the ground. The height was considerable, and the
fall jarred him; but, quickly recovering himself, he ran towards Tom.
"Now we must run for our lives, Tom," he said, suiting the action to the
word.
Tom fully understood the necessity, and followed suit, first hazarding a
glance at the discomfited bear.
When the grizzly witnessed the escape of his victim he showed no
excitement, nor did he accelerate his motions. He began deliberately to
back down the tree. This required some little time, which Tom and his
friend made the most of.
"Give me your rifle," said Onthank.
"I'd rather keep it," said Tom.
"I can make better use of it," said the Yankee.
"I don't know about that," said Tom. "At any rate I will keep it."
He felt that it was hardly reasonable to expect him, in the presence of
such a danger, to give up his only instrument of defence.
"You are only a boy," said his companion, discontented.
"I can shoot," answered Tom, briefly.
Onthank was not in general an unreasonable man, but danger makes men
selfish.
"Give it to me," he said, in a tone of authority, and he tried to wrest
it from Tom's hands.
"You shall not have it," exclaimed Tom, indignantly. "Take away your
hand, or I'll shoot you!"
Of course Tom was excited, and would not have carried out his threat,
but he was fully resolved to stand up for his rights.
Whether Ebenezer would have yielded the point, being stronger than Tom,
is uncertain; but our hero shouted "Look out for the bear!" and the
Yankee, in alarm, released his hold, and the two entered upon a race, in
which the Yankee's superior length of limb enabled him to keep the first
place.
Bruin was now on terra firma, and was on his way, wagging his great
head, developing an alarming rate of speed. Tom was somewhat hampered
by the weapon which he carried, and he was getting out of breath.
Onthank was three or four rods ahead of him. The situation had changed,
and it was now Tom that was in the greater peril.
"Don't give out, Tom!" called out Ebenezer, encouragingly.
"I won't," gasped Tom, "if I can help it."
"Is he gaining on us?"
"Yes," returned our hero.
"Then I'll try another tree," said Onthank, and he caught a branch, and
clambered up into a tree quite similar to the other in which he had been
besieged.
Tom would gladly have followed his example, but the branch was too high
for him to reach readily, and the grizzly was too near to give him
adequate time. Poor boy! He began to despair, and was at an utter loss
what to do. To face round and fire at the foe seemed about all that was
left him, but he wanted to reserve his fire to the last. He caught sight
of another tree, of a larger trunk than the one which Onthank had
ascended, and ran towards it, pursued by the grizzly. Then commenced a
dodging game, which seemed to afford but a brief respite from
destruction.
"This can't last long," thought poor Tom. "I suppose I must die."
In that brief time of peril many thoughts passed through his mind. To
die at his age would be sad enough; but the thought that his expedition
would be a failure, only involving his father deeper in difficulty and
debt chiefly troubled him. The mortgage would be foreclosed, and his
father and whole family deprived of their humble home. Onthank watched
the boy's peril, unable to give him assistance. To do him justice he
almost forgot his own danger in the more apparent and immediate peril of
his young companion.
"Be careful!" he shouted, quite needlessly. "Don't let him grip you.
Give it to him right in the eye."
Tom was so absorbed, and his mind so painfully occupied by his efforts
to keep out of his enemy's clutches, that he was not conscious of the
warning.
Active and alert as he was, the result was hardly a matter of doubt. He
would tire sooner than the bear, and if he ran again he was sure to be
overtaken. This, however, was what he did. Of course the grizzly
instantly pursued him. Poor Tom breathed a prayer for help, though there
seemed no chance of his prayer being answered; but sometimes God sends
assistance when there seems no chance of escape.
The galloping of a horse was heard. There was a whirling sound, and
Bruin, already within two yards of Tom, was jerked back, and brought to
a stand-still by a lasso which wound about his neck. A shout caused Tom
suddenly to turn his head, and to his joy he saw a mounted Mexican
vaquero, who had brought him timely relief.
Bruin growled angrily on finding himself balked of his prey. He was not
disposed to yield to his new antagonist. Rising and sitting on his
haunches he began coolly to draw in the lasso, against the combined
strength of man and horse. The muscular force of a big grizzly is
simply enormous. Usually he is attacked from two sides, two lassos being
thrown around him. For a single antagonist he is sometimes more than a
match, as seemed likely in the present case. The rieta being attached
to the pommel of the saddle, of course the bear, in pulling as he did,
hand over hand, steadily brought the vaquero and his steed nearer. The
horse, terrified, trembled in every limb, and tried to rear; but his
strength was as nothing when opposed to the steady power of his massive
antagonist.
Relieved from the immediate attentions of the grizzly, Tom did not
continue to run, but stood still, and, forgetting his own peril,
remained an excited spectator of the struggle between the bear and the
vaquero.
The Mexican in an excited manner shouted to him to shoot. This brought
Tom to a sense of his duty. A third person had been brought into danger
by an effort to give him assistance, and he was too manly to leave him
to his fate. He raised his rifle, and, taking quick aim, fired. Our
young hero was of course inexperienced, and it was only by a piece of
good fortune that his bullet inflicted a serious wound, striking the
bear in the throat. The blood began to flow and the grizzly, growling
fiercely, slackened his hold on the lasso. The vaquero followed up
Tom's shot by another, equally effective, and the powerful animal
dropped to the ground, dangerous still if approached, but unfitted for
pursuit.
The vaquero reined his horse back, and his dark face became illumined
with a smile of satisfaction.
"He will do no more harm," he said in good English, but with a foreign
accent. "The danger is over."
"Is the critter used up?" shouted Onthank, cautiously, from his elevated
perch. "Is he defunct?"
"He soon will be," answered Tom. "I guess it will be safe to come down."
Ebenezer Onthank needed no second invitation. He "shinned" down the tree
in a manner not unlike the grizzly, and approached the spot where the
huge foe was lying, the life-blood flowing from his throat.
"I'd like to kick you, you big brute!" said Mr. Onthank.
The bear slowly turned upon him his glazing eyes, and they expressed so
much ferocity that almost involuntarily the Yankee drew back. The bear
partly raised himself, and tried to drag himself towards his
adversaries; but the effort was vain.
"He is one of the largest I have seen," said the vaquero. "See how
strong he is!"
"It was lucky for me that you came up," said Tom. "He was almost upon
me."
"I had about given you up, Tom," said Onthank, "and I thought my turn
was coming next."
"We are much indebted to you, sir," said Tom, gratefully, to the
Mexican. "You have saved my life."
The vaquero courteously expressed his satisfaction, and, remounting
his horse, resumed his journey.
"I never want to see another grizzly," said Onthank. "This one is enough
for me, darn his ugly pictur'!"
"I quite agree with you, Mr. Onthank," said Tom.
CHAPTER XVIII.
TOM'S OLD HOME.
Leaving Tom for a time, we will cross the continent, and, a little
earlier in point of time, look in upon Mark Nelson and his family at
their humble home in New Hampshire.
For years Mr. Nelson had been struggling to provide a comfortable living
for his wife and children. The struggle was not an easy one. His small
farm was sterile, and yielded grudgingly its annual crops. Then the
mortgage held by Squire Hudson imposed a burden of interest very hard to
meet. Each half year sixty-six dollars must be raised somehow to satisfy
the squire's demand. Though a rich man, with ready money in plenty, he
never failed to call for his money on the very day it was due. Once or
twice he had granted a delay of a day or two; but his manner was so
unpleasant that the farmer, except from dire necessity, was hardly
likely to ask a renewal of the favor.
The six months immediately following Tom's departure from home were not
favorable to his father. There was a drought of considerable duration,
which made the crops smaller than usual, and thus materially decreased
the farmer's income. When the semi-annual interest became due, with the
most energetic effort Mark Nelson had got together but thirty-six
dollars towards it, leaving a deficit of thirty dollars.
"I feel anxious about to-morrow, Mary," he said, as the little family
sat together the night before in the plain sitting-room. "I have never
been so much behindhand before with the interest."
"How much do you lack, Mark?" asked Mrs. Nelson.
"Thirty dollars."
"That is a good deal of money," said his wife, gravely.
"Yes; I don't know where to raise it. If Squire Hudson were only a
little considerate. But he isn't, and, even if he were, I am afraid
there is no prospect of my raising the money at present."
"You may get some money from Tom soon," suggested Sarah.
"I can't rely upon that. Tom will doubtless send when he is able, for he
understands my circumstances, and is a thoughtful boy; but it is going
to take time for him to earn a surplus--enough to send on."
"He may find a big nugget," said Walter, the second boy, who eagerly
read the letters from California which from time to time appeared in the
weekly paper.
"He may, but the chances are against it."
"I was reading in last week's paper about a man finding a nugget worth
over two thousand dollars."
"Such nuggets are as rare as large prizes in a lottery, I suspect," said
Mark Nelson, who had a large share of plain common-sense.
Walter looked rather disappointed, having made up his mind that Tom
would certainly find a big lump of gold, and come home rich.
"Don't you think Tom will find some gold?" he asked.
"Yes, I have no doubt he will gather some gold-dust. I have no doubt,
too, that he will earn more than he or I can do at home; but I haven't
much faith in these extraordinary pieces of good luck."
"Still, Tom may find a nugget," persisted Walter.
"Yes, he may, and I shall be very glad if he does; but we must not
build too many air-castles on that chance."
"I wish I could see the dear boy again," sighed his mother, looking up
from the stocking she was laboriously darning.
"So do I," said Walter. "He would have a lot to tell us."
"California seems so far away," resumed Mrs. Nelson, "and he has no one
there to look after him, and mend his clothes--"
"And darn his stockings," said Walter, smiling.
"If he walked all the way across the continent," said Sarah, "I don't
believe he would have larger holes in his stockings than you have,
Walter."
"Oh, well, I exercise a good deal," said Walter. "Ask father if I
don't."
"Walter will be more successful as a farmer than as a scholar," said Mr.
Nelson. "He helps me a good deal."
"Tom was a good scholar," said Sarah, "and he was always ready to work
too. Walter will never astonish or electrify the world by his learning."
"I don't want to," said her brother. "It isn't in my line."
"That's true enough."
"Don't tease Walter," said Mrs. Nelson. "He helps your father a good
deal, and he is not a dunce."
"Thank you, mother, for taking my part. Sarah is going to be a
strong-minded woman. I should not wonder if she came out as a lecturer
on 'Woman's Rights' some time. I think I see her, with a pair of
iron-bowed spectacles on her nose, and her back hair tied up in a big
knot, flinging her arms about, and--"
"That'll do, Walter," said Sarah. "It is an unusually powerful effort
for you. I have no desire to lecture on 'Woman's Rights,' though I think
they ought to have them all the same."
"I guess you'll get yours. You'll make your husband stand round, if you
ever get one."
Sarah laughed good-naturedly, and retorted, "I shall pity your wife, if
she has to darn your stockings."
The next day about dinner-time Squire Hudson walked up to the front
door, and knocked. His approach was witnessed, not without trepidation,
for he was not an easy creditor.
The squire looked about him searchingly as he entered. He suspected that
the interest was not ready, and the farmer's grave face confirmed his
suspicions. That he was glad of this of course Mark Nelson did not
dream, for he was not aware of his creditor's deep-laid plans.
"A fine day!" said the squire, with suavity. "I hope you are well, Mrs.
Nelson."
"Pretty well, thank you, sir."
"Have you heard from Tom lately?"
"Yes; he had just reached California."
"Then of course he could not say anything of his prospects?"
"It was too soon."
"You must miss him a good deal--all of you."
"I am thinking of him all the time," said Mrs. Nelson.
"To be sure, that is natural in a mother. But if the boy does well, that
will repay you hereafter."
"If I only felt sure he would do well."
"Oh, he is young and industrious. He will be sure to make his way. He'll
like it too. Why, my Sinclair envies him the chance of leaving home. He
wanted to go with him."
"Sinclair would not like to go in the same way as Tom, with the prospect
of having to work hard after he got there," said Mark Nelson.
"To be sure not, neighbor Nelson. My boy has never been brought up to
work. My circumstances--ahem!--have not made it necessary."
"Sinclair is fortunate in having a rich father," said the farmer.
"So I tell him," said the squire, complacently. "His fortune is already
made."
"What are you going to do with him, squire?"
"Oh, I shall make a professional man of him,--a lawyer, most likely,"
said the rich man, complacently. "I can give him a suitable income till
he gets into a paying practice."
"That will be a good many years," thought Sarah, "unless Sinclair works
harder than he has lately at school;" but the shrewd young lady kept
this thought to herself.
One by one wife and children left the room, for it was well understood
that the squire came on business, and would be likely to desire a
private interview with the farmer. They went into the kitchen, closing
the door behind them, and awaited anxiously the result of the
interview.
"I do hope Squire Hudson will be considerate," said Mrs. Nelson,
anxiously.
"I am afraid he won't be, mother," said Sarah. "He is a hard man."
"Sinclair puts on no end of airs," said Walter. "By the way he struts
round you would think he owned the whole town. You had better set your
cap for him, Sarah, for he will be rich some day."
"I would rather be an old maid than marry him," said Sarah, decidedly.
"Very likely your wish will be gratified," said her brother.
Mrs. Nelson did not smile at this sally, for her mind was too full of
anxiety.
CHAPTER XIX.
A MODERN SHYLOCK.
"I believe your interest falls due to-day, Mr. Nelson," said the squire,
when he found himself alone with his debtor.
"Yes," answered the farmer, slowly. It was not very likely to slip his
mind.
"I suppose you have the money ready," continued the squire, who supposed
no such thing.
"I have a part of it ready," said Mark Nelson, with an effort.
"A part," repeated his creditor, with a frown.
"Yes; I can give you thirty-six dollars to-day."
"Only thirty-six dollars! The amount due is sixty-six."
"I know it, Squire Hudson; but this has been a bad year for the farmers,
as you probably know. Owing to the drought, my crops fell off at least
one quarter."
"I can't help that," said the squire, coldly.
"If you will be a little patient," said Mr. Nelson, uneasily.
"Neighbor Nelson," said his creditor, interrupting him, "I wish to ask
you one question. When I lent you money on mortgage was there a
stipulation that if there was a drought I was to wait for my just
interest?"
"No, Squire Hudson."
"To be sure not; I would not of course lend you money on any such terms.
It was understood that my interest was to be paid semi-annually,--was it
not so?"
"Yes, but--"
"Wait a moment. You must certainly agree that I am entitled to prompt
payment. A bargain is a bargain."
"I don't dispute it, Squire Hudson, and I have tried to be ready for
you; but in spite of all my efforts I am thirty dollars short."
"Do you expect me to be content with this explanation?"
"I think you are rather hard on me, squire. It isn't as if I had the
money and objected to pay. I am a poor man, but no one ever lost a
dollar by me; and I don't mean that any one shall, while I have my life
and strength."
"That's all very well, but it won't make up the thirty dollars in which
you are delinquent."
"What would you have me do? I cannot make money."
"I wouldn't give much for an investment when the interest is delayed. It
is no longer worth its face. If any of my railroad bonds defer their
usual interest they at once drop in value."
"I know very little of railroad bonds, never having any money to invest
in them; but I think my farm will be full security for all the money I
owe you."
"Suppose I should foreclose--you would consider it an unkind thing and a
great hardship, wouldn't you?"
"It would take away my means of supporting my family. I don't think you
would go to extremes, for the sake of thirty dollars."
"It isn't the amount of money, neighbor Nelson, that is to be
considered. It is the principle that is involved."
This is a very common pretext with men who have made up their minds to
do a mean thing. Generally speaking it is false, and the money is the
first consideration.
"Will you give me two months to pay the balance of interest?" asked Mark
Nelson.
"What better prospect have you of being able to pay me then?"
"As soon as Tom has any money to send, he will remit to me. I think it
probable that I shall hear from him in the course of two months."
"If that is your reliance," said the squire, shrugging his shoulders, "I
am afraid you are leaning upon a broken reed. I know boys pretty well,
and I fancy Tom will find a use for all the money he earns."
"You don't know him, Squire Hudson. He is a very conscientious boy, and
understands very well the sacrifice I made in raising money to send him
to California. He is not very likely to forget that."
"It seems to me that the sacrifice was mine," said the squire, with a
half sneer. "If I remember rightly, I advanced the money which he took
away with him."
Mark Nelson flushed, and he answered warmly, "You did advance the money,
Squire Hudson, but I gave you security for it."
"And the very first interest that has come due you are not prepared to
meet. You can't blame me for feeling a little doubt as to the wisdom of
my advance."
"Are you very much in need of the thirty dollars?" asked Mr. Nelson,
nettled at the squire's tone.
"What do you mean, sir?"
"Is it subjecting you to any great inconvenience to wait a couple of
months for it? That is what I mean."
"My circumstances are not such," returned the squire, haughtily, "as to
make me feel even the loss of thirty dollars."
"I wish I could say the same, but I cannot. Since, then, it will
occasion you no inconvenience, I ask you as a favor that you will let
the balance rest for two months."
Squire Hudson saw that he was cornered; but none the less was he
disposed to yield the point. He even felt provoked with the farmer for
having forced from him an acknowledgment that he did not need the money
he so persistently demanded.
"I told you before," he said, "that it was not the amount of money, but
the principle, that I care for. You cannot have forgotten this."
"I don't see how any principle is involved, Squire Hudson."
"You look at the matter solely from a debtor's point of view. If you
held the mortgage, instead of myself, you would change your view very
quickly."
"I don't think I should," said the farmer, slowly. "I would be
considerate to a poor neighbor, even if it did inconvenience me a
little."
"The poor neighbor should not have borrowed money on which he was unable
to pay interest," said Squire Hudson, severely.
"How could I anticipate the drought that has diminished my crops?" said
Mark Nelson, with spirit.
"That is neither here nor there. You knew that the interest must be
paid, drought or no drought, crop or no crop."
"I cannot argue with you further, since you refuse to consider
circumstances over which I have had no control. You refuse to grant me
any delay?"
"I do."
"Since I have not the money to pay you, will you tell me what you
require?"
"How many cows do you keep?"
"Three."
"You can give me one of these, and I will consider it an equivalent for
the thirty dollars."
"Do you require this?" asked the farmer, uneasily.
"Yes; unless you have some other satisfactory arrangement to propose."
"I am afraid I have nothing else which you would regard as satisfactory.
The loss of a cow will diminish my income. Instead of three, I ought to
have four or five. I shouldn't like to be reduced to two."
"Very likely not; but an honest man is willing to make a sacrifice in
order to meet his just liabilities. Besides, you expect to have the
money, you say, in a couple of months. When it has come, you may have
your cow back, on paying two months' interest on the deferred payment.
That is only fair."
"Say no more, Squire Hudson," said the farmer. "I must, of course,
consent to this arrangement since you insist upon it. How soon do you
wish for the cow?"
"You had better let your son Walter drive it over this afternoon."
"He is losing no time," thought Mark Nelson, bitterly. "He does not even
appear to be willing that I should have the benefit of this night's
milking."
"You may send me Whiteface," continued Squire Hudson, who knew that this
was the most valuable of the three cows.
"That is my best cow," protested the farmer "That makes little
difference, as you expect to redeem it in two months."
Mark Nelson was silent. He felt indignant with Squire Hudson for his
cruel exaction; but he felt that he was in his power, and that he must
submit to his exactions.
"You will attend to this matter?" asked the squire, as he rose and
prepared to go.
"Yes," answered the farmer, coldly.
When his creditor was gone he went into the kitchen and acquainted the
family with what had passed. Great were the grief and indignation of the
children, and Walter expressed a desire that Squire Hudson might lose
all his property as a fitting reward for his meanness.
"Heaven help me if I can't meet the next interest!" said Mark Nelson,
later in the day, to his wife.
"Don't be too much troubled about the future, Mark," said his wife, who
was of a more hopeful temperament than her husband; "I am sure that you
will get some help from Tom before six months are over."
"I hope so," answered her husband; but for the rest of the day he was
very grave.
Walter drove over Whiteface, at his father's request; but he came near
crying, stout boy as he was, at the loss of the faithful animal which
his father had reared from a calf.
CHAPTER XX.
AT SACRAMENTO.
After his escape from the grizzly Tom had no further adventures of an
exciting character. One afternoon he and his companions arrived at
Sacramento. It was but a small settlement, but was more town-like than
any place they had yet seen in California. They drove to a two-story
frame building, which was the chief hotel in the town. Taking the
precaution to inquire the price of board and lodging, they were dismayed
by the extravagance of the charges. Tom saw that his reserve fund of
twenty dollars would scarcely last him forty-eight hours.
"I can't stay here, Mr. Ferguson," he said. "I will take my chances and
camp out, if necessary."
"I agree with you, lad; I'm not inclined to waste my substance on
luxurious living."
"There won't be much luxurious living, I guess," said Ebenezer Onthank,
who, with Yankee curiosity, had already visited the kitchen and obtained
some idea of the fare to be expected. "I kin get better board at Green
Mountain Mills for three dollars a week, and folks are darned glad to
accommodate you for that price. These chaps seem to think and act as if
we were made of money."
"I wish some of your Green Mountain Mills boarding-houses were here,"
said Tom. "I could save plenty of money then."
"Well, gentlemen, do you want to stay here?" inquired the landlord.
"We'd like to, squire, but not bein' millionaires I guess we'll have to
put it off till times are better."
"Just as you say," said the landlord, indifferently. "There's others
waiting for the only room I have empty." Then, noticing for the first
time the express wagon which Tom had left outside, he asked, in a tone
of interest, "Who owns that team?"
"It belongs to this boy and myself," answered Ferguson.
"Where did it come from?"
"The States."
"You don't want to sell, do you?"
Tom was about to reply in the affirmative, but the Scot, more shrewd,
answered indifferently, "We may sell it when we get to San Francisco."
"I need just such a team as that," said the landlord, eagerly. "I'll
give you a good price for it. You can go down the river to Frisco."
"I suppose we might," said Ferguson, slowly, "if it was worth our
while."
"What'll you take, cash down?" inquired the landlord, earnestly.
"Nay, my friend, I prefer to hear your views as to the price."
"I will give you eight hundred dollars for the wagon."
This was certainly an excellent profit, for but three hundred had been
paid for horse and wagon. Tom's heart beat fast with excitement, for he
remembered that one-third of the money would come to him. If it had
depended upon him he would have clinched the bargain at once, but he
wisely left the matter in the hands of his companion and partner.
"That seems a fair offer," said Ferguson; "but I think we may as well
wait till we reach San Francisco. Besides, we want to sell the horse,
too."
"I will give you a thousand dollars for the two," said the landlord.
A man with his pantaloons tucked in his boots, a coarse woolen shirt,
and a wide-brimmed sombrero, which overshadowed a face bearing a beard
of a week's growth, was leaning against the door-post.
"Landlord," said he, "I see your price, and I'll go two hundred better."
Tom stared at the speaker in surprise. He looked like a man who would
have found it hard to raise twelve dollars, yet he had made an offer of
twelve hundred. Our hero did not learn till afterwards that the man had
"struck it rich" at the mines, sold out his claim for ten thousand
dollars, and for the time being was the lucky possessor of a large bank
account.
"Now, Tom Scott," expostulated the landlord, "this ain't fair. I want
the wagon more'n you do, and you're a-raisin' the price on me."
"How do you know that?" drawled Scott. "I've got a pile, and I mean to
take it easy while it lasts. I'm going back to the mines like a
gentleman, with my own team, you bet, if I've got money enough to buy
one."
The landlord was satisfied that, if he wanted the team, he must outbid
