write your name in it. What 's the initial of your 
first name, Miss Blood ? " 
" L, thank you," said Lydia. 
Staniford gave a start. " No ! " he exclaimed. 
It seemed a fatality. 
" My name is Lydia," persisted the girl. " What 
letter should it begin with? " 
"Oh — oh, I knew Lydia began with an L," 
stammered Staniford, " but I — I — I thought your 
first name was " — 
" What ? " asked Lydia sharply. 
"I don't know. Lily," he answered guiltily. 
"Lily Blood!" cried the girl. "Lydia is bad 
enough ; but Lily Blood ! They couldn 't have been 
such fools ! " 
" I beg your pardon. Of course not. I don't 
know how I could have got the idea. It was one 
of those impressions — hallucinations " — Staniford 
found himself in an attitude of lying excuse towards 
the simple girl, over whom he had been lording it 
in satirical fancy ever since he had seen her, and 
meekly anxious that she should not be vexed with 
him. He began to laugh at his predicament, and 
 
she smiled at his mistake. " What is the date? " 
he asked. 
" The 15th," she said ; and he wrote under the 
sketch, Lydia Blood. Ship Aroostook, August 15, 
1874, and handed it to her, with a bow surcharged 
with gravity. 
She took it, and regarded the picture without 
comment. 
"Ah!" said Stamford, "I see that you know 
how bad my sketch is. You sketch." 
" No, I don't know how to draw," replied Lydia. 
" You criticise." 
"No." 
" So glad," said Stamford. He began to like this. 
A young man must find pleasure in sitting alone 
near a pretty young girl, and talking with her about 
herself and himself, no matter how plain and dull 
her speech is ; and Staniford, though he found Lydia 
as blankly unresponsive as might be to the flatter- 
ing irony of his habit, amused himself in realizing 
that here suddenly he was almost upon the terms of 
window-seat flirtation with a girl whom lately he 
had treated with perfect indifference, and just now 
with fatherly patronage. The situation had some- 
thing more even than the usual window-seat advan- 
tages ; it had qualities as of a common shipwreck, of 
their being cast away on a desolate island together. 
He felt more than ever that he must protect this 
helpless loveliness, since it had begun to please his 
imagination. " You don't criticise," he said. " Is 
 
that because you are so amiable ? I 'm sure you 
could, if you would." 
"No," returned Lydia; "I don't really know. 
But I 've often wished I did know." 
" Then you didn 't teach drawing, in your 
school ? " 
"How did you know I had a school?" asked 
Lydia quickly. 
He disliked to confess his authority, because he 
disliked the authority, but he said, " Mr. Hicks 
told us." 
" Mr. Hicks ! " Lydia gave a little frown as of 
instinctive displeasure, which gratified Staniford. 
" Yes ; the cabin-boy told him. You see, we are 
dreadful gossips on the Aroostook, — though there 
are so few ladies " — It had slipped from him, but 
it seemed to have no personal slant for Lydia. 
" Oh, yes ; I told Thomas," she said. " No ; 
it 's only a country school. Once I thought I 
should go down to the State Normal School, and 
study drawing there ; but I never did. Are you 
— are you a painter, Mr. Staniford? " 
He could not recollect that she had pronounced 
his name before ; he thought it came very winningly 
from her lips. " No, I 'm not a painter. I 'm not 
anything." He hesitated ; then he added recklessly, 
" I'm a farmer." 
"A farmer?" Lydia looked incredulous, but 
grave. 
" Yes ; I 'm a horny-handed son of the soil. 
 
I 'm a cattle-farmer ; I 'm a sheep-farmer ; I don't 
know which. One day I 'm the one, and the next 
day I 'm the other." Lydia looked mystified, and 
Staniford continued : " I mean that I have no pro- 
fession, and that sometimes I think of going into 
farming, out West." 
" Yes ? " said Lydia. 
" How should I like it ? Give me an opinion, 
Miss Blood!' 
" Oh, I don't know," answered the girl. 
" You would never have dreamt that I was a 
farmer, would you ? " 
" No, I should n't," said Lydia, honestly. " It 's 
very hard work." 
" And I don't look fond of hard work ? " 
"I didn 't say that." 
" And I 've no right to press you for your mean- 
ing." 
" What I meant was — I mean — Perhaps if you 
had never tried it you didn 't know what very hard 
work it was. Some of the summer boarders used 
to think our farmers had easy times." 
" I never was a summer boarder of that descrip- 
tion. I know that farming is hard work, and I 'm 
going into it because I dislike it. What do you 
think of that as a form of self-sacrifice? " 
" I don't see why any one should sacrifice him- 
self uselessly." 
" You don't ? You have very little conception of 
martyrdom. Do you like teaching school ? " 
 
" No," said Lydia promptly. 
" Why do you teach, then ? " Stamford had 
blundered. He knew why she taught, and he felt 
instantly that he had hurt her pride, more sensitive 
than that of a more sophisticated person, who 
would have had no scruple in saying that she did 
it because she was poor. He tried to retrieve him- 
self. " Of course, I understand that school-teaching 
is useful self-sacrifice." He trembled lest she 
should invent some pretext for leaving him ; he 
could not afford to be left at a disadvantage. " But 
do you know, I would no more have taken you for a 
teacher than you me for a farmer." 
" Yes? "said Lydia. 
He could not tell whether she was appeased or 
not, and he rather feared not. " You don't ask 
why. And I asked you why at once." 
Lydia laughed. "Well, why?" 
" Oh, that \s a secret. I 'll tell you one of these 
days." He had really no reason ; he said this to 
gain time. He was always honest in bis talk with 
men, but not always with women. 
" I suppose I look very young," said Lydia. "I 
used to be afraid of the big boys." 
" If the boys were big enough," interposed Stan- 
iford, " they must have been afraid of you." 
Lydia said, as if she had not understood, " I had 
hard work to get my certificate. But I was older 
than I looked." 
" That is much better," remarked Staniford, 
 
" than being younger than you look. I am twenty- 
eight, and people take me for thirty-four. I 'm a 
prematurely middle-aged man. I wish you would 
tell me, Miss Blood, a little about South Bradfield. 
I 've been trying to make out whether I was ever 
there. I tramped nearly everywhere when I was a 
student. What sort of people are they there ? " 
" Oh, they are very nice people," said Lydia. 
"Do you like them?" 
" I never thought whether I did. They are 
nearly all old. Their children have gone away ; 
they don't seem to live ; they are just staying. 
When I first came there I was a little girl. One 
day I went into the grave-yard and counted the 
stones ; there were three times as many as there 
were living persons in the village." 
" I think I know the kind of place," said Stam- 
ford. " I suppose you 're not very homesick ? " 
" Not for the place," answered Lydia, evasively. 
" Of course," Staniford hastened to add, " you 
miss your own family circle." To this she made no 
reply. It is the habit of people bred like her to 
remain silent for want of some sort of formulated 
comment upon remarks to which they assent. 
Staniford fell into a musing mood, which was 
without visible embarrassment to the young girl, 
who must have been inured to much severer si- 
lences in the society of South Bradfield. He re- 
mained staring at her throughout his reverie, which 
in fact related to her. He was thinking what sort 
 
of an old maid she would have become if she had 
remained in that village. He fancied elements of 
hardness and sharpness in her which would have 
asserted themselves as the joyless years went on, 
like the bony structure of her face as the softness 
of youth left it. She was saved from that, what- 
ever was to be her destiny in Italy. From South 
Bradfield to Venice, — what a prodigious transi- 
tion ! It seemed as if it must transfigure her. 
" Miss Blood," he exclaimed, " I wish I could be 
with you when you first see Venice ! " 
"Yes?" saidLydia. 
Even the interrogative comment, with the rising 
inflection, could not chill his enthusiasm. "It is 
really the greatest sight in the world." 
Lydia had apparently no comment to make on 
this fact. She waited tranquilly a while before she 
said, " My father used to talk about Italy to me 
when I was little. He wanted to go. My mother 
said afterwards — after she had come home with 
me to South Bradfield — that she always believed 
he would have lived if he had gone there. He had 
consumption." 
" Oh ! " said Staniford softly. Then he added, 
with the tact of his sex, " Miss Blood, you mustn 't 
take cold, sitting here with me. This wind is 
chilly. Shall I go below and get you some more 
wraps : 
"No, thank you," said Lydia; " I believe I will 
go down, now." 
 
She went below to her room, and then came out 
into the cabin with some sewing at which she sat 
and stitched by the lamp. The captain was writ- 
ing in his log-book ; Dunham and Hicks were play- 
ing checkers together. Staniford, from a corner of 
a locker, looked musingly upon this curious family 
circle. It was not the first time that its occupa- 
tions had struck him oddly. Sometimes when they 
were all there together, Dunham read aloud. Hicks 
knew tricks of legerdemain which he played clev- 
erly. The captain told some very good stories, 
and led off in the laugh. Lydia always sewed and 
listened. She did not seem to find herself strangely 
placed, and her presence characterized all that was 
said and done with a charming innocence. As a 
bit of life, it was as pretty as it was quaint. 
" Really," Staniford said to Dunham, as they 
turned in, that night, " she has domesticated us." 
"Yes," assented Dunham with enthusiasm; 
" isn 't she a nice girl ? " 
" She 's intolerably passive. Or not passive, 
either. She says what she thinks, but she doesn 't 
seem to have thought of many things. Did she 
ever tell you about her father ? " 
" No," said Dunham. 
" I mean about his dying of consumption ? " 
" No, she never spoke of him to me. Was he " — 
" Um. It appears that we have been upon terms 
of confidence, then." Staniford paused, with one 
boot in his hand. " I should never have thought 
it." 
" What was her father ? " asked Dunham. 
" Upon my word, I don't know. I didn 't seem 
to get beyond elemental statements of intimate fact 
with her. He died in California, where she was 
born ; and he always had a longing to go to Italy. 
That was rather pretty." 
" It 's very touching, I think." 
" Yes, of course. We might fancy this about 
Lurella : that she has a sort of piety in visiting the 
scenes that her father wished to visit, and that — 
Well, anything is predicable of a girl who says so 
little and looks so much. She 's certainly very 
handsome ; and I 'm bound to say that her room 
could not have been better than her company, so 
far." 
X. 
The dress that Lydia habitually wore was one 
which her aunt Maria studied from the costume of 
a summer boarder, who had spent a preceding sum- 
mer at the sea-shore, and who found her yachting- 
dress perfectly adapted to tramping over the South 
Bradfield hills. Thus reverting to its original use 
on shipboard, the costume looked far prettier on 
Lydia than it had on the summer boarder from 
whose unconscious person it had been plagiarized. 
It was of the darkest blue flannel, and was fitly set 
off with those bright ribbons at the throat which 
women know how to dispose there according to 
their complexions. One day the bow was scarlet, 
and another crimson ; Staniford did not know which 
was better, and disputed the point in vain with 
Dunham. They all grew to have a taste in such 
matters. Captain Jenness praised her dress out- 
right, and said that he should tell his girls about it. 
Lydia, who had always supposed it was a walking 
costume, remained discreetly silent when the young 
men recognized its nautical character. She enjoyed 
its success ; she made some little changes in the hat 
she wore with it, which met the approval of the 
cabin family ; and she tranquilly kept her black 
silk in reserve for Sunday. She came out to break- 
fast in it, and it swept the narrow spaces, as she 
THE LADY OF THE AROOSTOOK. Ill 
emerged from her state-room, with so rich and deep 
a murmur that every one looked up. She sustained 
their united glance with something tenderly depre- 
catory and appealingly conscious in her manner, 
much as a very sensitive girl in some new finery 
meets the eyes of her brothers when she does not 
know whether to cry or laugh at what they will say. 
Thomas almost dropped a plate. " Goodness ! " he 
said, helplessly expressing the public sentiment in 
regard. to a garment of which he alone had been in 
the secret. No doubt it passed his fondest dreams 
of its splendor ; it fitted her as the sheath of the 
flower fits the flower. 
Captain Jenness looked hard at her, but waited 
a decent season after saying grace before offering 
his compliment, which he did in drawing the carv- 
ing-knife slowly across the steel. "Well, Miss 
Blood, that 's right ! " Lydia blushed richly, and 
the young men made their obeisances across the 
table. 
The flushes and pallors chased each other over 
her face, and the sight of her pleasure in being 
beautiful charmed Stamford. "If she were used to 
worship she would have taken our adoration more 
arrogantly," he said to his friend when they went 
on deck after breakfast. " I can place her ; but 
one's circumstance doesn 't always account for one 
in America, and I can't make out yet whether she 's 
ever been praised for being pretty. Some of our 
hill-country people would have felt like hushing up 
 
her beauty, as almost sinful, and some would have 
gone down before it like Greeks. I can't tell 
whether she knows it all or not ; but if you sup- 
pose her unconscious till now, it 's pathetic. And 
black silks must be too rare in her life not to be 
celebrated by a high tumult of inner satisfaction. 
I 'in glad we bowed down to the new dress. " 
" Yes," assented Dunham, with an uneasy ab- 
sence; "but — Stamford, I should like to propose 
to Captain Jenness our having service this morning. 
It is the eleventh Sunday after " — 
" Ah, yes ! " said Stamford. " It is Sunday, 
isn 't it ? I thought we had breakfast rather later 
than usual. All over the Christian world, on land 
and sea, there is this abstruse relation between a 
late breakfast and religious observances." 
Dunham looked troubled. " I wish you wouldn 't 
talk that way, Staniford, and I hope you won't say 
anything " — 
" To interfere with your proposition ? My dear 
fellow, I am at least a gentleman." 
" I beg your pardon," said Dunham, gratefully. 
Staniford even went himself to the captain with 
Dunham's wish ; it is true the latter assumed the 
more disagreeable part of proposing the matter to 
Hicks, who gave a humorous assent, as one might 
to a joke of doubtful feasibility. 
Dunham gratified both his love for social man- 
agement and his zeal for his church in this organi- 
zation of worship ; and when all hands were called 
 
aft, and stood round in decorous silence, he read the 
lesson for the day, and conducted the service with a 
gravity astonishing to the sailors, who had taken 
him for a mere dandy. Staniford bore his part in 
the responses from the same prayer-book with Cap- 
tain Jenness, who kept up a devout, inarticulate 
under-growl, and came out strong on particular 
words when he got his bearings through his spec- 
tacles. Hicks and the first officer silently shared 
another prayer-book, and Lydia offered half hers to 
Mr. Mason. 
When the hymn was given out, she waited while 
an experimental search for the tune took place 
among the rest. They were about to abandon the 
attempt, when she lifted her voice and began to 
sing. She sang as she did in the meeting-house at 
South Bradfleld, and her voice seemed to fill all the 
hollow height and distance ; it rang far off like a 
mermaid's singing, on high like an angel's ; it 
called with the same deep appeal to sense and soul 
alike. The sailors stood rapt ; Dunham kept up a 
show of singing for the church's sake. The others 
made no pretense of looking at the words ; they 
looked at her, and she began to falter, hearing her- 
self alone. Then Staniford struck in again wildly, 
and the sea-voices lent their powerful discord, while 
the girl's contralto thrilled through all. 
" Well, Miss Blood," said the captain, when the 
service had ended in that subordination of the spirit- 
ual to the artistic interest which marks the process 
 
and the close of so much public worship in our 
day, "you 've given us a surprise. I guess we shall 
keep you pretty busy with our calls for music, after 
this." 
" She is a genius ! " observed Staniford at his 
first opportunity with Dunham. "I knew there 
must be something the matter. Of course she's 
going out to school her voice ; and she hasn 't 
strained it in idle babble about her own affairs ! I 
must say that Lu — Miss Blood's power of holding 
her tongue commands my homage. Was it her lit- 
tle coup to wait till we got into that hopeless hobble 
before she struck in ? " 
" Coup ? For shame, Staniford ! Coup at such 
a time ! " 
" Well, well ! I don't say so. But for the thea- 
tre one can't begin practicing these effects too soon. 
Really, that voice puts a new complexion on Miss 
Blood. I have a theory to reconstruct. I have 
been philosophizing her as a simple country girl. 
I must begin on an operatic novice. I liked the 
other better. It gave value to the black silk ; as a 
singer she 'll wear silk as habitually as a cocoon. 
She will have to take some stage name ; translate 
Blood into Italian. We shall know her hereafter 
as La Sanguinelli ; and when she comes to Boston 
we shall make our modest brags about going out. to 
Europe with her. I don't know; I think I pre- 
ferred the idyllic flavor I was beginning to find in 
the presence of the ordinary, futureless young girl, 
 
voyaging under the chaperonage of her own inno- 
cence, — the Little Sister of the Whole Ship. But 
this crepusculant prima donna — no, I don't like it. 
Though it explains some things. These splendid 
creatures are never sent half equipped into the 
world. I fancy that where there ? s an operatic 
voice, there 's an operatic soul to go with it. Well, 
La Sangainelli will wear me out, yet ! Suggest 
some new topic, Dunham ; talk of something else, 
for heaven's sake ! " 
"Do you suppose," asked Dunham, "that she 
would like to help get up some musicales, to pass 
away the time?" 
" Oh, do you call that talking of something else ? 
What an insatiate organizer you are ! You organize 
shuffleboard ; you organize public worship ; you 
want to organize musicales. She would have to do 
all your music for you." 
" I think she would like to go in for it," said 
Dunham. " It must be a pleasure to exercise such 
a gift as that, and now that it 's come out in the 
way it has, it would be rather awkward for us not 
to recognize it." 
Staniford refused point-blank to be a party to the 
new enterprise, and left Dunham to his own devices 
at dinner, where he proposed the matter. 
" If you had my Persis here, now," observed Cap- 
tain Jenness, " with her parlor organ, you could get 
along." 
" I wish Miss Jenness was here," said Dunham, 
 
politely. " But we must try to get on as it is. 
With Miss Blood's voice to start with, nothing 
ought to discourage us." Dunham had a thin and 
gentle pipe of his own, and a fairish style in sing- 
ing, but with his natural modesty he would not of- 
fer himself as a performer except in default of all 
others. " Don't you sing, Mr. Hicks ? " 
" Anything to oblige a friend," returned Hicks. 
" But I don't sing — before Miss Blood." 
" Miss Blood," said Staniford, listening in ironic 
safety, " you overawe us all. I never did sing, but 
I think I should want to make an effort if you were 
not by." 
" But don't you — don't you play something, any- 
thing?" persisted Dunham, in desperate appeal to 
Hicks. 
"Well, yes," the latter admitted, "I play the 
flute a little." 
" Flutes on water ! " said Staniford. Hicks looked 
at him in sulky dislike, but as if resolved not to be 
put down by him. 
" And have you got your flute with you ? " de- 
manded Dunham, joyously. 
" Yes, I have," replied Hicks. 
" Then we are all right. I think I can carry a 
part, and if you will play to Miss Blood's sing- 
ing"-_ 
" Try it this evening, if you like," said the other. 
" Well, ah — I don't know. Perhaps — we 
hadn 't better begin this evening." 
 
Staniford laughed at Dunham's embarrassment. 
" You might have a sacred concert, and Mr. Hicks 
could represent the shawms and cymbals with his 
flute." 
Dunham looked sorry for Stamford's saying this. 
Captain Jenness stared at him, as if his taking the 
names of these scriptural instruments in vain were 
a kind of blasphemy, and Lydia seemed puzzled and 
a little troubled. 
" I didn 't think of its being Sunday," said Hicks, 
with what Staniford felt to be a cunning assump- 
tion of manly frankness, " or any more Sunday 
than usual ; seems as if we had had a month of 
Sundays already since we sailed. I 'm not much on 
religion myself, but I shouldn 't like to interfere 
with other people's principles." 
Staniford was vexed with himself for his scornful 
pleasantry, and vexed with the others for taking it 
so seriously and heavily, and putting him so un- 
necessarily in the wrong. He was angry with Dun- 
ham, and he said to Hicks, u Very just senti- 
ments." 
" I am glad you like them," replied Hicks, with 
sullen apprehension of the offensive tone. 
Staniford turned to Lydia. " I suppose that in 
South Bradfield your Sabbath is over at sundown 
on Sunday evening." 
" That used to be the custom," answered the 
girl. " I 've heard my grandfather tell of it." 
" Oh, yes," interposed Captain Jenness. " They 
 
used to keep Saturday night down our way, too. I 
can remember when I was a boy. It came pretty 
hard to begin so soon, but it seemed to kind of 
break it, after all, having a night in." 
The captain did not know what Staniford began 
to laugh at. "Our Puritan ancestors knew just 
how much human nature could stand, after all. 
We did not have an uninterrupted Sabbath till the 
Sabbath had become much milder. Is that it ? " 
The captain had probably no very clear notion of 
what this meant, but simply felt it to be a critical 
edge of some sort. " I don't know as you can have 
too much religion," he remarked. " I 've seen 
some pretty rough customers in the church, but I 
always thought, What would they be out of it ! " 
" Very true ! " said Staniford, smiling. He 
wanted to laugh again, but he liked the captain 
too well to do that ; and then he began to rage in 
his heart at the general stupidity which had placed 
him in the attitude of mocking at religion, a thing 
he would have loathed to do. It seemed to him 
that Dunham was answerable for his false position. 
" But we shall not see the right sort of Sabbath till 
Mr. Dunham gets his Catholic church fully going," 
he added. 
They all started, and looked at Dunham as good 
Protestants must when some one whom they would 
never have suspected of Catholicism turns out to 
be a Catholic. Dunham cast a reproachful glance 
at his friend, but said simply, " I am a Catholic, — 
 
that is true ; but I do not admit the pretensions of 
the Bishop of Rome." 
The rest of the company apparently could not 
follow him in making this distinction ; perhaps 
some of them did not quite know who the Bishop 
of Rome was. Lydia continued to look at him in 
fascination ; Hicks seemed disposed to whistle, if 
such a thing were allowable ; Mr. Watterson de- 
voutly waited for the captain. " Well," observed 
the captain at last, with the air of giving the devil 
his due, u I 've seen some very good people among 
the Catholics." 
"That's so, Captain Jenness," said the first offi- 
cer. 
" I don't see," said Lydia, without relaxing her 
gaze, " why, if you are a Catholic, you read the 
service of a Protestant church." 
" It is not a Protestant church," answered Dun- 
ham, gently, " as I have tried to explain to you." 
" The Episcopalian ? " demanded Captain Jen- 
ness. 
" The Episcopalian," sweetly reiterated Dunham. 
" I should like to know what kind of a church it 
is, then," said Captain Jenness, triumphantly. 
" An Apostolic church." 
Captain Jenness rubbed his nose, as if this were 
a new kind of church to him. 
" Founded by Saint Henry VIII. himself," interjected Staniford. 
 
" No, Staniford," said Dunham, with a soft re- 
pressiveness. And now a threatening light of zeal 
began to burn in his kindly eyes. These souls had 
plainly been given into his hands for ecclesiastical 
enlightenment. " If our friends will allow me, I 
will explain " — 
Stamford's shaft had recoiled upon his own head. 
" Lord ! " he cried, getting up from the table, 
" I can't stand that!" The others regarded him, 
as he felt, even to that weasel of a Hicks, as a 
sheep of uncommon blackness. He went on deck, 
and smoked a cigar without relief. He still heard 
the girl's voice in singing ; and he still felt in his 
nerves the quality of latent passion in it which had 
thrilled him when she sang. His thought ran 
formlessly upon her future, and upon what sort of 
being was already fated to waken her to those pos- 
sibilities of intense suffering and joy which he im- 
agined in her. A wound at his heart, received 
long before, hurt vaguely ; and he felt old. 
XL 
No one said anything more of the musicales, and 
the afternoon and evening wore away without general talk. Each seemed willing to keep apart from 
the rest. Dunham suffered Lydia to come on deck 
alone after tea, and Staniford found her there, in 
her usual place, when he went up some time later. 
He approached her at once, and said, smiling down 
into her face, to which the moonlight gave a pale 
mystery, " Miss Blood, did you think I was very 
wicked to-day at dinner ? " 
Lydia looked away, and waited a moment before 
she spoke. " I don't know," she said. Then, impulsively, u Did you ? " she asked. 
" No, honestly, I don't think I was," answered 
Staniford. " But I seemed to leave that impression 
on the company. I felt a little nasty, that was all ; 
and I tried to hurt Mr. Dunham's feelings. But I 
shall make it right with him before I sleep ; he 
knows that. He 's used to having me repent at 
leisure. Do you ever walk Sunday night?" 
" Yes, sometimes," said Lydia interrogatively. 
" I 'm glad of that. Then I shall not offend against 
your scruples if I ask you to join me in a little ram- 
ble, and you will refuse from purely personal consid- 
erations. Will you walk with me? " 
 
" Yes." Lydia rose. 
" And will you take my arm ? " asked Staniford, 
a little surprised at her readiness. 
" Thank you." 
She put her hand upon his arm, confidently 
enough, and they began to walk up and down the 
stretch of open deck together. 
" Well, " said Staniford, " did Mr. Dunham con- 
vince you all ? " 
" I think he talks beautifully about it," replied 
Lydia, with quaint stiffness. 
" I am glad you see what a very good fellow he 
is. I have a real affection for Dunham." 
" Oh, yes, he 's good. At first it surprised me. 
I mean " — 
" No, no," Staniford quickly interrupted, " why 
did it surprise you to find Dunham good? " 
" I don't know. You don't expect a person to be 
serious who is so — so " — 
" Handsome ? " 
" No, — so — I don't know just how to say it : 
fashionable." 
Staniford laughed. " Why, Miss Blood, you 're 
fashionably dressed yourself, not to go any farther, 
and you 're serious." 
" It 's different with a man," the girl explained. 
"Well, then, how about me?" asked Staniford. 
" Am I too well dressed to be expected to be se- 
rious ? " 
" Mr. Dunham always seems in earnest," Lydia 
answered, evasively. 
 
" And you think one can't be in earnest without 
being serious ? " Lydia suffered one of those silences 
to ensue in which Staniford had already found him- 
self helpless. He knew that he should be forced to 
break it : and he said, with a little spiteful mock- 
ing, " I suppose the young men of South Bradfield 
are both serious and earnest." 
" How ? " asked Lydia. 
" The young men of South Bradfield." 
" I told you that there were none. They all go 
away." 
" Well, then, the young men of Springfield, of 
Keene, of Greenfield." 
" I can't tell. I am not acquainted there." 
Staniford had begun to have a disagreeable suspicion that her ready consent to walk up and down 
with a young man in the moonlight might have come 
from a habit of the kind. But it appeared that her 
fearlessness was like that of wild birds in those des- 
ert islands where man has never come. The dis- 
covery gave him pleasure out of proportion to its 
importance, and he paced back and forth in a silence 
that no longer chafed. Lydia walked very well, 
and kept his step with rhythmic unison, as if they 
were walking to music together. " That *s the time 
in her pulses," he thought, and then he said, " Then 
you don't have a great deal of social excitement, I 
suppose, — dancing, and that kind of thing ? 
Though perhaps you don't approve of dancing ? " 
" Oh, yes, I like it. Sometimes the summer 
boarders get up little dances at the hotel." 
 
" Oh, the summer boarders ! " Stamford had 
overlooked them. " The young men get them up, 
and invite the ladies ? " he pursued. 
" There are no young men, generally, among the 
summer boarders. The ladies dance together. Most 
of the gentlemen are old, or else invalids." 
" Oh ! " said Staniford. 
" At the Mill Village, where I 've taught two 
winters, they have dances sometimes, — the mill 
hands do." 
" And do you go ? " 
" No. They are nearly all French Canadians 
and Irish people." 
"Then you like dancing because there are no 
gentlemen to dance with ? " 
" There are gentlemen at the picnics." 
" The picnics ? " 
" The teachers' picnics. They have them every 
summer, in a grove by the pond." 
There was, then, a high-browed, dyspeptic high- 
school principal, and the desert-island theory was 
probably all wrong. It vexed Staniford, when he 
had so nearly got the compass of her social life, to 
find this unexplored corner in it. 
" And I suppose you are leaving very agreeable 
friends among the teachers ? " 
" Some of them are pleasant. But I don't know 
them very well. I 've only been to one of the pic- 
nics." 
Staniford drew a long, silent breath. After all, 
 
he knew everything. He mechanically dropped a 
little the arm on which her hand rested, that it 
might slip farther within. Her timid remoteness 
had its charm, and he fell to thinking, with amuse- 
ment, how she who was so subordinate to him was, 
in the dimly known sphere in which he had been 
groping to find her, probably a person of authority 
and consequence. It satisfied a certain domineering 
quality in him to have reduced her to this humble 
attitude, while it increased the protecting tender- 
ness he was beginning to have for her. His mind 
went off further upon this matter of one's different 
attitudes toward different persons ; he thought of 
men, and women too, before whom he should in- 
stantly feel like a boy, if he could be confronted 
with them, even in his present lordliness of mood. 
In a fashion of his when he convicted himself of 
anything, he laughed aloud. Lydia shrank a little 
from him, in question. " I beg your pardon," he 
said. " I was laughing at something I happened 
to think of. Do you ever find yourself struggling 
very hard to be what you think people think you 
are c 
" Oh, yes," replied Lydia. " But I thought no 
one else did." 
" Everybody does the thing that we think no one 
else does," said Staniford, sententiously. 
" I don't know whether I quite like it," said 
Lydia. " It seems like hypocrisy. It used to worry 
me. Sometimes I wondered if I had any real self. 
 
I seemed to be just what people made me, and a 
different person to each." 
" I 'm glad to hear it, Miss Blood. We are com- 
panions in hypocrisy. As we are such nonentities 
we shall not affect each other at all." Lydia 
laughed. " Don't you think so ? What are you 
laughing at ? I told you what I was laughing at ! " 
" But I didn 't ask you." 
" You wished to know." 
" Yes, I did." 
" Then you ought to tell me what I wish to 
know." 
" It 's nothing," said Lydia. " I thought you 
were mistaken in what you said." 
" Oh ! Then you believe that there 's enough of 
you to affect me ? " 
"No." 
" The other way, then ? " 
She did not answer. 
" I 'm delighted ! " exclaimed Staniford. " I hope 
I don't exert an uncomfortable influence. I should 
be very unhappy to think so." Lydia stooped side- 
wise, away from him, to get a fresh hold of her 
skirt, which she was carrying in her right hand, 
and she hung a little more heavily upon his arm. 
"I hope I make you think better of yourself, — 
very self-satisfied, very conceited even ." 
" No," said Lydia. 
" You pique my curiosity beyond endurance. 
Tell me how I make you feel." 
 
She looked quickly round at him, as if to see 
whether he was in earnest. " Why, it's nothing," 
she said. " You made me feel as if you were laugh- 
ing at everybody." 
It flatters a man to be accused of sarcasm by the 
other sex, and Staniford was not superior to the 
soft pleasure of the reproach. " Do you think I 
make other people feel so, too? " 
" Mr. Dunham said " — 
" Oh ! Mr. Dunham has been talking me over 
with you, has he ? What did he tell you of me ? 
There is nobody like a true friend for dealing an 
underhand blow at one's reputation. Wait till you 
hear my account of Dunham ! What did he say? " 
" He said that was only your way of laughing at 
yourself." 
" The traitor ! What did you say ? " 
" I don't know that I said anything." 
" You were reserving your opinion for my own 
hearing ? " 
"No." 
" Why don't you tell me what you thought? It 
might be of great use to me. I 'm in earnest, now ; 
I 'm serious. Will you tell me ? " 
" Yes, some time," said Lydia, who was both 
amused and mystified at this persistence. 
" When ? To-morrow ? " 
" Oh, that 's too soon. When I get to Venice ! " 
" Ah ! That 's a subterfuge. You know we 
shall part in Trieste." 
 
" I thought," said Lydia, " you were coming to 
Venice, too." 
" Oh, yes, but I shouldn 't be able to see you 
there." 
" Why not ? " 
" Why not? Why, because" — He was near 
telling the young girl who hung upon his arm, and 
