nothing like striking the eye with novelty." 
"I do not think so," said Mrs. Bowdoin. " I 
think it is just the other way. Men will take anybody that happens to be near them, generally. It's 
propinquity there needs nothing more. Bat Max 
Iredell is not one of your common sort of people; 
and I am curious to know what the woman is thai 
he has chosen." 
"Well, I will tell you, Mrs. Bowdom. She 
is handsome, and stately and wise. She knows 
what she is about." 
" Desire, tell me what your sister is like. I can 
not make out anything from this girl's chatter." 
" Miss Forella has described her, ma 'am." 
"Truly?" 
"With some truth. Olive has a great deal of 
judgment, and calmness to exercise it ; and I think 
she has a great deal of sense." 
" Is she as religious as you are ? " 
I hesitated, and Miss Forella spoke out. "No. 
she isn't." 
"Not religious?" cried Mrs. Bowdom. 
"Yes, she is," I said; "but she and I do not 
always think alike." 
" I am afraid Max has got the wrong one," said 
my hostess. " Why religion is the whole of .life to 
Max Iredell." 
" That is what spoils him," said Miss Forella. 
" He is not spoiled, and you do not think he is. 
Come! I won't have you make believe in that 
way, Ernestine. He is nearer right than you and 
I, and you know it- But I hope Olive is good 
enough for him ! " 
I had got about as much as I could stand, for 
one time; and I broke off from the conversation 
and went out to take a walk. It was windy and 
cold; nothing in outer nature spoke soothing to 
 
the storm within; and my walk was a struggle 
both to mind and body. However I was alone, 
and I could let the wind dry the tears which came 
and wet my cheeks. 
In the evening I had something harder to bear 
than even the morning talk. Mr. Holland took 
an opportunity to tell me that he loved me, and 
begged me to let him hope that in time he might 
make himself agreeable to me. Now he is very 
agreeable to me; but never in all time could he 
be more. I like him for a friend, I would like to 
keep him for a friend, and as a friend I could take 
a great deal of pleasure in him, if that would do. 
It would not do. He wanted more, and to my 
very great astonishment, wanted it very persist 
ently and eagerly. I had not dreamed that he 
liked me; so, I mean. The discovery now filled 
me Avith a kind of unendurable torment. It was 
not simply that I was forced to give him pain, 
though that hurt me and I was grieved to do it. 
There was another feeling, which I cannot quite 
analyze ; a feeling as if this proposition from one 
whom I cannot like, mocked the bitter pain of 
which my heart was full. I cannot say how I 
wished that such an idea had never come into 
Mr. Holland's imagination. I made him under 
stand that it could never have a place in mine; 
and then I ran away and had a great fit of tears. 
Out of which I came with a sort of sad recogni 
tion that the world is full of crossed and tangled 
threads of human life ; mine is but one of many ; 
 
and that in the vagueness and confusion only one 
thing is clear, that " Life is, to do the will of 
God." Then, somehow, some time, He will bring 
out into sinooth order all the threads he holds in 
his hand. I can wait I will trust. But that 
distant time of light and peace seems very far 
ahead ; and the way between very long. 
Nov. 15. 
I BEGAN to look forward with inexpressible dread 
to my going home. The summons could not 
be long delayed, I knew. And the very next day 
after Mr. Holland had so distressed me, it came. 
Olive wrote that she was to be married soon after 
New Year s; and wanted my help in the house, as 
she was naturally very busy with her own affairs. 
I packed my trunk, with my heart in my mouth 
and my hands trembling. How should I do what 
I had to do ? How meet all the faces ? One com 
fort; people would be more curious to look at Olive 
than to look at me; but our Chesterfield folk have 
sharp eyes for everybody. And suppose Mr. Iredell were there? Not likely, yet it might be. 
Well, if he were not there now, he certainly would 
be another time; it had got to be faced and borne, 
and as well sooner as ktter. What an ending this 
was of my beautiful visit ! 
So I finished my packing and said my good byes. 
Mrs. Bowdoin drove into town with me and saw 
 
me established in the car for my night journey. 
She stocked me with biscuits and sandwiches and 
cold coffee ; and at last left me, very sorry to have 
me go, I believe. That night was a whirl through 
the darkness. 
It is often a wonder to me, how people bear the 
troubles of life, who do not know the refuge there 
is at Christ's feet. How do they stand? For if 
one can but get to his feet, one is under protection ; 
one knows things are clear to him that are very 
confused to us; and his eye sees a way for his 
child through the trackless wilderness, and his 
hand can guide safely. I knew it that night; 
and though it was, as I said, a whirl through 
the darkness, I had a certain rest in the knowledge. I was not trying to guide myself. 
Having to Avait at one place for a connecting 
train, I should not reach home until afternoon. I
imagined it all beforehand ; my walk from the station, a good four miles down the valley, the possible meetings and words with neighbours, every one 
of which I shrank from, and then the possibility of 
another encounter at home from which I shrank 
most of all. But what one imagines is not apt to 
be the reality. As I left the car at the station, the 
first person I saw was Mr. Iredell. 
I think I was perfectly calm and cool in my manner; indeed much more so than I should have been 
last summer if he had come then to see us as he proposed. Then I should have shewn delight. Ought 
I now ? I could not, and did not. And he did not. 
 
He was calm too, kind, attentive to my wants, as 
of course a gentleman would be who expected to 
call me his sister. 
Happily the interview was short. Mr. Iredell 
had driven to the station to take another train 
himself in an hour or two which would carry him 
away; he had come earlier than was quite necessary, in order that, if [ arrived, the wagon might 
take me home. He explained this while he was 
putting me into it and seeing that somebody did 
the same for my baggage. 
"I could have walked home," I said. "I ex 
pected to walk home." 
" I do not doubt you could," said he ; " but after 
a night in cars and station rooms one does not al 
ways feel like such a tramp for one's next experience. Good bye ! " 
He raised his hat, and the wagon moved off. 
So it was over, and I had seen him, and I had 
not to fear finding him at home. There was a ringing in my ears and a great throbbing at my heart, 
and I did not hear or heed the remarks my driver 
was addressing to me. I suppose I answered them ; 
I have no idea how. All the way I was driving 
home my thoughts were busy going over and over 
and over every second of that brief interview; living it over first, and then trying to analyze it. 
Somehow Mr. Iredell did not seem to me just as 
he had been in Philadelphia; no, not even as he 
had seemed to me when I was yet quite a stranger. 
I told myself that was natural. How could he seem 
 
the same, when relations were so changed ? But 
then, the change of relations was on the side of near 
er intimacy and closer friendship, and the change 
of mariner seemed the other way. I could not disabuse myself of the feeling that Mr. Iredell liked 
me better a year ago than he did now. I had done 
nothing to deserve a lessening of his regard, and 
it hurt me. I speculated over it, thinking that 
now perhaps he was so taken up with Olive and 
the love of her, that he had no eyes nor thought 
for any other woman, even though it were Olive's 
sister. Very right, I said to myself. If I were in 
Olive's place, I should like it so. And yet, no, I 
would not. If I were in Olive's place, I should 
be so satisfied and sure, I should not grudge a 
little kindly affection to anybody to whom it was 
rig it to give it, nor the shewing of such affection. 
I would be generous, and could afford to let him 
be generous. I brooded over this for a while, and 
then pulled myself up short with the reminder 
that it was nothing I ought to think about at all; 
nothing that concerned me. Probably in all the 
future I should see little of Mr. Iredell ; what could 
it matter how he treated me when I did see him ? 
So I got home and went in, thinking how the world 
had turned, round for me since I trod that path and 
went through that gate last. 
I went to the kitchen to find Olive, and there 
she met me, looking handsomer than I had ever 
seen her. It struck me that she was cool too, 
though she said she was glad to see me. That 
 
was nothing strange or new; Olive's manner was 
never enthusiastic. She was brushing up the floor, 
and went on with her occupation ; while I loosened 
my bonnet strings and sat down. We must speak 
to each other of what had come about ; and as well 
soon as syne, as the Scotch say. But I waited fop- 
her to begin. 
"You have had a good time?" said Olive, sweeping away. 
" Mrs. Bowdoin was very kind." 
" I thought you were having a good visit, and I 
would not disturb you; but now I really wanted 
you, and could not help it." 
"Of course. I understood that." 
"How do you like my plans?" said Olive, sud 
denly stopping short in her sweeping and looking 
at me. 
" Your plans ? In what respect ? " 
"Well, my prospects, then?" 
" I should think they were very good prospects 
Mrs. Bowdoin thinks so." 
"Are you pleased?" 
"I, Olive? I do not see any special reason why 
I should be pleased." 
"It is something, to be brought into such a 
connection." 
"Is it?" said I, and I smiled. "I suppose I am 
thinking more of what I am losing than of what 
I am gaining. Didn't it occur to you that there 
were two sides to it?" 
" Were you very much surprised ? " 
 
"Yes, very," I said slowly. 
"I was not," said Olive, and she said it with a 
certain curious accent of assertion. "I knew it 
would come to that. And now," she went on rapidly, "the wedding is to be very soon; and I am 
very glad to have you at home, Desire. I would 
not send for you till I could not help it." 
She set up her broom, and I saw that the confidence between us went no further. Indeed, what 
more could there be to tell ? The common chatter 
of girls about love affairs, their own or other people's, actual or possible, had never been Olive's 
way or mine. I wanted to hear no details, and she 
had no thought of giving them. I went slowly up 
to my room and laid off my wrappers, and looked 
at the big chestnut trees in the meadow. Grand 
old things, how magnificent they were now even 
with all the summer glory gone ; each great bough 
bearing its drapery of snow, capped and outlined 
in white. There had been a slight snowfall already. 
How many years they had stood there, in heat and 
cold; and how the fragile generations of men had 
passed away before them. In like manner would 
our generation; and Olive, and Mr. Iredell, and I, 
would all be gone, and our aches and pains over. 
A cold philosophy this, to comfort anybody. There 
came a gentler thought from the chestnut trees ; a 
thought of the way in which they had grown into 
strength and ripened into beauty; and I remembered how often in the Bible Christians are likened 
to trees, so growing and flourishing. And there I 
 
broke down. A veil of tears hid the chestnut trees 
from my sight. I dropped on the floor, I believe, 
and had a sort of thunder-shower of weeping, which 
cleared the air. I put away my things after that ; 
changed my dress, and went down to see what 
there was first to do. I found grandmother seated 
in state in a wonderful easy chair; a new arrival. 
I kissed her, and began to set the table for supper. 
"So you've come home, Desire!" she said. " lius 
anybody asked you to be married ? " 
"No," I answered hastily. "At least, I mean, 
I have not promised anybody, and am not going 
to." 
" Somebody asked you, hey? Great deal better 
not, Desire. What do you think of Olive's venture?" 
Safe" said I. 
"She thinks so. My! ain't she set up. Did you 
see Mr. Iredell at the railroad?" 
"Yes." 
" He went early o purpose, that the wagon might 
bring you back. Olive told him he'd have to wait 
long spell, but he said he could wait better than 
you. He's a thoughtful man. Ha you looked at 
my cheer?" 
"Yes, grandma." 
" You did it flying then, for you hain't stopped. 
Look here, Desire; see; the back goes back and 
die bottom's on springs, and it's the roomiest thing 
that ever you see." 
"Just like him," I said. 
 
"But la! I'd rather have Olive to home, and 
let him keep his cheers. What'll you do with the 
house, all alone by yourself ? Is this the kind o 
cheer lie sits in at home ? " 
" Why no, grandmother ; this is a regular old 
lady's chair." 
"You said it was like him. What did you 
mean ? " 
"I meant that it was openhanded; kind, and 
generous." 
"Humph!" said grandma; " he's got Olive, and 
I don't think an easy cheer's much pay for her. 
Tain't to me. Anyhow, I'd rather be in something 
that would rock." 
" That sort of chair is never on rockers." 
"Well, I wish twas." 
I could see however that grandmother had a very 
great opinion of Mr. Iredell and thought very much 
of all he said and did. Too much for my comfort ; 
for his name came up every hour in the day. Not 
brought up by Olive ; to do her justice she is very 
quiet about him and all that concerns her new 
prospects ; but grandma refers to him and to them 
constantly. I bury myself in work all I can. 
Jan. 30, 18. 
IT is over, and Olive is gone. 
They arranged to have the wedding celebrated 
in Philadelphia. That is, Caroline and Olive arranged it ; I believe Mr. Iredell would have beer 
as well pleased to be married quietly here in dies 
terfield. Another thing however lie arranged; that 
grandmother should go to the wedding; and he 
prevented objections by sending along with his 
letter, (in which he rather took it for granted than 
made the request,) a piece of very handsome black 
silk. The letter was so gracefully pleasant that 
Olive's pride could not find any occasion of offence; 
and grandmother was delighted. I never saw her 
so pleased. Olive took it differently. 
" I wonder what ever has put such a notion into hia 
head!" she said, with the open letter in her hand. 
" He thought it would please grandma " I suggested. 
" Rather one-sided kindness," said Olive. " He 
did not ask whether it would please Caroline, or
whether it would please me." 
" Why should it not please Caroline ? " 
" She will want all the room her house has. He 
never thought of that. Men never do think of 
household possibilities, I suppose. She will need 
every bit of her spare room. She means to ask 
Mrs. Bowdoin." 
" Grandmother has the first right to be con 
sidered." 
"No; I have the first right," said Olive; "and 
Mr. Iredell might have consulted me before doing 
this. It is just like a man ! " 
"Not like many men," I could not help saying 
" It is very kind." 
 
"It is not very kind to me. What will grandma 
do in such a set of people, so unlike what she is 
used to ? And how is that dress ever to get made 
up, with all there is to do yet on mine ? " 
That was a consideration, I confess. However, 
I worked at the black by day and at the white by 
night; and after Olive left us, for she went first to 
Philadelphia, I had time to finish everything. All 
but a cap, which I knew I must get in Philadelphia. 
Grandma was in a state of glee which it was touch 
ing to see. Nothing, I suppose, in years had given 
her the pleasure this invitation gave. The honor 
of it, and the importance, .tickled her fancy greatly; 
and the black silk was a subject of constant self- 
gratulation. For me, I could have wished that 
any beneficent agency would have stolen away all 
my dresses, or called me unavoidably in some other 
direction, or done anything to hinder my taking 
part in the coming celebration. But those little 
convenient lifts over rough places rarely come to 
one's feet; they did not come to mine. Two days 
before the wedding, grandma and I packed ourselves into the cars and were rushed and whirled 
after the fashion of the nineteenth century over 
the miles that lay between us and our goal. Bet 
ter so, I suppose. A two weeks journey would 
have been harder to bear. What a long three 
days walk that must have been which Abraham 
took with Isaac ! I was sorry, and yet I was 
glad, when we steamed into the station at Philadelphia. 
 
Grandma and I occupied the same room at Caroline's, for though Mrs. Bowdoin was not there, other guests were; distant relations; and the house 
was full. I wondered that my sisters should de 
sire their presence, or anybody's presence, at such a 
time; but they and I were always wont to see things 
with different eyes. Grandma is very pleased. 
Grandma, of course, had been at half breath with 
astonishment all the way since we left home, it 
being her first railway journey; and Philadelphia 
was not calculated to restore her the free play of 
her lungs. 
"Ain't Caroline grown dreadful extravagant?" 
she began, when she had leisure to make remarks 
and we were alone. 
"People here do not live as we do in Chester 
field," I observed. 
"Well, they ain't obliged to; but there's reason 
in everythin . Why, Desire, this is a Brussels car 
pet, strong and good, and not faded nor worn, 
under my foot." 
" Yes," said I. " Well, what of that ? " 
"We're in the third story." 
"Yes, grandma. Caroline had to give her best 
room, she thought, to our cousins." 
"Tain't that, child; but ingrain's good enough 
when you get up to the third floor, or a good nice 
rag carpet either; or a bit of an old one, that's 
wore. Why, what has Caroline got on her parlour 
floor, I want to know?" 
"Something handsomer than Brussels." 
 
"Wnat sthat?" 
"They call it Axminster." 
"And is that the top of the ladder? " 
"0 no. There are Persian carpets, and Turkey 
carpets and Smyrna carpets ; much more costly, 
and more precious." 
"I should like to know, what's the sense of it?" 
said grandma discontentedly. "When you've got 
a good, strong, weH-wove rag carpet under your 
feet, you've got somethin as'll last and stay good, 
and be soft and warm and comfortable ; and what 
is the use o thro win down bank notes besides just 
to trample upon ? " 
" These carpets are handsomer, grandma." 
"I don't want nothin handsomer than a real 
good, well- wove rag carpet ! Sich a one as I had 
when I was first married ; striped with stripes of 
red and brown, and here and there a little speck 
of blue ; and it was warm and bright and had an 
excellent view. I call Caroline real wasteful. Are 
all these pictures hung up just for you and me? 
Don't she want em down stairs?" 
"There are plenty more down stairs; better 
ones." 
"There ain't no fault to these, as I kin see. The 
frames are beautiful, good enough for anywheres." 
"The pictures are not much, grandma." 
"What do you mean by not much ? " 
"I mean, they are not fine; not valuable. Caro 
line does not care for them particularly." 
"Why not? what ails em? I think they're 
 
elegant. There's nobody in Chesterfield has got 
better. I tell you, Caroline's got uplifted." 
" It is Philadelphia ways, grandma." 
" If that's so, then they ain't good ways. What's 
the use o spendin all you kin, to have nothin left 
at the end of it?" 
I think she went over nearly all the furniture 
of the room with the same sort of commentary. 
At last she got into bed, confessed that the bod 
was good, and sank immediately to sleep. Olive 
had begged me to come to her room when I was 
free. So I went. 
Well that grandma's eyes had not been called 
upon to do duty there ! The room was in a litter 
of dresses, shawls, lurs and laces. I stood aghast 
Olive's means were not sufficient to account for 
this display. 
"Yes, come in," she said laughing; "you are 
wondering at me. People have been very kind, 
Desire. Look most of these things are presents. 
Caroline asked what she should give me, and I 
told her I had nothing to wear; so she and Mr. 
Birkenstall have iust been hunting up pretty niceties for me. Look at that lace" putting an exquisite web into my hand, " that cost, I am afraid 
to tell you how much. Isn't it lovely ? And Mrs. 
Bowdoin sent that set of furs." 
I said little, wondering to myself if my sister 
understood her bridegroom, and if she were not 
harbouring expectations of a way of life which it 
would not be his purpose to lead. 
 
" I knew I should not want silver," she went on ; 
" it would be absurd to give me forks or teapots ; I 
did want something to dress myself in fittingly." 
"This looks, the room does, as if you expected 
to go into company a good deal," I remarked. 
" Must, of course. With Mr. Iredell's position. 
I am just expecting his gift, now; his wedding 
gift. I just hope it will be diamonds." 
" Olive ! " I cried. 
"What?" 
"Are you a Christian, and do you want dia 
monds ? " 
"A Christian, and do I want diamonds?" Olive 
repeated. "What has the one thing to do with 
the other?" 
"I do not know," said I. "That is what I asked 
you." 
"And why should not a Christian wear dia 
monds, and want them to wear ? " Olive asked 
coldly. " Don't you think Christians ought to 
dress according to their station ? " 
"Yes," said I; "as heirs of the kingdom of 
heaven." 
" How is that ? Is there any dress peculiar to 
them, as heirs ? " she said scornfully. 
" Yes, Olive ; because the heirs are servants also ; 
and servants must wear the dress that best fits 
their work." 
Olive was silent a little while, laying some articles into a trunk which stood open. I sat by the 
fire and took the view. The room was brightly 
lighted with gas; the warm glow of the fire was 
added to that, and gave its mellowing tint on all 
the riches scattered around. Laces and silks, and 
ribbands; parcels in brown paper; boxes of suggestive shapes and sizes; and in the midst of all, 
my sister's fine figure, busy and ordering, the mistress of the riches, the centre of the light. It 
seemed to me she ought to be very happy, for the 
warm glow of the room was not warmer or brighter 
than the prospect that was opening before her as 
Mr. Iredell's wife. It flashed across me, too, as 
irrelevant thoughts will at all sorts of times, how 
Olive had changed ; how little of the recluse country girl there was in her air or appearance. She 
looked and moved entirely fit to be Mr. Iredell's 
wife, I thought. And yet, she and I had lived in 
the mountains and seen little indeed of what is 
called the world. We had lived alone, in fact, and 
had no intimate associates of any kind. Also our 
school had been an excellent one; all we learned 
there had been in the right direction. But I ad 
mired Olive nevertheless. She was calm and grace 
ful and self-possessed; truly she had been the latter 
always; she was dressed in one of Caroline's pretty 
wrappers; and she looked as if she had never swept 
a room in her life and didn't know how to skim 
cream. I mean, as if she had lived all her life away 
from that circle of associations and in the sphere to 
which she was about to be transferred. I thought, 
she ought to be happy; yet there came an odd 
doubt to me whether she were. That is, happy in 
 
my sense ; happy in her own way she was, or she 
thought she was. 
She looked up presently, and startled my thoughts 
by remarking that I had all sorts of extravagant 
notions; I would get out of them by and by. I 
had quite forgotten what we had been talking 
about, and did not know at first to what she referred; and before I could answer she had gone on. 
"I would have made Mr. Iredell take me to 
Europe; but he did not want to go." 
" I suppose, he has been there so much," I said. 
" But I have not ! " 
" I suppose he wants to go on with his work." 
" Work ! " said Olive, sitting back from the trunk 
and looking at me. " What work? " 
" You know, don't you, how Mr. Iredell spends 
his life?" 
"You do not suppose he is going to spend his 
life in the same manner now, do you ? That was 
all very well, while he had no one at home that he 
cared for or that cared for him. I am not going 
to let him give himself up to such ways in future. 
He is too good a man for that." 
"Too good, Olive?" said I aghast. "For what?" 
" For a city missionary. There are other people 
to do that sort of thing." 
"Are there?" said I; thinking that eighteen hundred years ago we were bid to pray for labourers 
to be sent into the field, and wondering if she were 
going to try to keep one out of it. Would she 
succeed? That I did not believe. 
 
" I am expecting Ms present every minute now," 
she again went on. " lie told me he was not sure 
of pleasing me; but I do not think he can fail." 
I thought not; and just that minute came a
knock at the door, and a letter, and two iargihh 
deal boxes were brought in. Olive sat down to 
read her note and the servant departed. I saw 
Olive's face change. A cloud came over it. 
" One is for you," she said briefly. 
" One what ? For ?ne, did you say ? " 
" One of the boxes. One half my wedding pres 
ent, apparently. What a strange man ! " 
" Does he say so ? " I asked eagerly. 
"Of course. Says, as he is taking me away from 
you, he wants to leave you something pleasant to 
look at instead. Open it, do ! here's a hammer." 
" Open yours first, Olive." 
She was too curious and impatient to wait. In 
her hands the hammer, skilfully wielded, soon 
brought up the thin cover of the packing case. 
Under it appeared a quantity of the material which 
dealers use to wrap up and encase fragile wares. 
Olive smothered a word of irritation and began to 
pull out this packing stuff. I seized the hammer 
now and applied myself to the other case, which I 
saw bore my name, large and full. My heart beat 
hard and my fingers trembled. The covers came 
up. I pulled away carefully and daintily the sawdust which was all that could be seen. By and by 
my fingers felt something else, something hard; I 
cleared away the packing now with double eager- 
 
ness and tenderness; at last could lay hold of the 
precious object lying within and lift it out. There it 
was on the floor before me, a little pure white mar 
ble figure, scarce a foot and a half in length. An 
involuntary exclamation of heart delight escaped 
me. 
" Oh ! " I cried," the St. Cecilia ! " 
"The what?" said Olive. Some great contrast 
between her tone and mine struck me, and I 
looked up, startled. For minutes I had forgotten 
her existence. She was sitting on the floor, as I 
was, a little way from me, looking not at her own 
marble, which she had likewise taken out and 
which stood before her, but over at me; and her 
face and her tone were those of an extremely dissatisfied person; dark and displeased and disap 
pointed. 
"What is yours?" I asked in confusion, too 
much delighted really to see or care, but feeling 
the need of saying something. 
" The what, did you say ? " she repeated. 
" Mine? 0, it's the St. Cecilia." 
" What St. Cecilia ? and how do you know ? " 
" I know the story. Don't you know the story ? 
St. Cecilia was one of the martyrs, and was buried 
in the catacombs. But at the end of the sixteenth 
cenftiry the sarcophagus in which she was buried 
was discovered and opened; and the saying is that 
the figure was found undecayed, lying just in the 
attitude in which she died. And then an artist, 
who .saw it, Stefan o Maderna, made a copy in marble. It is in the church of St. Cecilia at Rome. An 
inscription underneath says that he, Stefano Maderna, saw the saint's un corrupted body lying in 
her tomb, and that the marble image of her is in 
the very same attitude. And this is a copy." 
"What stuff!" said Olive. "You believe it, I 
suppose. How did she die ? " 
" She was to have been beheaded, but the lictoi 
could not do it. He struck three blows, and as it 
was against the law to strike again, left her lying 
in her blood, with the three gashes in her neck. 
She lived three days, and died in this position." 
I knew the story well enough, for Mr. Iredell 
himself had told it to me and described to me the 
statue, which he said was most beautiful. So 
when I saw it I knew it at once, and justified his 
words. Most beautiful it was! with the peacefulest, 
sweetest expression of willing departure, of child 
like abandonment to the will of God, that it is 
possible to imagine; easy and graceful, as such a 
spirit could not but be; quiet, and happy, and 
gone ! It went to my heart ; it found my inner 
most thoughts; it touched my most hidden pain. 
If I had been alone But Olive sat there opposite, 
watching me. 
" Where did you get all that ? " said she. 
"What is yours?" I asked hastily, not think- 
ing it best to answer this question. 
"Don't you see? if you know marbles so well 
This is Niobe." 
" Who was Niobe ? " said I. 
 
"An unlucky woman who had offended Apollo, 
I believe, or something like that; and in revenge 
he shot his arrows into all her children, one after 
the other. Here, yon see, Niobe is endeavouring 
to shield the last one." 
"0, I see. How beautiful !" 
" I should like to know what Mr. Iredell expects 
me to do with this." 
"Why, Olive ! Set it up and make constant en 
joyment of it." 
" And a lesson, I suppose. It is just like him." 
" A lesson of what ? " 
" Don't you see ? Protection-giving, and care-taking. I have no doubt he expects me to make 
this my model, and to be always sheltering some 
thing or other; folding in my kind arms some object, which however need not have any personal 
claim upon me. There the model fails. I find 
Niobe's action quite natural; but not my imitation 
of it." 
"What makes you think of such a thing?" said 
I, bewildered. 
" It is quite Mr. Iredell's way. He does nothing 
without a purpose, don't you know it?" 
"Well, that is right." 
"No, it isn t," said Olive. "People are meant to 
play in this world, as well as to work." 
"What do you suppose then he means me to 
learn from this St. Cecilia ? " 
" Martyrdom for ought I know," returned Olive. 
She was in such a mood that I was afraid to speak 
 
to her; and that last word of hers would have 
stopped me at any rate. She did not know how 
close it came; and Mr. Iredell certainly did not 
guess how very appropriate his meaning would 
have been if it had been that. I looked at the 
lovely little white figure lying before me, with its 
ineffable expression of contented acquiescence, even 
in the strokes of the axe and the death which had 
lingeringly followed them; and I saw my lesson, 
plain enough. I had much ado not to burst out 
into a storm of weeping even there. Tears did 
rush to my eyes, and dropped one by one upon the 
carpet, as I knelt over the fair little bit of marble. 
" What is the matter?" said Olive. It struck me 
that she was in the condition of an overcharged 
piece of ordnance which it is dangerous to go near 
with a spark. She sat on the carpet looking at me; 
watchful, cold, ready to be suspicious, only there 
was nothing to be suspicious about ; scornful, only 
it was difficult to shew scorn toward her bridegroom. 
"There is enough the matter," I answered. " This 
statue is very touching to me." 
" Statuette " said Olive. 
"Yes, of course; statuette." 
" Well, you may as well set it off the floor for to 
night. It is twelve o'clock." 
I took the St. Cecilia up in my arms and rose 
to go. 
" Are you going to carry it off? " 
" Certainly. Your room is full enough without 
it." 
 
" I don't mind," said Olive. " Well, I will come 
in and look at it to-morrow." 
I carried my precious gift to my room, where 
grandma had long been fast asleep; set it in the 
light of the gas burner, and sat down before it. 
How beautiful! How kind!. How very precious 
for me ! What an unending delight, in my plain 
little home at Chesterfield ; where nothing but the 
strictly matter-of-fact, necessary, practical appliances of life were to be seen, and even in them 
beauty could not be regarded.^ What a treasure 
of beauty here, material and spiritual. And how 
sweet and unsurpassable its lesson and preaching 
of truth to me. I looked at it at first I believe 
with a smile, which quenched in tears; and I had 
my weeping then, before I went to sleep that 
night. 
The next day we were all of course exceedingly 
busy; for there were the last things to do that 
never can be done till the last. I did not see Mr. 
Iredell at all. I believe Olive did, in the evening. 
I was in my room, still putting the finishing touches 
to something for her, when she came in. It was 
then already late. Olive came in and sat down; 
made remarks about various matters; all the time, 
I saw, eyeing my St. Cecilia, which lay on the table just in front of me. I wished that I had put it 
out of sight; an odd thought, but it came to me. 
I expected she would speak of it, and she did. 
"That's a very singular attitude!" she began 
after a pause in our talk. 
 
" Do you think so ? " 
" Graceful, though." 
" very graceful ! " 
"So is the other graceful, the Niobe." 
" Certainly. Nobody ever doubted that, I should 
think. Very different, but exceedingly graceful." 
"One sets the other off. It is a pity they should 
not be together." 
" I don't know " said I with a glance at my St. 
Cecilia, and thinking she was best alone. 
" Did you think you would carry it to Chester 
field ? " Olive went on. 
" Of course. What else should I do with it ? " 
" It might get injured. It might get broken. I 
should think it would be much better to let mo 
take care of it for you." 
" Till when ? " said I, in dismay and surprise. 
" 0, till you come to stay with me. You are 
coming, you know." 
" You know I am not coming, Olive. You know 
grandma must have some one to take care of her; 
and that is my business." 
" but not forever," said Olive. 
"I don't know for how long," said I; "and I am 
not going to measure." 
"But still, Desire, you will not be always up 
there in the mountains ; we, Mr. Iredell and I, shall 
see that you are not; there will be ways of arranging things. I expect you will be a great deal with 
me." 
"I do not know when, Olive," said I, working 
 
away. "I do not see the ways you speak of. I 
am sure grandmother has no one but me." 
"Never mind; you will see when the time comes. 
We shall manage it. And till then, Desire, I think 
you had better let me take care of this statuette. 
It is really beautiful, and it would be a thousand 
pities it should get injured." 
" I will not let it get injured." 
" But they throw things about so in the baggage 
cars." 
"I will pack it safely, so that it cannot be 
hurt." 
"It might nevertheless. And then you would 
be very sorry. Besides, Desire, it ought to go along 
with the Niobe. Don't you see, they are a pair; 
they are not meant to be separated. One is the pendant for the other. I should really want this in 
my room to keep the balance of ornament, don't 
you see ? It would be very awkward to manage 
with the one alone." 
I was so startled and troubled and amazed by 
this proposition, that I did not know how to speak. 
At last I suggested that Mr. Iredell had given it to 
me and would think his gift slighted. 
" no," said Olive eagerly. " He would not. 
He gave them to us, expecting that we would 
keep them together. They are a pair, and he just 
assigned one to you and one to me ; but he thought 
we would keep them together. It is just the same, 
you know; only they stand in the same room and 
beautify each other." 
 
"It would not do me much good, when I am 
hundreds of miles away, " said I, ready to cry. 
"Just the same good," said Olive. "You can 
think of it, and know it is yours, and enjoy it; 
and I will keep it safe for you; and in the mean 
time my room will not be one-sided. Mr. Iredell 
never thought we would separate them. I'll take 
good care of it for you." 
And with that, rising, Olive did actually take in 
her arms my St. Cecilia and walked off with it out 
of the room. And* I, I dropped my work, and 
looked at the empty place on the table where the 
marble had been. 
