court, three weeks hence. This was about the time we expected to be
absent up the river, and I saw that the Colonel's friend had managed
the case well without saying a word out loud. Cornwood found bail for
the culprit, and he was released.
"I suppose he can return to his duties on board of the steamer," said
the waiter's counsel.
"No, sir; I would not tolerate such a man on board any more than I
would a rattlesnake," I replied.
I paid him his wages, and something more, on the spot; and when he left
the court, his look and his manner indicated that he was more intent
upon revenge than anything else. It was quarter of ten when the case
was thus settled for the present, and we hastened to the wharf, and on
board. I had engaged a large barge at the boat-wharf to put the
passengers on board, and they were all taken off at one load.
We had the anchor up by the time they were alongside, and it was only a
few minutes after ten when I rang the bell to go ahead.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE EXCURSION TO MANDARIN.
The band struck up a lively air as the boat started; and nothing could
be more exhilarating than the strains of the music, in the soft
sunshine and mild, sweet air of that semi-tropical region. It was
March; but the air was like summer. As soon as we had passed the first
bend, the St. Johns appeared more like a far-reaching lake than a
stream. The river is from one to six miles wide below Pilatka. The
shores are never elevated, for there is not a bluff upon it that is
more than thirty feet high, while generally the land is only a few feet
above the level of the water. The highest elevation near the river
hardly exceeds sixty feet.
The country is almost wholly covered with woods, as seen from the
river. With the exception of a few villages, hardly a house can be seen
from the passing steamer. One seems to be nearly alone with nature
while voyaging on this broad tide. The trees are pines and magnolias,
and now and then one sees a patch covered with jasmine, the vine of
which climbs the trees and shrubs, and blossoms there. There are plenty
of flowers, even in the early spring. Compared with Maine or Michigan,
where I had spent most of my life, it was fairy-land in March.
"What are you doing here, Cornwood?" asked Colonel Ives, as he entered
the pilot-house, soon after we were under way.
The party was somewhat larger than it had been the day before, and both
the Mayor and Colonel Ives, with their families, were on board.
"I am the pilot of this steamer for the present," replied Cornwood; and
I thought he felt a little "cut" by the question.
"Isn't this a little derogatory to the profession?" laughed the
Colonel.
"I don't practise at the bar much, as you are aware: my health does not
admit of the confinement," the pilot explained.
"That is often the case with practitioners who don't have much to do in
their profession."
"I have always had all I could do at the bar; but the open air and an
active life agree best with me."
"It does with everybody who is short of cases."
"But he is a good pilot down the river, and I have no doubt he is just
as good up the river, Colonel Ives," I interposed. "His knowledge of
his native State surprises us all."
"I was only bantering him, captain," replied the passenger. "I think he
is a very good lawyer too, though he did not have a good case this
morning."
"When it comes to trial, I will show you that it is a better case than
you think it is," replied Cornwood, with more spirit than he had before
exhibited. "'Prisoners hang that hungry jurymen may dine,' and you and
the Mayor were in a hurry to finish the case, so that you could join
this excursion."
"I was not in the case," added the Colonel.
"But you prompted the magistrate to end it as soon as possible."
"What was the use of talking all day over a matter that was as plain as
day? The rascal would have killed the engineer, if the deck-hands
hadn't interfered," replied Colonel Ives. "The case might have been
finished in ten minutes, as well as in three-quarters of an hour."
I was willing the lawyers should fight it out between themselves, and I
left the pilot-house, which Owen and his ladies had not yet invaded. I
saw Washburn on the top-gallant forecastle, looking at the scenery of
the river, and I joined him in this retired place. I had not yet had an
opportunity to ask him if he had found Cobbington, and I went to the
forecastle for this purpose.
"I found him," replied the mate, in a disgusted tone. "But I might as
well not have found him."
"Why so?" I inquired, rather amused by the manner of my friend.
"Since I came on board, I have found out something more than I knew
before. Last evening, while you were ashore, Cornwood called a boat
that was passing, and sent a letter ashore by the boatman," continued
Washburn, as much dissatisfied as though he had been personally
injured. "Of course that note went to Captain Boomsby."
"How do you know Cornwood sent a letter on shore last night?"
"Buck," called the mate to the deck-hand who was on duty forward.
"On deck, sir," replied Buck, touching his cap to the mate.
"You told me this morning, when you set me ashore, that the pilot sent
a letter to the city last night by a boat he hailed."
"Yes, sir; three or four of us were on deck at the time, if there is
any doubt about it," replied the deck-hand.
"No doubt at all about it. Did you notice the boatman that took the
letter?"
"It was a blacky I have seen a dozen times about the steamer and on the
wharf, looking for jobs for that boat-yard," replied Buck. "He was in
the barge that brought off the passengers to-day."
"All right, Buck;" and the deck-hand retired. "After I heard about this
letter, I didn't expect anything of Cobbington, if I found him."
"Did you find him?"
"I did; he was not out of his bed when I called for him. He told me he
had two water moccasins, and one of them had got away while he had a
room at Captain Boomsby's. He did not know what became of him. He had
looked all about the house without being able to find him."
"Did he tell you what became of the other?"
"I asked him that question, and he told me he had him still. I asked
him to let me see him, but he refused in spite of all I could say to
induce him to show him. He said the snake was nailed up in a box, with
only some holes bored in it to admit the air; and he could not show the
snake without taking off the cover of the box. The moccasin was a
dangerous fellow, and he didn't want to run any risks with him. He had
left his last boarding-place because they killed a rattlesnake
belonging to him. I asked him to show me the box, but he wouldn't even
do that, and said it was all nonsense to show the box."
"You made up your mind that he had no moccasin?" I added.
"No more than I had. On my way down from the house I met his landlord,
coming home from the market. He asked me if I had found Cobbington. I
told him I had, and then informed him his lodger kept a live moccasin
snake in his room. He was greatly astonished at what I told him, and
declared that he wouldn't have a moccasin in his house for all the
money there was in Jacksonville; the snake might get loose, and bite
his wife or one of his children. He intimated that he should hasten
home and turn Cobbington out of his house: he would not have any man
under his roof who would endanger the lives of his wife and children."
"That was bad for Cobbington," I replied, with a smile.
"I told the landlord what his lodger said, that he had the moccasin
nailed up in a box. He didn't care how he kept him: he would not have
such a fellow about his house. I added that I did not believe
Cobbington had any such snake in his room, though he insisted that he
had. Then he either had a moccasin, or he lied about it, and in either
case he didn't want the fellow in his house. I came to the conclusion
that the landlord wanted to turn out his lodger, and only wished for a
reasonable excuse for getting rid of him. I left him; and I suppose
Cobbington has been turned out by this time. I shouldn't want a
poisonous snake in my house."
"Nor a man who would lie without a reasonable excuse," I added.
The steamer went along at her usual speed. I returned to the
pilot-house, where by this time Owen had installed all the young ladies
he could get into it. They were all full of fun and jollity, and were
enjoying the excursion to the utmost. As it seemed to me that they
ought to do so, I found no occasion to complain. I could not help
suspecting that the pilot might be guilty of some treachery, after the
events of the morning, and I deemed it advisable to have a close watch
upon him. But he kept the steamer in the middle of the river, where I
had been informed there were no shoals; and certainly no rocks, for not
one could be found in this part of the state, even big enough to stone
a stray dog.
"Mulberry Grove on the right," said Cornwood, who did not neglect his
duties as guide, while he attended to those of pilot.
We could see little besides a long pier, though there was a glimpse to
be obtained of a house through the vista of trees.
Twenty minutes later we ran up to the pier at Mandarin, where the pilot
made as handsome a landing as I ever saw in my life. It was half-past
eleven when we had secured the steamer to the wharf. The band played
some popular airs, and in a few minutes I judged that we had the entire
population of the village on the wharf. It was a lively time for
Mandarin, which is a remarkably quiet place. I believe I saw something
like a store there, though I am not quite sure. About all the houses
are on the bank of the river, and were reached by a long, narrow
foot-bridge, built over the lagoon. From the main bridge, cross bridges
extended to each house.
At twelve the lunch was ready, and the excursionists went down into the
cabin to attend to it, while the band on the hurricane-deck continued
to play. An oyster chowder and baked shad were the principal
substantials of the lunch; and while they were served, Gopher was the
greatest man on board. As soon as the lunch was disposed of, and the
cook had been sufficiently complimented, the party went on shore.
Cornwood led the way over the long foot-bridge.
"There is an alligator in the wild state," I said to Miss Margie, as I
was walking with her and her father.
"I don't see anything," she replied.
"Don't you see that splashing in the water, with something black in the
midst of it? That is an alligator, the first one I ever saw," I added.
It looked like a stick of wood. A little farther along we saw one on a
log. He was not more than three feet long. He attracted the attention
of the party, who had never seen one in his native element before; but
we expected to see larger ones in the course of a week or two. Mrs.
Stowe's cottage was one of the first we came to. It was a one-story,
wooden house, with no pretensions to elegance. An immense live-oak grew
near it, and covered the cottage with its branches. Around it was an
orange grove, on the trees of which many oranges still remained. The
distinguished lady was not at home, and we did not see her.
We walked to the end of the bridge, looking at the pretty dwellings on
the shore, and then went upon the land, where we had quite a ramble.
But an hour enabled us to see all there was of the place, and we
embarked for the return. Before five o'clock we were in sight of
Jacksonville. The pilot ran the boat as near the shore as it was safe
to go, and the barge I had engaged to be present transported the party
to the shore. Mrs. Mitchell's house looked very pleasant from the
outside; but we were principally interested in the garden and orange
grove. It was said that over five thousand oranges had been gathered
from one of the trees we saw. We examined a great variety of
semi-tropical trees and shrubs, such as lemon, banana, grape-fruit, and
others I cannot remember.
The party dined on the river, and landed at the market at six.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE ADVENTURES OF AN INVALID.
Mr. Cornwood had been very polite and pliable all day, and his skill as
a pilot won my commendation. When he expressed a desire to remain on
shore, at the wharf, I did not object. As soon as the anchor was let
go, all hands were piped to supper; but I was in no condition to take
another meal that day, after the dinner with the excursionists, from
which I had risen an hour before. I was glad to be alone in my
state-room, after the excitement of the day. In spite of what had
transpired in the morning, and in spite of the evidence obtained by
Washburn in regard to the snake, I could not help wondering if, after
all, the pilot was not innocent of any evil intentions.
It seemed to me that a man of his education, having a profession, could
not take part in any small conspiracy, such as Captain Boomsby would be
likely to get up. If either Cornwood or Griffin Leeds, his agent,
intended to do me any harm, it seemed to me they had had abundant
opportunity to do it already. The pilot might have wrecked the vessel,
and the waiter might have poisoned the food I ate. I resolved to be
very careful how I charged Cornwood with any evil, unless it was
capable of being proved.
"I should like to go on shore, Alick, if you have nothing better for me
to do," said Washburn, coming into my room when he had finished his
supper.
"I have nothing for you to do," I replied. "What's up now?"
"I have some curiosity to know what has become of Cobbington; and I
think I shall call upon his landlord," replied the mate, laughing.
"I will go with you, if you have no objection," I added.
"I should be glad of your company," said he, leading the way to the
gangway. "Hold on a minute, captain," he added, when I began to order
my boat. "There is the boatman that carried off Cornwood's letter. He
is looking for a job: suppose we give him one?"
I did not object, and the mate hailed the boatman. We seated ourselves
in his boat, and he pulled for the shore. Our uniforms gave us great
distinction among the colored people. Very likely some of them thought
we were United States naval officers: at any rate, they all treated us
with "distinguished consideration."
"What's your name, boatman?" asked Washburn.
"Moses Dripple," replied the man.
"Well, Moses Dripple, were you alongside our steamer last evening?"
continued the mate.
"Yes, sar; made a quarter taking a letter ashore," answered Moses,
showing teeth enough for a full-grown alligator.
"Put it in the post-office, did you?" inquired Washburn, indifferently,
as he looked behind him at the steamer.
"No, sar; didn't put it into the post-office; car'ed it to a
saloon-keeper, and he gave me a drink of apple-jack, as soon as he had
read it, for bringin' de letter."
"Is it possible that you drink apple-jack?" asked the mate, with some
observations on the folly of drinking liquor.
"Drink it when I git it, sar."
"Where did you get your apple-jack?"
"At de saloon; where else would I get it, sar?"
"I suppose it made you so boozy you don't know where the saloon was,"
added the mate, keeping up his indifference, as though his talk was
mere banter.
"It was de new saloon, sar; not boozy at all, sar; Captain Boomsby
keeps dat saloon. Mighty mean man, Captain Boomsby. As soon as he done
read de letter, he put on his coat, and left de saloon."
That was all that Washburn cared to know--that the letter from Cornwood
had gone to Captain Boomsby; and he bestowed a look of triumph upon me.
I paid the boatman a quarter, and we walked up to Bay Street. We had
hardly turned the corner before we came plump upon a man who seemed to
be very anxious to meet my friend and companion. I had never seen him
before.
"Mr. Cobbington, this is Captain Garningham, of the steamer Sylvania,"
said Washburn, chuckling.
"How do you do, Mr. Cobbington," I replied.
"How are you, captain: I'm glad to see both of you," replied
Cobbington. "One of you has got me into a bad scrape, for this morning,
Gavett, the man I boarded with, turned me out of his house because I
had a moccasin snake in a box in my room."
"Rough on you, was he?" added the mate.
"Mighty rough! I have been looking for another room all day, and I
can't get one. I've got to sleep out-doors to-night," replied
Cobbington, with a very long face.
"You shouldn't keep poisonous snakes in your room," I added.
"He never would have known it if this man hadn't told him," said the
snake-man, turning to the mate. "I don't know your name, but you got me
into a very bad scrape for an invalid; and that's the reason why I am
down in Florida, instead of at home where I could earn a decent
living," whined Cobbington. "I shall die in a week, if I have to sleep
out in the night-air: and I don't know of even a shed to get under."
"It was no more than right to tell a man you had a poisonous reptile in
his house," added Washburn. "The snake might have got out, and bitten
his wife and children."
"Early this morning I paid Gavett the last dollar I had for the rent of
the room; and I haven't had a mouthful to eat since I had my breakfast.
How long can an invalid live, sleeping out-doors, with nothing to eat?"
added Cobbington.
I saw the tears roll down the thin cheeks of the man, and my sympathies
were excited. I saw it was the same with Washburn.
"I have been in to see Captain Boomsby; I had a room in his house for a
while, and always paid for it. He wouldn't let me sleep on the floor in
one of his empty chambers, nor give me anything to eat," continued the
poor wretch.
"You shall have something to eat, and a place to sleep," I said.
We went over the way to Lyman's restaurant with him, and I ordered a
sirloin steak and fried potatoes for him, with other food. When it
came, he devoured it like a starving man. Whatever other lies he had
told, it was the truth that he was very hungry.
"That is the best meal I have eaten since I came into Florida," said he
with emphasis, when he had drained his coffee-cup. "Gentlemen, I am
more than grateful to you. I have struggled hard to keep my soul and
body together, and I've done it so far, though there isn't much left of
my body. I could live here, if I could earn enough to live on. You have
been kind to me; and now I'm going to tell you something: I have no
moccasin-snake, and I never had one, say nothing of two. I know I'm a
liar; but I told that lie for a dollar Boomsby gave me for telling it,
so that I need not be turned out of my room. If I had that Judas
dollar, I would send it back to Boomsby, and die with a clean
conscience."
"It never pays to do wrong," I added, deeply moved by the invalid's
story.
"I told Gavett I had no snake; but he turned me out, all the same. I
showed him everything I had; and he could find no box for the snake:
only a lot of baby alligators, that won't hurt anybody. I make a
quarter now and then by selling them to the children at the hotels. I
had to sell my gun I used to shoot alligators with for their teeth; my
best clothes are pawned; and my trunk is about as empty as my stomach
was half an hour ago. I have got about to the end of my rope; and I
don't know what will become of me."
"We will see what we can do for you, Mr. Cobbington," I added. "What
was your business at home?"
"I have done almost everything. I was brought up on a farm, and had a
pretty good education. My father and mother both died, and my brother
followed them, all in consumption. I went to teaching school, for we
lost the farm, and I had to take care of myself before I was twenty. My
health gave out, and I tried to work on a farm, but I wasn't strong
enough. Then I went to tending table at a summer hotel, and saved about
a hundred dollars. A man told me I should get well if I came to
Florida. I thought I could make my living here, and I came. I brought a
gun with me, and went into the woods. I shot deer, wild turkeys, and
alligators. I sold the game and the teeth, and got along pretty well in
the winter. Last summer I spent all the money I had left in coming down
here. My health was pretty good then. I sold my gun for sixty dollars,
half what it was worth, and did jobbing enough to keep me alive. I
worked as a waiter on a steamer, in place of a sick man, for a month,
and left the boat at Silver Spring, where the man took his place. I
hired a gun, and tried to get a living by shooting again; but I
couldn't find a market for the game. I had to give it up.
"I had a lot of alligators' teeth, a rattlesnake, which a gentleman on
a steamer offered to give me ten dollars for in Jacksonville, and I
worked my way down here. I sold the teeth; but the man that wanted the
rattlesnake was at St. Augustine, and I had to wait till he came back,
on his way north. Boomsby's wife turned me out when she found she
didn't like me, and they killed the snake at the St. Johns. I couldn't
stay there any longer now I had lost the ten dollars for the snake. My
money was all gone; but I picked up a little selling babies."
"Selling babies!" exclaimed Washburn.
"Baby alligators, I mean," added Cobbington, with a languid smile. "My
health was good while I was in the woods; I don't have any cough now,
but I've been running down lately."
Poor fellow! My heart was touched for him. It was hard to grub for a
bare subsistence, with the immediate prospect of dying in the street.
Washburn looked expressively at me, and I nodded to him. We rose from
the table, and told Cobbington to come with us. We took him to a
clothing-house, fitted him out with a new suit, yacht-club style, with
a white canvas cap like my own, except the gold band. We supplied him
with under-clothing, and with everything he needed, even to
handkerchiefs, socks, and shoes. Having obtained these, one-half of the
cost of which Washburn insisted upon paying, we next visited a
bath-house, where the invalid "washed and was clean." He then clothed
himself in the new clothes, and came out of the bath-room looking like
another person.
We went to the wharf, where we obtained a boat, and in a few minutes we
were on board. I formally engaged the man to take the place of Griffin
Leeds, as the waiter at the mess in the forward cabin. He had served in
this capacity in an hotel, and on steamers on the St. Johns and
Ocklawaha rivers. I gave him a berth in the forward cabin. I think he
was happy when he turned into it.
On Sunday I went to church in St. James Square, and called upon Owen as
I came out. Colonel Shepard informed me that he had chartered a steamer
that plied on the Ocklawaha at times, to take us anywhere that a
steamer could go. She was small, but large enough for our party.
I dined with the family and their guests, and went on board in the
afternoon. The steward was entirely satisfied with the manner in which
Cobbington had discharged his duties, and the invalid was the happiest
man I had seen in the Land of Flowers.
CHAPTER XX.
DIFFICULTIES IN THE WAY OF DEPARTURE.
Except in Jacksonville, there was no market on the St. Johns River; and
Mr. Peeks had been not a little disturbed in relation to the culinary
department of the Sylvania. He could not go on shore at the villages on
the river, and buy what he wanted; but with several steamers every day
going up to Pilatka, and several every week going up the Ocklawaha, I
assured him he would have no difficulty about feeding his passengers.
He made an arrangement with the keeper of the stall where he had
obtained his best meats to forward to him, on his order, such supplies
as would be needed, including ice, which was a prime necessity, not so
much to preserve the meats as to cool the water, and put various
articles in condition for the table.
In spite of the general belief in the dampness of a Florida atmosphere,
I learned that meats would keep longer than in Michigan. There are no
cellars in Florida, and the dwelling-houses are usually set on posts
planted in the ground. Meats are hung up in a shady place, where they
will keep for a week or more; and even then they are dried up, instead
of being tainted or putrefied. The steward had filled the ice-house
with the best beef, mutton, and poultry he could find, most of which
came from New York, though some of the Southern markets are supplied
with beef from Tennessee and Kentucky. Most of the cattle of Florida
range through the woods and pick up their living, so that they are not
properly fatted for the market, and look like "Pharaoh's lean kine."
No particular hour had been fixed upon for starting on the up-river
trip, but the passengers came on board at ten in the forenoon. At this
time steam was up in the boilers, and everything ready for an immediate
departure. But Mr. Cornwood had not put in an appearance. I had not
seen him since he went on shore at the wharf, on Saturday evening. I
was not much annoyed, for I knew where I could get a pilot at fifteen
minutes' notice.
Chloe, Griffin Leeds's wife, had come off with the ladies. She remained
perfectly neutral, though she knew all about the troubles with her
husband. I looked at her with some interest when she came on deck; but
she seemed to be as cheerful and pleasant as ever. If she had said
anything to the ladies about Griffin, nothing had come to me. As her
husband was not to be on board, I told the steward to give her one of
the after-berths in the cabin. She was so polite, attentive, and kind,
so wholly devoted to her duties, that the ladies had become very much
attached to her, treating her more like a friend than a servant.
Chloe was not more than twenty-two years old. She had been a stewardess
on a Charleston steamer, running up to Pilatka, at the time of her
marriage to Griffin Leeds, who was second waiter in the same boat. She
was entirely familiar with her duties, and when they were reduced to
attendance upon three ladies, she discharged them with the most
punctilious care.
"What are we waiting for, Alick?" asked Washburn, as I seated myself in
the pilot-house when all the preparations for our departure were
completed, and I could think of nothing more to be done, though I had
left the port boat in the water in case it became necessary to go on
shore for a pilot.
"Cornwood has not come off yet," I replied.
"Where is he?"
"I have no idea."
"Does he intend to play us a trick, and leave us in the lurch, now that
we are all ready for a start?" asked the mate, with some anxiety on his
face.
"I don't know, and I don't much care," I replied. "I don't know that I
ought to blame him much, since no fixed hour was named for starting."
"He ought to be on board like the rest of us, so that whenever his
services are required he may be ready to do his work," added Washburn,
impatiently. "You say you don't much care whether or not he intends to
play us a trick and leave us in the lurch. How are you to get on
without a pilot?"
"I can have one on board in half an hour at the most. There are plenty
of them, and I find they are glad to serve in such a nobby craft as the
Sylvania, where they have easy work and the best of grub," I replied.
"There comes a boat. I see the Panama hat and light clothes in it,"
added Washburn, evidently relieved, for he was impatient for the voyage
to begin.
In a minute more the pilot was on the deck of the steamer.
"I hope I have not delayed you," said he, when he saw that we were all
ready to leave.
"Not long," I replied, wishing to make things as pleasant as possible
with him for the trip of three weeks.
"I did not know at what hour you intended to leave, or I should have
been on board before," pleaded Cornwood. "I have been very busy with
some legal business this morning."
"If you are all ready, we will be off at once," I continued.
I hastened to the pilot-house, expecting him to follow me; but instead
of doing so, he passed through the engine-room, and disappeared on the
other side of the vessel. I concluded he had gone below for another
coat he wore when at the wheel. I went into the pilot-house, thinking
he would appear in a moment. The anchor was hove up to a short stay;
but the wind was blowing quite fresh from the south-west, and I did not
care to get under way in his absence from the wheel. I waited ten
minutes; and then my patience began to give out. I left the
pilot-house, with the intention of sending below for the pilot, when I
was informed that a boat had just come alongside.
It contained Captain Boomsby and Griffin Leeds.
Though I had tried to make myself proof against harboring any
suspicions, I thought the long delay of Cornwood was explained. He had
been very busy with legal business that morning. Did it relate to the
affairs of Griffin Leeds and my ancient enemy?
"Allow no one to come on board," I said to the mate, who had told me of
the coming of the boat, and who were in it.
I went aft. The gangway steps had been taken in-board, and stowed away
after Cornwood came. Captain Boomsby was rather more than half full of
whiskey. I found there was a third person in the boat, who proved to be
an officer. He had come to attach the steamer on the suit of Captain
Boomsby, to obtain possession of her on his old claim, and to trustee
Owen Garningham for any money that might be due to me. I allowed the
officer to come on deck. He was a very gentlemanly man, and had applied
to Colonel Ives when the writ was given to him. The colonel had filled
out a bond as surety for the defendant, to be signed by Colonel
Shepard; and that gentleman at once put his autograph on the document.
The officer was entirely satisfied, and was about to take his departure
when Cornwood appeared; but he offered no objection, and the writ had
not come from his office. Captain Boomsby was in a violent passion when
he learned that the steamer was to be allowed to proceed on her voyage
up the river. He swore at the officer, and declared that he had not
done his duty. The steamer belonged to him, and he insisted on coming
on board.
"I came off for my wife," said Griffin Leeds. "I want her to go on
shore with me."
This demand seemed to me a more serious complication than that of
Captain Boomsby's ridiculous suit. I did not know much about law, but I
had an idea that a man had a right to his own wife. Colonel Shepard was
a lawyer, though he did not practise his profession, and I was entirely
willing to leave this matter to him, for he was more interested in it
than any other person, as his wife was an invalid, and needed Chloe's
attentions more than the other ladies.
"Don't let her go," said the Colonel; and so said all the ladies.
"You can't separate man and wife," said Cornwood.
"We don't propose to separate man and wife," replied Colonel Shepard,
before I had time to say anything. "If his wife wants to go, she is at
perfect liberty to do so. Ask Chloe to come on deck," he added, turning
to the steward.
The stewardess appeared a minute later.
"Here, Chloe, I want you to come on shore with me," shouted Griffin
Leeds, when he saw his wife. "I have got a room all furnished for you,
and I've got a situation as second waiter at a hotel."
"No, I thank you!" replied Chloe, pertly. "I'm going to stay where I
am."
I was not a little surprised to hear her make this answer, for I
supposed she would follow the fortunes of her husband, whatever they
were. I knew nothing in regard to their marital relations, whether they
were pleasant or otherwise, though I had never seen anything to lead me
to suppose they were unpleasant.
"I want you to come with me; you are my wife and you must come!" said
Griffin, angrily. "I forbid your going in this steamer."
"You can forbid all day if you like; I'm going in the steamer!"
answered Chloe, very decidedly. "I don't go with you any more, if I can
help it."
"You are my wife, and you can't help it," retorted the husband.
"I haven't got anything more to say about it. I won't go with you; and
that's the whole of it," said the stewardess, retreating to the cabin.
Griffin Leeds swore like a pirate, and declared he would be the death
of his wife if she didn't come with him. He called upon the officer to
arrest Chloe, and compel her to go on shore with him.
"Give me a proper warrant, and I will arrest her," replied the officer,
laughing.
"I am her husband; and I tell you to take her out of that steamer,"
cried Griffin, foaming with wrath.
"I don't know that you are her husband; and if I did, I would not
meddle with her," replied the officer, who seemed to enjoy the
situation. "Our business is finished on board of this craft:" and he
returned to the boat.
"This seems to be rather a hard case," interposed Cornwood. "I don't
think we have any right to separate man and wife."
"The woman is a free citizen of Florida," added the officer; "and she
can go where she pleases without any restraint."
"So far as the legal question is concerned, I suppose the woman cannot
be put under any restraint," said Cornwood; "but the idea of carrying
off the woman against the protest of her husband, is not, morally, the
right thing to do. I think you had better discharge the woman, and then
you will be free from the possibility of blame."
"I don't propose to meddle with the matter in any way," I replied
promptly. "I don't know but you have a wife. If she should come here
and protest against my carrying you off up the river, I don't think I
should pay any attention to her."
"That's another question," replied Cornwood, smartly.
"I don't think it is: what is sauce for goose is sauce for gander. You
will take the wheel, Mr. Cornwood. Forward, there! Heave up the
anchor."
As soon as the anchor was atrip, I rang the bell to go ahead.
CHAPTER XXI.
A VISIT TO ORANGE PARK.
Cornwood was slow to move, after I directed him to take the wheel. I
saw that he was not yet in the pilot-house, when I rang the bell to go
ahead. I directed the mate with Ben and Landy to prevent any of the
party in the boat from coming on board, and hastened to the
pilot-house. But before I reached the door Cornwood was at the wheel.
He threw it over, and met the boat with the helm when she began to make
headway. I was not quite sure that he did not intend to rebel; but I
was ready to send him ashore the instant he did so in word or deed. My
suspicions began to gather weight again. He had evidently delayed the
steamer until the arrival of the boat containing Captain Boomsby and
the husband of the stewardess.
I could easily fancy that the pilot was at the bottom of all the
proceedings to delay or prevent the departure of the boat. The
attachment was to prevent her going at all; the claim for the
stewardess was to help along the matter. It seemed to me that some
heavy reward had been promised to Cornwood for his services, or he
would not endanger the liberal wages he was paid for his services on
board of the Sylvania. But I knew nothing about the matter, and it was
useless to conjecture what he was driving at.
The steamer was headed up the river, and we had actually begun our
long-talked-of trip. Cornwood steered the boat as well as usual, but he
was moody and silent. If he was ugly and bent on mischief, the worst he
could do, as I understood the matter, was to run the steamer aground.
This would not be a very serious calamity, and could involve no worse
consequences than a loss of time. I was not alarmed at anything he
might do while we were sailing up the river. I seated myself at the
side of the wheel, and allowed things to take their course, as, in New
Jersey, when it rains, they let it rain. But if Cornwood was angry, he
cooled off in the course of half an hour, and remarked that it was a
delightful day for the start. I was not obstinate on this point, and I
agreed with him.
"I don't think you treated me quite fairly, Captain Garningham, in the
affairs of poor Griff and his wife," said he, when the steamer was off
Mulberry Grove.
"Didn't treat you fairly!" I exclaimed, astonished at this new phase of
the argument. "Do I treat you unfairly because I won't have a man with
murder in his heart on board? Do I treat you unfairly because his wife
refuses to leave her place?"
"I have told you the reason why I am interested in the man; I am under
obligations to him," added Cornwood.
"I have no objection to your being interested in him to the last day of
his life; but I am not sufficiently interested in him to have a man who
draws a knife on another in this vessel," I answered. "I am not under
obligations to him."
"I have done the best I can to serve you, and I thought a friend of
mine might be entitled to some consideration," continued Cornwood, with
an injured innocence of tone and manner.
"Your influence procured for him and his wife places on board; and
Griffin might have retained his position, if he had behaved half as
well as his wife has."
"Poor Griff lay down on the deck to take a nap----"
"I don't care to hear that argument over again. I could have passed
over the scuffle, if he had not drawn his knife when there was nothing
to provoke him," I interposed.
"The assistant engineer did not tell the truth when he said he did not
lay the weight of his hand on him," protested Cornwood.
"I believe he did. I don't believe Griffin was asleep. He lay down with
his ear to the skylight of the captain's room in order to hear what
passed between me and the mate. This is the second time Griffin was
caught in the act of listening. More than this, the assistant engineer
was on the watch, by my order, for eavesdroppers, as will appear at the
trial," I replied, with energy.
"By your orders?" exclaimed Cornwood.
"By my orders. Both the engineer and the assistant were asked to do
this duty, because Griffin was seen before, skulking where he had no
business to be."
"The mate assaulted poor Griff the other day," added the pilot.
"He caught him listening under the windows of our room, and took him by
the collar for it, if that is what you mean by assaulting him."
"He had no right to take him by the collar."
"I will grant that he had not; but when one is in the midst of
eavesdroppers, his indignation may get the better of his judgment," I
replied.
"That was just the case with poor Griff; but he is a poor man, and not
the son of an ex-governor; and he is persecuted to the full penalty of
the law for it," growled Cornwood.
"I think there is some difference in the cases. Griffin was skulking
about, trying to listen to conversation which did not concern him. If
he wants to take a nap, he lies down with his ear to an open skylight.
Mr. Washburn is charged with the discipline of the vessel; and when
your friend attempted to escape from the place where he was caught, the
mate took him by the collar. Griffin, or you, as his counsel, might
have prosecuted him for the assault, if you had thought proper to do
so," I answered.
"I am sorry I did not do so, after what has happened since."
"I am sorry you did not, for it would have brought to light some things
which have not yet been ventilated."
"What do you mean by that, captain?" demanded the pilot, looking
furtively into my face.
"It is not necessary to explain matters that have not yet been brought
into the case," I replied coldly. "I think we had better drop the
subject, and not allude to it again. As a guide and pilot, I am
entirely satisfied with you. Griffin Leeds has been discharged; and he
cannot be employed again under any circumstances on this vessel. I
won't have a man about who is skulking under windows, listening to what
don't concern him, or a man who will draw a knife on another."
"The steward wants to know at what hour he shall serve dinner in the
cabin to-day?" asked Cobbington, poking his head into the pilot-house
at this moment.
For some reason not apparent to me, the pilot was so startled at the
sound of the new waiter's voice that he let go the wheel, as he was
swinging the boat around at a bend of the river. The wheel flew over
with force enough to knock a man down if it had hit him. I immediately
grasped the spokes, and began to heave it over again.
"No harm done; my hand slipped," said the pilot.
"Good morning, Mr. Cornwood," added the new waiter, with a broad grin
on his face. "I didn't know you were the pilot of this steamer. I hope
you are very well."
"Very well," answered Cornwood, with an utterly disgusted expression on
his face, as he continued to throw the wheel over.
"I think the passengers will not dine on board to-day," I replied to
the question of the waiter. "But I will let the steward know in
season."
The forward-cabin steward retired. It was evident that Cornwood had not
seen him on board before, and that he was not at all pleased to have
him as a fellow-voyager on the river. Cobbington looked as though he
had gained twenty pounds in flesh since he came on board on Saturday
night. In his new clothes he presented a very neat appearance; and he
had done his duty faithfully. He was so familiar with his work, that he
required scarcely any instruction. All hands were greatly interested in
his accounts of forest life in Florida, and he appeared to be a general
favorite. By Monday morning, he was generally called the "sportsman."
"Is that man employed on board?" asked Cornwood, soon after Cobbington
took his head out of the door.
"He is; he takes the place of Griffin Leeds," I replied.
"How long has he been on board?"
"He came on Saturday night."
"He is a good-for-nothing vagabond!" exclaimed the pilot.
"He has had a hard time of it in Florida, according to his own account.
If he does his duty, that is all I want of him," I added.
"Where did you pick him up?"
"He hailed Mr. Washburn in the street when I was with him, and we
brought him off with us. He was in a starving condition, and Captain
Boomsby, at whose house he used to have a room, refused to give him
even a supper. I believe he has been in the snake business to some
extent," I replied, indifferently.
I knew very well that Cornwood wished to know precisely what our
relations were with Cobbington; but he was not so simple as to ask any
questions about them. I could not prove that Captain Boomsby had placed
the moccasin in the closet of the room where he had confined me, for my
benefit, but I could prove that the explanation of the presence of the
snake there was without any foundation in truth. Griffin Leeds had
discovered by listening to the conversation of the mate and myself,
that we were investigating the matter, and had a clue to Cobbington.
Then Cornwood had sent a note to the saloon-keeper to this effect, and
Captain Boomsby had bribed the invalid with a dollar to lie about the
matter.
While I was reasonably certain in regard to such portions of the chain
of the story as I had been compelled to supply, I could not prove all I
believed. On the other hand, Cornwood was an exceedingly valuable
person to me as guide and pilot, and I was unwilling to dispense with
his services until he showed the cloven foot too palpably to be
retained.
The Sylvania was approaching Orange Park, a place which Colonel Shepard
desired to visit. A sign four hundred feet long, and fifteen feet high,
the largest in the world, indicates the locality. It can be read a mile
off, and the visitor "who runs may read." Cornwood ran the steamer
alongside the long pier, and our passengers landed. Mr. Benedict, the
enterprising Rhode Islander who owns the vast estate of nine thousand
acres, was on the wharf to welcome them. The place had formerly been an
immense sugar plantation; but the present owner had cut it up into
small farms and town lots, and considerable progress had been made in
peopling it with residents from the North.
The bluffs were thirty feet high on the river, and the highest
elevation was seventy feet, about the highest on the St. Johns. Quite a
number of dwelling-houses had been erected, including a hotel, and the
place had a store, a school, and a hall for religious services. Several
thousand orange-trees had been set out, and were in a thrifty
condition. They set out stumps of sour orange-trees, three inches in
diameter, and graft into them two shoots, a few inches above the
ground. These had grown two or three feet in a single year, and in five
or six years they would be in bearing condition. Young trees, five or
six feet high, are also set out. If the orange grower is successful,
the crop is exceedingly profitable.
Lots of from one to twenty acres were sold at from one to thirteen
hundred dollars, as they were nearer or farther from the river. A house
that would answer the purpose of a settler could be built for one
hundred and thirty dollars, and a comfortable cottage for five hundred
dollars.
We walked up to the hotel, and dined with the proprietor.
CHAPTER XXII.
FISHING IN DOCTOR'S LAKE.
After a very good dinner, we were invited to take a ride in an Orange
Park carriage. The vehicle was a platform wagon, with stakes, such as
is called a "hay rigging" in some parts of the North, drawn by a pair
of mules. I found that a mule in this locality cost more than a house
for the ordinary settler. On the platform were placed chairs enough to
seat all the party, including Cornwood, Washburn, and myself. The
proprietor was the driver, and as we proceeded on the excursion, he
explained everything of interest. He drove to an old orange-tree that
had borne four thousand oranges that year. Near it was a tangled grove
of fig-trees, the first I had ever seen.
From this point we struck into the woods. We crossed a clear brook
which was never dry; and Miss Margie asked if there were any snakes on
the place. Mr. Benedict thought there might be, though he had never
seen any.
"Oh, isn't that magnificent! Perfectly lovely!" cried Miss Edith in
ecstasies.
"Beautiful!" added Miss Margie. "Did you ever see anything like it?"
I had not, for one. The sight which had called forth these enthusiastic
exclamations was a perfect forest of jasmine in full blossom. The trees
that grew near the brook were of a young growth, and for half an acre
in extent they were loaded with jasmine vines so thickly covered with
flowers that the green leaves could hardly be seen. The ladies were all
delighted. Washburn and I got out, and gathered half a cord or so of
the vines, thus loaded with blossoms, and the wagon was as fragrant as
a perfume shop.
We entered a forest of pines, where we found a house built by a couple
of young men who had been several years in Cuba, and intended to
cultivate the sugar-cane. In the midst of the woods we came to an old
church, without a house within a mile of it, and which had been three
or four miles from any dwelling in the days when it was used. It was a
rather large log-house, now in a ruinous condition, in which the
planters and their families had once attended divine services. Not far
from it the proprietor stopped his team, and we all got off the wagon.
We were conducted to the "Roaring Magnetic Spring," which was one of
the features of the place. Florida is a great place for springs of
various kinds. We were all arranged on a wooden platform over the
spring, which was a tunnel-shaped cavity in the blue sand of the earth,
about ten feet deep.
"Now keep still a moment," said Mr. Benedict.
We listened, and the roaring of the spring was easily heard when the
voices of the party did not drown it.
"Isn't it beautiful!" exclaimed Miss Margie, as she bent over and gazed
into the spring, the waters of which, for six feet down, were as clear
as crystal. "Aren't those sand clouds pretty?"
As the water boiled up from the bottom of the spring, it carried the
sand up in clearly-curved clouds until their own gravity caused the
particles to sink, and again be thrown up by the force of the water.
The party watched this phenomenon with interest for some time, for not
one of them had ever seen anything like it, with the exception of Mr.
Cornwood.
"Now, I want to show you something still more remarkable," continued
the proprietor, as he produced two long, narrow strips of board. "You
have heard the roaring of the spring, and now I want to convince you
that it is magnetic."
He placed the ends of the strips at the bottom of the spring, and then
disposed of each of the other ends on the sides of Colonel Shepard's
head. The same experiment was then tried upon Mr. Tiffany, and all the
other members of the party. The roaring seemed to penetrate, and pass
through one's head. Owen declared that the process had cured him of a
headache he had had all day; but Mr. Tiffany, while he was much
interested in the phenomenon, was somewhat skeptical in regard to the
magnetic properties of the spring.
We resumed our seats on the Orange Park carriage, and rode to Doctor's
Lake. It was said to be a dozen miles long, and from one to three miles
wide. We were told there were plenty of fish in this lake, and we were
disposed to verify the truth of the assertion. We returned to the
hotel, delighted with our drive, and Mrs. Shepard declared that she
should like to live at Orange Park. Before we left, the Colonel had
bargained for two lots on the St. Johns, and to have them covered with
orange-trees. We started for the end of the pier where the steamer lay,
