his velvet cloak for a queen to walk upon.
“All right. Just lay easy, my dear, and I won’t hurt you a mite if I can
help it.”
Careful as Mr. Grant was, Jill could have screamed with pain as he
lifted her; but she set her lips and bore it with the courage of a
little Indian; for all the lads were looking on, and Jill was proud to
show that a girl could bear as much as a boy. She hid her face in the
coat as soon as she was settled, to hide the tears that would come, and
by the time Jack was placed beside her, she had quite a little cistern
of salt water stored up in Ed’s coat-pocket.
Then the mournful procession set forth, Mr. Grant driving the oxen, the
girls clustering about the interesting invalids on the sled, while the
boys came behind like a guard of honor, leaving the hill deserted by
all but Joe, who had returned to hover about the fatal fence, and poor
“Thunderbolt,” split asunder, lying on the bank to mark the spot where
the great catastrophe occurred.
Chapter II. Two Penitents
Jack and Jill never cared to say much about the night which followed
the first coasting party of the season, for it was the saddest and the
hardest their short lives had ever known. Jack suffered most in body;
for the setting of the broken leg was such a painful job, that it wrung
several sharp cries from him, and made Frank, who helped, quite weak
and white with sympathy, when it was over. The wounded head ached
dreadfully, and the poor boy felt as if bruised all over, for he had the
worst of the fall. Dr. Whiting spoke cheerfully of the case, and made so
light of broken legs, that Jack innocently asked if he should not be up
in a week or so.
“Well, no; it usually takes twenty-one days for bones to knit, and young
ones make quick work of it,” answered the doctor, with a last scientific
tuck to the various bandages, which made Jack feel like a hapless
chicken trussed for the spit.
“Twenty-one days! Three whole weeks in bed! I shouldn’t call that quick
work,” groaned the dismayed patient, whose experience of illness had
been limited.
“It is a forty days’ job, young man, and you must make up your mind to
bear it like a hero. We will do our best; but next time, look before
you leap, and save your bones. Good-night; you’ll feel better in the
morning. No jigs, remember;” and off went the busy doctor for another
look at Jill, who had been ordered to bed and left to rest till the
other case was attended to.
Any one would have thought Jack’s plight much the worse, but the
doctor looked more sober over Jill’s hurt back than the boy’s compound
fractures; and the poor little girl had a very bad quarter of an hour
while he was trying to discover the extent of the injury.
“Keep her quiet, and time will show how much damage is done,” was all
he said in her hearing; but if she had known that he told Mrs. Pecq he
feared serious consequences, she would not have wondered why her mother
cried as she rubbed the numb limbs and placed the pillows so tenderly.
Jill suffered most in her mind; for only a sharp stab of pain now and
then reminded her of her body; but her remorseful little soul gave her
no peace for thinking of Jack, whose bruises and breakages her lively
fancy painted in the darkest colors.
“Oh, don’t be good to me, Mammy; I made him go, and now he’s hurt
dreadfully, and may die; and it is all my fault, and everybody ought to
hate me,” sobbed poor Jill, as a neighbor left the room after reporting
in a minute manner how Jack screamed when his leg was set, and how Frank
was found white as a sheet, with his head under the pump, while Gus
restored the tone of his friend’s nerves, by pumping as if the house was
on fire.
“Whist, my lass, and go to sleep. Take a sup of the good wine Mrs. Minot
sent, for you are as cold as a clod, and it breaks my heart to see my
Janey so.”
“I can’t go to sleep; I don’t see how Jack’s mother could send me
anything when I’ve half killed him. I want to be cold and ache and have
horrid things done to me. Oh, if I ever get out of this bed I’ll be the
best girl in the world, to pay for this. See if I ain’t!” and Jill
gave such a decided nod that her tears flew all about the pillow like a
shower.
“You’d better begin at once, for you won’t get out of that bed for a
long while, I’m afraid, my lamb,” sighed her mother, unable to conceal
the anxiety that lay so heavy on her heart.
“Am I hurt badly, Mammy?”
“I fear it, lass.”
“I’m glad of it; I ought to be worse than Jack, and I hope I am. I’ll
bear it well, and be good right away. Sing, Mammy, and I’ll try to go to
sleep to please you.”
Jill shut her eyes with sudden and unusual meekness, and before her
mother had crooned half a dozen verses of an old ballad, the little
black head lay still upon the pillow, and repentant Jill was fast asleep
with a red mitten in her hand.
Mrs. Pecq was an Englishwoman who had left Montreal at the death of her
husband, a French Canadian, and had come to live in the tiny cottage
which stood near Mrs. Minot’s big house, separated only by an
arbor-vitae hedge. A sad, silent person, who had seen better days, but
said nothing about them, and earned her bread by sewing, nursing, work
in the factory, or anything that came in her way, being anxious to
educate her little girl. Now, as she sat beside the bed in the small,
poor room, that hope almost died within her, for here was the child
laid up for months, probably, and the one ambition and pleasure of the
solitary woman’s life was to see Janey Pecq’s name over all the high
marks in the school-reports she proudly brought home.
“She’ll win through, please Heaven, and I’ll see my lass a gentlewoman
yet, thanks to the good friend in yonder, who will never let her want
for care,” thought the poor soul, looking out into the gloom where a
long ray of light streamed from the great house warm and comfortable
upon the cottage, like the spirit of kindness which made the inmates
friends and neighbors.
Meantime, that other mother sat by her boy’s bed as anxious but with
better hope, for Mrs. Minot made trouble sweet and helpful by the way in
which she bore it; and her boys were learning of her how to find silver
linings to the clouds that must come into the bluest skies.
Jack lay wide awake, with hot cheeks, and throbbing head, and all sorts
of queer sensations in the broken leg. The soothing potion he had
taken did not affect him yet, and he tried to beguile the weary time by
wondering who came and went below. Gentle rings at the front door, and
mysterious tappings at the back, had been going on all the evening; for
the report of the accident had grown astonishingly in its travels, and
at eight o’clock the general belief was that Jack had broken both legs,
fractured his skull, and lay at the point of death, while Jill had
dislocated one shoulder, and was bruised black and blue from top to
toe. Such being the case, it is no wonder that anxious playmates and
neighbors haunted the doorsteps of the two houses, and that offers of
help poured in.
Frank, having tied up the bell and put a notice in the lighted
side-window, saying, “Go to the back door,” sat in the parlor, supported
by his chum, Gus, while Ed played softly on the piano, hoping to lull
Jack to sleep. It did soothe him, for a very sweet friendship existed
between the tall youth and the lad of thirteen. Ed went with the
big fellows, but always had a kind word for the smaller boys; and
affectionate Jack, never ashamed to show his love, was often seen with
his arm round Ed’s shoulder, as they sat together in the pleasant red
parlors, where all the young people were welcome and Frank was king.
“Is the pain any easier, my darling?” asked Mrs. Minot, leaning over the
pillow, where the golden head lay quiet for a moment.
“Not much. I forget it listening to the music. Dear old Ed is playing
all my favorite tunes, and it is very nice. I guess he feels pretty
sorry about me.”
“They all do. Frank could not talk of it. Gus wouldn’t go home to tea,
he was so anxious to do something for us. Joe brought back the bits of
your poor sled, because he didn’t like to leave them lying round for any
one to carry off, he said, and you might like them to remember your fall
by.”
Jack tried to laugh, but it was rather a failure, though he managed to
say, cheerfully,--
“That was good of old Joe. I wouldn’t lend him ‘Thunderbolt’ for fear
he’d hurt it. Couldn’t have smashed it up better than I did, could he?
Don’t think I want any pieces to remind me of that fall. I just wish
you’d seen us, mother! It must have been a splendid spill to look at,
any way.”
“No, thank you; I’d rather not even try to imagine my precious boy going
heels over head down that dreadful hill. No more pranks of that sort for
some time, Jacky;” and Mrs. Minot looked rather pleased on the whole to
have her venturesome bird safe under her maternal wing.
“No coasting till some time in January. What a fool I was to do it!
Go-bangs always are dangerous, and that’s the fun of the thing. Oh
dear!”
Jack threw his arms about and frowned darkly, but never said a word of
the wilful little baggage who had led him into mischief; he was too much
of a gentleman to tell on a girl, though it cost him an effort to hold
his tongue, because Mamma’s good opinion was very precious to him, and
he longed to explain. She knew all about it, however, for Jill had been
carried into the house reviling herself for the mishap, and even in the
midst of her own anxiety for her boy, Mrs. Minot understood the state of
the case without more words. So she now set his mind at rest by saying,
quietly.
“Foolish fun, as you see, dear. Another time, stand firm and help Jill
to control her headstrong will. When you learn to yield less and she
more, there will be no scrapes like this to try us all.”
“I’ll remember, mother. I hate not to be obliging, but I guess it would
have saved us lots of trouble if I’d said No in the beginning. I tried
to, but she would go. Poor Jill! I’ll take better care of her next
time. Is she very ill, Mamma?”
“I can tell you better to-morrow. She does not suffer much, and we hope
there is no great harm done.”
“I wish she had a nice place like this to be sick in. It must be very
poky in those little rooms,” said Jack, as his eye roved round the large
chamber where he lay so cosey, warm, and pleasant, with the gay chintz
curtains draping doors and windows, the rosy carpet, comfortable chairs,
and a fire glowing in the grate.
“I shall see that she suffers for nothing, so don’t trouble your kind
heart about her to-night, but try to sleep; that’s what you need,”
 answered his mother, wetting the bandage on his forehead, and putting a
cool hand on the flushed cheeks.
Jack obediently closed his eyes and listened while the boys sang “The
Sweet By and By,” softening their rough young voices for his sake till
the music was as soft as a lullaby. He lay so still his mother thought
he was off, but presently a tear slipped out and rolled down the red
cheek, wetting her hand as it passed.
“My blessed boy, what is it?” she whispered, with a touch and a tone
that only mothers have.
The blue eyes opened wide, and Jack’s own sunshiny smile broke through
the tears that filled them as he said with a sniff,--
“Everybody is so good to me I can’t help making a noodle of myself.
“You are not a noodle!” cried Mamma, resenting the epithet. “One of the
sweet things about pain and sorrow is that they show us how well we are
loved, how much kindness there is in the world, and how easily we can
make others happy in the same way when they need help and sympathy.
Don’t forget that, little son.”
“Don’t see how I can, with you to show me how nice it is. Kiss me
good-night, and then ‘I’ll be good,’ as Jill says.”
Nestling his head upon his mother’s arm, Jack lay quiet till, lulled by
the music of his mates, he drowsed away into the dreamless sleep which
is Nurse Nature’s healthiest soothing sirup for weary souls and bodies.
Chapter III. Ward No. 1
For some days, nothing was seen and little was heard of the “dear
sufferers,” as the old ladies called them. But they were not forgotten;
the first words uttered when any of the young people met were: “How is
Jack?” “Seen Jill yet?” and all waited with impatience for the moment
when they could be admitted to their favorite mates, more than ever
objects of interest now.
Meantime, the captives spent the first few days in sleep, pain, and
trying to accept the hard fact that school and play were done with for
months perhaps. But young spirits are wonderfully elastic and soon cheer
up, and healthy young bodies heal fast, or easily adapt themselves to
new conditions. So our invalids began to mend on the fourth day, and
to drive their nurses distracted with efforts to amuse them, before the
first week was over.
The most successful attempt originated in Ward No. 1, as Mrs. Minot
called Jack’s apartment, and we will give our sympathizing readers some
idea of this place, which became the stage whereon were enacted many
varied and remarkable scenes.
Each of the Minot boys had his own room, and there collected his own
treasures and trophies, arranged to suit his convenience and taste.
Frank’s was full of books, maps, machinery, chemical messes, and
geometrical drawings, which adorned the walls like intricate cobwebs.
A big chair, where he read and studied with his heels higher than his
head, a basket of apples for refreshment at all hours of the day or
night, and an immense inkstand, in which several pens were always
apparently bathing their feet, were the principal ornaments of his
scholastic retreat.
Jack’s hobby was athletic sports, for he was bent on having a strong and
active body for his happy little soul to live and enjoy itself in. So a
severe simplicity reigned in his apartment; in summer, especially, for
then his floor was bare, his windows were uncurtained, and the chairs
uncushioned, the bed being as narrow and hard as Napoleon’s. The only
ornaments were dumbbells, whips, bats, rods, skates, boxing-gloves, a
big bath-pan and a small library, consisting chiefly of books on games,
horses, health, hunting, and travels. In winter his mother made things
more comfortable by introducing rugs, curtains, and a fire. Jack,
also, relented slightly in the severity of his training, occasionally
indulging in the national buckwheat cake, instead of the prescribed
oatmeal porridge, for breakfast, omitting his cold bath when the
thermometer was below zero, and dancing at night, instead of running a
given distance by day.
Now, however, he was a helpless captive, given over to all sorts of
coddling, laziness, and luxury, and there was a droll mixture of mirth
and melancholy in his face, as he lay trussed up in bed, watching the
comforts which had suddenly robbed his room of its Spartan simplicity.
A delicious couch was there, with Frank reposing in its depths, half
hidden under several folios which he was consulting for a history of the
steam-engine, the subject of his next composition.
A white-covered table stood near, with all manner of dainties set forth
in a way to tempt the sternest principles. Vases of flowers bloomed on
the chimney-piece,--gifts from anxious young ladies, left with their
love. Frivolous story-books and picture-papers strewed the bed, now
shrouded in effeminate chintz curtains, beneath which Jack lay like
a wounded warrior in his tent. But the saddest sight for our crippled
athlete was a glimpse, through a half-opened door, at the beloved
dumb-bells, bats, balls, boxing-gloves, and snow-shoes, all piled
ignominiously away in the bath-pan, mournfully recalling the fact that
their day was over, now, at least for some time.
He was about to groan dismally, when his eye fell on a sight which made
him swallow the groan, and cough instead, as if it choked him a little.
The sight was his mother’s face, as she sat in a low chair rolling
bandages, with a basket beside her in which were piles of old linen,
lint, plaster, and other matters, needed for the dressing of wounds. As
he looked, Jack remembered how steadily and tenderly she had stood by
him all through the hard times just past, and how carefully she had
bathed and dressed his wound each day in spite of the effort it cost her
to give him pain or even see him suffer.
“That’s a better sort of strength than swinging twenty-pound dumb-bells
or running races; I guess I’ll try for that kind, too, and not howl or
let her see me squirm when the doctor hurts,” thought the boy, as he saw
that gentle face so pale and tired with much watching and anxiety, yet
so patient, serene, and cheerful, that it was like sunshine.
“Lie down and take a good nap, mother dear, I feel first-rate, and Frank
can see to me if I want anything. Do, now,” he added, with a persuasive
nod toward the couch, and a boyish relish in stirring up his lazy
brother.
After some urging, Mamma consented to go to her room for forty winks,
leaving Jack in the care of Frank, begging him to be as quiet as
possible if the dear boy wished to sleep, and to amuse him if he did
not.
Being worn out, Mrs. Minot lengthened her forty winks into a three
hours’ nap, and as the “dear boy” scorned repose, Mr. Frank had his
hands full while on guard.
“I’ll read to you. Here’s Watt, Arkwright, Fulton, and a lot of capital
fellows, with pictures that will do your heart good. Have a bit, will
you?” asked the new nurse, flapping the leaves invitingly.--for Frank
had a passion for such things, and drew steam-engines all over his
slate, as Tommy Traddles drew hosts of skeletons when low in his
spirits.
“I don’t want any of your old boilers and stokers and whirligigs. I’m
tired of reading, and want something regularly jolly,” answered Jack,
who had been chasing white buffaloes with “The Hunters of the West,”
 till he was a trifle tired and fractious.
“Play cribbage, euchre, anything you like;” and Frank obligingly
disinterred himself from under the folios, feeling that it was hard
for a fellow to lie flat a whole week.
“No fun; just two of us. Wish school was over, so the boys would come
in; doctor said I might see them now.”
“They’ll be along by and by, and I’ll hail them. Till then, what shall
we do? I’m your man for anything, only put a name to it.”
“Just wish I had a telegraph or a telephone, so I could talk to Jill.
Wouldn’t it be fun to pipe across and get an answer!”
“I’ll make either you say;” and Frank looked as if trifles of that sort
were to be had for the asking.
“Could you, really?”
“We’ll start the telegraph first, then you can send things over if you
like,” said Frank, prudently proposing the surest experiment.
“Go ahead, then. I’d like that, and so would Jill, for I know she wants
to hear from me.”
“There’s one trouble, though; I shall have to leave you alone for a few
minutes while I rig up the ropes;” and Frank looked sober, for he was a
faithful boy, and did not want to desert his post.
“Oh, never mind; I won’t want anything. If I do, I can pound for Ann.”
“And wake mother. I’ll fix you a better way than that;” and, full
of inventive genius, our young Edison spliced the poker to part of a
fishing-rod in a jiffy, making a long-handled hook which reached across
the room.
“There’s an arm for you; now hook away, and let’s see how it works,”
 he said, handing over the instrument to Jack, who proceeded to show its
unexpected capabilities by hooking the cloth off the table in attempting
to get his handkerchief, catching Frank by the hair when fishing for a
book, and breaking a pane of glass in trying to draw down the curtain.
“It’s so everlasting long, I can’t manage it,” laughed Jack, as it
finally caught in his bed-hangings, and nearly pulled them, ring and
all, down upon his head.
“Let it alone, unless you need something very much, and don’t bother
about the glass. It’s just what we want for the telegraph wire or
rope to go through. Keep still, and I’ll have the thing running in ten
minutes;” and, delighted with the job, Frank hurried away, leaving Jack
to compose a message to send as soon as it was possible.
“What in the world is that flying across the Minots’ yard,--a brown hen
or a boy’s kite?” exclaimed old Miss Hopkins, peering out of her window
at the singular performances going on in her opposite neighbor’s garden.
First, Frank appeared with a hatchet and chopped a clear space in the
hedge between his own house and the cottage; next, a clothes line was
passed through this aperture and fastened somewhere on the other side;
lastly, a small covered basket, slung on this rope, was seen hitching
along, drawn either way by a set of strings; then, as if satisfied with
his job, Frank retired, whistling “Hail Columbia.”
“It’s those children at their pranks again. I thought broken bones
wouldn’t keep them out of mischief long,” said the old lady, watching
with great interest the mysterious basket travelling up and down the
rope from the big house to the cottage.
If she had seen what came and went over the wires of the “Great
International Telegraph,” she would have laughed till her spectacles
flew off her Roman nose. A letter from Jack, with a large orange, went
first, explaining the new enterprise:--
“Dear Jill,--It’s too bad you can’t come over to see me. I am pretty
well, but awful tired of keeping still. I want to see you ever so much.
Frank has fixed us a telegraph, so we can write and send things. Won’t
it be jolly! I can’t look out to see him do it; but, when you pull your
string, my little bell rings, and I know a message is coming. I send you
an orange. Do you like gorver jelly? People send in lots of goodies,
and we will go halves. Good-by.
“Jack”
Away went the basket, and in fifteen minutes it came back from the
cottage with nothing in it but the orange.
“Hullo! Is she mad?” asked Jack, as Frank brought the despatch for him
to examine.
But, at the first touch, the hollow peel opened, and out fell a letter,
two gum-drops, and an owl made of a peanut, with round eyes drawn at the
end where the stem formed a funny beak. Two bits of straw were the legs,
and the face looked so like Dr. Whiting that both boys laughed at the
sight.
“That’s so like Jill; she’d make fun if she was half dead. Let’s see
what she says;” and Jack read the little note, which showed a sad
neglect of the spelling-book:--
“Dear Jacky,--I can’t stir and it’s horrid. The telly graf is very nice
and we will have fun with it. I never ate any gorver jelly. The orange
was first rate. Send me a book to read. All about bears and ships
and crockydiles. The doctor was coming to see you, so I sent him the
quickest way. Molly Loo says it is dreadful lonesome at school without
us. Yours truly,
“Jill”
Jack immediately despatched the book and a sample of guava jelly, which
unfortunately upset on the way, to the great detriment of “The Wild
Beasts of Asia and Africa.” Jill promptly responded with the loan of a
tiny black kitten, who emerged spitting and scratching, to Jack’s great
delight; and he was cudgelling his brains as to how a fat white rabbit
could be transported, when a shrill whistle from without saved Jill from
that inconvenient offering.
“It’s the fellows; do you want to see them?” asked Frank, gazing down
with calm superiority upon the three eager faces which looked up at him.
“Guess I do!” and Jack promptly threw the kitten overboard, scorning to
be seen by any manly eye amusing himself with such girlish toys.
Bang! went the front door; tramp, tramp, tramp, came six booted feet up
the stairs; and, as Frank threw wide the door, three large beings
paused on the threshold to deliver the courteous “Hullo!” which is the
established greeting among boys on all social occasions.
“Come along, old fellows; I’m ever so glad to see you!” cried the
invalid, with such energetic demonstrations of the arms that he looked
as if about to fly or crow, like an excited young cockerel.
“How are you, Major?”
“Does the leg ache much, Jack?”
“Mr. Phipps says you’ll have to pay for the new rails.”
With these characteristic greetings, the gentlemen cast away their hats
and sat down, all grinning cheerfully, and all with eyes irresistibly
fixed upon the dainties, which proved too much for the politeness of
ever-hungry boys.
“Help yourselves,” said Jack, with a hospitable wave. “All the dear old
ladies in town have been sending in nice things, and I can’t begin to
eat them up. Lend a hand and clear away this lot, or we shall have to
throw them out of the window. Bring on the doughnuts and the tarts and
the shaky stuff in the entry closet, Frank, and let’s have a lark.”
No sooner said than done. Gus took the tarts, Joe the doughnuts, Ed the
jelly, and Frank suggested “spoons all round” for the Italian cream. A
few trifles in the way of custard, fruit, and wafer biscuits were not
worth mentioning; but every dish was soon emptied, and Jack said, as he
surveyed the scene of devastation with great satisfaction,--
“Call again to-morrow, gentlemen, and we will have another bout. Free
lunches at 5 P.M. till further notice. Now tell me all the news.”
For half an hour, five tongues went like mill clappers, and there is no
knowing when they would have stopped if the little bell had not suddenly
rung with a violence that made them jump.
“That’s Jill; see what she wants, Frank;” and while his brother sent off
the basket, Jack told about the new invention, and invited his mates to
examine and admire.
They did so, and shouted with merriment when the next despatch from Jill
arrived. A pasteboard jumping-jack, with one leg done up in cotton-wool
to preserve the likeness, and a great lump of molasses candy in a brown
paper, with accompanying note:--
“Dear Sir,--I saw the boys go in, and know you are having a nice time,
so I send over the candy Molly Loo and Merry brought me. Mammy says I
can’t eat it, and it will all melt away if I keep it. Also a picture of
Jack Minot, who will dance on one leg and waggle the other, and make you
laugh. I wish I could come, too. Don’t you hate grewel? I do.--In haste,
“J.P.”
“Let’s all send her a letter,” proposed Jack, and out came pens,
ink, paper, and the lamp, and every one fell to scribbling. A droll
collection was the result, for Frank drew a picture of the fatal fall
with broken rails flying in every direction, Jack with his head swollen
to the size of a balloon, and Jill in two pieces, while the various boys
and girls were hit off with a sly skill that gave Gus legs like a stork,
Molly Loo hair several yards long, and Boo a series of visible howls
coming out of an immense mouth in the shape of o’s. The oxen were
particularly good, for their horns branched like those of the moose, and
Mr. Grant had a patriarchal beard which waved in the breeze as he bore
the wounded girl to a sled very like a funeral pyre, the stakes being
crowned with big mittens like torches.
“You ought to be an artist. I never saw such a dabster as you are.
That’s the very moral of Joe, all in a bunch on the fence, with a blot
to show how purple his nose was,” said Gus, holding up the sketch for
general criticism and admiration.
“I’d rather have a red nose than legs like a grasshopper; so you needn’t
twit, Daddy,” growled Joe, quite unconscious that a blot actually did
adorn his nose, as he labored over a brief despatch.
The boys enjoyed the joke, and one after the other read out his message
to the captive lady:--
“Dear Jill,--Sorry you ain’t here. Great fun. Jack pretty lively. Laura
and Lot would send love if they knew of the chance. Fly round and get
well.
“Gus”
“Dear Gilliflower,--Hope you are pretty comfortable in your ‘dungeon
cell.’ Would you like a serenade when the moon comes? Hope you will soon
be up again, for we miss you very much. Shall be very happy to help in
any way I can. Love to your mother. Your true friend,
“E.D.”
“Miss Pecq.
“Dear Madam,--I am happy to tell you that we are all well, and hope
you are the same. I gave Jem Cox a licking because he went to your desk.
You had better send for your books. You won’t have to pay for the sled
or the fence. Jack says he will see to it. We have been having a spread
over here. First-rate things. I wouldn’t mind breaking a leg, if I
had such good grub and no chores to do. No more now, from yours, with
esteem,
“Joseph P. Flint”
Joe thought that an elegant epistle, having copied portions of it from
the “Letter Writer,” and proudly read it off to the boys, who assured
him that Jill would be much impressed.
“Now, Jack, hurry up and let us send the lot off, for we must go,”
 said Gus, as Frank put the letters in the basket, and the clatter of
tea-things was heard below.
“I’m not going to show mine. It’s private and you mustn’t look,”
 answered Jack, patting down an envelope with such care that no one had a
chance to peep.
But Joe had seen the little note copied, and while the others were at
the window working the telegraph he caught up the original, carelessly
thrust by Jack under the pillow, and read it aloud before any one knew
what he was about.
“My Dear,--I wish I could send you some of my good times. As I can’t, I
send you much love, and I hope you will try and be patient as I am going
to, for it was our fault, and we must not make a fuss now. Ain’t mothers
sweet? Mine is coming over to-morrow to see you and tell me how you are.
This round thing is a kiss for good-night.
“Your Jack”
“Isn’t that spoony? You’d better hide your face, I think. He’s getting
to be a regular mollycoddle, isn’t he?” jeered Joe, as the boys laughed,
and then grew sober, seeing Jack’s head buried in the bedclothes, after
sending a pillow at his tormentor.
It nearly hit Mrs. Minot, coming in with her patient’s tea on a tray,
and at sight of her the guests hurriedly took leave, Joe nearly tumbling
downstairs to escape from Frank, who would have followed, if his mother
had not said quickly, “Stay, and tell me what is the matter.”
“Only teasing Jack a bit. Don’t be mad, old boy, Joe didn’t mean any
harm, and it was rather soft, now wasn’t it?” asked Frank, trying to
appease the wounded feelings of his brother.
“I charged you not to worry him. Those boys were too much for the poor
dear, and I ought not to have left him,” said Mamma, as she vainly
endeavored to find and caress the yellow head burrowed so far out of
sight that nothing but one red ear was visible.
“He liked it, and we got on capitally till Joe roughed him about Jill.
Ah, Joe’s getting it now! I thought Gus and Ed would do that little
job for me,” added Frank, running to the window as the sound of stifled
cries and laughter reached him.
The red ear heard also, and Jack popped up his head to ask, with
interest,--
“What are they doing to him?”
“Rolling him in the snow, and he’s howling like fun.”
“Serves him right,” muttered Jack, with a frown. Then, as a wail arose
suggestive of an unpleasant mixture of snow in the mouth and thumps on
the back, he burst out laughing, and said, good-naturedly, “Go and stop
them, Frank; I won’t mind, only tell him it was a mean trick. Hurry! Gus
is so strong he doesn’t know how his pounding hurts.”
Off ran Frank, and Jack told his wrongs to his mother. She sympathized
heartily, and saw no harm in the affectionate little note, which would
please Jill, and help her to bear her trials patiently.
“It isn’t silly to be fond of her, is it? She is so nice and funny, and
tries to be good, and likes me, and I won’t be ashamed of my friends, if
folks do laugh,” protested Jack, with a rap of his teaspoon.
“No, dear, it is quite kind and proper, and I’d rather have you play
with a merry little girl than with rough boys till you are big enough
to hold your own,” answered Mamma, putting the cup to his lips that the
reclining lad might take his broma without spilling.
“Pooh! I don’t mean that; I’m strong enough now to take care of myself,”
 cried Jack, stoutly. “I can thrash Joe any day, if I like. Just look
at my arm; there’s muscle for you!” and up went a sleeve, to the great
danger of overturning the tray, as the boy proudly displayed his biceps
and expanded his chest, both of which were very fine for a lad of his
years. “If I’d been on my legs, he wouldn’t have dared to insult me, and
it was cowardly to hit a fellow when he was down.”
Mrs. Minot wanted to laugh at Jack’s indignation, but the bell rang, and
she had to go and pull in the basket, much amused at the new game.
Burning to distinguish herself in the eyes of the big boys, Jill had
sent over a tall, red flannel night-cap, which she had been making for
some proposed Christmas plays, and added the following verse, for she
was considered a gifted rhymester at the game parties:--
  “When it comes night,
  We put out the light.
  Some blow with a puff,
  Some turn down and snuff;
  But neat folks prefer
  A nice extinguisher.
  So here I send you back
  One to put on Mr. Jack.”
“Now, I call that regularly smart; not one of us could do it, and I just
wish Joe was here to see it. I want to send once more, something good
for tea; she hates gruel so;” and the last despatch which the Great
International Telegraph carried that day was a baked apple and a warm
muffin, with “J. M.’s best regards.”
Chapter IV. Ward No. 2.
Things were not so gay in Ward No. 2, for Mrs. Pecq was very busy, and
Jill had nothing to amuse her but flying visits from the girls, and such
little plays as she could invent for herself in bed. Fortunately, she
had a lively fancy, and so got on pretty well, till keeping still grew
unbearable, and the active child ached in every limb to be up and out.
That, however, was impossible, for the least attempt to sit or stand
brought on the pain that took her breath away and made her glad to lie
flat again. The doctor spoke cheerfully, but looked sober, and Mrs. Pecq
began to fear that Janey was to be a cripple for life. She said nothing,
but Jill’s quick eyes saw an added trouble in the always anxious face,
and it depressed her spirits, though she never guessed half the mischief
the fall had done.
The telegraph was a great comfort, and the two invalids kept up a lively
correspondence, not to say traffic in light articles, for the Great
International was the only aerial express in existence. But even this
amusement flagged after a time; neither had much to tell, and when the
daily health bulletins had been exchanged, messages gave out, and the
basket’s travels grew more and more infrequent. Neither could read all
the time, games were soon used up, their mates were at school most of
the day, and after a week or two the poor children began to get pale and
fractious with the confinement, always so irksome to young people.
“I do believe the child will fret herself into a fever, mem, and I’m
clean distraught to know what to do for her. She never used to mind
trifles, but now she frets about the oddest things, and I can’t change
them. This wall-paper is well enough, but she has taken a fancy that the
spots on it look like spiders, and it makes her nervous. I’ve no other
warm place to put her, and no money for a new paper. Poor lass! There
are hard times before her, I’m fearing.”
Mrs. Pecq said this in a low voice to Mrs. Minot, who came in as often
as she could, to see what her neighbor needed; for both mothers were
anxious, and sympathy drew them to one another. While one woman talked,
the other looked about the little room, not wondering in the least that
Jill found it hard to be contented there. It was very neat, but so plain
that there was not even a picture on the walls, nor an ornament upon the
mantel, except the necessary clock, lamp, and match-box. The paper was
ugly, being a deep buff with a brown figure that did look very like
spiders sprawling over it, and might well make one nervous to look at
day after day.
Jill was asleep in the folding chair Dr. Whiting had sent, with a
mattress to make it soft. The back could be raised or lowered at will;
but only a few inches had been gained as yet, and the thin hair pillow
was all she could bear. She looked very pretty as she lay, with dark
lashes against the feverish cheeks, lips apart, and a cloud of curly
black locks all about the face pillowed on one arm. She seemed like a
brilliant little flower in that dull place,--for the French blood in her
veins gave her a color, warmth, and grace which were very charming. Her
natural love of beauty showed itself in many ways: a red ribbon had
tied up her hair, a gay but faded shawl was thrown over the bed, and the
gifts sent her were arranged with care upon the table by her side among
her own few toys and treasures. There was something pathetic in this
childish attempt to beautify the poor place, and Mrs. Minot’s eyes were
full as she looked at the tired woman, whose one joy and comfort lay
there in such sad plight.
“My dear soul, cheer up, and we will help one another through the hard
times,” she said, with a soft hand on the rough one, and a look that
promised much.
“Please God, we will, mem! With such good friends, I never should
complain. I try not to do it, but it breaks my heart to see my little
lass spoiled for life, most like;” and Mrs. Pecq pressed the kind hand
with a despondent sigh.
“We won’t say, or even think, that, yet. Everything is possible to youth
and health like Janey’s. We must keep her happy, and time will do the
rest, I’m sure. Let us begin at once, and have a surprise for her when
she wakes.”
As she spoke, Mrs. Minot moved quietly about the room, pinning the pages
of several illustrated papers against the wall at the foot of the bed,
and placing to the best advantage the other comforts she had brought.
“Keep up your heart, neighbor. I have an idea in my head which I think
will help us all, if I can carry it out,” she said, cheerily, as she
went, leaving Mrs. Pecq to sew on Jack’s new night-gowns, with swift
fingers, and the grateful wish that she might work for these good
friends forever.
As if the whispering and rustling had disturbed her, Jill soon began to
stir, and slowly opened the eyes which had closed so wearily on the
dull December afternoon. The bare wall with its brown spiders no longer
confronted her, but the colored print of a little girl dancing to the
tune her father was playing on a guitar, while a stately lady, with
satin dress, ruff, and powder, stood looking on, well pleased. The
quaint figure, in its belaced frock, quilted petticoat, and red-heeled
shoes, seemed to come tripping toward her in such a life-like way,
that she almost saw the curls blow back, heard the rustle of the rich
brocade, and caught the sparkle of the little maid’s bright eyes.
“Oh, how pretty! Who sent them?” asked Jill, eagerly, as her eye glanced
along the wall, seeing other new and interesting things beyond: an
elephant-hunt, a ship in full sail, a horse-race, and a ball-room.
“The good fairy who never comes empty-handed. Look round a bit and you
will see more pretties all for you, my dearie;” and her mother pointed
to a bunch of purple grapes in a green leaf plate, a knot of bright
flowers pinned on the white curtain, and a gay little double gown across
the foot of the bed.
Jill clapped her hands, and was enjoying her new pleasures, when in came
Merry and Molly Loo, with Boo, of course, trotting after her like a fat
and amiable puppy. Then the good times began; the gown was put on, the
fruit tasted, and the pictures were studied like famous works of art.
“It’s a splendid plan to cover up that hateful wall. I’d stick pictures
all round and have a gallery. That reminds me! Up in the garret at our
house is a box full of old fashion-books my aunt left. I often look at
them on rainy days, and they are very funny. I’ll go this minute and
get every one. We can pin them up, or make paper dolls;” and away rushed
Molly Loo, with the small brother waddling behind, for, when he lost
sight of her, he was desolate indeed.
The girls had fits of laughter over the queer costumes of years gone
by, and put up a splendid procession of ladies in full skirts, towering
hats, pointed slippers, powdered hair, simpering faces, and impossible
waists.
“I do think this bride is perfectly splendid, the long train and veil
are so sweet,” said Jill, revelling in fine clothes as she turned from
one plate to another.
“I like the elephants best, and I’d give anything to go on a hunt like
that!” cried Molly Loo, who rode cows, drove any horse she could get,
had nine cats, and was not afraid of the biggest dog that ever barked.
“I fancy ‘The Dancing Lesson;’ it is so sort of splendid, with the great
windows, gold chairs, and fine folks. Oh, I would like to live in
a castle with a father and mother like that,” said Merry, who was
romantic, and found the old farmhouse on the hill a sad trial to her
high-flown ideas of elegance.
“Now, that ship, setting out for some far-away place, is more to my
mind. I weary for home now and then, and mean to see it again some
day;” and Mrs. Pecq looked longingly at the English ship, though it was
evidently outward bound. Then, as if reproaching herself for discontent,
she added: “It looks like those I used to see going off to India with a
load of missionaries. I came near going myself once, with a lady bound
for Siam; but I went to Canada with her sister, and here I am.”
“I’d like to be a missionary and go where folks throw their babies to
the crocodiles. I’d watch and fish them out, and have a school, and
bring them up, and convert all the people till they knew better,” said
warm-hearted Molly Loo, who befriended every abused animal and forlorn
child she met.
“We needn’t go to Africa to be missionaries; they have ‘em nearer home
and need ‘em, too. In all the big cities there are a many, and they have
their hands full with the poor, the wicked, and the helpless. One can
find that sort of work anywhere, if one has a mind,” said Mrs. Pecq.
“I wish we had some to do here. I’d so like to go round with baskets
of tea and rice, and give out tracts and talk to people. Wouldn’t you,
girls?” asked Molly, much taken with the new idea.
“It would be rather nice to have a society all to ourselves, and have
meetings and resolutions and things,” answered Merry, who was fond of
little ceremonies, and always went to the sewing circle with her mother.
“We wouldn’t let the boys come in. We’d have it a secret society, as
they do their temperance lodge, and we’d have badges and pass-words
and grips. It would be fun if we can only get some heathen to work at!”
 cried Jill, ready for fresh enterprises of every sort.
“I can tell you someone to begin on right away,” said her mother,
nodding at her. “As wild a little savage as I’d wish to see. Take her
in hand, and make a pretty-mannered lady of her. Begin at home, my lass,
and you’ll find missionary work enough for a while.”
“Now, Mammy, you mean me! Well, I will begin; and I’ll be so good, folks
won’t know me. Being sick makes naughty children behave in story-books,
I’ll see if live ones can’t;” and Jill put on such a sanctified face
that the girls laughed and asked for their missions also, thinking they
would be the same.
“You, Merry, might do a deal at home helping mother, and setting the big
brothers a good example. One little girl in a house can do pretty much
as she will, especially if she has a mind to make plain things nice and
comfortable, and not long for castles before she knows how to do her own
tasks well,” was the first unexpected reply.
Merry colored, but took the reproof sweetly, resolving to do what she
could, and surprised to find how many ways seemed open to her after a
few minutes’ thought.
“Where shall I begin? I’m not afraid of a dozen crocodiles after Miss
Bat;” and Molly Loo looked about her with a fierce air, having had
practice in battles with the old lady who kept her father’s house.
“Well, dear, you haven’t far to look for as nice a little heathen as
you’d wish;” and Mrs. Pecq glanced at Boo, who sat on the floor staring
hard at them, attracted by the dread word “crocodile.” He had a cold and
no handkerchief, his little hands were red with chilblains, his clothes
shabby, he had untidy darns in the knees of his stockings, and a head of
tight curls that evidently had not been combed for some time.
“Yes, I know he is, and I try to keep him decent, but I forget, and he
hates to be fixed, and Miss Bat doesn’t care, and father laughs when I
talk about it.”
Poor Molly Loo looked much ashamed as she made excuses, trying at the
same time to mend matters by seizing Boo and dusting him all over with
her handkerchief, giving a pull at his hair as if ringing bells, and
then dumping him down again with the despairing exclamation: “Yes, we’re
a pair of heathens, and there’s no one to save us if I don’t.”
That was true enough; for Molly’s father was a busy man, careless of
everything but his mills, Miss Bat was old and lazy, and felt as if
she might take life easy after serving the motherless children for many
years as well as she knew how. Molly was beginning to see how much amiss
things were at home, and old enough to feel mortified, though, as yet,
she had done nothing to mend the matter except be kind to the little
boy.
“You will, my dear,” answered Mrs. Pecq, encouragingly, for she knew all
about it. “Now you’ve each got a mission, let us see how well you will
get on. Keep it secret, if you like, and report once a week. I’ll be a
member, and we’ll do great things yet.”
“We won’t begin till after Christmas; there is so much to do, we never
shall have time for any more. Don’t tell, and we’ll start fair at New
Year’s, if not before,” said Jill, taking the lead as usual. Then they
went on with the gay ladies, who certainly were heathen enough in dress
to be in sad need of conversion,--to common-sense at least.
“I feel as if I was at a party,” said Jill, after a pause occupied
in surveying her gallery with great satisfaction, for dress was her
delight, and here she had every conceivable style and color.
“Talking of parties, isn’t it too bad that we must give up our Christmas
fun? Can’t get on without you and Jack, so we are not going to do a
thing, but just have our presents,” said Merry, sadly, as they began to
fit different heads and bodies together, to try droll effects.
“I shall be all well in a fortnight, I know; but Jack won’t, for it will
take more than a month to mend his poor leg. May be they will have a
dance in the boys’ big room, and he can look on,” suggested Jill, with
a glance at the dancing damsel on the wall, for she dearly loved it, and
never guessed how long it would be before her light feet would keep time
to music again.
“You’d better give Jack a hint about the party. Send over some smart
ladies, and say they have come to his Christmas ball,” proposed
audacious Molly Loo, always ready for fun.
So they put a preposterous green bonnet, top-heavy with plumes, on a
little lady in yellow, who sat in a carriage; the lady beside her, in
winter costume of velvet pelisse and ermine boa, was fitted to a bride’s
head with its orange flowers and veil, and these works of art were sent
over to Jack, labelled “Miss Laura and Lotty Burton going to the Minots’
Christmas ball,”--a piece of naughtiness on Jill’s part, for she knew
Jack liked the pretty sisters, whose gentle manners made her own wild
ways seem all the more blamable.
No answer came for a long time, and the girls had almost forgotten their
joke in a game of Letters, when “Tingle, tangle!” went the bell, and the
basket came in heavily laden. A roll of colored papers was tied outside,
and within was a box that rattled, a green and silver horn, a roll of
narrow ribbons, a spool of strong thread, some large needles, and a note
from Mrs. Minot:--
“Dear Jill,--I think of having a Christmas tree so that our invalids can
enjoy it, and all your elegant friends are cordially invited. Knowing
that you would like to help, I send some paper for sugar-plum horns and
some beads for necklaces. They will brighten the tree and please
the girls for themselves or their dolls. Jack sends you a horn for a
pattern, and will you make a ladder-necklace to show him how? Let me
know if you need anything.
“Yours in haste,
“Anna Minot”
“She knew what the child would like, bless her kind heart,” said Mrs.
Pecq to herself, and something brighter than the most silvery bead shone
on Jack’s shirt-sleeve, as she saw the rapture of Jill over the new work
and the promised pleasure.
Joyful cries greeted the opening of the box, for bunches of splendid
large bugles appeared in all colors, and a lively discussion went on as
to the best contrasts. Jill could not refuse to let her friends share
the pretty work, and soon three necklaces glittered on three necks, as
each admired her own choice.
“I’d be willing to hurt my back dreadfully, if I could lie and do such
lovely things all day,” said Merry, as she reluctantly put down her
needle at last, for home duties waited to be done, and looked more than
ever distasteful after this new pleasure.
“So would I! Oh, do you think Mrs. Minot will let you fill the horns
when they are done? I’d love to help you then. Be sure you send for
me!” cried Molly Loo, arching her neck like a proud pigeon to watch the
glitter of her purple and gold necklace on her brown gown.
“I’m afraid you couldn’t be trusted, you love sweeties so, and I’m sure
Boo couldn’t. But I’ll see about it,” replied Jill, with a responsible
air.
The mention of the boy recalled him to their minds, and looking round
they found him peacefully absorbed in polishing up the floor with
Molly’s pocket-handkerchief and oil from the little machine-can. Being
torn from this congenial labor, he was carried off shining with grease
and roaring lustily.
But Jill did not mind her loneliness now, and sang like a happy canary
