
This question seemed to him enchanting. He 
reached forward and took her hands, and if Mrs. 
Vivian had come in she would have seen him, kneeling at her daughter's feet. 

But Mrs. Vivian remained in seclusion, and Bernard 
saw her only the next time he came. 

" I am very happy, because I think my daughter is 
happy," she said."

" And what do you think of first *o-Miifnce. 

" I think you are very cley .promise 

me to be very good to her."9i' '''"Qr what yc 

" I am clever enough to promise tnSttohe 

" I think you are good enough to keep it," said Mrs. 
Vivian. She looked as happy as she said, and her 
happiness gave her a communicative, confidential 
tendency. " It is very strange how things come 
about — how the wheel turns round," she went on. 
" I suppose there is no harm in my telling you that I 
believe she always cared for you." 

" Why didn' t you tell me before ? " said Bernard, 
with almost filial reproachfulness. 

' How could I ? I don't go about the world offer- 
ing my daughter to people — especially to indifferent 
people." 

"At Baden you didn't think I was indifferent. 
You were afraid of my not beiDg indifferent enough." 





Mrs. Vivian colored. 

" Ah, at Baden I was a little too anxious ! " 

" Too anxious I shouldn 't speak to your daughter ! " 
said Bernard, laughing. 

" At Baden," Mrs. Vivian went on, " I had views. 
But I haven 't any now — I have given them up." 

" That makes your acceptance of me very flatter- 
ing ! " Bernard exclaimed, laughing still more gaily. 

" I have something better," said Mrs. Vivian, laying 
her finger-tips on his arm. " I have confidence." 

Bernard did his best to encourage this gracious 
sentiment, and it seemed to him that there was some- 
thing yet to be done to implant it more firmly in 
Angela's breast. 

" I have a confession to make to you," he said to 
her one day. " I wish you would listen to it." 

" Is it something very horrible ? " Angela asked. 

" Something very horrible indeed. I once did you 
an injury." 

" An injury ?" she repeated, in a tone which seemed 
to reduce the offence to contemptible proportions by 
simple vagueness of mind about it. 

" I don't know what to call it," said Bernard. " A 
poor service — an ill-turn." 

Angela gave a shrug, or rather an imitation of a 
shrug ; for she was not a shrugging person. 

" I never knew it." 

" I misrepresented you to Gordon Wright," Bernard 
went on. 





" Why do you speak to me of him ? " she asked 
rather sadly. 

" Does it displease you ? " 

She hesitated a little. 

"Yes, it displeases me. If your confession has 
anything to do with him, I would ratHer not hear it." 

Bernard returned to the subject another time — he 
had plenty of opportunities. He spent a portion of 
every day in the company of these dear women ; and 
these days were the happiest of his life. The autumn 
weather was warm and soothing, the quartier was still 
deserted, and the uproar of the great city, which 
seemed a hundred miles away, reached them through 
the dense October air with a softened and muffled 
sound. The evenings, however, were growing cool, 
and before long they lighted the first fire of the sea- 
son in Mrs. Vivian's heavily draped little chimney- 
piece. On this occasion Bernard sat there with 
Angela, watching the bright crackle of the wood and 
feeling that the charm of winter nights had begun. 
These two young persons were alone together in the 
gathering dusk ; it was the hour before dinner, before 
the lamp had been lighted. 

" I insist upon making you my confession," said 
Bernard. " I shall be very unhappy until you let me 
do it." 

" Unhappy ? You are the happiest of men." 

" I lie upon roses, if you will ; but this memory. 





this remorse, is a folded rose-leaf. I was completely 
mistaken about you at Baden ; I thought all manner 
of evil of you — or at least I said it." 

" Men are dull creatures," said Angela. 

" I think they are. So much so that, as I look 
back upon that time, there are some things I don't 
understand even now." 

" I don't see why you should look back. People in 
our position are supposed to look forward." 

" You don't like those Baden days yourself," said 
Bernard. " You don't like to think of them." 

" What a wonderful discovery ! " 

Bernard looked at her a moment in the brighten- 
ing fire-light. 

" "What part was it you tried to play there ? " 

Angela shook her head. 

" Men are dull creatures!' 

"I have already granted that, and I am eating 
humble pie in asking for an explanation." 

" What did you say of me ? " Angela asked, after a 
silence. 

" I sid you were a coquette. Remember that I 
am simply historical." 

She got up and stood in front of the fire, having 
her hand on the chimney-piece and looking down at 
the blaze. For some moments she remained there. 
Bernard could not see her face. 

" I said you were a dangerous woman to marry," 





he went "on deliberately. " I said it because 1 thought 
it. I gave Gordon an opinion about you — it was a 
very unfavorable one. I couldn 't make you out — 
I thought you were playing a double part. I believed 
that you were ready to marry him, and yet I saw — 
I thought I saw — " and Bernard paused again. 

" What did you see ? " and Angela turned toward 
him. 

" That you were encouraging me — playing with 
me.'' 

" And you didn' t like that ? " 

"I liked it immensely — for myself! But didn't 
like it for Gordon ; and I must do myself the justice 
to say that I thought more of him than of myself" 

"You were an excellent friend," said Angela, 
simply. 

"I believe I was. And I am so still," Bernard 
added. 

She shook her head sadly. 

" Poor Mr. Wright ! " 

" He is a dear good fellow," said Bernard. 

" Thoroughly good, and dear, doubtless to his wife, 
the affectionate Blanche." 

"You don't like him — you don't like her," said 
Bernard. 

" Those are two very different matters. I am very 
sorry for Mr. Wright." 

"You needn't be that. He is doing very well." ' 





"So you have already informed me. But I am 
sorry for him, all the same." 

" That doesn 't answer my question," -Bernard ex- 
claimed, with a certain irritation. " What part were 
you playing ? " 

" "What part do you think ? " 

" Haven 't I told you I gave it up, long ago ? " 

Angela stood with her back to the fire, looking at 
him ; her hands were locked behind her. 

" Did it ever strike you that my position at Baden 
was a charming one ? — knowing that I had been 
handed over to you to be put under the microscope 
— like an insect with a pin stuck through it ! " 

" How in the world did you know it ? I thought 
we were particularly careful." 

" How can a woman help knowing such a thing ? 
She guesses it — she discovers it by instinct ; espe- 
cially if she be a proud woman." 

" Ah," said Bernard, " if pride is a source of in- 
formation, you must be a prodigy of knowledge ! " 

" I don't know that you are particularly humble ! " 
the girl retorted. " The meekest and most submis- 
sive' of her sex would not have consented to have 
such a bargain as that made about her — such a trick 
played upon her ! " 

" My dearest Angela, it was no bargain — no 
trick ! " Bernard interposed. 

"It was a clumsy trick — it was a bad bargain ! " 





she declared. At any rate I hated it — I hated the 
idea of your pretending to pass judgment upon me ; 
of your haying come to Baden for the purpose. It 
was as if Mr. Wright had been buying a horse and 
you had undertaken to put me through my paces ! " 

" I undertook nothing — I declined to undertake." 

" You certainly made a study of me — and I was 
determined you should get your lesson wrong. I de- 
termined to embarrass, to mislead, to defeat you. Or 
rather, I didn' t determine ; I simply obeyed a 
natural impulse of self-defence — the impulse to 
evade the fierce light of criticism. I wished to put 
you in the wrong." 

" You did it all very well. You put me admirably 
in the wrong." 

" The only justification for my doing it at all was 
my doing it well," said Angela. 

"You were justified then! You must have hated 
me fiercely." 

She turned her back to him and stood looking at 
the fire again. 

" Yes, there are some things that I did that can be 
accounted for only by an intense aversion." 

She said this so naturally that in spite of a certain 
theory that was touched upon a few pages back, 
Bernard was a good deal bewildered. He rose from 
the sofa where he had been lounging and went and 
stood beside her a moment. Then he passed his arm 





round her waist and murmured an almost tim- 
orous — 

" Eeally ? " 

" I don't know what you are trying to make me 
say ! " she answered. 

He looked down at her for a moment as he held 
her close to him. 

" I don't see, after all, why I should wish to make 
you say it. It would only make my remorse more 
acute." 

She was musing, with her eyes on the fire, and for 
a moment she made no answer ; then, as if her atten- 
tion were returning — 

" Are you still talking about your remorse ? " she 
asked. 

" You see I put it very strongly." 

" That I was a horrid creature ? " 

" That you were not a woman to marry." 

"Ah, my poor Bernard," said Angela, "I can't 
attempt to prove to you that you are not inconsis- 
tent ! " 

The month of September drew to a -close, and she 
consented to fix a day for their wedding. The last 
of October was the moment selected, and the selection 
was almost all that was wanting to Bernard's happi- 
ness. I say " almost," for there was a solitary spot in 
his consciousness which felt numb and dead — unper- 
vaded by the joy with which the rest of his spirit 





seemed to thrill and tingle. The removal of this 
hard grain in the sweet savour of life was needed to 
complete his felicity. Bernard felt that he had made 
the necessary excision when, at the end of the month, 
he wrote to Gordon Wright of his engagement. He 
had been putting off the performance of this duty 
from day to day — it seemed so hard to accomplish 
it gracefully. He did it at the end very briefly ; it 
struck him that this was the best way. Three days 
after he had sent his letter there arrived one from 
Gordon himself, informing Bernard that he had sud- 
denly determined to bring Blanche to Europe. She 
was not well, and they would lose no time. They 
were to sail within a week after his writing. The 
letter contained a postscript — " Captain Lovelock 
comes with us." 



XXIV. 

Beenakd prepared for Gordon's arrival in Paris, 
which, according to his letter, would take place in a 
few days. He was not intending to stop in England ; 
Blanche desired to proceed immediately to the 
French capital, to confer with her man-milliner, after 
which it was probable that they would go to Italy or 
to the East for the winter. '' I have given her a 
choice of Eome or the Nile," said Gordon, "but she 
tells me she doesn 't care a fig where we go." 

I say that Bernard prepared to receive his friends, 
and I mean that he prepared morally — or even in- 
tellectually. Materially speaking, he could simply 
hold himself in readiness to engage an apartment at 
a hotel and to go to meet them at the station. He 
expected to hear from Gordon as soon as this inter- 
esting trio should reach England but the first noti- 
fication he received came from a. Parisian hotel. It 
came to him in the shape of a very short note, in 
the morning, shortly before lunch, and was to the 
effect that his friends had alighted in the Eue de la 
Paix the night before. 

" We were tired, and I have slept late," said 





Gordon ; " otherwise you should have heard from 
me earlier. Come to lunch, if possible. I want ex- 
tremely to see you." 

Bernard, of course, made a point of going to lunch. 
In as short a time as possible he found himself in 
Gordon's sitting-room at the Hotel Middlesex. The 
table was laid for the midday repast, and a gentleman 
stood with his back to the door, looking out of the 
window. As Bernard came in, this gentleman turned 
and exhibited the ambrosial beard, the symmetrical 
shape, the monocular appendage, of Captain Lovelock. 

The Captain screwed his glass into his eye, and 
greeted Bernard in his usual fashion — that is, as if 
he had parted with him overnight. 

" Oh, good morning ! Beastly morning, isn 't it ? 
I suppose you are come to luncheon — I have come 
to luncheon. It ought to be on table, you know — 
it's nearly two o'clock. But I dare say you have 
noticed foreigners are never punctual — it's only 
English servants that are punctual. And they don't 
understand luncheon, you know — they can't make 
out our eating at this sort of hour. You know they 
always dine so beastly early. Do you remember the 
sort of time they used to dine at Baden ? — half-past 
five, half-past six ; some unearthly hour of that kind. 
That 's the sort of time you dine in America. I found 
they 'd invite a man at half -past six. That 's what I 
call being in a hurry for your food. You know they 





always accuse the Americans of making a rush for 
their victuals. I am bound to say that in New York, 
and that sort of place, the victuals were very good 
when you got them. I hope you don't mind my say- 
ing anything about America? You know the Am- 
ericans are so deucedly thin-skinned — they always 
bristle up if you say anything against their institu- 
tions. The English don't care a rap what you say — 
they've got a different sort of temper, you know. 
With the Americans I'm deuced careful — I never 
breathe a word about anything. While I was over 
there I went in for being complimentary. I laid it 
on thick, and I found they would take all I could 
give them. I didn' t see much of their institutions, 
after all ; I went in for seeing the people. Some of 
the people were charming — upon my soul, I was 
surprised at some of the people. I dare say you 
know some of the people I saw ; they were as nice 
people as you would see anywhere. There were 
always a lot of people about Mrs. Wright, you 
know ; they told me they were all the best people. 
You know she is always late for eveiything. She 
always comes in after every one is there — looking so 
devilish pretty, pulling on her gloves. She wears the 
longest gloves I ever saw in my life. Upon my word, 
if they don't come, I think I will ring the bell and 
ask the waiter what 's the matter. Wouldn 't you ring 
the bell ? It 's a great mistake, their trying to carry 







out their ideas of lunching. That 's Wright's char- 
acter, you know; he's always trying to carry out 
some idea. When I am abroad, I go in for the for- 
eign breakfast myself. You may depend upon it 
they had better give up trying to do this sort of thing 
at this houi-.'' 

Captain Lovelock was more disposed to conversa- 
tion than Bernard had known him before. His dis- 
course of old had been languid and fragmentary, and 
our hero had never heard him pursue a train of ideas 
through so many involutions. To Bernard's obser- 
vant eye, indeed, the Captain was an altered man. 
His manner betrayed a certain restless desire to be 
agreeable, to anticipate judgment — a disposition to 
smile, and be civil, and entertain his auditor, a ten- 
dency to move about and look out of the window and 
at the clock. He struck Bernard as a trifle nervous 
— as less solidly planted on his feet than when he 
lounged along the Baden gravel-walks by the side of 
his usual companion — a lady for whom, apparently, 
his admiration was still considerable. Bernard was 
curious to see whether he would ring the bell to in- 
quire into the delay attending the service of lunch ; 
but before this sentiment, rather idle under the cir- 
cumstances, was gratified, Blanche passed into the 
room from a neighboring apartment. To Bernard's 
pgrroption Blanche, at least, was always Blanche ; she 
was a person in whom it would not have occurred to 





him to expect any puzzling variation, and the tone of 
her little, soft, thin voice instantly rang in his ear 
like an echo of yesterday's talk. He had already re- 
marked to himself that after however long an interval 
one might see Blanche, she re-appeared with an air of 
familiarity. This was in some sense, indeed, a proof 
of the agreeable impression she made, and she looked 
exceedingly pretty as she now suddenly stopped on 
seeing our two gentlemen, and gave a little cry of 
surprise. 

" Ah ! I didn' t know you were here. They never 
told me. Have you been waiting a long time ? How 
d' ye do ? You must think we are polite." She held 
out her hand to Bernard, smiling very graciously. 
At Captain Lovelock she barely glanced. " I hope 
you are very well," she went on to Longueville ; " but 
I needn 't ask that. You 're as blooming as a rose. 
What in the world has happened to you ? You look 
so brilliant — so fresh. Can you say that to a man 
— that he looks fresh ? Or can you only say that 
about butter and eggs ? " 

" It depends upon the man," said Captain Lovelock. 
" You can't say that a man 's fresh who spends his 
time in running about after you ! " 

" Ah, are you here ? " cried Blanche with another 
little cry of surprise. "I didn't notice you — I 
thought you were the waiter. This is what he calls 
running about after me," she added, to Bernard; 





" coming to breakfast without being asked. How 
queerly they have arranged the table ! " she went on, 
gazing with her little elevated eyebrows at this piece 
of furniture. "I always thought that in Paris, if 
they couldn't do anything else, they could arrange 
a table. I don't like that at all — those horrid little 
dishes on each side ! Don't you think those things 
ought to be off the table, Mr. Longueville ? I don't 
like to see a lot of things I 'm not eating. And I told 
them to have some flowers — pray, where are the 
flowers ? Do they call those things flowers ? They 
look as if they had come out of the landlady's bonnet ! 
Mr. Longueville, do look at those objects." 

" They are not like me — they are not very fresh," 
laughed Bernard. 

" It 's no great matter — we have not got to eat 
them," growled Captain Lovelock. 

" I should think you would expect to — with the 
luncheon you usually make ! " rejoined Blanche. 
" Since you are here, though I didn' t ask you, you 
might as well make yourself useful. Will you be so 
good as to ring the bell ? If Gordon expects that we 
are going to wait another quarter of an hour for him 
he exaggerates the patience of a long-suffering wife. 
If you are very curious to know what he is about, he 
is writing letters, by way of a change. He writes 
about eighty a day ; his correspondents must be 
strpBg people ! Jt 's 3. lucky thing for me that I am 





married to Gordon ; if I were not he might write to 
me — to me, to whom it 's a misery to have to answer 
even an invitation to dinner ! To begin with, I don't 
know how to spell. If Captain Lovelock ever boasts 
that he has had letters from me, you may know it's 
an invention. He has never had anything but tele- 
grams — three telegrams — that I sent him in Am- 
erica about a pair of slippers that he had left at our 
house and that I didn' t know what to do with. Cap- 
tain Lovelock's slippers are no trifle to have on one's 
hands — on one's feet, I suppose I ought to say. For 
telegrams the spelling doesn 't matter ; the people at 
the office correct it — or if they don't you can put it 
off on them. I never see anything nowadays but 
Gordon's back," she went on, as they took their places 
at table — " his noble broad back, as he sits writing 
his letters. That 's my principal view of my husband. 
I think that now we are in Paris I ought to have a 
portrait of it by one of the great artists. It would 
be such a characteristic pose. I have quite forgotten 
his face and I don't think I should know it." 

Gordon's face, however, presented itself just at this 
moment ; he came in quickly, with his countenance 
flushed with the pleasure of meeting his old friend 
again. He had the sun-scorched look of a traveller 
who has just crossed the Atlantic, and he smiled at 
Bernard with his honest eyes. 

" Don't think me a great brute for not being here 





to receive you," he said, as he clasped his hand. " I 
was writing an important letter and I put it to my- 
self in this way: 'If I interrupt my letter I shall 
have to come back and finish it ; whereas if I finish 
it now, I can have all the rest of the day to spend 
with him.' So I stuck to it to the end, and now we 
can be inseparable." 

" You may be sure Gordon reasoned it out," said 
Blanche, while her husband offered his hand in si- 
lence to Captain Lovelock. 

"Gordon's reasoning is as fine as other people's 
feeling ! " declared Bernard, who was conscious of a 
desire to say something very pleasant to Gordon, 
and who did not at all approve of Blanche's little 
ironical tone about her husband. 

"And Bernard's compliments are better than either," 
said Gordon, laughing and taking his seat at table. 

" I have been paying him pompliments," Blanche 
went on. " I have been telling him he looks so bril- 
liant, so blooming — as if something had happened 
to him, as if he had inherited a fortune. He must 
have been doing something very wicked, and he 
ought to tell us all about it, to amuse us. I am sure 
you are a dreadful Parisian, Mr. Longueville. Eemem- 
ber that we are three dull, virtuous people, exceed- 
ingly bored with each other's society, and wanting to 
hear something strange and exciting. If it 's a little 
improper, that won't spoil it." 





" You certainly are looking uncommonly well," said 
Gordon, still smiling, across the table, at his friend. 
" I see what Blanche means — " » 

" My dear Gordon, that 's a great event," his wife 
interposed. 

" It's a good deal to pretend, certainly," he went on, 
smiling always, with his red face and his blue eyes. 
"But this is no great credit to me, because Bernard's 
superb condition would strike any one. You look 
as if you were going to marry the Lord Mayor's 
daughter I " 

If Bernard was blooming, his bloom at this junc- 
ture must have deepened, and in so doing indeed have 
contributed an even brighter tint to his expression of 
salubrious happiness. It was one of the rare occa- 
sions of his life when he was at a loss for a verbal 
expedient. 

" It 's a great match," he nevertheless murmured, 
jestingly. "You must excuse my inflated appear- 
ance." 

" It has absorbed you so much that you have had 
no time to write to me," said Gordon. " I expected 
to hear from you after you arrived." 

"I wrote to you a fortnight ago — just before re- 
ceiving your own letter. You left New York before 
my letter reached it." 

" Ah, it will have crossed us," said Gordon. " But 
now that we have your society I don't care. Your 





letters, of course, are delightful, but that is still 
better." 

In spite of this sympathetic statement Bernard 
cannot be said to have enjoyed his lunch; he was 
thinking of something else that lay before him and 
that was not agreeable. He was like a man who has 
an acrobatic feat to perform — a wide ditch to leap, 
a high pole to climb — and who has a presentiment 
of fractures and bruises. Fortunately he was not 
obliged to talk much, as Mrs. Gordon displayed even 
more than her usual vivacity, rendering her compan- 
ions the graceful service of lifting the burden of con- 
versation from their shoulders. 

" I suppose you were surprised to see us rushing 
out here so suddenly," she observed in the course of 
the repast. " We had said nothing about it when you 
last saw us, and I believe we are supposed to tell you 
everything, ain't we ? I certainly have told you a 
great many things, and there are some of them I 
hope you haven't repeated. I have no doubt you 
have told them all over Paris, but I don't care what 
you tell in Paris — Paris isn't so easily shocked. 
Captain Lovelock doesn 't repeat what I tell him ; I 
set him up as a model of discretion. I have told him 
some pretty bad things, and he has liked them so much 
he has kept them all to himself I say my bad things 
to Captain Lovelock, and my good things to other 
people; he doegn't know the difference and he is 
perfectly pontent.'' 



 2&b 

" Other people as well often don't know the differ- 
ence," said Gordon, gravely. " You ought always to 
tell us which are which." 

Blanche gave her husband a little impertinent 
stare. 

" When I am not appreciated," she said, with an at- 
tempt at superior dryness, " I am too proud to point 
it out. I don't know whether you know that I 'm 
proud," she went on, turning to GnrHnn and glancing avnp 
at Captain Lovelock ; " it 's a good thing to know. I 
suppose Gordon will say that I ought to be too proud 
to point that out ; but what are you to do when no 
one has any imagination ? You have a grain or two, 
Mr. Longueville; but Captain Lovelock hasn't a 
speck. As ioT Gordon, je7i' en parle pas ! But even 
you, Mr. Longueville, would never imagine that I am 
an interesting invalid — that we are travelling for my 
delicate health. The doctors haven't given me up, 
but I have given them up. I know I don't look as 
if I were out of health ; but that 's because I always 
try to look my best. My appearance proves nothing 
— absolutely nothing. Do you think my appearance 
proves anything. Captain Lovelock ? " 

Captain Lovelock scrutinized Blanche's appearance 
with a fixed and solemn eye ; and then he replied — 

" It proves you are very lovely." 

Blanche kissed her finger-tips to him in return for 
this compliment. 



" You only need to give Captain Lovelock a chance" 
she rattled on, " and he is as clever as any one. That 's 
what I like to do to my friends — I like to make 
chances for them. Captain Lovelock is like my dear 
little blue terrier that I left at home. If I hold out a 
stick he will jump over it. He won't jump without 
the stick ; but as soon as I produce it he knows what 
he has to do. He looks at it a moment and then he 
gives his little hop. He knows he will have a lump 
of sugar, and Captain Lovelock expects one as well. 
Dear Captain Lovelock, shall I ring for a lump ? 
Wouldn 't it be touching ? Garon, un morceau de 
Sucre pour Monsieur le Capitaine ! But what I give 
Monsieur le Capitaine is moral sugar ! I usually ad- 
minister it in private, and he shall have a good big 
morsel when you go away.'' 

Gordon got up, turning to Bernard and looking at 
his watch. 

" Let us go away, in that case," he said, smiling, 
" and leave Captain Lovelock to receive his reward. 
We will go and take a walk; we will go up the 
Champs ElyseS. Good morning. Monsieur le Capi- 
taine." 

Neither Blanche nor the Captain offered any oppo- 
sition to this proposal, and Bernard took leave of his 
hostess and joined Gordon, who had already passed 
into the antechamber. 



XXV. 

Gordon took his arm and they gained the street 
they strolled in the direction of the Champs Elysees. 

