shortened her sleep. Then there was a hurried rehearsal 
in the morning, lasting until two, the flurry and bewilder- 
ment of a strange stage, with its stuffy little green-room, 
its narrow exit and entrances, and the commonplace drear- 
iness of dim daylight. 
Titania went through her part with fear and trembling, 
but succeeded in pleasing. There was a lunch, with a 
plentiful flow of ale, the women eating with their fingers, 
and spicing the repast with slang and mild profanity, since 
they were good natured. 
"You'll see that Titania's costume is all right," said 
Thomas to Jane Hewlett. 
" Oh, let me !" screamed Dolly, with her mouth full of 
mutton pie. w I'm a stunner at such things. I'll make her 
gorgeous." 
" I don't care who does it. Her limbs are to be as free 
as possible, you know. Nothing to interfere with her 
poses." 
" Let me alone for that ; n and Dolly winked cunningly 
out of one eye. " I don't believe in what is it gilding 
gold, or painting the lily, unless it's a poor faded lily. And 
Titania's an angel, a sylph, a fairy ! " 
" Dolly St. John, you are a fool ! " interposed the Pearl, 
sharply. 
" This is one of the cases where ignorance is bliss," was 
the retort. 
Mademoiselle Pearl stared haughtily, not quite compre- 
hending who had the best, or who was considered worsted 
Dolly was in her element that afternoon, arranging 
costumes. Signer Visconti, the trapezist, did not come to 
hand until evening, when the party were again assembled 
in the green-room. He was a slight, wiry, brigandish 
looking fellow, a stranger to the rest. The satisfaction of 
Mr. Thomas was at its height. Nothing had gone wrong. 
At an early hour the Alhambra began to fill. Such 
wonderful attractions as the bills had announced were not 
to be slighted. The manager peered out now and then as 
the orchestra began tuning, and rushed back rubbing his 
hands in high good humor. 
"A splendid house! A splendid house! Now you 
must all do your best. We 'll take these Canadians by 
storm, and show them how we do things in the States. 
Where's that call-boy ? Here, you villain, stop your fool- 
ing. The overture has commenced. Ready now." 
Titania sat wrapped in a waterproof, in the lowest box, 
to see the first play, an especial favor gained for her by the 
good-natured Dolly. It was a sparkling little thing, with 
a jealous husband who somehow, in the end, got caught in 
the trap he laid for his angelic wife. 
Dolly was the maid, who with her lover kept the 
audience in a roar of laughter, and was applauded in her 
song. Julie Pearl, as the wife, was gorgeously costumed, 
and sentimental. Jane Hewlett, the mutual friend, did her 
part well. 
Then Valentini and his clog-dancing brought down the 
house, and Dolly St. John set everybody wild with her 
character songs. Then the curtain fell, and the audienc 
hunted down their programmes. " The wonderful fair) 
queen, Titania, in her astonishing pedestal dance." 
What was it ? There was a stir of expectation. 
Slowly the curtain wound its creaking way. The 
platform was visible the pedestal, and there, perched 
way atop, a human mite, a fair, slender thing, with a cloud 
of golden hair, and scanty rose-hued drapery. Was it a 
mortal being? Indeed, she looked more like a graceful 
statuette, poised by a sculptor's hand. The large, slow, 
moving eyes, with their dusky light, the small month with 
its dainty curves, the transparent skin. Dolly St. John 
had insisted upon rouging her cheeks, and they bloomed 
like a pale-tinted rose-bud. Her limbs, indeed her whole 
lithe, petite figure was so exquisitely lovely that the audience 
stared in silence, and wondered whether they had not been 
cheated by some marvellous figure, held in place by stage 
machinery. 
CHAPTER XV. 
A BONO SLAVE. 
THE horns blew out a beguiling melody, and the violins 
came in with their inspiriting strains. Slowly Titania 
moved, and the audience drew a breath of satisfaction. 
Thomas was watching her with a strange impatience. 
" If she would only show a little spirit," he muttered. 
Spirit ! What, indeed, were steadiness of head, and care 
of foot, when a misstep, a wavering of balance, might dash 
her to the floor, maimed and bleeding. She tried to con- 
centrate her mind on the music, to think of nothing beyond 
the performance, but they were long moments of deadly 
agony. It might have been a whole day or half a life time. 
The sea of faces were in a whirl before her when the wel- 
come rope was lowered to steady her as the motion ceased. 
Down came the curtain. Titania clutched her strong 
ally, and for an instant all was darkness before her. 
There was a round of thunderous applause, prolonged, 
then bursting out afresh. Then a bold call that found a 
dozen echoes. 
"Titania! Titania !" 
She came down from the platform quite exhausted. 
Dolly St. John caught her in her arms. 
Still the applause continued, and the cries became more 
urgent. 
" You'll have to go before the curtain and acknowledge 
it," said Thomas. 
" Oh, don't send me ! " the child cried in terror. 
" Come, no airs." 
"It's nothing," interrupted Dolly. "Just go and 
courtesy, and then run back to my arms, you darling. Ii 
I were a rich woman I should adopt you. There, sweet, 
Thomas will be raving." 
She dragged her strained and weary limbs, for the tense 
mental drain had been fearful. 
A shower of bouquets fell at her feet, and the applause 
was renewed. 
Signer Visconti was next in order. He had declined 
performing with the child, somewhat to Thomas's chagrin, 
at first, but the manager was rather glad, now, since Titania 
had made such a hit. Visconti was, after all, no marvellous 
athlete, and elicited such very moderate commendation 
that it roused his anger. And worst of all, the cries and 
calls began again : 
"Titania! Titania!" 
" She must go on again," said Thomas. 
But Titania lay on a heap of stage drapery, trembling 
and weeping, her nerves completely unstrung. 
" Come ! " he cried roughly, " what foolishness is this ? " 
" She can't do it, Thomas," interposed Dolly. " You'd 
be a fool to kill the hen that lays a golden egg. The au- 
dience will be all the more crazy to see her to-morrow 
night. Make some explanation." 
" Hold your clack ! " exclaimed Thomas, furious at being 
thus dictated to, though common sense told him Dolly 
was right. 
" Look at her ! Put her up on that pedestal if you dare ; " 
and Dolly's eyes blazed. 
Thomas went on the stage and bowed. The noise sub- 
sided somewhat. 
"Ladies and gentlemen, while lam honored by these 
proofs of your satisfaction and enjoyment, I regret to state 
that it will be quite impossible for Queen Titania to appear 
again to-night. The pedestal dance is very exhausting, 
and it would not be wisdom for a tired child to attempt it." 
With that he bowed and retired. There was a little 
"
murmur of dissatisfaction, but Dolly St. John sang a song, 
and the broad, amusing farce that followed restored every 
one to good humor." 
" A week of such houses will be a grand beginning ; " 
and Thomas rubbed his hands briskly. 
But a mutiny had already commenced. Julie Pearl was 
jealous of Dolly St. John, and Visconti glowered at the 
little Queen. 
The week was a success, though at its close Visconti 
quarrelled with the manager and left the troupe. To 
Titania it had been very hard, for the irregular living told 
on the child's strength. No careful Dick to note racing 
pulses and heavy eyes. Dolly was very good to her, but 
she was a wild, flighty little thing. Jane Hewlett and 
Julia Pearl quarrelled incessantly. 
In the new engagement, Titania was to appear twice, 
later in the evening, in some remarkable feats. It was fre- 
quently past midnight before she was in bed. She learned 
to enjoy the jolly little suppers, at which Dolly was always 
the presiding genius. 
And so passed a month. Dolly had an engagement in 
New York, Jane Hewlett quarrelled with the manager and 
Pearl, and went her way. Thomas was elated with his 
successes, and formed a new troupe to go westward. 
But here his olden ill luck attended him. Prosperity 
turned his head, and led him into frequent carousals. By 
mid-winter he found himself at the foot of the ladder again, 
kicked there by the very men who had drank his cham- 
paigne, and been feasted at his expense. He grew embit- 
tered and savagely morose. Others could keep out of his 
way, or refuse to make engagements with him, but Titania 
was his bond slave. 
She had heard twice from Kate. They were living in 
Paris, at a hotel, kept an elegant turn-out, drove every- 
where, went to theatres, and to balls and suppers, and dear 
Gilbert was the most adorable of husbands. He had taken 
part of the management of a theatre, was writing a play 
for it, and this news overjoyed the little creature. 
"If Gilbert succeeds," wrote Kate, " and I know he will, 
my dear, Paris is so different from New York, and is not so 
jealous about recognizing talent, he may have a theatre 
of his own, and we shall send for you. I hope you are 
well and happy, and improving. We expect to make a 
great actress of you. Are you as pretty as ever ? I hope 
you keep your hair in nice order. Do not allow any one 
to cut it. I wish I had you here this very minute, though 
Gilbert declares that he should be jealous to see me kiss 
another human being. He confesses that he was desper- 
ately jealous of you. I should send for you immediately, for 
I am real lonely while Gilbert is at his club and the rehear- 
sals, and he has so many people to see on business ; but he 
says it wouldn't be fair to break the engagement with 
Thomas. Do you like him? Tell me everything, my 
sweet girl. Take care of your complexion and your hair. 
There is nothing like beauty for an actress. I hope you will 
grow tall and slender. Next year you will be with us. 
How I am counting on it." 
Titania cried over her two precious letters, and slept 
with them under her pillow. She managed to concoct a 
wretched scrawl, with a strange sense of shame and embar- 
rassment at her own ignorance. But she poured out all her 
child's heart, all her longings. Now Kate appeared to her 
as almost perfection. No woman, except Dolly St. John, 
had been so kind, save in the transient intervals of kissing 
and caressing for some remarkable performance. And 
there was such a continual change to her life. A week 
here, a fortnight there, the friends of yesterday disappear- 
ing in the night. 
At the holidays Thomas indulged in a long debauch, 
the like of which had not occurred for several years. The 
engagements with Titania he found very profitable, al- 
beit they were not of the highest order. Indeed, the poor 
child was dragged to a depth that would have angered 
Dick Bridger, could he have seen his little queen, the 
darling of his heart. 
Titania shrank from these associations. They disgusted 
her, nay, filled her with a horrible fear. She possessed an 
innate refinement, a love of clean and wholesome things, 
and though there was much in the ribaldry and profanity 
that was quite beyond her comprehension, she had an in- 
stinctive dread of it. The third-rate lodging-houses at 
which they generally stopped were filled with people from 
whom she shrank shiveringly, and hid herself in some little 
box of a room, sometimes pinched with cold, as wrapped 
in an old shawl she would curl herself up on the bed and 
indulge in a few solitary tears. 
Kate's letter had given her so much comfort. Titania 
had been trained to such strict obedience that she seldom 
thought of rebelling. She counted the weary weeks, the 
year would end presently. 
In March they went to New York for a brief stay. Mrs. 
Thomas was looking worn, and Ranny's disease had taken 
on a new phase, but little short of insanity. In some of 
his rages Thomas threatened to kill the child ; but, though 
the man had grown brutal enough through the influence of 
rum to do such a deed, still he had a wholesome dread of 
the law. 
It seemed to Titania that she could endure the life no 
longer. The many privations had begun to leave their 
sign-manual. She was thin and pale, the brightness had 
gone out of her face, and a languor characterized every 
movement when she was off the stage. As for her per- 
formances, she went through them mechanically. She had 
grown used to danger and daring. Sometimes the music 
and the applause stirred her up for a brief while, but the 
inspiration was soon over. With a peculiar jealousy, 
Thomas had taken advantage of her dread of strange facesj 
to keep her as much to herself as possible. 
In this mood, compounded of fear and despair, she wrote 
to Kate, making an appeal to her love, and describing her 
terrible life with Thomas. Could she not come to Paris 
at once ? Would not Kate send for her ? She would do 
her best for Mr. Chippenham. She had learned so many 
new feats ; she had danced in the ballet also, and won 
much applause. But, Oh, how could she wait four or five 
months longer ! She should die here if Kate left her alone 
all that time. 
Then Titania crept cautiously down-stairs. 
"Mrs. Thomas, will you give me a little money for a 
postage stamp ? " she asked in a beseeching tone. 
" Why, I have some here that you're quite welcome to. 
Hush, don't let Ranny hear your voice. It will set him off 
again." 
" But I can't use that stamp, Mrs. Thomas. My letter 
is to go to Paris." 
"How much do you want? " 
" I don't know," hesitatingly. " I never put a letter in 
the Post-office." 
" And I don't believe you you can get a stamp like that 
any where around here. I wouldn't dare trust you to go 
 town. Thomas, he'd be so mad if anything happened 
to you. And you don't know your way much about the 
city." 
It was very true. Titania shivered now, with the dim 
remembrance of her once being lost. She could never dis- 
miss that sickening episode. 
" Wait, and let Owen do it." 
"But I would rather." 
" Oh, there he comes now. Owen, Miss Titania has been 
writing a letter to France, rind she wants a foreign postage 
stamp," said his wife. " She can't get it around here, can 
she?" 
" No, she can't," and the man turned his blear eyes full 
upon her. "You're a fool to be writing to them peo 
pie; what do you s'pose they care? You haven't had 
a letter in ever so long," he said, scoffingly. 
"But I wanted to write;" and the pale little lip 
quivered. 
" Why can't you take her letter down town, Owen?" 
"Well, I will. You wouldn't know what to do, any 
how, 'n officials always hate to be bothered with children 
hangin' round, and asking questions. Give it to me." 
" It is up-stairs." 
" Well, go and get it if you want it sent." 
Titania went slowly, wondering. Thomas had sent two 
letters for her, and both had gone safely. Why should she 
distrust him now ? But she was so very anxious about 
this, and she had a sense of concealment that was almost 
guilt. Yet there remained nothing to do but to produce 
it, which she did with an air of hesitancy. 
" If you would only take me with you," she said wist- 
fully. ' 
" I can't. I have some business on hand, and you'd be 
in the way." 
Titania delivered up the letter with a strange misgiving. 
Thomas put it in his pocket and went about his busi- 
ness, which was to make a new engagement for the " world 
renowned Queen Titania." A travelling circus desired to 
obtain her for a few weeks. 
He haggled over his bargain, and entirely forgot his 
other errand until Nora asked him at breakfast, the next 
morning, if the letter had gone. Something in her eager 
tones, and expectant face, struck him, and he dared not 
face her with a disappointment. 
"Yes, that's all right," he returned, carelessly. "On 
Tuesday we start off on another tramp, so get your traps 
ready." 
" You are quite sure it is gone ? " 
It was so important to her that she could not be satis- 
fied with only one asseveration. 
"Yes," he answered, crossly. 
He did mean to post it that day, but various other 
matters demanded his attention, and it passed out of his 
mind until evening. Then he found himself at a drink- 
ing-saloon, with some roystering companions, playing cards. 
Inadvertently he pulled it out of his pocket, and uttered 
an oath as he saw it. 
They finished their game, and one of the men disputed 
the points. Thomas broke the seal of the letter, and 
glanced vaguely over its contents. 
I do not think the man did this from curiosity, or any 
distrust of Titania. It was a half-drunken whim. But he 
caught sight of his own name, read a few lines, and then 
thrust it into its former receptacle. 
"The ungrateful little huzzy!" he muttered, settling 
himself to another game. 
He staggered home at midnight, and the next morning, 
as he was dressing, remembered the half-read epistle. He 
would see what this puny thing dared to complain of. He 
had taken care of her according to agreement, paid for her 
promptly when the salary came due. Chippenham had 
left the matter in good hands for himself. It was the 
money or the child. A week's delay would cancel the en- 
gagement, and others stood ready to take Queen Titania. 
Thomas had paid the money grudgingly, it must be con- 
fessed. He had found his winter's business with her more 
profitable, really, than first-class engagements. But that 
she should dare to complain ! that she should have any 
ideas of her own! 
" I'll pay her of? for this, the miserable, deceitful jade ! " 
he stormed. " She'll see whether her dear Kate will send 
for her ! " and a cruel sneer crossed his lips. " I'll have 
her another year, if I choose ! Chip 'll likely be hard up, 
and glad to get the money. I'll make my own bargain, 
too ! I've given in to her whims, and her wishes, and her 
cant's, and her wont's. She's got to come to the mark after 
this, the sly little devil ! I'll teach her to lie about me ! 
Afraid ! well, she better be ! And I've a right to get 
drunk, if I like ; it takes no one's money but my own ! 
We'll see, my rare little lady ! curse you ! " 
He hurried on his clothes, and ran down-stairs. The 
table was set for one, some dishes were covered in the 
oven, keeping hot, and a piece of juicy steak waiting to be 
broiled. 
Ranny was fastened in a chair, before the window, the 
wide sill of which was strewn with playthings. 
" Where's Titania ? " thundered the master. 
" Titania ! " and Mrs. Thomas started, with a half-scared 
look. " Why, she is up-stairs, in her room. She had her 
breakfast an hour ago. What is the matter with you, 
Owen? You look." 
" Go up and see if she is there ? ' 
Why ? " 
" Go this minute, if you don't want your head broken," he 
shouted. 
" Owen, are you crazy ? " and she stood aghast. Then, 
frightened at the fierce scowl, she started to do his bidding. 
He came to his senses before she returned. He would 
be crazy to give a hint about the letter, and he thrust it 
into the stove. No one must be aware that he had any 
special cause for mistrusting Titania. 
" She's all right enough," said Mrs. Thomas, entering the 
room. " She's up-stairs, reading." 
" I had a queer dream about her," was the explanation 
he vouchsafed. 
" That she had run away ? n asked his wife. 
" Run away ? " and he put on an air of surprise. " What 
made you think of that? Is she dissatisfied, or anything? 
No, I dreamed she was stolen, murdered," making up the 
story on the instant. 
" How horrible, Owen ! Who did it ? " 
" No one seemed to know. There, don't frighten her 
with any such story. Hold your tongue about it. And, 
I say, keep a sharp lookout. Does she stay up stairs 
much?" 
" Why, yes. It isn't hardly safe for her to be within 
Ranny's reach, you know." 
" Hang the brat ? If you let anything happen to her 
I'll shove him in a 'sylum the next day, just you mind 
that;" and be gave a sharp decisive nod. 
" I don't think you need feel afraid. She's the shyest 
little thing I ever knew. She ain't a bit like the stage 
people I've seen. An' all she seems to care about now is 
poring over books and such. Oughtn't she go to school 
some, Owen ? " 
" I don't know as that's any of your business. Them as 
own her hire her out for stage purposes, and make a fellow 
pay high enough for her, too ! All I've to think about is 
getting my money back, and it's a hard squeeze ! " finish- 
ing with an oath. 
The savory fragrance of the steak mollified Thomas 
somewhat, though his unreasonable anger against Titania 
was in no degree abated. 
She was in the power of a bad, brutal man ; a man who 
daily deadened every faculty and feeling by the use of vile 
poisons. A little girl, particularly defenceless, in that there 
was no one to whom she could apply. Dolly St. John had 
been in the city during the winter, acting, but now she 
was gone to New Orleans. Beyond her, Titania's heart had 
warmed to no one'. The shortness of their sojourn in 
every place had precluded anything like friendship. Then 
the narrow jealousy of Owen Thomas, and her own half 
diffidence, half fear of her kind, who had often been hard 
and cruel, kept her from responding to the advances that 
might have benefited her. 
Thomas was rough and surly with her. It was really 
no new thing, or it might have set her to wondering. And 
then she hugged her blessed secret to her heart. Kate 
would surely send for her when she read her letter. Ot 
if, at the worst, more than half the year was gone. April 
was coming in. She would not have to be shut up in cold 
rooms, or stand shivering in scanty attire on draughty 
stages. 
Ah, how good Dick had been ! How he used to fold 
her in nice warm shawls, and carry her in his arms, and 
have bright grate fires in the room at night. And the 
quiet little suppers when she sat on his knee ! 
Ah, Dick Bridger, there was no more grateful memory 
in the whole world than that this child held of you. 
But how had it fared with Kate, all this while ? 
She had realized that her new husband was not all per- 
fection. It was an article in Gilbert Chippenham's creed 
that every woman, old or young, desired most of all to be 
made love to continually ; and he fancied himself a com- 
plete adept in the art. So he managed to hold his sway 
over Kate, though he did now and then call her a fool. 
Meanwhile, out of her sight, he solaced himself with 
younger and fairer loves. He was in his element at Paris. 
He had picked up a very decent smattering of French, 
which was a great help to him now. He made a plunge 
into the gay, beguiling, theatric life of Paris ; he was 
young, good-looking, and had plenty of money, and there 
were sharpers enough he could hardly have missed them 
anywhere to relieve him of the liule plethora. 
And so he saw the gay world, Kate paying for it. 
A keener woman might have grown suspicious, but he 
could deceive her so easily with his semblance of love, 
his good-natured jollity, for he was not an ill-tempered 
man when it was all smooth sailing, and he had plenty 
of money. And she found much to amuse herself with ; 
only, to her credit be it spoken, as the time went on she 
longed more and more for Titania. 
It was the one point in dispute between the husband 
and wife. Chippenham had distrusted the quiet eyes of 
Titania from the first. She seemed to read the subter- 
fuges that blinded Kate so easily. If she were here she 
might help to open Kate's eyes, and, truth to tell, he 
found her profitable where she was, so he put off Kate's 
entreaties. Thus far Titania had made no complaints 
she was well enough off then. They would send for her 
presently, when her year was up. Thomas might make no 
end of a row, and sue them, and they would get into diffi- 
culties without doing any one any good. 
But Kate sometimes watched the groups of pretty chil- 
dren with a feeling of envy. Titania would be noticeable 
anywhere, and she hoped not that the poor child was 
well treated and happy but that she was growing more 
beautiful, that she would be tall and slender, and keep her 
hair of pale gold, and pearly complexion. 
CHAPTER XVL 
"WE ABB SO TIBED, MT HEART AND t," 
AH, the wearisome round! The vile smell of kerosene, 
the stale jests of the ring, at which happy unsurfeited boy 
hood laughs, when they are heard once or twice a year, the 
perils at which the audience first holds its breath, and then 
applauds noisily. 
Never had the work been so hard to Titania. The 
strain and drain of the winter had worn her sadly, and the 
lassitude of spring seemed to take the strength out of her 
limbs, the ambition from her brain. The noisy voices dis- 
tracted her, the rough tones of the men filled her with 
terror, and now and then some audacious kiss startled her, 
and made her shrink with an undefined fear. 
There was a bold, handsome equestrienne, Mademoiselle 
Virginie de Rohan, who delighted the audience with her 
perilous riding, and took every opportunity to extinguish 
Queen Titania, and annihilate her with stinging sarcasms 
off the stage. 
" This won't do ! " declared Thomas, savagely. " You 
have no more spirit than a limp rag, and that slack rope 
performance was wretched ! It hardly brought out a bit 
of applause." 
" I was so tired," the soft voice said, piteously. 
" Tired ! " and he uttered an oath. " You are not worth 
your salt, you miserable limp rag ! " 
" Why do they want me then ? And I had to go on 
the third time," she said, with a sudden touch of spirit. 
" Take that for your impudence, will you ! " and a blow 
sent her reeling against an upright supporting a side scene. 
" I'll teach you who's master here." 
She was stunned, for a moment; then all her outraged 
pride asserted itself. 
" How dare you strike me ! " and she stood before him 
pale as death, but firm and untrembling. 
" You'll get it again if you don't shut your head. See 
here," and he seized her roughly by the arm, so that she 
was compelled to cry out with the pain. " See here, you've 
put on too many airs of late, and by God I'll stop it. I'm 
your master! I pay for you, and a devilish good price, 
too, and you've got to work for it. Let me see any such 
milk-and-water performance another night!" 
She shrank away, cowering like some poor beaten dog. 
Of late he had grown so fierce, so brutal indeed ! She 
could not know that the intercepted letter was rankling in 
his mind, urging him on at such times when rum made a 
demon of him. 
So she crawled away to her lonely bed, faint, frightened, 
sick with the thought of the dreary days that must inter- 
vene before salvation came. 
Titania tried her utmost the next evening, and pleased 
her audience, was loudly encored, and repeated one or two 
of the most trying feats. Thomas was better natured, and 
gave her a rough sort of commendation, but it was more to 
her than all the applause of the crowd. She was so tired 
of that, so tired. But she kept up heart. It was only a 
month's engagement with the circus, and after that there 
might be a little rest. Even the home with Mrs. Thomas 
looked inviting. 
Alas ! In this she was doomed to a bitter disappoint- 
ment. Thomas had what he called a streak of luck. A 
boon companion had made him an offer in partnership of a 
place in successful operation. 
I was a large manufacturing town. On every hand 
were evidences of trade and industry. There were mills, 
factories, shops, unlimited water-power, railroads crossing 
it like a net work. On the outskirts, at the northern end, 
there was wealth, culture, refinement, and beauty. Elegant 
ladies rode in their carriages, fine looking, well kept busi- 
ness men thronged the streets. Churches, an extensive 
library, a handsome hall, with its concert and lecture rooms, 
and nicely kept parks, afforded sources of interest and 
amusement. 
That was the bright side of the town. 
But there were other places, given over to the low and 
vile; there were streets abounding in beer saloons, cellars, 
and gambling-dens. Now and then a spasm of virtuous 
public sentiment was aroused, and a descent made upon 
the most notorious, but in a few weeks it would be for- 
gotten. 
There was, at one point, amid shops and factories, a 
railroad junction. Long ago it had been given over to 
business, though a few old white haired men babbled of the 
time when it had been an orchard, and the ancient landmarks 
of houses were inhabited by the first families. Turning up 
a broad business thoroughfare you saw, on the one side, a 
few second or third rate boarding-houses, billiard-halls, and 
lunch-rooms. Standing next, in a little recess, was a broad, 
low building, with a flaring gilt sign, " The Odeon," and at 
each side bulletin-boards with posters in blue and red, and 
gorgeous ornamental capitals. 
Common as the Odeon seemed, it was a great place of 
resort, and profitable to its owners or lessees. There were 
always some handsome dancing-girls, dashing character 
songs, witty burlesques, and a drinking-saloon next door. 
The audience was not choice or select, composed largely of 
roughs, and that portion of factory hands who ate and 
slept in boarding-houses, and spent their evenings where 
the attraction was the strongest. 
Six months ago Thomas would have disdained this offer ; 
now he closed with it instantly, as general stage-manager. 
Titania found herself again in a strange city, amid smoke, 
and grime, and noise, an inmate of a common boarding- 
house, sharing a third-story front room with two coryphees 
of the burlesque. 
Titania glanced around, in piteous terror, as she was set 
down in the midst. The shabby carpet was worn in holes, 
the bureau and chairs had been long despoiled of their 
pristine polish. A very much tumbled double bed in one 
corner, and a small camp bedstead in another, a closet door 
open, displaying much soiled finery, and the top of every- 
thing loaded down with bits and fragments, faded flowers, 
gauze, spangles, wigs and curls of jute, or other imitation ; 
the disorder of the green-room for daily living. 
A girl sat on the floor fashioning some sort of stage cos- 
tume, as tumbled in her own attire as in her surroundings. 
She might have been twenty, and was handsome, with a 
bold, hard beauty, albeit very fair. 
" I shall have to put this new girl in your room, Miss 
De Vere. I'm just crowded full, and there's a spare bed 
here," said the landlady, a stout, florid personage. 
Miss De Vere glanced up and nodded. Titania stood 
just inside the door, feeling strangely desolate. 
" Come in, and make yourself at home. Why, what a 
mite you are! You're not that wonderful Queen Titania, 
of course ? Don't be afraid." 
The voice was carelessly good-natured, and the face as 
carelessly indifferent. 
" Yes, I am Queen Titania ; " was the low, tremulous 
answer. Ah, if she were not ! 
" Oh, my stars and garters ! You ! " and there was more 
contempt than surprise in the tone. " None of your lying ! 
It won't go down here." 
Titania's eyes filled with tears, sweet, soft-brown eyes 
that her dead mother had loved. 
The other looked astonished. 
" You don't really mean it ! " she exclaimed. 
" Yes, I am " but her voice failed. 
" Well, I declare ! Here we've been afraid of our very 
lives, thinking you were some great thing, and that nobody 
would look at us when you came, and you're just the mer- 
est mite ; and somehow you've an awfully old-fashioned 
look. Why ! you're not a bit handsome, either." 
Titania flushed. She had learned how necessary beauty 
was, and all of her hopes of Kate rested upon that fact. 
For an instant she was stunned and crushed by the blow. 
"You're thin and pale, and altogether different from 
what I expected. Rose and me, that's my partner, she's 
Rose, and I'm Lilian. We chose the names because I was 
fair, and she has a good deal of color ; and oh, such black 
eyes ! We pass for sisters, but we're not ; a high old con- 
trast we make," and she laughed loudly. " As I was say- 
ing, Rose and me had made up our minds that we'd give 
you a hard time of it, but you look such a weak, forlorn 
little thing ! Why, how old are you ? " 
"I must be nearly eleven, I think;" and now the tears 
began to drop silently. 
" Eleven ! Oh, I don't believe that. You're not more'n 
nine, I know. Empty a chair, and sit down. Come, make 
yourself at home. I want to hear about that pedestal 
dance. Do you really dance, and is it up so high ? Oh, 
there, don't be a baby ! May be you'd like to take off your 
things, and lie down here on the bed." 
She sprang up and swept off the finery, huddling it in a 
heap in the corner, and looking wonderingly at the child, 
who was now sobbing. 
" There I I wouldn't cry. You feel a bit strange, but 
you'll soon get used to us ; and I'll coax Rose not to stir 
up a row. Rose is mighty hot-headed, I tell you ; and we 
thought you'd cut in for some of the chaps, but you're not 
that kind, I think ; and you're too little and pale, anyhow. 
Fellows don't like such milk-and-water girls. You're out 
of our line, altogether ; so Rose can be content." 
Titania took off her hat and mantle, and laid them on a 
pile of trumpery, the foundation of which was a chair. 
She sat wearily on the side of the dingy bed. There was 
a whirl of confusion without. The screech of the different 
locomotives, the rattling of carts and wagons over the cob- 
ble-stones, the shouts, and calls, and cries, the noise and 
hubbub in the house, the click of billiard-playing some- 
where, and a snatch of drinking song by a tipsy German, 
fell on her sensitive ear with painful incongruity. It was 
a close, warm morning, and the house had a sickening 
scent of uncleanliness. 
They had been travelling over country-ways, where the 
young and dewy spring was making itself felt and seen. 
Soft greenish-brown wraiths stood by the roadside, and 
violets starred the grass ; while the wandering south wind 
wafted the spicy fragrance of the awakening woods. And 
now to come to crowded streets and stifling rooms, the 
squalor and glitter that jostled rudely the coarse, hard life ! 
oh, if she could but die ! she was tired of waiting for 
Kate's summons. Could she ever live through the long, 
warm summer? Suddenly her heart and flesh failed. It 
seemed for a moment as if she might be dying, and a 
shiver of fear sped through her veins. 
" Can I do anything for you ? " cried Lillian, startled at 
the deathly paleness. " Are you sick ? Oh, you are a 
poor little mite. Why, your'e never fit for the things 
you're said to do, or is it all a sham ! Guy ! Won't King 
be mad if Thomas has bamboozled him ! " and she laughed 
coarsely at the thought. 
" Is King " and a choking sensation stopped Titania's 
voice. 
" King is our grand high duke. Now its ' King and 
Thomas' unrivalled combination troupe, Queen Titania, 
the world-renowned child acrobat, trained by a celebrated 
performer' who trained you?" changing her tone, ab 
ruptly. 
Signer Barretti." 
" Barretti ? I don't believe I've seen him. Where is
he ? " with a dull wonder in her eyes. 
"Dead ! " and then Titania said softly to herself, " Oh, 
my poor, dear Dick, can you not send for me to come 
to heaven ? I am so miserable here." 
" Oh ! Have you any folks relatives ? " 
" No." She was tired of going into particulars only to 
hear most of them discredited. 
" Well, you don't look so much like dying as you did a 
minute ago. You'd better get rested up, as you're on the 
bills for to-night." 
Lilian resumed her seat and her work. Titania lay 
quite still. There was a ringing in her ears, the thump 
of a sledge-hammer at her temples, and every inch of her 
small body throbbed with a dull, torturing pain. So tired ! 
So tired ! How could she get up and dance to-night; leap, 
and fly, and swing ! 
There was a great stir presently. A click of heels up 
the stairs and through the halls, a snatch of street song, 
and some one entered the room. Titania did not open her 
eyes. 
It was Rose, and the clatter of the two girls' tongues 
almost set her wild. Rose had a mind to be unfriendly, 
but Lilian took her part, and pitied her, depreciating her 
with every word, it was true, and yet it did not seem to 
be done with either malice or ill-nature. Its perfect hon- 
esty was the bitter sting to the poor child. 
She had been caressed and flattered a great deal during 
her short life. She had learned that beauty and grace and 
attractiveness were the cardinal points, and in her childish 
way she had been proud of possessing them. But to be 
"udely shorn of all her glory, to have a failure predicted, 
seemed so cruel ! Could she dare to face this brazen, de- 
cisive Rose, this complacent Lilian ? 
There was a loud clang through the house, that startled 
her. She sprang up, white and terrified. 
Lilian laughed heartily. 
"That's only the dinner bell. Will you go down? 
Poor little thing. Rose, I feel sorry for herj" and the 
glance seemed to bespeak the other's pity. 
Rose stared insolently. 
" You look like the ghost of buried hopes ! King's been 
sold, sure as my name's Rose De Vere." 
Which it isn't at all," laughed Lilian. 
" To all intents and purposes. If my sponsors neglected 
their business it follows that I must see to it. Will it 
please your high mightiness, Queen Titania, to descend to 
the lower region, and partake of pork and beans, or calf's 
brains ? " and she held out her elbow, as if offering her an 
escort. 
" I would rather stay here. I am not hungry." 
"You had better come," suggested Lilian. 
Titania shook her head. 
" No fooling," and Rose gave her companion a jerk. 
" Dinner is always a game of grab, you know. The first 
fellow is the best fellow." 
With that they left her. Titania shed a few bitter, 
lonely tears. Oh, if there were but one, Kate, Dolly St. 
John, or any human being who had been kind to her, 
one soul to care what became of her. 
After dinner the two girls dressed themselves, and went 
out. Trailing black silk gowns, glaring jewelry, and imi- 
tation laces, powder and rouge for Lilian, and lily-white for 
Rose. Jauntiest of hats, and lace veils that enhanced 
their beauty, and rendered them more attractive for their 
promenade and street flirtations. 
Titania fell asleep, presently, from sheer exhaustion. It 
did her good. The racking head-ache was better, and 
though she still trembled in every limb, a latent strength 
came to her aid. She rose, washed her face and hands, 
ihough the filthy basin left by the two girls half sickened 
her, combed out her shining hair, and tied a ribbon in it 
Not a moment too soon. The knock at the door an- 
nounced Thomas. 
" Why didn't you come down and have some dinner? " 
he asked, roughly, not being at all moved by her pale face. 
" I felt sick," she answered, hesitatingly. 
" You've no business to be sick, do you hear that ? I 
dou't hire you to get sick. Here's your trunk, and you 
better be looking up your traps. I expect you to make a 
hit to-night, d'you hear ? " and he glanced at her savagely. 
" Oh, Mr. Thomas," she cried, " couldn't I have some 
other room. There are two girls here, and if I could be 
alone " 
" A room to yourself! Well, you have big ideas, for a 
small person, I must say. Next thing you'll ask for a 
lady's maid, maybe a carriage of your own ; ha, ha ! " with 
a sneer. " You're better off here where there's some one 
to see that your toggery is about right. And I can't afford 
any such luxuries. Look out that you come down and get 
some supper," and he shook his fist. 
She made no answer to her brutal master. 
When he was gone she unlocked her trunk and took 
out a few articles. How soiled and crumpled they were. 
If she could only have something bright and fresh ; if 
there could be some one like Dolly St. John ! Ah! how 
long ago that seemed. How long since any one had really 
cared for her. 
Well, by this time, Kate must have her letter. April 
was half gone, and, with the hopefulness of a child, she 
looked forward to relief. Kate surely would not leave her 
with Thomas the whole summer. 
With a great effort she ate a little supper. Then she 
went to the theatre with the De Veres, heard the stale 
: osts and insolences, and watched the preparations with 
apathy. The audience began to gather, and to grow 
impatient. There was the burlesque, the dancing, wildest 
of its kind, the songs, the rough applause, the calls for 
favorites she had seen it so many times. How could 
they skip, and whirl, and laugh, as if it was all a delight to 
