childlike perceptions another thing also seemed 
clear; that it is a bad way to escape one wrong 
by doing another. She always brought up with 
that. And so, she could not venture and did not 
venture to attack Lawrence on the wine question. 
She knew it would be in vain. 
Meanwhile they were in Rome. Two of the gen- 
tlemen being skilled travellers,- they had presently 
secured a very tolerable apartment; not in the best 
situation indeed, but so neither was it of the most 
expensive sort; and clubbing their resources, were 
arranged comfortably enough to feel quite at home. 
And immediately Dolly began to use her advantage 
and see Rome. Mrs. Copley had no curiosity to 
see anything; all her wish was to sit at her window or by her fire and talk to her husband; and 
as Mr. Copley shared her lack of enterprize and 
something withheld him from seeking either gam- 
bling or drinking shops, Dolly could go out with 
an easy mind, and give herself undividedly to the 
intense enjoyment of the place and the time. Yes, 
undividedly; for she was eighteen, and at eighteen one has a power of, for a time, throwing off 
trouble. Trouble was on her, she knew ; and 
nevertheless, when Dolly found herself in the 
streets of Rome, or in presence of its wonders 
 
of art or marvels of antiquity, she and trouble 
parted company. She forgot all but the present; 
or even if she did not forget, she disregarded. 
Her spirit took a momentary leap above all that 
ordinarily held it down, and revelled, and rejoiced, 
and expanded, and rose into a region of pure exquisite life. Rupert, who always accompanied her, 
was rather opening the eyes of his mind and opening them very wide indeed, and as is the case' with 
eyes newly opened, not seeing very clearly; yet 
taking great pleasure in what he did see. St. 
Leger, her other companion, had a certain delight 
in seeing Dolly's enjoyment; for himself, alas, it 
was too plain that art said little to him, and antiquity nothing. 
One afternoon, when they had been perhaps a 
week in Rome, Dolly declared her intention of 
taking Rupert to the Museo Capitolino. 
" You were there the day before yesterday," St. 
Leger remarked, rousing himself from a comfortable position and a magazine. 
"Yes, thank you; and now I am going to do for 
Mr. Babbage what you did for me; introduce him 
to a scene of delights. You know, one should always pass on a good thing that one has received." 
" Don't you want me ? " 
" No indeed ! I wouldn't bore you to that extent." 
" But you will allow me, for my own pleasure " 
said Lawrence getting up. 
"No, I will not. You have done your part, as 
 
far as that museum is concerned; and besides, I 
have heard that a lady must not dance too many 
dances with one gentleman. It is Mr. Babbage's 
turn." 
And with a merry little nod of her head and 
smile at the irresolute St. Leger, Dolly went off. 
Eupert was generally of the party when they went 
sight-seeing, but it had happened that it was not 
the case when the visit to the Capitoline Museum 
had been made. 
" You are not going to this place for my sake ? " 
Rupert said as Dolly hurried along. 
" For your sake, and for my sake," she answered. 
" I was there for about two minutes, and I should 
like two days. Rome, Rome ! I never saw anything like Rome." 
" Why ? " said Rupert. " It hasn't got hold of 
me so." 
" Wait, and it will. I seem to be touching the 
history of the world here, till I don't know whereabouts in the ages I am. Is this the nineteenth 
century ? Here we are." 
Half an hour later, the two found themselves in 
the Hall of the Emperors. 
" Do you know Roman history, Rupert ? " 
" A little. Not much. Not far down, you see. 
I know about Romulus and Remus." 
" Then you know more than anybody else knows. 
That's a myth. Look here. Let us begin at the 
beginning. Do you know this personage ? " 
" Julius Caesar ? Yes. I have read about him." 
 
"Did you ever read Plutarch's Lives? They 
used to be my delight when I was a little girl. 
I was very fond of Julius Csesar then. I know 
better now. But I am glad to see him." 
" Why, wasn't he a great man ? " 
"Very. So the world says. I have come to 
perceive, Rupert, that that don't mean much." 
"Why not? I thought the world was apt to 
be right." 
"In some things. No doubt this man might 
have been a very great man; he had power; but 
what good did he do to the world ? He just 
worked for himself. I tell you what the Bible 
says, Rupert; 'the things which are highly esteemed among men, are abomination in the sight 
of God.' Look, and you will see it is so." 
" If you go by that Who is this next man ? 
Augustus. He was the first Roman emperor, 
wasn't he ? " 
"And all around here are ranged his succes- 
sors. What a set they were ! and they look 
like it." 
" How do you know they are likenesses ? " 
" Know from coins. Do you know, almost all 
these men, the emperors, died a violent death '
Murdered, or else they killed themselves. That 
speaks, don't it, for the beauty and beneficence of 
their reigns, and the loveliness of their characters ? " 
" I don't know them very well. Some of them 
were good men, weren't they ? " 
"See here, Nos. 11 and 12. Here are Caligula 
 
and Claudius. Caligula was murdered. Then Clau- 
dius was poisoned by his wife Agrippina; there she 
is, No. 14. She was killed by her son Nero; and 
Nero killed himself; and No. 13, there is another 
wife of Claudius whom he killed before he mar- 
ried Agrippina; and here, No. 17, was a wife of 
Nero whom he killed by a kick. And that is the 
way, my dear Rupert, they went on. Don't you 
wish you had belonged to the Imperial family? 
There's greatness for you ! " 
" But there were some really great ones, weren't 
there ? Which are they ? " 
"Well, let us see. Come on. Here is Trajan. 
He was not a brute; he was a philosopher and a 
sceptic. He was quite a distinguished man in the 
arts of war and peace. But, he ordered that the 
profession of Christianity should be punished with 
death. He legalized all succeeding persecutions, 
by his calm enactments. Do you think he was a 
great man in the sight of God ? " 
" Were the Christians persecuted in his reign ? " 
"Certainly. In Asia Minor, under the good governor Pliny. Simon the son of Cleophas was crucified at that time." 
" Perhaps Trajan did not know any better." 
, " He might have known better, though. Ignor- 
ance is no plea that will stand, when people have 
the means of knowledge. But come on. Here is 
Marcus Aurelius; here, Eupert, Nos. 37 and 38. He 
was what the world calls a very great man. He 
was cultivated, and wise, and strong, a great governor, and for a heathen a good man ; and how he 
treated the Christians! East and west, and at 
Rome here itself, how they were sought out and 
tortured and killed ! What do you think the Lord 
thinks of such a great man as that? Remember, 
the Bible says of his people, ' He that toucheth 
you, toucheth the apple of his eye.' What do you 
think the Lord thought of Marcus Aurelius' greatness? Look here, Rupert here is Decius, and 
here is Diocletian." 
" Were they persecutors too ? " 
"Great. It is so strange to look at their faces 
here, in this museum, after so many centuries. I 
suppose they will stand here, maybe, till the end 
of the world. Come away we have been so long 
in this gallery we have -not left time enough for the 
other rooms." 
They went to the Hall of the Gladiator; and 
there Dolly studied the figure which gives name 
to the place, with a kind of rapt intensity. She 
described to her companion the meaning of the 
marble; but it was not the same thing to them 
both. Dolly was lost in delighted contemplation. 
Rupert looked on with a kind of incredulous scorn. 
"You don't care for it?" she said suddenly, 
catching a sight of his face. 
" What's it good for ? " said Rupert. "This ain't 
a likeness of anybody,, is it ? " 
" It is a likeness of a great many people. Hundreds and hundreds died in such fashion as that, 
for the pleasure of the Roman people." 
 
"Well, would it have been any satisfaction to 
you to see it ? " 
" Why no ! I hope not." 
" Then why do you like to see it here now ? " 
" I don't ! this is not reality, but an image." 
" I can't see why you should like to look at the 
image, when you couldn't bear the reality." 
"Why Rupert," Dolly began, but her further 
words were cut oft'. 
" Met again ! " said a soft voice. " You here ! 
we did not know you would be in Rome so soon." 
" Dolly ! " exclaimed Christina, who followed 
her mother. "That's delightful. Dolly Copley 
in Rome ! and in the Museo Capitolino. Who is 
with you ? " 
"We are all here," said Dolly smiling. 
"Yes, yes, in Rome, of course; but you are not 
in the museum alone ? " 
Dolly presented Mr. Babbage. 
" And how is your mother ? " Mrs. Thayer went 
on. "Better. I am so glad. I thought she would 
be better in Italy. And what have you done with 
your handsome cavalier o servente Mr. St. Leger ? " 
" I left him at home with a magazine, in which . 
I think there was a story," said Dolly. 
" Impossible ! his gallantry allowed you to come 
alone?" 
" Not his gallantry, but perhaps his sense ' of 
weakness," Dolly answered. 
"Of weakness, my dear? Is he a weak young 
man ? He does not look it." 
, 
"Very good muscular power, I dare say; but 
when we talk of power of will, you know ' weak- 
ness' is relative. I forbade him, and he did not 
dare to come." 
" You forbade him ! and he obeyed ! But Christina, I do not think you have Mr. Shubrick in such 
training as that. Would he obey, if you gave him 
orders ? " 
" Probably the relations are different," said Dolly 
obliging herself to keep a grave face. " I am in a 
happy independence of Mr. St. Leger which allows 
me to command him." 
" Independence ! " said Mrs. Thayer, with an air 
half curious, half confounded, which was a severe 
trial to Dolly's risible muscles. " I know young 
ladies are very independent in these days I don't 
know whether it is a change for the better or not 
but I do not think Christina would boast of her 
independence qf her knight errant." 
" No," said Dolly. " The cases are different as 
I said. Mr. St. Leger does not stand in that particular relation to me." 
" Doesn't he ! But my dear, I hope you haven't 
quarrelled ? " 
" Not at all," said Dolly. " We do not like each 
other well enough to quarrel." 
" But he struck me as a most* delightful young 
man." 
" I believe he generally makes that impression." 
" I used to know his father," said Mrs. Thayer. 
" He was a sad flirt. I know, you see, my dear, 
 
because I was one myself. I am glad Christina 
does not take after me. But I used to think it 
was great fun. Is Mr. St. Leger anything of a 
flirt?" 
" I have had no opportunity of knowing, ma'am," 
said Dolly gravely. 
" Well, you will bring him to see us ? You are 
all coming to make us a visit at our villa, at Sorrento; and Mr. Shubrick is coming; Christina wants 
to shew him to you; you know a girl is always 
proud of her conquests; and then we will go 
everywhere and make you see everything. You 
have just no notion how delightful it is at Sorrento 
in the spring and summer. It's Paradise ! " 
"But you are coming first to spend Christmas 
with me, Dolly," said her friend, who until now 
had hardly been able to get in a word. " I have 
five thousand things to talk to you about. My 
sailor friend has promised to be here too, if he 
can; and his ship is in the Mediterranean somewhere, so I guess he can; and I want you to see 
him. Come and spend Christmas eve with me 
do ! and then we shall have a chance to talk before he comes. Of course there would be no chance 
after," she added with a confident smile. 
Dolly was not much in a mood for visiting, and 
scantly inclined to mix in the joyous circle which 
must be breathing so different an atmosphere from 
her own. She doubted besides whether she could 
leave her watch and ward for so long a time as a 
night and a day. Yet it was pleasant to see Christina, and the opportunity to talk over old times was 
tempting; and her friend's instances were very urgent. Dolly at last gave a conditional assent; and 
they parted; Dolly and Kupert taking the way 
home. 
" Is that lady a friend of yours ? " Rupert enquired. 
"The daughter; not the mother." 
"The old lady I meant. She has a mind to know 
all about us." 
"Why?" 
" She asked me about five hundred and fifty questions, after she quitted you." 
" What did you tell her ? " 
" I told her what she knew before," said Kupert 
chuckling. " Her stock of knowledge hasn't grown 
very much, I guess, by all she got out of me. But 
she tried." 
Dolly was silent. After a short pause, Rupert 
spoke again in quite another tone. 
" Miss Dolly, you've put me in a sort of a puzzle. 
You said a little while ago, or you spoke as if you 
thought, that all those grand old Roman emperors 
were not after all great men. Then, if ihey were not 
great, what's a fellow to try for ? If a common fellow does his best, he will not get to the hundredth 
or the thousandth part of what those men did. Yet 
you say they were not great. What's the use of 
my trying, for instance^ to do anything, or be anything ? " 
" What did they do, Rupert ? " 
 
" Well, you seem to say, nothing ! But don't you 
come to Rome to admire what they did ? " 
"Some of the things they did, or made. But 
stand still here, Rupert, and look. Do you see 
the Rome of the Caesars? You see an arch here 
and a theatre there ; but the city of those days is 
buried. It is under our feet. The great works of 
art here, those that were done in their day, were 
not done by them. Do you think it is any good to 
one of those old emperors in the other world, take 
the best of them is it any good to him now that 
he had some of these splendid buildings erected ? 
or marbles carved ? Or that his armies conquered 
the world, and his government held order whereever his arms went ? If he is happy in the pres- 
ence of God, is it anything to him, now, that we 
look back and admire his work ? and if he is unhappy, banished that Presence, is it anything to 
him then ? " 
"Well, what is greatness then?" said Rupert. 
" What is worth a man's trying for ; if these greatest things are worth nothing ? " 
" I do not think anything is really great or worth 
while," said Dolly, " except those things that God 
likes." 
" You come back to religion," said Rupert. " I 
did not mean religion. What are those things ? " 
"I do not think anything is worth trying for, 
Rupert, except the things that will last." 
" What things will last ? " said he half impa- 
tiently. 
 
" Look here," said Dolly. " Step a little this way. 
Do you see the Colosseum over yonder ? Who do 
you think will remember, and do remember, that 
with most pleasure ; Vespasian and Titus who built 
it, or the Christians who gave themselves to the 
lions there for Christ's sake ? " 
"Yes " said Rupert, "of course; but that isn't 
the thing. There are no lions here now." 
"There are lions of another sort," said Dolly, 
standing still and with her eyes fixed upon the 
wonderful old pile in the distance. " There is always work to be done for God, Rupert, and dan- 
gers or difficulties to be faced; and to the people 
who face any lions for his sake, there is a promise 
of praise and honour and blessing that will last 
forever." 
" Then you would make all a man's work to be 
work for God ? " said Rupert, not satisfied with this 
view of the question. " What is to become of all 
the rest of the things that are to be done in the 
world ? " 
" There ought not to be anything else done in the 
world," said Dolly, laughing as she turned and began to walk on again. " It ought all to be done 
for him. Merchants ought to make money for his 
service ; and lawyers ought to strive to bring God's 
order between man and man, and justice to every 
one, and that never wrong should be done or oppression exercised by anybody. ' Break every yoke, 
and let the oppressed go free.' And soldiers ought 
to fight for no other reason but to protect weaker 
 
people from violence and wrong. And so on of 
everything else. And Eupert, God has promised a 
city, of his own preparing, for his people ; it will be 
a place of delights; and I am thinking of that word, 
'Blessed are they that do his commandments; 
that they may have a right to the tree of life, and 
may enter in through the gates into the city. 
I don't believe anybody that is left outside will 
think much of what we call greatness in that day." 
" Why the world wouldn't be the world, at that 
rate," cried Eupert. 
"Think it wouldn't be altered for the better? " 
" But a few people can't make it like that." 
"Suppose they make only a very little piece of it 
like that ? But then comes the end, Eupert, and 
the King's ' Well done ! ' " 
" Then you wouldn't have a man make as much 
as he can of himself " said Eupert after a dissatisfied pause. 
"Certainly I would." 
"What use?" 
" 0, to be a better servant to his Master, the best 
he possibly can ; and to do more work for him ; the 
most he can do." 
" It seems to me, Miss Dolly, if you are right, 
pretty much all the rest of the world are wrong." 
"Yes, Eupert; don't you remember the Bible 
says that the wrong way is the broad way, where 
almost all the people go ? " 
Eupert's meditations this time held him till they 
got home. 
 
The days that intervened before Christmas were 
filled full with delightful business. Dolly had her 
anxieties, it is true ; but she was in Eome. What 
could stand against the witchery of the enchantress 
city? Anxieties fell into the background; and 
with all the healthy, elastic spring of her young 
years Dolly gave herself to the Present and the 
Past, and rejoiced, hour by hour and step by step, 
in what the Present and the Past opened up to 
her. True, her father and mother hardly shared 
in her pleasure; Mr. Copley's taste was blunted, 
I fear, for all noble enjoyment; and Mrs. Copley 
cared mainly to be comfortable in her home quarters, and to go out now and then where the motley 
world of fashion and of sight-seeing did most congregate. Especially she liked to go to the Pincian Hill Sunday afternoon and watch the indescribable concourse of people of all nationalities 
which is there to be seen at that time. But there 
Dolly would not go. 
" It is very absurd of you, Dolly ! " cried her 
mother, greatly disappointed; for she had a pride 
in seeing the universal attention which was drawn 
to Dolly in every public place; "what harm 
should there be in looking at the beautiful view 
and hearing music ? we are not going to do anything." 
" It's the Lord's day, mother," said Dolly, looking up at her sorrowfully. 
" You went to church this morning all right," 
her mother said. "There is no church for you to 
 
go to at this time of day, that I know of; and if 
there were, I should think it very ridiculous to go 
again. If you want to think, 'you could think 
about good things, I should hope, on the Pincian. 
What is there to hinder you ? " 
" Only everything I should see and hear, mother." 
" Hinder you from thinking about good things ! " 
" Hinder me from thinking about anything," said 
Dolly, laughing a little. 
" Seriously, Miss Dolly," said Lawrence, who 
stood by, hat in hand, ready to go; the Pincian 
Hill Sunday evening was something he quite approved of; "seriously, do you think there is anything wrong in sitting up there for an hour or two 
and seeing the beautiful sunset colours, and hearing the music ? " 
" She's a little Puritan," said her father; " and the 
Puritans were always an obstinate set, Lawrence; 
always, and in every nation and people. I wonder why the two things should go together." 
" What two things, father ? " 
"What you call Puritanism, and Obstinacy." 
" I suppose, because those you call Puritans love 
the truth," said Dolly; " and so hold to it." 
"And do you not think other people, who are 
not Puritans, also love the truth, Miss Dolly ? " 
Lawrence asked. 
" I don't think anybody loves the truth he disobeys," Dolly said with a gentle shake of her 
head. 
" There ! " said her mother. " There's Dolly all 
 
over. She is right, and nobody else is right. I 
wonder what she supposes is to become of all the 
rest of the world ! Every body in Rome will be 
on the Pincian to-night, except Dolly Copley. 
And every other mother but me will have her 
daughter with her." 
In answer to which Dolly kissed her, pulled the 
strings of her bonnet into a prettier bow, and 
looked at her with sweet shining eyes which said 
as plainly as possible, without words that Mrs. Copley knew better. The party went off, nevertheless; and Lawrence lingering till the others had 
turned their backs, held out his hand to Dolly. 
" Will you tell me," said he, " as a favour, what 
you think is the harm of what we are doing ? " 
" You are just robbing the King of heaven and 
earth," Dolly answered gravely. 
"Robbing! Of what?" 
" Of time which he says is his, and of honour 
which he says ought to be his." 
"How?" 
" ' The seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord 
thy God.' " 
"This is not the seventh; it is the first." 
" Quibbling, Mr. St. Leger. It is not the seventh 
from Monday, but it is the seventh from Sunday; 
it is the one day set apart from the seven." 
" And what ought we to do with it ? Sabbath 
means rest, does it not? What are we going to 
do but rest, up there on the Pincian? only rest 
most delightfully. You will not rest so here." 
 
"I suppose your bodies will rest," said Dolly. 
" Your minds will have most uncommon powers 
of abstraction if they do." 
" But you are putting yourself out of the world, 
Dolly." 
"I mean it," said she with a little nod at him. 
" The Lord's people are not of the world, Mr. St. 
Leger; and the world does not like their ways. 
Never did." 
" I wonder if all Puritans are as quaint as you," 
said he, kissing the hand he held. But then he 
went off to the Pincian. 
And there, surely, was a most wonderful, rich 
and varied scene; a concourse of people of all 
characters and nationalities except the small 
party in the world which Dolly represented; a 
kaleidoscope view of figures and costumes, classes 
and callings, most picturesque, most diversified, 
most changeful. There were the Thayers, amongst 
others ; and as they joined company with the Copley party, of course Mrs. Copley's pleasure was 
greatly increased; for in a crowd it is always 
pleasant to know somebody. Mr. Copley knew 
several people. Mrs. Thayer had leisure to tell 
and ask whatever she had a mind with Mrs. Copley, and to improve her acquaintance with Mr. St. 
Leger; who on his part managed to get some 
conversation with the beautiful Christina. It was 
a distinction to be talking to such a beauty, and 
he felt it so; and Christina on her part was not 
insensible to the fact that the young man was 
 
himself very handsome, and unexceptionably well 
dressed, and the heir to many thousands; therefore 
a person of importance. The time on the Pincian 
Hill that evening was very pleasantly spent; and 
so Mrs. Copley told her daughter on their return. 
" Mrs. Thayer said she was very sorry not to see 
you," Mrs. Copley added. 
" I am much obliged to her." 
" You are not obliged to her at all, for she didn't 
mean it. That's what you get by staying behind." 
"What?" said Dolly dimpling up. 
"That woman had it all her own way; talked to 
Mr. St. Leger, and let him talk to her daughter. 
You see, Dolly, Christina is very handsome when 
you are not by." 
" Mother, she is at any time. She's beautiful. 
You must not set me up in comparison with her." 
" Well, she's engaged," said Mrs. Copley. " I 
wish you were. You let everything hang by the 
eyelids, Dolly; and some fine morning what you 
look for won't be there." 
CHAPTER XXV 
CHRISTMAS EVE. 
pHRISTMAS eve came, and Rupert attended Dol- 
w ly to the Piazza di Spagna where her friends 
had apartments in a great hotel. Dolly was quite 
prepared to enjoy herself; the varied delights of the 
foregoing days had lifted her out of the quiet, patient mood of watchful endurance which of late 
had been chronic with her, and her spirits were 
in a flow and stir more fitted to her eighteen 
years. She was going through the streets of 
Rome ! the forms of the ages rose before her mind's 
eye continually, and before her bodily eye appeared 
here and there tokens and remains which were 
like the crumblings of those ages; tangible proofs 
that once they had been, and that Rome was still 
Rome. Dolly drew breaths of pleasure as she and 
Rupert walked along. 
" You are going to stay all night ? " said Rupert. 
"Yes, they want me." 
" And they have asked nobody but you ? " said 
Rupert, who was not conventional. 
" They wanted nobody but me. It is not a par- 
ty; it, is my old school-friend only, who wants to 
shew me her future husband." 
 
Rupert grunted his intelligence, and at the same 
time his mystification. "What for?" he asked. 
And Dolly laughed. 
" I don't know ! It is natural, I suppose, to 
some people. Here we are. Good night.' 
The Thayers were very well lodged indeed. 
Dolly found herself in really charming rooms, well 
furnished and well lighted. She was joyfully received, and Christina led her forthwith through 
saloon and dining room to the sanctuary of her 
own chamber. A certain feeling of contrast began to fall upon Dolly already, Christina looked so 
very fresh and fair and well kept; the lightest 
veil of anxiety had never shadowed her bloom ; the 
most remote cloud of embarrassment or need had never risen on her horizon. Careless, happy, secure, her mind knew no burden. It made Dolly 
feel the pressure of her own ; and yet she was glad, 
for a little, to get into this atmosphere of peace 
and confidence, and enjoy it even by the contrast. 
Christina's room looked like a curiosity shop. It 
was littered with recent purchases; all sorts of 
pretty things, useful and useless. 
" One cannot help buying," she said, excusing 
herself. ,"\ see something at every step that I 
want; and I must get it when I see it, or I may 
never see it again, you know. It is great fun, but 
sometimes I almost get tired. Here, dear, I can 
lay your things here. Isn't my fire nice? Now 
sit down and warm yourself. It's too delightful 
to have you ! It is like a bit of home, and a 
 
bit of old times. Those old school days were 
pleasant ? " 
" Very pleasant ! " said Dolly, sitting down and 
looking into the queer but bright fire of small 
sticks which burned in Christina's chimney. " Very 
pleasant ! I was with my dear Aunt Hal, in Philadelphia." 
" But these days are better, Dolly," Miss Thayer 
went on. "That wasn't much compared to this." 
"I don't know," said Dolly. "There was no 
care in those times." 
" Care ? " exclaimed Christina, as if she did not 
know the meaning of the word. " What care 
have you, Dolly ? I have none, except the care to 
make my money buy all I want which it won't, 
so I may as well make up my mind to it, and I do. 
What have you been getting in Eome ? " 
"0 more pleasure than I knew so many days 
could hold," said Dolly, laying some of the sticks 
of the fire straight. 
" Isn't it wonderful ? I think there's nothing 
like Eome. Unless perhaps, Paris." 
" Paris ! " said Dolly. " What's at Paris ? " 
" Ah, you don't know it, or you wouldn't ask ! 
Everything, my dear. Eome has a good deal, certainly, but Paris has everything. Now tell me, 
are you engaged?" 
"I? No. Of course not." 
" I don't see why it's of course. Most people are 
at one time or another ; and I didn't know but your 
time had come." 
 
"No," said Dolly. "Neither the time nor the 
man. I've come to hear about yours." 
"If he's good, you'll see him; the man, I mean. 
He promised to be with us at Christmas, if he could; 
and he always keeps his promises." 
" That's a good thing," said Dolly. . 
"Ye-s," said Christina, "that is of course a good 
thing. One likes to have promises kept. But it 
is possible to have too much of a good thing." 
" Not of keeping promises ! " said Dolly in unfeigned astonishment. 
" I don't know," said Christina. " Sandie is so 
fixed in everything; he holds to his opinions and 
his promises and his expectations; and he holds a 
trifle too fast." 
" He has a right to hold to his expectations, 
surely," said Dolly laughing. 
" Not too much," said Christina. " He has no 
right to expect everybody to keep their promises 
as precisely as he does his! People aren't made 
alike." 
"No; but honour is honour." 
" Come now, Dolly," said Christina laughing in 
her turn, " you are another ! You are just a little 
bit precise, like my Sandie. You cannot make all 
the world alike, if you try ; and he can't." 
" I am not going to try, and I think it would be 
a very stupid world if I could do it; but nobody 
ought to raise expectations he is not prepared to 
gratify." 
" Like a sentence out of a book ! " cried Christina. 
 
" But Sandie is the most unchangeable person ; he 
will not take any views of anything but the views 
he has always taken ; he is as fixed as the rock of 
Gibraltar, and almost as distinct and detached from 
the rest of the world." 
" And don't you like that ? " 
"No; confess I do not. I'd like him to come 
down a little from his high place and mix with 
the rest of us mortals." 
" What expectations does he indulge which you 
are not willing to meet ? " 
" That's the very thing ! " cried Christina, in her 
turn stooping to arrange the little sticks and pile 
more on; "he is unreasonable." 
" How ? " 
" Wants me to marry him." 
" Is that unreasonable ? " 
" Yes ! till things are ready for such a step, and 
I am ready." 
" What things ? " 
" Dolly, he is only the first officer of his ship. 
He was distinguished in the last war, and he has 
the prospect of promotion. I don't want to marry 
him till he is a captain." 
" Why ? " said Dolly. 
" Why ? Don't you understand ? He would 
have a better position then, and better pay; and 
could give me a better time generally; and mamma thinks we ought to wait. And I like waiting. 
It's better fun, I do think, to be engaged than to 
be married t I know I shouldn't have my head 
 
near so much if I was married to Sandie. I do 
just as I like now; for mamma and I are always 
of a mind." 
" And are not you and Mr. Shubrick of a mind ? " 
"Not about this," said Christina, getting up from 
the hearth, 'and laughing. 
" Pray, if one may ask, how long have you and 
he been waiting already ? " 
"0, he thinks it is a great while; but what is 
the harm of waiting ? " 
" Well, how long is it, Christina ? " 
" Dolly, we were engaged very young. It was 
before I left school ; one summer when I was home 
for the vacation. I was sixteen ; that is four years 
ago, and more." 
" Four years ! " cried Dolly. 
"Yes. Of course we were too young then to 
think of marrying. He was home on furlough, 
and I was home for the vacation ; and our houses 
were near together; and so we made it up. His 
people were not very well off, but mine were; so 
there was nothing in the way, and nobody objected 
much; only mother said we must wait." 
" What are you waiting for now, Christina ? " 
"I told you. I am in no hurry, for my part. 
I want Sandie to get his ship; and in the mean 
while it is just as nice to be as we are. We 
see each other when we can ; and Italy is Italy ; 
and I am very contented. Unfortunately, Sandie 
isn't." 
" How long do you propose to go on waiting ? " 
 
 
" I don't know. O I don't know ! and I don't 
care. What is the harm of waiting ? " 
"That depends on what you promise yourselves in 
being married." 
" Dolly,' : said Christina thoughtfully, " I don't 
promise myself anything much better than I have 
got now. If Sandie would only be content, I 
could go on so forever." 
" And not be married ? " 
"Besides, Dolly, I don't want to keep house in a 
small way. I do not ! and if I married a lieutenant in the navy, I couldn't do anything else. You 
see, Sandie would not live upon papa's money; 
though papa would do anything for me ; but Sandie 
won't; and on his means we should live on a very 
small scale indeed." 
" But you would have enough ? " 
" Enough for what ? We should have enough 
to eat. But Dolly, I do not like to have to think 
of economy. I have never been used to it. Look 
at my room; see the things I have got together 
these last few days. Look here this is a ring I 
want you to wear for me. Isn't it delicious ? It 
is as old as the best time of cameo-cutting, they 
say, but I do not remember when that was; it's 
rather large for a lady's ring, but it is an undoubted beauty. Jupiter's eagle, with the thunderbolts. 
Just look at the plumage of the bird, and its 
fierce eye.!' 
Dolly was greatly delighted. Of all the pretty 
things she had seen during the weeks past, she 
 
had bought nothing, save one or two bits for her 
mother. This gift was vastly more to Dolly than 
Christina could imagine. She had so literally 
everything she wanted, that no further acquisition 
could give her great pleasure. It lacked the enhancement of difficulty and rarity. I suppose the 
ring was more to Dolly than her whole room-ful 
beside to Christina. It was in truth a very exquisite cameo. Dolly put it on her finger, and looked 
at it in different lights, and admired it and enjoyed 
it hugely ; while at the same time it gave an odd 
grace of setting-off to her simple dress. Dolly was 
in a plain black silk, with no adornment at all, until she put the ring on. Unless her quaint old 
cable chain could be called such. That Dolly always wore. She was a sweet quaint figure, illuminated by the firelight, as Christina observed her; 
girlish and graceful, with a fair face and beautiful 
hair; the sober dress and the true, womanly eyes 
making a certain hidden harmony, and the cameo 
setting a seal of daintiness and rareness to the 
whole. Christina was seized with admiration, that 
had a good deal of respect blended with it of a 
sudden. 
'.' You don't agree with me, Dolly," she said after 
a little, when Dolly's thanks and the beauty of the 
ring had been sufficiently discussed, and a pause 
had brought the thoughts of both back to the 
former subject. 
" What do you want, Christina ? " 
" I just want to be happy and comfortable," 
 
said the girl, "as I always have been. I don't 
want to come down to pinching. Is that un- 
reasonable ? " 
"You would not have to pinch, Christina." 
"Yes, I should; to live like the rest of the 
world." 
" Are you obliged to do that ? " 
" Live like the rest of the world ? Yes, or be out 
of the world." 
" I thought you were a Christian " said Dolly 
softly. 
"A Christian! Yes, so I am. What has that 
got to do with it?" 
" A good deal, I should say. Tiny, you cannot 
follow Christ and be like the world." 
" I don't want to be like the world, in bad 
things; but I mean things that are not bad. One 
must be like the world in some ways, if one can. 
Don't you set up for being any better than me, 
Dolly, for I won't stand it; we are all really just 
alike." 
" The world and Christians ? " 
" Yes ; in some things." 
" Ways of living ? " 
"Yes, in some ways." 
" Christina, did you use to think so, in old 
times?" 
" I was young then ; I did not know the world. 
You have gat to do as the world do, in a measure, 
Dolly." 
Dolly was silent a bit. She too on her part ob- 
 
served her friend. Fair and handsome she was; 
very handsome; with the placid luxuriance of nature which has never known shocks or adverse 
weather. Dolly felt the contrast which Christina 
had also felt, but Dolly went deeper into it. She 
and her friend had drifted apart, not in regard for 
each other, but in life and character; and Dolly involuntarily compared their experiences. Trouble 
to Christina was a word of unknown meaning; to 
herself it was become daily bread. Had that made 
the difference? Christina was living on the surface of things; skimming a smooth sea in a gilded 
gondola; shelter and adornment were all about her 
life, and plenty within. Dolly had been, as it 
were, cast into the waves and was struggling with 
them ; now lifted on a high crest, and now brought 
down to the bottom. Was that how she had 
learned to know that there were wonderful things 
of preciousness and beauty at the bottom of the 
sea? and must one perhaps be tossed by the storm 
to find out the value and the power of the hand 
that helps? It did smite Dolly with a kind of 
pain, the sense of Christina's sheltered position 
and security; the thought of" the father's arms that 
were a harbour for her, the guardianship that 
came between her and all the roughness of the 
world. And yet, Dolly along with the bitterness 
