     considerable of the world, but I am sadly afraid I have not grown
     wiser thereby, inasmuch as it has generally been asserted by the
     sages of every age that wisdom consists in a knowledge of the
     wickedness of mankind, and the wiser a man grows the more
     discontented he becomes with those around him. Whereas, woe is me,
     I return in infinitely better humor with the world than I ever was
     before, and with a most melancholy good opinion and good will for
     the great mass of my fellow-creatures!"
Free intercourse with men of all parties, he thought, tends to divest a
man's mind of party bigotry.
     "One day [he writes] I am dining with a knot of honest, furious
     Federalists, who are damning all their opponents as a set of
     consummate scoundrels, panders of Bonaparte, etc. The next day I
     dine, perhaps, with some of the very men I have heard thus
     anathematized, and find them equally honest, warm, and indignant;
     and if I take their word for it, I had been dining the day before
     with some of the greatest knaves in the nation, men absolutely paid
     and suborned by the British government."
His friends at this time attempted to get him appointed secretary of
legation to the French mission, under Joel Barlow, then minister, but he
made no effort to secure the place. Perhaps he was deterred by the
knowledge that the author of "The Columbiad" suspected him, though
unjustly, of some strictures on his great epic. He had in mind a book of
travel in his own country, in which he should sketch manners and
characters; but nothing came of it. The peril to trade involved in the
War of 1812 gave him some forebodings, and aroused him to exertion. He
accepted the editorship of a periodical called "Select Reviews,"
afterwards changed to the "Analectic Magazine," for which he wrote
sketches, some of which were afterwards put into the "Sketch-Book," and
several reviews and naval biographies. A brief biography of Thomas
Campbell was also written about this time, as introductory to an edition
of "Gertrude of Wyoming." But the slight editorial care required by the
magazine was irksome to a man who had an unconquerable repugnance to
all periodical labor.
In 1813 Francis Jeffrey made a visit to the United States. Henry
Brevoort, who was then in London, wrote an anxious letter to Irving to
impress him with the necessity of making much of Mr. Jeffrey. "It is
essential," he says, "that Jeffrey may imbibe a just estimate of the
United States and its inhabitants; he goes out strongly biased in our
favor, and the influence of his good opinion upon his return to this
country will go far to efface the calumnies and the absurdities that
have been laid to our charge by ignorant travelers. Persuade him to
visit Washington, and by all means to see the Falls of Niagara." The
impression seems to have prevailed that if Englishmen could be made to
take a just view of the Falls of Niagara the misunderstandings between
the two countries would be reduced. Peter Irving, who was then in
Edinburgh, was impressed with the brilliant talent of the editor of the
"Review," disguised as it was by affectation, but he said he "would not
give the Minstrel for a wilderness of Jeffreys."
The years from 1811 to 1815, when he went abroad for the second time,
were passed by Irving in a sort of humble waiting on Providence. His
letters to Brevoort during this period are full of the ennui of
irresolute youth. He idled away weeks and months in indolent enjoyment
in the country; he indulged his passion for the theatre when opportunity
offered; and he began to be weary of a society which offered little
stimulus to his mind. His was the temperament of the artist, and America
at that time had little to evoke or to satisfy the artistic feeling.
There were few pictures and no galleries; there was no music, except the
amateur torture of strings which led the country dance, or the martial
inflammation of fife and drum, or the sentimental dawdling here and
there over the ancient harpsichord, with the songs of love, and the
broad or pathetic staves and choruses of the convivial table; and there
was no literary atmosphere.
After three months of indolent enjoyment in the winter and spring of
1811, Irving is complaining to Brevoort in June of the enervation of his
social life: "I do want most deplorably to apply my mind to something
that will arouse and animate it; for at present it is very indolent and
relaxed, and I find it very difficult to shake off the lethargy that
enthralls it. This makes me restless and dissatisfied with myself, and I
am convinced I shall not feel comfortable and contented until my mind is
fully employed. Pleasure is but a transient stimulus, and leaves the
mind more enfeebled than before. Give me rugged toils, fierce
disputation, wrangling controversy, harassing research,--give me
anything that calls forth the energies of the mind; but for Heaven's
sake shield me from those calms, those tranquil slumberings, those
enervating triflings, those siren blandishments, that I have for some
time indulged in, which lull the mind into complete inaction, which
benumb its powers, and cost it such painful and humiliating struggles to
regain its activity and independence!"
Irving at this time of life seemed always waiting by the pool for some
angel to come and trouble the waters. To his correspondent, who was in
the wilds of Michilimackinac, he continues to lament his morbid
inability. The business in which his thriving brothers were engaged was
the importation and sale of hardware and cutlery, and that spring his
services were required at the "store." "By all the martyrs of Grub
Street [he exclaims], I'd sooner live in a garret, and starve into the
bargain, than follow so sordid, dusty, and soul-killing a way of life,
though certain it would make me as rich as old Croesus, or John Jacob
Astor himself!" The sparkle of society was no more agreeable to him than
the rattle of cutlery. "I have scarcely [he writes] seen anything of the
----s since your departure; business and an amazing want of inclination
have kept me from their threshold. Jim, that sly poacher, however,
prowls about there, and vitrifies his heart by the furnace of their
charms. I accompanied him there on Sunday evening last, and found the
Lads and Miss Knox with them. S---- was in great spirits, and played the
sparkler with such great success as to silence the whole of us excepting
Jim, who was the agreeable rattle of the evening. God defend me from
such vivacity as hers, in future,--such smart speeches without meaning,
such bubble and squeak nonsense! I'd as lieve stand by a frying-pan for
an hour and listen to the cooking of apple fritters. After two hours'
dead silence and suffering on my part I made out to drag him off, and
did not stop running until I was a mile from the house." Irving gives
his correspondent graphic pictures of the social warfare in which he was
engaged, the "host of rascally little tea-parties" in which he was
entangled; and some of his portraits of the "divinities," the
"blossoms," and the beauties of that day would make the subjects of them
flutter with surprise in the church-yards where they lie. The writer was
sated with the "tedious commonplace of fashionable society," and
languishing to return to his books and his pen.
In March, 1812, in the shadow of the war and the depression of business,
Irving was getting out a new edition of the "Knickerbocker," which
Inskeep was to publish, agreeing to pay $1,200 at six months for an
edition of fifteen hundred. The modern publisher had not then arisen and
acquired a proprietary right in the brains of the country, and the
author made his bargains like an independent being who owned himself.
Irving's letters of this period are full of the gossip of the town and
the matrimonial fate of his acquaintances. The fascinating Mary Fairlie
is at length married to Cooper, the tragedian, with the opposition of
her parents, after a dismal courtship and a cloudy prospect of
happiness. "Goodhue is engaged to Miss Clarkson, the sister to the
pretty one. The engagement suddenly took place as they walked from
church on Christmas Day, and report says the action was shorter than any
of our naval victories, for the lady struck on the first broadside." The
war colored all social life and conversation. "This war [the letter is
to Brevoort, who is in Europe] has completely changed the face of things
here. You would scarcely recognize our old peaceful city. Nothing is
talked of but armies, navies, battles, etc." The same phenomenon was
witnessed then that was observed in the war for the Union: "Men who had
loitered about, the hangers-on and encumbrances of society, have all at
once risen to importance, and been the only useful men of the day." The
exploits of our young navy kept up the spirits of the country. There was
great rejoicing when the captured frigate Macedonian was brought into
New York, and was visited by the curious as she lay wind-bound above
Hell Gate. "A superb dinner was given to the naval heroes, at which all
the great eaters and drinkers of the city were present. It was the
noblest entertainment of the kind I ever witnessed. On New Year's Eve a
grand ball was likewise given, where there was a vast display of great
and little people. The Livingstons were there in all their glory. Little
Rule Britannia made a gallant appearance at the head of a train of
beauties, among whom were the divine H----, who looked very inviting,
and the little Taylor, who looked still more so. Britannia was
gorgeously dressed in a queer kind of hat of stiff purple and silver
stuff, that had marvelously the appearance of copper, and made us
suppose that she had procured the real Mambrino helmet. Her dress was
trimmed with what we simply mistook for scalps, and supposed it was in
honor of the nation; but we blushed at our ignorance on discovering that
it was a gorgeous trimming of marten tips. Would that some eminent
furrier had been there to wonder and admire!"
With a little business and a good deal of loitering, waiting upon the
whim of his pen, Irving passed the weary months of the war. As late as
August, 1814, he is still giving Brevoort, who has returned, and is at
Rockaway Beach, the light gossip of the town. It was reported that
Brevoort and Dennis had kept a journal of their foreign travel, "which
is so exquisitely humorous that Mrs. Cooper, on only looking at the
first word, fell into a fit of laughing that lasted half an hour."
Irving is glad that he cannot find Brevoort's flute, which the latter
requested should be sent to him: "I do not think it would be an innocent
amusement for you, as no one has a right to entertain himself at the
expense of others." In such dallying and badinage the months went on,
affairs every day becoming more serious. Appended to a letter of
September 9, 1814, is a list of twenty well-known mercantile houses that
had failed within the preceding three weeks. Irving himself, shortly
after this, enlisted in the war, and his letters thereafter breathe
patriotic indignation at the insulting proposals of the British and
their rumored attack on New York, and all his similes, even those having
love for their subject, are martial and bellicose. Item: "The gallant
Sam has fairly changed front, and, instead of laying siege to Douglas
castle, has charged sword in hand, and carried little Cooper's
entrenchments."
As a Federalist and an admirer of England, Irving had deplored the war,
but his sympathies were not doubtful after it began, and the burning of
the national Capitol by General Ross aroused him to an active
participation in the struggle. He was descending the Hudson in a
steamboat when the tidings first reached him. It was night, and the
passengers had gone into the cabin, when a man came on board with the
news, and in the darkness related the particulars: the burning of the
President's house and government offices, and the destruction of the
Capitol, with the library and public archives. In the momentary silence
that followed, somebody raised his voice, and in a tone of complacent
derision "wondered what Jimmy Madison would say now." "Sir," cried
Mr. Irving, in a burst of indignation that overcame his habitual
shyness, "do you seize upon such a disaster only for a sneer? Let me
tell you, sir, it is not now a question about Jimmy Madison or Jimmy
Armstrong. The pride and honor of the nation are wounded; the country is
insulted and disgraced by this barbarous success, and every loyal
citizen would feel the ignominy and be earnest to avenge it." There was
an outburst of applause, and the sneerer was silenced. "I could not see
the fellow," said Mr. Irving, in relating the anecdote, "but I let fly
at him in the dark."
The next day he offered his services to Governor Tompkins, and was made
the governor's aid and military secretary, with the right to be
addressed as Col. Washington Irving. He served only four months in this
capacity, when Governor Tompkins was called to the session of the
legislature at Albany. Irving intended to go to Washington and apply for
a commission in the regular army, but he was detained at Philadelphia by
the affairs of his magazine, until news came in February, 1815, of the
close of the war. In May of that year he embarked for England to visit
his brother, intending only a short sojourn. He remained abroad
seventeen years.
                              CHAPTER VI.
                    LIFE IN EUROPE: LITERARY ACTIVITY.
When Irving sailed from New York, it was with lively anticipations of
witnessing the stirring events to follow the return of Bonaparte from
Elba. When he reached Liverpool the curtain had fallen in Bonaparte's
theatre. The first spectacle that met the traveler's eye was the mail
coaches, darting through the streets, decked with laurel and bringing
the news of Waterloo. As usual, Irving's sympathies were with the
unfortunate. "I think," he says, writing of the exile of St. Helena,
"the cabinet has acted with littleness toward him. In spite of all his
misdeeds he is a noble fellow [pace Madame de Rémusat], and I am
confident will eclipse, in the eyes of posterity, all the crowned
wiseacres that have crushed him by their overwhelming confederacy. If
anything could place the Prince Regent in a more ridiculous light, it is
Bonaparte suing for his magnanimous protection. Every compliment paid
to this bloated sensualist, this inflation of sack and sugar, turns to
the keenest sarcasm."
After staying a week with his brother Peter, who was recovering from an
indisposition, Irving went to Birmingham, the residence of his
brother-in-law, Henry Van Wart, who had married his youngest sister,
Sarah; and from thence to Sydenham, to visit Campbell. The poet was not
at home. To Mrs. Campbell Irving expressed his regret that her husband
did not attempt something on a grand scale.
     "'It is unfortunate for Campbell,' said she, 'that he lives in the
     same age with Scott and Byron.' I asked why. 'Oh,' said she, 'they
     write so much and so rapidly. Mr. Campbell writes slowly, and it
     takes him some time to get under way; and just as he has fairly
     begun out comes one of their poems, that sets the world agog, and
     quite daunts him, so that he throws by his pen in despair.' I
     pointed out the essential difference in their kinds of poetry, and
     the qualities which insured perpetuity to that of her husband. 'You
     can't persuade Campbell of that,' said she. 'He is apt to
     undervalue his own works, and to consider his own little lights
     put out, whenever they come blazing out with their great torches.'
     "I repeated the conversation to Scott some time afterward, and it
     drew forth a characteristic comment. 'Pooh!' said he, good
     humoredly; 'how can Campbell mistake the matter so much? Poetry
     goes by quality, not by bulk. My poems are mere cairngorms, wrought
     up, perhaps, with a cunning hand, and may pass well in the market
     as long as cairngorms are the fashion; but they are mere Scotch
     pebbles, after all. Now, Tom Campbell's are real diamonds, and
     diamonds of the first water.'"
Returning to Birmingham, Irving made excursions to Kenilworth, Warwick,
and Stratford-on-Avon, and a tour through Wales with James Renwick, a
young American of great promise, who at the age of nineteen had for a
time filled the chair of natural philosophy in Columbia College. He was
a son of Mrs. Jane Renwick, a charming woman and a life-long friend of
Irving, the daughter of the Rev. Andrew Jeffrey, of Lochmaben, Scotland,
and famous in literature as "The Blue-Eyed Lassie" of Burns. From
another song, "When first I saw my Jeanie's Face," which does not
appear in the poet's collected works, the biographer quotes:--
                "But, sair, I doubt some happier swain
                   Has gained my Jeanie's favor;
                 If sae, may every bliss be hers,
                   Tho' I can never have her.
                "But gang she east, or gang she west,
                  'Twixt Nith and Tweed all over,
                 While men have eyes, or ears, or taste,
                   She'll always find a lover."
During Irving's protracted stay in England he did not by any means lose
his interest in his beloved New York and the little society that was
always dear to him. He relied upon his friend Brevoort to give him the
news of the town, and in return he wrote long letters,--longer and more
elaborate and formal than this generation has leisure to write or to
read; letters in which the writer laid himself out to be entertaining,
and detailed his emotions and state of mind as faithfully as his travels
and outward experiences.
No sooner was our war with England over than our navy began to make a
reputation for itself in the Mediterranean. In his letter of August,
1815, Irving dwells with pride on Decatur's triumph over the Algerine
pirates. He had just received a letter from that "worthy little tar,
Jack Nicholson," dated on board the Flambeau, off Algiers. In it
Nicholson says that "they fell in with and captured the admiral's ship,
and killed him." Upon which Irving remarks: "As this is all that
Jack's brevity will allow him to say on the subject, I should be at a
loss to know whether they killed the admiral before or after his
capture. The well-known humanity of our tars, however, induces me to the
former conclusion." Nicholson, who has the honor of being alluded to in
"The Croakers," was always a great favorite with Irving. His gallantry
on shore was equal to his bravery at sea, but unfortunately his
diffidence was greater than his gallantry; and while his susceptibility
to female charms made him an easy and a frequent victim, he could never
muster the courage to declare his passion. Upon one occasion, when he
was desperately enamored of a lady whom he wished to marry, he got
Irving to write for him a love-letter, containing an offer of his heart
and hand. The enthralled but bashful sailor carried the letter in his
pocket till it was worn out, without ever being able to summon pluck
enough to deliver it.
While Irving was in Wales the Wiggins family and Madame Bonaparte passed
through Birmingham, on their way to Cheltenham. Madame was still
determined to assert her rights as a Bonaparte. Irving cannot help
expressing sympathy for Wiggins: "The poor man has his hands full, with
such a bevy of beautiful women under his charge, and all doubtless bent
on pleasure and admiration." He hears, however, nothing further of her,
except the newspapers mention her being at Cheltenham. "There are so
many stars and comets thrown out of their orbits, and whirling about the
world at present, that a little star like Madame Bonaparte attracts but
slight attention, even though she draw after her so sparkling a tail as
the Wiggins family." In another letter he exclaims: "The world is surely
topsy-turvy, and its inhabitants shaken out of place: emperors and
kings, statesmen and philosophers, Bonaparte, Alexander, Johnson, and
the Wigginses, all strolling about the face of the earth."
The business of the Irving brothers soon absorbed all Washington's time
and attention. Peter was an invalid, and the whole weight of the
perplexing affairs of the failing firm fell upon the one who detested
business, and counted every hour lost that he gave to it. His letters
for two years are burdened with harassments in uncongenial details and
unsuccessful struggles. Liverpool, where he was compelled to pass most
of his time, had few attractions for him, and his low spirits did not
permit him to avail himself of such social advantages as were offered.
It seems that our enterprising countrymen flocked abroad, on the
conclusion of peace. "This place [writes Irving] swarms with Americans.
You never saw a more motley race of beings. Some seem as if just from
the woods, and yet stalk about the streets and public places with all
the easy nonchalance that they would about their own villages. Nothing
can surpass the dauntless independence of all form, ceremony, fashion,
or reputation of a downright, unsophisticated American. Since the war,
too, particularly, our lads seem to think they are 'the salt of the
earth' and the legitimate lords of creation. It would delight you to
see some of them playing Indian when surrounded by the wonders and
improvements of the Old World. It is impossible to match these fellows
by anything this side the water. Let an Englishman talk of the battle of
Waterloo, and they will immediately bring up New Orleans and Plattsburg.
A thoroughbred, thoroughly appointed soldier is nothing to a Kentucky
rifleman," etc., etc. In contrast to this sort of American was Charles
King, who was then abroad: "Charles is exactly what an American should
be abroad: frank, manly, and unaffected in his habits and manners,
liberal and independent in his opinions, generous and unprejudiced in
his sentiments towards other nations, but most loyally attached to his
own." There was a provincial narrowness at that date and long after in
America, which deprecated the open-minded patriotism of King and of
Irving as it did the clear-sighted loyalty of Fenimore Cooper.
The most anxious time of Irving's life was the winter of 1815-16. The
business worry increased. He was too jaded with the din of pounds,
shillings, and pence to permit his pen to invent facts or to adorn
realities. Nevertheless, he occasionally escapes from the tread-mill. In
December he is in London, and entranced with the acting of Miss O'Neil.
He thinks that Brevoort, if he saw her, would infallibly fall in love
with this "divine perfection of a woman." He writes: "She is, to my
eyes, the most soul-subduing actress I ever saw; I do not mean from her
personal charms, which are great, but from the truth, force, and pathos
of her acting. I have never been so completely melted, moved, and
overcome at a theatre as by her performances.... Kean, the prodigy, is
to me insufferable. He is vulgar, full of trick, and a complete
mannerist. This is merely my opinion. He is cried up as a second
Garrick, as a reformer of the stage, etc. It may be so. He may be right,
and all the other actors wrong. This is certain: he is either very good
or very bad. I think decidedly the latter; and I find no medium opinions
concerning him. I am delighted with Young, who acts with great judgment,
discrimination, and feeling. I think him much the best actor at present
on the English stage.... In certain characters, such as may be classed
with Macbeth, I do not think that Cooper has his equal in England. Young
is the only actor I have seen who can compare with him." Later, Irving
somewhat modified his opinion of Kean. He wrote to Brevoort: "Kean is a
strange compound of merits and defects. His excellence consists in
sudden and brilliant touches, in vivid exhibitions of passion and
emotion. I do not think him a discriminating actor, or critical either
at understanding or delineating character; but he produces effects which
no other actor does."
In the summer of 1816, on his way from Liverpool to visit his sister's
family at Birmingham, Irving tarried for a few days at a country place
near Shrewsbury on the border of Wales, and while there encountered a
character whose portrait is cleverly painted. It is interesting to
compare this first sketch with the elaboration of it in the essay on The
Angler in the "Sketch-Book."
     "In one of our morning strolls [he writes, July 15th] along the
     banks of the Aleen, a beautiful little pastoral stream that rises
     among the Welsh mountains and throws itself into the Dee, we
     encountered a veteran angler of old Isaac Walton's school. He was
     an old Greenwich out-door pensioner, had lost one leg in the battle
     of Camperdown, had been in America in his youth, and indeed had
     been quite a rover, but for many years past had settled himself
     down in his native village, not far distant, where he lived very
     independently on his pension and some other small annual sums,
     amounting in all to about £40. His great hobby, and indeed the
     business of his life, was to angle. I found he had read Isaac
     Walton very attentively; he seemed to have imbibed all his
     simplicity of heart, contentment of mind, and fluency of tongue. We
     kept company with him almost the whole day, wandering along the
     beautiful banks of the river, admiring the ease and elegant
     dexterity with which the old fellow managed his angle, throwing the
     fly with unerring certainty at a great distance and among
     overhanging bushes, and waving it gracefully in the air, to keep it
     from entangling, as he stumped with his staff and wooden leg from
     one bend of the river to another. He kept up a continual flow of
     cheerful and entertaining talk, and what I particularly liked him
     for was, that though we tried every way to entrap him into some
     abuse of America and its inhabitants, there was no getting him to
     utter an ill-natured word concerning us. His whole conversation and
     deportment illustrated old Isaac's maxims as to the benign
     influence of angling over the human heart.... I ought to mention
     that he had two companions--one, a ragged, picturesque varlet, that
     had all the air of a veteran poacher, and I warrant would find any
     fish-pond in the neighborhood in the darkest night; the other was a
     disciple of the old philosopher, studying the art under him, and
     was son and heir apparent to the landlady of the village tavern."
A contrast to this pleasing picture is afforded by some character
sketches at the little watering-place of Buxton, which our kindly
observer visited the same year.
     "At the hotel where we put up [he writes] we had a most singular
     and whimsical assemblage of beings. I don't know whether you were
     ever at an English watering-place, but if you have not been, you
     have missed the best opportunity of studying English oddities, both
     moral and physical. I no longer wonder at the English being such
     excellent caricaturists, they have such an inexhaustible number and
     variety of subjects to study from. The only care should be not to
     follow fact too closely, for I'll swear I have met with characters
     and figures that would be condemned as extravagant, if faithfully
     delineated by pen or pencil. At a watering-place like Buxton, where
     people really resort for health, you see the great tendency of the
     English to run into excrescences and bloat out into grotesque
     deformities. As to noses, I say nothing of them, though we had
     every variety: some snubbed and turned up, with distended nostrils,
     like a dormer window on the roof of a house; others convex and
     twisted like a buck-handled knife; and others magnificently
     efflorescent, like a full-blown cauliflower. But as to the persons
     that were attached to these noses, fancy any distortion,
     protuberance, and fungous embellishment that can be produced in the
     human form by high and gross feeding, by the bloating operations of
     malt liquors, and by the rheumy influence of a damp, foggy,
     vaporous climate. One old fellow was an exception to this, for
     instead of acquiring that expansion and sponginess to which old
     people are prone in this country, from the long course of internal
     and external soakage they experience, he had grown dry and stiff in
     the process of years. The skin of his face had so shrunk away that
     he could not close eyes or mouth--the latter, therefore, stood on a
     perpetual ghastly grin, and the former on an incessant stare. He
     had but one serviceable joint in his body, which was at the bottom
     of the backbone, and that creaked and grated whenever he bent. He
     could not raise his feet from the ground, but skated along the
     drawing-room carpet whenever he wished to ring the bell. The only
     sign of moisture in his whole body was a pellucid drop that I
     occasionally noticed on the end of a long, dry nose. He used
     generally to shuffle about in company with a little fellow that was
     fat on one side and lean on the other. That is to say, he was
     warped on one side as if he had been scorched before the fire; he
     had a wry neck, which made his head lean on one shoulder; his hair
     was smugly powdered, and he had a round, smirking, smiling, apple
     face, with a bloom on it like that of a frost-bitten leaf in
     autumn. We had an old, fat general by the name of Trotter, who had,
     I suspect, been promoted to his high rank to get him out of the way
     of more able and active officers, being an instance that a man may
     occasionally rise in the world through absolute lack of merit. I
     could not help watching the movements of this redoubtable old Hero,
     who, I'll warrant, has been the champion and safeguard of half the
     garrison towns in England, and fancying to myself how Bonaparte
     would have delighted in having such toast-and-butter generals to
     deal with. This old cad is doubtless a sample of those generals
     that flourished in the old military school, when armies would
     manoeuvre and watch each other for months; now and then have a
     desperate skirmish, and, after marching and countermarching about
     the 'Low Countries' through a glorious campaign, retire on the
     first pinch of cold weather into snug winter quarters in some fat
     Flemish town, and eat and drink and fiddle through the winter.
     Boney must have sadly disconcerted the comfortable system of these
     old warriors by the harrowing, restless, cut-and-slash mode of
     warfare that he introduced. He has put an end to all the old carte
     and tierce system in which the cavaliers of the old school fought
     so decorously, as it were with a small sword in one hand and a
     chapeau bras in the other. During his career there has been a sad
     laying on the shelf of old generals who could not keep up with the
     hurry, the fierceness and dashing of the new system; and among the
     number I presume has been my worthy house-mate, old Trotter. The
     old gentleman, in spite of his warlike title, had a most pacific
     appearance. He was large and fat, with a broad, hazy, muffin face,
     a sleepy eye, and a full double chin. He had a deep ravine from
     each corner of his mouth, not occasioned by any irascible
     contraction of the muscles, but apparently the deep-worn channels
     of two rivulets of gravy that oozed out from the huge mouthfuls
     that he masticated. But I forbear to dwell on the odd beings that
     were congregated together in one hotel. I have been thus prolix
     about the old general because you desired me in one of your letters
     to give you ample details whenever I happened to be in company with
     the 'great and glorious,' and old Trotter is more deserving of the
     epithet than any of the personages I have lately encountered."
It was at the same resort of fashion and disease that Irving observed a
phenomenon upon which Brevoort had commented as beginning to be
noticeable in America.
     "Your account [he writes] of the brevity of the old lady's nether
     garments distresses me.... I cannot help observing that this
     fashion of short skirts must have been invented by the French
     ladies as a complete trick upon John Bull's 'woman-folk.' It was
     introduced just at the time the English flocked in such crowds to
     Paris. The French women, you know, are remarkable for pretty feet
     and ankles, and can display them in perfect security. The English
     are remarkable for the contrary. Seeing the proneness of the
     English women to follow French fashions, they therefore led them
     into this disastrous one, and sent them home with their petticoats
     up to their knees, exhibiting such a variety of sturdy little legs
     as would have afforded Hogarth an ample choice to match one of his
     assemblages of queer heads. It is really a great source of
     curiosity and amusement on the promenade of a watering-place to
     observe the little sturdy English women, trudging about in their
     stout leather shoes, and to study the various 'understandings'
     betrayed to view by this mischievous fashion."
The years passed rather wearily in England. Peter continued to be an
invalid, and Washington himself, never robust, felt the pressure more
and more of the irksome and unprosperous business affairs. Of his own
want of health, however, he never complains; he maintains a patient
spirit in the ill turns of fortune, and his impatience in the business
complications is that of a man hindered from his proper career. The
times were depressing.
     "In America [he writes to Brevoort] you have financial
     difficulties, the embarrassments of trade, the distress of
     merchants, but here you have what is far worse, the distress of the
     poor--not merely mental sufferings, but the absolute miseries of
     nature: hunger, nakedness, wretchedness of all kinds that the
     laboring people in this country are liable to. In the best of times
     they do but subsist, but in adverse times they starve. How the
     country is to extricate itself from its present embarrassment, how
     it is to escape from the poverty that seems to be overwhelming it,
     and how the government is to quiet the multitudes that are already
     turbulent and clamorous, and are yet but in the beginning of their
     real miseries, I cannot conceive."
The embarrassments of the agricultural and laboring classes and of the
government were as serious in 1816 as they have again become in 1881.
During 1817 Irving was mostly in the depths of gloom, a prey to the
monotony of life and torpidity of intellect. Rays of sunlight pierce the
clouds occasionally. The Van Wart household at Birmingham was a frequent
refuge for him, and we have pretty pictures of the domestic life there;
glimpses of Old Parr, whose reputation as a gourmand was only second to
his fame as a Grecian, and of that delightful genius, the Rev. Rann
Kennedy, who might have been famous if he had ever committed to paper
the long poems that he carried about in his head, and the engaging sight
of Irving playing the flute for the little Van Warts to dance. During
the holidays Irving paid another visit to the haunts of Isaac Walton,
and his description of the adventures and mishaps of a pleasure party
on the banks of the Dove suggest that the incorrigible bachelor was
still sensitive to the allurements of life, and liable to wander over
the "dead-line" of matrimonial danger. He confesses that he was all day
in Elysium. "When we had descended from the last precipice," he says,
"and come to where the Dove flowed musically through a verdant
meadow--then--fancy me, oh, thou 'sweetest of poets,' wandering by the
course of this romantic stream--a lovely girl hanging on my arm,
pointing out the beauties of the surrounding scenery, and repeating in
the most dulcet voice tracts of heaven-born poetry. If a strawberry
smothered in cream has any consciousness of its delicious situation, it
must feel as I felt at that moment." Indeed, the letters of this doleful
year are enlivened by so many references to the graces and attractions
of lovely women, seen and remembered, that insensibility cannot be
attributed to the author of the "Sketch-Book."
The death of Irving's mother in the spring of 1817 determined him to
remain another year abroad. Business did not improve. His
brother-in-law Van Wart called a meeting of his creditors, the Irving
brothers floundered on into greater depths of embarrassment, and
Washington, who could not think of returning home to face poverty in New
York, began to revolve a plan that would give him a scanty but
sufficient support. The idea of the "Sketch-Book" was in his mind. He
had as yet made few literary acquaintances in England. It is an
illustration of the warping effect of friendship upon the critical
faculty that his opinion of Moore at this time was totally changed by
subsequent intimacy. At a later date the two authors became warm friends
and mutual admirers of each other's productions. In June, 1817, "Lalla
Rookh" was just from the press, and Irving writes to Brevoort: "Moore's
new poem is just out. I have not sent it to you, for it is dear and
worthless. It is written in the most effeminate taste, and fit only to
delight boarding-school girls and lads of nineteen just in their first
loves. Moore should have kept to songs and epigrammatic conceits. His
stream of intellect is too small to bear expansion--it spreads into
mere surface." Too much cream for the strawberry!
Notwithstanding business harassments in the summer and fall of 1817 he
found time for some wandering about the island; he was occasionally in
London, dining at Murray's, where he made the acquaintance of the elder
D'Israeli and other men of letters (one of his notes of a dinner at
Murray's is this: "Lord Byron told Murray that he was much happier after
breaking with Lady Byron--he hated this still, quiet life"); he was
publishing a new edition of the "Knickerbocker," illustrated by Leslie
and Allston; and we find him at home in the friendly and brilliant
society of Edinburgh; both the magazine publishers, Constable and
Blackwood, were very civil to him, and Mr. Jeffrey (Mrs. Renwick was his
sister) was very attentive; and he passed some days with Walter Scott,
whose home life he so agreeably describes in his sketch of "Abbotsford."
He looked back longingly to the happy hours there (he writes to his
brother): "Scott reading, occasionally, from 'Prince Arthur'; telling
border stories or characteristic anecdotes; Sophy Scott singing with
charming naïveté a little border song; the rest of the family disposed
in listening groups, while greyhounds, spaniels, and cats bask in
unbounded indulgence before the fire. Everything about Scott is perfect
character and picture."
In the beginning of 1818 the business affairs of the brothers became so
irretrievably involved that Peter and Washington went through the
humiliating experience of taking the bankrupt act. Washington's
connection with the concern was little more than nominal, and he felt
small anxiety for himself, and was eager to escape from an occupation
which had taken all the elasticity out of his mind. But on account of
his brothers, in this dismal wreck of a family connection, his soul was
steeped in bitterness. Pending the proceedings of the commissioners, he
shut himself up day and night to the study of German, and while waiting
for the examination used to walk up and down the room, conning over the
German verbs.
In August he went up to London and cast himself irrevocably upon the
fortune of his pen. He had accumulated some materials, and upon these
he set to work. Efforts were made at home to procure for him the
position of Secretary of Legation in London, which drew from him the
remark, when they came to his knowledge, that he did not like to have
his name hackneyed about among the office-seekers in Washington.
Subsequently his brother William wrote him that Commodore Decatur was
keeping open for him the office of Chief Clerk in the Navy Department.
To the mortification and chagrin of his brothers, Washington declined
the position. He was resolved to enter upon no duties that would
interfere with his literary pursuits.
This resolution, which exhibited a modest confidence in his own powers,
and the energy with which he threw himself into his career, showed the
fibre of the man. Suddenly, by the reverse of fortune, he who had been
regarded as merely the ornamental genius of the family became its stay
and support. If he had accepted the aid of his brothers, during the
experimental period of his life, in the loving spirit of confidence in
which it was given, he was not less ready to reverse the relations when
the time came; the delicacy with which his assistance was rendered, the
scrupulous care taken to convey the feeling that his brothers were doing
him a continued favor in sharing his good fortune, and their own
unjealous acceptance of what they would as freely have given if
circumstances had been different, form one of the pleasantest instances
of brotherly concord and self-abnegation. I know nothing more admirable
than the life-long relations of this talented and sincere family.
Before the "Sketch-Book" was launched, and while Irving was casting
about for the means of livelihood, Walter Scott urged him to take the
editorship of an Anti-Jacobin periodical in Edinburgh. This he declined
because he had no taste for politics, and because he was averse to
stated, routine literary work. Subsequently Mr. Murray offered him a
salary of a thousand guineas to edit a periodical to be published by
himself. This was declined, as also was another offer to contribute to
the "London Quarterly" with the liberal pay of one hundred guineas an
article. For the "Quarterly" he would not write, because, he says, "it
has always been so hostile to my country, I cannot draw a pen in its
service." This is worthy of note in view of a charge made afterwards,
when he was attacked for his English sympathies, that he was a frequent
contributor to this anti-American review. His sole contributions to it
were a gratuitous review of the book of an American author, and an
explanatory article, written at the desire of his publisher, on the
"Conquest of Granada." It is not necessary to dwell upon the small
scandal about Irving's un-American feeling. If there was ever a man who
loved his country and was proud of it; whose broad, deep, and strong
patriotism did not need the saliency of ignorant partisanship, it was
Washington Irving. He was like his namesake an American, and with the
same pure loyalty and unpartisan candor.
The first number of the "Sketch-Book" was published in America in May,
1819. Irving was then thirty-six years old. The series was not completed
till September, 1820. The first installment was carried mainly by two
papers, "The Wife" and "Rip Van Winkle;" the one full of tender pathos
that touched all hearts, because it was recognized as a genuine
expression of the author's nature; and the other a happy effort of
imaginative humor,--one of those strokes of genius that recreate the
world and clothe it with the unfading hues of romance; the theme was an
old-world echo, transformed by genius into a primal story that will
endure as long as the Hudson flows through its mountains to the sea. A
great artist can paint a great picture on a small canvas.
The "Sketch-Book" created a sensation in America, and the echo of it was
not long in reaching England. The general chorus of approval and the
rapid sale surprised Irving, and sent his spirits up, but success had
the effect on him that it always has on a fine nature. He writes to
Leslie: "Now you suppose I am all on the alert, and full of spirit and
excitement. No such thing. I am just as good for nothing as ever I was;
and, indeed, have been flurried and put out of my way by these puffings.
I feel something as I suppose you did when your picture met with
success,--anxious to do something better, and at a loss what to do."
It was with much misgiving that Irving made this venture. "I feel great
diffidence," he writes Brevoort, March 3, 1819, "about this reappearance
in literature. I am conscious of my imperfections, and my mind has been
for a long time past so pressed upon and agitated by various cares and
anxieties, that I fear it has lost much of its cheerfulness and some of
its activity. I have attempted no lofty theme, nor sought to look wise
and learned, which appears to be very much the fashion among our
American writers at present. I have preferred addressing myself to the
feelings and fancy of the reader more than to his judgment. My writings
may appear, therefore, light and trifling in our country of philosophers
and politicians. But if they possess merit in the class of literature to
which they belong, it is all to which I aspire in the work. I seek only
to blow a flute accompaniment in the national concert, and leave others
to play the fiddle and French-horn." This diffidence was not assumed.
All through his career, a breath of criticism ever so slight acted
temporarily like a hoar-frost upon his productive power. He always saw
reasons to take sides with his critic. Speaking of "vanity" in a letter
of March, 1820, when Scott and Lockhart and all the Reviews were in a
full chorus of acclaim, he says: "I wish I did possess more of it, but
it seems my curse at present to have anything but confidence in myself
or pleasure in anything I have written."
In a similar strain he had written, in September, 1819, on the news of
the cordial reception of the "Sketch-Book" in America:--
     "The manner in which the work has been received and the eulogiums
     that have been passed upon it in the American papers and periodical
     works, have completely overwhelmed me. They go far, far beyond my
     most sanguine expectations, and indeed are expressed with such
     peculiar warmth and kindness as to affect me in the tenderest
     manner. The receipt of your letter, and the reading of some of the
     criticisms this morning, have rendered me nervous for the whole
     day. I feel almost appalled by such success, and fearful that it
     cannot be real, or that it is not fully merited, or that I shall
     not act up to the expectations that may be formed. We are
     whimsically constituted beings. I had got out of conceit of all
     that I had written, and considered it very questionable stuff; and
     now that it is so extravagantly bepraised, I begin to feel afraid
     that I shall not do as well again. However, we shall see as we get
     on. As yet I am extremely irregular and precarious in my fits of
     composition. The least thing puts me out of the vein, and even
     applause flurries me and prevents my writing, though of course it
     will ultimately be a stimulus....
     "I have been somewhat touched by the manner in which my writings
     have been noticed in the 'Evening Post.' I had considered Coleman
     as cherishing an ill-will toward me, and, to tell the truth, have
     not always been the most courteous in my opinions concerning him.
     It is a painful thing either to dislike others or to fancy they
     dislike us, and I have felt both pleasure and self-reproach at
     finding myself so mistaken with respect to Mr. Coleman. I like to
     out with a good feeling as soon as it rises, and so I have dropt
     Coleman a line on the subject.
     "I hope you will not attribute all this sensibility to the kind
     reception I have met to an author's vanity. I am sure it proceeds
     from very different sources. Vanity could not bring the tears into
     my eyes as they have been brought by the kindness of my countrymen.
     I have felt cast down, blighted, and broken-spirited, and these
     sudden rays of sunshine agitate me more than they revive me. I
     hope--I hope I may yet do something more worthy of the
     appreciation lavished on me."
Irving had not contemplated publishing in England, but the papers began
to be reprinted, and he was obliged to protect himself. He offered the
sketches to Murray, the princely publisher, who afterwards dealt so
liberally with him, but the venture was declined in a civil note,
written in that charming phraseology with which authors are familiar,
but which they would in vain seek to imitate. Irving afterwards greatly
prized this letter. He undertook the risks of the publication himself,
and the book sold well, although "written by an author the public knew
nothing of, and published by a bookseller who was going to ruin." In a
few months Murray, who was thereafter proud to be Irving's publisher,
undertook the publication of the two volumes of the "Sketch-Book," and
also of the "Knickerbocker" history, which Mr. Lockhart had just been
warmly praising in "Blackwood's." Indeed, he bought the copyright of the
"Sketch-Book" for two hundred pounds. The time for the publisher's
complaisance had arrived sooner even than Scott predicted in one of his
kindly letters to Irving, "when
                     'Your name is up and may go
                      From Toledo to Madrid.'"
Irving passed five years in England. Once recognized by the literary
world, whatever was best in the society of letters and of fashion was
open to him. He was a welcome guest in the best London houses, where he
met the foremost literary personages of the time, and established most
cordial relations with many of them; not to speak of statesmen,
soldiers, and men and women of fashion, there were the elder D'Israeli,
Southey, Campbell, Hallam, Gifford, Milman, Foscolo, Rogers, Scott, and
Belzoni fresh from his Egyptian explorations. In Irving's letters this
old society passes in review: Murray's drawing-rooms; the amusing
blue-stocking coteries of fashion of which Lady Caroline Lamb was a
promoter; the Countess of Besborough's, at whose house The Duke could be
seen; the Wimbledon country seat of Lord and Lady Spence; Belzoni, a
giant of six feet five, the centre of a group of eager auditors of the
Egyptian marvels; Hallam, affable and unpretending, and a copious
talker; Gifford, a small, shriveled, deformed man of sixty, with
something of a humped back, eyes that diverge, and a large mouth,
reclining on a sofa, propped up by cushions, with none of the petulance
that you would expect from his Review, but a mild, simple, unassuming
man,--he it is who prunes the contributions and takes the sting out of
them (one would like to have seen them before the sting was taken out);
and Scott, the right honest-hearted, entering into the passing scene
with the hearty enjoyment of a child, to whom literature seems a sport
rather than a labor or ambition, an author void of all the petulance,
egotism, and peculiarities of the craft. We have Moore's authority for
saying that the literary dinner described in the "The Tales of a
Traveller," whimsical as it seems and pervaded by the conventional
notion of the relations of publishers and authors, had a personal
foundation. Irving's satire of both has always the old-time Grub Street
flavor, or at least the reminiscent tone, which is, by the way, quite
characteristic of nearly everything that he wrote about England. He was
always a little in the past tense. Buckthorne's advice to his friend
is, never to be eloquent to an author except in praise of his own works,
or, what is nearly as acceptable, in disparagement of the work of his
contemporaries. "If ever he speaks favorably of the productions of a
particular friend, dissent boldly from him; pronounce his friend to be a
blockhead; never fear his being vexed. Much as people speak of the
irritability of authors, I never found one to take offense at such
contradictions. No, no, sir, authors are particularly candid in
admitting the faults of their friends." At the dinner Buckthorne
explains the geographical boundaries in the land of literature: you may
judge tolerably well of an author's popularity by the wine his
bookseller gives him. "An author crosses the port line about the third
edition, and gets into claret; and when he has reached the sixth or
seventh, he may revel in champagne and burgundy." The two ends of the
table were occupied by the two partners, one of whom laughed at the
clever things said by the poet, while the other maintained his
sedateness and kept on carving. "His gravity was explained to us by my
friend Buckthorne. He informed me that the concerns of the house were
admirably distributed among the partners. Thus, for instance, said he,
the grave gentleman is the carving partner, who attends to the joints;
and the other is the laughing partner, who attends to the jokes." If any
of the jokes from the lower end of the table reached the upper end, they
seldom produced much effect. "Even the laughing partner did not think it
necessary to honor them with a smile; which my neighbor Buckthorne
accounted for by informing me that there was a certain degree of
popularity to be obtained before a bookseller could afford to laugh at
an author's jokes."
In August, 1820, we find Irving in Paris, where his reputation secured
him a hearty welcome: he was often at the Cannings' and at Lord
Holland's; Talma, then the king of the stage, became his friend, and
there he made the acquaintance of Thomas Moore, which ripened into a
familiar and lasting friendship. The two men were drawn to each other;
Irving greatly admired the "noble-hearted, manly, spirited little
fellow, with a mind as generous as his fancy is brilliant." Talma was
playing Hamlet to overflowing houses, which hung on his actions with
breathless attention, or broke into ungovernable applause; ladies were
carried fainting from the boxes. The actor is described as short in
stature, rather inclined to fat, with a large face and a thick neck; his
eyes are bluish, and have a peculiar cast in them at times. He said to
