hunger in that place. Yet little Tom was not un- 
happy. He had a hard time of it, but did not 
know it. It was the sort of time that all the Offal 
Court boys had, therefore he supposed it was the 
correct and comfortable thing. When he came 
home empty-handed at night, he knew his father 
would curse him and thrash him first, and that when 
he was done the awful grandmother would do it all 
over again and improve on it; and that away in the 
night his starving mother would slip to him stealthily 
with any miserable scrap or crust she had been able 
to save for him by going hungry herself, notwithstanding she was often caught in that sort of treason 
and soundly beaten for it by her husband. 
No, Tom’s life went along well enough, especially 
in summer. He only begged just enough to save 
himself, for the laws against mendicancy were 
stringent, and the penalties heavy; so he put in a 
good deal of his time listening to good Father An- 
drew’s charming old tales and legends about giants 
and fairies, dwarfs and genii, and enchanted castles, 
and gorgeous kings and princes. His head grew to 
be full of these wonderful things, and many a night 
as he lay in the dark on his scant and offensive straw, 
tired, hungry, and smarting from a thrashing, he 
unleashed his imagination and soon forgot his 
aches and pains in delicious picturings to himself of 
the charmed life of a petted prince in a regal palace. 
One desire came in time to haunt him day and 
night; it was to see a real prince, with his own eyes. 
He spoke of it once to some of his Oflfal Court 
comrades; but they jeered him and scoffed him so 
unmercifully that he was glad to keep his dream to 
himself after that. 
He often read the priest’s old books and got him 
to explain and enlarge upon them. His dreamings 
and readings worked certain changes in him by and 
by. His dream-people were so fine that he grew to 
lament his shabby clothing and his dirt, and to wish 
to be clean and better clad. He went on playing in 
the mud just the same, and enjoying it, too; but 
instead of splashing around in the Thames solely 
for the fun of it, he began to find an added value 
in it because of the washings and cleansings it 
afforded. 
Tom could always find something going on around 
the Maypole in Cheapside, and at the fairs; and 
now and then he and the rest of London had a 
chance to see a mili tary parade when some famous 
unfortunate was carried prisoner to the Tower, by 
land or boat. One summer’s day he saw poor 
Anne Askew and three men burned at the stake in 
Smithfield, and heard an ex-bishop preach a sermon 
to them which did not interest him. Yes, Tom’s 
life was varied and pleasant enough, on the whole. 
By and by Tom’s reading and dreaming about 
princely life wrought such a strong effect upon him 
that he began to act the prince, unconsciously. His 
speech and manners became curiously ceremonious 
and courtly, to the vast admiration and amusement 
of his intimates. But Tom’s influence among these 
young people began to grow now, day by day; and 
in time he came to be looked up to by them with a 
sort of wondering awe, as a superior being. He 
seeraed to know so much.! and he could do and say- 
such marvelous things! and withal, he was so deep 
and -wise! Tom’s remarks and Tom’s performances 
were reported by the boys to their elders ; and these, 
also, presently began to discuss Tom Canty, and to 
regard him as a most gifted and extraordinary 
creature. Full-grown people brought their perplexities to Tom for solution, and were often astoished at the -wit and -wisdom of his decisions. In 
fact, he was become a hero to all who knew him except his o-wn family — these only saw nothing in 
him. 
Privately, after a while, Tom organized a royal 
court! He was the prince; his special comrades 
were guards, chamberlains, equerries, lords and 
ladies in waiting, and the royal family. Daily the 
mock prince was received -with elaborate cere- 
monials borrowed by Tom from his romantic read- 
ings; daily the great affairs of the mimic kingdom 
were discussed in the royal council, and daily his 
mimic highness issued decrees to his imaginary 
armies, navies, and viceroyalties. 
After which he would go forth in his rags and beg 
a few farthings, eat his poor crust, take his custom- 
ary cuffs and abuse, and then stretch himself upon 
his handful of foul straw, and resume his empty 
grandeurs in his dreams. 
And still his desire to look just once upon a real 
prince, in the flesh, grew upon him, day by day, and 
week by week, until at last it absorbed all other 
desires, and became the one passion of his life. 
One January day, on his usual begging tour, he 
tramped despondently up and down the region round 
about Mincing Lane and Little East Cheap, hour 
after hour, barefooted and cold, lookmg in at cook-shop 
windows and longing for the dreadful pork-pies 
and other deadly inventions displayed there — for to 
him these were dainties fit for the angels; that is, 
judging by the smell, they were — for it had never 
been his good luck to own and eat one. There was 
a cold drizzle of rain; the atmosphere was murky; 
it was a melancholy day. At night Tom reached 
home so wet and tired and hungry that it was not 
possible for his father and grandmother to observe 
his forlorn condition and not be moved — after their 
fashion; wherefore they gave him a brisk cufiing 
at once and sent him to bed. For a long time 
his pain and hunger, and the swearing and fight- 
ing going on in the building, kept him awake; 
but at last his thoughts drifted away to far, 
romantic lands, and he fell asleep in the company 
of jeweled and gilded princeluigs who lived in 
vast palaces, and had servants salaaming before 
them or flying to execute their orders. And then, 
as usual, he dreamed that he was a princeling himself. 
All night long the glories of his royal estate shone 
upon him; he moved among great lords and ladies, 
in a blaze of light, breathing perfumes, drinking in 
delicious music, and answering the reverent obei- 
sances of the glittering throng as it parted to make 
way for him, with here a smile, and there a nod of 
his princely head. 
And when he awoke in the naoming and looked 
upon the wretchedness about him, his dream had 
had its usual effect — it had intensified the
sordidness of his surroundings a thousandfold. Then came 
bitterness, and heartbreak, and tears. 
CHAPTER III 
tom’s meeting with the prince 
Tom got up hungry, and sauntered hungry away, 
but with his thoughts busy with the shadowy 
splendors of his night’s dreams. He wandered 
here and there in the city, hardly noticing where he 
was going, or what was happening around him. 
People jostled him and some gave him rough speech; 
but it was all lost on the musing boy. By and by 
he found himself at Temple Bar, the farthest from 
home he had ever traveled in that direction. He 
stopped and considered a moment, then fell into his 
imaginings again, and passed on outside the walls 
of London. The Strand had ceased to be a country- 
road then, and regarded itself as a street, but by a 
strained construction; for, though there was a 
tolerably compact row of houses on one side of it, there 
were only some scattering great buildings on the 
other, these being palaces of rich nobles, with ample 
and beautiful grounds stretching to the river — 
grounds that are now closely packed with giim acres 
of brick and stone. 
Tom discovered Charing Village presently, and 
rested himself at the beautiful cross built there by a 
bereaved king of earlier days; then idled down a 
quiet, lovely road, past the great cardinal’s stately 
palace, toward a far more mighty and majestic palace 
beyond — Westminster. Tom stared in glad wonder 
at the vast pile of masonry, the wide-spreading 
wings, the frowning bastions and turrets, the huge 
stone gateway, with its gdded bars and its magnificent
array of colossal granite lions, and the other 
signs and symbols of English royalty. Was the 
desire of his soul to be satisfied at last? Here, 
indeed, was a king’s palace. Might he not hope to 
see a prince now — a prince of flesh and blood, if 
Heaven were willing? 
At each side of the gilded gate stood a living 
statue, that is to say, an erect and stately and
motionless man-at-arms, clad from head to heel in 
shining steel armor. At a respectful distance were 
many country-folk, and people from the city, 
waiting for any chance glimpse of royalty that might 
offer. Splendid carriages, with splendid people in 
them and splendid servants outside, were arriving 
and departing by several other noble gateways that 
pierced the royal indosure. 
Poor little Tom, in his rags, approached, and was 
moving slowly and timidly past the sentinels, with a 
beating heart and a rising hope, when all at once he 
caught sight through the golden bars of a spectade 
that almost made him shout for joy. Within was a 
comdy boy, tanned and brown with sturdy outdoor 
sports and exercises, whose clothing was all of 
lovdy’ silks and satins, shining with jewels; at his 
hip a little jewded sword and dagger; dainty buskins 
on his feet, with red heels; and on his head a jaunty 
crimson cap, with drooping plumes fastened with a 
great sparkling gem. Several gorgeous gentlemen 
stood near — his servants, without a doubt. Oh! he 
was a prince — a prince, a living prince, a real prince 
 — without the shadow of a question; and the prayer 
of the pauper boy’s heart was answered at last. 
Tom’s breath came quick and short with excitement,
and his eyes grew big with wonder and delight. 
Everything gave way in his mind instantly 
to one desire: that was to get close to the prince, 
and have a good, devouring look at him. Before 
he knew what he was about, he had his face against 
the gate-bars. The next instant one of the soldiers 
snatched him rudely away, and sent him spinning 
among the gaping crowd of cotmtry gawks and 
London idlers. The soldier said: 
“Mind thy manners, thou young beggar!” 
The crowd jeered and laughed; but the young 
prince sprang to the gate with his face flushed, and 
his eyes flashing with indignation, and cried out: 
“How dar’st thou use a poor lad like that! How 
dar’st thou use the king my father’s meanest subject 
so! Open the gates, and let him in!” 
You should have seen that fickle crowd snatdi off 
their hats then. You should have heard them 
cheer, and shout, “Long live the Prince of Wales!” 
The soldiers presented arms with their halberds, 
opened the gates, and presented again as the little 
Prince of Poverty passed in, in his fluttering rags, 
to join hands with the Prince of Limitless Plenty. 
Edward Tudor said: 
“Thou lookest tired and hungry; thou’st been 
treated ill. Come with me.” 
Half a dozen attendants sprang forward to — I 
don’t know what; interfere, no doubt. But they 
were waved aside with a right royal gesture, and 
they stopped stock still where they were, like so 
many statues. Edward took Tom to a rich apartment 
in the palace, which he called his cabinet. By 
his command a repast was brought such as Tom had 
never encountered before except in books. The 
prince, with princely delicacy and breeding, sent 
away the servants, so that his humble guest might 
not be embarrassed by their critical presence; then 
he sat near by, and asked questions while Tom ate. 
“What is thy name, lad?” 
“Tom Canty, an it please thee, sir.” 
“’Tis an odd one. Where dost live?” 
“In the city, please thee, sir. Offal Court, out 
of Pudding Lane.” 
“Offal Court! Truly, ’tis another odd one. Hast 
parents?” 
“Parents have I, sir, and a grandam likewise that 
is but indifferently precious to me, God forgive me if 
it be offense to say it — also twin sisters, Nan and Bet.” 
“Then is thy grandam not overkind to thee, I 
take it.” 
“Neither to any other is she, so please your 
worship. She hath a wicked heart, and worketh 
evil all her days.” 
“Doth she mistreat thee?” 
“There be times that she stayeth her hand, being 
asleep or overcome with drink; but when she hath 
her judgment clear again, she maketh it up to me 
with goodly beatings.” 
A fierce look came into the little prince’s eyes, 
and he cried out; 
“What! Beatings?” 
“Oh, indeed, yes, please you, sir.” 
“Beatings ! — and thou so frail and little. Hark 
ye: before the night come, she shall hie her to the 
Tower. The king my father — ” 
“In sooth, you forget, sir, her low degree. The 
Tower is for the great alone.” 
“True, indeed. I had not thought of that. I 
wfil consider of her punishment. Is thy father kind 
to thee?” 
“Not more than Gammer Canty, sir.” 
“Fathers be alike, mayhap. Mine hath not a doll’s 
temper. He smiteth with a heavy hand, yet spareth 
me : he spareth me not always with his tongue, though, 
sooth to say. How doth thy mother use thee ?’ ’ 
“She is good, sir, and giveth me neither sorrow 
nor pain of any sort. And Nan and Bet are like to 
her in this.” 
“How old be these?” 
“Fifteen, an it please you, sir.” 
“The Lady Elizabeth, my sister, is fourteen, and 
the Lady Jane Grey, my cousin, is of mine own age, 
and comely and gracious withal; but my sister the 
Lady Mary, with her gloomy mien and — Look 
you: do thy sisters forbid their servants to anile, 
lest the sin destroy their souls ?” 
“They? Oh, dost think, sir, that they have servants?” 
The little prince contanplated the little pauper 
gravely a moment, then said; 
“And prithee, why not? Who helpeth them un- 
dress at night? who attireth them when they rise?” 
“None, sir. Wouldst have them take off their 
garment, and sleep without — like the beasts?” 
“Their garment! Have they but one?” 
“Ah, good your worship, what would they do 
with more? Truly, they have not two bodies each.” 
“It is a quaint and marvelous thought! Thy 
pardon, I had not meant to laugh. But thy good 
Nan and thy Bet shall have raiment and lackeys 
enow, and that soon, too: my cofferer shall look to 
it. No, thank me not; ’tis nothing. Thou speakest 
well; thou hast an easy grace in it. Art learned?” 
“I know not if I am or not, sir. The good priest 
that is called Father Andrew taught me, of his kind- 
ness, from his books.” 
“Know’st thou the Latin?” 
“But scantily, sir, I doubt.” 
“Learn it, lad: ’tis hard only at first. The Greek 
is harder; but neither these nor any tongues else, 
I think, are hard to the Lady Elizabeth and my 
cousin. Thou shouldst hear those damsels at it! 
But tell me of thy Offal Court. Hast thou a pleasant 
life there?” 
“In truth, yes, so please you, sir, save when one 
is hungry. There be Punch-and-Judy shows, and 
monkeys — oh, such antic creatures! and so bravely 
dressed! — and there be plays wherein they that 
play do shout and fight till all are slain, and ’tis so 
fine to see, and costeth but a farthing — albeit ’tis 
main hard to get the farthing, please your worship.” 
“Tell me more.” 
 
“We lads of Offal Court do strive against each 
other with the cudgel, like to the fashion of the 
’prentices, sometimes.” 
The prince’s eyes flashed. Said he; 
“Marry, that would I not mislike. Tell me more.” 
“We strive in races, sir, to see who of us shall be 
fleetest.” 
“That would I like also. Speak on.” 
“In summer, sir, we wade and swim in the canals 
and in the river, and each doth duck his neighbor, 
and spatter him with water, and dive and shout and 
tumble and — ” 
“ ’Twould be worth my father’s kingdom but to 
enjoy it once! Prithee go on.” 
“We dance and sing about the Maypole in 
Cheapside; we play in the sand, each covering his 
neighbor up; and times we make mud pastry — oh, 
the lovely mud, it hath not its like for delightfulness 
in all the world! — we do fairly wallow in the mud, 
sir, saving your worship’s presence.” 
“Oh, prithee, say no more, ’tis glorious! If 
that I cotdd but clothe me in raiment like to thine, 
and strip my feet, and revel in the mud once, just 
once, with none to rebuke me or forbid, meseemeth 
I could forego the crown!” 
“And if that I could clothe me once, sweet sir, 
as thou art clad — just once — ” 
“Oho, wouldst like it? Then so shall it be. Doff 
thy rags, and don these splendors, lad! It is a brief 
happiness, but will be not less keen for that. We 
will have it while we may, and change again before 
any come to molest.” 
A few mimites later the little Prince of Wales was 
garlanded with Tom’s fluttering odds and ends, and 
the little Prince of Pauperdom was tricked out in the 
gaudy plumage of royalty. The two went and stood 
side by side before a great mirror, and lo, a miracle; 
there did not seem to have been any change made! 
They stared at each other, then at the glass, then at 
each other again. At last the puzzled princeling 
said: 
“What dost thou make of this?” 
“Ah, good your worship, require me not to 
answer. It is not meet that one of my degree 
should utter the thing.” 
“Then will I utter it. Thou hast the same hair, 
the same eyes, the same voice and manner, the same 
form and stature, the same face and countenance, 
that I bear. Fared we forth naked, there is none 
could say which was you, and which the Prince of 
Wales. And, now that I am clothed as thou wert 
clothed, it seemeth I should be able the more nearly 
to feel as thou didst when the brute soldier — 
Hark ye, is not this a bruise upon your hand?” 
“Yes; but it is a slight thing, and your worship 
knoweth that the poor man-at-arms — ” 
“Peace! It was a shameftd thing and a cruel!” 
cried the little prince, stamping his bare foot. “If 
the king — Stir not a step till I come again! It 
is a command!” 
In a moment he had snatched up and put away 
an article of national importance that lay upon a 
table, and was out at the door and flying through 
the palace grounds in his bannered rags, with a hot 
face and glowing eyes. As soon as he reached the 
great gate, he seized the bars, and tried to shake 
them, shouting: 
“Open! Unbar the gates!” 
The soldier that had maltreated Tom obeyed 
promptly; and as the prince burst through the 
portal, half smothered with royal wrath, the soldier 
fetched him a sounding box on the ear that sent 
him whirling to the roadway, and said: 
“Take that, thou beggar’s spawn for what thou 
got’st me from his Highness!” 
The crowd roared with laughter. The prince 
picked himself out of the mud, and made fiercely at 
the sentry, shouting: 
“I am the Prince of Wales, my person is sacred; 
and thou shalt hang for laying thy hand upon me!” 
The soldier brought his halberd to a present-arms 
and said mockingly: 
“I salute your gracious Highness.” Then angrily,
“Be off, thou crazy rubbish!” 
Here the jeering crowd closed aroimd the poor 
little prince, and hustled him far down the road, 
hooting him, and shouting, “Way for his royal 
Highness! way for the Prince of Wales!” 
CHAPTER rV 
THE prince’s troubles BEGIN 
AFTER hours of persistent pursuit and persecution, 
the little prince was at last deserted by 
the rabble and left to himself. As long as he had 
been able to rage against the mob, and threaten it 
royally, and royally utter commands that were good 
stuff to laugh at, he was very entertaining; but 
when weariness finally forced him to be silent, he 
was no longer of use to his tormentors, and they 
sought amusement elsewhere. He looked about him 
now, but could not recognize the locality. He was 
within the city of London — that was all he knew. 
He moved on, aimlessly, and in a little while the 
houses thinned, and the passers-by were infrequent. 
He bathed his bleeding feet in the brook which 
flowed then where Parringdon Street now is; rested 
a few moments, then passed on, and presently came 
upon a great space with only a few scattered houses 
in it, and a prodigious church. He recognized this 
church. Scaffoldings were about, everywhere, and 
swarms of workmen; for it was undergoing elaborate 
repairs. The prince took heart at once — he felt 
that his troubles were at an end now. He said to 
himself, “It is the ancient Grey Friars’ church, 
which the king my father hath taken from the 
TnrinVs and given for a home forever for poor and 
forsaken children, and new-named it Christ's church. 
Right gladly will they serve the son of him who hath 
done so generously by them — and the more that that 
son is himself as poor and as forlorn as any that be 
sheltered here this day, or ever shall be.” 
He was soon in the midst of a crowd of boys who 
were running, jumping, playing at ball and leap-frog 
and otherwise disporting themselves, and right 
noisily, too. They were all dressed alike, and in 
the fashion which in that day prevailed among 
serving-men and 'prentices ’’ — that is to say, each 
had on the crown of his head a flat black cap about 
the size of a saucer, which was not useful as a 
covering, it being of such scanty dimensions, neither 
was it ornamental; from beneath it the hair fell, 
unparted, to the middle of the forehead, and was 
cropped straight around; a clerical band at the 
neck; a blue gown that fitted closely and hung as 
low as the knees or lower; full sleeves; a broad red 
belt; bright yellow stockings, gartered above the 
knees; low shoes with large metal buckles. It was 
a sufficiently ugly costume. 
The boys stopped their play and flocked about 
the prince, who said with native dignity: 
“Good lads, say to your master that Edward 
Prince of Wales desireth speech with him.” 
A great shout went up at this, and one rude 
fellow said: 
“Marry, art thou his grace’s messenger, beggar?” 
The prince’s face flushed with anger, and his 
ready hand flew to his hip, but there was nothing 
there. There was a storm of laughter, and one boy 
said: 
“Didst mark that? He fancied he had a sword — 
belike he is the prince himself.” 
This sally brought more laughter. Poor Edward 
drew himself up proudly and said: 
“I am the prince; and it ill beseemeth you that 
feed upon the king my father’s bounty to use me so.” 
This was vastly enjoyed, as the laughter testified. 
The youth who had first spoken shouted to his 
comrades: 
“Ho, swine, slaves, pensioners of his grace’s 
princely father, where be your manners? Down on 
your marrow bones, all of ye, and do reverence to 
his kingly port and royal rags!” 
With boisterous mirth they dropped upon their 
knees in a body and did mock homage to their prey. 
The prince spurned the nearest boy with his foot, 
and said fiercely: 
“Take thou that, till the morrow come and I 
build thee a gibbet!” 
Ah, but this was not a joke — this was going 
beyond fun. The laughter ceased on the instant, 
and fury took its place. A dozen shouted: 
“Hale him forth! To the horse-pond, to the 
horse-pond! Where be the dogs? Ho, there, Lion! 
ho. Pangs!” 
Then followed such a thing as England had never 
seen before — the sacred person of the heir to the 
throne rudely buffeted by plebeian hands, and set 
upon and tom by dogs. 
As night drew to a close that day, the prince 
found himself far down in the close-built portion 
of the city. His body was bruised, his hands were 
bleeding, and his rags were all besmirched with mud. 
He wandered on and on, and grew more and more 
bewildered, and so tired and faint he could hardly 
drag one foot after the other. He had ceased to 
ask questions of any one, since they brought him 
only insult instead of information. He kept muttering 
to himself, “Offal Court — that is the name; if 
I can but find it before my strength is wholly spent 
and I drop, then am I saved — for his people will 
take me to the palace and prove that I am none of 
theirs, but the true prince, and I shall have mine 
own again.” And now and then his mind reverted 
to his treatment by those rude Christ’s Hospital 
boys, and he said, “When I am king, they shall 
not have bread and shelter only, but also teachings 
out of books; for a full belly is little worth where 
the mind is starved, and the heart. I will keep this 
diligently in my remembrance, that this day’s lesson 
be not lost upon me, and my people suffer thereby; 
for learning softeneth the heart and breedeth gentleness 
and charity.” 
The lights began to twinkle, it came on to rain, 
the wind rose, and a raw and gusty night set in. 
The houseless prince, the homeless heir to the 
throne of England, still moved on, drifting deeper 
into the maze of squalid alleys where the swarming 
hives of poverty and misery were massed to- 
gether. 
Suddenly a great drunken ruffian collared him and 
said: 
“Out to this time of night again, and hast not 
brought a farthing home, I warrant me! If it be 
so, an I do not break all the bones in thy lean 
body, then am I not John Canty, but some other.” 
The prince twisted himself loose, unconsciously 
brushed his profaned shoulder, and eagerly said; 
“Oh, art his father, truly? Sweet heaven grant 
it be so — then wilt thou fetch him away and restore 
me!” 
“His father? I know not what thou mean’st; I 
but know I am thy father, as thou shalt soon have 
cause to — ” 
“Oh, jest not, palter not, delay not! — am 
worn, I am wounded, I can bear no more. Take 
me to the kuig my father, and he will make thee 
rich beyond thy wildest dreams. Believe me, man, 
believe me! — I speak no lie, but only the truth! — 
put forth thy hand and save me! I am indeed the 
Prince of Wales!” 
The man stared down, stupefied, upon the lad, 
then riiook his head and muttered; 
“Gone stark mad as any Tom o’ Bedlam!” — 
then collared him once more, and said with a coarse 
laugh and an oath, “But mad or no mad, I and thy 
Gammer Canty will soon find where the soft places 
in thy bones He, or I’m no true man!” 
I With this he dragged the frantic and struggling 
prince away, and disappeared up a front court 
followed by a delighted and noisy swarm of human 
vermin. 
Tom canty, left alone in the prince’s cabinet, 
made good use of his opportunity. He turned 
himself this way and that before the great mirror, 
admiring his finery; then walked away, imitating 
the prince’s high-bred carriage, and still observing 
results in the glass. Next he drew the beautiful 
sword, and bowed, kissing the blade, and laying it 
across his breast, as he had seen a noble knight do, 
by way of salute to the lieutenant of the Tower, five 
or six weeks before, when delivering the great lords 
of Norfolk and Surrey into his hands for captivity. 
Tom played with the jeweled dagger that hung upon 
his thigh; he examined the costly and exquisite 
ornaments of the room; he tried each of the sump- 
tuous chairs, and thought how proud he would be if 
the Offal Court herd could only peep in and see 
him in his grandeur. He wondered if they would 
believe the marvelous tale he should tell when he 
got home, or if they would shake their heads, and 
say his overtaxed imagination had at last upset his 
reason. 
At the end of half an hour it suddenly occurred 
to him that the prince was gone a long time; then 
right away he began to feel lonely; very soon he 
fell to listening and longing, and ceased to toy within 
the pretty things about him; he grew uneasy, then 
restless, then distressed. Suppose some one should 
come, and catch him in the prince’s clothes, and the 
prince not there to explain. Might they not hang 
him at once, and inquire into his case afterward? 
He had heard that the great were prompt about 
small matters. His fears rose higher and higher; 
and trembling he softly opened the door to the ante- 
chamber, resolved to fly and seek the prince, and 
through him, protection and release. Six gorgeous 
gentlemen-servants and two young pages of high 
degree, clothed like butterflies, sprung to their feet, 
and bowed low before him. He stepped quickly 
back, and shut the door. He said: 
“Oh, they mock at me! They will go and tell. 
Oh! why came I here to cast away my life?” 
He walked up and down the floor, filled with name- 
less fears, listening, starting at every trifling sound. 
Presently the door swung open, and a silken page said : 
“The Lady Jane Grey.” 
The door closed, and a sweet young girl, richly 
clad, bounded toward him. But she stopped suddenly, 
and said in a distressed voice: 
“Oh, what aileth thee, my lord?” 
Tom’s breath was nearly failing him; but he made 
shift to stammer out: 
“Ah, be merciful, thou! In sooth I am no lord, 
but only poor Tom Canty of OfiEal Court in the 
city. Prithee let me see the prince, and he will of 
his grace restore to me my rags, and let me hence 
unhurt. Oh, be thou merciful, and save me!” 
By t.fii.c; time the boy was on his knees, and supplicating 
with his eyes and uplifted hands as well as 
with his tongue. The young girl seemed horror- 
stricken. She cried out: 
“Oh, my lord, on thy knees? — and to me!” 
Then she fled away in fright; and Tom, smitten 
with despair, sank down, murmuring: 
“There is no help, there is no hope. Now will 
they come and take me.” 
Whilst he lay there benumbed with terror, dreadful 
tidings were speeding through the palace. The 
whisper, for it was whispered always, flew from 
mffnial to menial, from lord to lady, down all the 
long corridors, from story to story, from saloon to 
saloon, “The prince hath gone mad, the prince 
hath gone mad!” Soon every saloon, every marble 
hall, had its groups of glittering lords and ladies, 
and other groups of dazzling lesser folk, talking 
earnestly together in whispers, and every face had 
in it (hsmay. Presently a splendid official came 
marching by these groups, making solemn procla- 
mation: 
“In the Name of the King. 
Let none list to this false and foolish matter, upon 
pain of death, nor discuss the same, nor carry it 
abroad. In the name of the king!” 
The whisperings ceased as suddenly as if the 
whisperers had been stricken dumb. 
Soon there was a general buzz along the corridors, 
of ‘ ‘The prince ! See, the prince comes !” 
Poor Tom came slowly walking past the low- 
bowing groups, trying to bow in return, and meekly 
gazing upon his strange surroimdings with bewildered 
and pathetic eyes. Great nobles walked upon 
each side of him, making him lean upon them, and 
so steady his steps. Behind him followed the court 
physicians and some servants. 
Presently Tom found himself in a noble apartment 
of the palace, and heard the door close behind him. 
Around him stood those who had come with him. 
Before him, at a little distance, reclined a very 
large and very fat man, with a wide, pulpy face, and 
a stern expression. His large head was very gray; 
and his whiskers, which he wore only around his 
face, like a frame, were gray also. His clothing was 
of rich stuff, but old, and slightly frayed in places. 
One of his swollen legs had a pillow under it, and 
was wrapped in bandages. There was silence now; 
and there was no head there but was bent in rever- 
ence, except this man’s. This stem-countenanced 
invalid was the dread Henry VIII. He said — and 
his face grew gentle as he began to speak; 
‘ ‘ How now, my lord Edward, my prince ? Hast been 
minded to cozen me, the good king thy father, who 
loveth thee, and kindly useth thee, with a sorry jest ?” 
Poor Tom was listening, as well as his dazed 
faculties would let Mm, to the beginning of the 
speech; but when the words “me the good king” 
fell upon Ms ear, Ms face blanched, and he dropped 
as instantly upon his knees as if a shot had brought 
him there. Lifting up his hands, he exclaimed: 
“Thou the kingf Then am I undone indeed!” 
This speech seemed to stun the king. His eyes 
wandered from face to face aimlessly, then rested, 
bewildered, upon the boy before him. Then he 
said in a tone of deep disappointment : 
"Alack, I had believed the rumor disproportioned 
to the truth; but I fear me 'tis not so.” He breathed 
a heavy sigh, and said in a gentle voice, ‘‘Come to 
thy father, child; thou art not well.” 
Tom was assisted to his feet, and approached the 
Majesty of England, humble and trembling. The 
king took the frightened face between his hands, and 
gazed earnestly and lovingly into it awhile, as if 
seeking some grateful sign of returning reason there, 
then pressed the curly head against his breast, and 
patted it tenderly. Presently he said: 
“Dost thou know thy father, child? Break not 
mine old heart; say thou know’st me. Thou dost 
know me, dost thou not?” 
“Yea; thou art my dread lord the king, whom 
God preserve!” 
“True, true — that is well — be comforted, tremble 
not so; there is none here who would hurt thee; 
there is none here but loves thee. Thou art better 
now; thy ill dream passeth — is’t not so? And thou 
knowest thyself now also — is’t not so? Thou wilt 
not miscall thyself again, as they say thou didst a 
little while agone?” 
“I pray thee of thy grace believe me, I did but 
speak the truth, most dread lord; for I am the 
meanest among thy subjects, being a pauper bom, 
and ’tis by a sore mischance and accident I am here, 
albeit I was therein nothing blameful. I am but 
young to die, and thou canst save me with one 
little word. Oh, speak it, sir!” 
“Die? Talk not so, sweet prince — peace, peace, 
to thy troubled heart — thou shalt not die!” 
Tom dropped upon his knees with a glad cry; 
“God requite thy mercy, oh my king, and save 
thee long to bless thy land!” Then springing up, 
he turned a joyful face toward the two lords in 
waiting, and exclaimed, “Thou heard’st it! I am 
not to die: the king hath said it!” There was no 
movement, save that all bowed with grave respect; 
but no one spoke. He hesitated, a little confused, 
then turned timidly toward the king, saying, “I may 
go now?” 
“Go? Surely, if thou desirest. But why not 
tarry yet a little? Whither wouldst go?” 
Tom dropped his eyes, and answered humbly: 
“Peradventure I mistook; but I did think me 
free, and so was I moved to seek again the kennel 
where I was bom and bred to misery, yet which 
harboreth my mother and my sisters, and so is home 
to me; whereas these pomps and splendors where- 
unto I am not used — oh, please you, sir, to let me go !” 
The king was silent and thoughtful awhile, and 
his face betrayed a growing distress and uneasiness. 
Presently he said, with something of hope in his 
voice; 
“Perchance he is but mad upon this one strain, 
and hath his wits unmarred as toucheth other 
matter. God send it may be so! We will make 
trial.” 
Then he asked Tom a question in Latin, and Tom 
answered him lamely in the same tongue. The king 
was delighted, and showed it. The lords and doctors 
manifested their gratification also. The king 
said: 
“’Twas not according to his schooling and ability, 
but sheweth that his mind is but diseased, not 
stricken fatally. How say you, sir?” 
The physician addressed bowed low, and replied: 
“It jumpeth with mine own conviction, sire, that 
thou hast divined aright.” 
The king looked pleased with this encouragement, 
coming as it did from so excellent authority, and 
continued with good heart: 
“Now mark ye all: we will try him further.” 
He put a question to Tom in French. Tom stood 
silent a moment, embarrassed by having so many 
eyes centered upon him, then said diffidently: 
“I have no knowledge of this tongue, so please 
your majesty.” 
The king fell back upon his couch. The attendants 
flew to his assistance; but he put them aside, 
and said: 
“Trouble me not — it is nothing but a scurvy 
faintness. Raise me! there, ’tis sufficient. Come 
hither, child; there, rest thy poor troubled head 
upon thy father’s heart, and be at peace. Thou’lt 
soon be well; ’tis but a passing fantasy. Pear thou 
not; thou’lt soon be well.” Then he turned toward 
the company; his gentle manner changed, and bale- 
ful lightnings began to play from his eyes. He 
said: 
“List ye all! This my son is mad; but it is not 
permanent. Overstudy hath done this, and some- 
what too much of confinement. Away with his 
books and teachers! see ye to it. Pleasure him with 
sports, beguile him in wholesome ways, so that his 
health come again.” He raised himseh higher 
still, and went on with energy. “He is mad; but 
he is my son, and England’s heir; and, mad of 
sane, still shall he reign! And hear ye further, and 
proclaim it: whoso speaketh of this his distemper 
worketh against the peace and order of these realms, 
and shall to the gallows! . . . Give me to drink — 
I bum: This sorrow sappeth my sti'ength. . . . 
There, take away the cup. . . . Support me. There, 
that is well. Mad, is he? Were he a thousand 
times mad, yet is he Prince of Wales, and I the 
king will confirm it. This very morrow shall he be 
installed in his princely dignity in due and ancient 
form. Take instant order for it, my Lord Hert- 
ford.” 
One of the nobles knelt at the royal couch, and 
said: 
“The king’s majesty knoweth that the Hereditary 
Great Marshal of England lieth attainted in the 
Tower. It were not meet that one attainted — ” 
“Peace! Insult not mine ears with his hated 
name. Is this man to live forever? Am I to be 
balked of my will? Is the prince to tarry uninstalled, 
because, forsooth, the realm lacketh an earl 
marshal free of treasonable taint to invest him with 
his honors? No, by the splendor of God! Warn 
my parliament to bring me Norfolk’s doom before 
the sun rise again, else shall they answer for it 
grievously!” 
