and there is an agony of pathos in it. She is not asking 
for love, as some women of lower moral tone might, but 
she wants the highest place in this man's regard, and she 
will be satisfied to caU it friendship. Dolly may marry 
him even, since she will never understand the height and 
breadth they two can attain. It will be one of those pure, 
loyal friendships that the finger of scandal cannot touch, 
since the vulgar kissing and caressing will never pass 
between them. But every other woman will be banned 
out relentlessly, and this is why she has come to look 
upon Christmas Ormiston grudgingly. Does she carry 
this secret in her eyes unwittingly, for it is tlifl» Ormis- 
ton's face that does come between? 
zed by 
Google 
CHAPTER XX. 
CHALLENGING FATX. 
It seems to-night as if Christmas Ormiston is on the 
verge of some daring mystery. The very air throbs with 
sentient pulses, the music translates vague meanings that 
come almost to the surface, that she could read if she had 
any clew, but it eludes her at every turn. She is quite sat- 
isfied with Dolly, and feels as if she may safely lay her 
fears aside, so far as Mr. Jeffries is concerned. Every 
one's enjoyment is complete, it appears, for there is no 
weariness, no little groups viewing other little groups 
disdainfully. 
The supper, the perfection of sunmier nights' refresh- 
ment, is most meet for the season. Afterwards there is 
much strolling about, and dancing again for the gayest ; 
the others, feeling they have quite done their duty, settle 
themselves to listen. It is past midnight, and there is a 
weird charm in the very shadows that troop about under 
the trees. No one has yet spoken of going home. Many 
there are who half envy the young mistress of Glen Ormis- 
ton, about whose position there can now be no dispute. 
Business interests have not rendered her less refined or deli- 
cate, but that, or some high truth she has taken for her 
guide, has given her a spiritual force and beauty not 
easily overlooked. To-night she can contest the palm 
with Mrs. Stannard ; indeed, the haughty, world-weary face, 
with its classic outlines and perfect curves, seems restrained 
by some subtle repelling power that guards her inner life 
from contact with whatever can annoy or offend. In Miss 
Ormiston there is a fresh, tender brightness, a sense of 
much enjoyment yet to come, hope, aspiration, an enthu- 
 
 
 
siasm that will not spend itself in trivialities, but bend to 
some earnest purpose. Even Mrs. Donaldson has a vagne 
misgiving this evening that she has misjadged her, tiiat 
in any great strait of life she will rally some unseen 
forces and make a brave fight. 
But to-night it seems a sort of Joyous high tide. She 
is proud to feel herself so capable of pleasure, and glad 
that she has something worth offering her fellow-beings. 
Her training has not made her narrow or self-absorbed ; 
instead, there is a broad exaltation and buoyancy as if 
she could reach out her hands full of good gifts to all 
Ihe world. She envies no one, yet she is not vainly self- 
conscious. Other lives are as blessed doubtless, yet she 
would not change. She is content, nay almost impatient, 
to go straight on to an unfolding future. 
The Donaldsons are the first to leave. Christtnas remem- 
bers some little matters that need her manager's attention, 
and goes to the study, that has not been invaded by the 
gay throng. The light from the hall is sufficient for her 
to see, as she knows in what particular drawer she has 
laid the memorandum, so she goes quietly through the end 
of the hall. The door is slightly ajar and there are voices 
within, at which she pauses in surprise. Some one is 
talking low and rapidly ; then Dolly Allaire answers, with 
the little sharpness that indicates a ruffled temper, — 
"If you can break the bond so easily, it is no bond at 
all. If you can marry, then I am free." 
The laugh is stealthy, cautious, and scornful, and the 
reply is so muffled that she can neither distinguish voice 
nor words. 
" The day you. are engaged to her," says Dolly, as if 
repeating something. " Heaven knows that I am ready 
and willing to forward your plans, if only to rescue my- 
self. Still, I do not believe our marriage was legal, and 
we have come to hate each other. A pretty couple we 
should be!" 
 
 
" Not so loud,'' the other utters waminglj. 
<' I cannot make her love you," Dolly goes on, but her 
Toice has a fatal distinctness. " Still, it is time she was 
married, and lovers have not been so plenty with her. 
Then I think you could win an angel from heayen, or 
Eurydice from Hades," with a bitter laugh. " You will 
get the fortune you want, though I warn you that she 
will be mistress. You will find no such weak, silly fool as 
I proved to be. When I think of all, I could murder my- 
self ! You wUl give me back the letters? " 
There is long, low answer. 
" You have sworn so many oaths," Dolly replies wearily 
to her companion. '' Believe me, I shall try for my own 
sake ; but to praise you indiscriminately would be just the 
way to arouse her suspicion. Ton must do your best. 
She must take you of her own choice. There, go now, or 
you will kill me. Some one may find us. To-morrow, 
then, at the Glen, the great rock, say at four. I shall be 
in bed till noon. Gro, go ! " 
There is a rustle among the vines, and a light step 
touches the unfrequented porch. Christmas Ormiston 
stands quite still, and just realizes that she has been lis- 
tening. There is a moment of supreme bewilderment. 
Some prescience tells her she was the person under 
discussion, and Dolly's own admission that she is married 
strikes her dumb and cold. How long she waits she 
cannot teU, but a returning thought of her errand nerves 
her, so she pushes the door open. 
Dolly springs up from the lounge, " Oh, is it you, 
Chris !" she cries in a kind of hysterical tone, as if she 
were surprised. " I was so tired. I came in here for a 
little quiet. I have done my duty by you, and danced 
myself almost to death, but the whole thing has been 
enchanting ! " 
Dolly's ready duplicity sickens her. The room whirls 
round, and she tries to steady herself. 
 
 
 
"I came for some papers,' she makes answer, going 
to the escritoire. 
" I hope you keep your places well locked," Dolly ex- 
claims with curious solicitude. " For if anything was 
lost, I wouldn't want to bear the blame." 
"The drawers are locked." Miss Ormiston's voice is 
strangely shaken. She feels as if she were the culprit, 
deep in some unlawful conspiracy. She can even imagine 
herself abstracting valuable papers, as she turns the 
spring with its sharp click. 
Dolly has recovered her self-possession, and it is 
superb. She takes the arm of her friend as they return, 
and talks vivaciously about the evening's enjoyment. Mr. 
Jeffries stands on the porch by the door, and looks up 
with a winning smile. 
" Truant ! " he says to Miss Allaire, " where have you 
been hiding yourself ? They are going to play a mazurka. 
May I have the pleasure, if you are not engaged? Miss 
Ormiston, your midsummer night ought to go on for- 
ever." 
" And weary us all ? " 
" I have felt enchanted. What magic do you use ? " 
A subtle flame wavers in his dark eyes, and his face 
shines with rare tenderness, but it only serves now to 
heighten an impression of distrust, and that baffling 
memory haunting her in his presence. 
The band strikes into the delicious melody, and the 
dancers follow the weird sound. 
" Don't lose your heart to that fellow," says Donald- 
son abruptly. " See here, they are the two who belong 
together " ; and his eyes follow the graceful, languorous 
movements which are really perfection. " Why can it 
not come around that way? What nature joins together, 
no one has a right to tear asunder." 
Christmas Ormiston is ghostly pale; even her lips 
quiver. Can that man be Dolly Allaire's unknown hus- 
 
 
band or past lover? Oh, what a travesty those smiling 
faces are, that " have come to hate each other" I 
Donaldson bites his Hp savagely. Can this woman, his 
pearl of all women, in her clear sense and cool judgment, 
be captivated by mere outward beauty ? 
" Here are the papers," she begins in an indrawn tone, 
as if powerfully moved. Why, she may even be jealous 
of Dolly Allaire. " I shall not be down to-morrow." 
He feels towards her as one might to a wayward child. 
He has a strong impulse to grasp the fair shoulder, and 
shake her out of this strange spell settling upon her. 
But some one else speaks, and there begins a slight con- 
fusion of the first departures. While Donaldson waits 
for his wife, he watches the other two. Dolly looks so at 
home in the arms of that handsome man, and his clasp 
is instinct with an almost reverent delicacy. Why should 
she ever have fancied St. George, — graver, older, with 
difierent tastes, habits, education, and aims? Surely the 
world has run mad and gotten desperately mismatched I 
Mr. Jeffries, after his dance is ended, floats around to 
Miss Ormiston's vicinity. A smile of unwonted softness 
plays about his mouth, and daring lights are in his eyes. 
She does feel the subtle power, but she avoids him with an 
indifference poorly assumed, and he half fancies he knows 
what it covers. He has followed a woman's lure before. 
The band settles now into dreamy overtures, that toil 
slowly with a sense of past midnight. A few are still 
wandering, some finishing a last ice. There seems a gen- 
eral satisfaction that verges to languid content. Guests 
troop down the stairs in filmy wraps and faded flowers, 
with graceful commendations. The violin hushes its con- 
fident sweetness in a regretful cry. The horns blow out 
a wail, silvery and long drawn. The flutes pipe and 
waver. The heavier instruments break into a tuneless 
tumult and give up the ghost of melody. Even the stars 
seem suddenly dimmer. 
 
 
 
The last carriage rolls down the avenue, and the lanterns 
are being darkened. There are several guests for the 
night, who keep up an eager admiring chatter until with 
lamps in hand they vanish behind some welcome portal. 
Dolly's gay voice is the last sound on Miss Ormiston's ear 
as she goes in and closes her door. 
She looks about as if some spectre might meet her, as 
if the ghost of the old house was to come out of its 
retirement, and confront her with a direful mystery of 
which she has heretofore remained in ignorance. How 
much responsibility must she take in clearing it up? 
Her first impulse is, none at all. She can suggest to 
Mrs. Stannard that her home is the safest and most 
proper shelter for her sister ; and with Dolly away, Mr. 
Jeffries can be easily made to understand that his visits 
are not agreeable. Then a mighty rush of emotion floods 
her very soul. Can she stand by and see Leighton St. 
George deceived and betrayed? Not so long since she 
would hardly have considered him ; now she for his wel- 
fare a vital point with her. 
But on the other hand, Dolly may not marry him until 
her freedom is assured. Is it Mr. Jeffries? She can 
satisfy herself by going to the Glen to-morrow afternoon. 
A rush of conscious blood stains her face. To play the 
spy, to distrust, are so foreign to her nature that she scouts 
the thought with disdain. Yet she mtist know, for she is 
quite certain the plot is against herself as well. She feels 
meshed and tangled in something that winds strangling 
folds about her, and rears a dangerous head. Throwing 
up her chin, she gasps for breath, and stretches out 
imploring hands. Why should the sin and mystery of 
other lives come upon her, when she has kept her soul and 
her hands clean? What, indeed, but the dark mheritance 
that binds humanity together, and makes the innocent 
suffer for the guilty ? 
The stars drop down, and there is a long, level, red glow 
 
 
jn the east that seems like a band of fire. From some dim 
recess a bird pipes warily ; then all is solemn, awesome 
stillness. A cloud comes up low down in the south that 
darkens the air as if night was settling back. The fire- 
red glow grows amethystine, and breaks up about the 
edges in dun, ghostly purples. A clear, long-threatening 
breeze shivers through the evergreens, and again all is so 
silent she can hear her own heart beat. The deep grayish 
indigo creeps up the vault of the sky, there is a far-off 
mutter, a dull inarticulate sound of unrestful elements, 
then a sharp arrow of light cuts its way through the 
heavens. Nearer creeps the thunder, sharper flashes the 
quivering fire of gold, there is a patter on the leaves, a 
fragrance in the sultry air, and then a down-pour of rain, 
a commingling of all the storm forces. 
Miss Ormiston taps at Mrs. Byrne's door ; for that lady, 
who is calmly serene amid most of the changing or trying 
scenes of life, is fearful in a thunder-storm. 
" My dear I '' she says in a frightened tone, glancing the 
young girl over with wide startled eyes. 
Christmas realizes that she has one hand full of wraith- 
like drapery, and some faded flowers in her hair. 
" Yes," she exclaims hurriedly. " I could not sleep ; I 
was thinking, and the moments went so fast." 
" Is Miss Allaire asleep?" 
There is such a crash of the elements that it bids fair to 
wake the dead. 
Christmas listens, taps quite loudly. Yes, Dolly, whose 
troubled conscience should have haunted her, sleeps equal 
to any just person made perfect. The other ladies, a 
Miss Ellery and her young cousin. Miss Miller, are up, and 
they huddle in Mrs. Byrne's room, while one of the ser- 
vants goes about and looks after the open windows. 
Fifteen minutes or so spends the fury of the early 
shower. The thunder rolls grumblingly away, the light- 
ning is a mere suggestion, the patter ceases presently, and 
 
 
 
the birds pour out Yolmnes of melody from their leafy 
coverts. 
Christmas retams to her room and begins to disrobe. 
She is not in the least sleepy, neither does she feel unre- 
freshed, and smUes a little to herself at the timidity of 
most people. She never remembers but one awful fright, 
and that was down by the ravine one summer long ago, 
when the storm was terrific, and the wind roared fright- 
fully through the trees. Maurice Carew had deserted her, 
and Wilfred came to her rescue, and found her a shelter 
among the rocks, and comforted her with some scientific 
terms that she did not understand, but that, somehow, 
afforded her a certain chance for bravery. How long 
since she has thought of them ! She wonders a little what 
their destiny may be I 
The breakfast beU rings and the four ladies go down. 
There is an animated conversation about the shower, the 
party of last night, and an invitation Miss Miller has 
accepted to lunch at Cliff House. Miss Ormiston offers 
the phaeton for their mormng delectation, since Miss 
EUery is fond of driving. Miss Allaire remains in bed, 
as she had announced she would. The morning is ex- 
tremely quiet, and Christmas debates within herself what 
she shall do. Waiting or spying is so utterly distasteful 
to her soul that she feels such a course degrading. And 
yet she rnvst know, she must satisfy nerself that the talk 
in the study was no wild figment of her brain. 
About eleven St. George caUs. There is a tint of dis- 
comfort or anxiety that has settled in the lines of his 
forehead. 
"Is anything the matter?'' Miss Ormiston asks 
quickly. 
'( Nothing with me," he answers. " Mr. Stannard had 
an ill spell in the night, just before we reached home, and 
seems much prostrated." 
''Is he really ill?" Christmas inquires with an aur of 
incredulity. 
" I think he is. I have not been able to decide myself •'' 
And a faint smile wavers over her face. 
"What a wretched, barren, vapid life!'' Christmas 
exclaims vehemently. 
" Worse than mine?" And the smile deepens as well as 
the anxiety. 
" Yours has not been so bad,'' she says honestly. 
" There was your duty to your father, your duty to" — 
she colors rapidly — "Glen Ormiston. And you have 
achieved some success in your art." 
" You are a lenient judge. But I begin to feel as if I 
had missed the great purposes of life, some settled desire, 
some earnest work or great hope. I have been drifting 
about, urged by no necessity, roused by no ambition. 
After all, is it not the need that makes the man? I was 
wondering this morning what I should do when I reached 
the futile shore on which Mr. Stannard has been 
stranded." 
"A man needs an occupation or an interest. I could 
almost wish you were less prosperous, that you were 
necessitated to paint pictures." 
" Yet according to some of the highest theories, I ought 
to make great strides, because I have the leisure, the cul- 
tivation, the ease of mind which has no need to weight 
itself with anxiety for living. I ought to be able to throw 
my whole energy into high and fine efforts, and evolve 
ideals that will help to raise and strengthen and ennoble 
the world. But I have never cared for the world at 
large. Mr. Stannard has really been more anxious for its 
verdict than I." 
'♦ Of the world of fashion," she answers calmly. "Your 
successes must lie in a different direction, — < the reality of 
a man's power over wisdom and beauty and truth, the 
good in them that belongs to this world, and that each 
must strive to set before his fellow-creatures. Have we 
the right to wrap any talent in a napkin? And when one 
 
 
 
finds it possible to combine pnre honesty of purpose with 
high intellect, is it not his duty to add to the strength of 
the world by working with and for truth ? " 
St. George glances over to the hazy distance, and some 
but half-defined emotion is dimly stirred. Has Miss 
Ormiston set before herself the higher work, the benefit of 
her fellow-creatures? There is a great and radical differ- 
ence between her and Helen Stannard,— a certain noble 
advance in a broad, vivifying life that quite dwarfs the 
other, dwarfs himself, he thinks with a mortifying sense. 
Then a test comes into his mind. If Christmas Ormiston 
can be fascinated by the purely physical charms of a man 
like Mr. Jeffries, will she be at all above average woman- 
hood? For he has rigidly recognized his own limitations, 
and feels that in duty to others he must stand aloof. This 
morning the danger does not seem so imminent. 
"We were talking of Mr. Stannard," she says suddenly. 
" Do you think it anything serious ? " 
Helen has treated it with comparative indifference, yet 
to him the man's strength seems nearly spent. 
" I hope not. No, it can hardly be serious," he replies 
slowly. "Have you been down to Camley this mom" 
ing?" 
" No, I shall not go to-day." 
He turns reluctantiy, but she does not persuade him to 
stay. The two ladies are driving up the avenue and pass 
him with a smile and nod. It will be as well for his own 
calm peace of mind if he does not allow Miss Ormiston to 
rouse within him too much enthusiasm. 
Dolly comes down to luncheon rather pallid in face but 
in strangely high spirits. It seems to Christmas as if 
there was some great strain on her mind that must be 
hidden from observation. They sit on the shady porch 
awhile, then Miss Ellery admits that she is positively sleepy. 
" Let us all go to bed again," says Dolly, "and b« 
the fresher for this evening." 
 
 
When and how Dolly Allaire glides out of her room, 
Miss Ormiston has no knowledge. At five minutes before 
four she taps lightly and calls to her friend. There is no 
reply and the door is locked. Dolly may be asleep again. 
They all laughed about her morning's somnolency. More 
than ever Christmas thinks the episode some freak of her 
own imagination, for she cannot believe in Dolly's du« 
plicity. 
She takes the path at the back of the house, which is a 
kind of direct cut through the tangled shrubbery, and 
but little used, since the winding path shows it all to a 
better advantage. She can almost guess the point where 
they will be, and as she nears it she goes quietly, care- 
fully. The gloom is weirdly deep. There is the rocky 
ravine and the purling stream fretting over its uneven bed. 
From a slight eminence she can look down. 
Tes, they are there. Dolly sits on the stump of an old 
tree left for a seat, and leans into a sort of hollow made 
by a clump of three tall young trees. Jeffries is walking 
up and down, stopping before her to enforce what he is 
saying with some decisive gesture. Dolly's face and atti- 
tude are one of awful, desperate weariness. The man's 
vehemence scarcely moves her. As he walks up and down 
with short turns, the old remembrance recurs with tenfold 
force. She begins to search her past life : it is surely 
here she has seen him. What man in Mrs. Treverton's 
days — ah, she seems suddenly paralyzed with terror I 
A sensation as of losing physical consciousness at the 
presence of a disembodied spirit creeps over her. Still, 
that superb Greek figure is not quite what she knew it 
in years ago, the tall, slim youth, Wilfred Carew. It all 
comes back to her, — the clear-cut face, the brilliant com- 
plexion, the curling silken hair with its purple-black tint, 
the familiar strand in the voice, the pose of the figure in 
every movement, the sort of graceful and gracious auda- 
city that is tender instead of impertinent. 
Christmas Ormiston's first emotion is one of complex 
bitterness against Dolly. If she has chosen this life in 
some moment of mad passion, it is her duty to keep to 
to shower upon it the smiles, the tenderness, the caress- 
ing preference that she can put in every tone of her voice, 
the arts and fascinations with which she wins other men. 
If she is his wife, or in any sacred manner has promised 
herself to him, her engagement to St. George is a flagrant 
sin. He is free from these base shackles, she thinks ex- 
ultantly. He can begin a better life, not weighted with 
this useless and wearisome frivolity that will be forever 
dragging him aground in shallow waters. Her whole 
soul seems to rise in triumph for his sake. 
Then she wonders how it could have come about. What 
fate and fortunes have been Wilfred Carew's ? Where are 
all the others ? How can the matter be explained if neither 
of them choose to betray their secret, since she has not 
come by it in strict honor, and her fine brow flushes at the 
thought ? What part shall she take in the matter ? 
Evidently Dolly has reached a stage of contemptuous 
disillusion. Her listless, half -scornful air, the little, in- 
credulous curve of the lip, the doubtful nod she indulges 
in now and then, betoken no. lingering remnant of fond- 
ness or respect. Perhaps she does hate him, and she is in 
his power to the extent of bargain-making. She, Christ- 
mas, is to be the sort of peace-offering laid upon the altar 
of their broken faith to cement new unions. How dare 
they? Her whole figure trembles with indignation, and 
every pulse throbs with a resentful longing to confront 
them then and there. She rises and takes a step forward. 
Perhaps the stir startles them, for Dolly springs up and 
makes some forceful remark, and then turns away, dis- 
appearing in the dense shrubbery. Carew indulges in a 
low whistle that finally settles into a gay opera air which a 
near-by bird catches up and answers. Standing there, he 
looks as if he might be honest, true, tender, and knightly. 
 
 
She remembers in the old time he used to befriend her 
when Maurice teased her into fits of sullen despair. They 
were both so handsome, she was undeniably plain ; they 
were full of brilliant, vivid grace, she dull and awkward 
from a certain sense of humiliation and pure girlish bash- 
fulness. Wilfred did not torment her. He was never 
cruel, and some of her most intense pleasures and indul- 
gences came through him. 
Another recollection clouds her brow with a crimson 
flame. There had been a brief while that Mrs. Treverton 
had thrown them together with the greatest freedom. 
She had called her Wilfred's little wife, and spoken of the 
possibility of a marriage between them. The young man 
would laugh ; she feels now that her utter want of attrac- 
tion was the fortunate thing that rendered her distasteful 
to him. He was kindly and tender, but never cared to 
assume any lover-like ways. A great burst of thankful- 
ness rushes over her» She has an almost fierce self -appro- 
priation and delicacy in these matters of intimacy. Mrs. 
Allaire had been extremely punctilious, though Dolly 
managed to evade her mother's watchful eyes. 
But it is curious indeed that Wilfred Carew, caring 
nothing for her then, should coolly discuss marrying her 
now. Is it the fortune ? There are men doubtless who 
would be strongly moved by it, but so far she is glad for 
the credit of the sex that so few have laid any such hom- 
age at her feet. 
Carew walks slowly away, and Miss Ormiston wends her 
way homeward. Circumstances must decide it all, but 
her honesty revolts at meeting Dolly in the old friendly 
manner. 
 
Ths deference one owes to the conventional positions 
and relationships of life is a great safeguard, after all. 
Dolly Allaire comes floating through the hall in diaph- 
anous drapery half an hour before dinner-time. The 
ladies are on the porch, and the clergyman of the church 
Miss Ormiston attends has been making a friendly call, 
and now stands on the lower step saying a few last words. 
Miss Ellery and he have found some congenial topics of con- 
versation, and Miss Miller listens, bright-eyed, interested. 
" Ah, Miss Allaire," says Mr. Forsyth, and he comes 
up the steps again to give her a delicate, cordial greeting. 
The curves of her pliant body are seductive, and her 
dress seems to wrap her about as a cloud. Her face is 
pale, and full of little blue sinuosities that give a trans- 
parent light one would set down as the very dawn and 
flower of innocence, heightened by the infantile distrac- 
tion of the eyes. Above them the shimmer of bronze- 
gold hair, that the soft wind moves as if it were alive, 
making glittering waves and stray ends. The mouth is 
tempting in its sweetness. Perhaps the ineffable coquetry 
in Dolly that Christmas cannot understand is that fine art 
of making every man fancy he has roused some charm 
hitherto dormant in her nature, that to him alone belongs 
the discovery. 
After he has gone, Dolly seats herself beside Miss 
Miller and drops into an easy talk. Her social gifts are 
certainly exquisite when she chooses to give them play. 
For some reason, or, more truly, whim, she is bent upon 
being fascinating. Does she read a far-reaching disappio- 
 
 
Yte Ji. this Ormiston's grave eyes? She has disarmed it 
many  time before, she conquers it now. Christmas has 
a helpess sort of feeling as if her witcheries were so in- 
tangible one could not make stand against them, any 
more than one could stop the wind by facing it. 
The dinner is very pleasant. The party of the night 
before id the great theme, and it is entertaining to com. 
pare notes. Afterwards Dolly plays, then Miss Miller ; 
and while they are interested at the piano, three gentle- 
men walk in from Cliff House, — Mr. Brundage, who has 
been sent by his wife to inquire after the ladies, Mr. 
Jeffries, and a Mr. Alden. Jeffries's nonchalant elegance 
is perfection. Christmas watches him with wide, intent 
eyes, but he addresses himself mostly to Miss EUery. 
Are they all playing a part, she wonders. 
"Come," says Mr. Brundage, with a good-natured, 
elderly air, " our stay was limited to thirty minutes. 
Mrs. Brundage carefully suggested to me that ladies who 
danced all last night would wish to retire early. But you 
all look fresh enough to dance to-night." 
" They are wonderful," declares Dolly in a bright, gen- 
erous tone. ''Now, I have been in bed all day and 
deserve no sort of credit." 
" It is early," Miss Miller begins persuasively. " We 
might have a waltz out on the porch, if Miss Ormiston 
would not think us demented. There is still a ' spirit ' in 
my feet." 
" Why, no," replies Christmas. " Can I play for you ? " 
And she goes to the piano. 
Jeffries turns to Miss Miller, and Dolly takes Mr. Alden. 
Now and then, as they float up and down in the perfumed 
half -dusk, they exchange a bit of gay badinage. How can 
they be so indifferent, with this horrible secret between 
them. Miss Ormiston wonders. Even with her experience 
she cannot understand how deception can cover itself with 
a mask so irreproachable. She has some very positive 
 
 
 
ideas of remorse and the limitations of conscience, \m\ 
evidently they do not apply here. 
"Ohl" Mr. Brundage says with his first good-night, 
" you have no doubt heard that Mr. Stannard is consid- 
ered seriously ill. This afternoon they telegraphed to New 
York for a physician." 
" Yes," returns Dolly composedly, " he could not enjoy 
being ill without his own doctor. He exhausted the medi- 
cal skill of France and Germany." 
" Is it such a very baffling case ? " 
Dolly gives a slight incredulous laugh, and again the 
parting words are uttered. Jeffries goes straight over to 
Miss Ormiston, and compels her hand by some unseen 
force. A shiver runs through it as it touches his. She 
draws a long intense breath, for it seems as if she is 
abetting the deception every moment she keeps silent. 
" Wai you come over to-morrow at four?" she almost 
supplicates. 
What has moved her so deeply? 
" I shall be at your service ; happy so to be." And he 
bows with infinite grace. 
Dolly flies back to the piano and shakes a storm of 
melody out of her finger-ends for the next five minutes, 
and len runs away with the airy grace of a ballet 
dancer. 
Christmas Ormiston's burden is heavy upon her the 
next morning. Dolly could arrange this trifle with the 
sequence of a play, but the hostess marvels how she shall 
dispose of the people to give her a clear hour this after- 
toon. It gets settled that Miss Miller and Dolly go for a 
drive and a call at Cliff House. The day is lovely with a 
half -cloudy sky and a wandering breeze full of languid, 
ripening odors. St. George does not come over. Surely 
he is not an exigent lover. 
The hours lag. Miss Ormiston talks against time, but 
no one seems to remark it. Two or three callers drop in 
 
 
to pay party respects and express their gratification anew. 
Glen Ormiston is enough to rouse envy in the most stoical 
breast. There is luncheon and a siesta with the accom- 
paniment of droning summer insects. Dolly and Miss 
Miller get started, Christmas provides Miss Ellery with 
some books and pleads a duty on hand, then, taking her 
wide-brimmed hat with its azure lining that seems to crown 
her like an untroubled sky, she walks slowly down the path. 
The great hall clock is striking four. A figure turns in 
the entrance way, and her heart throbs chokingly. Even 
now she is half a mind to show the white feather. 
Mr. Jeffries bows with grace and composure. His 
secret elation is somewhat damped by this grave face, 
but he admits frankly to himself that no one could have 
imagined the tall, thin, awkward, and blundering girl of 
years ago would develop into such a magnificent woman. 
Cards might have been played better. Jeffries is no astute, 
far-reaching schemer. He takes the good of to-day, with- 
out troubling to save or lay by for to-morrow. He had 
set himself about getting the best of the present out of 
life, and so far he had done it. He had looked into 
beliefs, practices, and results, and had resolved to do well 
unto himself, and this hour he had not found the reason- 
ing unduly narrow. For the first time something stirs 
within him that disturbs his self-complacency. 
She turns into the path to the Glen, and they talk com- 
monplaces in a rather constrained manner. Surely some 
fine adjustment has been missed. He rouses himself then, 
and with the subtle power of which he is complete master 
he does make a change, for he is confident that Dolly can- 
not have betrayed herself. They have reached a place 
where two wide-branching oaks mingle their leaves, mak- 
ing a sombre shade over a moss-grown rock. Rustic seats 
have been arranged in this tempting nook. She takes one, 
and motions him to the other. 
"When I first saw you," she begins with averted eyes, 
 
 
 
" there was something mysteriously suggestive, and I hare 
been trying to solve it. I am certain I have reached the 
truth— " How hard it is to utter it I " You are Wilfred 
Carew. This was for a while yours and your mother's 
home." 
The man's self-possession is simply magnificent. The 
long black lashes do not quiver on his cheek, there is no 
betraying flush, no mad desperation or impatience, but a 
cool, fascinating, incredulous smile. Yet he would give 
worlds to know what card among those he holds he had 
better play out. * He has never been wildly, desperately in 
love, but he feels that all the better worshipping part of 
his nature could flow tumultuously towards this woman. 
Shall he confess and try to win her? She has no lover to 
set up as a barrier against him. 
" You think so? " he says, in a weary but most melliflu- 
ous tone. 
She turns then, and his face baffles her scrutiny. For 
an instant the very ground seems slipping from under her 
feet, yet that positive inner sense deepens, crystallizes in 
her very face, and he, quick to read, to detect meanings, 
understands and takes his decision from it. 
There is a soft, sweet, winsome laugh, such as a child 
gives when one has made several pretences at guessing a 
secret and at last hits upon it. 
" Can it be," he inquires, " that you have remembered 
Wilfred Carew all these years ? " And the pleasure of his 
tone would be a delicate flattery to any woman free to be 
charmed. 
" I was hardly likely to forget that part of my life," 
she says coldly. 
The die is cast and he must make the best of it, yet he 
feels less certain than a moment ago. Perhaps he has a 
foe to face, but he has conquered foes ere now. 
" Well?" He will compel her to show her hand. 
"Why did you come here?" she asks, for she feels 
 
 
assured that it was not hatred of Dolly that has called 
him thither. 
" Kismet,' he answers, in a soft, foreign-sounding pro- 
nunciation, lifting his delicately arched brows with the 
touch of audacity that appeals rather than offends. '' A 
chain of incidents opened the way, and I wanted to see 
you. Christmas, I was your friend in that solitary, re- 
pressed, misunderstood girlhood. There are many things 
that you cannot have forgotten." 
There is something inexpressibly sincere in his tone, 
and it does move her. 
" There are many things I never could forget." And she 
makes a gesture of bitter disdain. 
"Yet they were not my fault That a yiUain should 
have been the ruin of us all, I as a young lad could not 
help. My mother suffered intensely, bitterly, knew want 
and sorrow and regret. She often spoke of you. We 
never could hear aught concerning you, though we made 
some efforts. Then she died." 
Even that does not soften Miss Ormiston. She has 
come to look at Mrs. Treverton with the clear eyes of 
womanhood, whose sight has been trained by sincerity and 
invincible honor, and found her wanting in some of the 
most ordinary phases of character. She is the mother of 
this young man before her; and though Christmas was 
too young to distrust the woman's sweetness, experience 
has taught her much since that day. 
" Treverton was a villain ! " he says, in tones of deep, 
unforgiving resentment. " When the worst came out, my 
mother was compelled to fly with him. He drank, gam- 
bled ; indeed, I believe he is still in some notorious resort 
on the Continent. My poor mother did not long survive 
the shock. I took her maiden name Jeffries, which indeed 
had always been my own, for I wanted to break all con- 
nection with that wretch ! And nothing gave me greater 
joy than to know your fortunes had not been utterly 
wrecked." 
 
 
 
" It was owing to the wisdom and earnest endeayoro oi 
others that they were not." 
'' Mr. St. George," he says enthnsiastically, " is one of 
nature's noblemen, with all llie culture and* sincerity of 
true endeavor, and the purity of genius." 
A wavering flame seems to run over her face at this 
commendation, but the next instant it is calm and cold. 
Jeftries begins to experience the difficulty others have 
found, that Miss Ormiston is hard to get on with. 
(( Well," he begins again, with a kind of hopeful bright- 
ness, ''having confessed my sins, what remains? Can 
we not be friends as in the old times? I thought two 
nights ago that you had more than fulfilled one's highest 
dreams about you. I was wild to make some sign, some 
test. How well you hid your suspicions ! " 
Christmas Ormiston has to use all her force of will to 
resist this man's subtle fascination, that seems a perva- 
sive atmosphere about him. Not that she is in the slight- 
est danger of loving him, but he sways her so powerfully 
that she can hardly follow out her own consdiousness of 
right. 
'' You have not confessed aU your sins," she replies, 
with a breath-long conscious intensity that seems to wring 
her farthest pulses. 
"No," he answers with deprecating tenderness. "A 
man would confess to you every day, every hour, if he 
might, as one prays to angels. Only, not seeing the faces 
of the angels in the depths of solitary midnights, he 
might bewail sins that he could not set in the light of 
such a woman's eyes." 
The breath she draws cuts her like a knife. She makes 
a pitiful judge after all. 
" What are you to Dolly Allaire? " she asks briefly. 
"To Dolly Allaire?" There is a kind of innocent, 
doubtful, undecided light in his face that finally blends 
into amusement. " She is one of the charming products 
 
 
of society, and as the betrothed of Mr. St. Greorge I 
could be only a friend or tempter. And I doubt extremely 
if I would have the power to become the latter. Where 
would I be against fame and fortune? " he asks incredu- 
lously. " We have been compeers ; I met her some time 
ago. I had returned to America at the instance of some 
friends for a brief visit, and spent several weeks at New- 
port where her family were staying. Then I stumbled 
over them again at Paris. The world is not so wide after 
all, or else we go around in circles. And here we meet 
again." 
He watches her closely under his long lashes, that can 
shelter so much wariness. Can she be unconsciously 
jealous? For a moment he is mad enough to think she 
is beginning to care for him. He has a wild impulse to 
throw himself at her feet, but he is too wise to rush on to 
fate through unknown paths. 
" You have been engaged to Miss Allaire," she pursues, 
with a cold brevity that is so like a cover for resentment 
it blinds him. 
" A foolish child's play, long ago ! " he cries. " There 
was nothing in it." Then his face is sublimed with the 
white heat of passion, his lips quiver, his eyes droop and 
the long lids are tremulous, his voice has that full depth 
of emotion that invariably pierces a woman's soul to the 
quick. He bends over and snatches her hand, imprinting 
rapturous kisses upon it 
"I love you, you! The few fancies that have gone 
before are like a trail of snow that morning sun dissipates. 
My darling, whom I know now, I loved in childhood ; my 
soul, my very life, and all the dtrength and passion of a 
resolute manhood, are laid at your feet. Christmas, do you 
not remember my mother used to call you my little wife? 
I was your knight in those days, let me be the friend 
nearer and dearer — " 
" Stop I stop I " Christmas Ormiston springs up, shaken 
 
