" Don't you think it's a false position ? " 
Her companions, evidently, were rapidly getting bewildered. 
" My brother's position T' Miss Molyneux inquired. 
" It's thought a very good position," said the younger sister. 
" It's the first position in the county." 
" I suspect you think me very irreverent," Isabel took occa- 
sion to observe. " I suppose you revere your brother, and are 
rather afraid of him." 
" Of course one looks up to one's brother," said Miss Molyneux, 
simply. 
"If you do that, he must be very good because you, evi- 
dently, are very good." 
" He is most kind. It will never be known, the good he does." 
" His ability is known," Mildred added ; " every one thinks 
it's immense." 
" Oh, I can see that," said Isabel. " But if I were he, I 
should wish to be a conservative. I should wish to keep every- 
thing." 
 
" I think one ought to be liberal," Mildred argued, gently. 
" We have always been so, even' from the earliest times." 
" All well," said Isabel, " you have made a great success of it ; I 
don't wonder you like it. I see you are very fond of crewels." 
When Lord Warburton showed her the house, after lunch, it 
seemed to her a matter of course that it should be a noble pic- 
ture. Within, it had been a good deal modernised some of its 
best points had lost their purity ; but as they saw it from the 
gardens, a stout, grey pile, of the softest, deepest, most weather- 
fretted hue, rising from a broad, still moat, it seemed to Isabel 
a castle in a fairy-tale. The day was cool and rather lustreless ; 
the first note of autumn had been struck ; and the watery sun- 
shine rested on the walls in blurred and desultory gleams, wash- 
ing them, as it were, in places tenderly chosen, where the ache 
of antiquity was keenest. Her host's brother, the Vicar, had 
come to lunch, and Isabel had had five minutes' talk'with him 
time enough to institute a search for theological characteristics 
and give it up as vain. The characteristics of the Vicar of 
Lockleigh were a big, athletic figure, a candid, natural counten- 
ance, a capacious appetite, and a tendency to abundant laughter. 
Isabel learned afterwards from her cousin that, before taking 
orders, he had been a mighty wrestler, and that he was still, on 
occasion in the privacy of the family circle as it were quite 
capable of flooring his man. Isabel liked him she was in the 
mood for liking everything; but her imagination was a good 
deal taxed to think of him as a source of spiritual aid. The 
whole party, on leaving lunch, went to walk in the grounds ; but 
Lord Warburton exercised some ingenuity in engaging his 
youngest visitor in a stroll somewhat apart from the others. 
" I wish you to see the place properly, seriously," he said. 
" You can't do so if your attention is distracted by irrelevant 
gossip." His own conversation (though he told Isabel a good 
deal about the house, which had a very curious history) was not 
purely archaeological ; he reverted at intervals to matters more 
personal matters personal to the young lady as well as to him- 
self. But at last, after a pause of some duration, returning for 
a moment to their ostensible theme, "All, well," he said, "I 
am very glad indeed you like the old house. I wish you could 
see more of it that you could stay here a while. My sisters 
have taken an immense fancy to you if that would be any 
inducement." 
" There is no want of inducements," Isabel answered ; " but 
I am afraid I can't make engagements. I am quite in my 
aunt's hands." 
 
" Ah, excuse me if I say I don't exactly believe that. I am 
pretty sure you can do whatever you want." 
" I am sorry if I make that impression on you ; I don't think 
it's a nice impression to make." 
"It has the merit of permitting me to hope." And Lord 
Warburton paused a moment. 
"To hope what?" 
" That in future I may see you often." 
" Ah," said Isabel, " to enjoy that pleasure, I needn't be so 
terribly emancipated." 
" Doubtless not ; and yet, at the same time, I don't think your 
uncle likes me." 
" You are very much mistaken. I have heard him speak very 
highly of you." 
" I am glad you have talked about me," said Lord Warburton. 
" But, all the same, I don't think he would like me to keep 
coming to Gardencourt." 
" I can't answer for my uncle's tastes," the girl rejoined, 
" though I ought, as far as possible, to take them into account. 
But, for myself, I shall be very glad to see you." 
" Now that's what I like to hear you say. I am charmed 
when you say that." 
" You are easily charmed, my lord," said Isabel. 
" No, I am not easily charmed ! " And then he stopped a 
moment. "But you have charmed me, Miss Archer," he 
added. 
These words were uttered with an indefinable sound which 
startled the girl ; it struck her as the prelude to something 
grave ; she Lad heard the sound before, and she recognised it. 
She had no wish, however, that for the moment such a prelude 
should have a sequel, and she said, as gaily as possible and as 
quickly as an appreciable degree of agitation would allow her, " I 
am afraid there is no prospect of my being able to come here 
again." 
" Never ? " said Lord Warburton. 
"I won't say 'never'; I should feel very melodramatic." 
" May I come and see you then some day next week ? " 
" Most assuredly. "What is there to prevent it ? " 
" Nothing tangible. But with you I never feel safe. I have 
a sort of sense that you are always judging people." 
" You don't of necessity lose by that." 
" It is very kind of you to say so ; but even if I gain, stern 
justice is not what I most love. Is Mrs. Touchett going to take 
you abroad." 
' I hope so." 
' Is England not good enough for you ? " 
" That's a very Machiavellian speech ; it doesn't deserve an 
answer. I want very much to see foreign lands as well." 
" Then you will go on judging, I suppose." 
"Enjoying, I hope, too." 
" Yes, that's what you enjoy most ; I can't make out what you 
are up to," said Lord Warburton. "You strike me as having 
mysterious purposes vast designs ! " 
" You are so good as to have a theory about me which I don't 
at all fill out. Is there anything mysterious in a purpose enter- 
tained and executed every year, in the most public manner, by 
fifty thousand of my fellow-countrymen the purpose of improving 
one's mind by foreign travel 1 " 
" You can't improve your mind, Miss Archer," her companion 
declared. " It's already a most formidable instrument. It looks 
down on us all ; it despises us." 
" Despises you ? You are making fun of me," said Isabel, 
seriously. 
" Well, you think us picturesque that's the same thing. I 
won't be thought picturesque, to begin with ; I am not so in the 
least. I protest." 
" That protest is one of the most picturesque things I have 
ever heard," Isabel answered with a smile. 
Lord Warburton was silent a moment. " You judge only from 
the outside you don't care," he said presently. " You only 
care to amuse yourself ! " The note she had heard in his voice 
a moment before reappeared, and mixed with it now was an 
audible strain of bitterness a bitterness so abrupt and inconse- 
quent that the girl was afraid she had hurt him. She had often 
heard that the English were a highly eccentric people ; and she 
had even read in some ingenious author that they were, at bottom, 
the most romantic of races. Was Lord Warburton suddenly 
turning romantic was he going to make a scene, in his own 
house, only the third time they had met ? She was reassured, 
quickly enough, by her sense of his great good manners, which 
was not impaired by the fact that he had already touched the 
furthest limit of good taste in expressing his admiration of a 
young lady who had confided in his hospitality. She was 
right in trusting to his good manners, for he presently went on, 
laughing a little, and without a trace of the accent that had dis- 
composed her " I don't mean, of course, that you amuse yourself 
with trifles. You select great materials ; the foibles, the afflic- 
tions of human nature, the peculiarities of nations ! " 
"As regards that," said Isabel, "I should find in my own 
nation entertainment for a lifetime. But we have a long drive, 
and my aunt will soon wish to start." She turned back toward 
the others, and Lord Warburton walked beside her in silence. 
But before they reached the others " I shall come and see you 
next week," he said. 
She had received an appreciable shock, but as it died away 
she felt that she could not pretend to herself that it was alto- 
gether a painful one. Nevertheless, she made answer to this 
declaration, coldly enough, "Just as you please." And her 
coldness was not coquetry a quality that she possessed in a 
much smaller degree than would have seemed probable to many 
critics ; it came from a certain fear. 
X. 
THE day after her visit to Lockleigh she received a note from 
her friend, Miss Stackpole a note of which the envelope, 
exhibiting in conjunction the postmark of Liverpool and the 
neat calligraphy of the quick-fingered Henrietta, caused her some 
liveliness of emotion. " Here I am, my lovely friend," Miss 
Stackpole wrote ; " I managed to get off at last. I decided only 
the night before I left New York the Interviewer having come 
round to my figure. I put a few things into a bag, like a veteran 
journalist, and came down to the steamer in a street-car. Where 
are you, and where can we meet 1 I suppose you are visiting at 
some castle or other, and have already acquired the correct 
accent. Perhaps, even, you have married a lord ; I almost hope 
you have, for I want some introductions to the first people, and 
shall count on you for a few. The Interviewer wants some light 
on the nobility. My first impressions (of the people at large) 
are not rose-coloured ; but I wish to talk them over with you, 
and you know that whatever I am, at least I am not superficial. 
I have also something very particular to tell you. Do appoint a 
meeting as quickly as you can ; come to London (I should like 
so much to visit the sights with you), or else let me come to you, 
wherever you are. I will do so with pleasure ; for you know 
everything interests me, and I wish to see as much as possible of 
the inner life." 
Isabel did not show this letter to her uncle ; but she acquainted 
him with its purport, and, as she expected, he begged her 
instantly to assure Miss Stackpole, in his name, that he should 
 
be delighted to receive her at Gardencourt. " Though she is a 
literary lady," he said, " I suppose that, being an American, she 
won't reproduce me, as that other one did. She has seen others 
like me." 
" She has seen no other so delightful ! " Isabel answered ; but 
she was not altogether at ease about Henrietta's reproductive 
instincts, which belonged to that side of her friend's character 
which she regarded with least complacency. She wrote to Miss 
Stackpole, however, that she would be very welcome under Mr. 
Touchett's roof; and this enterprising young woman lost no time 
in signifying her intention of arriving. She had gone up to 
London, and it was from the metropolis that she took the train 
for the station nearest to Gardencourt, where Isabel and Ralph 
were in waiting to receive the visitor. 
"Shall I love her, or shall I hate her?" asked Ealph, while 
they stood on the platform, before the advent of the train. 
"Whichever you do will matter very little to her," said 
Isabel. " She doesn't care a straw what men think of her." 
"As a man I am bound to dislike her, then. She must be a 
kind of monster. Is she very ugly 1 " 
" No, she is decidedly pretty." 
" A female interviewer, a reporter in petticoats 1 I am very 
curious to see her," Ealph declared. 
"It is very easy to laugh at her, but it is not easy to be as 
brave as she." 
" I should think not ; interviewing requires bravery.  )o you 
suppose she will interview me?" 
"Never in the world. She will not think you of enough 
importance." 
" You will see," said Ralph. " She will send a description of 
us all, including Bunchie, to her newspaper." 
" I shall ask her not to," Isabel answered. 
" You think she is capable of it, then." 
" Perfectly." 
"And yet you have made her your bosom-friend?" 
" I have not made her my bosom-friend ; but I like her, in 
spite of her faults." 
"Ah, well," said Ralph, "I am afraid I shall dislike her, in 
spite of her merits." 
" You will probably fall in love with her at the end of three 
days." 
"And have my love-letters published in the Interviewer 9 
Never ! " cried the young man. 
The train presently arrived, and Miss Stackpole, promptly 
 
descending, proved to be, as Isabel had said, decidedly pretty. 
She was a fair, plump person, of medium stature, with a round 
face, a small mouth, a delicate complexion, a bunch of light 
brown ringlets at the back of her head, and a peculiarly open, 
surprised-looking eye. The most striking point in her appear- 
ance was the remarkable fixedness of this organ, which rested 
without impudence or defiance, but as if in conscientious exercise 
of a natural right, upon every object it happened to encounter. 
It rested in this manner upon Ralph himself, who was somewhat 
disconcerted by Miss Stackpole's gracious and comfortable aspect, 
which seemed to indicate that it would not be so easy as he had 
assumed to disapprove of her. She was very well dressed, in 
fresh, dove-coloured draperies, and Ralph saw at a glance that 
she was scrupulously, fastidiously neat. From top to toe she 
carried not an ink-stain. She spoke in a clear, high voice a 
voice not rich, but loud, though after she had taken her place, 
with her companions, in Mr. Touchett's carriage, she struck him, 
rather to his surprise, as not an abundant talker. She answered 
the inquiries made of her by Isabel, however, and in which the 
young man ventured to join, with a great deal of precision and 
distinctness ; and later, in the library at Gardencourt, when she 
had made the acquaintance of Mr. Touchett (his wife not having 
thought it necessary to appear), did more to give the measure of 
her conversational powers. 
" Well, I should like to know whether you consider yourselves 
American or English," she said. " If once I knew, I could talk 
to you accordingly." 
"Talk to us anyhow, and we shall be thankful," Ralph 
answered, liberally. 
She fixed her eyes upon him, and there was something in 
their character that reminded him of large, polished buttons ; he 
seemed to see the reflection of surrounding objects upon the 
pupil. The expression of a button is not usually deemed human, 
but there was something in Miss Stackpole's gaze that made him, 
as he was a very modest man, feel vaguely embarrassed and 
uncomfortable. This sensation, it must be added, after he had 
spent a day or two in her company, sensibly diminished, though 
it never wholly disappeared. ' I don't suppose that you are 
going to undertake to persuade me that you are an American," 
she said. 
"To please you, I will be an Englishman, I will be a 
Turk ! " 
"Well, if you can change about that way, you are very 
welcome," Miss Stackpole rejoined. 
 
" I am sure you understand everything, and that differences 
of nationality are no barrier to you," Ralph went on. 
Miss Stackpole gazed at him still. " Do you mean the foreign 
languages 1 " 
" The languages are nothing. I mean the spirit the 
genius." 
" I am not sure that I understand you," said the correspondent 
of the Interviewer; " but I expect I shall before I leave." 
" He is what is called a cosmopolitan," Isabel suggested. 
" That means he's a little of everything and not much of any. 
I must say I think patriotism is like charity it begins at 
home." 
" Ah, but where does home begin, Miss Stackpole 1 " Ralph 
inquired. 
" I don't know where it begins, but I know where it ends. 
It ended a long time before I got here." 
" Don't you like it over here 1 " asked Mr. Touchett, with his 
mild, wise, aged, innocent voice. 
" Well, sir, I haven't quite made up my mind what ground E 
shall take. I feel a good deal cramped. I felt it on the journey 
from Liverpool to London." 
" Perhaps you were in a crowded carriage," Ralph suggested. 
" Yes, but it was crowded with friends a party of Americans 
whose acquaintance I had made upon the steamer ; a most lovely 
group, from Little Rock, Arkansas. In spite of that I felt 
cramped I felt something pressing upon me; I couldn't tell 
what it was. I felt at the very commencement as if I were not 
going to sympathise with the atmosphere. But I suppose I 
shall make my own atmosphere. Your surroundings seem very 
attractive." 
" Ah, we too are a lovely group ! " said Ralph. " Wait a 
little and you will see." 
Miss Stackpole showed every disposition to wait, and evidently 
was prepared to make a considerable stay at Gardencourt. She 
occupied herself in the mornings with literary labour ; but in 
spite of this Isabel spent many hours with her friend, who, once 
her daily task performed, was of an eminently social tendency. 
Isabel speedily found occasion to request her to desist from 
celebrating the charms of their common sojourn in print, having 
discovered, on the second morning of Miss Stackpole's visit, that 
she was engaged upon a letter to the Interviewer, of which the 
title, in her exquisitely neat and legible hand (exactly that of 
the copy-books which our heroine remembered at school), was 
"Americans and Tudors Glimpses of Gardencourt." Miss 
 
Stackpole, with the best conscience in the world, offered to read 
her letter to Isabel, who immediately put in her protest. 
" I don't think you ought to do that. I don't think you ought 
to describe the place." 
Henrietta gazed at her, as usual. " Why, it's just what the 
people want, and it's a lovely place." 
" It's too lovely to be put in the newspapers, and it's not what 
my uncle wants." 
"Don't you believe that!" cried Henrietta. "They are 
always delighted, afterwards." 
" My uncle won't be delighted nor my cousin, either. They 
vdll consider it a breach of hospitality." 
Miss Stackpole showed no sense of confusion ; she simply 
wiped her pen, very neatly, upon an elegant little implement 
which she kept for the purpose, and put away her manuscript. 
" Of course if you don't approve, I won't do it ; but I sacrifice 
a beautiful subject." 
" There are plenty of other subjects, there are subjects all 
round you. We will take some drives, and I will show you 
some charming scenery." 
" Scenery is not my department ; I always need a human 
interest. You know I am deeply human, Isabel ; I always was," 
Miss Stackpole rejoined. " 1 was going to bring in your cousin 
the alienated American. There is a great demand just now 
for the alienated American, and your cousin is a beautiful speci- 
men. I should have handled him severely." 
" He would have died of it !" Isabel exclaimed. " Not of the 
severity, but of the publicity." 
" Well, I should have liked to kill him a little. And I should 
have delighted to do your uncle, who seems to me a much nobler 
type the American faithful still. He is a grand old man ; I 
don't see how he can object to my paying him honour." 
Isabel looked at her companion in much wonderment ; it 
appeared to her so strange that a nature in which she found so 
much to esteem should exhibit such extraordinary disparities. 
" My poor Henrietta," she said, " you have no sense of privacy." 
Henrietta coloured deeply, and for a moment her brilliant eyes 
were suffused ; while Isabel marvelled more than ever at her in- 
consistency. " You do me great injustice," said Miss Stackpole, 
with dignity. " I have never written a word about myself ! " 
" I am very sure of that ; but it seems to me one should be 
modest for others also ! " 
" Ah, that is very good ! " cried Henrietta, seizing her pen 
again. " Just let me make a note of it, and I will put it in a 
 
letter." She was a thoroughly good-natured -woman, and half 
an hour later she was in as cheerful a mood as should have been 
looked for in a newspaper-correspondent in want of material. 
" I have promised to do the social side," she said to Isabel ; 
" and how can I do it unless I get ideas 1 If I can't describe 
this place, don't you know some place I can describe 1 " Isabel 
promised she would bethink herself, and the next day, in con- 
versation with her friend, she happened to mention her visit to 
Lord Warburton's ancient house. " Ah, you must take me 
there that is just the place for me ! " Miss Stackpole exclaimed. 
" I must get a glimpse of the nobility." 
"I can't take you," said Isabel; "but Lord Warburton is 
coming here, and you will have a chance to see him and observe 
him. Only if you intend to repeat his conversation, I shall 
certainly give him warning." 
" Don't do that," her companion begged ; "I want him to 
be natural." 
" An Englishman is never so natural as when he is holding 
his tongue," Isabel rejoined. 
It was not apparent, at the end of three days, that his cousin 
had fallen in love with their visitor, though he had spent a good 
deal of time in her society. They strolled about the park 
together, and sat under the trees, and in the afternoon, when it 
was delightful to float along the Thames, Miss Stackpole 
occupied a place in the boat in which hitherto Ralph had had 
but a single companion. Her society had a less insoluble quality 
than Ralph had expected in the natural perturbation of his sense 
of the perfect adequacy of that of his cousin ; for the corre- 
spondent of the Interviewer made him laugh a good deal, and he 
had long since decided that abundant laughter should be the 
embellishment of the remainder of his days. Henrietta, on her 
side, did not quite justify Isabel's declaration with regard to her 
indifference to masculine opinion ; for poor Ralph appeared to 
have presented himself to her as an irritating problem, which it 
would be superficial on her part not to solve. 
" What does he do for a living 1 " she asked of Isabel, the 
evening of her arrival. " Does he go round all day with his 
hands in his pockets ? " 
" He does nothing," said Isabel, smiling ; "he's a gentleman 
of leisure." 
" Well, I call that a shame when I have to work like a cotton- 
mill," Miss Stackpole replied. " I should like to show him up." 
" He is in wretched health ; he is quite unfit for work," Isabel 
urged. 
 
" Pshaw ! don't you believe it. I work when I am sick," 
cried her friend. Later, when she stepped into the boat, on 
joining the water-party, she remarked to Ealph that she sup- 
posed he hated her he would like to drown her. 
" Ah, no," said Ealph, " I keep my victims for a slower 
torture. And you would be such an interesting one ! " 
" Well, you do torture me, I may say that. But I shock all 
your prejudices ; that's one comfort." 
" My prejudices 1 I haven't a prejudice to bless myself with. 
There's intellectual poverty for you." 
" The more shame to you ; I have some delicious prejudices. 
Of course I spoil your flirtation, or whatever it is you call it, 
with your cousin ; but I don't care for that, for I render your 
cousin the service of drawing you out. She will see how thin 
you are." 
" Ah, do draw me out ! " Ralph exclaimed. " So few people 
will take the trouble." 
Miss Stackpole, in this undertaking, appeared to shrink from 
no trouble ; resorting largely, whenever the opportunity offered, 
to the natural expedient of interrogation. On the following day 
the weather was bad, and in the afternoon the young man, by 
way of providing in-door amusement, offered to show her the 
pictures. Henrietta strolled through the long gallery in his 
society, while he pointed out its principal ornaments and men- 
tioned the painters and subjects. Miss Stackpole looked at the 
pictures in perfect silence, committing herself to no opinion, and 
Ealph was gratified by the fact that she delivered herself of none 
of the little ready-made ejaculations of delight of which the 
visitors to Gardencourt were so frequ mtly lavish. This young 
lady, indeed, to do her justice, was but little addicted to the 
use of conventional phrases ; there was something earnest and 
inventive in her tone, which at times, in its brilliant deliberation, 
suggested a person of high culture speaking a foreign language. 
Ealph Touchett subsequently learned that she had at one time 
officiated as art-critic to a Transatlantic journal ; but she appeared, 
in spite of this fact, to carry in her pocket none of the small 
change of admiration. Suddenly, just after he had called her 
attention to a charming Constable, she turned and looked at him 
as if he himself had been a picture. 
" Do you always spend your time like this ? " she demanded. 
" I seldom spend it so agreeably." said Ealph. 
" Well, you know what I mean without any regular occu- 
pation." 
" Ah," sai'd Ealph, " I am the idlest man living." 
76 . 
Miss Stackpole turned her gaze to the Constable again, and 
Ralph bespoke her attention for a small Watteau hanging near 
it, which represented a gentleman in a pink doublet and hose and 
a ruff, leaning against the pedestal of the statue of a nymph in a 
garden, and playing the guitar to two ladies seated on the grass. 
" That's my ideal of a regular occupation," he said. 
Miss Stackpole turned to him again, and though her eyes had 
rested upon the picture, he saw that she had not apprehended 
the subject. She was thinking of something much more serious. 
" 1 don't see how you can reconcile it to your conscience," 
she said. 
" My dear lady, I have no conscience ! " 
"Well, I advise you to cultivate one. You will need it the 
next time you go to America." 
" I shall probably never go again." 
" Are you ashamed to show yourself 1 " 
Ralph meditated, with a gentle smile. 
" I suppose that, if one has no conscience, one has no shame " 
" Well, you have got plenty of assurance," Henrietta declared. 
" Do you consider it right to give up your country ? " 
" Ah, one doesn't give up one's country any more than on 
gives up one's grandmother. It's antecedent to choice." 
" I suppose that means that you would give it up if you 
could 1 What do they think of you over here 1 " 
" They delight in me." 
" That's because you truckle to them." 
" Ah, set it down a little to my natural charm ! " Ealph urged. 
"I don't know anything about your natural charm. If you 
have got any charm, it's quite unnatural. It's wholly acquired 
or at least you have tried hard to acquire it, living over here. 
I don't say you have succeeded. It's a charm that I don't 
appreciate, any way. Make yourself useful in some way, and 
then we will talk about it." 
" Well now, tell me what I shall do," said Ralph. 
" Go right home, to begin with." 
" Yes, I see. And then 1 " 
" Take right hold of something." 
" Well, now, what sort of thing 1 " 
" Anything you please, so long as you take hold. Some new 
idea, some big work." 
"Is it very difficult to take hold 1 " Ralph inquired. 
" Not if you put your heart into it." 
" Ah, my heart," said Ralph. "If it depends upon my 
heart " 
 
" Haven't you got any 1 " 
" I had one a few days ago, but I have lost it since." 
"You are not serious," Miss Stackpole remarked; "that's 
what's the matter with you." But for all this, in a day or two 
she again permitted him to fix her attention, and on this 
occasion assigned a different cause to her mysterious perversity. 
" I know what's the matter with you, Mr. Touchett," she said. 
" You think you are too good to get married." 
" I thought so till I knew you, Miss Stackpole," Kalph 
answered; "and then I suddenly changed my mind." 
" Oh, pshaw ! " Henrietta exclaimed impatiently. 
" Then it seemed to me," said Ralph, " that I was not good 
enough." 
" It would improve you. Besides, it's your duty." 
" Ah," cried the young man, " one has so many duties ! Is 
that a duty too 1 " 
" Of course it is did you never know that before 1 It's 
every one's duty to get married." 
Ralph meditated a moment ; he was disappointed. There 
was something in Miss Stackpole he had begun to like ; it 
seemed to him that if she was not a charming woman she was 
at least a very good fellow. She was wanting in distinction, 
but, as Isabel had said, she was brave, and there is always 
something fine about that. He had not supposed her to be 
capable of vulgar arts ; but these last words struck him as a 
false note. When a marriageable young woman urges matrimony 
upon an unencumbered young man, the most obvious explana- 
tion of her conduct is not the altruistic impulse. 
" Ah, well now, there is a good deal to be said about that," 
Ralph rejoined. 
" There may be, but that is the principal thing. I must say 
I think it looks very exclusive, going round all alone, as if you 
thought no woman was good enough for you. Do you think 
you are better than any one else in the world 1 In America it's 
usual for people to marry." 
" If it's my duty," Ralph asked, " is it not, by analogy, yours 
as well 1 " 
Miss Stackpole's brilliant eyes expanded still further. 
" Have you the fond hope of finding a flaw in my reason- 
ing 1 Of course I have got as good a right to marry as any one 
else." 
" Well then," said Ralph, " I won't say it vexes me to see 
you single. It delights me rather." 
" You are not serious yet. You never will be." 
 
" Shall you not believe me to be so on the day that I tell 
you I desire to give up the practice of going round alone 1 " 
Miss Stackpole looked at him for a moment in a manner 
which seemed to announce a reply that might technically be 
called encouraging. But to his great surprise this expression 
suddenly resolved itself into an appearance of alarm, and even 
of resentment. 
" No, not even then," she answered, dryly. After which she 
walked away. 
" I have not fallen in love with your friend," Ralph said that 
evening to Isabel, " though we talked some time this morning 
about it." 
"And you said something she didn't like," the girl replied. 
Ralph stared. " Has she complained of me 1 " 
" She told me she thinks there is something very low in the 
tone of Europeans towards women." 
"Does she call me a European ?" 
" One of the worst. She told me you had said to her some- 
thing that an American never would have said. But she didn't 
repeat it." 
Ralph treated himself to a burst of resounding laughter. 
" She is an extraordinary combination. Did she think I 
was making love to her 1 " 
" No ; I believe even Americans do that. But she apparently 
thought you mistook the intention of something she had said, 
and put an unkind construction on it." 
" I thought she was proposing marriage to me, and I accepted 
her. Was that unkind 1 " 
Isabel smiled. " It was unkind to me. I don't want you 
to marry." 
" My dear cousin, what is one to do among you all? " Ralph 
demanded. " Miss Stackpole tells me it's my bounden duty, 
and that it's hers to see I do mine ! " 
" She has a great sense of duty," said Isabel gravely. " She 
has, indeed, and it's the motive of everything she says. That's 
what I like her for. She thinks it's very frivolous for you to 
be single; that's what she meant to express to you. If you 
thought she was trying to to attract you, you were very 
wrong." 
" It is true it was an odd way ; but I did think she was 
trying to attract me. Excuse my superficiality." 
" You are very conceited. She had no interested views, and 
never supposed you would think she had." 
" One must be very modest, then, to talk with such women."
 
Ralph said, humbly. "But it's a very strange type. She is 
too personal considering that she expects other people not to 
be. She walks in without knocking at the door." 
" Yes," Isabel admitted, " she doesn't sufficiently recognise the 
existence of knockers ; and indeed I am not sure that she 
doesn't think them a rather pretentious ornament. She thinks 
one's door should stand ajar. But I persist in liking her." 
"I persist in thinking her too familiar," Ralph rejoined, 
naturally somewhat uncomfortable under the sense of having 
been doubly deceived in Miss Stackpole. 
" Well," said Isabel, smiling, " I am afraid it is because she 
is rather vulgar that I like her." 
" She would be flattered by your reason ! " 
" If I should tell her, I would not express it in that way. I 
should say it is because there is something of the ' people ' in 
her." 
"What do you know about the people? and what does she, 
for that matter.' 
" She knows a great deal, and I know enough to feel that she 
is a kind of emanation of the great democracy of the continent, 
the country, the nation. I don't say that she sums it all up, 
that would be too much to ask of her. But she suggests it ; 
she reminds me of it." 
" You like her then for patriotic reasons. I am afraid it is 
on those very grounds that I object to her." 
" Ah," said Isabel, with a kind of joyous sigh, " I like so 
many tilings ! If a thing strikes me in a certain way, I like it. 
I don't want to boast, but I suppose I am rather versatile. I 
like people to be totally different from Henrietta in the style 
of Lord Warburton's sisters, for instance. So long as I look at 
the Misses Molyneux, they seem to me to answer a kind of ideal. 
Then Henrietta presents herself, and I am immensely struck 
with her ; not so much for herself as what stands behind her." 
" Ah, you mean the back view of her," Ralph suggested. 
"What she says is true,"his cousin answered ; "you will never 
be serious. I like the great country stretching away beyond 
the rivers and across the prairies, blooming and smiling and 
spreading, till it stops at the blue Pacific ! A strong, sweet, 
fresh odour seems to rise from it, and Henrietta excuse my 
simile has something of that odour in her garments." 
Isabel blushed a little as she concluded this speech, and the 
blush, toge'her with the momentary ardour she had thrown into 
it, was so becoming to her that Ralph stood smiling at her for a 
moment after she had ceased speaking. 
 
" I am rot sure the Pacific is blue," he said ; " but you are a 
woman of imagination. Henrietta, however, is fragrant Hen- 
rietta is decidedly fragrant ! " 
XL 
HE took a resolve after this not to misinterpret her words, 
even when Miss Stackpole appeared to strike the personal note 
most strongly. He bethought himself that persons, in her view, 
were simple and homogeneous organisms, and that he, for his 
own part, was too perverted a representative of human nature to 
have a right to deal with her in strict reciprocity. He carried 
out his resolve with a great deal of tact, and the young lady 
found in her relations with him no obstacle to the exercise of 
that somewhat aggressive frankness which was the social expres- 
sion of her nature. Her situation at Garden court, therefore, 
appreciated as we have seen her to be by Isabel, and full of 
appreciation herself of that fine freedom of composition which, 
to her sense, rendered Isabel's character a sister-spirit, and of 
the easy venerableness of Mr. Touchett, whose general tone, as 
she said, met with her full approval her situation at Garden- 
court would have been perfectly comfortable, had she not con- 
ceived an irresistible mistrust of the little lady to whom she had 
at first supposed herself obliged to pay a certain deference as 
mistress of the house. She presently discovered, however, that 
this obligation was of the lightest, and that Mrs. Touchett cared 
very little how Miss Stackpole behaved. Mrs. Touchett had 
spoken of her to Isabel as a " newspaper- woman, "and expressed 
some surprise at her niece's having selected such a friend ; but 
she had immediately added that she knew Isabel's friends were 
her own affair, and that she never undertook to like them all, 
or to restrict the girl to those she liked. 
" If you could see none but the people I like, my dear, yon 
would have a very small society," Mrs. Touchett frankly 
admitted; "and I don't think I like any man or woman well 
enough to recommend them to you. When it comes to recom- 
mending, it is a serious affair. I don't like Miss Stackpole I 
don't like her tone. She talks too loud, and she looks at me 
too hard. I am sure she has lived all her life in a boarding- 
house, and I detest the style of manners that such a way ot 
living produces. If you ask me if I prefer my own manners, 
which you doubtless think very bad, I will tell you that I 
 
prefer them immensely. Miss Stackpole knows that I detest 
boarding-house civilisation, and she detests me for detesting it, 
because she thinks it is the highest in the world. She would 
like Gardencourt a great deal better if it were a boarding-house. 
For me, I find it almost too much of one ! We shall never get 
on together, therefore, and there is no use trying." 
Mrs. Touchett was fi ht in guessing that Henrietta disap- 
proved of her, but she had not quite put her finger on the reason. 
A day or two after Miss Stackpole's arrival she had made some 
invidious reflections on American hotels, which excited a vein 
of counter-argument on the part of the correspondent of the 
Interviewer, who in the exercise of her profession had acquired 
a large familiarity with the technical hospitality of her country. 
Henrietta expressed the opinion that American hotels were the 
best in the world, and Mrs. Touchett recorded a conviction that 
they were the worst. Ealph, with his experimental geniality, 
suggested, by way of healing the breach, that the truth lay 
between the two extremes, and that the establishments in 
question ought to be described as fair middling. This contribu- 
tion to the discussion, however, Miss Stackpole rejected with 
scorn. Middling, indeed ! If they were not the best in the 
world, they were the worst, but there was nothing middling 
about an American hotel.
" We judge from different points of view, evidently," said 
Mrs. Touchett. " I like to be treated as an individual ; you 
like to be treated as a ' party. " 
" I don't know what you mean," Henrietta replied. " I like 
to be treated as an American lady." 
" Poor American ladies ! " cried Mrs. Touchett, with a laugh. 
" They are the slaves of slaves." 
" They are the companions of freemen," Henrietta rejoined. 
" They are the companions of their servants the Irish 
chambermaid and the negro waiter. They share their work." 
" Do you call the domestics in an American household 
' slaves ' 1 " Miss Stackpole inquired. " If that's the way you 
desire to treat them, no wonder you don't like America." 
" If you have not good servants, you are miserable," Mrs. 
Touchett said, serenely. "They are very bad in America, but 
I have five perfect ones in Florence." 
" I don't see what you want with five," Henrietta could not 
help observing. " I don't think I should like to see five persons 
surrounding me in that menial position." 
" I like them in that position better than in some others," 
cried Mrs. Touchett, with a laugh. 
" Should you like me better if I were your butler, dear 1 " her 
husband asked. 
" I don't think I should ; you would make a very poor 
butler." 
" The companions of freemen I like that, Miss Stackpole," 
said Ralph. " It's a beautiful description." 
" When I said freemen, I didn't mean you, sir ! " 
And this was the only reward that Ralph got for his compli- 
ment. Miss Stackpole was baffled ; she evidently thought thero 
was something treasonable in Mrs. Touchett's appreciation of a 
class which she privately suspected of being a mysterious survival 
of feudalism. It was perhaps because her mind was oppressed 
with this image that she suffered some days to elapse before she 
said to Isabel in the morning, while they were alone together, 
" My dear friend, I wonder whether you are growing faith- 
less r 
" Faithless 1 Faithless to you, Henrietta 1 " 
" No, that would be a great pain ; but it is not that." 
" Faithless to ray country, then 1 " 
"Ah, that I hope will never be. When I wrote to you 
from Liverpool, I said I had something particular to tell you. 
You have never asked me what it is. Is it because you have 
suspected 1 " 
" Suspected what   As a ride, I don't think I suspect," said 
Isabel. " I remember now that phrase in your letter, but I 
confess I had forgotten it. What have you to tell me ? " 
Henrietta looked disappointed, and her steady gaze betrayed it. 
" You don't ask that right as if you thought it important. 
You are changed you are thinking of other things." 
" Tell me what you mean, and I will think of that." 
" Will you really think of it 1 That is what I wish to be 
sure of." 
" I have not much control of my thoughts, but I will do my 
best," said Isabel. 
Henrietta gazed at her, in silence, for a period of time which 
tried Isabel's patience, so that our heroine said at last 
" Do you mean that you are going to be married 1 " 
" Not till I have seen Europe ! " said Miss Stackpole. " What 
are you laughing at 1 " she went on. " What I mean is, that Mr. 
Goodwood came out in the steamer with me." 
" Ah ! " Is-abel exclaimed, quickly. 
" You say that right. I had a good deal of talk with nim ; 
lie has come after you." 
" Did he tell you so 1 " 
 
"No, he told me nothing; that's how I knew it," said 
Henrietta, cleverly. " He said very little about you, but I spoke 
of you a good deal." 
Isabel was silent a moment. At the mention of Mr. Good- 
wood's name she had coloured a little, and now her blush was 
slowly fading. 
" I am very sorry you did that," she observed at last. 
" It was a pleasure to me, and I liked the way he listened. 
I could have talked a long time to such a listener ; he was 
so quiet, so intense ; he drank it all in." 
" What did you say about me 1 " Isabel asked. 
' I said you were on the whole the finest creature I know." 
" I am very sorry for that. He thinks too well of me already ; 
he ought not to be encouraged." 
" He is dying for a little encouragement. I see his face now, 
and his earnest, absorbed look, while I talked. I never saw an 
ugly man look so handsome ! " 
" He is very simple-minded," said Isabel. " And he is not 
so ugly." 
" There is nothing so simple as a great passion." 
" It is not a great passion ; I am very sure it is not that." 
" You don't say that as if you were sure." 
Isabel gave rather a cold smile. 
" I shall say it better to Mr. Goodwood himself ! " 
" He will soon give you a chance," said Henrietta. 
Isabel offered no answer to this assertion, which her com- 
panion made with an air of gre.at confidence. 
