cold fit, which sooner or later comes to every form of 
authorship, seized him. He said awkwardly he was 
very sorry, and putting his manuscript back in his 
pocket he went out, feeling curiously light-headed, as 
if his rebuff had been a stunning blow. The affair 
was so quickly over, that he might well have believed 
it had not happened. But he was sickeningly dis 
appointed ; he had counted upon the sale of his article 
to the Events ; his hope had been founded upon actual 
knowledge of the proprietor 's intention; and although 
he had rebuked Marcia 's overweening confidence, he 
had expected that Witherby would jump at it. But 
Witherby had not even looked at it. 
Bartley walked a long time in the cold winter sun 
shine. He would have liked to go back to his lodg 
ing, and hide his face in Marcia 's hands, and let her 
pity him, but he could not bear the thought of her 
disappointment, and he kept w r alking. At last he 
regained courage enough to go to the editor of the 
 
paper for which he used to correspond in the summer, 
and which had always printed his letters. This editor 
was busy, too, but he apparently felt some obligations 
to civility with Bartley; and though he kept glancing 
over his exchanges as they talked, he now and then 
glanced at Bartley also. He said that he should be 
glad to print the sketch, but that they never paid for 
outside material, and he advised Bartley to go with 
it to the Events or to the Daily Chronicle- Abstract ; 
the Abstract and the Brief Chronicle had lately con 
solidated, and they were showing a good deal of en 
terprise. Bartley said nothing to betray that he 
had already been at the Events office, and upon this 
friendly editor 's invitation to drop in again some time 
he went away considerably re-inspirited. 
" If you should happen to go to the Chronicle- 
Abstract folks," the editor called after him, " you can 
tell them I suggested your coming." 
The managing editor of the Chronicle- Abstract 
was reading a manuscript, and he did not desist from 
his work on Bartley 's appearance, which he gave no 
sign of welcoming. But he had a whimsical, shrewd, 
kind face, and Bartley felt that he should get on with 
him, though he did not rise, and though he let Bart 
ley stand. 
" Yes," he said. " Lumbering, hey ? Well, there 's 
some interest in that, just now, on account of this 
talk about the decay of our shipbuilding interests. 
Anything on that point ? " 
" That 's the very point I touch on first," said 
Bartley. 
The editor stopped turning over his manuscript. 
" Let 's see," he said, holding out his hand for Bart- 
ley 's article. He looked at the first head-line, "What 
I Know about Logging," and smiled. " Old, but 
good." Then he glanced at the other headings, and 
ran his eye down the long strips on which Bartley 
 
had written ; nibbled at the text Ifere and there a 
little ; returned to the first paragraph, and read that 
through ; looked back at something else, and then 
read the close. 
I guess you can leave it," he said, laying the 
manuscript on the table. 
" No, I guess not," said Bartley, with equal cool 
ness, gathering it up. 
The editor looked fairly at him for the first time, 
and smiled. Evidently he liked this. " What 's the 
reason ? Any particular hurry ? " 
" I happen to know that the Events is going to 
send a man down East to write up this very subject. 
And I don 't propose to leave this article here till they 
steal my thunder, and then have it thrown back on 
my hands not worth the paper it 's written on." 
The editor tilted himself back in his chair and 
braced his knees against his table. "Well, I guess 
you 're right," he said. " What do you want for 
it?" 
This was a terrible question. Bartley knew noth 
ing about the prices that city papers paid ; he feared 
to ask too much, but he also feared to cheapen his 
wares by asking too little. " Twenty-five dollars," he 
said, huskily. 
" Let 's look at it," said the editor, reaching out his 
hand for the manuscript again. "Sit down." He 
pushed a chair toward Bartley with his foot, having 
first swept a pile of newspapers from it to the floor. 
He now read the article more fully, and then looked 
up at Bartley, who sat still, trying to hide his anxiety. 
" You 're not quite a new hand at the bellows, are 
you ? " 
" I 've edited a country paper." 
" Yes ? Where ? " 
" Down in Maine. 
The editor bent forward and took out a long, nar- 
 
row blank-book. " I guess we shall want your article. 
What name ? " 
" Bartley J. Hubbard." It sounded in his ears like 
some other name. 
" Going to be in Boston some time ? " 
" All the time," said Bartley, struggling to appear 
nonchalant. The revulsion from the despair into 
which he had fallen after his interview with Witherby 
was still very great. The order on the counting-room 
which the editor had given him shook in his hand. 
He saw his way before him clearly now ; he wished 
to propose some other things that he would like to 
write ; but he was saved from this folly for the time 
by the editor 's saying, in a tone of dismissal : " Better 
come in to-morrow and see a proof. We shall put you 
into the Wednesday supplement." 
" Thanks," said Bartley. " Good day." 
The editor did not hear him, or did not think it 
necessary to respond from behind the newspaper 
which he had lifted up between them, and Bartley 
went out. He did not stop to cash his order ; he 
made boyish haste to show it to Marcia, as something 
more authentic than the money itself, and more 
sacred. As he hurried homeward he figured Marcia 's 
ecstasy in his thought. He saw himself flying up 
the stairs to their attic three steps at a bound, and 
bursting into the room, where she sat eager and anx 
ious, and flinging the order into her lap ; and then, 
when she had read it with rapture at the sum, and 
pride in the smartness with which he had managed 
the whole affair, he saw himself catching her up and 
dancing about the floor with her. He thought how 
fund of her he was, and he wondered that he could 
ever have been cold or lukewarm. 
She was standing at the window of Mrs. hash 's 
little reception-room when he reached the house. It 
was not to be as he had planned, but he threw her a 
 
kiss, glad of the impatience which would not let her 
wait till he could find her in their own room, and he 
had the precious order in his hand to dazzle her eyes 
as soon as he should enter. But, as he sprang into 
the hall, his foot struck against a trunk and some 
boxes. 
" Hello ! " he cried. " Your things have come ! " 
Marcia lingered within the door of the reception- 
room ; she seemed afraid to come out. " Yes," she 
said, faintly ; " father brought them. He has just 
been here." 
He seemed there still, and the vision unnerved her 
as if Bartley and he had been confronted there in 
reality. Her husband had left her hardly a quarter 
of an hour, when a hack drove up to the door, and 
her father alighted. She let him in herself, before 
he could ring, and waited tremulously for what he 
should do or say. But he merely took her hand, and, 
stooping over, gave her the chary kiss with which he 
used to greet her at home when he returned from an 
absence. 
She flung her arms around his neck. " Oh, father! " 
" Well, well ! There, there ! " he said, and then he 
went into the reception-room with her ; and there 
was nothing in his manner to betray that anything 
unusual had happened since they last met. He kept 
his hat on, as his fashion was, and he kept on his 
overcoat, below which the skirts of his dress-coat 
hung an inch or two ; he looked old, and weary, and 
shabby. 
" I can 't leave Bartley, father," she began, hysteri 
cally. 
" I haven 't come to separate you from your hus 
band, Marcia. What made you think so ? It 's your 
place to stay with him." 
" He 's out, now," she answered, in an incoherent 
hopefulness. "He 's just gone. Will you wait and 
see him, father?" 
 
" No, I guess I can 't wait," said the old man. " It 
wouldn 't do any good for us to meet now." 
" Do you think he coaxed me away ? He didn 't. 
He took pity on me, he forgave me. And I didn 't 
mean to deceive you when I left home, father. But I 
couldn 't help trying to see Bartley again." 
" I believe you, Marcia. I understand. The thing 
had to be. Let me see your marriage certificate." 
She ran up to her room and fetched it. 
Her father read it carefully. " Yes, that is all right," 
he said, and returned it to her. He added, after an 
absent pause : " I have brought your things, Marcia. 
Your mother packed all she could think of." 
" How is mother ? " asked Marcia, as if this had 
first reminded her of her mother. 
" She is usually well," replied her father. 
"Won 't you won 't you come up and see our 
room, father ? " Marcia asked, after the interval fol 
lowing this feint of interest in her mother. 
" No," said the old man, rising restlessly from his 
chair, and buttoning at his coat, which was already 
buttoned. " I guess I shan 't  have time. I guess I 
must be going." 
Marcia put herself between him and the door. 
" Won 't you let me tell you about it, father ? " 
"About what?" 
" How I came to go off with Bartley. I want 
you should know." 
" I guess I know all I want to know about it, 
Marcia. I accept the facts. I told you how I felt. 
What you 've done hasn 't changed me toward you. I 
understand you better than you understand yourself; 
and I can 't say that I 'm surprised. Now I want you 
should make the best of it." 
" You don 't forgive Bartley ! " she cried, passion 
ately. " Then I don t? want you should forgive me ! " 
"Where did you pick up this nonsense about 
 
forgiving ? " said her father, knitting his shaggy 
brows. " A man does this thing or that, and the con 
sequence follows. I couldn 't forgive Bartley so that 
he could escape any consequence of what he 's done ; 
and you 're not afraid I shall hurt him ? " 
" Stay and see him ! " she pleaded. " He is so 
kind to me I He works night and day, and he has 
just gone out to sell something he has written for the 
papers." 
" I never said he was lazy," returned her father. 
" Do you want any money, Marcia ? " 
" No, we have plenty. And Bartley is earning it 
all the time. I wish you would stay and see him ! " 
" No, I 'm glad he didn 't happen to be in," said the 
Squire. " I shan 't  wait for him to come back. It 
wouldn 't do any good, just yet, Marcia ; it would only 
do harm. Bartley and I haven 't had time to change 
our minds about each other yet. But I 'll  say a good 
word for him to you. You 're his wife, and it 's your 
part to help him, not to hinder him. You can make 
him worse by being a fool; but you needn 't be a 
fool. Don 't worry him about other women ; don 't 
be jealous. He 's your husband, now : and the worst 
thing you can do is to doubt him." 
" I won t, father, I won t, indeed ! I will be good, 
and I will try to be sensible. Oh, I wish Bartley 
could know how you feel ! " 
" Don 't tell him from me," said her father. " And 
don 't keep making promises and breaking them. I 'll  
help the man in with your things." 
He went out, and came in again with one end of a 
trunk, as if he had been giving the man a hand with 
it into the house at home, and she suffered him as 
passively as she had suffered him to do her such ser 
vices all her life. Then he took her hand laxly in 
his, and stooped down for another chary kiss. " Good 
by, Marcia." 
 
" Why, father ! Are you going to leave me ? " she 
faltered. 
He smiled in melancholy irony at the bewilder 
ment, the childish forgetfulness of all the circum 
stances, which her words expressed. " Oh, no ! I 'm 
going to take you with rue." 
His sarcasm restored her to a sense of what she had 
said, and she ruefully laughed at herself through her 
tears. " What am I talking about ? Give my love 
to mother. When will you come again ? " she asked, 
clinging about him almost in the old playful way. 
" When you want me," said the Squire, freeing 
himself. 
" I 'll  write ! " she cried after him, as he went down 
the steps ; and if there had been, at any moment, a con 
sciousness of her cruelty to him in her heart, she lost 
it, when he drove away, in her anxious waiting for 
Bartley 's return. It seemed to her that, though her 
father had refused to see him, his visit was of happy 
augury for future kindness between them, and she 
was proudly eager to tell Bartley what good advice 
her father had given her. But the sight of her hus 
band suddenly turned these thoughts to fear. She 
trembled, and all that she could say was, " I know 
father will be all right, Bartley." 
" How ? " he retorted, savagely. " By the way he 
abused me to you ? Where is he ? " 
" He 's gone, gone back." 
" I don 't care where he 's gone, so he 's gone. Did 
he come to take you home with him ? Why didn 't 
you go ? Oh, Marcia ! " The brutal words had hardly 
escaped him when he ran to her as if he would arrest 
them before their sense should pierce her heart. 
She thrust him back with a stiffly extended arm. 
" Keep away ! Don 't touch me ! " She walked by 
him up the stairs without looking round at him, and 
he heard her close their door and lock it. 
 
XVI. 
BARTLEY stood for a moment, and then went out 
and wandered aimlessly about till nightfall. He 
went out shocked and frightened at what he had 
done, and ready for any reparation. But this mood 
wore away, and he came back sullenly determined 
to let her make the advances toward reconciliation, if 
tli ere was to be one. Her love had already made 
his peace, and she met him in the dimly lighted little 
hall with a kiss of silent penitence and forgiveness. 
She had on her hat and shawl, as if she had been 
waiting for him to come and take her out to tea ; and 
on their way to the restaurant she asked him of his 
adventure among the newspapers. He told her 
briefly, and when they sat down at their table he 
took out the precious order and showed it to her. 
But its magic was gone ; it was only an order for 
twenty-five dollars, now ; and two hours ago it had 
been success, rapture, a common hope and a common 
joy. They scarcely spoke of it, but talked soberly of 
indifferent things. 
She could not recur to her father 's visit at once, 
and he would not be the first to mention it. He did 
nothing to betray his knowledge of her intention, as 
she approached the subject through those feints that 
women use, and when they stood again in their little 
attic room she was obliged to be explicit. 
" What hurt me, Bartley," she said, " was that you 
should think for an instant that I would let father 
ask me to leave you, or that he would ask such a 
 
thing. He only came to tell me to be good to you, 
and help you, and trust you ; and not worry you 
with my silliness and and jealousy. And I 
don 't ever mean to. And I know he will be good 
friends with you yet. He praised you for working 
so hard ; " she pushed it a little beyond the bare 
fact ; " he always did that ; and I know he 's only 
waiting for a good chance to make it up with you." 
She lifted her eyes, glistening with tears, and it 
touched his peculiar sense of humor to find her 
offering him reparation, when he had felt himself so 
outrageously to blame ; but he would not be outdone 
in magnanimity, if it came to that. 
" It 's all right, Marsh. I was a furious idiot, or I 
should have let you explain at once. But you see 
I had only one thought in my mind, and that was 
my luck, which I wanted to share with you ; and 
when your father seemed to have come in between 
us again " 
" Oh, yes, yes ! " she answered. " I understand." 
And she clung to him in the joy of this perfect intel 
ligence, which she was sure could never be obscured 
again. 
When Bartley 's article came out, she read it with 
a fond admiration which all her praises seemed to 
leave unsaid. She bought a scrap-book, and pasted 
the article into it, and said that she was going to 
keep everything he wrote. " What are you going to 
write the next thing ? " she asked. 
"Well, that 's what I don 't know," he answered. 
" I can 't find another subject like that, so easily." 
" Why, if people care to read about a logging- camp, 
I should think they would read about almost any 
thing. Nothing could be too common for them. 
You might even write about the trouble of getting 
cheap enough rooms in Boston." 
" Marcia," cried Bartley, " you 're a treasure ! I 'll  
 
write about that very thing ! I know the Chronicle- 
Abstract will be glad to get it." 
She thought he was joking, till he came to her 
after a while for some figures which he did not 're 
member. He had the true newspaper instinct, and 
went to work with a motive that was as different 
as possible from the literary motive. He wrote 
for the effect which he was to make, and not from 
any artistic pleasure in the treatment. He did not 
attempt to give it form,- to imagine a young couple 
like himself and Marcia coming down from the 
country to place themselves in the city ; he made no 
effort to throw about it the poetry of their ignorance 
and their poverty, or the pathetic humor of their dis 
may at the disproportion of the prices to their means. 
He set about getting all the facts he could, and he 
priced a great many lodgings in different parts of 
the city; then he went to a number of real-estate 
agents, and, giving himself out as a reporter of the 
Chronicle- Abstract, he interviewed them as to house- 
rents, past and present. Upon these bottom facts, as 
he called them, he based a " spicy " sketch, which 
had also largely the character of an expose. There is 
nothing the public enjoys so much as an expose : it 
seems to be made in the reader 's own interest ; it 
somehow constitutes him a party to the attack upon 
the abuse, and its effectiveness redounds to the credit 
of all the newspaper 's subscribers. After a week 's 
stay in Boston, Bartley was able to assume the feel 
ings of a native who sees his city falling into decay 
through the rapacity of its landladies. In the head 
ing of ten or fifteen lines which he gave his sketch, 
the greater number were devoted to this feature of it ; 
though the space actually allotted to it in the text 
was comparatively small. He called his report 
" Boston 's Boarding-Houses," and he spent a para 
graph upon the relation of boarding-houses to civ- 
 
 
ilization, before detailing his own experience and 
observation. This part had many of those strokes of 
crude picturesqueness and humor which he knew 
how to give, and was really entertaining : but it was 
when he came to contrast the rates of house-rent and 
the cost of provisions with the landladies 
" PERPENDICULAR PRICES," 
that Bartley showed all the virtue of a born 're 
porter. The sentences were vivid and telling ; the 
ensemble was very alarming ; and the conclusion was 
inevitable, that, unless this abuse could somehow be 
reached, we should lose a large and valuable portion 
of our population, especially those young married 
people of small means with whom the city 's future 
prosperity so largely rested, and who must drift away 
to find homes in rival communities if the present 
exorbitant demands were maintained. 
As Bartley had foretold, he had not the least trou 
ble in selling this sketch to the Chronicle- Abstract. 
The editor probably understood its essential cheap 
ness perfectly well ; but he also saw how thoroughly 
readable it W  as. He did not grumble at the increased 
price which Bartley put upon his work ; it was still 
very far from dear; and he liked the young Down- 
easter 's enterprise. He gave him as cordial a wel 
come as an overworked man may venture to offer 
when Bartley came in with his copy, and he felt like 
doing him a pleasure. Some things out of the log 
ging-camp sketch had been copied, and people had 
spoken to the editor about it, which was a still better 
sign that it was a hit. 
"Don 't you want to come roond to our club to 
night ?" asked the editor, as he handed Bartley the 
order for his money across the table. " We have a 
bad dinner, and we try to have a good time. We 're 
all newspaper men together." 
 
"Why, thank you," said Bartley, " I guess I should 
like to go." 
" Well, come round at half-past five, and go with 
me." 
Bartley walked homeward rather soberly. He had 
meant, if he sold this article, to make amends for the 
disappointment they had both suffered before, and to 
have a commemorative supper with Marcia at Par 
ker 's : he had ignored a little hint of hers about his 
never having taken her there yet, because he was 
waiting for this chance to do it in style. He resolved 
that, if she did not seem to like his going to the club, 
he would go back and withdraw his acceptance. But 
when he told her he had been invited, he thought 
he would put the fact in this tentative way, she 
said, " I hope you accepted ! " 
" Would you have liked me to ? " he asked with 
relief. 
" Why, of course ! It 's a great honor. You 'll  get 
acquainted with all those editors, and perhaps some 
of them will want to give you a regular place." A 
salaried employment was their common ideal of a 
provision for their future. 
" Well, that 's what I was thinking myself," said 
Bartley. 
" Go and accept at once," she pursued. 
" Oh, that isn 't necessary. If I get round there by 
half-past five, I can go," he answered. 
His lurking regret ceased when he came into 
the reception-room, where the members of the club 
were constantly arriving, and putting off their hats 
and overcoats, and then falling into groups for talk. 
His friend of the Chronicle-Abstract introduced 
him lavishly, as our American custom is. Bartley 
had a little strangeness, but no bashfulness, and, with 
his essentially slight opinion of people, he was 
promptly at his ease. These men liked his hand- 
 
some face, his winning voice, the good-fellowship of 
his instant readiness to joke ; he could see that they 
liked him, and that his friend Kicker was proud of 
the impression he made ; before the evening was over 
he kept himself with difficulty from patronizing 
Kicker a little. 
The club has grown into something much more 
splendid and expensive; but it was then content 
with a dinner certainly as bad as Kicker promised, 
but fabulously modest in price, at an old-fashioned 
hotel, whose site was long ago devoured by a dry- 
goods palace. The drink was commonly water or 
beer; occasionally, if a great actor or other dis 
tinguished guest honored the board, some spendthrift 
ordered champagne. But no one thought fit to go to 
this ruinous extreme for Bartley. Kicker offered him 
his choice of beer or claret, and Bartley temperately 
preferred water to either ; he could see that this 
raised him in Kicker 's esteem. 
No company of men can fail to have a good time 
at a public dinner, and the good time began at once 
with these journalists, whose overworked week ended 
in this Saturday evening jollity. They were mostly 
young men, who found sufficient compensation in the 
excitement and adventure of their underpaid labors, 
and in the vague hope of advancement ; there were 
grizzled beards among them, for whom neither the 
novelty nor the expectation continued, but who loved 
the life for its own sake, and would hardly have ex 
changed it for prosperity. Here and there was an 
old fellow, for whom probably all the illusion was 
gone ; but he was proud of his vocation, proud even 
of the changes that left hinr somewhat superannuated 
in his tastes and methods. None, indeed, who have 
ever known it, can wholly forget the generous rage 
with which journalism inspires its followers. To 
each of those young men, beginning the strangely fas- 
 
cinating life as reporters and correspondents, bis paper 
was as dear as his king once was to a French noble ; 
to serve it night and day, to wear himself out for its 
sake, to merge himself in its glory, and to live in its 
triumphs without personal recognition from the pub 
lic, was the loyal devotion which each expected his 
sovereign newspaper to accept as its simple right. 
They went and came, with the prompt and passive 
obedience of soldiers, wherever they were sent, and 
they struggled each to " get in ahead " of all the 
others with the individual zeal of heroes. They ex 
panded to the utmost limits of occasion, and they 
submitted with an anguish that was silent to the 
editorial excision, compression, ,and mutilation of 
reports that were vitally dear to them. What be 
comes of these ardent young spirits, the inner history 
of journalism in any great city might pathetically 
show ; but the outside world knows them only in the 
fine frenzy of interviewing, or of recording the mid 
night ravages of what they call the devouring ele 
ment, or of working up horrible murders or tragical 
accidents, or of tracking criminals who have baffled 
all the detectives. Hearing their talk Bartley began 
to realize that journalism might be a very different 
thing from what he had imagined it in a country 
printing-office, and that it might not be altogether 
wise to consider it merely as a stepping-stone to the 
law. 
With the American eagerness to recognize talent, 
numbers of good fellows spoke to him about his log 
ging sketch ; even those who had not read it seemed 
to know about it as a hit. They were all delighted to 
be able to say, " Kicker tells me that you offered it to 
old Witherby, and he wouldn 't look at it ! " He 
found that this fact, which he had doubtfully confided 
to Ricker, was not offensive to some of the Events 
people who were there ; one of them got him aside, 
 
and darkly owned to him that Witherby was doing 
everything that any one man could to kill the Events, 
and that in fact the counting-room was running the 
paper. 
All the club united in abusing the dinner, which in 
his rustic ignorance Bartley had not found so infa 
mous ; but they ate it with perfect appetite and 
with mounting good spirits. The president brewed 
punch in a great bowl before him, and, rising with 
a glass of it in his hand, opened a free parliament of 
speaking, story- telling, and singing. Whoever rec 
ollected a song or a story that he liked, called upon 
the owner of it to sing it or tell it ; and it appeared 
not to matter how old the fun or the music was : 
the company was resolved to be happy; it roared 
and clapped till the glasses rang. " You will like 
this song," Bartley 's neighbors to right and left of 
him prophesied; or, "Just listen to this story of 
Mason s, it 's capital," as one or another rose in 
response to a general clamor. When they went back 
to the reception-room they carried the punch-bowl 
with them, and there, amid a thick cloud of smoke, 
two clever amateurs took their places at the piano, 
and sang and played to their heart 's content, while 
the rest, glass in hand, talked and laughed, or listened 
as they chose. Bartley had not been called upon, 
but he was burning to try that song in which he had 
failed so dismally in the logging-camp. When the 
pianist rose at last, he slipped down into the chair, 
and,, striking the chords of the accompaniment, lie 
gave his piece with brilliant audacity. The room 
silenced itself and then burst into a roar of applause, 
and cries of "Encore!" There could be no doubt of 
the success. " Look here, Ricker," said a leading man 
at the end of the repetition, " your friend must be 
one of us ! " and, rapping on the table, he proposed 
Bartley 's name. In that simple time the club voted 
 
viva voce on proposed members, and Bartley found him 
self elected by acclamation, and in the act of paying over 
his initiation fee to the treasurer, before he had well 
realized the honor done him. Everybody near him 
shook his hand, and offered to be of service to him. 
Much of this cordiality was merely collective good 
feeling; something of it might be justly attributed 
to the punch ; but the greater part was honest. In 
this civilization of ours, grotesque and unequal and 
imperfect as it is in many things, we are bound to 
gether in a brotherly sympathy unknown to any 
other. We new men have all had our hard rubs, 
but we do not so much remember them in soreness 
or resentment as in the wish to help forward any 
other who is presently feeling them. If he will but 
help himself too, a hundred hands are stretched out 
to him. 
Bartley had kept his head clear of the punch, but 
he left the club drunk with joy and pride, and so 
impatient to be with Marcia and tell her of his tri 
umphs that he could hardly wait to read the proof 
of his boarding-house article which Eicker had put 
in hand at once for the Sunday edition. He found 
Marcia sitting up for him, and she listened with a 
shining face while he hastily ran over the most flat 
tering facts of the evening. She was not so much 
surprised at the honors done him as he had expected ; 
but she was happier, and she made him repeat it all 
and give her the last details. He was afraid she 
would ask him what his initiation had cost ; but she 
seemed to have no idea that it had cost anything, 
and though it had swept away a third of the money 
he had received for his sketch, he still resolved that 
she should have that supper at Parker s. 
" I consider my future made," he said aloud, at the 
end of his swift cogitation on this point. 
 
" Oh, yes ! " she responded rapturously. " We 
needn 't have a moment 's anxiety. But we must be 
very saving still till you get a place." 
" Oh, certainly," said Bartley. 
 
XVII. 
DURING several months that followed, Hartley 's 
work consisted of interviewing, of special reporting in 
all its branches, of correspondence by mail and tele 
graph from points to which he was sent ; his leisure 
he spent in studying subjects which could be treated 
like that of the boarding-houses. Marcia entered 
into his affairs with the keen half-intelligence which 
characterizes a woman 's participation in business ; 
whatever could be divined, she was quickly mistress 
of ; she vividly sympathized with his difficulties and 
his triumphs ; she foiled to follow him in matters of 
political detail, or of general effect; she could not be 
dispassionate or impartial ; his relation to any enter 
prise was always more important than anything else 
about it. On some of his missions he took her with 
him, and then they made it a pleasure excursion ; and 
if they came home late with the material still un 
written, she helped him with his notes, wrote from 
his dictation, and enabled him to give a fuller report 
than his rivals. She caught up with amusing aptness 
the technical terms of the profession, and was voluble 
about getting in ahead of the Events and the other 
papers ; and she was indignant if any part of his 
report was cut out or garbled, or any feature was 
spoiled. 
He made a " card " of grouping and treating with 
picturesque freshness the spring openings of the milli 
ners and dry-goods people ; and when he brought his 
article to Kicker, the editor ran it over, and said, 
" Guess you took your wife with you, Hubbard." 
 
"Yes, T did," Bartley owned. He was always 
proud of her looks, and it flattered him that Eicker 
should see the evidences of her feminine taste and 
knowledge in his account of the bonnets and dress 
goods. " You don 't suppose I could get at all these 
things by inspiration, do you ? " 
Marcia was already known to some of his friends 
whom he had introduced to her in casual encounters. 
They were mostly unmarried, or if married they 
lived at a distance, and they did not visit the Hub- 
bards at their lodgings. Marcia was a little shy, 
and did not quite know whether they ought to call 
without being asked, or whether she ought to ask 
them ; besides, Mrs. Nash 's reception-room was not 
always at her disposal, and she would not have 
liked to take them all the way up to her own room. 
Her social life was therefore confined to the public 
places where she met these friends of her husband s. 
They sometimes happened together at a restaurant, 
or saw one another between the acts at the theatre, 
or on coming out of a concert. Marcia was not so 
much admired for her conversation by her acquaint 
ance, as for her beauty and her style ; a rustic reluc 
tance still lingered in her ; she was thin and dry in 
her talk with any one but Bartley, and she could not 
help letting even men perceive that she was uneasy 
when they interested him in matters foreign to her. 
B&rtley did not see why they could not have some 
of these fellows up in their room for tea ; .but Marcia 
told him it was impossible. In fact, although she 
willingly lived this irregular life with him, she was 
at heart not at all a Bohemian. She did not like 
being in lodgings or dining at restaurants ; on their 
horse-car excursions into the suburbs, when the spring 
opened, she was always choosing this or that little 
house as the place where she would like to live, and 
wondering if it were within their means. She said 
 
she would gladly do all the work herself; she hated 
to be idle so much as she now must. The city 's 
novelty wore off for her sooner than for him : the 
concerts, the lectures, the theatres, had already lost 
their zest for her, and she went because he wished 
her to go, or in order to be able to help him with 
what he was always writing about such things. 
As the spring advanced, Bartley conceived the 
plan of a local study, something in the manner of the 
boarding-house article, but on a much vaster scale : 
he proposed to Eicker a timely series on the easily 
accessible hot- weather resorts, to be called " Boston 's 
Breathing-Places," and to relate mainly to the seaside 
hotels and their surroundings. His idea was encour 
aged, and he took Marcia with him on most of his 
expeditions for its realization. These were largely 
made before the regular season had well begun ; but 
the boats were already running, and the hotels were 
open, and they were treated with the hospitality 
which a knowledge of Bartley 's mission must invoke. 
As he said, it was a matter of business, give and take 
on both sides, and the landlords took more than they 
gave in any such trade. 
On her part Marcia regarded dead-heading as a just 
and legitimate privilege of the press, if not one of its 
chief attributes ; and these passes on boats and trains, 
this system of paying hotel-bills by the presentation 
of a card, constituted distinguished and honorable 
recognition from the public. To her simple experi 
ence, when Bartley told how magnificently the 're 
porters had been accommodated, at some civic or 
commercial or professional banquet, with a table of 
their own, where they were served with all the wines 
and courses, he seemed to have been one of the prin 
cipal guests, and her fear was that his head should 
be turned by his honors. But at the bottom of her 
heart, though she enjoyed the brilliancy of Bartley 's 
 
present life, she did not think his occupation com 
parable to the law in dignity. Bartley called himself 
a journalist now, but his newspaper connection still 
identified him in her mind with those country editors 
of whom she had always heard her father speak with 
such contempt : men dedicated to poverty and the 
despite of all the local notables who used them. She 
could not shake off the old feeling of degradation, 
even when she heard Bartley and some of his fellow- 
journalists talking in their boastfulest vein of the 
sovereign character of journalism ; and she secretly 
resolved never to relinquish her purpose of having 
him a lawyer. Till he was fairly this, in regular and 
prosperous practice, she knew that she should not 
have shown her father that she was right in marrying 
Bartley. 
In the mean time their life went ignorantly on in 
the obscure channels where their isolation from soci 
ety kept it longer than was natural. Three or four 
months after they came to Boston, they were still 
country people, with scarcely any knowledge of the 
distinctions and differences so important to the various 
worlds of any city. So far from knowing that they 
must not walk in the Common, they used to sit down 
on a bench there, in the pleasant weather, and watch 
the opening of the spring, among the lovers whose 
passion had a publicity that neither surprised nor 
shocked them. After they were a little more en 
lightened, they resorted to the Public Garden, where 
they admired the bridge, and the rock-work, and the 
statues. Bartley, who was already beginning to get 
up a taste for art, boldly stopped and praised the 
Venus, in the presence of the gardeners planting 
tulip-bulbs. 
They went sometimes to the Museum of Fine Arts, 
where they found a pleasure in the worst things 
which the best never afterwards gave them ; and 
 
where she became as hungry and tired as if it were 
the Vatican. They had a pride in taking books out 
of the Public Library, where they walked about on 
tiptoe with bated breath ; and they thought it a 
divine treat to hear the Great Organ play at noon. 
As they sat there in the Music Hall, and let the 
mighty instrument bellow over their strong young 
nerves, Bartley whispered Marcia the jokes he had 
heard about the organ ; and then, upon the wave of 
aristocratic sensation from this experience, they went 
out and dined at Copeland s, or Weber s, or Fera s, or 
even at Parker s: they had long since forsaken the 
humble restaurant with its doilies and its ponderous 
crockery, and they had so mastered the art of ordering 
that they could manage a dinner as cheaply at these 
finer places as anywhere, especially if Marcia pre 
tended not to care much for her half of the portion, 
and connived at its transfer to Bartley 's plate. 
In his hours of leisure, they were so perpetually 
together that it became a joke with the men who 
knew them to say, when asked if Bartley were married, 
"Very mitch married." It was not wholly their in- 
separableness that gave the impression of this extreme 
conjugality ; as I said, Marcia 's uneasiness when others 
interested Bartley in things alien to her made itself 
felt even by these men. She struggled against it be 
cause she did not -wish to put him to shame before 
them, and often with an aching sense of desolation she 
