back her, and as soon as she had lost her headway, the two boats were
dropped into the water, with two hands in each. They were then brought
up to the gangway steps, which had been rigged out for the use of the
ladies, who were all ready to embark.
We assisted Mrs. Mayfield and her daughter into the stern-sheets of
one, and the captain joined them. The boat shoved off, when the mate
and four of the sailors had stowed themselves away. The captain and the
ladies waved their adieus as soon as Dyer and Hop began to pull. Before
the port boat was off the second mate and the rest of the seamen had
piled into the starboard boat, and both were off at nearly the same
time.
I saw the seamen in both boats assisting the oarsmen, and the boats
went through the water at a lively rate. Not more than two minutes had
elapsed before the party were all on shore. Several men hastened up to
Captain Mayfield, and I saw him select one of them, who immediately
jumped into the port boat. It was hardly a minute more before the boats
were under the falls. They were rapidly hoisted up, and swung inboard.
The men leaped out of them, and Washburn rang to back the boat into
deeper water. The men secured the boats, and the person sent off went
into the pilot-house.
I looked at the clock and found we had lost less than ten minutes in
landing the wrecked party, during which time the Islander had made over
a mile. Moses Brickland had been attending to the furnaces while the
boats were absent with the two firemen, and I was sure that he had a
good head of steam on. The pilot was a swarthy person, with long black
hair, and I had no doubt he was a Conch, as Captain Mayfield had
described them to me. He was well dressed in seaman's blue clothes. I
rather liked the looks of the man, and began to feel confidence in him
as soon as I saw him.
"I am glad to see you, Mr. Pilot," I said, giving him my hand, when I
went into the pilot-house after assuring myself that the boats were
well secured.
"Thank you, Captain Alick," he replied with a smile.
"As you seem to know my name, it is no more than fair that I should
know yours," I replied, as good-naturedly as he had spoken.
"I am called Captain Cayo, but my name is Cazador, which is the Spanish
for 'Hunter.' But it don't make much difference what you call me. Cayo
is Spanish for Key, and people here are so used to the word that they
have given it me for a name. Where are you bound, Captain Alick?"
"To New Orleans, or rather we are bound to overhaul the little steamer,
just like this one, which left here not more than half an hour before
we arrived," I replied.
"I should have thought it was the same steamer if I had seen both of
them at the same time," replied Captain Cayo, who had taken the wheel
when he first came into the pilot-house, for he had been engaged to
take the Sylvania through the North-West Channel, as it is called. "You
wish to overhaul the Islander, do you?"
"Her owner is on board of this steamer, and he is very anxious to get
on board of her," I answered.
"Very well; if the Sylvania has the speed we will overhaul her, Captain
Alick," added the pilot.
"Where did you learn my name, Captain Cayo, for you called me by it
before any one had used it on board; and those who came off in the boat
with you invariably call me Captain Garningham?" I inquired, taking up
one of the points which had attracted my attention from the first.
"I heard you called so by a gentleman who arrived here by the morning
steamer from Cedar Keys."
"Who was the gentleman?" I asked, with interest.
"I don't remember his name, if I heard it at all."
"What time did the Islander get to Key West?"
"Not more than two hours before the Sylvania. I went on board of her to
offer my services as pilot. The captain did not want a pilot, for he
had a Conch on board who used to live in the city."
"Then this man is now piloting the Islander through this channel?"
"I suppose he is; but I don't think he is a pilot, for he is taking the
steamer a long way to the eastward of the bar-buoy. She went pretty
near a shoal with only five feet of water on it. I shall make one
sea-mile in going five compared with the course of the Islander."
"I am very glad to hear it. What sort of a looking-person was it that
came in the morning-boat from Cedar Keys?" I asked.
The pilot described Cornwood as though he were a novelist. Of course I
had no difficulty in supposing it was he. In order to get the most
reliable intelligence from the pilot, I told him all about the abrupt
departure of the Islander from Jacksonville without her owner and his
family. I stated my belief that Captain Blastblow was avoiding us, and
that he had put to sea as soon as he discovered the Sylvania headed in
for Key West. I told him the sudden departure of the other steamer was
a great mystery to her owner and all the rest of us.
"I am sure I don't know anything about the matter, Captain Alick. I
don't believe the Islander intended to stop at the city, for the man
from Cedar Keys----"
"His name is Cornwood," I interposed.
"Cornwood went off in a boat and hailed the Islander. She would not
stop till he flourished a letter. I was out in my boat looking for any
craft that wanted a pilot, and I was close aboard of her. When she
stopped I climbed aboard on one side while Cornwood got aboard on the
other side. Instead of delivering the letter to the captain, he said it
was for a person supposed to be on board. The captain indulged in
strong talk; but Cornwood made some statement I did not hear, which
seemed to satisfy him. The steamer came to anchor just outside of Fort
Taylor. When the captain told me he did not want a pilot, I left the
steamer. As I pulled away, I saw that a sharp lookout was kept over the
stern of the Islander, which I can understand now, if I could not
then."
"You don't know whether or not Cornwood delivered any letter to the
captain of the Islander?" I inquired, with deep interest.
"Very likely he did, but not while I was on board. I pulled up the
harbor, and landed the other side of the Lazaretto. Before I reached
the shore I saw Cornwood and a swellish-looking fellow rowing to the
same landing-place. Cornwood was talking very earnestly to the swell,
and continued to do so after they got ashore."
"What did the swell look like?" I asked, wondering who he could be, for
I had seen all the crew of the Islander, and could remember no one that
looked like a swell.
Captain Cayo gave a minute description of the person; but it would have
applied as well to one swell as to another.
"Did you see anything more of Cornwood and this swell?" I asked,
somewhat excited over the narrative, and hoping to get some clue to the
conspiracy for running off the Islander.
"Cornwood and the young fellow took a seat on a bench near the
landing-place, and talked for a full hour. Before they got through I
had a sight of this steamer coming up by the West Sambo. I passed quite
near them, on my way up the hill to the lighthouse, to see if I could
make out your steamer. As I did so, I heard Cornwood call the other
fellow Nick."
"Nick!" I exclaimed, looking at Washburn.
"That explains it all," added the mate.
"What does it explain?" asked the pilot, who seemed to be quite as much
interested in the case as Washburn and myself were.
"It explains another story I have not told, and which I did not suppose
had anything to do with this matter of the running off of the
Islander."
I related the affair of the robbery of the messenger of the bank,
giving all the details of the case, including the unexplained
disappearance of Nick Boomsby. The case looked as plain as day to
Washburn and myself. Nick had taken possession of the package of money,
and concealed it somewhere under the counter; and doubtless there were
holes and corners enough there where it could be put without its being
seen by his father. He wanted to get out of Jacksonville as soon as
possible after the robbery. He had applied to me, with his pathetic
story about being compelled to sell whiskey, and wanted to be taken as
a passenger in the Sylvania.
"Nick had the card written by Colonel Shepard, which he delivered the
night before we sailed," said Washburn.
"I should like to know what was written on that card," I added.
"Probably it was nothing more than an intimation from the colonel that
he should be ready to sail the next morning. He had not room enough on
a card to go into the particulars," answered Washburn. "You saw him
write the card, Alick."
"There was not more than a line or two on it, for it was done in half a
minute, signature and all."
"Captain Blastblow had steam up in the morning, as directed," continued
Washburn. "Nick observed the writing closely, and wrote a letter such
as he wanted for use the next morning. Captain Blastblow is not to
blame, unless it is for letting Nick deceive him."
The case looked plain enough now.
CHAPTER XVI.
ACROSS THE GULF OF MEXICO.
We had arrived at only a partial solution of the mystery, though we had
done enough to relieve Captain Blastblow from any evil intentions in
the premises. What Cornwood's connection with the affair was did not
yet appear. He could not have known that Nick Boomsby was on board of
the Islander, for he had gone to St. Augustine, where we had put in on
account of stress of weather. He could not have known that we intended
to put into St. Augustine, for we had no intention to do so when we
left Jacksonville.
Possibly Cornwood had put one thing and another together until he
believed Nick had taken the four thousand dollars, and had made his
escape in the Islander. It looked as though Cornwood had some
connection with the robbery, for the Islander had hurried on her way to
New Orleans, if she was bound there, as soon as the Sylvania came in
sight. If he had delivered the letter to Captain Blastblow, the latter
would have remained in Key West until the arrival of her owner, as
instructed by the written message.
"Cornwood and Nick did a good deal of talking, it appears, while the
Islander was here," said Washburn, "though we don't know what it was
all about."
"I have no doubt Cornwood took the management of the case at this
point," I replied. "Nick must have forged one letter to induce Captain
Blastblow to start the Islander without her owner and his family; and I
have no doubt Cornwood forged another to make him continue the voyage."
"I hope we shall know all about the matter in a few hours more," said
Washburn.
"You understand the entire situation now, Captain Cayo, and see why we
want to overhaul the Islander," I continued.
"I see the whole of it, and I will do the best I can to outsail the
other steamer; but that depends more on your vessel than on me,"
replied the pilot. "Will you let your men heave the log?"
We had been driving the Sylvania to her utmost, and Ben Bowman reported
that we were making eleven and a half knots, which was doing
exceedingly well in the teeth of a fresh north-west wind. Captain Cayo
went to the westward of the bar-buoy, while the Islander had gone to
the eastward of it more than a mile. I saw that we had gained a mile by
this course, and the Islander was not more than four miles ahead of us.
I gave the pilot my views of the relative speed of the two vessels,
though I told him that Captain Blastblow might get a higher rate of
speed out of her than any one had done before.
"We shall soon see which sails fastest," said Captain Cayo. "The
Islander has laid her course for the South-west Pass of the
Mississippi. All you have to do is to follow her. There is our
pilot-boat; and this is as far as we usually take vessels."
"But I don't care to have you leave us here, Captain Cayo," I replied.
"It is clear enough that the Islander intends to keep out of our way.
She may run in among the Dry Tortugas, and having a pilot on board, she
could easily elude us."
"She might do that when she finds you are gaining on her, as I see you
are, for we have made half a knot on her since we came out of the
channel. But if we leave the pilot-boat behind, I can't get off the
steamer when you don't want me any longer. Besides, it looks like a
change of weather, and pilots are in demand when it is foggy or blows,
at this season of the year."
"What sort of weather do you expect next?" I asked.
"The wind will work round to the south-west, and then it will be
foggy," replied the pilot, scanning the horizon.
"Can't you go to New Orleans, or remain on board till we meet a steamer
for Key West?" I suggested.
"I should be very happy to go to New Orleans with you, for there will
be no steamer for Key West for several days. But I am not a pilot for
the Mississippi River, and you will have to pay another just the same
as though I were not on board."
He named his price, besides expenses; and as it was reasonable, I
accepted it at once. My experience the night before, when I found the
Sylvania was ten miles from where I supposed she was, made me extremely
cautious. I felt entirely competent to take the steamer to the
South-east Pass of the Mississippi; but it was evident that Cornwood
had obtained control of the Islander, acting as the agent of Colonel
Shepard, and that he would not permit the Sylvania to come near her if
he could avoid it. Probably the Conch who had acted as her pilot so far
would understand the channels of the Tortugas, and could easily take
the Islander where I should not care to follow her.
The pilot-boat lay very nearly in our course, and a boat put off from
her as we approached. Captain Cayo stopped the steamer when the boat
was abreast of her. He jumped upon the rail, and told the oarsmen that
he was going to New Orleans.
"Now start her, Mr. Mate," said he to Washburn, as he crawled over the
rail to the deck.
"Now Cornwood will believe the pilot has left you," said Captain Cayo.
"The Islander is still two miles off, and I don't think her people
could see me when I crawled back over the rail."
It was a dead calm on the Gulf of Mexico, and the Sylvania was still
making eleven and a half knots an hour. I calculated that we had gained
two knots on the Islander, one by taking the shorter course, and one by
outsailing her.
"I think we had better keep her more to the southward," said Captain
Cayo, after he had taken a survey of the horizon, especially in the
southwest, where a pile of clouds seemed to be gathering.
"Why to the southward?" I asked.
"I think the captain of the Islander must see by this time that we are
gaining on him, and that it is only a question of three or four hours
when we shall overhaul her," replied the pilot. "If I were in his
place, I should steer for the Tortugas, and leave you five or ten miles
behind by dodging into some shallow channel. By keeping to the
southward, we shall be in a better position to head her off."
"I see; and we are almost up with the Tortugas. If we keep to the
southward, we shall be right in her course if she attempts to run for
those islands."
"Right you are, Captain Alick," added the pilot, as he changed the
course to due west. "There is a breeze coming up from the southward,
which is quite a regular thing towards night. It will blow fresh for
some hours, just about a whole sail breeze. I think you had better get
your sails set, for the one that uses the wind first will make the
most."
I told the mate to call all hands, and put on every rag of canvas we
could set. Before he had the foretopsail shaken out, the breeze came,
though it was very light. By the time the rest of the sails were set,
it was blowing lively. It was five o'clock in the afternoon, and we
were fairly up with the Tortugas, and at least a mile to the southward
of the Islander. If she attempted to get in among the islands, she must
run across our course, and less than a mile ahead of the Sylvania. We
could easily cut her off.
"She can't get in among those islands now without running into us," I
said, after I had carefully surveyed the situation.
"That is as true as preaching," added Captain Cayo, laughing, when he
saw that the other steamer was checkmated if she had intended to resort
to any stratagem to avoid us. "We may as well put the steamer on her
course for the South-east Pass."
He suited his action to the words. The wind was freshening, and the log
indicated that we were making twelve knots strong. Moses was still
crowding on all the steam the boiler would bear, and I am sure the
yacht never sailed any faster.
At six I estimated that the Islander was not more than a mile ahead of
us, and another hour would wipe out all the difference.
"This wind is good for us in one way, and bad in another," said Captain
Cayo, shaking his head after a searching gaze to windward.
"You mean that we are likely to have some fog," I added.
"Not only likely to have a fog, but sure of it. It is miles deep to the
southward and westward."
"Of course the Islander will be able to keep out of the way in a fog;
and we can't help ourselves," I replied, trying to yield as gracefully
as possible to the necessity of giving up our point.
I had hardly uttered the words before the fog swept down upon us. It
was very dense, and we could not see a ship's length ahead of us; at
about the same time the wind suddenly subsided. We could see nothing of
the Islander, and I had no doubt she had already shifted her course to
the north or the south.
"The game is all up, Captain Cayo," I said, very mournfully.
"Up for the present," replied the pilot, as he called through the
speaking-tube for the engineer to stop the steamer.
Captain Cayo put his head out of one of the front windows of the
pilot-house, and listened attentively for several minutes. I understood
that he had used the speaking-tube instead of ringing the gong, so that
those on board of the Islander should not hear the sound, as they
might, it was now so still.
"Go ahead," continued the pilot through the tube. "She has headed to
the northward, and we will see what we can do on the same tack."
The pilot headed the Sylvania to the north. I hoped the wind would
breeze up again and carry off the fog; but there was no indication of
it. Our sails made so much noise, flapping and pounding against the
spars, that I was obliged to order all sail taken in. When we had gone
an hour on the present course, the pilot ordered the engineer to stop
her, as before. Washburn and Ben Bowman were on the top-gallant
forecastle, and they listened with all their might. We all did the
same, but we could not catch a sound of any kind. If the Islander had
been within a mile of us we could have heard the clang of her screw.
She had either stopped her engine, or gone off on some other course. We
went ahead again, headed to the north-west.
"We might keep this up all night, and not find her," said Captain Cayo,
disgusted with the situation.
"What had we better do?" I asked.
"We can't do anything. We can't fight against the fog. Are you sure the
Islander will go to New Orleans if we let her alone?"
"I feel reasonably sure of it," I replied. "Captain Blastblow evidently
is not engaged in the conspiracy; and I don't believe Cornwood could
induce him to disregard the instructions of his owner. His course
indicates that he intends to go there, only he seems to be determined
to keep out of the way of the Sylvania."
"I have no doubt Cornwood and Nick Boomsby want to go to New Orleans,"
added the pilot. "I don't see why it won't be just as well to pick them
up there as it will be here."
"But they will not allow themselves to be picked up," I answered. "They
will get ashore as soon as the Islander reaches New Orleans, whether
they get there before or after we do."
"If I wanted to make sure of the rogues, I should get to New Orleans as
quickly as I could."
"We should be sure to get there before the Islander," I added.
"So much the better. When you get there, procure a couple of officers,
and run back down the river till you meet the other steamer. Throw your
officers on board of her, and they will then have no chance to escape.
If we wait here all night, the Islander will make the best of her way
to her destination, while we are waiting for the fog to clear off, and
of course the rogues will put themselves out of sight," said Captain
Cayo.
"I think it is the surer way to run for New Orleans. I don't know that
we need any officers," I replied. "We can run into the Mississippi,
find some place of concealment, and pounce on the Islander when they
least suspect our presence."
"I like that plan still better," replied the pilot.
We agreed upon this course, and the Sylvania was headed for the
South-east Pass of the Mississippi. We gave her full speed, and on
Tuesday afternoon we were off the pass. It was a dull passage. We took
a pilot, and as we had no difficulty in crossing the bar, we were soon
in the river. The whole region was swamps and lagoons, about as
uninteresting as we could expect to find.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE SYLVANIA IN AMBUSH.
As soon as we were in the river, the Mississippi pilot was discharged,
and we continued on our voyage up the stream. We did not know by which
pass the Islander would come in, and we kept on till daylight in the
morning. We then ran up to the shore, which was covered with small
trees. The place we had chosen was at a bend of the mighty stream,
where we could not be seen until the Islander was close upon us. We
made fast to a tree, and sent Hop Tossford ashore to watch at the bend
for the approach of the other steamer.
As the water was deep enough for the Islander in whatever part of it
she went, I thought she would come within a few yards of our position,
as that would lead her up stream by the shortest way. Our passengers
had spent their time in the usual manner on the voyage, and one day at
sea was very like any other day when the weather was fine. We had
passed out of the fog before midnight, and the two days on the Gulf had
been as pleasant as possible. Some of them landed on the high bank of
the river where we had made fast; but we required them to keep within
call.
In the pilot-house we had voted that it was not best to say anything
about Cornwood's relations with Nick, and none of the passengers even
knew that Nick was on board of the Islander. We simply told them that
we had lost the other steamer in the fog, and we were afraid we should
miss the Islander in New Orleans if we delayed to look for her in the
fog.
The pilot took the spare berth in the fore cabin, and made himself
entirely at home on the steamer, as I desired he should. We had
arranged our plan for the capture of the Islander when she came up the
river; and none of us had any doubts in regard to her coming. Captain
Cayo was to have the duty of taking possession of the person of
Cornwood, and Buck Lingley was to do the same kindness to Nick. Colonel
Shepard was to be close at hand to deal with Captain Blastblow, if he
objected to the proceedings.
All the forenoon passed away without a sight of the Islander. We dined,
and began to inquire if there was any way by which the Islander could
get to New Orleans without passing the point where we had taken
position. We could find none she was likely to take. We were beginning
to believe our well-laid plan had miscarried, when Ben Bowman, who was
on the lookout for the prize, hastened on board with the intelligence
that the Islander was within four miles of us.
We had covered our topmasts with green branches to prevent the people
on the Islander from suspecting our presence before she turned the
bend. A little point covered with trees a short distance below us
concealed the hull of the Sylvania, and I was satisfied that she could
not be seen by Cornwood before it would be too late to keep out of our
way.
"All hands on deck," I said to Washburn, as soon as Ben Bowman had
announced the approach of the runaway steamer.
"All on deck, sir, except Ben Bowman," returned the mate, as soon as he
had given the call.
The second engineer had returned to the point to observe and report
upon the movements of the Islander. He informed me that the steamer
seemed to be making the shortest course the bends of the stream would
permit, and she was headed for the point behind which the Sylvania was
concealed.
I had arranged my plan of operations. Our steamer was headed up the
stream, and held by a single hawser leading to the bowsprit-bitts. We
had passed the rope around the tree, and made the end fast on board, so
that we could let go without any one going on shore to do so. The
strong current of the river would carry the steamer's head away from
the shore, and we had only to dart out alongside the Islander, and make
fast to her. We had rigged out our fenders, so that neither steamer was
likely to be damaged by a collision.
Ben Bowman and Buck Lingley were to carry a line on board of the prize,
and make fast the instant we came alongside of her. Colonel Shepard was
to get on board of the Islander as quick as he could, and give his
orders to Captain Blastblow. I did not apprehend any difficulty in
carrying out the programme. I was confident that the captain of the
runaway vessel would respect the orders of his owner. We had banked our
fires in the morning, so that the noise of escaping steam need not warn
the Islander of the presence of another steamer. As soon as Ben
reported the runaway within four miles, Moses Brickland had caused the
fires to be replenished, and he calculated upon having a full head of
steam when we were ready to run out from our hiding-place.
In about half an hour from the time the Islander was discovered, Ben
Bowman came on board. We could hear the clang of her screw by this
time. I stationed Ben at the hawser, and directed him to let go and
haul in the rope as quickly as possible when I gave the word. Buck
Lingley and Landy Perkins were to help him make quick work of it.
Captain Cayo was stationed where he could make a sure thing of the
capture of Cornwood as soon as he leaped on board.
Nearer and nearer came the Islander to the point. As soon as she showed
her bowsprit beyond it, I was to give the word to cast off. I could see
nothing to prevent the success of the elaborate plan we had made, and I
was satisfied that Colonel Shepard would be in possession of his
steam-yacht within five minutes.
"Let go and haul in!" I called to Ben Bowman, at the hawser.
The assistant engineer did not permit an instant to elapse before he
and his two helpers were hauling on the rope with all their might.
The moment I saw that the hawser was running free, I rang the gong to
go ahead, with the helm hard a-starboard. I heard the screw turn a
couple of times, and then it stopped. I did not quite understand this.
The next thing I saw was Moses rushing on the forecastle.
"The propeller is fouled in a root or a rope, Alick!" exclaimed he.
"Back her a stroke or two, and it may clear itself."
I rang to back her as he rushed aft to the engine-room. By this time
the Islander was fairly abreast of us, and I feared that our elaborate
scheme had failed. But we were seventy-five miles from New Orleans, and
there was time enough for as lively a race as ever was seen on the
"Father of Waters."
I rang again to stop the engine, and then to start it. It went hard,
and I heard some snapping near the stern. It was evident that the screw
had been fouled in a root, and I was afraid it might have been twisted
into the propeller. I stopped the engine again. When I found the screw
did not move freely I ran aft, and found Hop Tossford had climbed over
the stern with a boat-hook in his hand, and was punching in the
direction of the propeller.
"It's a crocodile!" he exclaimed. "There it goes!"
I saw the creature rise to the top of the water. Hop was English, and
Englishmen are apt to call all saurians by this name. I should not have
expected to see the real alligator so near the salt water, for I had
heard that only crocodiles proper lived or thrived in salt water. It
may have been one washed out from some bayou by the high water, which
was prevailing at this time, or it may have been the real crocodile. I
did not stop then to reason about this case in natural history; but as
soon as I saw the mangled reptile, which was about ten feet long, on
the surface of the water, I hastened to the pilot-house, and started
the screw again. This time it moved freely, and I concluded that the
saurian had been resting on the blades of the propeller when it began
to turn.
By this time the Islander had made about a quarter of a mile, as I
judged, against the swift current. But there was now no chance for her
to dodge us. Our fires were in excellent condition, for the fireman had
been forcing them for twenty minutes.
"A miss hit," said Captain Cayo, coming into the pilot-house, when it
was clear that the capture would not come off immediately.
"I suppose that alligator went down to drink when we came up to the
bank of the river," I replied. "But he has the worst of it, for the
screw has smashed him."
I saw the saurian floating motionless down stream, and the screw had
evidently made short work of him.
"I am sorry the rascal interfered with our affair," added the pilot.
"The game is not up yet. We shall have an opportunity to learn which is
the faster steamer," I replied.
"The current must be running five or six miles an hour here," said
Captain Cayo.
"About five miles an hour is the usual rate of the Mississippi," I
answered. "But it runs just as fast for the Islander as it does for the
Sylvania."
"That's true; and I doubt if either steamer is making more than six or
seven knots an hour."
"The Islander is sheering off from us towards the middle of the river,
and that is where she is making her mistake."
"Why so?" asked the pilot.
"Because the current is swifter in the middle of the stream than near
the banks, for the friction of the shore has some effect on its flow."
"That is bringing it down to a fine point," said Captain Cayo,
laughing, for he was entirely unused to river navigation.
I kept the Sylvania as near the shore as I deemed it prudent to go,
while the Islander went in the middle of the river, as if her captain
desired to avoid falling into any possible trap. The wind was southerly
and quite fresh. I directed the mate to shake out the fore squaresail
and the fore topsail. In twenty minutes, by the clock in the
pilot-house, we were abreast of the Islander, but half a mile from her,
for she was still in the middle of the river. By this time, Captain
Blastblow evidently saw his mistake in not setting his squaresails, for
the wind was blowing about half a gale.
I put the helm about a half a point nearer to the course of the other
steamer. I immediately noticed that her pilot made a corresponding
change in her helm. Moses kept an eye on her, and understood the game
perfectly. I did not attempt to run any closer to her, for a turn in
the river would soon bring the Sylvania alongside of her. If the vessel
attempted to go any nearer the shore, she would have to stand out again
in order to pass the bend above. In a word, the Islander was cornered.
Captain Blastblow could not help realizing the situation of the steamer
he sailed. Too late he sent his men aloft to loose the squaresail.
Before they could get the gasket off, I had to port the helm to prevent
striking the other steamer. All our hands were in position to do the
parts before assigned to them.
I kept a sharp watch upon the actions of the Islander to meet any
change in her course. I saw Captain Blastblow in the pilot-house at the
wheel. He looked very nervous and disturbed, and I did not wonder at
it.
"Sheer off, or you will be afoul of us!" shouted the captain of the
runaway steamer.
At the same moment he rang his gong to stop her. I rang mine also the
moment I heard the other. Moses was standing by his lever and wheel,
and I think the Sylvania was stopped before the Islander. Of course we
continued to go ahead under the impulse of the momentum given the two
boats.
Very cautiously I put the helm to starboard, and in a moment the two
boats touched each other, but without any shock or crash. The two hands
assigned to the duty sprang upon the forecastle of the Islander, and
made fast the rope they carried to the bowsprit-bitts. At the same
instant, Captain Cayo and Buck Lingley leaped into the waist of the
steamer. I saw Cornwood and Nick on the hurricane-deck, though they
began to make their exit as soon as we came alongside. The pilot knew
his men well, and before the Floridian could leave the hurricane-deck,
he had taken him rather unceremoniously by the collar.
Buck did not know Nick Boomsby, but the simple fact that he was with
Cornwood satisfied him that he was the person he wanted. I saw that
Cornwood began to look magnificent, and to show fight, while Nick acted
like a sick kitten.
Colonel Shepard hastened to follow the pilot on board, and met Captain
Blastblow coming out of the pilot-house to ascertain what the matter
was.
CHAPTER XVIII.
HOW NICK BOOMSBY MANAGED HIS CASE.
We had hardly accomplished our introductory work before I saw that both
steamers, which we had secured together with a stern as well as a bow
line, had been set back by the rapid current, and had begun to drift
down the river. I rang for the Sylvania to go ahead, and then called
upon Hop Tossford to take the wheel. I did not care to tow the Islander
against the swift current. I satisfied myself that the bow and stern
lines were properly made fast, and then went on board of the other
steamer.
I found that Colonel Shepard was inclined to let his angry passions
rise, as he saw Captain Blastblow approaching him, for which I could
not very strongly blame him. I had called to him before I went on board
of the Islander, and he had come aft to meet me. I suggested that he
should put Washburn in charge of the vessel until matters had been
explained. He promptly acquiesced, and I sent the mate to the
pilot-house of the prize, with instructions to keep her as near the
right bank of the river as it was prudent to go, and to direct the
wheelman of the Sylvania at the same time.
"Do I understand you to take the command of the Islander out of my
hands, Colonel Shepard?" demanded Captain Blastblow, as he heard me
instruct Washburn what to do.
"For the present, yes," replied the colonel, decidedly and sternly, as
though he intended no more mistakes should be made.
"This is rather sudden, for I haven't the least idea that I have done
anything to displease you," replied the captain, struggling to keep his
temper.
"What have you been doing with this steamer? What induced you to run
away with her? Why have you taken so great pains to keep away from the
Sylvania?" asked Colonel Shepard, in a severe tone.
"I have tried to obey my instructions in every particular," replied
Captain Blastblow, apparently more in astonishment than in anger.
"Have you had any instruction to run away with my steam-yacht?"
"I certainly had no instructions to run away with her; and I am not
aware that I have done anything of that kind," answered the captain.
"There has been some mistake, Colonel Shepard," I interposed. "I think
we had better go into the pilot-house and talk it over."
Without making any reply, both of the belligerents followed me forward.
I was quite as anxious to ascertain what had become of Cornwood and
Nick Boomsby as I was to have Captain Blastblow explain his singular
conduct. I found Captain Cayo on the forecastle, holding his prisoner
by the collar of his coat, while Nick was in the care of Buck, on the
port side of the house on deck. The former seemed disposed to resist,
though he was not willing to risk a conflict with his swarthy captor.
"What do you mean by laying hands upon me, you rascal?" demanded
Cornwood.
"Don't use any hard words, Cornwood," added the pilot, coolly. "I obey
my orders, and don't answer any questions."
"I don't know anything about your orders; and no one had any right to
give you any orders to lay hands on me," foamed Cornwood.
The prisoner began to demonstrate rather violently; he made a spring at
the throat of the pilot; but the latter was too quick and too strong
for him. They clinched together, and then Cornwood went down upon the
deck. Captain Cayo put his foot on the chest of the prostrate
Floridian, and held him down.
"I think we had better put a rope around this man's arms," said the
pilot, without taking his eyes from his prisoner. "That would keep him
quiet and well-behaved."
I picked up a piece of line, and handed it to him. He tipped Cornwood
as carelessly as though he had been a shark, and proceeded to bind his
arms behind him. The Floridian attempted to resist again; but the foot
of the pilot pressed more heavily upon him as he did so, and he found
it impossible to get upon his feet again.
Captain Cayo drew the arms of the captive up behind him, and quickly
fastened them. Then he took him by the collar, and stood him up on his
feet. Cornwood looked unutterably scornful at me; and I doubt if he
would have made any trouble if I had not been present. Judging by his
looks, he appeared to regard me with intense hatred. I had interfered
with some of his schemes before, and from the particular attention he
bestowed upon me, I came to the conclusion that he considered me the
author of his present misfortune.
"Why am I treated in this brutal manner?" demanded Cornwood, turning
his gaze from me to Captain Blastblow.
"I don't know anything at all about it," replied the captain. "There
are several things I don't understand about this business; but I am
willing to be informed."
"I suppose I owe all this to you, Captain Garningham," added Cornwood,
giving me a savage look.
"On the contrary, I think you owe it all to yourself," I replied. "If I
remember rightly, you were to detain the Islander at Key West. Instead
of doing this, she runs out of the harbor as soon as the Sylvania comes
in sight."
"It's none of your business, Garningham. Do you own the Islander?"
"I think we had better go into the pilot-house and talk the case over,"
I added. "We shall soon find out what the matter is."
I led the way, and we seated ourselves in the pilot-house. I had
indicated this place because I wanted to hear the explanation of the
captain of the Islander.
"Captain Blastblow, your conduct has astonished me," said Colonel
Shepard, more calmly than he had spoken at first.
"I am sorry for it, sir, for I have tried to do just as I was
instructed," answered the captain, meekly, and apparently as much
astonished as his owner. "I know my place, and I always expect to do
just what my employer expects of me."
"I did not expect you to run away with my steam-yacht, when all my
family were waiting to go in her," added the colonel, becoming more
indignant as he rehearsed the incidents of the morning we left
Jacksonville.
"But your going in the Islander depended on your business; and when I
saw you the morning before we sailed, you could not tell what you would
do. You instructed me to water and provision the vessel, and wait for
further orders. Towards evening, you sent off a card by young Boomsby,
directing me to have steam up and be ready to sail early in the
morning. I was ready to go by six o'clock," answered the captain,
taking from his desk in the pilot-house a package of papers, from which
he selected the card sent off by Nick. "Is it all straight so far?"
"Entirely: it was just as you say. I received a letter by the afternoon
mail, which assured me a business matter would allow me to be absent
from New York a month or six weeks longer; and I decided to go up the
river with the Sylvania."
"I didn't ask questions, or inquire into your business. All I had to do
was to obey the orders of my owner," added Captain Blastblow. "I made
sure that everything on board was ready for the voyage before I turned
in that night. By half-past five in the morning we had steam enough on
to sail down the river. It was about half-past six when your friend,
Mr. Boomsby, came----"
"My friend, Mr. Boomsby!" exclaimed the colonel. "I never even saw my
friend, Mr. Boomsby, that I know of."
"I only know that you called him your friend yourself," replied Captain
Blastblow.
"I called him so! How could I call him so when I had no acquaintance
with him?" demanded the owner, with a smile of incredulity.
"I don't know anything about that," continued the captain, fumbling
over the papers he had taken from his desk. "I learned to read writing
when I was a boy; and that was what you wrote."
"I never wrote anything of the kind, Captain Blastblow. But never mind
that: go on with your story," added the colonel.
"I can prove all that I say, sir. Your friend, Mr. Boomsby, as you
called him in your letter, came on board about half-past six, and gave
me your instructions to proceed to New Orleans as soon as I got the
letter."
"I sent you no such letter, Captain Blastblow," protested Colonel
Shepard. "I never wrote any such letter; some one has been playing a
trick on you."
"But I have the letter in your own handwriting," pleaded the captain.
"I will read it to you. It is dated at the St. James Hotel, with a
picture of the house, and the heading printed upon it. Here is what it
says:--
    CAPTAIN BLASTBLOW:
    I have received a despatch which will prevent me from leaving
    Jacksonville for a few days. You will proceed to New Orleans as
    soon as you get this letter; and I will go there by land with my
    family. For reasons I will explain to you some other time, I want
    you to keep out of the way of the Sylvania. I have made a bet that
    the Islander will get to New Orleans first; and I expect, from what
    you said, you will win the bet for me. This letter will be
    delivered to you by my friend, Mr. Boomsby, who will take passage
    with you; and you will treat him as well as you would me."
    Yours truly,
    P. G. SHEPARD.
"If those instructions are not as plain talk as any shipmaster could
desire, I should like to know what would be plain," continued Captain
Blastblow, as he finished the reading of the letter. "I hove up the
anchor at once, and rang to go ahead. I was ordered to keep out of the
way of the Sylvania, and I have done my best to avoid her."
"But I did not write that letter, Captain Blastblow," repeated the
owner; and by this time we were all rather amused at the straightforward
earnestness of the captain of the Islander. "Let me see the letter,
if you please."
The captain handed him the letter. Colonel Shepard examined it
critically. He shook his head as he did so.
"I must acknowledge that the writing looks very much like mine," he
said, after he had read it through and examined it in every part. "Who
could have written it?"
"Nick Boomsby wrote it, without a doubt," I replied. "I went to school
with him, and he was a good penman, though that was about all he was as
a scholar."
"Is that my friend, Mr. Boomsby?" asked the colonel, laughing heartily.
"The same person; and he has become a swell of the first magnitude," I
replied. "If I had known, or suspected, before we got to Key West, that
Nick was on board of her, I could have explained the strange conduct of
the Islander, and why she so carefully kept out of our way."
I gave a full account of the robbery of the bank messenger in the
saloon of Nick's father, dwelling upon the efforts Nick had made to
arrest Buckner. I stated that he had tried to obtain a passage to New
Orleans in the Sylvania, that I had refused to let him go in her, and
had taken care that he did not become a stowaway on board of her. I
added that Nick told me of his intention to run away from his home, and
seek his fortune in some other part of the country.
"I have no doubt that Nick stole the four thousand dollars the
messenger laid on the counter, and resorted to the trick of forging a
letter to Captain Blastblow, so that he could get the Islander off
ahead of the Sylvania," I continued.
"But how is it that Cornwood did not stop the Islander at Key West, as
it appears he got on board of her there?" asked Colonel Shepard, deeply
interested in the narrative.
"I think you will have to ask Cornwood about that," I replied. "I am a
Yankee, and I can guess what he meant."
"I don't know that I care about any guessing, Captain Alick; but if you
have any theory with a base under it, I should like to hear it," said
Colonel Shepard.
"I think Cornwood was well assured that Nick was on board of the
Islander when you sent him to intercept the steamer at Key West," I
answered. "Cornwood would not have gone on such a wild-goose chase for
nothing. According to the testimony of Captain Cayo, Cornwood and Nick
had very earnest conversation at Key West."
"I don't think it's any use to speculate over the case," interposed
Captain Blastblow. "Let us search for the money."
We all agreed that this was the next thing to do.
CHAPTER XIX.
A SEARCH FOR THE LOST TREASURE.
The two steamers had passed the bend of the river, and we had gone by
forts Jackson and St. Philip without a word being said of the
historical events which were connected with them. We were too busy with
the inquiry before us to give any attention to the surroundings, though
I could see that our passengers on board the Sylvania were discussing
what they saw on the mighty river. But nothing could have been more
uninteresting than the banks of the river near its delta.
It was a season of high water, and the low lands beyond the levee on
either side were overflowed. Occasionally we passed a vessel going down
the stream, or a powerful skeleton-tug dragging a ship against the
rapid current. There was little to be seen besides the muddy flow of
the stream all around us, and the fringe of trees that grew on the
levee.
If the theory we had advanced, and supported by such evidence as we
had, was correct, the four thousand dollars the bank messenger had lost
were on board the Islander. If Nick had taken the package, he had not
left it behind him when he started out on his travels. We went down
into the after-cabin. The captain said Nick had occupied the large
state-room on the starboard side, while Cornwood had taken possession
of the corresponding one on the port side. We found enough of the
effects of each in his state-room to settle the question of his
occupancy of the room. Four thousand dollars was a large sum of money,
and we did not expect to find it lying around loosely in the room of
either.
Captain Blastblow volunteered to examine Cornwood's state-room, while I
rendered the same service in that of Nick Boomsby. I found a bundle
which contained the runaway's clothing. I searched it thoroughly, but
there was no package of any kind in it. I opened all the drawers and
lockers in the room with no better success. I tore the bed to pieces
and removed the berth sack. The latter was a hair mattress of the best
quality. I looked to see if it had been ripped open in any place, and
then felt of it in every part, but without discovering anything like a
foreign substance in it.
Under the berth, or rather bedstead, was a considerable space, where a
trunk or other package could be placed. I lighted the lamp in the
state-room, and took it from the gimbals, for it was dark under the
bed. I looked and felt in every part of the space, but I had no better
success. I examined every hole and corner in the state-room, but found
no such package as that for which I was looking.
"I find nothing that looks like money," I said to Colonel Shepard, who
was watching the operations with deep interest.
"Blastblow has no better luck in the other state-room. Do you conclude
from this fact that you have been mistaken?" inquired the owner of the
Islander.
"I do not; I feel morally sure that Nick took that money," I replied,
confidently.
"You may be mistaken, Captain Alick," added Colonel Shepard, with a
smile. "If he took the package we should be likely to find it in his
room."
"I grant that I expected to find it here; or a part of the money in
this room, and the rest of it in Cornwood's state-room," I added,
rather warmly. "There are other places where the package could have
been concealed."
"That is true; but Nick's room was the place where he was most likely
to put it."
"I think so myself; but Nick has had the advice of Cornwood since the
Islander reached Key West."
"Cornwood is a cunning rogue, I know."
"If we had suspected that Nick was on board the Islander, we might have
telegraphed to the police at Key West to arrest him and detain the
