comfort or even of hope. She had no right to hope. "If thy hand offend 
thee, cut it off"--but Rotha was not so minded. The prospect was dark and 
miserable. How could she go on living in her aunt's house? and how could 
she live anywhere else? and how could she bear her loneliness? and how 
could she get to the favour of that one great Friend, whose smile is only 
upon them that are at least trying to do his commandments? It was dark in 
Rotha's soul, and stormy. 
It continued so for days. In the house she was let alone, but so 
thoroughly that it amounted to domestic exile or outlawry. She was let 
alone. Not forbidden to take her place at the family table, or to eat her 
portion of the bread and the soup; but for all social or kindly 
relations, left to starve. Mr. Busby's mouth had been shut somehow; he 
was practically again a man of papers; and the other two hardly looked at 
Rotha or spoke to her. Antoinette and she sometimes went to school 
together and sometimes separate; it was rather more lonely when they went 
together. In school they hardly saw each other. So days went by. 
CHAPTER XV. 
MRS. MOWBRAY. 
"How is that Carpenter girl doing?" Mrs. Mowbray inquired one day of Miss 
Blodgett, as they met in one of the passages. 
"I have been wanting to speak to you about her, madame. She knows all I 
can teach her in that class." 
"Does she! Her aunt told me she had had no advantages. Does she study?" 
"I fancy she has no need to study much where she is. She has been 
further." 
"How does she behave?" 
"Perfectly well. She does not look to me happy." 
"Not happy! Is her cousin kind to her? She is cousin to that pretty 
Busby, you know." 
"I think she hardly speaks to her. Not here, I mean." 
Mrs. Mowbray passed on. But that very afternoon, when school was breaking 
up, Miss Blodgett asked Rotha to wait a few minutes. The girls were all 
gone in a trice; Miss Blodgett herself followed; and Rotha was left 
alone. She waited a little while. Then the door opened and the figure 
which had such a fascination for her appeared. The face looked gentler 
and kinder than she had seen it before; this was not school time. Mrs. 
Mowbray came in and sat down by Rotha, after giving her her hand. 
"Are you quite well, my dear?" was her instant question after the 
greeting. "You are hoarse." 
Rotha said she had caught a little cold. 
"How did you do that?" 
"I think it was sitting in a cold room." 
"Were you obliged to sit in a cold room?" 
Rotha hesitated. "It was pleasanter there," she said with some 
embarrassment. 
"You never should sit in a cold room. What did you want to be in a cold 
room for?" 
Rotha hesitated again. "I wanted to be alone." 
"Studying?" 
"Not my lessons,"--said Rotha doubtfully. 
"Not your lessons? If you and I were a little better acquainted, I should 
ask for a little more confidence. But I will not be unreasonable." 
Rotha glanced again at the sweet face, so kindly now with all its 
penetrating acuteness and habit of authority; so sweet with its smile; 
and confidence sprang forth at the instant, together with the longing for 
help. Did not this look like a friend's face? Where else was she to find 
one? Reserve gave way. 
"I was studying my duty," she said softly. 
"Your duty, my dear? Was the difficulty about knowing it, or about doing 
it?" 
"I think--about doing it." 
"Is it difficult?" 
"Yes," said Rotha from the bottom of her heart. 
Mrs. Mowbray read the troubled brow, the ingenuous mouth, the oppressed 
manner; and her soul went forth in sympathy to her little perplexed human 
sister. But her next words were a departure, and in a different tone. 
"You have never been to school before, your aunt tells me?" 
"No, ma'am," said Rotha, disappointed somehow. 
"Are you getting along pleasantly?" 
"Not very pleasantly," Rotha allowed, after a pause. 
"Does Miss Blodgett give you too hard work to do?" 
"O no, ma'am!" Rotha said with a spark more of spirit. "I have not 
anything to do. I know it all already." 
"You do! Where did you learn it?" 
"Mother used to teach me--and then a friend used to teach me." 
"What, my dear? It is important that I should know." 
"Mother taught me history, and geography, and grammar, and little things. 
Then a gentleman taught me more history, and arithmetic, and algebra, and 
Latin, and natural history--"
"The gentleman was the friend you spoke of?" 
"Yes, ma'am." 
"Do you like to study, Rotha?" 
"O yes, ma'am! when it is study, and I can understand it." 
"I suppose your aunt did not know about all this home study?" 
"She knew nothing about me," said Rotha. 
"Then where has your home been, my dear?" 
"Here,--for two years past. Before that, it was in the country." 
Mrs. Mowbray was silent a bit. 
"My dear, I think the first thing you should do should be, to take care 
of that cold. Will you?" 
"I do not know how, ma'am," said Rotha, for the first time lifting her 
eyes with something like a smile to the lady's face. 
"Does Mrs. Busby know that you have taken cold?" 
"I do not know, ma'am." 
"Will you take some medicine, if I give you some?" 
"If you please, ma'am." 
Mrs. Mowbray sent a servant for a certain box, and proceeded to choose 
out a vial which she gave to Rotha, instructing her how to use it. 
"And then, some time when we know each other better," she went on, 
"perhaps you will tell me about that difficulty of duty, and let me see 
if I can help you." 
"O thank you, ma'am!" was spoken so earnestly that Mrs. Mowbray saw the 
matter must be much on the young girl's heart. 
That same evening did Mrs. Mowbray make a call on Mrs. Busby. 
She came in with her gracious, sweet, dignified manner, which always put 
everybody upon his best behaviour in her presence; as gracious as if she 
had come for the sole pleasure of a talk with Mrs. Busby; as sweet as if 
she had had no other object in coming but to give her and her family 
pleasure. And so she talked. She talked public news and political 
questions with Mr. Busby, with full intelligence, but with admirable 
modesty; she bewitched him out of his silence and dryness into being 
social and conversible; she delighted him with his own unwonted 
performance. With Mrs. Busby she talked Antoinette, for whom she had at 
the same time brought a charming little book, which compliment flattered 
the whole family. She talked Antoinette and Antoinette's interests, but 
not Antoinette alone; with a blessed kind of grace she brought in among 
the other things relations and anecdotes the drift and bearing of which 
was away from vanity and toward soul health; stories which took her 
hearers for the moment at least out of the daily and the trivial and the 
common, into the lofty and the noble and the everlasting. Even Mr. Busby 
forgot his papers and cases and waked up to human interests and social 
gentleness; and even Mrs. Busby let the lines of her lips relax, and her 
eyes glistened with something warmer than a steely reflection. Antoinette 
bloomed with smiles. Rotha was not in the room. 
And not till she was drawing up her fur around her, preparatory to 
departure, did Mrs. Mowbray refer to the fourth member of the family. 
Then she said, 
"How is your niece, Mrs. Busby? Miss Carpenter?" 
"Quite well," Mrs. Busby answered graciously. "I believe she is at her 
books." 
"How does she like going to school?" 
"I am afraid I can hardly say. Netta, how does Rotha enjoy her school 
life?" 
"I don't know," said Antoinette. "She doesn't enjoy anything, I should 
say." 
The tone of neither question nor answer escaped the watchful observation 
of the visiter. 
"I think you said she had had no advantages?" 
"None whatever, I should say; not what we would call advantages. I 
suppose she has learned a few common things." 
"She is an orphan?" 
Mrs. Busby assented. "Lost her mother last summer." 
"I should like to have her more under my own eye than is possible as she 
is now; a mere day scholar. What do you say to letting her become a 
member of my family? Of course," added Mrs. Mowbray graciously, "I should 
not propose to you to charge yourself with any additional burden on her 
account. As she is an orphan, I should make no difference because of 
receiving her into my family. I have a professional ambition to gratify, 
and I like to be able to carry out my plans in every detail. I could do 
better for Antoinette, if you would let me have her altogether; but I 
suppose that is not to be thought of." 
Mrs. Busby wore an air of deliberation. Mr. Busby was understood to 
mutter something about "very handsome." 
"Will you let me have Antoinette?" said the lady smiling. "I think it 
would do her no harm." 
"Antoinette must content herself at home," Antoinette's mother replied. 
"I am accustomed to having her under my own wing." 
"And that is a privilege you would not yield to any one else. I 
understand. Well, what do you say about Miss Carpenter?" 
Mrs. Busby looked at her husband. Long experience enabled him to guess at 
what he was desired to say. 
"My dear--since Mrs. Mowbray is so kind--it would be a great thing for 
Rotha the best thing that could happen to her--" 
Mrs. Busby turned her eyes to her visiter. 
"Since you are so good, Mrs. Mowbray--it is more than I could ask you to 
do--"    
"I shall be very glad to do it. I am nothing if not professional, you 
know," Mrs. Mowbray said rising and drawing her fur together again. "Then 
that is settled."-- And with gracious deference and sweetness of manner 
she took her leave. 
"That's what I call a good riddance!" exclaimed Antoinette when she was 
free to express her opinion. 
"You will find it a happy relief," added Mr. Busby. "And not a little 
saving, too." 
Mrs. Busby was silent. With all the relief and the saving, there was yet 
something in the plan which did not suit her. Nevertheless, the relief, 
and the saving, were undoubted facts; and she held her tongue. 
"Mamma, what are you going to do about Rotha's dresses?" 
"I will see, when she comes to me with a proper apology." 
Of all this nothing was told to Rotha. So she was a little surprised, 
when next morning Mrs. Mowbray came into the schoolroom and desired to 
see her after school. But then Mrs. Mowbray's first words were about her 
cold. 
"My dear, you are very hoarse! You can hardly speak. And you feel 
miserably, I see. I shall sequester you at once. Come with me." 
Wondering but obedient, Rotha followed. What was going to happen now? Up 
stairs, along a ball, up another flight of stairs, past the great 
schoolrooms, now empty, through a small bedroom, through a large one, 
along another passage. At last a door is opened, into what, as Rotha 
enters it, seems to her a domestic paradise. The air deliciously warm and 
sweet, the walls full of engravings or other pictures, tables heaped with 
books, a luxuriously appointed bed and dressing tables, (what to Rotha's 
eyes was enormous luxury)--finally a couch, where she was made to lie 
down and covered over with a brilliant affghan. Rotha was transported 
into the strangest of new worlds. Her new friend arranged the pillow 
under her head, gave her some tasteless medicine; that was a wonderful 
innovation too, for all Rotha's small experience had been of nauseous 
rhubarb and magnesia or stinging salts; and finally commanded her to lie 
still and go to sleep.  
"But aunt Serena--?" Rotha managed to whisper. 
"She has made you over to me. You are going to live in my house for the 
present, where you can carry on your studies better than you could at 
home, and I can attend to you better. Here you have been losing a month, 
because I did not know what you properly required. Are you willing to be 
my child, Rotha?--instead of Mrs. Busby's?--for a time?" 
The flash of joy in Rotha's eyes was so eloquent and so bright, that Mrs. 
Mowbray stooped down and kissed her. 
"I never was Mrs. Busby's child,"--the girl must make so much protest. 
"Well, no matter; you are not her child now. Lie still, and go to sleep 
if you can." 
Could she? Not at once. Is it possible to tell the sort of Elysium in 
which the child was lapped? Softness and warmth and ease and rest, and 
hiding, and such beauty and such luxury! Mrs. Mowbray left the room 
presently; and Rotha lay still under her affghan, looking from one to 
another point of delight in the room, wondering at this suddenly entered 
fairyland, comforted inexpressibly by the assurance that she was taken 
out of her aunt's house and presence, happy in the promise of the new 
guardianship into which she had come. What pretty pictures were on the 
walls, all around her, over her head; here was a lady, there a lovely 
little girl; here a landscape; there a large print shewing a horse which 
a smith is just about shoeing, and a little foal standing by. And so her 
eye wandered, from one to another, every one having its peculiar interest 
for Rotha. Then the books. How the books were piled up, on the floor, on 
the dressing-table, on benches, on the mantelpiece; there was a kind of 
overflow and breaking wave of literary riches which seemed to have 
scattered its surplus about this room. And there were trinkets too, and 
pretty useful trifles, and pretty things of use that were not trifles. 
Rotha had always lived in a very plain way; her father's house had shewed 
no far-off indication of this sort of life. Neither had her aunt's house. 
Plenty of means was not wanting there; the house had money enough; what 
it lacked was the life. No love of the beautiful; no habit of elegant 
surroundings; no literary taste that had any tide or flow whatsoever, 
much less overflow. No art, and no associations. Everything here had 
meaning, and indications of life, or associations with it; with mental 
life especially. What exactly it was that charmed her, Rotha could not 
have told; she could not have put all this into words; yet she felt all 
this. The girl had come into a new atmosphere, where for the first time 
her soul seemed to draw free breath. It was, by its affinities, her 
native air. Certainly in the company of Mr. Southwode all this higher 
part of her nature had been fed and fostered, and with him too she was at 
home; but she had seen him only in Mrs. Marble's house or in the lodgings 
at Fort Washington. 
It was long before Rotha could sleep. She waked as the day was declining 
and the room growing dusky. A maid came in and lit the fire, which 
presently sparkled and snapped and sent forth jets of flame which lit up 
the room with a red illumination. Rotha recognized, she thought, the sort 
of coal which Mr. Digby had sent in for her mother, and hailed the sight; 
but she was mistaken, a little; it was kennal coal, not Liverpool. It 
snapped and shone, and the light danced over pictures and books and 
curtains; and Rotha wondered what would come next. 
What came next was Miss Blodgett, followed by the maid bearing a tray. 
The tray was placed on a stand by the couch, and Rotha was informed that 
this was her dinner. Mrs. Mowbray wished her to keep quite quiet and live 
very simply until this cold was broken up. Rotha raised herself on her 
couch and looked in astonishment at what was before her. A hot mutton 
chop, a roll, a cup of tea, and some mashed potatoe. A napkin was spread 
over the tray; and there was a little silver salt cellar, and a glass of 
water, and a plate of rice pudding. Ah, surely Rotha was in fairyland; 
and never was there so beneficent and so magnificent a fairy in human 
shape. Miss Blodgett saw her arranged to her mind, and left her to take 
her dinner in peace and at leisure; which Rotha did, almost ready to cry 
for sheer pleasure. When had dinner been so good to her? Everything was 
so hot and so nice and so prettily served. Rotha lay down again feeling 
half cured already. 
However, such well-grounded colds as she had taken are not disposed of in 
a minute; and Rotha's kept her shut up for yet several days more. Wonders 
went on multiplying; for a little cot bed was brought into the room, 
(which Rotha found was Mrs. Mowbray's own) and made up there for her 
occupancy; and there actually she slept those nights. And Mrs. Mowbray 
nursed her; gave her medicine, by night and by day; sent her dainty 
meals, and allowed her to amuse herself with anything she could find. 
Rotha found a book suited to her pleasure, and had a luxurious time of 
it. Towards the end of the second day, Mrs. Mowbray came into the room; a 
little while before dinner. 
"How do you do?" she said, standing and surveying her patient. 
"Very well, ma'am; almost quite well." 
"You will be glad to be let out of prison?" 
"It is a very pleasant prison." 
"I do not think any prison is pleasant. What book have you got there? 
Mrs. Sherwood. Do you like it?" 
"O very much, ma'am!" 
"My dear, your aunt has sent your trunk, at my request; and Miss Blodgett 
has unpacked it to get at the things you were wanting. But there is only 
one warm dress in it. Is that your whole ward robe?" 
"What dress is that? what sort, I mean?" 
"Grey merino, I believe." 
"It is not mine," said Rotha flushing. "It is Antoinette's. They tried it 
on, but it did not fit me. I told aunt Serena I would rather wear my own 
old one." 
"That is the one you are wearing now?" 
"Yes, ma'am." 
"My dear, is that your whole supply for the winter?" 
"Yes, ma'am." 
"I observe you have a nice supply of under wear." 
"Yes, ma'am. That was got for me by somebody else; not my aunt." 
"Have you other relations then, besides Mrs. Busby?" 
"No, ma'am. But I have a friend." 
"May I know more, since you have begun to confide in me? Who is this 
friend?" 
"It is the friend mother trusted me to, when she--when she--" 
"Yes, I understand," said Mrs. Mowbray gently. "Why does not this friend 
take care of you then, instead of leaving you to your aunt?" 
"O he does take care of me," cried Rotha; "but he is in England; he is 
not here. He had to go home because his father was very ill--dying, I 
suppose." 
"He?" repeated Mrs. Mowbray. "A gentleman?" 
"Yes, ma'am. He was the only friend that took care of mother. He got 
those things for me." 
"What is his name, my dear?" 
"Mr. Digby. I mean, Mr. Southwode. I always used to call him Mr. Digby." 
"Digby Southwode!" said Mrs. Mowbray. "But he is a young gentleman." 
"O yes," said Rotha. "He is not old. He was called away, back to England 
suddenly, and aunt Serena hindered my knowing, and hindered him somehow 
from seeing me at all to say a word to me before he went. And I never can 
forgive her for it,--never, never!" 
"Hush, my dear," said Mrs. Mowbray softly. "Your aunt may have thought 
she had good reasons. How came you under your aunt's care then?" 
"Mr. Digby took me to her," said Rotha, her eyes filling, while they 
sparkled at the same time. "He said it was best for me to be there, under 
her care, as he had no home where he could take me. But if he had known, 
he never would have left me with her. I know he would not. He would have 
taken care of me some other way." 
"What has Mr. Southwode done for you, that you should have such trust in 
him?" 
But Rotha somehow did not want to go into this subject in detail. 
"He did everything for us that a friend could do; he taught me, and he 
took care of mother; and mother left me in his charge." 
"Where was Mrs. Busby?" 
"Just where she is now. She did not know we were here." 
"Why was that?" 
Rotha hesitated. "Mother did not like to tell her," she said, somewhat 
obscurely. 
"And she left you in this gentleman's care." 
"Yes." 
"And he put you under your aunt's care." 
"Yes, for the present. But I was to tell him if anything went wrong; and 
I have never been able to speak a word to him since. Nor to write, 
because he had not given me his address." 
"Mr. Southwode is an Englishman. It is probable, if his father is dead, 
that he will make his home in England for the future." 
Rotha was silent. She thought Mr. Digby would not forget her, or fail in 
his promises; but she kept her views to herself. 
"He did very properly in committing you to your aunt's care; and now I am 
very glad I have got you," Mrs. Mowbray went on cheerily. "Now we will 
try and get all those questions straightened out, that were troubling 
you. What was it? a question of duty, you said, didn't you?" 
Mrs. Mowbray was arranging her heterogeneous masses of books in something 
like external order; she put a little volume into Rotha's hand as she 
said the last words. It was a very small New Testament; very small, yet 
in the clear English printing which made it delightfully legible. "That 
is the best thing to solve questions of duty with," she went on. "Keep 
it, my dear." 
"O thank you, ma'am!" cried Rotha, a bright colour of pleasure rushing 
into her cheeks. "O thank you, ma'am! How beautiful! and how nice! But 
here is where I found my question," she added sorrowfully. 
"I dare say. It is the old story--'When the commandment came, sin 
revived, and I died.' What was the point this time?" 
"Just that point I spoke of, about aunt Serena. I do not forgive her; and 
in the fifth chapter of Matthew,--here it is: 'If thou bring thy gift to 
the altar--'" 
"I know," Mrs. Mowbray broke in, very busy seemingly with her books and 
not looking at Rotha. "Why cannot you forgive her?" 
"Because I am so wrong, I suppose," Rotha answered humbly. 
"Yes, but what has she done?" 
"I told you, ma'am. She kept me from seeing Mr. Southwode before he went 
away. She never even told me he had been at the house, nor that he was 
gone. I found it out. She meant I should not see him." 
"My dear," said Mrs. Mowbray, "that does not seem to me a very heinous 
offence." 
"It was the very worst thing she could do; the cruelest, and the worst." 
"She might have thought she had good reasons." 
"She did not think that. She knew better. I think she wanted me all in 
her power." 
"Never think evil of people, if it is possible to think good," Mrs. 
Mowbray continued. "Always find a pleasant reason for the things people 
do, if it is possible to find one. It is quite as likely to be true, and 
it leaves you a great deal more comfortable." 
"You cannot always do that," said Rotha. 
"And this is one of the times? Well, what are you going to do about it? 
Can't you forgive your aunt, even if you think the worst?" 
"It would be very easy to forgive her, if I could think differently," 
said Rotha. 
"It occurs to me--Those words you began to quote,--they run, I think, 'If 
thy brother hath ought against thee.' Is that the case here?" 
"Yes, ma'am, because I charged her with what she had done; and she did 
not excuse herself; and I thought I had a right to be angry--very angry; 
but when I came to those words in my reading, I remembered that though I 
had so much against her, she had a little against me; because I had not 
spoken just right. And then I knew I ought to confess it and make an 
apology; and I was so angry I could not." 
"And do you feel so now?" Mrs. Mowbray asked after a slight pause. 
"Just the same." 
"Do you think you are a Christian, Rotha?" 
"No, ma'am. I know--a Christian does His commandments," the girl answered 
low. 
"Do you want to be a Christian?" 
"Yes, ma'am, if I could; but how can I?" 
"You cannot, while your will goes against God's will." 
"Can I help my will?" said Rotha, bringing up her old question. 
"There is the dinner-bell," said Mrs. Mowbray. "If I can get a little 
time this evening, I will try to shew you the answer to your question. I 
must go now, my dear. Read your New Testament." 
Rotha curled herself up on her couch, and by the light of the kennal coal 
did read her Testament; full of delight that it was hers, and full of 
comfort in the hope that after all there would be a way for her out of 
her difficulties. 
Then came her dinner. Such a nice dinner it was; and served with a 
delicacy and order which charmed Rotha. She eat it alone, but missing 
nothing; having a sense of shelter and hiding from all roughnesses of 
people and things, that was infinitely soothing. She eat her dinner, and 
hoped for Mrs. Mowbray's return. Waiting however in vain. Mrs. Mowbray 
came not. The room was bright; the fire burned; the cheerful shine was 
upon everything; Rotha was full of comfort in things external; if she 
only could settle and quiet this question in her heart. Yes, this 
question was everything. Were she but a child of God, secure and 
established,--yes, not that only, but pure and good,--like Mr. Digby; 
then, all would be right. Then she would be happy. With that question 
unsettled, Rotha did not feel that even Mrs. Mowbray could make her so. 
Late in the evening Mrs. Mowbray came. Her arms were full of packages. 
"I could not get free before," she said, as she shut the door behind her. 
"I had an errand--and then company kept me. Well, my dear! have you had a 
pleasant evening, all alone?" 
"I like to be alone sometimes," Rotha replied a little evasively. 
"Do you! Now I like company; unless I have something to do. Perhaps that 
was your case, eh?" 
"Yes, ma'am, it was." 
"And did you accomplish it?--what you had to do." 
"No, ma'am." 
"You must take me into your counsels. See here--how do you like that?" 
She had drawn up a chair to the side of Rotha's couch, and opening one of 
the packages on her lap, transferred it to Rotha's. It was the fashion 
then for young people to wear woollen stuffs of bright plaid patterns; 
and this was a piece of chocolate and black with a thread of gold colour; 
soft and beautiful and rich tinted. "How do you like that?" Mrs. Mowbray 
repeated; and Rotha answered that she thought it very beautiful. 
"Don't you think that would make you a nice school dress? and here--how 
would this do for company days?" 
As she spoke, she laid upon the chocolate plaid another package, 
containing a dark brown poplin, heavy and lustrous. Poor Rotha looked up 
bewildered to the lady's face, which was beaming and triumphant. 
"Like it?" she said gleefully. "I couldn't tell your taste, you know. I 
had to go by my own Don't you think that would become you?" 
"Me?" said Rotha. 
"Yes. You see, we cannot wait for your aunt's slow motions, and you must 
be clothed. Do you like it, my dear?" 
"I like it very much--of course--they are most beautiful; but--will  
aunt Serena give you the money, Mrs. Mowbray?" 
"I shall not ask her," said Mrs. Mowbray laughing. "You need not say 
anything about it, to her or anybody else. It is our affair. Now here is 
a warm skirt, my dear; I want to keep you warm while you are in my house, 
and you are not sufficiently armed against the cold weather. I don't want 
to have you catching any more colds. You see, this is for my interest. 
Now with that you will be as warm as a toast." 
It was a beautiful petticoat of scarlet cloth; soft and thick. Rotha 
looked at the pile of things lying on her lap, and was absolutely dumb. 
Mrs. Mowbray bent forward and kissed her cheek. 
"I think you will be well enough to go out by Saturday--and I will let 
Miss Jewett go with you to a dress-maker and have these things made up at 
once. Is there any particular dress-maker who is accustomed to work for 
you?" 
"No," Rotha said first, and then immediately added--"Yes! I forgot; the 
one who made my summer dresses, that I had in the summer." That Mr. 
Southwode got for me, she had been about to say; but she checked herself. 
Some fine instinct made her perceive that the mention of that gentleman's 
name was not received with absolute favour. She thought Mrs. Mowbray did 
not approve of Mr. Southwode. 
"And now, my dear," said that lady, as she swept away the packages of 
goods from Rotha's lap, "what about your question of conscience?" 
"It remains a question, ma'am." 
"Not settled yet? What makes the difficulty?" 
"I told you, ma'am. I did not speak quite as I ought to my aunt, one or 
two times, and so--she has something against me; and I cannot pray." 
"Cannot pray, my dear! that is dreadful. I should die if I could not 
pray. The Bible says, pray always." 
"But it says, here, 'if thy brother hath ought against thee, leave there 
thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy 
brother, and then come and offer thy gift.'" 
"Let me see that place," said Mrs. Mowbray. She sat down beside Rotha and 
took the little Testament out of her hand, and considered the passage. 
"Well, my dear," she said at last,--"and so you think these words forbid 
you to pray?" 
"Do they not?" said Rotha, "until I could reconcile myself to aunt 
Serena? or at least try." 
"What is the matter between you and your aunt?" 
"I do not know. I cannot tell what makes her do so." 
"Do what?" 
"Hide me from the only friend I have got." 
"You mean that gentleman? My dear, she may have had very good reasons for 
that?" 
"She could not have good reasons for it," said Rotha flushing. 
"My dear, old people often see things that young people do not see, and 
cannot judge of." 
"You do not know Mr. Southwode, ma'am. Anyhow, I do not feel as if I 
could ever forgive her." 
"That makes it difficult for you to go and ask her pardon, hey?" 
"Yes, ma'am." 
"What are you going to do?" 
"I do not know," said Rotha sadly. 
"It is too late for us to talk longer to-night. I will shew you a Bible 
to-morrow--stop, there is no time like the present--" 
Mrs. Mowbray rose and went to a table from which she brought a little 
volume. "This will do better," she said. "I have a Bible in which all 
this, in this book, is arranged in reference columns; but this is more 
convenient. You can use this with your own Bible, or any Bible. I am 
going to give you this, my dear." And she fetched a pen as she spoke and 
entered Rotha's name on the title page, with the date of day and month 
and year. Then she went on--"Now see, Rotha; here is what will give light 
on your question. Here are references from every verse in the Bible to 
other parts and other verses which explain or illustrate it. Find your 
place,--what is it?--Mat. v. 24, is it?--here; now see, here are 
references to other passages, and from them you will find references to 
still others. Take this to-morrow and study it out, and pray, my dear. 
You cannot get along without praying." 
CHAPTER XVI. 
SCHOOL. 
Rotha received the book with an access of pleasure, which expressed 
itself however mainly in sparkling eyes and the red tinge of excitement 
in her cheeks. She did say some words of thanks, but they were not 
fluent, as customary with her when any great degree of delight was 
pressing for utterance. Then speech was poor. Mrs. Mowbray did not miss 
it; she could read the signs, and was satisfied. But long after she was 
asleep, Rotha lay on her cot with eyes wide open, staring at the remains 
of the fire. What had come to her? what strange, enchantment-like, 
fabulous, change of circumstances? and this dispenser and contriver of 
happiness, slumbering peacefully on the bed yonder, what was she but a 
very fairy of blessing, bringing order out of disorder and comfort out of 
the very depths of confusion. A home, and a friend, and nice dresses, and 
study, and books! Two books to-day! Rotha was too happy to sleep. 
The next day she began school duties again; but Mrs. Mowbray would not 
have her join the family at meals, until, as she said, she had something 
comfortable to wear. Rotha was thankful for the kind thoughtfulness that 
spared her feelings; and in return bent herself to her appointed tasks 
with an energy which soon disposed of them. However, they took all her 
time, for Mrs. Mowbray had introduced her to another part of the school 
and a much more advanced class of the pupils. This of itself gave her new 
spirit. The following day Mrs. Mowbray, as she had promised, sent her 
with one of the under teachers to have her dresses cut out. They went in 
a carriage, and drove to Mrs. Marble's. Mrs. Marble wore a doubtful 
countenance. 
"Well, it is time you had something warmer, if you've got nothing more 
made since those lawns. Where's Mr. Digby?" 
"In England." 
"England! Don't say! And who's taking care of you?" 
"Miss Carpenter is in Mrs. Mowbray's family," said Miss Jewett stiffly. 
"Mrs. Mowbray, hey? what, the great school? You are in luck, Rotha. Did 
Mr. Digby put you there?" 
"He did not choose the school," said Rotha. "I went to the same place 
where my cousin went. Mrs. Marble, that's too tight." 
"It'll look a great deal handsomer, Rotha. Slim waists are what all the 
ladies want." 
"I can't be pinched," said Rotha, lifting and lowering her shoulders in 
the exultation of free play. "I would rather be comfortable." 
"It does look better, to be snug, Miss Carpenter," said Miss Jewett, 
taking the mantua-maker's part. 
"I don't care," said Rotha. "I must have room to breathe. Make it loose 
enough, Mrs. Marble, or it will just come back to you to be altered." 
"You're as masterful as you just was, and as I always thought you would 
be," said the mantua-maker. "I suppose you think times is changed." 
"They are very much changed, Mrs. Marble," said Rotha calmly. "But I 
always had my dresses loose." 
"And everything else about you!--" muttered the dress-maker. However, she 
was never an ill-natured woman, and took her orders with tolerable 
equanimity. 
"You are the first young lady I ever saw trying on dresses, who did not 
want them to fit nicely," Miss Jewett remarked as they were driving away. 
"But I could not breathe!" said Rotha. "I like to be comfortable." 
"Different people have different notions of comfort," was the comment, 
not admiring. But Rotha did not give the matter another thought. 
The next day was Sunday. "You will not go to church, dear," Mrs. Mowbray 
had whispered. "I shall not ask you till you have something to keep you 
warm. Have you a thick outer coat?" 
Rotha explained. Her aunt had been about to get her one two or three 
weeks ago; then they had had their falling out, and since then she had 
heard no more on the subject. 
"We will get things in order by next Sunday. You can study at home to-
day, and maybe that will be the best thing for you." 
It was the most welcome order Rotha could have received. She went up to 
Mrs. Mowbray's room, which she still inhabited, and took Bible and New 
Testament and her newly acquired possession, which she found bore title, 
"The Treasury of Scripture Knowledge," and sat down on the couch. It was 
all so comfortable around her that Rotha paused to look and think and 
enjoy. Hid away, she felt; safe and secure from all disturbances; her 
aunt could not worry her, Antoinette could not even look at her; nobody 
could interfere with her; and the good fairy of her life would come in 
only to help and shelter her. The warm air; poor Rotha had been 
inhabiting a region of frost, it must be remembered, material as well as 
spiritual; the slight sweet perfume that pervaded the room and came, 
Rotha knew not from what; the pretty, cosy look of the place, furniture, 
fire, pictures and all;--Rotha sat looking and feeling in a maze of 
astonishment. That all this should be, geographically, so near Mrs. 
Busby's house! With a breath of admiring delight, at last Rotha turned to 
her books. Yes, if she could get that question settled-- 
She opened her "Treasury of Scripture Knowledge" and found the fifth 
chapter of Matthew; then the 24th verse. The first reference here was to 
Mat. xviii. 15-17. 
That does not tell me anything, thought Rotha. I cannot go to aunt Serena 
and tell her her fault; it would be no use; and besides, that is what I 
have done already, only not so, I suppose.--Then followed a passage from 
Job and one from Proverbs, which did not, she thought, meet her case. 
Then in Mark ix. 50 she found the command to "have peace one with 
another." But what if I cannot? thought Rotha. Next, in Romans, the word 
was "Recompense to no man evil for evil"; and, "If it be possible, as 
much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men." This at first caused 
some exultation, which evaporated upon further reflection. Had it not 
been possible? If she had been patient, forgiving, sweet; if she had 
spoken and looked accordingly; would there not have been peace? Her aunt 
at least would have had nothing against her. Her own cause of grievance 
would have remained; might she not have forgiven that? A resolute 
negative answered this gentle suggestion of conscience; like Jonah in the 
case of his gourd, Rotha said to herself she did well to be angry. At 
least that Mrs. Busby deserved it; for conscience would not allow the 
conclusion that she had done "well," at all. It was not as Mr. Digby 
would have done. He was Rotha's living commentary on the word. She went 
on. The next passage forbade going to law before unbelievers. Then came a 
word or two from the first epistle of Timothy; an injunction to "pray 
everywhere, lifting up holy hands, without wrath--" 
Rotha got no further. That arrow struck home. She must not pray with 
anger in her heart. Then she must forgive, unconditionally; for it would 
never do to intermit all praying until somebody else should come to a 
right, mind. Give up her anger! It made Rotha's blood boil to think of 
it. How could she, with her blood boiling? And till she did--she might 
not think to pray and be heard. 
O why is it so hard to be a Christian! why is it made so difficult! 
Then Rotha's conscience whispered that the difficulty was of her own 
making; if she were all right, that would be all easy. She would go on, 
she thought, with her comparison of Bible passages; perhaps she would 
come to something that would help. The next passage referred to was in 
James. 
"But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not...
This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. 
For where envying and strife are, there is confusion and every evil 
work." 
"Devilish"! well, I suppose it is, Rotha confessed to herself. "Envying"
--I am not envying; but "strife"--aunt Serena and I have that between us. 
And so "there is confusion and every evil work." I suppose there is. But 
how am I to help it? I cannot stop my anger.--She went on to the next 
reference. It was, 
"Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye 
may be healed." 
The Bible was all against her. Tears began to well up into Rotha's eyes. 
She thought she would see what the words were about forgiving. Her eye 
had caught the Lord's prayer on the next leaf. She turned to that place 
in her reference book. And here, first of all, the words of the prayer 
itself struck her, and then the 14th and 15th verses below. It was a dead 
lock! If she could not forgive, she could not be forgiven; sharp and 
clear the sentence ran; there was no mistaking it, there could be no 
glossing it over. Rotha's tears silently rose and fell, hot and 
sorrowful. She did want to be forgiven; but to forgive, no. With tears 
dripping before her Bible, she would not let them fall on it, she studied 
a passage referred to, in the 18th of Matthew, where Peter was directed 
to set no bounds to his overlooking of injuries, and the parable of the 
unmerciful servant is brought up. Rotha studied that chapter long. The 
right and the truth she saw clearly; but as soon as she thought of 
applying them to her aunt Busby, her soul rose up in arms. She has done 
me the cruelest and the meanest of wrongs, said the girl to herself; 
cruel beyond all telling; what she deserves is to be well shaken by the 
shoulders. Go to her and say that I have done wrong to her and ask 
her to forgive me, and so help her to forget her own doings--I cannot.-
-Rotha made a common mistake, the sophistry of passion, which is the same 
thing as the devil's sophistry. Her confessing and doing right, would 
have been the very likeliest way to make Mrs. Busby ashamed of herself. 
However, Rotha went on with her study. Two passages struck her 
particularly, in Ephesians and Colossians. The first--"Be ye kind one to 
another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's 
sake hath forgiven you." The other to the same purport, in Col. iii. 13. 
But he has not forgiven me, cried Rotha in her heart, while the tears 
poured; he will not forgive me, unless I forgive her.--"But he is ready 
to forgive you," the very words before her proclaimed. It was a dead 
lock, nevertheless; and when Mrs. Mowbray came home from church she found, 
to her surprise, Rotha still bending over her Bible with her tears 
dripping on the floor. Mrs. Mowbray took off her hat and cloak before 
she said a word. Then coming to Rotha's side on the couch, she put one 
arm round her. 
"My dear," she said gently, "what is the matter?" 
The tone and the touch were so sympathizing, so tender, that Rotha 
answered by an affectionate, clinging gesture, taking care at the same 
time that none of her tears fell on Mrs. Mowbray's rich silk. For a 
little space she made no other answer. When she spoke, it was with a 
passionate accent. 
"Madame, if I am ever to be a Christian, I must be made all over new!" 
"That is nothing uncommon," the lady replied. 
"It is every one's case. So the Bible says; 'If any man be in Christ, he 
is a new creature.'" 
"But how am I to get made over all new?" Rotha cried. 
"That is the Holy Spirit's work. 'Except a man be born again, he cannot 
see the kingdom of God.'" 
"Then must I ask for him?" 
"Certainly." 
"But if I do not forgive aunt Serena, it is no use for me to pray?" 
"Nay, Rotha, if that were true we should be in a bad case indeed. If you 
read the fifteenth chapter of Luke, you will find that when the prodigal 
son was returning, his father saw him while he was yet a great way off; 
and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. If you are truly setting 
yourself to seek God, you will find him; and if you are in earnest in 
wishing to do his will, he will enable you to do it. You must always ask, 
my dear. The Bible says, 'the Lord over all is rich unto all--' not, that 
are perfect, but--'that call upon him.'" 
"But it says, 'if ye do not forgive, neither will your heavenly Father 
forgive you.'" 
"True; but he will give you that new nature you say you must have; and 
then forgiving will be easy." 
Rotha looked up, partly comforted. And from that time she prayed for a 
new nature. 
A few days more saw her school dress finished and at home. It looked 
magnificent to Rotha; far too good for a school dress. But Mrs. Mowbray 
said no; she must look nice in school as well as anywhere; and that very 
evening she brought to Rotha a box full of neat collars and cuffs and 
ruffles; some of plain linen and some of lighter and prettier 
manufacture. The supply was most abundant; and with these things were 
some ribbands of various colours and little silk neck ties. Rotha 
received them in the same mute way of speechless gratitude and delight; 
and resolved one thing; that Mrs. Mowbray should have nothing to complain 
of in her, whether regarding school duties or anything else. 
Another thing Mrs. Mowbray did for Rotha that week. Calling Antoinette 
Busby to her, at the close of a lesson, she said, "My dear, among the 
things sent round from your house for your cousin's use, there is no coat 
or cloak for cold weather wear. Will you tell your mother, Rotha's coat 
has not been brought with the rest of her things? Thank you. That is all, 
my dear." 
Antoinette went home in a good deal of a fluster, and told her mother. 
Mrs. Busby looked impenetrable. 
"Now mamma, what are you going to do about it?" 
"What did you say?" 
"I said nothing. What could I say?" 
"Did you see Rotha?" 
"No; she is up stairs, getting nursed for her cold." 
"Stuff!" 
"Well, she had a cold, mamma. Mrs. Mowbray always finds out if the girls 
are shamming. She is sharp enough." 
"Rotha is no more ill than I am." 
"Mrs. Mowbray always sends a girl off to her room if she is out of sorts, 
and coddles her up with pills and tea. She don't do it unless she sees 
reason." 
"Why didn't you ask to see Rotha? It would have looked better." 
"I never thought of it," said Antoinette laughing. "Because, really, I 
didn't want to see her. I should rather think I didn't!" 
"You had better ask to-morrow." 
"Very well. And what shall I say about the coat?" 
"I suppose I shall have to get her one," Mrs. Busby said grimly. 
"Then she will want a hat, mamma." 
"I'll send your grey plush." 
"She won't wear it." 
"Mrs. Mowbray will make her. She won't hear nonsense." 
"Who does, mamma? Not you, I am sure." 
Having to do the thing, Mrs. Busby did it well, for her own sake. She 
would have let Rotha stay within doors all winter; but if she must get 
her a cloak, it should never be said she got her a poor one. Accordingly, 
the next day two boxes were sent round to Mrs. Mowbray's; one containing 
the rejected hat, the other a warm and handsome cloak, which Mrs. Busby 
got cheap because it was one of the last year's goods, of a fashion a 
little obsolete. Antoinette asked leave to see Rotha, that same day, and 
was refused. Mrs. Mowbray wished her to be left quite to herself. So the 
next time the cousins met was in class, a day or two later. It was a 
class to which Mrs. Mowbray herself gave a lesson; it was a class of the 
more advanced scholars; and Antoinette, who had left her cousin in a 
lower department, among Miss Blodgett's pupils, was exceedingly 
astonished to see Rotha come in among the young ladies of the family and 
take her seat in the privileged library where these lessons were given. 
Yet more was Antoinette astonished at her cousin's transformation. Rotha 
was dressed well, in the abovementioned chocolate plaid; her linen collar 
and cuffs were white and pretty like other people's; the dress was well 
made; Rotha's abundant dark hair, now growing long, was knotted up 
loosely at the back of her head, her collar was tied with a little cherry 
coloured bow; and her whole figure was striking and charming. Antoinette, 
who was an acknowledged beauty, felt a pang of displeasure. In fact she 
was so much disturbed and annoyed that her mind was quite distracted from 
the business in hand; she paid little attention to the lesson and rather 
got into disgrace. Rotha on the contrary, entering the class and enjoying 
the teaching for the first time, was full of delighted interest; forgot 
even her new dress and herself altogether; took acute, intelligent part 
in the discussion that went on, (the 'subject being historical) and at 
one bound unconsciously placed herself at the head of the class. There 
was no formal taking rank, but the judgment of all present involuntarily 
gave her the place. And Mrs. Mowbray herself had some difficulty not to 
look too often towards the face that always met hers with such sympathy 
and life in every feature. Many there indeed were interested; yet no eyes 
shewed such intelligent fire, no lips were so expressive in their play, 
no interest was so evidently unalloyed with any thought of self-
consciousness. 
As the girls scattered, after the hour was over, the cousins met. 
"Well!" said Antoinette, "what's come over you?" 
The tone was not pleasant. Rotha asked her distantly what she meant? 
"Why I left you one thing, and I find you another," said Antoinette. "How 
did you get here?" 
"Mrs. Mowbray desired it. I came to school to study, Antoinette. Why 
should I not be here?" 
"But how could you be here? These are the upper girls." 
Rotha laughed a little. She felt very gay-hearted. 
"And where did you get this?" Antoinette went on, feeling of a fold of 
Rotha's dress. "What beautiful cashmere! Where did you get it?" 
"There came a good fairy to my room one night, and astonished me." 
"A fairy!" said Antoinette. 
"Yes, the days of fairies are not over. I thought they were, but I was 
mistaken," said Rotha joyously. "I do not think there is anything much 
pleasanter, than to have a good fairy come and visit you." 
"What do you mean?" 
"Just that. Good bye--the girls are going out to walk, and I must get 
ready to go along." 
She tripped up the stairs, leaving Antoinette mystified and crestfallen. 
Under pretence of collecting her books, she lingered in one of the class 
