imprudent."
"Why? Mrs. Marx, I am sure you have sense. I have plenty to live
upon, and live as I like. There is no difficulty in my case about ways
and means."
"What is the difficulty, then?"
"You see, I don't want to go against my mother and sister, unless I had
some encouragement to think that Miss Lothrop would listen to me; and I
thought--I hoped--you would be able to help me."
"How can I help you?"
"Tell me what I shall do."
"Well, when it comes to marryin'," said Mrs. Marx, "I always say to
folks, If you can live and get along without gettin' married--don't!"
"Don't get married?"
"Just so," said Mrs. Marx. "Don't get married; not if you can live
without."
"You to speak so!" said Tom. "I never should have thought, Mrs. Marx,
you were one of that sort."
"What sort?"
"The sort that talk against marriage."
"I don't!--only against marryin' the wrong one; and unless it's
somebody that you can't live without, you may be sure it ain't the
right one."
"How many people in the world do you suppose are married on that
principle?"
"Everybody that has any business to be married at all," responded the
lady with great decision.
"Well, honestly, I don't feel as if I could live without Miss Lothrop.
I've been thinking about it for months."
"I wouldn't stay much longer in that state," said Mrs. Marx, "if I was
you. When people don' know whether they're goin' to live or die, their
existence ain't much good to 'em."
"Then you think I may ask her?"
"Tell me first, what would happen if you did--that is, supposin' she
said yes to you, about which I don't know anything, no more'n the
people that lived in these old cellars. What would happen if you did?
and if she did?"
"I would make her happy, Mrs. Marx!"
"Yes," said the lady slowly--"I guess you would; for Lois won't say yes
to anybody she can live without; and I've a good opinion of your
disposition; but what would happen to other people?"
"My mother and sister, you mean?"
"Them, or anybody else that's concerned."
"There is nobody else concerned," said Tom, idly defacing the rocks in
his neighbourhood by tearing the lichen from them. And Mrs. Marx
watched him, and patiently waited.
"There is no sense in it!" he broke out at last. "It is all folly. Mrs.
Marx, what is life good for, but to be happy?"
"Just so," assented Mrs. Marx.
"And haven't I a right to be happy in my own way?"
"If you can."
"So I think! I will ask Miss Lothrop if she will have me, this very
day. I'm determined."
"But I said, if you can. Happiness is somethin' besides sugar and
water. What else'll go in?"
"What do you mean?" asked Tom, looking at her.
"Suppose you're satisfied, and suppose she's satisfied. Will
everybody else be?"
Tom went at the rocks again.
"It's my affair--and hers," he said then.
"And what will your mother and sister say?"
"Julia has chosen for herself."
"I should say, she has chosen very well. Does she like your choice."
"Mrs. Marx," said the poor young man, leaving the lichens, "they bother
me to death!"
"Ah? How is that?"
"Always watching, and hanging around, and giving a fellow no chance for
his life, and putting in their word. They call themselves very wise,
but I think it is the other thing."
"They don't approve, then?"
"I don't want to marry money!" cried Tom; "and I don't care for
fashionable girls. I'm tired of 'em. Lois is worth the whole lot. Such
absurd stuff! And she is handsomer than any girl that was in town last
winter."
"They want a fashionable girl," said Mrs. Marx calmly.
"Well, you see," said Tom, "they live for that. If an angel was to come
down from heaven, they would say her dress wasn't cut right, and they
wouldn't ask her to dinner!"
"I don't suppose they'd know how to talk to her either, if they did,"
said Mrs. Marx. "It would be uncomfortable--for them; I don't suppose
an angel can be uncomfortable. But Lois ain't an angel. I guess you'd
better give it up, Mr. Caruthers."
Tom turned towards her a dismayed kind of look, but did not speak.
"You see," Mrs. Marx went on, "things haven't gone very far. Lois is
all right; and you'll come back to life again. A fish that swims in
fresh water couldn't go along very well with one that lives in the
salt. That's how I look at it. Lois is one sort, and you're another. I
don't know but both sorts are good; but they are different, and you
can't make 'em alike."
"I would never want her to be different!" burst out Tom.
"Well, you see, she ain't your sort exactly," Mrs. Marx added, but not
as if she were depressed by the consideration. "And then, Lois is
religious."
"You don't think that is a difficulty? Mrs. Marx, I am not a religious
man myself; at least I have never made any profession; but I assure you
I have a great respect for religion."
"That is what folks say of something a great way off, and that they
don't want to come nearer."
"My mother and sister are members of the church; and I should like my
wife to be, too."
"Why?"
"I told you, I have a great respect for religion; and I believe in it
especially for women."
"I don't see why what's good for them shouldn't be good for you."
"That need be no hindrance," Tom urged.
"Well, I don' know. I guess Lois would think it was. And maybe you
would think it was, too,--come to find out. I guess you'd better let
things be, Mr. Caruthers."
Tom looked very gloomy. "You think she would not have me?" he repeated.
"I think you will get over it," said Mrs. Marx, rising. "And I think
you had better find somebody that will suit your mother and sister."
And after that time, it may be said, Mrs. Marx was as careful of Lois
on the one side as Mrs. and Miss Caruthers were of Tom on the other.
Two or three more days passed away.
"How is Mrs. Wishart?" Miss Julia asked one afternoon.
"First-rate," answered Mrs. Marx. "She's sittin' up. She'll be off and
away before you know it."
"Will you stay, Mrs. Marx, to help in the care of her, till she is able
to move?"
"Came for nothin' else."
"Then I do not see, mother, what good we can do by remaining longer.
Could we, Mrs. Marx?"
"Nothin', but lose your chance o' somethin' better, I should say."
"Tom, do you want to do any more fishing? Aren't you ready to go?"
"Whenever you like," said Tom gloomily.
CHAPTER XVII.
TOM'S DECISION.
The Caruthers family took their departure from Appledore.
"Well, we have had to fight for it, but we have saved Tom," Julia
remarked to Mr. Lenox, standing by the guards and looking back at the
Islands as the steamer bore them away.
"Saved!--"
"Yes!" she said decidedly,--"we have saved him."
"It's a responsibility," said the gentleman, shrugging his shoulders.
"I am not clear that you have not 'saved' Tom from a better thing than
he'll ever find again."
"Perhaps you'd like her!" said Miss Julia sharply. "How ridiculous
all you men are about a pretty face!"
The remaining days of her stay in Appledore Lois roved about to her
heart's content. And yet I will not say that her enjoyment of rocks and
waves was just what it had been at her first arrival. The island seemed
empty, somehow. Appledore is lovely in September and October; and Lois
sat on the rocks and watched the play of the waves, and delighted
herself in the changing colours of sea, and sky, and clouds, and
gathered wild-flowers, and picked up shells; but there was somehow very
present to her the vision of a fair, kindly, handsome face, and eyes
that sought hers eagerly, and hands that were ready gladly with any
little service that there was room to render. She was no longer
troubled by a group of people dogging her footsteps; and she found now
that there had been, however inopportune, a little excitement in that.
It was very well they were gone, she acknowledged; for Mr. Caruthers
might have come to like her too well, and that would have been
inconvenient; and yet it is so pleasant to be liked! Upon the sober
humdrum of Lois's every day home life, Tom Caruthers was like a bit of
brilliant embroidery; and we know how involuntarily the eyes seek out
such a spot of colour, and how they return to it. Yes, life at home was
exceedingly pleasant, but it was a picture in grey; this was a dash of
blue and gold. It had better be grey, Lois said to herself; life is not
glitter. And yet, a little bit of glitter on the greys and browns is so
delightful. Well, it was gone. There was small hope now that anything
so brilliant would ever illuminate her quiet course again. Lois sat on
the rocks and looked at the sea, and thought about it. If they, Tom and
his friends, had not come to Appledore at all, her visit would have
been most delightful; nay, it had been most delightful, whether or no;
but--this and her New York experience had given Lois a new standard by
which to measure life and men. From one point of view, it is true, the
new lost in comparison with the old. Tom and his people were not
"religious." They knew nothing of what made her own life so sweet; they
had not her prospects or joys in looking on towards the far future, nor
her strength and security in view of the trials and vicissitudes of
earth and time. She had the best of it; as she joyfully confessed to
herself, seeing the glorious breaking waves and watching the play of
light on them, and recalling Cowper's words--
   "My Father made them all!"
But there remained another aspect of the matter which raised other
feelings in the girl's mind. The difference in education. Those people
could speak French, and Mr. Caruthers could speak Spanish, and Mr.
Lenox spoke German. Whether well or ill, Lois did not know; but in any
case, how many doors, in literature and in life, stood open to them;
which were closed and locked doors to her! And we all know, that ever
since Bluebeard's time--I might go back further, and say, ever since
Eve's time--Eve's daughters have been unable to stand before a closed
door without the wish to open it. The impulse, partly for good, partly
for evil, is incontestable. Lois fairly longed to know what Tom and his
sister knew in the fields of learning. And there were other fields.
There was a certain light, graceful, inimitable habit of the world and
of society; familiarity with all the pretty and refined ways and uses
of the more refined portions of society; knowledge and practice of
proprieties, as the above-mentioned classes of the world recognize
them; which all seemed to Lois greatly desirable and becoming. Nay, the
said "proprieties" and so forth were not always of the most important
kind; Miss Caruthers could be what Lois considered coolly rude, upon
occasion; and her mother could be carelessly impolite; and Mr. Lenox
could be wanting in the delicate regard which a gentleman should show
to a lady; "I suppose," thought Lois, "he did not think I would know
any better." In these things, these essential things, some of the
farmers of Shampuashuh and their wives were the peers at least, if not
the superiors, of these fine ladies and gentlemen. But in lesser
things! These people knew how to walk gracefully, sit gracefully, eat
gracefully. Their manner and address in all the little details of life,
had the ease, and polish, and charm which comes of use, and habit, and
confidence. The way Mr. Lenox and Tom would give help to a lady in
getting over the rough rocks of Appledore; the deference with which
they would attend to her comfort and provide for her pleasure; the
grace of a bow, the good breeding of a smile; the ease of action which
comes from trained physical and practised mental nature; these and a
great deal more, even the details of dress and equipment which are only
possible to those who know how, and which are instantly seen to be
excellent and becoming, even by those who do not know how; all this had
appealed mightily to Lois's nature, and raised in her longings and
regrets more or less vague, but very real. All that, she would like to
have. She wanted the familiarity with books, and also the familiarity
with the world, which some people had; the secure à plomb and the
easy facility of manner which are so imposing and so attractive to a
girl like Lois. She felt that to these people life was richer, larger,
wider than to her; its riches more at command; the standpoint higher
from which to take a view of the world; the facility greater which
could get from the world what it had to give. And it was a closed door
before which Lois stood. Truly on her side of the door there was very
much that she had and they had not; she knew that, and did not fail to
recognize it and appreciate it. What was the Lord's beautiful creation
to them? a place to kill time in, and get rid of it as fast as
possible. The ocean, to them, was little but a great bath-tub; or a
very inconvenient separating medium, which prevented them from going
constantly to Paris and Rome. To judge by all that appeared, the sky
had no colours for them, and the wind no voices, and the flowers no
speech. And as for the Bible, and the hopes and joys which take their
source there, they knew no more of it so than if they had been
Mahometans. They took no additional pleasure in the things of the
natural world, because those things were made by a Hand that they
loved. Poor people! and Lois knew they were poor; and yet--she said to
herself, and also truly, that the possession of her knowledge would not
be lessened by the possession of theirs. And a little pensiveness
mingled for a few days with her enjoyment of Appledore. Meanwhile Mrs.
Wishart was getting well.
"So they have all gone!" she said, a day or two after the Caruthers
party had taken themselves away.
"Yes, and Appledore seems, you can't think how lonely," said Lois. She
had just come in from a ramble.
"You saw a great deal of them, dear?"
"Quite a good deal. Did you ever see such bright pimpernel? Isn't it
lovely?"
"I don't understand how Tom could get away."
"I believe he did not want to go."
"Why didn't you keep him?"
"I!" said Lois with an astonished start. "Why should I keep him, Mrs.
Wishart?"
"Because he likes you so much."
"Does he?" said Lois a little bitterly.
"Yes! Don't you like him? How do you like him, Lois?"
"He is nice, Mrs. Wishart. But if you ask me, I do not think he has
enough strength of character."
"If Tom has let them carry him off against his will, he is rather
weak."
Lois made no answer. Had he? and had they done it? A vague notion of
what might be the truth of the whole transaction floated in and out of
her mind, and made her indignant. Whatever one's private views of the
danger may be, I think no one likes to be taken care of in this
fashion. Of course Tom Caruthers was and could be nothing to her, Lois
said to herself; and of course she could be nothing to him; but that
his friends should fear the contrary and take measures to prevent it,
stirred her most disagreeably. Yes; if things had gone so, then Tom
certainly was weak; and it vexed her that he should be weak. Very
inconsistent, when it would have occasioned her so much trouble if he
had been strong! But when is human nature consistent? Altogether this
visit to Appledore, the pleasure of which began so spicily, left rather
a flat taste upon her tongue; and she was vexed at that.
There was another person who probably thought Tom weak, and who was
curious to know how he had come out of this trial of strength with his
relations; but Mr. Dillwyn had wandered off to a distance, and it was
not till a month later that he saw any of the Caruthers. By that time
they were settled in their town quarters for the winter, and there one
evening he called upon them. He found only Julia and her mother.
"By the way," said he, when the talk had rambled on for a while, "how
did you get on at the Isles of Shoals?"
"We had an awful time," said Julia. "You cannot conceive of anything so
slow."
"How long did you stay?"
"O, ages! We were there four or five weeks. Imagine, if you can.
Nothing but sea and rocks, and no company!"
"No company! What kept you there?"
"O, Tom!"
"What kept Tom?"
"Mrs. Wishart got sick, you see, and couldn't get away, poor soul! and
that made her stay so long."
"And you had to stay too, to nurse her?"
"No, nothing of that. Miss Lothrop was there, and she did the nursing;
and then a ridiculous aunt of hers came to help her."
"You staid for sympathy?"
"Don't be absurd, Philip! You know we were kept by Tom. We could not
get him away."
"What made Tom want to stay?"
"O, that girl."
"How did you get him away at last?"
"Just because we stuck to him. No other way. He would undoubtedly have
made a fool of himself with that girl--he was just ready to do it--but
we never left him a chance. George and I, and mother, we surrounded
him," said Julia, laughing; "we kept close by him; we never left them
alone. Tom got enough of it at last, and agreed, very melancholy, to
come away. He is dreadfully in the blues yet."
"You have a good deal to answer for, Julia."
"Now, don't, Philip! That's what George says. It is too absurd. Just
because she has a pretty face. All you men are bewitched by pretty
faces."
"She has a good manner, too."
"Manner? She has no manner at all; and she don't know anything, out of
her garden. We have saved Tom from a great danger. It would be a
terrible thing, perfectly terrible, to have him marry a girl who is
not a lady, nor even an educated woman."
"You think you could not have made a lady of her?"
"Mamma, do hear Philip! isn't he too bad? Just because that girl has a
little beauty. I wonder what there is in beauty, it turns all your
heads! Mamma, do you hear Mr. Dillwyn? he wishes we had let Tom have
his head and marry that little gardening girl."
"Indeed I do not," said Philip seriously. "I am very glad you succeeded
in preventing it But allow me to ask if you are sure you have
succeeded? Is it quite certain Tom will not have his head after all? He
may cheat you yet."
"O no! He's very melancholy, but he has given it up. If he don't, we'll
take him abroad in the spring. I think he has given it up. His being
melancholy looks like it."
"True. I'll sound him when I get a chance."
The chance offered itself very soon; for Tom came in, and when Dillwyn
left the house, Tom went to walk with him. They sauntered along Fifth
Avenue, which was pretty full of people still, enjoying the mild air
and beautiful starlight.
"Tom, what did you do at the Isles of Shoals?" Mr. Dillwyn asked
suddenly.
"Did a lot of fishing. Capital trolling."
"All your fishing done on the high seas, eh?"
"All my successful fishing."
"What was the matter? Not a faint heart?"
"No. It's disgusting, the whole thing!" Tom broke out with hearty
emphasis.
"You don't like to talk about it? I'll spare you, if you say so."
"I don't care what you do to me," said Tom; "and I have no objection to
talk about it--to you."
Nevertheless he stopped.
"Have you changed your mind?"
"I shouldn't change my mind, if I lived to be as old as Methuselah!"
"That's right. Well, then,--the thing is going on?"
"It isn't going on! and I suppose it never will!"
"Had the lady any objection? I cannot believe that."
"I don't know," said Tom, with a big sigh. "I almost think she hadn't;
but I never could find that out."
"What hindered you, old fellow?"
"My blessed relations. Julia and mother made such a row. I wouldn't
have minded the row neither; for a man must marry to please himself and
not his mother; and I believe no man ever yet married to please his
sister; but, Philip, they didn't give me a minute. I could never join
her anywhere, but Julia would be round the next corner; or else George
would be there before me. George must put his oar in; and between them
they kept it up."
"And you think she liked you?"
Tom was silent a while.
"Well," said he at last, "I won't swear; for you never know where a
woman is till you've got her; but if she didn't, all I have to say is,
signs aren't good for anything."
It was Philip now who was silent, for several minutes.
"What's going to be the upshot of it?"
"O, I suppose I shall go abroad with Julia and George in the spring,
and end by taking an orthodox wife some day; somebody with blue blood,
and pretension, and nothing else. My people will be happy, and the
family name will be safe."
"And what will become of her?"
"O, she's all right. She won't break her heart about me. She isn't that
sort of girl," Tom Caruthers said gloomily. "Do you know, I admire her
immensely, Philip! I believe she's good enough for anything. Maybe
she's too good. That's what her aunt hinted."
"Her aunt! Who's she?"
"She's a sort of a snapping turtle. A good sort of woman, too. I took
counsel with her, do you know, when I found it was no use for me to try
to see Lois. I asked her if she would stand my friend. She was as sharp
as a fish-hook, and about as ugly a customer; and she as good as told
me to go about my business."
"Did she give reasons for such advice?"
"O yes! She saw through Julia and mother as well as I did; and she
spoke as any friend of Lois would, who had a little pride about her. I
can't blame her."
Silence fell again, and lasted while the two young men walked the
length of several blocks. Then Mr. Dillwyn began again.
"Tom, there ought to be no more shilly-shallying about this matter."
"No more! Yes, you're right. I ought to have settled it long ago,
before Julia and mother got hold of it. That's where I made a mistake."
"And you think it too late?"
Tom hesitated. "It's too late. I've lost my time. She has given me
up, and mother and Julia have set their hearts that I should give her
up. I am not a match for them. Is a man ever a match for a woman, do
you think, Dillwyn, if she takes something seriously in hand?"
"Will you go to Europe next spring?"
"Perhaps. I suppose so."
"If you do, perhaps I will join the party--that is, if you will all let
me."
So the conversation went over into another channel.
CHAPTER XVIII.
MR. DILLWYN'S PLAN.
Two or three evenings after this, Philip Dillwyn was taking his way
down the Avenue, not up it. He followed it down to nearly its lower
termination, and turned up into Clinton Place, where he presently run
up the steps of a respectable but rather dingy house, rang the bell,
and asked for Mrs. Barclay.
The room where he awaited her was one of those dismal places, a public
parlour in a boarding-house of second or third rank. Respectable, but
forlorn. Nothing was ragged or untidy, but nothing either had the least
look of home comfort or home privacy. As to home elegance, or luxury,
the look of such a room is enough to put it out of one's head that
there can be such things in the world. The ugly ingrain carpet, the
ungraceful frame of the small glass in the pier, the abominable
portraits on the walls, the disagreeable paper with which they were
hung, the hideous lamps on the mantelpiece;--wherever the eye looked,
it came back with uneasy discomfort. Philip's eye came back to the
fire; and that was not pleasant to see; for the fireplace was not
properly cared for, the coals were lifeless, and evidently more
economical than useful. Philip looked very out of place in these
surroundings. No one could for a moment have supposed him to be living
among them. His thoroughly well-dressed figure, the look of easy
refinement in his face, the air of one who is his own master, so
inimitable by one whose circumstances master him; all said plainly that
Mr. Dillwyn was here only on account of some one else. It could be no
home of his.
As little did it seem fitted to be the home of the lady who presently
entered. A tall, elegant, dignified woman; in the simplest of dresses,
indeed, which probably bespoke scantiness of means, but which could not
at all disguise or injure the impression of high breeding and
refinement of manners which her appearance immediately produced. She
was a little older than her visitor, yet not much; a woman in the prime
of life she would have been, had not life gone hard with her; and she
had been very handsome, though the regular features were shadowed with
sadness, and the eyes had wept too many tears not to have suffered loss
of their original brightness. She had the slow, quiet manner of one
whose life is played out; whom the joys and sorrows of the world have
both swept over, like great waves, and receding, have left the world a
barren strand for her; where the tide is never to rise again. She was a
sad-eyed woman, who had accepted her sadness, and could be quietly
cheerful on the surface of it. Always, at least, as far as good
breeding demanded. She welcomed Mr. Dilhvyn with a smile and evident
genuine pleasure.
"How do I find you?" he said, sitting down.
"Quite well. Where have you been all summer? I need not ask how you
are."
"Useless things always thrive," he said. "I have been wandering about
among the mountains and lakes in the northern part of Maine."
"That is very wild, isn't it?"
"Therein lies its charm."
"There are not roads and hotels?"
"The roads the lumberers make. And I saw one hotel, and did not want to
see any more."
"How did you find your way?"
"I had a guide--an Indian, who could speak a little English."
"No other company?"
"Rifle and fishing-rod."
"Good work for them there, I suppose?"
"Capital. Moose, and wild-fowl, and fish, all of best quality. I wished
I could have sent you some."
"Thank you for thinking of me. I should have liked the game too."
"Are you comfortable here?" he asked, lowering his voice. Just then the
door opened; a man's head was put in, surveyed the two people in the
room, and after a second's deliberation disappeared again.
"You have not this room to yourself?" inquired Dilhvyn.
"O no. It is public property."
"Then we may be interrupted?"
"At any minute. Do you want to talk to me, 'unter vier Augen'?"
"I want no more, certainly. Yes, I came to talk to you; and I cannot,
if people keep coming in." A woman's head had now shown itself for a
moment. "I suppose in half an hour there will be a couple of old
gentlemen here playing backgammon. I see a board. Have you not a corner
to yourself?"
"I have a corner," she said, hesitating; "but it is only big enough to
hold me. However, if you will promise to make no remarks, and to 'make
believe,' as the children say, that the place is six times as large as
it is, I will, for once take you to it. I would take no one else."
"The honour will not outweigh the pleasure," said Dillwyn as he rose.
"But why must I put such a force upon my imagination?"
"I do not want you to pity me. Do you mind going up two flights of
stairs?"
"I would not mind going to the top of St. Peter's!"
"The prospect will be hardly like that."
She led the way up two flights of stairs. At the top of them, in the
third story, she opened the door of a little end room, cut off the
hall. Dillwyn waited outside till she had found her box of matches and
lit a lamp; then she let him come in and shut the door. It was a little
bit of a place indeed, about six feet by twelve. A table, covered with
books and papers, hanging shelves with more books, a work-basket, a
trunk converted into a divan by a cushion and chintz cover, and a
rocking-chair, about filled the space. Dillwyn took the divan, and Mrs.
Barclay the chair. Dillwyn looked around him.
"I should never dream of pitying the person who can be contented here,"
he said.
"Why?"
"The mental composition must be so admirable! I suppose you have
another corner, where to sleep?"
"Yes," she said, smiling; "the other little room like this at the other
end of the hall. I preferred this arrangement to having one larger room
where I must sit and sleep both. Old habits are hard to get rid of. Now
tell me more about the forests of Maine. I have always had a curiosity
about that portion of the country."
He did gratify her for a while; told of his travels, and camping out;
and of his hunting and fishing; and of the lovely scenery of the lakes
and hills. He had been to the summit of Mount Kataydin, and he had
explored the waters in 'birches;' and he told of odd specimens of
humanity he had found on his way; but after a while of this talk Philip
came suddenly back to his starting point.
"Mrs. Barclay, you are not comfortable here?"
"As well as I can expect," she said, in her quiet, sad manner. The
sadness was not obtrusive, not on the surface; it was only the
background to everything.
"But it is not comfort. I am not insulting you with pity, mind; but I
am thinking. Would you not like better to be in the country? in some
pleasant place?"
"You do not call this a pleasant place?" she said, with her faint
smile. "Now I do. When I get up here, and shut the door, I am my own
mistress."
"Would you not like the country?"
"It is out of my reach, Philip. I must do something, you know, to keep
even this refuge."
"I think you said you would not be averse to doing something in the
line of giving instruction?"
"If I had the right pupils. But there is no chance of that. There are
too many competitors. The city is overstocked."
"We were talking of the country."
"Yes, but it is still less possible in the country. I could not find
there the sort of teaching I could do. All requisitions of that sort,
people expect to have met in the city; and they come to the city for
it,"
"I do not speak with certain'ty," said Philip, "but I think I know a
place that would suit you. Good air, pleasant country, comfortable
quarters, and moderate charges. And if you went there, there is work."
"Where is it?"
"On the Connecticut shore--far down the Sound. Not too far from New
York, though; perfectly accessible."
"Who lives there?"
"It is a New England village, and you know what those are. Broad grassy
streets, and shadowy old elms, and comfortable houses; and the sea not
far off. Quiet, and good air, and people with their intelligence alive.
There is even a library."
"And among these comfortable inhabitants, who would want to be troubled
with me?"
"I think I know. I think I know just the house, where your coming would
be a boon. They are not very well-to-do. I have not asked, but I am
inclined to believe they would be glad to have you."
"Who are they?"
"A household of women. The father and mother are dead; the grandmother
is there yet, and there are three daughters. They are relations of an
old friend of mine, indeed a connection of mine, in the city. So I know
something about them."
"Not the people themselves?"
"Yes, I know the people,--so far as one specimen goes. I fancy they are
people you could get along with."
Mrs. Barclay looked a little scrutinizingly at the young man. His face
revealed nothing, more than a friendly solicitude. But he caught the
look, and broke out suddenly with a change of subject.
"How do you women get along without cigars? What is your substitute?"
"What does the cigar, to you, represent?"
"Soothing and comforting of the nerves--aids to thought--powerful helps
to good humour--something to do--"
"There! now you have it. Philip you are talking nonsense. Your nerves
are as steady and sound as a granite mountain; you can think without
help of any extraneous kind; your good-humour is quite as fair as most
people's; but--you do want something to do! I cannot bear to have you
waste your life in smoke, be it never so fragrant."
"What would you have me do?"
"Anything! so you were hard at work, and doing work."
"There is nothing for me to do."
"That cannot be," said she, shaking her head.
"Propose something."
"You have no need to work for yourself," she said; "so it must be for
other people. Say politics."
"If ever there was anything carried on purely for selfish interests, it
is the business you name."
"The more need for some men to go into it not for self, but for the
country."
"It's a Maelstrom; one would be sure to get drawn in. And it is a dirty
business. You know the proverb about touching pitch."
"It need not be so, Philip."
"It brings one into disgusting contact and associations. My cigar is
better."
"It does nobody any good except the tobacconist. And, Philip, it helps
this habit of careless letting everything go, which you have got into."
"I take care of myself, and of my money," he said.
"Men ought to live for more than to take care of themselves."
"I was just trying to take care of somebody else, and you head me off!
You should encourage a fellow better. One must make a beginning. And I
would like to be of use to somebody, if I could."
"Go on," she said, with her faint smile again. "How do you propose that
I shall meet the increased expenditures of your Connecticut paradise?"
"You would like it?" he said eagerly.
"I cannot tell. But if the people are as pleasant as the place--it
would be a paradise. Still, I cannot afford to live in paradise, I am
afraid."
"You have only heard half my plan. It will cost you nothing. You have
heard only what you are to get--not what you are to give."
"Let me hear. What am I to give?"
"The benefits of your knowledge of the world, and knowledge of
literature, and knowledge of languages, to two persons who need and are
with out them all."
"'Two persons.' What sort of persons?"
"Two of the daughters I spoke of."
Mrs. Barclay was silent a minute, looking at him.
"Whose plan is this?"
"Your humble servant's. As I said, one must make a beginning; and this
is my beginning of an attempt to do good in the world."
"How old are these two persons?"
"One of them, about eighteen, I judge. The other, a year or two older."
"And they wish for such instruction?"
"I believe they would welcome it. But they know nothing about the
plan--and must not know," he added very distinctly, meeting Mrs.
Barclay's eyes with praiseworthy steadiness.
"What makes you think they would be willing to pay for my services,
then? Or, indeed, how could they do it?"
"They are not to do it. They are to know nothing whatever about it.
They are not able to pay for any such advantages. Here comes in the
benevolence of my plan. You are to do it for me, and I am to pay the
worth of the work; which I will do to the full. It will much more than
meet the cost of your stay in the house. You can lay up money," he
said, smiling.
"Phil," said Mrs. Barclay, "what is behind this very odd scheme?"
"I do not know that anything--beyond the good done to two young girls,
and the good done to you."
"It is not that," she said. "This plan never originated in your regard
for my welfare solely."
"No. I had an eye to theirs also."
"Only to theirs and mine, Phil?" she asked, bending a keen look upon
him. He laughed, and changed his position, but did not answer.
"Philip, Philip, what is this?"
"You may call it a whim, a fancy, a notion. I do not know that anything
will ever come of it. I could wish there might--but that is a very
cloudy and misty château en Espagne, and I do not much look at it. The
present thing is practical. Will you take the place, and do what you
can for these girls?"
"What ever put this thing in your head?"
"What matter, if it is a good thing?"
"I must know more about it. Who are these people?"
"Connections of Mrs. Wishart. Perfectly respectable."
"What are they, then?"
"Country people. They belong, I suppose, to the farming population of a
New England village. That is very good material."
"Certainly--for some things. How do they live--by keeping boarders?"
"Nothing of the kind! They live, I suppose,--I don't know how they
live; and I do not care. They live as farmers, I suppose. But they are
poor."
"And so, without education?"
"Which I am asking you to supply."
"Phil, you are interested in one of these girls?"
"Didn't I tell you I was interested in both of them?" he said,
laughing. And he rose now, and stood half leaning against the door of
the little room, looking down at Mrs. Barclay; and she reviewed him. He
looked exactly like what he was; a refined and cultivated man of the
world, with a lively intelligence in full play, and every instinct and
habit of a gentleman. Mrs. Barclay looked at him with a very grave face.
"Philip, this is a very crazy scheme!" she said, after a minute or two
of mutual consideration.
"I cannot prove it anything else," he said lightly. "Time must do that."
"I do not think Time will do anything of the kind. What Time does
ordinarily, is to draw the veil off the follies our passions and
fancies have covered up."
"True; and there is another work Time some times does. He sometimes
draws forth a treasure from under the encumbering rubbish that hid it,
and lets it appear for the gold it is."
"Philip, you have never lost your heart to one of these girls?" said
Mrs. Barclay, with an expression of real and grave anxiety.
"Not exactly."
"But your words mean that."
"They are not intended to convey any such meaning. Why should they?"
"Because if they do not mean that, your plan is utterly wild and
extravagant. And if they do--"
"What then?"
"Then it would be far more wild and extravagant. And deplorable."
"See there the inconsistency of you good people!" said Mr. Dillwyn,
still speaking lightly. "A little while ago you were urging me to make
myself useful. I propose a way, in which I want your co-operation,
calculated to be highly beneficial in a variety of ways,--and I hit
upon hindrances directly."
"Philip, it isn't that. I cannot bear to think of your marrying a woman
unworthy of you."
"I still less!" he assured her, with mock gravity.
"And that is what you are thinking of. A woman without education,
without breeding, without knowledge of the world, without anything,
that could make her a fit companion for you. Philip, give this up!"
"Not my plan," said he cheerfully. "The rest is all in your
imagination. What you have to do, if you will grant my prayer, is to
make this little country girl the exact opposite of all that. You will
do it, won't you?"
"Where will you be?"
"Not near, to trouble you. Probably in Europe. I think of going with
the Caruthers in the spring."
"What makes you think this girl wants--I mean, desires--education?"
"If she does not, then the fat's in the fire, that's all."
"I did not know you were so romantic, before."
"Romantic! Could anything be more practical? And I think it will be so
good for you, in that sea air."
"I would rather never smell the sea air, if this is going to be for
your damage. Does the girl know you are an admirer of hers?"
"She hardly knows I am in the world! O yes, she has seen me, and I have
talked with her; by which means I come to know that labour spent on her
will not be spent in vain. But of me she knows nothing."
"After talking with you!" said Mrs. Barclay. "What else is she?
Handsome?"
"Perhaps I had better let you judge of that. I could never marry a mere
pretty face, I think. But there is a wonderful charm about this
creature, which I do not yet understand. I have never been able to find
out what is the secret of it."
"A pretty face and a pink cheek!" said Mrs. Barclay, with half a groan.
"You are all alike, you men! Now we women--Philip, is the thing mutual
already? Does she think of you as you think of her?"
"She does not think of me at all," said he, sitting down again, and
facing Mrs. Barclay with an earnest face. "She hardly knows me. Her
attention has been taken up, I fancy, with another suitor."
"Another suitor! You are not going to be Quixote enough to educate a
wife for another man?"
"No," said he, half laughing. "The other man is out of the way, and
makes no more pretension."
"Rejected? And how do you know all this so accurately?"
"Because he told me. Now have you done with objections?"
"Philip, this is a very blind business! You may send me to this place,
and I may do my best, and you may spend your money,--and at the end of
all, she may marry somebody else; or, which is quite on the cards, you
may get another fancy."
"Well," said he, "suppose it. No harm will be done. As I never had any
fancy whatever before, perhaps your second alternative is hardly
likely. The other I must risk, and you must watch against."
Mrs. Barclay shook her head, but the end was, she yielded.
CHAPTER XIX.
NEWS.
November had come. It was early in the month still; yet, as often
happens, the season was thoroughly defined already. Later, perhaps,
some sweet relics or reminders of October would come in, or days of the
soberer charm which October's successor often brings; but just now, a
grey sky and a brown earth and a wind with no tenderness in it banished
all thought of such pleasant times. The day was dark and gloomy. So the
fire which burned bright in the kitchen of Mrs. Armadale's house showed
particularly bright, and its warm reflections were exceedingly welcome
both to the eye and to the mind. It was a wood fire, in an open
chimney, for Mrs. Armadale would sit by no other; and I call the place
the kitchen, for really a large portion of the work of the kitchen was
done there; however, there was a stove in an adjoining room, which
accommodated most of the boilers and kettles in use, while the room
itself was used for all the "mussy" work. Nevertheless, it was only
upon occasion that fire was kindled in that outer room, economy in fuel
forbidding that two fires should be all the while kept going.
In the sitting-room kitchen, then, this November afternoon, the whole
family were assembled. The place was as nice as a pin, and as neat as
if no work were ever done there. All the work of the day, indeed, was
over; and even Miss Charity had come to sit down with the rest,
knitting in hand. They had all changed their dresses and put off their
big aprons, and looked unexceptionably nice and proper; only, it is
needless to say, with no attempt at a fashionable appearance. Their
gowns were calico; collars and cuffs of plain linen; and the white
aprons they all wore were not fine nor ornamented. Only the old lady,
who did no housework any longer, was dressed in a stuff gown, and wore
an apron of black silk. Charity, as I said, was knitting; so was her
grandmother. Madge was making more linen collars. Lois sat by her
grandmother's chair, for the minute doing nothing.
"What do you expect to do for a bonnet, Lois?" Charity broke the
silence.
"Or I either?" put in Madge. "Or you yourself, Charity? We are all in
the same box."
"I wish our hats were!" said the elder sister.
"I have not thought much about it," Lois answered. "I suppose, if
necessary, I shall wear my straw."
"Then you'll have nothing to wear in the summer! It's robbing Peter to
pay Paul."
"Well," said Lois, smiling,--"if Paul's turn comes first. I cannot look
so long ahead as next summer."
"It'll be here before you can turn round," said Charity, whose knitting
needles flew without her having any occasion to watch them. "And then,
straw is cold in winter."
"I can tie a comforter over my ears."
"That would look poverty-stricken."
"I suppose," said Madge slowly, "that is what we are. It looks like it,
just now."
"'The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich,'" Mrs. Armadale said.
"Yes, mother," said Charity; "but our cow died because she was tethered
carelessly."
"And our hay failed because there was no rain," Madge added. "And our
apples gave out because they killed themselves with bearing last year."
"You forget, child, it is the Lord 'that giveth rain, both the former
and the latter, in his season.'"
"But he didn't give it, mother; that's what I'm talking about;
neither the former nor the latter; though what that means, I'm sure I
don't know; we have it all the year round, most years."
"Then be contented if a year comes when he does not send it."
"Grandmother, it'll do for you to talk; but what are we girls going to
do without bonnets?"
"Do without," said Lois archly, with the gleam of her eye and the arch
of her pretty brow which used now and then to bewitch poor Tom
Caruthers.
"We have hardly apples to make sauce of," Charity went on. "If it had
been a good year, we could have got our bonnets with our apples,
nicely. Now, I don't see where they are to come from."
"Don't wish for what the Lord don't send, child," said Mrs. Armadale.
"O mother! that's a good deal to ask," cried Charity. "It's very well
for you, sitting in your arm-chair all the year round; but we have to
put our heads out; and for one, I'd rather have something on them.
Lois, haven't you got anything to do, that you sit there with your
hands in your lap?"
"I am going to the post-office," said Lois, rising; "the train's in. I
heard the whistle."
The village street lay very empty, this brown November day; and so, to
Lois's fancy, lay the prospect of the winter. Even so; brown and
lightless, with a chill nip in the air that dampened rather than
encouraged energy. She was young and cheery-tempered; but perhaps there
