turned again to Ki Sing. "Will you show us or not?" he demanded.
"Velly solly," said Ki Sing, with a childish smile, "but Dickee Dewee
won't let me."
With an oath Mosely sprang to the doorway and tried to clutch the
Chinaman, when the latter slid to one side and Jake Bradley confronted
him.
"You'd better begin with me, Bill Mosely," he said.
CHAPTER IX.
BRADLEY'S SIGNAL VICTORY.
Bill Mosely started back as if he had seen a rattlesnake, and stared at
Jake Bradley in mingled surprise and dismay.
"You didn't expect to see me, I reckon?" said Bradley, dryly.
Mosely still stared at him, uncertain what to say or what to do.
"I take it very kind of you to bring back the hosses you borrowed a few
weeks since. You took 'em rather sudden, without askin' leave; it was a
kind of oversight on your part."
"I don't know what you mean," answered Mosely, determined to brazen it
out and keep the horses if possible, for he was lazy and a pedestrian
tramp would not have suited him very well.
"You know what I mean well enough, Bill Mosely. If you don't, them
mustangs outside may refresh your recollection. They look kinder fagged
out. You've worked 'em too hard, Mosely."
"Those mustangs are ours. We bought 'em," said Mosely, boldly.--"Didn't
we, Tom?"
"I should say so," remarked Hadley, with striking originality.
"That's a lie, Tom," remarked Bradley, calmly, "and you know it as well
as I do."
"Are we goin' to stand that, Tom?" blustered Mosely, whose courage was
beginning to revive, as he had thus far only seen Bradley, and
considered that the odds were two to one in his favor. Of course the
Chinaman counted for nothing.
Tom Hadley looked a little doubtful, for he could see that the enemy,
though apparently single-handed, was a man of powerful frame and
apparently fearless even to recklessness. He had a strong suspicion that
Bill Mosely was a coward and would afford him very little assistance in
the event of a scrimmage.
"If you can't stand it," said Bradley, "sit down, if you want to."
Thus far, Richard Dewey had remained silent, but he wished to
participate in the defence of their property if there should be need,
and of course must be released first.
"Jake," said he, "these fellows have tied me hand and foot. They
couldn't have done it if I had not been partially disabled. Send in Ki
Sing to cut the cords."
"They dared to tie you?" said Bradley, sternly.--"Mosely, what was that
for?"
"To remove one obstacle in the way of plunder," Dewey answered for them.
"They're not only hoss-thieves, but thieves through and through. Since
they tied you, they must untie you.--Mosely, go and cut the cords."
"I am not a slave to be ordered round," returned Mosely, haughtily.
"What are you, then?"
"A gentleman."
"Then you'll be a dead gentleman in less than a minute if you don't do
as I tell you."
As he spoke he drew out his revolver and levelled it at Mosely.
The latter turned pale. "Don't handle that we'pon so careless,
stranger," he said. "It might go off."
"So it might--as like as not," answered Bradley, calmly.
"Put it up," said Mosely, nervously.--"Tom, just cut them cords."
"Tom, you needn't do it.--Mosely, you're the man for that duty. Do you
hear?"
Bill Mosely hesitated. He didn't like to yield and be humiliated before
the man over whom he had retained so long an ascendency.
"You'd better be quick about it," said Bradley, warningly. "This here
we'pon goes off terrible easily. I don't want to shoot you, but there
might be an accident. I've killed twenty-one men with it already. You'll
be the twenty-second."
That was hint enough. Pride gave way, and Bill Mosely knelt down and cut
the cords which confined Dewey, and the invalid, with a sense of relief,
sat up on his pallet and watched the conference.
"There! are you satisfied?" asked Mosely, sullenly.
"It'll do as far as it goes, Mosely," said Bradley. "I wouldn't advise
you to try any more of them tricks."
He lowered his weapon, and was about to replace it, when Mosely, who had
made a secret sign to his companion, sprang forward simultaneously with
Tom Hadley and seized the intrepid Bradley.
The attack was sudden, and also unexpected, for Bradley had such a
contempt for the prowess of William Mosely that he had not supposed him
capable of planning or carrying out so bold an attack. It must be
admitted that he was taken at disadvantage, and might have been
temporarily overpowered, for Tom Hadley was strong, and Mosely, though a
coward, was nerved by desperation.
Richard Dewey saw his friend's danger, but, unhappily, he had no weapon
at hand.
But help was not long in coming.
Concealed by the walls of the cabin, Ben had heard all that had been
said, and observed the attack upon his comrade.
He did not hesitate a moment, but sprang forward and showed himself at
Bradley's side.
"Let him go, or I'll shoot," he exclaimed in a tone of command, pointing
at Mosely the twin brother of the revolver which Bradley owned.
"Confusion!" ejaculated Mosely, in fresh dismay.
"Let go," repeated Ben, firmly.
Bill Mosely released Bradley, and the latter threw off the grasp of Tom
Hadley.
"Now," said he, as standing side by side with Ben he confronted the two
thieves, "shall we shoot?"
"No, no," said Mosely, nervously.
"Serve you right if we did. So you thought you'd got me, did you? You
didn't know about Ben, there. He ain't half your size, but he's got
twice the courage.--Ben, what shall we do with them?"
Bill Mosely turned toward Ben, anxious to hear what our hero would say.
He was entirely in the power of the two friends, as he realized.
"Serve them as they served Ki Sing," suggested Ben.
"That's a good idea, that is!--Here, you two rascals, trot out here."
Following directions, the two men emerged from the cabin and stood on
one side of the doorway, feeling that they would gladly be in some other
part of California at that precise moment.
"Mosely, do you see that tree?"
"Yes."
"Go to it."
Bill Mosely slowly and unwillingly proceeded to do as he was told.
"Ki Sing," said Jake Bradley to the Chinaman, who was standing near at
hand, his face wearing a bland and contented smile, "have you any cord
in your pocket?"
"Yes," answered the Celestial.
"Tie that man to the tree."
Ki Sing approached to follow instructions, when Bill Mosely shouted,
"I'll brain you, you yaller heathen, if you dare to touch me!"
"Just as you say, squire," said Bradley, nonchalantly raising his
revolver; "if you'd prefer to be shot I'm a very accommodatin' man, and
I'll oblige you. I guess it'll be better, as we'll save all trouble."
"Stop! stop!" cried Mosely, in dismay. "He can tie me."
"You've changed your mind. I thought you would," said Bradley.--"Ki
Sing, go ahead."
With native dexterity, and not without a feeling of satisfaction easily
understood under the circumstances, Ki Sing proceeded to tie his former
captor, but present captive, to a stout sapling.
"Is it strong?" asked Bradley.
"Velly stlong," answered the Chinaman, with a satisfied look.
"That's good.--Now, Tom, it's your turn. There's your tree! Annex
yourself to it."
Tom Hadley saw the futility of resistance, and quietly allowed himself
to be confined in the same manner as his companion.
When both were thus disposed of Jake Bradley turned to the Chinaman:
"Now, Ki Sing, let us have some supper as soon as possible. We've been
doin' considerable business, Ben and I, and we're as hungry as
bears.--Good-night, Mosely. Hope you'll have a good night's rest!"
"You are not going to leave us here all night, are you?" said Bill
Mosely, uneasily.
"That's just what I'm goin' to do. I'll let you go in the mornin' if you
behave yourself. Still, if you'd rather be shot I can accommodate you."
"What a bloodthirsty brute!" ejaculated the unhappy Mosely as Bradley
disappeared within the doorway.
"I should say so!" echoed Tom Hadley from the other tree.
CHAPTER X.
"THE BEST OF FRIENDS MUST PART."
Mosely and his companion continued in captivity through the night. Some
of my readers may consider the punishment a severe one, and it must be
admitted that it was attended with no small share of discomfort. But for
that time it was an exceedingly mild penalty for the offence which the
two men had committed. In the early days of California, theft was
generally punished in the most summary manner by hanging the culprit
from a limb of the nearest tree, and that, in the majority of cases,
would have been the fate of Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley.
But neither Bradley nor Ben was willing to go to such extremes. Jake
Bradley had had rough experiences, and he was no soft-hearted
sentimentalist, but he had a natural repugnance to taking the life of
his fellow-creatures.
"Money," he said on one occasion to Ben, "ain't to be measured ag'in a
man's life. I don't say I wouldn't kill a man for some things, though I
should hate to mightily, but it wouldn't be on account of robbery. I
wouldn't have a man's blood on my conscience for such a thing as that."
It is needless to say that our young hero, whose heart was warm and
humane, agreed fully with his older companion.
When the two friends got up in the morning and went out of the cabin,
they found their two captives in the same position in which they had
left them. They looked weary and were stiff in the limbs, as well they
might be.
"Well, my friends," said Bradley, "I hope you've passed a pleasant
night."
"I'm almost dead," growled Bill Mosely. "I feel as if I'd been here a
week."
"Do you feel the same way?" inquired Bradley, addressing Tom Hadley.
"I should say so," answered Hadley, in a voice of intense disgust.
"It was your own choice, Mosely," said Jake Bradley. "It was either all
night braced up against a tree, or to be shot at once and put out of
your misery."
"Who wants to be shot?" returned Mosely. "That would be worse than
stayin' here all night. You might have let us go last night."
"So I might, but I wanted to teach you a lesson. You know very well,
Bill Mosely, you'd have fared a good deal worse with some men. You'd
have been swingin' from the nearest bough, and so would your friend.
You'll come to that some time, but I'd rather some one else would hang
you. It ain't a job I hanker after."
"Are you goin' to set us free?" asked Mosely, impatiently, not enjoying
Bradley's prediction as to his future fate.
"Yes, I think I will--on one condition."
"Go ahead! I'll agree to anything."
"That you'll leave this part of California and not come back. I don't
want you to cross my path ag'in."
"You can bet I don't mean to," said Mosely; and there is no doubt he was
entirely in earnest.
"Do you make the same promise, Tom?" asked Bradley, turning to Hadley.
"I should say so," returned Hadley; and there is no reason to doubt his
sincerity also.
"You see, my friends, you don't appear to know the difference between
your property and mine, particularly when it comes to hosses. It is an
unfortunate little peculiarity of yours that will bring your life to an
untimely end some of these days. If you should ever reform and set up as
respectable men, I might be willin' to know you, but there's about as
much chance of that, accordin' to my reckonin', as of water runnin' up
hill."
While he was expressing himself thus he was cutting the cords of his
prisoners, and they took the first chance to stretch their cramped
limbs.
"Feel better, don't you?" asked Bradley, smiling.
"I should say so," answered Hadley.
"Couldn't you give us something to eat?" asked Mosely; "I haven't eaten
a mouthful since yesterday noon, and I feel faint."
"Ki Sing," said Bradley, "bring out some victuals. These men are not
particular friends of mine, but we won't send them away hungry. I've
known what it is to fast for thirty-six hours at a stretch, and I
understand how it feels."
Ki Sing brought out some cold meat and other plain food, which the two
adventurers ate as if they were famished. Their long fast and exposure
during the night had sharpened their appetites and lent a keener zest to
their enjoyment of the meal.
When they had finished Jake Bradley pointed down the mountain. "You've
had your breakfast," he said, "and now there is only one thing more. I
want to see you travel."
Bill Mosely looked askance at the two mustangs, which were tied only a
few rods off.
Jake Bradley caught the direction of his glance. "It's no go, my
friend," he said. "You don't borrow our mustangs this time. We shall
have occasion to use them ourselves. It won't do you any harm to try
your own legs for a while."
Bill Mosely wasn't easily abashed. He was lazy, and the prospect of
tramping all day was by no means agreeable to him. Thanks to his last
robbery, he and his companion were tolerably well supplied with
gold-dust, which was a common circulating medium in California at that
time. An idea struck him, which he lost no time in carrying out. "What
value do you set on them horses?" he asked.
"What makes you ask?" inquired Jake Bradley, with some curiosity.
"We'll buy 'em if you'll take a fair price."
"Buy our mustangs! Have you got the money?"
"We've got gold-dust."
"Where did you get it? I'll warrant you didn't work for it."
"That's our business," answered Mosely, stiffly. "The question is, Do
you want to sell?"
"No, I don't; and if I did I should want to know whose money I was
takin'."
Bill Mosely was disappointed. In that lonely neighborhood it was hardly
likely there would be any other opportunity of obtaining horses, and
there was nothing for it but to walk.
"You haven't got any other business, have you, Mosely?" asked Bradley.
"No.--Tom, come on."
"Good-bye, then. Our acquaintance has been brief, Mosely, but I know
you as well as if we'd lived in the same town for years. You're a fine
man, you are, and an ornament to your native State; but if you ain't a
little more careful you'll be likely to die young, and the world will
lose a man who in his line can't be beat."
Bill Mosely did not attempt any reply to this farewell, but strode down
the sloping path, closely followed by Tom Hadley.
When he had got out of hearing of his late captors he turned to Hadley
and said, "I hate that man! He has put a stain on my honor; he has
insulted and outraged me."
"I should say so," observed Tom Hadley.
"He has treated you just as badly, Hadley; that stain must be washed out
in blood."
"When?" inquired his companion, in a matter-of-fact manner.
"I don't know. Some time. He has had the advantage over us this time,
but we shall meet again. Do you hear that, Tom Hadley?" continued
Mosely, in a theatrical tone, raising his voice at the same time--"we
shall meet again."
"I don't want to meet him again," said Hadley.
"You don't comprehend me. When we meet it will be our turn to deal with
him."
"Just as you say," returned Tom Hadley, varying his usual formula.
"It's very unlucky we went up to that cabin," said Bill, after a pause.
"I should say so," chimed in Tom, very emphatically.
"It was cursed ill-luck, but how could we know that that dare-devil was
a friend of Dewey's? If we'd let well enough alone, we shouldn't have
lost our horses and been compelled to tramp on foot over these
mountains."
"Where are we going?" asked Tom Hadley.
"Down hill," answered Mosely briefly.
This answer did not appear to Tom Hadley to contain much information,
but his mind was not active enough to frame another question, and the
two plodded along in silence.
CHAPTER XI.
PLANS FOR DEPARTURE.
The recovery of the horses was in one respect especially fortunate.
Richard Dewey was anxious to leave the mountain-cabin as soon as
possible and make his way to San Francisco, where, as we know, his
promised wife was anxiously awaiting him. But there was considerable
danger that his ankle, which had been severely sprained, would not be in
a condition for travelling for a considerable time yet. The rough
mountain-paths would have tried it, and perhaps a second sprain would
have resulted.
Now, however, he would be able to ride on one of the horses, and need
not walk at all if he pleased.
This idea occurred to Jake Bradley, who suggested it to Richard Dewey.
Dewey's face brightened up, for he was secretly chafing over the delay
made necessary by his accident. "But, my friend," he said, "it would be
selfish in me to take your horse and leave you to go on foot."
"Look here, Dick Dewey," said Bradley: "what do you take me for? Do you
think I'm so delicate I can't walk? I wasn't brought up in no such way.
I can do my regular share of trampin', whether on the prairie or on the
mountain. I ain't no tender-foot."
"I don't doubt your strength and endurance, friend Bradley," said Dewey,
"but a man doesn't always like to do what he is fully able to do."
"Then we needn't say no more about it. There's a gal--I beg your pardon,
a young lady--in 'Frisco that's pinin' to see you, Dick Dewey, and that
hoss'll get you there sooner'n if you waited till you could walk."
"I am too selfish to resist your arguments, my good friend," said Dewey.
"I think I can venture to start within a week, as I am to ride."
"No doubt of it."
"You'd better let me buy your horse, and then if we don't meet again,
or anything happens to it, you won't be the loser."
"'If we don't meet again'?" repeated Bradley, puzzled. "You don't mean
to say you are goin' to set out alone?"
"I don't want to take you and Ben away from your claim. It isn't half
exhausted yet."
"Then let somebody else exhaust it," returned Bradley. "You don't
suppose, Dick, we are goin' to let you go off alone?"
"I shall not be alone. My faithful attendant, Ki Sing, will be with me."
"And what good would Ki Sing be in case you fell in with a grizzly? I
want to know that," asked Bradley. "I don't say anything against the
heathen; he's squarer than many a white man I've met with, and he's
worth a dozen such men as Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley; but, all the same,
he wouldn't be much in a scrimmage. Them Chinamen are half women,
accordin' to my reckonin'. They look like it and speak like it. No, Ben
and I go when you do, and the first man that comes along is welcome to
the claim."
"I shall certainly be delighted to have you both with me," said Richard
Dewey. "You're a good fellow, Jake Bradley, and I trust you more than
any man I have met since I came to California. Ben acted as escort to
Florence, and I owe him a debt for that which I hope some day to repay."
"Then it's all fixed," said Bradley, in a tone of satisfaction. "We four
are to keep together till we see you within reach of 'Frisco. When you
and your young lady meet you won't need us any more."
Richard Dewey smiled. "Florence will wish to thank you for your kind
care of me, Bradley," he said.
"I've no objection to that. You can invite me to the weddin', Dick."
"I give you that invitation now, and hope you may not have long to wait
for the occasion. All difficulties are not yet removed, but I hope they
may vanish speedily. I get impatient sometimes, but I try to curb my
impatient feeling."
"I reckon I would feel so myself if I was in your fix," observed
Bradley.
"I hope you may be, Jake."
Bradley shook his head.
"I'm a cross-grained old bachelor," he said, "and I reckon no gal would
look at me twice."
CHAPTER XII.
THE PROFITS OF MINING.
A few evenings later Ben and Bradley were sitting just outside the cabin
as the twilight deepened.
"It doesn't seem as if this was our last night in the old shanty," said
Jake Bradley, taking the pipe from his mouth. "It ain't a palace, but I
shall kinder hate to leave it."
"I've got to feel very much at home here myself, Jake; still, I should
like to get somewhere where it isn't quite so far out of the world."
"There's something in that, Ben."
"I haven't heard anything from home for a good many weeks; I wish I knew
whether my uncle's family are all well."
"How many is there in the family, Ben?"
"There's Uncle Job and Aunt Hannah and Cousin Jennie."
"That's just what I thought," said Jake.
"I don't understand you," said Ben, puzzled. "What did you think?"
"I thought there was a Cousin Jennie."
Our hero laughed, and, it may be, blushed a little. "What made you think
that?"
"There generally is, I notice," said Mr. Bradley, eagerly. "Is Cousin
Jennie pretty?"
"To be sure she is."
"I thought that too, Ben."
"What are you driving at, Jake?"
"I was sure there was some one besides the old folks that you was
anxious about."
"Well, you happen to be right," said Ben, laughing. "But I must tell you
that Jennie is only fourteen, and I am only sixteen."
"You'll both of you be older some day, Ben. But there's a matter that we
must settle before we go."
"What's that?"
"About the gold we have found since we've been here. We must have some
arrangement about dividin' it."
"We sha'n't quarrel about that, Jake."
"No, there's no danger of that. That'll be easy enough. We'll divide it
into two piles, one for you, and the other for me."
"Jake, I have no right to half of it. You ought to have two-thirds."
"I'd like to argy that matter, Ben. Why should I have two-thirds?"
"Because you earned it. You understood mining better than I."
"We're equal partners, Ben. I stick to that, and I mean to have my way.
I've been making a little calculation, and I reckon there's nigh on to a
thousand dollars for the two of us."
"As much as that, Jake?" said Ben, eagerly.
"I reckon there is, though I can't justly tell."
"It doesn't seem possible I can be worth five hundred dollars," said
Ben, thoughtfully. "We've only been here four weeks. That makes a
hundred and twenty-five dollars a week."
"So it does. That's pretty high pay for a boy."
"Before I left home," said Ben, "there was an old farmer, Deacon
Pitkins, who wanted to hire me for a year. What do you think he offered
me?"
"How much?"
"Twenty dollars a year and board," answered Ben.
"I reckon you did better to come to Californy."
"It looks so now. How the old deacon would stare if he knew how I had
been prospering at the mines! I wish there was any way of sending part
of this money home. I would like to make a present to Uncle Job."
"When you get to 'Frisco you won't have any trouble about sendin' it."
"Uncle Job thought it was very risky for a boy like me to leave home and
seek my fortune in California. I would like to prove to him that I
didn't make a mistake."
"It's likely you haven't, Ben," said Bradley cautiously, "but you ain't
out of the woods yet. I hope things will go on as well as they have, and
you'll be able to carry a pile home. But we've got to start in good
season to-morrow, and we may as well turn in and go to sleep."
CHAPTER XIII.
KI SING'S RIDE.
The next morning after breakfast the party got off. Fortunately, there
were no trunks or heavy luggage to carry. California pioneers had no
occasion for Saratoga trunks, and the amount of clothing they carried in
addition to what they had on was very small.
"Ki Sing," said Bradley, jocosely, "I am afraid we can't carry your
trunk with us."
"'Tlunk'!" repeated the Chinaman, looking puzzled.
"Yes, trunk, or 'tlunk,' as you call it. Haven't you a trunk to carry
your clothes?"
"Got clothes on," said Ki Sing, pointing to his blouse and wide pants.
"I see," said Bradley, laughing. "We're all about in the same fix. The
clothes of the whole party wouldn't half fill a trunk."
The two horses were brought out and saddled.
Bradley assisted Richard Dewey to mount one, and motioned to Ben to
mount the other. "Get on, Ben," he said. "It's time the procession was
moving."
Ben shook his head. "No, Jake," he said. "You are older than I am. It is
proper that you should ride."
"If I'm older than you," said Bradley, "I am stronger than you, and am
better able to walk."
"I am strong enough, Jake. I sha'n't get tired."
"One of us ought to ride. There's no use in havin' a horse if you ain't
going to use him."
"Suppose," suggested Ben, laughing, "we let Ki Sing ride?"
Bradley saw that a joke was intended, and he turned gravely to the
Chinaman. "Ki Sing," he said, "come here and mount this mustang. We are
goin' to let you ride."
An expression of alarm overspread the Chinaman's broad face. He had
never been on a horse's back in his life, but he knew something of the
Californian mustangs. More than once he had seen them buck and throw
the ill-fated riders over their heads, and, not being of a daring or
venturesome nature, he preferred to walk rather than trust himself to
mount the back of so treacherous an animal.
"Ki Sing no wantee lide," he said, starting back in alarm.
"But, Ki Sing, you will get tired tramping over these hills. It will be
much easier to ride on a mustang."
"No likee mustang--mustang buckee," objected the Chinaman.
"You are right, Ki Sing. They do buck sometimes, but this animal is as
mild and peaceful as a lamb. However, we won't insist on your riding
now. Some other day, when you have found out how safe he is, you shall
try him."
The Chinaman seemed much relieved at the privilege accorded him of
walking, and with his small bundle prepared to take his place in the
procession.
"Ben," said Bradley, "the best way for us to arrange will be to take
turns in riding. I'd a good deal rather walk half the way. My legs get
cramped when I am on horseback too long. You remember I used to get off
and lead the horse when we had one apiece. You may take your turn first,
and as you are riding I will give you a bag to carry. Mind you don't
lose it, for it contains our store of gold-dust."
"All right, Jake. I'll ride first, if you say so." In truth, Ben was
pleased to find himself once more on the back of a horse. He had not had
much practice in riding at the East, but the practice he had had in
California had already made him a good rider, and even if the mustang
had taken a fancy to buck he would have found it rather hard to dislodge
our young hero. The animal he bestrode, however, was very well-behaved,
especially when he felt that his rider had the mastery over him. Any
horse, with any spirit, is apt to take advantage of a timid or
unpractised rider, and the animal is very quick to learn when this is
the case.
During the first day the mustang behaved remarkably well. To begin with,
both Ben and Bradley were good riders. Moreover, the path was very
uneven, chiefly up and down hill, and the horse was too sensible to go
much beyond a walk.
As for Dewey, he got on very comfortably. His ankle was nearly as strong
as at first, but if he had been compelled to use it for a day's tramp it
would undoubtedly have ached and become sensitive. On the back of his
horse--or rather Bradley's--there was of course no danger of injury.
When he became tired of his constrained position he got off and walked a
quarter or half a mile, and experienced the needed relief.
At the end of the first day they had got well down the mountain, and the
commencement of the second day's ride was over a nearly level plateau.
"This is a good place for Ki Sing to ride," suggested Ben.
"Just so," said Bradley, taking the hint.--"Ki Sing, you must take your
turn now."
"No wantee lide," said the Chinaman, but he did not greet the proposal
with so much alarm as on the morning previous. He had noticed the quiet
behavior and regular pace of the two mustangs, and concluded that they
were of a different kind from those he had seen misbehave on former
occasions.
"Oh, you'll like it well enough when you try it, Ki Sing," said Bradley.
"Were you ever on a horse's back?"
"Me never lide," answered the Chinaman.
"Then it is high time you began. You see, Ki Sing, it isn't exactly fair
that Ben and I should ride half the time and leave you to walk all the
way."
"Likee walk," said Ki Sing.
"That's because you never tried riding. You see, these two hosses of
ours are jest like lambs. They're so gentle they could be rid by a
two-year-old baby."
The Chinaman looked at the mustangs, and confidence came to him. So far
as he had observed, what Jake Bradley said was strictly true. They
certainly did seem remarkably tame.
With a little more persuasion he was induced to mount, Ben assisting him
to get into position, and the reins were put into his hands.
The mustang began to move off at a regular pace, very favorable to an
inexperienced rider, and a bland and child-like smile of content
overspread the face of the Chinaman.
"You see, Ki Sing," said Bradley, who walked alongside, "it's nothing to
ride. You thought you couldn't ride, yet you are pacing it off like a
veteran."
"Me likee lide," observed Ki Sing, with a pleased smile.
"Just so: I thought you would.--Ben, doesn't Ki Sing ride well?"
"Splendidly!" said Ben, contemplating with amusement the Mongolian
horseman.
Certainly, Ki Sing in his Chinese garb, as he gingerly held the reins,
with his bland, smiling face, did look rather queer.
But I am sorry to say that the poor Chinaman's pleasure and contentment
were destined to be of short duration. Bradley and Ben were eager for
the amusement they promised themselves when they planned this practical
joke at the expense of their Asiatic friend.
Winking at Ben, Bradley said, "You don't go fast enough, Ki Sing."
As he spoke he brought down a stick which he had in his hand with
emphasis on the flanks of the mustang. The effect was magical. The tame
animal immediately started off at great speed, arching his neck and
shaking his head, while the poor Chinaman, his bland smile succeeded by
a look of extreme terror, was bounced up and down in the most
unceremonious fashion, and would have been thrown off quickly but for
the Mexican saddle, which is a securer seat than that used at the East.
He uttered a howl of anguish, while his almond eyes seemed starting out
of their sockets as his steed dashed along the road.
Though Ben sympathized with the terrified Chinaman, he knew there was
little or no danger, and he threw himself on the ground and gave way to
a paroxysm of laughter.
Finally the horse slackened his pace, and Ki Sing lost no time in
sliding to the ground.
"How do you like it, Ki Sing?" asked Bradley, trying to keep his face
straight.
"No likee lide," answered Mr. Chinaman. "Horsee 'most kill Ki Sing."
"You rode splendidly, Ki Sing," said Ben, laughing. "You made him go
fast."
"No likee go fast," said Ki Sing, inspecting his limbs to see that none
were broken.
The poor Chinaman's limbs were sore for a day or two, and he could never
be induced to mount one of the mustangs again.
It was his first and last ride.
CHAPTER XIV.
GOLDEN GULCH HOTEL.
The party were able to cover a greater distance on the second day than
on the first, being now among the foot-hills, where travelling was
attended with less difficulty.
In the mountain-cabin they had been solitary. Their only visitors had
been Bill Mosely and his friend Tom Hadley, and such visitors they were
glad to dispense with. Now, however, it was different. Here and there
they found a little mining-settlement with its quota of rough, bearded
men clad in strange fashion. Yet some of these men had filled
responsible and prominent positions in the East. One of the most
brigandish-looking miners had been a clergyman in Western New York, who
had been compelled by bronchial troubles to give up his parish, and,
being poor, had wandered to the California mines in the hope of
gathering a competence for the support of his family.
"It seems good to see people again," said Ben, whose temperament was
social. "I felt like Robinson Crusoe on his desert island when I was up
on the mountain."
"Yes," answered Bradley, "I like to see people myself when they're of
the right sort. When they're like Bill Mosely I'd rather be alone."
"I agree with you there," said Ben. "Poor company is worse than none."
Besides the mining-settlements there were little knots of miners at work
here and there, who generally gave the travellers a cordial welcome, and
often invited them to stay and join them.
"No," said Bradley, "we're in a hurry to get to 'Frisco."
"Oh, you've made your pile, then?" was generally answered. "What luck
have you had?"
"Our pile is a small one," Bradley was wont to reply, "but we've got
business in 'Frisco. Leastwise, he has," pointing to Richard Dewey, who
headed the procession.
"Will you come back to the mines?"
"I shall, for one," said Bradley. "I ain't rich enough to retire yet,
and I don't expect to be for half a dozen years yet."
"Will the boy come back?"
"Yes," answered Ben. "I'm in the same situation as my friend, Mr.
Bradley. I haven't my fortune yet."
"You'd better stay with us, boy. We'll do the right thing by you."
Ben shook his head and declined with thanks. He did not want to forsake
his present companions. Besides, he had been commissioned by Florence
Douglas to find Richard Dewey, and he wanted to execute that commission
thoroughly. He wanted to see the two united, and then he would be
content to return to the rough life of the mining-camp.
It is easy to understand why Ben should have received so many friendly
invitations. A boy was a rarity in California at that time--at any rate,
in the mining-districts. There were plenty of young men and men of
middle age, but among the adventurous immigrants were to be found few
boys of sixteen, the age of our hero. The sight of his fresh young face
and boyish figure recalled to many miners the sons whom they had left
behind them, and helped to make more vivid the picture of home which
their imaginations often conjured up, and they would have liked to have
Ben join their company. But, as I have said, Ben had his reasons for
declining all invitations at present, though he had every reason to
anticipate good treatment.
Toward the close of the second day the little party reached a small
mining-settlement containing probably about fifty miners.
It was known as Golden Gulch, and it even boasted a small hotel, with a
board sign, on which had been scrawled in charcoal--
GOLDEN GULCH HOTEL.
KEPT BY JIM BROWN.
"I believe we are getting into the domain of civilization," said Richard
Dewey. "Actually, here is a hotel. If Mr. Brown is not too exorbitant
in his prices, we had better put up here for the night."
"It doesn't look like an expensive hotel," said Ben, looking at the
rough shanty which the proprietor had dignified by the appellation of
"hotel."
It was roughly put together, had but one story, was unpainted, and was
altogether hardly equal, architecturally, to some of the huts which are
to be found among the rocks at the upper end of Manhattan Island.
Such was Jim Brown's "Golden Gulch Hotel." Such as it was, however, it
looked attractive to our pilgrims, who for so long had been compelled to
be their own cooks and servants.
They found, upon inquiry, that Jim Brown's terms for supper, lodging,
and breakfast were five dollars a day, or as nearly as that sum could be
reached in gold-dust. It was considerably higher than the prices then
asked at the best hotels in New York and Philadelphia; but high prices
prevailed in California, and no one scrupled to pay them.
The party decided to remain, and the landlord set to work to prepare
them a supper as good as the limited resources of the Golden Gulch Hotel
would allow. Still, the fare was better and more varied than our
travellers had been accustomed to for a long time, and they enjoyed it.
Ki Sing sat down to the table with them. This was opposed at first by
Jim Brown, the landlord, who regarded Chinamen as scarcely above the
level of his mules.
"You don't mean to say you want that heathen to sit down at the table
with you?" he remonstrated.
"Yes, I do," said Richard Dewey.
"I'd sooner be kicked by a mule than let any yaller heathen sit next to
me," remarked Jim Brown, whose education and refinement made him
sensitive to such social contamination.
Richard Dewey smiled. "Of course you can choose for yourself," he said.
"Ki Sing is a friend of mine, though he is acting as my servant, and I
want him to have equal privileges."
Jim Brown remarked that of course Dewey could choose his own company,
though he intimated that he thought his taste might be improved.
"Me eatee aftelward," said Ki Sing when he perceived that his presence
at the table was the subject of controversy, but he was overruled by
Richard Dewey, who possessed a large share of independence, and would
not allow himself to be controlled or influenced by the prejudices of
others.
This may not seem a very important matter, but it aroused a certain
hostility on the part of the landlord, which arrayed him against Dewey
and his companions at a critical time.
Entirely unconscious of the storm that was soon to gather about them,
the little party did good justice to the supper which Mr. Brown set
before them.
"How would it seem, Jake, to have supper like this every night?"
remarked Ben.
"It would make me feel like a prince," answered Jake Bradley.
"It is no better than I used to get at Uncle Job's, and yet he was a
poor man. How he would stare if he knew I was paying five dollars a day
for no better fare than he gave me!" replied our hero.
"That's true, Ben; but maybe it's easier to get the five dollars here
than it would have been to scrape together fifty cents at home."
"You're right there, Jake. Fifty cents was a pretty big sum to me a year
ago. I don't believe Uncle Job himself averages over a dollar and a
quarter a day, and he has a family to support. If I only do well here,
I'll make him comfortable in his old age."
"I guess you'll have the chance, Ben. You're the boy to succeed. You're
smart, and you're willin' to work, and them's what leads to success out
here."
"Thank you, Jake. I will try to deserve your favorable opinion."
As Ben finished these words, there was a confused noise outside, the
hoarse murmur as of angry men, and a minute later Jim Brown the landlord
entered the room, his face dark and threatening.
"Strangers," said he, "I reckoned there was something wrong about you
when you let that yaller heathen sit down with you. Now, I know it. You
ain't square, respectable men; you're hoss-thieves!"
CHAPTER XV.
BILL MOSELY REAPPEARS.
It will be necessary to go back a little in order to explain how so
extraordinary a charge came to be made against the party in which we are
interested.
Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley did not become reconciled to the loss of
their stolen horses. They found it much less agreeable to use their own
legs than the legs of the two mustangs which had borne them so
comfortably over the hills. They cursed the fate which had led to their
meeting with Ki Sing, and the poor Chinaman would have fared worse at
their hands had they anticipated the trouble which he indirectly brought
them.
Bill Mosely was naturally lazy; any sort of work he considered beneath
him, and he desired to avoid all possible trouble in the lawless and
vagabond life which he had chosen. He took it worse, indeed, than his
companion, who was neither so shiftless nor so lazy as he.
During the few days which had elapsed since they were glad to leave the
mountain-cabin they had averaged less than ten miles' daily travel. They
had money enough to purchase animals to replace those which had been
taken from them, but had not found any one who was willing to sell for a
reasonable price, and Mosely, though he came easily by his money, was
far from lavish in the spending of it.
It chanced that an hour after the arrival of Richard Dewey and his party
at the Golden Gulch Hotel, Mosely and his companion, dusty and tired,
approached the small mining-settlement, of which the hotel was the
principal building.
They had had nothing to eat since morning, and both of them felt hungry,
not to say ravenous.
"Thank Heaven, Tom, there's a mining-town!" ejaculated Mosely, with an
expression of devotion not usual to him. "Now we can get something to
eat, and I, for my part, feel as empty as a drum. It's hard travelling
on an empty stomach."
"I should say so," remarked Mr. Hadley, with his usual formula. It must
be admitted, however, that in the present instance he was entirely
sincere, and fully meant what he said.
"There's a hotel," said Tom Hadley, a minute later, venturing on an
original observation.
"So there is; what is the name?" inquired Mosely, who was not as
far-sighted as his companion.
"The Golden Gulch Hotel," answered Hadley, shading his eyes and reading
from a distance of fifty rods the pretentious sign of the little inn.
"I suppose they'll charge a fortune for a supper," said Mosely, whose
economical spirit was troubled by the exorbitant prices then prevalent
in California, "but we must have it at any cost."
"I should say so," assented Tom Hadley, cordially.
"You always have a good appetite of your own," observed Mosely, not
without sarcasm, which, however, Tom Hadley was too obtuse to
comprehend.
"I should say so," returned Tom complacently, as if he had received a
compliment.
"No doubt you'll get your money's worth, no matter how much we pay for
supper."
Tom Hadley himself was of this opinion, and so expressed himself.
They had already caught sight of two mustangs which were browsing near
the Golden Gulch Hotel, and the sight of these useful animals excited
the envy and longing of Bill Mosely.
"Do you see them mustangs, Tom?" he inquired.
"I should say so."
"I wish we had them."
"Couldn't we take them?" suggested Hadley, his face brightening at the
thought of this easy mode of acquiring what they so much needed.
"Are you mad, Tom Hadley?" returned Bill Mosely, shrugging his
shoulders. "Are you anxious to die?"
"I should say--not."
"Then you'd better not think of carrying off them horses. Why, we'd have
the whole pack of miners after us, and we'd die in our boots before
twenty-four hours had passed."
On the whole, this prospect did not appear to be of an encouraging
character, and Tom Hadley quietly dropped the plan.
"Perhaps we can buy them," suggested Mosely by way of amendment. "I've
got tired of tramping over these hills on foot. After we've got some
supper we'll inquire who they belong to."
Up to this point neither Mosely nor his companion suspected that the
mustangs which they desired to purchase had once been in their
possession. That discovery was to come later.
Before reaching the Golden Gulch Hotel they encountered the landlord,
already introduced as Jim Brown.
Mr. Brown scanned the new-comers with an eye to business. Being
strangers, he naturally looked upon them as possible customers, and was
disposed from motives of policy to cultivate their acquaintance.
"Evenin', strangers," he remarked, as affably as a rather gruff voice
and manner would permit.
"Good-evening," said Bill Mosely, socially. "What might be the name of
this settlement?"
"You kin see the name on that sign yonder, stranger, ef your eyes are
strong enough."
"Golden Gulch?"
"I reckon."
"It ought to be a good place, from the name."
"It's middlin' good. Where might you be from?"
"We're prospectin' a little," answered Bill Mosely vaguely; for there
had been circumstances in his California career that made it impolitic
to be too definite in his statements.
"Where are you bound?" continued the landlord, with that licensed
curiosity which no one ventured to object to in California.
"That depends upon circumstances, my friend," said Bill Mosely,
guardedly. "We may go to 'Frisco, and then again we may not. To-night we
propose to remain here in Golden Gulch. Is that a comfortable hotel?"
"Well, stranger, seein' I keep it myself, it mightn't be exactly the
thing for me to say much about it; but I reckon you won't complain of it
if you stop there."
"I'm glad to meet you," said Bill Mosely, grasping the landlord's hand
fervently. "I don't need to ask any more about it, seein' you're the
landlord. You look like a man that can keep a hotel--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," returned Tom Hadley, making the answer that was
expected of him.
"You're a gentleman!" said Jim Brown, on whom this flattery had its
effect. "Just come along with me and I'll see that you are treated as
such."
"What are your terms, say, for supper and lodgin', landlord?" asked
Bill, with commendable caution.
"Five dollars," answered Brown.
Bill Mosely's jaw fell. He had hoped it would be less.
"And for supper alone?" he asked.
"Two dollars."
"We'll only take supper," said Mosely.
"Just as you say."
"We're so used to campin' out that we couldn't breathe in-doors--eh,
Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
"Suit yourselves, strangers. I reckon you'll want breakfast in the
mornin'."
"As likely as not." Then, turning his attention to the mustangs: "Are
them mustangs yours, landlord?"
"No; they belong to a party that's stoppin' with me."
"Will they sell?"
