escape or evasion is reduced to a minimum. It is 
holding human hearts to count their beats. When 
you add the control of life and death, you have a 
position unique in human relations. When I be 
gan, it seemed to me like God 's. My mother 
used to " She stopped. 
" What did your mother do ? " asked Yorke, 
gently. 
" She encouraged that feeling," said Doctor 
Zay. " She said no one was fit to enter the 
profession who did not have it." 
"I wish I had known your mother," he ventured. 
" You would have loved her," said the doctor, 
simply. 
"And I wish you knew mine! " continued the 
young man, fatuously. 
" She would not be interested in me," returned 
Doctor Zay, coldly. It was good, honest Decem 
ber ice now. He could have skated on the barrier 
she had thrust between them, he neither knew 
how nor why. 
"Oh, you don't know her" he began. At 
this moment the office-bell rang. Handy answered 
it, and knocked at the parlor door to announce 
(with evident pleasure) the presence of a patient 
who " was in an Ananias V Sapphiry hurry. 
Guessed it was somebody dyin or smushed." 
The doctor rose leisurely, too used to these in 
terruptions to expend nerve force on little haste 
or premature excitement, and went into the reception-room. She did not excuse herself to her 
visitor. She left the doors ajar, and he could hear 
her hearty voice : 
" Ah, Mr. Beckwith ! What now ? " 
" Wall," replied the man 's voice that Yorke 
had heard on his first office-call, " Puella, you see, 
she 's bad. She 's took screechin bad ag in, and 
don't give none of us no peace. She wants you 
right away. She made me tackle up so 's to bring 
you myself. I told her, says I, t was a kind of 
shame ! you 'd be all beat out, this time o night. 
But, Doctor," plaintively, "it ain't no use to tell 
Puella things." 
" Anything new, Mr. Beckwith ? Any serious 
change in the case ? What are the symptoms ? " 
"Wall," said Mr. Beckwith slowly, "I can't 
 
say 's it 's so very noo. It 's that same crookedness 
in her mind. She suffers a sight," solemnly, 
"from crookedness in the mind, Doctor." 
" I 'll send her something," said the doctor 
kindly. " I do not think it necessary for me to 
go to-night. There ! One powder dry on the 
tongue, if you please, every two hours. I will 
look in to-morrow." 
" I told her you wouldn't  come," said Mr. Beck- 
with, triumphantly. " And what 's more, I said, 
says I, Puella, I wouldn't  if I was her, says I. 
But says she, You don't none of you know what 
it is to have crookedness into your mind." 
Silence succeeded. The doctor returned, clos 
ing the doors as she came. She made no com 
ments on the interruption. She drifted into the 
quiet room, past the green and golden lamps, in 
her violet dress, and resumed her chair in silence. 
Yorke looked at her without speaking. 
" What are you thinking ? " she asked abruptly. 
There was a dash of something which he could 
almost have dared to call friendly freedom in the 
tone of the question. 
" I was thinking that you harmonize with your 
environment." 
" That would be the acquisition, as it is the as 
piration, of one 's life-time. The compliment is 
too large for the occasion." 
 
For answer, he glanced about the room and 
back at herself. She smiled, not without a touch 
of scorn, or it might have been of bitterness. 
" But then," he continued dreamily, "you are 
of course an exception, not a representative, among 
women who adopt your vocation." 
" You only exhibit your ignorance by such a 
remark," said the young lady quietly. " Among 
the thousand of us now practicing medicine in 
this country, there are many more successful than 
I, and abroad there is some superb work done. I 
should like to give you the figures some time. 
They are very interesting. But I won't bore you 
now. It would be like putting sermons in a 
novel." 
"What is the proportion of ladies in the profes 
sion ? " asked Yorke, with a slight shrug. 
" What is the proportion of gentlemen in the 
profession ? " 
" Except that I really know nothing about it, I 
should suppose it is larger." 
" It probably is a little. Until recently it needed 
force rather than fineness to bring a woman to the 
surface of a great progressive movement. We are 
coming to a point where both are to be absolutely 
necessary to success in the art of healing. A union 
of these qualities will be demanded of women, because 
they are women, such as has never been ex 
pected of men, or perhaps been possible to them. 
We have a complex task before us." 
" It seems a dreary one to me," said Yorke, 
rather sadly. " And yet you find it " 
" Bright ! " she said quickly ; " bright, bright ! " 
Her earnest face fired. 
" You really seem happy," he urged. 
" I am happy ! " she cried, in her resonant, joy 
ous tone. 
" I wonder if I could say as much, if I had done 
as much ? " queried the sick man. 
Her whole expression changed instantly. Both 
felt what neither said, that they had approached 
difficult and delicate ground. 
" I do not take as dark a view of your case as 
you do," she said. 
" In other words, I am not lost to your respect, 
because I have not become an eminent jurist at the 
age of I am only twenty-eight, after all," he 
added. 
" I am a year older than that," she smiled. " I 
ought to have done more. What is the trouble, 
Mr. Yorke ? Don't you get any clients ? " She 
took unconsciously the professional tone she had 
so long assumed to him, as if she had asked, 
" Doesn't  your dinner agree with you ? " 
 
" I had one divorce case last winter ; I lost it." 
" You resent my asking questions. You ought 
not to." 
" I feel it. I do not resent it." 
" That is kind in you, and discriminating. You 
silence me." 
" No, go on. Say what you think of me. Tell 
me, I can stand it. What a consummate don 
key a man of my sort must seem to a woman of 
yours ! And yet I'm not a donkey ; I am really 
a very good sort of fellow." 
" You are rudimentary," said the doctor, with 
an inscrutable look. 
" Hum um urn." 
" Honestly, Mr. Yorke, my diagnosis of you is 
different from It is my own, at any rate, be it 
worth little or much." 
" You have had some chance to form one, I 'll 
admit," said Yorke. " Let me make a guess at it: 
Inherited inertia. Succumbed to his environment. 
Corrosion of Beacon Street upon what might, in a 
machine-shop, for instance, or a factory, have been 
called his brain. Native indolence, developed by 
acquired habit. Hopeless correlation of predes 
tined forces. Atrophied ambition. Paralyzed as 
piration. No struggle for existence. Destitute of 
scientific basis. Reductio ad absurdum, Labo- 
 
rare est orare, Facilis descensus. No correspond 
ent in the Materia Medica. Hahnemann knew 
not of him. (JHe was mobbed for a great cause.) 
The Organon foresaw him not. There is no divine 
remedy for him. Give him sac. lac. powders, 
and send him back to Beacon Street. By the way, 
Doctor, did you ever give me a sugar powder?" 
" Once." 
" When was that ? I 'll know, or I 'll never for 
give you." 
" The day you disobeyed me about going out 
doors, and caused me an unnecessary call." 
" On your honor, is that the only time ?" 
" By my diploma ! the only time." 
" You did not say whether I had hit the diagno 
sis, Doctor Zay." 
She did not answer him at once, and when she 
spoke he felt, rather than saw, that it was with 
her guarded look. 
"I do not make it a case of paralysis, exactly. 
I should rather call it one of hypercesthesia." 
" Hyperses that was what was the matter 
with me when I couldn't  let Mrs. Butter well shut 
a door, or drop a thimble ; when the horses kept 
me awake, stamping in the barn. You mean that 
you do me the honor to infer that I have ideals, 
despite my failure to give an inquiring world evidence 
of the fact, and that (if I do not strain your 
goodness) the idealizing fibre is not without super 
fluous sensitiveness ? " 
"Superfluous, and therefore injurious, sensitive 
ness. You experience a certain scorn of the best 
into which- you know yourself capable of resulting. 
You cherished this scorn, at one time, as a silent 
proof of superiority of nature, patent only to your 
self, and the more precious, like family lace or 
jewels worn out of sight. You were met at the 
outset of life by the conviction that you were 
without extraordinary gifts, and it struck you as 
original to snub the ordinary ones, as if it were 
their fault. I am not sure that it was even origi 
nal ; it certainly was not admirable. But you 
have outgrown that. I recognize now a genuine 
modesty at root of your inertia. Your self-estimate 
is calculably less than that of almost any 
other Boston man I ever met. I prognosticate 
that the next phase of experience will be a health 
ier and haughtier one. I think you capable of 
service." The young lady uttered these sentences 
slowly, with palliative pauses between them ; she 
had an absorbed and studious look. 
" I always thought I might have made a good 
head-waiter," said the young man grimly. 
" Take me as you please," persisted the doctor. 
 
" I have paid you a compliment ; my first and 
last. Cut yourself with it, if you want to. It 
would be malpractice, but I am not the surgeon." 
Yorke made no reply. He sat and watched her, 
thinking that he would not have borne from any 
other woman in the world what came like a fine 
intoxication from her ; he drank her noble severity 
like gleaming wine. 
" You are not a great man," she urged gently, 
as if she had to say, " You have a spinal injury," 
" but you have uncommon qualities, perhaps I 
should say quality ; you have hardly taken the 
trouble, as yet, to indicate what your qualities 
are. You could be successful if you chose. The 
difficulty has been that you have not respected 
what we are in the habit of calling success." 
" Frankly, no ; it has never seemed worth 
while." 
" The Christians have a phrase," said Doctor 
Zay, "which expresses the deficiency in most of 
our standards. They talk of consecration. It 
means something, I find." 
" Are you a Christian ? " asked Yorke. 
" I do not know yet," she answered, gravely. 
" Now, I have always thought I was," he said, 
smiling sadly. 
" Are you? " She looked at him wistfully. 
 
" At least I was confirmed once, to please my 
mother. It may belong to that pervasive weak 
ness of nature, which you classify so indulgently 
as sensitiveness, that I never have grown away as 
far from all that as many fellows I know. There, 
now, is an ideal ! Where in history or philosophy 
can it be mated ? Faith is beauty. I should like 
to hold on to my faith, if I can, if I had no 
other reason, just as I should wish to keep my 
paintings or bronzes. But I know it is harder for 
a camel to go through the knee of an idol, as the 
little boy said, than for a student of science to 
enter the kingdom of heaven. Are you one of the 
two atheists, in the historic three doctors ? " 
" God forbid ! " she cried. " I am a seeker, still. 
That is all I mean to say. And I know I must 
seem " She paused, stricken by an unprece 
dented and beautiful blushing embarrassment. 
" What must you seem ? " 
" It was nothing, a foolish speech. It is time 
for you to go home, Mr. Yorke, and go to bed." 
" What must it make you seem ? I will go 
when I know. Tell me, you shall ! Indulge 
me, please." He limped over towards her ; his 
words fell over each other ; his figure towered 
above her. 
She gave one glance at his agitated face, and 
 
collected herself by a movement swift and secre 
tive as the opening of a water-lily. 
"I only meant to say that a woman usually 
naturally, perhaps is the guide in matters of 
belief. Spiritual superiority belongs to her histor 
ically, and prophetically too, I do not dispute. It 
occurred to me, at that moment, how it must strike 
a man, if she were below him on that basis; if 
she had no power to heighten or deepen his ideal, 
that was all. Good-night, Mr. Yorke. If you 
don't sleep, take that powder marked Cham. 5 
m. Now go ! " 
"You heighten and deepen every other ideal I 
have," said the young man, solemnly. "You can 
not fail me there. It will not be possible to you." 
His agitation had urged itself upon her now, 
against her will; he was half shocked, half trans 
ported, to see that a slow pallor advanced like a 
spirit towards him, over her resolute face. He 
watched it with a kind of awe, and made a gesture 
with one of his thin hands, as if to check an invisible
presence which he was not strong enough to 
meet. It was the movement of a sick man whose 
physical strength was spent by emotion. The 
physician perceived this instantly. 
" There is the office-bell," she said, in her
business tone. " I will answer it as I help you out." 
 
He made no reply, and they left the parlor in 
uneasy silence. He had tried to come on one 
crutch that night ; now, weakened with excite 
ment, he made bad work of the experiment. 
" Put your hand on my shoulder," ordered Doc 
tor Zay. 
"You are not tall enough," he objected. 
" I am strong enough," she insisted. 
He obeyed her, and thus came limping to the 
front door between the lady and the crutch. The 
patient who had rung the office-bell stood in the 
doorway. It was a man. It was a gentleman. It 
was a stranger. At sight of him Doctor Zay col 
ored with impulsive pleasure. She said : 
" Why, Doctor ! " 
The stranger answered : 
" Good-evening, Doctor." 
Yorke found this dialogue monotonous, and removed his hand from the violet muslin shoulder. 
"Walk in," said the lady, turning heartily to 
her guest. " Go right through into the parlor. I 
will be with you in a moment." 
The stranger, bowing slightly to Yorke, stepped 
in and passed them. By the sharp light of the 
kerosene entry lamp Yorke perceived a man of 
years and dignity ; in fact, a person of distin 
guished appearance. 
 
" I will not trouble you to go any farther with 
me," said Doctor Zay 's patient, stiffly. 
" Nonsense ! " 
The soft, warm shoulder presented itself with a 
beautiful it seemed to Yorke a terrible un 
consciousness, leaning towards him like a violet 
indeed. 
" No, no," he said, roughly ; " I don't want it. 
It won't help me. Don't you understand a man 
better than that ? " 
As soon as the words were uttered, he would 
have given, let us say, his sound ankle to recall 
them. She shrank all over, as if, indeed, he had 
stepped on a flower, and, gathering herself with a 
grave majesty, swept away from him. 
IX. 
YOEKE limped back to his room, and sank into 
the first chair that presented itself. It happened 
to be the high rocker, and he put his head back, 
and thrust his hands into his pockets, and got 
his ankle across another chair, and for a few 
moments occupied himself in a savage longing for 
a smoke. His physician had forbidden him his 
cigars, pending the presence of certain spinal 
symptoms which she was pleased to consider of 
importance to her therapeutic whims. A good 
square disobedience would have relieved him. He 
would have liked nothing better than that the 
odor of the tobacco should steal around through 
her parlor windows, while she sat there in that 
trailed gown making herself lovely to that fellow. 
Was it possible she knew Tie was coming when 
she put the thing on ? ... 
Yorke found himself engulfed in a chasm of feel 
ing, across which, like a bridge whereon he had 
missed his footing, ran one slender thought : 
" I ought to have gone home three weeks ago." 
It was quarter past nine when she sent him to 
 
his room. He sat in the big rocker, in the dark, 
without moving, till ten. No sound had come 
from the doctor 's side of the house. Acting upon 
a sudden impulse, of which he was half ashamed, 
half defensive, and which he owned himself wholly 
disinclined to resist, he groped for his crutches and 
got out upon the piazza, where he could see the 
light from her windows making a great radiance 
upon the acacia-tree, and showing the outlines of 
the short, wet grass. A honeysuckle clambered 
over the nearest window. When the curtain drifted 
in the warm wind, the long-necked flowers seemed 
to look in. The subdued sound of voices came to 
his ear. He went back, and got upon the lounge. 
As he lay there, the lumbermen returned, singing.
" Thus with the man, thus with the tree, 
Sharp at the root the axe must be." 
Mrs. Butterwell came in to say good-night. She 
held a candle, which made fickle revelations of her 
black silk dress and sallow cheeks. She expressed 
surprise at finding her lodger in the dark, and 
lighted his Japanese lantern assiduously. She 
thought Mr. Yorke had been calling on the doctor. 
" She sent me to bed," said Yorke. " She has 
another fellow there." 
"They will come at all hours," replied Mrs. 
Butterwell, serenely. " More blame to em ! " 
 
" Who will come at all hours? " gasped Yorke. 
"Why, patients, of course. Who else? " 
" This isn't  a patient. This is a gentleman." 
" I want to know ! " said Mrs. Butterwell, put 
ting down the light. 
"And so do I," said Yorke, grimly. 
" A tall, dark-complected gentleman ? Wears 
a crush felt hat and gray gloves, a beautiful 
fit?" 
" I didn't  notice his gloves, savagely. 
" A handsome man, wasn't  he ? " pursued Mrs. 
Butterwell, cruelly. "Splendid figure and great 
blue eyes " 
" How should I know about his eyes ? " groaned 
Yorke. 
" Oh, it must be he," returned Mrs. Butterwell, 
placidly. " I wonder I didn't  see him in the stage. 
I always mean to look in the stage. May be he 
drove, he 's apt to." 
Yorke made no answer. Every word of Mrs. 
Butterwell 's caused an acute pain in his left tem 
ple, like the nail in the brain of Sisera ; he put up 
his hand to his head. 
" His name is Penhallow," hammered Mrs. But 
terwell, " Doctor Penhallow, of Bangor. He is 
a famous surgeon, very famous. He sets the 
world by her." 
 
" It can't be it isn't  the fellow she telegraphed 
to about my case, at the beginning ? " cried Yorke. 
" Oh, I dare say. Doctor didn't  mention it to 
me. Doctor never talks about her cases. She ad 
mires Doctor Penhallow above all. He was her 
preceptor. He 's old enough to be well, it 
would be a young sort of father ; but he 's well 
along ; he couldn't  be so famous if he wasn't  ; 
nor she wouldn't  feel that kind of feeling for 
him, that looking up. He 's the only man I 
ever saw Doctor look up to. She ain't like the 
rest of us ; we wear our upper lids short with it. 
I declare ! It seems to me in course of genera 
tions women wouldn't  have had any eyelids ; 
they 'd be what you call nowadays selected away, 
by worshipin men-folks, if Providence hadn't  
thrown in such lots of little men, mites and dots 
of souls, too short for the biggest fool alive to call 
the tallest. Then, half the time, she gets on her 
knees to him to make out the difference. Oh, I 've 
seen em ! Down on their knees, and stay there 
to make him think he 's as big as he wants to be, 
and pacify him. Then another thing," added Mrs. 
Butterwell, gently, "is babies. You 've got to 
look down to your babies, and that keeps the bal 
ance something like even. Providence knew what 
he was up to when he made women, though I 
 
must say it looks sometimes as if he 'd made an 
awful botch of it." 
" Is he married ? " asked Yorke. 
" Who? Oh, Doctor Penhallow ? (I was think 
ing about Providence.) No. He 's an old bach," 
said Mrs. Butterwell in a mysterious manner, " and 
only one sister, and she just married and gone 
to Surinam to live. It seems to make it such a 
useful place ; I never felt as if anybody lived there 
before. He used to have to have her home in 
Bangor till a gracious mercy removed her, for she 
was squint-eyed and had spells. He was a friend 
of her father's, too." 
" Whose father 's ? " cried Yorke, desperately. 
" Why, Doctor 's father's, Doctor Zay 's
father 's. Old Doctor Lloyd and Doctor Penhallow 
were friends, the dearest kind ; he was his pre 
ceptor, too, and Doctor " 
" We are getting our pronouns, not to say our 
physicians, dreadfully mixed," interrupted the 
young man wearily. " And I suppose the lady 
has a right to her admirers, whether they meet 
our views or not. There really is nothing extraor 
dinary about it, except the fact that it should 
never have occurred to me that she could have 
them, in this wilderness." 
"Well, there ! I should like to know why not I " 
 
Mrs. Buttervvell fired at once. " You don't sup 
pose a woman ain't a woman because she 's a doctor, 
do you ? There was a fellow here last summer, 
a family of summer folks at the Sherman 
Hotel, three brothers : one was a minister, and one 
was an editor of something, I forget what, but 
he wasn't  a widower, that I'm sure of, and one 
had a patent on mouse-traps. I can't say much for 
the minister, for he preached on woman 's sphere 
in the Baptist church, may the Lord forgive 
him, if he ever heard the sermon, which*. I don't 
believe He did, and the mouse-trap was en 
gaged, besides having his froHt teeth out, and com 
ing down here to wait till he shrank for a new set. 
But that poor little editor, Mr. Yorke, I wish you 
could have made his acquaintance. The table-girl 
at the Sherman House told my girl he 'd lost his 
appetite to that pass he wouldn't  eat a thing but 
shoo-fly potatoes. Think," added Mrs. Butter- 
well, with a gravity which deepened to solemnity, 
" of supporting an honorable and unrequited affec 
tion on shoo-fly potatoes ! " 
"I did not know," observed Yorke, acutely con 
scious of the indiscretion of his remark, " that 
physicians men physicians were apt to be ap 
preciative of the lady members of the profession 
in any way, least of all in that. Many of these 
 
facts in social progress, you see, are novel to me. 
I am very dull about them." 
" Well, I declare ! " objected Mrs. Butterwell. 
" I must say I think you are. For my part, I can't 
conceive of anything more natural. When you 
consider the convenience of taking each other 's 
overflow practice, and consulting together when 
folks die, and the sitting down of an evening to 
talk over operations ; and then one boy would do 
for both sets of horses. And when you think of 
having a woman like Doctor to turn to, sharin the 
biggest cares and joys a man has got, not lean in 
like a water-soaked log against him when he feels 
slim as a pussy-willow himself, poor fellow, but 
claspin hands as steady as a statue to help him 
on, and that hair of hers, and her eyes, for all 
her learning! But there, Mr. Yorke ! I 've 
talked you dead as East Sherman. I 'll fix your 
blinds for you and put in the pegs, and get your 
milk, and go. Don't you lie awake listening for 
him. He won't go till half past eleven. He never 
does. He ain't able to get over very often, for his 
business is tremendous, and he 's sent for all over 
the State, consultin . He 's famous enough for 
her, if that is all," she added, by way of final 
consolation. 
Mrs. Butterwell 's prophecy proved so far correct 
that at quarter of eleven the hospitable light 
still shone from Doctor Zay 's parlor upon the aca 
cia leaves and clovers, and the slender-throated 
honey-suckles, curious and dumb. It was with an 
emotion of exultance, for which he blamed and 
shamed himself with bitter helplessness, that 
Yorke heard, at ten minutes before eleven, the of 
fice-bell struck by what he knew was the imperious 
hand of a messenger in mortal need. He heard 
Doctor Zay come out quickly to the wagon which 
had brought the order. She did not wait for her 
own horse to be harnessed, but was driven rapidly 
and anxiously away. It seemed to him that he 
heard Jim Paisley 's voice, and that Jim said some 
thing about Molly. Yorke was sorry for Molly, 
but he was not sorry for Doctor Penhallow, whose 
distinguished footsteps echoed down the lonely 
street, on their way back to the Sherman Hotel. 
" I think, Doctor, if I was you, which I ain t, 
goodness knows, I don't mean to set myself up, 
I should go and look at Mr Yorke before you go 
out," said Mrs. Butterwell, presenting herself at 
the office the next morning. " He has a dreadfully 
peaked look, and he 's got past Sally Lunn for 
breakfast. As long as he took hi.j Sally Lunns, I 
knew you 'd found THE REMEDY." (Mrs. But- 
 
terwell pronounced these two words with that ac 
cent of confiding reverence by which the truly 
devout homoBOpathist may be instantly classified.) 
"But now I'm afraid you haven't. He never 
looked at a thing only his coffee, and he swore at 
that, too. He thought I 'd gone, but I hadn't ." 
" I never heard Mr. Yorke swear," observed 
Doctor Zay dryly. 
" Well, he did ; he said he supposed the sooner 
he drank the infernal thing and done with it, the 
better. I was clear across the entry, but I heard 
him." 
The doctor went as she was bidden, fortified by 
her hat and gloves and full professional demeanor. 
Yorke was on the lounge, glaring at his breakfast 
tray. He pushed it aside when he saw her, and 
held out his hand. She did not take it, but drew 
out her note-book and medicine-case, and coldly 
asked for the symptoms. 
"I owe you an apology," said the patient at 
once, drawing back his hand. 
" You do indeed," she answered sternly. 
" I can do no more than offer it," returned the 
young man with spirit. " If you had ever been a 
man, you would be less implacable." 
" I am not implacable," she softened. " No one 
ever called me that." 
 
" It is possible that no one ever called you sev 
eral things that I shall have occasion to," observed 
the patient, running his white hand through his 
hair, and sturdily meeting her eyes, which seemed 
to overlook him with a fathomless, fatal calm, as if 
he were a being of another solar system, speaking 
in an unknown tongue. 
" Mrs. Butterwell said you were worse." 
" I have had no sleep and no breakfast : it does 
not signify." 
" It does signify," returned Doctor Zay ; " it is 
ridiculous." 
"You use sympathetic language, Doctor Lloyd." 
"I do not feel sympathetic." She looked deeply 
annoyed ; she drew out her miniature vial with her 
tiny pincers in frowning hesitation. " I have no 
symptoms. Give me some symptoms before I pre 
scribe." 
" Where is your friend ? " asked Yorke abruptly. 
" Has he gone ? " 
She evinced neither surprise nor displeasure at 
the question, but laconically answered, 
Yes." 
" Then you will not be engaged with him. Will 
you take me to ride to-night ? " 
" What do you want to do that for ? " 
" I am going home next week. I want a ride 
before I go." 
 
" Very well," said Doctor Zay, after a severe 
pause. " Have it as you will. Only remember 
that I did not invite you." 
" I promise you to remember as much as that." 
" Did you take that powder, last night? " 
No." 
" Why not ? " 
" I did not want your sugar ! " with rising 
fierceness. He quickly repented this outburst, and 
as she was leaving the room, he asked, with what 
he thought a masterly effort to be civil, if not nat 
ural, " What does Cham. 5 m. stand for, Doctor ? " 
" Champs Elyse es, five miles," she said, without 
turning around. 
" That is a long tramp for a man on crutches." 
" Altogether too long," retorted the doctor. 
" He shouldn't  try it." 
The phaeton came to the door directly after an 
early tea, and Yorke went out, and got in without 
further invitation. Handy helped him. The doctor 
did not offer her shoulder. She came down the 
walk consulting her visiting list with an absolution 
which the vainest of men could not have interpreted
as less than real. It bitterly occurred to 
Yorke that she had already forgotten even to seem 
to forget what had cost him more than he had 
nerve of soul or body to waste. She took the reins 
 
without speaking, and they drove for some time 
silently towards the large August sunset. She 
wore a white dress which, for some reason, did not 
become her. It was one of her plainest hours. 
He watched her studious and anxious face, on 
which lines of care were beginning he had never 
noticed before to notch themselves lightly, as if 
with the probational or preparatory motion which 
the heavy chisel - stroke must follow soon and 
surely. It came to his thought with a complex 
emotion, how dear she looked to him when she was 
not beautiful. It would have been hard to say why 
this discovery was so fraught with significance to 
him. 
" You are anxious and tired, to-night," he ven 
tured at length, when her silence had lasted so 
long that he felt it was veering over the margin 
between the oppressive and the dangerous. 
" I have a diphtheria case that is going hard," 
she said, weariedly. "It is Johnny Sanscrit, the 
minister 's little boy, his only child. I never 
stand it well with only children. They sent Doc 
tor Adoniram off, in their extremity, which makes 
it worse. That is too often the way : the patient 
comes into our hands just in time for us to sign 
the" 
" Death warrant ? " interrupted Yorke. 
 
" The technical expression is death certificate ; 
you can take your choice. This is the house. I 
must stop here first." 
Yorke did not experience that acute anxiety in 
behalf of Johnny Sanscrit which perhaps should 
have been expected of a humane neighbor. He 
occupied himself with dwelling upon the modern 
disadvantages attending an interest in the Useful 
Woman, who has no time to be admired, and perhaps 
less heart. It occurred to him to picture one 
of Scott 's or Richardson 's stately heroes stranded 
meekly in a basket phaeton, with matters of feel 
ing trembling on his lips, while the heroine made 
professional calls and forgot him. How was a 
man going to approach this new and confusing 
type of woman ? The old codes were all astray. 
Were the old impulses ruled out of order, too ? 
But Johnny Sanscrit, as fate would, was better, 
and the doctor returned to the phaeton, trans 
formed. 
" It is a remarkable adaptation of Lacliesis" 
she said, with a radiant smile. 
" Is it ? " said Yorke. 
" And I hope you haven't  got chilly ? " She 
looked at him absently, with her hazy, happy 
eyes. She began to sparkle with conversation, and 
overflow with good humor. Yorke reminded him 
self that it was owing to Johnny Sanscrit. 
 
She Lad regained herself, and looked superbly. 
The opacity of the white dress softened in the 
softening light. As the sun dropped, she drew 
over her shoulders a fine Stuart plaid shawl which 
he liked. He welcomed her moody beauty with 
exultance, as he had protected its absence with 
tenderness. 
They drove to poor Molly's, who proved to be 
better. Everybody was better. The doctor was 
girlishly happy. They rode past the mill-pond 
and the silent wheel, and through the well of trees, 
and up the darkening hill ; and she said she had 
but one more call to make, and then they would 
go home. There was a wood-cutter 's wife who expected 
her, if Mr. Yorke felt able to go. Mr. 
Yorke felt quite able, and they turned from the 
road into the narrow cart-path, that wound at that 
hour like a blazing green and golden serpent 
through the late light and long shadow, towards 
the forest 's heart. 
"Are you never tired of it?" asked Yorke, 
suddenly, as they entered the cart-path. 
"Of my work ? Never ! " 
" I don't mean that. It would be like tiring 
of a great opal to be fickle with usefulness like 
yours." 
" What a pretty thought ! " she interrupted, 
 
with that delicate and gradual expression of 
surprise by which a poetic image always overtook her 
practically occupied imagination. 
" I meant," explained Yorke, " don't you get 
tired of the surroundings you have chosen for it? 
Do you never feel the need of resetting it ? " 
" What could be better ? " She pointed with her 
whip down the sinuous, shaded driveway. The 
trees met above it. The horse 's feet sounded 
softly on the grass. The great shadows from the 
forest advanced. The great glory of the receding 
sun. struggled through the shield of fine leaf-out 
lines. The entrance to the road, like its termination, 
was blotted out in splendid curves and colors, 
which seemed to bar the intruders in, as if they 
had trespassed upon some sweet or awful secret of 
the woods, with which they could not be trusted, 
if set free. It was one of those scenes, it was one 
of those moments, when the power of the forest 
overshadows the soul like the power of the High 
est, and when Nature seems to approach us on her 
knees in the service of a Greater than herself, 
bearing a message too mystic for any but our un 
worldly, unspotted selves to receive. 
Yorke looked from the face of the wilderness to 
the face of the woman. 
" It is very beautiful," he said, " but it is very 
lonely." 
 
She did not answer him, but, turning a sudden 
soft grassy corner, came to a halt at her wood-cut 
ter 's and forsook him for her patient with that 
easy adaptability to which he never became accus 
tomed. She was not gone long, but it was dark 
ening rapidly in the woods when she came out, 
and she drove slowly through the looming shadow, 
over the rude road. 
" There is a short cut home through the woods," 
she said. " We will take it, unless it seems damp 
to you." 
" No, let us take it," he said absently. They 
rode through the sweet, dry dusk among the pines. 
It was too dark to see each other 's faces. The 
consciousness of her presence, their ^solitude, their 
approaching separation, arose and took hold of 
Yorke like a hand at his throat, from whose grip 
he was strangling. It was to him as if he struck 
out for his life when he said, 
" Miss Lloyd, I told you I was going home next 
week. I wish to tell you why." 
" Don't ! " she said quickly. " Don't ! " 
He thrust her words aside, as if they had been 
women, with a fierce gesture of his invalid hands. 
" It is not for you to tell me what I shall do or 
not. I am not talking about my ankle or my 
spine. This is not a case of pellets and bandages 
 
and faints and fol-de-rol. I will not have your 
precautions and advice. I will say what I have 
to say. I will take no interference. I will speak, 
and you shall hear." 
" If you speak, I must hear, but I warn you. I 
beg you not ! " 
" And why, I demand, do you beg me not ? 
What right have you ? What " 
" The right of my responsibility," she answered, 
in a tone too low to be calm, and yet too controlled 
to be agitated. 
" I relieve you of the slightest responsibility ! " 
" You cannot." 
" But I do assume that deadly burden. My 
shoulders are broad enough yet, though I am a 
poor fool of a sick man, dependent on your wis 
