said she, and grow if you will. .But in the morn 
ing, when she awoke, her window was darkened, for 
the Thorn had grown to be a mighty tree, and its 
topmost shoots were black against the sky. She 
wondered whether this uncouth plant would bear any 
thing but music. So she spoke to it. 
" Thorn, she said, why have you no flowers? 
" I am the Thorn of the World, it answered, and 
I can bear no flowers until the hand that planted me 
has tended me, and pruned me, and shaped me to be 
its own. If you had planted me like the rest, it 
would have been easy for you. But you planted me 
unwillingly, down below you by the moat, and I 
have had far to climb. 
" But my hands are so delicate, said the maiden. 
You will hurt me, I am sure. 
" Yours is the only hand in the world that I will 
not hurt, said the voice, so tenderly and softly and 
sadly that the gentle fingers went out to touch the 
plant and see if it were real. And touching it they 
clung there, for they had no harm of it. Would you 
know, my lady, what happened then ? " 
" Yes, yes tell me ! " cried Hedwig, whose imag 
ination was fascinated by the tale. 
 
"As her hands rested on the spiked branches, a 
gentle trembling went through the Thorn, and in a 
moment there burst out such a blooming and blos 
soming as the maiden had never seen. Every prick 
became a rose, and they were so many that the light 
of the day was tinged with them, and their sweetness 
was like the breath of paradise. But below her window the Thorn was as black and forbidding as ever, 
for only the maiden's presence could make its flowers 
bloom. But she smelled the flowers, and pressed 
many of them to her cheek. 
"  I thought you were only a Thorn, she said 
softly. 
" Nay, fairest maiden, answered the glorious 
voice of the bursting blossom, I am the Rose of the 
World for ever, since you have touched me. 
"That is my story, signorina. Have I wearied 
you?" 
Hedwig had unconsciously moved nearer to him as 
he was speaking, for he never raised his voice, and 
she hung on his words. There was colour in her 
face, and her breath came quickly through her parted 
lips. She had never looked so beautiful. 
" Wearied me, signore ? Ah no ; it is a gentle tale 
of yours." 
"It is a true tale in part," said he. 
" In part ? I do not understand " But the colour 
was warmer in her cheek, and she turned her face 
half away, as though looking out. 
"I will tell you," he replied, coming closer, on the 
side from which she turned. " Here is the window. 
You are the maiden. The thorn it is my love for 
 
you;" he dropped his voice to a whisper. "You 
planted it carelessly, far below you in the dark. In 
the dark it has grown and sung to you, and grown 
again, until now it stands in your own castle window. Will you not touch it and make its flowers 
bloom for you?" He spoke fervently. She had 
turned her face quite from him now, and was resting 
her forehead against one hand that leaned upon the 
heavy frame of the casement. The other hand hung 
down by her side toward him, fair as a lily against 
her dark gown. Nino touched it, then took it. He 
could see the blush spread to her white throat, and 
fade again. Between the half-falling curtain and 
the great window he bent his knee and pressed her 
fingers to his lips. She made as though she would 
withdraw her hand, and then left it in his. Her 
glance stole to him as he kneeled there, and he felt it 
on him, so that he looked up. She seemed to raise 
him with her fingers, and her eyes held his and drew 
them; he stood up, and, still holding her hand, his 
face was near to hers. Closer and closer yet, as by 
a spell, each gazing searchingly into the other's 
glance, till their eyes could see no more for closeness, and their lips met in life's first virgin kiss, 
in the glory and strength of a twofold purity, each to 
each. 
Far off at the other end of the room De Pretis 
struck a chord on the piano. They started at the 
sound. 
" When ? " whispered Nino, hurriedly. 
"At midnight, under my window," she answered 
quickly, not thinking of anything better in her haste. 
 
"I will tell you then. You must go; my father will 
soon be here. No, not again," she protested. But 
he drew her to him, and said good-bye in his own 
manner. She lingered an instant, and tore herself 
away. De Pretis was playing loudly. Nino had to 
pass near him to go away, and the maestro nodded 
carelessly as he went by. 
"Excuse me, maestro," said Hedwig, as Nino 
bowed himself out; "it was a question of arranging 
certain lessons." 
"Do not mention it," said he indifferently; "my 
time is yours, signorina. Shall we go through with 
this solfeggio once more ? " 
The good maestro did not seem greatly disturbed 
by the interruption. Hedwig wondered, dreamily, 
whether he had understood. It all seemed like a 
dream. The notes were upside down in her sight, 
and her voice sought strange minor keys unconsciously, as she vainly tried to concentrate her attention upon what she was doing. 
"Signorina," said Ercole at last, "what you sing 
is very pretty, but it is not exactly what is written 
here. I fear you are tired." 
"Perhaps so," said she. "Let us not sing any 
more to-day." Ercole shut up the music and rose. 
She gave him her hand, a thing she had never done 
before; and it was unconscious now, as everything 
she did seemed to be. There is a point when dream 
ing gets the mastery, and appears infinitely more real 
than the things we touch. 
Nino, meanwhile, had descended the steps, expect 
ing every moment to meet the count. As he went 
 
down the street, a closed carriage drove by with the 
Lira liveries. The old count was in it, but Nino 
stepped into the shadow of a doorway to let the equipage pass, and was not seen. The wooden face of 
the old nobleman almost betrayed something akin to 
emotion. He was returning from the funeral, and 
it had pained him; for he had liked the wild baroness, in a fatherly, reproving way. But the sight of 
him sent a home thrust to Nino's heart. 
"Her death is on my soul for ever, he muttered 
between his set teeth. 
Poor innocent boy, it was not his fault if she had 
loved him so much. Women have done things for 
great singers which they have not done for martyrs 
or heroes. It seems so certain that the voice that 
sings so tenderly is speaking to them individually. 
Music is such a fleeting, passionate thing that a 
woman takes it all to herself; how could he sing like 
that for an} one else ? And yet there is always some 
one for whom he does really pour out his heart, and 
all the rest are the dolls of life, to be looked at, and 
admired for their dress and complexion, and to laugh 
at when the fancy takes him to laugh; but not to 
love. 
At midnight Nino was at his post, but he waited 
long and patiently for a sign. It was past two, and 
he was thinking it hopeless to wait longer, when his 
quick ear caught the sound of a window moving on 
its hinges, and a moment later something fell at his 
feet with a sharp, metallic click. The night was 
dark and cloudy, so that the waning moon gave little 
light He picked up the thing, and found a small 
 
pocket handkerchief wrapped about a minute pair 
of scissors, apparently to give it weight. He expected a letter, and groped on the damp pavement 
with his hands. Then he struck a match, shaded it 
from the breeze with his hand, and saw that the 
handkerchief was stained with ink and that the stains 
were letters, roughly printed to make them distinct. 
He hurried away to the light of a street lamp to read 
the strange missive. 
 
CHAPTER X. 
HE went to the light and spread out the handker 
chief. It was a small thing, of almost transparent 
stuff, with a plain "H. L." and a coronet in the corner. The steel pen had torn the delicate fibres here 
and there. 
" They know you have been here. I am watched. 
Keep away from the house till you hear." 
That was all the message, but it told worlds. He 
knew from it that the count was informed of his 
visit, and he tortured himself by trying to imagine 
what the angry old man would do. His heart sank 
like a stone in his breast when he thought of Hedwig 
so imprisoned, guarded, made a martyr of, for his 
folly. He groaned aloud when he understood that it 
was in the power of her father to take her away suddenly and leave no trace of their destination, and he 
cursed his haste and impetuosity in having shown 
himself inside the house. But with all this weight 
of trouble upon him, he felt the strength and indomitable determination within him which come only to 
a man who loves, when he knows he is loved again. 
He kissed the little handkerchief, and even the scissors she had used to weight it with, and he put them 
in his bosom. But he stood irresolute, leaning 
against the lamp-post, as a man will who is trying to 
 
force his thoughts to overtake events, trying to shape 
the future out of the present. Suddenly, he was 
aware of a tall figure in a fur coat standing near him 
on the sidewalk. He would have turned to go, but 
something about the stranger's appearance struck him 
so oddly that he stayed where he was and watched 
him. 
The tall man searched for something in his pockets, 
and finally produced a cigarette, which he leisurely 
lighted with a wax match. As he did so his eyes 
fell upon Nino. The stranger was tall and very thin. 
He wore a pointed beard and a heavy moustache, 
which seemed almost dazzlingly white, as were the 
few locks that appeared, neatly brushed over his temples, beneath his opera hat. His sanguine complex 
ion, however, had all the freshness of youth, and his 
eyes sparkled merrily, as though amused at the spectacle of his nose, which was immense, curved, and 
polished, like an eagle's beak. He wore perfectly 
fitting kid gloves, and the collar of his fur wrapper, 
falling a little open, showed that he was in evening 
dress. 
It was so late past two o clock that Nino had 
not expected anything more than a policeman or some 
homeless wanderer, when he raised his eyes to look 
on the stranger. He was fascinated by the strange 
presence of the aged dandy, and returned his gaze 
boldly. He was still more astonished, however, 
when the old gentleman came close to him, and 
raised his hat, displaying, as he did so, a very high 
and narrow forehead, crowned with a mass of smooth 
white hair. There was both grace and authority in 
 
the courteous gesture, and Nino thought the old gentleman moved with an ease that matched his youthful complexion rather than his hoary locks. 
"Signer Cardegna, the distinguished artist, if I 
mistake not?" said the stranger, with a peculiar 
foreign accent, the like of which Nino had never 
heard. He, also, raised his hat, extremely surprised 
that a chance passer-by should know him. He had 
not yet learned what it is to be famous. But he 
was far from pleased at being addressed in his present mood. 
"The same, signore," he replied coldly. "How 
can I serve you ? " 
" You can serve the world you so well adorn better 
than by exposing your noble voice to the midnight 
damps and chills of this infernal I would say, eter 
nal city," answered the other. "Forgive me. I 
am, not unnaturally, concerned at the prospect of 
losing even a small portion of the pleasure you know 
how to give to me and to many others." 
"I thank you for your flattery," said Nino, drawing his cloak about him, "but it appears to me that 
my throat is my own, and whatever voice there may 
be in it. Are you a physician, signore ? And pray 
why do you tell me that Rome is an infernal city ? " 
" I have had some experience of Rome, Signer Car 
degna," returned the foreigner, with a peculiar smile, 
"and I hate no place so bitterly in all this world 
save one. And as for my being a physician, I am an 
old man, a very singularly old man in fact, and I 
know something of the art of healing." 
"When I need healing, as you call it," said Nino 
 
rather scornfully, " I will inquire for you. Do you 
desire to continue this interview amid the damps 
and chills of our infernal city ? If not, I will 
wish you good-evening." 
"By no means," said the other, not in the least 
repulsed by Nino's coldness. "I will accompany 
you a little way, if you will allow me." 
Nino stared hard at the stranger, wondering what 
could induce him to take so much interest in a 
singer. Then he nodded gravely, and turned toward 
his home, inwardly hoping that his aggressive acquaintance lived in the opposite direction. But he 
was mistaken. The tall man blew a quantity of 
smoke through his nose and walked by his side. He 
strode over the pavement with a long, elastic step. 
"I live not far from here," he said, when they had 
gone a few steps, " and if the Signor Cardegna will 
accept of a glass of old wine and a good cigar I shall 
feel highly honoured." Somehow an invitation of 
this kind was the last thing Nino had expected or 
desired, least of all from a talkative stranger who 
seemed determined to make his acquaintance. 
"I thank you, signore," he answered, "but I have 
supped, and I do not smoke." 
" Ah I forgot. You are a singer, and must of 
course be careful. That is perhaps the reason why 
you wander about the streets when the nights are 
dark and damp. But I can offer you something more 
attractive than liquor and tobacco. A great violinist 
lives with me, a queer, nocturnal bird, and if you 
will come he will be enchanted to play for you. I 
assure you he is a very good musician, the like of 
 
whom you will hardly hear nowadays. He does not 
play in public any longer, from some odd fancy of 
his. 
Nino hesitated. Of all instruments he loved the 
violin best, and in Rome he had had but little opportunity of hearing it well played. Concerts were the 
rarest of luxuries to him, and violinists in Rome are 
rarer still. 
" What is his name, signore ? " he asked, unbend 
ing a little. 
"You must guess that when you hear him," said 
the old gentleman, with a short laugh. " But I give 
you my word of honour that he is a great musician. 
Will you come, or must I offer you further attractions?" 
" What might they be ? " asked Nino. 
"Nay; will you come for what I offer you? If 
the music is not good, you may go away again." 
Still Nino hesitated. Sorrowful and fearful of the 
future as he was, his love gnawing cruelly at his 
heart, he would have given the whole world for a 
strain of rare music if only he were not forced to 
make it himself. Then it struck him that this might 
be some pitfall. I would not have gone. 
"Sir," he said at last, "if you meditate any foul 
play, I would advise you to retract your invitation. 
I will come, and I am well armed." 
He had my long knife about him somewhere. It 
is one of my precautions. But the stranger laughed 
long and loud at the suggestion, so that his voice 
woke queer echoes in the silent street. Nino did not 
understand why he should laugh so much, but he 
 
found his knife under his cloak, and made sure it 
was loose in its leathern sheath. Presently the 
stranger stopped before the large door of an old 
palazzo, every house is a palazzo which has an 
entrance for carriages, and let himself in with a 
key. There was a lantern on the stone pavement 
inside, and seeing a light, Nino followed him boldly. 
The old gentleman took the lantern and led the way 
up the stairs, apologising for the distance and the 
darkness. At last they stopped, and, entering another 
door, found themselves in the stranger's apartment. 
"A cardinal lives down-stairs," said he, as he 
turned up the light of a couple of large lamps which 
burned dimly in the room they had reached. " The 
secretary of a very holy order has his office on the 
other side of my landing, and altogether this is a 
very religious atmosphere. Pray take off your cloak; 
the room is warm." 
Nino looked about him. He had expected to be 
ushered into some princely dwelling, for he had 
judged his interlocutor to be some rich and eccentric 
noble, unless he were an erratic scamp. He was 
somewhat taken aback by the spectacle that met his 
eyes. The furniture was scant, and all in the style 
of the last century. The dust lay half an inch thick 
on the old gilded ornaments and chandeliers. A 
great pier-glass was cracked from corner to corner, 
and the metallic backing seemed to be scaling off 
behind. There were two or three open valises on 
the marble floor, which latter, however, seemed to 
have been lately swept. A square table was in the 
centre, also free from dust, and a few high-backed 
 
leathern chairs, studded with brass nails, were ranged 
about it. On the table stood one of the lamps, and 
the other was placed on a marble column in a corner, 
which once must have supported a bust, or some 
thing of the sort. Old curtains, moth-eaten and 
ragged with age, but of a rich material, covered the 
windows. Nino glanced at the open trunks on the 
floor, and saw that they contained a quantity of wear 
ing apparel and the like. He guessed that his acquaintance had lately arrived. 
"I do not often inhabit this den," said the old gentleman, who had divested himself of his furs, and 
now showed his thin figure arrayed in the extreme of 
full dress. A couple of decorations hung at his 
button-hole. "I seldom come here, and on my return, the other day, I found that the man I had left 
in charge was dead, with all his family, and the place 
has gone to ruin. That is always my luck," he added, 
with a little laugh. 
"I should think he must have been dead some 
time," said Nino, looking about him. "There is a 
great deal of dust here." 
" Yes, as you say, it is some years," returned his 
acquaintance, still laughing. He seemed a merry old 
soul, fifty years younger than his looks. He produced from a case a bottle of wine and two silver 
cups, and placed them on the table. 
" But where is your friend, the violinist?" inquired 
Nino, who was beginning to be impatient ; for except 
that the place was dusty and old, there was nothing 
about it sufficiently interesting to take his thoughts 
from the subject nearest his heart. 
 
"I will introduce him to you," said the other, 
going to one of the valises and taking out a violin 
case, which he laid on the table and proceeded to 
open. The instrument was apparently of great age, 
small and well shaped. The stranger took it up and 
began to tune it. 
" Do you mean to say that you are yourself the 
violinist ? " he asked, in astonishment. But the 
stranger vouchsafed no answer, as he steadied the fiddle with his bearded chin and turned the pegs with 
his left hand, adjusting the strings. 
Then, suddenly and without any preluding, he 
began to make music, and from the first note Nino 
sat enthralled and fascinated, losing himself in the 
wild sport of the tones. The old man's face became 
ashy white as he played, and his white hair appeared 
to stand away from his head. The long, thin fingers 
of his left hand chased each other in pairs and singly 
along the delicate strings, while the bow glanced in 
the lamplight as it dashed like lightning across the 
instrument, or remained almost stationary, quivering 
in his magic hold as quickly as the wings of the 
humming-bird strike the summer air. Sometimes he 
seemed to be tearing the heart from the old violin ; 
sometimes it seemed to murmur soft things in his old 
ear, as though the imprisoned spirit of the music 
were pleading to be free on the wings of sound : 
sweet as love that is strong as death; feverish and 
murderous as jealousy that is as cruel as the grave ; 
sobbing great sobs of a terrible death-song, and screaming in the outrageous frenzy of a furious foe ; wailing 
thin cries of misery, too exhausted for strong grief ; 
 
dancing again in horrid madness, as the devils dance 
over some fresh sinner they have gotten unto them 
selves for torture ; and then at last, as the strings 
bent to the commanding bow, finding the triumph of 
a glorious rest in great, broad chords, splendid in 
depth and royal harmony, grand, enormous, and massive as the united choirs of heaven. 
Nino was beside himself, leaning far over the table, 
straining eyes and ears to understand the wonderful 
music that made him drunk with its strength. As 
the tones ceased he sank back in his chair, exhausted 
by the tremendous effort of his senses. Instantly the 
old man recovered his former appearance. With his 
hand he smoothed the thick white hair; the fresh 
colour came back to his cheeks ; and as he tenderly 
laid his violin on the table, he was again the exquisitely dressed and courtly gentleman who had spoken 
to Nino in the street. The musician disappeared, 
and the man of the world returned. He poured wine 
into the plain silver cups, and invited Nino to drink ; 
but the boy pushed the goblet away, and his strange 
host drank alone. 
" You asked me for the musician's name," he said, 
with a merry twinkle in his eye, from which every 
trace of artistic inspiration had faded ; " can you guess 
it now ? " Nino seemed tongue-tied still, but he made 
an effort. 
" I have heard of Paganini," he said, " but he died 
years ago." 
"Yes, he is dead, poor fellow! I am not Paganini." 
" I am at a loss, then," said Nino dreamily. " I do 
 
not know the names of many violinists, but you must 
be so famous that I ought to know yours." 
"No; how should you? I will tell you. I am 
Benoni, the Jew." 
The tall man's eyes twinkled more brightly than 
ever. Nino stared at him, and saw that he was certainly of a pronounced Jewish type. His brown eyes 
were long and oriental in shape, and his nose was 
unmistakably Semitic. 
"I am sorry to seem so ignorant," said Nino, 
blushing, " but I do not know the name. I perceive, 
however, that you are indeed a very great musician, 
the greatest I ever heard." 
The compliment was perfectly sincere, and Benoni's 
face beamed with pleasure. He evidently liked 
praise. 
" It is not extraordinary," he said, smiling. " In 
the course of a very long life it has been my only 
solace, and if I have some skill it is the result of con 
stant study. I began life very humbly." 
" So did I," said Nino thoughtfully, " and I am not 
far from the humbleness yet." 
" Tell me," said Benoni, with a show of interest, 
" where you come from, and why you are a singer." 
" I was a peasant's child, an orphan, and the good 
God gave me a voice. That is all I know about it. 
A kind-hearted gentleman, who once owned the 
estate where I was born, brought me up, and wanted 
to make a philosopher of me. But I wanted to sing, 
and so I did." 
" Do you always do the things you want to do?" 
 You look as though you might. 
 
You look like Napoleon, that man always inter 
ested me. That is why I asked you to come and see 
me. I have heard you sing, and you are a great 
artist, an additional reason. All artists should be 
brothers. Do you not think so ? " 
" Indeed, I know very few good ones," said Nino 
simply ; " and even among them I should like to 
choose before claiming relationship personally. 
But Art is a great mother, and we are all her 
children." 
" More especially we who began life so poorly, and 
love Art because she loves us." Benoni seated himself on the arm of one of the old chairs, and looked 
down across the worm-eaten table at the young 
singer. "We," he continued, "who have been 
wretchedly poor know better than others that art is 
real, true, and enduring; medicine in sickness and 
food in famine ; wings to the feet of youth and a staff 
for the steps of old age. Do you think I exaggerate, or do you feel as I do?" He paused for a 
reply, and poured more wine into his goblet. 
" Oh, you know I feel as you do I " cried Nino, 
with rising enthusiasm. 
"Very good; you are a genuine artist. What 
you have not felt yet, you will feel hereafter. You 
have not suffered yet." 
" You do not know about me," said Nino in a low 
voice. "I am suffering now." 
Benoni smiled. " Do you call that suffering ? 
Well, it is perhaps very real to you, though I do 
not know what it is. But art will help you through 
it all, as it has helped me." 
 
" What were you ? " asked Nino. " You say you 
were poor." 
" Yes. I was a shoemaker, and a poor one at that. 
I have worn out more shoes than I ever made. But 
I was brought up to it for many years." 
"You did not study music from a child, then?" 
" No. But I always loved it ; and I used to play 
in the evenings, when I had been cobbling all day 
long." 
" And one day you found out you were a great 
artist and became famous. I see ! What a strange 
beginning ! " cried Nino. 
" Not exactly that. It took a long time. I was 
obliged to leave my home, for other reasons, and 
then I played from door to door, and from town to 
town, for whatever coppers were thrown to me. I 
had never heard any good music, and so I played 
the things that came into my head. By and by 
people would make me stay with them awhile, for 
my music's sake. But I never stayed long." 
"Why not?" 
"I cannot tell you now," said Benoni, looking 
grave and almost sad : " it is a very long story. I 
have traveled a great deal, preferring a life of adventure. But of late money has grown to be so 
important a thing that I have given a series of great 
concerts, and have become rich enough to play for 
my own pleasure. Besides, though I travel so much, 
I like society, and I know many people everywhere. 
To-night, for instance, though I have been in Rome 
only a week, I have been to a dinner party, to the 
theatre, to a reception, and to a ball. Everybody 
 
invites me as soon as I arrive. I am very popular, 
and yet I am a Jew," he added, laughing in an 
odd way. 
" But you are a merry Jew," said Nino, laughing 
too, " besides being a great genius. I do not wonder 
people invite you." 
" It is better to be merry than sad," replied Benoni. 
" In the course of a long life I have found out that." 
" You do not look so very old," said Nino. " How 
old are you ? " 
"That is a rude question," said his host, laugh 
ing. " But I will improvise a piece of music for 
you." He took his violin, and stood up before the 
broken pier-glass. Then he laid the bow over the 
strings and struck a chord. "What is that?" he 
asked, sustaining the sound. 
" The common chord of A minor," answered Nino 
immediately. 
" You have a good ear," said Benoni, still playing 
the same notes, so that the constant monotony of 
them buzzed like a vexatious insect in Nino's hear 
ing. Still the old man sawed the bow over the same 
strings without change. On and on, the same ever 
lasting chord, till Nino thought he must go mad. 
" It is intolerable ; for the love of Heaven stop ! " 
he cried, pushing back his chair and beginning to 
pace the room. Benoni only smiled, and went on as 
unchangingly as ever. Nino could bear it no longer, 
being very sensitive about sounds, and he made for 
the door. 
" You cannot get out, I have the key in my 
pocket/ said Benoni, without stopping. 
 
Then Nino became nearly frantic, and made at the 
Jew to wrest the instrument from his hands. But 
Benoiii was agile, and eluded him, still playing the 
one chord, till Nino cried aloud, and sank in a chair, 
entirely overcome by the torture, that seemed boring 
its way into his brain like a corkscrew. 
"This," said Benoni, the bow still sawing the 
strings, " is life without laughter. Now let us laugh 
a little, and see the effect." 
It was indeed wonderful. With his instrument he 
imitated the sound of a laughing voice, high up above 
the monotonous chord : softly at first, as though far 
in the distance ; then louder and nearer, the sustain 
ing notes of the minor falling away one after the 
other and losing themselves, as the merriment gained 
ground on the sadness; till finally, with a burst of 
life and vitality of which it would be impossible to 
convey any idea, the whole body of mirth broke into 
a wild tarantella movement, so vivid and elastic and 
noisy that it seemed to Nino that he saw the very feet 
of the dancers, and heard the jolly din of the tam 
bourine and the clattering, clappering click of the 
castanets. 
"That," said Benoni, suddenly stopping, "is life 
with laughter, be it ever so sad and monotonous be 
fore. Which do you prefer?" 
" You are the greatest artist in the world ! " cried 
Nino enthusiastically; "but I should have been a 
raving madman if you had played that chord any 
longer." 
" Of course," said Benoni, " and I should have gone 
mad if I had not laughed. Poor Schumann, you 
 
know, died insane because he fancied he always heard 
one note droning in his ears." 
" I can understand that," said Nino. " But it is 
late, and I must be going home. Forgive my rude 
ness and reluctance to come with you. I was moody 
and unhappy. You have given me more pleasure 
than I can tell you." 
" It will seem little enough to-morrow, I dare say," 
replied Benoni. " That is the way with pleasures. 
But you should get them all the same, when you can, 
and grasp them as tightly as a drowning man grasps a 
straw. Pleasures and money, money and pleasures." 
Nino did not understand the tone in which his host 
made this last remark. He had learned different 
doctrines from me. 
" Why do you speak so selfishly, after showing 
that you can give pleasure so freely, and telling me 
that we are all brothers ? " he asked. 
" If you are not in a hurry, I will explain to you 
that money is the only thing in this world worth 
having," said Benoni, drinking another cup of the 
wine, which appeared to have no effect whatever on 
his brain. 
"Well?" said Nino, curious to hear what he had 
to say. 
" In the first place you will allow that from the 
noblest moral standpoint a man's highest aim should 
be to do good to his fellow creatures? Yes, you 
allow that. And to do the greatest possible good to 
the greatest possible number ? Yes, you allow that, 
also. Then, I say, other things being alike, a good 
man will do the greatest possible amount of good in 
 
the world when h has the greatest possible amount 
of monejr. The more money, the more good; the 
less money, the less good. Of course money is only 
the means to the end, but nothing tangible in the 
world can ever be anything else. All art is only a 
means to the exciting of still more perfect images in 
the brain ; all crime is a means to the satisfaction of 
passion, or avarice which is itself a king-passion, all 
good itself is a means to the attainment of heaven. 
Everything is bad or good in the world, except art, 
which is a thing separate, though having good and 
bad results. But the attainment of heaven is the 
best object to keep in view. To that end, do the 
most good ; and to do it, get the most money. There 
fore, as a means, money is the only thing in the world 
worth having, since you can most benefit humanity 
by it, and consequently be the most sure of going to 
heaven when you die. Is that clear?" 
" Perfectly," said Nino, " provided a man is himself 
good." 
"It is very reprehensible to be bad," said Benoni, 
with a smile. 
" What a ridiculous truism ! " said Nino, laughing 
outright. 
"Very likely," said the other. "But I never 
heard any preacher, in any country, tell his congregation anything else. And people always listen with 
attention. In countries where rain is entirely unknown, it is not a truism to say that  when it rains 
it is damp. On the contrary, in such countries that 
statement would be regarded as requiring demonstration, and, once demonstrated, it would be treasured 
and taught as an interesting scientific fact. Now it 
is precisely the same with congregations of men. 
They were never bad, and never can be ; in fact, they 
doubt, in their dear innocent hearts, whether they 
know what a real sin is. Consequently they listen 
with interest to the statement that sin is bad, and 
promise themselves that if ever that piece of information should be unexpectedly needed by any of their 
friends, they will remember it." 
" You are a satirist, Signor Benoni," said Nino. 
" Anything you like," returned the other. "I have 
been called by worse names than that, in my time. 
So much for heaven, and the prospect of it. But a 
gentleman has arisen in a foreign country who says 
that there is no heaven anywhere, and that no one 
does good except in the pursuit of pleasure here or 
hereafter. But as his hereafter is nowhere, disregard 
it in the argument, and say that man should only do, 
or actually does, everything solely for the sake of 
pleasure here ; say that pleasure is good, so long as 
it does not interfere with the pleasures of others, and 
good is pleasure. Money may help a man to more 
of it, but pleasure is the thing. Well, then, my 
young brother artist, what did I say ? l money and 
pleasure, pleasure and money. The means are there ; 
and as, of course, you are good, like everybody else, 
and desire pleasure, you will get to heaven hereafter, 
if there is such a place ; and if not, you will get the 
next thing to it, which is a paradise on earth." Having reached this climax, Signor Benoni lit a cigarette, 
and laughed his own peculiar laugh. 
Nino shuddered involuntarily at the hideous sophistry. For Nino is a good boy, and believes very much 
in heaven, as well as in a couple of other places. 
Benoni's quick brown eyes saw the movement, and 
understood it, for he laughed longer yet, and louder. 
" Why do you laugh like that ? I see nothing to 
laugh at. It is very bitter and bad to hear, all this 
that you say. I would rather hear your music. You 
are badly off, whether you believe in heaven or not. 
For if you do, you are not likely to get there ; and if 
you do not believe in it, you are a heretic, and will 
be burned for ever and ever." 
"Not so badly answered, for an artist; and in a 
few words, too," said Benoni approvingly. "But, 
my dear boy, the trouble is that I shall not get to 
heaven either way, for it is my great misfortune to 
be already condemned to everlasting flames." 
" No one is that," said Nino gravely. 
"There are some exceptions, you know," said 
Benoni. 
" Well," answered the young man thoughtfully, 
"of course there is the Wandering Jew, and such 
tales, but nobody believes in him." 
"Good-night," said Benoni. "I am tired, and 
must go to bed." 
Nino found his way out alone, but carefully noted 
the position of the palazzo before he went home 
through the deserted streets. It was four in the 
morning. 
CHAPTER XL 
EARLY in the morning after Nino's visit to Signor 
Benoni, De Pretis came to my house, wringing his 
hands and making a great trouble and noise. I had 
not yet seen Nino, who was sound asleep, though I 
could not imagine why he did not wake. But De 
Pretis was in such a temper that he shook the room 
and everything in it, as he stamped about the brick 
floor. It was not long before he had told me the 
cause of his trouble. He had just received a formal 
note from the Graf von Lira, inclosing the amount 
due to him for lessons, and dispensing with his services for the future. 
Of course this was the result of the visit Nino had 
so rashly made; it all came out afterwards, and I 
will not now go through the details which De Pretis 
poured out, when we only half knew the truth. The 
count's servant who admitted Nino had pocketed the 
five francs as quietly as you please, and the moment 
the count returned he told him how Nino had come 
and had stayed three quarters of an hour, just as if 
it were an every-day affair. The count, being a proud 
old man, did not encourage him to make further confidences, but sent him about his business. He determined to make a prisoner of his daughter until he 
could remove her from Rome. He accordingly confined her in her own little suite of apartments, and 
set an old soldier, whom he had brought from Germany as a body-servant, to keep watch at the outer 
door. He did not condescend to explain even to 
Hedwig the cause of his conduct, and she, poor girl, 
was as proud as he, and would not ask why she was 
shut up, lest the answer should be a storm of abuse 
against Nino. She cared not at all how her father 
had found out her secret, since he knew it, and she 
guessed that submission would be the best policy. 
Meanwhile, active preparations were made for an 
immediate departure. The count informed his friends 
that he was going to pass Lent in Paris, on account 
of his daughter's health, which was very poor, and in 
two days everything was ready. They would leave 
on the following morning. In the evening the count 
entered his daughter's apartments, after causing himself to be formally announced by a servant, and 
briefly informed her that they were to start for Paris 
on the following morning. Her maid had been 
engaged in the mean time in packing her effects, not 
knowing whither her mistress was going. Hedwig 
received the announcement in silence, but her father 
saw that she was deadly white and her eyes heavy 
from weeping. I have anticipated this much to 
make things clearer. It was on the first morning of 
Hedwig's confinement that De Pretis came to our 
house. 
Nino was soon waked by the maestro's noise, and 
came to the door of his chamber, which opens into 
the little sitting-room, to inquire what the matter 
might be. Nino asked if the maestro were peddling 
cabbages, that he should scream so loudly. 
 
" Cabbages, indeed ! cabbage yourself, silly boy ! " 
cried Ercole, shaking his fist at Nino's head, just 
visible through the crack of the door. " A pretty 
mess you have made, with your ridiculous love affair ! 
Here am I " 
" I see you are," retorted Nino ; " and do not call 
any affair of mine ridiculous, or I will throw you out 
of the window. Wait a moment ! " With that he 
slammed his door in the maestro's face, and went on 
with his dressing. For a few minutes De Pretis 
raved at his ease, venting his wrath on me. Then 
Nino came out. 
" Now, then," said he, preparing for a tussle, " what 
is the matter, my dear maestro ? " But Ercole had 
expended most of his fury already. 
" The matter I " he grumbled. " The matter is that 
I have lost an excellent pupil through you. Count 
Lira says he does not require my services any longer, 
and the man who brought the note says they are 
going away." 
" Diavolo ! " said Nino, running his fingers through 
his curly black hair, "it is indeed serious. Where 
are they going ? " 
"How should I know?" asked De Pretis angrily. 
" I care much more about losing the lesson than about 
where they are going. I shall not follow them, I 
promise you. I cannot take the basilica of St. Peter 
about with me in my pocket, can I ? " 
And so he was angry at first, and at length he 
was pacified, and finally he advised Nino to discover 
immediately where the count and his daughter were 
going ; and, if it were to any great capital, to endeavour 
 
to make a contract to sing there. Lent came early 
that year, and Nino was free at the end of Carnival, 
not many days longer to wait. This was the plan 
that had instantly formed itself in Nino's brain. De 
Pretis is really a most obliging man, but one cannot 
