Hudson smiled and stared. "A connoisseur?" he 
cried, laughing. " He is the first I have ever seen ! 
Let me see what they look like ;" and he drew Rowland 
nearer to the light. "Have they all such good heads 
as that ? I should like to model yours. " 
" Pray, do," said Cecilia. " It will keep him a while. 
He is running off to Europe." 
"Ah, to Europe !" Hudson exclaimed, with a melan 
choly cadence as they sat down. " Happy man !" 
But the note seemed to Rowland to be struck rather 
at random, for he perceived no echo of it in the boyish 
garrulity of his later talk. Hudson was a tall slender 
young fellow, with a singularly mobile and intelligent 
face. Rowland was struck at first only with its responsive vivacity, but in a short time he perceived it was 
remarkably handsome. The features were admirably 
chiselled and finished, and a frank smile played over 
them as gracefully as a breeze among flowers. The fault 
of the young man 's whole structure was an excessive 
want of breadth. The forehead, though it was high and 
rounded, was narrow ; the jaw and the shoulders were 
narrow, and the result was an air of insufficient physical 
substance. But Mallet afterwards learned that this fair 
slim youth could draw indefinitely upon a fund of nervous 
force which outlasted and outwearied the endurance of 
many a sturdier temperament. And certainly there was 
life enough in his eye to furnish an immortality ! It was 
a generous dark gray eye, in which there came and went 
a sort of kindling glow which would have made a ruder 
visage striking, and which gave at times to Hudson 's 
harmonious face an altogether extraordinary beauty. 
There was to Rowland 's sympathetic sense a slightly 
pitiful disparity between the young sculptor 's delicate 
 
countenance and the shabby gentility of his costume. 
He was dressed for a rural visit a visit to a pretty 
woman. He was clad from head to foot in a white linen 
suit, which had never been remarkable for the felicity of 
its cut, and had now quite lost its vivifying and redeeming 
crispness. He wore a bright red cravat, passed through 
a ring altogether too splendid to be valuable ; he pulled 
and twisted, as he sat, a pair of yellow kid gloves ; 
he emphasised his conversation with great dashes and 
flourishes of a light silver-tipped walking-stick, and he 
kept constantly taking off and putting on one of those 
slouched sombreros which are the traditional property of 
the Virginian or Carolinian of romance. When his hat 
was on he was veiy picturesque, in spite of his mock 
elegance ; and when it was off and he sat nursing it and 
turning it about and not knowing what to do with it, he 
could hardly be said to be awkward. He evidently had 
a natural relish for brilliant accessories, and he appropriated what came to his hand. This was visible in his 
talk, which abounded in the florid and sonorous. In 
conversation he was a colourist. 
Rowland, who was but a moderate talker, sat by in 
silence, while Cecilia, who had told him that she desired 
his opinion upon her friend, used a good deal of characteristic finesse in leading the young man to disclose him 
self. She perfectly succeeded, and Hudson rattled away 
for an hour with a volubility in which boyish unconsciousness and manly shrewdness were singularly combined. 
He gave his opinion on twenty topics, he opened up an 
endless budget of local gossip, he described his repulsive routine at the office of Messrs. Striker and Spooner, 
counsellors at law, and he gave with great felicity and 
gusto an account of the annual boat race between Harvard 
and Yale, which he had lately witnessed at Worcester. 
He had looked at the straining oarsmen and the swaying 
crowd with the eye of the sculptor. Rowland was a 
good deal amused, and not a little interested. Whenever Hudson uttered some peculiarly striking piece of 
youthful grandiloquence, Cecilia broke into a long, light, 
familiar laugh. 
"What are you laughing at?" the young man then 
demanded. " Have I said anything so ridiculous?" 
"Go on, go on," Cecilia replied. "You are too 
delicious ! Show Mr. Mallet how Mr. Striker read the 
Declaration of Independence on the 4th of July." 
Hudson, like most men with a turn for the plastic 
arts, was an excellent mimic, and he represented with a 
great deal of humour the accent and attitude of a pomp 
ous country lawyer sustaining the burden of this glorious 
episode of our national festival. The sonorous twang, 
the see-saw gestures, the patriotic pronunciation, were 
vividly reproduced. But Cecilia 's manner and the young 
man 's quick response ruffled a little poor Rowland 's 
paternal conscience. He wondered whether his cousin 
were not sacrificing the faculty of reverence in her clever 
protege to her need for amusement. Hudson made no 
serious rejoinder to Rowland 's compliment on his statuette 
until he rose to go. Rowland wondered whether he had 
forgotten it, and supposed that the oversight was a sign 
of the natural self-sufficiency of genius. But Hudson 
stood a moment before he said good -night, twirled his 
sombrero, and hesitated for the first time. He gave 
Rowland a clear penetrating glance, and then with a 
wonderfully frank appealing smile " You really meant," 
he asked, " what you said a while ago about that thing 
of mine ? It is good essentially good ?" 
"I really meant it," said Rowland, laying a kindly 
hand on his shoulder. "It is very good indeed. It 
is, as you say, essentially good. That is the beauty 
of it" 
Hudson 's eyes glowed and expanded ; he looked at 
Rowland for some time in silence. "I have a notion 
you really know," he said at last. " But if you don t, it 
doesn't much matter." 
 
" My cousin asked me to-day," said Cecilia, " whether 
I supposed you knew yourself how good it is." 
Hudson stared, blushing a little. "Perhaps not!" 
he cried. 
"Very likely," said Mallet. "I read in a book the 
other day that great talent in action in fact the book 
said genius is a kind of somnambulism. The artist 
performs great feats in a dream. We must not wake him 
up lest he should lose his balance." 
" Oh, when he 's back in bed again ! " Hudson 
answered with a laugh. "Yes, call it a dream. It was 
a very happy one !" 
"Tell me this," said Rowland. "Did you mean 
anything by your young Water-drinker ? Does he repre 
sent an idea ? Is he a symbol ?" 
Hudson raised his eyebrows and gently stroked his 
hair. " Why, he 's youth, you know ; he 's innocence, 
he 's health, he 's strength, he 's curiosity. Yes, he 's a 
good many things. 
"And is the cup also a symbol ?" 
"The cup is knowledge, pleasure, experience. Any 
thing of that kind !" 
" Well, he 's guzzling in earnest," said Rowland. 
Hudson gave a vigorous nod. "Ay, poor fellow, 
he 's thirsty !" And on this he cried good-night, and 
bounded down the garden path. 
"Well, what do you make of him?" asked Cecilia, 
returning a short time afterwards from a visit of investi 
gation as to the sufficiency of Bessie 's bedclothes. 
" I confess I like him," said Rowland. " He 's crude 
and immature but there 's stuff in him." 
" He 's a strange being," said Cecilia, musingly. 
"Who are his people ? what has been his education ?" 
Rowland asked. 
"He has had no education, beyond what he has 
picked up with little trouble for himself. His mother 
is a widow, of a Massachusetts country family, a little, 
timid, tremulous woman who is always on pins and 
needles about her son. She had some property herself, 
and married a Virginian gentleman an owner of lands 
and slaves. He turned out, I believe, a dreadful rake, 
and made great havoc in their fortune. Everything, or 
almost everything, melted away, including Mr. Hudson 
himself. This is literally true, for he drank himself to 
death. Ten years ago his wife was left a widow, with 
scanty means and a couple of growing boys. She paid 
her husband 's debts as best she could, and came to 
establish herself here, where, by the death of a charitable 
relative, she had inherited an old-fashioned, ruinous house. 
Roderick, our friend, was her pride and joy ; but Stephen, 
the elder, was her comfort and support. I remember 
him later ; he was a plain-faced, sturdy, practical lad, 
very different from his brother, and in his way, I imagine, 
a very fine fellow. When the war broke out he found 
that the New England blood ran thicker in his veins 
than the Virginian, and immediately obtained a com 
mission. He fell in some Western battle, and left his 
mother inconsolable. Roderick, however, has given her 
plenty to think about, and she has induced him by some 
mysterious art to take up a profession that he abhors, 
and for which he is about as fit as I am to drive a loco 
motive. He grew up ti la gr&ce de Dieu ; he was 
horribly spoiled. Three or four years ago he graduated 
at a small college in this neighbourhood, where, I am 
afraid, he had given a good deal more attention to novels 
and billiards than to mathematics and Greek. Since 
then he has been reading law at the rate of a page a 
day. If he is ever admitted to practice I am afraid my 
friendship will not avail to make me give him my business. Good, bad, or indifferent, the boy is an artist 
an artist to his fingers ends." 
"Why, then," asked Rowland, "doesn't he deliber 
ately take up the chisel?" 
For several reasons. In the first place, I don't 
 
think he more than half suspects his talent. The flame 
is smouldering, but it is never fanned by the breath of 
criticism. He sees nothing, hears nothing, to help him 
to self-knowledge. He is hopelessly discontented, but 
he doesn't know where to look for help. Then his 
mother, as she one day confessed to me, has a holy 
horror of a profession which consists exclusively, as she 
supposes, in making figures of people without their 
clothes on. Sculpture, to her mind, is an insidious form 
of immorality, and for a young man of a passionate 
disposition she considers the law a much safer specula 
tion. Her father was a judge, she has two brothers at 
the bar, and her elder son had made a very promising 
beginning in the same line. She wishes the tradition 
to be kept up. I am pretty sure the law won't make 
Roderick 's fortune, and I am afraid it will spoil his 
temper." 
"What sort of a temper is it ?" 
" One to be trusted, on the whole. It is quick, but 
it is generous. I have known it to breathe flame and 
fury at ten o clock in the evening, and soft, sweet music 
early on the morrow. It 's a very entertaining temper 
to observe. Fortunately, I can observe it dispassionately, for I am the only person in the place he has not 
quarrelled with." 
-"Has he, then, no society? Who is Miss Garland 
whom you asked about ?" 
"A young girl staying with his mother, a sort of far 
away cousin ; a good, plain girl, but not a person to 
delight a sculptor 's eye. Roderick has a good share of 
the old Southern arrogance ; he has the aristocratic 
temperament. He will have nothing to do with the 
small townspeople ; he says they are ignoble. He 
can't endure his mother 's friends the old ladies and 
the ministers and the tea-party people ; they bore him 
to death. So he comes and lounges here, and rails at 
everything and every one." 
 
This youthful scoffer reappeared a couple of evenings 
later, and confirmed the friendly feeling he had excited 
on Rowland 's part. He was in an easier mood than 
before, he chattered less extravagantly, and asked Row 
land a number of rather primitive questions about the 
condition of the fine arts in New York and Boston. 
Cecilia, when he had gone, said that this was the 
wholesome effect of Rowland 's eulogy of his statuette. 
Roderick was acutely sensitive, and Rowland 's intelligent 
praise had sobered him ; he was ruminating the full- 
flavoured verdict of culture. Rowland took a great fancy 
to him, to his personal charm and his probable genius. 
He had an indefinable attraction the something tender 
and divine of unspotted, exuberant, confident youth. 
The next day was Sunday, and Rowland proposed that 
they should take a long walk, and that Roderick should 
show him the country. The young man assented gleefully, and in the morning, as Rowland, at the garden 
gate, was giving his hostess God-speed on her way to 
church, he came striding along the grassy margin of the 
road, and out-whistling the music of the church bells. 
It was one of those lovely days of the last of August, 
when summer seems to balance in the scale with autumn. 
" Remember the day, and take care you rob no orchards," 
said Cecilia, as they separated. 
The young men walked away at a steady pace, over 
hill and dale, through woods and fields, and at last found 
themselves on a grassy elevation studded with mossy 
rocks and red cedars. Just beneath them, in a great 
shining curve, flowed the generous Connecticut. They 
flung themselves on the grass and tossed stones into the 
river ; they talked like old friends. Rowland lit a cigar, 
and Roderick refused one with a grimace of extravagant 
disgust. He thought them vile things ; he didn't see 
how decent people could tolerate them. Rowland was 
amused he wondered what it was that made this ill- 
mannered speech seem perfectly inoffensive on Roderick 's 
 
lips. He belonged to the race of mortals, to be pitied 
or envied according as we view the matter, who are not 
held to a strict account for their aggressions. Looking 
at him as he lay stretched in the shade, Rowland vaguely 
likened him to some beautiful, supple, restless, bright- 
eyed animal, whose motions should have no deeper 
warrant than the tremulous delicacy of its structure, and I 
seem graceful even when they were most inconvenient. M 
Rowland watched the shadows on Mount Holyoke, 
listened to the gurgle of the river, and sniffed the balsam 
of the pines. A gentle breeze had begun to tickle their 
summits, and brought the smell of the mown grass across 
from the elm-dotted river-meadows. He sat up beside 
his companion and looked away at the far - spreading 
view. It seemed to him beautiful, and suddenly a 
strange feeling of prospective regret took possession of 
him. Something seemed to tell him that later, in a 
foreign land, he should remember it with longing and 
regret. 
"It 's a wretched business," he said, "this virtual 
quarrel of ours with our own country, this everlasting 
impatience to get out of it. Is one 's only safety, then, in 
flight? This is an American day, an American land 
scape, an American atmosphere. It certainly has its 
merits, and some day when I am shivering with ague in 
classic Italy I shall accuse myself of having slighted them." 
Roderick kindled with a sympathetic glow, and de 
clared that America was good enough for him, and that 
he had always thought it the duty of an honest citizen 
to stand by his own country and help it on. He had 
evidently thought nothing whatever about it he was 
launching his doctrine on the inspiration of the moment. 
The doctrine expanded with the occasion, and he de 
clared that he was above all an advocate for American 
art. He didn't see why we shouldn't produce the greatest 
works in the world. We were the biggest people, and 
we ought to have the biggest conceptions. The biggest 
 
conceptions, of course, would bring forth in time the biggest performances. We had only to be true to ourselves, 
to pitch in and not be afraid, to fling Imitation over 
board and fix our eyes upon our National Individuality. 
"I declare," he cried, "there 's a career for a man, and 
I have twenty minds to embrace it on the spot to be 
the typical, original, national American artist ! It 's in 
spiring !" 
Rowland burst out laughing, and told him that he 
liked his practice better than his theory, and that a saner 
impulse than this had inspired his little Water-drinker. 
Roderick took no offence, and three minutes afterwards 
was talking volubly of some humbler theme only half 
heeded by his companion, who had returned to his cogi 
tations. At last Rowland delivered himself of the up 
shot of these reflections. " How should you like," he 
suddenly demanded, "to go to Rome?" 
Hudson stared, and with a laugh which speedily con 
signed our National Individuality to perdition, responded 
that he should like it reasonably well. "And I should 
like by the same token," he added, "to go to Athens, to 
Constantinople, to Damascus, to the holy city of Benares, 
where there is a golden statue of Brahma twenty feet tall." 
"No," said Rowland, soberly, "if you were to go to 
Rome you should settle down and work. Athens might 
help you, but for the present I shouldn't recommend 
Benares." 
"It will be time to arrange details when I pack my 
trunk," said Hudson. 
" If you mean to turn sculptor the sooner you pack 
your trunk the better." 
Oh, but I m a practical man ! What is the smallest sum 
per annum on which one can keep alive the sacred fire ? " 
" What is the largest sum at your disposal ? " 
Roderick stroked his light moustache, gave it a twist, 
and then announced with mock pomposity "Three 
hundred dollars !" 
 
The money question could be arranged," said Row 
land. There are ways of raising money. " 
" I should like to know a few ! I never yet discovered 
one." 
" One of them consists," said Rowland, " in having a 
friend with a good deal more than he wants and not 
being too proud to accept a part of it." 
Roderick stared a moment and his face flushed. Do 
you mean do you mean ? " He stammered. He 
was greatly excited. 
Rowland got up, blushing a little, and Roderick 
sprang to his feet. " In three words, if you are to be a 
sculptor you ought to go to Rome and study the antique. 
To go to Rome you need money. I am fond of fine 
statues, but unfortunately I can't make them myself. I 
have to order them. I order a dozen from you, to be 
executed at your convenience. To help you I pay you 
in advance." 
Roderick pushed off his hat and pressed his forehead, 
still gazing at his companion. "You believe in me !" 
he cried at last. 
"Allow me to explain," said Rowland. "I believe 
in you if you are prepared to work and to wait and to 
struggle and to exercise a great many virtues. And then 
I am afraid to say it, lest I should disturb you more than 
I should help you. You must decide for yourself. I 
simply offer you an opportunity." 
Hudson stood for some time, profoundly meditative. 
"You have not seen my other things," he said suddenly. 
" Come and look at them." 
"Now?" 
"Yes, we will walk home. We will settle the 
question. " 
He passed his hand through Rowland 's arm and they 
retraced their steps. They reached the town and made 
their way along a broad country street, dusky with the 
shade of magnificent elms. Rowland felt his companion 's 
 
arm trembling in his own. They stopped at a large 
white house flanked with melancholy hemlocks, and 
passed through a little front garden paved with moss- 
coated bricks and ornamented with parterres bordered 
with high box edges. The mansion had an air of antiquated dignity, but it had seen its best days and evidently 
sheltered a shrunken household. Mrs. Hudson, Rowland 
was sure, might be seen in the garden of a morning, in 
a white apron and a pair of old gloves, engaged in frugal 
horticulture. Roderick 's studio was behind, in the base 
ment ; a large empty room, with the paper peeling off 
the walls. This represented, in the fashion of fifty years 
ago, a series of small fantastic landscapes of a hideous 
pattern, and the young sculptor had presumably torn it 
away in great scraps, in moments of aesthetic exaspera 
tion. On a board in a corner w r as a heap of clay, and 
on the floor, against the wall, stood some dozen medal 
lions, busts, and figures, in various stages of completion. 
To exhibit them Roderick had to place them one by one 
on the end of a long packing -box, which served as a 
pedestal. He did so silently, making no explanations, 
and looking at them himself with a strange air of 
quickened curiosity. Most of the things were portraits, 
and the three at which he looked longest were finished 
busts. One was a colossal head of a negro, tossed back, 
defiant, with distended nostrils ; one was the portrait of 
a young man whom Rowland immediately perceived by 
the resemblance to be his lost brother ; the last repre 
sented a gentleman with a pointed nose, a long close- 
shaven upper lip, and a tuft on the end of his chin. This 
was a face peculiarly unadapted to sculpture ; but as a 
piece of modelling it was the best, and it was admirable. 
It reminded Rowland, in its homely veracity, its artless 
artfulness, of the works of the early Italian Renaissance. 
On the pedestal was cut the name Barnaby Striker, 
Esq. Rowland remembered that this was the appella 
tion of the legal luminary from whom his companion had 
 
undertaken to borrow a reflected ray, and although in 
the bust there was nothing grossly satirical, it betrayed 
comically to one who could relish the secret that the 
features of the original had often been scanned with an 
irritated eye. Besides these there were several rough 
studies of the nude and two or three figures of a fanciful 
kind. The most noticeable (and it had singular beauty) 
was a small modelled design for a sepulchral monument ; 
that evidently of Stephen Hudson. The young soldier 
lay sleeping eternally with his hand on his sword like 
an old crusader in a Gothic cathedral. 
Rowland made no haste to pronounce ; too much 
depended on his judgment. " Upon my word," cried 
Hudson at last, "they seem to me very good !" 
And in truth, as Rowland looked he saw they were 
good. They were youthful, awkward, ignorant ; the 
effort often was more apparent than the success. But the 
effort was signally powerful and intelligent ; it seemed 
to Rowland that it might easily hit the mark. Here 
and there the mark had been hit with a masterly ring. 
Rowland turned to his companion, who stood with his 
hands in his pockets and his hair very much crumpled, 
looking at him askance, The light of admiration was 
in Rowland 's eyes, and it speedily kindled a wonderful 
illumination on Hudson 's handsome brow. Rowland 
said at last simply, " You have only to work !" 
"I think I know what that means," Roderick an 
swered. He turned away, threw himself on a rickety 
chair, and sat for some moments with his elbows on his 
knees and his head in his hands. "Work work?" he 
said at last, looking up ; " ah, if I could only begin !" 
He glanced round the room a moment, and his eye 
encountered on the mantel-shelf the vivid physiognomy 
of Mr. Barnaby Striker. His smile vanished he stared 
at it with an air of concentrated enmity. " I want to 
begin," he cried, "and I can't make a better beginning 
than this ! Good-bye, Mr. Barnaby Striker !" He strode 
 
across the room, seized a hammer that lay at hand, and 
before Rowland could interfere, in the interest of art if 
not of morals, dealt a merciless blow upon Mr. Striker 's 
skull. The bust cracked into a dozen pieces, which 
toppled with a great crash upon the floor. Rowland 
relished neither the destruction of the image nor his 
companion 's look in working it, but as he was about to 
express his displeasure the door opened and gave passage 
to a young girl. She came in with a rapid step and 
startled face, as if she had been alarmed by the noise. 
Seeing the heap of shattered clay and the hammer in 
Roderick 's hand, she gave a cry of honor. Her voice 
died away when she perceived that Rowland was a 
stranger, but she murmured reproachfully, " Why, 
Roderick, what have you done?" 
Roderick gave a joyous kick to the shapeless frag 
ments. "I have driven the money-changers out of the 
temple !" he cried. 
The traces retained shape enough to be recognised, 
and she gave a little moan of pity. She seemed not to 
understand the young man 's allegory, but yet to feel that 
it pointed to some great purpose, which must be an evil 
one from being expressed in such a lawless fashion, and 
to perceive that Rowland was in some way accountable 
for it. She looked at him with a sharp frank mistrust, 
and turned away through the open door. Rowland 
looked after her with quickened interest. 
III. 
EARLY on the morrow he received a visit from his new 
friend. Roderick was in a state of extreme exhilaration, 
tempered, however, by a certain amount of righteous 
wrath. He had had a domestic struggle, but he had 
 
remained master of the situation. He had shaken the 
dust of Mr. Striker 's office from his feet. 
"I had it out last night with my mother," he said. 
" I dreaded the scene, for she takes things terribly hard. 
She doesn't scold nor storm, and she doesn't argue nor 
insist. She sits with her eyes full of tears that never 
fall, and looks at me, when I vex her, as if I were a 
monster of depravity. And the trouble is that I was 
born to vex her. She doesn't trust me ; she never has 
and she never will. I don't know what I have done to 
set her against me, but ever since I can remember I have 
been looked at with tears. The trouble is," he went on, 
giving a twist to his moustache, " I have been too great 
a mollycoddle. I have been sprawling all my days by 
the maternal fireside, and my dear mother has grown 
used to bullying me. I have made myself cheap ! If I 
am not in my bed by eleven o clock, the cook is sent 
out to explore with a lantern. When I think of it, I 
despise my docility. It 's rather a hard fate, to live like 
a saint and to pass for a sinner. I should like for six 
months to lead Mrs. Hudson the life some fellows lead 
their mothers !" 
"Allow me to believe," said Rowland, "that you 
would like nothing of the sort. If you have been a 
good boy, don't spoil it by pretending you don't like it. 
You have been very happy in spite of your virtues, and 
there are worse fates in the world than being loved too 
well. I have not had the pleasure of seeing your mother, 
but I will lay you a wager that this is where the shoe 
pinches. She is passionately fond of you, and her hopes, 
like all intense hopes, keep trembling into fears." 
Rowland, as he spoke, had an instinctive vision of how 
this beautiful youth must be loved by his female relatives. 
Roderick frowned, and with an impatient gesture, I 
do her justice," he cried " may she never do me less !" 
Then after a moment 's hesitation, " I will tell you the 
 
perfect truth," he went on; "I have to fill a double 
place. I have to be my brother as well as myself. It 's 
a good deal to ask of a man, especially when he has so 
little talent as I for being what he is not. When we 
were both young together I was the curled darling. I 
had the silver mug and the biggest piece of pudding, 
and I stayed in-doors to be kissed by the ladies while he 
made mud-pies in the garden. In fact he was worth 
fifty of me ! When he was brought home from Vicks- 
burg with a piece of shell in his skull, my poor mother 
began to think she hadn't loved him enough. I remember, as she hung round my neck sobbing, before his 
coffin, she told me that I must be to her everything that 
he would have been. I made no end of vows, but I 
haven't kept them all. I have been very different from 
Stephen. I have been idle, restless, egotistical, discontented. I have done no harm, I believe, but I have done 
no good. My brother, if he had lived, would have 
made fifty thousand dollars, and had the parlour done 
up. My mother, brooding night and day on her bereavement, has come to fix her ideal in little attentions 
of that sort. Judged by that standard I m nowhere." 
Rowland was at a loss what to believe of this account 
of his friend 's domestic circumstances ; it was plaintive, 
yet it seemed to him rather rough. " You must lose no 
time in making a masterpiece," he answered; "then 
with the proceeds you can do up the whole house. " 
" So I have told her ; but she only half believes in 
the thing. She can see no good in my making statues ; 
they seem to her a snare of the enemy. She would fain 
see me all my life tethered to the law, like a browsing 
goat to a stake. In that way I am in sight. It 's a 
more regular occupation ! that 's all I can get out of 
her. A more regular damnation ! Is it a fact that 
artists in general are such wicked men ? I never had 
the pleasure of knowing one, so I couldn't refute her 
with an example. She had the advantage of me, because 
 
she formerly knew a portrait -painter at Richmond, who 
did her miniature in black lace mittens (you may see 
it on the parlour table), who used to drink raw brandy 
and beat his wife. I promised her that whatever I might 
do to my wife I would never beat my mother, and that 
as for brandy, raw or diluted, I detested it. She sat 
silently crying for an hour, during which I expended 
treasures of eloquence. It 's a good thing to have to 
take stock of one 's intentions, and I assure you, as I 
pleaded my cause, I was most agreeably impressed with 
the elevated character of my own. I kissed her solemnly 
at last, and told her that I had said everything, and that 
she must make the best of it. This morning she has 
dried her eyes, but I warrant you it isn't a cheerful house. 
I long to be out of it !" 
" I am extremely sorry to have made such a rumpus," 
said Rowland. " I owe your mother some amends ; will 
it be possible for me to see her ? " 
"If you will see her, it will smooth matters vastly; 
though, to tell the truth, she will need all her courage to 
face you, for she considers you an agent of the foul fiend. 
She doesn't see why you should have come here and set 
me by the ears : you are made to ruin young law students 
and desolate doting mothers. I leave it to you personally 
to answer these charges. You see, what she can't for 
give what she will not really ever forgive is your 
taking me off to Rome. Rome is an evil word in my 
mother 's vocabulary, to ba said in a whisper, as you'd 
say damnation. Northampton is in the centre of 
Christendom, and Rome far away in outlying dusk, into 
which it can do no proper moral man any good to pene 
trate. And there was I but yesterday a regular attendant 
at that repository of every virtue, Mr. Striker 's office ! " 
"And does Mr. Striker know of your decision?" 
asked Rowland. 
"To a certainty! Mr. Striker, you must know, is 
not simply a good-natured attorney who lets me dog s- 
 
ear his law-books. He 's a particular friend and general 
adviser. He looks after my mother 's property, and kindly 
consents to regard me as part of it. Our opinions have 
always been painfully divergent, but I freely forgive him 
his zealous attempts to unscrew my headpiece and set 
it on another way. He never understood me, and it 
was useless to try to make him. We speak a different 
language we are made of a different clay. I had a fit 
of rage yesterday, when I smashed his bust, at the 
thought of all the bad blood he had stirred up in me ; it 
did me good, and it 's all over now. I don't hate him 
any more ; I am rather sorry for him. See how you 
have improved me ! I must have seemed to him wilfully, 
wickedly stupid, and I am sure he only tolerated me on 
account of his great regard for my mother. This morning 
I grasped the bull by the horns. I took an armful of 
law-books that have been gathering the dust in my room 
for the last year and a half, and presented myself at the 
office. Allow me to put these back in their places, I 
said. I shall never have need for them more never 
more, never more, never more ! So you have learned 
everything they contain ? says the great Striker, leering 
over his spectacles ; better late than never ! I have 
learned nothing that you can teach me, I cried. But 
I shall tax your patience no longer. I am going to be 
a sculptor. I am going to Rome. I won't bid you 
good-bye just yet; I shall see you again. But I bid 
good-bye here with enthusiasm to these four detested 
walls to this living tomb ! I didn't know till now 
how I hated the place ! My compliments to Mr. 
Spooner, and my thanks for all you have not made 
of me ! " 
" I am glad to know you are to see Mr. Striker again," 
Rowland answered, correcting a primary inclination to 
smile. " You certainly owe him a respectful farewell, 
even if he has not understood you. I confess you rather 
puzzle me. There is another person," he presently 
 
added, " whose opinion as to your new career I should 
like to know. What does Miss Garland think?" 
Hudson looked at him keenly, with a slight blush. 
Then with a conscious smile, " What makes you suppose 
she thinks anything ? " he asked. 
" Because, though I saw her but for a moment yester 
day, she struck me as a very intelligent girl, and I am 
sure she has opinions." 
The smile on Roderick 's mobile face passed rapidly 
into a frown. "Oh, she thinks what I think!" he 
answered. 
Before the two young men separated Rowland attempted 
to give as harmonious a shape as possible to his companion 's future. " I have launched you, as I may say," 
he said ; and I feel as if I ought to see you into port. 
I am older than you and know the world better, and it 
seems well that we should voyage a while together. It 's 
on my conscience that I ought to take you to Rome, 
walk you through the Vatican, and then lock you up with 
a heap of clay. I sail on the 5th of September ; can you 
make your preparations to start with me ? " 
Roderick assented to all this with an air of candid 
confidence in his friend 's wisdom that expressed more 
than formal pledges. " I have no preparations to make," 
he said with a smile, raising his arms and letting them 
fall, as if to indicate his unencumbered condition. What 
I am to take with me I carry here ! " and he tapped his 
forehead. 
" Happy man ! " murmured Rowland with a sigh, 
thinking of the light stowage in his own organism, in 
the region indicated by Roderick, and of the heavy one 
in deposit at his banker s, of bags and boxes. 
When his companion had left him he went in search 
of Cecilia. She was sitting at work at a shady window, 
and welcomed him to a low chintz-covered chair. He 
sat some time thoughtfully snipping wools with her 
scissors ; he expected criticism, and he was preparing a 
 
rejoinder. At last he told her of Roderick 's decision and 
of his own part in the matter. Cecilia, besides an extreme surprise, exhibited a certain fine displeasure at his 
not having asked her advice. 
" What would you have said if I had ?" he demanded. 
" I should have said in the first place, Oh, for pity 's 
sake, don't carry off the person in all Northampton who 
amuses me most ! I should have said in the second 
place, Nonsense ! the boy is doing very well. Let well 
alone! " 
"That in the first five minutes. What would you 
have said later ? " 
" That for a man who is generally averse to meddling, 
you were suddenly rather officious." 
Rowland 's countenance fell ; he frowned in silence. 
Cecilia looked at him askance ; gradually the spark of 
irritation faded from her eye. 
"Excuse my sharpness," she resumed at last. "But 
I am literally in despair at losing Roderick Hudson. 
His visits in the evening, for the past year, have kept me 
alive. They have given a point to a very dull life a 
kind of silver -tip to days that seemed made of a baser 
metal. I don't say he is a phoenix but I liked to see 
him. Of course, however, that I shall miss him sadly is 
not a reason for his not going to seek his fortune. Men 
must work and women must weep ! " 
Decidedly not ! " said Rowland, with a good deal of 
emphasis. He had suspected from the first hour of his 
stay that Cecilia had a private satisfaction, and he discovered that she found it in Hudson 's lounging visits and 
boyish chatter. Now he wondered whether, judiciously 
viewed, her gain in the matter were not her young friend 's 
loss. It was evident that Cecilia was not judicious, and 
that her good sense, habitually rigid under the demands 
of domestic economy, indulged itself with a certain agree 
able laxity on this particular point. She liked her young 
friend just as he was ; she humoured him, flattered him, 
 
laughed at him, caressed him did everything but advise 
him. It was a flirtation without the benefits of a flirta 
tion. She was too old to let him fall in love with her, 
which might have done him good ; and her inclination 
was to keep him young, so that the nonsense he talked 
might never transgress a certain line. It was quite con 
ceivable that poor Cecilia should relish a pastime ; but if 
one had philanthropically embraced the idea that some 
thing considerable might be made of Roderick, it was 
impossible not to see that her friendship was not what 
might be called tonic. So Rowland reflected, in the glow 
of an almost creative ardour. There was a later time 
when he would have been grateful if Hudson 's suscepti 
bility to the relaxing influence of lovely women might 
have been limited to such inexpensive tribute as he 
rendered the excellent Cecilia. 
"I- only wish to remind you," she went on, " that you 
are likely to have your hands full. " 
" I have thought of that, and I rather like the idea ; 
liking as I do the man. I told you the other day, you 
know, that I longed to have something on my hands. 
When it first occurred to me that I might start our young 
friend on the path of glory, I felt as if I had an unim 
peachable inspiration. Then I remembered there were 
dangers and difficulties, and asked myself whether I had a 
right to drag him out of his obscurity. My notion of his 
really having a great talent answered the question. He is 
made to do the things that we are the better for having. 
I can't do such things myself, but when I see a young 
man of genius standing helpless and hopeless for want of 
capital, I feel and it 's no affectation of humility, I assure 
you as if it would give at least a reflected usefulness to 
my own life to offer him his opportunity." 
" In the name of the general public I suppose I ought 
to thank you. But I want first of all to profit myself. 
You guarantee us, at any rate, I hope, the master 
pieces ? " 
"A masterpiece a. year," said Rowland, smiling, "for 
the next quarter of a century." 
" It seems to me that we have a right to ask more to 
demand that you guarantee us not only the development 
of the artist but the security of the man." 
Rowland became grave again. " His security ? " 
" His moral, his sentimental security. Here, you see, 
it 's perfect. We are all under a tacit compact to keep 
him quiet. Perhaps you believe in the necessary turbu 
lence of genius, and you intend to enjoin upon your pro 
tege the importance of cultivating his passions. " 
" On the contrary, I believe that a man of genius owes 
as much deference to his passions as any other man, but 
not a particle more, and I confess I have a strong convic 
tion that the artist is better for leading a quiet life. That 
is what I shall preach to my protege, as you call him, by 
example as well as by precept. You evidently believe," 
he added in a moment, "that he will lead me a dance !" 
" No, I prophesy nothing. I only think that circum 
stances, with our young man, have a great influence ; as is 
proved by the fact that although he has been fuming and 
fretting here for the last five years, he has nevertheless 
managed to make the best of it, and found it easy, on the 
whole, to vegetate. Transplanted to Rome, I fancy he 
will put forth some wonderful flowers. I should like 
vastly to see the change. You must write me about it 
from stage to stage. I hope with all my heart that the 
fruit will be proportionate to the foliage. Don't think 
me a bird of ill omen ; only remember that you will be 
held to a strict account." 
"A man should make the most of himself, and be 
helped if he needs help," Rowland answered, after a long 
pause. " Of course when a body begins to expand, there 
comes in the possibility of bursting ; but I nevertheless 
approve of a certain tension of one 's being. It 's what a 
man is meant for. And then I believe in the essential 
salubrity of genius true genius. " 
 
"Very good," said Cecilia, with an air of resignation 
which made Rowland for the moment seem to himself 
culpably eager. "We will drink, then, to-day at dinner 
to the health of our friend ! " 
Having it much at heart to convince Mrs. Hudson of 
the purity of his intentions, Rowland waited upon her 
that evening. He was ushered into a large parlour, which 
by the light of a couple of candles he perceived to be very 
meagrely furnished and very tenderly and sparingly used. 
The windows were open to the air of the summer night, 
and a circle of three persons was temporarily awed into 
silence by his appearance. One of these was Mrs. Hudson, 
who was sitting at one of the windows, empty-handed save 
for the pocket-handkerchief in her lap, which was held 
with an air of familiarity with its sadder uses. Near her, 
on the sofa, half sitting, half lounging, in the attitude of 
a visitor outstaying ceremony, with one long leg flung over 
the other and a large foot in a clumsy boot swinging to 
and fro continually, was a lean, sandy-haired gentleman 
whom Rowland recognised as the original of the portrait 
of Mr. Barnaby Striker. At the table, near the candles, 
busy with a substantial piece of needlework, sat the young 
girl of whom he had had a moment 's quickened glimpse 
in Roderick 's studio, and whom he had learned to be Miss 
Garland, his companion 's kinswoman. This young lady 's 
limpid penetrating gaze was the most effective greeting he 
received. Mrs. Hudson rose with a soft, vague sound of 
distress, and stood looking at him shrinkingly and waver- 
ingly, as if she were sorely tempted to retreat through 
the open window. Mr. Striker swung his long leg 
a trifle defiantly. No one evidently was used to offer 
ing hollow welcomes or telling polite fibs. Rowland 
