had their day. When the yellow afternoon sunshine 
slept on the sallow battered walls and lengthened the 
shadows in the grassy coui tyards of small closed churches, 
the place acquired a strange fascination. The church 
of St. Cecilia has one of these sunny waste -looking 
courts ; the edifice seems abandoned to silence and the 
charity of chance devotion. Rowland never passed it 
without going in, and he was generally the only visitor. 
He entered it now, but he found that two persons had 
 
preceded him. Both were women. One was at her 
prayers at one of the side-altars ; the other was seated 
against a column at the upper end of the nave. Rowland 
walked to the altar and paid in a momentary glance at 
the clever statue of the saint in death in the niche 
beneath it the usual tribute to the charm of polished 
ingenuity. As he turned away he looked at the person 
seated, and recognised Christina Light. Seeing that she 
perceived him he advanced to speak to her. 
She was sitting in a listless attitude, with her hands 
in her lap ; she seemed to be tired. She was dressed 
very simply, as if for walking and escaping observation. 
When he had greeted her he glanced back at her 
companion and recognised the faithful Assunta. 
Christina smiled. " Are you looking for Mr. Hudson? 
He is not here, I am happy to say." 
"If he were here one might understand," said 
Rowland. " This is a strange place to find you alone." 
"Not at all! People call me a strange girl, and I 
might as well have the comfort of it. I came to take a 
walk ; that, by the way, is part of my strangeness. I 
can't loll all the morning on a sofa and sit perched all 
the afternoon in a carriage. I get horribly restless ; I 
must move ; I must do something and see something. 
Mamma suggests a cup of tea. Meanwhile I put on an 
old dress and half a dozen veils, I take Assunta under 
my arm, and we start on a pedestrian tour. It 's a bore 
that I can't take the poodle, but he attracts attention. 
We trudge about everywhere ; there is nothing I like 
so much. I hope you will congratulate me on the 
simplicity of my tastes." 
"I congratulate you on your wisdom. To live in 
Rome and not to walk about would, I think, be poor 
pleasure. But you are terribly far from home, and I am 
afraid you are tired." 
"A little enough to sit here a while." 
" Might I offer you my company while you rest ?" 
"If you will promise to amuse me. I am in dismal 
spirits." 
Saying he would do what he could, Rowland brought 
a chair and placed it near her. He was not in love with 
her ; he disapproved of her ; he distrusted her ; and yet 
he felt it a kind of privilege to watch her, and he found 
a peculiar excitement in talking to her. The background 
of her nature, as he would have called it, was large and 
mysterious, and it emitted strange fantastic gleams and 
flashes. Watching for these rather quickened one 's 
pulses. Moreover it was not a disadvantage to talk to 
a girl who made one keep guard on one 's composure ; 
it diminished one 's usual liability to utter something less 
than revised wisdom. 
Assunta had risen from her prayers, and as he took 
his place was coming back to her mistress. But 
Christina motioned her away. " No, no ; while you 
are about it say a few dozen more !" she said. " Pray 
for tne," she added in English. "Pray that I say 
nothing silly. She has been at it half an hour ; I envy 
her volubility !" 
" One often envies good Catholics," said Rowland. 
Oh, speak to me of that ; I have been through that 
too ! There was a time when I wanted immensely to be 
a nun ; it was not a laughing matter. It was when I 
was about sixteen years old. I read the Imitation and 
the Life of St. Catherine. I fully believed in the 
miracles of the saints, and I was dying to have one of 
my own little of a saint as I was ! The least little 
accident that could have been twisted into a miracle 
would have carried me straight into the cloister. I had 
the real religious passion. It passed away, and as I sat 
here just now I was wondering what has become of it ! " 
Rowland had already been sensible of something in 
this young lady 's tone which he would have called a 
want of veracity, and this epitome of her religious ex 
perience failed to strike him as absolutely historical. 
But the trait was not disagreeable, for she herself was 
evidently the foremost dupe of her inventions. She had 
a factitious history in which she believed much more 
fondly than in her real one, and an infinite capacity for 
extemporised reminiscence adapted to the mood of the 
hour. She liked to idealise herself, to take interesting 
and picturesque attitudes to her own imagination ; and 
the vivacity and spontaneity of her character gave her 
really a starting-point in experience, so that the many- 
coloured flowers of fiction which blossomed in her talk 
were not so much perversions as sympathetic exaggerations of fact. And Rowland felt that whatever she 
said of herself might have been, under the imagined 
circumstances ; energy was there, audacity, the restless 
questioning temperament. " I am afraid I am sadly 
prosaic," he said, "for in these many months now that 
I have been in Rome I have never ceased for a moment 
to look at Catholicism simply from the outside. I don 't 
see an opening as big as your finger-nail where I could 
creep into it !" 
"What do you believe?" asked Christina, looking at 
him. " Are you religious ?" 
 I am very old-fashioned. I believe in God." 
Christina let her beautiful eyes wander a while, and 
then gave a little sigh. "You are much to be envied !" 
" You, I imagine, in that line have nothing to envy 
me." 
"Yes, I have. Rest !" 
" You are too young to say that." 
"I am not young; I have never been young! My 
mother took care of that. I was a little wrinkled old 
woman at ten." 
"I am afraid," said Rowland, in a moment, "that 
you are fond of painting yourself in dark colours." 
She looked at him a while in silence. " Do you wish 
to win my eternal gratitude? Prove to me that I am 
better than I suppose." 
" I should have first to know what you really suppose." 
She shook her head. " It wouldn 't do ! You would 
be horrified to learn even the things I imagine about 
myself, and shocked at the knowledge of evil displayed 
in my very mistakes." 
" Well, then," said Rowland, " I will ask no questions. 
But, at a venture, I promise you to catch you some day 
in the act of doing something very good." 
" Are you too trying to flatter me ? I thought you and 
I had fallen from the first into rather a truth - speaking 
vein." 
"Oh, I have not given it up !" said Rowland ; and 
he determined, since he had the credit of homely direct 
ness, to push his advantage farther. The opportunity 
seemed excellent. But while he was hesitating how to 
begin, the young girl said, bending forward and clasp 
ing her hands in her lap, " Please tell me about your 
religion." 
" Tell you about it? I can't !" said Rowland, with 
a good deal of emphasis. 
She flushed a little. "Is it such a mighty mystery it 
cannot be put into words nor communicated to my base 
ears?" 
" It is simply a sentiment that makes part of my life, 
and I can't detach myself from it sufficiently to talk 
about it." 
" Religion, it seems to me, should be eloquent and 
aggressive. It should wish to make converts, to persuade 
and illumine, to take possession !" 
One 's religion takes the colour of one 's general dis 
position. I am not aggressive, and certainly I am not 
eloquent." 
" Well, I am sure I shouldn 't greatly care for anything 
you might say," Christina rejoined. " It would be sure 
to be half-hearted. You are not in the least contented." 
" How do you know that ?" 
"Oh, I am an observer !" 
"No one is absolutely contented, I suppose but I 
assure you I complain of nothing. " 
"So much the worse for your honesty! To begin 
with, you are in love." 
" You would not have me complain of that !" 
* And it doesn 't go well. There are grievous obstacles. 
So much I know ! You needn 't protest ; I ask no ques 
tions. You will tell no one me least of all. Why 
does one never see you?" 
" Why, if I came to see you," said Rowland, deliber 
ating, "it wouldn 't be, it couldn 't be, for a trivial reason 
because I had not been in a month, because I was 
passing, because I admire you. It would be because I 
should have something very particular to say. I have 
not come because I have been slow in making up my 
mind to say it." 
"You are simply cruel. Something particular, in 
this ocean of inanities? In common charity, speak !" 
I dovibt whether you will like it. " 
" Oh, I hope to Heaven it 's not some tribute to my 
charms ! " 
" It may be called a tribute to your reasonableness. 
That is one of your charms, you know. You perhaps 
remember that I gave you a hint of it the other day at 
Frascati. " 
" Has it been hanging fire all this time ? Explode ! 
I promise not to stop my ears." 
"It relates to my friend Hudson." And Rowland 
paused. She was looking at him expectantly ; her face 
gave no sign. I am rather disturbed in mind about 
him. He seems to me at times to be in a discouraging 
way." He paused again, but Christina said nothing. 
"The case is simply this," he went on. "It was by 
my advice he gave up his work at home and went in for 
an artist 's life. I made him burn his ships. I brought 
him to Rome, I launched him in the world, and I have 
undertaken to answer to to his mother for his doing 
well. It is not such smooth sailing as it might be, and 
I am inclined to put up prayers for fair winds. If he is 
to succeed, he must work very quietly and very hard. 
It is not news to you, I imagine, that Hudson is a great 
admirer of yours." 
Christina remained silent ; she turned away her eyes 
with an air, not of confusion, but of deep deliberation. 
Surprising frankness had, as a general thing, struck Row 
land as the keynote of her character, but she had more 
than once given him a suggestion of an unfathomable 
power of calculation, and her silence now had something 
which it is hardly extravagant to call portentous. He 
had, of course, asked himself how far it was questionable 
taste to inform an unprotected girl, for the needs of a 
cause, that another man admired her ; the thing super 
ficially had an uncomfortable analogy with treating the 
young lady as a cat s-paw. But he decided that even 
rigid discretion is not bound to take such a person at 
more than her own valuation, and Christina presently 
reassured him as to the limits of her susceptibility. 
" Mr. Hudson is in love with me ! " she said. 
Rowland flinched a trifle. Then " Am I," he asked, 
" from this point of view of mine, to be glad or sorry ? " 
" I don 't understand you." 
Why, is Hudson to be happy or unhappy ? " 
She hesitated a moment. " You wish him to be great 
in his profession ? And for that you consider that he 
must be happy in his life ? " 
"Decidedly. I don 't say it 's a general rule, but I 
think it 's a rule for him." 
" So that if he were very happy he would become very 
great ? " 
" He would at least do himself justice." 
" And by that you mean a great deal ?" 
"A great deal." 
Christina sank back in her chair, and rested her eyes 
on the cracked and polished slabs of the pavement. At 
last, looking up, "You have not forgotten, I suppose, 
that you told me he was engaged to be married ?" 
" By no means." 
" He is still engaged then ?" 
" To the best of my belief." 
"And yet you desire that, as you say, he should be 
made happy by something I can do for him ?" 
"What I desire is this. That your great influence 
with him should be exerted for his good, that it should 
help him and not retard him. Understand me. You 
probably know that your admirers have rather a restless 
time of it. I can answer for two of them. You don 't 
know your own mind very well, I imagine, and as you 
like being admired, the poor devil on whom you have 
cast your spell has to pay all the expenses ! Since we 
are really being frank, I wonder whether I might not 
say the great word." 
" You needn 't ; I know it. I am a horrible coquette." 
" No, not a horrible one, since I am making an 
appeal to your generosity. I am pretty sure you can't 
imagine yourself marrying my friend." 
"There 's nothing I can't imagine! That is my 
difficulty ! " 
Rowland 's brow contracted impatiently. "I can't 
imagine it then ! " 
Christina flushed faintly ; then very gently " I am 
not so bad as you think," she said. 
"It is not a question of badness ; it is a question of 
whether circumstances don 't make the thing an extreme 
improbability. " 
"Worse and worse. I can be bullied, then, or 
bribed?" 
"You are not so candid as you pretend to be. My 
feeling is this. Hudson, as I understand him, does not 
need, as an artist, the stimulus of strong emotion, of 
passion. He is better without it ; he is emotional, and 
passionate enough when he is left to himself. The 
sooner passion is at rest, therefore, the sooner he will 
settle down to work, and the fewer emotions he has that 
are mere emotions and nothing more, the better for him. 
If you cared for him enough to many him, I should have 
nothing to say ; I should never venture to interfere. But 
I strongly suspect you don 't, and therefore I suggest most 
respectfully that you leave him alone." 
" If I leave him alone he will go on like a new clock, 
eh?" 
"He will do better. He will have no excuses or 
pretexts." 
"Oh, he makes me a pretext, does he? I am much 
obliged ! " cried Christina, with a laugh. " What is he 
doing now ? " 
" I can hardly say. He 's like a very old clock, indeed. 
He 's moody, desultory, idle, irregular, fantastic." 
" Heavens, what a list ! And it 's all poor me ?" 
" No, not all. But you are a part of it, and I turn to 
you, because you are a more tangible, sensible, respon 
sible cause than the other things." 
Christina raised her hand to her eyes, and bent her 
head thoughtfully. Rowland was puzzled to measure 
the effect of his venture ; she rather surprised him by 
her gentleness. At last, without moving, " If I were to 
marry him," she asked, "what would have become of 
\\\sjiancee ? " 
" I am bound to suppose that she would have become 
extremely unhappy." 
Christina said nothing more, and Rowland, to let her 
make her reflections, left his place and strolled away. 
Poor Assunta, sitting patiently on a stone bench, and 
unprovided on this occasion with military consolation, 
gave him a bright frank smile which might have been 
construed as an expression of regret for herself, and of 
sympathy for her mistress. Rowland presently seated 
himself again near Christina. 
"What do you think of your friend 's infidelity to that 
young girl in the little village ? " she asked suddenly, 
looking at him. 
"I don 't like it." 
" Was he very much in love with her ? " 
" He asked her to marry him. You may judge." 
"Is she rich?" 
"No, she is poor." 
" Is she very much in love with him ? " 
" I know her too little to say." 
She paused again, and then resumed "You have 
settled in your mind, then, that I will never seriously listen 
to him ? " 
" I shall think it unlikely until the contrary is proved." 
How shall it be proved ? How do you know what 
passes between us ? " 
" I can judge, of course, but from appearances ; but, 
like you, I am an observer. Hudson has not at all the 
air of a happy lover ! " 
" If he is depressed there is a reason. He has a bad 
conscience. One must hope so at least. On the other 
hand, simply as a friend," she continued, gently, "you 
think I can do him no good ? " 
The humility of her tone, combined with her beauty, 
as she made this remark, was inexpressibly touching, 
and Rowland had an uncomfortable sense of being put 
at a disadvantage. "There are doubtless many good 
things you might do if you had proper opportunity," he 
said. "But you seem to be sailing with a current which 
leaves you little leisure for quiet benevolence. You live 
in the whirl and hurry of a world into which a poor 
artist can hardly find it to his advantage to follow you." 
" In plain English, I am odiously frivolous. You put 
it very generously." 
" I won't hesitate to say all my thought," said Row 
land. "For better or worse you seem to me to belong 
both by character and by circumstance to what is called 
the world, the great world. You are made to ornament 
xiv.   n 
it magnificently. You are not made to be an artist 's 
wife." 
* I see. But even from your point of view that would 
depend upon the artist. Extraordinary talent might make 
him a member of the great world." 
Rowland smiled. " That is very true." 
" If, as it is," Christina continued in a moment, "you 
take a low view of me no, you needn 't protest I 
wonder what you would think if you knew certain 
things." 
" What things do you mean ? " 
"Well, for example how I was brought up. I have 
had a horrible education. There must be some good in 
me, since I have perceived it, since I have turned and 
judged my circumstances." 
" My dear Miss Light ! " Rowland murmured remon- 
strantly. 
She gave a little quick laugh. " You don 't want to 
hear ! you don 't want to have to think about that ! " 
" Have I a right to ? You needn 't justify yourself." 
She turned upon him a moment the quickened light of 
her beautiful eyes, then fell to musing again. " Is there 
not some novel or some play," she asked* at last, "in 
which a beautiful wicked woman who has ensnared a 
young man sees his father come to her and beg her to 
let him go ? " 
" Very likely," said Rowland. " I hope she consents." 
"I forget. But tell me," she continued, "shall you 
consider admitting your proposition that in ceasing to 
be nice to Mr. Hudson, so that he may go about his 
business, I do something magnanimous, heroic, sublime 
something with a fine name like that ? " 
Rowland, elated with the prospect of gaining his 
point, was about to reply that she would deserve the 
finest name in the world ; but he instantly suspected 
that this tone would not please her, and besides, it would 
not express his meaning. 
"You do something I shall greatly respect," he con 
tented himself with saying. 
She made no answer, and in a moment she beckoned 
to her maid. " What have I to do to-day ?" she asked. 
Assunta meditated. "Eh, it 's a very busy day! 
Fortunately I have a better memory than the signorina," 
she said, turning to Rowland. She began to count on 
her fingers, " We have to go to the Pie di Marmo to see 
about those laces that were sent to be washed. You 
said also that you wished to say three sharp words to the 
Buonvicini about your pink dress. You want some 
moss rosebuds for to-night, and you won't get them for 
nothing ! You dine at the Austrian Embassy, and that 
Frenchman is to powder your hair. You re to come 
home in time to receive, for the signora gives a dance. 
And so away, away till morning ! " 
"Ah, yes, the moss roses!" Christina murmured 
appreciatively. "I must have a quantity at least a 
hundred. Nothing but buds, eh ? You must sew them 
in a kind of immense apron down the front of my 
dress. Packed tight together, eh? It will be delight 
fully barbarous. And then twenty more or so for my 
hair. They go very well with powder ; don 't you think 
so?" And 's 
Pompadour. 
" Going where?" 
"To the Spanish Embassy, or whatever it is." 
"All down the front, signorina? Dio buono ! You 
must give me time !" Assunta cried. 
"Yes, we will go!" And she left her place. She 
walked slowly to the door of the church, looking at the 
pavement, and Rowland could not guess whether she 
was thinking of her apron of moss rosebuds or of her 
opportunity for moral sublimity. Before reaching the 
door she turned away and stood gazing at an old picture, 
indistinguishable with blackness, over an altar. At last 
they passed out into the court. Glancing at her in the 
open air, Rowland was startled ; he thought he saw the 
traces of hastily-suppressed tears. They had lost time, 
she said, and they must hurry ; she sent Assunta to look 
for a coach. She remained silent a while, scratching 
the ground with the point of her parasol, and then at 
last looking up she thanked Rowland for his confidence 
in her " reasonableness." &lt;( It 's really very comfortable 
to be expected to do something good, after all the horrid 
things one has been used to doing instructed, com 
manded, forced to do ! I will think over what you have 
said to me." In that deserted quarter coaches are rare, 
and there was some delay in Assunta 's procuring one. 
Christina talked of the church, of the picturesque old 
court, of that strange decaying corner of Rome. Row 
land was perplexed ; he was ill at ease. At last the 
cab arrived, but she waited a moment longer. " So, de 
cidedly," she suddenly asked, "I can only harm him?" 
"You make me feel very brutal," said Rowland. 
"And he is such a fine fellow that it would be really 
a great pity, eh?" 
" I shall praise him no more," Rowland said. 
She turned away quickly, but she lingered still. 
" Do you remember promising me, soon after we first 
met, that at the end of six months you would tell me 
definitely what you thought of me ?" 
" It was a foolish promise." 
" You gave it. Bear it in mind. I will think of 
what you have said to me. Farewell." The two 
women stepped into the carriage and it rolled away. 
Rowland stood for some minutes looking after it, and 
then went his way with a sigh. If this expressed general 
mistrust, he ought three days afterwards to have been 
reassured. He received by the post a note containing 
these words : 
" I have done it. Begin and respect me ! 
C. L." 
 
To be perfectly satisfactory, indeed, the note required 
a commentary. Calling that evening upon Roderick, he 
found one in the information offered him at the door by 
the old serving- woman the startling information that 
the signorino had gone to Naples. 
XV. 
ABOUT a month later Rowland addressed to his cousin 
Cecilia a letter, of which the following is a portion : 
. . . "So much for myself ; yet I tell you but a tithe 
of my own story unless I let you know how matters stand 
with poor Hudson, for he gives me more to think about 
just now than anything else in the world. I need a good 
deal of courage to begin this chapter. You warned me, 
you know, and I made rather light of your warning. I 
have had all kinds of hopes and fears, but hitherto, in 
writing to you, I have resolutely put the hopes foremost. 
Now, however, my pride has forsaken me, and I should 
like hugely to give expression to a little comfortable 
despair. I should like to say, My dear wise cousin, 
you were right and I was wrong ; you were a shrewd 
observer, and I was a meddlesome donkey ! When I 
think of a certain talk we had about the salubrity of 
genius, I feel my ears tingle. If this is salubrity, give 
me raging disease ! I am pestered to death ; I go about 
with a chronic heartache ; there are moments when I 
could shed salt tears. There 's a pretty portrait of the 
most placid of men ! I wish I could make you under 
stand ; or rather, I wish you could make me ! I don 't 
understand a jot ; it 's a hideous, mocking mystery ; I 
give it up ! I don 't in the least give it up, you know ; 
I am incapable of giving it up. I sit holding my head 
by the hour, racking my brain, wondering what to invent. 
You told me at Northampton that I took the thing too 
easily ; you would tell me now perhaps that I take it too 
hard. I do, altogether ; but it can't be helped. With 
out flattering myself I may say I am sympathetic. Many 
another man, before this, would have cast his perplexities 
to the winds, and declared that Master Hudson must lie 
on his bed as he had made it. Some men, perhaps, 
would even say that I am making a mighty ado about 
nothing, that I have only to give him rope and he will 
tire himself out. But he tugs at his rope altogether too 
hard for me to hold it comfortably ! I certainly never 
pretended the thing was anything but an experiment ; I 
promised nothing, I answered for nothing ; I only said 
that the case was hopeful, and it would be a shame not 
to give him a chance. I have done my best, and if the 
machine is running down I have a right to stand aside 
and let it rattle. Amen, amen ! No, I can write that, 
but I can't feel it. I can't be just ; I can only be gener 
ous. I am fond of the poor devil, and I can't give him 
up. As for understanding him, that 's another matter ; 
nowadays I don 't believe even you would. One 's wits 
are sadly pestered over here, I assure you, and I am in 
the way of seeing more than one peculiar specimen of 
human nature. Roderick and Miss Light, between them ! 
. . . Haven't I already told you about Miss Light ? 
Last winter everything was perfection. Roderick struck 
out bravely, did really great things, and proved himself, 
as I supposed, thoroughly solid. He was strong, he was 
first -rate; I felt perfectly secure, and paid myself all 
kinds of compliments. We had passed at a bound into 
the open sea and left danger behind. But in the summer 
I began to be uneasy, though I succeeded in not being 
alarmed. When he came back to Rome, however, I saw 
that the tide had turned, and that we were close upon 
the rocks. It is, in fact, another case of Ulysses and the 
Sirens ; only Roderick refuses to be tied to the mast. 
He is the most extraordinary being, the strangest mixture 
 
of qualities. I don 't understand so much force going 
with so much weakness such a brilliant gift being sub 
ject to such lapses. The poor fellow is incomplete, and 
it is really not his own fault ; Nature has given him his 
faculty out of hand, and bidden him be hanged with it ! 
I never knew a man harder to advise or assist, if he is 
not in the mood for listening. I suppose there is some 
key or other to his character, but I try in vain to find it ; 
and yet I can't believe that Providence is so cruel as to 
have turned the lock and thrown the key away. He 
perplexes me to death, and though he tires out my 
patience he still fascinates me. Sometimes I think he 
has not a grain of conscience, and sometimes I think that 
in a way he has an excess. He takes things at once too 
easily and too hard ; he is both too lax and too tense, 
too reckless and too ambitious, too cold and too passion 
ate. He has developed faster even than you prophesied, 
and for good and evil alike he takes up a formidable 
space. There 's too much of him for me, at any rate. 
Yes, he is hard ; there is no mistake about that. He 's 
inflexible, he 's brittle ; and though he has plenty of spirit, 
plenty of soul, he hasn 't what I call a heart. He has 
something that Miss Garland took for one, and I am pretty 
sure she 's a judge. But she judged on scanty evidence. 
He has something that Christina Light, here, makes be 
lieve at times that she takes for one, but she is no judge 
at all ! I think it is established that in the long run 
egotism makes a failure in conduct : is it also true that 
it makes a failure in the arts ? . . . Roderick 's stand 
ard is immensely high ; I must do him that justice. He 
will do nothing beneath it, and while he is waiting for 
inspiration, his imagination, his nerves, his senses must 
have something to amuse them. This is a highly philo 
sophic way of saying that he has taken to riotous living, 
and has just been spending a month at Naples a city 
where pleasure is actively cultivated in very bad 
company. Are they all like that, all the men of genius ? 
There are a great many artists here who hammer away 
at their trade with exemplary industry ; in fact I am 
surprised at their success in reducing the matter to a 
virtuous habit ; but I really don 't think that one of them 
has his exquisite quality of talent. It is in the matter 
of quantity that he has broken down. Nothing comes 
out of the bottle ; he turns it upside down ; it 's no use ! 
Sometimes he declares it 's empty that he has done all 
he was made to do. This I consider great nonsense ; 
but I would nevertheless take him on his own terms if 
it were only I that was concerned. But I keep thinking 
of those two praying, trusting neighbours of yours, and 
I feel uncommonly like a swindler. If his working mood 
came on but once in five years I would willingly wait for 
it, and keep him on his legs somehow in the intervals ; 
but that would be a sorry account to present to them ! 
Five years of this sort of thing, moreover, would effectually 
settle the question. I wish he were less of a genius and 
more of a charlatan ! He 's too confoundedly all of one 
piece ; he won't throw overboard a grain of the cargo to 
save the rest. Fancy him thus with all his brilliant per 
sonal charm, his handsome head, his careless step, his 
look as of a nervous nineteenth-century Apollo, and you 
will understand that there is mighty little comfort in 
seeing him go to the bad. He was tolerably foolish last 
summer at Baden-Baden, but he got on his feet and for 
a while he was steady. Then he began to waver again, 
and at last toppled over. Now, literally, he 's lying 
prone ! He came into my room last night miserably 
tipsy. I assure you it didn 't amuse me. . . . About 
Miss Light it 's a long story. She is one of the great 
beauties of all time, and worth coming barefoot to Rome, 
like the pilgrims of old, to see. Her complexion, her 
glance, her step, her dusky tresses, may have been seen 
before in a goddess, but never in a woman. And you 
may take this for truth, because I am not in love with 
her. On the contrary ! Her education has been simply 
infernal. She is corrupt, perverse, as proud as a poten 
tate, and a coquette of the first magnitude ; but she is 
generous and intelligent, and if you set rightly to work 
you may enlist her imagination in a good cause as well 
as in a bad one. The other day I tried to bring it over 
to my side. I happened to have some talk with her to 
which it was possible to give a serious turn, and I boldly 
broke ground and begged her to suffer my poor friend to 
go in peace. After leading me rather a dance in con 
versation she consented, and the next day, with a single 
word, she packed him off to Naples to drown his sorrow 
in debauchery. I have come to the conclusion that she is 
more dangerous in her virtuous moods than in her vicious 
ones, and that she probably has a way of turning her back 
which is the most provoking thing in the world. She is 
an actress, she couldn 't forego doing the thing dram  lP 
cally, and it was the dramatic touch that made it fatal. 
I washed her, of course, to let him down easily ; but she 
desired to have the curtain drop on an attitude, and her 
attitudes have the property of depriving inflammable 
young artists of their reason. . . . Roderick made an 
admirable bust of her at the beginning of the winter, and 
a dozen women came rushing to him to be done, mutatis 
vmtandis, in the same style. They were all great ladies, 
and ready to take him by the hand, but he told them 
all their faces didn 't interest him, and sent them away 
vowing his destruction." 
At this stage of his long burst of confidence Rowland 
had paused and put by his letter. He kept it three days, 
and then read it over. He was disposed at first to destroy 
it, but he decided finally to keep it, in the hope that it 
might strike a spark of useful suggestion from the flint 
of Cecilia 's good sense. We know he had a talent for 
taking advice. And then it might be, he reflected, that 
his cousin 's answer would throw some light on Mary 
Garland 's present vision of things. In his altered mood 
he added these few lines 
" I unburdened myself the other day of this monstrous 
load of perplexity ; I think it did me good, and I will 
let it stand. I was in a melancholy muddle, and I was 
trying to wriggle out of it. You know I like discussion 
in a quiet way, and there is no one with whom I can 
have it as quietly as with you, most sagacious of cousins ! 
There is an excellent old lady with whom I often chat, 
and who talks very much to the point. But Madame 
Grandoni has disliked Roderick from the first, and if I 
were to take her advice I would wash my hands of him. 
You would laugh at me for my long face*,   mit you would 
do that in any circumstances. I am half ashamed of my 
letter, for I have a faith in my friend that is deeper than 
my doubts. He was here last evening, talking about 
the Naples Museum, the Aristides, the bronzes, the 
Pompeian frescoes, with such a beautiful intelligence that 
doubt of the ultimate future seemed blasphemy. I 
walked back to his lodging with him, and he was as 
mild as midsummer moonlight. He has that ineffable 
something that charms and convinces ; my last word 
about him shall not be a harsh one. " 
Shortly after sending his letter, going one day into his 
friend 's studio, he found Roderick suffering the honour 
able torture of a visit from Mr. Leavenworth. Roderick 
submitted with extreme ill grace to being bored, and he 
was now evidently in a state of high exasperation. He 
had lately begun a representation of a lazzarone lounging 
in the sun ; an image of serene, irresponsible, sensuous 
life. The real lazzarone, he had admitted, was a vile 
fellow ; but the ideal lazzarone and his own had been 
subtly idealised was the flower of a perfect civilisation. 
Mr. Leavenworth had apparently just transferred his 
unhurrying gaze to the figure. 
" Something in the style of the Dying Gladiator?" he 
sympathetically observed. 
"Oh no," said Roderick, seriously, "he is not dying, 
he is only drunk !" 
 
"Ah, but intoxication, you know," Mr. Leaven worth 
rejoined, "is not a proper subject for sculpture. Sculp 
ture should not deal with transitoiy attitudes." 
"Lying dead drunk is not a transitory attitude! 
Nothing is more permanent, more sculpturesque, more 
monumental !" 
"An entertaining paradox," said Mr. Leavenworth, 
" if we had time to exercise our wits upon it. I remem 
ber at Florence an intoxicated figure by Michael Angelo 
which seemed to me a deplorable aberration of a great 
mind. I myself touch liquor in no shape whatever. I have 
travelled through Europe on cold water. The most varied 
and attractive lists of wines are offered me, but I brush them 
aside. No cork has ever been drawn at my command ! " 
" The movement of drawing a cork calls into play a 
very pretty set of muscles," said Roderick. " I think I 
will make a figure in that position." 
"A Bacchus realistically treated! My dear young 
friend, never trifle with your lofty mission. Spotless 
marble should represent virtue, not vice ! " And Mr. 
Leavenworth placidly waved his hand, as if to exorcise 
the spirit of levity, while his glance journeyed with 
leisurely benignity to another object a marble replica 
of the bust of Christina. "An ideal head, I presume," 
he went on; "a fanciful representation of one of the 
pagan goddesses a Diana, a Flora, a naiad or dryad ? 
I often regret that our American artists should not boldly 
cast off that extinct nomenclature. " 
" She is neither a naiad nor a dryad," said Roderick, 
" and her name is as good as yours or mine." 
"You call her ?" Mr. Leavenworth blandly in 
quired. 
" Christina Light," Rowland interposed in charity. 
"Ah, our great American beauty ! Not a pagan god 
dess an American Christian lady ! Yes, I have had 
the pleasure of conversing with Miss Light. Her con 
versational powers are not remarkable, but her beauty is 
 
of a high order. I observed her the other evening at a 
large party, where some of the proudest members of the 
European aristocracy were present duchesses, princesses, 
countesses, and others distinguished by similar titles. But 
for beauty, grace, and elegance my fair countrywoman left 
them all nowhere. What woman can compare with a truly 
refined American lady ? The duchesses the other night 
had no attractions for my eyes ; they looked coarse and 
sensual ! It seemed to me that the tyranny of class dis 
tinctions must indeed be terrible when such countenances 
could inspire admiration. You see more beautiful girls 
in an hour on Broadway than in the whole tour of 
Europe. Miss Light now, on Broadway, would excite 
no particular remark." 
"Oh, damn Broadway !" Roderick murmured. 
Mr. Leavenworth stared, as if this were unpatriotic ; 
then he resumed, almost severely " I suppose you have 
heard the news about our fair countiy woman." 
"What news?" Roderick had stood with his back 
turned, fiercely poking at his lazzarone ; but at Mr. 
Leavenworth 's last words he faced quickly about. 
It 's the news of the hour, I believe. Miss Light is 
admired by the highest people here. They tacitly recog 
nise her superiority. She has had offers of marriage from 
various great lords. I was extremely happy to learn this 
circumstance, and to know that they had all been left 
sighing. She has not been dazzled by their titles and 
their gilded coronets. She has judged them simply as 
men, and found them wanting. One of them, however, 
a young Neapolitan prince, I believe, has, after a long 
probation, succeeded in making himself acceptable. Miss 
Light has at last said yes, and the engagement has just 
been announced. I am not generally a reporter of the 
gossip of the passing hour, but the fact was alluded to an 
hour ago by a lady with whom I was conversing, and 
here in Europe these conventional futilities usurp the 
lion 's share of one 's attention. I therefore retained the 
 
circumstance in my mind. Yes, I regret that Miss Light 
should marry one of these used-up foreigners. Ameri 
cans should stand by each other. If she wanted a bril 
liant match we could have organised it for her. If she 
wanted a fine fellow a fine, sharp, enterprising, 
modern man I would have undertaken to find him 
for her without going out of my native city Columbus, 
Ohio. And if she wanted a big fortune, I would have 
found her twenty that she would have had hard work 
to spend ; money down not tied up in fever-stricken 
lands and worm-eaten villas ! What is the name 
of the young man? Prince Castaway, or some such 
thing !" 
It was well for Mr. Leavenworth that he was fond of 
listening to his own correct periods ; for the current of 
his eloquence floated him past the short, sharp, startled 
cry with which Roderick greeted his anecdote. The young 
man stood looking at him with parted lips and an excited 
eye. 
" The position of woman," Mr. Leavenworth thought 
fully resumed, " is certainly a very degraded one in these 
countries. I doubt whether a European princess can 
command the respect which in our country is exhibited 
towards the obscurest females. The civilisation of a 
country should be measured by the deference shown to 
the weaker sex. Judged by that standard, where are 
they over here ?" 
Though Mr. Leavenworth had not observed Roderick 's 
emotion it was not lost upon Rowland, who was making 
sundry uncomfortable reflections upon it. He saw that 
it had instantly become one with the acute irritation pro 
duced by the poor gentleman 's oppressive personality, 
and that an explosion of some sort was imminent. Mr. 
Leavenworth, with calm unconsciousness, proceeded to 
fire the mine. 
"And now for our Culture!" he said in the same 
sonorous tones, demanding with a gesture the unveiling 
 
of the figure, which stood somewhat apart, muffled in a 
great sheet. 
Roderick stood looking at him for a moment with 
concentrated rancour, and then strode to the statue and 
twitched off the cover. Mr. Leavenworth settled himself 
into his chair with an air of flattered proprietorship, and 
scanned the unfinished image. "I can conscientiously 
express myself as gratified with the general conception," 
he said. " The figure has considerable majesty, and the 
countenance wears a fine open expression. The forehead, 
however, strikes me as not sufficiently intellectual. In 
the statue of Culture, you know, that should be the great 
point. The eye should instinctively seek the forehead. 
