going down to Burlington this afternoon, in the steamer, after my
uncle. We shall pass the island, and he can do what he pleases with
the fellow. I don’t think I am any more afraid of him than he is of
me.”
During the rest of the passage the events we have narrated were fully
discussed, and Dory learned more about the antecedents of Oscar
Chester. Doubtless he was the worst fellow in the party; but, if the
truth had been known, Dory would have understood that some of the
others were not much better. In three hours from Burlington the
Goldwing arrived at the little lake on which Beech Hill was located.
Mr. Brookbine, a very intelligent carpenter, who had been engaged as
an instructor in this department, was on the wharf; and the new pupils
were handed over to him. He marched them to the dormitory, where the
boys deposited what little baggage they brought. The Sylph lay at the
wharf, and the smoke was pouring out of her smoke-stack; for Jepson
had received a telegraph-message from Captain Gildrock.
The boys were more interested in the steam-yacht than in any thing
else; and they immediately asked permission of Mr. Brookbine, as they
had before of Dory, to go to Burlington in her. The master-carpenter
was willing; but he decided to go with them, after the experience
which Dory had had with them on the passage up.
Dory was the pilot, and he took his place in the pilot-house. He was
perfectly at home there; and the Sylph was really under his command,
for the carpenter knew nothing about boats or navigation. In a
discussion in regard to Oscar Chester, Mr. Brookbine thought he had
better be taken on board, for it would be late before they returned
from Burlington. A boat was sent for him, and he was brought on board.
CHAPTER XI.
THE MASTER-CARPENTER DISPOSES OF HIS PRISONER.
Oscar Chester had been on Garden Island over two hours, and had had
time enough to cool off. It was plain that he did not like the looks
of Mr. Brookbine, who was a stalwart Vermonter, over six feet in
height. He had gone on shore with one of the men from the estate, who
acted as a deck-hand, to bring off the rebel.
Oscar said nothing when he went on board of the steamer, and the other
boys were not inclined to make any talk with him. He walked from one
end of the Sylph to the other, taking a hasty survey of the
steam-yacht. He did not appear to be looking for any thing in
particular.
When he was on the forward deck he discovered Dory in the pilot-house.
He did not even bestow a second glance upon him, and went aft in a few
minutes. He looked sullen and obstinate, and it was clear that he was
disgusted with his experience on the lake.
“No use, Oscar,” said Williston Orwell, as the rebel approached him at
the stern of the boat. “You haven’t made out any thing, and I don’t
believe you will.”
“The end of the world hasn’t come yet,” replied Oscar with a heavy
sneer. “There is time enough yet, and you know I never back down.”
“But you might as well. You began too soon,” added Will Orwell.
“I didn’t begin at all: I was civil enough to Dory till he began to
put on airs. He talked to me just as though I were a little child, and
he were the Grand Mogul. I told him I wanted to steer the boat, and he
told me to sit down. He insulted me.”
“I don’t think he did, Oscar. None of us were ever in a sailboat
before; and I think he did just right in not letting you steer, for it
wouldn’t have taken much to upset that boat with so many in her.”
“Then you think I am a spring chicken, do you, Will?” demanded Oscar
with a curl of the lip.
“You know I don’t think any such thing; but you don’t know how to
steer a sailboat any more than I do. You were a little too fast to
think of doing it so soon,” reasoned Orwell with proper deference,
though he ventured to speak the truth as he understood it.
“If the fellow hadn’t put on airs, and ordered me about as though I
had been his servant, I wouldn’t say a word,” continued Oscar. “As it
is, he insulted me, and pitched me into the lake.”
“He didn’t pitch you into the lake, Oscar. You are not used to a boat
tossed about by the waves, and you fell overboard.”
“Didn’t he make the boat tip more when I stood up on purpose to pitch
me into the lake?” demanded Oscar angrily.
“I don’t know whether he did or not. I don’t understand a boat.”
“I know he did! And then he tumbled me into the water at the island.”
“But you pitched into him then; and, as he could stand up better than
you could in the boat, he threw you overboard.”
“I shall get even with him; and if I don’t throw him into the lake, it
will be because I can’t do it,” blustered the rebel. “I see you are on
his side.”
“I am not on his side; but I don’t expect a fellow to stand still,
and let you thrash him. I advise you to let him alone for a while, and
your time will come before many days have gone by. Don’t touch him
while he is handling the boat,” added the politic companion.
“I shall go for him the first moment I can get at him, and I know
where he is now,” said the intemperate rebel.
“Don’t do it: Dory is the pilot of the steamer, and the engineer just
told me that they can do nothing without him. Didn’t you hear Captain
Gildrock read the telegraph-message, that Dory was away, and for that
reason he could not go down to Burlington to convey us to Beech Hill?”
reasoned Will very earnestly.
“I don’t care what he is: I shall not feel easy for a moment until I
get even with him. I will pull him out of that cubby-house where he
is, and pitch him into the lake, before I am half an hour older,”
persisted the rebel.
“Don’t do it! You will only make trouble for yourself. Captain
Gildrock will come on board as soon as we get to Burlington, and if I
mistake not you will find a Tartar in him.”
“I’m not afraid of him. But I don’t think I shall wait for him,”
replied Oscar. “I have not been to Beech Hill yet, but I have had
about enough already to satisfy me what it is going to be. If I am to
be ordered about by a boy younger than I am, and insulted by him,
because I happen to be in a boat with him, I don’t want any more of
it. My uncle gave me money enough to pay my fare to New York, and you
have more than I have, Will. What do you say: will you go with me?”
“What shall we do when we get there? I don’t believe in jumping out of
the frying-pan into the fire,” replied Will.
“Both of us want to go to sea, and all we have to do is to find places
in a ship going to some foreign country. We can take care of
ourselves,” said Oscar confidently.
“I am not ready to go anywhere yet: I want to see what this Industrial
School is. We are to learn how to handle an engine, and how to manage
ships and boats. I think we had better wait a while before we go to
New York. We haven’t money enough to pay our way till we find a place
in a ship.”
“You can do as you like, Will, but I have had enough of this thing;
and when you miss me you will know where I have gone. If you blow on
me”--
“You know very well I won’t do that,” protested Will.
Oscar did not wait to hear any more. He went forward, and then
ascended to the hurricane deck. He and Will Orwell had been cronies,
so far as the character of Oscar would permit such a relation.
The rebel reached the hurricane deck, and went forward to the
pilot-house. He surveyed the situation carefully. Dory stood before an
open window, with the spokes of the wheel in his hands. The doors of
the apartment, one on each side, were open. The young helmsman had no
more thought of being assaulted than he had of jumping overboard.
Dory was delighted with his occupation, for he had not steered the
Sylph enough to make it an old story to him. From Garden Island he had
run out into the lake until the steamer was in range between Split
Rock and Juniper Island lights, when he headed for the latter. This
course would carry him clear of Quaker Smith Reef.
Most of the boys, after looking over the Sylph with wonder and
astonishment at the elegance of her appointments, had gathered on the
main deck forward, where they could see the lake and the course of the
steamer. But a few of them were on the hurricane-deck, and three of
them were in the pilot-house with Dory. The pilot kept his eye on
Juniper Island lighthouse, the top of which could be seen seventeen
miles. The flag-pole in the bow was kept in range with the object for
which he was steering. He had just explained to the boys in the room
how he kept off the rocks and shoals, and found his way to any part of
the lake.
He had hardly finished this explanation before Oscar Chester rushed
into the pilot-house. He rudely knocked aside a couple of the pilot’s
auditors, and laid violent hands upon Dory. The helmsman was
unconscious of the presence of an enemy until the rebel had seized him
by the collar of his coat. He pulled him over on his back upon the
floor.
“Your time has come now, Dory Dornwood!” said Oscar fiercely, as he
began to drag Dory out of the pilot-house.
“So has yours!” added Mr. Brookbine, as he stepped forward from behind
the pilot-house, where he had been reading the morning paper brought
up by the Goldwing.
The master-carpenter took the rebel by the nape of the neck, and
snapped him off his feet before he could wink twice. He pitched him
half-way across the hurricane deck. Oscar was nothing but a “spring
chicken” in the hands of the burly mechanic.
“It’s a pity I took you off that island!” exclaimed Mr. Brookbine, as
he bestowed a glance of contempt upon the rebel. “Did he hurt you,
Dory?”
“Not at all. He came up behind me when I was not thinking of any thing
of that kind, or I should have taken care of myself,” replied the
young pilot, as he rushed back to the wheel.
The pilot got his range again, and the Sylph went ahead as though
nothing had happened. The master-carpenter walked up to the fallen
rebel, who appeared to have been hurt when he struck the deck, though
he was in the act of getting up. Mr. Brookbine did not wait for him to
finish the act, but seized him by the nape of the neck again, and bore
him to the pilot-house.
“It is a pity we took this fellow from the island, Dory, for we can’t
trust him loose about the steamer,” said the stout Vermonter. “Is
there any place on board where I can lock him up?”
“Put him in the ice-house,” replied Dory, who was entirely willing to
have his assailant placed where he could do no more mischief.
“Let me alone!” growled Oscar, attempting to break away from the grip
of the master-carpenter.
“I will let you alone when I have locked you in the ice-house,” added
Mr. Brookbine, giving his patient several sharp twists and shakes,
which certainly did not improve his temper.
“He sneaked up behind me, or I should not have needed any help,” said
Dory, who felt that he had suffered a partial defeat in being taken by
surprise. “I am sorry I did not see him, for I think I should have
made it hot for him.”
“I shall make it hot for you before you have seen the end of this
affair. I will teach you what it is to insult your betters,” replied
Oscar. “If I don’t pitch you into the lake before I have done with
you, it will be because I can’t.”
“Any time when you are ready, let the fun begin,” added Dory, when he
had better have held his tongue.
“You will cool off in the ice-house; and we will see what you can do
in there,” continued Mr. Brookbine, as he dragged the rebel out of the
pilot-house.
“Let me alone! I don’t let anybody put his hands upon me,” yelled
Oscar, struggling to escape from the grasp of the carpenter.
“But you will be a good boy, and let me put my hands upon you, won’t
you?” added the big mechanic.
“No, I won’t! I will be the death of you if you don’t let go!”
“Steady, my boy: you are getting excited. You are wasting a great deal
of bad breath on nothing.”
The carpenter slapped his victim over a few times on the deck before
he reached the stairs to the main deck. Oscar could not stand this: he
said it hurt, and he became comparatively quiet. His tyrant walked him
down the steps. The boys on both decks gathered to witness the
exciting scene; but no one offered to interfere, and no one spoke a
word of comfort for the rebel.
“Will Orwell!” called the victim, when he saw his crony among the
spectators to his humiliation. “Come here, and help me!”
“No, I thank you! I don’t believe in butting your head against a
stonewall, and I told you not to do it beforehand.”
The carpenter opened the door of the ice-house, and thrust his
prisoner into the dark hole, as it was when the door was closed.
CHAPTER XII.
CAPTAIN GILDROCK’s FIRST LESSON IN NAVIGATION.
Mr. Brookbine secured the door of the ice-house, and put the key into
his pocket. The interior was ventilated for the benefit of the
provisions that were kept on the ice when the steamer was on a long
cruise, but there was no window or other opening which would admit a
particle of light.
“What’s the trouble, Mr. Brookbine?” asked Jepson the engineer, who
was the master-machinist and an instructor of the school.
“That is the most desperate young cub I ever happened to encounter,”
replied the carpenter, as he proceeded to relate what had happened in
the Goldwing and on board of the steamer.
“Captain Gildrock will bring him to his senses,” added the engineer,
laughing; for he believed the captain could do any thing that was
within the scope of mortal man.
“I am ready to have him begin where I leave off; but there won’t be
much left of the young rascal when I get through with him if I have to
deal with him,” replied the carpenter.
“We are likely to have a sweet time with these young fellows if many
of them are like that one,” added Mr. Jepson. “He wants to get even
with Dory, does he? I reckon Dory will be willing to give him a
chance, though I never knew of the skipper’s getting into a fight on
his own account.”
Dory had already become a great favorite at Beech Hill. He was a smart
boy, but he was not perfect by any means. He had a great deal to
learn, but he was willing to learn it. The instructors in the
scholastic department had not yet arrived, but the mechanical
directors were already his fast friends. Even the servants, of whom
there was a small army on the estate, always smiled when he went among
them; for he was invariably kind and obliging to them, and willing to
assist them by all the means in his power. Besides, he was regarded as
the heir of the magnate of Beech Hill; and it was prudent to “keep on
the right side of him.”
Of course the nine other boys who had arrived that day all talked
about the exciting events which had transpired since they left
Burlington in the forenoon. Still, no one belonging to the steamer
heard them say any thing. They made no comments on the conduct of
Oscar: possibly they were afraid they might be reported to him. But
they had learned to feel a great admiration for Dory; first, because
he was not afraid of the rebel, and, second, because he could handle a
sailboat and manage a steamer.
It was about dark when the Sylph arrived at the landing in Burlington.
Captain Gildrock was on the wharf, waiting her coming. As soon as he
went on board, Mr. Brookbine reported the case of discipline to him,
and informed him that the prisoner was confined in the ice-house.
“All right: let him stay there,” replied the captain, when he had
listened to the account of the doings of the new scholar. “Then Dory
has had a hard time of it. I was afraid he might have some
difficulty.”
“No fear for Dory,” replied the carpenter, laughing. “He can take care
of himself. He fought his own battle in the Goldwing, and won the day
every time.”
“I knew that Chester was the worst fellow in the party, but I did not
expect him to break out so soon. I am glad to hear that the others
have behaved well,” said Captain Gildrock, as he walked forward where
the boys were assembled. “How are you getting on, boys?”
“First-rate, sir,” replied several of them in the same breath.
“I am glad to hear it; and none of us will have any trouble as long as
we mean well. What you mean is more than half the battle in morals. I
did not expect you so soon, and I am afraid Dory has not looked out
for your stomachs.”
“Yes, he has, sir,” said Ben Ludlow. “He had a basket of provisions on
the boat, and we fed out of that.”
This was the lunch he had taken the night before, and it had served
over a dozen instead of two. But the boys had been so much excited by
the novel event of a sail in a fresh breeze that they were not in
condition to do justice to the rations.
When the captain learned that the scholars had eaten only the supply
of food intended for two, he took the whole party to the hotel to
supper. After Captain Gildrock and Dory returned, the engineer and
carpenter went. The latter suggested that the prisoner in the
ice-house had been forgotten.
“I shall not forget him, but he may go without his supper to-night. A
little fasting will do him good. His father and mother are both dead,
and his uncle is one of the richest men in the State. He told me that
nothing but the sharpest discipline would do him any good. He will run
away as soon as he gets a chance; and this must be prevented,” replied
the captain.
Jepson and Brookbine returned in less than half an hour. The captain
had quite a chat with the boys while they were waiting. He told them
something about his plans, and was so kind and familiar with them that
they began to like him.
“I am told that some of you have been wild boys, and have been turned
out of school,” said he. “Except in one instance, I don’t know who
they are. I prevented your parents and others from telling me any
thing about your misconduct. You are all alike to me so far, and every
boy has his own reputation to make.
“You will not be judged at all by the past, but by what you do in the
future. I want you to remember this, boys. All of you will have to
work in the shops, and wherever there is any thing to do. You will
have to learn your book-lessons as well as how to work in wood and
metal. But there will be lots of fun as well as hard work. In a few
days we shall man this steamer, and every one of you will have a
station on board of her.”
“Hurrah!” shouted one of the new pupils in his enthusiasm; and the
cheer was taken up by the entire party.
“Before winter I hope some of you will be as competent to handle a
sailboat or a steamer as Dory is. But bear in mind that it is not all
play. I am going to make useful men of you, and I hope you will second
all my endeavors.”
The arrival of the carpenter and engineer interrupted the
conversation, and in a few minutes more the Sylph was standing up the
lake. It was dark now; and the boys gathered around Captain Gildrock
again, for he could not talk without interesting them.
“Who is steering this steamer now, Captain Gildrock?” asked Jim
Alburgh.
“Dory is steering her,” replied the captain.
“But it is dark: how can he find his way back to Beech Hill?”
“Did you suppose that ships that cross the ocean, being out of sight
of land for weeks at a time, stopped in the night?” asked the captain.
“I didn’t think any thing at all about it,” replied Jim. “I don’t know
any thing about it. It is as dark as a pocket, and I should not think
Dory could see the land on either side of the lake.”
“He has no need to see it. Do you see that lighthouse on the island?”
asked the captain, pointing at Juniper Island.
“But that does not give light enough to enable the pilot to see the
shore on either side,” replied Jim.
“That is not what a lighthouse is for. The light it gives don’t amount
to any thing half a mile from it. The light only marks certain
localities. Now look up the lake all of you,” continued Captain
Gildrock, pointing in the direction of Split-Rock light. “Do you see
that light?”
“Yes, sir!” shouted Lick Milton. His name was T. Licking Milton, but
he had a nickname.
The rest of the boys soon made out the light, and some of them shouted
as loudly as the first speaker.
“Juniper Island light is on our right now. Dory will run on till the
steamer is in range with this light and Split Rock, which is twelve
miles and a half from here. Then he will head for the Split-Rock
light, keeping Juniper exactly astern of him,” continued the captain.
“Why don’t he run for Split Rock now?” asked Ben Ludlow.
“He would run upon Quaker-Smith’s Reef, about four miles from here, if
he did. Now, my boy, can you walk straight from where you stand to the
flag-pole at the stem of the steamer?”
“No, sir, I cannot. That thing is in the way,” replied Ben, after he
had looked the matter over.
“Precisely so: the capstan is in your way. Now go over to the side of
the steamer.” Ben obeyed, and the boys watched the demonstration with
interest. “Can you walk straight to the stem of the boat now?”
“Yes, sir, I can. There is nothing in my way.”
“Then, if you keep in range with the port gangway and the stem, there
will be nothing in your way, will there?”
“Nothing, sir.”
“That is exactly the principle on which we pilot a steamer or any other
vessel. But sometimes the matter is much more complicated, and we have
to take a dozen different ranges in going a dozen miles. Pilots learn
all these ranges, and get their bearings from various objects on the
shore. You can see the capstan; but we cannot see the obstructions in
our way in sailing a vessel, for they are under water. They are all
laid down on the chart, and we can learn our courses from that.”
“But isn’t there any thing on that reef to let you know where it is?”
asked Dave Windsor.
“There is nothing on Quaker-Smith’s Reef, for it is out of the usual
track of vessels. It is about a mile from the eastern shore of the
lake. When the water is as low as it is now, this steamer would get
aground on it. But at the entrance to harbors they put buoys, and also
on rocks and shoal places in or near the usual track of vessels.”
“What sort of things are buoys?” asked Bob Swanton.
“Generally they are logs of wood, anchored to the bottom. These are
called spar-buoys. Others are made of metal, hollow, and shaped like a
couple of frustrums of cones joined at the big end. These are can-buoys.
There are other kinds, but you won’t find them in this lake.”
“Spar and can buoys. We can remember them,” added John Brattle.
“The spars are all painted red, black, or striped. When going into a
harbor, red buoys must be left on the starboard hand; that is, on your
right. Black buoys must be left on the port, or left, hand. When you
see a buoy painted with black and red stripes, it is a danger buoy;
and you may go on either side of it. When you see one painted up and
down with black and white stripes, you must go close to it. Sometimes
the buoys are numbered: then the even numbers are on the red buoys,
and the odd ones on the black buoys. But you must learn all these
things by seeing them.”
“What are the colored lights on the sides of this steamer for?” asked
Bob Swanton.
“The red light is on the port side, and the green on the starboard.
They are to show any vessel approaching us which way we are going,”
replied the captain. “But I can explain this better when we see the
lights of another vessel.”
All hands were on the lookout for another vessel at once.
CHAPTER XIII.
HANDLING A STEAMER IN A FOG.
Half an hour later a steamer came out of Essex, on the west shore of
the lake. Captain Gildrock was promptly notified by the boys that a
red light was to be seen.
“I suppose you have all seen port wine, and know it is red; though it
is not as red in Portugal as it is here,” added the captain. “This
will help you to remember that the red light is on the port, or
left-hand, side. When I see the red, I know at once that the port side
of the vessel is towards me, and therefore, if I am to the northward
of her, that she is going in an easterly direction. If I were south of
her, she would be going the other way.”
“But now we can see the green light too,” said Dave Windsor.
“That shows that she is coming towards us, and we must look out that
she don’t run into us.”
“How can you help it, if she keeps on, and you keep on?” asked Ned
Bellows.
“We will wait and see what Dory will do,” replied Captain Gildrock.
After going a mile farther, the boys heard a single sharp whistle over
their heads. It was immediately followed by the same signal from the
approaching steamer.
“That will make it all right. Dory has blown one whistle, which means
that he will pass the other steamer to starboard. The other steamer,
as she indicates by her one whistle, will pass at the starboard of
us,” continued the captain. “If Dory had blown two whistles, he would
have gone to port of the approaching vessel. You see that we are going
by her all right.”
“Suppose there had been a fog when we came out of Burlington, Captain
Gildrock: what should we have done?” asked Ben Ludlow. “Could Dory
have run the boat down to Beech Hill?”
“He could do it, but I should rather he would not. It is not safe to
run in a fog; and it is best not to do it, unless your business is
very urgent,” replied Captain Gildrock.
“But suppose you could not even see Juniper-Island light: what would
you do if you had to run to Beech Hill?” persisted the inquirer.
“Juniper light is west-south-west from the wharf, as I have ruled it
off from the chart. The distance is three and a quarter miles. The
speed of the Sylph is twelve miles an hour, and it will take her
sixteen minutes and a quarter to reach the light. But we don’t start
at full speed, and we must allow for that.
“At the end of sixteen minutes, by the clock in the pilot-house, we
begin to look out for the light. If we don’t find it, we don’t go
ahead, if we stay there all day and all night. We whistle, and that
lets the people at the light know that a steamer is trying to find her
way up the lake; and they will blow a horn. When we hear it, we know
by the direction where the light is. They will keep blowing the horn
for a while.
“Split-Rock light is south-south-west from Juniper, and we steer this
course by compass for one hour and two minutes. At the end of that
time, if we are all right, we hear the horn at Split Rock. When we
have got the bearing of the light, we head her south by west, and run
two and three-quarters miles to the mouth of Beaver River; which we do
in thirteen and three-quarters minutes.
“Then Dory will strike the bell for the deckhand to heave the lead,
or, in other words, see how deep the water is. If we get ten feet at
this stage of the water, we are in the channel. We steer
east-south-east, and keep sounding all the time. If the leadsman
should report a less depth, we stop the steamer, and find where the
channel is. We may have to get out a boat to ascertain. When we get
fairly into the river, we can see the shores through the fog. If we
can’t, we have to feel our way up.”
The evening was quite chilly on the lake; and Captain Gildrock had
taken the boys into the forward cabin, as they were not provided with
overcoats. He had hardly finished his explanation before a long
whistle above them excited their interest.
“Perhaps you will have a chance to see how we work the steamer in a
fog,” said Captain Gildrock, looking at his watch. “It is about time
we were up with Split Rock, and very likely Dory cannot find the
light.”
The captain left the cabin, followed by all the boys. As soon as they
reached the forecastle, Dory rang the bell to stop her. The fog had
blown up from the southward; and the Sylph was completely enveloped
in it, so that nothing could be seen from her deck.
“Here we are,” said Captain Gildrock, as he led the way to the
hurricane-deck. “You can’t see half a ship’s-length ahead. I was
afraid this southerly wind might blow up a fog.”
The deck-hand was standing on the rail at the forward flag-pole,
trying to penetrate the thick mist that shrouded the shore. Dory gave
another long whistle. By this time the steamer had come to a
standstill, and nothing more was to be done until the pilot found out
where he was. The boys gathered on the hurricane-deck around Captain
Gildrock, who did not say any thing to the young pilot, or even go
near him.
“Can you see any thing, Bates?” called Dory to the deck-hand.
“Not a thing, sir,” replied Bates.
“There! I hear the horn!” exclaimed Dave Windsor.
“Horn on the starboard bow, sir!” shouted Bates.
“I hear it,” added Dory. The gong-bell in the engine-room rang, and
the Sylph began to move again.
“Horn again, sir. We are not ten fathoms from the point, sir,” called
Bates. “I see the light now, sir.”
“All right: so do I. Keep a sharp lookout ahead, Bates,” replied Dory,
as the sound of a jingling bell was heard from the engine-room; and
the steamer increased her speed very rapidly.
“Bates seems to be a very polite man,” said Ned Bellows, laughing. “He
puts in a ‘sir’ every time he says any thing to Dory.”
“It is second nature for a seaman to say ‘sir’ to an officer,” added
the captain.
“But to a boy not more than fourteen or fifteen years old!”
“No matter how young or how old he is, if he is an officer. Discipline
is very strict at sea, as it will be on board of the Sylph after we
have organized the ship’s company. You must all say ‘sir’ to your
officers, even if they are boys.”
“The last bell that rung was different from the other,” suggested Ben
Ludlow.
“The jingling bell is the speed-bell,” replied the captain.
“It means ‘Go faster,’ don’t it?”
“Not at all. If Dory should ring it now, it would mean ‘Go slower.’”
“It can’t mean both slower and faster,” reasoned Ben.
“Why not? If the boat is going full speed it means ‘Slow down:’ if she
is going at half speed it means ‘Full speed.’ The gong-bell, one
stroke, means ‘Start her’ if she is not turning her screw, or ‘Stop
her’ if she is going ahead. Two strokes of the gong means ‘Back her.’”
At equal intervals the whistle of the Sylph sounded, and this fact
soon excited the attention of the curious pupils. They wanted to know
what it was for. The captain explained that it was to warn any vessel
of the presence of the steamer, so that neither craft should run into
the other. Steamers used their whistles, and sailing-vessels a horn.
But no horn or whistle was heard during the rest of the trip.
The next sound that attracted the attention of the pupils was the
speed-bell, which was quickly followed by the gong; and the screw
ceased to turn. At a single stroke of the large ship’s bell, Bates,
standing upon the rail, at the forward gangway, heaved the lead.
“No bottom!” shouted the leadsman. Dory rang the gong, and the steamer
went ahead at half speed.
“Does he mean to say there is no bottom to the lake in this place,
Captain Gildrock?” asked Dave Windsor.
“Not at all: we don’t usually sound below fifty feet; and any greater
depth than that is called ‘no bottom,’” replied the captain.
“By the deep, eight!” said Bates.
“By the deep, eight,” repeated Dave Windsor. “That means eight feet
deep, I suppose.”
“No, it don’t: it means about forty-eight feet. The depth is measured
in fathoms of six feet each. The lead-line is marked with two strips
of leather at two fathoms, with three strips at three, with a white
rag at five fathoms, and with a red rag at seven; at ten fathoms is a
leather with a hole in it, and so on. There are no marks at four, six,
eight, and nine fathoms. When the leadsman said ‘By the deep, eight,’
the line was under water about six feet below the red rag, or seven
fathoms.”
“By the mark, five!” called Bates.
“Just thirty feet,” the captain explained.
“And a half two!”
“Two fathoms and a half. We are shoaling rapidly.”
“Mark under water, two!”
“A little over two fathoms.”
“Ten feet!” shouted Bates with more energy than before.
The gong rang at this report, and two strokes followed instantly. The
screw began to turn backwards; and, when her headway was checked, a
single stroke stopped her.
“Dory is doing it all right,” said Captain Gildrock. “When he backed
her he put the helm to port, so as to get her head pointed
east-south-east. If he had not stopped the boat when he did, she would
have been aground in a couple of minutes; for there is a shoal south
of the mouth of the river on which the water is only from one to six
feet deep.”
“What harm would it have done if we had got aground?” asked Bob
Swanton.
“It would have done no harm, as we were going slowly; though we might
have had to stay here all night. If there had been a rock there, it
would probably have stove a hole in the bottom of the boat.”
“Ten feet!” reported Bates again.
The gong rang to go ahead, but the steamer hardly moved through the
water. The captain said the pilot had told the engineer, through the
speaking-tube, to go very slowly. Bates continued to sound, reporting
the same water as before.
“I see the point, sir,” said Bates a little later.
“All right! I have it,” replied Dory. The boat began to move a little
faster, but she did not get above half speed.
In the river the fog was not so dense as on the lake, and the pilot
could make out the objects on the banks of the stream. She went into
the creek leading from the river to the lake, and in a few minutes
more she was at the temporary wharf which had been built for her.
“Well, boys, you have had both the theory and the practice of handling
a steamer in a fog. It is an easy matter on this lake compared with
the bays and harbors on the seacoast, for there the pilot has to make
allowances for the tide.”
The boys landed, and were directed to go to the study-room in a
building adjoining the dormitory. The captain called Mr. Brookbine,
and they went together to the ice-house.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE STRONG-ROOM AT THE BEECH-HILL INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL.
The trip was finished, and Dory was relieved from further duty in the
pilot-house. He came down upon the main deck just as the carpenter was
unlocking the door of Oscar Chester’s prison. Mr. Brookbine had a
lantern in one hand, which threw its light into the room when the door
was opened.
The rebel was lying on the floor, which was quite dry, for the room
had not been used for several weeks. He seemed to be making himself
quite at home in his prison; and possibly he had been asleep, for he
gaped and yawned when he was discovered. But this was affectation. He
wanted to make his persecutors, as he regarded them, think that he was
not at all disturbed by his confinement.
“You may came out now, Chester,” said Captain Gildrock.
“I don’t want to go out: I am very comfortable here, I want you to
understand,” replied Oscar with plentiful display of bravado.
“It is my order that you come out!” added the captain sternly.
“I don’t know that I care for your orders. I have made up my mind to
stay in this place only long enough to get even with that Dory
Dornwood. When I have thrashed him within an inch of his life, I shall
be ready to leave; and I shall leave, I want you to understand,”
answered Oscar. “I don’t intend to be bossed by any little boy you may
see fit to place over me.”
“I shall not argue the question with you: I told you to come out,”
continued Captain Gildrock in very decided, though gentle, tones.
“And I told you I wouldn’t go out!” replied Oscar.
“You may bring him out, Mr. Brookbine, and take him up to the brig,”
said the captain, as he took the lantern from the hand of the
carpenter.
“You have brought that big bully, have you?” demanded the rebel,
rising from his reclining position.
No one replied to this demand, but the carpenter walked into the
prison. Oscar was disposed to show fight. He retreated to a corner,
and put himself in the attitude of defence. Suddenly, as if by
impulse, the prisoner began to feel in his pockets; but the stout
mechanic did not give him time enough to produce any thing. He took
him by the collar of his coat, and lifted him off the floor. With his
other hand, he jerked the hands of the prisoner out of his pockets. As
he did so, a two-bladed knife dropped from one of them.
Possibly the sight of this article kindled the anger of the carpenter,
for he began to bang the captive about in a manner that threatened
serious bodily injury to the victim.
“Hold on to him, but don’t hurt him any more than may be necessary,”
interposed Captain Gildrock. “We can cure him of his infirmity in a
few days.”
“The rascal wants to knife me, and I am inclined to shake the bad
blood out of him,” replied the mechanic.
“He is a lunatic: he is boiling over with bad passions. A few days in
the brig will cool him off. We will treat him as a sick boy; and, when
he gets better, we will talk with him. Possibly there may be some
reason in him when he is himself, if he ever is himself. If we can’t
manage him, we will send him to the lunatic-asylum,” said the captain,
as the carpenter dragged his prisoner out upon the deck.
Dory picked up the knife, and followed his uncle to the
school-buildings in the rear of the mansion. Oscar could not stand the
discipline of the burly Vermonter. He soon found, if he had not
learned it before, that he was powerless in the hands of his
persecutor; and he walked quietly in the direction he was led.
Captain Gildrock had expected to have some just such boys as Oscar
Chester. In fact, he knew of this very one; for his uncle had applied
to him to take him, as soon as he knew that he intended to open a
mechanical institution. Mr. Chester was an old friend of the captain,
to whom the latter had described his educational plan. This was the
reason he happened to know all about Oscar, while he had taken pains
not to be informed in regard to the antecedents of all his other
pupils.
The founder of the new school understood men and boys thoroughly. Some
of his scholars must inevitably be rebellious and troublesome, and he
had fully provided for the treatment of such cases. He had erected two
temporary buildings, one of which was the dormitory and the other the
workshop and schoolroom, the latter occupying the story over the
former. The students were to take their meals in the large dining-room
of the mansion.
The dormitory consisted of twenty-four sleeping-rooms, each of which
had been furnished with an iron bedstead and such simple furniture as
might be required. Nothing was extravagant, or even elegant; for the
school was an experiment which might succeed or fail.
In a small brick building close to the shop, a steam-engine had
already been set up, from which a belt extending into the shop was to
run the lathes, circular-saws, planers, boring-machines, and other
machinery. One part of the shop was for woodwork, and the other for
iron. But most of the tools and apparatus had not yet been put in
their places.
At one end of the dormitory was the “brig.” Captain Gildrock’s
earliest experience at sea had been in the navy, where he had obtained
his first ideas of discipline. The ship’s prison on board a man-of-war
is called the “brig.” The captain had already given this name to his
place of discipline.
It was one of the rooms of the dormitory, fitted up for the purpose
intended. The walls and ceiling, as well as the floor, had been
constructed of thick spruce plank. All the wood had been covered with
sheet-iron. The two windows were grated with iron bars. It contained a
narrow iron bedstead, an iron stand for a table, and one chair of the
same material. The locks on the door were strong enough for any
prison. But not even the door could be seen from the hall of the
dormitory, for it was concealed by a wooden partition in front of it.
No boy was to be allowed to visit this strong-room unless he was
condemned to become an occupant of it for his misconduct. He had not
mentioned it to the boys, and the instructors were requested not to do
so. The iron in the room was all painted black, so that it was an
exceedingly gloomy-looking apartment. The captain hoped he should
never have occasion to make any use of the brig; and certainly he had
not expected to have an occupant for it on the day the first of the
boys arrived.
Mr. Brookbine took his prisoner to the brig, attended by the captain.
He was hurried up the stairs, and thrust into the prison, without any
ceremony. The lantern lighted up the gloomy den when the door was
opened; and, if Oscar did not shrink from his fate, he had more nerve
than ninety-nine in a hundred boys.
He did give a start when he looked into the brig, and it required some
effort on the part of the mechanic to force him into it. In the
dungeon he looked about him with something like an expression of
disgust on his face. Then he seemed to feel that he was yielding
somewhat to the circumstances; and he straightened up, and made an
effort to “stiffen his back.” His persecutors were retiring from the
entrance, and the captain was about to close the door.
“I have eaten nothing since I had my breakfast, early this morning,”
said Oscar stiffly, when he saw that he was about to be locked into
the cell for the night.
“It is your own fault. All the rest of the boys had supper at the
hotel in Burlington,” replied the captain.
“Do you mean to starve me?” demanded the prisoner.
“No, I don’t mean to starve you.--Dory,” called the captain at the
open window in the hall: “go into the house and get a loaf of bread, a
case-knife, and a pitcher of water.”
In a few minutes the skipper of the Goldwing returned with the
articles named, and Captain Gildrock placed them on the iron table.
“Am I to be fed on dry bread?” asked Oscar, as he looked with contempt
upon the provision on the table.
“I don’t answer questions at the present time. There is food: you can
eat it or let it alone. You can stay in this place a day, a week, a
month, or a year: the time depends upon yourself,” said the captain,
as he withdrew from the brig.
He closed the door, and secured it with the great lock. He also
fastened the door in the plank partition, so that no student could get
within six feet of the strong-room.
“That fellow will think better of it in a few days, perhaps by
to-morrow,” said Captain Gildrock, as they left the dormitory.
“For a boy, he is the hardest customer I ever had to deal with,”
replied Brookbine. “There is no more reason in him than there is in a
brickbat.”
The captain led the way to the schoolroom, where the boys had
assembled. They were behaving themselves very well, and they all
applauded when the captain entered the room.
“Boys, there is nothing more to be done to-night. To-morrow will be
Saturday; and we shall organize the ship’s company for the Sylph, and
take a little trip in her down the lake, perhaps as far as
Plattsburgh. Your rooms are all ready for you, and you can retire as
soon as possible. We have breakfast at seven in the morning.”
The captain stood upon the platform, and made this little speech,
which was applauded by the students. Mr. Brookbine was left to look
after the pupils, and the captain and Dory went into the house. Though
it was after nine o’clock in the evening, they found Mr. Bolingbroke
Millweed and his mother in the sitting-room. Her son had related to
her his adventures on the lake and in Burlington. She was very
grateful to Dory for what he had done, and expressed herself to that
effect in very high-flown speech.
“My son Bolingbroke informs me that you have manifested some interest
in his future welfare, for which I am extremely grateful to you,
Captain Gildrock. I hope you will be able to do something for him; for
a word from you would secure for him a good place in a store,” said
Mrs. Millweed, after she had succeeded in introducing the subject.
“I offered your son a place in my school for a year. If he is going to
accept the offer I made him, I want him here at seven to-morrow
morning,” replied the captain bruskly. “I don’t know any thing about
him, and I can’t recommend him for a place in a store.”
“I don’t wish to make a mechanic of him,” protested Mrs. Millweed. “I
am looking for something higher than that for him.”
“Do you think that being a counter-jumper is something higher?”
demanded the captain, laughing heartily at the idea.
“I wish him to be a merchant; and I am sure that is higher and more
respectable than a greasy mechanic,” added the lady with a sneer.
“Very well, madam: I cannot do any thing for your son,” added the
captain decidedly. “There are ten times as many clerks as can find
places now.”
“I have never allowed my boys to work on the farm; and they haven’t
acquired any low ideas,” continued Mrs. Millweed as she moved to the
door, closely attended by Bolingbroke.
The visitors departed, and it was not probable that they would again
darken the captain’s door.
CHAPTER XV.
SOMETHING ABOUT THE AFFAIRS OF THE MILLWEED FAMILY.
Long before breakfast-time the new boys were roaming about the estate,
with Dory as their guide. He showed them the place, and treated them
as handsomely as he knew how. They were not in a boat, with a fresh
wind blowing; and he had no occasion to use a single sharp word, and
he had not on board of the Goldwing, except to Oscar Chester. By this
time he had become quite popular with the students.
“Dory,” called Captain Gildrock, as the skipper and his party came to
the shop: “what was the name of the man that stole the money at the
store?”
“Tim Lingerwell: he was the head man of Mr. Longbrook,” replied Dory.
“He came from this place.”
“I know all about him,” said a stranger who had been talking with the
captain. “He never was any too good to do such a thing; and my son
was lucky to get out of the scrape as well as he did.”
This man was the father of Bolingbroke Millweed. For the first time he
had heard about the Beech-Hill Industrial School that morning. His
wife had told him about the captain’s offer to take Bolingbroke into
the school. He had been telling the shipmaster his troubles, and he
wanted his son to accept the offer.
“I am a peaceable man, Captain Gildrock, and my wife has always had
her own way,” continued Farmer Millweed. “I don’t like to have any
trouble in the family, but I have gone just about as far as I can go.”
The early visitor looked very sad, and choked a little, as though a
few tears would relieve him. He stood looking upon the ground, trying
to check his emotions.
“Things have gone hard with you, have they?” said Captain Gildrock in
a sympathizing tone.
“Very hard, captain; and I don’t know what is going to become of me
and my family. I expect we shall fetch up in the poorhouse; as we
certainly shall if things keep on as they have been,” replied the
farmer with a suppressed groan.
“I am sorry for you,” added the captain. “I will take your son, and he
shall be of no expense to you for a year; and at the end of that time,
I will guarantee that he will be able to do something for you, and
take care of himself besides.”
“Just as soon as I heard of your offer, I came right over here; for I
want to have Bolly learn a trade,” said the farmer. “He will be
provided for, whatever becomes of the rest of us. When my oldest girl
was a dozen years old, I owned my farm free and clear; and I didn’t
owe any man on earth a single cent. Now there is a mortgage of two
thousand dollars on my place, and I owe over a thousand dollars
besides.”
“You have been making bad speculations then,” suggested Captain
Gildrock.
“I never went into a speculation of any kind, captain; and I never
lost any money in any way. Ten years ago I used to get a good living
off my farm. We had plenty to eat, drink, and to wear. Now we don’t
have any thing.” And, in spite of his struggles to restrain them, a
flood of tears poured down his wan cheek.
“If you have had no misfortunes, I don’t understand why things have
gone so badly with you. But it is best to look into the matter, and
find out what the trouble is, so that you can correct the errors of
