from the carriage, was that here had been ages of 
dignified order and grave tranquillity. The green 
sward was even and soft and of vivid freshness; 
the old trees were stately with their length of limb 
and great solid trunks; and the house? 
The house, towards which she turned as if to ask 
questions of it, was of moderate size, built of stone, 
and so massively built as if it had been meant to 
stand forever. That was seen at once in the thickness of the walls, the strong oaken doorway, and 
the heavy window frames. But as soon as Betty 
set foot within the door she could almost have 
screamed with delight. 
" Upon my word, very good ! very well ! " said 
Mr. Dallas, standing in the hall and reviewing it. 
And then, perceiving the presence of the servants 
he checked himself and reviewed them. 
"These are my uncle's faithful old friends, mother," 
Pitt was saying; "Mrs. Bunce, and Stephen Hill. 
Have you got something ready for travellers, Mrs. 
Bunce?" 
Dignified order and grave tranquillity was the 
impression on Betty's mind again, as they were 
ushered into the dining room. It was late, and the 
party sat down at once to table. 
But Betty could hardly eat, for feasting her eyes. 
And when they went up stairs to their rooms that 
feast still continued. The house was irregular, 
with rather small rooms and low ceilings; which 
itself was pleasant after the more commonplace 
regularity to which Miss Frere had been accustomed ; 
and then it was full, all the rooms were full, of 
quaintness and beauty. Oak wainscottings, dark 
with time ; oaken doorways with singular carvings ; 
chimney pieces, before which Betty stood in speech 
less delight and admiration; small-paned windows 
set in deep window niches; in one or two rooms 
dark draperies; but the late Mr. Strahan had not 
favoured anything that shut out the light, and in 
most of the house there were no curtains put up. 
 
And then, on the walls, in cupboards and presses, 
on tables and shelves, and in cabinets, there was 
an endless variety and wealth of treasures and curiosities. Pictures, bronzes, coins, old armour, old 
weapons, curiosities of historical value, others of 
natural production, others still of art; some of all 
these were very valuable and precious. To examine them must be the work of many days; it 
was merely the fact of their being there which 
Betty took in now, with a sense of the great riches 
of the new mental pasture ground in which she 
found herself. She changed her dress in a kind 
of breathless mood ; noticing as she did so the old- 
fashioned and aged furniture of her room. Aged, 
not infirm; the manufacture solid and strong as 
ever; the wood darkened by time, the patterns 
quaint, but to Betty's eye the more picturesque. 
Her apartment was a corner room, with one deep 
window on each of two sides; the look-out over 
a sunny landscape of grass, trees, and scattered 
buildings. On another side was a deep chimney 
place, with curious wrought iron fire dogs. What 
a delightful adventure, or what a terrible adventure, was it, which had brought her to this house! 
She would not think of that; she dressed and went 
down. 
The rest of the party were gathered in the library, and this room finished Betty's enchantment. 
It was a well sized room, the largest in the house, 
on the second floor; and all the properties that 
made the house generally interesting were gathered 
and culminated here. Darkwainscotting, dark book 
cases, and dark books, gave it an aspect that might 
have been gloomy, yet was not so. Perhaps be 
cause of the many other objects in the room which 
gave points of light or bits of colour. What they 
were, Betty could only find out by degrees; she 
saw at once, in general, that this must have been 
a favourite place of the late owner, and that here 
he had collected a special assemblage of the things 
that pleased him best. A table at one side must 
have been made, she thought, about the same time 
with her chamber furniture and by the same hand. 
The floor was dark and polished, and on it lay here 
and there bits of soft carpeting which were well 
worn. Betty advanced slowly to the corner where 
the party were sitting, taking in the effect of all 
this; then almost started as Pitt gave her a chair, 
to see in the corner just beyond the group a stuffed 
bear shewing his teeth at her. 
The father and mother had been talking about 
various matters at home, and the talk went on. 
Betty presently left them and began to examine 
the sides of the room. She studied the bear, which 
was in an upright position, resting one paw on a 
stick, while the other supported a lamp. From the 
bear her eyes passed on to a fire screen which stood 
before the empty chimney, and then she went to 
look at it nearer by. It was a most exquisite 
thing. Two great panes of plate glass were so set 
in a frame that a space of some three or four inches 
separated them. In this space, in every variety of 
 
position, were suspended on invisible wires some 
twenty bumming birds, of different kinds; and 
whether tbe light fell upon this screen in front or 
came through it from behind, the display was in 
either case most beautiful and novel. Betty at 
last wandered to the chimney piece, and went no 
further for a good while; studying the rich carving 
and the coat of arms which was both sculptured 
and painted in the midst of it. By and by she 
found that Pitt was beside her. 
" Mr. Strahan's ? " she asked. 
" No; they belonged to a former possessor of the 
house. It came into my uncle's family by the mar 
riage of his father." 
"It is very old?" 
"Pretty old; that is, what in America we would 
call so. It reaches back to the time of the Stuarts. 
Eeally that is not so long ago as it seems." 
" It is worth while to be old, if it gives one such 
a chimney piece as that. But I should not like an 
other man's arms in it, if I were you." 
"Why not?" 
" I don't know I believe it diminishes the sense 
of possession." 
" A good thing, then," said Pitt. " Do you remember, that they that have are told to be as 
though they possessed not ?" 
" How can they ? " answered Betty, looking at 
him. 
" You know the words ? " 
" I seem to have read them I suppose I have." 
" Then there must be some way of making them 
true." 
" What is this concern, Pitt ? " inquired his father, 
who had followed them and was looking at a sort 
of cabinet which was framed into the wall. 
" I was going to invite Miss Frere's attention to 
it; yet on reflection, I believe she is not enthusiastic 
for that sort of thing. That is valuable, father. 
It is a collection of early Greek coins. Uncle Strahan was very fond of that collection, and very proud 
of it. He had brought it together with a great deal 
of pains." 
" Rubbish, I should say," observed the elder man; 
and he moved on, while Betty took his place. 
" Now I do not understand them," she said. 
" You can see the beauty of some of them. Look 
at this head of Apollo." 
"That is beautiful exquisite! Was that a 
common coin of trade ? " 
"Doubtful, in this case. It is not certain that 
this was not rather a medal struck for the members 
of the Amphictyonic council. But see this coin of 
Syracuse; this was a common coin of trade; only of 
a size not the most common." 
"All I can say, is, their coinage was far hand 
somer than ours; if it was like that." 
" The reverse is as fine as the obverse. A chariot 
with four horses, done with infinite spirit." 
" How can you remember what is on the other 
side I suppose this side is what you mean by the 
obverse of this particular coin ? Are you sure ? " 
 
Pitt produced a key from his pocket, unlocked 
the glass door of the cabinet, and took the coin 
from its bed. On the other side was what he had 
stated to be there. Betty took the piece in her 
hands to look and admire. 
" That is certainly very fine," she said ; but her 
attention was not entirely bent on the coin " Is 
this lovely head meant for Apollo too ? " 
"No; don't you see it is feminine? Ceres, it is 
thought; but Mr. Strahan held that it was Arethusa; 
in honor of the Nymph that presided over the fine 
fountain of sweet water near Syracuse. The coinage 
of that city was extremely beautiful and diversified; 
yielding to hardly any other in design and work 
manship. Here is an earlier one; you see the very 
different stage art had attained to." 
"A regular Greek face," remarked Betty, going 
back to the coin she held in her hand. " See the 
straight line of the nose, and the very short upper 
lip. Do you hold that the Greek type is the only 
true beauty ? " 
" Not I. The only true beauty, I think, is that of 
the soul; or at least that which the soul shines 
through." 
"What are these little fish swimming about the 
head? They would seem to indicate a marine 
deity." 
"The dolphin; the Syracusan emblem." 
" I wish I had been born in those times ! " said 
Betty. And the wish had a meaning in the speak 
er's mind, which the hearer could not divine. 
"Why do you wish that?" asked Pitt smiling. 
" I suppose the principal reason is, that then I 
should not have been born in this. Everything is 
dreadfully prosy in our age not were, at this 
moment, but this is a fairy tale we are living 
through. I know how the plain world will look 
when I go back to it," 
"At present," said Pitt, taking the Syracusan 
coin and restoring it to its place, " you are not an 
enthusiastic numismatist ! " 
"No; how should I? Coins are not a thing to 
excite enthusiasm. They are beautiful, and curious, 
but not exactly not exactly stirring." 
"I had a scholar once," remarked Pitt as he locked 
the glass door of the cabinet, " whose eyes would 
have opened very wide at sight of this collection. 
Have you heard anything of the Gainsboroughs, 
mother?" 
Betty started, inwardly, and was seized with an 
unreasoning fear lest the question might next bo 
put to herself. Quietly, as soon as she could, she 
moved away from the coin cabinet and seemed to 
be examining something else; but she was listening 
all the while. 
" Nothing whatever," Mrs. Dallas had answered. 
"They have not come back to England. I have 
made out so much. I looked up the family after 
I came home last fall; their head quarters is at a 
nice old place down in Devonshire. I introduced 
myself, and got acquainted with them. They are 
pleasant people. But they knew nothing of the 
 
colonel. He has not come home, and he has not 
written. Thus much I have found out." 
" It is not certain, however," grumbled Mr. Dallas. 
"I believe he has come home; that is, to England. 
He was on bad terms with his people, you know." 
* 4 When are you going to shew Miss Frere and 
me London?" asked Mrs. Dallas. She was as 
willing to lead off from the other subject as Betty 
herself. 
" Shew you London, mamma ! Shew you a bit 
of it, you mean. It would take something like a 
lifetime to shew you London. What bit will you 
begin with ? " 
" What first, Betty ? " said Mrs. Dallas. 
Betty turned and slowly came back to the others. 
"Take her to see the -lions in the Tower," sug 
gested Mr. Dallas. " And the wax- work." 
" Do you think I have never seen a lion, Mr. 
Dallas ? " said the young lady. 
" Well, small ones," said the gentleman, stroking his chin. " Bat the Tower is a big lion itself. 
I believe I should like to go to the Tower. I have 
never been there yet, old as I am." 
" I do not want to go to the Tower," said Mrs. 
Dallas. " I do not care for that kind of thing. I 
should like to see the Temple, and Pitt's chambers." 
" So should I," said the younger lady. 
"You might do worse," said Pitt. "Then to 
morrow we will go to the Temple, and to St. Paul's." 
" St. Paul's ? that will not hold us long, will it? " 
said Betty. " Is it so much to see ? " 
" A good deal, if you go through and study the 
monuments ! " 
" Well," said Betty, " I suppose it will be all delightful." 
But when she had retired to her room at night 
her mood was not just so. She sat down before 
her glass and ruminated. That case of coins, and 
Pitt's old scholar, and the Gainsboroughs, who had 
not come home. He would find them yet; yes, 
and Esther would one day be standing before those 
coins ; and Pitt would be shewing them to her ; and 
she, she would enter into his talk about them, and 
would understand and have sympathy, and there 
would be sympathy on other points too. If Esther 
ever stood there, in that beautiful old library, it 
would be as mistress and at home. Betty had a 
premonition of it; she put her hands before her 
eyes to shut out the picture. Suppose she earned 
well of the two and gained their lasting friendship 
by saying the words that would bring them to 
each other? That was one way out of her difficulty. But then, why should she? What right 
had Esther Gainsborough to be happy, more than 
Betty Frere ? The other way out of her difficulty, 
namely, to win Pitt's liking, would be much better; 
and then, they both of them might be Esther's 
friends. For of one thing Betty was certain; if 
she could win Pitt, he would be won. No half 
way work was possible with him. He would never 
woo a woman he did not entirely love; and any 
woman so loved by him would not need to fear any 
 
other woman ; it would be once for all. Betty had 
never, as it happened, met thoroughgoing truth 
before ; she recognized it and trusted it perfectly 
in Pitt; and it was one of the things, she confessed 
to herself, that drew her most mightily to him. A 
person whom she could absolutely believe, and always be sure of. Whom else in the world could 
she trust so ? Not her own brothers ; not her own 
father; mother she had none. How did she know 
so securely that Pitt was an exception to the 
universal rule ? the question might be asked, and 
she asked it. She had not seen him tested in any great 
thing. But she had seen him tried in little bits of 
everyday things, in which most people think it is 
no harm to dodge the truth a little; and Betty 
recognized the soundness of the axiom, " He that 
is faithful in that which is least, is faithful also in 
much." 
CHAPTER XLII. 
THE TOWEK. 
THE next morning they went to inspect the Temple ; Pitt and the two ladies. Mr. Dallas preferred some other occupation. But the interest 
brought to the inspection was not altogether legitimate. Mrs. Dallas cared principally to see how 
comfortable her son's chambers were, and to refresh 
herself with the token's of antiquity and importance 
which attached to the place and the institution to 
which he belonged. Betty was no antiquarian in 
the best of times; and at present had all her faculties 
concentrated on one subject and one question which 
was not of the past. Nevertheless, it is of the nature of things, that a high strain of the mind renders it intensely receptive and sensitive for outward 
impressions, even though they be not welcomed ; 
like a taut string, which answers to a breath breathed 
upon it. Betty did not care for the Temple; had 
no interest in the old Templars arms on the sides 
of the gateways; and thought its medley of dull 
courts and lanes a very undesirable place. What 
was it to her, where Dr. Johnson had lived? she 
 
did not care for Dr. Johnson at all, and as little for 
Oliver Goldsmith. Pitt, she saw, cared; how odd 
it was. It was some comfort that Mrs. Dallas 
shared her indifference. 
" My dear," she said, " I do not care about any 
body's lodgings but yours. Dr. Johnson is not 
there now, I suppose. Where are your rooms ? " 
But Pitt laughed and took them first to the 
Temple church. 
Here Betty could not refuse to look and be in 
terested a little. How little, she did not shew. 
The beauty of the old church, its venerable age, 
and the strange relics of the past in its monuments, 
did command some attention. Yet Betty grudged 
it; and went over the Halls and the Courts after 
ward with a half reluctant foot, hearing as if against 
her will all that Pitt was telling her and his mother 
about them. O what did it matter, that one of 
Shakspeare's plays had been performed in the 
Middle Temple Hall during its author's life-time ? 
and what did it signify whether a given piece of 
architecture were Early English or Perpendicular 
Gothic? What did interest her, was to see how 
lively and warm was Pitt's knowledge and liking 
of all these things. Evidently he delighted in 
them and was full of information concerning them ; 
and his interest did move Betty, a little. It moved 
her to speculation also. Could this man be so earnest in his enjoyment of Norman arches and polished 
shafts and the effigies of old knights, and still 
hold to the views and principles he had avowed and 
advocated last year? Could he, who took such 
pleasure in the doings and records of the past, 
really mean to attach himself to another sort of life 
with which the honours and dignities and delights 
of this common world have nothing to do ? 
The question recurred again afresh on their return home. As Betty entered the house, she was 
struck by the beauty of the carved oak staircase, 
and exclaimed upon it. 
".Yes," said Pitt, "that is the prettiest part of 
the house. It is said to be by Inigo Jones; but 
perhaps that cannot be proved." 
" Does it matter ? " said Betty laughing. 
"Not to any real lover of it; but to the rest, you 
know, the name is the thing." 
" k Lover of it ! " said Betty. * Can you love a 
staircase ? " 
Pitt laughed out ; then he answered seriously. 
" Don't you know that all that is good and true 
is in a way bound up together ? it is one whole ; 
and I take it to be certain that in proportion to any 
one's love for spiritual and moral beauty will be, 
coeteris paribus, his appreciation of all expression 
of it, in nature or art." 
" But ! " said Betty. " Spiritual and moral 
beauty ! You do not mean that this oak staircase 
is an expression of either ? " 
" Of both, perhaps. At any rate, the things are 
very closely connected." 
" You are an enigma ! " said Betty. 
"I hope not always to remain so," he answered. 
 
Betty went up the beautiful staircase, noting as 
she went its beauties, from story to story. She had 
not noticed it before, although it really took up 
more room than was proportionate to the size of 
the house. What did Pitt mean by those last 
words ? she was querying. And could it be possi 
ble, that the owner of a house like this, with a pro 
perty corresponding, would not be of the world and 
live in the world, like other men? He must, Betty 
thought. It is all very well for people who have 
not the means to make a figure in society, to talk 
of isolating themselves from society. A man may 
give up a little; but when he has much, he holds on 
to it. But how was it with Pitt? She must try 
and find out. 
She accordingly made an attempt that same 
evening, beginning with the staircase again. 
" I admired Inigo Jones all the way upstairs," 
she said, when she had an opportunity to talk to 
Pitt alone. Mr. Dallas had gone to sleep after 
dinner, and his wife was knitting at a sufficient 
distance. "The quaint fancies and delicate work 
are really such as I never imagined before in wood 
carving. But your words about it remain a puzzle 
to me." 
"My words? About Art being an expression 
of Truth ? Surely, that is not new ? " 
" It may be very old; but I do not understand it." 
" You understand, that so far as Art is genuine, 
it is a setter-forth of Truth ? " 
" Well, I suppose so ; of some truth. Roses must 
be roses, and trees must be trees; and of course 
must look as like the reality as possible." 
* That is the very lowest thing Art can dp, and 
in some cases is not true Art at all. Her business 
is to tell Truth never to deceive." 
" What sort of truth then ? " 
"What I said; spiritual and moral." 
" Ah there it is ! Now you have got back to it. 
Now you are talking mystery, or forgive me 
transcendentalism." 
"No, nothing but simple and very plain fact. 
It is this first; that all Truth is one ; and this next, 
that in the world of creation things material are 
the expression of things spiritual. So all real 
beauty in form or colour has back of it a greater 
beauty of higher degree." 
"You are talking pure mystery." 
"No, surely," said Pitt eagerly. "You certainly 
recognize the truth of what I am saying, in some 
things. For instance ; you cannot look up steadily 
into the blue infinity of one of our American skies 
on a clear day, at least I cannot, without presently 
getting the impression of truth, pure, unfailing, 
incorruptible truth, in its Creator. The rose, every 
where in the world, so far as I know, is the ac 
cepted emblem of love. And for another very 
familiar instance, Christ is called in the Bible the 
Sun of righteousness the Light that is the life of 
man. Do you know how close to fact that is? 
What this earth would be if deprived of the sun 
for a few days, is but a true image of the condition 
 
of any soul finally forsaken by the Sun of righteous 
ness. In one word, death; and that is what the 
Bible means by death, of which the death we com 
monly speak of is again but a faint image." 
Betty fidgetted a little; this was not what she 
wished to speak of; it was getting away from her 
point. 
" Your staircase set me wondering about you" 
she said boldly, not answering his speech at all. 
" In yet another connection ? " said Pitt smiling. 
" In another connection. You remember you 
used to talk to me pretty freely last summer about 
your new views and plans of life ? " 
" I remember. But my staircase ? " 
" Yes, your staircase. You know it is rich and 
stately, as well as beautiful. Whatever it signifies 
to you, to my lower vision it. means a position in 
the world and the means to maintain it. And I 
debated with myself as I went up the stairs, whether 
the owner of all this would still think it his duty 
to live altogether for others, and not for himself 
like common people." 
She looked at him, and Pitt met her inquiring 
eyes with a steady, penetrating, grave look, which 
half made her wish she had let the question alone. 
He delayed his answer a little, and then he said, 
" Will you let rne meet that doubt in my own 
way?" 
" Certainly ! " said Betty, surprised, " if you will 
forgive me its arising." 
"Is one responsible for doubts? One may be 
responsible for the state of mind from which they 
spring. Then, if you will allow me, I will say no 
more on the subject for a day or two. But I will 
not leave you unanswered ; that is, unless you refuse 
to submit to my guidance and will not let me take 
iriy own way." 
" You are mysterious ! " 
" Will you go with me when I ask you ?" 
" Yes." 
" Then that is sufficient." 
Betty thought she had not gained much by her 
move. 
The next day was given to the Tower. Mrs. 
Dallas did not go ; her husband was of the party 
instead. The inspection of the place was thorough, 
and occupied some hours; Pitt being able, through 
an old friend of Mr. Strahan's who was now also 
his friend, to obtain an order from the Constable 
for seeing the whole. At dinner Betty delivered 
herself of her opinion. 
" Were you busy all day with nothing but the 
Tower? asked Mrs. Dallas. 
" Stopped for luncheon " said her husband. 
" And we did our work thoroughly, mamma," 
added Pitt. "You must take time, if you want 
to see anything." 
" Well," said Betty, " I  must say, if this is what 
it means, to live in an old country, I am thankful I 
live in a new one." 
" What now?" asked Mr. Dallas. 44 What's the 
matter ? " 
 
"Mrs. Dallas was wiser, that she did not go," 
Betty went on. " I have supped fall of horrors. 
Really I have read history, but that gives it to one 
diluted. I  had no notion that the English people 
were so savage." 
" Come, come ! no worse than other people," Mr. 
Dallas put in. 
" I do not know how it is with other people. I am 
thankful we have no such monument in America. 
I shouldn't think snow would lie on the Tower ! " 
" Doesn't often," said Pitt. 
"Think, Mrs. Dallas! I stood in that little chapel 
there the prisoners chapel and beneath the pave 
ment lay between thirty and forty people, the remains of them, who lay there with their heads separated from their bodies; and some of them with no 
heads at all. The heads had been set up on Lon 
don bridge or on Temple Bar or some other dread 
ful place. And then as we went round I was told 
that here was the spot where Lady Jane Grey was 
beheaded ; and there was the window from which 
she saw the headless body of her husband carried 
by; and there stood the rack on which Anne Askew 
was tortured; and there was the prison where Arabella Stuart died insane; and here was the axe 
which used to be carried before the Lieutenant 
when he took a prisoner to his trial, and was carried before the prisoner when he returned, mostly 
with the sharp edge turned towards him. I do 
not see how people used to live in those times. 
There are Anne Boleyn and her brother, Lady Jane 
Grey and her husband, and other Dudleys innumerable," 
" My dear, do stop," said Mrs. Dallas. " I cannot 
eat my dinner, and you cannot." 
" Eat dinner ! Did anybody use to eat dinner, in 
those times ? Did the world go on as usual V with 
such horrors on the throne and in the dungeon ? " 
"It is a great national monument," said Mr. 
Dallas, " that any people might be proud of." 
" Proud ! Well, I am glad, as I said, that the sky 
is blue over America." 
" The blue looks down on nothing so fine as our 
old Tower. And it isn't so blue, either, if you could 
know all." 
" Where are you going to take us next, Pitt ? " 
Mrs. Dallas asked, to give things a pleasanter turn. 
" How did you like St. Paul's, Miss Betty?" her 
husband went on, before Pitt could speak. 
" It is very black ! " 
" That is one of its beauties," remarked Pitt. 
" Is it ? But I am accustomed to purer air. I 
do not like so much smoke." 
" You were interested in the monuments ? " said 
Mrs. Dallas. 
" Honestly, I am not fond of monuments. Be 
sides, there is really a reminiscence of the Tower 
and the axe there very often. I had no conception London was such a place." 
"Let us take her to Hyde Park and shew her 
something cheerful, Pitt." 
"I should like above all things to go to the 
 
House of Commons and hear a debate if it could 
be managed." 
Pitt said it could be managed; and it was man 
aged; and they went to the Park; and they drove 
out to see some of the beauties near London; Kichmond, Hampton, and Windsor; and several days 
passed away in great enjoyment for the whole 
party. Betty forgot the Tower and grew gay. 
The strangeness of her position was forgotten ; the 
house came to be familiar; the alternation of sight 
seeing with the quiet household life was delightful. 
Nothing could be better, might it last. Could it 
not last? Nay, Betty would have relinquished the 
sightseeing and bargained for only the household 
life, if she could have retained that. 
CHAPTER XLIII. 
MARTIN S COURT. 
"TT7HAT is for to-day, Pitt?" 
V V There had been a succession of rather gay 
days, visiting of galleries and palaces. Mrs. Dallas 
put the question at breakfast. 
" I am going to shew Miss Frere something, if 
she will allow me." 
" She will allow you, of course. You have done 
it pretty often lately. Where is it now ? " 
" Nowhere for you, mamma. My show to-day is 
for Miss Frere alone." 
" Alone ? Why may I not go ? " 
"You would not enjoy it." 
" Then perhaps she will not enjoy it." 
" Perhaps not." 
" But Pitt, what do you mean ? and what is this 
you want to shew her which she does not want to 
see?" 
" She can tell you all about it afterwards, if she 
chooses." 
" Perhaps she will not choose to go with you on 
such a doubtful invitation." 
 
Betty however declared herself ready for any 
thing. So she was, under such guidance. 
They took a cab for a certain distance; then Pitt 
dismissed it and they went forward on foot. It 
was a dull, hot day; clouds hanging low and threat 
ening rain, but no rain falling as yet. Rain, if de 
cided, to a" good degree keeps down exhalations in 
the streets of a city, and so far is a help to the way 
farer who is at all particular about the air he 
breathes. No such beneficent influence was abroad 
to-day; and Betty's impressions were not altogether 
agreeable. 
" What part of the city is this ? " she asked. 
" Not a bad part at all. In fact we are near a 
very fashionable quarter. This particular street is 
a business thoroughfare, as you see." 
Betty was silent, and they went on a while; then 
turned sharp out of this thoroughfare into a narrow- 
alley. It was hot and close and dank enough here 
to make Miss Frere shrink, though she would not 
betray it. But dead cats and decaying cabbage 
leaves, in a not very clean alley where the sun 
rarely shines, and briefly then, with the thermom 
eter well up on a summer day, altogether make 
an atmosphere not suited to delicate senses. Pitt 
picked the way along the narrow passage, which 
at the end opened into a little court. This was 
somewhat cleaner than the alley; also it lay so that 
the sun sometimes visited it, though here too his 
visits could be but brief. For on the opposite side 
the court was shut in and overshadowed by the tall 
backs of great houses. They seemed, to Betty's 
fancy, to cast as much moral as physical shadow 
over the place. The houses in this court were 
small and dingy. If one looked straight up, there 
was a space of grey cloud visible; some days it 
would no doubt be a space of blue sky. No other 
thing even dimly suggesting refreshment or purity 
was within the range of vision. Pitt slowly paced 
along the row of houses. 
" Who lives here ? " Betty asked, partly to relieve the oppression that was creeping upon her. 
" No householders, that I know of. People who 
live in one room, or perhaps in two rooms ; there 
fore in every house there are a number of families. 
This is Martin's court. And here" he stopped 
before one of the doors, " in this house, in a room 
on the third floor let me suppose a case," 
" Third floor ? why there are only two-stories." 
" In the garret, then, there lives an old woman, 
over seventy years old, all alone. She has been 
ill for a long time, and suffers a great deal of 
pain." 
" Who takes care of her ? " Betty asked, wondering at the same time why Pitt told her all this. 
" She has no means to pay anybody to take care 
of her." 
" But how does she live ? if she cannot do any 
thing for herself." 
" She can do nothing at all for herself. She has 
been dependent on the kindness of her neighbours. 
They are poor too, and have their hands full; still, 
 
from time to time one and another would look in 
upon her, light a fire for her, and give her some 
thing to eat; that is, when they did not forget it." 
" And what if they did forget it? " 
" Then she must wait till somebody remembered ; 
wait, perhaps days, to get her bed made; lie alone 
in her pain all day, except for those rare visits ; and 
even have to hire a boy with a penny to bring her 
a pitcher of water; lie alone all night and wait in 
the morning till somebody could give her her 
breakfast." 
" Why do you tell me all this, Mr. Pitt ? " said 
Betty, facing round on him. 
" Ask me that by and by. Come a little further. 
Here, in this next house but one, there is a man 
sick with rheumatism in a fever; when I first saw 
him he was lying there shivering and in great 
pain, with no fire; and his daughter, a girl of perhaps a dozen years old, was trying to light a fire 
with a few splinters of sticks that she had picked 
up. That was last winter, in cold weather. They 
were poverty-stricken, since the man had been 
some time out of work." 
" Well ? " said Betty. " I must not repeat my 
question ; but what is all this to me ? I have no 
power to help them. Do you know these people 
yourself?" 
"Yes, I know them. In the last house of the 
row there is another old woman I want to tell you 
of; and then we will go. She is not ill, nor disabled ; 
she is only very old and quite alone. She is not 
unhappy either, for she is a true old Christian. 
Bat think of this; in the room which she occupies, 
which is half underground, there is just one hour 
in the day when a sunbeam can find entrance. 
For that hour she watches; and when the sky is 
not clouded, and it comes, she takes her Bible and 
holds it in the sunshine to read for that blessed 
hour. It is all she has in the twenty four. The 
rest of the time she must only think of what she 
has read ; the place is too dark for any more." 
" Do let us go ! " said Betty ; and she turned, 
and almost fled back to the alley and through the 
alley back to the street. There they walked more 
moderately a space of some rods before she found 
breath and words. She faced round on her conductor again. 
" Why do you take me to such a place, and tell 
me such things ? " 
" Will you let that question still rest a little 
while?" Almost as he spoke Pitt called another 
cab; and Betty and he were presently speeding on 
again, whither she knew not. It was a good time 
to talk, and she repeated her question. 
" Instead of answering you, I would like to put 
a question on my side," he returned. " What do 
you think is duty, on the part of a servant of 
Christ, towards such cases?" 
" Pray tell me, is there not some system of poor 
relief in this place ? " 
" Yes, there is the parish help. And sorrowful 
help it is ! The parishes are often very large, the 
sufferers very many, the cases of fraud and trickery 
almost perhaps quite as numerous as those at 
least which come to the notice of the parish authorities. The parish authorities are but average 
men ; is it wonderful if they are hard administrators? I can tell you, justice is bitterly hard, as 
she walks the streets here ; and mercy's hand has 
grown rough with friction ! " 
Betty looked at the speaker, whose brow was 
knit and his eye darkened and flashing; she half 
laughed. 
" You are eloquent ! " she said. " You ought to 
be representing the case on the floor of the House 
of Commons." 
" Well," he said, coming down to an easier tone, 
" the parish authorities are but men, as I said, and 
they grow suspicious, naturally; and in any case 
the relief they give is utterly insufficient. A shill 
ing a week, or two shillings a week, what would 
they do for the people I have been telling you of? 
And it is hard dealing with the parish authorities. 
I know it, for here and there at least I have followed Job's example; the cause I knew not, I 
searched out. One must do that, or one runs the 
risk of being taken in, and throwing money away 
upon rogues which ought to go to help honest 
people." 
" But that takes time?" 
" Yes." 
"A great deal of time, if it is to be done often." 
"Yes." 
" Mr. Pitt, if you follow out that sort of business, 
it would leave you time for nothing else." 
" What better can I do with my time ? " 
" Just suppose everybody did the like ! " 
" Suppose they did." 
" What would be the state of things ? " 
" I should say the world would be in a better 
state of health; and that elephant we once spoke 
of would not shake his head quite so often." 
" But you are not the elephant, as I pointed out, if 
I remember; the world does not rest on your head." 
" Part of it does. Go on and answer my ques 
tion. What ought I to do for these people of whom 
I have told you ? " 
"But you cannot reach everybody. You can 
reach only a few." 
" Yes. For those few, what ought I to do ? " 
" I dare say you know of other cases, that you 
have not said anything about, equally miserable?" 
" More miserable, I assure you," said Pitt looking at her. " What then ? Answer my question, 
like a good woman." 
" I anj not a good woman." 
" Answer it like a good woman, anyhow," said 
Pitt smiling. " What should I do, properly, for 
such people as those I have brought to your notice? 
Apply the golden rule the only one that can give 
the measure of things. In their place, what would 
you wish, and have a right to wish, that some 
one should do for you? what may those who have 
nothing demand from those who have everything?" 
 
" Why they could demand all you have got ! " 
" Not justly. Cannot you set your imagination 
to work and answer me? I am not talking for 
nothing. Take my old Christian, near eighty, who 
sees a sunbeam for one hour in the twenty four, 
when the sun shines, and uses it to read her Bible. 
The rest of the twenty four hours, without even the 
company of a sunbeam. Imagine, what would 
you, in her place, wish for ? " 
" I should wish to die, I think." 
" It would be welcome to Mrs. Gregory, I do 
not doubt, though perhaps for a different reason. Still, you would not counsel suicide, or man 
slaughter. While you continued in life, what would 
you like ? " 
" 0," said Betty with an emphatic utterance, " I 
would like a place where I could breathe ! " 
" Better lodgings." 
"Fresh air. I would beg for air. Of all the 
horrors of such places, the worst seems to me the 
