not willing to be crowded to the wall. And if I could 
have a little help — " her voice softened unconsciously. 
" I cannot approve of any such wild scheme, Eleanor. 
Perhaps your uncle could find some quiet country place 
for you that would take Tom out of temptation. It 
would be a sin to break up your home. You forget that 
Tom has some rights in the children. It is cruel to 
deprive him of every incentive to reform. Children 
sometimes have an influence over a man when all else fails." 
She gave a bitter, wintry smile then. "Children's 
influence ! " she said, with an inflection of utter hopeless- 
ness. ''Let me tell you this, Aunt Clara. Last Monday 
evening Tom came in late to tea, — in his usual state," — 
faltering over the words, for they hurt her pride cruelly. 
"Bertie's rubber boots leaked, and he had taken cold, 
was quite alarmingly hoarse. I began to heat up some 
molasses with a little vinegar, when his father declared 
there was no remedy like hot whiskey, and insisted upon
preparing some. If I could have taken Bertie away, — 
but his crib has to be in our living-room during the cold 
weather. When he had it ready he took the child from 
my arms, and, in spite of my entreaties, began to give 
him the vile stuff, made palatable by sugar and nutmeg. 
Bertie refused at first, and I came to the rescue, and 
Tom — struck me ! It was not the first time either." 
Her eyes blazed up even now with a sense of the 
indignity. 
"You were crazy to interfere with a drunken man, 
and a little whiskey would have done him no harm, I dare 
say. Some people always use it for a cold." 
" Could I stand by without a protest and see my child 
sip that dangerous, soul-destroying poison, when I knew 
it had transformed his father from a man to a coarse, 
insensate brute ? A little boy only seven years old! " 
" But I suspect it did no good," was the dry response. 
"No good," drearily. "What was I against brute 
strength or a madman's will? Bertie cried a little, but 
his father threatened. He held him on his knee, and 
kept the cup at his baby lips. His cheeks grew flushed, 
his eyes sleepily soft, and as the poisonous fumes reached 
his brain he began to laugh, his head swayed from side 
to side, and his clear bird-like voice thickened. Tom 
sang him an amusing bar-room song, while I looked on 
with shame and agony! My baby, my precious little 
boy ! Why, I would a hundred times sooner put him in 
his grave than think of his growing up like that ! " and a 
shudder shook her frame. 
"Eleanor, you always had a dangerous tendency to go 
to the tragic. You imagine and exaggerate too much. I 
dare say Bertie will grow up to abhor drinking — it is 
often so." 
"It has not been so with the Kingstons. The three 
sons are drunkards. The child is as likely to learn to 
Jove it, — what then?" and. the strained eyes, the tense 
lines about the mouth, the rapid, electric tone, seemed to 
demand a soul's safety from the complacent woman in 
the midst of her worldly ease. 
"And is it nothing," she resumed, as Mrs. Wilder 
could find no reply handy, — " is it nothing that my girls 
should grow up under such a shadow ! I think God gives 
me the right to make a clean, wholesome home for them. 
I cannot do it with Thomas Marshall; it has come to 
that. There are things said that no children should 
hear, — snatches of ribald songs, vulgar innuendoes, and 
some of the most sacred things of life are sneered at. I 
cannot save my husband," with a dreary mockery of a 
 
•mile, sad for the faith gone out of it, " but I may save 
my children and enable them to fill respectable positions 
in life." 
"Your ideas of respect are very curious," returned 
Mrs. Wilder with a little sneer. " If you give him up 
he will sink lower and lower, yet he will always remain 
their father. Will that be no disgrace for them ? Then 
a stigma does always attach itself to a girl whose parents 
have separated. My heart aches for you, Eleanor ; but I 
cannot think you are justified in throwing him off and 
plunging into this wild scheme. I wish you would con- 
sult Mrs. Marshall. Perhaps all of us together might 
help you to something more — more respectable, less 
pronounced, and that would not fling you right into the 
very gaze of the public. Are you aware that everybody 
from one end of the town to the other will be discussing 
you ? " she asked sharply. 
"They have discussed me, and pitied me, and passed 
by on the other side. Who of my old circle calls upon 
me? And if I have to work for bread, certainly I have a 
right to choose something easier, something more agree- 
able to my tastes. I do not expect to regain any footing 
with society; my girls will have quite a different youth 
from mine ; " and, in spite of herself, she sighed drearily. 
"And if I could have had the money — " 
"It is because I do disapprove of the whole thing. 
And there are so many other businesses. Now there is 
being a florist — and you are so fond of flowers. We 
might all join and help you to some pretty place on 
the outskirts of the town, where you could have some 
ground — " and she glanced up eagerly. 
" You forget that I have had no training for such an 
occupation. And the bonnets I used to make and trim 
always were admired." 
Mrs. Wilder frowned until a little crease settled on her 
smooth forehead. 
"And have your daughters standing behind the coun- 
ter, to be sneered at as pretty milliner girls ! " 
" Then my own sex must sneer at me, for men do not 
usually frequent millinery establishments. It is settled," 
and die rose with sad dignity, her tall, slender form 
graceful in spite of the pass dress, and her step one 
that would have done credit to a drawing-room. "I 
must look elsewhere." 
"Nelly, my dear, do be reasonable," in a pleading, per- 
suasive voice. "I would do anything in my power that 
I saw was for your best good, and so would your uncle ; 
but what do you know about carrying on such a business? 
We always thought you had a great deal of taste, and 
yet, when you come to thrust yourself in open competi- 
tion with people long established, you would be likely to 
fail. Come, give up this, and let us help you some other 
way." 
" I think I can earn my own and my children's bread 
without charity ; but I cannot deem it my duty to uphold 
and pander to intemperance, to let my hard-won money 
go to swell the income of a saloon-keeper, and I am 
resolved that I will do it no longer. Some way I shall 
get to what I want. I feel confident of that, though 
everything looks dark now." 
"No one can regret this sad termination more than I. 
When I think how bright everything looked at your mar- 
riage, and how much confidence we had in Tom, what a 
fine, manly, spirited fellow he was, it does not seem pos- 
sible — " and Mrs. Wilder put her handkerchief to her 
eyes. 
Eleanor walked across the room with the sad dignity of 
a deposed queen. In this very house she had spent her 
bright and joyous girlhood, here for years she had been a 
favorite visitor, and she had leaned upon this love as one 
would upon a mother's. What was this inconsequent rea- 
soning to the pangs that rent her very soul? a stone for 
bread, indeed! What did Aunt Clara know of hardship 
and privation amid this luxury ? And oh, that deeper, 
keener agony, the fine, stinging shame like a spear point, 
thrusting itself in at every vulnerable place, the shrinking 
of a refined and sensitive soul from that coarse, brutish 
companionship, the appealing eyes of children doomed to 
the captious temper of a drunken man ! 
" Good-by," Eleanor Marshall said with an effort. It 
seemed as if her heart was breaking. 
"Don't feel angry, Nelly. You are excited now; but 
look at the matter in a cooler mood, and I am sure you will 
see your duty." 
"I am not angry." 
" Do you need anything ? How are the children off for 
clothes and flannels? There are some things I meant to 
lookup — " 
"They are quite comfortable, thank you. Good-by." 
" Come in again soon. If you like, Eleanor, I will talk 
your plan over with Mrs. Marshall, and see what she 
says." 
"No, you need not." 
She groped her way down the wide stairs, the soft 
carpet cushioning every step, the warm air making a sum- 
mer atmosphere. Here in the spacious hall, a marble 
Flora laughingly held aloft a basket of choicest flowers. 
How the heliotrope and spice-pinks perfumed the place ! 
Through the open drawing-room doors she caught a 
glimpse of the sumptuous appointments, choice pictures, 
marbles, bronzes. Did living in all this luxury harden 
one's heart? Fifteen years ago she had gone out of it, a 
inandsome, happy girl of eighteen, wedded to the man of 
her choice, and looking up to him in the firm confidence 
of what she believed to be a life-long faith. Now she was 
thirty-three, and there was only left the feet of clay, a pile 
of dust and ashes. 
The heavy rosewood doors closed softly behind her, 
shutting her out into the bleak world. It was no rose 
garden of faith now. Overhead a cloudy January sky, 
beside her a biting blast. Eleanor shivered, though she 
had not reached the pinched and desolate state of poverty. 
Her cloak was still warm, and had been remodeled from 
the garment of better days ; but her gloves and boots, if 
you had examined them, would have betrayed cheapness, 
though she walked with a certain elasticity of tread that 
no sorrow or shame could overcome. And as she com- 
muned with herself on the great question of duty, of a 
wife's duty, all the past seemed to flood her mind in start- 
ling array. 
Early orphaned, Mr. and Mrs. Wilder had opened their 
hearts and home to her, a beautiful, sweet-tempered girl, 
arch and bright, who grew up to be a great favorite 
with society. Her two cousins married young and well, 
the third, a son, went to Paris to become a trusted mem- 
ber of a business house, and was now well known as one 
of the prosperous and gentlemanly Americans. 
Thomas Marshall, six-and-twenty, the only son of a 
proud old family, fine-looking, genial, agreeable, and well 
educated, did not sue in vain for her hand. His three 
sisters were extremely proud of him. The two elder ones 
were married to men of long purses and good positions, 
and shortly after Tom's marriage the younger was married 
and soon widowed. Report said there had not been much 
affection in it, but Mrs. Vanduyne had a fortune and a 
good old name, of which she was extremely proud. She 
was quite a belle and had refused some flattering offers of 
remarriage. She and her mother resided together. 
Mr. Wilder furnished a house handsomely for his niece. 
The Marshalls thought Tom might have done much bet- 
ter in a money point of view, but he had been bequeathed 
his father's partnership in an old business firm that was 
equivalent to a fortune. Tom was gay, a charming good 
fellow, much sought after, easy, pleasure-loving, generous 
to a fault, and a delightful companion in prosperity. If 
all goes smoothly with men of this type they command 
admiration on the right hand and on the left, but in 
adversity they betray a fatal lack of the grand and sturdy 
strength that buffets through storms. 
They lived in an open-handed, delightful manner. Mrs. 
Marshall gave the most elegant little dinners, the daintiest 
of high teas, with now and then a musicale, or a compli- 
mentary reception to some friend going abroad or return- 
ing home. Two pretty little girls were added to the 
family, then two boys. 
The winter of Bertie's birth was an especially hard one. 
Old Mr. Deering of the firm died, and, when affairs came 
to be settled and his money withdrawn, the younger mem- 
bers looked aghast at each other. They had all been liv- 
ing extravagantly, and two or three heavy losses followed 
this misfortune. Friends who were appealed to shook 
their heads dubiously, and deemed it a sinking ship. Tom 
applied to his sister, but Mrs. Vanduyne was too prudent 
to risk her money, and it would have proved of no avail 
if she had ; so the firm gave up business honorably. 
Tom accepted a position until he should find a new 
opening. His expensive habits clung to him ; indeed, he 
thought it hard enough to give up all the rest. There 
were champagne suppers and various divertisements. 
Then his eldest boy died, and Tom plunged more deeply 
into amusements to drown his grief. 
The next year they took a smaller house, and Eleanor 
dispensed with her trusty nurse and kept a young girl in 
her place. Bertie's birth and the sickness and death of 
the other child had confined her closely, and now she 
began to note with dismay that Tom never stayed at home 
evenings. She exerted herself to the utmost ; she wore her 
pretty dresses, she played and sang; but that was not it. 
He wanted the excitement of crowds and jollity. His 
gay, good humor gave way to impatience, depression, and 
he had recourse to stimulants long before Eleanor became 
aware of his true state. Through carelessness he lost his 
position and was out of employment. Business men be- 
gan to look askance at him and put him off with excuses. 
"Luck was against him," he said. 
When Eleanor found unpaid bills accumulating, she 
asked herself seriously if there was nothing she could do. 
There was music-teaching, she might get a few scholars ; 
but if she could make the home brighter and pleasanter 
for Tom, and keep him in it, — for she began to have a 
strange and sickening fear concerning him. So she 
opened her house and took in a young married couple to 
board. They were gay and charming, but it did not seem 
to win Tom back to a love for home. Indeed, he often 
accepted the Gedneys' invitation to the theatre or some 
little company when she could not go. 
Then her eyes were opened rudely. Thomas Marshall 
was discharged for drunkenness and insolence. He came 
home to his wife at midnight in a terrible state, and 
Eleanor went almost crazy. When he recovered he 
upbraided himself fiercely, and called himself all the 
monsters in the world. If Nelly only would forgive 
him! 
She forgave him and loved him, and learned to think of 
him pityingly. She tried to be strong for both, to rouse 
and inspire him; but he was a slave to the fatal weakness. 
With a wife's faith and enthusiasm she blamed the mis- 
fortunes, the world, the friends who no longer stood 
ready to help, and with the utmost loyalty clung to him. 
She felt then that she must be the bread-winner until bet- 
ter times, and filled her house with boarders, for she was 
much too proud to complain to Aunt Clara. The defec- 
tion of friends was borne bravely, sacrifices were made 
without a murmur. She prayed, she counselled, she 
pleaded, and it seemed as if her faith might almost 
inspire the dead; but presently her soul took in the sad, 
 
desolating truth, that her husband was not trying as a 
man should try in so great a strait. She importuned no 
more for promises, though she endeavored in every other 
way to rouse him. Was there some fatal weakness in 
the man? 
By slow degrees she found her position much changed. 
Old friends went in other directions, or, when they met, 
gave her a kind of patronizing sympathy that cut to the 
quick. The style of her boarders became different. The 
refined and courteous gentlemen gave way to a lower 
grade, not absolutely uncultured, but of the jolly, indif- 
ferent type. Tom took the head of the table, sometimes 
in a captious state, where he was loud and insolent, some- 
times, which was much worse to bear, foolishly maudlin 
with an unmeaning smile upon his flushed face. O 
Heaven ! could she parade the shame to strange eyes ? 
Two cruel wounds came to her presently. A Mr. 
Westlake, a plain, kindly man, was going West on some 
business and might possibly remain. Tom confessed to 
his wife that he had two or three times borrowed a little 
change from him and he would like Eleanor to pay it. 
"You borrowed money from him?" she asked in her 
clear, incisive tone, while a scarlet spot burned on her 
cheek. " How much ? " 
"I don't remember. You needn't be so confounded 
sharp about it ! He'sa good fellow, and he said it didn't 
make any difference." 
"Next time come to me for money." Her heart 
swelled in secret shame, and she sought out Mr. West- 
lake, stumbling through a most mortifying explanation. 
" It doesn't matter, Mrs. Marshall. I never meant to 
mention it when I found — when he — please let it go." 
" No, Mr. Westlake, if you are the true friend I take 
you to be, you cannot refuse me the honesty of paying 
this debt, which is as sacred to me as if I had borrowed 
it." 
Westlake searched his memorandum. He hated dread- 
fully to take the money from her. Most of it had been 
borrowed months ago, before he understood Mr. Mar- 
shall's devious ways. 
" I wish you 'd let it go ! " in a voice of entreaty. 
" I cannot," she answered firmly. 
"Well — altogether it is twenty-three dollars." He 
did not dare falsify with her clear eyes upon him, but for 
all that she wrung the truth out of him reluctantly". 
Mrs. Marshall paid the bill, and Mr. Westlake bade 
her a kindly good-by, his soul deeply moved to pity. 
Was there anyone else? she wondered. 
She asked her husband that evening. He shambled 
and hesitated, and, when she insisted, confessed that he 
owed Collamore somewhere about ten dollars, and Den- 
forth a trifle, — four or five dollars. 
" O Tom!" she exclaimed with a great dry sob, 
" how could you ? How could you ? " 
Tom buried his face in his hands and wept aloud, being 
in a melting mood. 
"O Nelly, you are an angel and I am a brute! I 
ought to go pff and drown myself, instead of hanging on 
you, I mean to get something to do, and we will be 
happy once again, my poor darling." 
Eleanor had learned by bitter experience that these 
were withes of straw, not moods of soberness or fruits of 
repentance. She had pleaded and believed until she had 
lost the last remnant of faith. Only a miracle could 
bring that back. 
The next episode had in it all the elements of a horrible 
alarm, an insult so keen that it seemed at first as if she 
could never look the world in the face again. A Mr. 
Tyler took Mr. Westlake's place, which was in reality 
her best room. He was very generous, very kindly, and 
made much of baby Bertie. Her two little girls she kept 
away from the boarders' table. She used to feel at times 
 
as if she had met with a friend, but something always 
held her back from any confidence. She was too proud, 
too delicate to make any parade of her own griefs or feel- 
ings. 
One evening Mr. Tyler lingered in the parlor where 
she sat busy with some trifle, and waiting for a new ser- 
vant who had promised to come about nine. With her 
thoughts on other things she hardly noted the rambling, 
half-sentimental talk until a sentence startled her. Her 
face was turned upon him in the white heat of indigna- 
tion. 
"How dare you," she cried in vehement tones, — "how 
dare you offer me such an insult ! " and she rose to her 
feet trembling in every pulse. 
"An insult!" in amazement. " People in general are 
not so easily insulted with an offer of friendship and 
money at their disposal. You are much too fine-looking 
and spirited to waste all your years on that drunken 
brute of a Marshall. I 'd have no objection to helping 
you to a divorce even — " 
She walked out of the room in frigid dignity. In her 
own apartments she gave way to a passion of outraged 
feeling. How dared any man think such a thing of her. 
In her tempest of rage she could have strangled him. 
The next morning a note of dismissal awaited him. 
He sent a most abject apology, and begged her if she 
should ever want a friend to rely upon him. In all 
matters she would find him silent as the grave. 
Her woman's soul had been shaken to its very depths. 
She made one more effort to rouse her husband. He was 
still in the bloom of strong, healthy manhood, fitted by 
education and training to do a man's work in the world, 
and not grind his support out of the mother of his chil- 
dren. She appealed to his sympathy. The years had 
been a severe drain upon her ; and she thought it best to 
go back to quiet, household living, to devote herself to 
him an the children. She was ingenious, and had her 
sewing-machine, and there were other things she could 
do. Would he not join her in this new essay ? 
Of course he promised, though, truth to tell, he was 
a little puzzled and regretful. She gave up her house, 
paid her bills, and retired to apartments. Aunt Clara 
thought her short-sighted when she had succeeded in 
establishing herself. She found some embroidery and 
two music scholars. Then all the children had scarlet 
fever. To discharge her debts she was obliged to sell 
her piano. Tom made an essay at collecting, and became 
so confused in his affairs that she had to come to the 
rescue with money again. 
Mrs. Marshall came occasionally to see her son's wife, 
and cried over poor Tom. Aunt Clara gave her sym- 
pathy, and clothes to make over for the children; but 
they all liked her to keep out of sight. Their sensibili- 
ties were too deeply shocked, their nerves too delicate, 
to inquire closely into her sorrows. So she made her 
brave fight alone, matters growing worse and worse with 
her. Sewing was poorly paid, as she soon learned. The 
housework consumed much time, the children had various 
ailments from lack of proper diet and exercise, and most 
of all happy, childish pleasures. 
And then she saw a way out of it all. 
CHAPTER IL 
"If nothing but infinite pity is sufficient for the 
infinite pathos of human life." 
Elbanob Marshall did not take the most direct way 
home, although the cold was increasing every moment, 
and hard little pellets of snow were flung fiercely against 
each wayfarer. She was wrought up to an extreme of 
nervous excitement, and her questions had not even been 
argued, but battled against with the unreason of long 
custom. Was she right or wrong? Had she been 
patient in God's way? Was there some great thing she 
had left undone? 
A week ago she had gone to look upon a sight that she 
had not believed when it first reached her from coarse, 
gossiping tongues. She would have one more glimpse of 
it before she decided irrevocably. She passed down the 
side of the market that stood nearly in the centre of this 
large manufacturing town. At the lower end were several 
rather narrow streets, filled with restaurants, beer saloons, 
pool and billiard halls, the places growing lower in status 
as they drifted away from the main points of observation. 
She caught the refrain of noisy songs from young lads in 
tattered clothes and pinched red faces. Now and then a 
figure in hood and shawl scurried along, or some bold 
girl laughed out of a doorway to some rough passer-by. 
One little urchin jostled against her with, " Say, Missus, 
have you got tracts ? " and she gathered up her garments 
with shrinking and repulsion. Through uncurtained win- 
dows she saw bleared and leering faces, out of which the 
divine essence of humanity had perished. • Talk of perdi- 
tion I Why it was already here in these vile dens, reek- 
ing with odors of bad beer, tobacco, and all manner of 
filth that even the keen wintry air could not drive out. 
Here was the place. The sash was painted part of the 
way up to protect one from eyes too curious. Down the 
side of the dingy looking building ran a kind of alley-way 
with two windows opening on it. The faded and tawdry 
red curtain was partly drawn, and her eyes wandered 
around the interior. A sanded floor, strewn with bits of 
paper and cigar ends, several small tables ornamented 
with dominoes, a pack of dirty cards, beer mugs, and on 
one an old briarwood pipe. By the stove sat a man 
whose slouch hat was pushed up on his forehead, his 
hands thrust into his pockets, his bearded chin dropped 
down, half dozing. Fifteen years ago he had been her 
pride and delight, a noble, tender, polished gentleman. 
She used to contrast him with one other, whom she knew 
now loved her well ; but was there any one then she con- 
sidered his peer ? A swift, strong shudder ran over her; 
it seemed almost as if she must fall to the ground. 
The door opened. He roused and turned, his face a dull 
red with the mingled effects of heat and liquor. A rosy, 
buxom German girl entered, with a broad, coarse, good- 
humored countenance, strongly accented with stolidity. 
Her brawny arms were bare, but white and strong. She 
passed to inspect the fire, and he caught the arm nearest 
him, but she shook him off with a laugh. 
After she had mended the fire, there was a parley. He 
gave her some money and she disappeared, to come back 
with two glasses of foaming beer. A sudden movement 
brought her to his knee. He kissed her, and she laughed, 
then they jingled glasses. There was no touch of disdain 
or womanly pride. They drank their beer, and she 
laughed loud and long at some witticism. Presently, 
when the beer was done with, she threw both arms about 
his neck ; but the opening of a door interrupted the coarse 
caressing. 
Three or four grimy workmen entered. They must 
have been used to seeing this man, judging from their 
way of accosting him. There was another glass of beer 
all round, then Marshall sang them a song, which they 
applauded uproariously. O God, how had he fallen! 
She turned away sick at heart. This was the man 
whom society considered her head and master. Her 
earnings fed and clothed him, and gave him beer and 
whiskey to drink. She was helping him on the downward 
course. Was it right ? Must she and her children be the 
scorn of respectable people, and perhaps be dragged 
through hideous as well as bitter experiences. "For 
better, for worse." The words rang in her ear. Ah, if 
one could be sure of the strict requirements of the 
" worse." 
It was growing dark rapidly. The streets were filled 
with men and boys going home from work. How many 
of them dropped into these traps and pitfalls, lured by 
the warmth and sounds of merriment, and threw away the 
money that wife and children at home needed sorely. 
She felt as if she could sweep them all out of existence 
with a wave of her hand. Did the cry of the wronged 
and starved souls ever reach God? Was she indeed 
growing faithless ? 
She picked her way homeward with a sigh for almost 
every step, and a half despairing prayer to God. Up two 
pairs of stairs, she had chosen the top floor for the sake 
of being more by herself. The room she entered was 
bright and tidy, with a wholesome atmosphere, and oh, so 
cheerfully warm to both body and soul ! Celia Marshall 
had the supper-table set and the kettle boiling; Daisy 
was reading stories to Herbert. 
" O mamma, we thought you never would come ! 
How cold you are," kissing her. " What did make you 
stay so long? Sit down here and get good and warm 
while I make the tea. And could we treat ourselves to a 
bit of broiled fish, do you think ? " 
"Yes," she answered, as she took off her wrappings 
and smiled upon the little household. Celia was fourteen, 
very like her mother every way, only much smaller, and 
with a tender, sympathetic face, at least it was that now. 
The other children were more like their father. Bertie 
had the bright versatility that she had once so admired 
in another and thought it a proof of a happy nature, able 
to extract honey from any flower. He was easily moved ; 
but sometimes his mother was appalled by a lack of con- 
scientiousness on what she considered vital points. 
Her eyes wandered over the little group. It had come 
to this with them, so early in life, that they were much 
happier without their father. He generally slept late in 
the morning, sometimes not having any meal until dinner. 
Then he would saunter out. If he had a little money, or 
anybody treated, he was as likely to spend the rest of the 
day and evening, up to midnight, when he would stumble 
home, redolent of the fumes of the bar-room. He did not 
pretend to do anything now. Eleanor gave him money 
sorely against her will and her better judgment, because 
she hated constant bickering before the children. It was 
much pleasanter when he was away. 
Were these tender young souls to be trained and de- 
veloped into men and women who would do their duty 
honorably in the world, or thrust out to hardship, petty 
mortification, and open shame? Were they never to 
have a home free from a foul blot ? There was a birth- 
mark of refinement and intellect, but none knew better 
than she how constant association could wear one down 
to a lower level. 
" I do not believe papa will come home," said Celia in 
a tone that strongly suggested a feeling of relief. " So 
come, mamma." 
There was something in the face that reminded you of 
twilight, soft coloring, and a wavering light that came 
and went in her eyes. The discords of life would pierce 
 
her to the very soul, wear upon her. Courage she had, 
but not the buoyant endurance of her mother. It might 
have been the result of her too early shadowed life. 
They took their places. Daisy and Bertie chatted 
gaily. How handsome the boy looked with his glowing 
eyes, the rings of fair hair, the tender, rosy mouth with 
the beguiling curves of a pictured cupid. She always 
remembered the night she had seen him under the influ- 
ence of his father's whiskey. Even now she shuddered. 
She let them play about after supper and sing their 
school songs, studying them intently as her hands lay 
idly in her lap, an unusual thing for her. She was think- 
ing of her cousins' well-kept children, not nearly as pretty 
as hers. Would Aunt Clara like them to hear oaths and 
rough words? to have their sweet lips kissed by the vile, 
fevered ones of a drunken man ? Was it nothing, or at 
least only a trifle, to have her husband stagger home to 
her from that low den ? 
Who would think now of inviting Thomas Marshall to 
an evening company? Why, respectable people would 
feel disgraced. But she had not sinned, yet she was 
socially ostracized. Even as a business woman she could 
make a position for herself ; and as for giving up, as Aunt 
Clara feared she would be compelled to, she had nothing 
to give up. It would be virtually going into a new world 
where she might find some nice middle-class working people 
that would be better than any she could attract to her 
side now. 
That very day she had received notice to move. Mrs. 
Beach was not a bad-hearted woman ; but she had never 
cordially taken to Mrs. Marshall, and Mr. Marshall's goings 
out and comings in, especially the latter, scandalized her. 
The poor in spirit are apt to fling out occasionally. 
"A stuck-up thing!" she explained to her sister gos- 
sips. " What 's the good of her being old Wilder's niece 
and they living in a palace ? She never runs in, pleasant 
and neighborly, and is as much afraid of her children as 
if they were gold. And what is her husband but a lazy, 
drunken shirk, spending his time in that den of Hassler's, 
swilling beer and fooling with that girl. I 'll give her a 
piece of my mind some day ! " 
Not the girl, who was a confessed attraction to the 
saloon, but Mrs. Marshall, who in the face of all this dared 
to be proud and reticent. Mrs. Beach was as good or as 
bad as her word. Then, as a new tenant came for the 
rooms, she was invited to look elsewhere. 
" For we never have had drunken people coming in all 
hours of the night. I 'm worried to death with thinking 
that he may set the house afire," said Mrs. Beach. 
Mrs. Marshall bowed, but made no comment. There are 
some tender phases in the intercourse of the poor, but oh, 
how much that is hard and cruel ! 
There were not many respectable people who would 
open their doors to a denizen of Hassler's saloon. Eleanor 
must go where they were not particular, where there was 
small distinction made between the low and the poor, or 
she must take the other decisive step. She wanted so to 
go out of all this. 
She knew well enough how Mrs. Marshall would cry 
and implore her to think of poor Tom, not to give him 
up and push him over to certain destruction. Aunt Clara, 
no doubt, represented the general conservative sentiment. 
They would all be shocked at her flinging herself before 
the face of the world as a maker of bonnets and caps. 
This was the chance that had come to her. Miss Caruth 
kept a millinery store, with laces, ribbons, and certain 
styles of dress trimmings. Mrs. Marshall had only come 
to know her well during the last three years. She was a 
plain, ungraceful body, but she had exquisite taste and 
most skilful arrangement. For years she had lived by 
herself, and now she had determined to go "West and spend 
the remainder of her life with a widowed sister who owned 
a small place in a pretty town. 
In Mrs. Marshall's early days she had been noted for 
her taste in all kinds of outward adornment. Often had 
she been called upon by friends in despair when a few 
dexterous touches restored them to delight. She had an 
innate assurance that in a business like this she should be 
a success. It paid better than any kind of sewing she 
could get to do, it had variety, it would be a continual 
pleasure to her. 
"I have built up a good business," said Miss Caruth, 
"and anybody with style and taste would do just as well; 
indeed, I think a younger person would do better. I have 
made five or six hundred dollars every year over and above 
living, and have enough now to take care of myself in a 
moderate way. I 'd like to see you here, my dear Mrs. 
Marshall, and I 'd make it as easy for you as I possibly 
could. Think it over now." 
From one point they went to another. Eleanor opened 
her heart to this kindly, simple-hearted woman, who sym- 
pathized deeply with her. 
"My dear," said she, "I'd just go away by myself and 
live a decent, wholesome life, and bring up my children in 
the fear of the Lord. I don't think it right to work for 
him, that he may hang about saloons and drink ; it's really 
helping him on to the bad, you see. If he did not have 
you, he would have to go to work ; and the very shock 
might make a man of him. But just as long as you are 
a willing slave he will be the master. I don't know about 
divorces and such, only it does seem that where people 
can't agree they had better go separate ways. In this case 
you would have to do something to protect yourself and 
keep him away. I 'd work for a sick man, but I always 
did say I would never work for a lazy man." 
Miss Caruth offered her stock and fixtures for six hun- 
dred dollars. Four hundred was to be paid down and the 
remainder secured by a chattel mortgage. Eleanor was 
like one under the spell of an occult charm. Some hidden 
knowledge assured her continually that in this work she 
could succeed, that she might even make a little money 
for old age. It was quite useless to dream of her husband 
ever doing anything for her again. As the years went on, 
dissipation must tell in the shape of impaired faculties. 
If no one would trust him with a responsibility now, what 
could he do then ? Common manual labor he scouted. 
And the children needed something beside ordinary 
school training. They wanted all that a home implied, — 
position, society, a chance to develop what gifts God had 
bestowed upon them. Once Aunt Clara had hinted that 
she might take Celia presently, but she knew her aunt's 
pride ; and even there, granting that she could let her go 
from her aching heart and longing love, the father's sins 
would be visited upon the child. No one could forget 
that her father was a drunkard. 
Mrs. Marshall had a passionate love for purity, refine- 
ment, order, and the grace of beauty were it never so sim- 
ple. She enjoyed wealth and its accessories ; but she could 
make herself content in comparative poverty, if she could 
take it under favorable circumstances. But she had found 
that rents for poor people were of the highest, that places 
were dingy and out of repair, and that she no longer had 
a choice. Tom's reputation was too well known. She 
could not afford a cottage by herself, so she must take 
what landlords would allow her to have. We romance a 
great deal about poverty ; but the fact remains that it does 
grind souls and bodies into the dust until there is no longer 
any ambition to rise, until the nobler qualities have be- 
come dormant. She had seen some of these hopeless 
women, and blamed them severely; but she knew now 
how easy the descent was, how almost impossible it was 
to keep from being dragged down by these baleful forces. 
Like some gift of second sight it came to her. She 
could go on growing poorer and poorer, send her pretty 
girls to work in shops, see her boy grow up to rough and 
 
common ways, perhaps take early to drinking. Or she 
could go out of it all and save them. What if she devoted 
the next seven years to their salvation ? Three souls were 
surely of more account than one. 
Since this opportunity had come to her, several events 
had occurred to strengthen her desire, her almost frantic 
eagerness to find a way out of this quagmire, where she 
must inevitably sink deeper. There had been the night of 
Bertie's cold ; there had also been one occasion when he 
had struck Daisy such a blow that it had knocked the 
child down, and left a bruise on her forehead, — he was 
growing more brutal since he had taken to lounging so 
much in Hassler's saloon ; and then the girl ! Eleanor 
was not so much jealous as disgusted. This coarse, hand- 
some animal put in woman's form, but with no sacred 
womanly instincts ; laughing and jeering with half-drunken 
men; strong enough to shake them off when their hot 
grimy hands clutched too savagely at her ; bartering kisses 
for a tawdry gift, or as persuasion ruled ; lowering a man's 
respect and honor for his wife at home, or maddening the 
younger ones until they were ready to fight about her, — 
faugh ! she would have given anything not to have seen 
the vision, yet she knew it was best. She would not 
allow herself to ask whether Thomas Marshall had com- 
mitted any great sin, but even that kissing had discrowned 
their married love, if such a thing remained. She felt 
that he had ceased to regard her with the slightest respect. 
Sometimes he exhibited a cowardly fear of her, at others 
he was maudlin and wept profusely, blaming himself and 
declaring that he was not fit to live ; but he never reached 
the point of resolve to make himself fit for life and its 
duties once more. 
All these things had at last decided Mrs. Marshall; 
goaded her courage up to the point of applying to Aunt 
Clara for six hundred dollars, as a loan for two years, at 
lawful interest. She would not beg. Every penny should 
be paid back. If Miss Caruth could succeed, she certainly 
had as much on her side, and an indomitable energy if she 
oonld find a place to stand. 
It was true she felt quite disheartened at the very out- 
set. There were complications and questions. How much 
duty on the one side, how much on the other? Her soul 
was almost rent in twain. " Show me the way, Lord," she 
cried in her secret agony. "Point out to me the true 
path, and I will walk in it, even over thorns." But both 
paths lay pitilessly clear, — duty to husband, duty to chil- 
dren: the one love pure, sweet, clinging, unconsciously 
pleading, stretching out small, helpless hands to be saved 
from inhumanity, to be raised to its true estate, to be 
given a chance with other souls ; on the other side the 
great wrong, the secret endurance, the wounded trust, 
the rejected love and tenderness, the wasted riches, the 
womanhood poisoned and trampled into the dust, the 
light of a whole life darkened. Ah, no wonder the out- 
raged soul cried entreatingly in its anguish ! 
She saw clearly that she could expect no aid or counte- 
nance from the Marshalls. There were no relatives be- 
side Aunt Clara's family with whom she had been at all 
intimate. Clearly she could not look to relatives. Then 
as to friends, there might be some, but her inmost soul 
shrank from a round on such an errand. 
There was one. She knew of a person who would 
grant her this request kindly with no further wound to 
pride than the stab she would give herself in asking. 
Why she should have such perfect reliance upon this per- 
son she could not tell, since she had given him the deepest 
pang a woman can give, though not designedly. This 
flashed upon her almost like an answer to her prayer. 
Was it i answer? Did she dare believe anything "she 
really wanted was an answer? 
The children had played unheeded, but Daisy suddenly 
grew sleepy. Celia had been studying her lessons and 
 
wondering at her mother's idleness and abstractions. It 
was so seldom that her hands lay folded in her lap. 
" What beautiful hands she has ! " thought Celia. " They 
are so white, and the fingers taper to the very ends, while 
her nails are so prettily kept. They are like a picture." 
Mrs. Marshall roused herself. 
" I will put you to bed, Daisy," she began, " and Herbert 
may go with you a little while. I want to talk to Celia." 
There were three nice rooms on this floor and a small 
hall chamber that they kept for storage. The two girls 
slept on a lounge bedstead in the parlor, as it was called, 
though seldom needed for that purpose. The room 
between was Mrs. Marshall's. Bertie slept in a crib ; but, 
as he had a tendency to colds, it was often placed in the 
living-room when the parlor was very cold. 
Celia looked up in surprise at these words, then gave 
her mother a quick glance of confidence. The children 
were undressed in the warm room and wrapped in 
blankets, for the night was bitter cold. " I might have 
had a little fire," she thought — she could not afford but 
one steadily. 
When she returned Celia glanced up again inquiringly. 
