


CHAPTER XXVII.

THE INTERVIEW BETWEEN THE TWO PRINCIPALS.


As the Sylph and the tow had been in motion all the time during the
battle on the caisson, they were within a few rods of the point. Tom
Topover wanted Oscar Chester to put him on board of the Racer, but the
request was denied. The second pilot also refused to unbind him and his
companions when he landed them, for he would incur no risk.

The tow-lines had been adjusted, and the steamer was again making her
way up the river when the boat returned. Tom used a great deal of bad
language when he found himself standing on the point with his arms tied
behind him and Oscar wanted to thrash him, as he was confident he could,
but he obeyed his orders to the letter.

The two barges were half a mile from the point. They had come together,
and the crew of the Dasher were baling her out. By keeping the crew well
astern, the ragged holes in the bow were raised above the water line.
The Topovers who had been on board of her were transferred to the Racer.
The Chesterfields were a sorry crowd, and as they had no further use for
their allies, the Racer conveyed them to the point.

Of course Tom's bonds were removed then, and as the Racer started for
the other side of the lake the Topovers took up the line of march for
Genverres. When the Sylph reached the first bend in the river, the
Dasher, pulling only half her oars, had begun her voyage across the
lake. The Racer kept close to her, but she seemed to get along very
well, though very slowly.

"I don't believe those fellows will feel like coming over here again
very soon," said Oscar in the pilot-house.

"I don't know about that," replied Dory Dornwood. "This is the third
time they have got the worst of it; but I have no idea that they will
ever be satisfied until they get even with us."

"That is just what I think," added Captain Glovering, who was seated in
the pilot-house. "But I don't believe they will want to attack us on the
water again."

"If we hadn't had those pike-poles we could not have done a thing, and
it was only an accident that they happened to be on the caisson,"
continued Oscar.

"I don't think so; we should have found some other way to meet them,"
answered Captain Glovering. "When they have had as much experience on
the lake as we have, they may be able to do something."

"But the Topovers are madder than the Chesterfields, and they are our
neighbors," suggested Oscar. "I believe we shall hear from them again
soon. Tom swore he would fix us yet, and if he ever caught me alone he
would pound me till I couldn't see out of my eyes. I only hope he will
meet me alone."

"Let him alone; don't get into any quarrel with him," said Dory, in his
quiet way.

"I shall not seek any quarrel with him, and I will do the best I can to
avoid a fight; but if I get into one in a natural way, I shall try to be
a muscular Christian."

"The Topovers are more likely to steal our boats in the night, to turn
the Goldwing adrift, or something of that sort, than to make an open
attack upon us," argued the captain.

"My uncle would prosecute them if it were not for making their parents
pay their fines," said the first pilot.

When the Sylph reached the creek, the real difficulty of the trip
began. The first officer and his party were still on the caisson; but
the captain put a dozen more of the ship's company on board of it. They
were to use the pikes to crowd the tow away from the shore and the shoal
water when it could not be done by means of the double tow lines.

Oscar, who as second pilot had made a careful study of the depth of
water in the creek as well as the lakes, was sent on board; and the
special charge of the tow-lines was given to him. Slacking one or the
other of these proved to be sufficient until the caisson reached the
V-point. In spite of the tow-lines the tow dragged on the bottom, and a
good deal of vigorous work had to be done with the pike-poles.

The passage through Beech Hill Lake was observed by the instructors, and
all the servants from the house and garden, until the steamer went into
the creek above. Some hard work had to be done with the pike-poles
before the caisson was moored at the stone wharf, but before supper time
the Sylph was at her wharf.

Captain Gildrock had been detained in Burlington by the affairs of the
bank until the last train; but he arrived early in the evening. Captain
Glovering reported to him at once, giving a full account of the
encounter with the Chesterfields and Topovers. The principal was sorry
to hear this story of contention with the students from the other side
and the marauders of his own side. He approved the action of Captain
Glovering, even to the staving of the boat, for it was done in defence
of the property entrusted to his care, as well as in protecting the
persons of the ship's company. If he intended to do anything about it,
he kept his own counsel.

Unlike the commanding officer of the Beech Hillers, Commodore Twinker
did not report his proceedings to the principal of his school. On the
contrary, he tried to conceal them, and the shattered Dasher was rowed
to the boat-builder in Westport for repairs. Her crew kept her under the
high bank of the lake when they passed the institute buildings.

But it so happened that the principal had been over to Burlington on a
steamer, and saw the Dasher when she came into Westport. He inquired
into the matter, and the students told a story to suit themselves; but
the main feature of the narrative was that they had been grossly
insulted by both the principal and the "Tinkers" of the Beech Hill
School. The Chesterfields had been told by Captain Gildrock that they
were not gentlemen, and were not fit to associate with his pupils. The
crew of the Winooski had treated them with contempt, and run into their
boat.

Colonel Buckmill was indignant, and on Monday he went over to Beech
Hill. He stated his business in a gentlemanly manner, dwelling mainly on
the charge of the captain that the Chesterfields were not fit company
for the Beech Hill students. Captain Gildrock admitted that he had said
so, and still held to that opinion. He was as gentlemanly as his
visitor, but his views were very decided. He went over the three
encounters with the Chesterfields and their allies, and sent for Dory
Dornwood to explain the first meeting of the crews of the barges.

Colonel Buckmill "got a flea in his ear," but his own views of "greasy
mechanics" were not very different from those of his pupils. Though he
did not say so in so many words, he thought the students of the
Chesterfield Collegiate Institution were entitled to a good deal of
deference from boys "picked up in the streets." The captain did not see
it in this light, and the two principals did not get ahead any better
than their pupils.

"While my boys behave themselves like gentlemen, I expect them to be
treated as such," replied Captain Gildrock. "I expect them to defend
themselves if attacked; but if they go out of their way to invite an
attack, I will take the boats away from them, and not allow them to
leave the school grounds until they learn better. Your students have
been the aggressors in every instance."

"Silence is sometimes more insulting than speech, than even offensive
speech," replied the colonel proudly.

"Your views differ very essentially from mine, Colonel Buckmill, and it
is hardly worth while to attempt to reconcile them," continued Captain
Gildrock. "You are on one side of the lake and I am on the other, and
there is not the least occasion for any collision between us, or between
our students. If your boys will let mine alone, I will agree to keep the
peace."

"But I expect my young gentlemen to be treated with respect, even on the
lake," insisted the colonel.

"When one of our barges met your boats, our boys tossed oars, which is
the highest token of respect in a boat; but your students did not even
know what it meant, and greeted ours with offensive epithets. But not a
word in retaliation came from the mouth of a Beech Hill student. After
that our boys very carefully avoided yours. The attack last Saturday was
entirely unprovoked."

"But it grew out of former occurrences," reasoned Colonel Buckmill.

"I have explained the nature of the first meeting. I have my remedy in
the courts if these outrages are repeated," added Captain Gildrock.

"In the courts!" exclaimed the visitor, rising to his feet in
astonishment and indignation. "Do I understand you that you intend to
prosecute my young gentlemen?"

"If the principal of their school justifies them in their conduct and
declines to control them, I shall certainly protect my boys from insult
and assault in the best way I can," answered the captain decidedly.

"These affairs are nothing but the frolics of young gentlemen, and it
would be outrageous to take them into the courts," added the colonel,
more moderately. "Your students have nearly ruined one of our boats,
and I could make a just claim for damages."

"I hope you will make it," said the captain, laughing.

"I do not desire to settle such frolics in that way."

"I think nothing more need be said, Colonel Buckmill. Your boys have a
perfect right to navigate these waters. My boys have thus far proved
that they are able to take care of themselves; but I dislike these
collisions. I only ask you to do what I will do myself; my boys shall
not meddle with yours; and the least you can do is to require yours not
to meddle with mine. I should be glad to establish friendly relations
between the students of the two schools--"

"None of my young men are tinkers," interposed the colonel with a sneer.

"But they have formed an alliance with the Topovers, the scallawags of
Genverres. No matter about that. I see that friendly relations between
the schools are impossible, and we can only agree to disagree. I shall
be sorry to seek my remedy in the courts. Therefore I hope you will
control your boys."

"I expected some allowance would be made for the irregularities of
young gentlemen, all of whom come from the best families in the States,"
said Colonel Buckmill, rising to take his leave. "I was mistaken, and I
will do the best I can to prevent any further collision."

"That is all I can possibly ask; and if you do that, I shall hope that
friendly relations--not socially, but on the lake as boatmen--may yet be
established between our students, though some of mine may have the oil
of the turning-lathe upon their skirts."

Colonel Buckmill departed no better satisfied than when he came. As a
matter of fact, he had little expectation of being able to control his
young gentlemen while they were on their excursions upon the lake. He
was not a disciplinarian, and he had little skill in managing boys. The
interview between the two principals hardly promised anything hopeful or
peaceful in the future.

During the week the Sylph towed up to Beech Hill several rafts of
lumber, and a week after the arrival of the caisson Mr. Brookbine was
ready to begin the framing of the boat-house.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

SOMETHING ABOUT FRAMING THE BOAT-HOUSE.


While the work of framing the boat-house was in progress, the lessons in
the shops were suspended, but the forenoon exercises of the school were
continued as usual. The new tools had arrived, and had been distributed.
The place chosen for framing the building was a level piece of ground
between the shops and the dormitory.

On this spot the timber had been landed and piled up by laborers.
Instead of assembling in the shop after dinner, the students were
required to be on this ground with their boxes of tools. Mr. Brookbine
was the central figure of the picture on this occasion, and, as usual,
the boys were full of enthusiasm, for they were to make a beginning on a
new piece of work. They gathered around the master carpenter, each
standing by his box.

"The difficulty in our way, boys, is that you insist upon going too
fast," Mr. Brookbine began. "Captain Gildrock wants it understood that
our business now is not so much to frame a building as to learn how to
frame one. I am willing to answer questions, but I want you to stick to
the text, and not talk about things a thousand miles from it.

"This boat-house is to be ninety-six feet long and thirty-two feet wide,
not including the lean-tos for the dressing-rooms and small docks. We
will divide the length into six parts, and the width into two parts.
This will make twelve squares of sixteen feet each, or two hundred and
fifty-six square feet. Every corner of these twelve squares must be
supported by a foundation."

"That will make forty-eight posts, and only thirteen have been ordered,"
said Life Windham. "I don't see how thirteen posts can support
forty-eight corners."

"Perhaps if you had waited before you said anything, you would have
seen. Each of the inside posts, in the middle of the platform between
the docks, will support four corners. One post may support one, two, or
four corners. Of course no posts are required for those parts which are
over the shore. We shall simply put blocks or short pieces of timber
under them, and lay stone wall under the sills."

"But what are the sills?" asked Tom Ridley.

"I will explain the details as soon as you get the general idea of the
frame," replied the instructor. "As I have said, the space to be
enclosed by the frame is divided into six sections of the whole length.
Each of these sections contains two of the squares I have described.
Now, Ludlow, give me the size of the ground of each section."

"Thirty-two by sixteen," replied the student indicated.

"Right; and the boat-house will be the same as six buildings of
thirty-two by sixteen, though all but two of the sides would be common
to two of them. What I shall call a section of the frame includes all
the timbers in one end of the building. I say one end. Never mind the
length of the building. How many of these sections of the frame will
there be, Bellows?"

"Six, of course," replied the student; and about half the boys laughed
outright.

"Wrong," added Mr. Brookbine, joining in the laugh. "We have had this
subject up before in the shop, and I am sorry you have forgotten about
it. If you set up six stakes in the ground, how many spaces are there
between them, Bellows?"

"Six, I should say;" and the boys all laughed again.

"Set them up and count them," continued the master carpenter, rather
impatiently.

Ned Bellows did so, and could count only five spaces. He was required to
add another stick, and this gave him the six spaces, as in the building.

"How many stakes have you, Bellows?"

"Seven," replied the student, rather sheepishly. "I see that there will
be seven sections of the frame."

"Making no allowance for the docks, these seven sections are just alike,
and contain precisely the same timbers," continued Mr. Brookbine. "This
frame will be put together in sections, and each will be raised by
itself, by the aid of rigging and machinery."

The boys began to ask questions, for some of them did not understand the
sections yet. The instructor sent for a blackboard, which he placed on
an easel; and with this he made the subject plain to all. There were
seven tiers of timbers to be set up, when framed and put together, just
like seven bricks, each placed on one end.

"Now we will drop the sections for a time, and take them up again when
we are ready for them," the instructor proceeded, as he rubbed the
drawings from the blackboard. He then drew an outline of Chowder Point
and the shore near it. "Now I will mark where the twenty-one points of
support of the building are to be placed;" and he put this number of
small crosses on the board. "Some of these bearings are posts and some
are blocks, as they are in the water or on the shore.

"The timbers which rest on these foundation-points are the sills. These
are the first we frame. They are twelve inches square. We cannot find
any in our pile ninety-six feet long, and we shall have to scarf or
splice them." While he spoke, he drew the positions of the sills on the
foundations.

"But the boats can't go through that timber to get into the docks,"
interposed Nat Long.

"Let us attend to the general plan of the frame, and we will alter it
for the docks before we are done," replied the instructor, as he
proceeded to draw the five cross-timbers connecting the sills. "Now the
sills are laid down. Between the cross, or section sills, we put in the
floor joist. How far apart are the sections, Gawner?"

"Sixteen feet."

"These floor timbers are simply two-inch planks, nine inches wide.
There is a pile of them," said Mr. Brookbine, pointing to the lumber.
"They are to be placed sixteen inches apart, the sills being notched, or
mortised, to receive the ends. These joists must be bridged."

"Bridged?" queried Ben Ludlow.

"This must be done before the floor is laid, for we can't get at the
joist afterwards. Short pieces of board are nailed from the upper side
of one timber to the lower side of the next one, the ends being sawed at
the right bevel. Another piece is nailed in close to it, at right angles
with the first. A pair of bridge-sticks must be put in every five feet.
They are used to prevent the narrow timber from canting, thus giving a
firm and solid floor.

"The next thing is to lay the floor; that is, we nail down boards over
all the timbers. This will make the lower floor. Now, I may say that the
framing for the end of the building where the docks are must be adapted
to their shape. The floor-timbers of the lean-tos for the dressing-rooms
will be supported by braces above and below from the posts.

"Now, we will suppose that the entire floor, except the docks, is laid,
and we have a platform ninety-six by forty to stand upon. Before the
sills were put in place, they will be mortised to receive the tenons at
the ends of the posts, and of the braces. Now we are ready to return to
the sections of the frame.

"To each section there are three posts,--one at each side, and one in
the centre of the building. On the upper ends of these posts rest the
plates;" and the instructor drew the parts as he described them. "They
connect the posts at the top, as the sills do at the bottom. About on a
level with the hall-floor are timbers, called girders, joining the
middle post with the outside ones. The sills, the plates, and the
girders are the principal timbers, and are the same in all the sections.

"In every corner there is a diagonal brace, forming a right-angled
triangle with a base and a perpendicular of three feet. We shall mortise
for these braces, though of late years many carpenters simply spike them
in their places. Between the sills and the girders, and between the
girders and the plates, are the studs. They are made of four-by-two
stuff, or, in other words, of two-inch plank, four inches wide. The
sills, girders, and plates are mortised for them, and a two-inch tenon
cut at the end of each stick. Where windows come, short studs are put
in above and below them. They are placed sixteen inches apart. This
completes the frame below the roof."

"Then we are ready to go to work," said one of the boys.

"Not yet, for you don't expect the sections to stand alone. The frame of
the first section will be put together with the bottoms of the posts at
the mortises they are to occupy. It will be no easy job to get it up to
a perpendicular; but it can be done with pike-poles and a derrick, with
no little rigging. When we get it upright, the tenons will drop into the
mortises, and we have to stay it in position with braces and ropes. Then
we raise the second section in the same manner. There are plates and
girders on the sides as well as the ends of the building. While the two
sections are held in position, the girders and plates are put up to
connect them. The studs and braces are put in place, as in the end
section.

"All the large timbers are pinned together. You will have a nice time in
making a cord or two of these pins. They are about an inch in diameter,
made a little large for the hole, so as to fit it snugly. We pin the
braces so that they will hold both ways, but the studs are not fastened
at all, for the tenons cannot get out of the mortises."

"We can turn the pins," suggested Lick Milton.

"You can; but while you are fitting the wood into the lathe I can cut
out two of them with a broad axe. Your eye must be educated to the size.
As we add each section to the building, we fill in the space between
this one and the next. Now we have the frame up all but the roof.

"All structures are not framed alike, and some of the connections I have
mentioned have to be omitted in some places. For example, the braces
between the cross-girders and the posts can be used only in the ends of
the building. Again, all the middle posts, except the two at the ends,
must be short ones, for we don't want them in the middle of the hall.

"The framing of the roof is a simple matter, though we shall have to
support the ceiling of the hall from it. To do this we use a little
larger timber than would otherwise be required for the rafters, as they
form a sort of truss, from which we hang the upper floor. I have
finished what I had to say; but the details will have to be explained as
we go along."

"You can't do anything with some of these timbers," said Bob Swanton,
as he pointed to one near him. "It is twisted all out of shape."

"That one is warped in the sun; but a stick must be very crooked before
we throw it out," replied Mr. Brookbine. "We must take the 'wind' out of
it. All we want is two faces at right angles with each other. We select
the two best sides, and with a couple of squares sight along each. Then
we must hew it down where it is out."

The students were then required to take the square and compasses from
the box. The actual work of framing was to begin.




CHAPTER XXIX.

THE STUDENTS USE THE SQUARE AND COMPASSES.


Mr. Brookbine stood on one of the timbers intended for the sills of the
boat-house. In his hand he held a steel square and a pair of compasses.

"The pair of compasses I hold in my hand," he said, "are of the simplest
construction. Those you have in the shop are fitted with a screw-stop so
that you can fasten them in any required position. You will complain
that it is hard to move the legs of these, but as they must stay in
place without any screw, it is necessary that the joint be a tight fit."

"Legs?" said a student.

"You can call them shanks, if you prefer, or arms. There are a great
many technical names to parts of apparatus which are not often used
because they are not generally known," replied the instructor. "Since I
came to Beech Hill I learned that an oar consists of the handle, the
loom and the blade. Outside of the navy probably not one in ten ever
heard of the loom of an oar, or would know what it meant. In carpentry
the technical names used in one part of the country are not known in
other parts. Legs is the proper technical name of the two parts of the
compasses.

"You notice that the points are more blunt than those you use in the
shop. In framing we use one of the legs as a marking-awl. The awl would
do just as well, but it is sometimes convenient to have the compasses in
your hand so that you can lay off a distance from the square with them.
The points are tapered more rapidly so that they will make a mark which
can readily be seen by the workman.

"The steel square is one of the most important tools used by the
carpenter, and I could use up hours in telling you about it. The parts
have technical names, though few make a strict use of them. The corner
is called the heel, from which each of the four measures on it start.
The long arm is the blade and the short one the tongue. The blade is
just two feet long, or twenty-four inches."

"Mine is only twenty-three," suggested one of the boys, all of whom were
examining their steel squares.

"Mine is only twenty-two in one place, and twenty-three in another,"
added another.

"You are altogether too literal, and the letter killeth in carpentry as
well as in Scripture," replied Mr. Brookbine. "You must apply common
sense to the figures. Now look at the outside measure on the blade: find
the figure for one inch. That one means one inch in length, without
regard to breadth, as you define a line in geometry. Hold up the square
with the tongue down. Now does the inch of length lie on the right or
the left of the point marked one."

"On the right," replied a dozen.

"Now look at the point marked twenty-three: is the inch marked with this
number on the right or the left of it?"

"On the right."

"But there is another inch on the left of the mark, which is the
twenty-fourth inch, though there is no room to mark it uniformly with
the other numbers. Now, boys, look the thing over a little before you
raise an objection. I repeat that, on the outside, the blade is two feet
long. The student who said his blade was marked twenty-two in one place
was wrong in his fact, and if he looks again he will see that the
inside length of the blade is twenty-two and a half inches, which is
the outside width less the width of the tongue.

"In these squares the tongue is sixteen inches long, on the outside, and
fourteen on the inside, marked in the same manner as the blade. The
inside length is two inches less than the outside, for the blade is two
inches wide, while the tongue is only an inch and a half. You must know
the square so that you can use it without stopping to study out its
meaning.

"The tongue is sixteen inches long in this instance because it furnishes
a convenient measure for the placing of studs and furrings. The rule is
to put studs and furrings sixteen inches apart; but there is no law
which compels any carpenter or architect to follow it. Floor-joists are
usually placed at the same distance apart, though the rule is often
varied to meet the circumstances."

"I don't know what a furring is," said one of the boys.

"Furring a house is nailing strips of board, usually sawed at the mill
three inches wide, to the posts and studs for the sides, and the
floor-joist for the ceiling, on a room, at a distance of sixteen inches
apart, on which the laths are nailed for the plastering. If they were
placed at any other distance from each other, it would make great
confusion and waste in lathing. Laths are sawed four feet in length, so
as to cover the space from the middle of one furring to the middle of
the third one from it. Each lath is nailed to four furrings."

"But every room can not be exactly divided into spaces of sixteen inches
in its length or breadth," suggested Harry Franklin.

"Very true; but the sixteen-inch division is used as far as it will go,
and the lather must cut his laths for the last one. All the confusion
comes in at the end then. If any other division were made he would have
to cut every lath he used."

"But I have seen furrings only two inches wide," Lew Shoreham objected.

"No matter whether they are one or six inches wide: the rule is
followed. But sixteen inches means from the centre of one furring to the
centre of the next one; and the difference in the width comes into the
space between them. In some places they lath upon the studs, inside, and
clapboard upon them on the outside, without boarding.

"There is no particular reason why the blade of the square should be
two feet long, except that it is a convenient length. The width of both
the blade and the tongue is important. In mortising the sill for the
studs, we shall cut out a square hole of an inch and a half, which is
the width of the tongue. We will begin with the timber on which I am
standing, which is a foot square. The posts will be eight inches square.
Baxter, measure four inches from the end.

"This point will be the centre of the mortise for the post," continued
the master carpenter when the students had marked the distance. "Now lay
off sixteen inches, and stick the point of the compasses well into the
wood so that we can see the mark. This is the centre of the mortise for
the first stud. The stuff for the studding is four inches by two. Set
the points of your compass one inch apart, and keep them so for the
present. Lay off one inch on each side of the point you have made in the
sill."

Baxter did as he was told, and the rest of the students watched him.

"The space between the outside points is two inches, just the thickness
of the stud," continued Mr. Brookbine. "Put one point of the compasses
in either outside hole you have made; rest the tongue of the square
against the leg; let the blade hang over the side of the timber just far
enough to enable you to square across the upper face of the timber;
scratch a line across with the point of the compasses; in other words,
scribe it. Do the same with the other outside point. Now you have the
length of the mortise marked on the timber.

"Place the tongue of the square against the outer face of the sill, its
length just even with the corner, and be accurate about it. Good! Now
scribe against the inside of the tongue. Move the square until the
outside of the tongue coincides with the line just made, and scribe as
before. The result is that you have ruled off the width of the tongue,
an inch and a half, at the same distance from the corner of the stick.
This gives you the other two sides of the mortise. You must measure,
mark, and scribe accurately, or our studs will not come in the right
place.

"Now we will take a piece of studding, and finish the subject. The
mortise will be an inch and a half deep, and we are to mark off a tenon
to fit it. Set the square at the width of the tongue from the end of the
stick, scribe all around it. The thickness of the stud fits the mortise,
so that we have to cut away none of it. Place the tongue against the
face of the stud and scribe it. Do the same on the other side. Place the
tongue against the mark made and scribe again. You may scribe in the
same manner across the end of the stud. The result is that the tenon of
an inch and a half by two inches is marked off at the distance of an
inch and a half from the face of the stick. You can see that nothing but
the saws are required to do the work."

"We can do all that fast enough," said Ben Ludlow.

"The trouble is that you will do it too fast, and be careless about it,"
replied the instructor. "It requires sound judgment to do this work
well. As I have told you before, one may waste his wages ten times over
in cutting up lumber. Before you put the saw into a stick, you should
consider what the piece you cut off is good for. Most of the timber is
selected for the frame, so as to make the least waste. I shall have a
great deal to say to you on this subject as we go along. No matter how
much money you have, or who pays the bills, there must be no unnecessary
waste. That he cuts stock to good advantage, is one of the best
recommendations for a mechanic."

"Don't we have to fit the tenons to the mortises, and number them, or
something of that sort?" asked Luke Bennington.

"Some carpenters frame in that way, which answers very well in a small
building," replied the instructor. "We shall use in the boat-house
between four and five hundred studs, for example, and it would be more
work to number and find them than it would be to frame the whole of
them. We shall frame by what is sometimes called the square rule. Any
long stud will fit any place where a long stud is required. The
jack-studs, or short ones, are of different lengths, and we classify
them by their size. Of course the short posts cannot be used in the
sides or ends, or the side posts at the corners; but all the sticks of
the same class are interchangeable."

The master carpenter ended his lecture. The timbers for the sills had
been laid out for framing, and under the direction of the instructor,
the students proceeded to mark them off for mortising. It would require
a whole series of books to follow him in all the details. In what manner
he gave his instruction has been shown. Four students were instructed
how to mark for the posts, and they proceeded to do it.

Four more were told how to mark for the tenons at the ends of the
posts, and as soon as they were fairly at them, four more were selected
to prepare the girders. A squad was put upon the braces, another on the
plates and a third on the studs. In a short time they were all at work.
Mr. Brookbine looked over the marks as fast as his time would admit. Of
course there were many mistakes, and these were pointed out.

After an hour's use of the square and compasses, the boys needed a
change of work, and the instructor called for the framing-chisels and
mallets. All hands were set to mortising where the marks had been made
and proved to be correct. The students worked hard, and when night came
they did not feel much like skylarking.

The next forenoon, while the pupils were at their studies, the master
carpenter went over the marks and measurements on the timbers. He was
surprised to find so few errors. Before noon he had arranged everything
for the afternoon. The boys worked hard, and the framing was not likely
to last long.




CHAPTER XXX.

THE STUDENTS CELEBRATE THE COMPLETION OF THE BUILDING OF THE HOUSE.


The framing was finished, and the stone posts or the foundation in the
water were ready. Captain Gildrock had decided to have a submarine diver
to make a sure thing of the chinking up at the bottom. It was thought
best to make two cargoes of the foundations, especially as it was
necessary to carry a considerable quantity of other stone.

Seven of the posts had been loaded upon the caisson, and the Sylph went
up to tow it down. The derrick had been erected in the centre of it, and
everything was ready to drop the foundations into their places. With the
handling of the stone the students had nothing to do; but they manned
the steamer, and moved the caisson as required. The experience obtained
in towing the caisson from Burlington had fitted the boys for their
work, and the tow was soon brought into position for setting the first
post.

The two four-oar boats and the quarter-boats of the steamer were
manned, and were useful in carrying out the various guys and stays in
mooring the caisson. The posts were lowered into the water over one end
of the craft, the boom of the derrick being thirty feet long, so that
the equilibrium of the float could be better secured.

The Goldwing was appropriated to the use of the sub-marine diver and his
assistants. He was the novelty of the occasion, for not one of the
students, with the exception of the two from New York city, had ever
seen the working of the apparatus. It was hardly a full exhibition,
however, for the water was not over the diver's head in any part of the
bay where he was to make a descent.

The man dressed himself and put on his copper helmet in the
standing-room of the yacht; and the students gave him three cheers when
he was in full rig. The air-pump was placed on the forward deck, and the
hose through which the air was to be supplied to the diver was
conveniently arranged. A tub of stone chips of various size was ready to
be lowered down to him.

"I don't see how they are to sling the post so as to drop it down into
the water plumb," said Oscar Chester, in the pilot-house of the Sylph,
which was alongside the caisson.

"The quarrymen have drilled a hole in the top of each; the inside of
which is in the shape of the frustrum of a pyramid on two sides,"
replied Dory Dornwood. "They have an iron made in the same shape, but
considerably smaller, which they drop into the hole. On the two slanting
sides they insert pieces of iron of uniform thickness, which just fill
up the hole. When these are in place you cannot pull out the middle
iron, to which the hoisting apparatus is attached."

Oscar watched the process of making fast to the first post, and a sight
of the apparatus enabled him to comprehend its working. There were four
sheaves in the blocks used on the derrick; and the process of hoisting
and lowering, when the rope was wound up on a small cylinder, like that
on the machine, was very slow. But great power is obtained only at the
expense of speed. Bolly Millweed had been up to see the loading of the
posts on the caisson, and with two men at the winches it took hours to
put a single one on board.

On his return he had a talk with Mr. Jepson, and the result of it was
that a cylinder was rigged in the shop which could be worked with the
engine. The distance of the derrick from the cylinder made it necessary
to use a very strong rope, which Captain Gildrock selected for the
purpose. A gong bell was rigged in the shop, to be rung with a cord.

There was something for every student to do, and the work of each one
had been assigned to him. There were eight on the steamer, eight in the
boats, two on the Goldwing, four on the caisson, one of whom was to put
his whole mind upon the ringing of the gong bell, while Bolly Millweed,
who was regarded as the architect and engineer of the work, had three
assistants.

Bolly was a great man on this occasion, and his father and mother stood
on Chowder Point, observing him with admiration. Doubtless Bolly "felt
his oats," but anyone who had been with Captain Gildrock a while did not
put on airs, and the architect conducted himself with becoming modesty.
He was really entitled to a great deal of credit, for not only the
plans, but many of the contrivances for setting the posts and raising
the building had been originated by him.

Mr. Brookbine had insisted that it was next to impossible to set the
foundations properly in the water. Bolly thought there was no great
difficulty in doing this part of the work. He addressed himself to the
problem, and asked the master carpenter to select for him two straight
eight-inch timbers, thirty-two feet long. These were pinned together in
the form of a steel square, though with arms of equal length. Braces
were put on to keep the timbers exactly at right angles with each other.

At the heel and the ends of this floating square he set up three poles,
straight and plumb, which were painted red. In the apparatus of the
school there was a surveyor's compass, with sights upon it. With this
instrument, used on the shore, he got the square in position, so that
the heel was where the first post was to be set. His three assistants
were in a boat, and moved the square by the signals he made. It was then
moored to the bottom, so that it could not be readily moved.

The floating square was placed so that the outer corner would just touch
the inner corner of the post when it was set. At this point the
architect nailed a couple of laths so as to form two sides of a square
of the size of the foundation stones. In the middle and at each end of
the arms of the square, he also nailed laths, to mark the position of
four other posts, one of which formed the second corner of the end of
the building.

Mr. Brookbine commended the engineer, though he had some doubts about
the floating square. The swinging of the caisson, or a slight rap from
the stone in lowering it, would knock the square out of place. Bolly
could only reply that the caisson must not swing, and the post must not
touch the square.

At the order of the principal quarryman, Jim Alburgh rang the gong, the
long rope straightened, and the end of the post began to rise. The
square was three feet from one end of the caisson, which was moored at
the other end from the west side of the bay. Bolly was in one of the
boats with two of his assistants, the third being stationed on shore
with the compass, sighting along the red poles, to give notice of any
change in the position of the square.

When it was raised high enough, the post was lowered slowly into the
water, a foot from the guides on the square. Bolly was nervous, and kept
telling the quarrymen not to let the stone touch the guides or the
square. The diver dropped into the water, and waded to the stone. When
the end of it was nearly on the bottom, the post was swung into place
so carefully that the marks were not disturbed. The diver chinked up the
stone, and it was accurately plumbed.

When the first post was in place, the students gave three cheers. The
Sylph whistled lustily, and just at that moment the two Chesterfield
barges darted into Beech Hill Lake. They went over to the grove, where
they picked up a dozen of the Topovers. It did not look as though the
principal of the institute had much influence over them; for taking the
Topovers into their boats indicated that they were bent upon mischief.

Captain Gildrock said nothing about the barges and their occupants, and
did not seem to notice them. The work proceeded as though they had been
on the other side of the lake. The Sylph moved the caisson into position
for laying the second post, which was on the side, to avoid changing the
mooring-ropes as much as possible.
