"I suppose you are pretty busy over this election, Mr. Ballymolloy," said
Vancouver; blandly.
"Now, that's just it, Mr. Vancouver," replied the Irishman. "That's just
exactly what's the matter with me, for indeed I am very busy, and that's
the truth."
"Just so, Mr. Ballymolloy. Especially since the change last night. I
remember what a good friend you have always been to Mr. Jobbins."
"Well, as you say, Mr. Vancouver, I have been thinking that I and Mr.
Jobbins are pretty good friends, and that's just about what it is, I
think."
"Yes, I remember that on more than one occasion you and he have acted
together in the affairs of the state," said Vancouver, thoughtfully.
'"Ah, but it's the soul of him that I like," answered Mr. Ballymolloy very
sweetly. "He has such a beautiful soul, Mr. Jobbins; it does me good, and
indeed it does, Mr. Vancouver."
"As you say, sir, a man full of broad human sympathies. Nevertheless I
feel sure that on the present occasion your political interests will lead
you to follow the promptings of duty, and to vote in favor of the
Democratic candidate. I wish you and I did not differ in politics, Mr.
Ballymolloy."
"And, indeed, there is not so very much difference, if it comes to that,
Mr. Vancouver," replied Patrick in conciliating tones. "But it's just what
I have been thinking, that I will vote for Mr. Harrington. It's a matter
of principle with me, Mr. Vancouver, and that's it exactly."
"And where should we all be without principles, Mr. Ballymolloy? Indeed I
may say that the importance of principles in political matters is very
great."
"And it's just the greatest pity in the world that every one has not
principles like you, Mr. Vancouver. I'm speaking the truth now." According
to Mr. Patrick Ballymolloy's view of destiny, it was the truth and nothing
but the truth. He knew Vancouver of old, and Vancouver knew him.
"You flatter me, sir," said Pocock, affecting a pleased smile. "To tell
the truth, there is a little matter I wanted to speak to you about, if you
can spare me half an hour.".
"Indeed, I'm most entirely delighted to be at your service, Mr. Vancouver,
and I'm glad you came so early in the morning."
"The fact is, Mr. Ballymolloy, we are thinking of making an extension on
one of our lines; a small matter, but of importance to us."
"I guess it must be the branch of the Pocahontas and Dead Man's Valley
you'll be speaking of, Mr. Vancouver," said the Irishman, with sudden and
cheerful interest.
"Really, Mr. Ballymolloy, you are a man of the most surprising quickness.
It is a real pleasure to talk with you on such matters. I have no doubt
you understand the whole question thoroughly."
"Well, it's of no use at all to say I know nothing about it, because I
have heard it mentioned, and that's the plain truth, Mr. Vancouver.
And it will take a deal of rail, too, and that's another thing. And where
do you think of getting the iron from, Mr. Vancouver?"
"Well, I had hoped, Mr. Ballmolly," said Vancouver, with some affected
hesitation, "that as an old friend, we might be able to manage matters
with you. But, of course, this is entirely unofficial, and between
ourselves."
Mr. Ballymolloy nodded with something very like a wink of one bloodshot
eye. He knew what he was about.
"And when will you be thinking of beginning the work, Mr. Vancouver?" he
inquired, after a short pause.
"That is just the question, or rather, perhaps, I should say the
difficulty. We do not expect to begin work for a year or so."
"And surely that makes no difference, then, at all," returned Patrick.
"For the longer the time, the easier it will be for me to accommodate
you."
"Ah--but you see, Mr. Ballymolloy, it may be that in a year's time these
new-fangled ideas about free trade may be law, and it may be much cheaper
for us to get our rails from England, as Mr. Vanderbilt did three or four
years ago, when he was in such a hurry, you remember."
"And, indeed, I remember it very well, Mr. Vancouver."
"Just so. Now you see, Mr. Ballymolloy, I am speaking to you entirely as a
friend, though I hope I may before long bring about an official agreement.
But you see the difficulty of making a contract a year ahead, when a party
of Democratic senators and Congressmen may by that time have upset the
duty on steel rails, don't you?"
"And indeed, I see it as plain as day, Mr. Vancouver. And that's why I was
saying I wished every one had such principles as yourself, and I'm telling
you no lie when I say it again." Verily Mr. Ballymolloy was a truthful
person!
"Very well. Now, do not you think, Mr. Ballymolloy, that all this talk
about free trade is great nonsense?"
"And, surely, it will be the ruin of the whole country, Mr. Vancouver."
"Besides, free trade has nothing to do with Democratic principles, has it?
You see here am I, the best Republican in Massachusetts, and here are you,
the best Democrat in the country, and we both agree in saying that it is
great nonsense to leave iron unprotected."
"Ah, it's the principle of you I like, Mr. Vancouver!" exclaimed
Ballymolloy in great admiration. "It's your principles are beautiful,
just!"
"Very good, sir. Now of course you are going to vote for Mr. Harrington
to-day, or to-morrow, or whenever the election is to be. Don't you think
yon might say something to him that would be of some use? I believe he is
very uncertain about protection, you see. I think you could persuade him,
somehow."
"Well, now, Mr. Vancouver, it's the truth when I tell you I was just
thinking of speaking to him about it, just a little, before I went up to
the State House. And indeed I'll be going to him immediately."
"I think it is the wisest plan," said Vancouver, rising to go, "and we
will speak about the contract next week, when all this election business
is over."
"Ah, and indeed, I hope it will be soon, sir," said Ballymolloy. "But
you'll not think of going out again in the snow without taking a drop of
something, will you, Mr. Vancouver?" He went to the sideboard and poured
out two stiff doses of the amber liquid.
"Since you are so kind," said Vancouver, graciously taking the proffered
glass. He knew better than to refuse to drink over a bargain.
"Well, here goes," he said.
"And luck to yourself, Mr. Vancouver," said Ballymolloy.
"I think you can persuade him, somehow," said Vancouver, as his host
opened the street-door for him to go out.
"And, indeed, I think so too," said Ballymolloy. Then he went back to his
study and poured out a second glass of whiskey. "And if I cannot persuade
him," he continued in soliloquy, "why, then, it will just be old Jobbins
who will be senator, and that's the plain truth."
Vancouver went away with a light heart, and the frank smile on his
delicate features was most pleasant to see. He knew John Harrington well,
and he was certain that Mr. Ballymolloy's proposal would rouse the honest
wrath of the man he detested.
Half an hour later Mr. Ballymolloy entered Harrington's room in Charles
Street. John was seated at the table, fully dressed, and writing letters.
He offered his visitor a seat.
"So the election is coming on right away, Mr. Harrington," began Patrick,
making himself comfortable, and lighting one of John's cigars.
"So I hear, Mr. Ballymolloy," answered John with a pleasant smile. "I hope
I may count on you, in spite of what you said yesterday. These are the
times when men must keep together."
"Now Mr. Harrington, you'll not believe that I could go to the House and
vote against my own party, surely, will you now?" said Patrick. But there
was a tinge of irony in his soft tones. He knew that Vancouver could make
him great and advantageous business transactions, and he treated him
accordingly. John Harrington was, on the other hand, a mere candidate for
his twenty votes; he could make John senator if he chose, or defeat him,
if he preferred it, and he accordingly behaved to John with an air of
benevolent superiority.  "I trust you would do no such thing, Mr.
Ballymolloy," said John gravely. "Without advocating myself as in any way
fit for the honors of the Senate, I can say that it is of the utmost
importance that we should have as many Democrats in Congress as possible,
in the Senate as well as in the House."
"Surely you don't think I doubt that, Mr. Harrington? And indeed the
Senate is pretty well Democratic as it is."
"Yes," said John, smiling, "but the more the better, I should think. It is
a very different matter from the local legislature, where changes may
often do good."
"Indeed and it is, Mr. Harrington. And will you please to tell me what you
will do about free trade, when you're in the Senate, sir?"
"I am afraid I cannot tell you anything that I did not tell you yesterday,
Mr. Ballymolloy. I am a tariff reform man. It is a great Democratic
movement, and I should be bound to support it, even if I were not myself
so thorough a believer in it as I am."
"Now see here, Mr. Harrington, it's the gospel truth I'm telling you, when
I say you're mistaken. Here are plenty of us Democrats who don't want the
least little bit of free trade. I'm in the iron business, Mr. Harrington,
and you won't be after thinking me such an all-powerful galoot as to cut
my own nose off, will you?"
"Well, not exactly," said John, who was used to many peculiarities of
language in his visitors. "But, of course, iron will be the thing last on
the tariff. I am of opinion that it is necessary to put enough tax on iron
to protect home-producers at the time of greatest depression. That is
fair, is not it?"
"I dare say you may think so, Mr. Harrington," said Ballymolloy, knocking
the ashes from his cigar. "But you are not an iron man, now, are you?"
"Certainly not," said John. "But I have studied the question, and I know
its importance. In a reformation of the tariff, iron would be one of the
things most carefully provided for."
"Oh, I know all that," said Ballymolloy, somewhat roughly, "and there's
not much you can tell me about tariff reform that I don't know, neither.
And when you have reformed other things, you'll be for reforming iron,
too, just to keep your hands in. And, indeed, I've no objection whatever
to your reforming everything you like, so long as you don't interfere with
me and mine. But I don't trust the principles of the thing, sir; I don't
trust them the least little bit, and for me I would rather there were not
to be any reforming at all, except for the Chinamen, and I don't care much
for them, neither, and that's a fact."
"Very good, Mr. Ballymolloy. Every man has a right to his free opinion.
But we stand on the reform platform, for there is no country in the world
where reform is more needed than it is here. I can only repeat that the
interests of the iron trade stand high with the Democratic party, and that
it is highly improbable that any law will interfere with iron for many
years. I cannot say more than that and yet stick to facts."
"Always stick to facts, Mr. Harrington. You will find the truth a very
important thing indeed, and good principles too, in dealing with plain-spoken men like myself, sir. Stick to the truth, Mr. Harrington, forever
and ever."
"I propose to, Mr. Ballymolloy," answered John, internally amused at the
solemn manner of his interlocutor.
"And then I will put the matter to you, Mr. Harrington, and indeed it's a
plain matter, too, and not the least taste of dishonesty in it, at all.
I've been thinking I'd make you senator if you'll agree to go against free
trade, and that's just what I'll do, and no more."
"It is impossible for me to make such a bargain, Mr. Ballymolloy. After
your exposition of the importance of truth I am surprised that you should
expect me to belie my whole political life. As I have told you, I am
prepared to support laws to protect iron as much as is necessary. Free
trade nowadays does not mean cutting away all duties; it means a proper
adjustment of them to the requirements of our commerce. A proper
adjustment of duties could not possibly be interpreted to mean any injury
to the iron trade. You may rely upon that, at all events."
"Oh, and I'm sure I can," said Ballymolloy incredulously, and he grew, if
possible, redder in the face than nature and the action of alcohol had
made him. "And I'm not only sure of it, but I'll swear it's gospel truth.
But then, you know, I'm of opinion that by the time you've done reforming
the other things, the reformed gentlemen won't like it, and then they'll
just turn round and eat you up unless you reform us too, and that just
means the ruin of us."
"Come now, Mr. Ballymolloy, that is exaggeration," said John. "If you will
listen to me for a moment"--
"I haven't got the time, sir, and that's all about it. If you'll protect
our interests and promise to do it, you'll be senator. The election is
coming on, Mr. Harrington, and I'd be sorry to see you thrown out."
"Mr. Ballymolloy, I had sincerely hoped that you would support me in this
matter, but I must tell you once more that I think you are unreasonable. I
vouch for the sufficient protection of your interests, because it is the
belief of our party that they need protection. But it is not necessary for
you to have an anti-reform senator for that purpose, in the first place;
and secondly, the offer of a seat in the Senate would never induce me to
change my mind, nor to turn round and deny everything that I have said and
written on the subject."
"Then that is your last word of all, Mr. Harrington?" said Ballymolloy,
heaving his heavy body out of the easy-chair. But his voice, which had
sounded somewhat irate during the discussion, again rolled out in
mellifluous tones.
"Yes, Mr. Ballymolloy, that is all I have to say."
"And indeed it's not so very bad at all," said Patrick. "You see I just
wanted to see how far you were likely to go, because, though I'm a good
Democrat, sir, I'm against free trade in the main points, and that's just
the truth. But if you say you will stand up for iron right through, and
use your best judgment, why, I guess you'll have to be senator after all.
It's a great position, Mr. Harrington, and I hope you'll do honor to it."
"I hope so, indeed," said John. "Can I offer you a glass of wine, or
anything else, Mr. Ballymolloy?"
"Indeed, and it's dirty weather, too," said Patrick. "Thank you, I'll take
a little whiskey."
John poured out a glass.
"You won't let me drink alone, Mr. Harrington?" inquired Patrick, holding
his tumbler in his hand. To oblige him, after the manner of the country,
John poured out a small glass of sherry, and put his lips to it.
Ballymolloy drained the whiskey to the last drop.
"You were not really thinking I would vote for Mr. Jobbins, were you now,
Mr. Harrington?" he asked, with a sly look on his red face.
"I always hope that the men of my party are to be relied upon, Mr.
Ballymolloy," said John, smiling politely.
"Very well, they are to be relied upon, sir. We are, every man of us, to
the last drop of Christian blood in our blessed bodies," said Patrick,
with a gush of patriotic enthusiasm, at the same time holding out his
heavy hand. Then he took his leave.
"You had better have said 'to the last drop of Bourbon whiskey in the
blessed bottle!'" said John to himself when his visitor was gone. Then he
sat down for a while to think over the situation.
"That man will vote against me yet," he thought.
He was astonished to find himself nervous and excited for the first time
in his life. With characteristic determination he went back to his desk,
and continued the letter which the visit of the Irish elector had
interrupted.
Meanwhile Mr. Patrick Ballymolloy was driven to the house of the
Republican candidate, Mr. Jobbing.
CHAPTER XVI.
Sybil was right when she said the family politics at the Wyndhams' were
disturbed. Indeed the disturbance was so great that Mrs. Wyndham was
dressed and down-stairs before twelve o'clock, which had never before
occurred in the memory of the oldest servant.
"It is too perfectly exciting, my dears," she exclaimed as Joe and Sybil
entered the room, followed--at a respectful distance by Ronald. "I can't
stand it one minute longer! How do you do, Mr. Surbiton?"
"What is the latest news?" asked Sybil.
"I have not heard anything for ever so long. Sam has gone round to see--perhaps he will be back soon. I do wish we had 'tickers' here in the
house, as they do in New York; it is such fun watching when
anything is going on."
She walked about the room as she talked, touching a book on one table and
a photograph on another, in a state of great excitement. Ronald watched
her in some surprise; it seemed odd to him that any one should take so
much interest in a mere election. Joe and Sybil, who knew her better, made
themselves at home.
It appeared that although Sam had gone to make inquiries, it was very
improbable that anything would be known until late in the afternoon. There
was to be a contest of some sort, but whether it would end in a single
day, or whether Ballymolloy and his men intended to prolong the struggle
for their own ends, remained to be seen.
Meanwhile Mrs. Wyndham walked about her drawing-room descanting upon the
iniquities of political life, with an animation that delighted Joe and
amused Ronald.
"Well, there is nothing for it, you see," she said at last. "Sam evidently
does not mean to come home, and you must just stay here and have some
lunch until he does."
The three agreed, nothing loath to enjoying one another's company. There
is nothing like a day spent together in waiting for an event, to bring out
the characteristics of individuals. Mrs. Wyndham fretted and talked, and
fretted again. Joe grew silent, pale, and anxious as the morning passed,
while Sybil and Ronald seemed to enjoy themselves extremely, and talked
without ceasing. Outside the snow fell thick and fast as ever, and the
drifts rose higher and higher.
"I do wish Sam would come back," exclaimed Mrs. Wyndham at last, as she
threw herself into an easy-chair, and looked at the clock.
But Sam did not come, nevertheless, and Joe sat quietly by the fire,
wishing she were alone, and yet unwilling to leave the house where she
hoped to have the earliest information.
The two who seemed rapidly growing indifferent to the issue of the
election were Sybil and Ronald, who sat together with a huge portfolio of
photographs and sketches between them, laughing and talking pleasantly
enough. Joe did not hear a word of their conversation, and Mrs. Wyndham
paid little attention to it, though her practiced ears could have heard it
all if need be, while she herself was profoundly occupied with some one
else.
The four had a somewhat dreary meal together, and Ronald was told to go
into Sam's study and smoke if he liked, while Mrs. Wyndham led Joe and
Sybil away to look at a quantity of new things that had just come from
Paris. Ronald did as he was bid and settled himself for an hour, with a
plentiful supply of newspapers and railroad literature.
It was past three o'clock when Sam Wyndham entered the room, his face wet
with the snowflakes and red with excitement.
"Hollo!" he exclaimed, seeing Ronald comfortably ensconced in his favorite
easy-chair. "How are you?"
"Excuse me," said Ronald, rising quickly. "They told me to come in here
after lunch, and so I was waiting until I was sent for, or told to come
out."
"Very glad to see you, any way," said Sam cordially. "Well, I have been to
hear about an election--a friend of ours got put up for senator. But I
don't expect that interests you much?"
"On the contrary," said Ronald, "I have heard it so much talked of that I
am as much interested as anybody. Is it all over?"
"Oh yes, and a pretty queer business it was. Well, our friend is not
elected, anyway"--
"Has Mr. Harrington been defeated?" asked Ronald quickly.
"It's my belief he has been sold," said Sam. "But as I am a Republican
myself and a friend of Jobbins, more or less, I don't suppose I feel so
very bad about it, after all. But I don't know how my wife will take it,
I'm sure," said Sam presently. "I expect we had better go and tell her,
right off."
"Then he has really lost the election?" inquired Ronald, who was not
altogether sorry to hear it.
"Why, yes--as I say, Jobbins is senator now. I should not wonder if
Harrington were a good deal cut up. Come along with me, now, and we will
tell the ladies."
The three ladies were in the drawing-room. Mrs. Wyndham and Joe sprang to
their feet as Sam and Ronald entered, but Sybil remained seated and merely
looked up inquiringly.
"Oh now, Sam," cried Mrs. Wyndham, in great excitement, "tell us all about
it right away. We are dying to know!"
Joe came close to Mrs. Wyndham, her face very pale and her teeth clenched
in her great anxiety. Sam threw back the lapels of his coat, put his
thumbs in the armholes of his broad waistcoat, and turned his head
slightly on one side.
"Well," he said slowly, "John's wiped out."
"Do you mean to say he has lost the election?" cried Mrs. Wyndham.
"Yes--he's lost it. Jobbins is senator."
"Sam, you are perfectly horrid!" exclaimed his spouse, in deepest
vexation.
Josephine Thorn spoke no word, but turned away and went alone to the
window. She was deathly pale, and she trembled from head to foot as she
clutched the heavy curtain with her small white fingers.
"Poor Mr. Harrington!" said Sybil thoughtfully. "I am dreadfully sorry."
Mr. and Mrs. Wyndham and Ronald moved toward the fire where Sybil was
sitting. No one spoke for a few seconds. At last Mrs. Wyndham broke out:
"Sam, it's a perfect shame!" she said. "I think all those people ought to
be locked up for bribery. I am certain it was all done by some horrid
stealing, or something, now, was not it?"
"I don't know about that, my dear," said Sam reflectively. "You see they
generally vote fair enough in these things. Well, may be that fellow
Ballymolloy has made something out of it. He's a pretty bad sort of a
scamp, any way, I expect. Sorry you are so put out about it, but Jobbins
is not so very bad, after all."
Sybil suddenly missed Joe from the group, and looked across to where she
stood by the window. A glance told her that something was wrong, and she
rose from her seat and went to her friend. The sight of Josephine's pale
face frightened her.
"Joe, dear," she said affectionately, "you are ill--come to my room."
Sybil put one arm round her waist and quietly led her away. Ronald had
watched the little scene from a distance, but Mr. and Mrs. Wyndham
continued to discuss the result of the election.
"It is exactly like you, Sam, to be talking in that way, instead of
telling me just how it happened," said Mrs. Wyndham. "And then to say it
is not so very bad after all!"
"Oh, I will tell you all about it right away, my dear, if you'll only give
me a little time. You're always in such an immense fever about everything
that it's perfectly impossible to get along."
"Are you going to begin?" said Mrs. Wyndham, half vexed with her husband's
deliberate indifference.
"Well, as near as I can make out it was generally thought at the start
that John had a pretty good show. The Senate elected him right away by a
majority of four, which was so much to the good, for of course his friends
reckoned on getting him in, if the Senate hadn't elected him, by the
bigger majority of the House swamping the Senate in the General Court. But
it's gone just the other way."
"Whatever is the General Court?" asked Ronald, much puzzled.
"Oh, the General Court is when the House and the Senate meet together next
day to formally declare a senator elected, if they have both chosen the
same man, or to elect one by a general majority if they haven't."
"Yes, that is it," added Mrs. Wyndham to Ronald, and then addressing her
husband, "Do go on, Sam; you've not told us anything yet."
"Well, as I said, the Senate elected John Harrington by a majority of
four. The House took a long time getting to work, and then there was some
mistake about the first vote, so they had to take a second. And when that
was done Jobbins actually had a majority of eighteen. So John's beaten,
and Jobbins will be senator anyhow, and you must just make the best you
can out of it."
"But I thought you said when the House and the Senate did not agree, the
General Court met next day and elected a senator?" asked Ronald again;
"and in that case Mr. Harrington is not really beaten yet."
"Well, theoretically he's not," said Sam, "because of course Jobbins is
not actually senator until he has been elected by the General Court, but
the majority for him in the House was so surprisingly large, and the
majority for John so small in the Senate, and the House is so much larger
than the Senate, that the vote to-morrow is a dead sure thing, and Jobbins
is just as much senator as if he were sitting in Washington."
"I suppose you will expect me to have Mr. Jobbins to dinner, now. I think
the whole business is perfectly mean!"
"Don't blame me, my dear," said Sam calmly. "I did not create the
Massachusetts Legislature, and I did not found the State House, nor
discover America, nor any of these things. And after all, Jobbins is a
very respectable man and belongs to our own party, while Harrington does
not. When I set up creating I'll make a note of one or two points, and
I'll see that John is properly attended to."
"You need not be silly, Sam," said Mrs. Wyndham. "What has become of those
girls?"
"They went out of the room some time ago," said Ronald, who had been
listening with much amusement to the description of the election. He was
never quite sure whether people could be serious when they talked such
peculiar language, and he observed with surprise that Mr. and Mrs. Wyndham
talked to each other in phrases very different from those they used in
addressing himself.
Sybil had led Joe away to her room. She did not guess the cause of Joe's
faintness, but supposed it to be a momentary indisposition, amenable to
the effects of eau-de-cologne. She made her lie upon the great cretonne
sofa, moistening her forehead, and giving her a bottle of salts to smell.
But Joe, who had never been ill in her life, recovered her strength in a
few minutes, and regaining her feet began to walk about the room.
"What do you think it was, Joe, dear?" asked Sybil, watching her.
"Oh, it was nothing. Perhaps the room was hot, and I was tired."
"I thought you looked tired all the morning," said Sybil, "and just when I
looked at you I thought you were going to faint. You were as pale as
death, and you seemed holding yourself up by the curtains."
"Did I?" said Joe, trying to laugh. "How silly of me! I felt faint for a
moment--that was all. I think I will go home."
"Yes, dear--but stay a few minutes longer and rest yourself. I will order
a carriage--it is still snowing hard." Sybil left the room.
Once alone, Joe threw herself upon the sofa again. She would rather have
died than have told any one, even Sybil Brandon, that it was no sickness
she felt, but only a great and overwhelming disappointment for the man she
loved.
Her love was doubly hers--her very own--in that it was fast locked in her
own heart, beyond the reach of any human being to know. Of all that came
and went about her, and flattered her, and strove for her graces, not one
suspected that she loved a man in their very midst, passionately,
fervently, with all the strength she had. Ronald's suspicions were too
vague, and too much the result of a preconceived idea, to represent
anything like a certainty to himself, and he had not mentioned them to
her.
If anything can determine the passion of love in a woman, it is the great
flood of sympathy that overflows her heart when the man she loves is hurt,
or overcome in a great cause. When, for a little moment, that which she
thinks strongest and bravest and most manly is struck down and wounded and
brought low, her love rises up and is strong within her, and makes her
more noble in the devotion of perfect gentleness than a man can ever be.
"Oh, if only he could have won!" Joe said again and again to herself. "If
only he could have won, I would have given anything!"
Sybil came back in a few moments, and saw Joe lying down, still white and
apparently far from well. She knelt upon the floor by her side and taking
her hands, looked affectionately into her face.
"There is something the matter," she said. "I know--you cannot deceive
me--there is something serious the matter. Will you tell me, Joe? Can I do
anything at all to help you?" Joe smiled faintly, grateful for the
sympathy and for the gentle words of her friend.
"No, Sybil dear. It is nothing--there is nothing you can do. Thanks,
dearest--I shall be very well in a little while. It is nothing, really. Is
the carriage there?"
A few minutes later, Joe and Ronald were again at Miss Schenectady's
house. Joe recovered her self-control on the way, and asked Ronald to come
in, an invitation which he cheerfully accepted.
John Harrington had spent the day in a state of anxiety which was new to
him. Enthusiastic by nature, he was calm by habit, and he was surprised to
find his hand unsteady and his brain not capable of the intense
application he could usually command. Ten minutes after the results of the
election were known at the State House, he received a note from a friend
informing him with expressions of hearty sympathy how the day had gone.
The strong physical sense of pain which accompanies all great
disappointments, took hold of him, and he fell back in his seat and closed
his eyes, his teeth set and his face pale with the suffering, while his
broad hands convulsively grasped the heavy oaken arms of his chair.
It may be that this same bodily agony, which is of itself but the gross
reflection in our material selves of what the soul is bearing, is a
wholesome provision that draws our finer senses away from looking at what
might blind them altogether. There are times when a man would go mad if
his mind were not detached from its sorrow by the quick, sharp beating of
his bodily heart, and by the keen torture of the physical body, that is
like the thrusting of a red-hot knife between breastbone and midriff.
The expression "self-control" is daily in the blatant mouths of preachers
and moralists, the very cant of emptiness and folly. It means nothing, nor
can any play of words or cunning twisting of conception ever give it
meaning. For the "self" is the divine, imperishable portion of the eternal
God which is in man. I may control my limbs and the strength that is in
them, and I may force under the appetites and passions of this mortal
body, but I cannot myself, for it is myself that controls, being of nature
godlike and stronger than all which is material. And although, for an
infinitely brief space of time, I myself may inhabit and give life to this
handful of most changeable atoms, I have it in my supreme power and choice
to make them act according to my pleasure. If I become enamored of the
body and its ways, and of the subtleties of a fleeting bodily
intelligence, I have forgotten to control those things; and having
forgotten that I have free will given me from heaven to rule what is mine,
I am no longer a man, but a beast. But while I, who am an immortal soul,
command the perishable engine in which I dwell, I am in truth a man. For
the soul is of God and forever, whereas the body is a thing of to-day that
vanishes into dust to-morrow; but the two together are the living man. And
thus it is that God is made man in us every day.
All that which we know by our senses is but an illusion. What is true of
its own nature, we can neither see, nor hear, nor feel, nor taste. It is a
matter of time, and nothing more, and whatever palpable thing a man can
name will inevitably be dissolved into its constituent parts, that these
may again agglomerate into a new illusion for future ages. But that which
is subject to no change, nor disintegration, nor reconstruction, is the
immortal truth, to attain to a knowledge and understanding of which is to
be saved from the endless shifting of the material and illusory universe.
John Harrington lay in his chair alone in his rooms, while the snow
whirled against the windows outside and made little drifts on the sills.
The fire had gone out and the bitter storm beat against the casements and
howled in the chimney, and the dusk of the night began to mingle with the
thick white flakes, and brought upon the solitary man a great gloom and
horror of loneliness. It seemed to him that his life was done, and his
strength gone from him. He had labored in vain for years, for this end,
and he had failed to attain it. It were better to have died than to suffer
the ignominy of this defeat. It were better never to have lived at all
than to have lived so utterly in vain. One by one the struggles of the
past came up to him; each had seemed a triumph when he was in the glory of
strength and hope. The splendid aims of a higher and nobler government,
built by sheer truth and nobility of purpose upon the ashes and dust of
present corruption, the magnificent purity of the ideal State of which he
had loved to dream--all that he had thought of and striven after as most
worthy of a true man to follow, dwindled now away into a hollow and
mocking image, more false than hollowness itself, poorer and of less
substance than a juggler's show.
He clasped his hands over his forehead, and tried to think, but it was of
no use. Everything was vague, broken, crushed, and shapeless. Faces seemed
to rise to his disturbed sight, and he wondered whether he had ever known
these people; a ghastly weariness as of death was upon him, and his arms
fell heavily by his sides. He groaned aloud, and if in that bitter sigh he
could have breathed away his existence he would have gladly done it.
Some one entered the room, struck a match, and lit the gas. It was his
servant, or rather the joint servant of two or three of the bachelors who
lived in the house, a huge, smooth-faced colored man.
"Oh, excuthe me, Mister Harrington, I thought you wath out, Thir.
There's two o' them notes for you."
John roused himself, and took the letters without a word. They were both
addressed in feminine handwriting. The one he knew, for it was from Mrs.
Wyndham. The other he did not recognize. He opened Mrs. Wyndham's first.
"DEAR MR. HARRINGTON,--Sam and I are very much put out about it, and
sympathize most cordially. We think you might like to come and dine this
evening, if you have no other invitation, so I write to say we will be all
alone and very glad to see you. Cordially yours,
"JANE WYNDHAM."
"P.S. Don't trouble about the answer."
John read the note through and laid it on the table. Then he turned the
other missive over in his fingers, and finally tore open the envelope.
It ran as follows:--
"MY DEAR MR. HARRINGTON,--Please don't be surprised at my writing to you
in this way. I was at Mrs. Wyndham's this afternoon and heard all about
it, and I must write to tell you that I am very, very sorry. It is
too horrible to think how bad and wicked and foolish people are, and how
they invariably do the wrong thing. I cannot tell you how sorry we all
are, because it is just such men as you who are most needed nowadays,
though of course I know nothing about politics here. But I am quite sure
that all of them will live to regret it, and that you will win in
the end. Don't think it foolish of me to write, because I'm so angry that
I can't in the least help it, and I think everybody ought to.
"Yours in sincerity,"
"JOSEPHINE THORN."
CHAPTER XVII.
John read Joe's note many times over before he quite realized what it
contained. It seemed at first a singular thing that she should have
written to him, and he did not understand it. He knew her as an
enthusiastic and capricious girl who had sometimes laughed at him, and
sometimes treated him coldly; but who, again, had sometimes talked with
him as though he were an old friend. He called to mind the interest she
had taken in his doings of late, and how she had denounced Vancouver as
his enemy, and he thought of the long conversation he had had with her on
the ice under the cold moonlight. He thought of many a sympathetic glance
she had given when he spoke of his aims and intentions, of many a gentle
word spoken in praise of him, and which at the time he had taken merely as
so much small, good-natured flattery, such as agreeable people deal out to
each other in society without any thought of evil nor any especial meaning
of good. All these things came back to him, and he read the little note
again. It was a kindly word, nothing more, penned by a wild, good-hearted
girl, in the scorn of consequence or social propriety. It was nothing but
that.
And yet, there was something more in it all--something not expressed in
the abbreviated words and hurriedly-composed sentences, but something that
seemed to struggle for expression. John's experience of womankind was
limited, for he was no lady's man, and had led a life singularly lacking
in woman's love or sentiment, though singularly dependent on the
friendship of some woman. Nevertheless he knew that Joe's note breathed
the essence of a sympathy wider than that of mere every-day acquaintance,
and deeper, perhaps, than that of any friendship he had known. He could
not have explained the feeling, nor reasoned upon it, but he knew well
enough that when he next met Joe it would be on new terms. She had
declared herself his friend in a way no longer mistakable, for she must
have followed her first impulse in writing such a note, and the impulse
must have been a strong one.
For a while he debated whether to answer the note or not, almost
forgetting his troubles in the tumult of new thoughts it had suggested to
him. A note, thought he, required an answer, on general principles--but
such a note as this would be better answered in person than by any pen and
paper. He would call and see Joe, and thank her for it. But, again, he
knew he could not see her until the next day, and that seemed a long time
to wait. It would not have been long under ordinary circumstances, but in
this case it seemed to him an unreasonable delay. He sat down and took a
pen in his fingers.
"Dear Miss Thorn"--he began, and stopped. In America it is more formal to
begin without the preliminary "my;" in England the "my" is indispensable,
unless people are on familiar terms. John knew this, and reflected that
Joe was English. While he was reflecting his eye fell upon a heap of
telegraph blanks, and he remembered that he had not given notice of his
defeat to the council. He pushed aside the note paper and took a form for
a cable dispatch. In a moment Joe was forgotten in the sudden shock that
brought his thoughts back to his position. He wrote out a simple message
addressed to Z, who was the only one of the three whom he officially knew.
But when he had done that, he fell to thinking about Joe again, and
resolved to write the note.
"MY DEAR MISS THORN,--I cannot allow your very friendly words to remain
unanswered until tomorrow. It is kind of you to be sorry for the defeat I
have suffered, it is kinder still to express your sympathy so directly and
so soon. Concerning the circumstances which brought the contest to such a
result, I have nothing to say. It is the privilege of elective bodies to
choose as they please, and indeed, that is the object of their existence.
No one has any right to complain of not being elected, for a man who is a
candidate knows from the first what he is undertaking, and what manner of
men he has to deal with. Personally, I am a man who has fought a fight and
has lost it, and however firmly I still believe in the cause which led me
to the struggle, I confess that I am disappointed and disheartened at
being vanquished. You are good enough to say you believe I shall win in
the end; I can only answer that I thank you very heartily indeed for
saying so, though I do not think it is likely that any efforts of mine
will be attended with success for a long time.
"Believe me, with great gratitude,
"Very sincerely yours,
"JOHN HARRINGTON."
It was a longer note than he had meant to write, in fact it was almost a
letter; but he read it over and was convinced he had said what he meant to
say, which was always the principal consideration in such matters.
Accordingly the missive was dispatched to its destination. As for Mrs.
Wyndham, John determined to accept her invitation, and to answer it in
person by appearing at the dinner-hour. He would not let any one think he
was so broken-hearted as to be unable to show himself. He was too strong
for that, and he had too much pride in his strength.
He was right in going to Mrs. Wyndham's, for she and her husband were his
oldest friends, and he understood well enough what true hearts and what
honest loyalty lie sometimes concealed in the bosoms of those brisk,
peculiar people, who seem unable to speak seriously for long about the
most serious subjects, and whose quaint turns of language seem often so
unfit to express any deep feeling. But while he talked with his hosts his
own thoughts strayed again and again to Joe, and he wondered what kind of
woman she really was. He intended to visit her the next day.
The next day came, however, and yet John did not turn his steps up the
hill towards Miss Schenectady's house. It was a cloudless morning after
the heavy storm, and the great drifts of snow flashed like heaps of
diamonds in the sun. All the air was clear and cold, and the red brick
pavements were spotted here and there with white patches left from the
shovels of the Irishmen. Sleighs of all sizes were ploughing their way
hither and thither, breaking out a track in the heavy mass that encumbered
the streets. Every one was wrapped in furs, and every one's face was red
with the smarting cold.
Joe stayed at home until mid-day, when she went to a luncheon-party of
young girls. As usual, they had been sewing for the poor, but Joe thought
that she was not depriving the poor people of any very material assistance
by staying away from the more industrious part of the entertainment. The
sewing they all did together in a morning did not produce results whereby
even the very smallest baby could have been clothed, and the part effected
by each separate damsel in this whole was consequently somewhat
insignificant. Joe would have stayed at home outright had the weather not
been so magnificent, and possibly she thought that she might meet John
Harrington on her way to the house of her friend in Dartmouth Street.
Fate, however, was against her, for she had not walked thirty yards down
the hill before she was overtaken by Pocock Vancouver. He had been
standing in one of the semi-circular bay windows of the Somerset Club, and
seeing Joe coming down the steep incline, had hurriedly taken his coat and
hat and gone out in pursuit of her. Had he suspected in the least how Joe
felt toward him, he would have fled to the end of the world rather than
meet her.
"Good morning, Miss Thorn," he said, walking rapidly by her side and
taking off his hat, "how very early you are to-day."
"It is not early," said Joe, looking at him coldly, "it is nearly one
o'clock."
"It would be called early for most people," said Vancouver; "for Mrs.
Wyndham, for instance."
"I am not Mrs. Wyndham," said Joe.
"I am going to see Harrington," remarked Vancouver, who perceived that Joe
was not in a good humor. "I am afraid he must be dreadfully cut up about
this business."
"So you are going to condole with him? I do not believe he is in the least
disturbed. He has far too much sense."
"I fancy the most sensible man in the world would be a trifle annoyed at
being defeated in an election, Miss Thorn," said Vancouver blandly. "I am
afraid you are not very sorry for him. He is an old friend of mine, and
though I differ from him in politics, very passively, I cannot do less
than go and see him, and tell him how much I regret, personally, that he
should be defeated."
Joe's lip curled in scorn, and she flushed angrily. She could have struck
Vancouver's pale face with infinite pleasure and satisfaction, but she
said nothing in immediate answer.
"Do you not think I am right?" asked Vancouver. "I am sure you do; you
have such a good heart." They passed Charles Street as he was speaking,
and yet he gave no sign of leaving her.
"I am not sure that I have a good heart, and I am quite sure that you are
utterly wrong, Mr. Vancouver," said Joe, in calm tones.
"Really? Why, you quite surprise me, Miss Thorn. Any man in my place
ought"--
"Most men in your place would avoid Mr. Harrington," interrupted Joe,
turning her clear brown eyes full upon him. Had she been less angry she
would have been more cautious. But her blood was up, and she took no
thought, but said what she meant, boldly.
"Indeed, Miss Thorn," said Vancouver, stiffly, "I do not understand you in
the least. I think what you say is very extraordinary. John Harrington has
always been a friend of mine."
"That may be, Mr. Vancouver, but you are certainly no friend of his," said
Joe, with a scornful laugh.
"You astonish me beyond measure," rejoined Pocock, maintaining his air of
injured virtue, although he inwardly felt that he was in some imminent
danger. "How can you possibly say such a thing?"
Joe could bear it no longer. She was very imprudent, but her honest anger
boiled over. She stopped in her walk, her back against the iron railings,
and she faced Vancouver with a look that frightened him. He was forced to
stop also, and he could not do less than return her glance.
"Do you dare to stand there and tell me that you are Mr. Harrington's
friend?" she asked in low distinct tones. "You, the writer of articles in
the 'Daily Standard,' calling him a fool and a charlatan? You, who have
done your very best to defeat him in this election? Indeed, it is too
absurd!" She laughed aloud in utter scorn, and then turned to continue her
way.
Vancouver turned a shade paler than was natural with him, and looked down.
He was very much frightened, for he was a coward.
"Miss Thorn," he said, "I am sorry you should believe such calumnies. I
give you my word of honor that I have never either written or spoken
against Mr. Harrington. He is one of my best friends."
Joe did not answer; she did not even look at him, but walked on in
silence. He did not dare to speak again, and as they reached the corner of
the Public Garden he lifted his hat.
"I am quite sure that you will find you have misjudged me, Miss Thorn," he
said, with a grieved look. "In the mean while I wish you a very good
morning."
"Good-morning," said Joe, without looking at him; and she passed on, full
of indignation and wrath.
To tell the truth, she was so much delighted at having spoken her mind for
once, that she had not a thought of any possible consequences. The delight
of having dealt Vancouver such a buffet was very great, and she felt her
heart beat fast with a triumphant pleasure.
But Vancouver turned and went away with a very unpleasant sensation in,
him. He wished with all his might that he had not left the comfortable bay
window of the Somerset Club that morning, and more than all he wished he
could ascertain how Joe had come to know of his journalistic doings. As a
matter of fact, what she had said concerning Pocock's efforts against John
in the election had been meant in a most general way. But Vancouver
thought she was referring to his interview with Ballymolloy, and that she
understood the whole matter. Of course, there was nothing to be done but
to deny the accusations from beginning to end; but they nevertheless had
struck deep, and he was thoroughly alarmed. When he left the club he had
had no intention of going to see Harrington; the idea had formed itself
while talking with her. But now, again, he felt that he could not go. He
had not the courage to face the man he had injured, principally because he
strongly suspected that if Joe knew what he had done, John Harrington most
likely knew it too.
He was doubly hit. He would have been less completely confused and
frightened if the attack had come from Sybil Brandon; but he had had vague
ideas of trying to marry Joe, and he guessed that any such plan was now
hopelessly out of the question. He turned his steps homeward, uncertain
what to do, and hoping to find counsel in solitude.
He took up the letters and papers that lay on his study table, brought by
the mid-day post. One letter in particular attracted his attention, and he
singled it out and opened it. It was dated from London, and had been
twelve days on its way.
"MY DEAR VANCOUVER,
"Enclosed please find Bank of England Post Note for your usual quarterly
honorarium, £1250. My firm will address you upon the use to be made of the
Proxies lately sent you for the ensuing election of officers of the
Pocahontas and Dead Man's Valley R. R., touching your possession of which
I beg to reiterate the importance of a more than Masonic discretion. I
apprehend that unless the scattered shares should have been quickly
absorbed for the purpose of obtaining a majority, these Proxies will
enable you to control the election of the proper ticket. If not, and if
the Leviathan should decline the overtures that will be made to him during
his summer visit to London, I should like your estimate of five thousand
shares more, to be picked up in the next three months, which will assure
our friends the control. Should the prospective figure be too high, we may
elect to sell out, after rigging the market for a boom.
"In either event there will be lots of pickings in the rise and fall of
the shares for the old joint account, which has been so profitable because
you have so skillfully covered up your tracks.
"Yours faithfully,"
"SAUNDERS GRABBLES."
"P. S. The expectations of the young lady about whom you inquire are
involved in such a tangle of conditions as could only have occurred to the
excited fancy of an old Anglo-Indian. He left about twenty lacs of rupees
in various bonds--G. I. P. and others--to his nephew, Ronald Surbiton, and
to his niece jointly, provided that they marry each other. If they do not,
one quarter of the estate is to go to the one who marries first, and the
remaining three quarters to the other. The estate is in the hands of
trustees, who pay an allowance to the heirs. In case they marry each
other, the said heirs have power to dispose by will of the inheritance.
Otherwise the whole of it reverts to the last survivor, and at his or her
death it is to be devoted to founding a home for superannuated
governesses."
Vancouver read the letter through with care, and held it a moment in his
hand. Then he crushed it angrily together and tossed it into the fire. It
seemed as though everything went wrong with him to-day. Not only was no
information concerning Joe of any use now. It would be a hard thing to
disabuse her of the idea that he had written those articles. After all,
though, as he thought the matter over, it could be only guess-work. The
manuscripts had always gone through the post, signed with a feigned name,
and it was utterly impossible that the editor himself could know who had
