thwart, between the oarsmen. He was followed by Paul, in the same safe
though undignified manner, for he thought it was not derogatory to
follow the example of the skipper of the Goldwing. The bowman hauled the
boat up so that the two hands could get on board of her.
Just at that moment all the girls screamed, or, as Paul expressed it,
"squealed," and the lee side of the Silver Moon rolled under, taking in
a barrel or two of water.
"We shall all be drowned!" shrieked one of the ladies, as they all
sprang out of their seats and rushed over to the weather side, throwing
the boat out of trim so that she took in another barrel of water over
the port side.
"She won't sink yet, ladies, unless you sink her," said Dory, rather
sharply. "Three of you on each side, and don't move for your lives. You
will certainly swamp the boat if you don't keep still. Don't one of you
move again without orders."
"That's what's the matter," said the skipper. "I can't keep them
still."
"They must keep still," added Dory with emphasis.
Just at that moment came another roll, and Dory told Paul to stand in
the middle of the boat, and allow none of the passengers to move. He
took position near him, and together they kept the ladies quiet, and
very little water was taken aboard.
"I am about used up," said Bissell, who was still baling with all his
might, though he was nearly exhausted. "I have been throwing out the
water for more than an hour."
"You might as well try to bail out Lake Champlain as this boat, while
she lies in her present position. The water comes in faster than you can
throw it out," said Dory. "Here come our other barges. Don't be alarmed,
ladies. Even if the boat sinks, we can save every one of you. Do as you
are told, and you shall be made comfortable in a few minutes."
Oscar Chester put the Gildrock about with consummate skill, though the
barge shipped some water during the manoeuvre. Thad Glovering did quite
as well in the Winooski. In a few moments, the three barges had brought
their bows up to the water-logged sloop. The oars were trailed, and
bunters put over the sides to prevent the boats from grinding against
each other. The Silver Moon smoothed the water for them a little, and
they rode very easily on the swell.
Dick Short reported to the acting commodore what he had done, and Oscar
said he should not interfere. At this time, Dory reported the condition
of the sloop, and advised that two of the six ladies be taken into each
barge. With great difficulty, on account of the uneasy motion of the
boats, the passengers were transferred to the stern-sheets of the
barges. They were all wet through, but the commodore would not allow the
boats to leave the scene of the disaster until the safety of the Silver
Moon was assured.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE WORK OF AN INCOMPETENT SKIPPER.
The removal of the six ladies made the Silver Moon a little more
buoyant; but she was in hardly less peril than before, for she rolled
even worse than when her passengers were on board. Dory formed a very
unfavorable opinion of the seamanship of Bissell almost as soon as he
had put his foot over the gunwale of the sloop. Nothing at all was the
matter with the Silver Moon. Her rudder was not disabled, and the
halyards on the mainsail were in working condition. The craft had lost
nothing, but the skipper had lost his head.
But the Beech Hiller did not utter a word of rebuke, or even a critical
comment on the management of the sloop. He saw how it was, and
understood the situation perfectly, but he did not feel called upon to
censure the action which had been taken, or the steps which had been
neglected. The craft was in the trough of the sea, and half full of
water. He looked about him, and discovered a pair of oars stowed away
under the seats in the large room.
"As you are tired out, Mr. Bissell, Paul will bale for a while till you
get rested," said Dory, as soon as the passengers had been transferred
to the barges, and without any of the delay indicated by the printed
page.
"I can do that first-rate," replied Paul, who had wondered what he could
do in a sailboat, in the management of which he was comparatively
ignorant.
Paul took the bucket; and it is safe to say that he threw out more water
than the skipper could have done in his exhausted condition. But the
baling appeared to have little or no effect on the large quantity of
water in the standing room.
"I am about tuckered out, but what do you think I had better do?" asked
the skipper, as he gave up the bucket to the fresh hand.
"I think you had better rest yourself," replied Dory, as he drew out the
oars from under the seats. "I will look out for the boat, and I think
she will come out of the scrape all right."
"What are you going to do? Do you mean to row her over to Westport?"
asked Bissell, panting with his last exertions.
"No; I don't think we should make much trying to row this boat nearly
four miles against a head sea," answered Dory.
"But you can't land over on this side of the lake. Just see the waves
breaking on the shore in Button Bay. The Silver Moon would be smashed
into a thousand pieces," protested the skipper.
"Of course we can't make a landing on a lee shore in this weather,"
answered Dory, as he went forward.
Bissell could not make anything of Dory, and he looked at him only to
wonder what he was going to do. The skipper had always believed that he
knew all about sailing a boat; and in a moderate, or even a fresh
breeze, he could do very well when everything went along smoothly. But
he had never been trained, as the students at Beech Hill had, for
seasons of emergency.
The Silver Moon miss-stayed probably because she had not a "good full,"
had fallen off into the trough of the sea, and rolled herself half full
of water before the skipper thought of doing anything to overcome the
difficulty. Under these trying circumstances, he was not instructed
either by precept or actual trial what to do.
The throat halyard of the sail, Dory found when he went forward, had
not been cast off. He got hold of the peak halyard and hauled on it till
he got a good set on the mainsail.
"What are you about?" cried Bissell. "You will upset her as sure as you
live! I let that part of the sail down because it blowed so hard. I was
going to lower the whole sail, but I hadn't time. I was afraid the boat
would sink if I didn't bale with all my might."
Dory secured the peak halyard without paying any attention to the shout
of the skipper. When he had put on the half hitch, he went aft again.
"Let the sail down just as quick as you can!" yelled Bissell.
"I think not," replied Dory quietly.
"If you don't, I shall lower it myself. I can't stand this!" added the
frightened skipper.
"This boat belongs to you, Mr. Bissell, and you can do what you please
with her, and I shall not quarrel with you about it. If you don't want
any assistance, Paul and I will return to the barge."
"But I don't want anybody to sink her," protested the skipper.
"I shall not sink her; but it is all nonsense to think of baling her out
while she is in the trough of the sea, shipping water as fast or faster
than you can throw it out. I am not willing that Paul should wear
himself out for nothing."
"That's the only way to keep her from sinking."
"You have a perfect right to your own opinion, as I have to mine. I am
confident that I can get the sloop out of this scrape, if you will allow
me to do it; if not, Paul and I will return to the barges."
"But I want you to help bale out the boat. She will sink if the water
rises any higher in her," the skipper insisted.
At that moment, a heavier wave than usual struck her, and rolled the
boat over till she took in at least a barrel of water. Bissell sprang
from his seat as though he expected the Silver Moon to go to the bottom
at that instant. But she did not sink, though her floating power seemed
to be very nearly exhausted.
"Do you see that?" demanded the skipper, as though he regarded the water
just shipped as a triumphant vindication of his opinion.
"I see it; and I should say she will go down after she has done that
thing once or twice more," replied Dory calmly. "Say quick whether I am
to get the sloop under way, or whether I am to leave her! Do as you
please about it. The barges will save you when she sinks."
"I will see what you are going to do," replied Bissell doggedly; and he
was by no means convinced, though he was satisfied that he could do
nothing alone to save the craft.
Dory made no reply, for he was rather disgusted with the obstinacy and
nautical ignorance of the skipper. Taking one of the oars in his hand,
he went to the side of the boat and hailed the commodore of the
barge-fleet.
"I am going to get under way now, for there is nothing the matter with
the boat," said Dory.
"All right, Dory," replied Oscar, as he looked about him to determine
the best way to separate the barges, and get them clear of the Silver
Moon.
They were all lying close together, the Gildrock being nearest to the
bow of the sloop. The commodore ordered the Winooski to cast off first.
With her port oars she kept her head up to the sea till those on the
other side of the boat were clear of the Marian, which was next to her.
When her twelve oars were in the water, the boys backed her clear of the
other boats, and then the crew were ordered to lay on their oars. In the
same manner the other two boats backed into safe positions. The barges
pitched tremendously, and the ladies were inclined to "squeal." When any
of them attempted to stand up, the gallant coxswains pulled them back
into their seats.
"Are they going to quit us?" asked Bissell, as he looked with something
like dismay upon the movements of the barges.
"We could not get the sloop under way with all those boats hanging to
her," replied Dory. "They will be here quick enough if they are wanted.
But we are not going to ship any more water; we shall leave the rest of
it in the lake."
"I don't see how you are going to help taking in all the water that
rolls in," growled the skipper.
"If you keep your eyes wide open tight for one minute more, I will show
you that the Silver Moon is the mistress of the situation, and Lake
Champlain will have to stay out in the cold," replied Dory, as he
shipped his oar between a couple of thole-pins on the quarter.
"There is another oar under the seats," added Bissell.
"One is enough to do the business," said Dory, as he began to pull with
all his might.
The water-logged craft moved as though it had been fastened to the
bottom. The boom was still hanging out at right angles with the keel,
and the main sheet was flopping about in the water.
"Can't I help you?" asked Bissell.
"You may take the other oar, if you please."
The skipper pulled out the oars, and was about to ship it on the weather
side when Dory interposed, and, shifting his own blade to the fore
rigging, directed his companion to ship his between the thole-pins he
had left.
"On this side? Who ever heard of rowing in that way?" blustered Bissell.
"Both oars on the same side!"
"We have no time to argue the question now, if you want to keep your
boat on the top of the water instead of the bottom," said Dory sharply.
Bissell did as he was told, though he had no faith in rowing with two
oars on one side of the boat. The united strength of the two was
immediately seen in the motion of the boat. Her bow was soon thrown up
to the wind, and then the boom swung in over the standing room. This was
the acting skipper's object, and as soon as he could reach the main
sheet, he dropped his oar. Grasping the rope, he carried it aft, and got
a turn with it over the cleat above the rudder head.
The sail filled as soon as he hauled in the sheet, and Dory got hold of
the tiller. The sloop heeled over till Bissell declared that the new
skipper would upset her. Paul continued to bale with all his might.
Dory trimmed the sail down as flat as he could, and soon had perfect
control of the craft, heavy as her movements were in her water-logged
condition. He was obliged to touch her up in the fierce blasts which
struck her, but he had her well balanced, and she did not realize any of
the evil predictions of her incompetent skipper. On the other hand, she
did not dip up any more water over her gunwale, and all that came into
her was in the form of spray.
At Dory's suggestion, Bissell got out a firkin in which the lunch for
the party had been brought on board, and assisted Paul in the work of
baling. But there were hogsheads of water in her, and the process of
relieving her was very slow. The three barges were still laying on their
oars, watching the movements of the Silver Moon. Dory ran for Button
Island, which was separated from the main land only by a narrow channel.
Slacking off the sheet, he ran her aground in the sand behind the point,
where the water was as smooth as the lake in a calm.
"She is aground!" exclaimed Bissell, as the keel grated on the bottom.
"I know it; and that is where I intended to have her," replied Dory, as
he left the tiller.
Bissell began to protest that he would not have the boat aground; but
the new skipper paid no attention to him. Taking the bucket from Paul,
he told him to rest. Dory worked hard at baling for half an hour, and
Bissell did his part as soon as he found that his protest was not
heeded. By this time the water had dropped so it had to be dipped out of
the well. It was all out at last, and the well sponged dry. To the
stupid astonishment of Bissell, the Silver Moon was again afloat.
CHAPTER XV.
"ROLL ON, SILVER MOON."
For about three-quarters of an hour the three barges had waited, pulling
just enough to keep their heads up to the sea. By this time, the ladies
had become accustomed to the motion of the boats; and, in spite of their
wet and bedraggled condition, they began to be very jolly. The long
boats rose and fell with the waves, and occasionally the spray was
dashed over the bows, and carried the whole length of the craft. At
last, they began to sing, and the students joined them. It was getting
to be a very merry time on the rough waters, but the confidence of the
crews inspired the ladies with courage.
As soon as the Silver Moon was free from her burden of water, Dory
examined the sail, and, finding it all right, he shoved off. As Paul
Bristol had said, the Silver Moon was about the size of the Goldwing,
and was a very good boat.
"I have not the least idea that you can sail this boat over to Westport
in this blow," said Bissell, as Dory shoved the sloop out of the shoal
water.
"What's to prevent?" asked the new skipper coldly.
"It blows too hard, and the sea is too heavy for any boat, I don't care
how good she is," answered the owner of the Silver Moon. "I think this
boat is as good as any of them, but I had rather walk twenty miles than
cross Lake Champlain in her in this blow."
"The sloop belongs to you, sir, and you can do as you please about
crossing," answered Dory. "You can anchor and stay here till to-morrow
if you like."
"Do you think it is safe to cross the lake in a sailboat when the wind
blows as it does now, and has since ten o'clock?" asked Bissell.
"I have been off Burlington, where the lake is twelve miles wide, when
the sea was a good deal worse than it is here, and I did not think I was
in any greater danger than if I had been on shore."
"If you are not afraid, I ought not to be," added the owner of the
craft, evidently laboring to stimulate his courage. "I guess I will risk
it, as those barges will be near enough to pick us up if anything
happens."
"All right," answered Dory, as he hauled down the sheet, and let the
boat go ahead. "Why did you come out in such a blow, if you don't think
it is safe?"
"The girls hadn't anything to do to-day, and wanted to go down to Port
Henry. We started at six o'clock this morning, and got there at eight.
It began to blow pretty hard by nine, and we started back, though we
intended to stay at the Port all day. I got along very well, though the
girls were scared, till we got down to Barber's Point; and after that it
blew like tophet."
"You had the full rake of the wind across North West Bay then," added
Dory.
"Yes; and I had to beat all the way home right against it," continued
the skipper. "I thought we should tip over every minute. If I let her
off enough to make her go ahead, she tipped so that the girls all
screamed. When I was half way over to Button Island I tacked, but the
boat would not come about. She lay there with her sail banging. Then the
wind caught the sail again, and tipped her so she took in some hogsheads
of water. She got in between the waves, and began to roll like a chip. I
thought it was time to haul down the sail, and I went forward to do so.
Then the main sheet run out, and I couldn't get it again."
"It was a bad situation," added Dory, as Bissell paused and looked at
him, apparently as if to ascertain what he thought of the skipper's
management; but Dory expressed no opinion.
"I let go the peak halyard, and did the best I could to get the boom in,
but I couldn't do a thing with it. The boat kept rolling in the water
all the time, and I had to take the bucket and bale with all my might. I
was afraid to haul the sail down then, for it would have gone into the
water, and helped drag her over on one side."
Dory, as an expert, had a very decided opinion in regard to the
skipper's management; but he did not feel called upon to express it, for
Bissell was an obstinate man, and he did not care to dispute with him.
The Silver Moon was running out close-hauled from the lee of Button
Island, which carried her to windward of the fleet of barges. Dory had
taken the helm when she got under way; and as long as the skipper did
not object, he retained it.
"The boat don't work very well without the jib, and that was what made
all the trouble," continued the skipper. "But it blowed so like all
possessed, that I couldn't carry it."
Dory doubted whether this was all, or even the principal trouble, but
he made no remark. He was not satisfied with the working of the boat,
and without saying anything to the skipper, he put her about, and ran
back to the lee of the island. Getting her forefoot on the sand far
enough to hold her, he let go the halyards, and lowered the mainsail a
few feet.
"What are you going to do now?" asked Bissell, who had watched the
movements of the acting skipper with interest and anxiety.
"I am going to put a single reef in the mainsail. Where do you keep the
reef pendant?" replied Dory.
The skipper had no reef pendant, and probably did not know what it was.
But Dory found a couple of ropes which answered his purpose. Having
lashed down the clew and tack, with the assistance of Paul, he tied the
reef-points. Hoisting the sail up to a good set, he shoved off with the
boat-hook, and was soon standing out from the shore again. Keeping his
place at the helm, Dory stood out to the fleet of barges. The wind had
not abated a particle of its force, and even with the reef in the
mainsail, she was inclined to bury herself in the waves. Dory was not
yet satisfied, and under his direction Paul pulled up a couple of loose
boards in the floor of the standing-room, and lifted out a couple of
cast-iron blocks of ballast. These were placed in the stern, and the bow
was lifted a little more out of the water.
"What's all that for?" asked Bissell.
"To change her trim a little," replied Dory. "She was ballasted too much
by the head. She works better now."
The sloop was less inclined than before to bury her bow in the waves,
and was more buoyant forward. She dashed ahead at a gallant speed, and
in a few minutes she was approaching the barges. The passengers in the
stern sheets of the boats were very merry by this time, and seemed to be
actually enjoying the motion of the boats. As the sloop came within hail
of the barges, the ladies struck up "Roll on, silver moon," in which all
the students who could sing joined, and it made a very effective chorus.
"Very appropriate," said Dory, laughing; "but she don't do that now. She
has done rolling for the present."
"The girls are jolly enough now; and they don't seem to be a bit
scared," added Bissell.
"Will you take them on board again?" asked the acting skipper.
"I don't know; what do you think?"
"If you don't know, you had better leave it to them," replied Dory.
"Hail them, and ask them what they will do."
"I say, girls, are you ready to come on board of the Silver Moon?"
called Bissell, in a loud voice, as the sloop passed astern of them.
"No!" screamed the whole of them, almost with one voice. "We are going
back to Westport in the barges," added one of them.
"Just as you like," returned Bissell.
"Roll on, silver moon," the girls struck up again, and the boys took up
the chorus with enthusiasm.
"That settles it," added Bissell.
"Then we may as well return to the Marian, Paul," said Dory.
"I am ready to do just as you say," replied the spare hand.
"You don't mean to leave me, do you?" demanded Bissell, aghast at the
proposition. "I don't want you to go."
"I thought you might prefer to handle your own boat," suggested Dory.
"I guess I'd rather have you take her over to Westport, if you will,"
replied the skipper, anxiously.
"Even if we remain on board of the sloop, you had better take the helm,"
added Dory, who had some curiosity to see how Bissell worked the boat.
"I'd rather have you steer her. I don't know but you can manage her
better than I can."
"You ought to be able to handle your own boat better than any one else
can. You have sailed her more than any other person, and a boat is
something like a horse, and does better in the hands of one who is used
to her."
"I bought the Silver Moon last year, and got a man to show me how to
manage her. I was out in her every day last summer, but I never went out
when it blew very hard. Folks say it is dangerous sailing on Lake
Champlain, there are so many currents and flaws from the hills."
"There is no doubt about the flaws and currents, but I look upon them as
bugbears. A skipper must keep his craft in hand all the time, and then
he is ready for flaws and squalls."
"One of the girls has taken your place at the stroke oar, Dory," said
Paul, who was watching the barges as they began to move over the savage
waves.
"So I see," replied Dory. "Dick is coaching her, and I have no doubt she
will make good my absence."
"It is Susy Wellington; and she knows how to row better than most of the
men," added Paul.
At this moment, the acting skipper went in stays, and though he had
given her a good full, he had some doubts about her; but she came up to
the wind handsomely, and went on the port tack as promptly as the
Goldwing could have done it. As she filled away, she heeled over till
her washboard was almost buried; but she righted a little in a moment,
and dashed off on her course like a racehorse. She rose and fell on the
waves, with her gunwale under all the time, but with eight inches of
washboard above the water.
The wind was rather flawy, and, of course, the boat heeled over more
when the puffs struck her, so that most of the washboard was sometimes
under water. But the sloop, in her altered trim, was as steady as an old
horse on a smooth road. As the Silver Moon was close-hauled, she struck
the seas constantly; and the waves broke with no little noise against
her bows, tossing the spray from stem to stern.
Bissell watched the lee washboard all the time, and seemed to be very
nervous. He did not heed the singing in the barges, which greatly
interested the acting skipper. The owner evidently expected the sloop
would ship a sea every moment, which would fill her half full of water
as she had been before. But she tore along on her course without taking
in a drop of water over her lee side, unless when a wave broke there,
and spit the spray over the washboard.
"You will put the Silver Moon on the bottom before you get her over to
Westport," said Bissell, when he could hold in no longer, and his mental
excitement had become intense.
"I certainly shall not do it after we get to Westport," replied Dory,
with a smile. "But if you wish to take the helm, of course you can do
so. I suppose you can swim, Paul?"
"I could swim in Sandy Bay, but I don't think I could in these waves,"
answered Paul.
"I don't think it is safe to sail along in this way with the gunwale
under water all the time," said Bissell, as the water rose nearly to the
top of the washboard.
"Then you take the tiller, Mr. Bissell," replied Dory, rising and
offering his place on the weather-side to the skipper.
Bissell was clearly full of doubts, but he took the tiller. His first
movement was to put the helm down a little, so that the reefed mainsail
began to shake slightly, and of course the gunwale was lifted out of the
water. He kept the tiller shaking all the time, as the boat was in
danger of broaching to.
When he had steered about a quarter of an hour, it was seen that the
barges were rapidly overhauling the Silver Moon, though she gained on
them while Dory had the tiller. But it was necessary to tack, and the
skipper put the helm hard down. The sail shook, and the boat did
precisely what Dory knew she would do--she miss-stayed, and then began
to roll in the trough of the sea. She had little headway when the helm
was put down, and her momentum was not sufficient to carry her around
against the head sea.
The water began to roll into her on the sides; but Dory seized one of
the oars, and with a few smart pulls, threw her head up into the wind.
The instant the sail began to fill, which it did with a rush, Bissell
put his helm hard down. Dory plied the oar once more.
"I wish you would take the helm again," said Bissell.
"I will, if you say so," replied Dory, who had entirely satisfied his
curiosity in regard to the seamanship of the skipper.
CHAPTER XVI.
DORY DORNWOOD GIVES A LESSON IN BOAT-SAILING.
It was absolutely certain that Bissell was not a reckless and
over-daring skipper, which is often the most glaring fault of those in
charge of sailboats. He erred in the opposite extreme,--he was too
timid. He had not pluck enough when it was blowing fresh to keep his
sail full. The barges were overhauling her, because she had hardly any
headway; and when she went in stays, she had not speed enough to meet
the fierce waves.
Dory took the helm, while the skipper, with the bucket, dipper and
sponge, soon removed the water from the well. The sail was permitted to
fill, and the Silver Moon dashed on her course at a lively rate again.
The barges pulling against a head sea could not keep within hail of her
when she was on her long tack.
"I have about made up my mind that you can handle this sloop better than
I can," said Bissell, when he had wiped out the well with the sponge.
Paul Bristol burst out into a loud laugh at this remark.
"What are you laughing at, Paul?" asked the skipper, looking rather
severely at the spare hand.
"I was only thinking it had taken you a long time to make up your mind,
Mr. Bissell," replied Paul, suppressing his risibles when he saw that
Dory looked as serious as a judge.
"I suppose you think I am not much of a skipper, Paul," added Bissell,
evidently annoyed by the laugh of the spare hand.
"I don't know much about sailing a boat, and I think I had better not
say anything," answered Paul prudently.
"I never got into such a scrape before with the boat," continued the
owner. "This boat will be for sale after I get ashore."
"She is a very good boat, and works well," said Dory; but, cautious in
regard to offending the skipper by any criticisms, he was not willing to
have the boat blamed for the fault of the man.
"I always thought so myself till to-day; and I have always believed I
could handle her better than any other man. It goes a little hard with
me to give in to one boy and have another laugh at me," replied the
skipper. "I should like to have you tell me just what ails my
management of the boat."
"I don't volunteer any criticism; but if you will not be offended with a
boy for expressing his mind plainly, I will do so," added Dory.
"That's what I want you to do, and I shall not get mad, though it hurts
for me to give in on handling the Silver Moon.
"You are just a little too careful; and that is what has made the
mischief every time," Dory began. "If you don't give your boat a good
full, she won't go about in stays. That was the trouble when you had the
ladies on board."
"The man that showed me how to sail a boat said I could not be too
careful," protested Bissell, astonished at the remark of the acting
skipper.
"I don't quite agree with him, though he is right in the main. Most of
the accidents happen because the skippers are careless. Your sloop was a
little out of trim. When it blows too hard for you to carry the jib, you
must put a single reef in the mainsail. With a whole mainsail, the mast
ought to be farther forward. Since I shifted the ballast, she carries a
stronger weather helm."
It was necessary to tack again, and Dory explained more fully what he
meant by a "good full," and then put the helm down. The sloop's head
flew up into the wind at a lively pace, and the mainsail went over; but
the helmsman righted the helm, and met her with it so that she should
not fall off too far, thus putting her lee gunwale under.
Bissell was deeply interested, and began to learn what he had not before
acquired. He took her, and made the next tack, under the direction of
the acting skipper, himself. From that time he retained the helm, and
Dory continued to instruct him until the Silver Moon got into
comparatively still water.
Dory and his pupil had made more tacks than were necessary, in order to
illustrate the subject. The boats came up with the sloop just as she was
going in at the wharf. The ladies and the crews were still singing, and
their merry voices attracted quite a collection of people.
"When I was over off Button Island I did not expect ever to see Westport
again," said Bissell, after he had made the Silver Moon fast at the
wharf. "I have only ten dollars in my pocket, now, but I want you to
take that and let me owe you another ten."
"You must excuse me, Mr. Bissell," protested Dory.
"It ain't enough, I know; and I will make it up to fifty dollars when I
get to the store," added the skipper.
"It is enough, and more than enough, Mr. Bissell. I cannot take a single
cent for that kind of service. Captain Gildrock would put me into the
brig if I took money for assisting anyone in distress on the water,"
said Dory earnestly. "Sailors are bound to help each other always when
in danger."
The store-keeper pressed Dory quite warmly to take the money, but the
latter was as firm as a rock. Then he tried to give a few dollars to
Paul, but the spare hand, though he wanted the money for his mother,
took his cue from Dory, and refused to take a cent. Bissell expressed
his gratitude in very warm terms, and said he should like to take some
more lessons in sailing a boat from such a skilful master. He would
gladly pay for the time and trouble, and he concluded not to sell the
Silver Moon at present.
It was now nearly two o'clock, and the students thought it was about
time to attend to the contents of the lunch baskets. The ladies had been
landed, and were profuse in their expressions of delight at their trip
in the barges. The Beech Hillers landed, and camped under a tree to
dispose of their lunch. Dory and Paul joined them, and it took some time
for the former to explain what he had done on board of the sloop. He did
not say any unpleasant things about the skipper, or dwell upon his
mistakes.
Before the boys had made any deep inroads into their stock of
provisions, Bissell and the ladies appeared laden with ice cream, pies,
and cake, which were a welcome addition to the lunch. The "girls," as
Bissell called them, waited upon their deliverers, and gushed over the
delightful time they had had in the barges.
"There come the Chesterfield barges," said John Brattle when the clock
indicated half past two. "I wonder what they are going to do over here."
"I thought they had business about this time over at Sandy Point," added
Tuck Prince.
"Don't say a word about the cottage, fellows," interposed Paul Bristol,
with a good deal of earnestness. "I know what they come here for; at
least, I think I know."
"Why don't you let on then, Paul?" demanded Phil Gawner.
"They have come over here after Major Billcord, for I am sure he will
want to see the cottage pitched into the lake. I am almost sure now
that none of them know the house is gone," replied Paul, rubbing his
hands with delight when he thought of the disappointment of his
oppressors.
"If you like, Mr. Bissell, I will sail down the lake with you as far as
Sandy Point," Dory proposed, while the boys were digesting what Paul had
said. "The coxswain consents to my absence; but I must return to Beech
Hill in the Marian."
"All right, for I want very much to see you sail the Silver Moon with a
heavy wind on the beam or over the quarter," replied the store-keeper.
"But I must go up to the house and change my clothes, for I am as wet as
a drowned rat."
Bissell hastened to his house, which was only a short distance from the
head of the landing. The Chesterfield barges had just reached the wharf,
and the young gentlemen were coming up the steps. The boats had pulled
around under the lee of the land, so that they had not been seen until
near the wharf.
The Chesterfield students formed a procession on the wharf, and it was
evident that they intended to escort Major Billcord, who was fond of
parades, to the boats. The ladies waiting on the students from the other
side said this was the meaning of the procession, which was not a
strange sight in the streets of the town.
"You will take no notice of them whatever, fellows," said Commodore
Chester very impressively. "If they salute us properly, which they are
not likely to do, we must be as polite as they are, and more so, if
possible. If they call us 'tinkers' and 'chip-makers,' which they are
more likely to do, make no answer of any kind. I will report any student
who utters an offensive word to them. You all know that this is the
order of the principal, and not mine."
For some reason the procession of Chesterfields did not pass near the
tree under which the Beech Hillers were lunching. Paul pointed out the
elegant mansion of Major Billcord, and the students of the institute
marched in that direction.
"While we are waiting for Mr. Bissell, I should like to go up to his
house and get my sister's valise, which she left there," said Paul to
the coxswain of the Marian.
Dick consented, though he would not have permitted any of the crew to
leave without a good reason for it while the Chesterfields were so near.
Paul hastened up to the main street. He saw the institute students halt
in the grounds of Major Billcord's mansion. They broke ranks, and the
magnate was talking to them.
"I will give twenty-five dollars to any student or party of students
that will capture that young scoundrel, Paul Bristol, and hand him over
to me at Sandy Point." This was what the great man said to a group of
half a dozen of the students.
The party in front of him promised to carry out his wishes if he would
not mention the matter to the rest of the students.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE MISSION OF THE SIX RUFFIANS.
Paul Bristol saw the conference between the six Chesterfield students
and Major Billcord; but he could not hear what passed between them, and
had no suspicion that he was the subject of remark. None of them saw
Paul when he entered the gate to Mr. Bissell's premises, though his
curiosity prompted him to stand there a few minutes to observe the
proceedings of the party.
He expected to see nothing more than a sort of reception of the magnate,
who was evidently to be their passenger to Sandy Point, and the students
proposed to take him to the scene of the afternoon's sport in state. But
Major Billcord appeared to have selected the six ruffians best suited to
the undertaking in which they were to engage. He had called them aside,
and made his offer to them.
Those who were near enough to the magnate to see his face could not help
noticing that he had a pair of black eyes. In this respect he was the
counterpart of his hopeful son, though the mourning of the latter was of
a deeper shade than that of his father. The major had remained in his
elegant mansion all the forenoon, for he was more modest in the display
of the weeds under his eyes than he was of his person generally.
Doubtless he had often looked in his lofty mirrors to observe the
condition of his face.
He did not like the looks of himself with the marks Paul had left on his
face, for they certainly added nothing to the dignity of his expression.
He was a pompous, overbearing, and tyrannical man, and every time he saw
his mourning organs they filled him with wrath, and inspired him to seek
a wholesale revenge. He did not give a thought to the insult his son had
offered to Miss Lily. She was of not the slightest consequence, and it
would have been quite proper, in his opinion, for her to submit in
silence to the pleasure of the reckless young man.
On the way home from the scene of his signal defeat at the hands of Paul
Bristol, he had called at the institute, and intimated that he had a
mission for the students, at the point, on the following day. He wished
them to call for him at his house in the afternoon, and he would insure
them an hour or more of the liveliest recreation. He did not say what he
had in view, and he had cautioned Walk not to mention the business in
which the young men were to be engaged.
As Walk went home with his father, he had no opportunity to let the cat
out of the bag, even if he had been so disposed. Father and son had
spent the rest of the day in studying out an adequate punishment for
Paul. If they could have "hung, drawn, and quartered" him, it might have
satisfied them. Walk suggested that he should be prosecuted, and that
the justice would send him to prison for a month or two. But his father
saw that such a course would bring out the whole story of the son's
assault upon Miss Lily, and the judge might not regard the affair in the
same light as the sufferers did.
They could agree upon nothing, but before morning Major Billcord had
devised the scheme he had now taken the first step to carry out. He
thought it wise not to implicate his son in the outrage, for he might be
prosecuted and compelled to pay a fine for himself and those he employed
to do the actual work. The vengeance of the magnate was to be
administered to Paul at Sandy Point. The plant for the black eyes had
been set out near the doomed cottage, and it was proper that the
punishment should be inflicted on the same spot.
Walk Billcord had not been in condition to return to the institute that
day, for he did not care to put his mourning on exhibition, and to
answer all the questions that it would call forth. But he was going to
Sandy Point in the boat to which he belonged, for he was anxious to take
part in the destruction of the cottage. After the students marched up to
the mansion of the magnate, they had informed him of the presence of the
Beech Hillers, and of Paul, in Westport. The story of the Silver Moon's
mishap had been related to them at the wharf when they landed. The
students from the other side had come to the town to convey the ladies
from the disabled boat; and this sufficiently accounted for their
presence.
Nothing was said about Paul, except that he had come in the sloop. Major
Billcord had no doubt that his stalwart foe was still staying at the
point, and he had arranged his plan on the supposition that he would be
found in that vicinity. But when he was informed of his presence in
Westport, he had been obliged to make a slight change in his scheme. He
had not intended to mention it till the students landed at Sandy Point.
He had before selected his ruffians, and he was simply obliged to make
his offer a little sooner than before arranged.
Paul Bristol went into Mr. Bissell's house and obtained his sister's
valise. As he was about to depart, the owner of the Silver Moon came
down stairs in his changed dress, with a letter in his hand.
"Paul, do you know where Captain Bleeker lives?" asked Bissell, as soon
as he saw the boy with the valise in his hand.
"Of course I do," replied Paul. "I used to work for him on his place
when he had anything for me to do."
"I am going to Sandy Point in the sloop, and Dory is waiting for me,"
continued the skipper. "I am in a hurry to be off, and if you will go
round by Captain Bleeker's and leave this letter at his house, I will
carry your valise down to the boat. I will put it on board of the
Marian."
"All right, if you will tell the coxswain to wait for me; for I suppose
I am to go in the barge," replied Paul, as he took the letter.
Bissell hastened to the wharf with the valise, and Paul started for his
destination, which was on a street in the rear of Major Billcord's
mansion. The procession had re-formed in the spacious grounds to escort
the magnate to the wharf. The six ruffians had been excused from
marching in the line, by request of the major, and they were consulting
in regard to their mission in the street in front of the house.
Paul was obliged to take a cross street to reach the house of Captain
Bleeker, and he had to pass within a few rods of the elegant mansion. As
he turned the corner, the chief of the six ruffians, who was called Buck
Lamb by his fellow-students, discovered him, and the conference came to
a sudden conclusion. The time for council had passed, and the time for
action had come. Buck Lamb was an acknowledged leader, and, without any
appointment as such, he assumed the position and began to give off his
orders.
Paul was in sight, going up the cross street with a letter in his hand.
The back street ran parallel to the main street, and the object of the
attack must be going to some house in that direction. Buck sent two of
his force to the cross street next beyond that taken by Paul, with
orders to intercept the victim if he went that way. Two more were to
remain near the mansion of the magnate, and Buck himself, with Ham
Jackson, followed Paul. One of the two parties was sure to meet him, or
if they failed, by any accident, the pair on the main street were in
position to capture him. It was a quiet little place, and there was
scarcely a person in the streets after the procession had marched to the
wharf.
Paul Bristol, all unconscious of what had been done to make him a
prisoner, walked with a rapid step towards the house of the person to
whom the letter was addressed. He had not noticed the movements of the
six ruffians, or even that any of the Chesterfields had been left
behind. He was thinking that the students would soon reach Sandy Point
with Major Billcord, and he was engaged in picturing their astonishment
and disappointment when they discovered that the cottage had taken to
itself wings, and that the locality had assumed its original appearance.
He went up to the door of the house, and rang the bell. It was answered
by Captain Bleeker himself. He seemed to be somewhat surprised when he
saw Paul, for he had been expecting another person.
"Is that you, Paul? I was in hopes that it was Bissell; for I expected
an important letter as soon as the mail got in, and he promised to bring
it over to me," said the captain.
"He asked me to bring the letter over, and here it is," replied Paul,
as he handed the important missive to him.
"Good! It contains a draft which I need as much as I need the air I
breathe," added Captain Bleeker, as he took the letter, and thrust his
hand deep into one of his trousers pockets, drawing forth a quarter. "I
am more glad to see you than I should be to meet my grandmother, who
died twenty-five years ago. Here is something to prove it;" and he
handed him the quarter.
"I don't want anything for this errand; I only did it because Mr.
Bissell asked me to."
"Take the money," said the captain imperatively. "If you come over here
in about a week, I shall have something for you to do, for it will be
time then to hoe the garden."
"I don't think I can come, sir, for I have a place now, with steady
work, on the other side of the lake," replied Paul.
"All right," added Captain Bleeker, as he broke the seal of the letter,
and proceeded to close the door, manifesting no interest in the
messenger's new position.
Paul put the quarter in his pocket, thinking there had been no time in
two years when it was so little needed as at present, thanks to Captain
Gildrock. But he did not lose a moment, for he thought that by this time
the crew of the Marian might be waiting for him. He walked at his most
rapid pace up the street in the direction by which he had come. There
was not a person to be seen in the back street, though Buck Lamb and Ham
Jackson had reached the corner.
Paul saw them approaching him on the same side of the street. If he had
seen them in the neighborhood of the institute, he might have known
them; as it was, he did not recognize them, though they wore the barge
uniform. Being in a hurry, he deserted the sidewalk to cut off the angle
at the corner of the street. But the two ruffians promptly placed
themselves in front of him in the middle of the highway.
"Stop where you are!" said Buck Lamb, in an imperative tone.
"What am I to stop for?" asked Paul, with a smile, and with the
simplicity of an infant.
"You are to stop because I order you to do so," replied Buck, who was of
the genus bully, and could not well help manifesting authority, whether
he had it or not.
"As I am in a hurry to join my boat, I don't think that is a sufficient
reason for my stopping," replied Paul, with abundant cheerfulness. "If
you will excuse me, I had rather not stop just now."
"But I order you to stop!" said Buck savagely.
"Oh, you do!" added the intended victim. "Then I must take the liberty
to disobey your orders."
"When I order you to stop, I mean to enforce my order," said Buck, with
his teeth set fast together.
"I can't stop to jaw with you now; for, as I told you, I am in a hurry,"
replied Paul, beginning to be a little indignant at the interruption.
"If you move another step, I shall hit you," continued the bully,
placing himself in front of the victim, with his fists clinched ready to
execute his threat.
Paul dodged back, and attempted to pass the ruffians, but Buck got in
front of him again.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE RESULT OF AN UNEQUAL CONFLICT.
Buck Lamb evidently considered himself as more than a match for Paul
Bristol, for neither Walk Billcord nor his father had given the students
the particulars of the battle at Sandy Point. All the magnate said was
that he and his son had been insulted and assaulted by the ungrateful
son of the woman he had harbored on his land. Buck was a stout fellow,
who had the reputation of possessing scientific skill in the noble art
of pugilism, and who was ready for any fellow of his avoirdupois, either
with soft gloves or with hard gloves, or with no gloves at all.
Happily, Paul had no knowledge of the reputation of the bully, which the
more knowing of the students would have said was only reputation. In his
ignorance of the accredited accomplishments of Buck Lamb, Paul was not
in the least afraid of him. Possibly, though not probably, if he had
known what a bruiser the leader of the six ruffians claimed to be, he
would have taken to his heels and escaped in the best way he could, or
expressed his willingness to obey the imperative order of his assailant.
Buck not only intercepted his intended victim, but he levelled a blow
with his iron fist, as he called it, at the modest nose of Paul Bristol.
This was enough to satisfy the son of toil, who had often hoed corn and
potatoes in the garden near the corner, that his opponent meant
business. He parried the blow aimed at him successfully, and it was the
right time for him to have returned it; but Paul did not yet mean
business, for he was not a fighting character, and despised the whole
subject of pugilism. Instead of striking, he looked about him for the
means of escape, and discovered two more of the ruffians running with
all their might towards the scene of the encounter. They wore the
uniform of the barges of the institute, as did Buck and Ham. There was
no chance of escape, and Paul was beginning to get a glimmering idea of
the purpose of the assault. He concluded that the fellows before and
behind him were to punish him for what he had done the day before at
Sandy Point.
Buck Lamb did not wait for the second pair of the ruffians to join him;
and in that he made a bad mistake for himself. His blow had been
parried, and he began to think that his antagonist had some skill in the
sublime art of pugilism; in this he was again mistaken, for Paul had
never learned the first thing about it. He was fully roused, and he
aimed a second blow at Paul, which was not as successfully warded off as
the first had been, and he received a portion of its force in his right
cheek.
Perhaps this hit was needed to render Paul fully equal to the needs of
