yours,

"MARY GODDARD."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Augustin, my dear, this is very exciting," said Mrs. Ambrose, as she
handed the cheque to her husband for inspection and returned the
letter to its envelope, preparatory to marking it for future reference;
and when, as has been said, she had written upon the outside the
words--Goddard, Cottage, and had put it away she turned upon her husband
with an inquiring manner peculiar to her. Mr. Ambrose was standing before
the window, looking out at the rain and occasionally glancing at the
cheque he still held in his hand.

"Just like a woman to send a cheque to 'bearer' through the post," he
remarked, severely. "However since I have got it, it is all right."

"I don't think it is all right, Augustin," said his wife. "We are taking
a great responsibility in bringing her into the parish. I am quite sure
she is a dissenter or a Romanist or something dreadful, to begin with."

"My dear," answered the vicar, mildly, "you make very uncharitable
suppositions. It seems to me that the most one can say of her is that she
is very unhappy and that she does not write very good English."

"Oh, I have no doubt she is very unhappy. But as you say we must not be
uncharitable. I suppose you will have to write about the cottage."

"I suppose so," said Mr. Ambrose doubtfully. "I cannot send her back the
money, and the cottage is certainly to let."

He deposited the cheque in the drawer of his writing-table and began to
walk up and down the room, glancing up from time to time at his wife who
was lifting one after another the ornaments which stood upon the
chimney-piece, in order to ascertain whether Susan had dusted underneath
them. She had many ways of assuring herself that people did their work
properly.

"No," said she, "you cannot send her back the money. But it is a very
solemn responsibility. I hope we are doing quite right."

"I certainly would not hesitate to return the cheque, my dear, if I
thought any harm would come of Mrs. Goddard's living here. But I don't
think there is any reason to doubt her story."

"Of course not. It was in the Standard, so there is no doubt about it.
I only hope no one else reads the papers here."

"They read them in the kitchen," added Mrs. Ambrose presently, "and they
probably take a paper at the Duke's Head. Mr. Boosey is rather a literary
character."

"Nobody will suppose it was that Goddard, my dear," said the vicar in a
reassuring tone of voice.

"No--you had better write about the cottage."

"I will," said the vicar; and he forthwith did. And moreover, with his
usual willingness to give himself trouble for other people, he took a
vast deal of pains to see that the cottage was really habitable. It
turned out to be in very good condition. It was a pretty place enough,
standing ten yards back from the road, beyond the village, just opposite
the gates of the park; a little square house of red brick with a high
pointed roof and a little garden. The walls were overgrown with creepers
which had once been trained with considerable care, but which during the
last two years had thriven in untrimmed luxuriance and now covered the
whole of the side of the house which faced the road. So thickly did they
grow that it was with difficulty that the windows could at first be
opened. The vicar sighed as he entered the darkened rooms. His daughter
had lived in the cottage when she first married the young doctor who had
now gone to London, and the vicar had been, and was, very fond of his
daughter. He had almost despaired of ever seeing her again in
Billingsfield; the only glimpses of her he could obtain were got by going
himself to town, for the doctor was so busy that he always put off the
projected visit to the country and his wife was so fond of him that she
refused to go alone. The vicar sighed as he forced open the windows upon
the lower floor and let the light into the bare and empty rooms which had
once been so bright and full of happiness. He wondered what sort of
person Mrs. Goddard would turn out to be upon nearer acquaintance, and
made vague, unconscious conjectures about her furniture as he stumbled
up the dark stairs to the upper story.

He was not left long in doubt. The arrangements were easily concluded,
for the cottage belonged to the estate in Chancery and the lawyer in
charge was very busy with other matters. The guarantee afforded by the
vicar's personal application, together with the payment of a year's rent
in advance so far facilitated matters that four days after she had
written to Mr. Ambrose the latter informed Mrs. Goddard that she was at
liberty to take possession. The vicar suggested that the Billingsfield
carrier, who drove his cart to London once a week, could bring her
furniture down in two trips and save her a considerable expense; Mrs.
Goddard accepted this advice and in the course of a fortnight was
installed with all her goods in the cottage. Having completed her
arrangements at last, she came to call upon the vicar's wife.

Mrs. Goddard had not changed since she had first visited Billingsfield,
five months earlier, though little Eleanor had grown taller and was if
possible prettier than ever. Something of the character of the lady in
black may have been gathered from the style of her letter to Mr. Ambrose;
that communication had impressed the vicar's wife unfavourably and had
drawn from her husband a somewhat compassionate remark about the bad
English it contained. Nevertheless when Mrs. Goddard came to live in
Billingsfield the Ambroses soon discovered that she was a very
well-educated woman, that she appeared to have read much and to have read
intelligently, and that she was on the whole decidedly interesting. It
was long, however, before Mrs. Ambrose entirely conquered a certain
antipathy she felt for her, and which she explained after her own
fashion. Mrs. Goddard was not a dissenter and she was not a Romanist; on
the contrary she appeared to be a very good churchwoman. She paid her
bills regularly and never gave anybody any trouble. She visited the
vicarage at stated intervals, and the vicarage graciously returned her
visits. The vicar himself even went to the cottage more often than Mrs.
Ambrose thought strictly necessary, for the vicar was strongly prejudiced
in her favour. But Mrs. Ambrose did not share that prejudice. Mrs.
Goddard, she said, was too effusive, talked too much about herself and
her troubles, did not look thoroughly straightforward, probably had
foreign blood. Ay, there was the rub--Mrs. Ambrose suspected that Mrs.
Goddard was not quite English. If she was not, why did she not say so,
and be done with it?

Mrs. Goddard was English, nevertheless, and would have been very much
surprised could she have guessed the secret cause of the slight coldness
she sometimes observed in the manner of the clergyman's wife towards her.
She herself, poor thing, believed it was because she was in trouble, and
considering the nature of the disaster which had befallen her, she was
not surprised. She was rather a weak woman, rather timid, and if she
talked a little too much sometimes it was because she felt embarrassed;
there were times, too, when she was very silent and sad. She had been
very happy and the great catastrophe had overtaken her suddenly, leaving
her absolutely without friends. She wanted to be hidden from the world,
and by one of those strange contrasts often found in weak people she had
suddenly made a very bold resolution and had successfully carried it out.
She had come straight to a man she had never seen, but whom she knew very
well by reputation, and had told him her story and asked him to help her;
and she had not come in vain. The person who advised her to go to the
Reverend Augustin Ambrose knew that there was not a better man to whom
she could apply. She had found what she wanted, a sort of deserted
village where she would never be obliged to meet any one, since there was
absolutely no society; she had found a good man upon whom she felt she
could rely in case of further difficulty; and she had not come upon false
pretences, for she had told her whole story quite frankly. For a woman
who was naturally timid she had done a thing requiring considerable
courage, and she was astonished at her own boldness after she had done
it. But in her peaceful retreat, she reflected that she could not
possibly have left England, as many women in her position would have
done, simply because the idea of exile was intolerable to her; she
reflected also that if she had settled in any place where there was any
sort of society her story would one day have become known, and that if
she had spent years in studying her situation she could not have done
better than in going boldly to the vicar of Billingsfield and explaining
her sad position to him. She had found a haven of rest after many months
of terrible anxiety and she hoped that she might end her days in peace
and in the spot she had chosen. But she was very young--not thirty years
of age yet--and her little girl would soon grow up--and then? Evidently
her dream of peace was likely to be of limited duration; but she resigned
herself to the unpleasant possibilities of the future with a good grace,
in consideration of the advantages she enjoyed in the present.

Mrs. Ambrose was at home when Mrs. Goddard and little Eleanor came to the
vicarage. Indeed Mrs. Ambrose was rarely out in the afternoon, unless
something very unusual called her away. She received her visitor with the
stern hospitality she exercised towards strangers. The strangers she saw
were generally the near relations of the young gentlemen whom her husband
received for educational purposes. She stood in the front drawing-room,
that is to say, in the most impressive chamber of that fortress which is
an Englishman's house. It was a formal room, arranged by a fixed rule and
the order of it was maintained inflexibly; no event could be imagined of
such terrible power as to have caused the displacement of one of those
chairs, of one of those ornaments upon the chimney-piece, of one of those
engravings upon the walls. The walls were papered with one shade of
green, the furniture was covered with material of another shade of green
and the well-spared carpet exhibited still a third variety of the same
colour. Mrs. Ambrose's sense of order did not extend to the simplest
forms of artistic harmony, but when it had an opportunity of impressing
itself upon inanimate objects which were liable to be moved, washed or
dusted, its effects were formidable indeed. She worshipped neatness and
cleanliness; she left the question of taste to others. And now she stood
in the keep of her stronghold, the impersonation of moral rectitude and
of practical housekeeping.

Mrs. Goddard entered rather timidly, followed by little Eleanor whose
ideas had been so much disturbed by the recent change in her existence,
that she had grown unusually silent and her great violet eyes were
unceasingly opened wide to take in the growing wonders of her situation.
Mrs. Goddard was still dressed in black, as when John Short had seen her
five months earlier. There was something a little peculiar in her
mourning, though Mrs. Ambrose would have found it hard to define the
peculiarity. Some people would have said that if she was really a widow
her gown fitted a little too well, her bonnet was a little too small, her
veil a little too short. Mrs. Ambrose supposed that those points were
suggested by the latest fashions in London and summed up the difficulty
by surmising that Mrs. Goddard had foreign blood.

"I should have called before," said the latter, deeply impressed by the
severe appearance of the vicar's wife, "but I have been so busy putting
my things into the cottage--"

"Pray don't think of it," answered Mrs. Ambrose. Then she added after a
pause, "I am very glad to see you." She appeared to have been weighing in
her conscience the question whether she could truthfully say so or not.
But Mrs. Goddard was grateful for the smallest advances.

"Thank you," she said, "you are so very kind. Will you tell Mr. Ambrose
how thankful I am for his kind assistance? Yes, Nellie and I have had
hard work in moving, have not we, dear?" She drew the beautiful child
close to her and gazed lovingly into her eyes. But Nellie was shy; she
hid her face on her mother's shoulder, and then looked doubtfully at Mrs.
Ambrose, and then hid herself again.

"How old is your little girl?" asked Mrs. Ambrose more kindly. She was
fond of children, and actually pitied any child whose mother perhaps had
foreign blood.

"Eleanor--I call her Nellie--is eight years old. She will be nine in
January. She is tall for her age," added Mrs. Goddard with affectionate
pride. As a matter of fact Nellie was small for her years, and Mrs.
Ambrose, who was the most truthful of women, felt that she could not
conscientiously agree in calling hex tall. She changed the subject.

"I am afraid you will find it very quiet in Billingsfield," she said
presently.

"Oh, I am used--that is, I prefer a very quiet place. I want to live very
quietly for some years, indeed I hope for the rest of my life. Besides it
will be so good for Nellie to live in the country--she will grow so
strong."

"She looks very well, I am sure," answered Mrs. Ambrose rather bluntly,
looking at the child's clear complexion and bright eyes. "And have you
always lived in town until now, Mrs. Goddard?" she asked.

"Oh no, not always, but most of the year, perhaps. Indeed I think so."
Mrs. Goddard felt nervous before the searching glance of the elder woman.
Mrs. Ambrose concluded that she was not absolutely straightforward.

"Do you think you can make the cottage comfortable?" asked the vicar's
wife, seeing that the conversation languished.

"Oh, I think so," answered her visitor, glad to change the subject, and
suddenly becoming very voluble as she had previously been very shy. "It
is really a charming little place. Of course it is not very large, but as
we have not got very many belongings that is all the better; and the
garden is small but extremely pretty and wild, and the kitchen is very
convenient; really I quite wonder how the people who built it could have
made it all so comfortable. You see there are one--two--the pantry, the
kitchen and two rooms on the ground floor and plenty of room upstairs for
everybody, and as for the sun! it streams into all the windows at once
from morning till night. And such a pretty view, too, of that old gate
opposite--where does it lead to, Mrs. Ambrose? It is so very pretty."

"It leads to the park and the Hall," answered Mrs. Ambrose.

"Oh--" Mrs. Goddard's tone changed. "But nobody lives there?" she asked
suddenly.

"Oh no--it is in Chancery, you know."

"What--what is that, exactly?" asked Mrs. Goddard, timidly. "Is there a
young heir waiting to grow up--I mean waiting to take possession?"

"No. There is a suit about it. It has been going on for forty years my
husband says, and they cannot decide to whom it belongs."

"I see," answered Mrs. Goddard. "I suppose they will never decide now."

"Probably not for some time."

"It must be a very pretty place. Can one go in, do you think? I am so
fond of trees--what a beautiful garden you have yourself, Mrs. Ambrose."

"Would you like to see it?" asked the vicar's wife, anxious to bring the
visit to a conclusion.

"Oh, thank you--of all things!" exclaimed Mrs. Goddard. "Would not you
like to run about the garden, Nellie?"

The little girl nodded slowly and stared at Mrs. Ambrose.

"My husband is a very good gardener," said the latter, leading the way
out to the hall. "And so was John Short, but he has left us, you know."

"Who was John Short?" asked Mrs. Goddard rather absently, as she watched
Mrs. Ambrose who was wrapping herself in a huge blue waterproof cloak and
tying a sort of worsted hood over her head.

"He was one of the boys Mr. Ambrose prepared for college--such a good
fellow. You may have seen him when you came last June, Mrs. Goddard?"

"Had he very bright blue eyes--a nice face?"

"Yes--that is, it might have been Mr. Angleside--Lord Scatterbeigh's
son--he was here, too."

"Oh," said Mrs. Goddard, "perhaps it was."

"Mamma," asked little Nellie, "what is Laws Catterbay?"

"A peer, darling."

"Like the one at Brighton, mamma, with a band?"

"No, child," answered the mother laughing. "P, double E, R, peer--a rich
gentleman."

"Like poor papa then?" inquired the irrepressible Eleanor.

Mrs. Goddard turned pale and pressed the little girl close to her side,
leaning down to whisper in her ear.

"You must not ask foolish questions, darling--I will tell you by and by."

"Papa was a rich gentleman," objected the child.

Mrs. Goddard looked at Mrs. Ambrose, and the ready tears came into her
eyes. The vicar's wife smiled kindly and took little Nellie by the hand.

"Come, dear," she said in the motherly tone that was natural to her when
she was not receiving visitors. "Come and see the garden and you can play
with Carlo."

"Can't I see Laws Catterbay, too?" asked the little girl rather
wistfully.

"Carlo is a great, big, brown dog," said Mrs. Ambrose, leading the child
out into the garden, while Mrs. Goddard followed close behind. Before
they had gone far they came upon the vicar, arrayed in an old coat, his
hands thrust into a pair of gigantic gardening gloves and a battered old
felt hat upon his head. Mrs. Goddard had felt rather uncomfortable in the
impressive society of Mrs. Ambrose and the sight of the vicar's genial
face was reassuring in the extreme. She was not disappointed, for he
immediately relieved the situation by asking all manner of kindly
questions, interspersed with remarks upon his garden, while Mrs. Ambrose
introduced little Nellie to the acquaintance of Carlo who had not seen so
pretty a little girl for many a day, and capered and wagged his feathery
tail in a manner most unseemly for so clerical a dog.

So it came about that Mrs. Goddard established herself at Billingsfield
and made her first visit to the vicarage. After that the ice was broken
and things went on smoothly enough. Mrs. Ambrose's hints concerning
foreign blood, and her husband's invariable remonstrance to the effect
that she ought to be more charitable, grew more and more rare as time
went on, and finally ceased altogether. Mrs. Goddard became a regular
institution, and ceased to astonish the inhabitants. Mr. Thomas Reid, the
sexton, was heard to remark from time to time that he "didn't hold with
th'm newfangle fashins in dress;" but he was a regular old conservative,
and most people agreed with Mr. Abraham Boosey of the Duke's Head, who
had often been to London, and who said she did "look just A one, slap up,
she did!"

Mrs. Goddard became an institution, and in the course of the first year
of her residence in the cottage it came to be expected that she should
dine at the vicarage at least once a week; and once a week, also, Mr. and
Mrs. Ambrose went up and had tea with her and little Eleanor at the
cottage. It came to pass also that Mrs. Goddard heard a vast deal of talk
about John Short and his successes at Trinity, and she actually developed
a lively interest in his career, and asked for news of him almost as
eagerly as though he had been already a friend of her own. In very quiet
places people easily get into the sympathetic habit of regarding their
neighbours' interests as very closely allied to their own. The constant
talk about John Short, the vicar's sanguine hopes for his brilliant
future, and Mrs. Ambrose's unlimited praise of his moral qualities,
repeated day by day and week by week produced a vivid impression on Mrs.
Goddard's mind. It would have surprised her and even amused her beyond
measure had she had any idea that she herself had for a long time
absorbed the interest of this same John Short, that he had written
hundreds of Greek and Latin verses in her praise, while wholly ignorant
of her name, and that at the very time when without knowing him, she was
constantly mentioning him as though she knew him intimately well, he
himself was looking back to the one glimpse he had had of her, as to a
dream of unspeakable bliss.

It never occurred to Mr. Ambrose's mind to tell John in the occasional
letters he wrote that Mrs. Goddard had settled in Billingsfield. John, he
thought, could take no possible interest in knowing about her, and
moreover, Mrs. Goddard herself was most anxious never to be mentioned
abroad. She had come to Billingsfield to live in complete obscurity, and
the good vicar had promised that as far as he and his wife were concerned
she should have her wish. To tell even John Short, his own beloved pupil,
would be to some extent a breach of faith, and there was assuredly no
earthly reason why John should be told. It might do harm, for of course
the young fellow had made acquaintances at Cambridge; he had probably
read about the Goddard case in the papers, and might talk about it. If he
should happen to come down for a day or two he would probably meet her;
but that could not be avoided. It was not likely that he would come for
some time. The vicar himself intended to go up to Cambridge for a day or
two after Christmas to see him; but the winter flew by and Mr. Ambrose
did not go. Then came Easter, then the summer and the Long vacation. John
wrote that he could not leave his books for a day, but that he hoped to
run down next Christmas. Again he did not come, but there came the news
of his having won another and a more important scholarship; the news also
that he was already regarded as the most promising man in the university,
all of which exceedingly delighted the heart of the Reverend Augustin
Ambrose, and being told with eulogistic comments to Mrs. Goddard, tended
to increase the interest she felt in the existence of John Short, so that
she began to long for a sight of him, without exactly knowing why.

Gradually, too, as she and her little girl passed many peaceful days in
the quiet cottage, the sad woman's face grew less sorrowful. She spoke of
herself more cheerfully and dwelt less upon the subject of her grief. She
had at first been so miserable that she could hardly talk at all without
referring to her unhappy situation though, after her first interview with
Mrs. Ambrose, no one had ever heard her mention any details connected
with her trouble. But now she never approached the subject at all. Her
face lost none of its pathetic beauty, it is true, but it seemed to
express sorrow past rather than present. Meanwhile little Nellie grew
daily more lovely, and absorbed more and more of her mother's attention.




CHAPTER IV.


Events of such stirring interest as the establishment of Mrs. Goddard in
Billingsfield rarely come alone; for it seems to be in the nature of
great changes to bring other changes with them, even when there is no
apparent connection whatever between them. It took nearly two years for
Billingsfield to recover from its astonishment at Mrs. Goddard's arrival,
and before the excitement had completely worn off the village was again
taken off its feet by unexpected news of stupendous import, even as of
old Pompeii was overthrown by a second earthquake before it had wholly
recovered from the devastation caused by the first. The shock was indeed
a severe one. The Juxon estate was reported to be out of Chancery, and a
new squire was coming to take up his residence at the Hall.

It is not known exactly how the thing first became known, but there was
soon no doubt whatever that it was true. Thomas Reid, the sexton, who
remembered that the old squire died forty years ago come Michaelmas, and
had been buried in a "wonderful heavy" coffin, Thomas Reid the stern
censor of the vicar's sermons, a melancholic and sober man, so far lost
his head over the news as to ask Mr. Ambrose's leave to ring the bells,
Mr. Abraham Boosey having promised beer for the ringers. Even to the
vicar's enlightened mind it seemed fitting that there should be some
festivity over so great an event and the bells were accordingly rung
during one whole afternoon. Thomas Reid's ringers never got beyond the
first "bob" of a peal, for with the exception of the sexton himself and
old William Speller the wheelwright, who pulled the treble bell, they
were chiefly dull youths who with infinite difficulty had been taught
what changes they knew by rote and had very little idea of ringing by
scientific rule. Moreover Mr. Boosey was liberal in the matter of beer
that day and the effect of each successive can that was taken up the
stairs of the old tower was immediately apparent to every one within
hearing, that is to say as far as five miles around.

The estate was out of Chancery at last. For forty years, ever since the
death of the old squire, no one had rightfully called the Hall his own.
The heir had lived abroad, and had lived in such an exceedingly eccentric
manner as to give ground for a suit de lunatico inquirendo, brought by
another heir. With the consistency of judicial purpose which
characterises such proceedings the courts appeared to have decided that
though the natural possessor, the eccentric individual who lived abroad,
was too mad to be left in actual possession, he was not mad enough to
justify actual possession in the person of the next of kin. Proceedings
continued, fees were paid, a certain legal personage already mentioned
came down from time to time and looked over the estate, but the matter
was not finally settled until the eccentric individual died, after forty
years of eccentricity, to the infinite relief and satisfaction of all
parties and especially of his lawful successor Charles James Juxon now,
at last, "of Billingsfield Hall, in the county of Essex, Esquire."

In due time also Mr. Juxon appeared. It was natural that he should come
to see the vicar, and as it happened that he called late in the afternoon
upon the day when Mrs. Goddard and little Eleanor were accustomed to dine
at the vicarage, he at once had an opportunity of making the acquaintance
of his tenant; thus, if we except the free-thinking doctor, it will be
seen that Mr. Juxon was in the course of five minutes introduced to the
whole of the Billingsfield society.

He was a man inclining towards middle age, of an active and vigorous
body, of a moderate intelligence and of decidedly prepossessing
appearance. His features were of the strong, square type, common to men
whose fathers for many generations have lived in the country. His eyes
were small, blue and very bright, and to judge from the lines in his
sunburned face he was a man who laughed often and heartily. He had an
abundance of short brown hair, parted very far upon one side and brushed
to a phenomenal smoothness, and he wore a full brown beard, cut rather
short and carefully trimmed. He immediately won the heart of Mrs. Ambrose
on account of his extremely neat appearance. There was no foreign blood
in him, she was sure. He had large clean hands with large and polished
nails. He wore very well made clothes, and he spoke like a gentleman.
The vicar, too, was at once prepossessed in his favour, and even little
Eleanor, who was generally very shy before strangers, looked at him
admiringly and showed little of her usual bashfulness. But Mrs. Goddard
seemed ill at ease and tried to keep out of the conversation as much as
possible.

"There have been great rejoicings at the prospect of your arrival," said
the vicar when the new-comer had been introduced to both the ladies. "I
fancy that if you had let it be known that you were coming down to-day
the people would have turned out to meet you at the station."

"The truth is, I rather avoid that sort of thing," said the squire,
smiling. "I would rather enter upon my dominions as quietly as possible."

"It is much better for the people, too," remarked Mrs. Ambrose. "Their
idea of a holiday is to do no work and have too much beer."

"I daresay that would not hurt them much," answered Mr. Juxon cheerfully.
"By the bye, I know nothing about them. I have never been here before.
My man of business wanted to come down and show me over the estate, and
introduce me to the farmers and all that, but I thought it would be such
a bore that I would not have him."

"There is not much to tell, really," said Mr. Ambrose. "The society of
Billingsfield is all here," he added with a smile, "including one of your
tenants."

"Are you my tenant?" asked Mr. Juxon pleasantly, and he looked at Mrs.
Goddard.

"Yes," said she, "I have taken the cottage."

"The cottage? Excuse me, but you know I am a stranger here--what is the
cottage?"

"Such a pretty place," answered Mrs. Ambrose, "just opposite the park
gate. You must have seen it as you came down."

"Oh, is that it?" said the squire. "Yes, I saw it, and I wished I lived
there instead of in the Hall. It looks so comfortable and small. The Hall
is a perfect wilderness."

Mrs. Goddard felt a sudden fear lest her new landlord should take it into
his head to give her notice. She only took the cottage by the year and
her present lease ended in October. The arrival of a squire in possession
at the Hall was a catastrophe to which she had not looked forward. The
idea troubled her. She had accidentally made Mr. Juxon's acquaintance,
and she knew enough of the world to understand that in such a place he
would regard her as a valuable addition to the society of the vicar and
the vicar's wife. She would meet him constantly; there would be visitors
at the Hall--she would have to meet them, too. Her dream of solitude was
at an end. For a moment she seemed so nervous that Mr. Juxon observed her
embarrassment and supposed it was due to his remark about living in the
cottage himself.

"Do not be afraid, Mrs. Goddard," he said quickly, "I am not going to do
anything so uncivil as to ask you to give up the cottage. Besides, it
would be too small, you know."

"Have you any family, Mr. Juxon?" inquired Mrs. Ambrose with a severity
which startled the squire. Mrs. Ambrose thought that if there was a Mrs.
Juxon, she had been unpardonably deceived. Of course Mr. Juxon should
have said that he was married as soon as he entered the room.

"I have a very large family," answered the squire, and after enjoying for
a moment the surprise he saw in Mrs. Ambrose's face, he added with a
laugh, "I have a library of ten thousand volumes--a very large family
indeed. Otherwise I have no encumbrances, thank heaven."

"You are a scholar?" asked Mr. Ambrose eagerly.

"A book fancier, only a book fancier," returned the squire modestly. "But
I am very fond of the fancy."

"What is a book fancier, mamma?" asked little Eleanor in a whisper. But
Mr. Juxon heard the child's question.

"If your mamma will bring you up to the Hall one of these days, Miss
Goddard, I will show you. A book fancier is a terrible fellow who has
lots of books, and is pursued by a large evil genius telling him he must
buy every book he sees, and that he will never by any possibility read
half of them before he dies."

Little Eleanor stared for a moment with her great violet eyes, and then
turning again to her mother, whispered in her ear.

"Mamma, he called me Miss Goddard!"

"Run out and play in the garden, darling," said her mother with a smile.
But the child would not go and sat down on a stool and stared at the
squire, who was immensely delighted.

"So you are going to bring all your library, Mr. Juxon?" asked the vicar
returning to the charge.

"Yes--and I beg you will make any use of it you please," answered the
visitor. "I have a great fondness for books and I think I have some
valuable volumes. But I am no great scholar, as you are, though I read a
great deal. I have always noticed that the men who accumulate great
libraries do not know much, and the men who know a great deal have very
few books. Now I will wager that you have not a thousand volumes in your
house, Mr. Ambrose."

"Five hundred would be nearer the mark," said the vicar.

"The fewer one has the nearer one approaches to Aquinas's homo unius
libri," returned the squire. "You are nine thousand five hundred degrees
nearer to ideal wisdom than I am."

Mr. Ambrose laughed.

"Nevertheless," he said, "you may be sure that if you give me leave to
use your books, I will take advantage of the permission. It is in writing
sermons that one feels the want of a good library."

"I should think it would be an awful bore to write sermons," remarked the
squire with such perfect innocence that both the vicar and Mrs. Goddard
laughed loudly. But Mrs. Ambrose eyed Mr. Juxon with renewed severity.

"I should fancy it would be a much greater bore, as you call it, to the
congregation if my husband never wrote any new ones," she said stiffly.
Whereat the squire looked rather puzzled, and coloured a little. But Mr.
Ambrose came to the rescue.

"Yes, indeed, my wife is quite right. There are no people with such
terrible memories as churchwardens. They remember a sermon twenty years
old. But as you say, the writing of sermons is not an easy task when a
man has been at it for thirty years and more. A man begins by being
enthusiastic, then his mind gets into a groove and for some time, if he
happens to like the groove, he writes very well. But by and by he has
written all there is to be said in the particular line he has chosen and
he does not know how to choose another. That is the time when a man needs
a library to help him."

"I really don't think you have reached that point, Mr. Ambrose," remarked
Mrs. Goddard. She admired the vicar and liked his sermons.

"You are fortunately not in the position of my churchwardens," answered
Mr. Ambrose. "You have not been listening to me for thirty years."

"How long have you been my tenant, Mrs. Goddard?" asked the squire.

"Nearly two years," she answered thoughtfully, and her sad eyes rested a
moment upon Mr. Juxon's face with an expression he remembered. Indeed he
looked at her very often and as he looked his admiration increased, so
that when he rose to take his leave the predominant impression of the
vicarage which remained in his mind was that of her face. Something of
the same fascination took hold of him which had seized upon John Short
when he caught sight of Mrs. Goddard through the open door of the study,
something of that unexpected interest which in Mrs. Ambrose had at first
aroused a half suspicious dislike, now long forgotten.

Before the squire left he invited the whole party to come and dine with
him at the Hall on the following Saturday. He must have some kind of a
house warming, he said, for he was altogether too lonely up there. Mrs.
Goddard would bring Eleanor, of course; they would dine early--it would
not be late for the little girl. If they all liked they could call it tea
instead of dinner. Of course everything was topsy-turvy in the Hall, but
they would excuse that. He hoped to establish friendly relations with his
vicar and with his tenant--his fair tenant. Might he call soon and see
whether there was anything that could be done to improve the cottage?
Before the day when they were all coming to dine? He would call
to-morrow, then. Anything that needed doing should be done, Mrs. Goddard
might be sure. When the books arrived he would let Mr. Ambrose know, of
course, and they would have a day together.

So he went away, leaving the impression that he was a very good-natured
and agreeable man. Even Mrs. Ambrose was mollified. He had shocked her by
his remark about sermon writing, but he had of course not meant it, and
he appeared to mean to be very civil. It was curious to see how all
severity vanished from Mrs. Ambrose's manner so soon as the stranger who
aroused it was out of sight and hearing. She appeared as a formidably
stern type of the British matron to the chance visitors who came to the
vicarage; but they were no sooner gone than her natural temper was
restored and she was kindness and geniality itself.

But Mrs. Goddard was very thoughtful. She was not pleased at the fact of
an addition to the Billingsfield community, and yet she liked the
appearance of the squire. He had declared his intention of calling upon
her on the following day, and she would be bound to receive him. She was
young, she had been shut off from the world for two years, and the
prospect of Mr. Juxon's acquaintance was in itself not unpleasant; but
the idea that he was to be permanently established in the Hall frightened
her. She had felt since she came to Billingsfield that from the very
first she had put herself upon a footing of safety by telling her story
to the vicar. But the vicar would, not without her permission repeat that
story to Mr. Juxon. Was she herself called upon to do so? She was a very
sensitive woman, and her impressionable nature had been strongly affected
by what she had suffered. An almost morbid fear of seeming to make false
pretences possessed her. She was more than thirty years of age, it is
true, but she saw plainly enough in her glass that she was more than
passably good-looking still. There were one or two grey threads in her
brown waving hair and she took no trouble to remove them; no one ever
noticed them. There were one or two lines, very faint lines, in her
forehead; no one ever saw them. She could hardly see them herself.
Supposing--why should she not suppose it?--supposing Mr. Juxon were to
take a fancy to her, as a lone bachelor of forty and odd might easily
take a fancy to a pretty woman who was his tenant and lived at his gate,
what should she do? He was an honest man, and she was a conscientious
woman; she could not deceive him, if it came to that. She would have to
tell him the whole truth. As she thought of it, she turned pale and
trembled. And yet she had liked his face, she had told him he might call
at the cottage, and her woman's instinct foresaw that she was to see him
often. It was not vanity which made her think that the squire might grow
to like her too much. She had had experiences in her life and she knew
that she was attractive; the very fear she had felt for the last two
years lest she should be thrown into the society of men who might be
attracted by her, increased her apprehension tenfold. She could not look
forward with indifference to the expected visit, for the novelty of
seeing any one besides the vicar and his wife was too great; she could
not refuse to see the squire, for he would come again and again until she
received him; and yet, she could not get rid of the idea that there was
danger in seeing him. Call it as one may, that woman's instinct of peril
is rarely at fault.

In the late twilight of the June evening Mrs. Goddard and Eleanor waited
home together by the broad road which led towards the park gate.

"Don't you think Mr. Juxon is very kind, mamma?" asked the child.

"Yes, darling, I have no doubt he is. It was very good of him to ask you
to go to the Hall."

"And he called me Miss Goddard," said Eleanor. "I wonder whether he will
always call me Miss Goddard."

"He did not know your name was Nellie," explained her mother.

"Oh, I wish nobody knew, mamma. It was so nice. When shall I be grown up,
mamma?"

"Soon, my child--too soon," said Mrs. Goddard with a sigh. Nellie looked
at her mother and was silent for a minute.

"Mamma, do you like Mr. Juxon?" she asked presently.

"No, dear--how can one like anybody one has only seen once?"

"Oh--but I thought you might," said Nellie. "Don't you think you will,
mamma? Say you will--do!"

"Why?" asked her mother in some surprise. "I cannot say anything about
it. I daresay he is very nice."

"It will be so delightful to go to the Hall to dinner and be waited
on by big real servants--not like Susan at the vicarage, or Martha. Won't
you like it, mamma? Of course Mr. Juxon will have real servants, just
like--like poor papa." Nellie finished her speech rather doubtfully as
though not sure how her mother would take it. Mrs. Goddard sighed again,
but said nothing. She could not stop the child's talking--why should
Nellie not speak of her father? Nellie did not know.

"I think it will be perfectly delightful," said Nellie, seeing she got no
answer from her mother, and as though putting the final seal of
affirmation to her remarks about the Hall. But she appeared to be
satisfied at not having been contradicted and did not return to the
subject that evening.

Mr. Juxon lost no time in keeping his word and on the following morning
at about eleven o'clock, when Mrs. Goddard was just hearing the last of
Nellie's lesson in geography and little Nellie herself was beginning to
be terribly tired of acquiring knowledge in such very warm weather, the
squire's square figure was seen to emerge from the park gate opposite,
clad in grey knickerbockers and dark green stockings, a rose in his
buttonhole and a thick stick in his hand, presenting all the traditional
appearance of a thriving country gentleman of the period. He crossed the
road, stopped a moment and whistled his dog to heel and then opened the
wicket gate that led to the cottage. Nellie sprang to the window in wild
excitement.

"Oh what a dog!" she cried. "Mamma, do come and see! And Mr. Juxon is
coming, too--he has green stockings!"

But Mrs. Goddard, who was not prepared for so early a visit, hastily put
away what might be described as the debris of Nellie's lessons, to wit, a
much thumbed book of geography, a well worn spelling book, a very
particularly inky piece of blotting paper, a pen of which most of the
stock had been subjected to the continuous action of Nellie's teeth for
several months, and an ancient doll, without the assistance of which, as
a species of Stokesite memoria teohnica, Nellie declared that she could
not say her lessons at all. Those things disappeared, and, with them,
Nellie's troubles, into a large drawer set apart for the purpose. By the
time Mr. Juxon had rung the bell and Martha's answering footstep was
beginning to echo in the small passage, Mrs. Goddard had passed to the
consideration of Nellie herself. Nellie's fingers were mightily inky, but
in other respects she was presentable.

"Run and wash your hands, child, and then you may come back," said her
mother.

"Oh mamma, must I go? He's just coming in." She gave one despairing
look at her little hands, and then ran away. The idea of missing one
moment of Mr. Juxon's visit was bitter, but to be caught with inky
fingers by a beautiful gentleman with green stockings and a rose in his
coat would be more terribly humiliating still. There was a sound as of
some gigantic beast plunging into the passage as the front door was
opened, and a scream of terror from Martha followed by a good-natured
laugh from the squire.

"You'll excuse me, sir, but he don't bite, sir, does he? Oh my! what a
dog he is, sir--"

"Is Mrs. Goddard in?" inquired Mr. Juxon, holding the hound by the
collar. Martha opened the door of the little sitting-room and the squire
looked in. Martha fled down the passage.

"Oh my! What a tremendious dog that is, to be sure!" she was heard to
exclaim as she disappeared into the back of the cottage.

"May I come in?" asked Mr. Juxon, rather timidly and with an expression
of amused perplexity on his brown face. "Lie down, Stamboul!"

"Oh, bring him in, too," said Mrs. Goddard coming forward and taking Mr.
Juxon's hand. "I am so fond of dogs." Indeed she was rather embarrassed
and was glad of the diversion.

"He is really very quiet," said the squire apologetically, "only he is a
little impetuous about getting into a house." Then, seeing that Mrs.
Goddard looked at the enormous animal with some interest and much wonder,
