has faded now, I reconstruct a yellowish-brown facade, 
and a portal fretted with early sculptures; but the 
details have gone the way of all incomplete sensations. 
After you have stood awhile in the choir of the 
cathedral, there is no sensation at Le Mans that goes 
very far. For some reason not now to be traced, I 
had looked for more than this. I think the reason 
was to some extent simply in the name of the place; 
for names, on the whole, whether they be good reasons 
or not, are very active ones. Le Mans, if I am not 
mistaken, has a sturdy, feudal sound; suggests some 
thing dark and square, a vision of old ramparts and 
gates. Perhaps I had been unduly impressed by the 
fact, accidentally revealed to me, that Henry II., first 
of the English Plantagenets, was born there. Of course 
it is easy to assure one 's self in advance, but does it 
not often happen that one had rather not be assured? 
There is a pleasure sometimes in running the risk of 
disappointment. I took mine, such as it was, quietly 
enough, while I sat before dinner at the door of one 
of the cafes in the market-place with a Utter-et-cur-a ao 
(invaluable pretext at such an hour!) to keep me com 
pany. I remember that in this situation there came 
over me an impression which both included and ex 
cluded all possible disappointments. The afternoon 
was warm and still; the air was admirably soft. The 
good Manceaux, in little groups and pairs, were seated 
near me; my ear was soothed by the fine shades of 
French enunciation, by the detached syllables of that 
perfect tongue. There was nothing in particular in 
the prospect to charm; it was an average French view. 
Yet I felt[a charm, a kind of sympathy, a sense of the 
completeness of French life and of the lightness and 
brightness of the social air, together with a desire to 
arrive at friendly judgments, to express a positive 
interest. I know not why this transcendental mood 
should have descended upon me then and there; but 
that idle half-hour in front of the cafe, in the mild 
October afternoon, suffused with human sounds, is 
perhaps the most definite thing I brought away from 
Le Mans. 
XIV. 
I AM shocked at finding, just after this noble de 
claration of principles that in a little note-book which 
at that time I carried about with me, the celebrated 
city of Angers is denominated a "sell." I reproduce 
this vulgar term with the greatest hesitation, and only 
because it brings me more quickly to my point. This 
point is that Angers belongs to the disagreeable class 
of old towns that have been, as the English say, " done 
up." Not the oldness, but the newness, of the place 
is what strikes the sentimental tourist to-day, as he 
wanders with irritation along second-rate boulevards, 
looking vaguely about him for absent gables. "Black 
Angers," in short, is a victim of modern improvements, 
and quite unworthy of its admirable name, a name 
which, like that of Le Mans, had always had, to my 
eyes, a highly picturesque value. It looks particularly 
well on the Shakspearean page (in "King John"), where 
we imagine it uttered (though such would not have 
been the utterance of the period) with a fine old in 
sular accent. Angers figures with importance in early 
English history : it was the capital city of the Plantagenet 
race, home of that Geoffrey of Anjou who married, as 
second husband, the Empress Maud, daughter of 
Henry I. and competitor of Stephen, and became father 
of Henry II., first of the Plantagenet kings, born, as we 
have seen, at Le Mans. The facts create a natural 
presumption that Angers will look historic; I turned 
them over in my mind as I travelled in the train from 
Le Mans, through a country that was really pretty, and 
looked more like the usual English than like the usual 
French scenery, with its fields cut up by hedges and 
a considerable rotundity in its trees. On my way 
from the station to the hotel, however, it became plain 
that I should lack a good pretext for passing that night 
at the Cheval Blanc; I foresaw that I should have con 
tented myself before the end of the day. I remained 
at the White Horse only long enough to discover that 
it was an exceptionally good provincial inn, one of the 
best that I encountered during six weeks spent in 
these establishments. 
"Stupidly and vulgarly modernized," that is an 
other phrase from my note-book, and note-books are 
not obliged to be reasonable. "There are some narrow 
and tortuous streets, with a few curious old houses," I 
continue to quote; "there is a castle, of which the ex 
terior is most extraordinary, and there is a cathedral 
  
of moderate interest." It is fair to say that the 
Chateau d Angers is by itself worth a pilgrimage; the 
only drawback is that you have seen it in a quarter of 
an hour. You cannot do more than look at it, and 
one good look does your business. It has no beauty, 
no grace, no detail, nothing that charms or detains 
you; it is simply very old and very big, so big and 
so old that this simple impression is enough, and it 
takes its place in your recollections as a perfect specimen 
of a superannuated stronghold. It stands at one end 
of the town, surrounded by a huge, deep moat, which 
originally contained the waters of the Maine, now 
divided from it by a quay. The water-front of Angers 
is poor, wanting in color and in movement; and there 
is always an effect of perversity in a town lying near a 
great river and yet not upon it. The Loire is a few 
miles off; but Angers contents itself with a meagre 
affluent of that stream. The effect was naturally much 
better when the huge, dark mass of the castle, with its 
seventeen prodigious towers, rose out of the protecting 
flood. These towers are of tremendous girth and soli 
dity; they are encircled with great bands, or hoops, of 
white stone, and are much enlarged at the base. 
Between them hang vast curtains of infinitely old-look 
ing masonry, apparently a dense conglomeration of 
slate, the material of which the town was originally 
built (thanks to rich quarries in the neighborhood), 
and to which it owed its appellation of the Black. 
There are no windows, no apertures, and to-day no 
battlements nor roofs. These accessories were removed 
by Henry ILL, so that, in spite of its grimness and 
blackness, the place has not even the interest of look 
ing like a prison; it being, as I supposed, the essence 
of a prison not to be open to the sky. The only 
features of the enormous structure are the black, sombre 
stretches and protrusions of wall, the effect of which, 
on so large a scale, is strange and striking. Begun by 
Philip Augustus, and terminated by St. Louis, the 
Chateau d Angers has of course a great deal of history. 
The luckless Fouquet, the extravagant minister of 
finance of Louis XIV., whose fall from the heights of 
grandeur was so sudden and complete, was confined 
here in 1661, just after his arrest, which had taken 
place at Nantes. Here, also, Huguenots and Vendeans 
have suffered effective captivity. 
I walked round the parapet which protects the 
outer edge of the moat (it is all up hill, and the moat 
deepens and deepens), till I came to the entrance 
which faces the town, and which is as bare and 
strong as the rest. The concierge took me into -the 
court; but there was nothing to see. The place is 
used as a magazine of ammunition, and the yard con 
tains a multitude of ugly buildings. The only thing 
to do is to walk round the bastions for the view; but 
at the moment of my visit the weather was thick, and 
the bastions began and ended with themselves. So I 
came out and took another look at the big, black ex 
terior, buttressed with white-ribbed towers, and per 
ceived that a desperate sketcher might extract a 
picture from it, especially if he were to bring in, as 
they say, the little black bronze statue of the good 
King Rene (a weak production of David d ; Angers), 
which, standing within sight, ornaments the melancholy 
faubourg. He would do much better, however, with 
the very striking old timbered house (I suppose of the 
fifteenth century) which is called the Maison d Adam, 
and is easily the first specimen at Angers of the 
domestic architecture of the past. This admirable 
house, in the centre of the town, gabled, elaborately 
timbered, and much restored, is a really imposing 
monument. The basement is occupied by a linen- 
draper, who flourishes under the auspicious sign of 
the Mere de Famille; and above his shop the tall 
front rises in five overhanging stories. As the house 
occupies the angle of a little place, this front is double, 
and the black beams and wooden supports, displayed 
over a large surface and carved and interlaced, have 
a high picturesqueness. The Maison d Adam is quite 
in the grand style, and I am sorry to say I failed to 
learn what history attaches to its name. If I spoke just 
above of the cathedral as "moderate," I suppose I 
should beg its pardon; for this serious charge was 
probably prompted by the fact that it consists only of 
a nave, without side aisles. A little reflection now 
convinces me that such a form is a distinction; and, 
indeed, I find it mentioned, rather inconsistently, in 
my note-book, a little further on, as "extremely simple 
and grand." The nave is spoken of in the same 
volume as "big, serious, and Gothic," though the choir 
and transepts are noted as very shallow. But it is not 
denied that the air of the whole thing is original and 
striking; and it would therefore appear, after all, that 
the cathedral of Angers, built during the twelfth and 
thirteenth centuries, is a sufficiently honorable church; 
the more that its high west front, adorned with a very 
primitive Gothic portal, supports two elegant tapering 
spires, between which, unfortunately, an ugly modern 
pavilion has been inserted. 
I remember nothing else at Angers but the curious 
old Cafe Serin, where, after I had had my dinner at 
the inn, I went and waited for the train which, at nine 
o clock in the evening, was to convey me, in a couple 
of hours, to Nantes, an establishment remarkable for 
its great size and its air of tarnished splendor, its 
brown gilding and smoky frescos, as also for the fact 
that it was hidden away on the second floor of an un 
assuming house in an unilluminated street. It hardly 
seemed a place where you would drop in; but when 
once you had found it, it presented itself, with the 
cathedral, the castle, and the Maison d Adam, as one 
of the historical monuments of Angers. 
XV. 
IF I spent two nights at Nantes, it was for reasons 
of convenience rather than of sentiment; though, in 
deed, I spent them in a big circular room which had 
a stately, lofty, last-century look, a look that con 
soled me a little for the whole place being dirty. The 
high, old-fashioned inn (it had a huge, windy porte- 
cochere, and you climbed a vast black stone staircase 
to get to your room) looked out on a dull square, sur 
rounded with other tall houses, and occupied on one 
side by the theatre, a pompous building, decorated 
with columns and statues of the muses. Nantes be 
longs to the class of towns which are always spoken 
of as "fine," and its position near the mouth of the 
Loire gives it, I believe, much commercial movement. 
It is a spacious, rather regular city, looking, in the 
parts that I traversed, neither very fresh nor very 
venerable. It derives its principal character from the 
handsome quays on the Loire, which are overhung 
with tall eighteenth-century houses (very numerous, 
too, in the other streets), houses with big entresols 
marked by arched windows, classic pediments, balcony- 
rails of fine old iron-work. These features exist in 
still better form at Bordeaux; but, putting Bordeaux 
aside, Nantes is quite architectural. The view up and 
down the quays has the cool, neutral tone of color 
that one finds so often in French water-side places, 
the bright grayness which is the tone of French land 
scape art. The whole city has rather a grand, or at 
least an eminently well-established air. During a day 
passed in it of course I had time to go to the Musee; 
the more so that I have a weakness for provincial 
museums, a sentiment that depends but little on the 
quality of the collection. The pictures may be bad, 
but the place is often curious; and, indeed, from bad 
pictures, in certain moods of the mind, there is a 
degree of entertainment to be derived. If they are 
tolerably old, they are often touching; but they must 
have a relative antiquity, for I confess I can do no 
thing with works of art of which the badness is of 
recent origin. The cool, still, empty chambers in 
which indifferent collections are apt to be preserved, 
the red brick tiles, the diffused light, the musty odor, 
the mementos around you of dead fashions, the snuffy 
custodian in a black skull cap, who pulls aside a 
faded curtain to show you the lustreless gem of the 
museum, these things have a mild historical quality, 
and the sallow canvases after all illustrate something. 
Many of those in the museum of Nantes illustrate the 
taste of a successful warrior; having been bequeathed 
to the city by Napoleon 's marshal, Clarke (created 
Due de Feltre). In addition to these there is the 
usual number of specimens of the contemporary French 
school, culled from the annual Salons and presented 
to the museum by the State. Wherever the traveller 
goes, in France, he is reminded of this very honorable 
practice, the purchase by the Government of a cer 
tain number of "pictures of the year," which are pre 
sently distributed in the provinces. Governments suc 
ceed each other and bid for success by different 
devices; but the "patronage of art" is a plank, as we 
should say here, in every platform. The works of art 
are often ill-selected, there is an official taste which 
you immediately recognize, but the custom is essen 
tially liberal, and a government which should neglect 
it would be felt to be painfully common. The only 
thing in this particular Musee that I remember is a 
fine portrait of a woman, by Ingres, very flat and 
Chinese, but with an interest of line and a great deal 
of style. 
There is a castle at Nantes which resembles in 
some degree that of Angers, *but has, without, much 
less of the impressiveness of great size, and, within, 
much more interest of detail. The court contains the 
remains of a very fine piece of late Gothic, a tall ele 
gant building of the sixteenth century. The chateau 
is naturally not wanting in history. It was the residence 
of the old Dukes of Brittany, and was brought, with 
the rest of the province, by the Duchess Anne, the last 
representative of that race, as her dowry, to Charles 
VIII. I read in the excellent hand-book of M. Joanne 
that it has been visited by almost every one of the 
kings of France, from Louis XL downward; and also 
that it has served as a place of sojourn less voluntary 
on the part of various other distinguished persons, 
from the horrible Marechal de Retz, who in the fifteenth 
century was executed at Nantes for the murder of a 
couple of hundred young children, sacrificed in abomin 
able rites, to the ardent Duchess of Berry, mother of 
the Count of Chambord, who was confined there for a 
few hours in 1832, just after her arrest in a neigh 
boring house. I looked at the house in question you 
may see it from the platform in front of the chateau 
and tried to figure to myself that embarrassing scene. 
The duchess, after having unsuccessfully raised the 
standard of revolt (for the exiled Bourbons), in the 
legitimist Bretagne, and being "wanted," as the phrase 
is, by the police of Louis Philippe, had hidden herself 
in a small but loyal house at Nantes, where, at the end 
of five months of seclusion, she was betrayed, for gold, 
to the austere M. Guizot, by one of her servants, an 
Alsatian Jew named Deutz. For many hours before 
her capture she had been compressed into an inter 
stice behind a fireplace, and by the time she was 
drawn forth into the light she had been ominously 
scorched. The man who showed me the castle in 
dicated also another historic spot, a house with little 
tourelles, on the Quai de la Fosse, in which Henry IV. 
is said to have signed the Edict of Nantes. I am, 
however, not in a position to answer for this pedigree. 
There is another point in the history of the fine 
old houses which command the Loire, of which, I sup 
pose, one may be tolerably sure; that is, their having, 
placid as they stand there to-day, looked down on the 
horrors of the Terror of 1793, the bloody reign of the 
monster Carrier and his infamous noyades. The most 
hideous episode of the Revolution was enacted at 
Nantes, where hundreds of men and women, tied to 
gether in couples, were set afloat upon rafts and sunk 
to the bottom of the Loire. The tall eighteenth-century 
house, full of the air noble, in France always reminds 
me of those dreadful years, of the street-scenes of the 
Revolution. Superficially, the association is incongru 
ous, for nothing could be more formal and decorous 
than the patent expression of these eligible residences. 
But whenever I have a vision of prisoners bound on 
tumbrels that jolt slowly to the scaffold, of heads car 
ried on pikes, of groups of heated citoyennes shaking 
their fists at closed coach-windows, I see in the back 
ground the well-ordered features of the architecture of 
the period, the clear gray stone, the high pilasters, 
the arching lines of the entresol  the classic pediment, 
the slate-covered attic. There is not much architecture 
at Nantes except the domestic. The cathedral, with a 
rough west front and stunted towers, makes no im 
pression as you approach it. It is true that it does its 
best to recover its reputation as soon as you have 
passed the threshold. Begun in 1434 and finished 
about the end of the fifteenth century, as I discover in 
Murray, it has a magnificent nave, not of great length, 
but of extraordinary height and lightness. On the 
other hand, it has no choir whatever. There is much 
entertainment in France in seeing what a cathedral 
will take upon itself to possess or to lack; for it is 
only the smaller number that have the full complement 
of features. Some have a very fine nave and no choir; 
others a very fine choir and no nave. Some have a 
rich outside and nothing within; others a very blank 
face and a very glowing heart. There are a hundred 
possibilities of poverty and wealth, and they make the 
most unexpected combinations. 
The great treasure of Nantes is the two noble se 
pulchral monuments which occupy either transept, and 
one of which has (in its nobleness) the rare distinction 
of being a production of our own time. On the south 
side stands the tomb of Francis II., the last of the 
Dukes of Brittany, and of his second wife, Margaret 
of Foix, erected in 1507 by their daughter Anne, whom 
we have encountered already at the Chateau de Nantes, 
where she was born; at Langeais, where she married 
her first husband; at Amboise, where she lost him; at 
Blois, where she married her second, the "good" 
Louis XII., who divorced an impeccable spouse to 
make room for her, and where she herself died. Trans 
ferred to the cathedral from a demolished convent, 
this monument, the masterpiece of Michel Colomb, 
author of the charming tomb of the children of Charles 
VIII. and the aforesaid Anne, which w r e admired at 
Saint Gatien of Tours, is one of the most brilliant 
works of the French Renaissance. It has a splendid 
effect, and is in perfect preservation. A great table of 
black marble supports the reclining figures of the duke 
and duchess, who lie there peacefully and majestically, 
in their robes and crowns, with their heads each on a 
cushion, the pair of which are supported, from behind, 
by three charming little kneeling angels; at the foot of 
the quiet couple are a lion and a greyhound, with 
heraldic devices. At each of the angles of the table 
is a large figure in white marble of a woman elaborately 
dressed, with a symbolic meaning, and these figures, 
with their contemporary faces and clothes, which give 
them the air of realistic portraits, are truthful and liv 
ing, if not remarkably beautiful. Round the sides of 
the tomb are small images of the apostles. There is a 
kind of masculine completeness in the work, and a 
certain robustness of taste. 
In nothing were the sculptors of the Renaissance 
more fortunate than in being in advance of us with 
their tombs : they have left us nothing to say in regard 
to the great final contrast, the contrast between the 
immobility of death and the trappings and honors that 
survive. They expressed in every way in which it was 
possible to express it the solemnity of their conviction 
that the marble image was a part of the personal 
greatness of the defunct, and the protection, the redemption, 
of his memory. A modern tomb, in comparison, 
is a sceptical affair; it insists too little on the 
honors. I say this in the face of the fact that one has 
only to step across the cathedral of Nantes to stand in 
the presence of one of the purest and most touching 
of modern tombs. Catholic Brittany has erected in 
the opposite transept a monument to one of the most 
devoted of her sons, General de Lamoriciere, the de 
fender of the Pope, the vanquished of Castelfidardo. 
This noble work, from the hand of Paul Dubois, one 
of the most interesting of that new generation of sculp 
tors who have revived in France an art of which our 
overdressed century had begun to despair, has every 
merit but the absence of a certain prime feeling. It 
is the echo of an earlier tune, an echo with a beauti 
ful cadence. Under a Renaissance canopy of white 
marble, elaborately worked with arabesques and che 
rubs, in a relief so low that it gives the work a cer 
tain look of being softened and worn by time, lies the 
body of the Breton soldier, with a crucifix clasped to 
his breast and a shroud thrown over his body. At 
each of the angles sits a figure in bronze, the two best 
of which, representing Charity and Military Courage, 
had given me extraordinary pleasure when they were 
exhibited (in the clay) in the Salon of 1876. They 
are admirably cast, and they have a certain greatness: 
the one, a serene, robust young mother, beautiful in 
line and attitude; the other, a lean and vigilant young 
man, in a helmet that overshadows his serious eyes, 
resting an outstretched arm, an admirable military 
member, upon the hilt of a sword. These figures con 
tain abundant assurance that M. Paul Dubois has been 
attentive to Michael Angelo, whom we have all heard 
called a splendid example but a bad model. The 
visor-shadowed face of his warrior is more or less a 
reminiscence of the figure on the tomb of Lorenzo de 
Medici at Florence; but it is doubtless none the worse 
for that. The interest of the work of Paul Dubois is 
its peculiar seriousness, a kind of moral good faith 
which is not the commonest feature of French art, and 
which, united as it is in this case with exceeding 
knowledge and a remarkable sense of form, produces 
an impression of deep refinement. The whole monu 
ment is a proof of exquisitely careful study; but I am 
not sure that this impression on the part of the spec 
tator is altogether a happy one. It explains much of 
its great beauty, and it also explains, perhaps, a little 
of a certain weakness. That word, however, is scarcely 
in place; I only mean that M. Dubois has made a vi 
sible effort, which has been most fruitful. Simplicity 
is not always strength, and our complicated modern 
genius contains treasures of intention. This fathomless 
modern element is an immense charm on the part of 
M. Paul Dubois. I am lost in admiration of the deep 
aesthetic experience, the enlightenment of taste, re 
vealed by such work. After that, I only hope that 
Giuseppe Garibaldi may have a monument as fair. 
XVI. 
To go from Nantes to La Rochelle you travel 
straight southward, across the historic bocage of La 
Vendee, the home of royalist bush-fighting. The 
country, which is exceedingly pretty, bristles with 
copses, orchards, hedges, and with trees more spread 
ing and sturdy than the traveller is apt to deem the 
feathery foliage of France. It is true that as I pro 
ceeded it flattened out a good deal, so that for an 
hour there was a vast featureless plain, which offered 
me little entertainment beyond the general impression 
that I was approaching the Bay of Biscay (from which, 
in reality, I was yet far distant). As we drew near 
La Rochelle, however, the prospect brightened con 
siderably, and the railway kept its course beside a 
charming little canal, or canalized river, bordered 
with trees, and with small, neat, bright-colored, and 
yet old-fashioned cottages and villas, which stood 
back on the further side, behind small gardens, hedges, 
painted palings, patches of turf. The whole effect 
was Dutch and delightful; and in being delightful, 
though not in being Dutch, it prepared me for the 
charms of La Rochelle, which from the moment I 
entered it I perceived to be a fascinating little town, 
a most original mixture of brightness and dulness. 
Part of its brightness comes from its being extra 
ordinarily clean, in which, after all, it is Dutch; a 
virtue not particularly noticeable at Bourges, Le Mans, 
and Angers. Whenever I go southward, if it be only 
twenty miles, I begin to look out for the south, pre 
pared as I am to find the careless grace of those latittudes 
even in things of which it may be said that 
they may be south of something, but are not southern. 
To go from Boston to New York (in this state of 
mind) is almost as soft a sensation as descending the 
Italian side of the Alps; and to go from New York to 
Philadelphia is to enter a zone of tropical luxuriance 
and warmth. Given this absurd disposition, I could 
not fail to flatter myself, on reaching La Rochelle, 
that I was already in the Midi, and to perceive in 
everything, in the language of the country, the ca- 
r act ere meridional. Really, a great many things had 
a hint of it. For that matter, it seems to me that to 
arrive in the south at a bound to wake up there, as 
it were would be a very imperfect pleasure. The 
full pleasure is to approach by stages and gradations; 
to observe the successive shades of difference by 
which it ceases to be the north. These shades are 
exceedingly fine, but your true south-lover has an eye 
for them all. If he perceive them at New York and 
Philadelphia, we imagine him boldly as liberated 
  
from Boston, how could he fail to perceive them at 
La Rochelle? The streets of this dear little city are 
lined with arcades, good, big, straddling arcades of 
stone, such as befit a land of hot summers, and which 
recalled to me, not to go further, the dusky porticos 
of Bayonne. It contains, moreover, a great wide 
place d armes, which looked for all the world like the 
piazza of some dead Italian town, empty, sunny, 
grass-grown, with a row of yellow houses overhanging 
it, an unfrequented cafe, with a striped awning, a tall, 
cold, florid, uninteresting cathedral of the eighteenth 
century on one side, and on the other a shady walk, 
which forms part of an old rampart. I followed this 
walk for some time, under the stunted trees, beside 
the grass-covered bastions; it is very charming, wind 
ing and wandering, always with trees. Beneath the 
rampart is a tidal river, and on the other side, for a 
long distance , the mossy walls of the immense garden 
of a seminary. Three hundred years ago, La Rochelle 
was the great French stronghold of Protestantism; but 
to-day it appears to be a nursery of Papists. 
The walk upon the rampart led me round to one 
of the gates of the town, where I found some small 
modern fortifications and sundry red-legged soldiers, 
and, beyond the fortifications, another shady walk, 
a mail, as the French say, as well as a champ de 
manoeuvre, on which latter expanse the poor little 
red-legs were doing their exercise. It was all very 
quiet and very picturesque, rather in miniature; and 
at once very tidy and a little out of repair. This, 
however, was but a meagre back-view of La Rochelle, 
or poor side-view at best. There are other gates than 
the small fortified aperture just mentioned; one of 
them, an old gray arch beneath a fine clock-tower, I 
had passed through on my way from the station. 
This picturesque Tour de 1 Horloge separates the town 
proper from the port; for beyond the old gray arch, 
the place presents its bright, expressive little face to 
the sea. I had a charming walk about the harbor, 
and along the stone piers and sea-walls that shut it 
in. This indeed, to take things in their order, was 
after I had had my breakfast (which I took on arriv 
ing) and after I had been to the hotel de ville. The 
inn had a long narrow garden behind it, with some 
very tall trees; and passing through this garden to a 
dim and secluded salle a manger, buried in the heavy 
shade, I had, while I sat at my repast, a feeling of 
seclusion which amounted almost to a sense of in 
carceration. I lost this sense, however, after I had 
paid my bill, and went out to look for traces t)f the 
famous siege, which is the principal title of La Rochelle 
to renown. I had come thither partly because I 
thought it would be interesting to stand for a few 
moments in so gallant a spot, and partly because, I 
confess, I had a curiosity to see what had been the 
starting-point of the Huguenot emigrants who founded 
the town of New Rochelle in the State of New York, 
a place in which I had passed certain memorable 
hours. It was strange to think, as I strolled through 
the peaceful little port, that these quiet waters, during 
  
the wars of religion, had swelled with a formidable 
naval power. The Rochelais had fleets and admirals, 
and their stout little Protestant bottoms carried de 
fiance up and down. 
To say that I found any traces of the siege would 
be to misrepresent the taste for vivid whitewash by 
which La Rochelle is distinguished to-day. The only 
trace is the dent in the marble top of the table on 
which, in the hotel de ville, Jean Guiton, the mayor of 
the city, brought down his dagger with an oath, when 
in 1628 the vessels and regiments of Richelieu closed 
about it on sea and land. This terrible functionary 
was the soul of the resistance; he held out from 
February to October, in the midst of pestilence and 
famine. The whole episode has a brilliant place 
among the sieges of history; it has been related a 
hundred times, and I may only glance at it and pass. 
I limit my ambition, in these light pages, to speaking 
of those things of which I have personally received an 
impression; and I have no such impression of the 
defence of La Rochelle. The hotel de ville is a 
pretty little building, in the style of the Renaissance 
of Francis I.; but it has left much of its interest in 
the hands of the restorers. It has been "done up" 
without mercy; its natural place would be at Rochelle 
the New. A sort of battlemented curtain, flanked 
with turrets, divides it from the street and contains 
a low door (a low door in a high wall is always 
felicitous), which admits you to an inner court, where 
you discover the face of the building. It has statues 
set into it, and is raised upon a very low and very 
deep arcade. The principal function of the deferential 
old portress who conducts you over the place is to call 
your attention to the indented table of Jean Guiton; 
but she shows you other objects of interest besides. 
The interior is absolutely new and extremely sump 
tuous, abounding in tapestries, upholstery, morocco, 
velvet, satin. This is especially the case with a really 
beautiful grande salle, where, surrounded with the 
most expensive upholstery, the mayor holds his official 
receptions. (So at least, said my worthy portress.) 
The mayors of La Rochelle appear to have changed a 
good deal since the days of the grim Guiton; but 
these evidences of municipal splendor are interesting 
for the light they throw on French manners. Imagine 
the mayor of an English or an American town of 
twenty thousand inhabitants holding magisterial soirees 
in the town-hall! The said grande salle, w r hich is un 
changed in form and its larger features, is, I believe, 
the room in which the Rochelais debated as to whether 
they should shut themselves up, and decided in the 
affirmative. The table and chair of Jean Guiton have 
been restored, like everything else, and are very 
elegant and coquettish pieces of furniture, incongruous 
relics of a season of starvation and blood. I believe 
that Protestantism is somewhat shrunken to-day at La 
Rochelle, and has taken refuge mainly in the haute 
societe and in a single place of worship. There was 
nothing particular to remind me of its supposed austerity 
as, after leaving the hotel de ville, I walked along the 
empty porticos and out of the Tour de PHorloge, 
which I have already mentioned. If I stopped and 
looked up at this venerable monument, it was not to 
ascertain the hour, for I foresaw that I should have 
more time at La Rochelle than I knew what to do 
with; but because its high, gray, weather-beaten face 
\vas an obvious subject for a sketch. 
The little port, which has two basins, and is ac 
cessible only to vessels of light tonnage, had a certain 
gayety and as much local color as you please. Fisher 
folk of picturesque type were strolling about, most 
of them Bretons; several of the men with handsome, 
simple faces, not at all brutal, and with a splendid 
brownness, the golden-brown color, on cheek and 
beard, that you see on an old Venetian sail. It was 
a squally, showery day, with sudden drizzles of sun 
shine; rows of rich-toned fishing-smacks were drawn 
up along the quays. The harbor is effective to the 
eye by reason of three battered old towers which, at 
different points, overhang it and look infinitely weather- 
vrashed and sea-silvered. The most striking of these, 
the Tour de la Lanterne, is a big gray mass, of the 
fifteenth century, flanked with turrets and crowned 
with a Gothic steeple. I found it was called by the 
people of the place the Tour des Quatre Sergents, 
though I know not what connection it has with the 
touching history of the four young sergeants of the 
garrison of La Rochelle, who were arrested in 1821 
as conspirators against the Government of the Bour 
bons, and executed, amid general indignation, in Paris 
in the following year. The quaint little walk, with 
its label of Rue sur les Murs, to which one ascends 
from beside the Grosse Horloge, leads to this curious 
Tour de la Lanterne and passes under it. This walk 
has the top of the old town-wall, toward the sea, for 
a parapet on one side, and is bordered on the other 
with decent but irregular little tenements of fishermen, 
where brown old women, whose caps are as white as 
if they were painted, seem chiefly in possession. In 
this direction there is a very pretty stretch of shore, 
out of- the town, through the fortifications (which are 
Vauban s, by the way); through, also, a diminutive 
public garden or straggling shrubbery, which edges 
the water and carries its stunted verdure as far as a 
big Etablissement des Bains. It was too late in the 
year to bathe, and the Etablissement had the bank 
rupt aspect which belongs to such places out of the 
season; so I turned my back upon it, and gained, by 
a circuit in the course of which there were sundry 
water-side items to observe, the other side of the 
cheery little port, where there is a long breakwater 
and a still longer sea-wall, on which I walked awhile, 
to inhale the strong, salt breath of the Bay of Biscay. 
La Rochelle serves, in the months of July and August, 
as a station de bains for a modest provincial society; 
and, putting aside the question of inns, it must be 
charming on summer afternoons. 
XVII. 
IT is an injustice to Poitiers to approach her by 
night, as I did some three hours after leaving La 
Rochelle; for what Poitiers has of best, as they would 
say at Poitiers, is the appearance she presents to the 
arriving stranger who puts his head out of the window 
of the train. I gazed into the gloom from such an 
aperture before we got into the station, for I re 
membered the impression received on another occa 
sion; but I saw nothing save the universal night, 
spotted here and there with an ugly railway lamp. 
It was only as I departed, the following day, that I 
assured myself that Poitiers still makes something of 
the figure she ought on the summit of her consider 
able hill. I have a kindness for any little group of 
towers, any cluster of roofs and chimneys, that lift 
themselves from an eminence over which a long road 
ascends in zigzags; such a picture creates for the mo 
ment a presumption that you are in Italy, and even 
leads you to believe that if you mount the winding 
road you will come to an old town-wall, an expanse 
of creviced brownness, and pass under a gateway sur 
mounted by the arms of a mediaeval despot. Why 
I should find it a pleasure, in France, to imagine my 
self in Italy, is more than I can say; the illusion has 
never lasted long enough to be analyzed. From the 
bottom of its perch Poitiers looks large and high; 
and indeed, the evening I reached it, the interminable 
climb of the omnibus of the hotel I had selected, 
which I found at the station, gave me the measure of 
its commanding position. This hotel, "magnifique 
construction ornee de statues," as the Guide-Joanne, 
usually so reticent, takes the trouble to announce, has 
an omnibus, and, I suppose, has statues, though I 
didn 't perceive them; but it has very little else save 
immemorial accumulations of dirt. It is magnificent, 
if you will, but it is not even relatively proper; and 
a dirty inn has always seemed to me the dirtiest of 
human things, it has so many opportunities to betray 
itself. 
Poitiers covers a large space, and is as crooked 
and straggling as you please; but these advantages are 
not accompanied with any very salient features or any 
great wealth of architecture. Although there are few 
picturesque houses, however, there are two or three 
curious old churches. Notre Dame la Grande, in the 
market-place, a small romanesque structure of the 
twelfth century, has a most interesting and venerable 
exterior. Composed, like all the churches of Poitiers, 
of a light brown stone with a yellowish tinge, it is 
covered with primitive but ingenious sculptures, and is 
really an impressive monument. Within, it has lately 
been daubed over with the most hideous decorative 
painting that was ever inflicted upon passive pillars 
and indifferent vaults. This battered yet coherent 
little edifice has the touching look that resides in 
everything supremely old: it has arrived at the age at 
which such things cease to feel the years; the waves 
of time have worn its edges to a kind of patient dul- 
ness; there is something mild and smooth, like the 
stillness, the deafness, of an octogenarian, even in its 
rudeness of ornament, and it has become insensible 
to differences of a century or two. The cathedral 
interested me much less than Our Lady the Great, 
and I have not the spirit to go into statistics about it. 
It is not statistical to say that the cathedral stands 
half-way down the hill of Poitiers, in a quiet and 
grass-grown place, with an approach of crooked lanes 
and blank garden-walls, and that its most striking 
dimension is the width of its fagade. This width is 
extraordinary, but it fails, somehow, to give nobleness 
to the edifice, which looks within (Murray makes the 
remark) like a large public hall. There are a nave 
and two aisles, the latter about as high as the nave; 
and there are some very fearful modern pictures, 
which you may see much better than you usually see 
those specimens of the old masters that lurk in glow 
ing side-chapels, there being no fine old glass to dif 
fuse a kindly gloom. The sacristan of the cathedral 
showed me something much better than all this bright 
bareness; he led me a short distance out of it to the 
small Temple de Saint- Jean, which is the most curious 
object at Poitiers. It is an early Christian chapel, 
one of the earliest in France; originally, it would seem, 
that is, in the sixth or seventh century, a bap 
tistery, but converted into a church while the Christian 
era was still comparatively young. The Temple de 
Saint- Jean is therefore a monument even more vener- 
able than Notre Dame la Grande, and that numbness 
of age which I imputed to Notre Dame ought to reside 
in still larger measure in its crude and colorless little 
walls. I call them crude, in spite of their having 
been baked through by the centuries, only because, 
although certain rude arches and carvings are let 
into them, and they are surmounted at either end with 
a small gable, they have (so far as I can remember) 
little fascination of surface. Notre Dame is still ex 
pressive, still pretends to be alive; but the Temple 
has delivered its message, and is completely at rest. 
It retains a kind of atrium, on the level of the street, 
from which you descend to the original floor, now un 
covered, but buried for years under a false bottom. 
A semicircular apse was, apparently at the time of its 
conversion into a church, thrown out from the east 
wall. In the middle is the cavity of the old baptismal 
font. The walls and vaults are covered with traces 
of extremely archaic frescos, attributed, I believe, to 
the twelfth century. These vague, gaunt, staring 
fragments of figures are, to a certain extent, a reminder 
of some of the early Christian churches in Rome; they 
even faintly recalled to me the great mosaics of 
Ravenna. The Temple de Saint- Jean has neither the 
antiquity nor the completeness of those extraordinary 
monuments, nearly the most impressive in Europe; 
but, as one may say, it is very well for Poitiers. 
Not far from it, in a lonely corner which was ani 
mated for the moment by the vociferations of several 
old women who were selling tapers, presumably for 
