she’s Sally Lunn.  You know us; so come on and have a race."
Lily burst out laughing at the idea of playing with these old friends of
hers; and all three ran away as fast as they could tear, down the hill,
over a bridge, into the middle of the village, where they stopped,
panting, and sat down on some very soft rolls to rest.
"What do you all do here?" asked Lily, when she got her breath again.
"We farm, we study, we bake, we brew, and are as merry as grigs all day
long.  It’s school-time now, and we must go; will you come?" said Sally,
jumping up as if she liked it.
"Our schools are not like yours; we only study two things,--grain and
yeast.  I think you ’ll like it.  We have yeast to-day, and the
experiments are very jolly," added Johnny, trotting off to a tall brown
tower of rye and Indian bread, where the school was kept.
Lily never liked to go to school, but she was ashamed to own it; so she
went along with Sally, and was so amused with all she saw that she was
glad she came.  The brown loaf was hollow, and had no roof; and when she
asked why they used a ruin, Sally told her to wait and see why they
chose strong walls and plenty of room overhead.  All round was a circle
of very small biscuits like cushions, and on these the Bread-children
sat.  A square loaf in the middle was the teacher’s desk, and on it lay
an ear of wheat, with several bottles of yeast well corked up.  The
teacher was a pleasant, plump lady from Vienna, very wise, and so famous
for her good bread that she was a Professor of Grainology.
When all were seated, she began with the wheat ear, and told them all
about it in such an interesting way that Lily felt as if she had never
known anything about the bread she ate before. The experiments with the
yeast were quite exciting,--for Fraulein Pretzel showed them how it
would work till it blew the cork out, and go fizzing up to the sky if it
was kept too long; how it would turn sour or flat, and spoil the bread
if care was not taken to use it just at the right moment; and how too
much would cause the loaf to rise till there was no substance to it.
The children were very bright; for they were fed on the best kinds of
oatmeal and Graham bread, with very little white bread or hot cakes to
spoil their young stomachs.  Hearty, happy boys and girls they were, and
their yeasty souls were very lively in them for they danced and sung,
and seemed as bright and gay as if acidity, heaviness, and mould were
quite unknown.
Lily was very happy with them, and when school was done went home with
Sally and ate the best bread and milk for dinner that she ever tasted.
In the afternoon Johnny took her to the cornfield, and showed her how
they kept the growing ears free from mildew and worms. Then she went to
the bakehouse; and here she found her old friend Muffin hard at work
making Parker House rolls, for he was such a good cook he was set to
work at once on the lighter kinds of bread.
"Well, is n’t this better than Candy-land or Saccharissa?" he asked, as
he rolled and folded his bits of dough with a dab of butter tucked
inside.
"Ever so much!" cried Lily.  "I feel better already, and mean to learn
all I can.  Mamma will be so pleased if I can make good bread when I go
home.  She is rather old-fashioned, and likes me to be a nice
housekeeper.  I did n’t think bread interesting then, but I do now; and
Johnny’s mother is going to teach me to make Indian cakes to-morrow."
"Glad to hear it.  Learn all you can, and tell other people how to make
healthy bodies and happy souls by eating good plain food.  Not like
this, though these rolls are better than cake. I have to work my way up
to the perfect loaf, you know; and then, oh, then, I ’m a happy thing."
"What happens then?  Do you go on to some other wonderful place?" asked
Lily, as Muffin paused with a smile on his face.
"Yes; I am eaten by some wise, good human being, and become a part of
him or her.  That is immortality and heaven; for I may nourish a poet
and help him sing, or feed a good woman who makes the world better for
being in it, or be crumbed into the golden porringer of a baby prince
who is to rule a kingdom.  Is n’t that a noble way to live, and an end
worth working for?" asked Muffin, in a tone that made Lily feel as if
some sort of fine yeast had got into her, and was setting her brain to
work with new thoughts.
"Yes, it is.  I suppose all common things are made for that purpose, if
we only knew it; and people should be glad to do anything to help the
world along, even making good bread in a kitchen," answered Lily, in a
sober way that showed that her little mind was already digesting the new
food it had got.
She stayed in Bread-land a long time, and enjoyed and learned a great
deal that she never forgot.  But at last, when she had made the perfect
loaf, she wanted to go home, that her mother might see and taste it.
"I ’ve put a good deal of myself into it, and I ’d love to think I had
given her strength or pleasure by my work," she said, as she and Sally
stood looking at the handsome loaf.
"You can go whenever you like; just take the bread in your hands and
wish three times, and you ’ll be wherever you say.  I ’m sorry to have
you go, but I don’t wonder you want to see your mother.  Don’t forget
what you have learned, and you will always be glad you came to us," said
Sally, kissing her good-by.
"Where is Muffin?  I can’t go without seeing him, my dear old friend,"
answered Lily, looking round for him.
"He is here," said Sally, touching the loaf. "He was ready to go, and
chose to pass into your bread rather than any other; for he said he
loved you and would be glad to help feed so good a little girl."
"How kind of him!  I must be careful to grow wise and excellent, else he
will be disappointed and have died in vain," said Lily, touched by his
devotion.
Then, bidding them all farewell, she hugged her loaf close, wished three
times to be in her own home, and like a flash she was there.
Whether her friends believed the wonderful tale of her adventures I
cannot tell; but I know that she was a nice little housekeeper from that
day, and made such good bread that other girls came to learn of her.
She also grew from a sickly, fretful child into a fine, strong woman,
because she ate very little cake and candy, except at Christmas time,
when the oldest and the wisest love to make a short visit to Candyland.
[Illustration: As soon as he was alone, Jocko ... jumped on his back.
PAGE 70.]
                                  III.
                             NAUGHTY JOCKO.
"A music-man! a music-man!  Run quick, and see if he has got a monkey on
his organ," cried little Neddy, running to the window in a great hurry
one day.
Yes; there was the monkey in his blue and red suit, with a funny little
cap, and the long tail trailing behind.  But he did n’t seem to be a
lively monkey; for he sat in a bunch, with his sad face turned anxiously
to his master, who kept pulling the chain to make him dance.  The stiff
collar had made his neck sore; and when the man twitched, the poor thing
moaned and put up his little hand to hold the chain.  He tried to dance,
but was so weak he could only hop a few steps, and stop panting for
breath.  The cruel man would n’t let him rest till Neddy called out,--
"Don’t hurt him; let him come up here and get this cake, and rest while
you play.  I ’ve got some pennies for you."
So poor Jocko climbed slowly up the trellis, and sat on the window-ledge
trying to eat; but he was so tired he went to sleep, and when the man
pulled to wake him up, he slipped and fell, and lay as if he were dead.
Neddy and his aunt ran down to see if he was killed.  The cross man
scolded and shook him; but he never moved, and the man said,--
"He is dead.  I don’t want him.  I will sell him to some one to stuff."
"No; his heart beats a little.  Leave him here a few days, and we will
take care of him; and if he gets well, perhaps we will buy him," said
Aunt Jane, who liked to nurse even a sick monkey.
The man said he was going on for a week through the towns near by, and
would call and see about it when he came back.  Then he went away; and
Neddy and aunty put Jocko in a nice basket, and carried him in.  The
minute the door was shut and he felt safe, the sly fellow peeped out
with one eye, and seeing only the kind little boy began to chatter and
kick off the shawl; for he was not much hurt, only tired and hungry, and
dreadfully afraid of the cruel man who beat and starved him.
Neddy was delighted, and thought it very funny, and helped his aunt take
off the stiff collar and put some salve on the sore neck. Then they got
milk and cake; and when he had eaten a good dinner, Jocko curled himself
up and slept till the next day.  He was quite lively in the morning; for
when Aunt Jane went to call Neddy, Jocko was not in his basket, and
looking round the room for him, she saw the little black thing lying on
the boy’s pillow, with his arm round Neddy’s neck like a queer baby.
"My patience!  I can’t allow that," said the old lady, and went to pull
Jocko out.  But he slipped away like an eel, and crept chattering and
burrowing down to the bottom of the bed, holding on to Neddy’s toes,
till he waked up, howling that crabs were nipping him.
Then they had a great frolic; and Jocko climbed all over the bed, up on
the tall wardrobe, and the shelf over the door, where the image of an
angel stood.  He patted it, and hugged it, and looked so very funny with
his ugly black face by the pretty white one, that Neddy rolled on the
floor, and Aunt Jane laughed till her glasses flew off.  By and by he
came down, and had a nice breakfast, and let them tie a red ribbon over
the bandage on his neck. He liked the gay color, and kept going to look
in the glass, and grin and chatter at his own image, which he evidently
admired.
"Now, he shall go to walk with me, and all the children shall see my new
pet," said Neddy, as he marched off with Jock on his shoulder.
Every one laughed at the funny little fellow with his twinkling eyes,
brown hands, and long tail, and Neddy felt very grand till they got to
the store; then troubles began.  He put Jocko on a table near the door,
and told him to stay there while he did his errands.  Now, close by was
the place where the candy was kept, and Jocko loved sweeties like any
girl; so he hopped along, and began to eat whatever he liked. Some boys
tried to stop him; and then he got angry at them for pulling his tail,
and threw handfuls of sugarplums at them.  That was great fun; and the
more they laughed and scrambled and poked at him, the faster he showered
chocolates, caramels, and peppermints over them, till it looked as if it
had rained candy.  The man was busy with Neddy at the other end of the
store; but when he heard the noise, both ran to see what was the matter.
Neither of them could stop naughty Jocko, who liked this game, and ran
up on the high shelves among the toys. Then down came little tubs and
dolls’ stoves, tin trumpets and cradles, while boxes of leaden soldiers
and whole villages flew through the air, smash, bang, rattle, bump, all
over the floor. The man scolded, Neddy cried, the boys shouted, and
there was a lively time in that shop till a good slapping with a long
stick made Jock tumble into a tub of water where some curious fishes
lived; and then they caught him.
Neddy was much ashamed, and told the man his aunt would pay for all the
broken things. Then he took his naughty pet, and started to go home and
tie him up, for it was plain this monkey was not to be trusted.  But as
soon as they got out, Jocko ran up a tree and dropped on to a load of
hay passing underneath.  Here he danced and pranced, and had a fine
time, throwing off the man’s coat and rake, and eating some of the
dinner tied up in a cloth.  The crusts of bread and the bones he threw
at the horse; this new kind of whip frightened the horse, and he ran
away down a steep hill, and upset the hay and broke the cart.  Oh, such
a time!  It was worse than the candy scrape; for the man swore, and the
horse was hurt, and people said the monkey ought to be shot, he did so
much mischief.  Jocko did n’t care a bit; he sat high up in a tree, and
chattered and scolded, and swung by his tail, and was so droll that
people could n’t help laughing at him.  Poor Neddy cried again, and went
home to tell his troubles to Aunt Jane, fearing that it would take all
the money in his bank to pay for the damage the bad monkey had done in
one hour.
As soon as he was alone Jocko came skipping along, and jumped on his
back, and peeped at him, and patted his cheeks, and was so cunning and
good Neddy could n’t whip him; but he shut him up in a closet to punish
him.
Jocko was tired; so he went to sleep, and all was quiet till
dinner-time.  They were ready for the pudding, and Neddy had saved a
place for a good plateful, as he liked snow-pudding, when shrieks were
heard in the kitchen, and Mary the maid rushed in to say,--
"Oh, ma’am, that horrid beast has spoilt the pudding, and is scaring
Katy out of her life!"
They all ran; and there sat that naughty monkey on the table, throwing
the nice white snow all over poor cook, till her face looked as if she
was ready to be shaved.  His own face looked the same, for he had eaten
all he wanted while the pudding stood cooling in the pantry.  He had
crept out of a window in the closet, and had a fine rummage among the
sugar-buckets, butter-boxes, and milk-pans.
Kate wailed, and Mary scolded; but Aunt Jane and grandpa laughed, and
Neddy chased Jock into the garden with the broom.  They had to eat bread
and jelly for dessert, and it took the girls a long time to clear up the
mess the rascal made.
"We will put his collar and chain on again, and keep him tied up all the
time till the man comes," said Aunt Jane.
"But I can’t catch him," sighed Neddy, watching the little imp whisk
about in the garden among the currant-bushes, chasing hens and tossing
green apples round in high glee.
"Sit quietly down somewhere and wait till he is tired; then he will come
to you, and you can hold him fast," said Aunt Jane.
So Neddy waited; and though he was much worried at his new pet’s
naughtiness, he enjoyed his pranks like a boy.
Grandpa took naps in the afternoon on the piazza, and he was dozing
comfortably when Jocko swung down from the grape-vine by his long tail,
and tickled the old gentleman on the nose with a straw.  Grandpa
sneezed, and opened one eye to brush away the fly as he supposed. Then
he went to sleep again, and Jocko dropped a caterpillar on his bald
head; this made him open the other eye to see what that soft, creepy
thing could be.  Neddy could n’t help laughing, for he often wanted to
do just such things, but never dared, because grandpa was a very stern
old gentleman, and no one took liberties with him.  Jocko was n’t
afraid, however; and presently he crept to the table, stele the glasses
lying there, put them on, and taking up the paper held it before him,
chattering as if he were reading it, as he had seen people do.  Neddy
laughed out loud at this, and clapped his hands, Jocko looked so like a
little old man, in spite of the tail curled up behind.  This time
grandpa opened both eyes at once, and stared as if he saw a hobgoblin
before him; then he snatched off the spectacles, and caught up his cane,
crying angrily,--
"You rascal, how dare you!"
But Jocko tossed the paper in his face, and with one jump lighted on the
back of old Tom, the big yellow cat, who lay asleep close by. Scared
half out of his wits, Tom spit and bounced; but Jocko held fast to his
collar, and had a fine race round the garden, while the girls laughed at
the funny sight, and Neddy shouted, "It’s a circus; and there’s the
monkey and the pony."  Even grandpa smiled, especially when puss dashed
up a tree, and Jock tumbled off. He chased him, and they had a great
battle; but Tom’s claws were sharp, and the monkey got a scratch on the
nose, and ran crying to Neddy for comfort.
"Now, you naughty fellow, I ’ll chain you up, and stop these dreadful
tricks.  But you are great fun, and I can’t whip you," said the boy; for
he knew what it was to enjoy a holiday, and poor Jocko had not had one
for a long time.
Jocko ate some lunch, took a nap in the grass, and then was ready for
more frolics.  Neddy had fastened him to a tree in the garden, so that
he could enjoy the sun and air, and catch grasshoppers if he liked.  But
Jocko wanted something more; and presently Neddy, who was reading in his
hammock on the piazza, heard a great cackling among the hens, and looked
up to see the monkey swinging by his tail from a bough, holding the
great cock-a-doodle by his splendid tail, while all the twenty hens
clucked and cackled with wrath and fear at such a dreadful prank.
"Now, that’s too bad; I will slap him this time," said Neddy, running
to save his handsome bird from destruction.  But before he got there
poor cocky had pulled his fine tail-feathers all out in his struggles,
and when set free was so frightened and mortified that he ran away and
hid in the bushes, and the hens went to comfort him.
Neddy gave Jocko a good whipping, and left him looking as meek as a
baby, all cuddled up in a little bunch, with his head in his hands as if
crying for his naughtiness.  But he was n’t sorry.  Oh, dear, no! for in
half an hour he had picked every one of the sweet peas Aunt Jane was so
fond of, thrown all the tomatoes over the fence, and let the parrot out
of his cage.  The sight of Polly walking into the parlor with a polite
"How are you, ma’am?" sent Aunt Jane to see what was going on.  Neddy
was fast asleep in the hammock, worn out with his cares; and Jocko,
having unhooked his chain, was sitting on the chimney-top of a
neighbor’s house, eating corn.
"We shall not live to the end of the week if this sort of thing goes on.
I don’t know what to do with the little beast; he ’s as bad as an
elephant to take care of," said the poor lady, in despair, as she saw
Jocko throw his corncob down on the minister’s hat as that stately
gentleman went by.
As none of them could catch him, Miss Jane let him alone till Neddy
waked up and could go and find some of the big boys to help him.
Jocko soon left the roof, and skipped in at a window that stood open.
It was little Nelly Brown’s play-room, and she had left her pet doll
Maud Mabel Rose Matilda very ill in the best bed, while she went down to
get a poppy leaf to rub the darling’s cheeks with, because she had a
high fever.  Jocko took a fancy to the pretty bed, and after turning the
play-house topsy-turvy, he pulled poor Maud Mabel Rose Matilda out by
her flaxen hair, and stuffing her into the water-pitcher upside down,
got into the bed, drew the lace curtains, and prepared to doze
deliciously under the pink silk bed-cover.
Up came Nelly, and went at once to the dear invalid, saying in her
motherly little voice,--
"Now, my darling child, lie quite still, and I won’t hurt you one bit."
But when she drew the curtain, instead of the lovely yellow-haired doll
in her ruffled nightcap, she saw an ugly little black face staring at
her, and a tiny hand holding the sheet fast. Nelly gave one scream, and
flew downstairs into the parlor where the Sewing-circle was at work,
frightening twenty-five excellent ladies by her cries, as she clung to
her mother, wailing,--
"A bogie! a bogie!  I saw him, all black; and he snarled at me, and my
dolly is gone! What shall I do? oh, what shall I do?"
There was great confusion, for all the ladies talked at once; and it so
happened that none of them knew anything about the monkey, therefore
they all agreed that Nelly was a foolish child, and had made a fuss
about nothing. She cried dismally, and kept saying to her mother,--
"Go and see; it’s in my dolly’s bed,--I found it there, and darling
Maudie is gone."
"We will go and see," said Mrs. Moses Merryweather,--a stout old lady,
who kept her six girls in such good order that they would never have
dared to cry if ten monkeys had popped out at them.
Miss Hetty Bumpus, a tall thin maiden lady, with a sharp eye and pointed
nose, went with her; but at the door that led to the dining-room both
stopped short, and after one look came flying back, calling out
together,--
"Mrs. Brown, your supper is spoilt! a dreadful beast has ruined it all!"
Then twenty-five excited ladies flew across the hall to behold Jocko
sitting on the great cake in the middle of the table, his feet bathed in
cream from the overturned pitcher, while all around lay the ruins of
custards, tarts, biscuits, and sauce, not to mention nice napkins made
into hay-cocks, spoons, knives, and forks, on the floor, and the best
silver teapot in the fireplace.
While Nelly told her tale and the ladies questioned and comforted her,
this bad monkey had skipped downstairs and had a delightful party all by
himself.  He was just scraping the jelly out of a tart when they
disturbed him; and knowing that more slaps were in store for him if he
stayed, he at once walked calmly down the ravaged table, and vanished
out of the window carrying the silver tea-strainer with him to play
with.
The ladies had no supper that night; and poor Mrs. Brown sent a note to
Aunt Jane, telling her the sad story, and adding that Nelly was quite
ill with the fright and the loss of dear Maud Mabel Rose Matilda,
drowned in the water-pitcher and forever spoilt.
"John shall go after that man to-morrow, and bring him back to carry
this terrible monkey away.  I can’t live with him a week; he will cost
me a fortune, and wear us all out," said Aunt Jane, when Jocko was
safely shut up in the cellar, after six boys had chased him all over the
neighborhood before they caught him.
Neddy was quite willing to let him go; but John was saved his journey,
for in the morning poor Jocko was found dead in a trap, where his
inquisitive head had been poked to see what the cheese tasted like.
So he was buried by the river, and every one felt much relieved; for the
man never came back, thinking Jocko dead when he left him.  But he had
not lived in vain; for after this day of trial, mischievous Neddy
behaved much better, and Aunt Jane could always calm his prankish spirit
by saying, as her finger pointed to a little collar and chain hanging on
the wall,--
"If you want to act like naughty Jocko, say so, and I ’ll tie you up.
One monkey is enough for this family."
[Illustration: Kitty laughed, and began to dance...  Such twirlings and
stoppings as she made.--PAGE 85.]
                                  IV.
                          THE SKIPPING SHOES.
Once there was a little girl, named Kitty, who never wanted to do what
people asked her.  She said "I won’t" and "I can’t," and did not run at
once pleasantly, as obliging children do.
One day her mother gave her a pair of new shoes; and after a fuss about
putting them on, Kitty said, as she lay kicking on the floor,--
"I wish these were seven-leagued boots, like Jack the Giant Killer’s;
then it would be easy to run errands all the time.  Now, I hate to keep
trotting, and I don’t like new shoes, and I won’t stir a step."
Just as she said that, the shoes gave a skip, and set her on her feet so
suddenly that it scared all the naughtiness out of her.  She stood
looking at these curious shoes; and the bright buttons on them seemed to
wink at her like eyes, while the heels tapped on the floor a sort of
tune.  Before she dared to stir, her mother called from the next room,--
"Kitty, run and tell the cook to make a pie for dinner; I forgot it."
"I don’t want to," began Kitty, with a whine as usual.
But the words were hardly out of her mouth when the shoes gave one jump,
and took her downstairs, through the hall, and landed her at the kitchen
door.  Her breath was nearly gone; but she gave the message, and turned
round, trying to see if the shoes would let her walk at all.  They went
nicely till she wanted to turn into the china-closet where the cake was.
She was forbidden to touch it, but loved to take a bit when she could.
Now she found that her feet were fixed fast to the floor, and could not
be moved till her father said, as he passed the window close by,--
"You will have time to go to the post-office before school and get my
letters."
"I can’t," began Kitty; but she found she could, for away went the
shoes, out of the house at one bound, and trotted down the street so
fast that the maid who ran after her with her hat could not catch her.
"I can’t stop!" cried Kitty; and she did not till the shoes took her
straight into the office.
"What’s the hurry to-day?" asked the man, as he saw her without any hat,
all rosy and breathless, and her face puckered up as if she did not know
whether to laugh or to cry.
"I won’t tell any one about these dreadful shoes, and I ’ll take them
off as soon as I get home.  I hope they will go back slowly, or people
will think I ’m crazy," said Kitty to herself, as she took the letters
and went away.
The shoes walked nicely along till she came to the bridge; and there she
wanted to stop and watch some boys in a boat, forgetting school and her
father’s letters.  But the shoes would n’t stop, though she tried to
make them, and held on to the railing as hard as she could.  Her feet
went on; and when she sat down they still dragged her along so steadily
that she had to go, and she got up feeling that there was something very
strange about these shoes.  The minute she gave up, all went smoothly,
and she got home in good time.
"I won’t wear these horrid things another minute," said Kitty, sitting
on the doorstep and trying to unbutton the shoes.
But not a button could she stir, though she got red and angry struggling
to do it.
"Time for school; run away, little girl," called mamma from upstairs, as
the clock struck nine.
"I won’t!" said Kitty, crossly.
But she did; for those’ magic shoes danced her off, and landed her at
her desk in five minutes.
"Well, I ’m not late; that’s one comfort," she thought, wishing she had
come pleasantly, and not been whisked away without any luncheon.
Her legs were so tired with the long skips that she was glad to sit
still; and that pleased the teacher, for generally she was fussing about
all lesson time.  But at recess she got into trouble again; for one of
the children knocked down the house of corn-cobs she had built, and made
her angry.
"Now, I ’ll kick yours down, and see how you like it, Dolly."
Up went her foot, but it did n’t come down; it stayed in the air, and
there she stood looking as if she were going to dance.  The children
laughed to see her, and she could do nothing till she said to Dolly in a
great hurry,--
"Never mind; if you didn’t mean to, I’ll forgive you."
Then the foot went down, and Kitty felt so glad about it that she tried
to be pleasant, fearing some new caper of those dreadful shoes.  She
began to see how they worked, and thought she would try if she had any
power over them.  So, when one of the children wanted his ball, which
had bounced over the hedge, she said kindly,--
"Perhaps I can get it for you, Willy."
And over she jumped as lightly as if she too were an india-rubber ball.
"How could you do it?" cried the boys, much surprised; for not one of
them dared try such a high leap.
Kitty laughed, and began to dance, feeling pleased and proud to find
there was a good side to the shoes after all.  Such twirlings and
skippings as she made, such pretty steps and airy little bounds it was
pretty to see; for it seemed as if her feet were bewitched, and went of
themselves.  The little girls were charmed, and tried to imitate her;
but no one could, and they stood in a circle watching her dance till the
bell rang, then all rushed in to tell about it.
Kitty said it was her new shoes, and never told how queerly they acted,
hoping to have good times now.  But she was mistaken.
On the way home she wanted to stop and see her friend Bell’s new doll;
but at the gate her feet stuck fast, and she had to give up her wishes
and go straight on, as mamma had told her always to do.
"Run and pick a nice little dish of strawberries for dinner," said her
sister, as she went in.
"I ’m too ti--"  There was no time to finish, for the shoes landed her
in the middle of the strawberry bed at one jump.
"I might as well be a grasshopper if I ’m to skip round like this," she
said, forgetting to feel tired out there in the pleasant garden, with
the robins picking berries close by, and a cool wind lifting the leaves
to show where the reddest and ripest ones hid.
The little dish was soon filled, and she wanted to stay and eat a few,
warm and sweet from the vines; but the bell rang, and away she went,
over the wood-pile, across the piazza, and into the dining-room before
the berry in her mouth was half eaten.
"How this child does rush about to-day!" said her mother.  "It is so
delightful to have such a quick little errand-girl that I shall get her
to carry some bundles to my poor people this afternoon.
"Oh, dear me!  I do hate to lug those old clothes and bottles and
baskets of cold victuals round.  Must I do it?" sighed Kitty, dismally,
while the shoes tapped on the floor under the table, as if to remind her
that she must, whether she liked it or not.
"It would be right and kind, and would please me very much.  But you may
do as you choose about it.  I am very tired, and some one must go; for
the little Bryan baby is sick and needs what I send," said mamma,
looking disappointed.
Kitty sat very still and sober for some time, and no one spoke to her.
She was making up her mind whether she would go pleasantly or be whisked
about like a grasshopper against her will.  When dinner was over, she
said in a cheerful voice,--
"I ’ll go, mamma; and when all the errands are done, may I come back
through Fairyland, as we call the little grove where the tall ferns
grow?"
"Yes, dear; when you oblige me, I am happy to please you."
"I ’m glad I decided to be good; now I shall have a lovely time," said
Kitty to herself, as she trotted away with a basket in one hand, a
bundle in the other, and some money in her pocket for a poor old woman
who needed help.
The shoes went quietly along, and seemed to know just where to stop.
The sick baby’s mother thanked her for the soft little nightgowns; the
lame girl smiled when she saw the books; the hungry children gathered
round the basket of food, like young birds eager to be fed; and the old
woman gave her a beautiful pink shell that her sailor son brought home
from sea.
When all the errands were done Kitty skipped away to Fairyland, feeling
very happy, as people always do when they have done kind things.  It was
a lovely place; for the ferns made green arches tall enough for little
girls to sit under, and the ground was covered with pretty green moss
and wood-flowers.  Birds flew about in the pines, squirrels chattered in
the oaks, butterflies floated here and there, and from the pond near by
came the croak of frogs sunning their green backs on the mossy stones.
"I wonder if the shoes will let me stop and rest; it is so cool here,
and I ’m so tired," said Kitty, as she came to a cosey nook at the foot
of a tree.
The words were hardly out of her mouth when her feet folded under her,
and there she sat on a cushion of moss, like the queen of the wood on
her throne.  Something lighted with a bump close by her; and looking
down she saw a large black cricket with a stiff tail, staring at her
curiously.
"Bless my heart!  I thought you were some relation of my cousin
Grasshopper’s.  You came down the hill with long leaps just like him; so
I stopped to say, How d’ ye do," said the cricket, in its creaky voice.
"I ’m not a grasshopper; but I have on fairy shoes to-day, and so do
many things that I never did before," answered Kitty, much surprised to
be able to understand what the cricket said.
"It is midsummer day, and fairies can play whatever pranks they like.
If you did n’t have those shoes on, you could n’t understand what I say.
Hark, and hear those squirrels talk, and the birds, and the ants down
here.  Make the most of this chance; for at sunset your shoes will stop
skipping, and the fun all be over."
While the cricket talked Kitty did hear all sorts of little voices,
singing, laughing, chatting in the gayest way, and understood every word
they said.  The squirrels called to one another as they raced about,--
    "Here’s a nut, there’s a nut;
      Hide it quick away,
    In a hole, under leaves,
      To eat some winter day.
    Acorns sweet are plenty,
      We will have them all:
    Skip and scamper lively
      Till the last ones fall."
The birds were singing softly,--
    "Rock a bye, babies,
      Your cradle hangs high;
    Soft down your pillow,
      Your curtain the sky.
    Father will feed you,
      While mother will sing,
    And shelter our darlings
      With her warm wing."
And the ants were saying to one another as they hurried in and out of
their little houses,--
    "Work, neighbor, work!
      Do not stop to play;
    Wander far and wide,
      Gather all you may.
    We are never like
      Idle butterflies,
    But like the busy bees,
      Industrious and wise."
"Ants always were dreadfully good, but butterflies are ever so much
prettier," said Kitty, listening to the little voices with wonder and
pleasure.
    "Hollo! hollo!
    Come down below,--
    It’s lovely and cool
    Out here in the pool;
    On a lily-pad float
    For a nice green boat.
    Here we sit and sing
    In a pleasant ring;
    Or leap-frog play,
    In the jolliest way.
    Our games have begun,
    Come join in the fun."
"Dear me! what could I do over there in the mud with the queer green
frogs?" laughed Kitty, as this song was croaked at her.
    "No, no, come and fly
    Through the sunny sky,
    Or honey sip
    From the rose’s lip,
    Or dance in the air,
    Like spirits fair.
    Come away, come away;
    ’T is our holiday."
A cloud of lovely yellow butterflies flew up from a wild-rose bush, and
went dancing away higher and higher, till they vanished in the light
beyond the wood.
"That is better than leap-frog.  I wish my skipping shoes would let me
fly up somewhere, instead of carrying me on errands and where I ought to
go all the time," said Kitty, watching the pretty things glitter as they
flew.
Just at that minute a clock struck, and away went the shoes over the
pool, the hill, the road, till they pranced in at the gate as the
tea-bell rang.  Kitty amused the family by telling what she had done and
seen; but no one believed the Fairyland part, and her father said,
laughing,--
"Go on, my dear, making up little stories, and by and by you may be as
famous as Hans Christian Andersen, whose books you like so well."
"The sun will soon set, and then my fun will be over; so I must skip
while I can," thought Kitty, and went waltzing round the lawn so
prettily that all the family came to see her.
"She dances so well that she shall go to dancing-school," said her
mother, pleased with the pretty antics of her little girl.
Kitty was delighted to hear that; for she had longed to go, and went on
skipping as hard as she could, that she might learn some of the graceful
steps the shoes took before the day was done.
"Come, dear, stop now, and run up to your bath and bed.  It has been a
long hot day, and you are tired; so get to sleep early, for Nursey wants
to go out," said her mother, as the sun went down behind the hills with
a last bright glimmer, like the wink of a great sleepy eye.
"Oh, please, a few minutes more," began Kitty, but was off like a flash;
for the shoes trotted her upstairs so fast that she ran against old
Nursey, and down she went, splashing the water all over the floor, and
scolding in such a funny way that it made Kitty laugh so that she could
hardly pick her up again.
By the time she was ready to undress the sun was quite gone, and the
shoes she took off were common ones again, for midsummer day was over.
But Kitty never forgot the little lessons she had learned: she tried to
run willingly when spoken to; she remembered the pretty steps and danced
like a fairy; and best of all, she always loved the innocent and
interesting little creatures in the woods and fields, and whenever she
was told she might go to play with them, she hurried away almost as
quickly as if she still wore the skipping shoes.
                                   V.
                               COCKYLOO.
In the barnyard a gray hen sat on her nest, feeling very happy because
it was time for her eggs to hatch, and she hoped to have a fine brood of
chickens.  Presently crack, crack, went the shells; "Peep, peep!" cried
the chicks; "Cluck, cluck!" called the hen; and out came ten downy
little things one after the other, all ready to run and eat and
scratch,--for chickens are not like babies, and don’t have to be tended
at all.
There were eight little hens and two little cockerels, one black and one
as white as snow, with yellow legs, bright eyes, and a tiny red comb on
his head.  This was Cockyloo, the good chick; but the black one was
named Peck, and was a quarrelsome bad fowl, as we shall see.
Mrs. Partlet, the mamma, was very proud of her fine family; for the
eight little daughters were all white and very pretty.  She led them out
into the farmyard, clucking and scratching busily; for all were hungry,
and ran chirping round her to pick up the worms and seeds she found for
them.  Cocky soon began to help take care of his sisters; and when a
nice corn or a fat bug was found, he would step back and let little
Downy or Snowball have it.  But Peck would run and push them away, and
gobble up the food greedily.  He chased them away from the pan where the
meal was, and picked the down off their necks if they tried to get their
share.  His mother scolded him when the little ones ran to hide under
her wings; but he did n’t care, and was very naughty. Cocky began to
crow when he was very young, and had such a fine voice that people liked
to hear his loud, clear "Cock-a-doodle-doo!" early in the morning; for
he woke before the sun was up, and began his song.  Peck used to grumble
at being roused at dawn, for he was lazy; but the hens bustled up, and
were glad to get out of the hen-house.
The father cock had been killed by a dog; so they made Cocky king of the
farmyard, and Peck was very jealous of him.
"I came out of the shell first, and I am the oldest; so I ought to be
king," he said.
"But we don’t like you, because you are selfish, cross, and lazy.  We
want Cocky; he is so lively, kind, and brave.  He will make a splendid
bird, and he must be our king," answered the hens; and Peck had to mind,
or they would have pulled every feather out of his little tail.
He resolved to do some harm to his good brother, and plagued him all he
could.  One day, when Cocky was swinging with three of his sisters on a
bush that hung over the brook, Peck asked a stupid donkey feeding near
to come and put his heavy foot on the bush. He did it, and crack went
the branch, splash went the poor chicks into the water, and all were
drowned but Cocky, who flew across and was saved.  Poor little Hop,
Chirp, and Downy went floating down the brook like balls of white foam,
and were never seen again. All the hens mourned for them, and put a
black feather in their heads to show how sorry they were.  Mamma Partlet
was heart-broken to lose three darlings at once; but Cocky comforted
her, and never told how it happened, because he was ashamed to have
people know what a bad bird Peck was.
A butterfly saw it all, and he told Granny Cockletop about it; and the
hens were so angry that they turned Peck out of the barnyard, and he had
to go and live in the woods alone.  He said he did n’t care; but he did,
and was very unhappy, and used to go and peep into the pleasant field
where the fowls scratched and talked together.  He dared not show
himself, for they would have driven him out.  But kind Cocky saw him,
and would run with some nice bit and creep through the fence into the
wood, saying,--
"Poor brother, I’m sorry for you, and I’ll come and play with you, and
tell you the news."
Now in this wood lived a fox, and he had been planning to eat Peck as
soon as he was fat; for he missed the good corn and meal he used to
have, and grew very thin living on grasshoppers and berries.  While he
waited the sly fellow made friends with Peck, though the bird knew that
foxes ate hens.
"I ’m not afraid, and I don’t believe old Granny Cockletop’s tales.  I
can take care of myself, I guess," he said, and went on playing with the
fox, who got him to tell all about the hen-house,--how the door was
fastened, and where the plump chickens roosted, and what time they went
to bed,--so that he could creep in and steal a good supper by and by.
Silly Peck never guessed what harm he was doing, and only laughed when
Cocky said,--
"You will be sorry if you play with the fox.  He is a bad fellow; so be
careful and sleep on a high branch, and keep out of his way, as I do."
Cocky was fat and large, and the fox longed to eat him, but never could,
because he wisely ran home whenever he saw the rogue hiding in the wood.
This made Peck angry, for he wanted his brother to stay and play; and so
one day, when Cocky ran off in the midst of a nice game, Peck said to
the fox,--
"See here, if you want to catch that fellow, I ’ll tell you how to do
it.  He has promised to bring me some food to-night, when all the rest
are at roost.  He will hide and not get shut up; then, when those cross
old biddies are asleep, he will cluck softly, and I am to go in and eat
all I want out of the pan.  You hide on the top of the hen-house; and
while he talks to me, you can pounce on him.  Then I shall be the only
cock here, and they will have to make me king."
"All right," said the fox, much pleased with the plan, and very glad
that Peck had a chance to get fatter.
So when it was night, Peck crept through the broken paling and waited
till he heard the signal.  Now, good Cocky had saved up nice bits from
his own dinner, and put them in a paper hidden under a bush.  He spread
them all out in the barnyard and called; and Peck came in a great hurry
to eat them, never stopping to say, "Thank you."
Cocky stood by talking pleasantly till a little shower came up.
"Peck, dear, put this nice thick paper over you; then you will be dry,
and can go on eating. I’ll step under that burdock leaf and wait till
you are done," said Cocky; and Peck was too busy gobbling up the food to
remember anything else.
Now the fox had just crept up on the hen-house roof; and when he peeped
down, there was just light enough to see a white thing bobbing about.
"Ah, ha! that’s Cockyloo; now for a good supper!"  And with a jump he
seized Peck by the head before he could explain the mistake.
One squawk, and the naughty bird was dead; but though the paper fell
off, and the fox saw what he had done, it was too late, and he began to
eat Peck up, while Cocky flew into a tree and crowed so loud that the
farmer ran with his gun and shot the fox before he could squeeze through
the hole in the fence with the fowl in his mouth.
After that the hens felt safe, for there were no more foxes; and when
they heard about Peck they did not mourn at all, but liked Cocky better
than ever, and lived happily together, with nothing to trouble them.
King Cockyloo grew to be a splendid bird,--pure white, with a tall red
comb on his head, long spurs on his yellow legs, many fine feathers in
his tail, and eyes that shone like diamonds. His crow was so loud that
it could be heard all over the neighborhood, and people used to say,
"Hark! hear Farmer Hunt’s cock crow.  Is n’t it a sweet sound to wake us
in the dawn?"  All the other cocks used to answer him, and there was a
fine matinée concert every day.
He was a good brother, and led his five little sisters all about the
field, feeding, guarding, and amusing them; for mamma was lame now, and
could not stir far from the yard.  It was a pretty sight to see Cocky
run home with a worm in his bill or a nice berry, and give it to his
mother, who was very proud of her handsome son.  Even old Granny
Cockletop, who scolded about everything, liked him; and often said, as
the hens sat scuffling in the dust,--
"A fine bird, my dears, a very fine bird, and I know he will do
something remarkable before he dies."
She was right for once; and this is what he did.
One day the farmer had to go away and stay all night, leaving the old
lady alone with two boys.  They were not afraid; for they had a gun, and
quite longed for a chance to fire it. Now it happened that the farmer
had a good deal of money in the house, and some bad men knew it; so they
waited for him to go away that they might steal it.  Cocky was picking
about in the field when he heard voices behind the wall, and peeping
through a hole saw two shabby men hiding there.
"At twelve, to-night, when all are asleep, we will creep in at the
kitchen window and steal the money.  You shall watch on the outside and
whistle if any one comes along while I ’m looking for the box where the
farmer keeps it," said one man.
"You need n’t be afraid; there is no dog, and no one to wake the family,
so we are quite safe," said the other man; and then they both went to
sleep till night came.
Cocky was much troubled, and did n’t know what to do.  He could not tell
the old lady about it; for he could only cackle and crow, and she would
not understand that language.  So he went about all day looking very
sober, and would not chase grasshoppers, play hide-and-seek under the
big burdock leaves, or hunt the cricket with his sisters.  At sunset he
did not go into the hen-house with the rest, but flew up to the shed
roof over the kitchen, and sat there in the cold ready to scare the
robbers with a loud crow, as he could do nothing else.
At midnight the men came creeping along; one stopped outside, and the
other went in. Presently he handed a basket of silver out, and went back
for the money.  Just as he came creeping along with the box, Cocky gave
a loud, long crow, that frightened the robbers and woke the boys.  The
man with the basket ran away in such a hurry that he tumbled into a
well; the other was going to get out of the window, when Cocky flew down
and picked at his eyes and flapped his wings in his face, so that he
turned to run some other way, and met the boys, who fired at him and
shot him in the legs. The old lady popped her head out of the upper
window and rang the dinner-bell, and called "Fire! fire!" so loud that
it roused the neighbors, who came running to see what the trouble could
be.
They fished one man out of the well and picked up the wounded one, and
carried them both off to prison.
"Who caught them?" asked the people.
"We did," cried the boys, very proud of what they had done; "but we
should n’t have waked if our good Cocky had not crowed, and scared the
rascals.  He deserves half the praise, for this is the second time he
has caught a thief."
So Cocky was brought in, and petted, and called a fine fellow; and his
family were so proud of him they clucked about it for weeks afterward.
When the robbers were tried, it was found that they were the men who had
robbed the bank, and taken a great deal of money; so every one was glad
to have them shut up for twenty years.  It made a great stir, and people
would go to see Cocky and tell how he helped catch the men; and he was
so brave and handsome, they said at last,--
"We want a new weather-cock on our courthouse, and instead of an arrow
let us have a cock; and he shall look like this fine fellow."
"Yes, yes," cried the young folks, much pleased; for they thought Cocky
ought to be remembered in some way.
So a picture was taken, and Cocky stood very still, with his bright eye
on the man; then one like it was made of brass, and put high up on the
court-house, where all could see the splendid bird shining like gold,
and twirling about to tell which way the wind was.  The children were
never tired of admiring him; and all the hens and chickens went in a
procession one moonlight night to see it,--yes, even Mamma Partlet and
Granny Cockletop, though one was lame and the other very old, so full of
pride were they in the great honor done King Cockyloo.
This was not the end of his good deeds; and the last was the best of
all, though it cost him his life.  He ruled for some years, and kept his
kingdom in good order; for no one would kill him, when many of the other
fowls were taken for Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners.  But he did die
at last; and even then he was good and brave, as you shall hear.
One of the boys wanted to smoke a pipe, and went behind the hen-house,
so nobody should see him do such a silly thing.  He thought he heard his
father coming, and hid the pipe under the house.  Some straw and dry
leaves lay about, and took fire, setting the place in a blaze; for the
boy ran away when he saw the mischief he had done, and the fire got to
burning nicely before the cries of the poor hens called people to help.
The door was locked, and could not be opened, because the key was in the
pocket of the naughty boy; so the farmer got an axe and chopped down the
wall, letting the poor biddies fly out, squawking and smoking.
