door of the passage ? " 
" Because I thought it unfitting that the passage to 
the women's apartments should be left open when so 
many in the palace know the way," she answered 
readily enough. 
" Where were you taking this letter when you left 
it at the door ? " asked the king, beginning to doubt 
whether there were anything wrong after all. 
"I was about to send it to Ecbatana," answered 
Atossa with perfect simplicity. 
" Who is this Phraortes ? " 
" He is the governor of the lands my father gave 
me for my own in Media. I wrote him to tell him of 
the Great King's victory, and that he should send me 
information concerning my affairs, and do nothing 
further until he hears from me." 
"Why not?" 
" Because I thought it possible that the Great King 
would spend the summer in Ecbatana, and that I 
should therefore be there myself to give my own 
directions. I forgot the letter because I had to take 
both hands to draw the bolt, and I was coming back 
to get it. Nehushta the princess is with me— she is 
now upon the staircase." 
The king looked thoughtfully at liis wife's beautiful 
face. 
" You have evidently spoken the truth," he said 
slowly. " But it is not always easy to understand 
what your truth signifies. I often think it would be 
much wiser to strangle you. Say you that Nehushta 
is near ? Call her, then. Why does she tarry ? " 
In truth Nehushta had trembled as she crouched 
upon the stairs, not knowing whether to descend or to 
fly up the steps again. As she heard the queen pronounce her name, however, she judged it prudent to 
seem to have been out of earshot, and with quick, 
soft steps, she went up till she came to the lighted 
part, and there she waited. 
" Let the Great King go himself and find her," said 
Atossa proudly, " if he doubts me any further." She 
stood aside to let him pass. But Darius beckoned to 
Zoroaster to go. He had remained standing at some 
distance, an unwilling witness to the royal altercation 
that had taken place before him ; but as he passed 
the queen, she gave him a glance of imploring sad- 
ness, as though beseeching his sympathy in what she 
was made to suffer. He ran quickly up the steps in 
spite of the darkness, and found Nehushta waiting by 
the window higher up. She started as he appeared, 
for he was the person she least expected. But he 
took her quickly in his arms, and kissed her passionately twice. 
" Come quickly, my beloved," he whispered. " The 
king waits below." 
"I heard his voice — and then I fled," she whis- 
pered hurriedly; and they began to descend again. 
"I hate her — I knew I should," she whispered, as 
she leaned upon his arm. So they emerged into the 
corridor, and met Darius waiting for them. The 
queen was nowhere to be seen, and the door at the 
farther extremity of the narrow way was wide open. 
The king was as calm as though nothing had 
occurred; he still held the open letter in his hand 
as Nehushta entered the passage, and bowed herself 
before him. He took her hand for a moment, and 
then dropped it ; but his eyes flashed suddenly and 
his arm trembled at her touch. 
" Thou hadst almost lost thy way," he said. " The 
palace is large and the passages are many and devious. 
Come now, I will lead thee to the gardens. There 
thou canst find friends among the queen's noble 
women, and amusements of many kinds. Let thy 
heart delight in the beauty of Shushan, and if there 
is anything that thou desirest, ask and I will give it 
thee." 
 
Nehushta bent her head in thanks. The only thing 
she desired was to be alone for half an hour with 
Zoroaster ; and that seemed difBcult. 
" Thy servant desireth what is pleasant in thy 
sight," she answered. And so they left the passage 
by the open door, and the king himself conducted 
Nehushta to the entrance of the garden, and bade the 
slave-woman who met them to lead her to the pavilion 
where the ladies of the palace spent the day in the 
warm summer weather. Zoroaster knew that what- 
ever liberty his singular position allowed him in the 
quarter of the building where the king himself lived, 
he was not privileged to enter that place which was 
set apart for the noble ladies. Darius hated to be 
always surrounded by guards and slaves, and the ter- 
races and staircases of his dwelling were generally 
totally deserted, — only small detachments of spear- 
men guarding jealously the main entrances. But the 
remainder of the palace swarmed with the gorgeously 
dressed retinue of the court, wdth slaves of every 
colour and degree, from the mute smooth-faced Ethiopian to the accomplished Hebrew scribes of the great 
nobles ; from the black and scantily-clad fan-girls to 
the dainty Greek tirewomen of the queen's toilet, 
who loitered near the carved marble fountain at the 
entrance to the gardens; and in the outer courts, 
detachments of the horsemen of the guard rubbed 
their weapons, or reddened their broad leather bridles 
and trappings with red chalk, or groomed the horse 
of some lately arrived officer or messenger, or hung 
about and basked in the sun, with no clothing but 
their short-sleeved linen tunics and breeches, discuss- 
 
ing the affairs of the nation with the certainty of 
decision peculiar to all soldiers, high and low. There 
was only room for a squadron of horse in the palace ; 
but though they were few, they were the picked men 
of the guard, and every one of them felt himself as 
justly entitled to an opinion concerning the position 
of the new king, as though he were at least a general. 
But Darius allowed no gossiping slaves nor wran- 
gling soldiers in his own dwelling. There all was 
silent and apparently deserted, and thither he led 
Zoroaster again. The young warrior was astonished 
at the way in which the king moved about unattended, 
as carelessly as though he were a mere soldier himself ; 
he was not yet accustomed to the restless independence 
of character, to the unceasing activity and perfect per- 
sonal fearlessness of the young Darius. It was hard to 
realise that this simple, hard-handed, outspoken man 
was the Great King, and occupied the throne of the 
magnificent and stately Cyrus, who never stirred 
abroad without the full state of the court about him ; 
or that he reigned in the stead of the luxurious Cambyses, who feared to tread upon uncovered marble, or 
to expose himself to the draught of a staircase ; and 
who, after seven years of caring for his body, had 
destroyed himself in a fit of impotent passion. Darius 
succeeded to the throne of Persia as a lion coming 
into the place of jackals, as an eagle into a nest of 
crows and carrion birds — untiring, violent, relentless 
and brave. 
" Knowest thou one Phraortes, of Ecbatana ? " the 
king asked suddenly when he was alone with Zo- 
roaster. 
 
"I know him," answered the prince. "A man 
rich and powerful, full of vanity as a peacock, and 
of wiles like a serpent. Not noble. He is the son 
of a fish-vendor, grown rich by selling salted sturgeons in the market-place. He is also the overseer 
of the queen's farmlands in Media, and of the Great 
King's horse-breeding stables." 
" Go forth and bring him to me," said the king 
shortly. Without a word, Zoroaster made a brief 
salute and turned upon his heel to go. But it was 
as though a man had thrust him through with a 
knife. The king gazed after him in admiration of 
his magnificent obedience. 
" Stay ! " he called out. " How long wilt thou be 
gone ? " 
Zoroaster turned sharply round in military fashion, 
as he answered : 
" It is a hundred and fifty farsangs ^ to Ecbatana. 
By the king's relays I can ride there in six days, and 
I can bring back Phraortes in six days more — if he 
die not of the riding," he added, with a grim smile. 
"Is he old, or young? Fat, or meagre?" asked 
the king, laughing. 
" He is a man of forty years, neither thin nor fat 
— a good horseman in his way, but not as we are." 
"Bind him to his horse if he falls off from weariness. And tell him he is summoned to appear before 
me. Tell him the business brooks no delay. Aura- 
mazda be with thee and bring thee help. Go with 
speed." 
1 Between five and six hundred English miles. South American 
postilions at the present day ride six hundred miles a week for a 
bare living. 
 
Again Zoroaster turned and in a moment he was 
gone. He had sworn to be the king's faithful servant, and he would keep his oath, cost what it might, 
though it was bitterness to him to leave Nehushta 
without a word. He bethought him as he hastily 
put on light garments for the journey, that he might 
send her a letter, and he wrote a few words upon a 
piece of parchment, and folded it together. As he 
passed by the entrance of the garden on his way to 
the stables, he looked about for one of Nehushta's 
slaves ; but seeing none, he beckoned to one of the 
Greek tirewomen, and giving her a piece of gold, 
bade her take the little scroll to Nehushta, the 
Hebrew princess, who was in the gardens. Then he 
went quickly on, and mounting the best horse in the 
king's stables, galloped at a break-neck pace down 
the steep incline. In five minutes he had crossed the 
bridge, and was speeding over the straight, dusty 
road toward Nineveh. In a quarter of an hour, a 
person watching him from the palace would have 
seen his flying figure disappearing as in a tiny speck 
of dust far out upon the broad, green plain. 
But the Greek slave-woman stood with Zoroaster's 
letter in her hand and held the gold piece he had 
given her in her mouth, debating what she should do. 
She was one of the queen's women, as it chanced, and 
she immediately reflected that she might turn the 
writing to some better account than by delivering it 
to Nehushta, whom she had seen for a moment that 
morning as she passed, and whose dark Hebrew 
face displeased the frivolous Greek, for some hidden 
reason. She thought of giving the scroll to the queen, 
 
but then she reflected that she did not know what it 
contained. The words were written hastily and in 
the Chaldean character. Their import might dis- 
please her mistress. The woman was not a new- 
comer, and she knew Zoroaster's face well enough 
from former times ; she knew also, or suspected, that 
the queen secretly loved him, and she argued from 
the fact of Zoroaster, who was dressed for a journey, 
sending so hastily a word to Nehushta, that he loved 
the Hebrew princess. Therefore, if the letter were a 
mere love greeting, with no name written in it, the 
queen might apply it to herself, and she would be 
pleased ; whereas, if it were in any way clear that 
the writing was intended for Nehushta, the queen 
would certainly be glad that it should never be 
delivered. The result of this cunning argument was 
that the Greek woman thrust the letter into her 
bosom, and the gold piece into her girdle ; and went 
to seek an opportunity of seeing the queen alone. 
That day, towards evening, Atossa sat in an inner 
chamber before her great mirror ; the table was covered with jade boxes, silver combs, bowls of golden 
hairpins, little ivory instruments, and all the appurtenances of her toilet. Two or three magnificent jewels 
lay among the many articles of use, gleaming in the 
reflected light of the two tall lamps that stood on 
bronze stands beside her chair. She was fully attired 
and had dismissed her women ; but she lingered a 
moment, poring over the little parchment scroll her 
chief hairdresser had slipped into her hand when they 
were alone for a moment. Only a black fan-girl stood 
a few paces behind her, and resting the stem of the 
 
long palm against one foot thrust forward, swung the 
broad round leaf quickly from side to side at arm's 
length, sending a constant stream of fresh air upon 
her royal mistress, just below the level of the lamps 
which burned steadily above. 
The queen turned the small letter again in her 
hand, and smiled to herself as she looked into the 
great burnished sheet of silver that surmounted the 
table. With some difficulty she had mastered 
the contents, for she knew enough of Hebrew and 
of the Chaldean character to comprehend the few 
simple words. 
" I go hence for twelve days upon the king's 
business. My beloved, my soul is with thy soul and 
my heart with thy heart. As the dove that goeth 
forth in the morning and returneth in the evening to 
his mate, so I will return soon to thee." 
Atossa knew well enough that the letter had been 
intended for Nehushta. The woman had whispered 
that Zoroaster had given it to her, and Zoroaster 
would never have written those words to herself ; or, 
writing anything, would not have written in the 
Hebrew language. 
But as the queen read, her heart rose up in wrath 
against the Persian prince and against the woman he 
loved. When she had talked with him that morning, 
she had felt her old yearning affection rising again in 
her breast. She had wondered at herself, being accus- 
tomed to think that she was beyond all feeling for 
man, and the impression she had received from her 
half-hour's talk with him was so strong, that she had 
foolishly delayed sending her letter to Phraortes, in 
 
order to see the woraan Zoroaster admired, and had, 
in her absence of mind, forgotten the scroll upon the 
seat in the corridor, and had brought herself into such 
desperate danger through the discovery of the missive, 
that she hardly yet felt safe. The king had dismissed 
her peremptorily from his presence while he waited 
for Nehushta, and she had not seen him during the 
rest of the day. As for Zoroaster, she had soon heard 
from her women that he had taken the road towards 
Nineveh before noon, alone and almost unarmed, 
mounted upon one of the fleetest horses in Persia. 
She had not a doubt that Darius had despatched him 
at once to Ecbatana to meet Phraortes, or at least to 
inquire into the state of affairs in the city. She knew 
that no one could outride Zoroaster, and that there 
was nothing to be done but to await the issue. It was 
not possible to send a word of warning to her agent 
— he must inevitably take his chance, and if his con- 
duct attracted suspicion, he would, in all probability, 
be at once put to death. She believed that, even in 
that event, she could easily clear herself; but she 
resolved, if possible, to warn him as soon as he 
reached Shushan, or even to induce the king to be 
absent from the palace for a few days at the time 
when Phraortes might be expected. There was 
plenty of time — at least eleven days. 
Meanwhile, a desperate struggle was beginning 
within her, and the letter her woman had brought her 
hastened the conclusion to which her thoughts were 
rapidly tending. 
She felt keenly the fact that Zoroaster, who had 
been so cold to her advances in former days, had 
 
preferred before her a Hebrew woman, and was now 
actually so deeply in love with Nehushta, that he 
could not leave the palace for a few days without 
writing her a word of love — he, who had never loved 
any one ! She fiercely hated this dark woman, who 
was preferred before her by the man she secretly 
loved, and whom the king had brutally declared to 
be the most beautiful woman in the world. She 
longed for her destruction as she had never longed for 
anything in her life. Her whole soul rose in bitter 
resentment; not only did Zoroaster love this black- 
eyed, dark-browed child of captivity, but the king, 
who had always maintained that Atossa was un- 
equalled in the world, even when he coldly informed 
her that he would never trust her, now dared to say 
before Zoroaster, almost before Nehushta herself, that 
the princess was the more beautiful of the two. The 
one man wounded her in her vanity, the other in her 
heart. 
It would not be possible at present to be revenged 
upon the king. There was little chance of eluding 
his sleepless vigilance, or of leading him into any 
rash act of self-destruction. Besides, she knew him 
too well not to understand that he was the only man 
alive who could save Persia from further revolutions, 
and keep the throne against all comers. She loved 
power and the splendour of her royal existence, per- 
haps more than she loved Zoroaster. The idea of 
another change in the monarchy was not to be 
thought of, now that Darius had subdued Babylon. 
She had indeed a half-concerted plan with Phraortes 
to seize the power in Media in case the kino: were 
 
defeated in Babylonia, and the scroll she had so 
imprudently forgotten that very morning was merely 
an order to lay aside all such plans for the present, 
since the king had returned in triumph. 
As far as her conscience was concerned, Atossa 
would as soon have overthrown and murdered the 
king to gratify the personal anger she felt against 
him at the present moment, as she would have wrecked 
the universe to possess a jewel she fancied. There 
existed in her mind no idea of proportion between 
the gratification of her passions and the means sne 
might employ thereto ; provided one gratification did 
not interfere with another which she always saw 
beyond. Nothing startled her on account of its mere 
magnitude ; no plan was rejected by her merely be- 
cause it implied ruin to a countless number of human 
beings who were useless to her. She coldly calculated the amount of satisfaction she could at any time 
obtain for her wishes and desires, so as not to prejudice the gratification of all the possible passions she 
might hereafter experience. 
As for injuring Zoroaster, she would not have 
thought of it. She loved him in a way peculiar to 
herself, but it was love, nevertheless, — and she had 
no idea of wreaking her disappointment upon the 
object on which she had set her heart. As a logical 
consequence, she determined to turn all her anger 
against Nehushta, and she pictured to herself the 
delicious pleasure of torturing the young princess's 
jealousy to desperation. To convince Nehushta that 
Zoroaster was deceiving her, and really loved herself, 
the queen ; to force Zoroaster into some position where 
 
he must either silently let Nehushta believe that he 
was attached to Atossa, or, as an alternative, betray 
the king's secrets by speaking the truth ; to let 
Nehushta's vanity be flattered by the king's admiration, — nay, even to force her into a marriage with 
Darius, and then by suffering her again to fall into 
her first love for Zoroaster, bring her to a public disgrace by suddenly unmasking her to the king — to 
accomplish these things surely and quickly, reserving 
for herself the final delight of scoffing at her worsted 
rival — all this seemed to Atossa to constitute a plan 
at once worthy of her profound and scheming intelli- 
gence, and most sweetly satisfactory to her injured 
vanity and rejected love. 
It would be hard for her to see Nehushta married 
to the king, and occupying the position of chief 
favourite even for a time. But the triumph would 
be the sweeter when Nehushta was finally overthrown, 
and meanwhile there would be much daily delight in 
tormenting the princess's jealousy. Chance, or rather 
the cunning of her Greek tirewoman, had thrown a 
weapon in her way which could easily be turned into 
an instrument of torture, and as she sat before her 
mirror, she twisted and untwisted the little bit of 
parchment, and smiled to herself, a sweet bright 
smile — and leaned her head back to the pleasant 
breeze of the fan. 
 
CHAPTER IX. 
The noonday air was hot and dry in the garden of 
the palace, but in the graceful marble pavilion there 
was coolness and the sound of gently plashing water. 
Rose-trees and climbing plants screened the sunlight 
from the long windows, and gave a soft green tinge 
to the eight-sided hall, where a fountain played in 
the midst, its little jet falling into a basin hollowed 
in the floor. On the rippling surface a few water- 
lilies swayed gently with the constant motion, anchored by their long stems to the bottom. All was 
cool and quiet and restful, and Nehushta stood look- 
ing at the fountain. 
She was alone and very unhappy. Zoroaster had 
left the palace without a word to her, and she knew 
only by the vague reports her slaves brought her, 
that he was gone for many days. Her heart sank at 
the thought of all that might happen before he re- 
turned, and the tears stood in her eyes. 
" Are you here alone, dear princess ? " said a soft, 
clear voice behind her. Nehushta started, as though 
something had stung her, as she recognised Atossa's 
tones. There was nothing of her assumed cordiality 
of the previous day as she answered. She was too 
unhappy, too weary of the thought that her lover 
was gone, to be able to act a part, or pretend a 
friendliness she did not feel. 
 
"Yes — I am alone," she said quietly. 
" So am I," answered Atossa, her blue eyes spark- 
ling with the sunshine she brought in with her, and 
all her wonderful beauty beaming, as it were, with 
an overflowing haj^piness. " The ladies of the court 
are gone in state to the city, in the Great King's 
train, and you and I are alone in the palace. How 
deliciously cool it is in here." 
She sat down upon a heap of cushions by one of 
the screened windows and contemplated Nehushta, 
who still stood by the fountain. 
"You look sad — and tired, dearest Nehushta," 
said she presently. "Indeed you must not be sad 
here — nobody is sad here I " 
" I am sad," repeated Nehushta, in a dreary, monot- 
onous way, as though scarcely conscious of what she 
was saying. There was a moment's silence before 
Atossa spoke again. 
" Tell me what it is," she said at last, in persuasive 
accents. "Tell me what is the matter. It maybe 
thj),t you lack something — that you miss something 
you were used to in Ecbatana. Will you not tell 
me, dearest?" 
" Tell you what ? " asked Nehushta, as though she 
had not heard. 
" Tell me what it is that makes you sad," repeated 
the queen. 
"Tell you?" exclaimed the princess, suddenly 
looking up, with flashing eyes, " tell you ? oh no ! " 
Atossa looked a little sadly at Nehushta, as though 
hurt at the want of confidence she showed. But the 
Hebrew maiden turned away and went and looked 
 
through the hanging plants at the garden without. 
Then Atossa rose softly and came and stood behind 
her, and put her arm about her, and let her own fair 
cheek rest against the princess's dark face. Nehushta 
said nothing, but she trembled, as though something 
she hated were touching her. 
"Is it because your friend has gone away suddenly?" asked Atossa almost in a whisper, with the 
sweetest accent of sympathy. Nehushta started a 
little. 
" No ! " she answered, almost fiercely. " Why do 
you say that ? " 
"Only — he wrote me a little word before he went. 
I thought you might like to know he was safe," replied the queen, gently pressing her arm about Ne- 
hushta's slender waist. 
" Wrote to you ? " repeated the princess, in angry 
surprise. 
" Yes, dearest," answered the queen, looking down 
in well-feigned embarrassment. " I would not have 
told you, only I thought you would wish to hear of 
him. If you like, I will read you a part of what he 
says," she added, pioducing from her bosom the little 
piece of parchment carefully rolled together. 
It was more than Nehushta could bear. Her olive 
skin turned suddenly pale, and she tore herself away 
from the queen. 
" Oh no ! no ! I will not hear it ! Leave me in 
peace — for your gods' sake, leave me in peace ! " 
Atossa drew herself up and stared coldly at Ne- 
hushta, as though she were surprised beyond measure 
and deeply offended. 
 
" Truly, I need not be told twice to leave you in 
peace," she said proudly. " I thought to comfort 
you, because I saw you were sad — even at the expense of my own feelings. I will leave you now — 
but I bear no malice against you. You are very, 
very young, and very, very foolish." 
Atossa shook her head, thoughtfully, and swept 
from the pavilion in stately and offended dignity. 
But as she walked alone through the garden, she 
smiled to herself and softly hummed a merry melody 
she had heard from an Egyptian actor on the previous 
evening. Darius had brought a company of Egyp- 
tians from Babylon, and after the banquet, had com- 
manded that they should perform their music, and 
dancing, and mimicry, for the amusement of the 
assembled court. 
Atossa's sweet voice echoed faintly among the 
orange trees and the roses, as she went towards the 
palace, and the sound of it came distantly to Ne- 
hushta's ears. She stood for a while where the queen 
had left her, her face pale and her hands wringing 
together ; and then, with a sudden impulse, she went 
and threw herself upon the floor, and buried her head 
in the deep, soft cushions. Her hands wandered in 
the wealth of her black hair, and her quick, hot tears 
stained the delicate silk of the pillows. 
How could he ? How was it possible ? He said 
he loved her, and now, when he was sent away for 
many days, his only thought had been to write to the 
queen — not to herself ! An agony of jealousy over- 
whelmed her, and she could have torn out her very 
soul, and trampled her own heart under her feet in 
 
her anger. Passionately she clasped her hands to 
her temples ; her head seemed splitting with a new 
and dreadful pain that swallowed all her thoughts 
for a moment, until the cold weight seemed again to 
fall upon her breast and all her passion gushed out in 
abundant tears. Suddenly a thought struck her. 
She roused herself, leaning upon one hand, and stared 
vacantly a moment at her small gilded shoe which 
had fallen from her bare foot upon the marble pave- 
ment. She absently reached forward and took the 
thing in her hand, and gravely contemplated the 
delicate embroidery and thick gilding, through her 
tears, — as one will do a foolish and meaningless 
thing in the midst of a great sorrow. 
Was it possible that the queen had deceived her ? 
How she wished she had let her read the writing as 
she had offered to do. She did not imagine at first 
that the letter was for herself and had gone astray. 
But she thought the queen might easily have pre- 
tended to have received something, or had even 
scratched a few words upon a bit of parchment, mean- 
ing to pass it off upon her as a letter from Zoroaster. 
She longed to possess the thing and to judge of it 
with her own eyes. ^ It would hardly be possible to 
say whether it were written by him or not, as far as 
the handwriting was concerned; but Nehushta was 
sure she should recognise some word, some turn of 
laneuacfe that would assure her that it was his. She 
could almost have risen and gone in search of the 
queen at once, to prove the lie upon her — to chal- 
lenge her to show the writing. But her pride forbade 
her. She had been so weak — she should not have 
 
let Atossa see, even for a moment, that she was hurt, 
not even that she loved Zoroaster. She had tried to 
conceal her feelings, but Atossa had gone too far, had 
tortured her beyond all endurance, and she knew 
that, even if she had known what to expect, she 
could not have easily borne the soft, infuriating, 
deadly, caressing, goading taunts of that fair, cruel 
woman. 
Then again, the whole possibility of Zoroaster's 
unfaithfulness came and took shape before her. He 
had known and loved Atossa of old, perhaps, and 
now the old love had risen up and killed the new — 
he had sworn so truly under the ivory moonlight in 
Ecbatana. And yet — he had written to this other 
woman and not to her. Was it true ? Was it Atossa's 
cruel lie ? In a storm of doubt and furious passion, 
her tears welled forth again ; and once more she hid 
her face in the pale yellow cushions, and her whole 
beautiful body trembled and was wrung with her 
sobs. 
Suddenly she was aware that some one entered the 
little hall and stood beside her. She dared not look 
up at first ; she was unstrung and wretched in her 
grief and anger, and it was the strong, firm tread of a 
man. The footsteps ceased, and the intruder, whoever he might be, was standing still ; she took courage 
and looked quickly up. It was the king himself. 
Indeed, she mio-ht have known that no other man 
would dare to penetrate into the recesses of the 
garden set apart for the ladies of the palace. 
Darius stood quietly gazing at her with an expres- 
sion of doubt and curiosity, that was almost amusing, 
 
on his stern, dark face. Nehushta was friglitened, 
and sprang to her feet with the graceful quickness 
of a startled deer. She was indolent by nature, but 
as swift as light when she was roused by fear or 
excitement. 
" Are you so unhappy in my palace ? " asked Darius 
gently. "Why are you weeping? Who has hurt 
you?" 
Nehushta turned her face away and dashed the 
tears from her eyes, while her cheeks flushed hotly. 
"I am not weeping — no one — has hurt me," she 
answered, in a voice broken rather by embarrassment 
and annoyance, than by the sorrow she had nearly 
forgotten in her sudden astonishment at being face to 
face with the king. 
Darius smiled, and almost laughed, as he stroked 
his thick beard with his broad brown hand. 
"Princess," he said, "will you sit down again? 
I will deliver you a discourse upon the extreme folly 
of ever telling" — he hesitated — "of saying any- 
thing which is not precisely true." 
There was something so simple and honest in his 
manner of speaking, that Nehushta almost smiled 
through her half-dried tears as she sat upon the cush- 
ions at the king's feet. He himself sat down upon 
the broad marble seat that ran round the eight-sided 
little building, and composing his face to a serious expression, that was more than half-assumed, began to 
deliver his lecture. 
" I take it for granted that when one tells a lie, he 
expects to be believed. There must, then, be some 
thing or circumstance which can help to make his lies 
 
credible. Now, my dear princess, in the present in- 
stance, while I was looking you in the face and count- 
ing the tears upon your very beautiful cheeks, you 
deliberately told me that you were not weeping. 
There was, therefore, not even the shadow of a thing, 
or circumstance which could make what you said 
credible. It is evident that what you said was not 
true. Is it not so?" 
Nehushta could not help smiling as she looked up 
and saw the kindly light in the king's dark eyes. 
She thought she understood he was amusing her for 
the sake of giving her time to collect herself, and in 
spite of the determined intention of marrying her he 
had so lately expressed, she felt safe with him. 
''The king lives for ever," she answered, in the 
set phrase of assent common at the court. 
" It is very probable," replied Darius gravely. " So 
many people say so, that I should have to believe all 
mankind liars if that were not true. But I must 
return to your own particular case. It would have 
been easy for you not to have said what you did. I 
must therefore suppose that in going out of the way 
to make an attempt to deceive me in the face of such 
evidence — by saying you were not weeping when the 
tears were actually falling from those very soft eyes 
of yours — you had an object to gain. Men emploj 
truth and falsehood for much the same reason: A 
man who does not respect truth will, therefore, lie 
when he can hope to gain more by it. The man who 
lies expects to gain something by his lie, and the 
man who tells the truth hopes that, in so doing, he 
will establish himself a credit which he can use upon 
 
future occasions.^ But the object is the same. Tell 
me, therefore, princess, what did you hope to gain by 
trying to deceive me ? " Darius laughed as he con- 
cluded his argument and looked at Nehushta to see 
what she would say — Nehushta laughed also, she 
could hardly tell why. The king's brilliant, active 
humour was catching. She reached out and thrust 
her foot into the little slipper that still lay beside 
her, before she answered. 
"What I said was true in one way and not in 
another," she said. " I had been crying bitterly, but 
I stopped when I heard the king come and stand 
beside me. So it was only the tears the king saw and 
not the weeping. As for the object," — she laughed 
a little, — " it was, perhaps, that I might gain time to 
dry my eyes." 
Darius shifted his position a little. 
" I know," he said gravely. " And I know why 
you were weeping, and it is my fault. Will you for- 
give me, princess? I am a hasty man, not accus- 
tomed to think twice when I give my commands." 
Nehushta looked up suddenly with an expression 
of inquiry. 
"I sent him away very quickly," continued the 
king. " If I had thought, I would have told him to 
come and bid you fareweL. He would not have will- 
ingly gone without seeing you — it was my fault. 
He will return in twelve days." 
Nehushta was silent and bit her lip as the bitter 
thought arose in her heart that it was not alone Zoro- 
aster's sudden departure that had pained her. Then 
1 Herodotus, book iii. chap. Ixxii. 
 
it floated across her mind that the king had purposely- 
sent away her lover in order that he might himself 
try to win her heart. 
" Why did you send him — and not another? " she 
asked, without looking up, and forgetting all formal- 
ity of speech. 
" Because he is the man of all others whom I can 
trust, and I needed a faithful messenger," answered 
Darius, simply. 
Nehushta gazed into the king's face searching for 
some sign there, but he had spoken earnestly enough. 
"I thought " she began, and then stopped 
short, blushing crimson. 
" You thought," answered Darius, " that I had sent 
him away never to return because I desire you for my 
wife. It was natural, but it was unjust. I sent him 
because I was obliged to do so. If you wish it, I will 
leave you now, and I will promise you that I will not 
look upon your face till Zoroaster returns." 
Nehushta looked down and she still blushed. She 
could hardly believe her ears. 
"Indeed," she faltered, "it were perhap6 — best — 
I mean " she could net finish the sentence. 
Darius rose quietly from his seat : 
" Farewell, princess ; it shall be as you desire," he 
said gravely, and strode to\. ards the door. His face 
was pale and his lips set tight. 
Nehushta hesitated and then, in a moment, she 
comprehended the whole nobility of soul of the young 
king, — a man at w^hose words the whole land trembled, who crushed his enemies like empty egg-shells 
beneath his feet, and yet who, when he held the 
 
woman he loved completely in his power, refused, 
even for a moment, to intrude his presence upon her 
against her wish. 
She sprang from her seat and ran to him, and 
kneeled on one knee and took his hand. He did not 
look at her, but his own hand trembled violently in 
hers, and he made as though he would lift her to her 
feet. 
" Nay," she cried, " let not my lord be angry with 
his handmaiden ! Let the king grant me my request, 
for he is the king of men and of kings ! " In her 
sudden emotion she spoke once more in the form of a 
humble subject addressing her sovereign. 
" Speak, princess," answered Darius. " If it be 
possible, I will grant your request." 
" I would " she stopped, and again the gener- 
ous blood overspread her dark cheek. " I would — 
I know not what I would, saving to thank thee for 
thy goodness and kindness — I was unhappy, and 
thou hast comforted me. I meant not that it was 
best that I should not look upon the king's face." 
She spoke the last words in so low a tone as she bent 
her head, that Darius could scarcely hear them. But 
his willing ears interpreted rightly what she said, and 
he understood. 
" Shall I come to you to-morrow, princess, at the 
same hour ? " he asked, almost humbly. 
"Nay, the king knoweth that the garden is ever 
full of the women of the court," said Nehushta, hesitating ; for she thought that it would be a very different matter to be seen from a distance by all the ladies 
of the palace in conversation with the king. 
 
"Do not fear," answered Darius. "The garden 
shall be yours. There are other bowers of roses in 
Shushan whither the women can go. None but you 
shall enter here, so long as it be your pleasure. 
Farewell, I will come to you to-morrow at noon." 
He turned and looked into her eyes, and then she 
took his hand and silently placed it upon her forehead 
in thanks. In a moment he was gone and she could 
hear his quick tread upon the marble of the steps 
outside, and in the path through the roses. When 
she knew that he was out of sight, Nehushta went 
out and stood in the broad blaze of the noonday sun. 
She passed her hand over her forehead, as though she 
had been dazed. It seemed as though a change had 
come over her and she could not understand it. 
In the glad security of being alone, she ran swiftly 
down one of the paths, and across by another. Then 
she stopped short and bent down a great bough of 
blooming roses and buried her beautiful dark face 
in the sweet leaves and smelled the perfume, and 
laughed. 
" Oh ! I am so happy ! " she cried aloud. But her 
face suddenly became grave, as she tried to understand what she felt. After all, Zoroaster was only 
gone for twelve days, and meanwhile she had secured 
her liberty, the freedom of w^andering all day in the 
beautiful gardens, and she could dream of him to her 
heart's content. And the letter ? It was a forgery, 
of course. That wicked queen loved Zoroaster and 
wished to make Nehushta give him up I Perhaps she 
might tell the king something of it when he came on 
the next day. He would be so royally angry I He 
 
would so hate the lie ! And yet, in some way, it 
seemed to her that she could not tell Darius of this 
trouble. He had been so kind, so gentle, as though 
he had been her brother, instead of the Great King 
himself, who bore life and death in his right hand 
and his left, whose shadow was a terror to the world 
already, and at whose brief, imperious word a nation 
rose to arms and victory. Was this the terrible 
Darius ? The man who had slain the impostor with 
his own sword? who had vanquished rebel Babylon 
in a few days and brought home four thousand cap- 
tives at his back? He was as gentle as a girl, this 
savage warrior — but when she recalled his features, 
she remembered the stern look that came into his 
face when he was serious, she grew thoughtful and 
wandered slowly down the path, biting a rose-leaf 
delicately with her small white teeth and thinking 
many things ; most of all, how she might be revenged 
upon Atossa for what she had suffered that morning. 
But Atossa herself was enjoying at that very 
moment the triumph of the morning and quietly 
planning how she might continue the torment she 
had imagined for Nehushta, without allowing its 
cruelty to diminish, while keeping herself amused 
and occupied to the fullest extent until Zoroaster 
should return. It was not long before she learned 
from her chief tirewoman that the king had been 
in the pavilion of the garden with Nehushta that 
morning, and it at once occurred to her that, if the 
king returned on the following day, it would be an 
