an impossibly bad man that the very mention of my past must shock a
young girl--whom I love?" In the last words he found an opportunity to
practise the expression of a little passion, and took advantage of it,
well knowing that it would be useful in the immediate future.
"I never said that!" protested the Marchesa. "But we all know something
about you, dear Don Juan!"
"Calumnies, nothing but calumnies!"
"But such pretty calumnies--you might almost accept them. I should think
none the worse of you if they were all true."
"You are charming, dearest Marchesa. I kiss your generous hand! As a
matter of fact, I only told Donna Beatrice--may I call her Beatrice to
you now, as I have long called her in my heart? I only told her that I
had been unhappy, that I had loved twice--once a woman who is dead, once
another who has long ago forgotten me. That was all. Was it so very bad?
Her heart was softened--she is so gentle! And then I told her that a
greater and stronger passion than those now filled my present life, and
last of all I told her that I loved her."
"And she returned the compliment immediately?" asked the Marchesa,
slowly selecting a sugared chestnut from the plate beside her, turning
it round, examining it and at last putting it into her mouth.
"How lightly you speak of what concerns life and death!" sighed San
Miniato. "No--Beatrice did not answer immediately. I said much more--far
more than I can remember. How can you ask me to repeat word for word the
unpremeditated outpourings of a happy passion? The flood has swept by,
leaving deep traces--but who can remember where the eddies and rapids
were?"
"You are very poetical, caro mio. Your language delights me--it is the
language of the heart. Pray give me one of those little cigarettes you
smoke. Yes--and a light--and now the least drop of champagne. I will
drink your health."
"And I both yours and Beatrice's," answered San Miniato, filling his own
glass.
"You may put Beatrice first, since she is yours."
"But without you there would be no Beatrice, gentilissima," said the
Count gallantly, when he had emptied his glass.
"That is true, and pretty besides. And so," continued the Marchesa in a
tone of languid reflection, "you have actually been making love to my
daughter, beyond my hearing, alone on the rocks--and I gave you my
permission, and now you are engaged to be married! It is too
extraordinary to be believed. That was not the way I was married. There
was more formality in those days."
Indeed, she could not imagine the deceased Granmichele throwing himself
upon his knees at her feet, even upon the softest of carpets.
"Then I thank the fates that those days are over!" returned San Miniato.
"Perhaps I should, too. I am not sure that the conclusion would have
been so satisfactory, if I had undertaken to persuade Beatrice. She is
headstrong and capricious, and so painfully energetic! Every discussion
with her shortens my life by a year."
"She is an angel in her caprice," answered the Count with conviction.
"Indeed, much of her charm lies in her changing moods."
"If she is an angel, what am I?" asked the Marchesa. "Such a contrast!"
"She is the angel of motion--you are the angel of repose."
"You are delightful to-night."
While this conversation was taking place, Beatrice had wandered away
over the rocks alone, not heeding the unevenness of the stones and
taking little notice of the direction of her walk. She only knew that
she would not go back to the place where she had sat, not for all the
world. A change had taken place already and she was angry with herself
for what she had done in all sincerity.
She was hurt and her first illusion had suffered a grave shock almost at
the moment of its birth. She asked herself how it could be possible, if
San Miniato loved her as he had said he did, that he should not feel as
she felt and understand love as she did--as something secret and sacred,
to be kept from other eyes. Her instinct told her easily enough that San
Miniato was at that very moment telling her mother all that had taken
place, and she bitterly resented the thought. It would surely have been
enough, if he had waited until the following day and then formally asked
her hand of the Marchesa. It would have been better, more natural in
every way, just now when they had gone up to the table, if he had said
simply that they loved one another and had asked her mother's blessing.
Anything rather than to feel that he was coolly describing the details
of the first love scene in her life--the thousandth, perhaps, in his
own.
After all, did she love him? Did he really love her? His passionate
manner when he had seized her hand had moved her strangely, and she had
listened with a sort of girlish wonder to his declarations of devotion
afterwards. But now, in the, calm moonlight and quite alone, she could
hear Ruggiero's deep strong voice in her ears, and the few manly words
he had uttered. There was not much in them in the way of eloquence--a
sailor's picturesque phrase--she had heard something like it before. But
there had been strength, and the power to do, and the will to act in
every intonation of his speech. She remembered every word San Miniato
had spoken, far better than he would remember it himself in a day or
two, and she was ready to analyse and criticise now what had charmed and
pleased her a moment earlier. Why was he going over it all to her
mother, like a lesson learnt and repeated? She was so glad to be
alone--she would have been so glad to think alone of what she had taken
for the most delicious moment of her young life. If he were really in
earnest, he would feel as she did and would have said at once that it
was late and time to be going home--he would have invented any excuse to
escape the interview which her mother would try to force upon him. Could
it be love that he felt? And if not, as her heart told her it was not,
what was his object in playing such a comedy? She knew well enough, from
Teresina, that many a young Neapolitan nobleman would have given his
title for her fortune, but Teresina, perhaps for reasons of her own,
never dared to cast such an aspersion upon San Miniato, even in the
intimate conversation which sometimes takes place between an Italian
lady and her maid--and, indeed, if the truth be told, between maids and
their mistresses in most parts of the world.
But the doubt thrust itself forward now. Beatrice was quick to doubt at
all times. She was also capricious and changeable about matters which
did not affect her deeply, and those that did were few enough. It was
certainly possible that San Miniato, after all, only wanted her money
and that her mother was willing to give it in return for a great name
and a great position. She felt that if the case had been stated to her
from the first in its true light she might have accepted the situation
without illusion, but without disgust. Everybody, her mother said, was
married by arrangement, some for one advantage, some for the sake of
another. After all, San Miniato was better than most of the rest. There
was a certain superiority about him which she would like to see in her
husband, a certain simple elegance, a certain outward dignity, which
pleased her. But when her mother had spoken in her languid way of the
marriage, Beatrice had resented the denial of her free will, and had
answered that she would please herself or not marry at all. The
Marchesa, far too lacking in energy to sustain such a contest, had
contented herself with her favourite expression of horror at her
daughter's unfilial conduct. Now, however, Beatrice felt that if it had
all been arranged for her, she would have been satisfied, but that since
San Miniato had played something very like a comedy, she would refuse to
be duped by it. She was very bitter against him in the first revulsion
of feeling and treated him more hardly in her thoughts than he, perhaps,
deserved.
And there he was, up there by the table, telling her mother of his
success. Her blood rose in her cheeks at the thought and she stamped her
foot upon the rock out of sheer anger at herself, at him, at everything
and everybody. Then she moved on.
Ruggiero was standing at the edge of the water looking out to sea. The
moonlight silvered his white face and fair beard and accentuated the
sharp black line where his sailor's cap crossed his forehead. Wild and
angry emotions chased each other from his heart to his brain and back
again, firing his overwrought nerves and heated blood, as the flame runs
along a train of powder. He heard a light step behind him and turned
suddenly. Beatrice was close upon him.
"Is that you, Ruggiero," she asked, for she had seen him with his back
turned and had not recognised him at first.
"Yes, Excellency," he answered in a hoarse voice, touching his cap.
"What a beautiful night it is!" said the young girl. She often talked
with the men in the boat, and Ruggiero interested her especially at the
present moment.
"Yes, Excellency," he answered again.
"Is the weather to be fine, Ruggiero?"
"Yes, Excellency."
Ruggiero was apparently not in the conversational mood. He was probably
thinking of the girl he loved--in all likelihood of Teresina, as
Beatrice thought. She stood still a couple of paces from him and looked
at the sea. She felt a capricious desire to make the big sailor talk and
tell her something about himself. It would be sure to be interesting and
honest and strong, a contrast, as she fancied, to the things she had
just heard.
"Ruggiero---" she began, and then she stopped and hesitated.
"Yes, Excellency."
The continual repetition of the two words irritated her. She tried to
frame a question to which he could not give the same answer.
"I would like you to tell me who it is whom you love so dearly--is she
good and beautiful and sensible, too, as you said?"
"She is all that, Excellency." His voice shook, not as it seemed to her
with weakness, but with strength.
"Tell me her name."
Ruggiero was silent for some moments, and his head was bent forward. He
seemed to be breathing hard and not able to speak.
"Her name is Beatrice," he said at last, in a low, firm tone as though
he were making a great effort.
"Really!" exclaimed the young girl. "That is my name, too. I suppose
that is why you did not want to tell me. But you must not be afraid of
me, Ruggiero. If there is anything I can do to help you, I will do it.
Is it money you need? I will give you some."
"It is not money."
"What is it, then?"
"Love--and a miracle."
His answers came lower and lower, and he looked at the ground, suffering
as he had never suffered and yet indescribably happy in speaking with
her, and in seeing the interest she felt in him. But his brain was
beginning to reel. He did not know what he might say next.
"Love and a miracle!" repeated Beatrice in her silvery voice. "Those are
two things which I cannot get for you. You must pray to the saints for
the one and to her for the other. Does she not love you at all then?"
"She will never love me. I know it."
"And that would be the miracle--if she ever should? Such miracles have
been done by men themselves without the help of the saints, before now."
Ruggiero looked up sharply and he felt his hands shaking. He thought she
was speaking of what had just happened, of which he had been a witness.
"Such miracles as that may happen--but they are the devil's miracles."
Beatrice was silent for a moment. She was indeed inclined to believe in
a special intervention of the powers of evil in her own case. Had she
not been suddenly moved to tell a man that she loved him, only to
discover a moment later that it was a mistake?
"What is the miracle you pray for, Ruggiero?" she asked after a pause.
"To be changed into some one else, Excellency."
"And then--would she love you?"
"By Our Lady's grace--perhaps!" The deep voice shook again. He set his
teeth, folded his arms over his throbbing breast, and planted one foot
firmly on a stone before him, as though to await a blow.
"I am very sorry for you, Ruggiero," said Beatrice in soft, kind tones.
"God render you your kindness--it is better than nothing," he answered.
"Is she sorry for you, too? She should be--you love her so much."
"Yes--she is sorry for me. She has just said so." He raised his clenched
hand to his mouth almost before the words were uttered. Beatrice did not
see the few bright red drops that fell upon the rock as he gnawed the
flesh.
"Just said so?" she said, repeating his words. "I do not understand? Is
she here to-night?"
He did not answer, but slowly bent his head, as though in assent. An odd
foreboding of danger shot through the young girl's heart. Little as the
man said, he seemed desperate. It was possible that the girl he loved
might be a Capriote, and that he might have met her and talked with her
while the dinner was going on. He might have strangled her with those
great hands of his. She would not have uttered a cry, and no one would
be the wiser, for Tragara is a lonely place, by day and night.
"She is here, you say?" Beatrice asked again. "Where is she? Ruggiero,
what is the matter? Have you done her any harm? Have you hurt her? Have
you killed her?"
"Not yet---"
"Not yet!" Beatrice cried, in a low horror-struck tone. She had heard
his sharp, agonised breathing as he reeled unsteadily against the rock
behind him. She was a rarely courageous girl. Instead of shrinking she
made a step forward and took him firmly by the arm.
"What have you done, Ruggiero?" she asked sternly.
He felt that she was accusing him. His face grew ashy white, and
grave--almost grand, she thought afterwards, for she remembered long the
look he wore. His answer came slowly in deep, vibrating tones.
"I have done nothing--but love her."
"Show her to me--take me to her," said Beatrice, still dreading some
horrible deed, she scarcely knew why.
"She is here."
"Where?"
"Here!--Ah, Christ."
His great hands went out madly as though to take her, then tenderly
touched the loose sleeves she wore, then fell, as though lifeless, to
his sides again.
Beatrice passed her hand over her eyes and drew back quickly a step. She
was startled and angered, but not frightened. It was almost the
repetition of the waking dream that had flitted through her brain before
she had landed. She had heard the grand ring of passionate love this
once at least--and how? In the voice of a common sailor--out of the
heart of an ignorant fellow who could neither read nor write, nor speak
his own language, a churl, a peasant's son, a labourer--but a man, at
least. That was it--a strong, honest, fearless man. That was why it all
moved her so--that was why it was not an insult that this low-born
fellow should dare to tell her he loved her. She opened her lids again
and saw his great figure leaning back against the rock, his white face
turned upward, his eyes half closed. She went near to him again.
Instantly, he made an effort and stood upright. Her instinct told her
that he wanted neither pity nor forgiveness nor comfort.
"You are a brave, strong man, Ruggiero; I will always pray that you may
love some one who will love you again--since you can love so well."
The unspoiled girl's nature had found the right expression, and the only
one. Ruggiero looked at her one moment, stooped and touched the hem of
her white frock with two fingers and then pressed them silently to his
lips. Who knows from what far age that outward act of submission and
vassalage has been handed down in southern lands? There it is to this
day, rarely seen, but still surviving and still known to all.
Then Ruggiero turned away and went up the sloping rocks again, and
Beatrice stood still for a moment, watching his tall, retreating figure.
She meant to go, too, but she lingered a while, knowing that if ever she
came back to Tragara, this would be the spot where she would pause and
recall a memory, and not that other, where she had sat while San Miniato
played out his wretched little comedy.
It all rushed across her mind again, bringing a new sense of disgust and
repulsion with it, and a new blush of shame and anger at having been so
deceived. There was no doubt now. The contrast had been too great, too
wide, too evident. It was the difference between truth and hearsay, as
San Miniato had said once that night. There was no mistaking the one for
the other.
Poor Ruggiero! that was why he was growing pale and thin. That was why
his arm trembled when he helped her into the boat. She leaned against
the rock and wondered what it all meant, whether there were really any
justice in heaven or any happiness on earth. But she would not marry
San Miniato, now, for she had given no promise. If she had done so, she
would not have broken it--in that, at least, she was like other girls of
her age and class. Next to evils of which she knew nothing, the breaking
of a promise of marriage was the greatest and most unpardonable of sins,
no matter what the circumstances might be. But she was sure that she had
not promised anything.
At that moment in her meditations she heard the tread of a man's heel on
the rocks. The sailors were all barefoot, and she knew it must be San
Miniato. Unwilling to be alone with him even for a minute, she sprang
lightly forward to meet him as he came. He held out his hand to help
her, but she refused it by a gesture and hurried on.
"I have been speaking with your mother," he said, trying to take
advantage of the thirty or forty yards that still remained to be
traversed.
"So I suppose, as I left you together," she answered in a hard voice. "I
have been talking to Ruggiero."
"Has anything displeased you, Beatrice?" asked San Miniato, surprised by
her manner.
"No. Why do you call me Beatrice?" Her tone was colder than ever.
"I suppose I might be permitted--"
"You are not."
San Miniato looked at her in amazement, but they were already within
earshot of the Marchesa, who had not moved from her long chair, and he
did not risk anything more, not knowing what sort of answer he might
get. But he was no novice, and as soon as he thought over the situation
he remembered others similar to it in his experience, and he understood
well enough that a sensitive young girl might feel ashamed of having
shown too much feeling, or might have taken offence at some detail in
his conduct which had entirely escaped his own notice. Young and
vivacious women are peculiarly subject to this sort of sensitiveness, as
he was well aware. There was nothing to be done but to be quiet,
attentive in small things, and to wait for fair weather again. After
all, he had crossed the Rubicon, and had been very well received on the
other side. It would not be easy to make him go back again.
"My angel," said the Marchesa, throwing away the end of her cigarette,
"you have caught cold. We must go home immediately."
"Yes, mamma."
With all her languor and laziness and selfishness, the Marchesa was not
devoid of tact, least of all where her own ends were concerned, and when
she took the trouble to have any object in life at all. She saw in her
daughter's face that something had annoyed her, and she at once
determined that no reference should be made to the great business of the
moment, and that it would be best to end the evening in general
conversation, leaving San Miniato no further opportunity of being alone
with Beatrice. She guessed well enough that the girl was not really in
love, but had yielded in a measure to the man's practised skill in
love-making, but she was really anxious that the result should be
permanent.
Beatrice was grateful to her for putting an end to the situation. The
young girl was pale and her bright eyes had suddenly grown tired and
heavy. She sat down beside her mother and shaded her brow against the
lamp with her hand, while San Miniato went to give orders about
returning.
"My dear child," said the Marchesa, "I am converted; it has been a
delightful excursion; we have had an excellent dinner, and I am not at
all tired. I am sure you have given yourself quite as much trouble about
it as San Miniato."
Beatrice laughed nervously.
"There were a good many things to remember," she said, "but I wish
there had been twice as many--it was so amusing to make out the list of
all your little wants."
"What a good daughter you are to me, my angel," sighed the Marchesa.
It was not often that she showed so much, affection. Possibly she was
rarely conscious of loving her child very much, and on the present
occasion the emotion was not so overpowering as to have forced her to
the expression of it, had she not seen the necessity for humouring the
girl and restoring her normal good temper. On the whole, a very good
understanding existed between the two, of such a nature that it would
have been hard to destroy it. For it was impossible to quarrel with the
Marchesa, for the simple reason that she never attempted to oppose her
daughter, and rarely tried to oppose any one else. She was quite
insensible to Beatrice's occasional reproaches concerning her
indolence, and Beatrice had so much sense, in spite of her small
caprices and whims, that it was always safe to let her have her own way.
The consequence was that difficulties rarely arose between the two.
Beatrice smiled carelessly at the affectionate speech. She knew its
exact value, but was not inclined to depreciate it in her own
estimation. Just then she would rather have been left alone with her
mother than with any one else, unless she could be left quite to
herself.
"You are always very good to me, mamma," she answered; "you let me have
my own way, and that is what I like best."
"Let you have it, carissima! You take it. But I am quite satisfied."
"After all, it saves you trouble," laughed Beatrice.
Just then San Miniato came back and was greatly relieved to see that
Beatrice's usual expression had returned, and to hear her careless,
tuneful laughter. In an incredibly short space of time the boat was
ready, the Marchesa was lifted in her chair and carried to it, and all
the party were aboard. The second boat, with its crew, was left to
bring home the paraphernalia, and Ruggiero cast off the mooring and
jumped upon the stern, as the men forward dipped their oars and began to
pull out of the little sheltered bay.
There he sat again, perched in his old place behind his master, the
latter's head close to his knee, holding the brass tiller in his hand.
It would be hard to say what he felt, but it was not what he had felt
before. It was all a dream, now, the past, the present and the future.
He had told Beatrice--Donna Beatrice Granmichele, the fine lady--that he
loved her, and she had not laughed in his face, nor insulted him, nor
cried out for help. She had told him that he was brave and strong. Yet
he knew that he had put forth all his strength and summoned all his
courage in the great effort to be silent, and had failed. But that
mattered little. He had got a hundred, a thousand times more kindness
than he would have dared to hope for, if he had ever dared to think of
saying what he had really said. He had been forced to what he had done,
as a strong man is forced struggling against odds to the brink of a
precipice, and he had found not death, but a strange new strength to
live. He had not found Heaven, but he had touched the gates of Paradise
and heard the sweet clear voice of the angel within. It was well for him
that his hand had not been raised that afternoon to deal the one blow
that would have decided his life. It was well that it was the summer
time and that when he had put the helm down to go about there had been
no white squall seething along with its wake of snowy foam from a
quarter of a mile to windward. It would have been all over now and those
great moments down there by the rocks would never have been lived.
"Through the arch, Ruggiero," said San Miniato to him as the boat
cleared the rocks of the landward needle.
"Let us go home," said Beatrice, with a little impatience in her voice.
"I am so tired."
Would she be tired of such a night if she loved the man beside her?
Ruggiero thought not, any more than he would ever be weary of being near
her to steer the boat that bore her--even for ever.
"It is so beautiful," said San Miniato.
Beatrice said nothing, but made an impatient movement that betrayed that
she was displeased.
"Home, Ruggiero," said San Miniato's voice.
"Make sail!" Ruggiero called out, he himself hauling out the mizzen. A
minute later the sails filled and the boat sped out over the smooth
water, white-winged as a sea-bird under the great summer moon.
CHAPTER VIII.
It was late on the following morning when the Marchesa came out upon her
curtained terrace, moving slowly, her hands hanging listlessly down, her
eyes half closed, as though regretting the sleep she might be still
enjoying. Beatrice was sitting by a table, an open book beside her which
she was not reading, and she hardly noticed her mother's light step. The
young girl had spent a sleepless night, and for the first time since she
had been a child a few tears had wet her pillow. She could not have told
exactly why she had cried, for she had not felt anything like sadness,
and tears were altogether foreign to her nature. But the unsought return
of all the impressions of the evening had affected her strangely, and
she felt all at once shame, anger and regret--shame at having been so
easily deceived by the play of a man's face and voice, anger against him
for the part he had acted, and regret for something unknown but dreamt
of and almost understood, and which could never be. She was too young
and girlish to understand that her eyes had been opened upon the
workings of the human heart. She had seen two sights which neither man
nor woman can ever forget, love and love's counterfeit presentment, and
both were stamped indelibly upon the unspotted page of her maiden
memory.
She had seen a man whom she had hitherto liked, and whom she had
unconsciously respected for a certain dignity he seemed to have, degrade
himself--and for money's sake, as she rightly judged--to the playing of
a pitiful comedy. As the whole scene came back to her in all
distinctness, she traced the deception from first to last with amazing
certainty of comprehension, and she knew that San Miniato had wilfully
and intentionally laid a plot to work upon her feelings and to produce
the result he had obtained--a poor result enough, if he had known the
whole truth, yet one of which Beatrice was sorely ashamed. She had been
deceived into the expression of something which she had never felt--and
which, this morning, seemed further from her than ever before. It was
bitter to think that any man could say she had uttered those three
words "I love you," when there was less truth in them than in the
commonest, most pardonable social lie. He had planned the excursion,
knowing how beautiful things in nature affected her, knowing exactly at
what point the moon would rise, precisely at what hour that mysterious
light would gleam upon the water, knowing the magic of the place and
counting upon it to supplement his acting where it lacked reality. It
had been clever of him to think it out so carefully, to plan each detail
so thoughtfully, to behave so naturally until his opportunity was all
prepared and ready for him. But for one little mistake, one moment's
forgetfulness of tact, the impression might have remained and grown in
distinctness until it would have secured the imprint of a strong reality
at the beginning of a new volume in her life, to which she could always
look back in the hereafter as to something true and sweet to be thought
of. But his tact had failed him at the critical and supreme moment when
he had got what he wanted and had not known how to keep it, even for an
hour. And his mistake had been followed by a strange accident which had
revealed to Beatrice the very core of a poor human heart that was
beating itself to death, in true earnest, for her sake.
She had seen what many a woman longs for but may never look upon. She
had seen a man, brave, strong, simple and true, with the death mark of
his love for her upon his face. What matter if he were but an unlettered
sailor, scarcely knowing what moved him nor the words he spoke? Beatrice
was a woman and, womanlike, she knew without proof or testimony that his
heart and hands were clean of the few sins which woman really despises
in man.
They are not many--be it said in honour of womanly generosity and
kindness--they are not many, those bad deeds which a woman cannot
forgive, and that she is right is truly shown in that those are the sins
which the most manly men despise in others. They are, I think,
cowardice, lying for selfish ends, betraying tales of woman's
weakness--almost the greatest of crimes--and, greatest of all,
faithlessness in love.
Let a man be brave, honest, discreet, faithful, and a woman will forgive
him all manner of evil actions, even to murder and bloodshed; but let
him flinch in danger, lie to save himself, tell the name of a woman
whose love for him has betrayed her, or break his faith to her without
boldly saying that he loves her no more, and she will not forgive him
while he lives, though she may give him a kindly thought and a few tears
when he is gone for ever.
So Beatrice, who could never love Ruggiero, understood him well and
judged him rightly, and set him up on a sort of pedestal as the
anti-type of his scheming master. And not only this. She felt deeply for
him and pitied him with all her heart, since she had seen his own almost
breaking before her eyes for her sake. She had always been kind to him,
but henceforth there would be something even kinder in her voice when
she spoke to him, as there would be something harder in her tone when
she talked with San Miniato.
And now her mother had appeared and settled herself in her lazy way upon
her long chair, and slowly moved her fan, from habit, though too
indolent to lift it to her face. Beatrice rose and kissed her lightly on
the forehead.
"Good morning, mamma carissima," she said. "Are you very tired after the
excursion?"
"Exhausted, in mind and body, my angel. A cigarette, my dear--it will
give me an appetite."
Beatrice brought her one, and held a match for her mother. Then the
Marchesa shut her eyes, inhaled the smoke and blew out four or five
puffs before speaking again.
"I want to speak to you, my child," she said at last, "but I hardly have
the strength."
"Do not tire yourself, mamma. I know what you are going to say, and I
have made up my mind."
"Have you? That will save me infinite trouble. I am so glad."
"Are you really? Do you know what I mean?"
"Of course. You are going to marry San Miniato, and we have the best
excuse in the world for going to Paris to see about your trousseau."
"I will not marry San Miniato," said Beatrice. "I have made up my mind
that I will not."
The Marchesa started slightly as she took her cigarette from her lips,
and turned her head slowly so that she could look into Beatrice's eyes.
"You are engaged to marry him," she said slowly. "You cannot break your
word. You know what that means. Indeed, you are quite mad!"
"Engaged? I? I never gave my word! It is not true!" The blood rose, in
Beatrice's face and then sank suddenly away.
"What is this comedy?" asked the Marchesa, raising her brows. For the
first time in many years she was almost angry.
"Ah! If you ask me that, I will tell you. I will tell you everything and
you know that I speak the truth to you as I do to everybody--"
"Except to San Miniato when you tell him you love him," interrupted the
Marchesa.
Beatrice blushed again, with anger this time.
"Yes," she said, after a short pause, "it is quite true that I said I
loved him, and for one moment I meant it. But I made a mistake. I am
sorry, and I will tell him so. But I will tell him other things, too. I
will tell him that I saw through his acting before we left Tragara last
night, and that I will never forgive him for the part he played. You
know as well as I that it was all a play, from beginning to end. I liked
him better than the others because I thought him more manly, more
honest, more dignified. But I have changed my mind. I see the whole
truth now, every detail of it. He planned it all, and he did it very
well--probably he planned it the night before last, out here with you,
while I was playing waltzes. You could not make me marry him, and he got
leave of you to speak to me. Do you think I do not understand it all?
Would you have let me go away last night and sit with him on the rocks,
out of your hearing, without so much as a remark, unless you had
arranged the matter between you? It is not like you, and I know you
meant it. It was all a plot. He had even been there to study the place,
to see the very point at which the moon would rise, the very place where
he would make me sit, the very spot where your table could stand. He
said to himself that I was a mere girl, that of course no man had ever
made love to me and that between the beauty of the night, my liking for
him, and his well arranged comedy, he might easily move me. He did. I am
ashamed of it. Look at the blood in my cheeks! That tells the truth, at
all events. I am utterly ashamed. I would give my right hand to have not
spoken those words! I would almost give my life to undo yesterday if it
could be undone--and undo it I will, so far as I can. I will tell San
Miniato what I think of myself, and then I will tell him what I think of
him, and that will be enough. Do you understand me? I am in earnest."
The Marchesa had listened to Beatrice's long speech with open eyes,
surprised at the girl's keenness and at her determined manner. Not that
the latter was new in her experience, but it was the first time that
their two wills had been directly opposed in a matter of great
importance. The Marchesa was a very indolent person, but somewhere in
her nature there lay hidden a small store of determination which had
hardly ever expressed itself clearly in her life. Now, however, she felt
that much was at stake. For many reasons San Miniato was precisely the
son-in-law she desired. He would give Beatrice an ancient and
honourable name, a leading position in any Italian society he chose to
frequent, whether in the north or the south, and he was a man of the
world at all points. The last consideration had much weight with the
Marchesa who, in spite of her title and fortune had seen very little of
the men of the great world, and admired them accordingly. Therefore when
Beatrice said she would not marry him, her mother made up her mind that
she should, and the struggle commenced.
"Beatrice, my angel," she began, "you are mistaken in yourself and in
San Miniato. I am quite unable to go through all the details as you have
done. I only say that you are mistaken."
Beatrice's lip curled a little and she slowly shook her head.
"I am not mistaken, mamma," she answered. "I am quite right, and you
know it. Can you deny that what I say is true? Can you say that you did
not arrange with him to take me to Tragara, and to let him speak to me
himself?"
"It is far too much trouble to deny anything, my dear child. But all
that may be quite true, and yet he may love you as sincerely as he can
love any one. I do not suppose you expect a man of his sense and
education to roll himself at your feet and tear his hair and his clothes
as they do on the stage."
"A man need not do that to show that he is in earnest, and besides he--"
"That is not the question," interrupted the Marchesa. "The real question
concerns you much more than it affects him. If you break your promise--"
"There was no promise."
"You told him that you loved him, and you admit it. Under the
circumstances that meant that you were willing to marry him. It meant
nothing else, as you know very well."
"I never thought of it."
"You must think of it now. You know perfectly well that he wished to
marry you and had my consent. I have spoken to you several times about
it and you refused to have him, saying that you meant to exercise your
own free will. You had an opportunity of exercising it last night. You
told him clearly that you loved him, and that could only mean that your
opposition was gone and that you would marry him. You know what you
will be called now, if you refuse to keep your engagement."
Beatrice grew slowly pale. Her mother had, for once, a remarkably direct
and clear way of putting the matter, and the young girl began to waver.
If her mother succeeded in proving to her that she had really bound
herself, she would submit. It is not easy to convey to the foreign mind
generally the enormous importance which is attached in Italy to a
distinct promise of marriage. It indeed almost amounts, morally
speaking, to marriage itself, and the breaking of it is looked upon
socially almost as an act of infidelity to the marriage bond. A young
girl who refuses to keep her engagement is called a civetta--an
owlet--probably because owlets are used as a decoy all over the country
in snaring and shooting all small birds. Be that as it may, the term is
a bitter reproach, it sticks to her who has earned it and often ruins
her whole life. That is what the Marchesa meant when she told Beatrice
that she knew what the world would call her, and the threat had weight.
The young girl rose from her seat and began to walk to and fro on the
terrace, her head bent, her hands clasped together. The Marchesa slowly
puffed at her cigarette and watched her daughter with half-closed eyes.
"I never meant it so!" Beatrice exclaimed in low tones, and she repeated
the words again and again, pausing now and then and looking fixedly at
her mother.
"Dear child," said the Marchesa, "what does it matter? If it were not
such an exertion to talk, I am sure I could make you see what a good
match it is, and how glad you ought to be."
"Glad! Oh, mamma, you do not understand! The degradation of it!"
"The degradation? Where is there anything degrading in it?"
"I see it well enough! To give myself up body and soul to a man I do not
love! And for what? Because he has an old name, and I a new one, and I
can buy his name with my money. Oh, mother, it is too horrible! Too low!
Too vile!"
"My angel, you do not know what strong words you are using--"
"They are not half strong enough--I wish I could--"
But she stopped and began to walk up and down again, her sweet young
face pale and weary with pain, her fingers twisting each other
nervously. A long silence followed.
"It is of no use to talk about it, my child," said the Marchesa,
languidly taking up a novel from the table beside her. "The thing is
done. You are engaged, and you must either marry San Miniato or take the
consequences and be pointed at as a faithless girl for the rest of your
life."
"And who knows of this engagement, if it is one, but you and I and he?"
asked Beatrice, standing still. "Would you tell, or I? Or would he
dare?"
"He would be perfectly justified," answered the Marchesa. "He is a
gentleman, however, and would be considerate. But who is to assure us
that he has not already telegraphed the good news to his friends?"
"It is too awful!" cried Beatrice, leaning back against one of the
pillars.
"Besides," said her mother without changing her tone. "You have changed
to-day, you may change again to-morrow--"
"Stop, for heaven's sake! Do not make me worse than I am!"
Poor Beatrice stopped her ears with her open hands. The Marchesa looked
at her and smiled a little, and shook her head, waiting for the hands to
be removed. At last the young girl began her walk again.
"You should not talk about being worse when you are not bad at all, my
dear," said her mother. "You have done nothing to be ashamed of, and all
this is perfectly absurd. You feel a passing dislike for the idea
perhaps, but that will be gone to-morrow. Meanwhile the one thing which
is really sure is that you are engaged to San Miniato, who, as I say,
has undoubtedly telegraphed the fact to his sister in Florence and
probably to two or three old friends. By to-morrow it will be in the
newspapers. You cannot possibly draw back. I have really talked enough.
I am utterly exhausted."
Beatrice sank into a chair and pressed her fingers upon her eyes, not to
hide them, but by sheer pressure forcing back the tears she felt coming.
Her beautiful young figure bent and trembled like a willow in the wind,
and the soft white throat swelled with the choking sob she kept down so
bravely. There is something half divine in the grief of some women.
"Dear child," said her mother very gently, "there is nothing to cry
over. Beatrice carissima, try and control yourself. It will soon pass--"
"It will soon pass--yes," answered the young girl, bringing out the
words with a great effort. During fully two minutes more she pressed her
eyes with all her might. Then she rose suddenly to her feet, and her
face was almost calm again.
"I will marry him, since what I never meant for a promise really is one
and has seemed so to you and to him. But if I am a faithless wife to
him, I will lay all my sins at your door."
"Beatrice!" cried the Marchesa, in real horror this time. She crossed
herself.
"I am young--shall I not love?" asked the young girl defiantly.
"Dearest child, for the love of Heaven do not talk so--"
"No--I will not. I will never say it again--and you will not forget it."
She turned to leave the terrace and met San Miniato face to face.
"Good morning," she said coldly, and passed him.
"Of course you have telegraphed the news of the engagement to your
sister?" said the Marchesa as soon as she saw him, and making a sign to
intimate that he must answer in the affirmative.
"Of course--and to all my best friends," he replied promptly with a
ready smile. Beatrice heard his answer just as she passed through the
door, but she did not turn her head. She guessed that her mother had
asked the question in haste in order that San Miniato might say
something which should definitely prove to Beatrice that he considered
himself betrothed. Yesterday she would have believed his answer. To-day
she believed nothing he said. She went to her room and bathed her eyes
in cold water and sat down for a moment before her glass and looked at
herself thoughtfully. There she was, the same Beatrice she saw in the
mirror every day, the same clear brown eyes, the same soft brown hair,
the same broad, crayon-like eyebrows, the same free pose of the head.
But there was something different in the face, which she did not
recognise. There was something defiant in the eyes, and hard about the
mouth, which was new to her and did not altogether please her, though
she could not change it. She combed the little ringlets on her forehead
and dabbed a little scent upon her temples to cool them, and then she
rose quickly and went out. A thought had struck her and she at once put
into execution the plan it suggested.
She took a parasol and went out of the hotel, hatless and gloveless,
into the garden of orange trees which lies between the buildings and the
gate. She strolled leisurely along the path towards the exit, on one
side of which is the porter's lodge, while the little square stone box
of a building which is the telegraph office stands on the other. She
knew that just before twelve o'clock Ruggiero and his brother were
generally seated on the bench before the lodge waiting for orders for
the afternoon. As she expected, she found them, and she beckoned to
Ruggiero and turned back under the trees. In an instant he was at her
side. She was startled to see how pale he was and how suddenly his face
seemed to have grown thin. She stopped and he stood respectfully before
her, cap in hand, looking down.
"Ruggiero," she said, "will you do me a service?"
"Yes, Excellency."
"Yes, I know--but it is something especial. You must tell no one--not
even your brother."
"Speak, Excellency--not even the stones shall hear it."
"I want you to find out at the telegraph office whether your master has
sent a telegram anywhere this morning. Can you ask the man and bring me
word here? I will walk about under the trees."
"At once, Excellency."
He turned and left her, and she strolled up the path. She wondered a
little why she was doing this underhand thing. It was not like her, and
whatever answer Ruggiero brought her she would gain nothing by it. If
San Miniato had spoken the truth, then he had really believed the
engagement already binding, as her mother had said. If he had lied, that
would not prevent his really telegraphing within the next half hour,
and matters would be in just the same situation with a slight difference
of time. She would, indeed, in this latter case, have a fresh proof of
his duplicity. But she needed none, as it seemed to her. It was enough
that he should have acted his comedy last night and got by a stratagem
what he could never have by any other means. Ruggiero returned after two
or three minutes.
"Well?" inquired Beatrice.
"He sent one at nine o'clock this morning, Excellency."
For one minute their eyes met. Ruggiero's were fierce, bright and clear.
Beatrice's own softened almost imperceptibly under his glance. If she
had seen herself at that moment she would have noticed that the hard
look she had observed in her own face had momentarily vanished, and that
she was her gentle self again.
"One only?" she asked.
"Only one, Excellency. No one will know that I have asked, for the man
will not tell."
"Are you sure? What did you say to him? Tell me."
"I said to him, 'Don Gennaro, I am the Conte di San Miniato's sailor.
Has the Conte sent any telegram this morning, to any one, anywhere?'
Then he shook his head; but he looked into his book and said, 'He sent
one to Florence at nine o'clock.' Then I said, 'I thank you, Don
Gennaro, and I will do you a service when I can.' That was for good
manners. Then I said, 'Don Gennaro, please not to tell any one that I
asked the question, and if you tell any one I will make you die an evil
death, for I will break all your bones and moreover drown you in the
sea, and go to the galleys very gladly.' Then Don Gennaro said that he
would not tell. And here I am, Excellency."
In spite of all she was suffering, Beatrice laughed at Ruggiero's
account of the interview. It was quite evident that Ruggiero had
repeated accurately every word that had been spoken, and he looked the
man to execute the threat without the slightest hesitation. Beatrice
wondered how the telegraph official had taken it.
"What did Don Gennaro do when you frightened him, Ruggiero?" she asked.
"He said he would not tell and got a little white, Excellency. But he
will say nothing, and will not complain to the syndic, because he knows
my brother."
"What has that to do with it?" asked Beatrice with some curiosity.
"It is natural, Excellency. For if Don Gennaro went to the syndic and
said, 'Signor Sindaco, Ruggiero of the Children of the King has
threatened to kill me,' then the syndic would send for the gendarmes and
say, 'Take that Ruggiero of the Children of the King and put him in, as
we say, and see that he does not run away, for he will do a hurt to
somebody.' And perhaps they would catch me and perhaps they would not.
Then Bastianello, my brother, would wait in the road in the evening for
Don Gennaro, and would lay a hand on him, perhaps, or both. And I think
that Don Gennaro would rather be dead in his telegraph office than alive
in Bastianello's hands, because Bastianello is very strong in his hands,
Excellency. And that is all the truth."
"But I do not understand it all, Ruggiero, though I see what you mean. I
am afraid it is your language that is different from mine."
"It is natural, Excellency," answered the sailor, a deep blush spreading
over his white forehead as he stood bareheaded before her. "You are a
great lady and I am only an ignorant seaman."
"I do not mean anything of the sort, Ruggiero," said Beatrice quickly,
for she saw that she had unintentionally hurt him, and the thought
pained her strongly. "You speak very well and I have always understood
you perfectly. But you spoke of the King's Children and I could not make
out what they had to do with the story."
"Oh, if it is that, Excellency, I ask your pardon. I do not wonder that
you did not understand. It is my name, Excellency."
"Your name? Still I do not understand---"
"I have no other name but that--dei figli del Rè--" said Ruggiero. "That
is all."
"How strange!" exclaimed Beatrice.
"It is the truth, Excellency, and to show you that it is the truth here
is my seaman's license."
He produced a little flat parchment case from his pocket, untied the
thong and showed Beatrice the first page on which, was inscribed his
name in full.
"Ruggiero of the Children of the King, son of the late Ruggiero, native
of Verbicaro, province of Calabria--you see, Excellency. It is the
truth."
"I never doubt anything you say, Ruggiero," said Beatrice quietly.
"I thank you, Excellency," answered the sailor, blushing this time with
pleasure. "For this and all your Excellency's kindness."
What a man he was she thought, as he stood there before her, bareheaded
in the sun-shot shade under the trees, the light playing upon his fair
hair and beard, and his blue eyes gleaming like drops from the sea! What
boys and dwarfs other men looked beside him!
"Do you know how your family came by that strange name, Ruggiero?" she
asked.
"No, Excellency. But they tell so many silly stories about us in
Verbicaro. That is in Calabria where I and my brother were born. And
when our mother, blessed soul, was dying--good health to your
Excellency--she blessed us and said this to us. 'Ruggiero, Sebastiano,
dear sons, you could not save me and I am going. God bless you,' said
she. 'Our Lady help you. Remember, you are the Children of the King.'
Then she said, 'Remember' again, as though she would say something more.
But just at that very moment Christ took her, and she did not speak
again, for she was dead--good health to your Excellency for a thousand
