" Yes, mamma. I 'll bring it to you myself." 
"Thank you, dear," Mrs. Bowen called from 
within. 
The little girl softly pressed her hands together. 
" I hope she 'll let me stay up ! I feel so excited, 
and I hate to lie and think so long before I get to 
sleep. Couldn't you just hint a little to her that I 
might stay up ? It 's Sunday night." 
"I can't, -Effie," said Imogene. "I oughtn't to 
interfere with any of your mother's rules." 
The child sighed submissively and took the coffee 
that Giovanni brought to her. She and Imogene 
went into the salotto together. Mrs. Bowen was at 
her writing-desk. " You can bring the coffee here, 
Effie," she said. 
" Must I go to bed at once, mamma ? " asked the 
child, setting the cup carefully down. 
The mother looked distractedly, up from her 
writing. " No ; you may sit up a while," she said, 
looking back to her writing. 
" How long, mamma ? " pleaded the little girl. 
" Oh, till you 're sleepy. It doesn't matter now." 
She went on writing ; from time to time she tore 
up what she had written. 
Effie softly took a book from the table, and 
perching herself on a stiff, high chair, bent over it 
and began to read. 
 
Imogene sat by the hearth, where a small fire was 
pleasant in the indoor chill of an Italian house, 
even after sO warm a day as that had been. She 
took some large beads of the strand she wore about 
her neck into her mouth, and pulled at the strand 
listjessly with her hand while she watched the fire. 
Her eyes wandered once to the child. 
" What made you take such an uncomfortable 
chair, Effie ? " 
Effie shut her book over her hand. " It keeps me 
wakeful longer," she whispered, with a glance at her 
mother from the corner of her eye. 
" I don't see why any one should • wish to be 
wakeful," sighed the girl. 
When Mrs. Bowen tore up one of her half-written 
pages Imogene started nervously forward, and then 
relapsed again into her chair. At last Mrs. Bowen 
seemed to find the right phrases throughout, and 
she finished rather a long letter, and read it over to 
herself. Then she said, without leaving her desk, 
" Imogene, I 've been trying to write to your 
mother. Will you look at this ? " 
She held the sheet over her shoulder, and Imo- 
gene came languidly and took it; Mrs. Bowen 
dropped her face forward on the desk, into her 
hands, while Imogene was reading. 
" Florence, March 10, 18— 
"Dear Mrs. Graham, — I have some very important 
news to give you in regard to Imogene, and as there is no 
way of preparing you for it, I will tell you at once that 
it relates to her marriage. 
 
" She has met at my house a gentleman whom I knew 
in Florence when I was here before, and of whom I never 
knew anything but good. We have seen him very often, 
and I have seen nothing in him that I could not approve. 
He is Mr. Theodore Colville, of Prairie des Vaches, Indiana, 
where he was for many years a newspaper editor ; but he 
was born somewhere in New England. He is a very culti- 
vated, interesting man ; and though not exactly a society 
man, he is very agreeable and refined in his manners. I 
am sure his character is irreproachable, though he is not a 
member of any church. In regard to his means I know 
nothing whatever, and can only infer from his way of life 
that he is in easy circumstances. 
" The whole matter has been a surprise to me, for Mr. 
Colville is some twenty-one or two years older than Imo- 
gene, who is very young in her feelings for a girl of her 
age. If I could have realised anything like a serious 
attachment between them sooner, I would have written 
before. Even now I do not know whether I am to consider 
them engaged or not. No doubt Imogene will write you 
more fully. 
" Of course I would rather not have had anything of the 
kind happen while Imogene was under my charge, though 
I am sure that you will not think I have been careless or 
imprudent about her. I interfered as far as I could, at the 
first moment I could, but it appears that it was then too 
late to prevent what has followed. —  Yours sincerely, 
" EVALINA BOWEN." 
Imogene read the letter tvrice over, and then she 
said, " Why isn't he a society man ? " 
Probably Mrs. Bovren expected this sort of ap- 
proach. " I don't think a society man would have 
undertaken to dance the Lancers as he did at Madam 
Uccelli's," she answered i)atiently, without lifting 
her head. 
Imogene winced, but " I should despise him if he 
were merely a society man," she said. " I have seen 
enough of them. I think it's better to be intel- 
lectual and good." 
Mrs. Bowen made no reply, and the girl went on. 
" And as to his being older, I don't see what dif- 
ference it makes. If people are in sympathy, then 
they are of the same age, no difference how much 
older than one the other is. I have always heard 
that." She urged this as if it were a question. 
" Yes," said Mrs. Bowen. 
"And how should his having been a newspaper 
editor be anything against him ? " 
Mrs. Bowen lifted her face and stared at the girl 
in astonishment. " Who said it was against him ? " 
" You hint as much. The whole letter is against 
him." 
" Imogene ! " 
" Yes ! Every word ! You make him out per- 
fectly detestable. I don't know why you should 
hsite'him. He 's done everything he could to satisfy 
you." 
Mrs. Bowen rose from her desk, putting her hand 
to her forehead, as if to soften a shock of headache 
that her change of posture had sent there. "I will 
leave the letter with you, and you can send it or not 
as you think best. It's merely a formality, my 
writing to your mother. Perhaps you 'll see it dif- 
ferently in the morning. Effie ! " she called to the 
 
child, who with her book shut upon her hand had 
been staring at them and listening intently. " It 's 
time to go to bed now." 
When Effie stood before the glass in her mother's 
room, and Mrs. Bowen was braiding her hair and 
tying it up for the night, she asked ruefully, 
" What 's the matter with Imogene, mamma t " 
" She isn't very happy to-night." 
" You don't seem very happy either," said the child, 
watching her own face as it quivered in the mirror. 
" I should think that now Mr. Colville 's concluded 
to stay, we would all be happy again. But we don't 
seem to. We 're — we 're perfectly demoralised ! " 
It was one of the words she had picked up from 
Colville. 
The quivering face in the glass broke in a passion 
of tears, and Effie sobbed herself to sleep. 
Imogene sat down at Mrs. Bowen's desk, and push- 
ing her letter away, began to write. 
"Flokence, March 10, 18 — . 
" Dear Mother,— I inclose a letter from Mrs. Bowen 
whicli will tell you better than I can what I wish to tell. 
I do not see how I can add anything that would give you 
more of an idea of him, or less, either. No person can be 
put down in cold black and white, and not seem like a 
mere inventorj'. I do not suppose you expected me to be- 
come engaged when you sent me out to Florence, and, as 
Mrs. Bowen says, I don't know whether I am engaged or 
not. I will leave it entirely to Mr. Colville ; if he says we 
are engaged, we are. I am sure he will do what is best. 
I only know that he was going away from Florence because 
 
he thought I supposed he was not in earnest, and I asked 
him to stay. 
" I am a good deal excited to-night, and cannot write 
very clearly. But I will write soon again, and more at 
length. 
"Perhaps something will be decided by that time. 
With much love to father, 
" Your affectionate daughter, 
" Imogbne." 
She put this letter into an envelope with Mrs. 
Bo wen's, and leaving it unsealed to show her in the 
morning, she began to write again. This time she 
wrote to a girl with whom she had been on terms so 
intimate that when they left school they had agreed 
to know each other by names expressive of their 
extremely confidential friendship, and to address 
. each other respectively as Diary and Journal. They 
were going to write every day, if only a line or 
two ; and at the end of a year they were to meet and 
read over together the records of their lives as set 
doivn in these letters. They had never met since, 
though it was now three years since they parted, and 
they had not written since Imogene came abroad; 
that is, Imogene had not answered the only letter 
she had received from her friend in Florence. This 
friend was a very serious girl, and had wished to be 
a minister, but her family would not consent, or 
even accept the compromise of studying medicine, 
which she proposed, and she was still living at 
home in a small city of central New York. Imo- 
gene now addressed her — 
 
"Dear Diary, — You cannot think how far away the 
events of this day have pushed the feelings and ideas of 
the time when I agreed to write to you under this name. 
till now it seems to me as if I had not changed in the 
least thing since we parted, and now I can hardly know 
myself for the same person. dear Di ! something very 
wonderful has come into my life, and I feel that it rests 
with me to make it the greatest blessing to myself and 
others, or the greatest misery. If I prove unworthy of it 
or unequal to it, then I am sure that nothing but wretched- 
ness will come of it. 
" I am engaged — yes ! — and to a man more than twice 
my own age. It is so easy to tell you this, for I know that 
your large-mindedness will receive it very differently from 
most people, and that you will see it as I do. He is the 
noblest of men, though he tries to conceal it under the 
light, ironical manner with which he has been faithful to a 
cruel disappointment. It was here in Florence, twenty 
years ago, that a girl— I am ashamed to call her a girl — 
trifled with the priceless treasure that has fallen to me, and 
flung it away. You, Di, will understand how I was first 
fascinated with the idea of trying to atone to him here for 
all the wrong he had sufiered. At first it was only the  
vaguest suggestion— something like what I had read in a 
poem or a novel — that had nothing to do with me person- 
ally, but it grew upon me more and more the more I saw 
of him, and felt the witchery of his light, indifferent 
manner, which I learned to see was tense with the anguish 
he had suffered. Sh e had killed his youth : she had spoiled 
his life : if I could revive them, restore them ! It came 
upon me like a great Uasii of light at last, and as soon as 
this thought took possession of me, I felt my whole being 
elevated and purified by it, and I was enabled to put aside 
with contempt the selfish considerations that had occurred 
to me at first. At first the difference between our ages was 
 
very shocking to me ; for I had always imagined it would 
be some one young ; but when this light broke upon me, I 
saw that he. was young, younger even than I, as a man is at 
the same age with a girl. Sometimes with my experiences, 
the fancies and flirtations that every one has and must 
have, however one despises them, I felt so old beside him ; 
for he had been true to one love all his life, and he had not 
wavered for a moment. If I could make him forget it, if I 
could lift every feather's weight of sorrow from his breast, 
if I could help him to complete the dtstiny, grand and 
beautiful as it would have been, which another had 
arrested, broken ofi' — don't you see, Di dear, how rich my 
reward would be ? 
" And he, how forbearing, how considerate, how anxious 
for me, how full of generous warning he has been ! always 
putting me in mind, at every step, of the difference in years 
between us ; never thinking of himself, and shrinking so 
much from even seeming to control me or sway me, that I 
don't know really whether I have not made all the 
advances ! 
" I cannot write his name yet, and you must not ask it 
till I can ; and I cannot tell you anything about his looks 
or his life without seeming to degrade him, somehow, and 
make him a common man like others. 
" How can I make myself his companion in everything? 
How can I convince him that there is no sacrifice for me, 
and that he alone is giving up ? These are the thoughts 
that keep whirling through my mind. I hope I shall be 
helped, and I hope that I shall be tried, for that is the 
only way for me to be helped. I feel strong enough for 
anything that people can say. I should welcome criticism 
and opposition from any quarter. But I can see that he is 
very sensitive — it comes from his keen sense of the ridicu- 
lous — and if I suffer, it will be on account of this grand 
unselfish nature, and I shall be glad of that. 
 
" I know you will understand me, Di, and I am not 
afraid of your laughing at these ravings. But if you did I 
should not cai'e. It is such a comfort to say these things 
about him, to exalt him, and get him in the true light at 
last. 
" Your faithful Journal. 
" I shall tell him about you, one of the first things, and 
perhaps he can suggest some way out of your trouble, he 
has had so nmch experience of every kind. You will 
worship him, as I do, when you see him ; for you will feel 
at once that he understands you, and that is such a rest. 
" J." 
Before Imogene fell asleep, Mrs. Bowen came to 
her in the dark, and softly closed the door that 
opened from the girl's room into Effie's. She sat 
down on the bed, and began to speak at once, as if 
she knew Imogene must be awake. " I thought 
you would come to me, Imogene ; but as you didn't, 
I have come to you, for if you can go to sleep with 
hard thoughts of me to-night, I can't let you. You 
need me for your friend, and I wish to be your friend ; 
it would be wicked in me to be anything else ; I 
would give the world if your mother were here ; but 
I tried to make my letter to her everything that it 
should be. If you don't think it is, I will write it. 
over in the morning." 
" No," said the girl coldly ; " it will do very well. 
I don't wish to trouble you so much ' 
" Oh, how can you speak so to me? Do you think 
that I blame Mr. Colville ? Is that itjs I don't ask 
you — I shall never ask you — how he came to remain, 
 
but I know that he has acted truthfully and deli- 
cately. I knew him long before you did, and no 
one need take his part with me." This was not per- 
haps what Mrs. Bowen meant to say when she began. 
"I have told you all along what I thought, but if 
you imagine that I am not satisfied with Mr. Col- 
ville, you are very much mistaken. I can't burst 
out into praises of him to your mother : that would 
be very patronising and very bad taste. Can't you 
see that it would ? " 
"Oh yes." 
Mrs. Bowen lingered, as if she expected Imogene 
to say something more, but she did not, and Mrs. 
Bowen rose, "Then I hope we ixnderstand each 
other," she said, and went out of the room. 
XVL 
When Colville came in the morning, Mrs. Bowen 
received him. They shook hands, and their eyes 
met in the intercepting glance of the night before. 
"Imogene will be here in a moment," she said, 
with a naturalness that made him awkward and 
conscious. 
" Oh, there is no haste," he answered uncouthly. 
"That is, I am very glad of the chance to speak a 
moment with you, and to ask your — to profit by 
what you think best. I know you are not very well 
pleased with me, and I don't know that I can ever 
put myself in a better light with you —  the true light. 
It seems that there are some things we must not do 
even for the truth's sake. But that's neither hero 
nor there. What I am most anxious for is not to 
take a shadow of advantage of this child's — of Imo- 
gene's inexperience, and her remoteness from her 
family. I feel that I must in some sort protect her 
from herself. Yes — that is my idea. But I have to 
do this in so many ways that I hardly know how to 
begin. I should be very willing, if you thought best, 
to go away and stay away till she has heard from her 
 
people, and let her have that time to think it all over 
again. She is very young — so much younger than 
I ! Or, if you thought it better, I would stay, and 
let her remain free while I held myself bound to any 
decision of hers. I am anxious to do what is right. 
At the same time" — he smiled ruefully — "there is 
such a thing as being so  disinterested that one may 
seem wranterested. I may leave her so very free that 
she ' may begin to suspect that I want a little free- 
Mom myself. What shall I do ? I wish to act with 
your approval." 
Mrs. Bowen had listened with acquiescence and 
intelligence that might well have looked like sym- 
pathy, as she sat fingering the top of her hand-screen, 
with her eyelids fallen. She lifted them to say, " I 
have told you that I will not advise you in any way. 
I cannot. I have no longer any wish in this matter. 
I must still remain in the place of Imogene's mother ; 
but I will do only what you wish. Please understand 
that, and don't ask me for advice any more. It is 
painful." She drew her lower lip in a little, and 
let the screen fall into her lap. 
"I'm sorry, Mrs. Bowen, to do anything — say 
anything — that is painful to you,'' Colville began. 
" You know that I would give the world to please 
you " The words escaped him and left him star- 
ing at her. 
" What are you saying to me, Theodore Colville ? " 
she exclaimed, flashing a full-eyed glance upon him, 
and then breaking into a laugh, as unnatural for her. 
" Eeally, I don't believe you know ! " 
 
" Heaven knows I meant nothing but what I .said," 
he answered, strus slins stupMly with a confusion of 
desires w hich_eYerx man but no woman will under- 
stand. After eighteen hundred years, the man is 
s tiil imperfe ctly monogamous. " Is there anything 
wrong in it ? " ~ ' 
" Oh no ! Not for you," she said scornfully. 
" I am very much in earnest," he went on hope- 
lessly, " in asking your opinion, your help, in regard 
to how I shall treat this affair." 
" And I am still more in earnest in telling you 
that I will give you no opinion, no help. I forbid 
you to recur to the subject.'' He was silent, unable 
to drop his eyes from hers. "But for her," con- 
tinued Mrs. Bowen, " I will do anything in my 
power. If she asks my advice I will give it, and I 
will give her all the help I can." 
" Thank you," said Colville vaguely. 
" I will not have your thanks," promptly retorted 
Mrs. Bowen, " for I mean you no kindness. I am 
trying to do my duty to Imogene, and when that is 
ended, all is ended. There is no way now for you 
to please me — as you call it — except to "keep her 
from regretting what she has done.'' 
" Do you think I shall fail in that ? " he de- 
manded indignantly. 
" I can offer you no opinion. I can't tell wliat 
you will do." 
" There are two ways of keeping her from re- 
gretting what she has done ; and perhaps the 
simplest and best way would be to free her from 
the consequences, as far as they 're involved in me," 
said Colville. 
Mrs. Bowen dropped herself back in her arm- 
chair. " If you choose to force these things upon 
me, I am a woman, and can't help myself. Espe- 
cially, I can't help myself against a guest." 
" Oh, I will relieve you of my presence," said 
Colville. " I 've no wish to force anything upon you 
— least of all myself." He rose, and moved toward 
the door. 
She hastily intercepted him. "Do you think I 
will let you go without seeing Imogene t Do you 
understand me so little as that ? It 's ioo late for 
you to go ! You know what I think of all this, and 
I know, better than you, what you think. I shall 
play my part, and you shall play yours. I have re- 
fused to give you advice or help, and I never shall 
do it. But I know what my duty to her is, and I 
will fulfil it. No matter how distasteful it is to 
either of us, you must come here as before. The 
house is as free to you as ever — freer. And we are 
to be as good friends as ever — better. You can see 
Imogene %lone or in my presence, and, as far as I am 
concerned, you shall consider yourself engaged or 
not, as you choose. Do you understand ? " 
" Not in the least," said Colville, in the ghost of 
his old bantering manner. " But don't explain, or 
I shall make still less of it." 
" I mean simply that I do it for Imogene and not 
for you." 
" Oh, I understand that you don't do it for me. 
 
At this moment Imogene appeared between the 
folds of the portihs, and her timid, embarrassed 
glance from Mrs. Bowen to Colville was the first 
gleam of consolation that had visited him since he 
parted with her the night before. A thrill of inex- 
plicable pride and fondness passed through his heart, 
and even the compunction that followed could not 
spoil its sweetness. But if Mrs. Bowen discreetly 
turned her head aside that she need not witness a 
tender greeting between them, the precaution was 
unnecessary. He merely went forward and took the 
girl's hand, with a sigh of relief. " Good morning, 
Imogene," he said, with a kind of compassionate ad- 
miration. 
" Good morning," she returned half-inquiringly. 
She did not take a seat near him, and turned, as 
if for instruction, to Mrs. Bowen. It was probably 
the force of habit. In any case, Mrs. Bowen's eyes 
gave no response. She bowed slightly to Colville, 
and began, " I must leave Imogene to entertain you 
for the present, Mr. " 
" No ! " cried the girl impetuously ; " don't go." 
Mrs. Bowen stopped. " I wish to speak with you — 
with you and Mr. Colville together. I wish to say 
— I don't know how to say it exactly ; but I wish to 
know You asked him last night, Mrs. Bowen, 
whether he wished to consider it an engagement ? " 
" I thought perhaps you would rather hear from 
your mother " 
" Yes, I would be glad to know that my mother 
approved ; but if she didn't, I couldn't help it. Mr. 
 . 
Colville said he was bound, but I was not. That 
can't be. I ivish to be bound, if he is." 
" I don't quite know what you expect me to say." 
" Nothing," said Imogene. " I merely wished you 
to know. And I don't wish you to sacrifice anything 
to us. If you think best, Mr. Colville will not see 
me till I hear from home ; though it won't make 
any difference with me what I hear." 
" There 's no reason why you shouldn't meet," said 
Mrs. Bowen absently. 
" If you wish it to have the same appearance as 
an Italian engagement " 
" No," said Mrs. Bowen, putting her hand to her 
head with a gesture she had ; " that would be quite 
unnecessary. It would be ridiculous under the 
circumstances. I have thought of it, and I have 
decided that the American way is the best." 
"Very well, then," said Imogene, with the air of 
summing up ; " then the only question is Vrhether 
we shall make it known or not to other people." 
This point seemed to give Mrs. Bowen greater 
pause than any. She was a long time silent, and 
Colville saw that Imogene was beginning to chafe at 
her indecision. Yet he did not see the moment to 
intervene in a debate in which he found himself 
somewhat ludicrously ignored, as if the affair were 
solely the concern of these two women, and none of 
his. 
" Of course, Mrs. Bowen," said the girl haughtily, 
" if it will be disagreeable to you to have it 
known " 
Mrs. Bowen blushed delicately — a blush of pro- 
test and of generous surprise, or so it seemed to 
Colville. " I was not thinking of myself, Imogene. 
I only wish to consider you. And I was thinking 
whether, at this distance from home, you wouldn't 
prefer to have your family's approval before you 
made it known." 
" I am sure of their approval. Father will do 
what mother says, and she has always said that she 
would never interfere with me in — in — such a 
thing." 
"Perhaps you would like all the more, then, to 
show her the deference of waiting for her consent." 
Imogene started as if stopped short in swift 
career ; it was not hard for Colville to perceive that 
she saw for the first time the reverse side of a 
magnanimous impulse. She suddenly turned to 
him. 
" I think Mrs. Bowen is right," he said gravely, 
in answer to the eyes of Imogene. He continued, 
with a flicker of his wonted mood : "You must con- 
sider me a little in the matter. I have some small 
shreds of self-respect about me somewhere, and I 
would rather not be put in the attitude of defying 
your family, or ignoring them." 
"No," said Imogene, in the same effect of arrest. 
" When it isn't absolutely necessary," continued 
Colville. "'Especially as you say there will be no 
opposition." 
" Of course," Imogene assented ; and in fact what 
he said was very just, and he knew it ; but he could 
 
perceive that he had suffered loss with her. A 
furtive glance at Mrs. Bowen did not assure him 
that he had made a compensating gain in that direc- 
tion, where, indeed, he had no right to wish for any. 
" Well, then," the girl went on, " it shall be so. 
We will wait. It will only be waiting. I ought to 
have thought of you before ; I make a bad begin- 
ning," she said tremulously. "I supposed I was 
thinking of you ; but I see that I was only thinking 
of myself." The tears stood in her eyes. Mrs. 
Bowen, quite overlooked in this apology, slipped 
from the room. 
" Imogene ! " said Colville, coming toward her. 
She dropped herself upon his shoulder. "Oh, 
why, why, why am I so miserable ? " 
" Miserable, Imogenq ! " he murmured, stroking 
her beautiful hair. 
"Yes, yes ! Utterly miserable ! It must be be- 
cause I 'm unworthy of you — unequal every way. If 
you think so, cast me off at once. Don't be weakly 
merciful ! " 
The words pierced his heart. " I would give the 
world to make you happy, my child ! " he said, with 
perfidious truth, and a sigh that came from the 
bottom of his soul. " Sit down here by me," he 
said, moving to the sofa ; and with whatever obscure 
sense of duty to her innocent seli-abandon, he made 
a space between them, and reduced het embrace to 
a clasp of the hand she left with him. " Now tell 
me," he said, " what is it makes you unhappy ?" 
"Oh, I don't know," she answered, drying her 
averted eyes. " I suppose I am overwrought from 
not sleeping, and from thinking how we should 
arrange it all." 
" And now that it 's all arranged, can't you be 
cheerful again ? " 
"Yes." 
" You 're satisfied with the way we 've arranged 
it t Because if " 
" Oh, perfectly — perfectly !" She hastily inter- 
rupted. " I wouldn't have it otherwise. Of course," 
she added, " it wasn't very pleasant having some 
one else suggest what I ought to have thought of 
myself, and seem more delicate about you than I 
was." 
" Some one else ? " 
" You know ! Mrs. Bowen." 
" Oh ! But I couldn't see that she was anxious 
to spare me. It occurred to me that she was con- 
cerned about your family." 
" It led up to the other ! it 's all the same thing." 
"Well, even in that case, I don't see why you 
should mind it. It was certainly very friendly of 
her, and I know that she has your interest at heart 
entirely." 
"Yes ; she knows how to make it seem so." 
Colville hesitated in bewilderment. " Imogene ! " 
he cried at last, "I don't understand this. Don't 
you think Mrs. Bowen likes you ? " 
" She detests me." 
"Oh, no, no, no! That's too cruel an error. 
You mustn't think that. I can't let you. It's 
s 
 
morbid. I'm sure that she's devotedly kind and 
good to you." 
" Being kind and good isn't liking. I know what 
she thinks. But of course I can't expect to convince 
you of it ; no one else could see it." 
" No ! " said Colville, with generous fervour. 
" Because it doesn't exist and you mustn't imagine it. 
" You are as sincerely and unselfishly regarded in this 
house as you could be in your own home. I 'm sure 
of that. I know Mrs. Bowen. She has her little 
worldlinesses and unrealities of manner, but she is 
truth and loyalty itself. She would rather die than 
be false, or even unfair. I knew her long ago " 
" Yes," cried the girl, "long before you knew me !" 
"And I know her to be the soul of honour," said 
Colville, ignoring the childish outburst. " Honour 
— hke a man's," he added. " And, Imogene, I want 
you to promise me that you 'll not think of her any 
more in that way. I want you to think of her as 
faithful and loving to you, for she is so. Will you 
do it ? " 
Imogene did not answer him at once. Then she 
turned upon him a face of radiant self-abnegation. 
"I will do anything you tell me. Only tell me 
things to do." 
The next time he came he again saw Mrs. Bowen 
alone before Imogene appeared. The conversation 
was confined to two sentences. 
"Mr. Colville," she said, with perfectly tranquil 
point, while she tilted a shut book to and fro on her 
knee, ' I will thank you not to defend me." 
 
Had she overheard ? Had Imogene told her ? 
He answered, in a fury of resentment for her in- 
gratitude that stupefied him. " I will never speak 
of you again." 
Now they were enemies ; he did not know hqw or 
why, but he said to himself, in the bitterness of his 
heart, that it was better so ; and when Imogene ap- 
peared, and Mrs. Bowen vanished, as she did with- 
out another word to him, he folded the girl in a 
vindictive embrace. 
" What is the matter ! " she asked, pushing away 
from him. 
"With me?" 
"Yes ; you seem so excited." 
" Oh, nothing," he said, shrinking from the sharp- 
ness of that scrutiny in a woman's eyes, which, when 
it begins the perusal of a man's soul, astonishes and 
intimidates him ; he never perhaps becomes able to 
endure it with perfect self-control. " I suppose a 
slight degree of excitement in meeting you may be 
forgiven me." He smiled under the unrelaxed 
severity of her gaze. 
" Was Mrs. Bowen saying anything about me ? " 
"Not a word," said Colville, glad of getting back 
to the firm truth again, even if it were mere liter- 
ality. 
"We have made it up," she said, her scrutiny 
changing to a lovely appeal for his approval. 
" What there was to make up." 
" Yes ? " 
" I told her what you had said. And now it 's all 
 
right between us, and you mustn't be troubled at that 
any more. I did it to please you.'' 
She seemed to ask hirti with the last words whether 
she really had pleased him, as if something in his 
aspect suggested a doubt; and he hastened to re- 
assure her. " That was very good of you. I appre- 
ciate it highly. It 's extremely gratifying." 
She broke into a laugh of fond derision. " I don't 
believe you really cared about it, or else you 're not 
; thinking about it now. Sit down here ; I want to 
tell you of something I 've thought out." She pulled 
him to the sofa, and put his arm about her waist, 
' with a simple fearlessness and matter-of-course 
promptness that made him shudder. He felt that 
he ought to tell her not to do it, but he did not 
quite know how without wounding her. She took 
hold of his hand and drew his lax arm taut. Then 
she looked up into his eyes, as if some sense of his 
misgiving had conveyed itself to her, but she did 
not release her hold of his hand. 
" Perhaps we oughtn't, if we 're not engaged ? " 
she suggested, with such utter trust in him as made 
his heart quake. 
" Oh," he sighed, from a complexity of feeling 
that no explanation could wholly declare, "we're 
engaged enough for that, I suppose." 
" I 'm glad you think so," she answered innocently. 
" I knew you wouldn't let me if it were not right." 
Having settled the question, " Of course," she con- 
tinued, " we shall all do our best to keep our secret ; 
but in spite of everything it may get out. Do you 
see ? " 
"Well?" 
" Well, of course it will make a great deal of 
remark." 
" Oh yes ; you must be prepared for that, Imo- 
gene," said Colville, with as much gravity as he 
could make comport with his actual position. 
" I am prepared for it, and prepared to despise it," 
answered the girl. " I shall have no trouble except 
the fear that you will mind it." She pressed his 
hand as if she expected him to say something to 
this. 
" I shall never care for it," he said, and this was 
true enough. " My only care will be to keep you 
from regretting. I have tried from the first to 
make you see that I was very much older than you. 
It would be miserable enough if you came to see it 
too late." 
" I have never seen it, and I never shall see it, 
because there 's no such difference between us. It 
isn't the years that make ns young or old — who is it 
says that t No matter, it 's true. And I want you 
to believe it. I want you to feel tha t J am your 
youth— the youth you were robbed of — given back 
to you. Will you do it ? Oh, if you rould, I should 
be the happiest girl in the wor ld." Tears of fervour 
dimmed the beautiful eyes which looked into his. 
" Don't speak ! " she hurried on. " I won't let you 
till I have said it all. It 's been this idea, this hope, 
with me always — ever since I knew what happened 
to you here long ago — that you might go back in 
my life and take up yours where it was broken off; 
 
that I might make your life what it would have 
been — complete your destiny " 
Colville wrenched himself loose from the hold 
that . had been growing more tenderly close and 
clinging. "And do you think I could be such a 
vampire as to let you ? Yes, yes ; I have had my 
dreams of such a thing ; but I see now how hideous 
they were. You shall make no such sacrifice to me. 
Yojjjiust u£aw tEe~TancIes~EEartrould never be 
fulfilled, or if by something magic they could, 
would onIy~bring sorrow to yoiT'ahd shame to me. 
God forbid ! And God forgive m e, if I have done 
or said  anything to put this in your head ! And 
thank God it isn't too late yet for you to take 
yourself back." 
" Oh," she murmured. " Do you think it is self- 
sacrifice for me to give myself to you ? It 's self- 
glorification ! You don't understand — I haven't 
told you what I mean, or else I 've told it in such a 
way that I've made it hateful to you. Do you 
think I don't care for you except to be something to 
you? I'm not so generous as that. You are all 
the world to me. If I take myself back from you, 
as you say, what shall I do with myself ? " 
" Has it come to that ? " asked Colville. He sat 
down again with her, and this time he put his arm 
around her and drew her to him, but it seemed to 
him he did it as if she were his child. " I was going 
to tell you just now that each of us lived to himself in 
this world, and that no one could hope to enter into 
the life of another and complete it. But now I see 
 
that I was partly wrong. We two are bound together, 
Imogene, and whether we become all in all or nothing 
to each other, we can have no separate fate." 
The girl's eyes kindled with rapture. " Then let 
us never speak of it again. I was going to say 
something, but now I won't say it." 
" Yes, say it." 
" No ; it will make you think that I am anxious 
on my own account about appearances before 
people." 
"You poor child, I shall never think you are 
anxious on your own account about anything. 
What were you going to say ? " 
" Oh, nothing ! It was only-»-are you invited 
to the Philhpses' fancy ball ? " 
"Yes," said Colville, silently making what he 
could of the diversion, " I believe so." 
" And are you going — did you mean to go ? " 
she asked timidly. 
" Good heavens, no ! What in the world should 
I do at another fancy ball ? I walked about with 
the airy grace of a bull in a china shop at the last 
one. 
Imogene did not smile. She faintly sighed. 
"Well, then, I won't go either." 
" Did you intend to go ? " 
" Oh no ! " 
" Why, of course you did, and it 's very right you 
should. Did you want me to go ? " 
" It would bore you." 
" Not if you 're there." She gave his hand a grate- 
 
ful pressure. " Come, I 'll go, of course, Imogene. 
A fancy ball to please you is a very different thing 
from a fancy ball in the abstract." 
" Oh, what nice things you say ! Do you know, I 
always admired your compliments ? I think they 're 
the most charming compliments in the world." 
" I don't think they 're half so pretty as yours ; 
but they 're more sincere." 
"No, honestly. They flatter, and at the same 
time they make fun of the flattery a little ; they 
make a person feel that you like them, even while 
you laugh at them." 
" They appear to be rather an intricate kind of 
compliment — sortiof salsa agradolce affair — tutti frutti 
style — species of moral mayonnaise." 
" No — be quiet ! You know what I mean. What 
were we talking about ? Oh ! I was going to say 
that the most fascinating thing about you always was 
that ironical way of yours." 
" Have I an ironical way ? You were going to 
tell me something more about the fancy ball." 
"I don't care for it. I would rather talk about 
