  magnetisms unite.'
  After this rebuke, Mr. B. asked a mental question, and received the
  following answer:
  'I am impelled to say that if you will persevere in these
  investigations, you may be placed en rapport with your wife, who
  would undoubtedly communicate with you. If you have any faith in the
  immortality of the soul, you can have no doubt of the possibility of
  spiritual influences being brought to bear upon mortals. It is no
  new thing. Ever since the world began, this power has been exerted
  in one way or another; and if you pretend to put any faith in the
  Bible, you surely must credit the possibility of establishing this
  subtile connection between man and so-called angels.'
  This communication was glibly written until within eleven words of
  the conclusion, when Planchette stopped, and I asked if she had
  finished.
  'No,' she replied.
  'Then why don't you go on?' I continued. 'I can write faster than
  this.'
  Planchette grew exceeding wroth at this, and dashed off an answer:
  'Because, my good gracious! you are not obliged to express yourself
  through another's brain.'
  I took it for granted that Planchette had shot very wide of the mark
  in the supposed response to Mr. B.'s mental query, and hence was not
  prepared to be told that it was satisfactory, in proof of which Mr.
  B. wrote beneath it:
  'Appropriate answer to my mental question, Will my deceased wife
  communicate with me?--I. A. B.'"
  "May 28th. At the breakfast-table Mr. G. expressed a great desire to
  see Planchette perform, and she was brought from her box. Miss W.
  was also present. After several communications, Miss W. asked a
  mental question, and Planchette immediately wrote:
  'Miss W., that is hardly possible in the present state of the money
  market; but later, I dare say you will accomplish what you desire to
  undertake.'
  Miss W. 'Planchette is entirely off the track. My question was,
  Can you tell me anything about my nephew?'
  Mr. G. 'Well, it is certainly very queer. I asked a mental
  question to which this is to a certain extent an answer.'
  Mr. G. was seated beside me, thoroughly intent upon Planchette. Miss
  W. was at a distance, and not in any way en rapport with me. If
  this phenomenon of answering mental questions be clairvoyance, the
  situation of these two persons may account for the mixed nature of
  the answer, beginning with Miss W. and finishing with Mr. G."
Putnam's Monthly Magazine for December, 1868, contains an interesting
article entitled "Planchette in a New Character." What the "new
character" is in which it appears, may be learned from the introductory
paragraph, as follows:
  "We, too, have a Planchette, and a Planchette with this signal
  merit: it disclaims all pretensions to supermundane inspirations; it
  operates freely--indeed, with extraordinary freedom; it goes at the
  tap of the drum. The first touch of the operators, no matter under
  what circumstances it is brought out to reveal its knowledge, sets
  it in motion. But it brings no communications from any celestial or
  spiritual sources. Its chirography is generally good, and frequently
  excellent. Its remarks evince an intelligence often above that of
  the operators, and its talent at answering or evading difficult
  questions is admirable. We have no theories about it."
It seems, from other passages in the article, that this Planchette
disclaims the ability to tell anything that is not contained in the
minds of the persons present, although it frequently gives theories in
direct contradiction to the opinions of all present, and argues them
with great persistence until driven up into a corner. It simply assumes
the name of "Planchet," leaving off the feminine termination of the
word; and "on being remonstrated with for illiteracy, it defended itself
by saying, 'I always was a bad speler,'--an orthographical blunder,"
says the writer, "that no one in the room was capable of making."
Although the writer in the paragraph above quoted disclaims all theories
on the subject, he does propound a theory, such as it is; but of this
we defer our notice until we come to put the several theories that have
been offered into the hopper and grind them up together; at which time
we will take some further notice of the amusing peculiarities of this
writer's Planchette.
The Ladies' Repository of November, 1868, contains an article, written
by Rev. A. D. Field, entitled "Planchette; or, Spirit-Rapping Made
Easy." This writer mentions a number of test questions asked by him of
Planchette, the answers to which were all false. Yet he acknowledges
that "the mysterious little creature called Planchette is no humbug;
that some mysterious will-power causes it to answer questions, and that
it is useless to ignore these things, or to laugh at them." The writer
submits a theory by which he thinks these mysteries may be explained, in
a measure, if not wholly, but this, with others, will be reserved for
notice hereafter.
Harper's Monthly Magazine for December, 1868, contains an article
entitled "The Confessions of a Reformed Planchettist." In this
article, the writer, no doubt drawing wholly or in part from his
imagination, details a series of tricks which he had successfully
practiced upon the credulity of others, and concludes by propounding
a very sage and charitable theory to account for all Planchette
phenomena, on which theory we shall yet have a word to offer.
Hours at Home, of February, 1869, contains an article, by J. T.
Headley, entitled "Planchette at the Confessional." In this article,
the writer cogently argues the claims of these new phenomena upon the
attention of scientific men. He says: "That it [the Planchette] writes
things never dreamed of by the operators, is proved by their own
testimony and the testimony of others, beyond all contradiction;" and
goes so far as to assert that to whatever cause these phenomena may be
attributed, "they will seriously affect the whole science of mental
philosophy." He relates a number of facts, more or less striking, and
propounds a theory in their explanation, to which, with others, we will
recur by-and-by.
The foregoing are a few of the most noted, among the many less
important, lucubrations that have fallen under our notice concerning
this interesting subject--enough, however, to indicate the intense
public interest which the performances of this little board are
exciting. We will now proceed to notice some of the theories that
have been advanced for the solution of the mystery.
THEORY FIRST--THAT THE BOARD IS MOVED BY THE HANDS THAT REST UPON IT.
It is supposed that this movement is made either by design or
unconsciously, and that the answers are either the result of adroit
guessing, or the expressions of some appropriate thoughts or memories
which had been previously slumbering in the minds of the operators, and
happen to be awakened at the moment.
After detailing his exploits (whether real or imaginary he has left us
in doubt) in a successful and sustained course of deception, the writer
in Harper's reaches this startling conclusion of the whole matter:
  "It would only write when I moved it, and then it wrote precisely
  what I dictated. That persons write 'unconsciously,' I do not
  believe. As well tell me a man might pick pockets without knowing
  it. Nor am I at all prepared to believe the assertions of those who
  declare that they do not move the board. I know what operators will
  do in such cases; I know the distortion, the disregard of truth
  which association with this immoral board superinduces."
This writer has somewhat the advantage of me. I confess I have no means
of coming to the knowledge of the truth but those of careful thought,
patient observation, and collection of facts, and deduction from them.
But here is a mind that can with one bold dive reach the inner mysteries
of the sensible and supersensible world, penetrate the motives and
impulses that govern the specific moral acts of men, and disclose
at once to us the horrible secret of a conspiracy which, without
preconcert, has been entered into by thousands of men, women, and
children in all parts of the land, to cheat the rest of the human
race--a conspiracy, too, in which certain members of innumerable private
families have banded together to play tricks upon their fathers,
mothers, brothers, and sisters! I feel awed by the overshadowing
presence of such a mind--in fact, I do not feel quite at home with
him, and therefore most respectfully bow myself out of his presence
without further ceremony.
As to the hypothesis that the person or persons whose hands are on the
board move it unconsciously, this is met by the fact that the persons
are perfectly awake and in their senses, and are just as conscious of
what they are doing or not doing as at any other time. Or if it be
morally possible to suppose that they all, invariably, and with one
accord, lie when they assert that the board moves without their
volition, how is it that the answers which they give to questions, some
of them mentally, are in so large a proportion of cases, appropriate
answers? How is it, for example, that Planchette, under the hands of
my own daughter, has, in numerous cases, given correctly the names of
persons whom she had never seen or heard of before, giving also the
names of their absent relatives, the places of their residence, etc.,
all of which were absolutely unknown by every person present except the
questioner?
A theory propounded by the Rev. Dr. Patton, of Chicago, in an article
published in The Advance, some time since, may be noticed under this
head. He says:
  "How, then, shall we account for the writing which is performed
  without any direct volition? Our method refers it to an automatic
  power of mind separate from conscious volition. * * * Very common
  is the experience of an automatic power in the pen, by which it
  finishes a word, or two or three words, after the thoughts have
  consciously gone on to what is to follow. We infer, then, from
  ordinary facts known to the habitual penman, that if a fixed idea
  is in the mind at the time when the nervous and volitional powers
  are exercised with a pen, it will often express itself spontaneously
  through the pen, when the mental faculties are at work otherwise. We
  suppose, then, that Planchette is simply an arrangement by which,
  through the outstretched arms and fingers, the mind comes into
  such relation with the delicate movements of the pencil, that its
  automatic power finds play, and the ideas present in the mind are
  transferred unconsciously to paper." (Italics our own.)
That may all be, Doctor, and no marvel about it. That the "fixed
idea"--"the ideas present in the mind," should be "transferred
unconsciously to paper," by means of Planchette, is no more wonderful
than that the same thing should be done by the pen, and without the
intervention of that little board. But for the benefit of a sorely
mystified world, be good enough to tell us how ideas that are not
present, and that never were present, in the mind, can be transferred
to paper by this automatic power of the mind. Grant that the mind
possesses an automatic power to work in grooves, as it were, or in
a manner in which it has been previously trained to work, as is
illustrated by the delicate fingerings of the piano, all correct and
skillful to the nicest shade, while the mind of the performer may for
the moment be occupied in conversation; but not since the world began
has there been an instance in which the mind, acting solely from itself,
by "automatic powers" or otherwise, has been able to body forth any idea
which was not previously within itself. That Planchette does sometimes
write things of which the person or persons under whose hands it moves
never had the slightest knowledge or even conception, it would be
useless to deny.
THEORY SECOND--IT IS ELECTRICITY, OR MAGNETISM.
That electricity, or magnetism (a form of the same thing), is the agent
of the production of these phenomena, is a theory which, perhaps, has
more advocates among the masses than any other. It is the theory urged
by Mr. Headley with a great amount of confidence in his article already
referred to; and with his arguments, as those of an able and, in some
sense, representative writer on this subject, we shall be principally
occupied for a few paragraphs.
When this theory is offered in seriousness as a final solution of the
mystery in question, we are tempted to ask, Who is electricity? what
is his mental and moral status? and how and where did he get his
education? Or if by "electricity" is here simply meant the subtile,
imponderable, and impersonal fluid commonly known by that name,
then let us ask, Who is at the other end of the wire?--for there must
evidently be a who as well as a what in the case. But when the
advocates of the electrical theory are brought to their strict
definitions, they are compelled to admit that this agent is nothing more
than a medium of the power and intelligence that are manifested. Now
a medium, which signifies simply a middle, distinctly implies two
opposite ends or extremes, and as applied in this case, one of those
ends or extremes must be the source, and the other the recipient of the
power or influence that is transmitted through the medium or middle; and
it is an axiom of common sense that no medium can be a perfect medium
which has anything to do with the origination or qualification of that
which is intended simply to flow through it, or which is not absolutely
free from action except as it is acted upon. That there are so-called
mediums which refract, pervert, falsify, or totally obliterate the
characteristics of that which was intended to be transmitted through
them, is not to be denied; but these are by no means perfect or reliable
mediums, either in physical or psychic matters.
If the little instrument in question, therefore, is, through the medium
of electricity or any other agency, brought under perfect control and
then driven to write a communication, the force that drives and the
intelligence that directs it can not be attributed to the medium itself,
but to something behind and beyond it which must embrace in itself all
the active powers and qualifications to produce the effect. Now let us
see where Mr. Headley gets the active powers and qualifications to
produce the phenomena manifested by his Planchette. He shall speak for
himself:
  "That a spirit, good or bad, has anything to do with this piece
  of board and the tips of children's fingers, is too absurd a
  supposition to be entertained for a moment. We are driven,
  therefore, to the conclusion that what is written (by honest
  operators) has its origin either in the minds of those whose hands
  are on the instrument, or else it results from communication with
  other minds through another channel than the outward senses. At all
  events, on this hypothesis I have been able to explain most of the
  phenomena I have witnessed. I had, with others, laughed at the
  stories told about Planchette, when a lady visiting my family from
  the city brought, as the latest novelty, one for my daughter.
  Experiments were of course made with it, with very little success,
  till a young lady came to visit us from the West, whose efforts
  with those of my son wrought a marvelous change. She was modest and
  retiring, with a rich brown complexion, large swimming eyes, dark as
  midnight, and a dreamy expression of countenance, and altogether a
  temperament that is usually found to possess great magnetic power.
  My son, on the contrary, is fair, full of animal life, and enjoying
  everything with the keenest relish. In short, they were as opposite
  in all respects as two beings could well be. As the phenomena
  produced by electricity are well known to arise from opposite poles,
  or differently charged bodies, they would naturally be adapted to
  the trial of Planchette."
Mr. H. now finds the mysterious agency, "electricity," completely
unchained, and under the hands of this couple Planchette becomes "very
active." Indifferent to its performances at first, he was induced to
give it more serious attention by the correct answers given to a couple
of questions asked in a joking manner by his wife, concerning some love
affairs of his before they were married, and which were known to none
present except himself and wife. Of course these answers, being in
his wife's mind when she asked the question, were supposed to be
"communicated through the agency of electricity or magnetism to the
two operators," and the mystery was thus summarily disposed of. But an
interest being thus for the first time aroused in Mr. H.'s mind, he
proceeds to inquire a little further into the peculiarities of this new
phenomenon, and proceeds as follows:
  "Seeing that Planchette was so familiarly acquainted with my lady
  friends, I asked it point blank: 'Where is Mary C----?' This was a
  friend of my early youth and later manhood, who had always seemed
  to me rather a relative than an acquaintance. To my surprise it
  answered, 'Nobody knows.'
  I supposed I knew, because for twenty years she had lived on the
  Hudson River in summer, and in New York in the winter.
  'Is she happy?' I asked. 'Better be dead,' was the reply.
  'Why?' 'Unhappy' was written out at once.
  'What makes her unhappy?' 'Won't tell.'
  'Is she in fault, or others?' 'Partly herself.'
  I now pushed questions in all shapes, but they were evaded. At last
  I asked, 'How many brothers has she?'
  'One,' was the response. 'That,' said I, 'is false;' but not having
  heard from the family for several years, I asked again, 'How many
  did she have?' 'Three.' 'Where are the other two?' I continued.
  'Dead.'
  'What is the name of the living one?' 'John.' I could not recollect
  that either of them bore this name, but afterward remembered it was
  that of the eldest. Now I had no means of ascertaining whether this
  was all true, but convinced it was not, I began to ask ridiculous
  and vexatious questions, when the answers showed excessive
  irritation, and finally it wrote 'Devil.' I then said: 'Who are
  you?' 'Brother of the Devil.'
  'What is your occupation?' 'Tending fires.'
  'What are you going to do with me?' 'Broil you.'
  'What for?' 'Wicked.'
  Now while I was excessively amused at all this, I noticed that the
  two young operators were greatly agitated, and begged me to stop.
  I saw at a glance that the very superstitious feeling that I
  was endeavoring to ridicule away, was creeping over them, and I
  desisted.... Another day I asked where a certain gentleman was who
  failed years ago, taking in his fall a considerable amount of my own
  funds. I said 'Where is Mr. Green?' 'In Brazil.'
  'Will he ever pay me anything?' 'Yes.'
  'When?' 'Next year.'
  'How much.' 'Ten thousand dollars.'
  Neither of the operators knew anything about this affair, and the
  answer, 'Brazil,' was so out of the way and unexpected, that all
  were surprised. Whether the man was there or not, I could not tell,
  nor did I know if he ever had been there--indeed, the last time I
  heard from him he was in New York."
Now, observing that no conscious or intelligent agency in shaping these
answers is assigned to the young persons whose hands were upon the
board, and who, it appears, did not know anything of the persons
concerning whom the inquiries were made, it would, perhaps, as we desire
nothing but a true philosophy on this matter, be worth while to look a
little critically at the answers and statements that were given, and the
further explanations propounded by Mr. H. For convenience, they may be
classified as follows:
1. Answers that were substantially in the interrogator's own mind when
he asked the questions. Such were the answers to the questions: "How
many brothers did she [Mary C----] have?" "Where did she formerly
live?" He tells us that "the pencil slowly wrote out in reply:
'Catkill,' leaving out the s;" and adds: "of course, this place was
in my mind, though neither of the young people knew anything about the
lady or her residence."
2. Answers which he does not know were in his mind, but supposes they
must have been. Thus, in his own language, while commenting on the
answers to questions respecting Mary C---- and her brothers: "Nor can
I account for the answer 'Unhappy,' unless unconsciously to myself
there passed through my mind that vague fear so common to us all when
we inquire about friends of whom we have not heard for years. The death
of the two brothers baffled all conjecture unless I remembered that
during the war I saw the death of a young man of the same name, and I
wondered at the time if it was one of these brothers--whether they had
joined the army." (The Italics our own.) So also of Planchette's answers
to the questions respecting Mr. Green, locating him in Brazil, and
saying that he intended to pay him (Mr. H.) ten thousand dollars next
year, while Mr. G. had last been reported to Mr. H. as being in New
York, and the latter did not know that he had ever been in Brazil.
But Mr. H., after thinking over a certain conversation which he had
previously had with Mr. Green respecting a business journey he had made
to "South America," remarks: "Brazil doubtless often occurred to
me--in fact, I was conscious on reflection that I had more frequently
located him in that country than in any other. So when the question was
put, it would involuntarily flash over me without my being conscious of
it, 'I wonder if he has gone back to South America, and if his venture
is in Brazil?' Magnetism caught up the flashing thought and put it
on paper." (Italics our own.) Such is his hypothesis to explain an
hypothesis!
3. Answers which he not only knows he had not in his mind when the
questions were asked, but which were directly contrary to his mind or
opinion. Such were answers to several of the questions occurring in the
conversation about Mary C----, as, "better be dead;" "unhappy;" fault
"partly herself;" has "one" brother; which latter statement was so
directly contrary to his mind that he even pronounced it "false," until
he thought to inquire, "How many did she have?"
4. Answers which were not only not in his mind, but which he directly
pronounces "false" and thus dismisses them. Such, for instance, is
the answer "Nobody knows," to the question "Where is Mary C----?" "That
this," says he, "was false, is evident on the very face of it."
With this analysis of the leading phenomena cited by Mr. H. before us,
lot us look at the wonderful things which "electricity and magnetism"
are made to accomplish.
I do not dispute that there is such a power of the human mind as that
known as clairvoyance. I have had too many proofs of this to doubt it.
But I have had equally positive proofs that the development of its
phenomena is dependent upon certain necessary conditions, among
which are, that the agent of them, in order to be able to reveal the
secret thoughts of another, must possess by nature peculiar nervous
susceptibilities, enabling his psychic emanations, so to speak, to
sympathetically coalesce with those of the person whose thoughts and
internal mental states are to be the subject of investigation. But this
sympathetic coalescence can not take place where there is the slightest
psychic repulsion or antagonism to the clairvoyant on the part of the
interrogating party. Moreover, even when all these conditions are
present, nothing can be correctly read from the mind of the questioner
unless there is on his mind a clear and distinct definition of the
matters of which he seeks to be told.
But even in class No. 1 of the above series we find that "electricity,"
hitherto believed to be only an imponderable and impersonal fluid, has,
upon Mr. H.'s theory, been able to accomplish the revealment of secret
thoughts entirely independent of all these conditions. It is distinctly
stated that those young persons whose hands were on the Planchette knew
nothing whatever of the matters which formed the several subjects of
inquiry; and for aught that is stated to the contrary, they appear
to have been perfectly awake and in their normal state. In addition
to this, it is to be observed that Mr. Headley here appears in the
assumed character of a captious, contentious, and somewhat irritating
questioner, which, whether he intended it or not, was entirely the
opposite of that harmonious and sympathetic interflow of mental states
known in other cases to be necessary to a successful clairvoyant
diagnosis of inward thoughts. And yet "electricity" overleaps all these
obstacles, seizes facts that occurred many years previous, some of which
were known only to Mr. H. and wife, others only to Mr. H. himself, and
instantly flashes forth the appropriate answer! Here is science! If
there were no other phenomena connected with Planchette, this alone
might well challenge the attention of philosophers!
But if this is wonderful, what shall we think of the achievements of
this same "electricity" and "magnetism" in revealing facts of the second
class--facts which the questioner himself did not and does not now
know were in his mind, but only supposes they must have been? Think
of a diffused element of nature, which, from the dawn of creation had
been blind and dead, and only passively obedient to certain laws of
equilibrium, suddenly assuming intelligence and volition, burrowing into
a man's brains, rummaging among ten thousand thoughts, emotions, and
experiences stored up in the archives of his memory, and finally coming
to the mere fossil of a (supposed) experience from which the last
vestige of memory-life had departed, and seizing this incident, it moves
the little board with an intelligent volition, and lo, the fact stands
revealed.
And again, what of that spicy colloquy in which Planchette writes the
words "devil," "devil's brother," "stir fires," "broil you," etc.? Oh,
Mr. H. tells us, "That was owing to the irritation of the mediums,
their horror and fright, their superstition, and their repugnance to
the questions that were being asked." Curious, is it not? to see
"electricity" seizing hold of this irritation, that horror, the other
fright, and such and such a superstition, repugnance, and disgust,
and, carefully arranging these mental emotions, building them up by a
mysterious mason-work into a distinctly defined and sharply pronounced
individuality, with a peculiar moral and intellectual character of its
own, differing more from each and all of the parties present in the
flesh than any one of the latter differed from another! And this
individuality, too, putting forth a volition which was not their
volition, moving the Planchette which they did not move, making
and arranging letters which they did not make and arrange, writing
intelligent words and sentences which they did not write, and then
causing this creation to assume the name and character of a regularly
built "devil"--a character which appears to have been so far from these
young persons' minds that they were unwilling to look it in the face,
and were sorely afraid of it! Surely, if "electricity" can do all this,
then "electricity" itself is the "devil," and the less mankind have to
do with it the better.
But more wonderful still. It appears that "electricity" can give
answers, of which not even the slightest elements previously existed in
the mind of the questioner or any of the company, and which were even
diametrically contrary to his mind; as in the answers of class No. 3.
Here "electricity" swings loose, and, becoming completely independent,
commences business on its "own hook." Not only so, but it even goes so
far beyond the sphere of Mr. H.'s mind as to fib a little, giving at
least two answers which this writer pronounced "false," as noted in
class No. 4--thus giving a still more signal display of its independent
powers of invention--naughty invention though it was.
Seriously, had not friend Headley better employ his fine talents
in giving us another clever book or two about "Washington and his
Generals," and leave Mr. Planchette, and that more wonderful personage,
Mr. Electricity, to take care of themselves? We are obliged here to part
company with Mr. H., and pass on for the purpose of having a few words
under this same head with the reverend author of "Planchette, or
Spirit-Rapping Made Easy," in the Ladies' Repository.
I find it difficult to get at the idea of this writer, if indeed he
himself has any definite idea on the subject. By the title of his
article, however, and several expressions that occur in the body of it,
he seems to associate the performances of the Planchette with a somewhat
extensive class of phenomena, in which spirit-rappings, table-tippings,
etc., are included. He says:
  "Twelve years ago I took pains to study the matter, and at that time
  I came to conclusions that are every day being proved to be true. I
  was soon satisfied that as regarded 'trance mediums,' the cause was
  due to one-third trickery, one-third partial insanity or monomania,
  and the remainder animal magnetism. I have since learned that opium
  and hashish (Indian hemp) played an important part. It was proved
  that young ladies purchased written speeches which they delivered
  under the influence of hashish."
He then goes on to speak of galvanism, magnetism, electricity, animal
magnetism, and the odylic force; but, so far as we can see, without
proving any necessary connection between these forces or either of them,
and the subject which he aims to elucidate. Quoting a former article of
his, he continues:
  "The magnetizer of whom I spoke [an exposer of rappings] threw
  himself into magnetic connection with the table, and willed it
  to move hither and thither. The will in this case seemed to be a
  powerful battery, putting its subject into life. Now I suggest
  that this power be applied to machinery. We will get us a large
  propelling wheel, to which we will connect our machinery. We will
  then engage a company of mediums who shall get into rapport with
  one wheel, and stand willing the wheel on in its evolutions.... If a
  table may be made to spin around the room, why may not a wheel be
  made to turn as well?"
The writer certainly deserves credit for this sage suggestion, and a
patent for his machine; but whether he will succeed in making it operate
satisfactorily without calling into requisition the "monomania," the
"hashish," and the "opium," remains to be seen. He then goes on to
describe Planchette, and afterward continues:
  "The mysterious little creature is called Planchette, and is
  no humbug. And it conforms to all the customs of the old-time
  tipping-tables. The operator magnetizes Planchette, and by a
  mysterious will-power causes it to answer questions. Before giving
  illustrations, we may as well state the laws that seem to govern it.
  First. It will always answer correctly, if the operator knows the
  answer. Second. While it will answer other questions, in all the
  experiments I have ever engaged in, it has never answered correctly.
  Third. If a person standing by, who has strong magnetic powers,
  asks a question, Planchette will answer. But in all cases, in our
  experiments, some ruling mind must have knowledge of what the answer
  should be, if a correct answer is returned."
In reply to the above, we assert, First. That the "operator" does not
"magnetize" the board at all, nor does he exercise any "will power"
over it, causing it to answer questions; and if he did thus cause it to
answer only those questions whose answers are already in his mind, what
marvel is there in it, more than there is in my pen being caused by my
will-power to trace these words and sentences? Secondly. If by his
second and third specifications of the supposed "laws" which govern
Planchette, he means to imply that it will not tell, often tell,
and tell with remarkable correctness, things that were never known
or dreamed of by the operator, the questioner, or any one present in
visible form, then he simply mistakes, as can be testified by thousands,
in the most positive manner. But the great essential question is, not
so much whether answers given under such and such circumstances can
be correct, as whether answers and communications can be given at
all, which have no origin in the minds of the persons engaged in
the experiment, and which must hence be referred to some outside
intelligence?
The writer under review, after all, acknowledges his incompetency to
unravel this subject, by saying:
  "There are mysteries in Planchette. No one is ready to explain the
  mysterious connection between the mind and the little machine, but
  there can no longer be any doubt that these curious phenomena,
  table-tipping and all, are produced by magnetism and electricity....
  It is useless to ignore these things, or to laugh at them. It were
  better to account for them, and subject the influence to the power
  of man.... When some scientific man will condescend to toy with
  Planchette, we shall have the curtain drawn aside behind which the
  spirits have operated these years, and this calamitous
  spirit-rapping mania will destroy no longer."
One might almost regret that this latter thought did not occur to the
writer before he commenced his article, in which case, by a little
patient waiting for this ideal and very condescending "scientific
man," we might have been spared this diatribe of jumbled electricity,
magnetism, will-power, opium, hashish, monomania, and driving wheels.
ELECTRICITY HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH IT.
From much and varied observation and experiment in reference to the
performances of Planchette, and of kindred phenomena, now extending over
a period of about twenty years, I here record my denial, in the most
emphatic manner, that electricity or magnetism, properly so called, has
anything to do with the mystery at all, and call for the proof that it
has. That a certain psycho-dynamic agency closely allied to, and in some
of its modifications perhaps identical with, Reichenbach's "Od," or
odylic force, may have some mediatorial part to play in the affair, I
do not dispute, nor yet, for the present, do I affirm. But though this
agency has sometimes been identified with what, for the want of a better
term, has been called "animal magnetism," it has yet to be proved, I
believe, that there are any of the properties of the magnet, or of
magnetism, about it, even so much as would suffice to attract the
most comminuted iron filings. It is remarkable that the assertion or
hypothesis that electricity or magnetism is concerned in the production
of the phenomena in question, has never yet had an origin in any high
scientific authority. This is accounted for by the fact that those
who are properly acquainted with this agency, and who have the proper
apparatus at their command, can demonstrate the truth or falsity of
such a hypothesis with the greatest ease. For an experiment, place
your Planchette upon a plate of glass, or some other non-conducting
substance. Attach to it a common pith-ball electrometer, and then let
your medium place his hands upon the board. If electricity equal to the
force even of a small fraction of a grain passes from the medium to
the board, the pith ball, to that extent, will be deflected from its
position. By means of the Torsion Balance electrometer, invented by
Coulomb, the presence of almost the smallest conceivable fraction of
a grain of electrical force in your Planchette or your table might be
detected; and with these delicate tests within reach, tell us not that
the movements in question are caused by electricity till you have
proved it positively and beyond all dispute.
In the discussion of this electrical theory we have occupied more space
than we originally intended, but we have thought it might be for the
interest of true science to exhibit, once for all, this ridiculous and
yet very popular fallacy, in its true light.
THIRD--THE DEVIL THEORY.
This theory, which appears to have many advocates, is well set forth in
the following excerpts from an article published in the Philadelphia
Universe, a Catholic organ:
  "Neither the sight of the eye, nor the touch of the hand, can
  discover the spring by which Planchette moves. Therefore it is not,
  in its movements, a toy. It moves--undoubtedly it moves. And how?
  Intelligently! It answers questions of any kind put to it in any
  language required. It does this. This can not be done but by
  intelligence. Well, by what description of intelligence? It can not
  be supposed that the Divine intelligence is the motive; for how can
  God be conceived to make such a manifestation of himself as
  Planchette exhibits?
  "A corresponding reason cuts off the idea that it is presided over
  by an angelic intelligence; and it is evident to all that a human
  mind does not control it. There is but one more character of
  intelligence--that of evil spirits. Therefore Planchette is moved by
  the agents of hell.... But why should the devil connect himself with
  Planchette?... We suppose that the experienced scoundrel is ready to
  do anything human wickedness may ask him when souls are the price of
  the condescension. But his reasons for particular manifestations are
  of small importance here. Facts are facts, and the point is, that
  Planchette is not a toy, that it is moved by an intelligence, and
  that the intelligence that moves it is necessarily evil. We would
  therefore advise all who have a Planchette to build for it a special
  fire of pitch and brimstone.... No one has a right to consult the
  enemy of God. They who do so are in danger of becoming worshipers of
  the devil, and of dwelling with him for ever."
This theory has at least the merit of being clear, definite, and easy to
be understood, if it is not in all respects convincing. But here we have
an exemplification of the old paradox of an irresistible force coming
in contact with an immovable body. The Catholic priest tells us that
Planchette is not a toy; that it moves by an intelligence and volition
that is not human; that its moving and directing power is of the devil.
The Rev. Dr. Patton, in his article in the Advance (heretofore
referred to), tells us that "It is a philanthropic toy, which may be
used to bring to light hidden connections of mind and body, and to
refute the assumptions of spiritism;" and the Rev. A. D. Field, in his
article in the Ladies' Repository, backs up Dr. Patton by saying, that
it is "a mere toy," "is no humbug," is of "some use;"--and, concerning
the devil theory of the general power which moves it and other
physical bodies, he says: there is "too often the spirit of gentleness
to make the theory acceptable." The "immovable body" here, is the
authority of the Catholic priest; the "irresistible force" is the
authority of our clerical brethren representing Protestantism; and after
this fair impingement of the latter upon the former, we shall, perhaps,
have to adopt a compromise solution of the problem, by saying that the
"immovable body" has been moved a little, and that the "irresistible
force" has been resisted some.
But this devil theory, if what the Bible teaches us concerning that
personage is true, is encumbered with other difficulties; and the first
of these is, that the devil, however wicked, is not a fool. If he
should set a trap for human souls, he would not be so stupid as to tell
them there is a trap there. When approaching human beings, he assumes,
as the good book tells us, the garb of an angel of light; but it is not
likely that he would ever say he is the devil, as Planchette sometimes
does--at least until he felt quite sure of his prey. And again, when, in
a case slightly parallel with cases sometimes involved in the question
in hand, the captious Pharisees accused the Saviour of men of casting
out devils by Beelzebub the prince of devils, he reminded them that a
house or a kingdom divided against itself can not stand. Now Planchette,
I admit, is not always a saint--in fact, she sometimes talks and acts
very naughtily as well as foolishly; yet at other times, when a better
spirit takes possession of her, she is gentle, loving, well disposed,
and does certainly give most excellent advice,--advice which could
not be heeded without detriment to the devil's kingdom, and which,
if universally followed, would work its overthrow entirely. It is
inconceivable that Satan would thus tear down with one hand what he
builds up with another. But just at this point I wish to say, I think
there is need of great caution in consulting Planchette on matters
of a weighty or serious nature, lest one should extort from her mere
confirmations of his own errors, either in doctrine or practice; and
that nothing should in any case be accepted from it that is repugnant to
the established principles of the Christian religion. But we are after
the science of the thing now, and for the present that is our only
question--a question, however, which the devil theory, as will appear
from the foregoing, does not seem fully to answer.
THEORY OF A FLOATING, AMBIENT MENTALITY.
It is supposed by those who hold this theory, or rather hypothesis,
that the assumed floating, ambient mentality is an aggregate emanation
from the minds of those present in the circle; that this mentality is
clothed, by some mysterious process, with a force analogous to what it
possesses in the living organism, by which force it is enabled, under
certain conditions, to move physical bodies and write or otherwise
express its thoughts; and that in its expression of the combined
intelligence of the circle, it generally follows the strongest mind, or
the mind that is otherwise best qualified or conditioned to give current
to the thought. Although the writer of the interesting article, entitled
"Planchette in a New Character," in Putnam's Monthly for December,
1868, disclaims, at the commencement of his lucubration, all theories on
the subject, yet, after collating his facts, he shows a decided leaning
to the foregoing theory as the nearest approach to a satisfactory
explanation. "Floating, combined intelligence brought to bear upon
an inanimate object," "active intellectual principle afloat in the
circumambient air," are the expressions he uses as probably affording
some light on the subject. This is a thought on which, as concerns its
main features, many others have rested, not only in this country but in
Europe, especially in England, as I am told by a friend who recently
visited several sections of Great Britain where forms of these
mysterious phenomena prevail.
The first difficulty that stands in the way of this hypothesis is
that it supposes a thing which, if true, is quite as mysterious and
inexplicable as the mystery which it purports to explain. How is it
that an "intellectual principle" can detach itself from an intellectual
being, of whose personality it formed the chief ingredient, and become
an outside, objective, "floating," and "circumambient" entity, with a
capability of thinking, willing, acting, and expressing thought, in
which the original possessor of the emanated principle often has no
conscious participation? And after you have told us this, then tell us
how the "intellectual principle," not only of one, but of several
persons can emanate from them, become "floating" and "ambient," and
then, losing separate identity, conjoin and form one active
communicating agent with the powers aforesaid? And after you have
removed from these mere assumptions the aspect of physical and moral
impossibility, you will have another task to perform, and that is to
show us how this emanated, "combined," "floating," "circumambient"
intelligence can sometimes assume an individual and seemingly personal
character of its own, totally distinct from, and, in some features, even
antagonistic to, all the characters in the circle in which the
"emanation" is supposed to have its origin?
It is not denied now that the answers and communications of Planchette
(and of the influence acting through other channels) often do exhibit
a controlling influence of the mind of the medium or of other persons
in the circle. But no theory should ever be considered as explaining
a mystery unless it covers the whole ground of that mystery. Even,
therefore, should we consider the theory of the "floating intelligence"
of the circle reproducing itself in expression, as explaining that part
of the phenomenon which identifies itself with the minds of the circle
(which it does not), what shall be said of those cases in which the
phenomena exhibit characteristics which are sui generis, and can not
possibly have been derived from the minds of the circle?
That phenomena of the latter class are sometimes exhibited is not
only proved by many other facts that might be cited, but is clearly
exemplified by this same writer in Putnam's Magazine. The intelligence
whose performances and communications he relates seems to stand out with
a character and individuality as strongly marked and as distinct from
any and all in the circle as any one of them was distinct from another.
This individuality was first shown by giving its own pet names to the
different persons composing the circle--"Flirt," "Clarkey," "Hon.
Clarke," "The Angel," and "Sassiness." The young lady designated by the
last sobriquet, after it had been several times repeated, petitioned
to be indicated thereafter "only by the initial 'S,'" which the
impertinent scribbler accorded only so far as omitting all the letters
except the five S's, so that she was afterward recognized as
"S.S.S.S.S."
The writer further says:
  "It is always respectful to 'Hon. Clarke,' and when pressed to state
  what it thought of him, answered that he was 'a good skipper,' a
  reputation fairly earned by his capacity for managing a fleet of
  small boats. But we were not contented with so vague an answer, and
  our urgent demand for an analysis of his character produced the
  reply: 'A native crab apple, but spicy and sweet when ripe.' * * *
  When asked to go on, it wrote: 'Ask me Hon. Clarke's character
  again, and I will flee to the realms of imperishable woe; or, as
  Tabitha is here, say I'll pull your nose;' and on being taunted with
  its incapacity to fulfill the threat, it wrote: 'Metaphorically
  speaking, of course.' Not satisfied with this rebuff, on another
  occasion the subject was again pursued, and the answer elicited as
  follows: 'Yes, but you can't fool me. I said nay once, and when I
  says nay I means nay.' [A mind of its own, then.] More than once
  it has lapsed into the same misuse of the verb, as: 'I not only
  believes it, but I knows it;' and again: 'You asks and I answers,
  because I am here.' * * *
  "Again, on being remonstrated with for illiteracy, it defended
  itself by saying: 'I always was a bad speler' (sic); an
  orthographical blunder that no one in the room was capable of
  making. But on the whole, our Planchette is a scientific and
  cultivated intelligence, of more than average order, though it may
  be, at times, slightly inaccurate in orthography, and occasionally
  quote incorrectly; I must even confess that there are moments when
  its usual elegance of diction lapses into slang terms and abrupt
  contradictions. But, after all, though we flatter ourselves that as
  a family we contain rather more than ordinary intelligence, still it
  is more than a match for us."
Who can fail to perceive, from these quotations and admissions, the
marked and distinctive individuality of the intelligence that was
here manifested, as being of itself totally fatal to the idea of
derivation from the circle?
But not only was this intelligence distinctive, but in several
instances even antagonistic to that existing in the circle, as in the
case reported as follows:
  "Some one desiring to pose this ready writer, asked for its theory
  of the Gulf Stream; which it announced without hesitation to be
  'Turmoil in the water produced by conglomeration of icebergs.'
  Objection was made that the warmth of the waters of the natural
  phenomenon rather contradicted this original view of the subject;
  to which Planchette tritely responded: 'Friction produces heat.'
  'But how does friction produce heat in this case?' pursued the
  questioner. 'Light a match,' was the inconsequent answer--Planchette
  evidently believing that the pupil was ignorant of first principles.
  'But the Gulf Stream flows north; how, then, can the icebergs
  accumulate at its source?' was the next interrogation; which
  elicited the contemptuous reply: 'There is as much ice and snow at
  the south pole as at the north, ignorant Clarkey.' 'But it flows
  from the Gulf of Mexico?' pursued the undismayed. 'You've got me
  there, unless it flows underground,' was the cool and unexpected
  retort; and it wound up by declaring, sensibly, that, after all,
  'it is a meeting of the north and south Atlantic currents, which
  collide, and the eddie (sic) runs northward.' [At another time,]
  on being twice interrogated in regard to a subject, it replied
  tartly: 'I hate to be asked if I am sure of a fact.'"
Now, what could have been this intelligence which thus insisted upon
preserving and asserting its individuality so distinctly as to forbid
all reasonable hypothesis of a compounded derivation from the minds of
the circle, even were such a thing possible? A fairy, perhaps, snugly
cuddled up under the board so as to elude observation. Friend "Clarkey,"
try again, for surely this time you are a little befogged, or else the
present writer is more so.
"TO DAIMONION" (THE DEMON).
There was published, several years ago, by Gould & Lincoln, Boston,
a little work entitled: "TO DAIMONION, OR THE SPIRITUAL MEDIUM.
Its nature illustrated by the history of its uniform mysterious
manifestations when unduly excited. By TRAVERSE OLDFIELD." This author
deals largely in quotations from ancient writers in illustration of his
subject; and as an attempt to explain the mysteries of clairvoyance,
trance, second-sight, "spirit-knockings," intelligent movements of
physical bodies without hands, etc., his work has claims to our
attention which do not usually pertain to the class of works to which it
belongs. "To Daimonion" (the demon), or the "spiritual medium," he
supposes to be the spiritus mundi, or the spirit of the universe,
which formed so large an element in the cosmological theories of many
ancient philosophers; and this, "when unduly excited" (whatever that
may mean), he supposes to be the medium, not only of many psychic and
apparently preternatural phenomena described in the writings of all
previous ages, but also of the similar phenomena of modern times, of
which it is now admitted that Planchettism is only one of the more
recently developed phases. For some reason, which seemed satisfactory to
him, but which we fear he has not made clear or convincing to the mass
of his readers, this writer assumes it as more than probable that this
spiritus mundi--a living essence which surrounds and pervades the
world, and even the whole universe--is identical with the "nervous
principle" which connects the soul with the body,--in all this
unconsciously reaffirming nearly the exact theory first propounded by
Mesmer, in explanation of the phenomena of "animal magnetism," so
called. Quotations are given from Herodotus, Xenophon, Cicero, Pliny,
Galen, and many others, referring to phenomena well known in the times
in which these several writers lived, and which he supposes can be
explained only on the general hypothesis here set forth; and in the same
category of marvels, to be explained in the same way, he places the
performances of the snake-charmers, clairvoyants, thought-readers, etc.,
