" But you will marry again, Doris, — some time? You 
are much too young to give up everything. And you 
have had such a very little of true youth and girlish de- 
lights. If you shouldn't, I shall always be sorry that we 
met Lloyd Wentworth as we did." 
Doris has regretted it passionately at times, when the 
burden has been so heavy for her to bear. Not that she 
met him and had that delightful journey from Novara to 
Venice, but that she should have been thrust into a 
warmer regard by hasty and grasping hands. To-night 
she is strangely content. She would have nothing 
changed, save to have his life prolonged. She fancies 
now, if they could have come here together, he could have 
 
 
 
made the explanation in a better manner. They would 
have listened to him. Oh, if they could have had some 
happy years in this old house ! 
" I do not know," Doris answers, with a wistful light 
in her eyes ; she is so longing to have him back, to be 
happy in a husband's love like Olive. It is so bitterly 
hard to be alone. But there is no one in the whole world 
to whom she can stretch out her hands, certainly not to 
that pleasure-loving, volatile young fellow. 
" I want you to help me," she begins, realizing that 
Aunt Gilbert's eyes are studying her intently, though they 
do not see as clearly as some eyes. " I must not be left 
alone with him. You are so bright and- entertaining, and 
you must talk to him ; he must see that I do not intend to 
discuss any of these subjects with him. And I shall 
avoid him all I can." 
Aunt Gilbert sighs. She would so enjoy another ro- 
mance, in which would figure a pair of sweet young 
lovers. But she knows that Doris is in earnest, and has 
ceased to endeavor to circumvent her. 
It comes to pass that two evenings later, when Graham 
calls, she is out again, this time at the Minturns', and he 
does not care to go there. Basil's wife has begged him to 
attend her to a card party, and he has pleaded a pressing 
engagement. He does not stop long at the Elms, but in 
something of a temper strides down the street. 
Does Doris mean to throw him over ? Does he really 
want her ? Would it be entertaining for a lifetime to live 
up to her high standard? Of course, he could coax her 
out to dancing parties, but wasn't Westwater a little flat 
for steady diet after Washington ? They might go abroad 
only, — well, through Basil and other friends he might 
find some foreign interest, political or otherwise. Indeed, 
he thinks of a position now that may be within his reach. 
It loould be gayer abroad. Still — 
There is a curious sort of mortification in not winning 
 
 
 
her. He has been smiled upon and flattered by so many 
women ; he remembers, too, with a kind of admiration, 
the efforts he has made to reach a higher standard for her 
sake, and it seems quite ungrateful in her not to appre- 
ciate them, — as if she could know. But it would wear 
one fearfully to keep such an altitude all the time. How 
does Basil manage it, and Richmond Stirling? Honestly, 
he is not of their kind. 
So he goes to the card party and walks home with his 
brother's wife under the soft summer stars. What a 
glowing night it is! The dusk seems full of haunting 
odors and fluttering wings, like moths at fairy revels. 
The trees stir faintly now and then, or a step is heard in 
the distance, and there is an air of curious, weird sug- 
gestiveness. 
" She did not keep you very long," Frances Wentworth 
says, with an intonation of mockery. 
' ' She ! Who ? " he asks, with an utter assumption of 
innocent ignorance. 
"Well, — I am not in your confidence. It may be 
Miss Lindmeyer. I noticed your dancing with her the 
other evening, and thought you quite eprise,'' 
He laughs, glad to have her so wide of the mark. 
'' Don't make such a stupid blunder, Graham," she 
says, almost sharply ; '' marry fortune." 
"Why didn't you marry fortune yourself?" he asks, 
gayly. 
" Well," she answers, with a curious deliberation, " I 
think I had an attack of mental aberration just at the 
period when I made my election. A prudent mother 
would have kept me under lock and key, and on a diet of 
bread and water, until I came to my senses. But I had 
no prudent mother, only an enthusiastic father, very much 
infatuated with Basil Wentworth. Behold the fate of a 
dutiful daughter! Louise and Agatha can go abroad 
twice a year if they like.'' 
 
 
 
" But you chose love, and think the world well lost," 
he replies. He has often wondered how she came to 
marry Basil, how any woman would desire to marry a 
man so engrossed with business, so indifferent to pleas- 
urable excitements. 
" No, I do not think the world well lost now," she 
answers, incisively. "The only redeeming feature is 
Basil's insatiable ambition, and his capability . of going 
onward and upward " 
Graham has surmised that he does not fill his wife's 
heart to the exclusion of pleasure. But, then, adoring 
love is not good form in the world of fashion. 
" Yes," he says, " Basil is quite sure to strike a prize 
somewhere, unless he blunders on the high moral and 
virtuous side. One must take the world as it is, and 
not run a tilt with windmills." 
" I shall wait impatiently for the prize. I ought to 
have some reward for my generous self-denial " ; and she 
laughs ironically. 
They have reached the house, and walk in together. 
Graham turns up the parlor lights ; Mrs. Basil shakes 
out her soft draperies and sends her wraps up-stairs. 
" Yes," she says, continuing her train of half -mocking 
complaint, " there should be some reward for women who 
sit alone and count the weary hours. One might as well 
not be married at all." 
It occurs to Graham that she keeps her hours pretty 
well occupied, and Basil is doing an immense amount of 
work that does bring in money. Then — would she enjoy 
his kind of relaxation ? She goes to the Stirlings', but she 
always has some little fling about their superior theories 
and exalted states of mind. Wouldn't there be some- 
thing like this between him and Doris? 
'' Well, what will you have?" she asks, spiritedly, and 
goes to the piano, where she dashes off a brilliant Aus- 
trian galop. He comes and stands behind her. She cer- 
 
 
 
tainly has splendid shoulders and a fine poise to her head ; 
she is bright, witty, entertaining, and what with her music 
and her sententious bits of talk, another hcur rolls away, 
bringing Basil home, weary and heavy-eyed. 
" I must be off early to-morrow mommg," he an- 
nounces. " I have been making up the great Rossmore 
will case, and have all the specials. Probably I shall not 
return to-morrow, for we never can get through, but I 
hope the will can be made to stand. A man surely has 
the right to dispose of his money as he likes." 
"As to that there may be opinions," says Mrs. Basil, 
rather haughtily. " I should make a big fight if I was 
Mrs. Rossmore. Why shouldn't she have the millions as 
well as charities and distant relations? We met her in 
Washington, at the embassy ball, you know, Graham, and 
/ liked her. I wish you were fighting on her side, 
Basil." 
Basil Wentworth makes a gesture of contempt. He 
has no respect for this woman, who in comparative youth 
marries an old man, and for the sake of the larger amount 
of money that may come to her, when she is already well 
dowered, rakes up all the little eccentricities, all the fail- 
ings and vagaries, that may go to prove a man nearing 
eighty of unsound mind. 
" No money would tempt me to her side," he answers, 
with infinite disdain. 
"Money would tempt me almost anywhere," she says, 
dryly. 
Her husband does not respond. These little flings stir 
his disapproval almost to disgust ; only the instant after 
he remembers that, fond as she is pf making them, they 
are not, cannot be true. 
"If there is a woman on the face of the earth that I 
do envy, and I have ,^o much already, it is that Mrs. Ross- 
more," she says soto voce to Graham, as they go up- 
stairs. 
 
 
 
For the next three days Graham is devoted to his sister- 
in-law. Basil returns with his case unfinished, some new 
perplexity having arisen. Graham's time has expired, 
and he has not seen Doris for a moment in which he could 
plead his desires ; but he will write a long, tender, 
upbraiding letter, which he does, and to which there 
comes no answer. 
Doris does not meet Basil again until a little reception 
at the Trevennas'. Olive has returned with a great hap- 
piness shining in her face. She has not dared to believe 
until now, so much of the old distrust and questioning 
spirit hangs about her, but she has laid it away with reso- 
lute endeavor, and refused to cloud her new life with it, 
and lo! all is peace. 
It is strictly a family party, with some Van Antwerp 
relatives added to the Wentworths. Louise shines in 
diamonds, is charming and brilliant, Agatha gracious, 
Frances amiable, and Doris delicious in her naive sim- 
plicity. 
Basil finds time to explain to her the many imperative 
demands of business. 
" I hope Graham gave you no trouble?" he asks. 
" No," she answers, " but I have had a letter since." 
Then, with a quick accession of courage, given by his 
kindly glance, " I should like to send it to you. Can any 
one mar another's life by refusing to give what after all 
is not needed, is not the right influence, or would not be 
a lasting one ? One might make a great sacrifice to save 
another from impending evil, but — " 
" Never make any sacrifices for Graham," he says, 
hurriedly, and with a certain authority. " I am not sure 
that it is best, in any case. A man who has not the vital 
stamina to save himself can hardly be relied upon, even 
if some other influences are at work for his welfare. Not 
that Graham, — he certainly zs capable of caring for his 
own manliness, — it is the sheerest nonsense for him to 
 
 
 
appeal to you " ; and Basil almost laughs. " Yes, send me 
the letter." 
Frances is very agreeable also. Doris warms to her, 
though she feels a trifle afraid of her sharp sayings, little 
points against her husband, as if she was a rather injured 
or neglected wife. 
Later in the evening she is complaining in a somewhat 
whimsical way about poverty. This time the carriage is 
the object of her longings. 
'' I miss it so much," she says. " I was always accustomed 
to it at home. They are very kind in sending it 
around, but there is papa and my sister and the two girls, 
and they keep it pretty well in use. I do wish Basil felt 
that he could afford one, and he cariy'' with a kind of dis- 
dainful smile at the pretence. 
" I wish you would accept ours," Doris replies, with 
her readiness to have another share her pleasures. " You 
could have it almost any day, — we use it so little." 
Then she is frightened at offering any favor to Basil 
Wentworth's wife. 
" You lovely little soul ! " the other says, warmly. "I 
shall be most glad to accept it some time. And I hear 
such marvellous accounts of you in regard to my little 
daughter. Rose sings your praises continually. Why 
have you so deserted her ? She is a wretched little thing, 
I know. Babies are all of a piece. When they are large 
enough to be dressed prettily and taken out, granting that 
you can make them behave, they are rather entertaining." 
Doris flushes quickly, and it is a sunrise radiance light- 
ing her face. 
" I had occasion to go so often to your father's," &h% 
says, with a delicate intonation. " Indeed, I have been in 
training for quite a business woman." 
" Basil finds so little time to attend to any one's af- 
fairs," his wife replies, rather apologetically ; " though his 
rule is always to prefer a client to his wife " ; and there is 
 VjOOQIC 
 
a sharp point to the sentence. These personal allusions, 
this petty carping and criticism, annoy Doris extremely, 
yet she finds it in her heart to sympathize with Frances. 
She cannot imagine any woman being happy as Basil 
Wentworth's wife. Always she wonders how Lloyd could 
have loved him so intensely. 
When she goes to send the letter the next day, a sensi- 
tive qualm of conscience seizes her. She surely does not 
owe any sacred duty to Graham, since he was first to 
speak of it to Basil, and not only that, but gave the im- 
pression that he had her consent. What she wants Basil 
to understand most of all is, that she is not eager for a 
family alliance, since she cannot restore the Elms, and 
she wants to be absolved from any share in the destruction 
that Graham so forcibly depicts for himself in case she 
does refuse her strengthening and guiding love. She 
knows now that if she should ever marry, it is she who 
will want the manly strength and endeavor. There are 
so many fine and complex motives, that she writes a brief 
note, and gently suggests a few of the perplexities. But 
one thing she can say honestly and frankly, — she does 
not love Graham Wentworth. She has come to under- 
stand the possibilities of her own soul. In the other love 
she was a happy, innocent child, knowing nothing of the 
mixed and imperious qualities of men and women. She 
tries to forget that it is the stern, implacable Basil to 
whom she is writing, but rather the easy, delightful, indul- 
gent Lloy/i. She does not know how utterly winsome 
this makes her, and how for moments afterward Basil sits 
with this letter before him, penned in her delicate, essen- 
tially feminine hand, that makes him think of nothing so 
much as the grace of a swallow's flight. 
Graham he sets down as simply foolish, with the diffu- 
sive regard of the interest miscalled love, the wish to 
please, and the certainty of being pleased in return. 
There is much in his letter that is flippant, extravagant. 
 
 
 
Basil would despise himself if he could plead with any 
woman for her strength to save him from his own weak- 
ness. Even now his lip curls with contempt. 
Neither is Graham Wentworth weak above all other 
men. He is volatile, ease-loving, selfish, changeable, 
fond of pleasure, and he has fancied at times he detected 
a leaning toward the wine-cup, of which he has seen quite 
too much in the gay capital. After all, are the Wentworths 
such immaculate people ? The sudden rush of humiliation 
is so new to him that it seems as if some one had struck 
him a blow. 
It is so difficult to see Doris alone unless he goes to the 
Elms, and he is not prepared for the confession he feels is 
due to her ; yet he could scarcely refrain from making it, 
if some of the subjects between them were touched upon. 
He has grown quite used to his secret burden of self- 
abasement, but he is hardly ready to publish it, even to 
one person. It is mortifying to stand convicted of so 
flagrant a wrong. He decides to write, and opening the 
safe, takes out a small, inlaid box that was a Christmas 
gift of Lloyd's in their young manhood. It is like a girl's 
box of treasures. There are mementos in it that wring 
his heart, yet he cannot destroy them. Here is that last 
letter, — shall he finish his utter condemnation by perus- 
ing it again, since he has not had the courage to commit 
it to the flames ? He breaks the seal ; then a strange im- 
pression holds him in a grasp that sends shivers through 
his pulses. He must not read it. There will never come 
a time when he will have a right to read it again. He 
signed his death-warrant deliberately, — let him abide by 
it. So he drops hers in the broken envelope. Oh ! if he 
could bring Jiim back to her. If he could see them in all 
the fervor of their youthful, happy love. 
The evening of the next day he calls at Judge Minturn's, 
and she is there. After the business is ended, the two 
men enter the drawing-room. Mrs. Howard, with her 
 
 
 
two daughters, Alice and Ethel, and Doris are all of the 
party. Doris and Ethel are at the piano playing duets, 
and the judge insists they shall proceed. 
Basil sits where he can see the rich, bright face in its 
soft glows and changing colors, its pure, serious eyes of 
heaven blue, its sweet mouth with a subtile strength and 
purity. She does not look a day older than Ethel, now 
that the dignity of matronhood is laid aside, and her 
fingers fly over the keys with a swift, elusive grace that 
makes one long to spring up and capture them. Did she 
play for Lloyd ? he wonders. 
The judge asks for a song they sing together. Ethel's 
voice is contralto ; Doris's is a sweet, uplifting soprano, 
with none of the floridness of stage adaptiveness, nor the 
strength required for conc^ert-rooms, but it touches one 
with a tender force. It is pre-eminently a home voice. 
"Now that Ave Maria," begs Alice. "I shall always 
love it for the story. I can just see that little, dark, 
Italian madame listening to it, and I can almost hear the 
cracked, thin tone of the piano." 
"Which did not improve it at all," replies Doris, with 
a touching memory in her eyes. 
"Why, I never heard that," declares the judge, in a 
tone that would convince his hearers that he had been 
defrauded of some right. 
Doris flushes. 
"It is quite a romance, grandpapa ; just like a picture 
of some foreign interior that people pay hundreds of dol- 
lars for, and a pathetic bit of sentiment. Why don't you 
paint it, Mrs. Wentworth?" 
"I should like to possess the genius for such a thing," 
Doris exclaims, eagerly. "You may some day yourself." 
"But what was the story?" 
"There wasn't any story," says Doris, with a bright, 
enchanting laugh. She is so used to being natural with 
these people, that she is always at her best. "It was as 
 
 
 
Ethel has remarke<! — just a little bit.'' And then she goes 
on in a rapid, artistic way to describe the small room, the 
mistress of the inn at Novara, the spuidle-legged piano 
on which the dead daughter had played, and madame's 
tender fondness for this Ave Maria, how she used to 
listen and reverently cross herself. Doris's voice has a 
living, transporting power in it, especially when she adds, 
in her sweet, earnest way, " I used to feel as if I were in 
a church singing for the angels to hear, among whom was 
madame's daughter." 
Then she stiikes the keys softly, and sings with a rev- 
erent humility that nearly moves them to tears. 
" It was where you first met my cousin, was it not? " 
Basil inquires, in a tone so unlike his cold, measured 
accents that it startles the judge. 
" Yes,'' she answers, softly. Then she rises. '' I 
must go," she announces, and she is no longer Doris 
Hawthorne, but Mrs. Wentworth. " Has the carriage 
come? I told auntie to send at nine." 
It is quarter past, but the carriage has not been sent. 
" If you will allow me to walk home with you," Basil 
says in his gentlest dignity, which is many shades less than 
his usual demeanor. " There are a few matters I should 
like to discuss with you, and it is so difficult for me to find 
leisure." 
They will both go in the same direction, so it does not 
put him about in any respect, and she assents. The good- 
nights are said. Judge Minturn glances after them. Is • 
it true that Basil Wentworth means to consign to forget- 
fulness this obstinate, unreasonable hatred, so utterly 
without excuse or purpose, the only real blemish in his 
character, according to the judge's estimation ? Ah, if he 
had done it before ! If he could have waited and learned 
to see Doris Wentworth through a clearer and more gen- 
erous vision! 
They walk on in the soft summer night, under the 
 
 
 
trees, in a strange silence that makes both hearts beat 
with something not unlike terror, yet now Doris is not 
afraid of him. How the dread has been conquered she 
cannot tell then or ever. Almost he is to her her hus- 
band's dearly loved cousin. Her hand trembles la little on 
his arm, and she cannot calmly manage her breath, but 
she makes no outward sign. 
" I wanted to speak of the letter," he begins abruptly, 
when they have gone about a third of the distance. 
"Here is Graham's," and he hands it to her, but makes 
no mention of hers. " If you did love Graham," and his 
inmost soul exults that she does not, and he makes this 
concession, as he adds, " the path would be clear without 
any advice. Since you do not, it would be weak, nay, 
sinful, for you to give sympathy and strength where love 
was demanded. I feel confident that at this period of his 
life Graham is too volatile to form a deep attachment to 
any woman. There are so many mistakes, so much 
wretchedness, and you ought to be shielded from sorrow, 
rather than thrust into it. Still, I would like you to 
answer the letter, and tell him firmly and clearly, once 
more, there is no ground for hope. Then, if he distresses 
you further, I will take the matter into my own hands." 
" Thank you," she says, and the vague mists of inde- 
cision roll away. She looks at her path with a clear vision 
as it lies straight before her, and gives thanks that Basil 
Wentworth at last cares a little for her welfare. Perhaps 
in time she may win what Lloyd desired, unconscious and 
happy because she can never know what all that prayer 
included. It is safe, locked in Basil's soul, and his honor 
is of the unflinching sort. 
 
 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
GHOSTS IN AMBUSH. 
The golden glowing summer rides on apace. To Doris, 
Westwater seems an enchanted land. She is glad with a 
lark's delightsome joy that her home is unalterably fixed. 
One and another talk of a run over to Germany and Swit- 
zerland, a winter in Italy, a season at Paris. She does not 
care for any of them. Her boy is bright and strong, and 
now he is her almost constant companion, for Olive is 
engrossed with her husband and his duties, and her life 
widens out as if by a miracle. Doris is in some degree 
electrified by her happiness. Then Louise has a longed- 
for son. There is too much money in the Lenox family 
not to desire sons and daughters. It is a charming speci- 
men of babyhood, and Mr. Stirling is its most devoted 
uncle. 
Little Lloyd Wentworth calls him uncle as well, and 
though Agatha makes no demur, it is not pleasing to her. 
Doris's bright face and enchanting voice jars upon her 
and is distasteful to her sight. She is too well-bred, too 
loftily correct, to show any displeasure ; indeed, there is 
not a flaw in Doris's conduct to Mr. Stirling, or any other 
man. She is haunted somewhat by the dire result of her 
friendliness with Graham, and it makes her delicately 
careful. But they do meet. Agatha has come to think 
that any place immediately attracts Mr. Stirling if Doris 
is to be there. A smothering fire burns in her soul. She 
is jealous that Doris gains ground everywhere. Even 
Mrs. Gilbert has lived down the old aspersions. She and 
Doris have spent some days with the Conynghams in 
 
 
 
New York, and it gets whispered about that Mrs. Gilbert 
knew them well in Florence. 
Doris's ghost of a love affair hangs on in a rather 
amusing fashion. Graham has degenerated into a kind of 
spoiled child, and though he does not pursue her in an 
imperious manner such as one would expect from him, 
neither does he relinquish her entirely. The most disa- 
greeable point in it is his assumption that if he should 
somewhere make a wreck of life, it will be her fault. 
Between herself and Mrs. Basil there has sprung up a 
curious kind of intimacy. Mrs. Basil is not attracted by 
Doris's virtues or winsome manner ; it is a supremely self- 
ish approval. She nearly takes possession of the Went- 
worth carriage, and finds it a great convenience. She 
enjoys the countenance and aid of Doris, but she has 
found that Basil rarely objects to any pleasure with which 
her name is mentioned. If Doris goes home half an hour 
or so before midnight, Frances feels than she can stay 
two or three hours after. Her whole soul is in fashionable 
gayety and dissipation. Admiration is necessary to her ; 
without it she flags and droops, and life is a burden. 
Of the undercurrent Doris is altogether ignorant. That 
Mrs. Basil indulges in sub rosa flirtations, that she dances 
like a young girl in her first season, that she wanders 
down shady walks and listens to passionate murmurs 
and glowing bits of verse from some half -bewildered mas- 
culine, is simply her own affair. It would shock Doris, 
and she astutely keeps it out of her sight. Agatha Stir- 
ling flirts in her high intellectual fashion, and has savants 
and professors at her feet, who no doubt slip in a bit of 
Greek or Latin verse with a kind of affectionate ponder- 
osity. And if Doris wasn't too utterly simple, with those 
glorious eyes and that superbly innocent face, she could 
make havoc in men's hearts. But with the wisdom of the 
world she does not care to enlighten her. She is a better 
foil as she is. 
 
 
 
Meanwhile Graham's fortunes take a new turn. Through 
some political and social influence, and the fact that he is 
an excellent French and German scholar, a position is 
offered him as private secretary to the new legation that 
will be sent to St. Petersburg in September. Basil is 
really pleased. It will take Graham out of the social whirl 
in which he has become immersed, and may rouse in him 
an ambition for something beyond pleasure. 
Indeed, they are all gratified. He comes home elated 
with his good fortune, and proposes to himself a grand 
holiday month before he sails. 
Westwater fills up quite early iM9 year. Business has 
been prosperous for several successive seasons, and the 
money of trade and manufacturing is beginning to encroach 
upon the peerless blue blood that knows nothing of toil. 
Elegant new houses have been added, and the dwellers 
thereof copy the fine and aristocratic ways and usages that 
have ruled so long, but they do force the season some- 
what, and are lavish in their entertainments. 
Graham gives himself a complacent admiration on behalf 
of his constancy, when he finds Doris still rarely sweet 
and attractive. Her life is so much wider that she can- 
not bar him out, but she will not listen to his protesta- 
tions. 
'' Graham," she says decisively one evening, when he 
has followed her about in a most exasperating manner, 
'' you must cease this persecution, or I shall be compelled 
to appeal to your brother." 
"That is excellent!" and Graham laughs insolently. 
" My dear little rosebud, do you know that in the terrible 
family feud that met you on your threshhold, Basil was, 
of us all, most implacable and resentful. Basil and Olive 
were fiends, — the one grand, gloomy, and stalking about 
in spectral hate ; the other like a whirlwind. One would 
have rent you to shreds and atoms ; the other would have 
ground you to powder under his feet." 
 
 
 
" Oh, hush ! '' she pleads. She cannot endure the 
thought. 
'' Olive has been converted. She has some one else to 
take the place where she used sacredly to enshrine Lloyd. 
Basil has softened, but I still warn you. If 3'ou scratch 
your Cossack, you may yet find a yellow-eyed Tartar." 
" For shame ! " Doris cries, and her intensity subdues 
him a trifle. " I forbid you ever to speak to me of mar- 
riage again I " And her words ring out clear and forcible. 
" If we cannot be friends, we must be utter strangers." 
" How cruel you can be ! " he remarks, plaintively. 
She walks away, flies rather, and ensconces herself 
under Mr. Stirling's friendly protection. 
'' By the gods ! " exclaims the elegant young man, 
"I wonder if anybody could stir up the stately Agatha 
to a tempest. It would be worth considerable. Per- 
haps, Mrs. Doris, you are not so secure as you believe. 
Even a worm will turn at last, I have heard." And he 
laughs with a kind of contemplative insolence. 
"What have you and Doris been disputing about?" 
And Mrs. Basil emerges from the gloom of a clump of 
evergreens. " I have taken her under my protection, and 
you shall not tease her, or annoy her, or — " 
" Or make love to her. Does your jurisdiction extend 
as far as that ? " 
"Yes. You shall not make love to her. Heaven 
knows there are enough women to whom you can talk 
nonsense." 
She slips her hand within his arm, and glances up to 
his half -moody, wholly handsome face. 
" But if I wanted to talk sense, and in earnest." 
" Let Doris alone ! " she exclaims, with a vague im- 
pression of annoyance. She has been leading this young 
courtier in her chains, and she is not ready to have him 
talk in earnest to any one. She has still a taste for con- 
quests and triumphs, a desire to reign over men's hearts. 
 
 
 
Her winter's gayeties have stirred up a hungry demon in 
her heart. She is full of a curious, jealous vitality, yet it 
is never quite satisfied, and of late it has been horribly 
dissatisfied. 
There is a moon high up in heaven silvering all the 
walks, the edges of the trees, softening, bewildering, 
dancing in the spray of the fountains, and the mysterious 
voices of the night mingle with the strains of music. 
'' I am beginning to envy you," she says, when he has 
kept silence some seconds. '' I wish it had been Basil's 
good fortune to get an appointment abroad." 
'' Perhaps he could if he had urged it sharp. I do not 
believe he cares." 
"What does he care for?" she flings out contemp- 
tuously. 
" Money and — you." At which Graham laughs. 
" Me 1 If he cared enough for me to send me abroad, 
there would be some sense in it " ; and she laughs shortly, 
a poor, mirthless sound. " What a humbug life is unless 
one has a fortune, and people are making them constantly ! 
Look at Mrs. Ruthven." 
Mrs. Ruthven is three or four and twenty, medium in 
everything except her beautiful lace dress, and the glow 
of the diamonds in which she stands. 
"Do you remember," Mrs. Basil says, "when Jack 
Ruthven was awfully sweet on me ? He was the bete noir 
of my life. And old Mr. Ruthven had never done any- 
thing much in the way of coining gold in his foundry until 
he managed to get some railroad contracts, and look at 
them now ! Miss Day didn't disdain Jack, and his father 
has bought the old Bradley place for him, and they are in 
with the very creme. What a pity / didn't take him ! 
Bradley House is nearly as grand as the Elms. And then 
think of that little Doris trailing up and down in her 
simple gowns, as if it were a cottage." 
 
 
 
"I've always wondered why you married Basil. But 
- — Jack — " And the Wentworth gorge rises a little. 
"Jack wasn't very presentable in those days, but some- 
how good fortune has shaped him up." 
Her tone is sharp, acrid, resentful. To see Mrs. Ruth- 
ven's diamonds exasperates her beyond endurance. 
' ' The new people come in so rapidly and crowd us so, 
set us in the background with their blaze of light and 
elegance of attire, th^rt pretty soon we shall be nobody, 
sad revenges of time." 
"Let us dance and be merry," he says, suddenly. He 
likes her better when she is bright and satirical ; the 
moodiness and cavilling do not suit him at all. 
The band is discoursing the beguiling Strauss waltzes, 
and they go up to the house. Couples are languidly float- 
ing on the wide verandas, in the drawing-room, and out 
on the lawn, for the night is dewless. They pause and 
join the dancers here. Frances Wentworth has a passion 
for dancing. She lights up now under the inspiration. 
There comes a halo of exquisite grace, there is a soft se- 
ductiveness that stirs Graham's blood. When he waltzes 
with her, he thinks he could dance forever ; the charm is 
intense, transcendent. What curious, magnetic moods 
she possesses ! Doris is a pale little candle to her electric 
light. 
If there were revels always, and endless processions of 
new gowns, and no one to outshine her very far ! To-night 
Agatha Stirling's magnificent ease and grandeur madden 
her. And to-morrow and all of the to-morrows ! Oh, why 
did she marry Basil Wentworth ? 
For that matter, she might almost as well be at the 
antipodes. She never sees him at breakfast, — he is up 
and away to business, — and there is no chance of meeting 
him until the dinner hour. Afternoon teas and lawn 
parties interfere not infrequently with this. He does not 
care for the delights of society that so engross her. She 
 
 
 
complains that he gives her so little of his attention, but 
in her secret soul she admits that she fares much better 
without him. The evenings at Agatha's and at her 
father's always bore her. And now she will make the 
most of her handsome brother-in-law. Oh I what will she 
do for a cavalier next winter ? 
The child is quite ill for several days. Basil comes 
home rather early one evening, having finished up the last 
of some troublesome business, and finds Rose trying to 
soothe and comfort the feverish little being, whose heavy 
eyes and parched lips are pitiful to behold. 
It seems to Basil that bright, healthy, attractive childhood 
would charm him, but he has seen so little of his daugh- 
ter, and that has not been under favoring circumstances. 
Now he is moved to sympathy when he beholds the tired 
face of the nurse and her drooping figure. 
"Let me take her," he says. "What does the doctor 
think? When will she recover?" 
He knows so little about childish ailments that he in- 
clines to measuring them off by some allotted period. 
" She was better yesterday," replies Rose. "The doc' 
tor thought it would be well to take her away for sea 
air." 
"Well — we could all go." He has had no holiday, 
unless rapid business travelling, often done at night, can 
be so considered. As he takes the small being in his 
arms, and gets her head settled on his broad shoulder by 
Rose, his awkwardness is plainly perceptible. Yet to 
Lloyd and to Olive he has been the most patient and 
tender nurse. 
Pacing up and down the fioor, he considers the feasi- 
bility of a fortnight at some quiet seaside place, where 
there are few dissipations of society. He would like the 
rest. They might take in Doris and Mrs. Gilbert and 
Lloyd. He would really like to get familiar with his ward, 
for presently be will wish to show to the world that he 
 
 
does take an interest in his cousin's child. A few long, 
idle, luxurious days would be such a treat I 
" Poor baby ! " he murmurs gently, — "poor little baby ! " 
and he presses his cool cheek against the fevered one. 
Then he thinks of its mother, of his marriage, which, 
disguise it as he may, has been a mistake. Yet the two 
sisters of his wife are admirable household women as well 
as attractive in society. She has been carefully trained, 
she has been tenderly loved by her father, yet the years 
with him seem to bring out a kind of rasping discontent. 
Perhaps, as she once said, she was not born for poverty. 
He smiles a little sadly, too, over the word. Does she 
call this pretty house and three servants poverty ? For 
years his mother lived here, and was one of the chief 
ladies in Westwater. Still, he remembers with a pang 
they did all hate to come back. 
The clock strikes eleven. The baby has been still so 
long that Rose proposes to lay it back in its crib. But 
as she takes it, it wakes and utters its feeble wail. 
"Never mind,'' Wentworth says, cheerfully, taking her 
back. "I shall remain up until Mrs. Wentworth comes 
home. You had better lie down and get some rest." 
He hushes the child back to a fragmentary slumber. 
Presently midnight sounds from silver bells on the air 
that is growing cool and fragrant. Basil goes on with 
his thinking. He so seldom has time to meet himself 
squarely and with perfect truth. There have been hours 
at Lloyd's grave, but those were rather agonizing confes- 
sions wrung from the depth of his soul, with some pointed 
pang of conviction. But to the man who has walked un- 
shrinkingly in a path in the belief that the highest feeling 
of honor, the purest and most unselfish pride and thorough 
self-abnegation have ruled him, to be brought slowly back 
and see his honor a delusion, his fair dealing the hardest 
and coldest injustice, his abnegation the extreme of a 
selfish and adamantine will, to believe the trial has been 
 
 
 
nobly lived through, and find the victory a mere illusion, 
the consciousness is indeed crushing. If he had waited 
a little longer, if he had seen Lloyd's will and known his 
fervent desire to have them all go on together, to have 
Doris taken in among them like a little sister ! 
But there were the Gilberts. He winces even now at 
the swaggering importance and vulgar, indecent haste with 
which Anson Gilbert claimed everything for " my niece, 
Mrs. Wentworth." If she had resembled him ! If she had 
been less than time has proved her ! If he had not shown 
himself so anxious to be swayed by that trivial gossip ! 
He admits all his sins, for Basil Wentworth is at heart 
a man of the purest integrity. That he has lapsed sadly 
is most true ; he will not gloss over the admission. That 
he married in haste and unreason is most true, but he 
cannot even now imagine any woman like Frances Mintum 
marrying a comparatively poor man, unless she admired 
him or regarded him in some tender light. Indeed, he 
had hardly dared to believe she would accept him. 
One, two. The baby is charmed to sounder slumbers 
and lies passively in the crib, the pitiful little face vaguely 
upbraiding him. He goes to his room. There is a roll of 
carriage wheels through the silent street, gay voices, and 
Frances and his brother come trooping up the stairs with 
confident carelessness. 
" Hillo ! " says Graham, softly. " Deep in a brief?'' 
"Not this time of night," Basil replies, with a rather 
caustic coldness. 
"Well, here is your lady fair, safe and sound. By 
Jove ! Westwater grows quite magnificent. Shall I not 
perish in Russian wilds ? " and his intonation is humorously 
tragic. "Goodnight." 
He goes up to the next floor, and in ten minutes is 
soundly asleep. 
Basil Wentworth studies his wife. Her dress is a soft 
silken material with drapings of foamy lace, creamy in 
 
 
 
tint, and she wears emeralds that always give her a weird, 
Oriental appearance. Her dusky hair still has in it a few 
straggling, faded flowers, but her corsage cluster has been 
gathered not more than an hour ago. She is not hand- 
some, but brilliant, spirited, at least when pleasure excites 
her. 
She tosses off her bracelets carelessly; she pulls the 
flowers from her heir and dVops them in the pretty much- 
ribboned waste-basket, but the others she places in a water 
jar. Graham gathered them for her with a sweet, senti- 
mental speech, and she had scouted his reflection. She 
will wear them in her dress to-morrow morning to c6nvince 
him. They have been half playing at love, neither believ- 
ing the other at all in earnest. 
"Do you not think the baby quite ill?" Basil asks, as 
he watches this by-play. 
She folds her cobweb fichu with choicest care, and lays 
it away in a perfumed, satin-lined box. Then she answers 
with a kind of contemplative indifference, — 
