
" Oh, nothing. How do you fellows learn to be 
conductors ? How long does it take you ? " 

Till other passengers should come the conductor 
lounged against the guard of the platform in a 
conversational posture. 

" Well, generally it takes you four or five days. 
You got to learn all the cross streets, and the 
principal places on all the lines." 

"Yes?" 

" It didn't take me more n two. Boston boy." 

" Yes," said Lemuel, with a fine discouragement. 
"I presume the conductors are mostly from Boston." 

" They're  from everywhere. And some of em 
are pretty streaked, I can tell you; and then the 
rest of us has got to suffer ; throws suspicion on all 
of us. One fellow gets to stealin fares, and then 
everybody 's got to wear a bell-punch. I never hear 
mine go without thinkin it says, Stop thief ! 
Makes me sick, I can tell you. 

After a while Lemuel asked, " How do you get 
such a position ? " 

The conductor seemed to be thinking about some 
thing else. "It 's a pretty queer kind of a world, 
anyway, the way everybody 's mixed up with every 
body else. What 's the reason, if a man wants to 
steal, he can't steal and suffer for it himself, without 
throwin ? the shame and the blame on a lot more 



 

people that never thought o stealin ? I don't notice 
much when a fellow sets out to do right that folks 
think everybody else is on the square. No, sir, 
they don't seem to consider that kind of complaint 
so catching. Now, you take another thing : A 
woman goes round with the scarlet fever in her 
clothes, and a whole earful of people take it home 
to their children ; but let a nice young girl get in, 
fresh as an apple, and a perfect daisy for wholesome- 
ness every way, and she don't give it to a single 
soul on board. No, sir ; it 's a world I can't see 
through, nor begin to." 

"I never thought of it that way," said Lemuel, 
darkened by this black pessimism of the conductor. 
He had not, practically, found the world so unjust 
as the conductor implied, but he could not con 
trovert his argument. He only said, " May be the 
right thing makes us feel good in some way we don't 
know of." 

"Well, I don't want to feel good in some way I 
don't know of, myself," said the conductor very 
scornfully. 

"No, that 's so," Lemuel admitted. He remained 
silent, with a vague wonder flitting through his 
mind whether Mr. Sewell could make anything 
better of the case, and then settled back to his 
thoughts of Statira, pierced and confused as they 
were now with his pain from that trouble with Miss 
Vane. 

"What was that you asked me just now?" said 
the conductor. 



 

" That I asked you ? " Lemuel echoed. " Oh yes ! 
I asked you how you got your place on the cars." 

" Well, sir, you have to have recommendations 
they won't touch you without em; and then you 
have to have about seventy-five dollars capital to 
start with. You got to get your coat, and your cap, 
and your badge, and you got to have about twenty 
dollars of your own to make change with, first off ; 
company don't start you with a cent." 

Lemuel made no reply. After a while he asked, 
" Do you know any good hotel, around here, where 
I could go for the night ? " 

" Well, there 's the Brunswick, and there & the 
Van-dome," said the conductor. " They're  both 
pretty fair houses." Lemuel looked round at the 
mention of the aristocratic hostelries to see if the 
conductor was joking. He owned to something 
of the kind by adding, " There 's a little hotel, if you 
want something quieter, that ain't a great ways 
from here." He gave the name of the hotel, and 
told Lemuel how to find it. 

"Thank you," said Lemuel. "I guess I'll get 
off here, then. Well, good evening." 

" Guess I'll have to get another nickel from you," 
said the conductor, snapping his bell. " New trip," 
he explained. 

" Oh," said Lemuel, paying. It seemed to him a 
short ride for five cents. 

He got off, and as the conductor started up the 
car, he called forward through it to the driver, 
" Wanted to try for conductor, I guess. But I guess 



 

the seventy-five dollars capital settled that little 
point for him." 

Lemuel heard the voice but not the words. He 
felt his bag heavy in his hand as he walked away in 
the direction the conductor had given him, and he 
did not set it down when he stood hesitating in 
front of the hotel; it looked like too expensive a 
place for him, with its stained-glass door, and its 
bulk hoisted high into the air. He walked by the 
hotel, and then he came back to it, and mustered 
courage to go in. His bag, if not superb, looked a 
great deal more like baggage than the lank sack 
which he had come to Boston with ; he had bought 
it only a few days before, in hopes of going home 
before long ; he set it down with some confidence on 
the tesselated floor of cheap marble, and when a 
shirt-sleeved, drowsy-eyed, young man came out of a 
little room or booth near the door, where there was 
a desk, and a row of bells, and a board with keys, 
hanging from the wall above it, Lemuel said quite 
boldly that he would like a room. The man said, 
well, they did not much expect transients ; it was 
more of a family-hotel, like ; but he guessed they 
had a vacancy, and they could put him up. He 
brushed his shirt sleeves down with his hands, and 
looked apologetically at some ashes on his trousers, 
and said, well, it was not much use trying to put on 
style, anyway, when you were taking care of a furnace 
and had to run the elevator yourself, and look after 
the whole concern. He said his aunt mostly looked 
after letting the rooms, but she was at church, and 



 

he guessed he should have to see about it himself. 
He bade Lemuel just get right into the elevator, and 
he put his bag into a cage that hung in one corner 
of the hallway, and pulled at the wire rope, and 
they mounted together. On the way up he had 
time to explain that the clerk, who usually ran the 
elevator when they had no elevator-boy, had kicked, 
and they were just between hay and grass, as you 
might say. He showed Lemuel into a grandiose 
parlour or drawing-room, enormously draped and 
upholstered, and furnished in a composite applica 
tion of yellow jute and red plush to the ashen easy- 
chairs and sofa. A folding-bed in the figure of a 
chiffonier attempted to occupy the whole side of the 
wall and failed. 

" I' m afraid it 's more than I can pay," said 
Lemuel. " I guess I better see some other room." 
But the man said the room belonged to a boarder 
that had just gone, and he guessed they would not 
charge him very much for it ; he guessed Lemuel 
had better stay. He pulled the bed down, and 
showed him how it worked, and he lighted two 
bulbous gas-burners, contrived to burn the gas at 
such a low pressure that they were like two unsnuffed 
candles for brilliancy. He backed round over the 
spacious floor and looked about him with an unfami 
liar, marauding air, which had a certain boldness, but 
failed to impart courage to Lemuel, who trembled 
for fear of the unknown expense. But he was 
ashamed to go away, and when the man left him he 
went to bed, after some suspicious investigation of 



 

the machine he was -to sleep in. He found its 
comfort unmistakable. He was tired out with what 
had been happening, and the events of the day 
recurred in a turmoil that helped rather than 
hindered slumber ; none evolved itself distinctly 
enough from the mass to pursue him ; what he was 
mainly aware of was the daring question whether 
he could not get the place of that clerk who had 
kicked. 

In the morning he saw the landlady, who was 
called Mrs. Harmon, and who took the pay for his 
lodging, and said he might leave his bag a while there 
in the office. She was a large, smooth, tranquil person, 
who seemed ready for any sort of consent ; she entered 
into an easy conversation with Lemuel, and was so 
sympathetic in regard to the difficulties of getting 
along in the city, that he had proposed himself as 
clerk and been accepted almost before he believed the 
thing had happened. He was getting a little used 
to the rapidity of urban transactions, but his mind 
had still a rustic difficulty in keeping up with his 
experiences. 

" I suppose," said Mrs. Harmon, "it ain't very usual 
to take anybody without a reference ; I never do it ; 
but so long as you haven't been a great while in the 
city You ever had a place in Boston before ? " 

" Well, not exactly what you may call a place," 
said Lemuel, with a conscience against describing in 
that way his position at Miss Vane 's. " It was only 
part work." He added, " I wasn't there but a little 
while." 



 

" Know anybody in the city ? " 

"Yes," said Lemuel reluctantly; "I know Eev. 
David L. Sewell, some." 

"Oh, all right," said Mrs. Harmon, with eager 
satisfaction. " I have to be pretty particular who I 
have in the house. The boarders are all high-class, 
and I have to have all the departments accordingly. 
I'll see Mr. Sewell about you as soon as I get time, and 
I guess you can take right hold now, if you want to." 

Mrs. Harmon showed him in half a minute how 
to manage the elevator, and then left him with general 
instructions to tell everybody who came upon any 
errand he did not understand, that she would be back 
in a very short time. He found pen and paper in the 
office, and she said he might write the letter that he 
asked leave to send his mother ; when he mentioned 
his mother, she said, yes, indeed, with a burst of ma 
ternal sympathy which was imagined in her case, for 
she had already told Lemuel that if she had ever had 
any children she would not have gone into the hotel 
business, which she believed unfriendly to their right 
nurture ; she said she never liked to take ladies with 
children. 

He enclosed some money to his mother which he 
head intended to send, but which, before the occur 
rence of the good fortune that now seemed opening 
upon him, he thought he must withhold. He made 
as little as he could of his parting with Miss Vane, 
whom he had celebrated in earlier letters to his 
mother ; he did not wish to afflict her on his own 
account, or incense her against Miss Vane, who, he 



 

felt, could not help her part in it ; but his heart 
burned anew against Miss Sibyl while he wrote. He 
dwelt upon his good luck in getting this new position 
at once, and he let his mother see that he considered 
it a rise in life. He said he was going to try to get 
Mrs. Harmon to let him go home for Thanksgiving, 
though he presumed he might have to come back the 
same night. 

His letter was short, but he was several times 
interrupted by the lady boarders, many of whom 
stopped to ask Mrs. Harmon something on their way 
to their rooms from breakfast. They did not really 
want anything, in most cases ; but they were strict 
with Lemuel in Avantirig to know just when they 
could see Mrs. Harmon ; and they delayed somewhat 
to satisfy a natural curiosity in regard to him. They 
made talk with him as he took them up in the eleva 
tor, and did what they could to find out about him. 
Most of them had their door-keys in their hands, 
and dangled them by the triangular pieces of brass 
which the keys were chained to ; they affected some 
sort of negligee breakfast costume, and Lemuel thought 
them very fashionable. They nearly all snuffled and 
whined as they spoke ; some had a soft, lazy nasal ; 
others broke abruptly from silence to silence, in 
voices of nervous sharpness, like the cry or the bleat 
of an animal ; one young girl, who was quite pretty, 
had a high, hoarse voice, like a gander. 

Lemuel did not mind all this ; he talked through 
his nose too ; and he accepted Mrs. Harmon 's smooth 
characterisation of her guests, as she called them, 



j OR, 

which she delivered in a slow, unimpassioned voice. 
" I never have any but the highest class people in 
my house the very nicest ; and I never have any 
jangling going on. In the first place I never allow 
anybody to have anything to complain of, and then 
if they do complain, I' m right up and down with 
them ; I tell them their rooms are wanted, and they 
understand what I' mean. And I never allow any 
trouble among the servants ; I tell them, if they are 
not suited, that I don't want them to stay ; and if 
they get to quarrelling among themselves, I send them 
all away, and get a new lot ; I pay the highest wages, 
and I can always do it. If you want to keep up 
with the times at all, you have got to set a good 
table, and I' mean to set just as good a table as any 
in Boston ; I don't intend to let any one complain of 
my house on that score. Well, it 's as broad as it 's 
long : if you set a good table, you can ask a good 
price ; and if you don t, you can t, that 's all. Pay as 
you go, is my motto." 

Mrs. Harmon sat talking in the little den beside 
the door which she called the office, when she returned 
from that absence which she had asked him to say 
would not be more than fifteen minutes at the out 
side. It had been something more than two hours, 
and it had ended almost clandestinely ; but knowledge 
of her return had somehow spread through the house, 
and several ladies came in while she was talking, to 
ask when their window-shades were to be put up, or 
to say that they knew their gas-fixtures must be 
out of order ; or that there were mice in their closets, 



 

for they had heard them gnawing ; or that they were 
sure their set-bowls smelt, and that the traps were 
not working. Mrs. Harmon was prompt in every 
exigency. She showed the greatest surprise that 
those shades had not gone up yet ; she said she was 
going to send round for the gasfitter to look at the 
fixtures all over the house ; and that she would get 
some potash to pour down the bowls, for she knew 
the drainage was perfect it was just the pipes down 
to the traps that smelt; she advised a cat for the 
mice, and said she would get one. She used the 
greatest sympathy with the ladies, recognising a real 
sufferer in each, and not attempting to deny anything. 
From the dining-room came at times the sound of 
voices, which blended in a discord loud above the 
clatter of crockery, but Mrs. Harmon seemed not to 
hear them. An excited foreigner of some sort finally 
rushed from this quarter, and thrust his head into 
the booth where Lemuel and Mrs. Harmon sat, long 
enough to explode some formula of renunciation 
upon her, which left her serenity unruffled. She 
received with the same patience the sarcasm of a 
boarder who appeared at the office-door with a bag 
in his hand, and said he would send an express-man 
for his trunk. He threw down the money for his 
receipted bill ; and when she said she was sorry he 
was going, he replied that he could not stand the 
table any longer, and that he believed that French 
cook of hers had died on the way over; he was 
tired of the Nova Scotia temporary, who had become 
permanent. 


 

A gentleman waited for [the parting guest to be 
gone, and then said to the tranquil Mrs. Harmon : 
" So Mellen has kicked, has he ? " 

"Yes, Mr. Evans," said Mrs. Harmon; " Mr. 
Mellen has kicked." 

" And don't you Tvant to abuse him a little ? You 
can to me, you know," suggested the gentleman. 

He had a full beard, parted at the chin ; it was 
almost white, and looked older than the rest of his 
face; his eyes were at once sad and whimsical. 
Lemuel tried to think where lie had seen him before. 

"Thank you; I don't know as it would do any 
good, Mr. Evans. But if he could have waited one 
week longer, I should have bad that cook." 

" Yes, that is what I firmly believe. Do you feel 
too much broken up to accept a ticket to the Wednes 
day matinee at the Museum ? " 

" No, I don t," said Mrs. Harmon. " But I shouldn't 
want to deprive Mrs. Evans of it." 

" Oh, she wouldn't go," said Mr. Evans, with a 
slight sigh. " You had better take it. Jefferson 's 
going to do Bob Acres" 

" Is that so ? " asked Mrs. Harmon placidly, taking 
the ticket. " Well, I in ever so much obliged to 
you, Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans, Mr. Barker our new 
clerk," she said, introducing them. 

Lemuel rose with rustic awkwardness, and shook 
hands with Mr. Evans, who looked at him with a 
friendly smile, but said nothing. 

" Now Mr. Barker is here, I guess I can get the 
time." Mr. Evans said, well, he was glad she could, 



 

and went out of the street door. " He 's just one of 
the nicest gentlemen I've got," continued Mrs. Har 
mon, following him with her eye as far as she 
conveniently could without turning her head, " him 
and his wife both. Ever heard of the Saturday 
Afternoon ? " 

"I don't know as I have," said Lemuel. 

" Well, he 's one of the editors. It 's a kind of a 
Sunday paper, I guess, for all it don't come out that 
day. I presume he could go every night in the week 
to every theatre in town, if he wanted to. I don't 
know how many tickets he 's give me. Some of the 
ladies seem to think he 's always makin fun of them ; 
but I can't ever feel that way. He used to board 
with a great friend of mine, him and his wife. 
They've  been with me now ever since Mrs. Hewitt 
died ; she was the one they boarded with before. 
They say he used to be dreadful easy-going, n't 
his wife was all t saved him. But I guess he 's diffe 
rent now. Well, I' must go out and see after the 
lunch. You watch the office, and say just what I told 
you before." 



XIY. 

SEWELL chanced to open his door to go out just as 
Miss Vane put her hand on the bell-pull, the morning 
after she had dismissed Lemuel. The cheer of his 
Monday face died out at the unsmiling severity of 
hers ; but he contrived to ask her in, and said he 
would call Mrs. Sewell, if she would sit down in the 
reception-room a moment. 

"I don't know," she said, with a certain look of 
inquiry, not unmixed with compassion. "It 's about 
Lemuel." 

The minister fetched a deep sigh. " Yes, I know 
it. But she will have to know it sooner or later." 
He went to the stairway and called her name, and 
then returned to Miss Yane in the reception-room. 

" Has Lemuel been here ? " she asked. 

"No." 
 " You said you knew it was about him " 

" It was my bad conscience, I suppose, and your 
face that told me." 

Miss Yane waited for Mrs. Sewell 's presence before 
she unpacked her heart. Then she left nothing in it. 
She ended by saying, " I have examined and cross- 

 

examined Sibyl, but it 's like cross-questioning a 
chameleon ; she changed colour with every new light 
she was put into." Here Miss Yane had got sorrow 
fully back to something more of her wonted humour, 
and laughed. 

"Poor Sibyl I" said Mrs. Sewell. 

" Poor ? " retorted Miss Vane. " Not at all ! I 
could get nothing out of either of them ; but I feel 
perfectly sure that Lemuel was not to blame." 

" It 's very possible," suggested Mrs. Sewell, " that 
he did say something in his awkward way that she 
misconstrued into impertinence." 

Miss Vane did not seem to believe this. "If- 
Lemuel had given me the slightest satisfaction," she 
began in self-exculpation. " But no," she broke off. 
"It had to be!" She rose. "I thought I had 
better come and tell you at once, Mr. Sewell. I 
suppose you will want to look him up, and do some 
thing more for him. I wish if you find him you 
would make him take this note." She gave the 
minister a ten-dollar bill. " I tried to do so, but he 
would not have it. I don't know what I shall do 
without him ! He is the best and most faithful 
creature in the world. Even in this little time I had 
got to relying implicitly upon his sense, his judgment, 
his goodness, his Well ! good morning ! " 

She ran out of the door, and left Sewell confronted 
with his wife. 

He did not know whether she had left him to 
hope or to despair, and he waited for his wife to 
interpret his emotion, but Mrs. Sewell tacitly refused 



 

to do this. After a dreary interval he plucked a 
random cheerfulness out of space, and said : " Well, 
if Miss Vane feels in that way about it, I don't see 
why the whole affair can't be arranged and Barker 
reinstated." 

"David," returned his wife, not vehemently at all, 
"when you come out with those mannish ideas I 
don't know what to do." 

" Well, my dear," said the minister, " I should be 
glad to come out with some womanish ideas if I had 
them. I dare say they would be better. But I do 
my poor best, under the circumstances. What is 
the trouble with my ideas, except that the sex is 
wrong ? " 

" You think, you men," replied Mrs. Sewell, " that 
a thing like that can, be mended up and smoothed 
over, and made just the same as ever. You think 
that because Miss Vane is sorry she sent Barker 
away and wants him back, she can take him back." 

" I don't see why she can t. I've  sometimes 
supposed that the very highest purpose of Chris 
tianity was mutual forgiveness forbearance with 
one another 's errors/ 

" That 's all very well," said Mrs. Sewell. " But 
you know that whenever I have taken a cook back, 
after she had shown temper, it 's been an entire 
failure ; and this is a far worse case, because there is 
disappointed good- will mixed up with it. I don't 
suppose Barker is at all to blame. Whatever has 
happened, you may be perfectly sure that it has been 
partly a bit of stage-play in Sibyl and partly a 



 

mischievous desire to use her power over him. I fore 
saw that she would soon be tired of reforming him. 
But whatever it is, it 's something that you can't 
repair. Suppose Barker went back to them ; could 
they ignore what 's happened I " 

" Of course not," Sewell admitted. , 

" Well, and should he ask her pardon, or she his ?" 

" The Socratic method is irresistible," said the 
minister sadly. "You have proved that nothing 
can be done for Barker with the Yanes. And now 
the question is, what can be done for him ? " 

" That 's something I' must leave to you, David," 
said his wife dispiritedly. She arose, and as she 
passed out of the room she added, " You will have to 
find him, in the first place, and you had better go 
round to the police stations and the tramps lodging- 
houses and begin looking." 

Sewell sighed heavily under the sarcastic advice, 
but acted upon it, and set forth upon the useless 
quest, because he did not know in the least what else 
to do. 

All that week Barker lay, a lurking discomfort, in 
his soul, though as the days passed the burden grew 
undeniably lighter ; Sewell had a great many things 
besides Barker to think of. But when Sunday came, 
and he rose in his pulpit, he could not help casting a 
glance of guilty fear toward Miss Yane 's pew and 
drawing a long breath of guilty relief not to see 
Lemuel in it. We are so made, that in the reaction 
the minister was able to throw himself into the 
matter of his discourse with uncommon fervour. 



 OR, 

It was really very good matter, and he felt tho 
literary joy in it which flatters the author even of a 
happily worded supplication to the Deity. He let 
his eyes, freed from their bondage to Lemuel 's 
attentive face, roam at large in liberal ease over his 
whole congregation ; and when, toward the close of 
his sermon, one visage began to grow out upon 
him from the two or three hundred others, and 
to concentrate in itself the facial expression of all the 
rest, and become the only countenance there, it was 
a perceptible moment before he identified it as that 
of his inalienable charge. Then he began to preach 
at it as usual, but defiantly, and with yet a haste to 
be through and to get speech with it that he felt 
was ludicrous, and must appear unaccountable to his 
hearers. It seemed to him that he could not bring 
his sermon to a close ; he ended it in a cloudy burst 
of rhetoric which he feared would please the nervous, 
elderly ladies who sometimes blamed him for a 
want of emotionality and knew must grieve the 
judicious. While the choir was singing the closing 
hymn, he contrived to beckon the sexton to the pulpit, 
and described and located Lemuel to him as well as 
he could without actually pointing him out; he 
said that he wished to see that young man after 
church, and asked the sexton to bring him to his 
room. The sexton did so to the best of his ability, 
but the young man whom he brought was not Lemuel, 
and had to be got rid of with apologies. 

On three or four successive Sundays Lemuel 's face 
dawned upon the minister from the congregation, 



 

and tasked his powers of impersonal appeal and 
mental concentration to the utmost. It never ap 
peared twice in the same place, and when at last 
Sewell had tutored the sexton carefully in Lemuel 's 
dress, he was driven to despair one morning- when 
he saw the boy sliding along between the seats in 
the gallery, and sitting down with an air of satis 
faction in an entirely new suit of clothes. 

After this defeat the sexton said with humorous 
sympathy, " Well, there ain't anything for it now, 
Mr. Sewell, but a detective, or else an advertisement 
in the Personals." 

Sewell laughed with him at his joke, and took 
what comfort he could from the evidence of prosper 
ity which Lemuel 's new clothes offered. He argued 
that if Barker could afford to buy them he could not 
be in immediate need, and for some final encounter 
with him he trusted in Providence, and was not too 
much cast down when his wife made him recognise 
that he was trusting in Luck. It was an ordeal to 
look forward to finding Lemuel sooner or later 
among his hearers every Sunday; but having pre 
pared his nerves for the shock, as men adjust their 
sensibilities to the recurrent pain of a disease, he 
came to bear it with fortitude, especially as he 
continually reminded himself that he had his fixed 
purpose to get at Lemuel at last and befriend him in 
any and every possible way. He tried hard to keep 
from getting a grudge against him. 

At the hotel, Lemuel remained in much of his 
original belief in the fashion and social grandeur of 



 

the ladies who formed the majority of Mrs. Harmon 's 
guests. Our womankind are prone to a sort of 
helpless intimacy with those who serve them ; the 
ladies had an instinctive perception of Lemuel 's 
trustiness, and readily gave him their confidence 
and much of their history. He came to know 
them without being at all able to classify them 
with reference to society at large, as of that 
large tribe among us who have revolted from 
domestic care, and have skilfully unseated the black 
rider who remains mounted behind the husband of 
the average lady-boarder. Some of them had never 
kept house, being young and newly married, though 
of this sort there were those who had tried it in flats, 
and had reverted to their natural condition of 
boarding. They advised Lemuel not to take a flat, 
whatever he did, unless he wanted to perish at once. 
Other lady boarders had broken up housekeeping 
during the first years of the war, and had been 
boarding round ever since, going from hotels in the 
city to hotels in the country, and back again with 
the change of the seasons ; these mostly had hus 
bands who had horses, and they talked with equal 
tenderness of the husbands and the horses, so that 
you could not always tell which Jim or Bob was ; 
usually they had no children, but occasionally they 
had a married daughter, or a son who lived West. 
There were several single ladies : one w r ho seemed 
to have nothing in this world to do but to come down 
to her meals, and another a physician who had not 
been able, in embracing the medical profession, to 



 

deny herself the girlish pleasure of her pet name, 
and was lettered in the list of guests in the entry as 
Dr. Cissie Bluff. In the attic, which had a north- 
light favourable to their work, were two girls, who 
were studying art at the Museum; one of them 
looked delicate at first sight, and afterwards seemed 
merely very gentle, with a clear-eyed pallor which 
was not unhealth. A student in the Law School sat 
at the table with these girls, and seemed sometimes 
to go with them to concerts and lectures. From his 
talk, which was almost the only talk that made itself 
heard in the dining-room, it appeared that he was 
from Wyoming Territory ; he treated the young 
ladies as representative of Boston and its prejudices, 
though apparently they were not Bostonians. There 
were several serious and retiring couples, of whom one 
or otherwas an invalid, and several who were poor, and 
preferred the plated gentility of Mrs. Harmon 's hotel 
it was called the St. Albans ; Mrs. Harmon liked the 
name to the genuine poverty of such housekeeping 
as they could have set up. About each of these 
women a home might have clung, with all its loves 
and cares ; they were naturally like other women ; 
but here they were ignoble particles, without 
attraction for one another, or apparently joy for 
themselves, impermanent, idle, listless j they had got 
rid of the trouble of housekeeping, and of its dignity 
and usefulness. There were a few children in the 
house, not at all noisy ; the boys played on the side 
walk, and the little girls stayed in their rooms with 
their mothers, and rarely took the air oftenerthan they. 



 

They came down rather later to breakfast, and 
they seemed not to go to school ; some of them had 
piano lessons in their rooms. Their mothers did not 
go out much ; sometimes they went to church or the 
theatre, and they went shopping. But they had 
apparently no more social than domestic life. Now 
and then they had a friend to lunch or dinner ; if a 
lady was absent, it was known to Mrs. Harmon, 
and through her to the other ladies, that she was 
spending the day with a friend of hers at an hotel 
in Newton, or Lexington, or Woburn. In a city full 
of receptions, of dinner-giving, and party-going, 
Mrs. Harmon 's guests led the lives of cloistered 
nuns, so far as such pleasures were concerned; 
occasionally a transient had rooms for a week or two, 
and was continually going, and receiving visits. She 
became the object of a certain unenvious curiosity 
with the other ladies, who had not much sociability 
among themselves ; they waited a good while before 
paying visits at one another 's rooms, and then were 
very punctilious not to go again until their calls had 
been returned. They were all doctoring themselves; 
they did not talk gossip or scandal much ; they talked 
of their diseases and physicians, and their married 
daughters and of Mrs. Harmon, whom they censured 
for being too easygoing. Certain of them devoured 
novels, which they carried about clasped to their 
breasts with their fingers in them at the place where 
they were reading ; they did not often speak of them, 
and apparently took them as people take opium. 
The men were the husbands or fathers of the 



