' And breathe forth my views in glowing messages to a 
palpitating Senate ? That is exactly what I should like to 
be j you read my aspirations wonderfully well.' 
' Well, do you consider that you have advanced far in 
that direction, as yet?' Verena asked. 
This question, with the tone in which it happened to be 
uttered, seemed to the young man to project rather an 
ironical light upon his present beggarly condition, so that 
for a moment he said nothing ; a moment during which if 
his neighbour had glanced round at his face she would 
have seen it ornamented by an incipient blush. Her words 
had for him the effect of a sudden, though, on the part of 
a young woman who had of course every right to defend 
herself, a perfectly legitimate taunt. They appeared only 
to repeat in another form (so at least his exaggerated 
Southern pride, his hot sensibility, interpreted the matter), 
the idea that a gentleman so dreadfully backward in the 
path of fortune had no right to take up the time of a 
 
brilliant, successful girl, even for the purpose of satisfying 
himself that he renounced her. But the reminder only 
sharpened his wish to make her feel that if he had re- 
nounced, it was simply on account of that same ugly, 
accidental, outside backwardness ; and if he had not, he 
went so far as to flatter himself, he might triumph over the 
whole accumulation of her prejudices over all the bribes 
of her notoriety. The deepest feeling in Ransom's bosom 
in relation to her was the conviction that she was made for 
love, as he had said to himself while he listened to her at 
Mrs. Burrage's. She was profoundly unconscious of it, and 
another ideal, crude and thin and artificial, had interposed 
itself; but in the presence of a man she should really care 
for, this false, flimsy structure would rattle to her feet, and 
the emancipation of Olive Chancellor's sex (what sex was it, 
great heaven ? he used profanely to ask himself), would be 
relegated to the land of vapours, of dead phrases. The 
reader may imagine whether such an impression as this 
made it any more agreeable to Basil to have to believe it 
would be indelicate in him to try to woo her. He would 
have resented immensely the imputation that he had done 
anything of that sort yet. ' Ah, Miss Tarrant, my success 
in life is one thing my ambition is another !' he exclaimed, 
presently, in answer to her inquiry. 'Nothing is more 
possible than that I may be poor and unheard of all my 
days ; and in that case no one but myself will know the 
visions of greatness I have stifled and buried.' 
'Why do you talk of being poor and unheard of? 
Aren't you getting on quite well in this city?' 
This question of Verena's left him no time, or at least 
no coolness, to remember that to Mrs. Luna and to Olive 
he had put a fine face on his prospects, and that any im- 
pression the girl might have about them was but the natural 
echo of what these ladies believed. It had to his ear such 
a subtly mocking, defiant, unconsciously injurious quality, 
that the only answer he could make to it seemed to him for 
the moment to be an outstretched arm, which, passing 
round her waist, should draw her so close to him as to 
enable him to give her a concise account of his situation in 
the form of a deliberate kiss. If the moment I speak of 
 
had lasted a few seconds longer I know not what monstrous 
proceeding of this kind it would have been my difficult duty 
to describe ; it was fortunately arrested by the arrival of a 
nursery-maid pushing a perambulator and accompanied by 
an infant who toddled in her wake. Both the nurse and 
her companion gazed fixedly, and it seemed to Ransom 
even sternly, at the striking couple on the bench ; and 
meanwhile Verena, looking with a quickened eye at the 
children (she adored children), went on 
'  It sounds too flat for you to talk about your remaining 
unheard of. Of course you are ambitious; any one can 
see that, to look at you. And once your ambition is 
excited in any particular direction, people had better look 
out. With your will !' she added, with a curious mocking 
candour. 
' What do you know about my will?' he asked, laughing 
a little awkwardly, as if he had really attempted to kiss her 
in the course of the second independent interview he had 
ever had with her and been rebuffed. 
' I know it's stronger than mine. It made me come 
out, when I thought I had much better not, and it keeps 
me sitting here long after I should have started for home.' 
' Give me the day, dear Miss Tarrant, give me the day,' 
Basil Ransom murmured ; and as she turned her face upon 
him, moved by the expression of his voice, he added 
' Come and dine with me, since you wouldn't lunch. Are 
you really not faint and weak ?' 
' I am faint and weak at all the horrible things you have 
said; I have lunched on abominations. And now you 
want me to dine with you ? Thank you ; I think you're 
cool!' Verena cried, with a laugh which her chronicler 
knows to have been expressive of some embarrassment, 
though Basil Ransom did not. 
'You must remember that I have, on two different 
occasions, listened to you for an hour, in speechless, 
submissive attention, and that I shall probably do it a great 
many times more.' 
'Why should you ever listen to me again, when you 
loathe my ideas ?' 
'I don't listen to your ideas; I listen to your voice.' 
 
' Ah, I told Olive !' said Verena, quickly, as if his words 
had confirmed an old fear; which was general, however, 
and did not relate particularly to him. 
Ransom still had an impression that he was not making 
love to her, especially when he could observe, with all the 
superiority of a man ' I wonder whether you have under- 
stood ten words I have said to you?' 
'I should think you had made it clear enough you 
had rubbed it in !' 
'What have you understood, then?' 
' Why, that you want to put us back further than we 
have been at any period.' 
' I have been joking ; I have been piling it up,' Ransom 
said, making that concession unexpectedly to the girl. 
Every now and then he had an air of relaxing himself, 
becoming absent, ceasing to care to discuss. 
She was capable of noticing this, and in a moment she 
asked ' Why don't you write out your ideas?' 
This touched again upon the matter of his failure ; it 
was curious how she couldn't keep off it, hit it every time. 
'Do you mean for the public? I have written many 
things, but I can't get them printed.' 
' Then it would seem that there are not so many people 
so many as you said just now who agree with you.' 
' Well,' said Basil Ransom, ' editors are a mean, timorous 
lot, always saying they want something original, but deadly 
afraid of it when it comes.' 
'Is it for papers, magazines?' As it sank into Verena's 
mind more deeply that the contributions of this remarkable 
young man had been rejected contributions in which, 
apparently, everything she held dear was riddled with scorn 
she felt a strange pity and sadness, a sense of injustice. 
' I am very sorry you can't get published,' she said, so 
simply that he looked up at her, from the figure he was 
scratching on the asphalt with his stick, to see whether 
such a tone as that, in relation to such a fact, were not 
' put on.' But it was evidently genuine, and Verena added 
that she supposed getting published was very difficult 
always ; she remembered, though she didn't mention, how 
little success her father had when he tried. She hoped 
 
Mr. Ransom would keep on ; he would be sure to succeed 
at last. Then she continued, smiling, with more irony : 
' You may denounce me by name if you like. Only please 
don't say anything about Olive Chancellor.' 
' How little you understand what I want to achieve ! ' 
Basil Ransom exclaimed. ' There you are you women 
all over; always meaning yourselves, something personal, 
and always thinking it is meant by others !' 
' Yes, that's the charge they make,' said Verena, gaily. 
' I  don't want to touch you, or Miss Chancellor, or Mrs. 
Farrinder, or Miss Birdseye, or the shade of Eliza P. 
Moseley, or any other gifted and celebrated being on earth 
or in heaven.' 
'  Oh, I suppose you want to destroy us by neglect, by 
silence !' Verena exclaimed, with the same brightness. 
'  No, I don't want to destroy you, any more than I want 
to save you. There has been far too much talk about you, 
and I want to leave you alone altogether. My interest is 
in my own sex; yours evidently can look after itself. 
That's what I want to save/ 
Verena saw that he was more serious now than he had 
been before, that he was not piling it up satirically, but 
saying really and a trifle wearily, as if suddenly he were 
tired of much talk, what he meant. 'To save it from 
what ?' she asked. 
' From the most damnable feminisation ! I am so far 
from thinking, as you set forth the other night, that there is 
not enough woman in our general life, that it has long been 
pressed home to me that there is a great deal too much. 
The whole generation is womanised ; the masculine tone 
is passing out of the world; it's a feminine, a nervous, 
hysterical, chattering, canting age, an age of hollow phrases 
and false delicacy and exaggerated solicitudes and coddled 
sensibilities, which, if we don't soon look out, will usher in 
the reign of mediocrity, of the feeblest and flattest and 
the most pretentious that has ever been. The masculine 
character, the ability to dare and endure, to know and yet 
not fear reality, to look the world in the face and take it for 
what it is a very queer and partly very base mixture that 
is what I want to preserve, or rather, as I may say, to 
 
recover ; and I must tell you that I don't in the least care 
what becomes of you ladies while I make the attempt ! ' 
The poor fellow delivered himself of these narrow 
notions (the rejection of which by leading periodicals was 
certainly not a matter for surprise), with low, soft earnest- 
ness, bending towards her so as to give out his whole idea, 
yet apparently forgetting for the moment how offensive it 
must be to her now that it was articulated in that calm, 
severe way, in which no allowance was to be made for 
hyperbole. Verena did not remind herself of this ; she 
was too much impressed by his manner and by the novelty 
of a man taking that sort of religious tone about such a 
cause. It told her on the spot, from one minute to the 
other and once for all, that the man who could give her 
that impression would never come round. She felt cold, 
slightly sick, though she replied that now he summed up 
his creed in such a distinct, lucid way, it was much more 
comfortable one knew with what one was dealing; a 
declaration much at variance with the fact, for Verena had 
never felt less gratified in her life. The ugliness of her 
companion's profession of faith made her shiver ; it would 
have been difficult to her to imagine anything more crudely 
profane. She was determined, however, not to betray any 
shudder that could suggest weakness, and the best way she 
could think of to disguise her emotion was to remark in a 
tone which, although not assumed for that purpose, was 
really the most effective revenge, inasmuch as it always 
produced on Ransom's part (it was not peculiar, among 
women, to Verena), an angry helplessness ' Mr. Ransom, 
I assure you this is an age of conscience.' 
' That's a part of your cant. It's an age of unspeakable 
shams, as Carlyle says.' 
'Well,' returned Verena, 'it's all very comfortable for 
you to say that you wish to leave us alone. But you can't 
leave us alone. We are here, and we have got to be dis- 
posed of. You have got to put us somewhere. It's a 
remarkable social system that has no place for us/' the 
girl went on, with her most charming laugh. 
' No place in public. My plan is to keep you at home 
and have a better time with you there than ever.' 
 
'  I'm glad it's to be better ; there's room for it. Woe 
to American womanhood when you start a movement for 
being more what you like to be at home !' 
'Lord, how you're perverted; you, the very genius!' 
Basil Ransom murmured, looking at her with the kindest 
eyes. 
She paid no attention to this, she went on, ' And those 
who have got no home (there are millions, you know), what 
are you going to do with them ? You must remember that 
women marry are given in marriage less and less ; that 
isn't their career, as a matter of course, any more. You 
can't tell them to go and mind their husband and children, 
when they have no husband and children to mind.' 
' Oh,' said Ransom, ' that's a detail ! And for myself, I 
confess, I have such a boundless appreciation of your sex 
in private life that I am perfectly ready to advocate a man's 
having a half a dozen wives.' 
' The civilisation of the Turks, then, strikes you as the 
highest?' 
'The Turks have a second-rate religion; they are 
fatalists, and that keeps them down. Besides, their women 
are not nearly so charming as ours or as ours would be if 
this modern pestilence were eradicated. Think what a 
confession you make when you say that women are less 
and less sought in marriage ; what a testimony that is to 
the pernicious effect on their manners, their person, their 
nature, of this fatuous agitation.' 
'That's very complimentary to me!' Verena broke in, 
lightly. 
But Ransom was carried over her interruption by the 
current of his argument. ' There are a thousand ways in 
which any woman, all women, married or single, may find 
occupation. They may find it in making society agreeable.' 
'Agreeable to men, of course.' 
'To whom else, pray? Dear Miss Tarrant, what is 
most agreeable to women is to be agreeable to men ! That 
is a truth as old as the human race, and don't let Olive 
Chancellor persuade you that she and Mrs. Farrinder have 
invented any that can take its place, or that is more pro- 
found, more durable.' 
 
Verena waived this point of the discussion; she only 
said : ' Well, I am glad to hear you are prepared to see the 
place all choked up with old maids !' 
' I don't object to the old old maids ; they were delight- 
ful ; they had always plenty to do, and didn't wander about 
the world crying out for a vocation. It is the new old 
maid that you have invented from whom I pray to be 
delivered.' He didn't say he meant Olive Chancellor, but 
Verena looked at him as if she suspected him of doing so ; 
and to put her off that scent he went on, taking up what 
she had said a moment before : ' As for its not being com- 
plimentary to you, my remark about the effect on the 
women themselves of this pernicious craze, my dear Miss 
Tarrant, you may be quite at your ease. You stand apart, 
you are unique, extraordinary; you constitute a category 
by yourself. In you the elements have been mixed in a 
manner so felicitous that I regard you as quite incorruptible. 
I don't know where you come from nor how you come to 
be what you are, but you are outside and above all vulgar- 
ising influences. Besides, you ought to know,' the young 
man proceeded, in the same cool, mild, deliberate tone, as 
if he were demonstrating a mathematical solution, ' you 
ought to know that your connection with all these rantings 
and ravings is the most unreal, accidental, illusory thing in 
the world. You think you care about them, but you don't 
at all. They were imposed upon you by circumstances, by 
unfortunate associations, and you accepted them as you 
would have accepted any other burden, on account of the 
sweetness of your nature. You always want to please 
some one, and now you go lecturing about the country, 
and trying to provoke demonstrations, in order to please 
Miss Chancellor, just as you did it before to please your 
father and mother. It isn't you, the least in the world, 
but an inflated little figure (very remarkable in its way too), 
whom you have invented and set on its feet, pulling strings, 
behind it, to make it move and speak, while you try to 
conceal and efface yourself there. Ah, Miss Tarrant, if it's 
a question of pleasing, how much you might please some 
one else by tipping your preposterous puppet over and 
standing forth in your freedom as well as in your loveliness ! ' 
 
While Basil Ransom spoke and he had not spoken 
just that way yet Verena sat there deeply attentive, with 
her eyes on the ground; but as soon as he ceased she 
sprang to her feet something made her feel that their 
association had already lasted quite too long. She turned 
away from him as if she wished to leave him, and indeed 
were about to attempt to do so. She didn't desire to look 
at him now, or even to have much more conversation with 
him. 'Something,' I say, made her feel so, but it was 
partly his curious manner so serene and explicit, as if he 
knew the whole thing to an absolute certainty which 
partly scared her and partly made her feel angry. She 
began to move along the path to one of the gates, as if it 
were settled that they should immediately leave the place. 
He laid it all out so clearly; if he had had a revelation he 
couldn't speak otherwise. That description of herself as 
something different from what she was trying to be, the 
charge of want of reality, made her heart beat with pain ; 
she was sure, at any rate, it was her real self that was there 
with him now, where she oughtn't to be. In a moment he 
was at her side again, going with her ; and as they walked 
it came over her that some of the things he had said to her 
were far beyond what Olive could have imagined as the 
very worst possible. What would be her state now, poor 
forsaken friend, if some of them had been borne to her in 
the voices of the air? Verena had been affected by her 
companion's speech (his manner had changed so ; it seemed 
to express something quite different), in a way that pushed 
her to throw up the discussion and determine that as soon 
as they should get out of the park she would go off by 
herself; but she still had her wits about her sufficiently to 
think it important she should give no sign of discomposure, 
of confessing that she was driven from the field. She 
appeared to herself to notice and reply to his extraordinary 
observations enough, without taking them up too much, 
when she said, tossing the words over her shoulder at 
Ransom, while she moved quickly : ' I presume, from what 
you say, that you don't think I have much ability.' 
He hesitated before answering, while his long legs easily 
kept pace with her rapid step her charming, touching, 
hurrying step, which expressed all the trepidation she was 
anxious to conceal. ' Immense ability, but not in the line 
in which you most try to have it. In a very different line, 
Miss Tarrant ! Ability is no word for it ; it's genius !' 
She felt his eyes on her face ever so close and fixed 
there after he had chosen to reply to her question that 
way. She was beginning to blush ; if he had kept them 
longer, and on the part of any one else, she would have 
called such a stare impertinent. Verena had been com- 
mended of old by Olive for her serenity ' while exposed to 
the gaze of hundreds ' ; but a change had taken place, and 
she was now unable to endure the contemplation of an 
individual. She wished to detach him, to lead him off 
again into the general ; and for this purpose, at the end of 
a moment, she made another inquiry : ' I am to under- 
stand, then, as your last word that you regard us as quite 
inferior?' 
' For public, civic uses, absolutely perfectly weak and 
second-rate. I know nothing more indicative of the 
muddled sentiment of the time than that any number of 
men should be found to pretend that they regard you in 
any other light. But privately, personally, it's another 
affair. In the realm of family life and the domestic affec- 
tions ' 
At this Verena broke in, with a nervous laugh, ' Don't 
say that ; it's only a phrase ! ' 
'Well, it's a better one than any of yours,' said Basil 
Ransom, turning with her out of one of the smaller 
gates the first they had come to. They emerged into 
the species of plaza formed by the numbered street 
which constitutes the southern extremity of the park and the 
termination of the Sixth Avenue. The glow of the splen- 
did afternoon was over everything, and the day seemed to 
Ransom still in its youth. The bowers and boskages 
stretched behind them, the artificial lakes and cockneyfied 
landscapes, making all the region bright with the sense of 
air and space, and raw natural tints, and vegetation too 
diminutive to overshadow. The chocolate-coloured houses, 
in tall, new rows, surveyed the expanse ; the street-cars 
rattled in the foreground, changing horses while the horses 
steamed, and absorbing and emitting passengers ; and the 
beer- saloons, with exposed shoulders and sides, which in 
New York do a good deal towards representing the pic- 
turesque, the 'bit' appreciated by painters, announced 
themselves in signs of large lettering to the sky. Groups 
of the unemployed, the children of disappointment from 
beyond the seas, propped themselves against the low, sunny 
wall of the park ; and on the other side the commercial 
vista of the Sixth Avenue stretched away with a remarkable 
absence of aerial perspective. 
' I must go home ; good-bye,' Verena said, abruptly, to 
her companion. 
'  Go home ? You won't come and dine, then ?' 
Verena knew people who dined at midday and others 
who dined in the evening, and others still who never dined 
at all ; but she knew no one who dined at half-past three. 
Ransom's attachment to this idea therefore struck her as 
queer and infelicitous, and she supposed it betrayed the 
habits of Mississippi. But that couldn't make it any more 
acceptable to her, in spite of his looking so disappointed 
with his dimly-glowing eyes that he was heedless for the 
moment that the main fact connected with her return to 
Tenth Street was that she wished to go alone. 
' I must leave you, right away,' she said. ' Please don't 
ask me to stay ; you wouldn't if you knew how little I want 
to ! ' Her manner was different now, and her face as well, 
and though she smiled more than ever she had never 
seemed to him more serious. 
' Alone, do you mean ? Really I can't let you do that/ 
Ransom replied, extremely shocked at this sacrifice being 
asked of him. ' I have brought you this immense distance, 
I am responsible for you, and I must place you where I 
found you.' 
'Mr. Ransom, I must, I will !' she exclaimed, in a tone 
he had not yet heard her use ; so that, a good deal amazed, 
puzzled and pained, he saw that he should make a mistake 
if he were to insist. He had known that their expedition 
must end in a separation which could not be sweet, but he 
had counted on making some of the terms of it himself. 
When he expressed the hope that she would at least allow 
 
him to put her into a car, she replied that she wished no 
car; she wanted to walk. This image of her 'streaking 
off 7 by herself, as he figured it, did not mend the matter ; 
but in the presence of t her sudden nervous impatience he 
felt that here was a feminine mystery which must be allowed 
to take its course. 
'It costs me more than you probably suspect, but I 
submit. Heaven guard you and bless you, Miss Tarrant !' 
She turned her face away from him as if she were 
straining at a leash; then she rejoined, in the most un- 
expected manner: 'I hope very much you will get printed.' 
' Get my articles published ?' He stared, and broke out: 
' Oh, you delightful being ! ' 
'  Good-bye,' she repeated ; and now she gave him her 
hand. As he held it a moment, and asked her if she were 
really leaving the city so soon that she mightn't see him 
again, she answered : ' If I stay it will be at a place to 
which you mustn't come. They wouldn't let you see me.' 
He had not intended to put that question to her ; he 
had set himself a limit. But the limit had suddenly moved 
on. ' Do you mean at that house where I heard you 
speak?' 
' I may go there for a few days.' 
' If it's forbidden to me to go and see you there, why 
did you send me a card?' 
' Because I wanted to convert you then.' 
' And now you give me up ?' 
' No, no ; I want you to remain as you are ! ' 
She looked strange, with her more mechanical smile, as 
she said this, and he didn't know what idea was in her 
head. She had already left him, but he called after her, 
' If you do stay, I will come !' She neither turned nor 
made an answer, and all that was left to him was to watch 
her till she passed out of sight. Her back, with its charm- 
ing young form, seemed to repeat that last puzzle, which 
was almost a challenge. 
For this, however, Verena Tarrant had not meant it. 
She wanted, in spite of the greater delay and the way Olive 
would wonder, to walk home, because it gave her time to 
think, and think again, how glad she was (really, positively, 
 
now\ that Mr. Ransom was on the wrong side. If he had 
been on the right ! She did not finish this proposition. 
She found Olive waiting for her in exactly the manner she 
had foreseen; she turned to her, as she came in, a face suffi- 
ciently terrible. Verena instantly explained herself, related 
exactly what she had been doing ; then went on, without 
giving her friend time for question or comment : ' And you 
you paid your visit to Mrs. Burrage?' 
' Yes, I went through that.' 
'And did she press the question of my coming there ?' 
' Very much indeed.' 
' And what did you say ?' 
'I said very little, but she gave me such assur- 
ances ' 
'That you thought I ought to go?' 
Olive was silent a moment; then she said : ' She declares 
they are devoted to the cause, and that New York will be 
at your feet.' 
Verena took Miss Chancellor's shoulders in each of her 
hands, and gave her back, for an instant, her gaze, her 
silence. Then she broke out, with a kind of passion : ' I 
don't care for her assurances I don't care for New York ! 
I won't go to them I won't do you understand?' Sud- 
denly her voice changed, she passed her arms round her 
friend and buried her face in her neck. ' Olive Chancellor, 
take me away, take me away !' she went on. In a moment 
Olive felt that she was sobbing and that the question was 
settled, the question she herself had debated in anguish a 
couple of hours before. 
BOOK THIRD. 
XXXV. 
THE August night had gathered by the time Basil Ransom, 
having finished his supper, stepped out upon the piazza of 
the little hotel. It was a very little hotel and of a very 
slight and loose construction ; the tread of a tall Mississip- 
pian made the staircase groan and the windows rattle in 
their frames. He was very hungry when he arrived, having 
not had a moment, in Boston, on his way through, to eat 
even the frugal morsel with which he was accustomed to 
sustain nature between a breakfast that consisted of a cup 
of coffee and a dinner that consisted of a cup of tea. He 
had had his cup of tea now, and very bad it was, brought 
him by a pale, round-backed young lady, with auburn ring- 
lets, a fancy belt, and an expression of limited tolerance for 
a gentleman who could not choose quickly between fried 
fish, fried steak, and baked beans. The train for Marmion 
left Boston at four o'clock in the afternoon, and rambled 
fitfully toward the southern cape, while the shadows grew 
long in the stony pastures and the slanting light gilded the 
straggling, shabby woods, and painted the ponds and 
marshes with yellow gleams. The ripeness of summer lay 
upon the land, and yet there was nothing in the country 
Basil Ransom traversed that seemed susceptible of maturity; 
nothing but the apples in the little tough, dense orchards, 
which gave a suggestion of sour fruition here and there, and 
the tall, bright golden-rod at the bottom of the bare stone 
dykes. There were no fields of yellow grain; only here 
and there a crop of brown hay. But there was a kind of 
soft scrubbiness in the landscape, and a sweetness begotten 
of low horizons, of mild air, with a possibility of summer 
haze, of unregarded inlets where on August mornings the 
water must be brightly blue. Ransom had heard that the 
Cape was the Italy, so to speak, of Massachusetts ; it had 
been described to him as the drowsy Cape, the languid 
Cape, the Cape not of storms, but of eternal peace. He 
knew that the Bostonians had been drawn thither, for the 
hot weeks, by its sedative influence, by the conviction that 
its toneless air would minister to perfect rest. In a career 
in which there was so much nervous excitement as in theirs 
they had no wish to be wound up when they went out of 
town ; they were sufficiently wound up at all times by the 
sense of all their sex had been through. They wanted to 
live idly, to unbend and lie in hammocks, and also to keep 
out of the crowd, the rush of the watering-place. Ransom 
could see there was no crowd at Marmion, as soon as he 
got there, though indeed there was a rush, which directed 
itself to the only vehicle in waiting outside of the small, 
lonely, hut-like station, so distant from the village that, as 
far as one looked along the sandy, sketchy road which was 
supposed to lead to it, one saw only an empty land on 
either side. Six or eight men, in ' dusters/ carrying parcels 
and handbags, projected themselves upon the solitary, 
rickety carry-all, so that Ransom could read his own fate, 
while the ruminating conductor of the vehicle, a lean, 
shambling citizen, with a long neck and a tuft on his chin, 
guessed that if he wanted to get to the hotel before dusk 
he would have to strike out. His valise was attached in a 
precarious manner to the rear of the carry-all. ' Well, I'll 
chance it,' the driver remarked, sadly, when Ransom pro- 
tested against its insecure position. He recognised the 
southern quality of that picturesque fatalism judged that 
Miss Chancellor and Verena Tarrant must be pretty 
thoroughly relaxed if they had given themselves up to the 
genius of the place. This was what he hoped for and 
counted on, as he took his way, the sole pedestrian in the 
group that had quitted the train, in the wake of the over- 
laden carry-all. It helped him to enjoy the first country 
walk he had had for many months, for more than months, 
for years, that the reflection was forced upon him as he 
went (the mild, vague scenery, just beginning to be dim 
with twilight, suggested it at every step), that the two young 
women who constituted, at Marmion, his whole prefigure- 
 
ment of a social circle, must, in such a locality as that, be 
taking a regular holiday. The sense of all the wrongs they 
had still to redress must be lighter there than it was in Boston; 
the ardent young man had, for the hour, an ingenuous hope 
that they had left their opinions in the city. He liked the 
very smell of the soil as he wandered along ; cool, soft 
whiffs of evening met him at bends of the road which dis- 
closed very little more unless it might be a band of straight- 
stemmed woodland, keeping, a little, the red glow from the 
west, or (as he went further) an old house, shingled all over, 
gray and slightly collapsing, which looked down at him from 
a steep bank, at the top of wooden steps. He was already 
refreshed ; he had tasted the breath of nature, measured 
his long grind in New York, without a vacation, with the 
repetition of the daily movement up and down the long, 
straight, maddening city, like a bucket in a well or a shuttle 
in a loom. 
He lit his cigar in the office of the hotel a small room 
on the right of the door, where a ' register,' meagrely in- 
scribed, led a terribly public life on the little bare desk, and 
got its pages dogs'-eared before they were covered. Local 
worthies, of a vague identity, used to lounge there, as 
Ransom perceived the next day, by the hour. They tipped 
back their chairs against the wall, seldom spoke, and might 
have been supposed, with their converging vision, to be 
watching something out of the window, if there had been 
anything at Marmion to watch. Sometimes one of them 
got up and went to the desk, on which he leaned his elbows, 
hunching a pair of sloping shoulders to an uncollared neck. 
For the fiftieth time he perused the fly-blown page of the 
recording volume, where the names followed each other 
with such jumps of date. The others watched him while 
he did so or contemplated in silence some ' guest ' of the 
hostelry, when such a personage entered the place with an 
air of appealing from the general irresponsibility of the 
establishment and found no one but the village-philosophers 
to address himself to. It was an establishment conducted 
by invisible, elusive agencies j they had a kind of strong- 
hold in the dining-room, which was kept locked at all but 
sacramental hours. There was a tradition that a 'boy' 
 
exercised some tutelary function as regards the crumpled 
register ; but when he was inquired about, it was usually 
elicited from the impartial circle in the office either that he 
was somewhere round or that he had gone a-fishing. Except 
the haughty waitress who has just been mentioned as giving 
Ransom his supper, and who only emerged at meal-times 
from her mystic seclusion, this impalpable youth was the 
single person on the premises who represented domestic 
service. Anxious lady-boarders, wrapped in shawls, were 
seen waiting for him, as if he had been the doctor, on 
horse-hair rocking-chairs, in the little public parlour ; others 
peered vaguely out of back doors and windows, thinking 
that if he were somewhere round they might see him. 
Sometimes people went to the door of the dining-room and 
tried it, shaking it a little, timidly, to see if it would yield ; 
then, finding it fast, came away, looking, if they had been 
observed, shy and snubbed, at their fellows. Some of them 
went so far as to say that they didn't think it was a very 
good hotel 
Ransom, however, didn't much care whether it were 
good or not ; he hadn't come to Marmion for the love of 
the hotel. Now that he had got there, however, he didn't 
know exactly what to do ; his course seemed rather less 
easy than it had done when, suddenly, the night before, 
tired, sick of the city-air, and hungry for a holiday, he de- 
cided to take the next morning's train to Boston, and there 
take another to the shores of Buzzard's Bay. The hotel 
itself offered few resources; the inmates were not numerous; 
they moved about a little outside, on the small piazza and 
in the rough yard which interposed between the house and 
the road, and then they dropped off into the unmitigated 
dusk. This element, touched only in two or three places 
by a far-away dim glimmer, presented itself to Ransom as 
his sole entertainment. Though it was pervaded by that 
curious, pure, earthy smell which in New England, in 
summer, hangs in the nocturnal air, Ransom bethought 
himself that the place might be a little dull for persons who 
had not come to it, as he had, to take possession of Verena 
Tarrant. The unfriendly inn, which suggested dreadfully 
to Ransom (he despised the practice), an early bed -time, 
 
seemed to have no relation to anything, not even to itself; 
but a fellow-tenant of whom he made an inquiry told him 
the village was sprinkled round. Basil presently walked 
along the road in search of it, under the stars, smoking 
one of the good cigars which constituted his only tribute to 
luxury. He reflected that it would hardly do to begin his 
attack that night j he ought to give the Bostonians a certain 
amount of notice of his appearance on the scene. He 
thought it very possible, indeed, that they might be addicted 
to the vile habit of 'retiring' with the cocks and hens. 
He was sure that was one of the things Olive Chancellor 
would do so long as he should stay on purpose to spite 
him ; she would make Verena Tarrant go to bed at un- 
natural hours, just to deprive him of his evenings. He 
walked some distance without encountering a creature or 
discerning an habitation ; but he enjoyed the splendid star- 
light, the stillness, the shrill melancholy of the crickets, 
which seemed to make all the vague forms of the country 
pulsate around him ; the whole impression was a bath of 
freshness after the long strain of the preceding two years, 
and his recent sweltering weeks in New York. At the end 
of ten minutes (his stroll had been slow), a figure drew near 
him, at first indistinct, but presently defining itself as that 
of a woman. She was walking apparently without purpose, 
like himself, or without other purpose than that of looking 
at the stars, which she paused for an instant, throwing back 
her head, to contemplate, as he drew nearer to her. In a 
moment he was very close ; he saw her look at him, through 
the clear gloom, as they passed each other. She was small 
and slim ; he made out her head and face, saw that her 
hair was cropped ; had an impression of having seen her 
before. He noticed that as she went by she turned as well 
as himself, and that there was a sort of recognition in her 
movement. Then he felt sure that he had seen her else- 
where, and before she had added to the distance that separated 
them he stopped short, looking after her. She noticed his 
halt, paused equally, and for a moment they stood there 
face to face, at a certain interval, in the darkness. 
' I beg your pardon is it Doctor Prance ?' he found 
himself demanding. 
 
For a minute there was no answer ; then came the voice 
of the little lady : 
' Yes, sir ; I am Doctor Prance. Any one sick at the 
hotel?' 
' I  hope not ; I don't know,' Ransom said, laughing. 
Then he took a few steps, mentioned his name, recalled 
his having met her at Miss Birdseye's, ever so long before 
(nearly two years), and expressed the hope that she had not 
forgotten that. 
She thought it over a little she was evidently addicted 
neither to empty phrases nor to unconsidered assertions. 
'I presume you mean that night Miss Tarrant launched 
out so.' 
' That very night. We had a very interesting conversation.' 
'Well, I remember I lost a good deal,' said Doctor 
Prance. 
' Well, I don't know ; I have an idea you made it up in 
other ways,' Ransom returned, laughing still. 
He saw her bright little eyes engage with his own. 
Staying, apparently, in the village, she had come out, bare- 
headed, for an evening walk, and if it had been possible to 
imagine Doctor Prance bored and in want of recreation, the 
way she lingered there as if she were quite willing to have 
another talk might have suggested to Basil Ransom this 
condition. 'Why, don't you consider her career very 
remarkable?' 
' Oh yes ; everything is remarkable nowadays ; we live 
in an age of wonders !' the young man replied, much 
amused to find himself discussing the object of his adoration 
in this casual way, in the dark, on a lonely country-road, 
with a short-haired female physician. It was astonishing 
how quickly Doctor Prance and he had made friends again. 
' I suppose, by the way, you know Miss Tarrant and Miss 
Chancellor are staying down here?' he went on. 
' Well, yes, I suppose I know it. I am visiting Miss 
Chancellor,' the dry little woman added. 
' Oh indeed ? I am delighted to hear it ! ' Ransom ex- 
claimed, feeling that he might have a friend in the camp. 
'  Then you can inform me where those ladies have their 
house.' 
 
' Yes, I guess I can tell it in the dark. I will show you 
round now, if you like.' 
'  I shall be glad to see it, though I am not sure I shall 
go in immediately. I must reconnoitre a little first. That 
makes me so very happy to have met you. I think it's 
very wonderful your knowing me.' 
Doctor Prance did not repudiate this compliment, but 
she presently observed : ' You didn't pass out of my mind 
entirely, because I have heard about you since, from Miss 
Birdseye.' 
' Ah yes, I saw her in the spring. I hope she is in 
health and happiness.' 
' She is always in happiness, but she can't be said to be 
in health. She is very weak ; she is failing.' 
' I am very sorry for that.' 
'She is also visiting Miss Chancellor,' Doctor Prance 
observed, after a pause which was an illustration of an ap- 
pearance she had of thinking that certain things didn't at 
all imply some others. 
' Why, my cousin has got all the distinguished women ! ' 
Basil Ransom exclaimed. 
'Is Miss Chancellor your cousin? There isn't much 
family resemblance. Miss Birdseye came down for the 
benefit of the country air, and I came down to see if I could 
help her to get some good from it. She wouldn't much, if 
she were left to herself. Miss Birdseye has a very fine 
character, but she hasn't much idea of hygiene.' Doctor 
Prance was evidently more and more disposed to be chatty. 
Ransom appreciated this fact, and said he hoped she, too, 
was getting some good from the country-air he was afraid 
she was very much confined to her profession, in Boston ; 
to which she replied 'Well, I was just taking a little 
exercise along the road. I presume you don't realise what 
it is to be one of four ladies grouped together in a small 
frame-house.' 
Ransom remembered how he had liked her before, and 
he felt that, as the phrase was, he was going to like her 
again. He wanted to express his good-will to her, and 
would greatly have enjoyed being at liberty to offer her a 
cigar. He didn't know what to offer her or what to do, 
 
unless he should invite her to sit with him on a fence. He 
did realise perfectly what the situation in the small frame- 
house must be, and entered with instant sympathy into the 
feelings which had led Doctor Prance to detach herself 
from the circle and wander forth under the constellations, 
all of which he was sure she knew. He asked her per- 
mission to accompany her on her walk, but she said she 
was not going much further in that direction ; she was going 
to turn round. He turned round with her, and they went 
back together to the village, in which he at last began to 
discover a certain consistency, signs of habitation, houses 
disposed with a rough resemblance to a plan. The road 
wandered among them with a kind of accommodating sinu- 
osity, and there were even cross-streets, and an oil-lamp on 
a corner, and here and there the small sign of a closed shop, 
with an indistinctly countrified lettering. There were lights 
now in the windows of some of the houses, and Doctor 
Prance mentioned to her companion several of the inhabit- 
ants of the little town, who appeared all to rejoice in the 
prefix of captain. They were retired shipmasters ; there 
was quite a little nest of these worthies, two or three of 
whom might be seen lingering in their dim doorways, as if 
they were conscious of a want of encouragement to sit up, 
and yet remembered the nights in far-away waters when 
