one of the ugly ones, that belonged to the house and 
his respiration coming quickly, like that of a man in a state 
of acute agitation. Hyacinth was agitated now, but it was 
not because he was waiting for the Princess; a deeper 
source of emotion had been opened to him, and he had 
not on the present occasion more sharpness of impatience 
than had already visited him at certain moments of the 
past twenty hours. He had not closed his eyes the night 
before, and the day had not made up for that torment. A 
fever of reflection had descended upon him, and the range 
of his imagination had been wide. It whirled him through 
circles of immeasurable compass ; and this is the reason 
that, thinking of many things while he sat in the Princess's 
chair, he wondered why, after all, he had come to Madeira 
Crescent, and what interest he could have in seeing the 
lady of the house. He had a very complete sense that 
everything was over between them ; that the link had 
snapped which bound them so closely together for a while. 
And this was not simply because for a long time now he 
had received no sign nor communication from her, no in- 
vitation to come back, no inquiry as to why his visits had 
stopped. It was not because he had seen her go in and 
out with Paul Muniment, nor because it had suited Prince 
Casamassima to point the moral of her doing so, nor even 
because, quite independently of the Prince, he believed her 
to be more deeply absorbed in her acquaintance with that 
superior young man than she had ever been in her relations 
with himself. The reason, so far as he became conscious 
of it in his fitful meditations, could only be a strange, 
detached curiosity strange and detached because every- 
thing else of his past had been engulfed in the abyss that 
opened before him as, after Mr. Vetch had left him, he 
stood under the lamp in a paltry Westminster street. That 
had swallowed up all familiar feelings, and yet out of the 
ruin had sprung the impulse which brought him to where 
he sat. 
The solution of his difficulty he flattered himself he 
had arrived at it involved a winding-up of his affairs ; and 
though, even if no solution had been required, he would 
have felt clearly that he had been dropped, yet as even in 
that case it would have been sweet to him to bid her good- 
bye, so, at present, the desire for some last vision of her 
own hurrying fate could still appeal to him. If things had 
not gone well for him he was still capable of wondering 
whether they looked better for her. It is a singular fact, 
that there rose in his mind a sort of incongruous desire to 
pity her. All these were odd feelings enough, and by 
 
the time half an hour had elapsed they had throbbed them- 
selves into weariness and into slumber. While he remem- 
bered that he was waiting now in a very different frame from 
that in which he waited for her in South Street the first 
time he went to see her, he closed his eyes and lost 
himself. His unconsciousness lasted, he afterwards per- 
ceived, nearly half an hour ; it terminated in his becoming 
aware that the lady of the house was standing before him. 
Assunta was behind her, and as he opened his eyes she 
took from her mistress the bonnet and mantle of which the 
Princess divested herself. ' It's charming of you to have 
waited,' the latter said, smiling down at him with all her 
old kindness. ' You are very tired don't get up ; that's 
the best chair, and you must keep it.' She made him re- 
main where he was ; she placed herself near him on a 
smaller seat ; she declared that she was not tired herself, 
that she didn't know what was the matter with her nothing 
tired her now ; she exclaimed on the time that had elapsed 
since he had last called, as if she were reminded of it simply 
by seeing him again ; and she insisted that he should have 
some tea he looked so much as if he needed it. She 
considered him with deeper attention, and wished to know 
what was the matter with him what he had done to 
use himself up ; adding that she must begin and look after 
him again, for while she had the care of him that kind 
of thing didn't happen. In response to this Hyacinth 
made a great confession : he admitted that he had stayed 
away from work and simply amused himself amused him- 
self by loafing about London all day. This didn't pay he 
was beginning to discover it as he grew older ; it was doubt- 
less a sign of increasing years when one began to perceive 
that wanton pleasures were hollow and that to stick to one's 
tools was not only more profitable but more refreshing. 
However, he did stick to them, as a general thing; that 
was no doubt partly why, from the absence of the habit of 
it, a day off turned out to be rather a grind. When Hya- 
cinth had not seen the Princess for some time he always, 
on meeting her again, had a renewed, tremendous sense of 
her beauty, and he had it to-night in an extraordinary 
degree. Splendid as that beauty had ever been, it seemed 
clothed at present in transcendant glory, and (if that which 
was already supremely fine could be capable of greater re- 
finement), to have worked itself free of all earthly grossness 
and been purified and consecrated by her new life. Her 
gentleness, when she was in the mood for it, was quite divine 
(it had always the irresistible charm that it was the humility 
of a high spirit), and on this occasion she gave herself up 
to it. Whether it was because he had the consciousness of 
resting his eyes upon her for the last time, or because she 
wished to be particularly pleasant to him in order to make 
up for having, amid other preoccupations, rather dropped 
him of late (it was probable the effect was a product of both 
causes), at all events the sight of her loveliness seemed 
none the less a privilege than it had done the night he went 
into her box, at the play, and her presence lifted the weight 
from his soul. He suffered himself to be coddled and ab- 
sently, even if radiantly, smiled at, and his state of mind 
was such that it could produce no alteration of his pain to 
see that on the Princess's part these were inexpensive gifts. 
She had sent Assunta to bring them tea, and when the tray 
arrived she gave him cup after cup, with every restorative 
demonstration ; but he had not sat with her a quarter of 
 
an hour before he perceived that she scarcely measured 
a word he said to her or a word that she herself uttered. 
If she had the best intention of being nice to him, by 
way of compensation, this compensation was for a wrong 
that was far from vividly present to her mind. Two 
points became perfectly clear : one was that she was 
thinking of something very different from her present, 
her past, or her future relations with Hyacinth Robin- 
son ; the other was that he was superseded indeed. This 
was so completely the case that it did not even occur 
to her, it was evident, that the sense of supersession 
might be cruel to the young man. If she was charming 
to him it was because she was good-natured and he had 
been hanging off, and not because she had done him an 
injury. Perhaps, after all, she hadn't, for he got the im- 
pression that it might be no great loss of comfort not to 
constitute part of her life to-day. It was manifest from her 
eye, from her smile, from every movement and tone, 
and indeed from all the irradiation of her beauty, that 
that life to-day was tremendously wound up. If he had 
come to Madeira Crescent because he was curious to see 
how she was getting on, it was sufficiently intimated to 
him that she was getting on well; that is that she was 
living more than ever on high hopes and bold plans and 
far-reaching combinations. These things, from his own 
point of view, ministered less to happiness, and to be 
mixed up with them was perhaps not so much greater a sign 
that one had not lived for nothing, than the grim arrange- 
ment which, in the interest of peace, he had just arrived 
at with himself. She asked him why he had not been 
to see her for so long, quite as if this failure were only 
a vulgar form of social neglect ; and she scarcely seemed 
to notice whether it were a good or a poor excuse when 
he said he had stayed away because he knew her to be 
extremely busy. But she did not deny the impeach- 
ment; she admitted that she had been busier than ever 
in her life before. She looked at him as if he would 
know what that meant, and he remarked that he was 
very sorry for her. 
'Because you think it's all a mistake? Yes, I know 
that. Perhaps it is ; but if it is, it's a magnificent one. If 
you were scared about me three or four months ago, 
I don't know what you would think to-day if you knew ! 
I have risked everything.' 
' Fortunately I don't know,' said Hyacinth. 
' No, indeed, how should you ? ' 
' And to tell the truth,' he went on, ' that is really 
the reason I haven't been back here till to-night. I 
haven't wanted to know I have feared and hated to 
know.' 
' Then why did you come at last ? ' 
Hyacinth hesitated a moment. ' Out of a kind of 
inconsistent curiosity.' 
I suppose then you would like me to tell you where 
I have been to-night, eh?' 
' No, my curiosity is satisfied. I have learned some- 
thing what I mainly wanted to know without your tell- 
ing me.' 
'She stared an instant. 'Ah, you mean whether Madame 
Grandoni was gone? I suppose Assunta told you.' 
' Yes, Assunta told me, and I was sorry to hear it.' 
The Princess looked grave, as if her old friend's de- 
 
parture had been indeed a very serious incident. 'You 
may imagine how I feel it ! It leaves me completely alone ; 
it makes, in the eyes of the world, an immense difference 
in my position. However, I don't consider the eyes of 
the world. At any rate, she couldn't put up with me any 
more it appears that I am more and more shocking ; and 
it was written!' On Hyacinth's asking what the old lady 
would do, she replied, ' I suppose she will go and live with 
my husband.' Five minutes later she inquired of him 
whether the same reason that he had mentioned just before 
was the explanation of his absence from Audley Court. Mr. 
Muniment had told her that he had not been near him and 
his sister for more than a month. 
I No, it isn't the fear of learning something that would 
make me uneasy : because, somehow, in the first place it 
isn't natural to feel uneasy about Paul, and in the second, 
if it were, he never lets one see anything. It is simply 
the general sense of real divergence of view. When that 
divergence becomes sharp, it is better not to pester each 
other.' 
'I see what you mean. But you might go and see his 
sister.' 
' I don't like her,' said Hyacinth, simply. 
' Ah, neither do I ! ' the Princess exclaimed ; while her 
visitor remained conscious of the perfect composure, the 
absence of false shame, with which she had referred to their 
common friend. But she was silent after this, and he judged 
that he had stayed long enough and sufficiently taxed a pre- 
occupied attention. He got up, and was bidding her good- 
night, when she checked him by saying, suddenly, ' By the 
way, your not going to see so good a friend as Mr. Muniment, 
because you disapprove to-day of his work, suggests to me 
that you will be in an awkward fix, with your disapprovals, 
the day you are called upon to serve the cause according 
to your vow.' 
' Oh, of course I have thought of that,' said Hyacinth, 
smiling. 
'And would it be indiscreet to ask what you have 
thought?' 
' Ah, so many things, Princess ! It would take me a 
long time to say.' 
' I have never talked to you about this, because it 
seemed to me indelicate, and the whole thing too much 
a secret of your own breast for even so intimate a friend 
as I have been to have a right to meddle with it. But I 
have wondered much seeing that you cared less and less 
for the people how you would reconcile your change 
of heart with the performance of your engagement. I 
pity you, my poor friend,' the Princess went on, with a 
heavenly sweetness, 'for I can imagine nothing more ter- 
rible than to find yourself face to face with such an engage- 
ment, and to feel at the same time that the spirit which 
prompted it is dead within you.' 
' Terrible, terrible, most terrible,' said Hyacinth, gravely, 
looking at her. 
'But I pray God it may never be your fate!' The 
Princess hesitated a moment ; then she added, ' I see you 
feel it. Heaven help us all ! ' She paused, then went on : 
' Why shouldn't I tell you, after all ? A short time ago 
I had a visit from Mr. Vetch.' 
' It was kind of you to see him,' said Hyacinth. 
' He was delightful, I assure you. But do you know 
 
what he came for ? To beg me, on his knees, to snatch 
you away.' 
'To snatch me away?' 
' From the danger that hangs over you. Poor man, 
he was very pathetic.' 
' Oh yes, he has talked to me about it,' Hyacinth said. 
' He has picked up the idea, but he knows nothing what- 
ever about it. And how did he expect that you would be 
able to snatch me ? ' 
' He left that to me ; he had only a general conviction 
of my influence with you.' 
'And he thought you would exercise it to make me 
back out ? He does you injustice; you wouldn't ! ' Hyacinth 
exclaimed, with a laugh. ' In that case, taking one false 
position with another, yours would be no better than mine.' 
' Oh, speaking seriously, I am perfectly quiet about you 
and about myself. I know you won't be called the Prin- 
cess returned. 
' May I inquire how you know it ? ' 
After a slight hesitation she replied, ' Mr. Muniment 
tells me so.' 
' And how does he know it ? ' 
' We have information. My dear fellow,' the Princess 
went on, ' you are so much out of it now that if I were to 
tell you, you wouldn't understand.' 
' Yes, no doubt I am out of it ; but I still have a right 
to say, all the same, in contradiction to your imputation of 
a moment ago, that I care for the people exactly as much 
as I ever did.' 
' My poor Hyacinth, my dear infatuated little aristocrat, 
was that ever very much ? ' the Princess asked. 
' It was enough, and it is still enough, to make me willing 
to lay down my life for anything that will really help them.' 
' Yes, and of course you must decide for yourself what 
that is ; or, rather, what it's not.' 
' I didn't decide when I gave my promise. I agreed to 
take the decision of others,' Hyacinth said. 
' Well, you said just now that in relation to this business 
of yours you had thought of many things,' the Princess 
rejoined. ' Have you ever, by chance, thought of anything 
that will help the people?' 
'You call me fantastic names, but I'm one of them 
myself.' 
' I know what you are going to say ! ' the Princess broke 
in. ' You are going to say that it will help them to do 
what you do to do their work and earn their wages. 
That's beautiful so far as it goes. But what do you pro- 
pose for the thousands and thousands for whom no work 
on the overcrowded earth, under the pitiless heaven 
is to be found? There is less and less work in the world, 
and there are more and more people to do the little that 
there is'. The old ferocious selfishnesses must come down. 
They won't come down gracefully, so they must be 
smashed !' 
The tone in which the Princess uttered these words 
made Hyacinth's heart beat fast, and there was something 
so inspiring in her devoted fairness that the vision of a 
great heroism flashed up again before him, in all the 
splendour it had lost the idea of a tremendous risk and 
an unregarded sacrifice. Such a woman as that, at such 
a moment, made every scruple seem a prudence and every 
compunction a cowardice. ' I wish to God I could see it 
as you see it !' he exclaimed, after he had looked at her a 
minute in silent admiration. 
' I see simply this : that what we are doing is at least 
worth trying, and that as none of those who have the 
power, the place, the means, will try anything else, on their 
head be the responsibility, on their head be the blood !' 
' Princess,' said Hyacinth, clasping his hands and feeling 
that he trembled, 'dearest Princess, if anything should 
happen to you ' and his voice fell ; the horror of it, a 
dozen hideous images of her possible perversity and her 
possible punishment were again before him, as he had 
already seen them in sinister musings; they seemed to 
him worse than anything he had imagined for himself. 
She threw back her head, looking at him almost in 
anger. ' To me ! And pray why not to me ? What title 
have I to exemption, to security, more than any one else ? 
Why am I so sacrosanct and so precious?' 
' Simply because there is no one in the world, and there 
has never been any one in the world, like you.' 
' Oh, thank you !' said the Princess, with a kind of dry 
impatience, turning away. 
The manner in which she spoke put an end to their 
conversation. It expressed an indifference to what it 
might interest him to think about her to-day, and even a 
contempt for it, which brought tears to his eyes. His 
tears, however, were concealed by the fact that he bent his 
head over her hand, which he had taken to kiss ; after 
which he left the room without looking at her. 
XLVJ 
' I HAVE received a letter from your husband,' Paul Muni- 
ment said to the Princess, the next evening, as soon as 
he came into the room. He announced this fact with 
a kind of bald promptitude and with a familiarity of man- 
ner which showed that his visit was one of a closely-con- 
nected series. The Princess was evidently not a little 
surprised by it, and immediately asked how in the world 
the Prince could know his address. ' Couldn't it have been 
by your old lady ?' Muniment inquired. 'He must have 
met her in Paris. It is from Paris that he writes.' 
' What an incorrigible cad ! ' the Princess exclaimed. 
' I don't see that for writing to me. I have his letter 
in my pocket, and I will show it to you if you like. ' 
' Thank you, nothing would induce me to touch any- 
thing he has touched,' the Princess replied. 
' You touch his money, my dear lady,' Muniment re- 
marked, with the quiet smile of a man who sees things 
as they are. 
The Princess hesitated a little. ' Yes, I make an excep- 
tion for that, because it hurts him, it makes him suffer.' 
' I should think, on the contrary, it would gratify him 
by showing you in a condition of weakness and de- 
pendence.' 
 
' Not when he knows I don't use it for myself. What 
exasperates him is that it is devoted to ends which he hates 
almost as much as he hates me and yet which he can't call 
selfish.' 
'He doesn't hate you,' said Muniment, with the tone 
of pleasant reasonableness that he used when he was 
most imperturbable. ' His letter satisfies me of that.' The 
Princess stared, at this, and asked him what he was coming 
to whether he were leading up to advising her to go back 
and live with her husband. ' I don't know that I would go 
so far as to advise,' he replied; 'when I have so much 
benefit from seeing you here, on your present footing, that 
wouldn't sound well. But I'll just make bold to prophesy 
that you will go before very long.' 
' And on what does that extraordinary prediction 
rest?' 
' On this plain fact that you will have nothing to live 
upon. You decline to read the Prince's letter, but if you 
were to look at it it would give you evidence of what I 
mean. He informs me that I need count upon no more 
supplies from your hands, as you yourself will receive' no 
more.' 
' He addresses you that way, in plain terms ? ' 
' I can't call them very plain, because the letter is 
written in French, and I naturally have had a certain diffi- 
culty in making it out, in spite of my persevering study of 
the tongue and the fine example set me by poor Robinson. 
But that appears to be the gist of the matter.' 
' And you can repeat such an insult to me without the 
smallest apparent discomposure ? You're the most remark- 
able man !' the Princess broke out. 
' Why is it an insult ? It is the simple truth. I do 
take your money,' said Paul Muniment. 
' You take it for a sacred cause ; you don't take it for 
yourself.' 
' The Prince isn't obliged to look at that,' Muniment 
rejoined, laughing. 
His companion was silent for a moment ; then, ' I didn't 
know you were on his side,' she replied, gently. 
' Oh, you know on what side I am ! ' 
' What does he know ? What business has he to address 
you so ? ' 
' I suppose he knows from Madame Grandoni. She has 
told him that I have great influence with you.' 
' She was welcome to tell him that ! ' the Princess ex- 
claimed. 
' His reasoning, therefore, has been that when I find you 
have nothing more to give to the cause I will let you go.' 
' Nothing more ? And does he count me, myself, and 
every pulse of my being, every capacity of my nature, 
as nothing ? ' the Princess cried, with shining eyes. 
' Apparently he thinks that I do.' 
' Oh, as for that, after all, I have known that you care 
far more for my money than for me. But it has made no 
difference to me,' said the Princess. 
' Then you see that by your own calculation the Prince 
is right.' 
' My dear sir,' Muniment's hostess replied, ' my interest 
in you never depended on your interest in me. It de- 
pended wholly on a sense of your great destinies. I sup- 
pose that what you began to tell me is that he stops 
my allowance.' 
 
' From the first of next month. He has taken legal ad- 
vice. It is now clear so he tells me that you forfeit 
your settlements.' 
' Can I not take legal advice, too?' the Princess' asked. 
Surely I can contest that. I can forfeit ; my settlements 
only by an act of my own. The act that led to our sepa- 
ration was his act; he turned me out of his house by 
physical violence.' 
' Certainly,' said Muniment, displaying even in this 
simple discussion his easy aptitude for argument ; 'but since 
then there have been acts of your own ' He stopped 
a moment, smiling ; then he went on : ' Your whole con- 
nection with a secret society constitutes an act, and so does 
your exercise of the pleasure, which you appreciate so 
highly, of feeding it with money extorted from an old 
Catholic and princely family. You know how little it is to 
be desired that these matters should come to light.' 
' Why in the world need they come to light ? Allega- 
tions in plenty, of course, he would have, but not a particle 
of proof. Even if Madame Grandoni were to testify 
against me, which is inconceivable, she would not be able 
to produce a definite fact.' 
' She would be able to produce the fact that you had a 
little bookbinder staying for a month in your house.' 
' What has that to do with it ? ' the Princess demanded. 
' If you mean that that is a circumstance which would put me 
in the wrong as against the Prince, is there not, on the other 
side, this circumstance, that while our young friend was 
staying with me Madame Grandoni herself, a person of the 
highest and most conspicuous respectability, never saw fit 
to withdraw from me her countenance and protection ? 
Besides, why shouldn't I have my bookbinder, just as I 
might have (and the Prince should surely appreciate 
my consideration in not having) my physician and my 
chaplain?' 
'Am I not your chaplain?' said Muniment, with a 
laugh. 'And does the bookbinder usually dine at the 
Princess's table?' 
' Why not, if He's an artist? In the old times, I know, 
artists dined with the servants ; but not to-day.' 
'That would be for the court to appreciate,' Muniment 
remarked. And in a moment he added, ' Allow me to call 
your attention to the fact that Madame Grandoni has left 
you has withdrawn her countenance and protection.' 
' Ah, but not for Hyacinth ! ' the Princess returned, in a 
tone which would have made the fortune of an actress 
if an actress could have caught it. 
'For the bookbinder or for the chaplain, it doesn't 
matter. But that's only a detail,' said Muniment. ' In any 
case, I shouldn't in the least care for your going to law.' 
The Princess rested her eyes upon him for a while 
in silence, and at last she replied, ' I was speaking just now 
of your great destinies, but every now and then you do 
something, you say something, that makes me doubt of 
them. It's when you seem afraid. That's terribly against 
your being a first-rate man.' 
'Oh, I know you have thought me a coward from the 
first of your knowing me. But what does it matter? I 
haven't the smallest pretension to being a first-rate man.' 
' Oh, you are deep, and you are provoking ! ' murmured 
the Princess, with a sombre eye. 
' Don't you remember,' Muniment continued, without 
 
heeding this somewhat passionate ejaculation 'don't you 
remember how, the other day, you accused me of being not 
only a coward but a traitor ; of playing false ; of wanting, 
as you said, to back out ? ' 
' Most distinctly. How can I help its coming over me, 
at times, that you have incalculable ulterior views and are 
only using me only using us all ? But I don't care ! ' 
' No, no ; I'm genuine,' said Paul Muniment, simply, yet 
in a tone which might have implied that the discussion was 
idle. And he immediately went on, with a transition too 
abrupt for perfect civility : ' The best reason in the world 
for your not having a lawsuit with your husband is this : 
that when you haven't a penny left you will be obliged to 
go back and live with him.' 
' How do you mean, when I haven't a penny left ? 
Haven't I my own property ? ' the Princess demanded. 
'The Prince tells me that you have drawn upon your 
own property at such a rate that the income to be derived 
from it amounts, to his positive knowledge, to no more than 
a thousand francs forty pounds a year. Surely, with 
your habits and tastes, you can't live on forty pounds. I 
should add that your husband implies that your property, 
originally, was but a small affair.' 
' You have the most extraordinary tone,' observed the 
Princess, gravely. ' What you appear to wish to express is 
simply this : that from the moment I have no more money 
to give you I am of no more value than the skin of an 
orange.' 
Muniment looked down at his shoe awhile. His com- 
panion's words had brought a flush into his cheek; he 
appeared to admit to himself and to her that, at the point 
at which their conversation had arrived, there was a natural 
difficulty in his delivering himself. But presently he raised 
his head, showing a face still slightly embarrassed but none 
the less bright and frank. ' I have no intention whatever of 
saying anything harsh or offensive to you, but since you 
challenge me perhaps it is well that I should let you know 
that I do consider that in giving your money or, rather, 
your husband's to our business you gave the most valuable 
thing you had to contribute.' 
' This is the day of plain truths ! ' the Princess exclaimed, 
with a laugh that was not expressive of pleasure. 'You 
don't count then any devotion, any intelligence, that I may 
have placed at your service, even rating my faculties 
modestly ? ' 
' I count your intelligence, but I don't count your devotion, 
and one is nothing without the other. You are not trusted 
at headquarters.' 
' Not trusted ! ' the Princess repeated, with her splendid 
stare. ' Why, I thought I could be hanged to-morrow ! ' 
' They may let you hang, perfectly, without letting you 
act. You are liable to be weary of us,' Paul Muniment 
went on ; ' and, indeed, I think you are weary of us already.' 
'Ah, you must be a first-rate man you are such a 
brute ! ' replied the Princess, who noticed, as she had noticed 
before, that he pronounced ' weary ' weery. 
'I didn't say you were weary of me} said Muniment, 
blushing again. ' You can never live poor you don't begin 
to know the meaning of it.' 
' Oh, no, I am not tired of you,' the Princess returned, 
in a strange tone. ' In a moment you will make me cry 
with passion, and no man has done that for years. I was 
 
very poor when I was a girl,' she added, in a different 
manner. ' You yourself recognised it just now, in speaking 
of the insignificant character of my fortune.' 
' It had to be a fortune, to be insignificant,' said Muni- 
ment, smiling. ' You will go back to your husband ! ' 
To this declaration she made no answer whatever ; she 
only sat looking at him in a sort of desperate calmness. 
' I don't see, after all, why they trust you more than they 
trust me,' she remarked 
' I am not sure that they do,' said Muniment. ' I have 
heard something this evening which suggests that.' 
' And may one know what it is ? ' 
'A communication which I should have expected to 
be made through me has been made through another 
person.' 
'A communication?' 
' To Hyacinth Robinson.' 
' To Hyacinth ' The Princess sprang up ; she had 
turned pale in a moment. 
' He has got his ticket ; but they didn't send it through 
me.' 
'Do you mean his orders? He was here last night,' 
the Princess said. 
' A fellow named Schinkel, a German whom you don't 
know, I think, but who was a sort of witness, with me and 
another, of his undertaking came to see me this evening. 
It was through him the summons came, and he put Hyacinth 
up to it on Sunday night.' 
' On Sunday night ? ' The Princess stared. ' Why, he 
was here yesterday, and he talked of it, and he told me 
nothing.' 
' That was quite right of him, bless him ! ' Muniment 
exclaimed. 
The Princess closed her eyes a moment, and when she 
opened them again Muniment had risen and was standing 
before her. ' What do they want him to do ? ' she asked. 
' I am like Hyacinth ; I think I had better not tell you 
at least till it's over.' 
' And when will it be over ? ' 
'They give him several days and, I believe, minute 
instructions,' said Muniment ; ' with, however, considerable 
discretion in respect to seizing his chance. The thing is 
made remarkably easy for him. All this I know from 
Schinkel, who himself knew nothing on Sunday, being a 
a mere medium of transmission, but who saw Hyacinth 
yesterday morning.' 
'Schinkel trusts you, then?' the Princess remarked. 
Muniment looked at her steadily a moment. ' Yes, but 
he won't trust you. Hyacinth is to receive a card of invita- 
tion to a certain big house,' he went on, ' a card with the 
name left in blank, so that he may fill it out himself. It is 
to be good for each of two grand parties which are to be 
given at a few days' interval. That's why they give him 
the job because at a grand party he'll look in his place.' 
' He will like that,' said the Princess, musingly ' repay- 
ing hospitality with a pistol-shot.' 
' If he doesn't like it he needn't do it.' 
The Princess made no rejoinder to this, but in a moment 
she said, ' I can easily find out the place you mean the 
big house where two parties are to be given at a few days' 
interval and where the master is worth your powder.' 
' Easily, no doubt. And do you want to warn him ? ' 
 
' No, I want to do the business first, so that it won't be 
left for another. If Hyacinth will look in his place at a 
grand party, should not I look still more in mine ? And as 
I know the individual I should be able to approach him 
without exciting the smallest suspicion.' 
Muniment appeared to consider her suggestion a moment, 
as if it were practical and interesting; but presently he 
answered, placidly, ' To fall by your hand would be too 
good for him.' 
' However he falls, will it be useful, valuable ? ' the Prin- 
cess asked. 
' It's worth trying. He's a very bad institution.' 
' And don't you mean to go near Hyacinth ? ' 
' No, I wish to leave him free,' Muniment answered. 
' Ah, Paul Muniment,' murmured the Princess, ' you are 
a first-rate man ! ' She sank down upon the sofa and sat 
looking up at him. ' In God's name, why have you told 
me this ? ' she broke out. 
' So that you should not be able to throw it up at me, 
later, that I had not.' 
She threw herself over, burying her face in the cushions, 
and remained so for some minutes, in silence. Muniment 
watched her awhile, without speaking; but at last he 
remarked, ' I don't want to aggravate you, but you will go 
back ! ' The words failed to cause her even to raise her 
head, and after a moment he quietly went out. 
XLVII 
THAT the Princess had done with him, done with him for 
ever, remained the most vivid impression that Hyacinth 
had carried -away from Madeira Crescent the night before. 
He went home, and he flung himself on his narrow bed, 
where the consolation of sleep again descended upon him. 
But he woke up with the earliest dawn, and the beginning 
of a new day was a quick revival of pain. He was over- 
past, he had become vague, he was extinct. The things 
that Sholto had said to him came back to him, and the 
compassion of foreknowledge that Madame Grandoni had 
shown him from the first. Of Paul Muniment he only 
thought to wonder whether he knew. An insurmountable 
desire to do justice to him, for the very reason that there 
might be a temptation to oblique thoughts, forbade him to 
challenge his friend even in imagination. He vaguely 
wondered whether he would ever be superseded ; but this 
possibility faded away in a stronger light a kind of dazzling 
vision of some great tribuneship, which swept before him 
now and again and in which the figure of the Princess 
herself seemed merged and extinguished. When full 
morning came at last, and he got up, it brought with it, 
in the restlessness which made it impossible to him to 
remain in his room, a return of that beginning of an 
 
answerless question, ' After all after all ? ' which the 
Princess had planted there the night before when she 
spoke so bravely in the name of the Revolution. ' After 
all after all, since nothing else was tried, or would, ap- 
parently, ever be tried ' He had a sense of his mind, 
which had been made up, falling to pieces again ; but that 
sense in turn lost itself in a shudder which was already 
familiar the horror of the public reappearance, on his part, 
of the imbrued hands of his mother. This loathing of the 
idea of a repetition had not been sharp, strangely enough, 
till his summons came ; in all his previous meditations the 
growth of his reluctance to act for the ' party of action ' 
had not been the fear of a personal stain, but the simple 
extension of his observation. Yet now the idea of the 
personal stain made him horribly sick ; it seemed by itself 
to make service impossible. It rose before him like a 
kind of backward accusation of his mother ; to suffer it 
to start out in the life of her son was in a manner to place 
her own forgotten, redeemed pollution again in the eye of 
the world. The thought that was most of all with him 
was that he had time he had time ; he was grateful for 
that, and saw a kind of delicacy in their having given him 
a margin not condemned him to be pressed by the hours. 
He had another day, he had two days, he might take three, 
he might take several. He knew he should be terribly 
weary of them before they were over ; but for that matter 
they would be over whenever he liked. Anyhow, he went 
forth again into the streets, into the squares, into the parks, 
solicited by an aimless desire to steep himself yet once 
again in the great indifferent city which he knew and loved 
and which had had so many of his smiles and tears and 
confidences. The day was gray and damp, though no rain 
fell, and London had never appeared to him to wear more 
proudly and publicly the stamp of her imperial history. 
He passed slowly to and fro over Westminster bridge and 
watched the black barges drift on the great brown river, 
and looked up at the huge fretted palace that rose there as 
a fortress of the social order which he, like the young 
David, had been commissioned to attack with a sling and 
pebble. At last he made his way to St. James's Park, and 
he strolled about a long time. He revolved around it, and 
he went a considerable distance up the thoroughfare that 
communicates with Pimlico. He stopped at a certain 
point and came back again, and then he retraced his steps 
in the former direction. He looked in the windows of 
shops, and he looked in particular into the long, glazed 
expanse of that establishment in which, at that hour of the 
day, Millicent Henning discharged superior functions. 
Millicent's image had descended upon him after he came 
out, and now it moved before him as he went, it clung to 
him, it refused to quit him. He made, in truth, no effort 
to drive it away ; he held fast to it in return, and it mur- 
mured strange things in his ear. She had been so jolly to 
him on Sunday; she was such a strong, obvious, simple 
nature, with such a generous breast and such a freedom 
from the sophistries of civilisation. All that he had ever 
liked in her came back to him now with a finer air, and 
there was a moment, during which he hung over the 
rail of the bridge that spans the lake in St. James's 
Park and mechanically followed the movement of the swans, 
when he asked himself whether, at bottom, he hadn't liked 
her better, almost, than any one. He tried to think he 
 
had, he wanted to think he had, and he seemed to see the 
look her eyes would have if he should tell her that he had. 
Something of that sort had really passed between them on 
Sunday ; only the business that had come up since had 
superseded it. Now the taste of the vague, primitive 
comfort that his Sunday had given him came back to him, 
and he asked himself whether he mightn't know it a second 
time. After he had thought he couldn't again wish for 
anything, he found himself wishing that he might believe 
there was something Millicent could do for him. Mightn't 
she help him mightn't she even extricate him? He was 
looking into a window not that of her own shop when 
a vision rose before him of a quick flight with her, for an 
undefined purpose, to an undefined spot ; and he was glad, 
at that moment, to have his back turned to the people in 
the street, because his face suddenly grew red to the tips 
of his ears. Again and again, all the same, he indulged in 
the reflection that spontaneous, uncultivated minds often 
have inventions, inspirations. Moreover, whether Millicent 
should have any or not, he might at least feel her arms 
around him. He didn't exactly know what good it would 
do him or what door it would open ; but he should like it. 
The sensation was not one he could afford to defer, but the 
nearest moment at which he should be able to enjoy it would 
be that evening. He had thrown over everything, but she 
would be busy all day ; nevertheless, it would be a gain, 
it would be a kind of foretaste, to see her earlier, to have 
three words with her. He wrestled with the temptation to 
go into her haberdasher's, because he knew she didn't like 
it (he had tried it once, of old) ; as the visits of gentlemen, 
even when ostensible purchasers (there were people watch- 
ing about who could tell who was who), compromised her 
in the eyes of her employers. This was not an ordinary 
case, however ; and though he hovered about the place 
a long time, undecided, embarrassed, half ashamed, at last 
he went in, as by an irresistible necessity. He would just 
make an appointment with her, and a glance of the eye and 
a single word would suffice. He remembered his way 
through the labyrinth of the shop ; he knew that her de- 
partment was on the second floor. He walked through the 
place, which was crowded, as if he had as good a right as 
any one else ; and as he had entertained himself, on rising, 
with putting on his holiday garments, in which he made 
such a distinguished little figure, he was not suspected of 
any purpose more nefarious than that of looking for some 
nice thing to give a lady. He ascended the stairs, and 
found himself in a large room where made-up articles were 
exhibited and where, though there were twenty people in it, 
a glance told him he shouldn't find Millicent. She was 
perhaps in the next one, into which he passed by a wide 
opening. Here also were numerous purchasers, most of 
them ladies ; the men were but three or four, and the dis- 
posal of the wares was in the hands of neat young women 
attired in black dresses with long trains. At first it appeared 
to Hyacinth that the young woman he sought was even here 
not within sight, and he was turning away, to look elsewhere, 
when suddenly he perceived that a tall gentleman, standing 
in the middle of the room, was none other than Captain 
Sholto. It next became plain to him that the person 
standing upright before the Captain, as still as a lay-figure 
and with her back turned to Hyacinth, was the object of 
his own quest. In spite of her averted face he instantly 
 
recognised Millicent ; he knew her shop-attitude, the dres- 
sing of her hair behind, and the long, grand lines of 
her figure, draped in the last new thing. She was 
exhibiting this article to the Captain, and he was lost 
in contemplation. He had been beforehand with Hya- 
cinth as a false purchaser, but he imitated a real one 
better than our young man, as, with his eyes travelling 
up and down the front of Millicent's person, he frowned, 
consideringly, and rubbed his lower lip slowly with his 
walking-stick. Millicent stood admirably still, and the back- 
view of the garment she displayed was magnificent. Hyacinth, 
for a minute, stood as still as she. At the end of that 
minute he perceived that Sholto saw him, and for an instant 
he thought he was going to direct Millicent's attention to 
him. But Sholto only looked at him veryjiard, for a few 
seconds, without telling her he was there ; to enjoy that 
satisfaction he would wait till the interloper was gone. 
Hyacinth gazed back at him for the same length of time 
what these two pairs of eyes said to each other re- 
