withhold.
A great wistfulness came into my soul, as I stood shut apart there from
those living men, within reach of their hands, within range of their
eyes, within the vibration of their human breath.  I looked into the
animal's eyes with the yearning of a sudden and an awful sense of
desolation.
"Speak to me, Lion," I whispered.  "Won't you speak to me?"
"What is that dog about?" asked the customer, staring.  "He is standing
in the middle of the room and wagging his tail as if he had met
somebody."
The dog at this instant, with eager signs of pleasure or of pity--I
could not, indeed, say which--put his beautiful face against my hand,
and kissed, or seemed to kiss it, sympathetically.
"He has queer ways," observed Jason, the clerk, carelessly; "he knows
more than most folks I know."
"True," said his master, laughing.  "I don't feel that I am Lion's
equal more than half the time, myself.  He is a noble fellow.  He has a
very superior nature.  My wife declares he is a poet, and that when he
goes off by himself, and gazes into vacancy with that sort of look, he
is composing verses."
Another customer had strolled in by this time; he laughed at the
broker's easy wit; the rest joined in the laugh; some one said
something which I did not understand, and Drayton threw back his head
and guffawed heartily.  I think their laughter made me feel more
isolate from them than anything had yet done.
"Why!" exclaimed the broker sharply, "what is this?  Jason!  What does
this mean?"
His face, as he turned it over his shoulder to address the clerk, had
changed colour; he was indeed really pale.  He held his fingers on the
great sheet of blue blotting-paper, to which he pointed, unsteadily.
"Upon my soul, sir," said Jason, flushing and then paling in his turn.
"That is a queer thing!  May I show it to Mr. Drayton?"
The inspector stepped forward, as the broker nodded; and examined the
blotting-paper attentively.
"It is written over," he said in a professional tone, "from end to end.
I see that.  It is written with one name.  It is the name of"--
"Helen!" interrupted the broker.
"Yes," replied the inspector.  "Yes, it is: Helen; distinctly, Helen.
Someone must have"--
But I stayed to hear no more.  What some one must have done, I sprang
and left the live men to decide--as live men do decide such
things--among themselves.  I sprang, and crying: "Helen!  Helen!
Helen!" with one bound I brushed them by, and fled the room, and
reached the outer air and sought for her.
As nearly as one can characterize the emotion of such a moment I should
say that it was one of mortal intensity; perhaps of what in living men
we should call maniac intensity.  Up to this moment I could not be said
to have comprehended the effect of what had taken place upon my wife.
The full force of her terrible position now struck me like the edge of
a weapon with whose sheath I had been idling.
Hot in the flame of my anger I had gone from her; and cold indeed had I
returned.  Her I had left dumb before my cruel tongue, but dumb was
that which had come back to her in my name.
I was a dead man.  But like any living of them all--oh, more than any
living--I loved my wife.  I loved her more because I had been cruel to
her than if I had been kind.  I loved her more because we had parted so
bitterly than if we had parted lovingly.  I loved her more because I
had died than if I had lived.  I must see my wife!  I must find my
wife!  I must say to her--I must tell her--  Why, who in all the world
but me could do anything for Helen now?
Out into the morning air I rushed, and got the breeze in my face, and
up the thronging street as spirits do, unnoted and unknown of men, I
passed; solitary in the throng, silent in the outcry, unsentient in the
press.
The sun was strong.  The day was cool.  The dome of the sky hung over
me, too, as over those who raised their breathing faces to its beauty.
I, too, saw, as I fled on, that the day was fair.  I heard the human
voices say:
"What a morning!"
"It puts the soul into you!" said a burly stock speculator to a
railroad treasurer; they stood upon the steps of the Exchange,
laughing, as I brushed by.
"It makes life worth while," said a healthy elderly woman, merrily,
making the crossing with the light foot that a light heart gives.
"It makes life possible," replied a pale young girl beside her, coming
slowly after.
"Poor fellow!" sighed a stranger whom I hit in hurrying on.  "It was an
ugly way to die.  Nice air, this morning!"
"He will be a loss to the community," replied this man's companion.
"There isn't a doctor in town who has his luck with fevers.  You can't
convince my wife he didn't save her life last winter.  Frost, last
night, wasn't there?  Very invigorating morning!"
Now, at the head of the street some ladies were standing, waiting for a
car.  I was delayed in passing them, and as I stepped back to change my
course I saw that one of them was speaking earnestly, and that her eyes
showed signs of weeping.
"He wouldn't remember me," she said; "it was eleven years ago.  But
sick women don't forget their doctors.  He was as kind to me"--
"Oh, poor Mrs. Thorne!" a soft voice answered, in the accented tone
of an impulsive, tender-hearted woman.  "It's bad enough to be a
patient.  But, oh, his wife!"
"Let me pass, ladies!" I cried, or tried to cry, forgetting, in the
anguish which their words fanned to its fiercest, that I could not be
heard and might not be seen.  "There seems to be some obstruction.  Let
me by, for I am in mortal haste!"
Obstruction there was, alas! but it was not in them whom I would have
entreated.  Obstruction there was, but of what nature I could not and I
cannot testify.  While I had the words upon my lips, even as the group
of women broke and left a space about me while they scattered on their
ways, there on the corner of the thoroughfare, in the heart of the
town, by an invisible force, by an inexplicable barrier, I, the dead
man fleeing to my living wife, was beaten back.
Whence came that awful order?  How came it?  And wherefore?  I knew no
more than the November wind that passed me by, and went upon its errand
as it listed.
I was thrust back by a blast of Power Incalculable; it was like the
current of an unknown natural force of infinite capability.  Set the
will of soul and body as I would, I could not pass the head of the
street.
CHAPTER IX.
Struggling to bear the fate which I had met, I turned as manfully as I
might, and retraced my steps down the thronging street, within whose
limits I now learned that my freedom was confined.  It was a sickening
discovery.  I had been a man of will so developed and freedom so
sufficient that helplessness came upon me like a change of temperament;
it took the form of hopelessness almost at once.
What was death?  The secret of life.  What knew I of the system of
things on which a blow upon the head had ushered me all unready,
reluctant, and uninstructed as I was?  No more than the ruddiest live
stockbroker in the street, whose blood went bounding, that fresh
morning, to the antics of the Santa Ma.  I was not accustomed to be
uninformed; my ignorance appalled me.  Even in the deeps of my misery,
I found space for a sense of humiliation; I felt profoundly mortified.
In that spot, in that way, of all others, why was I withheld?  Was it
the custom of the black country called Death, which we mark
"unexplored" upon the map of life,--was it the habit to tie a man to
the place where he had died?  But this was not the spot where I had
died.  It was the spot where I had learned that I had died.  It was the
place where the consciousness of death had wrought itself, not upon the
nerves of the body, but upon the faculties of the mind.  I had been
dead twelve hours before I found it out.
I looked up and down the street, where the living men scurried to and
fro upon their little errands.  These seemed immeasurably small.  I
looked upon them with disgust.  Fettered to that pavement, like a
convict to his ball-and-chain, I passed and repassed in wretchedness
whose quality I cannot express, and would not if I could.
"I am punished," I said; "I am punished for that which I have done.
This is my doom.  I am imprisoned here."
Sometimes I broke into uncontrollable misery, crying upon my wife's
dear name.  Then I would hush the outbreak, lest some one overhear me;
and then I would remember that no one could overhear.  I looked into
the faces of the people whom I met and passed, with such longings for
one single sign of recognition as are not to be described.  It even
occurred to me that among them all one might be found of whom my love
and grief and will might make a messenger to Helen.  But I found none
such, or I gained no such power; and, sick at heart, I turned away.
Suddenly, as I threaded the thick of the press, beating to and fro, and
up and down, as dead leaves move before the wind, some one softly
touched my hand.
It was the St. Bernard, the broker's dog.  This time, as before, he
looked into my face with signs of pleasure or of pity, or of both, and
made as if he would caress me.
"Lion!" I cried, "you know me, don't you?  Bless you, Lion!"
Now, at the dumb thing's recognition, I could have wept for pleasure.
The dog, when I spoke to him, followed me; and for some time walked up
and down and athwart the street, beside me.  This was a comfort to me.
At last his master came out upon the sidewalk and looked for him.
Brake whistled merrily, and the dog, at the first call, went bounding
in.
Ordinary writers upon usual topics, addressing readers of their own
condition, have their share of difficulties; at best one conquers the
art of expression as a General conquers an enemy.  But the obstacles
which present themselves to the recorder of this narrative are such as
will be seen at once to have peculiar force.  Almost at the outset they
dishearten me.  How shall I tell the story unless I be understood?  And
how should I be understood if I told the story?  Were it for me, a man
miserable and erring, gone to his doom as untrained for its
consequences, or for the use of them, as a drayman for the use of
hypnotism in surgery,--were it for me to play the interpreter between
life and death?  Were it for me to expect to be successful in that
solemn effort which is as old as time, and as hopeless as the eyes of
mourners?
What shall I say?  It is willed that I shall speak.  The angel said
unto me: Write.  How shall I obey, who am the most unworthy of any soul
upon whom has been laid the burden of the higher utterance?  Sacred be
the task.  Would that its sacredness could sanctify the unfitness of
him who here fulfils it.
The experience which I have already narrated was followed by an
indefinite period of great misery.  How long I remained a prisoner in
that unwelcome spot I cannot accurately tell.
What are called by dwellers in the body days and nights, and dawns and
darks, succeeded each other, little remarked by my wretchedness, or by
the sense of remoteness from these things which now began to grow upon
me.  The life of what we call a spirit had begun for me in the form of
a moral dislocation.  The wrench, the agony, the process of setting the
nature under its new conditions, took place in due order, but with
bitter laggardness.  The accident of death did not heal in my soul by
what surgeons call "the first intention."  I retained for a long time
the consciousness of being an injured creature.
As I paced and repaced the narrow street where the money-makers and
money-lovers of the town jostled and thronged, a great disgust
descended upon me.  The place, the springs of conduct, wearied me,
something in the manner that an educated person is wearied by low
conversation.  It seemed to be like this:--that the moral motives of
the living created the atmosphere of the dead therein confined.  It was
as if I inhaled the coarse friction, the low aspiration, the
feverishness, the selfishness, the dishonour, that the getting of gain,
when it became the purpose of life, involved.  I experienced a sense of
being stifled, and breathed with difficulty; much as those live men
would have done, if the gas-pipes had burst in the street.
It did not detract from this feeling of asphyxia that I was aware of
having, to a certain extent, shared the set of moral compounds which I
now found resolved to their elements, by the curious chemistry of death.
I had loved money and the getting of money, as men of the world, and of
success in it, are apt to do.  I was neither better nor worse than
others of my sort.  I had speculated with the profits of my profession,
idly enough, but hotly, too, at times.  I had told myself that I did
this out of anxiety for the future of my family.  I had viewed myself
in the light of the model domestic man, who guards his household
against an evil day.  It had never occurred to me to classify myself
with the mere money-changers, into whose atmosphere I had elected to
put myself.
Now, as I glided in and out among them, unseen, unheard, unrecognized,
a spirit among their flesh, there came upon me a humiliating sense of
my true relation to them.  Was it thus, I said, or so?  Did I this or
that?  Was the balance of motives so disproportionate after all?  Was
there so little love of wife and child?  So much of self and gain?  Was
the item of the true so small?  The sum of the false so large?  Had I
been so much less that was noble, so much more that was low?
I mingled with the mass of haggard men at a large stock auction which
half the street attended.  The panic had spread.  Sleeplessness and
anxiety had carved the crowding faces with hard chisels.  The shouts,
the scramble, the oaths, the clinched hands, the pitiful pushing,
affected me like a dismal spectacular play on some barbarian stage.
How shall I express the sickening aspect of the scene to a man but
newly dead?
The excitement waxed with the morning.  The old and placid Santa Ma
throbbed like any little road of yesterday.  The stock had gained 32
points in ten minutes, and down again, and up again to Heaven knows
what.  Men ran from despair to elation, and behaved like maniacs in
both.  Men who were gentlemen at home turned savages here.  Men who
were honourable in society turned sharpers here.  Madness had them, as
I watched them.  A kind of pity for them seized me.  I glided in among
them, and lifted my whole heart to stay them if I could.  I stretched
the hands that no one saw.  I raised the voice that none could hear.
"Gentlemen!" I cried, "count me the market value of it--on the margin
of two lives!  By the bonds wherewith you bind yourselves you shall be
bound!...  What is the sum of wealth represented within these walls
to-day?  Name it to me....  The whole of it, for the power to leave
this place!  The whole of it, the whole of it, for one half-hour in a
dead man's desolated home!  A hundred-fold the whole of it for"--
But here I lost command of myself, and fleeing from the place where my
presence and my misery and my entreaty alike were lost upon the
attention of the living throng as were the elements of the air they
breathed, I rushed into the outer world again; there to wander up and
down the street, and hate the place, and hate myself for being there,
and hate the greed of gain I used to love, and hate myself for having
loved it; and yet to know that I was forced to act as if I loved it
still, and to be the ghost before the ghost of a desire.
"It is my doom," I said.  "I am punished.  I am fastened to this
worldly spot, and to this awful way of being dead."
Now, while I spoke these words, I came, in the stress of my
wretchedness, fleeing to the head of the street; and there, I cannot
tell you how, I cannot answer why, as the arrow springs from the bow,
or the conduct from the heart, or the spirit from the flesh,--in one
blessed instant I knew that I was free to leave the spot, and crying,
"Helen, Helen!" broke from it.
CHAPTER X.
But no.  Alas, no, no!  I was and was not free.  All my soul turned
toward her, but something stronger than my soul constrained me.  It
seemed to me that I longed for her with such longing as might have
killed a live man, or might have made a dead one live again.  This
emotion added much to my suffering, but nothing to my power to turn one
footstep toward her or to lift my helpless face in her direction.  It
was not permitted to me.  It was not willed.
Now this, which might in another temperament have produced a sense of
fear or of desire to placate the unknown Force which overruled me,
created in me at first a stinging rage.  This is the truth, and the
truth I tell.
In my love and misery, and the shock of this disappointment--against
the unknown opposition to my will, I turned and raved; even as when I
was a man among men I should have raved at him who dared my purpose.
"You are playing with me!" I wailed.  "You torture a miserable man.
Who and what are you, that make of death a bitterer thing than life can
guess?  Show me what I have to fight, and let me wrestle for my
liberty,--though I am a ghost, let me wrestle like a man!  Let me to my
wife!  Give way, and let me seek her!"
Shocking and foreign as words like these must be to many of those who
read these pages, it must be remembered that they were uttered by one
to whom faith and the knowledge that comes by way of it were the leaves
of an abandoned text-book.  For so many years had the tenets of the
Christian religion been put out of my practical life, even as I put
aside the opinions of the laity concerning the treatment of disease,
that I do not over-emphasize; I speak the simplest truth in saying that
my first experience of death had not in any sense revived the vividness
of lost belief to me.  As the old life had ended had the new begun.
Where the tree had fallen it did lie.  What was habit before death was
habit after.  What was natural then was natural now.  What I loved
living I loved dead.  That which interested Esmerald Thorne the man
interested Esmerald Thorne the spirit.  The incident of death had
raised the temperature of intellect; it had, perhaps, I may say, by
this time quickened the pulse of conscience; but it had in no wise
wrought any miracle upon me, nor created a religious believer out of a
worldly and indifferent man of science.  Dying had not forthwith made
me a devout person.  Incredible as it may seem, it is the truth that up
to this time I had not, since the moment of dissolution, put to myself
the solemn queries concerning my present state which occupy the
imaginations of the living so much, while yet death is a fact remote
from their experience.
It was the habit of long years with me, after the manner of my kind, to
settle all hard questions by a few elastic phrases, which, once
learned, are curiously pliable to the intellectual touch.  "Phenomena,"
for instance,--how plastic to cover whatever one does not understand!
"Law,"--how ready to explain away the inexplicable!  Up to this point
death had struck me as a most unfortunate phenomenon.  Its personal
disabilities I found it easy to attribute to some natural law with
which my previous education had left me unfamiliar.  Now, standing
baffled there in that incredible manner half of tragedy, half of the
absurd,--even the petty element of the undignified in the position
adding to my distress,--a houseless, homeless, outcast spirit, struck
still in the heart of that great town, where in hundreds of homes was
weeping for me, where I was beloved and honoured and bemoaned, and
where my own wife at that hour broke her heart with sorrow for me and
for the manner of my parting from her,--then and there to be beaten
back, and battered down, and tossed like an atom in some primeval
flood, whithersoever I would not,--what a situation was this!
Now, indeed, I think for the first time, my soul lifted itself, as a
sick man lifts himself upon his elbows, in his painful bed.  Now,
flashing straight back upon the outburst of my defiance and despair,
like the reflex action of a strong muscle, there came into my mind, if
not into my heart, these impulsive and entreating words:--
"What art Thou, who dost withstand me?  I am a dead and helpless man.
What wouldst Thou with me?  Where gainest Thou Thy force upon me?  Art
Thou verily that ancient Myth which we were wont to call Almighty God?"
Simultaneously with the utterance of these words that blast of Will to
which I have referred fell heavily upon me.  A Power not myself
overshadowed me and did environ me.  Guided whithersoever I would not,
I passed forth upon errands all unknown to me, rebelling and obeying as
I went.
"I am become what we used to call a spirit," I thought, bitterly, "and
this is what it means.  Better might one become a molecule, for those,
at least, obey the laws of the universe, and do not suffer."
Now, as I took my course, it being ordered on me, it led me past the
door of a certain open church, whence the sound of singing issued.  The
finest choir in the city, famous far and near, were practising for the
Sunday service, and singing like the sons of God, indeed, as I passed
by.  With the love of the scientific temperament for harmony alert in
me, I lingered to listen to the anthem which these singers were
rendering in their customary great manner.  With the instinct of the
musically educated, I felt pleasure in this singing, and said:--
"Magnificently done!" as I went on.  It was some moments before the
words which the choir sang assumed any vividness in my mind.  When they
did I found that they were these;--
"For God is a Spirit.  God is a Spirit: and they that worship Him must
worship Him in spirit"--
Now it fell out that my steps were directed to the hospital; and to the
hospital I straightway went.  I experienced some faint comfort at this
improvement in my lot, and hurried up the avenue and up the steps and
into the familiar wards with eagerness.  All the impulses of the healer
were alive in me.  I felt it a mercy for my nature to be at its own
again.  I hastened in among my sick impetuously.
The hospital had been a favourite project of mine; from its start,
unreasonably dear to me.  Through the mounting difficulties which
blockade such enterprises, I had hewn and hacked, I had fathered and
doctored, I had trusteed and collected, I had subscribed and directed
and persisted and prophesied and fulfilled, as one ardent person must
in most humanitarian successes; and I had loved the success
accordingly.  I do not think it had ever once occurred to me to
question myself as to the chemical proportions of my motives in this
great and popular charity.  Now, as I entered the familiar place, some
query of this nature did indeed occupy my mind; it had the strangeness
of all mental experiences consequent upon my new condition, and
somewhat, if I remember, puzzled me.
The love of healing?  The relief of suffering?  Sympathy with the
wretched?  Chivalry for the helpless?  Generosity to the poor?
Friendship to the friendless?  Were these the motives, all the motives,
the whole motives, of him who had in my name ministered in that place
so long?  Even the love of science?  Devotion to a therapeutic creed?
Sacrifice for a surgical doctrine?  Enthusiasm for an important
professional cause?  Did these, and only these, sources of conduct
explain the great hospital?  Or the surgeon who had created and
sustained it?
Where did the motive deteriorate?  Where did the alloy come in?  How
did the sensitiveness to self, the passion for fame, the joy of power,
amalgamate with all that noble feeling?  How much residuum was there in
the solution of that absorption which (outside of my own home) I had
thought the purest and highest of my interests in life?
For the first of all the uncounted times that I had entered the
hospital for now these many years, I crossed the threshold questioning
myself in this manner, and doubting of my fitness to be there, or to be
what I had been held to be in that place.  Life had carried me gaily
and swiftly, as it carries successful men.  I had found no time, or
made none, to cross-question the sources of conduct.  My success had
been my religion.
I had the conviction of a prosperous person that the natural emotions
of prosperity were about right.  Added to this was something of the
physician's respect for what was healthful in human life.  Good luck,
good looks, good nerves, a good income, an enviable reputation for
professional skill, personal popularity, and private happiness,--these
things had struck me as so wholesome that they must be admirable.
Behind the painted screen which a useful and successful career sets
before the souls of men I had been too busy or too light of heart to
peer.  Now it was as if, in the act or the fact of dying, I had moved a
step or two, and looked over the edge of the bright shield.
Thoughts like these came to me so quietly and so naturally, now, that I
wondered why I had not been familiar with them before; it even occurred
to me that being very busy did not wholly excuse a live man for not
thinking; and it was something in the softened spirit of this strange
humility that I opened the noiseless door, and found myself among my
old patients in the large ward.
Never before had I entered that sad place that the electric thrill of
welcome, which only a physician knows, had not pulsated through it,
preceding me, from end to end of the long room.  The peculiar
lighting of the ward that flashes with the presence of a favourite
doctor; the sudden flexible smile on pain-pinched lips; the yearning
motion of the eyes in some helpless body where only the eyes can stir;
the swift stretching-out of wasted hands; the half-inaudible cry of
welcome: "The doctor's come!" "Oh, there's the doctor!"  "Why, it's the
doctor!"--the loving murmur of my name; the low prayer of blessing on
it,--oh, never before had I entered my hospital, and missed the least
of these.
I thought I was prepared for this, but it was not without a shock that
I stood among my old patients, mute and miserable, glancing piteously
at them, as they had so often done at me; seeking for their
recognition, which I might not have; longing for their welcome, which
was not any more for me.
The moans of pain, the querulous replies to nurses, the weary cough or
plethoric breathing, the feeble convalescent laughter,--these greeted
me; and only these.  Like the light that entered at the window, or the
air that circulated through the ward, I passed unnoticed and unthanked.
Some one called out petulantly that a door had got unfastened, and bade
a nurse go shut it, for it blew on her.  But when I came up to the
bedside of this poor woman, I saw that she was crying.
"She's cried herself half-dead," a nurse said, complainingly.  "Nobody
can stop her.  She's taking on so for Dr. Thorne."
"I don't blame her," said a little patient from a wheeled-chair.
"Everybody knows what he did for her.  She's got one of her
attacks,--and look at her!  There can't anybody but him stop it.
Whatever we're going to do without the doctor"--
Her own lip quivered, though she was getting well.
"I don't see how the doctor could die!" moaned the very sick woman,
weeping afresh, "when there's those that nobody but him can keep alive.
It hadn't oughter to be let to be.  How are sick folks going to get
along without their doctor?  It ain't right!"
"Lord have mercy on ye, poor creetur," said an old lady from the
opposite cot.  "Don't take on so.  It don't help it any.  It ain't
agoing to bring the doctor back!"
Sobs arose at this.  I could hear them from more beds than I cared to
count.  Sorrow sat heavily in the ward for my sake.  It distressed me
to think of the effect of all this depression upon the nervous systems
of these poor people.  I passed from case to case, and watched the
ill-effects of the general gloom with a sense of professional
disappointment which only physicians will understand as coming
uppermost in a man's mind under circumstances such as these.
My discomfort was increased by the evidences of what I considered
mistakes in treatment on the part of my colleagues; some of which had
peculiarly disagreed with certain patients since my death had thrown
them into other hands.  My helplessness before these facts chafed me
sorely.
I made no futile effort to make myself known to any of the hospital
patients.  I had learned too well the limitations of my new condition
now.  I had in no wise learned to bear them.  In truth, I think I bore
them less, for my knowledge that these poor creatures did truly love
me, and leaned on me, and mourned for me; I found it hard.  I think it
even occurred to me that a dead man might not be able to bear it to see
his wife and child.
"Doctor!" said a low, sweet voice, "Doctor?"  My heart leaped within
me, as I turned.  Where was the highly organized one of all my
patients, who had baffled death for love of me?  Who had the
clairvoyance or clairaudience, or the wonderful tip in the scale of
health and disease, which causes such phenomena?
With hungry eyes I gazed from cot to cot.  No answering gaze returned
to me.  Craving their recognition more sorely than they had ever, in
the old life, craved mine, in such need of their sympathy as never had
the weakest of the whole of them for mine, I scanned them all.  No--no.
There was not a patient in the ward who knew me.  No.
Stung with the disappointment, I sank into a chair beside the weeping
woman's bed, and bowed my face upon my hands.  At this instant I was
touched upon the shoulder.
"Doctor!  Why, Doctor!" said the voice again.
I sprang and caught the speaker by the hands.  It was Mrs. Faith.  She
stood beside me, sweet and smiling.
"The carriage overturned," she said in her quiet way, "I was badly
hurt.  I only died an hour ago.  I started out at once to find you.  I
want you to see Charley.  Charley's still alive.  Those doctors don't
understand Charley.  There's nobody I'd trust him to but you.  You can
save him.  Come!  You can't think how he asked for you, and cried for
you....  I thought I should find you at the hospital.  Come quickly,
Doctor!  Come!"
CHAPTER XI.
Some homesick traveller in a foreign land, where he is known of none
and can neither speak nor understand the language of the country; taken
ill, let us say, at a remote inn, his strength and credit gone, and he,
in pain and fever, hears, one blessed day, the voice of an old friend
in the court below.  Such a man may think he has--but I doubt if he
have--some crude conception of the state of feeling in which I found
myself, when recognized in this touching manner by my old patient.
My emotion was so great that I could not conceal it; and she, in her
own quick and delicate way, perceiving this almost before I did myself,
made as if she saw it not, and lightly adding:
"Hurry, Doctor!  I will go before you.  Let us lose no time!" led me at
once out of the hospital and rapidly away.
In an incredibly, almost confusingly short space of time, we reached
her house; this was done by some method of locomotion not hitherto
experienced by me, and which I should, at that time, have found it
difficult to describe, unless by saying that she thought us where we
wished to be.  Perhaps it would be more exact to say, She felt us.
It was as if the great power of the mother's love in her had become a
new bodily faculty by which she was able, with extraordinary disregard
of the laws of distance, to move herself and to draw another to the
suffering child.  I should say that I perceived at once, in the
presence of this sweet woman, that there were possibilities and
privileges in the state immediately succeeding death, which had been
utterly denied to me, and were still unknown to me.  It was easy to see
that her personal experience in the new condition differed as much from
mine as our lives had differed in the time preceding death.  She had
been a patient, unworldly, and devout sufferer; a chronic invalid, who
bore her lot divinely.  Her soul had been as full of trust and
gentleness, of the forgetting of self and the service of others, of the
scorn of pain, and of what she called trust in Heaven, as any woman's
soul could be.
I had never seen the moment when I could withhold my respect from the
devout nature of Mrs. Faith, any more than I could from her manner of
enduring suffering; or, I might add, if I could expect the remark to be
properly understood,--from her strong and intelligent trust in me.
Physicians know what sturdy qualities it takes to make a good patient.
Perhaps they are, to some extent, the same which go to make a good
believer; but in this direction I am less informed.
During our passage from the hospital to the house, Mrs. Faith had not
spoken to me; her whole being seemed, as nearly as I could understand
it, to be absorbed in the process of getting there.  It struck me that
she was still unpractised in the use of a new and remarkable faculty,
which required strict attention from her, like any other as yet
unlearned art.
"You are not turned out of your own home it seems!" I exclaimed
impulsively, as we entered the house together.
"Oh, no, no!" she cried.  "Who is?  Who could be?  Why, Doctor, are
you?"
"Death is a terrible respecter of persons," I answered drearily.  I
could not further explain myself at that moment.
"I have been away from Charley a good while," she anxiously replied;
"it is the first time I have left him since I died.  But I had to find
you, Doctor.  Charley should not die--I can't have Charley die--for his
poor father's sake.  But I feel quite safe about him now I have got
you."
She said these words in her old bright, trustful way.  The thought of
my helplessness to justify such trust smote me sorely; but I said
nothing then to undeceive her,--how could I?--and we made haste
together to the bedside of the injured child.
I saw at a glance that the child was in a bad case.  Halt was there,
and Dr. Gazell; they were consulting gloomily.  The father, haggard
with his first bereavement, seemed to have accepted the second as a
foregone conclusion; he sat with his face in his hands, beside the
little fellow's bed.  The boy called for his mother at intervals.  A
nurse hung about weeping.  It was a dismal scene; there was not a spark
of hope, or energy, or fight in the whole room.  I cried out
immoderately that it was enough to kill the well, and protested against
the management of the case with the ardent conviction to which my old
patient was so used, and in which she believed more thoroughly than I
did myself.  "They are giving the wrong remedy," I hotly said.  "This
surgical fever could be controlled,--the boy need not die.  But he
will!  You may as well make up your mind to it, Mrs. Faith.  Gazell
doesn't understand the little fellow's constitution, and Halt doesn't
understand anything."
Now it was that, as I had expected, the mother turned upon me with all
a mother's hopeless and heart-breaking want of logic.  Surely, I, and
only I, could save the boy.  Why, I had always taken care of Charley!
Was it possible that I could stand by and see Charley die?  She
should not have died herself if I had been there.  She depended upon me
to find some way--there must be a way.  She never thought I was the
kind of a man to be so changed by--by what had happened.
I used to be so full of hope and vigour, and so inventive in a
sick-room.  It was not reasonable!  It was not right!  It was not
possible that, just because I was a spirit, I could not control the
minds or bodies of those live men who were so inferior to me.  Why, she
thought I could control anybody.  She thought I could conquer
anything.
"I don't understand it, Doctor," she said, with something like
reproach.  "You don't seem to be able to do as much--you don't even
know as much as I do, now.  And you know what a sick and helpless
little woman I've always been,--how ignorant, beside you!  I thought
you were so wise, so strong, so great.  Where has it all gone to,
Doctor?  What has become of your wisdom and your power?  Can't you help
me?  Can't you"--
"I can do nothing," I interrupted her,--"nothing.  I am shorn of it
all.  It has all gone from me, like the strength of Samson.  Spare me,
and torment me not....  I cannot heal your child.  I am not like you.
I was not prepared for--this condition of things.  I did not expect to
die.  I never thought of becoming a spirit.  I find myself
extraordinarily embarrassed by it.  It is the most unnatural state I
ever was in."
"Why, I find it as natural as life," she said, more gently.  She had
now moved to the bedside, and taken the little fellow in her arms.
"You are not as I," I replied morosely.  "We differed--and we differ.
Truly, I believe that if there is anything to be done for your boy, it
rests with you, and not with me."
Halt and Gazell were now consulting in an undertone, touching the
selection of a certain remedy; no one noticed them, and they droned on.
The mother crooned over the child, and caressed him, and breathed upon
his sunken little face, and poured her soul out over him in precious
floods and wastes of tenderness as mothers do.
"Live, my little son!" she whispered.  "Live, live!"
But I, meanwhile, was watching the two physicians miserably.  "There!"
I said, "they have dropped the phial on the floor.  See, that is the
one they ought to have.  It rolled away.  They don't mean to take it.
They will give him the wrong thing.  Oh, how can they?"
But now the mother, when she heard me speak, swiftly and gently removed
her arms from beneath the boy, and, advancing to the hesitating men,
stood silently between them, and laid a hand upon the arm of each.
While she stood there she had a rapt, high look of such sort that I
could in no wise have addressed her.
"Are you sure, Dr. Gazell?" asked Halt.
"I think so," said Gazell.
He stooped, after a moment's hesitation, and picked up the phial from
the floor, read its label; laid it down, looked at the child, and
hesitated again.
The mother at this juncture sunk upon her knees and bowed her shining
face.  I thought she seemed to be at prayer.  I too bowed my head; but
it was for reverence at the sight of her.  It was long since I had
prayed.  I did not find it natural to do so.  A strange discontent,
something almost like an inclination to prayer, came upon me.  But that
was all.  I would rather have had the power to turn those two men out
of the room, and pour the saving remedy upon my little patient's
burning tongue with my own flesh-and-blood fingers, and a hearty
objurgation on the professional blunder which I had come in time to
rectify.
"Dr. Halt," said Dr. Gazell, slowly, "with your approval I think I will
change my mind.  On the whole, the indications point to--this.  I trust
it is the appropriate remedy."
He removed the cork from the phial as he spoke, and, rising, passed
quickly to the bedside of the child.
The mother had now arisen from her knees, and followed him, and got her
arms about the boy again, and set her soul to brooding over him in the
way that loving women have.  I was of no further service to her, and I
had vanished from her thought, which had no more room at that moment
for anything except the child than the arms with which she clasped him.
It amazed me--I was going to say it appalled me--that no person in the
room should seem to have consciousness of her presence.  She was like
an invisible star.  How incredible that love like that, and the power
of it, could be dependent upon the paltry senses of what are called
live people for so much as the proofs of its existence.
"It is not scientific," I caught myself saying, as I turned away,
"there is a flaw in the logic somewhere.  There seems to be a snapped
link between two sets of facts.  There is no deficiency of data; the
difficulty lies wholly in collating them."
How, indeed, should I--how did I but a few days since--myself regard
such "data" as presumed to indicate the continuance of human life
beyond the point of physical decay!
"After all," I thought, as I wandered from the house in which I felt
myself forgotten and superfluous, and pursued my lonely way, I knew not
whither and I knew not why,--"after all, there is another life.  I
really did not think it."
It seemed now to have been an extraordinary narrowness of intellect in
me that I had not at least attached more weight to the universal human
hypothesis.  I did not precisely wonder from a personal point of view
that I had not definitely believed it; but I wondered that I had not
given the possibility the sort of attention which a view of so much
dignity deserved.  It really annoyed me that I had made that kind of
mistake.
We, at least, were alive,--my old patient and I.  Whether others, or
how many, or of what sort, I could not tell; I had yet seen no other
spirit.  What was the life-force in this new condition of things?
Where was the central cell?  What made us go on living?  Habit?  Or
selection?  Thought?  Emotion?  Vigour?  If the last, what species of
vigour?  What was that in the individual which gave it strength to
stay?  Whence came the reproductive power which was able to carry on
the species under such terrible antagonism as the fact of death?  If in
the body, where was the common element between that attenuated invalid
and my robust organization?  If in the soul, between the suffering
saint and the joyous man of the world, where again was our common moral
protoplasm?
Nothing occurred to me at the time, at least, as offering any spiritual
likeness between myself and Mrs. Faith, but the fact that we were both
people of strong affections which had been highly cultivated.  Might
not a woman love herself into continued existence who felt for any
creature what she did for that child?
And I--God knew, if there were a God, how it was with me.  If I had
never done anything, if I had never been anything, if I had never felt
anything else in all my life, that was fit to last, I had loved one
woman, and her only, and had thought high thoughts for her, and felt
great emotions for her, and forgotten self for her sake, and thought it
sweet to suffer for her, and been a better man for love of her.  And I
had loved her,--oh, I had so loved her, that I knew in my soul ten
thousand deaths could not murder that living love.
And I had spoken to her--I had said to her--like any low and brutal
fellow, any common wife-tormentor--I had gone from her dear presence to
this mute life wherein there was neither speech nor language; where
neither earth, nor heaven, nor my love, nor my remorse, nor all my
anguish, nor my shame, could give my sealed lips the power to say,
Forgive.
Now, while I was cast thus abroad upon the night,--for it was
night,--sorely shaken and groaning in spirit, taking no care where my
homeless feet should lead me, I lifted my eyes suddenly, and looked
straight on before me, and behold! shining afar, fair and sweet and
clear, I saw and recognized the lights of my own home.
I was still at some distance from the spot, and, beside myself with
joy, I started to run unto it.  With the swift motions which spirits
make, and which I was beginning now to master in a clumsy manner and
low degree, I came, compassing the space between myself and all I loved
or longed for, and so brought myself tumultuously into the street where
the house stood; there, at a stone's throw from it, I felt myself
suddenly stifled with my haste, or from some cause, and, pausing (as we
used to say) to gather breath, I found that I was stricken back, and
fettered to the ground.
There was no wind.  The night was perfectly still.  Not a leaf quivered
on the topmost branch of the linden which tapped our chamber-window.
Yet a Power like a mighty rushing blast gainsaid me and smote me where
I was.
Not a step, though I writhed for it, not a breath nearer, though my
heart should break for it, could I take or make to reach her.  This was
my doom.  Within clasp of her dear arms, within sight of her sweet
face,--for there! while I stood struggling, I saw a woman's shadow rise
and stir upon the dimly lighted wall,--thus to be denied and bidden
back from her seemed to me more than heart could bear.
While I stood, quite unmanned by what had happened, incredulous of my
punishment, and yearning to her through the little distance, and
stretching out my hands toward her, and brokenly babbling her dear
name, she moved, and I saw her quite distinctly, even as I had seen her
that last time.  She stood midway between the unlighted parlour and the
lighted library beyond.  The drop-light with the scarlet shade blazed
behind her.
I noticed that to-night, as on that other night, the baby was not with
her; and I wondered why.  She stood alone.  She moved up and down the
room; she had a weary step.  Her dress, I saw, was black, dead black.
Her white hands, clasped before her, shone with startling brilliancy
upon the sombre stuff she wore.  Her lovely head was bent a little, and
she seemed to be gazing at me whom she could not see.  Then I cried
with such a cry, it seemed as if the very living must needs hear:--
"Helen!  Helen!  Helen!"
But she stood quite still; leaning her pale face toward me, like some
listening creature that was stricken deaf.
The sight was more sorrowful than I could brave; for the first time
since I had died I succumbed into something like a swoon, and lost my
miserable consciousness in the street before her door.
CHAPTER XII.
When I came again to myself I found that what I should once have called
a "phenomenon" had taken place.  The city, the dim street, the familiar
architecture of my home, the streams of light from the long windows,
the leaves of the linden tapping on the glass, the woman's shadow on
the wall, and the stirring toward me of the form and face I
loved,--these had vanished.
I was in a strange place; and I was a stranger in it.  It seemed rather
a lonely place at first, though it was not unpleasing to me as I looked
abroad.  The scenery was mountainous and solemn, but it was therefore
on a large scale and restful to the eye.  It had more grandeur than
beauty, to my first impression; but I remembered that I was not in a
condition of mind to be receptive of the merely beautiful, which might
exist for me without my perception of it, even as the life of the dead
existed without the perception of the living.  Death, if it had taught
me less up to that time than it might have done to nobler men, had at
least done so much as this: it had accustomed me to respect the unseen,
and to regard its possible action upon the seen as a matter of import.
As I looked forth upon the hills and skies, the plains and forests, and
on to the distant signs of human habitation in the scenery about me, I
thought:--
"I am in a world where it is probable that there exist a thousand
things which I cannot understand to one which I can."
It seemed to me a very uncomfortable state of affairs, whatever it was.
I felt estranged from this place, even before I was acquainted with it.
Nothing in my nature responded to its atmosphere; or, if so, petulantly
and with a kind of helpless antagonism, like the first cry of the
new-born infant in the old life.
As I got myself languidly to my feet, and idly trod the path which lay
before me, for lack of knowing any better thing to do, I began to
perceive that others moved about the scene; that I was not, as I had
thought, alone, but one of a company, each going on his errand as he
would.  I only seemed to have no errand; and I was at a great distance
from these people, whose presence, however, though so remote, gave me
something of the sense of companionship which one whose home is in a
lonely spot upon a harbour coast has in watching the head-lights of
anchored ships upon dark nights.  Communication there is none, but
desolation is less for knowing that there could be, or for fancying
that there might.
Across the space between us, I looked upon my fellow-citizens in this
new country, with a dull emotion not unlike gratitude for their
existence; but I felt little curiosity about them.  I was too unhappy
to be so easily diverted.  It seemed to me that the memory of my wife
would become a mania to me, if I could in no way make known to her how
utterly I loved her and how I scorned myself.  I cannot say that I felt
much definite interest in the novel circumstances surrounding me,
except as possible resources for some escape from the situation, as it
stood between herself and me.  If I could compass any means of
communicating with her, I believed that I could accept my doom, let it
take me where it might or make of me what it would.
Walking thus drearily, alone, and not sorry to be alone in that
unfamiliar company, lost in the fixed idea of my own misery, I suddenly
heard light footsteps hurrying behind me.  I thought:--
"There is another spirit; one more of the newly dead, come to this
strange place."
But I did not find it worth my while to turn and greet him, being so
wrapt in my own fate; and when a soft hand touched my arm, I moved from
it with something like dismay.
"Why, Doctor!" said the gentle voice of Mrs. Faith, "did I startle you?
I have been hunting for you everywhere," she added, laughing lightly.
"I was afraid you would feel rather desolate.  It is a pity.  Now, I am
as happy!"
"Did Charley live?" I asked immediately.
"Oh yes, Charley lived; what we used to call living, when we were
there.  Poor Charley!  I keep thinking how he would enjoy everything if
he were here with me.  But his father needed him.  It makes me so
happy!  I am very happy!  Tell me, Doctor, what do you think of this
place?  How does it strike you?"
"It is a foreign country," I said sadly.
"Is it, Doctor?  Poor Doctor!  Why, I feel so much at home!"
She lifted a radiant face to me; it was touching to see her expression,
and marvellous to behold the idealization of health on features for so
many years adjusted to pain and patience.
"Dear Doctor!" she cried joyously, "you never thought to see me well!
They call this death.  Why, I never knew what it was to be alive
before!"
