baby things, and turned dresses, and dyed flannel, and 
gone to prayer-meetings together ; and Jack's mother 
was coming home, partly because Jack's father came for 
her, and partly because he happened to come sober, 
which was a great point, and partly because the schooner 
had to sail, which was another, — she was coming home, 
at all events, when a gale struck them. It was an ugly 
blow. The little two-masted vessel swamped, in short, 
at midnight of a moonlit night, off the coast, just the 
other side of seeing Cape Ann light. The crew were 
picked up by a three-master, and taken home. Aboard 
the three-master, in fright and chill and storm, the little 
boy was born. They always put it that he was born in 
Fairharbor. In fact, he was born rounding Eastern 
Point. " The toughest place to be horned in, this side 
o' Torment," Jack's father said. But Jack's mother said 
nothing at all. 
Jack's father kept sober till he got the mother and the 
child safely into the little crumbling, gray cottage in half 
of whose meagre dimensions the family kept up the 
illusion which they called home. Then, for truth compels me, 
I must state that Jack's father went straightway 
out upon what, in even less obscure circles than his, it is 
customary to call " a tear." There seems to be some- 
thing in the savage, incisive fitness of this word which 
has over-ridden all mere distinctions of class or culture, 
and must ultimately make it a classic in the language. 
" I 've stood it long as I ken stand, and I 'm goin' on a 
tear, — I 'm agoin' on a netarnalteax" said Jack's father 
to his oldest dory-mate, a fellow he had a feeling for, 
much as you would for an oar you had handled a good 
many years ; or perhaps a sail that you were used to, 
and had patched and watched, and knew the cracks in 
it, and the color of it, and when it was likely to give 
way, and whereabouts it would hold. 
In fact, that proved to be, in deed and truth, an eter- 
nal tear for Jack's father. Drunk as a fisherman could 
be, —and that is saying a good deal, —he reshipped that 
night, knowing not whither nor why, nor indeed know- 
ing that the deed was done ; and when he came to him- 
self he was twelve hours out, on his way to the Banks of 
Newfoundland ; and the young mother, with her baby 
on her arm, looked out of the frosty window over the 
foot of her old bedstead, and watched for him to come, 
and did not like to tell the neighbors that she was short 
of fuel. 
She was used to waiting — women are ; Fairharbor 
women always are. But she had never waited so long 
before. And when, at the end of her waiting, the old 
dory-mate came in one night and told her that it happened 
falling from the mast because he was not sober 
enough to be up there, Jack's mother said she had al- 
ways expected it. But she had not expected it, all the 
same. We never expect trouble, we only fear it. And 
she had put the baby on the edge of the bed and got 
upon her knees upon the floor, and laid her face on the 
baby, and tried to say her prayers, — for she was a pious 
little woman, not knowing any better, — but found she 
could not pray, she cried so. And the old dory-mate 
told her not to try, but to cry as hard as she could. 
And she told him he was very kind ; and so she did. 
For she was fond of her husband although he got 
drunk; because he got drunk, one is tempted to say. 
Her heart had gone the way of the hearts of drunkards' 
wives : she loved in proportion to her misery, and gave 
on equation with what she lost. All the woman in her 
mothered her husband when she could no longer wifely 
worship him. When he died she felt as if she had lost 
her eldest child. So, as I say, she kneeled with her face 
on the baby, and cried as if she had been the blessedest 
of wives. Afterward she thought of this with self-re 
proach. She said one day to the old dory-mate : 
" When my trouble came, I did not pray to God. I 'd 
ought to have. But I only cried at Him." 
Jack had come into the world in a storm, and he be 
gan it storm ily. He was a big, roaring baby, and he 
became a restless boy. 
His mother's gentle and unmodified femininity was helpless 
before the problem of this wholly masculine 
little being. She said Jack needed a man 
to manage him. He smoked at six ; he 
lived in the stables and on the wharves 
at eight ; he came 
when he got ready, 
and went when he 
pleased ; he obeyed when he felt like it, and when he 
was punished, he kicked. Once, in an imaginative moment, 
he bit her. 
She sent him to pack mackerel, for they were put to 
it to keep soul and body together, and he brought home 
such habits of speech as even the Fairharbor woman 
had never heard. From her little boy, her baby, — not 
yet old enough to be out of short trousers, and scarcely 
out of little sacks, had he been yours, my Lady, at the 
pretty age when one still fastens lace collars round their 
necks, and has them under shelter by dark, and hears 
their prayers, and challenges the breath of heaven lest 
it blow too rudely on some delicate forming fibre of soul 
or body, — from her little boy, at eight years old, the 
mother first learned the abysses of vulgarity in a seaport 
town. 
It must be admitted that her education in this respect 
had been defective. She had always been one of the 
women in whose presence her neighbors did not speak 
too carelessly. 
But Jack's mother had the kind of eyes which do not 
see mire, — the meek, religious, deep-blue eye which 
even growing sons respect while they strike the tears 
from it. At his worst Jack regardrd her as a species of 
sacred fact, much like heaven or a hymn. Sometimes 
on Sunday nights he stayed at home with her ; he liked 
to hear her sing. She sang Rock of Ages in her best 
black alpaca with her work-worn hands crossed upon 
the gingham apron which she put on to save the dress. 
But ah, she said, Jack needed a man to manage him. 
And one day when she said this, in spite of her gentle 
unconsciousness, or because of it, the old dory-mate to 
whom she said it said he thought so too, and that if she 
had no objections he would like to be that man. 
And the Fairharbor widow, who had never thought 
of such a thing, said she didn't know as she had ; for 
nobody knew, she said, how near to starving they had 
come ; and it was something to have a sober man. So, 
on this reasonable basis, Jack acquired a step-father, 
and his step-father sent him straightway to the Grand 
Banks. 
He meant it well enough, and perhaps it made no 
difference in the end. But Jack was a little fellow to 
go fishing, — only ten. His first voyage was hard: it 
was a March voyage ; he got badly frostbitten, and the 
skipper was rough. He was knocked about a good deal, 
and had the measles by himself in his berth ; and the 
men said they didn't know they had brought a baby tc 
the Banks, for they were very busy ; and Jack lay and 
cried a little, and thought about his mother, and wished 
he hadn't kicked her, but forgot it when he got well. 
So he swaggered about among the men, as a boy does 
when he is the only one in a crew, and aped their talk, 
and shared their grog, and did their hard work, and 
learned their songs, and came home with the early stages 
of moral ossification as well set in upon his little heart 
as a ten-year-old heart allows. 
The next voyage did not mend the matter ; nor the 
next. And though the old dory-mate was an honest fellow,
he had been more successful as a dory-mate than 
he was as a step-father. He and Jack did not " get on." 
Sometimes Jack's mother wondered if he had needed a 
man to manage him ; but she never said so. She was 
a good wife, and she had fuel enough, now ; she only 
kissed Jack and said she meant it for the best, and then 
she went away and sang Rock of Ages to the tune of 
Martyn, very slow, and quite on the wrong key. It 
seemed to make her feel better, poor thing. Jack some- 
times wondered why. 
When he was twelve years old he came home from a 
winter voyage one night, and got his pay for his share, 
— boy's pay, yet, for a boy's share ; but bigger than it 
used to be, — and did not go home first, but went
rollicking off with a crowd of Portuguese. It was a Sun- 
day night, and his mother was expecting him, for she 
knew the boat was in. His step-father expected him 
too, — and his money ; and Jack knew that. His mother 
had been sick, but Jack did not know that; she had been 
very sick, and had asked for him a great deal. There 
had been a baby, — born dead while its father was off- 
shore after cod, — and it had been very cold weather ; 
and something had gone wrong. 
At midnight of that night some one knocked at the 
door of the crumbling cottage. The step-father opened 
it ; he looked pale and agitated. Some boys were there 
in a confused group ; they bore what seemed to be a 
lifeless body on a drag, or bob-sled ; it was Jack, dead 
drunk. 
It was the first time, — he was only twelve, — and 
one of the Fairharbor boys took the pipe from his 
mouth to explain. 
" He was trapped by a Portygee, and they 've stole 
every cent of him, 'n kicked him out, 'n lef him, 
stranded like a monk-fish, so me and the other fellers 
we borryed a sled and brung him home, for we thought 
his mother 'd rather. He ain't dead, but he's just as 
drunk as if he was sixty ! " 
The Fairharbor boy mentioned this circumstance with 
a kind of abnormal pride, as if such superior maturity 
were a point for a comrade to make note of. But 
Jack's step-father went out softly, and shut the door, 
and said : 
" Look here, boys, — help me in with him, will you ? 
Not that way. His mother 's in there. She died an 
hour ago." 
And so the curse of his heredity came upon him. 
She never knew, thank Heaven. Her knowledge would 
have been a kind of terrible fore-omniscience, if she 
had. She would have had no hope of him from that 
hour. Her experience would have left her no illusions. 
The drunkard's wife would have educated the 
drunkard's mother too " liberally " for that. She would 
have taken in the whole scope and detail of the future 
in one midnight moment's breadth, as a problem in the 
higher mathematics may rest upon the width of a geometrical 
point. But she did not know. We say — I mean, 
it is our fashion of saying — that she did not know. 
God was merciful. She had asked for Jack, it seemed, 
over and over, but did not complain of him for not 
coming ; she never complained of Jack. She said the poor 
boy must have stayed somewhere to have a pleasant 
time ; and she said they were to give her love to him, if 
he came in while she was asleep. And then she asked 
her husband to sing Rock of Ages for her, because 
she did not feel very strong. He couldn't sing, — more 
than a halibut, poor fellow ; but he did not like to 
disappoint her, for he thought she looked what he called 
" miser'ble " ; so he sat down by the bed and raised his 
hoarse, weather-beaten voice to the tune of Marty's, as 
best he could, and mixed up two verses inextricably with 
a line from " Billy 's on the bright blue sea," which he 
added because he saw he. must have something to fill 
out, and it was all he could think of, — but she thanked 
him very gently, and said he sang quite well ; and said 
once more that he was to give her love to Jack ; and 
went to sleep afterward ; and by and by, they could 
not wake her to see her boy of twelve brought to her 
drunk. 
The curse of his heredity was upon him. We may 
blame, we may loathe, we may wonder, we may despair ; 
but we must not forget. There were enough to blame 
without remembering. Jack, like all drunkards, soon 
learned this. In fact, he did not remember it very well 
himself, — not having been acquainted with his father ; 
and never sentimentalized over himself nor whined for 
his bad luck, — but owned up to his sins, with the 
bluntness of an honest, bad fellow. He was rather an 
honest fellow, in spite of it all. He never lied when he 
was sober. 
If the curse of his ancestry had come upon him. its 
compensatory temperament came too. Jack had the 
merry heart of the easy drinker. 
Born with his father's alcoholized brain-cells, poor 
baby, endowed with the narcotined conscience which 
this species of parentage bequeaths, he fell heir to the 
kind of attractiveness that goes with the legacy. 
He was a happy-go-lucky fellow. Life sat airily on 
him. He had his mother's handsome eyes dashed with 
his father's fun (for she couldn't take a joke, to save 
her) ; he told a good story ; he did a kind deed ; he was 
generous with his money, when he had any, and never 
in the least disturbed when he had n't. He was popular 
to the dangerous extent that makes one's vices seem 
a kind of social introduction, and not in Jack's circle 
alone, be it said. 
Every crew wanted him. Drunk or so- 
ber, as a shipmate he was at par. It 
was usually easy for him to borrow. The 
fellows made up his fines for him, there 
was always somebody to go bail for 
him when he got before the police 
court. Arrested perhaps a half dozen 
times a year, in his maddest years, he never was 
sent to the House in his 
life. There were always people enough who thought it 
a pity to let such a good fellow go to prison. He had 
— I was going to say as a matter of course he had — 
curly hair. One should not omit to notice that he was 
splendidly tattooed. He was proud, as seamen are, of 
his brawny arms, dashed from wrist to shoulder with 
the decorative ingenuity of his class. Jack had aesthetic 
views of his own, indeed, about his personal allowance 
of indigo. He had objected to the customary medley 
of anchors, stars, and crescents, and exhibited a certain 
reserve of taste, which was rather interesting. On his 
left arm he bore a very crooked lighthouse rising from 
a heavy sea ; he was, in fact, quite flooded along the 
bicipital muscle with waves and billows, but nothing 
else interfered with the massive proportions of the effect. 
This was considered a masterly design, and Jack 
was often called upon to push up his sleeve and explain 
how he came by the inspiration. 
Upon the other arm he wore a crucifix, ten inches 
long ; this was touched with blood-red ink ; the dead 
Christ hung upon it, lean and pitiful. Jack said he took 
the crucifix against his drowning. It was an uncommonly 
large and ornate crucifix. 
Jack was a steady drinker at nineteen. At twenty- 
five he was what either an inexperienced or a deeply 
experienced temperance missionary would have called 
incurable. The intermediate grades would have confi- 
dently expected to save him. 
Of course he reformed. He would not have been in- 
teresting if he had not. The unmitigated sot has few 
attractions even for seafaring society. It is the foil and 
flash, the by-play and side-light of character, that " lead 
us on." Jack was always reforming. After that night 
when he was brought home on the bob-sled, the little 
boy was as steady and as miserable as he knew how to 
be for a long time ; he drew the unfortunate inference 
that the one involved the other. By the time his 
mother's grave was green with the scanty Fairharbor 
church-yard grass, — for even the sea-wind seems to 
have a grudge against the very dead for choosing dry 
graves in Fairharbor, and scants them in their natural 
covering, — by that time rank weeds had overgrown the 
sorrow of the homeless boy. He and his step-father 
"got on " less than ever now, as was to be expected ; 
and when one day Jack announced with characteristic 
candor that he was going to get drunk, if he went to 
Torment for it, the two parted company ; and the crumbling 
cottage knew Jack no more. By and by, when his 
step-father was drowned at Georges', Jack borrowed the 
money for some black gloves and a hat-band. He had 
the reputation of being a polite fellow ; the fishermen 
spelled it t-o-n-y. Truth to tell, the old dory-mate had 
wondered sometimes on Sunday afternoons if he had 
been the man to manage Jack ; and felt that the main 
object of his second marriage had been defeated. 
Jack, as I say, was always reforming. Every temper- 
ance society in the city had a hand at him. They were 
of the old-fashioned, easy type which took their respon- 
sibilities comfortably. They held him out on a pair of 
moral tongs, and tried to toast his misdemeanors out of 
him, before a quick fire of pledges and badges ; and when 
he tumbled out of the tongs, and asked the president 
and treasurer why they didn't bow to him in the street 
when he was drunk, or why, if he was good enough for 
them in the lodge-room, he wasn't good enough to shake 
hands with before folks on the post-office steps, or pro- 
pounded any of those ingenious posers with which his 
kind are in the habit of disturbing the benevolent spirit, 
they snapped the tongs to, and turned him over to the 
churches. 
These touched him gingerly. They invited him into 
the free pews, — a dismal little row in the gallery, — 
sent him a tract or two, and asked him a few well-meant 
and very confusing religious questions, to which Jack's 
replies were far from satisfactory. One ardent person, 
a recent convert, coaxed him into a weekly prayer-meet- 
ing. It was a very good, honest, uninteresting prayer- 
meeting, and there were people sitting there beside him 
with clean lives and clear faces whose motives Jack was 
not worthy to understand, and he knew enough to know 
it. But it happened to be a foreign mission prayer-meet- 
ing, devoted to the Burmese field ; which was, therefore, 
be it said, not so much an argument against foreign missions,
as a deficient means of grace to the fisherman. 
Jack was terribly bored. He ran his hands through his 
curls, and felt for his tobacco, and whispered to tie 
young convert to know if there weren't any waits in the 
play so a man could get out without hurting anybody's 
feelings. But just then the young convert struck up a 
hymn, and Jack stayed. 
He liked the singing. His restless, handsome face 
took on a change such as a windy day takes on toward 
dusk, when the breeze dies clown. When he found 
they were singing Rock of Ages, he tried to sing it too, 
— for he was a famous tenor on deck. But when he had 
sung a line or two, — flash ! down in one of the empty 
pews in front, he saw a thin old lady with blue eyes, sitting 
in a black alpaca dress with her hands clasped on 
her gingham apron. 
"That's my mother. Have I got the jim-jams?" 
asked this unaccustomed worshiper of himself. But 
then he remembered that he was sober. He could sins: 
no longer after this, but bowed his head and looked into 
his old felt hat, and wondered if he were going to cry, 
or get religion. In point of fact, he did neither of these 
things, because a very old church-member arose just 
then, and said he saw a poor castaway in our midst to- 
night, and he besought the prayers of the meeting for 
his soul. Jack stopped crying. He looked hard at the 
old church-member. He knew him ; had always known 
him. The fisherman waited till that prayer was 
through, — it was rather a long prayer, — and then he 
too sprang to his feet. He looked all around the deco- 
rous place ; his face was white with the swift passion of 
the drinking man. 
" I never spoke in meetin' in my life," said Jack in an 
unsteady voice. " I ain't religious. I drink. But I 'm 
sober to-night, and I 've got something to say to you. I 
heard what that man said. I know him. He 's old Jim 
Crownoby. I 've always knowed Jim Crownoby. He 
owns a sight of property in this town. He 's a rich 
man. He owns that block on Black street. You know 
he does. You can't deny it. Nor he can't neither. 
All I want to say is, I 've got drunk in one of them 
places of his, time and again ; and if there ain't anybody
but him to pray for my soul, I 'd rather go to the 
devil." 
Jack stopped short, jammed on his hat, and left the 
meeting. In the shocked rustle that followed, some one 
had the tact to start " Rescue the perishing," as the 
fisherman strode down the broad aisle. He did not go 
again. The poor young convert followed him up for a 
week or two, and gave him an expensive Testament, 
bought out of an almost invisible personal income, in 
vain. 
"I've no objections to you," said Jack candidly; 
" I 'm much obliged to ye for yer politeness, sir. But 
them churches that sub-leases to a rum-seller, I don't 
think they onderstand a drinkin' man. Hey ? Well, 
ain't he their biggest rooster, now ? Don't he do the 
heft of the payin', and the tallest of their crowin', 
consequent ? Thought so. Better leave me go, sir. 
I ain't a pious man ; I 'm a fisherman." 
" Fishes," said Jack, " is no fools." 
He gave voice to this remark one day in Boston, 
when he was twenty-five years old. He was trying to 
entertain a Boston girl ; she was not familiar with Fairharbor
or with the scenery of his calling ; he wanted to 
interest her ; he liked the girl. He had liked a good 
many girls, it need not be said ; but this one had laid 
upon the fisherman — she knew not how, he knew not 
why, and what man or woman of us could have told 
him ? — the power that comes not of reason, or of time, 
or of trying, or of wisdom, or of Tightness, but of the 
mystery to which, when we are not speaking of Jack, 
we give the name of love. It seems a sacrilege, admit, 
to write it here, and of these two. But there, again, it 
would be easy to be wrong. The study of the relativity 
of human feeling is a delicate science; it calls for a fine 
moral equipment. If this were the high-water mark of 
nature for Jack — and who shall say ? — the tide shall 
have its sacred clue, even clown among those weeds and 
in that mud. He liked that girl, among them all, and 
her he thought of gently. He had known her a long 
time ; as much as three months. When the vessel came 
into Boston to sell halibut, he had a few days there, 
drifting about as seamen do, homeless and reckless ; 
clashing out the wages just paid off, in ways that some- 
times he remembered and sometimes he forgot, and that 
usually left him without a dollar toward his next fine 
when he should be welcomed by the police court of his 
native city on returning home. 
Jack thought, I say, gravely of this girl. He never 
once took her name in vain among the fellows ; and she 
had not been a very good girl either. But Jack re- 
flected that he was not very good himself, if you came 
to that. His downright, honest nature stood him in 
stead in this moral distinction ; there was always a 
broad streak of generosity in him at his worst ; it goes 
with the temperament, we say, and perhaps we say it 
too often to give him half the credit of it. 
She was a pretty girl, and she was very young. She 
had told Jack her story, as they strolled about the 
bright Boston streets on comfortable winter evenings ; 
when he took her to the variety show, or to the oystershop, 
and they talked together. Jack pitied her. Per- 
haps she deserved it ; it was a sad little story — and she 
was so very young ! She had a gentle way, with Jack ; 
for some reason, God knows why, she had trusted him 
from the first, and he had never once been known to dis- 
turb her trust. That was the pleasant part of it. 
On this evening that we speak of, Jack was sober. 
He was often sober when he had an evening to spend 
with the Boston girl ; not always — no ; truth must be 
told. She looked as pretty as was in her that night ; 
she had black eyes and a kind of yellow hair that Jack 
had never seen crinkled low on the forehead above black 
eyes before ; he thought her as fine to look at as any 
actress he ever saw ; for the stage was Jack's standard 
of the magnificent, as it is to so many of his sort. The 
girl's name was Teen. Probably she had been called 
Christine once, in her country home ; she even told Jack 
she had been baptized. 
"I wasn't, myself," said Jack; "I roared so, they 
darsen't do it. My mother got me to church, for she 
was a pious woman, and I pummeled the parson in the 
face with both fists, and she said she come away, for she 
was ashamed of me. She always said that christenin' 
wasn't never legal. It disappointed her, too. I was an 
awful baby." 
"I should think likely," said Teen with candor. " Do 
you set much by your mother ? " 
" She 's dead," said Jack in a subdued voice. Teen 
looked at him ; she had never heard him speak like 
that. 
" I 'most wished mine was," said the girl ; "she 'd 'a' 
ben better off — alonsc of me." 
" That 's so," said Jack. 
The two took a turn in silence up and down the 
brightly lighted street ; their thoughts looked out 
strangely from their marred young faces ; they felt as 
if they were in a foreign country. Jack had meant to 
ask her to take a drink, but he gave it up ; he could n't, 
somehow. 
"Was you always a fisherman?" asked Teen, feeling, 
with a woman's tact, that somebody must change the 
current of the subject. 
" I was a fisherman three generations back," Jack an- 
swered her ; " borned a fisherman, you bet ! I couldn't 
'a' ben nothin' else if I 'd drownded for it. It 's a smart 
business. You hev to keep your wits about you. Fishes 
is no fools." 
"Ain't they?" asked the girl listlessly. She was 
conscious of failing in conversational brilliancy ; but the 
truth was, she couldn't get over what they had been 
saying : it was always unfortunate when she remembered 
her mother. Jack began to talk to her about his business 
again, but Teen did not reply ; and when he looked 
down at her to see what ailed her, there were real tears 
rolling over her pretty cheeks. 
" Why, Teen ! " said Jack. 
" Leave go of me, Jack," said Teen, " and let me get 
off ; I ain't good company to-night. I 've got the dumps. 
I can't entertain ye, Jack. And, Jack —don't let 's talk 
about mothers next time, will we ? It spoils the evenin'. 
Leave go of me, and I 'll go home by my own self. I 'd 
rather." 
" I won't leave go of you ! " cried Jack with a sudden 
blazing purpose lighting up all the corners of his soul. 
It was a white light, not unholy ; it seemed to shine 
through and through him with a soft glow like a candle 
on an altar. " I 'll never leave go of you, Teen, if you'll 
say so. I 'd rather marry you." 
" Marry met" said Teen. 
" Yes, marry you. I 'd a sight rather. There, now !
It 's out with it. What do you say to that, Teen ? " 
With one slow finger-tip Teen wiped away the tears 
that fell for her mother. A ring on her finger glistened 
in the light as she did this. She saw the sparkle, tore 
off the ring and dashed it away ; it fell into the mud, 
and was trodden out of sight instantly. Jack sprang 
gallantly to pick it up. 
" Don't you touch it ! " cried the girl. She put her 
bared hand back upon his arm. The ring had left a little 
mark upon her finger ; she glanced at this, and looked 
up into Jack's handsome face ; he looked very kind. 
" Jack, clear," said Teen softly, " I ain't fit to marry 
ye." 
" You 're fitter 'n I be," answered Jack manfully. 
Teen sighed ; she did not speak at once ; other tears 
came now, but these were tears for herself and for Jack. 
Jack felt this, after his fashion ; they gave him singular 
confusion of mind. 
" I wouldn't cry about it, Teen. You needn't have 
me if you don't want to." 
" But I do want to, Jack." 
" Honest ? " 
" Honest it is, Jack." 
" Will ye make a good wife, Teen ? " asked Jack, after 
some unprecedented thought. 
" I 'll try, Jack." 
" You 'll never go back on me, nohow ? " 
" I ain't that sort ! " cried the girl, drawing herself up 
a little. A new dignity sat upon her with a certain grace 
which was beautiful to see. 
" Will you swear it, Teen ? " 
" If you 'd rather, Jack." 
" What 'll you swear by, now ? " asked Jack. " You 
must swear by all you hold holy." 
" What do I hold holy ? " mused Teen. 
"Will you swear," continued Jack seriously, "will you 
swear to me by the Rock of Ages ? " 
" What 's that ? " asked the girl. 
" It 's a hymn-tune. I want you to swear me by the 
Rock of Ages that you 'll be that you say you will, to 
me. Will you do it, Teen ? " 
" Oh yes," said Teen, " I 'll do it. Where shall we 
come across one ? " 
" I guess I can find it," Jack replied. " I can find 
'most anything I set out to." 
So they started out at random, in their reckless 
fashion, in the great city, to find the Rock of Ages for 
the asking. 
Jack led his companion hither and yon, peering into 
churches and vestries and missions, and wherever he 
saw signs of sacred things. Singing they heard abun- 
dantly in the gay town ; songs merry, mad, and sad ; 
but not the song for a girl to swear by, that she would 
be true wife to a man who trusted her. 
Wandering thus, on the strange errand whose pathos 
was so far above their own dream or knowledge, they 
chanced at last upon the place and the little group of 
people known in that part of Boston as Mother Mary's 
meeting. 
The girl said she had been there once, but that Mother 
Mary was too good for her ; she was one of the real 
kind. Everybody knew Mother Mary and her husband ; 
he was a parson. They were poor folks themselves, 
Teen said, and understood poor folks, and did for 
them all the year round, not clearing out, like rich ones, 
when it came hot weather, but stood by 'em, Teen said. 
They kept the little room open, and if you wanted a 
prayer you went in and got it, just as you 'd call for a 
drink or a supper ; it was always on hand for you, and 
a kind word sure to come with it, and you always knew 
where to go for 'em ; and Mother Mary treated you like 
folks. She liked her, Teen said. If she 'd been a different 
girl, she 'd have gone there of a cold night all 
winter. But Teen said she felt ashamed. 
" I guess she 'll have what I 'm after," said Jack. " She 
sounds like she would. Let 's go in and see." 
So they went into the quiet place among the praying 
people, and stood staring, for they felt embarrassed. 
Mother Mary looked very white and peaceful ; she was 
a tall, fair woman ; she wore a black dress with white 
about the bosom ; it was a plain, old dress, much mended. 
Mother Mary did not look rich, as Teen had said. 
The room was filled with poor creatures gathered about 
her like her children, while she talked with them and 
taught them as she could. She crossed the room im- 
mediately to where the young man stood, with the girl 
beside him. 
"We've come," said Jack, "to find the Rock of 
Ages." He drew Teen's hand through his arm, and 
held it for a moment ; then, moved by some fine instinct 
mysterious to himself, he lifted and laid it in Mother 
Mary's own. 
"Explain it to her, ma'am," he said ; "'tell her, won't 
you ? I 'm going to marry her, if she 'll have me. I 
want her to swear by somethin' holy she 'll be a true 
wife to me. She hadn't anything particularly holy herself,
and the holiest thing I know of is the Rock of 
Ages. I 've heard my mother sing it. She 's dead. 
We 've been huntin' Boston over to-night after the Rock 
of Ages." 
"I'll be an honest wife to you." 
Mother Mary was used to the pathos of her sober 
work, but the tears sprang now to her large and gentle 
eyes. She did not speak to Jack, — could not possibly, 
just then ; but, delaying only for the moment till she 
could command herself, she flung her rich, maternal 
voice out upon the words of the. old hymn. Her husband 
joined her, and all the people present swelled the 
chorus. 
" Rock of Ages, cleft for me ! 
Let me hide myself in thee ; 
Be of sin the double cure, 
Cleanse me from its guilt and power." 
They sang it all through, — the three verses that every- 
body knows, — and Jack and Teen stood listening. 
Jack tried to sing himself ; but Teen hid her face, and 
cried upon his arm. 
" Thou must save," sang the praying people ; "Thou 
must save, and thou alone ! " 
The strain died solemnly ; the room was quiet ; the 
minister yonder began to pray, and all the people bowed 
their heads. But Mother Mary stood quite still, with the 
girl's hand trembling in her own. 
" Swear it, Teen ! " Jack bent clown his curly head 
and whispered ; he would not shame his promised wife 
before these people. " Swear by that, you 'll be true 
wife to me ! " 
"I swear it, Jack," sobbed Teen. "If that's the 
Rock of Ages, I swear by it, though I was to die for it, 
I'll be an honest wife to you." 
" Come back when you 've got your license," said 
Mother Mary, smiling through her tears, " and my hus- 
band will marry you if you want him to." 
" We 'll come to-morrow," Jack answered gravely. 
" Jack," said Teen in her pretty way, — for she had a 
very pretty way, — "if I'man honest wife to you, will 
you be kind to me ? " She did not ask him to swear 
it by the Rock of Ages. She took his word for it, poor 
thins: ! Women do. 
III. 
Mother Mary's husband married them next day at 
the Mission meeting ; and Mother Mary sat down at the 
melodeon in the corner of the pleasant place, and played 
and sang Toplady's great hymn for them, as Jack had 
asked her. It was his wedding march. He was very 
sober and gentle, — almost like a better man. Teen 
thought him the handsomest man she had ever seen. 
" Oh, I say, Teen," he nodded to her, as they walked 
away, " one thing I forgot to tell you, — I'm reformed." 
" Are you, Jack ? " 
" If I ever drink a drop again, so help me " — But 
he stopped. 
" So help you, Rock of Ages ? " asked the new-made 
wife. But Jack winced ; he was honest enough to hesitate 
at this. 
" I don't know 's I 'd darst — that" he added ruefully. 
" But I 'm reformed. I have lost all hanker for liquor. 
I shall never drink again. You 'll see, Teen." 
Teen did see, as was to be expected. She saw a 
great deal, poor thing ! Jack did not drink — for a long 
time; it was nearly five months, for they kept close 
count. He took her to Fairharbor, and rented the old 
half of the crumbling cottage where his mother used to 
sit and watch for him on long, late evenings. The 
young wife did the watching now. They planted some 
cinnamon rose-bushes 
by the doorsteps of — the cottage, and fos- 
tered them affectionately. Jack was as 
happy and sober as possible, to begin 
with. He picked the cinnamon roses and 
brought them in for 
his wife to wear. He was proud to have a 
home of his own ; he had not expected to ; 
in fact, he had never had one since that 
night when his mother 
said they were to give her love to him, if he came home 
while she was asleep. He had beaten about so, sleeping 
for the most part in his berth, and sailing again directly ; 
he had never had any place, he said, to hang his winter 
clothes in ; closets and bureaus seemed treasure-houses 
to him, and the kitchen fire a luxury greater than a less 
good-looking man would have deserved. When he came 
home, drenched and chilly, from a winter voyage, and 
Teen took the covers off, and the fiery heart of the coals 
leaped out to greet him, and she stood in the rich color, 
with her yellow hair, young and fair and sweet as any 
man's wife could look,«and said she had missed him, and 
called him her dear husband, Jack even went so far as to 
feel that Teen was the luxury. He treated her accord- 
ingly ; that was at first. He came straight home to her ; 
he kept her in flour and fuel ; she had the little things 
and the gentle words that women need. Teen was very 
fond of him. This was the first of it, — I was going to 
say this was the worst of it. All there was of Teen 
seemed to have gone into her love for Jack. A part of 
Jack had gone into his love for Teen. Teen was very 
happy, to begin with. The respectable neighbors came 
to see her, and said, " We 're happy to make your 
acquaintance." Nobody knew that it had not always been 
so that Teen's acquaintance would have been a source of 
social happiness. And she wrote to her mother that 
she was married ; and her mother came on to make her 
a little visit ; and Teen cried her soul out for joy. She 
was very modest and home-keeping and loving ; no wife 
in the land was truer than this girl he had chosen was 
to the fisherman who chose her. Jack knew that. He 
believed in her. She made him happy ; and therefore 
she kept him right. 
All this was at first. It did not last. Why should 
we expect that, when we see how little there is in the 
relation of man and woman which lasts ? If happy 
birth and gentle rearing, and the forces of what we call 
education, and the silken webs of spun refinements, are 
so strained in the tie which requires two who cannot get 
away from each other to make each other happy, how 
should we ask, of the law of chances, the miracle for 
Teen and Jack ? 
There was no miracle. No transubstantiation of the 
common bread to holy flesh was wrought upon that poor 
altar. Their lot went the way of other lots, with the 
facts of their history dead against them. Trouble came, 
and poverty, and children, and care, and distaste. Jack 
took to his old ways, and his wife to the tears that they 
bring. The children died ; they were poor sickly babies 
who wailed a little while in her arms, and slipped out 
because there wasn't enough to them to stay. And the 
gray house was damp. Some said it was diphtheria ; 
but their mother said it was the will of God. She added : 
Might his will be done ! On the whole she was not 
sorry. Their father struck her when he was in liquor. 
She thought if the babies lived they might get hurt. A 
month before the last one was born she showed to 
Jack's biographer a bruise across her shoulder, long and 
livid. She buttoned her dress over it with hasty re- 
pentance. 
" Maybe I 'd oughtn't to have told," she said. " But 
he said he 'd be kind to me." 
Jack was very sorry about this when he was sober. 
He kissed his wife, and bought a pair of pink kid shoes 
for the baby ; which it never grew large enough to wear. 
I am not writing a temperance story, only the biography
of a fisherman, and a few words will say better than 
many how it was. Alcoholized brain-cells being one of 
the few bequests left to society which the heirs do not 
dispute, Jack went back to his habits with the ferocity 
that follows abstinence. Hard luck came. Teen was 
never much of a housekeeper ; she had left her mother 
too early ; had never been taught. Things were soggy, 
and not always clean ; and she was so busy in being 
struck and scolded, and in bearing and burying babies, 
that it grew comfortless beside the kitchen fire. The 
last of the illusions which had taken the name of home 
within the walls of the crumbling half-cottage withered 
out of it, just as the cinnamon roses did the summer 
Jack watered them with whiskey by a little emotional 
mistake. 
A worse thing had happened too. Some shipmate 
had " told " in the course of time ; and Teen's 
prematrimonial story got set adrift upon the current — 
one of the crudest currents of its kind — of Fairharbor 
gossip. The respectable neighbors made her feel it, as 
only respectable neighbors do such things. Jack, raging, 
overheard her name upon the wharves. Teen had 
been "that she said she would" to him. He knew it. 
No matron in the town had kept her life or heart more 
true. In all her sickness and trouble and slackness, and 
in going cold or hungry, and in her vivid beauty that 
none or all of these things could quench, Teen had carried
a sweet dignity of her own as the racer in the old 
Promethean festival carried the torch while he ran 
against the wind. Jack knew, — oh yes, he knew. 
But he grew sullen, suspicious. When he was drunk 
he was always jealous ; it began to take that form. 
When he was sober he still admired his wife ; sometimes
he went so far as to remember that he loved her.
When this happened, Teen dried her eyes, and brushed 
her yellow hair, and washed up the kitchen floor, and 
made the coffee, and said to the grocer when she paid 
for the sugar : 
"My husband has reformed." 
One night Jack came home unexpectedly ; a strange 
mood sat upon him, which his wife did not find herself 
able to classify by any of the instant and exquisite 
perceptions which grow, like new faculties, in wives. He 
had been drinking heavily when he left her, and she had 
not looked for him for days ; if he sailed as he was, it 
