gested to the girl (she had strange new moments 
of quick reasoning at present,) that that really 
would only prepare him to be disgusted, not to 
be indifferent. His disgust would be colder than 
anything she had ever known and would complete 
her knowledge of him make her understand him 
properly for the first time. She would just meet 
it as briefly as possible ; it would finish the busi 
ness, wind up the episode, and all would be over. 
He did not write ; that proved it in advance ; 
there had now been two or three posts without a 
letter. He had seen the paper in Boston or in 
New York and it had struck him dumb. It was 
very well for Delia to say that of course he didn 't 
write when he was on the sea : how could they 
get his letters even if he did ? There had been 
time before before he sailed; though Delia 
represented that people never wrote then. They 
were ever so much too busy at the last and they 
were going to see their correspondents in a few 
days anyway. The only missives that came to 
Francie were a copy of the Reverberator, 
addressed in Mr. Flack s hand and with a great 
inkmark on the margin of the fatal letter, and a 
long note from Mme. de Brecourt, received forty- 
eight hours after the scene at her house. This 
lady expressed herself as follows : 
" MY DEAR FRANCIE, I felt very badly after you had 
gone yesterday morning, and I had twenty minds to go 
and see you. But we have talked it over conscientiously 
and it appears to us that we have no right to take any such 
step till Gaston arrives. The situation is not exclusively 
ours but belongs to him as well, and we feel that we ought 
to make it over to him in as simple and compact a form as 
possible. Therefore, as we regard it, we had better not 
touch it (it s so delicate, isn 't it, rny poor child ?) but leave 
it just as it is. They think I even exceed my powers in 
writing you these simple lines, and that once your partici 
pation has been c.onstatee (which was the only advantage of 
that dreadful scene), everything should stop. But I have 
liked you, Francie, I have believed in you, and I don 't 
wish you to be able to say that in spite of the thunderbolt 
you have drawn down upon us I have not treated you with 
tenderness. It is a thunderbolt indeed, my poor and inno 
cent but disastrous little friend ! We are hearing more of 
it already the horrible Republican papers here have (as 
we know) already got hold of the unspeakable sheet and are 
preparing to reproduce the article : that is such parts of it 
as they may put forward (with innuendoes and sous-eniendus 
to eke out the rest) without exposing themselves to a suit 
for defamation. Poor Leonie de Villepreux has been with 
us constantly and Jeanne and her husband have telegraphed 
that we may expect them day after to-morrow. They are 
evidently immensely emotionnes, for they almost never 
telegraph. They wish so to receive Gaston. We have 
determined all the same to be intensely quiet, and that will 
be sure to be his view. Alphonse and Maxime now 
recognise that it is best to leave Mr. Flack alone, hard as 
it is to keep one s hands off him. Have you anything to 
lui faire dire to my precious brother when he arrives? 
But it is foolish of me to ask you that, for you had much 
better not answer this. You will no doubt have an oppor 
tunity to say to him whatever, my dear Francie, you can 
say! It will matter comparatively little that you may 
never be able to say it to your friend, with every 
allowance, 
" SUZANNE DE BRECOURT." 
Francie looked at this letter and tossed it away 
without reading it. Delia picked it up, read it to 
her father, who didn 't understand it, and kept it 
in her possession, poring over it as Mr. Flack liad 
seen her pore over the cards that were left while 
she was out or over the registers of American 
travellers. They knew of Gaston s arrival by his 
telegraphing from Havre (he came back by the 
French line), and he mentioned the hour " about 
dinner-time " at which he should reach Paris. 
Delia, after dinner, made her father take her to 
the circus, so that Francie should be left alone to 
receive her intended, who would be sure to hurry 
round in the course of the evening. The girl 
herself expressed no preference whatever on this 
point, and the idea was one of Delia s masterly 
ones, her flashes of inspiration. There was never 
any difficulty about imposing such conceptions on 
her father. But at half-past ten, when they 
returned, the young man had not appeared, and 
Francie remained only long enough to say, "I 
told you so ! " with a white face and to inarch off 
to her room with her candle. She locked herself 
in and her sister could not get at her that night. 
It was another of Delia s inspirations not to try, 
after she had felt that the door was fast. She 
forbore, in the exercise of a great discretion, but 
she herself in the ensuing hours slept not a wink. 
Nevertheless, the next morning, as early as ten 
o clock, she had the energy to drag her father out 
to the banker s and to keep him out two hours. 
It would be inconceivable now that Gas ton should 
not turn up before the cUjeuner. He did turn 
up ; about eleven o clock he came in and found 
Francie alone. She perceived, in the strangest 
way, that he was very pale, at the same time that he 
was sunburnt ; and not for an instant did he smile 
at her. It was very certain that there was no 
bright nicker in her own face, and they had the 
most singular, the most unnatural meeting. As 
he entered the room he said " I could not come 
last evening ; they made it impossible ; they were 
all there and we were up till three o clock this 
morning." He looked as if he had been through 
terrible things, and it was not simply the strain 
of his attention to so much business in America. 
What passed next she could not remember after 
wards; it seemed only a few seconds before he 
said to her, slowly, holding her hand (before this 
he had pressed his lips to hers, silently), " Is it 
true, Francie, what they say (and they swear to 
it !) that you told that blackguard those horrors 
that that infamous letter is only a report of your 
talk ? " 
"I told him everything it s all me, me, ME I" 
the girl replied, exaltedly, without pretending to 
hesitate an instant as to what he might mean. 
Gaston looked at her with deep eyes ; then he 
walked straight away to the window and remained 
there in silence. Francie said nothing more. 
At last the young man went on, " And I who 
insisted to them that there was no natural 
delicacy like yours ! " 
" Well, you 'll never need to insist about any 
thing any more ! " she cried. And with this she 
dashed out of the room by the nearest door. When 
Delia and Mr. Dosson returned the red salon was 
empty and Francie was again locked into her 
room. But this time her sister forced an entrance. 
XIII. 
MR. DOSSON, as we know, was meditative, and 
the present occasion could only minister to that 
side of his nature, especially as, so far at least as 
the observation of his daughters went, it had not 
urged him into uncontrollable movement. But 
the truth is that the intensity, or rather the con 
tinuity, of his meditations did engender an act 
which was not perceived by these young ladies, 
though its consequences presently became definite 
enough. While he waited for the Proberts to 
arrive in a phalanx and noted that they failed to do 
so he had plenty of time to ask himself and also 
to ask Delia questions about Mr. Flack. So far 
as they were addressed to his daughter they were 
promptly answered, for Delia had been ready from 
the first, as we have seen, to pronounce upon the 
conduct of the young journalist. Her view of it 
was clearer every hour ; there was a difference 
however in the course of action which she judged 
this view to demand. At first he was to be blown 
up for the mess he had got them into (profitless as 
the process might be and vain the satisfaction) ; 
he was to be visited with the harshest chastise 
ment that the sense of violated confidence could 
inflict. Now he was simply to be dropped, to be 
cut, to be let alone to his dying day : the girl 
quickly recognised that this was a much more dis 
tinguished way of showing displeasure. It was in 
this manner that she characterised it, in her 
frequent conversations with her father, if that can 
be called conversation which consisted of his 
serenely smoking while she poured forth argu 
ments which combined both variety and repetition. 
The same cause will produce consequences tho 
most diverse : a truth according to which the 
catastrophe that made Delia express freely the 
hope that she might never again see so much as 
the end of Mr. Flack s nose had just the opposite 
effect upon her father. The one thing he wanted 
positively to do at present was to let his eyes 
travel over his young friend s whole person : it 
seemed to him that that would really make him 
feel better. If there had been a discussion about 
this the girl would have kept the field, for she had 
the advantage of being able to tell her reasons, 
whereas her father could not have put his into 
words. Delia had touched on her deepest con 
viction in saying to Francie that the correspondent 
of the Reverberator had played them that trick 
on purpose to get them into such trouble with the 
Proberts that he might see his own hopes bloom 
again under cover of their disaster. This had 
many of the appearances of a strained interpreta 
tion, but that did not prevent Delia from placing 
it before her father several times an hour. It 
mattered little that he should remark, in return, 
that he didn 't see what good it could do Mr. Flack 
that Francie and he and Delia, for all he could 
guess should be disgusted with him : to Mr. 
Dosson s mind that was such a queer way of 
reasoning. Delia maintained that she understood 
perfectly, though she couldn 't explain and at any 
rate she didn 't want the manoeuvring creature to 
come flying back from Nice. She didn 't want 
him to know that there had been a scandal, that 
they had a grievance against him, that any one 
had so much as heard of his article or cared what 
he published or didn 't publish : above all she 
didn 't want him to know that the Proberts had 
cooled off. Mixed up with this high rigour on 
Miss Dosson s part was the oddest secret com 
placency of reflection that in consequence of what 
Mr. Flack had published the great American 
community was in a position to know with what 
fine folks Francie and she were associated. She 
hoped that some of the people who used to call on 
them when they were " off to-morrow " would take 
the lesson to heart. 
While she glowed with this consolation as well 
as with the resentment for which it was required 
her father quietly addressed a few words, by 
letter, to George Flack. This communication 
was not of a minatory order; it expressed 
on the contrary the loose sociability which was 
the essence of Mr. Dosson s nature. He wanted 
to see Mr. Flack, to talk the whole thing over, 
and the desire to hold him to an account would 
play but a small part in the interview. It was 
much more definite to him that the soreness of 
the Proberts was a kind of unexpected insanity 
(so little did his experience match it), than that 
a newspaper-man had misbehaved in trying to 
turn out an attractive article. As the newspaper 
man happened to be the person with whom he 
had most consorted for some time back he felt 
drawn to him in the presence of a new problem, 
and somehow it did not seem to Mr. Dosson to 
disqualify him as a source of comfort that it was 
just he who had been the fountain of injury. 
The injury was a sort of emanation of the crazy 
Proberts. Moreover Mr. Dosson could not dislike 
at such short notice, a man who had smoked 
so many of his cigars, ordered so many of his 
dinners and helped him so loyally to spend his 
money : such acts constituted a bond, and when 
there was a bond people gave it a little jerk 
in time of trouble. His letter to Nice was the 
little jerk. 
The morning after Francie had turned her back 
on Gaston and left him planted in the salon (he 
Lad remained ten minutes, to see if she would 
reappear, and then had marched out of the hotel), 
she received by the first post a letter from him, 
written the evening before. It conveyed his deep 
regret that their meeting in the morning should 
have been of so painful, so unnatural a character, 
and the hope that she did not consider, as her 
strange behaviour had seemed to suggest, that 
she had anything to complain of. There was too 
much he wanted to say and above all too much 
he wanted to ask, for him to consent to the indefi 
nite postponement of a necessary interview. There 
were explanations, assurances, de part et'd autre, 
with which it was manifestly impossible that 
either of them should dispense. He would there 
fore propose that she should see him, and not be 
wanting in patience to that end, on the following 
evening. He did not propose an earlier moment 
because his hands were terribly full at home. 
Frankly speaking, the state of things there was 
of the worst. Jane and her husband had just 
arrived and had made him a violent, an unexpected 
scene. Two of the French newspapers had got 
hold of the article and had given the most perfi 
dious extracts. His father had not stirred out of 
the house, had not put his foot inside of a club, 
for more than a week. Marguerite and Maxime 
were immediately to start for England, for an 
indefinite stay. They couldn 't face their life in 
Paris. For himself, he was in the breach, fighting 
hard and making, on her behalf, asseverations 
which it was impossible for him to believe, in 
spite of the dreadful defiant confession she had 
appeared to throw at him in the morning, that 
she would not virtually confirm. He would come 
in as soon after nine as possible ; the morrow, up 
to that time, would be severe in the Cours la 
Heine, and he begged her in the meantime not 
to doubt of his perfect tenderness. So far from 
his distress having made it less he had never yet 
felt so much that she had, in his affection, a 
treasure of indulgence to draw upon. 
A couple of hours after this letter arrived 
Francie lay on one of the satin sofas with her eyes 
closed and her hand clinched upon it in her pocket. 
Delia sat near her with a needle in her fingers, 
certain morsels of silk and ribbon in her lap, several 
pins in her mouth, and her attention wandering 
constantly from her work to her sister s face. 
The weather was now so completely vernal that 
Mr. Dosson was able to sit in the court, and he 
had lately resumed this practice, in which he 
was presumably at the present moment absorbed. 
Delia had lowered her needle and was watching 
Francie, to see if she were not asleep she had 
been perfectly still for so long when her glance 
was drawn to the door, which she heard pushed open. 
Mr. Flack stood there, looking from one to the 
other of the young ladies, as if to see which of 
them would be most agreeably surprised by his visit. 
" I saw your father down stairs he says it s 
all right," said the journalist, advancing and smil 
ing. " He told me to come straight up I had 
quite a talk with him." 
"All right all right ?" Delia Dosson repeated, 
springing up. "Yes, indeed, I should say so." 
Then she checked herself, asking in another 
manner : " Is that so ? father sent you up ? " 
And then, in still another : " Well, have you 
had a good time at Nice ? " 
"You'd better all come down and see. It s 
lovely down there. If you 'll come down I 'll go 
right back. I guess you want a change," Mr. 
Flack went on. He spoke to Delia but he looked 
at Francie, who showed she had not been asleep 
by the quick consciousness with which she raised 
herself on her sofa. She gazed at the visitor with 
parted lips, but she said nothing. He hesitated a 
moment, then came toward her, smiling, with his 
hand out. His bright eyes were brighter than 
ever, but they had an odd appearance of being 
smaller, like penetrating points. " Your father 
has told me all about it. Did you ever hear of 
anything so ridiculous ? " 
"All about what? all about what?" said 
Delia, whose attempt to represent happy ignorance 
seemed likely to be spoiled by an intromission of 
ferocity. She might succeed in appearing ignorant, 
but she could scarcely succeed in appearing 
happy. Francie had risen to her feet and had 
suffered Mr. Flack to possess himself for a moment 
of her hand, but neither of the girls had asked 
the young man to sit down. " I thought you were 
going to stay a month at Nice," Delia continued. 
"Well, I was, but your fathers letter started 
me up." 
"Father s letter?" 
" He wrote me about the row didn 't you know 
it? Then I broke. You didn 't suppose I was 
going to stay down there when there were such 
times up here." 
" Gracious ! " Delia exclaimed. 
" Is it pleasant at Nice ? Is it very gay ? Isn 't 
it very hot now?" Francie asked. 
" Oh, it s all right. But I haven 't come up here 
to talk about Nice, have I ? " 
Why not, if we want to ? " Delia inquired. 
Mr. Flack looked at her for a moment very 
hard, in the whites of the eyes ; then he replied, 
turning back to her sister: "Anything you like, 
Miss Francie. With you one subject is as good 
as another. Can 't we sit down ? Can 't AVC be 
comfortable?" he added. 
" Comfortable ? of course we can ! " cried Delia, 
but she remained erect while Francie sank upon 
the sofa again and their companion took posses 
sion of the nearest chair. 
" Do you remember what I told you once, that 
the people will have the plums ? " George Flack 
asked of the younger girl. 
She looked for an instant as if she were trying 
to recollect what he had told her ; then she said, 
" Did father write to you ? " 
"Of course he did. That s why I'm here." 
" Poor father, sometimes he doesn 't know what 
to do ! " Delia remarked. 
"He told me the Reverberator has made a 
sensation. I guessed that for myself, when I saw 
the way the papers here were after it. That thing 
will go the round you 'll see ! What brought me 
was learning from him that they have got their 
backs up." 
" What on earth are you talking about ? " cried 
Delia. 
Mr. Flack turned his eyes on hers in the same 
way as a moment before; Francie sat there 
serious, looking hard at the carpet. " What game 
are you trying, Miss Delia? It ain 't true you 
care what I wrote, is it ? " he pursued, addressing 
himself again to Francie. 
She raised her eyes. "Did you write it 
yourself ? " 
"Wliat do you care what he wrote or what 
does any one care ? " Delia broke in. 
" It has done the paper more good than any 
thing every one is so interested," said Mr. Flack, 
in the tone of reasonable explanation. " And you 
don 't feel that you have anything to complain of, 
do you ? " he added, to Francie, kindly. 
"Do you mean because I told you ? " 
" Why, certainly. Didn 't it all spring out of 
that lovely drive and that walk in the Bois that 
we had, when you took me to see your portrait ? 
Didn 't you understand that I wanted you to know 
that the public would appreciate a column or 
two about Mr. Waterlow s new picture, and about 
you as the subject of it, and about your being 
engaged to a member of the grand mcnde, and 
about what was going on in the grand monde, 
which would naturally attract attention through 
that ? Why, Miss Francie, you talked as if you 
did." 
" Did I talk a great deal ? " asked Francie. 
" Why, most freely it was too lovely. Don 't 
you remember when we sat there in the Bois ? " 
"Oh, rubbish !" Delia ejaculated. 
" Yes, and Mine, de Cliche passed." 
"And you told me she was scandalised. And 
we laughed it struck us as idiotic. I said it 
was affected and pretentious. Your father tells 
me she is scandalised now she and all the rest 
of them at their names appearing in the Rever 
berator. I don 't hesitate to declare that that s 
affected and pretentious too. It ain 't genuine 
and if it is it doesn 't count. They pretend to be 
shocked because it looks exclusive, but in point 
of fact they like it first-rate." 
" Are you talking about that old piece in 
the paper? Mercy, wasn 't that dead and buried 
days and days ago?" Delia ejaculated. She 
hovered there in a fever of irritation, fidgeted 
by the revelation that her father had summoned 
Mr. Flack to Paris, which struck her almost like 
a treachery because it seemed to denote a plan. 
A plan, and an uncommunicated plan, on Mr. 
Dosson s part was unnatural and alarming ; and 
there was further provocation in his appearing 
to shirk the responsibility of it by not having 
come up, at such a moment, with Mr. Flack. 
Delia was impatient to know what he wanted 
anyway. Did he want to slide back to a common, 
though active, young man ? Did he want to put 
Mr. Flack forward with a shallow extemporised 
optimism as a substitute for the alienated Gaston ? 
If she had not been afraid that something still more 
complicating than anything that had happened yet 
might come to pass between her two companions 
in case of her leaving them together she would 
have jdarted down to the court to appease her con 
jectures, to challenge her father, and tell him she 
should be very much obliged to him if he wouldn 't 
meddle. She felt liberated however, the next 
moment, for something occurred that struck 
her as a quick indication of her sister s present 
emotion. 
" Do you know the view I take of the matter, 
according to what your father has told me ? " Mr. 
Flack inquired. " I don 't mean that he suggested 
the interpretation, but my own knowledge of 
the world (as the world is constituted over here !) 
forces it upon my mind. They are scandalised, 
they are horrified. They never heard anything so 
dreadful. Miss Francie, that ain 't good enough ! 
They know what s in the papers every day of 
their lives and they know how it got there. They 
are simply making the thing a pretext to break 
because they don 't think you're fashionable 
enough. They're delighted to strike a pretext they 
can work, and they're all as merry together round 
there as a lot of boys when school don 't keep. 
That s my view of the business." 
" Oh how can you say such a thing ? " drawled 
Francie, with a tremor in her voice that struck her 
sister. Her eyes met Delia s at the same moment, 
and this young woman s heart bounded with the 
sense that she was safe. Mr. Flack s indelicacy 
attempted to prove too much (though Miss Dosson 
had crude notions about the license of the press 
she felt, even as an untutored woman, what a 
false step he was now taking), and it seemed to 
her that Francie, who was revolted (the way she 
looked at her, in horror, showed that), could be 
trusted to check his advance. 
" What does it matter what he says, my dear ? " 
she cried. " Do make him drop the subject he s 
talking very wild. I'm going down to see what 
father means I never heard of anything so flat ! " 
At the door she paused a moment to add mutely, 
with a pressing glance, " Now just wipe him out 
mind ! " It was the same injunction she had 
launched at her from afar that day, a year before, 
they all dined at Saint-Germain, and she could 
remember how effective it had been then. The 
next moment she flirted out. 
As soon as she had gone Mr. Flack moved 
nearer to Francie. " Now look here, you are not 
going back on me, are you ? " 
" Going back on you what do you mean ? " 
" Ain 't we together in this thing ? Surely we 
are." 
" Together together ? " Francie repeated, look 
ing at him. 
" Don 't you remember what I said to you in 
the clearest terms before we went to Waterlow s, 
before our drive ? I notified you that I should 
make use of the whole thing." 
" Oh, yes, I understood it was all for that. I 
told them so. I never denied it." 
&lt;: You told them so?" 
" When they were crying and going on. I told 
them I knew it I told them I gave you the 
tip, as they say." 
She felt Mr. Flack s eyes on her, strangely, as 
she spoke these words ; then he was still nearer 
to her he had taken her hand. " Ah, you're too 
sweet ! " She disengaged her hand and in the 
effort she sprang up ; but he, rising too, seemed to 
press always nearer she had a sense (it was dis 
agreeable) that he was demonstrative so that she 
retreated a little before him. " They were all 
there roaring and raging, trying to make you 
believe you have outraged them ? " 
"All but young Mr. Probert. Certainly they 
don 't like it." 
"The cowards!" said George Flack. "And 
where was young Mr. Probert ? " 
" He was away I've  told you in America." 
" Ah, yes, your father told me. But now he has 
come back doesn 't he like it either ? " 
" I don 't know, Mr. Flack," Francie replied, 
impatiently. 
" Well, I do, then. He s a coward too he 'll do 
what his papa tells him and the countess and 
the duchess and all the rest : he 'll just back down 
he 'll give you up." 
" I can 't talk to you about that," said Francie. 
"Why not? why is he such a sacred subject, 
when we are together ? You can 't alter that. It 
was too lovely, your standing up for me your 
not denying me ! " 
" You put in things I never said. It seems to 
me it was very different," the girl remarked. 
" Everything is different when it s printed. 
What else would be the good of papers ? Besides, 
it wasn 't I ; it was a lady who helps me here 
you've  heard me speak of her : Miss Topping. She 
wants so much to know you she wants to talk 
with you." 
" And will she publish that ? " Francie asked, 
gravely. 
Mr. Flack stared a moment. " Lord, how they 
have worked on you ! And do you think it s 
bad ? " 
" Do I think what s bad ? " 
" Why, the letter we are talking about." 
" Well I don 't like it." 
" Do you think I was dishonourable ? " 
The girl made no answer to this, but after a 
moment she said, " Why do you come here this 
wa y why do you ask me such questions ? 
He hesitated ; then he broke out : " Because I 
love you don 't you know that ? " 
" Oh, please don 't ! " she almost moaned, turning 
away. 
" Why won 't you understand it why won 't you 
understand the rest? Don 't you see how it has 
worked round the heartless brutes they've  turned 
into, and the way our life yours and mine is 
bound to be the same ? Don 't you see the base 
way they treat you and that I only want to do 
anything in the world for you ? " 
Francie made no immediate response to this 
appeal, but after a moment she began : " Why did 
you ask me so many questions that day ? " 
" Because I always ask questions it s my 
business to ask them. Haven 't you always seen 
me ask you and ask every one all I could ? Don 't 
you know they are the very foundation of my 
work ? I thought you sympathised with my work 
so much you used to tell me you did." 
" Well, I did," said Francie. 
" You put it in the past, I see. You don 't then 
any more.
If this .remark was on her visitor s part the sign 
of a rare assurance the girl s gentleness was still 
unruffled by it. She hesitated, she even smiled ; 
then she replied, " Oh yea, I do only not so 
much." 
" They have worked on you ; but I should have 
thought they would have disgusted you. I don 't 
care even a little sympathy will do whatever 
you've  got left." He paused, looking at her, but 
she remained silent ; so he went on : " There was 
no obligation for you to answer my questions 
you might have shut me up, that day, with a 
word." 
" Really ? " Francie asked, with all her sweet 
good faith in her face. "I thought I had to for 
fear I should appear ungrateful." 
"Ungrateful?" 
" Why to you after what you had done. Don 't 
you remember that it was you that introduced us 
? " And she paused, with a kind of weary 
delicacy. 
"Not to those snobs that are screaming like 
frightened peacocks. I beg your pardon I haven 't 
that on my conscience !" 
" Well, you introduced us to Mr. Waterlow and 
he introduced us to to his friends," Francie 
explained, blushing, as if it were a fault, for the 
inexactness engendered by her magnanimity. 
" That s why I thought I ought to tell you what 
you'd like." 
" Why, do you suppose if I'd known where that 
first visit of ours to Waterlow was going to bring 
you out I'd have taken you within fifty miles " 
He stopped suddenly; then in another tone, 
" Lord, there s no one like you ! And you told 
them it was all you?" 
" Never mind what I told them." 
" Miss Francie," said George Flack, " if you 'll 
marry me I 'll never ask a question again. I 'll go 
into some other business." 
" Then you didn 't do it on purpose ? " Francie 
asked. 
" On purpose ? " 
" To get me into a quarrel with them so that 
I might be free again 
"Well, of all the ideas !" the young man 
exclaimed, staring. " Your mind never produced 
that it was your sister s." 
" Wasn 't it natural it should occur to me, since 
if, as you say, you would never consciously have 
been the means " 
" Ah, but I was the means ! " Mr. Flack 
interrupted. "We must go, after all, by what 
did happen." 
" Well, I thanked you when I drove with you 
and let you draw me out. So we're square, aren 't 
we ? " The term Francie used was a colloquialism 
generally associated with levity, but her face, as 
she spoke, was none the less deeply serious 
serious even to pain. 
" We're square ? " Mr. Flack repeated. 
" I don 't think you ought to ask for anything 
more. Good-bye." 
" Good-bye ? Never ! " cried the young man. 
He had an air of flushing with disappointment 
which really showed that he had come with a 
certain confidence of success. 
Something in the way Francie repeated her 
" Good-bye ! " indicated that she perceived this 
and that in the vision of such a confidence 
there was little to please her. " Do go away ! " 
she broke out. 
" Well, I 'll come back very soon," said Mr. 
Flack, taking his hat. 
" Please don 't I don 't like it." She had now 
contrived to pat a wide space between them. 
" Oh, you tormentress ! " he groaned. He went 
toward the door, but before he reached it he 
turned round. " Will you tell me this, anyway ? 
Are you going to marry Mr. Probert after 
this ? " 
" Do you want to put that in the paper ? " 
" Of course I do and say you said it !" Mr. 
Flack held up his head. 
They stood looking at each other across the 
large room. " Well then I ain t. There ! " 
" That s all right," said Mr. Flack, going out. 
XIV. 
WHEN Gaston Probert came in that evening he 
was received by Mr. Dosson and Delia, and when 
he asked where Franoie was he was told by Delia 
that she would show herself half an hour later. 
Francie had instructed her sister that as Gaston 
would have, first of all, information to give their 
father about the business he had transacted in 
America he wouldn 't care for a lot of women in 
the room. When Delia made this speech before 
Mr. Dosson the old man protested that he was not 
in any hurry for the business ; what he wanted to 
find out most was whether he had a good time 
whether he liked it over there. Gaston might 
have liked it, but he did not look as if he had had 
a very good time. His face told of reverses, of 
suffering ; and Delia declared to him that if she 
had not received his assurance to the contrary she 
would have believed he was right down sick. He 
confessed that he had been very sick at sea and 
was still feeling the effect of it, but insisted that 
there was nothing the matter with him now. He 
sat for some time with Mr. Dosson and Delia, and 
never once alluded to the cloud that hung over 
their relations. The girl had schooled her father 
to reticence on this point, and the manner in 
which she had descended upon him in the morning, 
after Mr, Flack had come up stairs, was a lesson 
he was not likely soon to forget. It had been 
impressed upon him that she was indeed wiser 
than he could pretend to be, and he was now 
mindful that he must not speak of the "piece in 
the paper " unless young Probert should speak of 
it first. When Delia rushed down to him in the 
court she began by asking him categorically whom 
he had wished to do good to by sending Mr. Flack 
up to their parlour. To Francie or to her ? Why } 
the way they felt then, they detested his very 
name. To Mr. Flack himself? Why, he had 
simply exposed him to the biggest snub he had 
ever got in his life. 
" Well, hanged if I understand ! " poor Mr. 
Dosson had said. " I thought you liked the piece 
you think it s so queer they don 't like it." 
" They," in the parlance of the Dossons, now never 
meant anything but the Proberts in congress 
assembled. 
" I don 't think anything is queer but you ! " 
Delia had retorted ; and she had let her father 
know that she had left Francie in the very act of 
"handling "Mr. Flack. 
"Is that so?" the old gentleman had asked, 
helplessly. 
Francie s visitor came down a few minutes later 
and passed through the court and out of the hotel 
without looking at them. Mr. Dosson had been 
going to call after him, but Delia checked him 
with a violent pinch. The unsociable manner of 
the young journalist s departure added to Mr. 
Dosson s sense of the mystery of things. I think 
this may be said to have been the only incident in 
the whole business that gave him a personal pang. 
He remembered how many of his cigars he had 
smoked with Mr. Flack and how universal a parti 
cipant he had made him. This struck him as the 
failure of friendship, and not the publication of 
details about the Proberts. Deep in Mr. Dosson s 
spirit was a sense that if these people had done 
bad things they ought to be ashamed of themselves 
and he couldn 't pity them, and if they hadn 't 
done them there was no need of making such a 
rumpus about other people knowing. It was there 
fore, in spite of the young man s rough exit, still 
in the tone of American condonation that he had 
observed to Delia : " He says that s what they like 
over there and that it stands to reason that if you 
start a paper you've  got to give them what they 
like. If you want the people with you, you've  
got to be with the people." 
"Well, there are a good many people in the 
world. I don 't think the Proberts are with us much." 
" Oh, he doesn 't mean them," said Mr. Dosson. 
"Well, I do!" cried Delia. 
At one of the ormolu tables, near a lamp with a 
pink shade, Gaston insisted on making at least 
a partial statement. He did not say that he might 
never have another chance, but Delia felt with 
despair that this idea was in his mind. He was 
very gentle, very polite, but distinctly cold, she 
thought ; he was intensely depressed and for half 
an hour uttered not the least little pleasantry. 
There was no particular occasion for that when he 
talked about " preferred bonds " with her father. 
This was a language Delia could not translate, 
though she had heard it from childhood. He had 
a great many papers to show Mr. Dosson, records 
of the mission of which he had acquitted himself, 
but Mr. Dosson pushed them into the drawer of 
the ormolu table with the remark that he guessed 
they were all right. Now, after the fact, he ap 
peared to attach but little importance to Gaston s 
achievements an attitude which Delia perceived 
to be slightly disconcerting to the young man. 
Delia understood it : she had an instinctive sense 
that her father knew a great deal more than Gaston 
could tell him even about the work he had com 
mitted to him, and also that there was in such 
punctual settlements an eagerness, a literalism 
totally foreign to Mr. Dosson s domestic habits. 
If Gaston had cooled off he wanted at least to be 
able to say that he had rendered them services in 
America ; but now her father, for the moment at 
least, scarcely appeared to think his services worth 
speaking of: a circumstance that left him with 
more of the responsibility for his cooling. What 
Mr. Dosson wanted to know was how everything 
had struck him over there, especially the Pickett 
Building and the parlour-cars and Niagara and 
the hotels he had instructed him to go to, giving 
him an introduction in two or three cases to the 
gentleman in charge of the office. It was in relation 
to these themes that Gaston was guilty of a want of 
spring, as the girl phrased it to herself; that he 
evinced no superficial joy. He declared however, 
repeatedly, that it was a most extraordinary country 
most extraordinary and far beyond anything he 
had had any conception of. " Of course I didn 't 
like everything" he said, u any more than I like 
everything anywhere." 
"Well, what didn 't you like?" Mr. Dosson 
genially inquired. 
Gaston Probert hesitated. "Well, the light 
for instance." 
