"Yes, sir," the man answered, promptly. "Miss Raritan is in the parlor."
In the surprise at the unexpected, Tristrem left his hat and coat, and
pushing aside the portière, he entered the room unannounced. At first he
fancied that the servant had been mistaken. Miss Raritan was not at her
accustomed place, and he stood at the door-way gazing about in
uncertainty. But in an instant, echoing from the room beyond, he caught
the sound of her voice; yet in the voice was a tone which he had never
heard before--a tone of smothered anger that carried with it the accent
of hate.
Moved by unconscious springs, he left the door-way and looked into the
adjoining room. A man whom at first he did not recognize was standing by
a lounge from which he had presumably arisen. And before him, with both
her small hands clinched and pendent, and in her exquisite face an
expression of relentless indignation, stood Miss Raritan. Another might
have thought them rehearsing a tableau for some theatricals of the
melodramatic order, but not Tristrem. He felt vaguely alarmed: there
came to him that premonition without which no misfortune ever occurs;
and suddenly the alarm changed to bewilderment. The man had turned: it
was Royal Weldon. Tristrem could not credit his senses. He raised his
hand to his head: it did not seem possible that a felon could have told
a more wanton lie than he had been told but little over an hour before;
and yet the teller of that lie was his nearest friend. And still he did
not understand; surely there was some mistake. He would have spoken, but
Weldon crossed the room to where he stood, and with set teeth and
contracted muscles fronted him a second's space, and into his eyes he
looked a defiance that was the more hideous in that it was mute. Then,
with a gesture that almost tore the portière from its rings, he passed
out into the hall and let the curtain fall behind him.
As he passed on Tristrem turned with the obedience of a subject under
the influence of a mesmerist; and when the curtain fell again he started
as subjects do when they awake from their trance.
The fairest, truest, and best may be stricken in the flush of health;
yet after the grave has opened and closed again does not memory still
subsist, and to the mourner may not the old dreams return? However acute
the grief may be, is it not often better to know that affection is safe
in the keeping of the dead than to feel it at the mercy of the living?
We may prate as we will, but there are many things less endurable than
the funeral of the best-beloved. Death is by no means the worst that can
come. Whoso discovers that affection reposed has been given to an
illusory representation; to one not as he is, but as fancy pictured him;
to a trickster that has cheated the heart--in fact, to a phantom that
has no real existence outside of the imagination, must experience a
sinking more sickening than any corpse can convey. At the moment, the
crack of doom that is to herald an eternal silence cannot more appal.
Tristrem still stood gazing at the portière through which Weldon had
disappeared. He heard the front door close, and the sound of feet on the
pavement. And presently he was back at St. Paul's, hurrying from the
Upper School to intercede with the master. It was bitterly cold that
morning, but in the afternoon the weather had moderated, and they had
both gone to skate. And then the day he first came. He remembered his
good looks, his patronizing, precocious ways; everything, even to the
shirt he wore--blue, striped with white--and the watch with the crest
and the motto Well done, Weldon. No, it was ill done, Weldon, and the
lie was ignoble. And why had he told it? Their friendship, seemingly,
had been so stanch, so unmarred by disagreement, that this lie was as a
dash of blood on a white wall--an ineffaceable stain.
If there are years that count double, there are moments in which the
hour-glass is transfixed. The entire scene, from Tristrem's entrance to
Weldon's departure, was compassed in less than a minute, yet during that
fragment of time there had been enacted a drama in epitome--a drama
humdrum and ordinary indeed, but in which Tristrem found himself bidding
farewell to one whom he had never known.
He was broken in spirit, overwhelmed by the suddenness of the disaster,
and presently, as though in search of sympathy, he turned to Miss
Raritan. The girl had thrown herself in a chair, and sat, her face
hidden in her hands. As Tristrem approached her she looked up. Her
cheeks were blanched.
"He told me you were at the Wainwaring's," Tristrem began. "I don't
see," he added, after a moment--"I don't understand why he should have
done so. He knew you were here, yet he said----"
"Did you hear what he said to me?"
Tristrem for all response shook his head wonderingly.
The girl's cheeks from white had turned flame.
"He has not been to you the friend you think," she said, and raising her
arm to her face, she made a gesture as though to brush from her some
distasteful thing.
"But what has he done? What did he say?"
"Don't ask me. Don't mention him to me." She buried her face again in
her hands and was silent.
Tristrem turned uneasily and walked into the other room, and then back
again to where she sat; but still she hid her face and was silent. And
Tristrem left her and continued his walk, this time to the dining-room
and then back to the parlor which he had first entered. And after a
while Miss Raritan stood up from her seat and as though impelled by the
nervousness of her companion, she, too, began to pace the rooms, but in
the contrary direction to that which Tristrem had chosen. At last she
stopped, and when Tristrem approached her she beckoned him to her side.
"What did you say to me last night?" she asked.
"What did I say? I said--you asked me--I said it would be difficult."
"Do you think so still?"
"Always."
"Tristrem, I will be your wife."
A Cimmerian led out of darkness into sudden light could not marvel more
at multicolored vistas than did Tristrem, at this promise. Truly they
are most hopeless who have hoped the most. And Tristrem, as he paced the
rooms, had told himself it was done. His hopes had scattered before him
like last year's leaves. He had groped in shadows and had been conscious
only of a blind alley, with a dead wall, somewhere, near at hand. But
now, abruptly, the shadows had gone, the blind alley had changed into a
radiant avenue, the dead wall had parted like a curtain, and beyond was
a new horizon, gold-barred and blue, and landscapes of asphodels and
beckoning palms. He was as one who, overtaken by sleep on the banks of
the Styx, awakes in Arcadia.
His face was so eloquent with the bewitchments through which he roamed
that, for the first time that evening, Miss Raritan smiled. She raised a
finger warningly.
"Now, Tristrem, if you say anything ridiculous I will take it back."
But the warning was needless. Tristrem caught the finger, and kissed her
hand with old-fashioned grace.
"Viola," he said, at last, "I thank you. I do not know what I can do to
show how I appreciate this gift of gifts. But yet, if it is anything, if
it can bring any happiness to a girl to know that she fills a heart to
fulfilment itself, that she dwells in thought as the substance of
thought, that she animates each fibre of another's being, that she
enriches a life with living springs, and feels that it will be never
otherwise, then you will be happy, for so you will always be to me."
The speech, if pardonably incoherent, was not awkwardly made, and it was
delivered with a seriousness that befitted the occasion. In a tone as
serious as his own, she answered:
"I will be true to you, Tristrem." That was all. But she looked in his
face as she spoke.
They had been standing, but now they found seats near to each other.
Tristrem would not release her hand, and she let it lie unrebellious in
his own. And in this fashion they sat and mapped the chartless future.
Had Tristrem been allowed his way the marriage would have been an
immediate one. But to this, of course, Miss Raritan would not listen.
"Not before November," she said, with becoming decision.
"Why, that is five months off!"
"And months are short, and then----"
"But, Viola, think! Five months! It is a kalpa of time. And besides," he
added, with the cogent egotism of an accepted lover, "what shall I do
with myself in the meantime?"
"If you are good you may come to the Pier, and there we will talk
edelweiss and myosotis, as all engaged people do." She said this so
prettily that the sarcasm, if sarcasm there were, was lost.
To this programme Tristrem was obliged to subscribe.
"Well, then, afterward we will go abroad."
"Don't you like this country?" the girl asked, all the stars and stripes
fluttering in her voice, and in a tone which one might use in reciting,
"Breathes there the man, with soul so dead?"
"I think," he answered, apologetically, "that I do like this country. It
is a great country. But New York is not a great city, at least not to my
thinking. Collectively it is great, I admit, but individually not, and
that is to me the precise difference between it and Paris. Collectively
the French amount to little, individually it is otherwise."
"But you told me once that Paris was tiresome."
"I was not there with you. And should it become so when we are there
together, we have the whole world to choose from. In Germany we can have
the middle ages over again. In London we can get the flush of the
nineteenth century. There is all of Italy, from the lakes to Naples. We
can take a doge's palace in Venice, or a Cæsar's villa on the Baia. With
a dahabieh we could float down into the dawn of history. You would look
well in a dahabieh, Viola."
"As Aida?"
"Better. And that reminds me, Viola; tell me, you will give up all
thought of the stage, will you not?"
"How foolish you are. Fancy Mrs. Tristrem Varick before the footlights.
There are careers open to a girl that the acceptance of another's name
must close. And the stage is one of them. I should have adopted it long
ago, had it not been for mother. She seems to think that a Raritan--but
there, you know what mothers are. Now, of course, I shall give it up.
Besides, Italian opera is out of fashion. And even if it were otherwise,
have I not now a lord, a master, whom I must obey?"
Her eyes looked anything but obedience, yet her voice was melodious with
caresses.
And so they sat and talked and made their plans, until it was long past
the conventional hour, and Tristrem felt that he should go. He had been
afloat in unnavigated seas of happiness, but still in his heart he felt
the burn of a red, round wound. The lie that Weldon had told smarted
still, yet with serener spirit he thought there might be some
unexplained excuse.
"Tell me," he asked, as he was about to leave, "what was it Weldon
said?"
Miss Raritan looked at him, and hesitated before she spoke. Then
catching his face in her two hands she drew it to her own.
"He said you were a goose," she whispered, and touched her lips to his.
With this answer Tristrem was fain to be content. And presently, when he
left the house, he reeled as though he had drunk beaker after flagon of
the headiest wine.
VI.
After a ten-mile pull on the river, a shandygaff of Bass and champagne
is comforting to the oarsman. It is accounted pleasant to pay a patient
creditor an outlawed debt. But a poet has held that the most pleasurable
thing imaginable is to awake on a summer morning with the consciousness
of being in love. Even in winter the sensation ought not to be
disagreeable; yet when to the consciousness of being in love is added
the belief that the love is returned, then the bleakest day of all the
year must seem like a rose of June.
Tristrem passed the night in dreams that told of Her. He strayed through
imperishable beauties, through dawns surrounded by candors of hope. The
breath of brooks caressed him, he was enveloped in the sorceries of a
sempiternal spring. The winds, articulate with song, choired to the
skies ululations and messages of praise. Each vista held a promise. The
horizon was a prayer fulfilled. He saw grief collapse and joy enthroned.
From bird and blossom he caught the incommunicable words of love. And
when from some new witchery he at last awoke, he smiled--the real was
fairer than the dream.
For some time he loitered in the gardens which his fancy disclosed,
spectacular-wise, for his own delight, until at last he bethought him of
the new duties of his position and of the accompanying necessity of
making those duties known to those to whom he was related. Then, after a
breakfast of sliced oranges and coffee, he rang for the servant and told
him to ask his father whether he could spare a moment that morning. In a
few minutes the servant returned. "Mr. Varick will be happy to see you,
sir," he said.
"What did he say?" Tristrem asked; "what were his exact words?"
"Well, sir, I said as how you presented your compliments, and could you
see him, and he didn't say nothing; he was feeding the bird. But I could
tell, sir; when Mr. Varick doesn't like a thing, he looks at you and if
he does, he doesn't."
"And he didn't look at you?"
"No, sir, he didn't turn his 'ead."
"H'm," said Tristrem to himself, as he descended the stairs, "I wonder,
when I tell him, whether he will look at me." And the memory of his
father's stare cast a shadow on his buoyant spirits.
On entering the room in which Mr. Varick passed his mornings, Tristrem
found that gentleman seated at a table. In one hand he held a
bronze-colored magazine, and in the other a silver knife. In the window
was a gilt cage in which a bird was singing, and on the table was a
profusion of roses--the room itself was vast and chill. One wall was
lined, the entire length, with well-filled book-shelves. In a corner was
a square pile of volumes, bound in pale sheep, which a lawyer would have
recognized as belonging to the pleasant literature of his profession.
And over the book-shelves was a row of Varicks, standing in the upright
idleness which is peculiar to portraits in oil. It was many years since
Tristrem had entered this room; yet now, save for the scent of flowers
and the bird-cage, it was practically unchanged.
"Father," he began at once, "I would not have ventured to disturb you
if--if--that is, unless I had something important to say." He was
looking at his father, but his father was not looking at him. "It is
this," he continued, irritated in spite of himself by the complete
disinterestedness of one whose son he was; "I am engaged to be married."
At this announcement Mr. Varick fluttered the paper-knife, but said
nothing.
"The young lady is Miss Raritan," he added, and then paused, amazed at
the expression of his father's face. It was as though unseen hands were
torturing it at will. The mouth, cheeks, and eyelids quivered and
twitched, and then abruptly Mr. Varick raised the bronze-colored
magazine, held it before his tormented features, and when he lowered it
again his expression was as apathetic as before.
"You are ill!" Tristrem exclaimed, advancing to him.
But Mr. Varick shook his head, and motioned him back. "It is nothing,"
he answered. "Let me see, you were saying----?"
"I am engaged to Miss Raritan."
"The daughter of----"
"Her father was Roanoke Raritan. He was minister somewhere--to England
or to France, I believe."
While Tristrem was giving this information Mr. Varick went to the
window. He looked at the occupant of the gilt cage, and ran a thumb
through the wires. The bird ruffled its feathers, cocked its head, and
edged gingerly along the perch, reproving the intrusive finger with the
scorn and glitter of two eyes of bead. But the anger of the canary was
brief. In a moment Mr. Varick left the cage, and turned again to his
son.
"Nothing you could do," he said, "would please me better."
"Thank you," Tristrem answered, "I----"
"Are you to be married at once?"
"Not before November, sir."
"I wish it were sooner. I do not approve of protracted engagements. But,
of course, you know your own business best. If I remember rightly, the
father of this young lady did not leave much of a fortune, did he?"
"Nothing to speak of, I believe."
"You have my best wishes. The match is very suitable, very suitable. I
wish you would say as much, with my compliments, to the young lady's
mother. I would do so myself, but, as you know, I am something of an
invalid. You might add that, too--and--er--I don't mean to advise you,
but I would endeavor to hasten the ceremony. In such matters, it is
usual for the young lady to be coy, but it is for the man to be pressing
and resolute. I only regret that her father could not know of it. In
regard to money, your allowance will have to be increased--well, I will
attend to that. There is nothing else, is there? Oh, do me the favor not
to omit to say that I am much pleased. I knew Miss Raritan's father."
Mr. Varick looked up at the ceiling, and put his hand to his mouth. It
was difficult to say whether he was concealing a smile or a yawn. "He
would be pleased, I know." And with that Mr. Varick resumed his former
position, and took up again the magazine.
"It is very good of you," Tristrem began; "I didn't know, of course--you
see, I knew that if you saw the young lady--but what am I calling her a
young lady for?" he asked, in an aside, of himself--"Miss Raritan, I
mean," he continued aloud, "you would think me fortunate as a king's
cousin." He paused. "I am sure," he reflected, "I don't know what I am
talking about. What I say--is sheer imbecility. However," he continued,
again, "I want to thank you. You have seen so little of me that I did
not expect you would be particularly interested, I--I----"
He hesitated again, and then ceased speaking. He had been looking at his
father, and something in his father's stare fascinated and disturbed his
train of thought. For the moment he was puzzled. From his childhood he
had felt that his father disliked him, though the reason of that dislike
he had never understood. It was one of those things that you get so
accustomed to that it is accepted, like baldness, as a matter of course,
as a thing which had to be and could not be otherwise. To his
grandfather, who was at once the most irascible and gentlest of men, and
whom he had loved instinctively, from the first, with the unreasoning
faith that children have--to him he had, in earlier days, spoken more
than once of the singularity of his father's attitude. The old
gentleman, however, had no explanation to give. Or, if he had one, he
preferred to keep it to himself. But he petted the boy outrageously,
with some idea of making up for it all, and of showing that he at least
had love enough for two.
And now, as Tristrem gazed in his father's face, he seemed to decipher
something that was not dislike--rather the contented look of one who
learns of an enemy's disgrace, a compound of malice and of glee.
"That was all I had to say," Tristrem added, with his winning smile, as
though apologizing for the lameness of the conclusion. And thereupon he
left the room and went out to consult a jeweller and bear the tidings to
other ears.
For some time he was absurdly happy. His grandfather received the
announcement of the coming marriage with proper enthusiasm. He laughed
sagaciously at Tristrem's glowing descriptions of the bride that was to
be, and was for going to call on the mother and daughter at once, and
was only prevented on learning that they had both left town.
"But I must write," he said, and write he did, two elaborate letters,
couched in that phraseology at once recondite and simple which made our
ancestors the delightful correspondents that they were. The letters were
old-fashioned indeed. Some of the sentences were enlivened with the
eccentricities of orthography which were in vogue in the days of the
Spectator. The handwriting was infamous, and the signature on each was
adorned with an enormous flourish. They were not models for a Perfect
Letter Writer, but they were heartfelt and honest, and they served their
purpose very well.
"And, Tristrem," the old gentleman said, when the addresses had been
dried with a shower of sand and the letters despatched, "you must take
her this, with my love. I gave it to your mother on her wedding day, and
now it should go to her." From a little red case he took a diamond
brooch, set in silver, which he polished reflectively on his sleeve.
"She was very sweet, Tristrem, your mother was--a good girl, and a
pretty one. Did I ever tell you about the time----"
And the old gentleman ran on with some anecdote of the dear dead days in
which his heart was tombed. Tristrem listened with the interest of those
that love. He had heard the story, and many others of a similar tenor,
again and again, but, somehow, he never heard them too often. There was
nothing wearisome to him in such chronicles; and as he sat listening,
and now and then prompting with some forgotten detail, anyone who had
happened on the scene would have accounted it pleasant to watch the
young fellow and the old man talking together over the youth of her who
had been mother to one and daughter to the other.
"See!" said Tristrem at last, when his grandfather had given the brooch
into his keeping. "See! I have something for her too." And with that he
displayed a ruby, unset, that was like a clot of blood. "I shall have it
put in a ring," he explained, "but this might do for a bonnet-pin;" and
then he produced a green stone, white-filmed, that had a heart of
oscillating flame.
Mr. Van Norden had taken the ruby in his hand and held it off at arm's
length, and then between two fingers, to the light, that he might the
better judge of its beauty. But at the mention of the bonnet-pin he
turned to look:
"Surely, Tristrem, you would not give her that; it's an opal."
"And what if it is?"
"But it is not lucky."
Tristrem smiled blithely, with the bravery that comes of
nineteenth-century culture.
"It's a pearl with a soul," he answered, "that's what it is. And if
Viola doesn't like it I'll send it to you."
"God forbid," Mr. Van Norden replied; "if anyone sent me an opal I would
swear so hard that if the devil heard me he'd go in a corner and cross
himself."
At this threat Tristrem burst out laughing, and the old gentleman,
amused in spite of himself at the fantasy of his own speech, burst out
laughing too.
Then there was more chat, and more reminiscences, and much planning as
to how Tristrem should best assume the rank and appanages of the married
state. Tristrem dined with his grandfather that evening, and when Mr.
Van Norden started out to his club for a game of whist, Tristrem
accompanied him as far as the club door.
When they parted, Tristrem was in such spirits that he could have run up
to Central Park and back again. "Divinities of Pindar," he kept
exclaiming--a phrase that he had caught somewhere--"divinities of
Pindar, she is mine."
Thereafter, for several days, he lived, as all true lovers do, on air
and the best tenderloins he could obtain.
VII.
One morning Tristrem found the sliced oranges companied by a note from
Her. It was not long, but he read it so often that it became lengthy in
spite of the writer. The cottage, it informed him, which had been taken
for the summer, was becoming habitable. As yet but one of the hotels,
and that the worst, was prepared for guests. In a fortnight, however,
the others would begin to open their doors, and meanwhile if, in the
course of the week, he care to run up, there was a room in the cottage
at his disposal.
"In the course of the week," soliloquized Tristrem; "h'm--well, this
afternoon is in the course of it, and this afternoon will I go."
Pleasured by the artfulness of his own sophistry, he procured a
provision of langues dorées, a comestible of which she was fond, found
at Tiffany's the ruby and opal set in accordance with orders already
given, and at two o'clock boarded the Newport express.
The train reached New London before Tristrem had so much as glanced at a
volume which he held in his hand. He had little need of anything to
occupy his thoughts. His mind was a scenario in which he followed the
changes and convolutions of an entertainment more alluring than any that
romancer or playwright could convey. He was in that mood which we all of
us have experienced, in which life seems not only worth living, but a
fountain of delight as well. Were ever fields more green or sky more
fair? And such a promise as the future held! In his hearing was a choir
of thrushes, and on his spirit had been thrown a mantle so subtle, yet
of texture so insistent, that no thought not wholly pure could pierce
the woof or find a vantage-ground therein. He was in that mood in which
one feels an ascension of virtues, the companionship of unviolated
illusions, the pomp and purple of worship, a communion with all that is
best, a repulsion of all that is base--that mood in which hymns mount
unsummoned from the heart.
He was far away, but the Ideal was at his side. The past was a mirror,
mirroring nothing save his own preparation and the dream of the coming
of her. And now she had come, fairer than the fairest vision and desire
that ever visited a poet starving in a garret. To be worthy of her, even
in the slightest measure, what was there that he would leave undone? And
as the train brought him to his journey's end, he repeated to himself,
gravely and decorously, and with the earnestness and sincerity of the
untried, the grave covenants of the marriage pact.
On descending at the station he remembered, for the first time, that he
had omitted to send Miss Raritan an avant-courier in the shape of a
telegram. It is one of the oddities of hazard that, in turning down one
street instead of turning up another, a man's existence, and not his own
alone, but that of others also, may seem to be wholly changed thereby.
The term seem is used advisedly, for, with a better understanding of
the interconnection of cause and effect, chance has been outlawed by
science, and in the operations of consistent laws the axiom, "Whatever
will be, Is," has passed to the kindergarten. Tristrem thought of this
months afterward. He remembered then, that that morning he had started
out with the intention of sending a telegram from the club, but on the
way there he had thought of the chocolate which Viola preferred, and,
after turning into Broadway to purchase it, he had drifted into
Tiffany's, and from there he had returned to Waverley Place, the message
unsent and forgotten. He recalled these incidents months later, but for
the moment he merely felt a vague annoyance at his own neglect.
There was a negro at the station, the driver of a coach in whose care
Tristrem placed himself, and presently the coach rattled over a road
that skirted the sea, and drew up at the gate of a tiny villa. On the
porch Mrs. Raritan was seated, and when she recognized her visitor she
came down the path, exclaiming her pleasure and welcome. It was evident
at once that she had been gratified by her daughter's choice.
"But we didn't expect you," she said. "Viola told me you would not come
before Saturday. I am glad you did, though; as yet there's hardly a soul
in the place. Viola has gone riding. It's after seven, isn't it? She
ought to be back now. Why didn't you send us word? We would have met you
at the train."
They had found seats on the porch. Tristrem explained his haste,
apologizing for the neglect to wire. The haste seemed pardonable to Mrs.
Raritan, and the attendant absent-mindedness easily understood. And so
for some moments they talked together. Tristrem delivered his father's
message, and learned that Mr. Van Norden's letters had been received.
Some word was even said of the possibility of a September wedding. And
then a little plot was concocted. Dinner would be served almost
immediately, so soon, in fact, as Viola returned. Meanwhile, Tristrem
would go to his room, Mrs. Raritan would say nothing of his arrival,
but, when dinner was announced, a servant would come to his door, and
then he was to appear and give Viola the treat and pleasure of a genuine
surprise.
This plan was acted on at once. Tristrem was shown to the room which he
was to occupy, and proceeded to get his things in order. From his
shirt-box, which, with his valise, had already been brought upstairs, he
took the ring, the brooch, the pin, and placed them on the mantel. Then
he found other garments, and began to dress. In five minutes he was in
readiness, but as yet he heard nothing indicative of Viola's return. He
went to the window and looked out. Above the trees, in an adjacent
property, there loomed a tower. The window was at the back of the house;
he could not see the ocean, but he heard its resilient sibilants, and
from the garden came the hum of insects. It had grown quite dark, but
still there was no sign of Viola's return.
He took up the volume which he had brought with him in the cars. It was
the Rime Nuove of Carducci, and with the fancies of that concettist of
modern Rome he stayed his impatience for a while. There was one octave
that had appealed to him before. He read it twice, and was about to
endeavor to repeat the lines from memory, when through the open window
he heard the clatter of horses' hoofs, the roll of wheels; it was
evident that some conveyance had stopped at the gate of the villa. Then
came the sound of hurrying feet, a murmur of voices, and abruptly the
night was cut with the anguish of a woman's cry.
Tristrem rushed from the room and down the stairs. Through the open door
beyond a trembling star was visible, and in the road a group of
undistinguished forms.
"She's only fainted," someone was saying; "she was right enough a minute
ago."
Before the sentence was completed, Tristrem was at the gate. Hatless,
with one hand ungloved and the other clutching a broken whip, the habit
rent from hem to girdle, dust-covered and dishevelled, the eyes closed,
and in the face the pallor and contraction of mortal pain, Viola Raritan
lay, waist-supported, in her mother's arms.
"Help me with her to the house," the mother moaned. Then noticing
Tristrem at her side, "She's been thrown," she added; "I knew she would
be--I knew it----"
And as Tristrem reached to aid her with the burden, the girl's eyes
opened, "It's nothing." She raised her ungloved hand, "I--" and swooned
again.
They bore her into a little sitting-room, and laid her down. Mrs.
Raritan followed, distraught with fright. In her helplessness, words
came from her unsequenced and obscure. But soon she seemed to feel the
need of action. One servant she despatched for a physician, from another
a restorative was obtained. And Tristrem, meanwhile, knelt at the girl's
side, beating her hand with his. It had been scratched, he noticed, as
by a briar, and under the nails were stains such as might come from
plucking berries that are red.
As he tried to take from her the whip, that he might rub the hand that
held it too, the girl recovered consciousness again. The swoon had
lasted but a moment or so, yet to him who watched it had been unmeasured
time. She drew away the hand he held, and raising herself she looked at
him; to her lips there came a tremulousness and her eyes filled.
"My darling," Mrs. Raritan sobbed, "are you hurt? Tell me. How did it
happen? Did the horse run away with you. Oh, Viola, I knew there would
be an accident. Where are you hurt? Did the horse drag you?"
The girl turned to her mother almost wonderingly. It seemed to Tristrem
that she was not yet wholly herself.
"Yes," she answered; "no, I mean--no, he didn't, it was an accident, he
shied. Do get me upstairs." And with that her head fell again on the
cushion.
Tristrem sought to raise her, but she motioned him back and caught her
mother's hand, and rising with its assistance she let the arm circle her
waist, and thus supported she suffered herself to be led away.
Tristrem followed them to the hall. On the porch a man loitered, hat in
hand; as Tristrem approached he rubbed the brim reflectively.
"I saw the horse as good as an hour ago," he said, "I was going to
Caswell's." And with this information he crooked his arm and made a
backward gesture. "It's down yonder on the way to the Point," he
explained. "As I passed Hazard's I looked in the cross-road--I call it a
road, but after you get on a bit it's nothing more than a cow-path, all
bushes and suchlike. But just up the road I see'd the horse. He was
nibbling grass as quiet as you please. I didn't pay no attention, I
thought he was tied. Well, when I was coming back I looked again; he
wasn't there, but just as I got to the turn I heard somebody holloaing,
and I stopped. A man ran up and says to me, 'There's a lady hurt
herself, can't you give her a lift?' 'Where?' says I. 'Down there,' he
says, 'back of Hazard's; she's been thrown.' So I turned round, and sure
enough there she was, by the fence, sort of dazed like. I says, 'Are you
hurt, miss?' and she says, 'No,' but could I bring her here, and then I
see'd that her dress was torn. She got in, and I asked her where her hat
was, and she said it was back there, but it didn't make no difference,
she wanted to get home. And when we were driving on here I told her as
how I see'd the horse, and I asked if it wasn't one of White's, and she
said, 'Yes, it was,' and I was a-going to ask where she was thrown, but
she seemed sort of faint, and, sure enough, just as we got here away she
went. I always says women-folk ought not to be let on horse-back, she
might have broke her neck; like as not----"
"You have been very kind," Tristrem answered, "very kind, indeed."
During the entire scene he had not said a word. The spectacle of Viola
fainting on the roadside, the fear that she might be maimed, the trouble
at her pallor--these things had tied his tongue; and even now, as he
spoke, his voice was not assured, and a hand with which he fumbled in
his waistcoat trembled so that the roll of bills which he drew out fell
on the porch at his feet. He stooped and picked it up.
"If Mrs. Raritan were here, she would thank you as I do," he continued.
"I wish--" and he was about to make some present, but the man drew back.
"That's all right, I don't want no pay for that."
"I beg your pardon," Tristrem answered, "I know you do not. Tell me, are
you married?"
The man laughed.
"Yes, I am, and I got the biggest boy you ever see. He's going on four
years and he weighs a ton."
"I wish you would do me a favor. Let me make him a little present."
But even to this the man would not listen. He was reluctant to accept so
much as thanks. Having done what good he could, he was anxious to go his
way--the sort of man that one has to visit the seashore to find, and
who, when found, is as refreshing as the breeze.
As he left the porch, he looked back. "Here's the doctor," he said, and
passed on into the night.
While the physician visited the patient, Tristrem paced the sitting-room
counting the minutes till he could have speech with him, himself. And
when at last he heard the stairs creak, he was out in the hall, prepared
to question and intercept. The physician was most reassuring. There was
nothing at all the matter. By morning Miss Raritan would be up and
about. She had had a shock, no doubt. She was upset, and a trifle
nervous, but all she needed was a good night's rest, with a chop and a
glass of claret to help her to it. If sleep were elusive, then a
bromide. But that was all. If she had been seventy a tumble like that
might have done for her, but at nineteen! And the doctor left the house,
reflecting that were not educated people the most timorous of all, the
emoluments of his profession would be slight.
Whether or not Miss Raritan found the chop and claret sufficient, or
whether she partook of a bromide as well, is not a part of history. In a
little while after the physician's departure a servant brought word to
Tristrem that for the moment Mrs. Raritan was unable to leave her
daughter, but if he would have his dinner then, Mrs. Raritan would see
him later. Such was the revulsion of feeling that Tristrem, to whom, ten
minutes before, the mere mention of food would have been distasteful,
sat down, and ate like a wolf. The meal finished, he went out on the
porch. There was no moon as yet, but the sky was brilliant with the
lights of other worlds. Before him was the infinite, in the air was the
scent of sea-weed, and beyond, the waves leaped up and fawned upon the
bluffs. And as he stood and watched it all, the servant came to him with
Mrs. Raritan's apologies. She thought it better, the maid explained, not
to leave Miss Raritan just yet, and would Mr. Varick be good enough to
excuse her for that evening?
"Wait a second," he answered, and went to his room. He found the jewels,
and brought them down-stairs. "Take these to Miss Raritan," he said, and
on a card he wrote some word of love, which he gave with the trinkets to
the maid. "La parlate d'amor," he murmured, as the servant left to do
his bidding, and then he went again to his room, and sat down at the
window companioned only by the stars. From beyond, the boom and
retreating wash of waves was still audible, and below in the garden he
caught, now and then, the spark and glitter of a firefly gyrating in
loops of gold, but the tower which he had noticed on arriving was lost
in the night.
It was in that direction, he told himself, that the accident must have
occurred. And what was it, after all? As yet he had not fully
understood. Had the horse stumbled, or had he bolted and thrown her? If
he had only been there! And as his fancy evoked the possibilities of
that ride, he saw a terrified brute tearing along a deserted road,
carrying the exquisite girl straight to some sudden death, and, just
when the end was imminent, his own muscles hardened into steel, he had
him by the bit and, though dragged by the impetus, at last he held him,
and she was safe. She was in his arms, her own about his neck, and were
he a knight-errant and she some gracious princess, what sweeter guerdon
could he claim?
But one thing preoccupied him. In the vertiginous flight she had lost
something--her whip, no, her hat--and it was incumbent on him to restore
it to her. Very softly, then, that he might not disturb her, he opened
the door. The house was hushed, and in a moment he was on the road. He
could see the tower now; it was illuminated, and it seemed to him odd
that he had not noticed the illumination before. It was that way, he
knew, back of Hazard's, and he hurried along in the direction which the
man had indicated. The insects had stilled their murmur, and the sky was
more obscure, but the road was clear.
He hurried on, and as he hurried he heard steps behind him, hurrying
too. He turned his head; behind him was a woman running, and who, as she
ran, cast a shadow that was monstrous. In the glimpse that he caught of
her he saw that she was bare of foot and that her breast was uncovered.
Her skirt was tattered and her hair was loose. He turned again, the face
was hideous. The eyes squinted, lustreless and opaque, the nose was
squat, the chin retreated, the forehead was seamed with scars, and the
mouth, that stretched to the ears, was extended with laughter. As she
ran she took her teeth out one by one, replacing them with either hand.
And still she laughed, a silent laughter, her thin lips distorted as
though she mocked the world.
Tristrem, overcome by the horror of that laughter, felt as agonized as a
child pursued. There was a fence at hand, a vacant lot, and across it a
light glimmered. Away he sped. In the field his foot caught in a
bramble; he fell, and could not rise, but he heard her coming and, with
a great effort just as she was on him, he was up again, distancing her
with ever-increasing space. The light was just beyond. He saw now it
came from the tower; there was another fence, he was over it; the door
was barred; no, it opened; he was safe!
In the middle of the room, circular as befits a tower, was a cradle, and
in the cradle was a little boy. As Tristrem looked at him he smiled; it
was, he knew, the child of the man to whom he had spoken that evening.
One hand was under the pillow, but the other, that lay on the coverlid,
held Viola's hat. He bent over to examine it; the fingers that held it
were grimy and large, and, as he looked closer, he saw that it was not a
child, but the man himself. Before he had an opportunity to account for
the delusion he heard the gallop of feet and a thunder at the door. It
was she! He wheeled like a rat surprised. There was a lateral exit,
through which he fled, and presently he found himself in a corridor that
seemed endless in extension. The man evidently had left the cradle and
preceded him, for Tristrem saw him putting on a great-coat some distance
ahead. In his feverish fright he thought, could he but disguise himself
with that, he might pass out unobserved, and he ran on to supplicate for
an exchange of costume; but when he reached the place where the man had
stood he had gone, vanished through a dead wall, and down the corridor
he heard her come. He could hear her bare feet patter on the stones. Oh,
God, what did she wish of him? And no escape, not one. He was in her
power, immured with her forevermore. He called for help, and beat at the
walls, and ever nearer she came, swifter than disease, and more
appalling than death. His nails sank in his flesh, he raised a hand to
stay the beating of his heart, and then at once she was upon him,
felling him to the ground as a ruffian fells his mistress, her knees
were on his arms, he was powerless, dumb with dread, and in his face was
the fetor of her breath. Her eyes were no longer lustreless, they
glittered like twin stars, and still she laughed, her naked breast
heaving with the convulsions of her mirth. "I am Truth," she bawled, and
laughed again. And with that Tristrem awoke, suffocating, quivering, and
outwearied as though he had run a race and lost it.
He sat awhile, broken by the horror of the dream. The palms of his hands
were not yet dry. But soon he bestirred himself, and went to the door;
the lights had been extinguished; he closed it again, and, with the aid
of some candles, he prepared for bed. He would have read a little, but
he was fatigued, tired by the emotions of the day, and when at last he
lay down it was an effort to rise again and put out the candle. How long
he lay in darkness, a second, an hour, he could not afterward recall; it
seemed to him that he had drowsed off at once, but suddenly he started,
trembling from head to foot. He had heard Viola's voice soaring to its
uttermost tension. "Coward," she had called. And then all was still. He
listened, he even went to the door, but the house was wrapped in
silence.
"Bah!" he muttered, "I am entertaining a procession of nightmares." And
in a few moments he was again asleep.
VIII.
At dawn he awoke refreshed. The sun rose from the ocean like an indolent
girl from a bath. Before the house was astir he was out of doors
exploring the land. He strolled past the row of hotels that front the
sea, and pausing a moment at the Casino, fragrant then, and free of the
stench of drink that is the outcome of the later season, he wondered how
it was that, given money, and possibly brains, it was necessary to make
a building as awkward as was that. And then he strayed to the shore,
past the tenantless bath-houses, and on through the glories of the
morning to the untrodden beach beyond.
As he walked, the village faded in the haze. The tide was low and the
sand firm and hard. The waves broke leisurely in films and fringes of
white, gurgling an invitation to their roomy embrace. And when the
hotels were lost in the distance and the solitude was murmurous with
nature alone, Tristrem, captivated by the allurements of the sea, went
down into the waves and clasped them to him as lovers clasp those they
love.
The sun was well on its amble to the zenith before he returned to the
cottage. His hostess, he found, had not yet appeared, and as breakfast
seemed to be served in that pleasant fashion which necessitates nothing,
not even an appetite, Tristrem drank his coffee in solitude. And as he
idled over the meal he recalled the horrors of the night, and smiled.
The air of the morning, the long and quiet stroll, the plunge in the
sea, and the after-bath of sunlight that he had taken stretched full
length on the sand, had dissipated the enervating emotions of dream and
brought him in their stead a new invigoration. He was about to begin the
dithyrambs of the day before, when the servant appeared, bearing a
yellow envelope, and a book in which he was to put his name. He gave the
receipt and opened the message, wonderingly.
"Please come to town," it ran, "your father is dying.--Robert
Harris."
"Your father is dying," he repeated. "H'm. Robert Harris. I never knew
before what the butler's first name was. But what has that to do with
it? There are times when I am utterly imbecile. Your father is dying.
Yes, of course, I must go at once. But it isn't possible. H'm. I
remember. He looked ghastly when I saw him. I suppose--I ought to--good
God, why should I attempt to feign a sorrow that I do not feel? It is
his own fault. I would have--But there, what is the use?"
He bit his nail; he was perplexed at his absence of sensibility. "And
yet," he mused, "in his way he has been kind to me. He has been kind;
that is, if it be kindness in a father to let a son absolutely alone.
After all, filial affection must be like patriotism, ingrained as an
obligation, a thing to blush at if not possessed. Yet then, again, if a
country acts like a step-mother to its children, if a father treats a
son as a guardian might treat a ward, the ties are conventional; and on
what shall affection subsist? It was he who called me into being, and,
having done so, he assumed duties which he should not have shirked. It
was not for him to make himself a stranger to me; it was for him to
teach me to honor him so much, to love him so well that at his death my
head would be bowed in prostrations of grief. I used to try to school
myself to think that it was only his way; that, outwardly cold and
undemonstrative, his heart was warm as another's. But--well, it may have
been, it may have been. After all, if I can't grieve, I would cross the
continent to spare him a moment's pain. It was he, I suppose, who told
Harris to wire. Yes, I must hurry."
He called the servant to him. "Can you tell me, please, when the next
train goes?" But the servant had no knowledge whereon to base a reply.
She suggested, however, that information might be obtained at an inn
which stood a short distance up the road. He scribbled a few lines on a
card, and gave it to the woman. "Take that to Miss Raritan, please, will
you?" he said, and left the house.
At the inn a very large individual sat on the stoop, coatless, a straw
covering of a remoter summer far back on his head, and his feet turned
in. He listened to Tristrem with surly indifference, and spat profusely.
He didn't know; he reckoned the morning train had gone.
"Hay, Alf," he called out to the negro who had taken Tristrem from the
station the night before, and who was then driving by, "when's the next
train go?"
"'Bout ten minutes; I just took a party from Taylor's."
"Thank you," said Tristrem to the innkeeper, who spat again by way of
acknowledgment. "Can you take me to the station?" he asked the negro;
and on receiving an affirmative reply, he told him to stop at Mrs.
Raritan's for his traps.
As Tristrem entered the gate he saw Viola's assistant of the preceding
evening drive up, waving a hat.
"I got it," the man cried out, "here it is. First time it ever passed a
night out of doors, I'll bet. And none the worse for it, either." He
handed it over to Tristrem. "I dreamt about you last night," he added.
"That's odd," Tristrem answered, "I dreamed about you." The man laughed
at this as had he never heard anything so droll. "Well, I swan!" he
exclaimed, and cracked his whip with delight. His horse started. "Here,"
he said, "I near forgot. Whoa, there, can't you. This goes with the
hat." And he crumpled a handkerchief in his hand, and tossing it to
Tristrem, he let the horse continue his way unchecked.
The hat which the man had found did not indeed look as though it had
passed a night on the roadside. Save for an incidental speck or two it
might have come fresh from a bandbox. Tristrem carried it into the
cottage, and was placing it on the hall-table when Mrs. Raritan
appeared.
"I am so sorry," she began, "Viola has told me----"
"How is she? May I not see her?"
"She scarcely slept last night."
Tristrem looked in the lady's face. The lids of her eyes were red and
swollen.
"But may I not see her? May I not, merely for a moment."
"She is sleeping now," Mrs. Raritan answered; "perhaps," she added, "it
is better that you should not. The doctor has been here. He says that
she should be quiet. But you will come back, will you not? Truly I
sympathize with you."
Mrs. Raritan's eyes filled with tears, but to what they were due, who
shall say? She seemed to Tristrem unaccountably nervous and distressed.
"There is nothing serious the matter, is there?" he asked, anxiously.
And at the question, Mrs. Raritan almost choked. She shook her head,
however, but Tristrem was not assured. "I must see her," he said, and
he made as would he mount the stair.
"Mr. Varick! she is asleep. She has had a wretched night. When you are
able to come back, it will be different. But if you care for her, let
her be."
The protest was almost incoherent. Mrs. Raritan appeared beside herself
with anxiety.
"Forgive me," said Tristrem, "I did not mean to vex you. Nor would I
disturb her." He paused a second, dumbly and vaguely afflicted. "You
will tell her, will you not?" he added; "tell her this, that I wanted to
see her. Mrs. Raritan, my whole life is wrapped up in her." He hesitated
again. "You are tired too, I can see. You were up with her last night,
were you not?"
Mrs. Raritan bowed her head.
"You must forgive me," he repeated, "I did not understand. Tell me," he
continued, "last night I awoke thinking that I heard her calling. Did
she call?"
"Call what?"
"I thought--you see I was half, perhaps wholly asleep, but I thought I
heard her voice. I was mistaken, was I not?"
"Yes, you must have been."
The negro had brought down the luggage, and stood waiting at the gate.
"You will tell her--Mrs. Raritan--I love her with all my heart and
soul."
The lady's lips quivered. "She knows it, and so do I."
