young Frangipani. He had certainly never expected to find 
himself the rival of such a suitor, and his sense of possibility, 
if man may be said to possess such a faculty, was staggered 
by the idea. He suddenly awakened to a true understand 
ing of his position in Roman society, and when he contem 
plated his discovery in all its bearings, his nerve almost 
forsook him. When he remembered his childhood, his 
youth, and the circumstances in which he had lived up to a 
recent time, he found it hard to realise that he was trying to 
marry such a girl, in spite of her family and in opposition 
to such a man as was now brought forward as a match for 
her. It was not in his nature, however, to be discouraged in 
the face of difficulties. He was like a brave man who has 
received a stunning blow, but who continues to fight until he 
has gradually regained his position. Gouache could no more 
have relinquished Faustina than he could have abandoned 
a half-finished picture in which he believed, any more than 
he had given up the attempt to break away the stones at 
the Yigna Santucci after he had received the bullet in his 
shoulder. He had acquired his position in life by indomi 
table perseverance and hopefulness, and those qualities 
would not now fail him, in one of the most critical situations 
through which he had ever passed. In spite of Faustina's 
warning and, to some extent, in spite of his own better judg 
ment, he determined to face the old prince at once and to ask 
him boldly for his daughter. 
He had spoken confidently to Faustina of being married 
against the will of her father, but when he thought over this 
alternative he recollected a fact he had almost completely 
forgotten in considering his matrimonial projects. He was 
a soldier and had enlisted in the Zouaves for a term of 
years. It was true that by using the influence he possessed 
he might hope to be released from his engagement, but such 
a course was most repugnant to him. Before Mentana it 
would have been wholly impossible, for it would have seemed 
cowardly. Now that he had distinguished himself and had 
been wounded in the cause, the thing might be done without 
dishonour, but it would involve a species of self-abasement 
to which he was not prepared to submit. On the other 
hand, to wait until his term of service should have expired 
was to risk losing Faustina altogether. He knew that she 
loved him, but he was experienced enough to know that a 
young girl is not always able to bear the pressure exercised 
upon her when marriage is concerned. In Eome, and 
especially at that time, it was in the power of parents to use 
the most despotic means for subduing the will of their 
children. There was even a law by which a disobedient 
son or daughter could be imprisoned for a considerable 
length of time, provided that the father could prove that his 
child had rebelled against his just will. Though Gouache 
was not aware of this, the fact that a similar institution 
existed in his own country made him suspect that it was to 
xviii 
 279 
be found in Borne also. Supposing that Montevarchi re 
fused to accept him for a son-in-law, and that Faustina, on 
the other hand, refused to marry young Frangipani, it was 
only too probable that she might be locked up in a luxuri 
ously furnished cell of course to reflect upon the error of 
her ways. It was by no means certain that in the face of 
such humiliation and suffering Faustina would continue her 
resistance ; indeed, she could hardly be blamed if she yielded 
in the end. Gouache believed in the sincerity of her love 
because the case was his own ; had he heard of it in the life 
of another man he would have laughed at the idea that a girl 
of eighteen could be capable of a serious passion. 
It is not necessary, however, to enter into an analysis of 
the motives and feelings of either Faustina or Anastase. 
Their connection with the history of the Saracinesca arose 
from what they did, and not from the thoughts which 
prompted their actions. It is sufficient to say that Gouache 
conceived the mad idea of asking Montevarchi's consent to 
his marriage and to explain the immediate consequences of 
the step he took. 
Matters were rapidly approaching a climax. San Gia- 
cinto had seen the lawyers at Frascati, and he had brought 
his wife back to Rome very soon in order to be on the spot 
while the case was being prepared. The men of the law 
declared that the matter was a very simple one and that no 
court could withhold its decision a single day after seeing 
the documents which constituted the claim. The only point 
about which any argument could arise related to the identity 
of San Giacinto himself, and no difficulty was found in 
establishing substantial proof that he was Giovanni Sara 
cinesca and not an impostor. His father and grandfather 
had jealously kept all the records of themselves which were 
necessary, from the marriage certificate of the original Don 
Leone, who had signed the deed, to the register of San Gia- 
cinto's own birth. Copies were obtained, properly drawn up 
and certified, of the parish books and of the few government 
documents which were officially preserved in the kingdom of 
Naples before 1860, and the lawyers declared themselves 
ready to open the case. Up to this time the strictest 
 
secrecy was preserved, at the request of San Giacinto himself, 
He said that in such an important matter he wished nothing 
to transpire until he was ready to act ; more especially as 
the Saracinesca themselves could not he ignorant of the true 
state of the case and had no right to receive notice of the 
action "beforehand. As Corona had foreseen, San Giacinto 
intended to ohtain the decision hy means of a perfectly legal 
trial, and was honestly ready to court enquiry into the rights 
he was ahout to assert. When the moment came and all 
was ready, he went to the Palazzo Saracinesca and asked for 
the prince, who received him in the same room in which the 
two had met when the ex-innkeeper had made his appear 
ance in Rome nearly three months earlier. As San Giacinto 
entered he felt that he had not wasted his time during that 
short interval. 
'I have come to' talk with you upon a business which 
must be unpleasant to you,' he began. l Unfortunately it 
cannot be avoided. I beg you to believe that it is my wish 
to act loyally and fairly.' 
'I hope so,' said Saiacinesca, bending his bushy gray 
eyebrows and fixing his keen old eyes upon his visitor. 
'You need not doubt it,' replied San Giacinto rather 
proudly. ' You are doubtless acquainted with the nature of 
the deed by which our great-grandfathers agreed to transfer the 
titles and property to the younger of the two. When we 
first spoke of the matter I was not aware of the existence of 
a saving clause. I cannot suppose you ignorant of it. 
That clause provided that if Leone Saracinesca married and 
had a lawful heir, the deed should be null and void. He 
did marry, as you know. I am his direct descendant, and 
have children of my own by my first marriage. I cannot 
therefore allow the clause in question to remain in abeyance 
any longer. With all due respect to you, I am obliged to 
tell you quite frankly that, in law, I am Prince Saracinesca.' 
Having thus stated his position as plainly as possible, 
San Giacinto folded his great hands upon his knee and 
leaned against the back of his chair. Saracinesca looked as 
though he were about to make some hasty answer, but he con 
trolled his intention and rose to his feet. After walking 
twice np and down the room, he came and stood in front ol 
his cousin. 
' Let us be plain in what we say,' he began. ' I give you 
my word that, until Montevarchi sent back those papers the 
other day, I did not know what they contained. I had not 
read them for thirty years, and at that time the clause 
escaped me. I do not remember to have noticed it. This 
may have been due to the fact that I had never heard that 
Leone had any living descendants, and should therefore 
have attached no importance to the words if I had seen 
them.' 
' I believe you,' said San Giacinto, calmly. The old man's 
eyes flashed. 
' I always take it for granted that I am believed,' he an 
swered. ' Will you give me your word that you are what 
you assert yourself to be, Giovanni Saracinesca, the great- 
grandson and lawful heir of Leone ? ' 
' Certainly. I pledge my honour that I am ; and I, too, 
expect to be believed by you.' 
There was something in the tone of the answer that 
struck a sympathetic cord in Saracinesca's nature. San 
Giacinto had risen to his feet, and there was something in 
the huge, lean strength of him, in the bold look of his eyes, 
in the ring of his deep voice, that inspired respect. Rough 
he was, and not over refined or carefully trained in the ways 
of the world, cruel perhaps, and overbearing too ; but he was 
every inch a Saracinesca, and the old man felt it. 
' I believe you,' answered the prince. ' You may take 
possession when you please. I am Don Leone, and you are 
the head of the house.' 
He made a gesture full of dignity, as though resigning 
then and there his name and the house in which he lived, 
to him who was lawfully entitled to both. The action was 
magnificent and worthy of the man. There was a superb 
disregard of consequences in his readiness to give up every 
thing rather than keep for a moment what was not his, which 
affected San Giacinto strangely. In justice to the latter it 
must be remembered that he had not the faintest idea that 
he was the instrument of a pipantic fraud from which he 
was to derive the chief advantage. He instinctively bowed 
in acknowledgment of his cousin's generous conduct. 
' I shall not take advantage of your magnanimity,' he said, 
' until the law has sanctioned my doing so.' 
' As you please,' answered the other. ' I have nothing to 
conceal from the law, but I am prejudiced against lawyers. 
Do as you think best. A family council can settle the 
matter as well as the courts.' 
' Your confidence in me is generous and noble. I prefer, 
however, that the tribunal should examine the matter.' 
' As you please,' repeated Saracinesca. There was no 
reason for prolonging an interview which could not be 
agreeable to either party. The old man remained standing. 
' No opposition will be made to the suit,' he said. ' You 
will simply produce your papers in proper form, and I will 
declare myself satisfied.' He held out his hand. 
' I trust you will bear me no ill-will,' said San Giacinto 
rather awkwardly. 
' For taking what is yours and not mine ? Not in the 
least. Good-evening.' 
San Giacinto left the room. When he was gone, Sara 
cinesca stood still for a moment, and then sank into a chair. 
His strong nature had sustained him through the meeting 
and would sustain him to the end, but he was terribly shaken, 
and felt a strange sensation of numbness in the back of his 
head, which was quite new to him. For some minutes he 
sat still as though dazed and only half conscious. Then he 
rose again, shook himself as though to get rid of a bad dream 
and rang the bell. He sent for Giovanni, who appeared 
immediately. 
' San Giacinto has been here,' he said quickly. ' He is 
the man. You had better tell your wife, as she will want 
to collect her things before we leave the house.' 
Giovanni was staggered by his father's impetuosity. He 
had realised that the danger existed, but it had always seemed 
indefinitely far removed, 
' I suppose there will be some legal proceedings before 
everything is settled,' he said with more calmness than he 
felt. 
' What is that to us ? We must go, sooner or later.' 
' And if the courts do not decide in his favour, what then ? ' 
' There is no doubt about it,' answered the prince, pacing 
the room as his excitement returned. 'You and I are 
nobody. We had better go and live in an inn. That man 
is honest. I hate him, but he is honest. Why do you 
stand there staring at me ? Were you not the first to say 
that if we are impostors we should give up everything of our 
own free-will? And now you seem to think that I will 
fight the suit ! That is your logic ! That is all the con 
sistency you have acquired in your travels ! Go and tell 
your wife that you are nobody, that I am nobody ! Go and 
tell her to give you a title, a name for men to call you by ! 
Go into the market and see whether you can find a name 
for your father ! Go and hire a house for us to live in, 
when that Neapolitan devil has brought Flavia Montevarchi 
to live in the palace where your mother died, where you 
were born poor Giovanni ? Not that I pity you any more 
than I pity myself Why should I ? You are young and 
have done this house the honour to spend most of your life 
out of it. But after all poor Giovanni ! ' 
Saracinesca seized his son's hand and looked into his 
eyes. The young man's face was perfectly calm, almost 
serene in its expression of indifference to misfortune. His 
whole soul was preoccupied by greater and nobler emotions 
than any which could be caused by worldly loss. He had 
been with Corona again, had talked with her and had seen 
that look in her face which he had learned to dread more 
than he had ever dreaded anything in his life. What was 
life itself without that which her eyes refused ? 
CHAPTER XIX 
PRINCE MONTEVARCHI was very much surprised when he was 
told that Anastase Gouache wished to see him, and as he 
was very much occupied with the details of the suit his first 
impulse was to decline the visit. Although he had no idea 
that matters had already gone so far between the Zouave and 
 
Faustina, he was not, however, so blind as the young girl 
had supposed him to be. He was naturally observant, like 
most men who devote their lives to the pursuit of their own 
interests, and it had not escaped him that Faustina and 
Gouache were very often to be seen talking together in 
the world. Had he possessed a sense of humour he might 
possibly have thought that it would be inexpressibly comical 
if Gouache should take it into his head to fall in love with 
the girl ; but the Italians are not a humorous people, and 
the idea did not suggest itself to the old gentleman. He 
consented to receive Gouache because he thought the oppor 
tunity would be a good one for reading the young man 
a lecture upon the humility of his station, and upon the 
arrogance he displayed in devoting himself thus openly to 
the daughter of Casa Montevarchi. 
' Good-day, Monsieur Gouache,' he said solemnly, as 
Anastase entered. ' Pray be seated. To what do I owe the 
honour of your visit ? ' 
Anastase had put on a perfectly new uniform for the 
interview, and his movements were more than usually alert 
and his manners a shade more elaborate and formal than on 
ordinary occasions. He felt and behaved as young men of 
good birth do who are serving their year in the army, and 
who, having put on their smartest tunic, hope that in a half 
light they may be taken for officers. 
' Will you allow me to explain my position in the first 
place?' he asked, seating himself and twisting his cap slowly 
in his hands. 
' Your position ? By all means, if you desire to do so. 
It is an excellent rule in all discourses to put the definition 
before the argument. Nevertheless, if you would inform me 
of the nature of the affair, it might help me to understand 
you. better.' 
' It is very delicate but I will try to be plain. What 
I am, I think you know already. I am a painter and I have 
been successful For the present, I am a Zouave, but my 
military service does not greatly interfere with my profession. 
We have a good deal of time upon our hands. My pictures 
bring me a larger income than I can spend.' 
' I congratulate you,' observed Montevarchi, opening his 
small eyes in some astonishment. ' The pursuit of the fine 
arts is not generally very lucrative. For myself, I confess 
that I am satisfied with those treasures which my father has 
left me. I am very fond of pictures, it is true ; but you 
will understand that, when a gallery is filled, it is full You 
comprehend, I am sure? Much as I might wish to own 
some of the works of the modern French school, the double 
disadvantage of possessing already so many canvases, and 
the still stronger consideration of my limited fortune yes, 
limited, I assure you ' 
' Pardon me,' interrupted Gouache, whose face reddened 
suddenly, 'I had no intention of proposing to sell you a 
picture. I am not in the habit of advertising myself nor of 
soliciting orders for my work.' 
'My dear sir !' exclaimed the prince, seeing that he was 
on a wrong tack, ' have I suggested such a thing ? If my 
words conveyed the idea, pray accept all my excuses. Since 
you had mentioned the subject of art, my thoughts naturally 
were directed to my gallery of pictures. I am delighted to 
hear of your success, for you know how much interest we 
all feel in him who was the victim of such an unfortunate 
accident, due doubtless to the carelessness of my men.' 
' Pray do not recall that ! Your hospitality more than 
repaid me for the little I suffered. The matter concerning 
which I wish to speak to you is a very serious one, and I 
hope you will believe that I have considered it well before 
taking a step which may at first surprise you. To be plain, 
I come to ask you to confer upon me the honour of Donna 
Faustina Montevarchi's hand.' 
Montevarchi leaned back in his chair, speechless with 
amazement. He seemed to gasp for breath as his long fingers 
pressed the green table-cover before him. His small eyes 
were wide open, and his toothless jaw dropped. Gouache 
feared that he was going to be taken ill 
' You ! ' cried the old man in a cracked voice, when he 
had recovered himself enough to be able to speak. 
' Yes,' answered Anastase, who was beginning to feel very 
nervous as he observed the first results of his proposal. He 
had never before quite realised how utterly absurd the match 
would seem to Montevarchi. ' Yes,' he repeated. ' Is the 
idea so surprising ? Is it inconceivable to you that I should 
love your daughter ? Can you not understand ' 
' I understand that you are wholly mad ! ' exclaimed the 
prince, still staring at his visitor in blank astonishment. 
' No, I am not mad. I love Donna Faustina ' 
' You ! You dare to love Faustina ! You, a painter, a 
man with a profession and with nothing but what you earn ! 
You, a Zouave, a man without a name, without ' 
' You are an old man, prince, but the fact of my having 
made you an honourable proposition does not give you the 
right to insult me.' The words were spoken in a sharp, 
determined voice, and brought Montevarchi to his senses. 
He was a terrible coward and would rather go to a consider 
able expense than face an angry man. 
' Insult you, my dear sir ? I would not think of it ! ' he 
answered in a very different tone. ' But my dear Monsieur 
Gouache, I fear that this is quite impossible ! In the first 
place, my daughter's marriage is already arranged. The 
negotiations have been proceeding for some time she is to 
marry Frangipani you must have heard it. And, moreover, 
with all due respect for the position you have gained by 
your immense talent immense, my dear friend, I am the 
first to say it the instability of human affairs obliges me 
to seek for her a fortune, which depends upon the vulgar 
possession of wealth rather than upon those divine gifts of 
genius with which you are so richly endowed.' 
The change from anger to flattery was so sudden that 
Gouache was confounded and could not find words in which 
to answer what was said to him. Montevarchi's eyes had 
lost their expression of astonishment, and a bland smile 
played about the corners of his sour mouth, while he rubbed 
his bony hands slowly together, nodding his head at every 
comma of his elaborate speech. Anastase saw,' however, 
that there was not the slightest hope that his proposal would 
ever be entertained, and by his own sensations he knew that 
he had always expected this result. He felt no disappoint 
ment, and it seemed to him that he was in the same position 
xix SANT' ILAHIO 287 
in which he had been before he had spoken. On the other 
hand he was outraged by the words that had fallen from 
Montevarchi's lips in the first moments of anger and astonish 
ment. A painter, a man with a profession, without a name ! 
Gouache was too human not to feel the sting of each truth 
as it was uttered. He would have denned himself in very 
much the same way without the least false pride ; but to 
hear his own estimate of himself, given by another person 
as the true one, was hard to bear. A painter, yes he was 
proud of it A man with a profession, yes was it not 
far nobler to earn money by good work than to inherit what 
others had stolen in former times ? A man without a name 
was not his own beginning to be famous, and was it not 
better to make the name Gouache glorious by his own efforts 
than to be called Orsini because one's ancestors had been 
fierce and lawless as bears, or Sciarra because one's progenitor 
had slapped the face of a pope ? Doubtless it was a finer 
thing to be great by one's own efforts in the pursuit of a 
noble art than to inherit a greatness originally founded upon 
a superior rapacity, and a greater physical strength than had 
characterised the ordinary men of the period. Nevertheless, 
Gouache knew with shame that at that moment he wished 
that his name could be changed to Frangipani, and the fabric 
of his independence, of which he had so long been proud, was 
shaken to its foundations as he realised that in spite of all 
fame, all glory, all genius, he could never be what the miserly, 
cowardly, lying old man before him was by birth a Roman 
prince. The conclusion was at once inexpressibly humiliat 
ing and supremely ludicrous. He felt himself laughable in 
his own eyes, and was conscious that a smile was on his 
face, which Montevarchi would not understand. The old 
gentleman was still talking. 
' I cannot tell you,' he was saying, ' how much I regret 
my total inability to comply with a request which evidently 
proceeds from the best motives, I might almost say from the 
heart itself. Alas ! my dear friend, we are not all masters 
of our actions. The cares of a household like mine require 
A foresight, an hourly attention, an unselfish devotion which 
we can only hope to obtain by constant ' 
course, it will take several months to make the division, as 
the Signer -Marchese will only receive the direct inheritance 
of his great-grandfather, while the Saracinesca retain all that 
has come to them by their marriages during the last four 
generations.' 
' Of course. Who will be employed to make the 
division ? ' 
' Half Rome, I fancy. It will be an endless business.' 
' But San Giacinto is prince. He will do homage for his 
titles next Epiphany.' 
'Yes. He must present his ten pounds of wax and a 
silver bowl cheap ! ' observed Meschini with a grin. 
It may be explained here that the families of the Roman 
nobility were all subject to a yearly tribute of merely nominal 
value, which they presented to the Pope at the Feast of the 
Epiphany. The custom was feudal, the Pope having been 
the feudal lord of all the nobles until 1870. The tribute 
generally consisted of a certain weight of pure wax, or of a 
piece of silver of a specified value, or sometimes of both. 
As an instance of the survival of such customs in other 
countries, I may mention the case of one great Irish family 
which to this day receives from another a yearly tribute, 
paid alternately in the shape of a golden rose and a golden 
spur. 
' So we have won everything ! ' exclaimed Montevarchi 
after a pause, looking hard at the librarian, as though trying 
to read his thoughts. ' We have won everything, and the 
thanks are due to you, my good friend, to you, the faithful 
and devoted companion who has helped me to accomplish 
this act of true justice. Ah, how can I ever express to you 
my gratitude ! ' 
' The means of expression were mentioned in our agree 
ment,' answered Meschini with a servile inclination. ' I 
agreed to do the work for your Excellency at a certain fixed 
price, as your Excellency may remember. Beyond that I 
ask nothing. I am too humble an individual to enjoy the 
honour of Prince Monte varchi's personal gratitude.' 
' Yes, of course, but that is mere money I ' said the old 
gentleman somewhat hastily, but contemptuously withal. 
' Gratitude proceeds from the heart, not from the purse. 
When I think of all the work you have done, of the unselfish 
way in which you have devoted yourself to this object, I feel 
that money can never repay you. Money is sordid trash, 
Meschini, sordid trash ! Let us not talk about it. Are we 
not friends ? The most delicate sensibilities of my soul rejoice 
when I consider what we have accomplished together. There 
is not another man in Rome whom I would trust as I trust 
you, most faithful of men ! ' 
' The Signor Principe is too kind,' replied Meschini. 
' Nevertheless, I repeat that I am quite unworthy of such 
gratitude for having merely performed my part in a business 
transaction, especially in one wherein my own interests were 
so deeply concerned.' 
' My only regret is that my son-in-law can never know the 
share you have had in his success. But that, alas, is quite 
impossible. How, indeed, would it be practicable to inform 
him ? And my daiighter, too ! She would remember you 
in all her innocent prayers, even as I shall do henceforth ' 
No, Meschini, it is ordained that I, and I alone, should V 
the means of expressing to you the heartfelt thanks of those 
whom you have so highly benefited, but who unfortunately 
can never know the name of their benefactor. Tell me now, 
did the men of tht law look long at the documents ? Did 
they show any hesitation ? Have you any reason to believe 
that their attention was roused, arrested by by the writing V 
' No, indeed ! I should be a poor workman if a parcel of 
lawyers could detect my handwriting ! ' 
'It is a miracle!' exclaimed Montevarchi, devoutly. 'I 
consider that heaven has interposed directly to accomplish 
the ends of justice. An angel guided your hand, my dear 
friend, to make you the instrument of good ! ' 
'I am quite ready to believe it. The transaction has 
been as providential for me as for the Signor Marchese.' 
'Yes,' answered the prince rather drily. 'And now, 
my dear Meschini, will you leave me for a time ? I have 
appointed this hour to see my last remaining daughter con 
cerning her marriage. She is tb<3 last of those fair flowers ! 
Ah me ! How sad a thing it is to part with those we love 
 
course, it will take several months to make the division, as 
the Signer -Marchese will only receive the direct inheritance 
of his great-grandfather, while the Saracinesca retain all that 
has come to them by their marriages during the last four 
generations.' 
' Of course. Who will be employed to make the 
division ? ' 
' Half Kome, I fancy. It will be an endless business.' 
' But San Giacinto is prince. He will do homage for his 
titles next Epiphany.' 
'Yes. He must present his ten pounds of wax and a 
silver bowl cheap ! ' observed Meschini with a grin. 
It may be explained here that the families of the Roman 
nobility were all subject to a yearly tribute of merely nominal 
value, which they presented to the Pope at the Feast of the 
Epiphany. The custom was feudal, the Pope having been 
the feudal lord of all the nobles until 1870. The tribute 
generally consisted of a certain weight of pure wax, or of a 
piece of silver of a specified value, or sometimes of both. 
As an instance of the survival of such customs in other 
countries, I may mention the case of one great Irish family 
which to this day receives from another a yearly tribute, 
paid alternately in the shape of a golden rose and a golden 
spur. 
' So we have won everything ! ' exclaimed Montevarchi 
after a pause, looking hard at the librarian, as though trying 
to read his thoughts. ' We have won everything, and the 
thanks are due to you, my good friend, to you, the faithful 
and devoted companion who has helped me to accomplish 
this act of true justice. Ah, how can I ever express to you 
my gratitude ! ' 
' The means of expression were mentioned in our agree 
ment,' answered Meschini with a servile inclination. ' I 
agreed to do the work for your Excellency at a certain fixed 
price, as your Excellency may remember. Beyond that I 
ask nothing. I am too humble an individual to enjoy the 
honour of Prince Monte varchi's personal gratitude.' 
' Yes, of course, but that is mere money ! ' said the old 
gentleman somewhat hastily, but contemptuously withal 
'Gratitude proceeds from the heart, not from the purse. 
When I think of all the work you have done, of the unselfish 
way in which you have devoted yourself to this object, I feel 
that money can never repay you. Money is sordid trash, 
Meschini, sordid trash ! Let us not talk about it. Are we 
not friends ? The most delicate sensibilities of my soul rejoice 
when I consider what we have accomplished together. There 
is not another man in Rome whom I would trust as I trust 
you, most faithful of men ! ' 
'The Signor Principe is too kind,' replied Meschini. 
' Nevertheless, I repeat that I am quite unworthy of such 
gratitude for having merely performed my part in a business 
transaction, especially in one wherein my own interests were 
so deeply concerned.' 
' My only regret is that my son-in-law can never know the 
share you have had in his success. But that, alas, is quite 
impossible. How, indeed, would it be practicable to inform 
him ? And my daughter, too ! She would remember you 
in all her innocent prayers, even as I shall do henceforth ' 
No, Meschini, it is ordained that I, and I alone, should V 
the means of expressing to you the heartfelt thanks of those 
whom you have so highly benefited, but who unfortunately 
can never know the name of their benefactor. Tell me now, 
did the men of the law look long at the documents ? Did 
they show any hesitation ? Have you any reason to believe 
that their attention was roused, arrested by by the writing T 
' No, indeed ! I should be a poor workman if a parcel of 
lawyers could detect my handwriting ! ' 
'It is a miracle!' exclaimed Montevarchi, devoutly. 'I 
consider that heaven has interposed directly to accomplish 
the ends of justice. An angel guided your hand, my dear 
friend, to make you the instrument of good ! ' 
'I am quite ready to believe it. The transaction has 
been as providential for me as for the Signor Marchese.' 
' Yes,' answered the prince rather drily. ' And now, 
my dear Meschini, will you leave me for a time ? I have 
appointed this hour to see my last remaining daughter con 
cerning her marriage. She is the last of those fair flowers ! 
Ah me ! How sad a thing it is to part with those we love 
 
so well ! But we have the consolation of knowing that it is 
for their good, that consolation, that satisfaction which only 
come to us when we have faithfully done our duty. Return 
to your library, therefore, Meschini, for the present. The 
consciousness of good well done is yours also to-day, and will 
soothe the hours of solitude and make your new labours 
sweet. The reward of righteousness is. in itself and of itself. 
Good-bye, my friend, good-bye ! Thank you, thank you ' 
' Would it be agreeable to your Excellency to let me have 
the money now ? ' asked the librarian. There was a firmness 
in the tone that startled Montevarchi. 
' What money ? ' he inquired with a well- feigned surprise. 
' I do not understand.' 
' Twenty thousand scudi, the price of the work,' replied 
Meschini with alarming bluntness. 
' Twenty thousand scudi ! ' cried the prince. ' I remem 
ber that there was some mention of a sum two thousand, I 
think, I said. Even that is enormous, but I was carried 
away in the excitement of the moment. We are all liable 
to such weakness ' 
' You agreed to pay me twenty thousand scudi in cash on 
the day that the verdict was given in favour of your son-in- 
law.' 
' I never agreed to anything of the kind. My dear friend, 
success has quite turned your head ! I have not so much 
money at my disposal in the whole world.' 
' You cannot afford to make a fool of me,' cried Meschini, 
making a step forward. His face was red with anger, and 
his long arms made odd gestures. ' Will you pay me the 
money or not ? ' 
' If you take this tone with me I will pay you nothing 
whatever. I shall even cease to feel any sense of grati 
tude ' 
' To hell with your gratitude ! ' exclaimed the other 
fiercely. ' Either you pay me the money now, or I go at 
once to the authorities and denounce the whole treachery.' 
' You will only go to the galleys if you do.' 
' You will go with me.' 
' Not at all. Have you any proof that I have had any- 
XIX 
thing to do with the matter ? I tell you that you are quite 
mad. If you wanted to play this trick on me you should 
have made me sign an agreement. Even then I would have 
argued that since you had forged the documents you had, of 
course, forged the agreement also. But you have nothing, 
not so much as a scrap of paper to show against me. Be 
reasonable and I will be magnanimous. I will give you the 
two thousand I spoke of in the heat of anticipation ' 
'You will give me the twenty thousand you solemnly 
promised me,' said Meschini, with concentrated anger. 
Montevarchi rose slowly from his chair and rang the bell. 
He knew that Meschini would not be so foolish as to expose 
himself, and would continue to hope that he might ultimately 
get what he asked. 
' I cannot argue with a madman,' he said calmly. 
He was not in the least afraid of the librarian. The idea 
never entered his mind that the middle-aged, round-shouldered 
scholar could be dangerous. A single word from Gouache, 
a glance of the artist's eye had cowed him less than an hour 
ago ; but Meschini's fury left him indifferent. The latter 
saw that for the present there was nothing to be done. To 
continue such a scene before a servant would be the worst 
kind of folly. 
' We will talk the matter over at another time,' he said 
sullenly, as he left the study by a small door which opened 
upon a corridor in communication with the library. 
Montevarchi sent the servant who answered the bell with 
a message begging Donna Faustina to come to the study at 
once. Since it was to be a day of interviews he determined 
to state the case plainly to his daughter, and bid her make 
ready to comply with his will in case the match with Frangi- 
pani turned out to be possible. He seemed no more disturbed 
by Meschini's anger than if the affair had not concerned him 
in the least. He had, indeed, long foreseen what would 
occur, and even at the moment when he had promised the 
bribe he was fully determined never to pay it. The librarian 
had taken the bait greedily, and it was his own fault if the 
result did not suit him. He had no redress, as Montevarchi 
had told him ; there was not so much as 4 a note to serve as a 
294  
record of the bargain. Meschini had executed the forgery, and 
he would have to ruin himself in order to bring any pressure 
to bear upon his employer. This the latter felt sure that 
he would not do, even if driven to extremities. Meschini's 
nature was avaricious and there was no reason to suppose 
that he was tired of life, or ready to go to the galleys for a 
bit of personal vengeance, when, by exercising a little patience, 
he might ultimately hope to get some advantage out of the 
crime he had committed. Montevarchi meant to pay him what 
he considered a fair price for the work, and he did not see that 
Meschini had any means of compelling him to pay more. Now 
that the thing was done, he began to regret that he himself had 
not made some agreement with San Giacinto, but a moment's 
reflection sufficed to banish the thought as unworthy of his 
superior astuteness. His avarice was on a large scale and 
was merging into ambition. It might have been foreseen 
that, after having married one of his two remaining daughters 
to a man who had turned out to be Prince Saracinesca, his 
determination to match Faustina with Frangipani would be 
even stronger than it had been before. Hence his sudden 
wish to see Faustina and to prepare her mind for what was 
about to take place. All at once it seemed as though he could 
not act quickly enough to satisfy his desire of accomplish 
ment. He felt as an old man may feel who, at the end of a 
busy life, sees countless things before him which he would 
still do, and hates the thought of dying before all are done. 
A feverish haste to complete this last step in the aggrandise 
ment of his family, overcame the old prince. He could not 
understand why he had submitted to wasting his time with 
Gouache and Meschini instead of busying himself actively 
in the accomplishment of his purpose. There was no reason 
for waiting any longer. Frangipani's father had already 
half-agreed to the match, and what remained to be done in 
volved only a question of financial details. 
As he sat waiting for Faustina a great horror of death 
rose suddenly and clearly before him. He was not a very 
old man and he would have found it hard to account for the 
sensation. It is a notable fact, too, that he feared death 
rather because it might prevent him from carrying out hia 
intentions, than because his conscience was burdened with 
the recollection of many misdeeds. His whole existence had 
been passed in such an intricate labyrinth of duplicity to 
wards others and towards himself that he no longer distin 
guished between the true and the untrue. Even in this 
last great fraud he had so consistently deceived his own 
sense of veracity that he almost felt himself to be the instru 
ment of justice he assumed to be. The case was a delicate 
one, too, for the most unprejudiced person could hardly have 
escaped feeling sympathy for San Giacinto, the victim of his 
ancestor's imprudence. Montevarchi found it very easy to 
believe that it was permissible to employ any means in order 
to gain such an end, and although he might have regarded 
the actual work of the forgery in the light of a crime, 
venial indeed, though contrary to the law, his own share in 
the transaction, as instigator of the deed itself, appeared to be 
defensible by a whole multitude of reasons. San Giacinto, 
by all the traditions of primogeniture dear to the heart of 
the Eoman noble, was the head of the family of Saracinesca. 
But for a piece of folly, hardly to be equalled in Montevarchi's 
experience, San Giacinto would have been in possession of the 
estates and titles without opposition or contradiction since the 
day of his father's death. The mere fact that the Saracinesca 
had not defended the case proved that they admitted the 
justice of their cousin's claims. Had old Leone foreseen the 
contingency of a marriage in his old age, he would either never 
have signed the deed at all, or else he would have introduced 
just such a conditional clause as had been forged by Meschini. 
When a great injustice has been committed, through folly or 
carelessness, when those who have been most benefited by it 
admit that injustice, when to redress it is merely to act in 
accordance with the spirit of the laws, is it a crime then to 
bring about so much good by merely sacrificing a scruple of 
conscience, by employing some one to restore an inheritance 
to its rightful possessor with a few clever strokes of the 
pen ? The answer seemed so clear to Montevarchi that he 
did not even ask himself the question. Indeed it would 
have been superfluous to do so, for he had so often satisfied 
ill objections to doubtful courses by a similar sophistry that 
296  CHAP 
he knew beforehand what reply would present itself to his 
self-inquiry. He did not even experience a sense of relief 
as he turned from the contemplation of what he had just 
done to the question of Faustina's marriage, in which there 
was nothing that could torment his conscience. He was 
not even aware that he ought to recognise a difference 
between the two affairs. He was in great haste to settle the 
preliminaries, and that was all If he should die, he thought, 
the princess would have her own way in everything, and would 
doubtless let Faustina throw herself away upon some such 
man as Gouache. The thought roused him from his reverie, 
and at the same time brought a sour smile to his face. 
Gouache, of all people ! He looked up and saw that 
Faustina had entered and was standing before him, as 
though expecting him to speak. Her delicate, angelic 
features were pale, and she held her small hands folded 
before her. She had discovered by some means that Gouache 
had been with her father and she feared that something 
unpleasant had happened and that she was about to be called 
to account. The vision of Frangipani, too, was present in 
her mind, and she anticipated a stormy interview. But her 
mind was made up ; she would have Anastase or she would 
have nobody. The two exchanged a preliminary glance 
before either spoke. 
CHAPTER XX 
MONTEVARCHI made his daughter sit beside him and took her 
hand affectionately in his, assuming at the same time the 
expression of sanctimonious superiority he always wore when 
he mentioned the cares of his household or was engaged in 
regulating any matter of importance in his family. Flavia 
used to imitate the look admirably, to the delight of her 
brothers and sisters. He smiled meaningly, pressed the 
girl's fingers, and smiled again, attempting in vain to elicit 
some response. But Faustina remained co-Id and in 
different, for she was used to her father's ways and did not 
like them. 
' You know what I am going to say, I am sure,' he began. 
' It concerns what must be very near your heart, my dear 
child.' 
' I do not know what it can be,' answered Faustina, 
gravely. She was too well brought up to show any of the 
dislike she felt for her father's way of doing things, but she 
was willing to make it as hard as possible for him to express 
himselt 
' Cannot you guess what it is ? ' asked the old man, with 
a ludicrous attempt at banter. ' What is it that is nearest 
to every girl's heart? Is not that little heart of yours 
already a resort of the juvenile deity ? ' 
' I do not understand you, papa.' 
' Well, well, my dear I see that your education has not 
included a course of mythology. It is quite as well, per 
haps, as those heathens are poor company for the young. I 
refer to marriage, Faustina, to that all-important step which 
you are soon to take.' 
' Have you quite decided to marry me to Frangipani ? ' 
asked the young girl with a calmness that somewhat dis 
concerted her father. 
' How boldly you speak of it ! ' he exclaimed with a sigh 
of disapproval. ' I will not, however, conceal from you that 
I hope ' 
' Pray talk plainly with me, papa ! ' cried Faustina 
suddenly looking up. 'I cannot bear this suspense.' 
' Ah ! Is it so, little one ? ' Montevarchi shook his 
finger playfully at her. ' I thought I should find you ready ! 
So you are anxious to become a princess at once ? Well, 
well, all women are alike ! ' 
Faustina drew herself up a little and fixed her deep 
brown eyes upon her father's face, very quietly and solemnly. 
'You misunderstand me,' she said. 'I only wish to 
know your decision in order that I may give you my 
answer.' 
' And what can that answer be ? Have I not chosen 
wisely, a husband fit for you in every way ? ' 
' From your point of view, I have no doubt of it.' 
' I trust you are not about to commit the unpardonable 
fcllv of differing from me, my daughter,' answered Monte- 
varchi, with a sudden change of tone indicative of rising dis 
pleasure. 'It is for me to decide, for you to accept my 
