He carried the drink safely to the passenger, who drank it and smacked
his lips over it. "It goes to the right spot," he said.
"Do those boys sleep sound?" he asked.
"Yes, massa."
"Then I'll get out of this beastly hole and take a turn on deck."
"Be keerful, massa!" said Clip anxiously.
"Oh, yes; I won't make any noise."
Clip crept back to bed and succeeded in resuming his place without
disturbing or arousing Bob or Sam.
CHAPTER XXVI.
WAS IT THE CAT?
Usually Bob Burton slept all night; but to-night, unfortunately for
Clip, he awakened about two o'clock in the morning. By an equally
perverse chance, just as he awoke, the concealed passenger, now enjoying
the freedom of the deck, broke out into a stentorian sneeze. Bob heard
it, and so did Clip, whose uneasiness made him sleep more lightly than
usual, and both were startled.
"I hope Massa Bob won't hear dat," thought Clip.
But Bob did hear it.
"What's that?" he asked, half rising in bed.
"It's me!" answered Clip, preferring to admit the sneeze rather than
have Bob suspect that there was any one else on the boat.
"Do you mean to say you sneezed, Clip?" asked Bob, in amazement.
"Yes, Massa Bob."
"You must be dreaming. The sneeze came from another part of the boat."
"Are you sure?" asked Clip.
"Yes. What made you tell me that it was you who sneezed?"
"I t'ought I did, Massa Bob."
"When did you wake up?"
"Just now."
"The sneeze must have waked you up."
"I dunno," answered Clip, dubiously.
"There must be some one on board, unless we both dreamed about the
sneeze."
"Mebbe it's a cat!" remarked Clip, ingenuously.
Bob laughed. "It must be a very remarkable cat that would sneeze like
that," he said.
"Jus' so, Massa Bob," assented Clip, meekly, hoping that Bob would drop
the subject.
"I think, Clip, I shall get up and search for that cat."
"Don't you do it, Massa Bob. He--he might bite you."
"I hope I am not such a coward as to be afraid of a cat."
Bob rose and lighted a candle which he had with him. Then, followed by
Clip, he advanced to the other end of the deck. But the passenger had
warning, having heard the conversation which had taken place between Bob
and Clip, and had hurriedly retreated to his former hiding-place. It did
not occur to Bob to look there, and he returned from his fruitless
search more mystified than ever.
But, Clip being close beside him, he caught the aroma of the single
swallow of whisky which Clip had taken, and he immediately began to
suspect poor Clip of having indulged in much deeper potations than he
was guilty of.
"Clip," he said, suddenly, "I smell whisky."
"Does you, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, feeling that he was getting into a
scrape.
"Yes, I do, Clip; and where do you think it comes from?"
"Don't know, Massa Bob; 'deed I don't."
"It comes from your mouth, Clip. You've been drinking!"
Drops of perspiration stood on Clip's forehead. He could not excuse
himself, or explain matters, without betraying his secret. Not thinking
of anything to say, he said nothing.
"Tell me the truth, Clip; have you been drinking?"
"I jes' took a little swaller."
"Where did you take it?"
"On sho'."
"What made you do such a thing? I didn't dream that you were getting
intemperate, Clip."
"You see, Massa Bob, a gen'leman asked me to bring him a drink of
whisky, and I t'ought I'd jest see how it tasted."
"Who asked you to bring him some whisky?" asked Bob, who believed this
to be a pure fiction on the part of his young companion.
"A gen'leman."
"What gentleman?"
"He didn't tell me his name."
"I think you are telling me a lie, Clip."
"No I ain't, Massa Bob; it's as true as de Bible."
"I don't think you know much about the Bible, Clip."
"It's all true what I told you, Massa Bob. If I find de gen'leman, I'll
bring him here to tell you."
The witness referred to smiled to himself grimly when he heard this
statement.
"That little nigger's a brick!" he said to himself. "As to that other
boy, I'd like to throw him overboard. He's too fond of meddling with
other people's business."
It may occur to the reader that this was hardly a fair way of stating
the case. As the boat belonged to Bob, and he was the commander, it
might safely be assumed that he had a right to inquire into anything
that excited his suspicion.
"Are you goin' back to bed, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, uneasily.
"Wait a minute, Clip; I want to get a drink of water."
Again poor Clip was in bad luck. The tin dipper had been used to procure
the whisky, and of course it still smelled strongly of that liquor.
"Clip," said Bob, as soon as he had raised it to his lips, "you got some
whisky in this cup."
"Ye'es," admitted Clip.
"And you drank it yourself instead of giving it to any gentleman."
"No, I didn't, Massa Bob," stoutly, and as we know truly, asserted Clip.
"I'm ashamed of you, Clip. If you are going to act in this way, I shall
have to send you home. You have been acting very queerly this evening.
Sam and I both noticed it, but I didn't think you had formed a taste for
whisky."
"I don't love it, Massa Bob. I hate it. It's awful nasty stuff."
"And you didn't drink this dipper full, then?"
"No, I didn't."
"What did you do with it?"
"Throwed it away, Massa Bob. I only took one swaller. I couldn't drink
it if you gave me half a dollar; 'deed I couldn't."
"I hope this is true, Clip. I shouldn't like to tell my mother that you
had become intemperate."
"What's the matter?" was heard from Sam's bed at this juncture. "Where
are you, Bob?"
"Here I am, Sam."
"What made you get up?"
"I thought I heard a noise on deck; so Clip and I got up."
"What was it like?"
"A sneeze. Clip thought it might be a cat."
Bob and Sam laughed at the ludicrous idea, and Clip joined in, glad that
Bob's embarrassing cross-examination was over.
"You'd better come to bed, both of you. Very likely you dreamed it."
At that moment, and before Bob had put out the candle, there was a most
unlooked-for corroboration of Clip's singular theory.
An immense tom-cat ran swiftly between Bob's legs, from some place of
concealment. Both he and Clip saw it, and the latter was quick to take
advantage of the opportune appearance of the animal.
"Dare's de cat, Massa Bob," he shouted, triumphantly. "Didn't I tell you
it was a cat?"
Bob was temporarily nonplussed. Clip seemed to have the best of the
argument.
"All I can say is, it is a remarkable cat," he said. "I wish it would
sneeze again."
The rest of the night passed without anything remarkable happening. All
three boys slept soundly. Indeed, it was later than usual, probably on
account of their sleep being interrupted during the night, that they
awoke.
According to custom, the boys took turns in going out to breakfast.
"Clip, you and Sam can go out together," said Bob. "I will take my turn
afterwards."
"I ain't in no hurry, Massa Bob," said Clip. "You an' Sam go first, and
I'll go afterwards."
Bob thought this a little strange, but did not object.
When Clip was left alone he went at once to see his charge.
"Hope you pass de night good," said Clip, politely.
"I'm awfully cramped up," groaned the other. "But you're a trump, Clip.
You stood by me like a Trojan."
"Thank you, massa. I'm afraid Massa Bob'll find you out. How long you
goin' to stay?"
"Till I get a few miles from this town. Then he may find me and
welcome."
Clip felt that it would be a great relief to him when there was no
further need of concealment.
CHAPTER XXVII.
THE MYSTERIOUS PASSENGER IS DISCOVERED.
Bob Burton started on his trip down the river quite unaware that he
carried a passenger; Clip's peculiar nervousness attracted his
attention, and he wondered at it, but finally was led to attribute it to
the whisky, of which he credited Clip with having drunk a considerable
amount. We know that he was mistaken in this, but those who practice
deception are apt to be misjudged, and have no right to complain.
One more discovery puzzled Bob. Clip happened to have a hole in the
pocket in which he carried the money given him by the mysterious
passenger. At first it was not large enough to imperil the safety of the
coin; but Clip thrust his hand so often into his pocket, to see if the
money was safe, that he had unconsciously enlarged the opening. As a
result of this, as he was walking the deck, a two-dollar-and-a-half
gold piece, obtained in change, slipped out, and fell upon the deck. Bob
happened to be close at hand, and instantly espied the coin.
Clip walked on without noticing his loss.
Bob stooped and picked up the coin.
"A gold piece!" he thought, in amazement. "Where can Clip possibly have
got it?"
He had not missed any of his own money. Indeed, he knew that none of it
was in gold. Certainly the case looked very mysterious.
"Clip," he said.
"What, Massa Bob?" returned Clip, innocently.
"Is this gold piece yours?"
Clip started, and, if he had been white, would have turned pale.
"I reckon it is, Massa Bob," he answered, with hesitation.
"Where did it come from?"
"From my pocket," he answered.
"But how did it come into your pocket, Clip?"
"I put it there."
"Look here, Clip," said Bob, sternly. "You are evading the question."
"What's dat, Massa Bob?"
"You are trying to get rid of telling me the truth. Did you steal this
money?"
"No, I didn't," answered Clip, indignantly. "I nebber steal."
"I am glad to hear it. Then, if you didn't steal it, how did you get
it?"
Clip scratched his kinky hair. He was puzzled.
"I done found it," he answered, at length.
"Where did you find it?"
"In de--de street."
"When and where?"
"Dis mornin', when I was comin' from breakfast."
"If you found it, there would be no objection to your keeping it," he
said, "provided you could not find the original owner."
"Can't find him now, nohow," said Clip, briskly.
"Come here a minute."
Clip approached, not understanding Bob's reason for calling him.
Bob suddenly thrust his hand into Clip's pocket, and drew out two silver
dollars, and a quarter, the remains of the five-dollar gold piece, Clip
having spent a quarter.
"What's all this?" he asked, in amazement. "Did you find this money,
too?"
"Yes, Massa Bob," he answered, faintly.
"Clip, I am convinced you are lying."
"No, I'm not."
"Do you mean to tell me you found all these coins on the sidewalk?"
"Yes, Massa Bob."
"That is not very likely. Clip, I don't want to suspect you of
dishonesty, but it looks very much as if you had been stealing."
"No, I haven't, Massa Bob," asserted Clip, stoutly.
"Do you still tell me that you found all this money?"
Clip began to find himself involved in the intricacies of his lie, and
his courage gave out.
"No, Massa Bob. Don't you get mad with me, and I'll tell you the trufe."
"Tell it, then."
"A gemman gave it to me."
"A gentleman gave you this money. What did he give it to you for?"
"He--he wanted to go down de ribber," stammered Clip.
"Wanted to go down the river? Suppose he did," said Bob, not yet
understanding; "why should he give you money?"
"He wanted me to let him go as a passenger on de boat."
"Ha!" said Bob, a sudden light breaking in upon him. "And you agreed to
take him?"
"Ye-es, Massa Bob."
"Where is he now?"
It was not Clip that answered this question. There was heard a noise
from the corner as of some one moving about, and from his sheltered
place of refuge, the mysterious passenger stepped forth. He coolly took
out his silk handkerchief and dusted his coat and vest.
"Really," he said, "I can't say much for your accommodations for
passengers. Have you got such a thing as a clothes-brush on board this
craft?"
Bob stared at him in amazement, and could not find a word to say for the
space of a minute.
"Who are you, sir?" he asked, at length.
"Who am I? Well, you may call me John Smith, for want of a better name."
"When did you come on board?"
"At the last landing. I made a bargain with that dark-complexioned young
man"--with a grin at Clip--"who for the sum of five dollars agreed to
convey me to St. Louis. It wasn't a very high price, if I had decent
accommodations."
"Why didn't you tell me this, Clip?" demanded Bob.
"I--de gemman didn't want me to," stammered Clip.
"Quite right," corroborated the stranger. "I told Clip he needn't
mention our little arrangement, as he thought you might object to it. I
don't blame him for telling you at last, for you forced him to do so. I
suppose you are the captain."
"I am all the captain there is," answered Bob.
"I am delighted to make your acquaintance, really. I assure you I am
glad to get out of that dusty hole, and presume you will now allow me
the freedom of the deck."
The stranger was so cool and self-possessed--cheeky, perhaps it might be
called--that Bob eyed him in wonder.
"Why did you select my boat in preference to a regular passenger
steamer?" he asked.
"A little whim of mine!" answered the other, airily. "The truth is, I am
a newspaper reporter, and I thought such a trip as I am making would
furnish the materials for a taking article. I mean to call it 'In the
Steerage; or, a Boat Ride on the Missouri.' Good idea, isn't it?"
"Why, yes, it might be," said Bob, dryly; "but I think the owner of the
boat ought to have been consulted."
"Accept my apologies, Captain Bob," said the passenger, with a smile.
"If there was a saloon near, I would invite you to take a drink with me,
but--"
"Never mind. I don't drink. Here, Clip!"
"Well, Massa Bob."
"You did wrong to take this man's money, and you must return it."
At these last words Clip's countenance fell.
Bob counted the money and handed it to the stranger.
"There are twenty-five cents missing," he said. "I will make that up
from my own pocket."
"Let the boy keep the money. I don't want it back."
"I cannot allow him to keep it."
Clip's face, which had brightened at the stranger's words, fell again.
"What is your objection?" asked the passenger.
"I may as well be frank with you. I understand your reason for embarking
on my boat in preference to waiting for a river steamer. You were in a
hurry to leave the town."
"That's what I said."
"Shall I mention the reason?"
"If you like."
"Because you had been implicated in robbing a store--perhaps several.
This is stolen money."
"I deny it. I may have been suspected. In fact, I don't mind admitting
that I was, and that I thought it my best policy to get away. The good
people were likely to give me a great deal of trouble. Thanks to you--"
"Not to me."
"To Clip, then, I managed to elude their vigilance. It makes me laugh to
think of their disappointment."
Bob did not appear to look upon it as a joke, however.
"Of course I shall not allow you to remain on the boat," he said.
"I'll give you twenty-five--thirty dollars," said the stranger,
earnestly.
"I decline. It would be making me your accomplice. I would be receiving
stolen money."
"What do you propose, then?"
"I will steer the boat as near the shore as I can, and request you to
land."
The stranger shrugged his shoulders.
"Very well," he said. "We must be eight or ten miles away from my
accusers. I think I can manage for myself now."
In ten minutes the stranger stepped jauntily ashore, and, lifting his
hat, bade Bob a cheerful good-bye.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
SAM FINDS A RELATION.
As my readers may feel interested in the subsequent adventures of the
mysterious passenger, I may state that his extraordinary coolness did
not save him. A description of his appearance had been sent to the
neighboring towns, and only a few hours after he had left the ferry-boat
he was arrested, and taken back to the scene of his theft. A trial was
held immediately, and before the end of the week he found himself an
inmate of the county jail.
On the day succeeding his departure, Bob brought the boat to anchor at a
place we will call Sheldon.
There was no restaurant, and Bob and Sam took supper at the Sheldon
Hotel.
Clip had been sent on shore first, and the boys felt in no hurry to
return. They accordingly sat down on a settee upon the veranda which
ran along the front of the hotel.
As they sat there, unknown to themselves they attracted the attention of
a middle-aged man with sandy hair and complexion, whose glances,
however, seemed to be especially directed towards Sam.
Finally, he approached the boys and commenced a conversation.
"Young gentlemen," he said, "you are strangers here, I imagine?"
"Yes, sir," replied Bob.
"Are you traveling through the country?"
"We have a boat on the river, sir; but we generally tie up at night, and
start fresh in the morning."
"How far do you intend going?"
"To St. Louis."
"Pardon my curiosity, but it is not common for two boys of your age to
undertake such an enterprise alone. Are you in charge of the boat?"
"He is," said Sam, indicating Bob.
"And you, I suppose, are a relative of his?"
"No, sir; I help him."
"Have you come from a distance?"
"Decidedly," thought Bob, "this gentleman is very curious."
Still there seemed to be no reason for concealment, and accordingly he
mentioned the name of the village in which Sam and himself made their
home.
Their new acquaintance appeared to take extraordinary interest in this
intelligence.
"Is there a man named Wolverton who lives in your town?" he asked.
"Yes," answered Bob, in surprise; "Aaron Wolverton."
"Exactly. This young man," indicating Sam, "has the Wolverton look."
Now it was Sam's turn to be surprised.
"I am Sam Wolverton," he said. "Do you know my uncle?"
"I not only know him, but I knew your father, if you are the son of John
Wolverton."
"That was my father's name."
"Then I am a relative. My name is Robert Granger, and I am a cousin of
your mother."
"My mother's maiden name was Granger," said Sam, becoming very much,
interested. "Do you live here, sir?"
"Yes; I have lived in Sheldon for the last ten years. I came from Ohio
originally. It was there that your father met my cousin Fanny, and
married her. Do you live with your Uncle Aaron?"
"I have been living with him," answered Sam, hesitating.
"Does that mean that you have left him?" asked Mr. Granger, quickly.
Sam looked inquiringly at Bob. He hardly knew whether it would be
advisable for him to take this stranger, relation though he were, into
his confidence.
Bob answered his unspoken inquiry.
"Tell him all, Sam," he said.
"I have left my Uncle Aaron," said Sam, "without his consent. I hid on
board Bob's boat, and got away."
"You have run away, then?"
"Yes, sir; you may blame me for doing so, but you would not if you knew
how meanly Uncle Aaron has treated me!"
"I know Aaron Wolverton, and I am far from admiring him," said Robert
Granger. "But in what way has he ill-treated you?"
"He made me work very hard, and would not always give me enough to eat.
He keeps a very plain table."
"But why should he make you work hard?"
"He said I ought to earn my living."
"Did he say that?"
"Yes, whenever I complained. He asked me what would have become of me if
he had not given me a home."
"The old hypocrite! And what has he done with your property?"
"My property!" repeated Sam, hardly believing his ears.
"Yes. Of course you know that you have property, and that your Uncle
Aaron is your guardian?"
"I never knew that I had a cent of money, sir. Uncle always said that my
father died very poor."
"Your father, to my knowledge, left property to the amount of five
thousand dollars."
"That is all news to me, Mr. Granger."
"And to me," added Bob. "I heard Mr. Wolverton tell my father the same
story, that John Wolverton died without a cent, and that he had taken in
Sam out of charity."
"He seems to have taken him in, emphatically."
"In what did the property consist?" asked Bob.
"In a house, situated in St. Louis--a small house in the outskirts of
the city--and some shares of bank stock."
"He thought Sam would never find out anything of it."
"I should not, if I had not met you, Mr. Granger."
"Old Aaron Wolverton is a long-headed man; but even long-headed men
sometimes over-reach themselves, and I think he has done so in this
instance."
"But what can I do, sir? I am only a boy, and if I should say anything
about the matter to Uncle Aaron he would deny it, and perhaps treat me
the worse."
"There is one thing Aaron Wolverton is afraid of, and that is the law.
He doesn't care for the honesty or dishonesty of a transaction, but he
doesn't mean to let the law trip him up. That is the hold we shall have
upon him."
"I believe you there," said Bob. "He has already tried to swindle my
mother, and he is scheming now to get possession of our ranch. It is
partly on that account that I started on this trip down the river."
"Do you carry freight, then?"
"Yes, sir; I carry a thousand bushels of wheat--rather more, in
fact--intending to sell them in St. Louis."
"Couldn't you have sent them?"
"Yes, sir; but by taking the wheat to market myself I shall save the
heavy expense of freight, and commission for selling."
"You seem to be a smart boy," said Robert Granger, eying Bob with
interest.
"I hope you are right," Bob answered, with a laugh.
"My young cousin accompanies you to help, I suppose?"
"He came on board at the last moment, having determined to run away from
Aaron Wolverton."
"I wish you could spare him; I should like to take him home to talk over
family matters with myself and my lawyer, and we would concert some way
of forcing Aaron Wolverton to give up his property. I have some children
of my own, who would be glad to make his acquaintance."
"Would you like to accept Mr. Granger's invitation, Sam?" asked Bob.
"But I am afraid you will need me, Bob."
"No; I have Clip. I think it will be well for you to stay. I will call
on my way back."
So it was arranged that Sam should leave the boat and stay over. Bob
returned to the boat alone.
The next day proved to be an eventful one.
CHAPTER XXIX.
ROCKY CREEK LANDING.
Twenty miles further down the river, at a point called Rocky Creek, two
men of questionable appearance were walking slowly along the bank. One
of them has been already introduced as visiting the boat, and displaying
a great deal of curiosity about the cargo. The other, also, had the look
of one who preferred to live in any other way than by honest industry.
"Suppose the boy doesn't touch here?" said one.
"Our plan would in that case be put out," said his companion; "but I
don't think there is any doubt on that point. Last night he was at
Sheldon, and this would naturally be the next stopping-place."
"He is drawing near the end of his cruise. It won't do to delay much
longer."
"You are right, there."
"I wasn't in favor of delaying so long. We have risked failure."
"Don't worry, Minton. I'm managing this affair. I've got just as much at
stake as you."
"If all comes out right, I shall be satisfied; but I need the money I am
to get for it from old Wolverton."
"That's a trifle. I am playing for a larger stake than that."
"What, then?"
"The paltry fifty dollars divided between two would not have tempted me.
Do you know, Minton, how large and valuable a cargo there is on that old
ferry-boat?"
"No; do you?"
"Not exactly; but I know this much, that there are at least a thousand
bushels of wheat, which will easily fetch, in St. Louis, two thousand
dollars."
"How will that benefit us?"
"You seem to be very dull, Minton. When we have once shut up young
Burton in the place arranged, you and I will take his place, drift down
the river, and dispose of the cargo, if necessary, at a point below the
market price, and retire with a cool thousand apiece."
"You've got a head, Brown!" said Minton, admiringly.
"Have you just found that out?" returned Brown, complacently.
"Do you really think there is a chance of our succeeding?"
"Yes; of course we must be expeditious. Two or three days, now, ought to
carry us to St. Louis. Then, by selling below the market price, we can
command an immediate sale. Then, of course, we will clear out; go to
California, or Europe, or Canada."
"But we must get Wolverton's money."
"If we can without risk. It won't be worth that."
"I don't like the idea of the old man escaping scot-free."
"He won't; you may be sure of that," said Brown, significantly. "He has
placed himself in our power, and we will get a good deal more than fifty
dollars out of him before we get through, or my name isn't Brown."
"What a head you've got!" repeated Minton, with cordial admiration of
the sharper rascal.
"Then there's the other affair, too!" said Brown. "We are safe to make a
good round sum out of that."
"Yes; but how can we look after the other? It won't be safe for us to
remain anywhere in this locality if we sell the cargo."
"Leave that to me, Minton. I will get Joe Springer to negotiate for us."
By this time the reader will have guessed that these two men were those
already referred to as having stopped Wolverton on the night preceding
Bob's departure. The arrangement then made, Brown had improved upon. He
had engaged to remove the boys from the boat, and set it adrift. But it
had occurred to him, after ascertaining the value of the cargo, to sell
it for the joint benefit of his confederate and himself. It was the most
promising job he had undertaken for a long time, and he was sanguine of
ultimate success. He had followed the boat down the river, and had
finally selected Rocky Creek as the point most favorable to the
carrying out of his design.
Meanwhile Bob and Clip were on their way down the river. Sam, as already
described, had left them at Sheldon, and was enjoying himself as the
guest of Captain Granger, as he found his kinsman was called. Bob missed
him, not finding Clip, though improved, as reliable as Sam. But he was
drawing near the end of his voyage and was willing to make the
sacrifice, since it seemed to be so favorable to Sam's prospects. The
information which had been communicated to them touching Aaron
Wolverton's breach of trust did not, on the whole, surprise him, except
by its audacity; for Wolverton had thus far been careful not to place
himself within reach of the law and its penalties. He was delighted to
think Sam had found a new friend and protector, who would compel the
unfaithful guardian to account for his dishonesty.
Clip heartily sympathized with Bob in his feeling upon the subject. He
liked Sam, but disliked Wolverton as much as one of his easy, careless
disposition was capable of doing.
"It seems lonely without Sam," said Bob, while standing at the helm,
with Clip sitting on deck whistling just beside him.
"Dat's so, Massa Bob."
"But I am glad he has found a relation who will help him to get his
money."
"I'd like to see ol' man Wolverton when Sam come back with Massa
Granger."
"Probably you will have a chance to see him. If he hadn't driven Sam
away by his bad treatment he would never have found out how he had been
cheated."
"Dat's so, Massa Bob. I'd like to be in Sam's shoes."
"You'd have to make your feet smaller, then, Clip!"
"Yah! yah!" laughed Clip, who enjoyed a joke at his own expense.
Bob found his work harder now that Sam was not on board to relieve him
of a part of his duty. But they were making good speed, and there seemed
a chance of reaching St. Louis within three days. All was going well,
yet an indefinable anxiety troubled Bob. Why, he could not explain.
"Clip," he said, "I don't know how it is, but I feel as if something
were going to happen."
"What can happen, Massa Bob? De boat is all right."
"True, Clip. I suppose I am foolish, but I can't get rid of the feeling.
Clip, I want you to be very careful to-night. Don't let any mysterious
passenger come on board."
"No, Massa Bob. I won't do dat agin."
"We shall soon be in St. Louis, and then our care and anxiety will be
over."
"Where will we stop to-night?"
"At Rocky Creek."
It was a quarter to five when Bob reached the place where he had decided
to tie up. There was a village of about five hundred inhabitants
situated a little distance from the river-side. A small knot of loungers
was gathered at the landing, and with languid interest surveyed the
river craft and the young crew.
Among them Bob recognized the man who had visited them two or three
stations back. He knew him by his dress; the Prince Albert coat, the
damaged hat, and the loud neck-tie. But apart from these he remembered
the face, dark and unshaven, and the shifty black eyes, which naturally
inspired distrust. The man made no movement towards the boat, but leaned
indolently against a tree.
"Clip," said Bob, quietly, "look at that man leaning against a tree."
"I see him, Massa Bob."
"Have you ever seen him before?"
"Yes, Massa Bob; he came aboard de boat one day."
"I thought I couldn't be mistaken. I wonder how he comes to be here. Can
he be following us?"
It was too hard a problem for Clip, who only shrugged his shoulders.
Just then another man from the assembled group lounged on board. It was
Minton.
"Boat ahoy!" said he, jauntily. "Are you the captain?"
"I'm all the captain there is," answered Bob.
"Have you any wheat to sell? I am a grain merchant."
He looked more like a penniless adventurer, Bob thought.
"I have no wheat to sell here," said Bob, coldly. "I am on my way to St.
Louis."
"Perhaps I can do as well by you as the grain merchants in St. Louis."
"I don't care to sell here," said Bob, shortly.
"No offense, young man! I suppose a man can make an offer?"
"Certainly, sir."
But the stranger did not leave the boat. He walked about, scrutinizing
the arrangements carefully.
"You've got a pretty big cargo, boy," he said.
"Yes, sir."
"How many bushels now, about?"
"Why do you wish to know?" asked Bob, eying the stranger keenly.
"I thought I might like to load a boat like this some time, and it might
be of use to know how much it would carry."
"Do you live in Rocky Creek?" asked Bob, suddenly.
"Ye-as."
"May I ask your name?"
"Smith--James Smith," answered the other, with hesitation.
"Very well; when I have sold my cargo I will write you the number of
bushels the boat contains."
"Thank you."
"Decidedly, the boy is sharp!" said Minton to himself. "He's no
milk-and-water boy!"
He left the boat, and presently joined his friend Brown.
CHAPTER XXX.
AN UNLUCKY EVENING.
Bob was still in the habit of getting his supper, and breakfast the next
morning, at the different points where he landed. He left Clip on board,
in charge of the boat, while he sought a good place to obtain a meal. He
found that Rocky Creek possessed but one hotel, and that of a very
modest character, bearing the rather imposing name of the Metropolitan
Hotel.
He registered his name, and intimated his desire for supper.
"Supper is on the table," said the clerk.
Bob entered the dining-room, a forlorn-looking room of small dimensions,
containing a long table, at which sat two persons, a drummer from St.
Louis, and an old man with a gray beard, who kept the principal
dry-goods store in Rocky Creek.
Bob was assigned a place between the two.
"Good-evening," said the drummer, sociably.
"Good-evening," responded Bob.
"Are you a regular boarder?"
"Oh, no; I never was in the place before."
"How did you come?"
"By river."
"Indeed!" said the drummer, puzzled. "Has any steamer touched here
to-day?"
"No; I came on my own boat."
"Bound down the river?"
"Yes."
"Business, I suppose?"
"Yes; I have a load of wheat which I propose to sell in the city."
"What house shall you deal with?"
"I don't know; I'm not acquainted in St. Louis. I shall inquire when I
get there."
"Then let me recommend you to go to Pearson & Edge. They will treat you
liberally."
"Thank you. I will call on them and see what I can do."
"Present my card, if you please, and say I sent you there."
The drummer produced his card and handed it to Bob. From this our hero
learned that his companion was Benjamin Baker, traveling for Dunham &
Co., wholesale grocers.
"Shall you stay at the hotel this evening?" asked Baker.
"No; I shall pass the night on my boat."
"How many have you on board?"
"Only myself and a colored boy from home--Clip."
"Isn't that rather a small crew?"
"Perhaps so; but we haven't much to do, except to let the boat drift,
keeping her straight meanwhile."
"By the way, speaking of Pearson, senior member of the firm I have
recommended, he is in great trouble just now."
"How is that?"
"He had a very pretty little girl of about six years old--little Maud.
Two or three days since, as I hear from a friend in the city, the little
girl mysteriously disappeared."
"Disappeared?"
"Just so. Her parents think she must have been kidnapped, as a
suspicious-looking person had been noticed by the nurse hovering near
when they were out walking together."
"They must be in great trouble and anxiety," said Bob, in a tone of
sympathy, "if they believe this."
"They would be glad to believe it, for in that case the little girl is
alive, while otherwise she may have strayed to the river and been
drowned. Mr. Pearson, who is wealthy, has offered a reward of one
thousand dollars to any one who will restore his little girl to him."
As they sat at table, Bob noticed through the window the man Minton, who
had called upon him on the arrival of the boat.
"Do you know that man, Mr. Baker?" he asked, suddenly.
The drummer shook his head.
"I am a stranger, too," he said. "But perhaps this gentleman, who is in
business at Rocky Creek, may be able to give you some information."
Thus appealed to, the old gentleman looked from the window.
"It isn't any one I know," he replied. "Why do you ask?"
"Because he called upon me on my arrival, representing himself as a
grain merchant, and proposed to buy my cargo."
The old man shrugged his shoulders.
"He looks more like a tramp than a grain merchant," he said.
"I agree with you," assented Bob, with a laugh.
"Did he mention his name?"
"He called himself James Smith; but as he answered my questions in a
hesitating manner, I concluded that it was an assumed name."
"Very likely."
"Then he doesn't live in the village?"
"No; but he has been here for a day or two."
"I wonder what could have been his object in representing himself to me
as a grain merchant?" said Bob, thoughtfully.
"Oh," answered the drummer, "he probably wanted to strike up an
acquaintance which would justify him in borrowing a few dollars of you.
I have met plenty of such characters They live by what they can borrow."
When supper was over Bob and the drummer rose together.
"Won't you have a cigar, Mr. Burton?" asked the latter.
"No, thank you; I don't smoke."
"Oh, well, you'll learn after a while. At any rate, sit down and keep me
company for a while."
"Thank you, but I shall have to go back to the boat and give Clip a
chance to get his supper."
Clip returned from supper at half-past seven, and Bob, feeling wide
awake, decided to go on shore again. He did not care to go to the hotel,
but took a leisurely walk through the village and beyond. It was an
unfortunate walk, for it made him an easy prey to the men who were
scheming against him. In a lonely place two men sprang upon him
suddenly, and before he could understand what was going on, he was
gagged and helpless. In this condition the two men, taking him between
them, hurried him to a lonely house at some distance from the road.
Bob Burton was brave, but this sudden and mysterious attack startled
and alarmed him not a little. He would have expostulated, but was
unable, from being gagged, to utter a word.
Reaching the house, a short, sharp knock at the door was answered by a
rough-looking man, dressed in a suit of faded and shabby cloth.
"So you've got him!" was his laconic greeting.
"Yes, Joe! Now where shall we put him?"
"Come upstairs."
The two men set Bob down, and pushed him forward, and up a staircase,
steep and dark. He was thrust into a room with a sloping roof, and the
gag was removed from his mouth.
"What does all this mean?" he asked, angrily, turning to the two men
whom he recognized by the light of the lantern which Joe Springer
carried in his hand.
"It's all right, my lad!" said Brown. "All you've got to do is to keep
quiet, and no harm will come to you."
"How long do you mean to keep me here?" asked Bob, with, a feeling of
despair in his heart. He suspected now what it all meant.
"Two weeks, perhaps; but you will be well taken care of."
The men went out leaving the lantern behind them. Bob heard the bolt
shot in the lock. He looked around him. There was a low pallet in the
corner. He threw himself on it, and, brave boy as he was, came near
shedding tears.
CHAPTER XXXI.
HOW CLIP WAS CAPTURED.
Everything had gone well with Bob so far, and he was looking forward
hopefully to the end of his journey, and the final success of his
expedition. Now all was changed. He was a prisoner, and though Clip was
on board the boat, he was utterly incompetent to take the place of his
master. Bob hardly dared trust himself to think of the future. He knew
not what would become of his valuable cargo, but that it was lost to him
seemed probable. This meant utter ruin, for he and his mother would have
nothing to live upon till the next harvest, and meanwhile Aaron
Wolverton would foreclose the mortgage. Certainly, Bob had reason to
shed tears, and could not be charged with being unmanly if for a time he
gave up to a feeling of despondency and almost despair.
Leaving him for an hour, we will accompany the two conspirators on their
return to the boat.
Clip was on deck, anxiously watching for the return of Bob. He was
beginning to feel a little troubled.
"Can't think what's 'come of Massa Bob," he said to himself. "He said
he'd be back in fifteen minutes. If anything's happened to him, what'll
'come of Clip?"
Instead of fifteen minutes, an hour passed, and still Bob had not
returned. Clip was seriously thinking of going on shore and looking for
him, when two men came to the river bank.
"Hallo!" they said. "Are you Clip?"
"Yes," answered Clip, in some surprise, not understanding how these two
strangers could know his name.
"You are sailing with Robert Burton?"
"Yes, massa."
"Where is he?"
"Gone on shore for a walk. Did you see him anywhere?"
"Yes; we come from him."
"Why don't he come himself?"
"The poor fellow has met with an accident. He has broken his leg."
"Massa Bob broken him leg!" ejaculated Clip, turning as pale as his
complexion would admit. "How came he to do dat?"
"I can't explain," said Brown. "My friend and I came up just after it
happened, and we took him to a house near by, where he was put to bed.
He asked us to come for you and bring you to him."
"Yes, massa; I'll go right off," said Clip, with alacrity. Then he
hesitated at the thought of leaving the boat. "What'll I do about de
boat?" he asked, in perplexity.
"Pooh! no one will run off with it. Probably your friend will want to be
brought on board; we will help to bring him. Meanwhile I will stay here
and look after things, and my friend will take you to Massa Bob, as you
call him."
Clip saw no objection to this plan. He was too simple-minded to suspect
a trick, and being very much attached to his young master he was anxious
to be taken to him.
He put on his hat and expressed himself ready to go.
"Very well; Minton, show him the house, and see if the boy is fit to be
moved."
Clip did not see the wink that accompanied the last words.
The two started on their journey. Clip, though the smaller, walked so
fast that Minton was obliged to quicken his pace. He plied Minton with
questions till the latter was tired.
"I can't tell you much about it," said the man, at length. "My friend
and I saw young Burton lying by the side of the road. He was groaning
with pain. We took him up and carried him to a house close by."
"He won't die?" faltered Clip, in a tone of anxious inquiry.
"Oh, no! He's as safe to live as you or I. A broken leg doesn't amount
to much."
"I don' see why he lef' the boat," said Clip, mournfully.
"Well, accidents will happen," said Minton, philosophically.
"Do you think we can get him on de boat, massa?"
"Oh, yes. I have no doubt of it. You needn't feel worried. It'll all
come right."
Clip, however, felt that there was sufficient reason for feeling
troubled.
He was rather surprised at the length of the walk.
"What made Massa Bob go so far?" he asked.
"He said he was just exploring a little--wanted to see the country, you
know."
"He couldn't see much in de dark."
"Well, he will explain the matter to you; I can't."
At length they reached the lonely house.
"This is where your friend was carried," said Minton.
Clip thought it was a gloomy place, but his mind was now so occupied
with thoughts of Bob, whom he was to see immediately, that he said
nothing.
Minton knocked at the door.
It was opened by Joe Springer, whose appearance rather frightened Clip.
"Oh, so you're back?" he said to Minton. "Who is this?"
"It's a friend of the boy with the broken leg," answered Minton, with a
significant look.
"Ho! ho!" laughed Joe, to Clip's surprise. He could not understand what
there was to laugh at.
"I hope the poor boy's more comfortable," said Minton.
"I reckon so," answered Joe, with another grin.
"Has he been quiet?"
