    Grant them the patient magic
      That gives eyes to the blind!
    Oh, well-filled hands, be generous!
      Oh, pitying hearts, be kind!


It was a very simple little song, but it proved wonderfully effective,
for Lizzie was so carried away by her own feeling that as she sang the
last lines she stretched out her hands imploringly, and two great tears
rolled down her cheeks.  For a minute many hands were too busy fumbling
for handkerchiefs to clap, but the children were quick to answer that
gesture and those tears; and one impetuous little lad tossed a small
purse containing his last ten cents at Lizzie’s feet, the first
contribution won by her innocent appeal.  Then there was great applause,
and many of the flowers just bought were thrown to the little lark, who
was obliged to come back and sing again and again, smiling brightly as
she dropped pretty courtesies, and sang song after song with all the
added sweetness of a grateful heart.

Hidden behind the organ, Miss Grace and Mr. Constantine shook hands
joyfully, for this was the sort of interest they wanted, and they knew
that while the children clapped and threw flowers, the wet-eyed mothers
were thinking self-reproachfully, "I must help this lovely charity," and
the stout old gentlemen who pounded with their canes were resolving to
go home and write some generous checks, which would be money invested in
God’s savings-bank.

It was a very happy time for all, and made strangers friends in the
sweet way which teaches heart to speak to heart.  When the concert was
over, Lizzie felt many hands press hers and leave something there, many
childish lips kiss her own, with promises to "help about the
Kindergarten," and her ears were full of kind voices thanking and
praising her for doing her part so well.  Still later, when all were
gone, she proudly put the rolls of bills into Mr. Constantine’s hand,
and throwing her arms about Miss Grace’s neck, said, trembling with
earnestness, "I ’m not a burden any more, and I can truly help!  How can
I ever thank you both for making me so happy?"

One can fancy what their answer was and how Lizzie helped; for long
after the Kindergarten was filled with pale little flowers blooming
slowly as she had done, the Blind Lark went on singing pennies out of
pockets, and sweetly reminding people not to forget this noble charity.












                                   V.

                          MUSIC AND MACARONI.


Among the pretty villages that lie along the wonderful Cornice road
which runs from Nice to Genoa, none was more beautiful than Valrose.  It
deserved its name, for it was indeed a "valley of roses."  The little
town with its old church nestled among the olive and orange trees that
clothed the hillside, sloping up to purple mountains towering behind.
Lower down stretched the vineyards; and the valley was a bed of flowers
all the year round.  There were acres of violets, verbenas, mignonette,
and every sweet-scented blossom that grows, while hedges of roses, and
alleys of lemon-trees with their white stars made the air heavy with
perfume. Across the plain, one saw the blue sea rolling to meet the
bluer sky, sending fresh airs and soft rains to keep Valrose green and
beautiful even through the summer heat.  Only one ugly thing marred the
lovely landscape, and that was the factory, with its tall chimneys, its
red walls, and ceaseless bustle.  But old ilex-trees tried to conceal
its ugliness; the smoke curled gracefully from its chimney-tops; and the
brown men talked in their musical language as they ran about the busy
courtyard, or did strange things below in the still-room.  Handsome
black-eyed girls sang at the open windows at their pretty work, and
delicious odors filled the place; for here the flowers that bloomed
outside were changed to all kinds of delicate perfumes to scent the hair
of great ladies and the handkerchiefs of dainty gentlemen all the world
over.

The poor roses, violets, mignonette, orange-flowers, and their sisters,
were brought here in great baskets to yield up their sweet souls in hot
rooms where, fires burned and great vats boiled; then they were sent up
to be imprisoned in pretty flasks of all imaginable shapes and colors by
the girls, who put gilded labels on them, packed them in delicate boxes,
and sent them away to comfort the sick, please the rich, and put money
in the pockets of the merchants.

Many children were employed in the light work of weeding beds, gathering
flowers, and running errands; among these none were busier, happier, or
more beloved than Florentino and his sister Stella.  They were orphans,
but they lived with old Mariuccia in her little stone house near the
church, contented with the small wages they earned, though their clothes
were poor, their food salad, macaroni, rye bread, and thin wine, with
now and then a taste of meat when Stella’s lover or some richer friend
gave them a treat on gala days.

They worked hard, and had their dreams of what they would do when they
had saved up a little store; Stella would marry her Beppo and settle in
a home of her own; but Tino was more ambitious, for he possessed a sweet
boyish voice and sang so well in the choir, at the merrymakings, and
about his work, that he was called the "little nightingale," and much
praised and petted, not only by his mates, but by the good priest who
taught him music, and the travellers who often came to the factory and
were not allowed to go till Tino had sung to them.

All this made the lad vain; and he hoped one day to go away as Baptista
had gone, who now sang in a fine church at Genoa and sent home gold
napoleons to his old parents.  How this was to come about Tino had not
the least idea, but he cheered his work with all manner of wild plans,
and sang his best at Mass, hoping some stranger would hear, and take him
away as Signor Pulci had taken big Tista, whose voice was not half so
wonderful as his own, all had said.  No one came, however, and Tino at
thirteen was still at work in the valley,--a happy little lad, singing
all day long as he carried his fragrant loads to and fro, ate his dinner
of bread and beans fried in oil, with a crust, under the ilex-trees, and
slept like a dormouse at night on his clean straw in the loft at
Mariuccia’s, with the moon for his candle and the summer warmth for his
coverlet.

One day in September, as he stood winnowing mignonette seed in a quiet
corner of the vast garden, he was thinking deeply over his hopes and
plans, and practising the last chant Father Angelo had taught him, while
he shook and held the sieve high, to let the wind blow away the dead
husks, leaving the brown seeds behind.

Suddenly, as he ended his lesson with a clear high note that seemed to
rise and die softly away like the voice of an angel in the air, the
sound of applause startled him; and turning, he saw a gentleman sitting
on the rude bench behind him,--a well-dressed, handsome, smiling
gentleman, who clapped his white hands and nodded and said gayly,
"Bravo, my boy, that was well done!  You have a wonderful voice; sing
again."

But Tino was too abashed for the moment, and could only stand and stare
at the stranger, a pretty picture of boyish confusion, pleasure, and
shyness.

"Come, tell me all about it, my friend.  Who taught you so well?  Why
are you here, and not where you should be, learning to use this fine
pipe of yours, and make fame and money by it?" said the gentleman, still
smiling as he leaned easily in his seat and swung his gloves.

Tino’s heart began to beat fast as he thought, "Perhaps my chance has
come at last!  I must make the most of it."  So taking courage, he told
his little story; and when he ended, the stranger gave a nod, saying,--

"Yes, you are the ’little nightingale’ they spoke of up at the inn.  I
came to find you. Now sing me something gay, some of your folk-songs.
That sort will suit you best."

Anxious to make the most of his chance, Tino took courage and sang away
as easily as a bird on a bough, pouring out one after another the
barcaroles, serenades, ballads, and drinking-songs he had learned from
the people about him.

The gentleman listened, laughed, and applauded as if well pleased, and
when Tino stopped to take breath, he gave another nod more decided than
the first, and said with his engaging smile,--

"You are indeed a wonder, and quite wasted here.  If I had you I
should make a man of you, and put money in your pocket as fast as you
opened your mouth."

Tino’s eyes sparkled at the word "money," for sweet as was the praise,
the idea of having full pockets bewitched him, and he asked eagerly,
"How, signor?"

"Well," answered the gentleman, idly tapping his nose with a rose-bud
which he had pulled as he came along, "I should take you to my hotel at
Nice; wash, brush, and trim you up a little; put you into a velvet suit
with a lace collar, silk stockings, and buckled shoes; teach you music,
feed you well, and when I thought you fit carry you with me to the
salons of the great people, where I give concerts.  There you would
sing these gay songs of yours, and be petted, praised, and pelted with
bonbons, francs, and kisses perhaps,--for you are a pretty lad and these
fine ladies and idle gentlemen are always ready to welcome a new
favorite.  Would you fancy that sort of life better than this? You can
have it if you like."

Tino’s black eyes shone; the color deepened in his brown cheeks; and he
showed all his white teeth as he laughed and exclaimed with a gesture of
delight,--

"Mio Dio! but I would, signor!  I ’m tired of this work; I long to
sing, to see the world, to be my own master, and let Stella and the old
woman know that I am big enough to have my own way.  Do you really mean
it?  When can I go?  I’m ready now, only I had better run and put on my
holiday suit and get my guitar."

"Good! there ’s a lad of spirit.  I like that well.  A guitar too?
Bravo, my little troubadour, we shall make a sensation in the
drawing-rooms, and fill our pockets shortly.  But there is no haste, and
it would be well to ask these friends of yours, or there might be
trouble.  I don’t steal nightingales, I buy them; and I will give the
old woman, whoever she may be, more than you would earn in a month.
See, I too am a singer, and this I made at Genoa in a week."  As he
spoke, Signor Mario pulled a well-filled purse from one pocket, a
handful of gold and silver coin from the other, and chinked them before
the boy’s admiring eyes.

"Let us go!" cried Tino, flinging down the sieve as if done with work
forever.  "Stella is at home to-day; come at once to Mariuccia,--it is
not far; and when they hear these fine plans, they will be glad to let
me go, I am sure."

Away he went across the field of flowers, through the courtyard, up the
steep street, straight into the kitchen where his pretty sister sat
eating artichokes and bread while the old woman twirled her distaff in
the sun.  Both were used to strangers, for the cottage was a picturesque
place, half hidden like a bird’s nest in vines and fig-trees, with a gay
little plot of flowers before it; travellers often came to taste
Mariuccia’s honey, for her bees fared well, and their combs were running
over with the sweetness of violets and roses, put up in dainty little
waxen boxes made by better workmen than any found at the factory.

The two women listened respectfully while Signor Mario told his plan in
his delightfully gracious way; and Stella was much impressed by the
splendor of the prospect before her brother.  But the wise old woman
shook her head, and declared decidedly that the boy was too young to
leave home yet.  Father Angelo was teaching him well; he was safe and
happy where he was; and there he should remain, for she had sworn by all
the saints to his dying mother that she would guard him as the apple of
her eye till he was old enough to take care of himself.

In vain Mario shook his purse before her eyes, Stella pleaded, and Tino
stormed; the faithful old soul would not give up, much as she needed
money, loved Stella, and hated to cross the boy who was in truth "the
apple of her eye" and the darling of her heart.  There was a lively
scene in the little room, for every one talked at once, gesticulated
wildly, and grew much excited in the discussion; but nothing came of it,
and Signor Mario departed wrathfully, leaving Mariuccia looking as stern
as fate with her distaff, Stella in tears, and Tino in such a rage he
could only dash up to the loft and throw himself on his rude bed, there
to kick and sob and tear his hair, and wish there might be ten thousand
earthquakes to swallow that cruel old woman up in the twinkling of an
eye.

Stella came to beg him to be comforted and eat his supper, but he drew
the wooden bolt and would not let her in, saying sternly,--

"I never will come down till Mariuccia says I may go; I will starve
first.  I am not a child to be so treated.  Go away, and let me alone; I
hate you both!"

Poor Stella retired, heart-broken, and when all her entreaties failed to
change their guardian’s decision, she went to consult Father Angelo.  He
agreed with the old woman that it was best to keep the boy safe at home,
as they knew nothing of the strange gentleman nor what might befall Tino
if he left the shelter of his own humble home and friends.

Much disappointed, Stella went to pray devoutly in the church, and then,
meeting her Beppo, soon forgot all about the poor little lad who had
sobbed himself to sleep upon his straw.

The house was quiet when he awoke; no lights shone from any neighbor’s
windows; and all was still except the nightingales singing in the
valley.  The moon was up; and her friendly face looked in at the little
window so brightly that the boy felt comforted, and lay staring at the
soft light while his mind worked busily. Some evil spirit, some naughty
Puck bent on mischief must have been abroad that night, for into Tino’s
head there suddenly popped a splendid idea; at least he thought it so,
and in his rebellious state found it all the more tempting because
danger and disobedience and defiance all had a part in it.

Why not run away?  Signor Mario was not to leave till next morning.
Tino could easily slip out early and join the kind gentleman beyond the
town.  This would show the women that he, Tino, had a will of his own
and was not to be treated like a child any more.  It would give them a
good fright, make a fine stir in the place, and add to his glory when he
returned with plenty of money to display himself in the velvet suit and
silk stockings,--a famous fellow who knew what he was about and did not
mean to be insulted, or tied to an old woman’s apron-string forever.

The longer he thought the more delightful the idea became, and he
resolved to carry it out, for the fine tales he had heard made him more
discontented than ever with his present simple, care-free life.  Up he
got, and by the light of the moon took from the old chest his best suit.
Moving very softly, he put on the breeches and jacket of rough blue
cloth, the coarse linen shirt, the red sash, and the sandals of russet
leather that laced about his legs to the knee. A few clothes, with his
rosary, he tied up in a handkerchief, and laid the little bundle ready
with his Sunday hat, a broad-brimmed, pointed-crowned affair with a red
band and cock’s feather to adorn it.

Then he sat at the window waiting for dawn to come, fearing to sleep
lest he be too late. It seemed an almost endless night, the first he had
ever spent awake, but red streaks came in the east at last, and he stole
to the door, meaning to creep noiselessly downstairs, take a good hunch
of bread and a gourd full of wine and slip off while the women slept.

To his dismay he found the door barred on the outside.  His courage had
ebbed a little as the time for action came; but at this new insult he
got angry again, and every dutiful impulse flew away in a minute.

"Ah, they think to keep me, do they? Behold, then, how I cheat the silly
things! They have never seen me climb down the fig-tree, and thought me
safe.  Now I will vanish, and leave them to tear their hair and weep for
me in vain."

Flinging out his bundle, and carefully lowering his old guitar, Tino
leaned from the little window, caught the nearest branch of the tree
that bent toward the wall, and swung himself down as nimbly as a
squirrel.  Pausing only to pick several bunches of ripe grapes from the
vine about the door, he went softly through the garden and ran away
along the road toward Nice as fast as his legs could carry him.

Not till he reached the top of the long hill a mile away, did he slacken
his lively pace; then climbing a bank, he lay down to rest under some
olive-trees, and ate his grapes as he watched the sun rise.  Travellers
always left the Falcone Inn early to enjoy the morning freshness, so
Tino knew that Signor Mario would soon appear; and when the horses
paused to rest on the hill-top, the "little nightingale" would present
himself as unexpectedly as if he had fallen from heaven.

But Signor Mario was a lazy man; and Tino had time to work himself into
a fever of expectation, doubt, and fear before the roll of wheels
greeted his longing ears.  Yes, it was the delightful stranger!--reading
papers and smoking as he rode, quite blind to the beauty all around him,
blind also to the sudden appearance of a picturesque little figure by
the roadside, as the carriage stopped.  Even when he looked, he did not
recognize shabby Tino in the well-dressed beggar, as he thought him, who
stood bare-headed and smiling, with hat in one hand, bundle in the
other, and guitar slung on his back.  He waved his hand as if to say, "I
have nothing for you," and was about to bid the man drive on, but Tino
cried out boldly,--

"Behold me, signor!  I am Tino, the singing boy of Valrose.  I have run
away to join you if you will have me.  Ah, please do!  I wish so much to
go with you."

"Bravo!" cried Mario, well pleased.  "That is a lad of spirit; and I am
glad to have you. I don’t steal nightingales, as I told you down yonder;
but if they get out of their cages and perch on my finger, I keep them.
In with you, boy! there is no time to lose."

In scrambled happy Tino, and settling himself and his property on the
seat opposite, amused his new master with a lively account of his
escape.  Mario laughed and praised him; Luigi, the servant, grinned as
he listened from the coach-box; and the driver resolved to tell the tale
at the Falcone, when he stopped there on his return to Genoa, so the
lad’s friends might know what had become of him.

After a little chat Signor Mario returned to his newspapers, and Tino,
tired with his long vigil and brisk run, curled himself up on the seat,
pillowed his head on his bundle and fell fast asleep, rocked by the
motion of the carriage as it rolled along the smooth road.

When he waked, the sun was high, the carriage stood before a wayside
inn, the man and horses were gone to their dinners, and the signor lay
under some mulberry-trees in the garden while Luigi set forth upon the
grass the contents of a well-filled hamper which they had brought with
them, his master being one who looked well after his own comfort.  The
sight of food drew Tino toward it as straight as a honey-jar draws
flies, and he presented himself with his most engaging air.  Being in a
good humor, the new master bade the hungry lad sit down and eat, which
he did so heartily that larded fowl, melon, wine, and bread vanished as
if by magic. Never had food tasted so good to Tino; and rejoicing with
true boyish delight in the prospect of plenty to eat, he went off to
play Morso with the driver, while the horses rested and Mario took a
siesta on the grass.

When they set forth again, Tino received his first music lesson from the
new teacher, who was well pleased to find how quickly the boy caught the
air of a Venetian boat-song, and how sweetly he sang it.  Then Tino
strummed on his guitar and amused his hearers with all the melodies he
knew, from church chants to drinking-songs.  Mario taught him how to
handle his instrument gracefully, speak a few polite phrases, and sit
properly instead of sprawling awkwardly or lounging idly.

So the afternoon wore away; and at dusk they reached Nice.  To Tino it
looked like an enchanted city as they drove down to it from the soft
gloom and stillness of the country.  The sea broke gently on the curving
shore, sparkling with the lights of the Promenade des Anglais which
overlooks it.  A half circle of brilliant hotels came next; behind these
the glimmer of villas scattered along the hillside shone like fireflies
among gardens and orange groves; and higher still the stars burned in a
violet sky. Soon the moon would be up, to hang like a great lamp from
that splendid dome, turning sea and shore to a magic world by her light.
Tino clapped his hands and looked about him with all the pleasure of his
beauty-loving race as they rattled through the gay streets and stopped
at one of the fine hotels.

Here Mario put on his grand air, and was shown to the apartment he had
ordered from Genoa.  Tino meekly followed; and Luigi brought up the rear
with the luggage.  Tino felt as if he had got into a fairy tale when he
found himself in a fine parlor where he could only sit and stare about
him, while his master refreshed in the chamber beyond, and the man
ordered dinner.  A large closet was given the boy to sleep in, with a
mattress and blanket, a basin and pitcher, and a few pegs to hang his
clothes on.  But it seemed very nice after the loft; and when he had
washed his face, shaken the dust off, and smoothed his curly head as
well as he could, he returned to the parlor to gloat over such a dinner
as he had never eaten before.

Mario was in a good humor and anxious to keep the lad so, therefore he
plied him with good things to eat, fine promises, and the praise in
which that vain little soul delighted.  Tino went to bed early, feeling
that his fortune was made, and his master went off to amuse himself at a
gaming-table, for that was his favorite pastime.

Next day the new life began.  After a late breakfast, a music lesson was
given which both interested and dismayed Tino, for his master was far
less patient than good old Father Angelo, and swore at him when he
failed to catch a new air as quickly as he expected.  Both were tired
and rather cross when it ended, but Tino soon forgot the tweaking of his
ear and the scolding, when he was sent away with Luigi to buy the velvet
suit and sundry necessary articles for the young troubadour.

It was a lovely day; and the gay city was all alive with the picturesque
bustle which always fills it when the season begins.  Red-capped
fishermen were launching their boats from the beach, flower-girls
hastening from the gardens with their fragrant loads to sell on the
Promenade, where invalids sunned themselves, nurses led their rosy
troops to play, fine ladies strolled, and men of all nations paced to
and fro at certain hours.  In the older part of the city, work of all
sorts went on,--coral-carvers filled their windows with pretty
ornaments; pastry-cooks tempted with dainty dishes; milliners showed
hats fresh from Paris; and Turkish merchants hung out rich rugs and
carpets at their doors. Church-bells chimed; priests with incense and
banners went through the streets on holy errands; the Pifferoni piped
gayly; orange-women and chestnut-sellers called their wares in musical
voices; even the little scullions who go about scouring saucepans at
back doors made a song of their cry, "Casserola!"

Tino had a charming time, and could hardly believe his senses when one
fine thing after another was bought for him and ordered home. Not only
the suit, but two ruffled shirts, a crimson tie for the lace collar, a
broad new ribbon for the guitar, handkerchiefs, hose, and delicate
shoes, as if he was a gentleman’s son.  When Luigi added a little mantle
and a hat such as other well-dressed lads of his age wore, Tino
exclaimed, "This also!  Dio mio, never have I known so kind a man as
Signor Mario.  I shall serve him well and love him even better than you
do."

Luigi shrugged his shoulders and answered with a disagreeable laugh,
"Long may you think so, poverino; I serve for money, not love, and look
to it that I get my wages, else it would go ill with both of us.  Keep
all you can get, boy; our master is apt to forget his servants."

Tino did not like the look, half scornful, half pitiful, which Luigi
gave him, and wondered why he did not love the good signor.  Later he
found out; but all was pleasant now, and lunch at a café completed the
delights of that long morning.

The rooms were empty when they returned; and bidding him keep out of
mischief, Luigi left Tino alone for several hours.  But he found plenty
of amusement in examining all the wonders the apartment contained,
receiving the precious parcels as they arrived, practising his new bow
before the long mirror, and eating the nuts that he had bought of a
jolly old woman at a street corner.

Then he went to lounge on the balcony that ran along the front of the
hotel, and watched the lively scene below, till sunset sent the
promenaders home to dress for dinner.  Feeling a sudden pang of
homesickness as he thought of Stella, Tino got his guitar and sang the
old songs to comfort his loneliness.

The first was hardly ended before one after the other five little heads
popped out of a window farther down the balcony; and presently a group
of pretty children were listening and smiling as the nice boy played and
sang to them.  A gentleman looked out; and a lady evidently listened,
for the end of a lace flounce lay on the threshold of the long window,
and a pair of white hands clapped when he finished a gay air in his best
style.

This was his first taste of applause, and he liked it, and twanged away
merrily till his master’s voice called him in just as he was beginning
to answer the questions the eager children asked him.

"Go and dress!  I shall take you down to dinner with me presently.  But
mind this, I will answer questions; do you keep quiet, and leave me
to tell what I think best.  Remember, or I pack you home at once."

Tino promised, and was soon absorbed in getting into his new clothes;
Luigi came to help him, and when he was finished off, a very handsome
lad emerged from the closet to make his best bow to his master, who,
also in fine array, surveyed him with entire approval.

"Very good!  I thought you would make a passable butterfly when you shed
your grub’s skin.  Stand up and keep your hands out of your pockets.
Mind what I told you about supping soup noisily, and don’t handle your
fork like a shovel.  See what others do, smile, and hold your tongue.
There is the gong. Let us go."

Tino’s heart beat as he followed Mario down the long hall to the great
salle à manger with its glittering table d’hôte and many guests.
But the consciousness of new clothes sustained him, so he held up his
head, turned out his toes, and took his place, trying to look as if
everything was not very new and dazzling to him.

Two elderly ladies sat opposite, and he heard one say to the other in
bad Italian, "Behold the lovely boy, Maria; I should like to paint him."

And the other answered, "We will be amiable to him, and perhaps we may
get him for a model.  Just what I want for a little Saint John."

Tino smiled at them till his black eyes sparkled and his white teeth
shone, for he understood and enjoyed their praise.  The artistic ladies
smiled back, and watched him with interest long after he had forgotten
them, for that dinner was a serious affair to the boy, with a heavy
silver spoon and fork to manage, a napkin to unfold, and three glasses
to steer clear of for fear of a general upset, so awkward did he feel.

Every one else was too busy to mind his mistakes; and the ladies set
them down to bashfulness, as he got red in the face, and dared not look
up after spilling his soup and dropping a roll.

Presently, while waiting for dessert, he forgot himself in something
Mario was saying to his neighbor on the other side:--

"A poor little fellow whom I found starving in the streets at Genoa.  He
has a voice; I have a heart, and I adore music.  I took him to myself,
and shall do my best for him.  Ah, yes!  in this selfish world one must
not forget the helpless and the poor."

Tino stared, wondering what other boy the good signor had befriended,
and was still more bewildered when Mario turned to him with a paternal
air, to add in that pious tone so new to the boy,--

"This is my little friend, and he will gladly come and sing to your
young ladies after dinner. Many thanks for the honor; I shall bring him
out at my parlor concerts, and so fit him for his place by and by.  Bow
and smile, quick!"

The last words were in a sharp whisper; and Tino obeyed with a sudden
bob of the head that sent his curls over his eyes, and then laughed such
a boyish laugh as he shook them back that the gentleman leaning forward
to look at him joined in it, and the ladies smiled sympathetically as
they pushed a dish of bonbons nearer to him.  Mario gave him an
indulgent look, and went on in the same benevolent tone telling all he
meant to do, till the kindly gentleman from Rome was much interested,
having lads of his own and being fond of music.

Tino listened to the fine tales told of him and hoped no one would ask
him about Genoa, for he would surely betray that he had never been there
and could not lie as glibly as Mario did. He felt rather like the little
old woman who did not know whether she was herself or not, but consoled
himself by smiling at the ladies and eating a whole plateful of little
cakes standing near him.

When they rose, Tino made his bow, and Mario walked down the long hall
with his hand on the boy’s shoulder and a friendly air very impressive
to the spectators, who began at once to gossip about the pretty lad and
his kind protector, just as the cunning gentleman planned to have them.

As soon as they were out of sight, Mario’s manner changed; and telling
Tino to sit down and digest his dinner or he would n’t be able to sing a
note, he went to the balcony to smoke till the servant came to conduct
them to Conte Alborghetti’s salon.

"Now mind, boy; do exactly as I tell you, or I ’ll drop you like a hot
chestnut and leave you to get home as you can," said Mario, in a sharp
whisper, as they paused on the threshold of the door.

"I will, signor, indeed I will!" murmured Tino, scared by the flash of
his master’s black eye and the grip of his hand, as he pulled the
bashful boy forward.

In they went, and for a moment Tino only perceived a large light room
full of people, who all looked at him as he stood beside Mario with his
guitar slung over his shoulder, red cheeks, and such a flutter at his
heart that he felt sure he could never sing there.  The amiable host
came to meet and present them to a group of ladies, while a flock of
children drew near to look at and listen to the "nice singing boy from
Genoa."

Mario, having paid his thanks and compliments in his best manner, opened
the little concert by a grand piece upon the piano, proving that he was
a fine musician, though Tino already began to fancy he was not quite so
good a man as he wished to appear.  Then he sang several airs from
operas; and Tino forgot himself in listening delightedly to the mellow
voice of his master, for the lad loved music and had never heard any
like this before.

When Tino’s turn came, he had lost his first shyness, and though his
lips were dry and breath short, and he gave the guitar an awkward bang
against the piano as he pulled it round ready to play upon, the
curiosity in the faces of the children and the kindly interest of the
ladies gave him courage to start bravely off with "Bella Monica,"--the
easiest as well as gayest of his songs.  It went well; and with each
verse his voice grew clearer, his hand firmer, and his eyes fuller of
boyish pleasure in his own power to please.

For please he did, and when he ended with a loud twang and kissed his
hand to the audience as he always used to do to the girls at home, every
one clapped heartily, and the gentlemen cried, "Bravo, piccolo!  He
sings in truth like a little nightingale; encore, encore!"

These were sweet sounds to Tino; and he needed no urging to sing "Lucia"
in his softest tones, "looking like one of Murillo’s angels!" as a young
lady said, while he sang away with his eyes piously lifted in the manner
Mario had taught him.

Then followed a grand march from the master while the boy rested; after
which Tino gave more folk-songs, and ended with a national air in which
all joined like patriotic and enthusiastic Italians, shouting the
musical chorus, "Viva Italia!" till the room rang.

Tino quite lost his head at that, and began to prance as if the music
had got into his heels. Before Mario could stop him, he was showing one
of the little girls how to dance the Salterello as the peasants dance it
during Carnival; and all the children were capering gayly about the wide
polished floor with Tino strumming and skipping like a young fawn from
the woods.

The elder people laughed and enjoyed the pretty sight till trays of ices
and bonbons came in; and the little party ended in a general enjoyment
of the good things children most delight in.  Tino heard his master
receiving the compliments of the company, and saw the host slip a paper
into his hand; but, boylike, he contented himself with a pocket full of
sweetmeats, and the entreaties of his little patrons to come again soon,
and so backed out of the room, after bowing till he was dizzy, and
bumping against a marble table in a very painful manner.

"Well, how do you like the life I promised you?  Is it all I said?  Do
we begin to fill our pockets, and enjoy ourselves even sooner than I
expected?" asked Mario, with a good-natured slap of the shoulder, as
they reached his apartment again.

"It is splendid!  I like it much, very much! and I thank you with all my
heart," cried Tino, gratefully kissing the hand that could tweak
sharply, as well as caress when things suited its owner.

"You did well, even better than I hoped; but in some things we must
improve.  Those legs must be taught to keep still; and you must not
forget that you are a peasant when among your betters.  It passed very
well to-night with those little persons, but in some places it would
have put me in a fine scrape.  Capers! but I feared at one moment you
would have embraced the young contessa, when she danced with you."

Mario laughed as poor Tino blushed and stammered, "But, signor, she was
so little, only ten years old, and I thought no harm to hold her up on
that slippery floor.  See, she gave me all these, and bade me come
again.  I would gladly have kissed her, she was so like little Annina at
home."

"Well, well, no harm is done; but I see the pretty brown girls down
yonder have spoiled you, and I shall have to keep an eye on my gallant
young troubadour.  Now to bed, and don’t make yourself ill with all
those confections.  Felice notte, Don Giovanni!" and away went Mario to
lose at play every franc of the money the generous count had given him
"for the poor lad."

That was the beginning of a new and charming life for Tino, and for two
months he was a busy and a happy boy, with only a homesick fit now and
then when Mario was out of temper, or Luigi put more than his fair share
of work upon his shoulders.  The parlor concerts went well, and the
little nightingale was soon a favorite toy in many salons.  Night after
night Tino sang and played, was petted and praised, and then trotted
home to dream feverishly of new delights; for this exciting life was
fast spoiling the simple lad who used to be so merry and busy at
Valrose.  The more he had, the more he wanted, and soon grew
discontented, jealous, and peevish.  He had cause to complain of some
things; for none of the money earned ever came to him, and when he
plucked up courage to ask for his promised share, Mario told him he only
earned his food and clothes as yet.  Then Tino rebelled, and got a
beating, which made him outwardly as meek as a lamb, but inwardly a very
resentful, unhappy boy, and spoiled all his pleasure in music and
success.

He was neglected all day and left to do what he liked till needed at
night, so he amused himself by lounging about the hotel or wandering on
the beach to watch the fishermen cast their nets.  Lazy Luigi kept him
doing errands when he could; but for hours the boy saw neither master
nor man, and wondered where they were. At last he found out, and his
dream of fame and fortune ended in smoke.

Christmas week was a gay one for everybody, and Tino thought good times
had come again; for he sang at several childrens’ fêtes, received some
pretty gifts from the kind Alborghettis, and even Mario was amiable
enough to give him a golden napoleon after a run of good luck at the
cards.  Eager to show his people that he was getting on, Tino begged
Antoine, the friendly waiter who had already written one letter to
Stella for him, to write another, and send by a friend going that way a
little parcel containing the money for Mariuccia, a fine Roman sash for
Stella, and many affectionate messages to all his old friends.

It was well he had that little satisfaction, for it was his last chance
to send good news or exult over his grand success.  Troubles came with
the new year; and in one week our poor little jay found himself stripped
of all his borrowed plumes, and left a very forlorn bird indeed.

Trotting about late at night in silk stockings, and getting wet more
than once in the winter rains, gave Tino a bad cold.  No one cared for
it; and he was soon as hoarse as a crow.  His master forced him to sing
several times in spite of the pain he suffered, and when at the last
concert he broke down completely, Mario swore at him for "a useless
brat," and began to talk of going to Milan to find a new set of singers
and patrons.  Had Tino been older, he would have discovered some time
sooner that Signor Mario was losing favor in Nice, as he seldom paid a
bill, and led a very gay, extravagant life.  But, boylike, Tino saw only
his own small troubles, and suspected nothing when Luigi one day packed
up the velvet suit and took it away "to be repaired," he said.  It was
shabby, and Tino, lying on the sofa with a headache and sharp cough, was
glad no one ordered him to go with it, for the Tramontana was blowing,
and he longed for old Mariuccia’s herb tea and Stella’s cosseting, being
quite ill by this time.

That night as he lay awake in his closet coughing, feverish and
restless, he heard his master and Luigi moving about till very late,
evidently packing for Paris or Milan, and Tino wondered if he would like
either place better than Nice, and wished they were not so far from
Valrose.  In the midst of his meditations he fell asleep, and when he
woke, it was morning.  He hurried up and went out to see what the order
of the day was to be, rather pleased at the idea of travelling about the
world.

To his surprise no breakfast appeared; the room was in confusion, every
sign of Mario had vanished but empty bottles and a long hotel bill lying
unpaid upon the table.  Before Tino could collect his wits, Antoine came
flying in to say with wild gesticulations and much French wrath that
"the rascal Mario had gone in the night, leaving immense debts behind
him, and the landlord in an apoplexy of rage."

Poor Tino was so dismayed he could only sit and let the storm pelt about
his ears; for not only did the waiter appear, but the chambermaid, the
coachman, and at last the indignant host himself, all scolding at once
as they rummaged the rooms, questioned the bewildered boy, and wrung
their hands over the escape of these dishonest wretches.

"You also, little beast, have grown fat upon my good fare! and who is to
pay me for all you have eaten, not to mention the fine bed, the washing,
the candles, and the coaches you have had?  Ah, great heavens! what is
to become of us when such things occur?" and the poor landlord tore his
hair with one hand while he shook his other fist at Tino.

"Dear sir, take all I have; it is only an old guitar, and a few clothes.
Not a centime do I own; but I will work for you.  I can clean saucepans
and run errands.  Speak for me, Antoine; you are my only friend now."

The lad looked so honest and ill and pathetic, as he spoke with his poor
hoarse voice, and looked beseechingly about him, that Antoine’s kind
heart was melted, and he advised the boy to slip away home as soon as
possible, and so escape all further violence and trouble.  He slipped
two francs into Tino’s empty pocket, and as soon as the room was
cleared, helped him tie up the few old clothes that remained. The host
carried off the guitar as the only thing he could seize, so Tino had
less to take away than he brought, when Antoine led him out by the back
way, with a good sandwich of bread and meat for his breakfast, and bade
him go to the square and try to beg a ride to Valrose on some of the
carriages often going thither on the way to Genoa.

With many thanks Tino left the great hotel, feeling too miserable to
care much what became of him, for all his fine dreams were spoiled like
the basket of china the man kicked over in the "Arabian Nights," while
dreaming he was a king.  How could he go home, sick, poor, and forsaken,
after all the grand tales he had lately told in his letter?  How they
would laugh at him, the men and girls at the factory!  How Mariuccia
would wag her old head and say, "Ecco! is it not as I foretold?"  Even
Stella would weep over him and be sorry to see her dear boy in such a
sad plight, yet what could he do?  His voice was gone and his guitar, or
he might sing about the streets, as Mario described his doing at Genoa,
and so earn his daily bread till something turned up.  Now he was quite
helpless, and much against his will, he went to see if any chance of
getting home appeared.

The day was showery, and no party was setting off for the famous drive
along the Cornice road.  Tino was glad of it, and went to lie on a bench
at the café where he had often been with Luigi.  His head ached, and his
cough left him no peace, so he spent some of his money in syrup and
water to quell the trouble, and with the rest paid for a good dinner and
supper.

He told his sad tale to the cook, and was allowed to sleep in the
kitchen after scrubbing saucepans to pay for it.  But no one wanted him;
and in the morning, after a cup of coffee and a roll he found himself
cast upon the world again.  He would not beg, and as dinner time
approached, hunger reminded him of a humble friend whom he had forgotten
in his own days of plenty.

He loved to stroll along the beach, and read the names on the boats
drawn up there, for all were the names of saints; and it was almost as
good as going to church to read the long list of Saint Brunos, Saint
Francises, and Saint Ursulas. Among the fishermen was one who had always
a kind word for the lad, who enjoyed a sail or a chat with Marco
whenever nothing better turned up to amuse his leisure hours.  Now in
his trouble he remembered him, and went to the beach to ask help, for he
felt ill as well as sad and hungry.

Yes, there sat the good fellow eating the bread and macaroni his little
daughter had brought for his dinner, and a smile welcomed poor Tino as
he sat down beside this only friend to tell his story.

Marco growled in his black beard and shook his knife with an awful frown
when he heard how the lad had been deserted.  Then he smiled, patted
Tino’s back, thrust the copper basin of food into one hand and a big
lump of the brown-bread into the other, inviting him to eat in such a
cordial way that the poor meal tasted better than the dainty fare at the
hotel.

A draught of red wine from the gourd cheered Tino up, as did the good
and kind words, and when Marco bade him go home with little Manuela to
the good wife, he gladly went, feeling that he must lie down somewhere,
his head was so giddy and the pain in the breast so sharp.

Buxom Teresa received him kindly, put him straight to bed in her own
boy’s little room, laid a cool cloth on his hot head, a warm one on his
