impossible to see how many men she had on board, but Captain Breaker did
not estimate that she had a full ship's company, for vessels intended
for war purposes, escaping as this one doubtless had, did not usually
take their force on board at the beginning of the cruise.

  [Illustration: "Christy and Beeks on the Steamer's Deck."--Page 181.]

The three divisions of boarders were all in readiness, and all they
feared was that there would be little for them to do on board the enemy.
Captain Breaker was in the fore rigging where he could observe all that
was done on the decks of both vessels. The Bellevite went ahead with all
speed till the signal was given to slow down. The sea was not heavy, and
the captain laid her alongside of the prize.

"Do you surrender?" demanded the commander in a loud tone, but with his
usual dignity.

"I do not surrender!" replied the captain of the steamer.

"Boarders away!" shouted Captain Breaker.

Christy Passford was the first to leap upon the rail of the other
vessel, and then he dropped in the same instant upon her deck. At that
moment he was conscious that the steamer under him was moving, though
it might be the shaking which the Bellevite gave her when she came
alongside. On the deck of the prize, as he still taught himself to
consider her, he saw not more than thirty men; and with nearly three
times that number on the other side, it did not look as if it could be
a very hotly contested battle.

As Christy jumped down from the rail, Beeks followed him, and he was not
a little surprised to find that they were alone. But there was no enemy
at hand upon whom he could flesh his cutlass, and he sprang upon the
rail again. He found that his impression had been correct, for the
vessel was moving. She had already left a gap a dozen feet wide between
the Bellevite and herself.

It appeared that the machinery had been repaired, and that it was now
capable of doing all that it had done before. The steamer was the
Killbright, for the lieutenant saw the name painted in several places
about her forward deck. She had suddenly shot ahead very unexpectedly
to the captors, as they supposed they were, alongside of her. A puff
of wind had been favoring her before, and she darted away towards the
northwest. As she began to move, the lock-strings of her port battery
were pulled as rapidly as possible.

It would have been impossible to help hitting the Bellevite, with the
three guns fired into her at so short a distance. But the cloud of smoke
that enveloped both vessels prevented the captain from taking in the
situation. The crew of the Killbright were ordered to reload their guns
instantly. Whatever was to happen in the near or distant future, it
was evident that the dangerous steamer had not yet been captured, and
Christy did not think of her as a prize any more just then.

The Killbright crowded on all the steam she could obtain, and she
rapidly increased the distance between herself and the Bellevite. She
fired her three broadside guns continually, but it was clear to Christy
that the men had not been trained to this business, or they might
perhaps have sunk the naval vessel by this time.

The Bellevite fired her two broadside guns, and they made terrible havoc
in the upper works of the Killbright. But the strangest thing of all to
the young lieutenant, caught on board of the anticipated prize, was that
the Bellevite did not go ahead, and give the boarding parties a chance
to get on the deck of the enemy.

"I don't understand it, Beeks," said Christy as he found himself by the
side of the quartermaster. "Why don't the ship give chase?"

"I think she must be disabled, sir," replied the warrant officer.

"What could have disabled her?"

"I suppose she might be hit as well as this vessel," replied Beets, no
better pleased with the situation than his companion in trouble. "They
fired three shots into her while she was alongside."

"She must have been hit in a bad place, or she would have been alongside
of us before this time. But here we are."

The third lieutenant and quartermaster felt very much like prisoners,
though they had no evidence that the Killbright was a ship-of-war,
except that she had hoisted the Confederate flag, and fired upon the
Bellevite. But the rakish-looking steamer continued on her course, while
the Bellevite had not moved since the first broadside. She had already
made a mile, and the shots from her enemy did not seem to disable her.

She continued to run with all her speed, and the lieutenant felt the
deck quiver as though it was in danger of being shaken out of her. But
she was not followed by the Bellevite, and things began to look dark
and somewhat cheerless to Christy. The firing came to an end, for the
distance was becoming too great for it to be effectual on either side.

"If we had not jumped down from the rail when we boarded, we might have
escaped this scrape," said Beeks, who was even more disgusted than his
companion.

"It is no use to growl about it," added Christy, laughing. "Here we are,
and we can't help ourselves at present."

"I suppose they will let us go, won't they?" inquired the quartermaster.

"Let us go where?"

"Let us go back where we came from," replied Beeks, who seemed to be
quite muddled by his misfortune.

"You don't expect them to put you on board of the Bellevite again,
do you?"

"Well, no; not exactly; but this steamer is nothing but a blockade
runner, and such craft don't take prisoners."

"I hardly know what she is yet; she is a blockade runner, but she
appeals to be something more than that. She hoisted the Confederate
flag, and her people stood by their guns like brave men. I count myself
as a prisoner of war," said Christy, to the increased disgust of his
companion.

"What do you suppose they will do with us?" asked Beeks, looking as
though he had not a friend in the world, though he had always been a
very brave and active fellow when there was anything to do.

"I don't know, but I suppose she will run the blockade into the Cape
Fear River, and we may be taken up to Wilmington."

While they were talking about it, they saw a group of officers coming to
the forward deck, where they had remained since they came on board. They
appeared to be examining the steamer to ascertain what damage she had
sustained. Her bulwarks had been torn off, and she had suffered not a
little from shot; but she did not appear to be very seriously damaged.
At the head of the party was one who had a uniform, and dignity enough
to be the commander of the ship.

"Who are those two men forward?" asked this gentleman, as he called the
attention of the others to the two strangers.

No one knew who they were, and the captain continued to advance, looking
very sharply at Christy, or at his uniform. The lieutenant thought he
had seen the gentleman before, for it was quite impossible entirely to
forget one with so much character in his face.

"I am afraid I shall be obliged to call upon you, sir, to explain how
you and your companion happen to be here, for I was not before aware of
your presence."

"I shall cheerfully explain, Captain Carboneer," replied Christy,
recognizing the captain, and bowing politely.

"Ah, you know me? But I have not the pleasure of your acquaintance,
so far as I can remember," added the captain.

"We met under some disadvantages so far as you are concerned, for I had
the satisfaction of seeing you, though you did not see me," replied the
lieutenant, looking very good-natured in spite of his situation as a
prospective prisoner.

"I must beg you to explain still further, Mr.--I have not the pleasure
of knowing your name."

"Passford, sir, Christopher Passford, midshipman in the United States
Navy, and at present third lieutenant of the steamer Bellevite, which
you can hardly make out at this moment, though I remember that you have
seen her before," answered Christy, telling the whole story, as indeed
his uniform had already done, so far as his rank was concerned.

"I am very happy to meet you under present circumstances, Mr. Passford,
though I am not yet informed where I met you before."

"Perhaps you did not exactly meet me, Captain Carboneer; but, at any
rate, we were in the same boat together."

"I suppose we met, if at all, on the Hudson, in connection with the
Bellevite. Your people have not been as fortunate to-day with their
gunnery practice as on that occasion," suggested the captain.

"Now, Captain Carboneer, will you kindly inform me in regard to the
status of this vessel? Is she a naval vessel, or simply a blockade
runner?"

"She is both; and I am sorry for your sake to inform you that you are a
prisoner of war."

"I supposed I was."

"Perhaps you will be willing to inform me what became of Major Pierson
and Corny Passford--the latter a cousin of yours, I believe?"

"Like myself, the major is a prisoner of war. Corny was injured in the
disaster to the Vampire, as you are aware; he is also a prisoner, but on
parole, remaining at my father's house to be healed."

"I have to regret to-day more than ever before that we failed to capture
the Bellevite, for I find that she is even faster than the Yazoo," added
the captain.

"The Yazoo?"

"Formerly the Killbright, but now the Yazoo."

At this moment an officer came up and spoke to Captain Carboneer. As
both of them looked aft, Christy did the same, and, after studying the
speck he saw on the ocean, he was satisfied that it was the Bellevite,
coming down upon the Yazoo with all her speed.




CHAPTER XVII

A SATISFACTORY ORDER


Whatever had happened to the Bellevite, it was plain enough now to
Christy that she had repaired the injury, for the speck in the distance
was assuming the form of a steamer. The discovery was not calculated to
fan the hopes of Captain Carboneer and his officers, though the two
Unionists on board of the Yazoo were elated. The chase was continued
till the middle of the afternoon, when the Bellevite opened fire with
her heavy midship gun.

"Mr. Passford, your ship has opened fire upon us, and I will not compel
you to expose yourself to it," said Captain Carboneer, as one of the
shots from the Bellevite dropped into the water near the Yazoo. "You are
at liberty to retire to any part of the vessel you desire, with your
companion."

"Thank you, sir; you are very kind; and as I don't care to be shot by my
friends, I will go below," replied Christy.

It was hardly safer below than on deck, and it was not likely that the
resolute commander of the Yazoo would allow her to be captured as long
as he could make any resistance. Christy got the idea from the decision
he had observed in the face and expression of Captain Carboneer, that
the only way to capture the steamer would be to knock her to pieces. He
expected to be saved from the fate of a prisoner of war, but he was not
ready to believe that the Yazoo would be sent to the North as a prize.
She had not half the force of the Bellevite, either in men or guns,
and it had been proved that her speed could not save her. But all the
chances of accidents were to be incurred, and no one could predict the
final result.

Christy and Beeks went below, and seated themselves in the wardroom of
the ship. It looked as though it had been altered from the dining-saloon
of a passenger steamer for its present use. But the vessel was an
elegant affair, and Christy thought it was evident from what he saw
that she had been built for a steam-yacht by some British magnate. She
was not more than two-thirds as large as the Bellevite.

The sound of the firing indicated that the Bellevite was gaining on the
chase even more rapidly than in the morning. At the end of a couple of
hours more she seemed to be within a mile, or perhaps less. The Yazoo
was shaking in every fibre of her steel body, and it was plain that
Captain Carboneer was straining her to the utmost to effect his escape.

"It is beginning to warm up a little," said Beeks, as he tried to look
out at one of the round ports of the wardroom.

"It will be hotter than this before we see the end of it," replied
Christy. "Can you see anything?"

"Not a thing; of course the Bellevite is astern of us," added Beeks.
"But the Yazoo is not using her guns."

"How can she? She has not fired a shot for some time, and she cannot
without coming to. I should say she might as well do one thing as
another. She can't run away from the Bellevite, and she may as well
take her chances in a fight as a run."

"But the Bellevite does not seem to be handling her great gun at a very
lively rate," suggested Beeks.

"I suppose Captain Breaker wants to save all he can of the Yazoo, and
he knows that he can knock her all to pieces when he decides that it is
necessary."

"What is all that racket on deck?" asked Beeks.

"Probably they are getting a couple of stern chasers ready for use,"
answered Christy; and this explanation was soon proved to be correct by
the report of a gun at the stern of the Yazoo.

For the next half-hour, the firing from the Bellevite was more rapid,
and several crashes, produced by the striking of shot, were heard. It
was soon apparent that one of the stern chasers had been disabled; and
after a while the other ceased its noise. Beeks was so excited that
he left the wardroom, and found his way into what proved to be the
captain's cabin. More than one shot had come into it, and made no little
havoc. He found a port there through which he obtained a view of the
Bellevite. Whatever damage had been done to her, her engine was in
perfect order, for she was driving ahead at her best speed.

The quartermaster reported what he had seen to Christy, though it proved
nothing except that the Bellevite was all right, but everything began
to look more hopeful to the occupants of the wardroom. They had only to
wait, for they could do nothing. The pursuer had ceased to discharge her
guns, and those of the Yazoo were useless under present circumstances.

The situation was becoming more exciting on the deck of the Yazoo,
judging by the sounds that came from it. Then it was evident that the
Bellevite had returned to her former tactics, and was coming alongside
with the intention of boarding. Loud yells and fierce cries followed,
and then came the noise of a hand-to-hand struggle on the deck. It was
of short duration, for the ship's company of the Yazoo were outnumbered
at least two to one.

"I suppose we may go on deck now," said Beeks.

"I should judge that the fight was over," replied Christy, as he led the
way out of the wardroom.

At the companion-way they found two sailors assisting Captain Carboneer
to his cabin. His face was covered with blood, and he looked very pale.
The surgeon was close by him. Christy felt sincerely sorry for the
commander, for he was a noble and upright man. His protest had prevented
Major Pierson from attempting to carry out whatever plan he had in his
mind for the abduction of Florry Passford, and the young officer felt
grateful to him.

"Ah, Mr. Passford, the luck is on your side again," said the wounded
commander, when he saw Christy.

"Of course, I rejoice that it is so, but I am sincerely sorry that you
are wounded," replied Christy. "I must thank you for your interference
in behalf of my sister in opposition to the scheme of Major Pierson."

"How could you know anything about that?" asked the commander, bracing
himself up.

"I heard the whole of it."

"I see; but I did not consider that Major Pierson contemplated any
ruffianism," added Captain Carboneer, as the surgeon urged him to go
into his cabin.

Christy hastened on deck, and was warmly received by his fellow-officers
there. He reported on board to Captain Breaker without any delay, and
was warmly congratulated on his escape. He returned to his duty at once.
Paul Vapoor was inclined to hug him when he met him.

"I felt like a prisoner of war," said Christy, when he had told his
brief story. "The Bellevite was disabled, and I supposed it was all up
with me."

"A shot from the Killbright damaged our rudder, so that we could not
steer her; though we repaired the mischief after a considerable delay,"
replied the engineer. "But we have the prize."

"She was intended for a cruiser, and they call her the Yazoo."

"Whatever her name, she will not be a cruiser on that side."

The captured vessel was carefully surveyed; she had been considerably
damaged in the contest, but she was still seaworthy, and Mr. Blowitt was
appointed prize-master to take her to New York. All the arrangements
were speedily completed, and, when the prize had sailed for her
destination, Christy became the acting second lieutenant.

For the next month the Bellevite cruised in search of such craft as
the Killbright, and then she took her place on the blockade off Mobile
Bay, to which she had been ordered. Mr. Blowitt and the prize-crew had
returned, and all the damage done by the guns of the Yazoo had been
repaired, so that the Bellevite was in as good condition as when she
left the Navy Yard at Brooklyn. She captured several schooners, but no
very important prize. Many of the officers were disgusted with the
inactivity of the service.

In a letter from his father, Christy obtained the information that the
Bellevite was likely to be ordered to duty as a cruiser, for which her
great speed adapted her better than any other vessel in the navy. This
was cheering news to the discontented ones. But before any orders to
this effect was received, the ship was ordered to proceed to Pensacola,
where a very fast steamer was said to be awaiting an opportunity to get
to sea.

The position of the steamer was ascertained with no little difficulty;
but it was protected by the guns of the forts. Captain Breaker desired
to obtain better information in regard to the Teaser, as the negroes
said she was called. She was quite small, and carried only a single long
gun, and it was suspected that she was a privateer. On the evening of
the Bellevite's arrival, the weather was rainy, foggy, and thick. It was
just the night for a blockade runner, and the captain believed that an
attempt would be made to get out at this time.

The Unionists held Fort Pickens, and the Confederates the forts on the
mainland. The negroes said the Teaser was anchored at the mouth of the
lagoon, or very near it. This was not very definite, even if it were
accepted as true. It was very important that the Teaser should not be
permitted to get out of the bay, for she might do a great deal of
mischief to the shipping of the nation.

"I don't believe the stories of the negroes," said Captain Breaker, as
he was discussing the situation with his officers. "I know the port very
well, and I have no idea where the mouth of the lagoon is, or even if it
has any mouth in Pensacola Bay."

"Wherever the Teaser may be waiting her chance, this is a good night for
a start," replied Mr. Dashington.

"Of course the officers of Fort Pickens are on the lookout for the saucy
little craft," added Mr. Blowitt.

"Captain Westover is still on board, and you are to send him to the
fort, are you not, Captain Breaker?" asked Christy.

"Yes; as soon as he is ready to go," replied the captain. "He has given
all the information he has in regard to the Teaser; but he has not seen
her to-day, and he does not believe she is in the lower bay, but that
she is somewhere in the vicinity of the Navy Yard."

"If you will excuse me, Captain Breaker, I don't believe she means to
come out by the main channel, for her people know that the eyes of the
officers of Fort Pickens are wide open," suggested Christy, with a good
deal of diffidence.

"How do you think she will come out, Mr. Passford?" asked the captain,
with a smile.

"By Santa Rosa Sound, sir," replied the third lieutenant.

"Possibly you are right, Mr. Passford, though I do not think you are,"
added the commander, thoughtfully. "Santa Rosa Sound is about forty
miles long, and there is hardly water enough in it, up and down, to
float a raft, to say nothing of a steamer."

But later in the day, the captain called Christy aside, and had a long
talk with him, the charts open before them. It certainly did not look
like a very hopeful enterprise to take a steamer through such a sound as
that described.

"But we have no correct information in regard to the anchorage of the
Teaser, and I have decided to obtain it if possible. I propose to send
you to look into the matter, Mr. Passford," added the captain, settling
the question in that way. "Select your own boat and crew. But if the
Teaser gets by Fort Pickens, we may have to chase her to sea, and if on
your return you do not find the Bellevite, you and your men will remain
at Fort Pickens."

Christy was entirely satisfied with this order.




CHAPTER XVIII

LIEUTENANT PASSFORD IN COMMAND


Christy felt as much honored by the confidence reposed in him by the
captain as though he had been appointed to the command of a steamer.
But he had more than once proved that he could be safely trusted, and
demonstrated that he had judgment, discretion, and skill beyond his
years. He was not only brave and resolute, but he was faithful and
patriotic.

He went about among the ship's company and selected the men he desired
to assist him in his enterprise, and requested those chosen to say
nothing about the matter, for the lieutenant was aware that he should
have more volunteers than he could accommodate in the largest of the
boats. All would want to go, and the young officer would be teased and
coaxed, and all sorts of influence brought to bear upon him to permit
this and that one to be of the party. It was easier to be silent than
it was to reply to all the applications.

Christy selected a large whaleboat for the service in which he was to
be employed, and he had his own reasons for the choice he made. He had
received unlimited authority to adopt his own measures. The only point
that was strongly impressed upon his mind by the captain was that the
Teaser must be captured.

After supper the order was given to the third lieutenant to convey
Captain Westover back to the fort, or to land him at the usual place
near it. Nothing was thought of the order, though perhaps some of
the officers considered a dozen seamen, all armed with cutlasses and
revolvers, a large boat's crew for such a service. It was very thick
weather, and Captain Westover begged Christy not to land him within the
enemy's lines, which he promised not to do.

The men gave way, and the boat went off into the gloom of the evening.
Beeks gave his whole attention to the course of the boat, and Lieutenant
Passford was engaged in a very earnest conversation with the military
passenger. The landing-place seemed to be reached too soon, for Christy
had not finished his business. He landed with him, and together they
went to the fort, where the young officer had a conversation with the
commander of the force there.

"I hope you will not get into hot water, Mr. Passford," said Captain
Westover, as he came to the sallyport with him.

"I cannot say that I shall not," replied Christy, "but I shall do the
best I can to report on board of the ship with the force intrusted to
me; and I hope I shall have the Teaser with me."

"I hope you will. There are several small steamers up in the bay; but I
have not the least idea where you will have to look for the Teaser, for
we at the fort have not seen any such steamer lately."

"There can be no doubt of her existence, Captain Westover, for the
Bellevite was sent here to look out for her, as her speed is said to
be remarkable. But, good-night, captain."

"Good-night, lieutenant; success to you, and a safe return," added the
captain.

"Thank you," answered Christy, as he hurried down to the landing-place.

Among those whom the lieutenant had selected was a master's mate by the
name of Flint, who had assisted on board of the Bellevite in the affair
with the Vampire. He was a modest, quiet man, who made no especial
figure among his shipmates, though he had strongly attracted the
attention of his officer. Next to Christy he was the highest in rank,
and the second in command. Beeks was the next man selected, and he had
done all that was necessary in the preparation of the boat, including
putting into it slyly a supply of provisions, and a number of articles
which the lieutenant had designated.

On his return to the boat, Christy found his crew in excellent order,
for he had instructed Flint to allow no noise or disorder, as sailors
and young men generally are somewhat given to skylarking when not under
the eye of a commissioned officer. Christy took his place with Flint
in the stern sheets of the boat, and ordered Beeks, who was acting as
coxswain, to shove off and give way.

"I have no instructions yet, sir," replied Beeks, as he obeyed the
order, and headed the boat away from the shore.

"We have to make two miles east by south, and that course will carry
us parallel with the shore of Santa Rosa Island, variation included,"
replied Christy, who had been a diligent student of the chart, and had
written down all that it was important for him to remember, though he
had one of his own charts, or a piece of one, in the boat.

"East by south, sir," replied Beeks, as he put the whaleboat on the
required course.

Thus far, Christy had kept his own counsel, and not whispered a word
of his intentions even to the master's mate. He had no motive for such
heroic concealment of his plan, but he had not had the time to discuss
it with any person. Besides, though he had decided upon his course
in the beginning, he was too much in the dark himself to lay down a
definite plan; and his course must depend largely upon the information
he obtained from time to time.

He had examined the charts and the Coast Pilot very carefully; and the
facts he had obtained from the latter rather staggered him in regard to
the idea he had advanced that the Teaser might go out through Santa Rosa
Sound. It was not navigable for vessels with a draught of over four
feet, and it would have to be a very small man-of-war that could float
in that depth. Though it was now the time of the spring tides, they did
not add more than six inches to the height of the mean tide, which was
but a couple of inches over two feet.

Even before he took his place in the boat alongside the ship, he had
come to the conclusion that the Teaser, if she proved to be anything
more than a toy boat, could not go to sea through the sound, and she
was not likely to attempt it. He had said as much as this to Captain
Breaker, who reminded him that he was to ascertain if possible what the
craft intended to do, if he succeeded in finding her.

Flint did not manifest any desire to know more than the law allowed,
and he asked no questions in regard to the enterprise in which he was
engaged. In fact, one reason why he was chosen was because he had an
excellent habit of minding his own business. Possibly Christy was more
particular on this point than an older officer would have been.

"I think we have made two miles, Mr. Passford," said Beeks, when the men
had pulled about an hour. "Of course, I cannot be sure of the distance
run, for I can only guess at it."

"Run up to the shore, then, and let us see how far off we are," added
Christy.

In a few minutes the bottom of the boat struck on the sand, and it was
forced up far enough to permit the lieutenant to go on shore. Like most
of the islands in this part of the gulf, Santa Rosa was nothing but
sand, which in the eastern end is of a peculiar reddish hue. It is
little more than a sand spit for its whole length, though in some places
the wind has piled up mounds, or dunes.

"Come with me, if you please, Flint," said Christy, as he leaped to the
shore.

Flint followed him, as usual asking no questions, and, if he had any
curiosity in regard to the purposes of his leader, he did not manifest
it. The lieutenant glanced at the trend of the shore, and then walked at
right angles with it. No part of the island was inhabited, or even
occupied, except Fort Pickens and a Union camp. It was a dismal place,
especially in the fog and darkness.

A short walk brought the explorers to the waters of Pensacola Bay. It
was in vain that they tried to penetrate the gloom and the mist, and
nothing could be seen. Flint expressed himself to this effect.

"I did not expect to see anything," replied Christy. "I only came across
here to find how wide the island was at this point. I am satisfied that
we are about where I supposed we were. Half a mile to the westward of us
the island is more than double the breadth it is here."

"I see, sir; if you had found it much wider than it is, you would have
known that you had not gone far enough in the boat," replied Flint.

"Precisely so; I wanted to find where we were before I changed the
course in going farther to the eastward," added Christy.

Flint made no further remark, and they returned to the boat, and seated
themselves in their places. The lieutenant gave the order to shove off.

"We are in no hurry, Beeks; if the men are tired, you can stop longer to
rest them," continued the commander of the expedition.

The men scouted the idea of being tired after a pull of two miles in a
comparatively smooth sea. Christy told them that they might have some
very heavy work to do before they returned to the ship, and he did not
wish to use up their strength unnecessarily.

"Now, keep her east by north for a couple of miles, Beeks," continued
Christy. "That will be as far as we have occasion to go in this
direction. Don't hurry them; take it easy, for it will not be high tide
till half-past twelve, and we may have more time than we shall know how
to use."

The crew pulled very leisurely, and it was over an hour before Beeks
estimated that they had made the two miles. As before, Christy and Flint
were landed, and they walked across the island. But their walk was not
even half the length of the last one; and the spit was so narrow at this
place that the lieutenant was confident he had struck the point he
intended.

"This is our base of operations," said Christy, as he stood on the shore
of the bay. "We have got along very well so far, for it is not time yet
for the music to begin, if it is to begin at all. What are you about,
Flint?"

The master's mate had lain down on the sand at the water's edge, and
his companion was very much puzzled by his attitude. He wondered if his
companion had the stomach-ache, and was not able to stand up.

"I beg your pardon, Lieutenant Passford, but if you will kindly be quiet
for a moment, I hope to be able to answer your question," replied Flint,
in a low tone.

Christy complied with the request, and as he did so, he thought he heard
a noise in the distance, though he was not sure of it. He listened with
all his ears, and some confused sounds came to him; but he could make
nothing of them.

"I heard some sort of a noise," said Flint, rising from his recumbent
position. "But I can make nothing of what I hear. If there was a fresh
breeze, I should say that it was the surf."

"I heard it, too; but I am bothered to make out what it is. Did you get
an idea of any kind?" asked Christy.

"It sounded as though something of a gang of men were at work off in
this direction," replied Flint, pointing east of north. "I am almost
sure I heard the blows of hammers, or something like them."

"The noise I heard might have been almost anything," added Christy.

"What is there off in that direction?" asked Flint, pointing again.

"About north of us is Town Point, and just beyond it is Old Navy Cove,"
said the lieutenant, who had been up the bay in the Bellevite on an
excursion, and who had studied up all the localities.

"Possibly they are repairing a vessel there," suggested Flint.

"They would not do that over there, and certainly not on a dark night,"
argued Christy. "But we will soon find out all about it."

He led the way back to the boat, which he had ordered Beeks to have
carried on the shore. Then they proceeded to bear it across the island
to the bay, where it was put into the water again.




CHAPTER XIX

SOME TROUBLE ON BOARD THE TEASER


It was not a difficult thing for so many men to carry the whaleboat
across the island, and they were disposed to make merry over the novelty
of the task; but they had been instructed not to speak a loud word after
the party left the south side of the island. The noise to which Christy
and Flint had listened indicated that something was going on, though
they could not decide what it was. In the stillness of the night, and
in the absence of any roar of breakers, sounds could be heard a long
distance, though whether they came one mile or two, they could not
determine.

"Get out those cloths, Beeks," said Christy, as soon as the boat had
been put into the water. "Every oar must be very carefully muffled, and
you will see that it is properly done."

"I will have it done in a few minutes, sir," replied the acting
coxswain.

"As I said before, we are in no hurry, and you may take your time to do
it properly," added the lieutenant.

"Those sounds are still to be heard," said Flint, who had been a short
distance from the boat to listen for them.

"I hear them," replied Christy, walking away from the boat to continue
the investigation while they were waiting. "Some kind of a job is in
progress at no great distance from us. From how far off do you calculate
that those sounds come?"

"I think they must come a mile; and I don't believe I can guess any
nearer to it than that, though it is possible they come two miles.
I know little or nothing of the region about here. Suppose we should go
a mile north-northeast from this spot, what should we find there, Mr.
Passford?" asked Flint, apparently greatly interested in the question.

"It would be a point on Pensacola Bay, about half-way between this
island, where we stand, and Town Point," replied Christy. "I should say
it would be in the channel leading into Santa Rosa Sound."

"Precisely so!" exclaimed Flint, in an energetic whisper. "That's the
way they are going to take the Teaser out, and they are doing something
over there to prepare her for the trip in shallow water."

The master's mate was not aware that Christy had suggested to the
captain this way of escape for the Teaser, and he had abandoned the idea
himself. Flint had reached his conclusion from his own premises. They
discussed the matter for some time, though it was impossible to arrive
at any conclusion for the want of data on which to base their reasoning.

"All ready, sir," reported Beeks, coming up to them at this moment.

"How far is the entrance to the sound from Fort Pickens, Mr. Passford?"
asked Flint.

"About four miles."

"Then why should they choose such a night as this for their work?"

"The Bellevite, floating in four fathoms of water on the other side of
the island, could shell them out if they were seen, as they certainly
would be from Fort Pickens," replied Christy.

"That makes it plain enough," added Flint, as they walked towards the
boat.

"But I am not quite willing to believe yet that the Teaser will go out
through the sound. If she could get through at all, it would only be
after getting aground no end of times, and if to-morrow should be a
clear day, she could be seen anywhere on her course," persisted Christy.
"She cannot expect to make eight or ten knots an hour in that shallow
water."

The lieutenant ordered the men into the boat, after she was shoved off
the beach. They worked with such care that not a sound came from her.
The oars were shipped, and the sailors began to row. As instructed, they
pulled very slowly, though such work could not be done in perfect
silence.

"Look out for that binnacle, Beeks," said Christy. "The light from it
may betray us."

"You have not given me the course, sir," replied the coxswain, as he
obeyed the order.

"North-northeast," added Christy, as he settled back in the stern
sheets.

No one was allowed to speak in the boat, and the lieutenant set the
example of silence. But he kept his ears wide open, though the little
noise made by the oars and the rippling of the water prevented him from
hearing anything at first. It was so dark that one could hardly see
another in the boat. It was in vain that Christy watched in the gloom
for the glow of a light; for all was nearly total darkness in every
direction.

In about half an hour they began to hear the sounds which had attracted
their attention on the island, and they proceeded from directly ahead,
indicating that the operations, whatever they were, came from the
entrance to the sound. The workmen were not likely to hear the approach
of the boat while they were making so much noise themselves. In addition
to the sounds they had heard before, they recognized the noise of
escaping steam.

This last discovery made it certain that a steamer was there, though the
listeners could not know whether it was the Teaser or not. Both of the
officers of the expedition, in the uselessness of their eyes, made the
best use they could of their ears. Christy listened to ascertain if
there was more than one steamer present. In a whisper he asked Flint to
consider this question. There was no doubling of the sounds to indicate
more than one steamer.

For ten minutes more Christy listened and was silent; but he was doing
some very heavy thinking, for by this time the boat was very near the
scene of operations, if it could be a scene in that dense darkness.
Every sound, even to the speech of the men, could be distinctly heard.
Still nothing could be seen, and Christy knew that there was a point of
nearness where something could be discerned even in any gloom of night.
He permitted the boat to continue on its course, till he could very
dimly make out an object ahead.
