with half-lighted and ill-ventilated rooms. It seems to me that the
American genius ought to be able to devise a capitol of a different
sort, certainly one better adapted to the Southern climate. A group of
connected buildings for the various departments might be better than
one solid parallelogram, and I have a fancy that legislators would be
clearer-headed, and would profit more by discussion, if they sat in a
cheerful chamber, not too large to be easily heard in, and open as much
as possible to the sun and air and the sight of tranquil nature. The
present Capitol has an air of lazy neglect, and the law library which
is stored in it could not well be in a worse condition; but there is
something rather pleasing about the old, easy-going establishment that
one would pretty certainly miss in a smart new building. Arkansas has an
opportunity to distinguish itself by a new departure in State-houses.
In the city are several of the State institutions, most of them
occupying ample grounds with fine sites in the suburbs. Conspicuous
on high ground in the city is the Blind Asylum, a very commodious,
and well-conducted institution, with about 80 inmates. The School
for Deaf-mutes, with 125 pupils, is under very able management. But I
confess that the State Lunatic Asylum gave me a genuine surprise, and if
the civilization of Arkansas were to be judged by it, it would take high
rank among the States. It is a very fine building, well constructed and
admirably planned, on a site commanding a noble view, with eighty
acres of forest and garden. More land is needed to carry out the
superintendent’s idea of labor, and to furnish supplies for the
patients, of whom there are 450, the men and women, colored and white,
in separate wings. The builders seem to have taken advantage of all the
Eastern experience and shunned the Eastern mistakes, and the result
is an establishment with all the modern improvements and conveniences,
conducted in the most enlightened spirit. I do not know a better large
State asylum in the United States. Of the State penitentiary nothing
good can be said. Arkansas is still struggling with the wretched lease
system, the frightful abuses of which she is beginning to appreciate.
The penitentiary is a sort of depot for convicts, who are distributed
about the State by the contractors. At the time of my visit a
considerable number were there, more or less crippled and sick, who had
been rescued from barbarous treatment in one of the mines. A gang were
breaking stones in the yard, a few were making cigars, and the dozen
women in the women’s ward were doing laundry-work. But nothing appeared
to be done to improve the condition of the inmates. In Southern prisons
I notice comparatively few of the “professional” class which so largely
make the population of Northern penitentiaries, and I always fancy that
in the rather easy-going management, wanting the cast-iron discipline,
the lot of the prisoners is not so hard. Thus far among the colored
people not much odium attaches to one of their race who has been in
prison.
The public-school system of the State is slowly improving, hampered
by want of Constitutional power to raise money for the schools. By the
Constitution, State taxes are limited to one per cent.; county taxes to
one-half of one per cent., with an addition of one-half of one per cent,
to pay debts existing when the Constitution was adopted in 1874;
city taxes the same as county; in addition, for the support of common
schools, the Assembly may lay a tax not to exceed two mills on the
dollar on the taxable property of the State, and an annual per capita
tax of one dollar on every male inhabitant over the age of twenty-one
years; and it may also authorize each school district to raise for
itself, by vote of its electors, a tax for school purposes not to exceed
five mills on the dollar. The towns generally vote this additional tax,
but in most of the country districts schools are not maintained for
more than three months in the year. The population of the State is about
1,000,000, in an area of 53,045 square miles. The scholastic population
enrolled has increased steadily for several years, and in 1886 was
164,757, of which 122,296 were white and 42,461 were colored. The total
population of school age (including the enrolled) was 358,006, of which
266,188 were white and 91,818 colored. The school fund available for
that year was $1,327,710. The increased revenue and enrolment are
encouraging, but it is admitted that the schools of the State (sparsely
settled as it is) cannot be what they should be without more money to
build decent school-houses, employ competent teachers, and have longer
sessions.
Little Rock has fourteen school-houses, only one or two of which are
commendable-The High-school, with 50 pupils and 2 teachers, is held in
a district building. The colored people have their fair proportion of
schools, with teachers of their own race. Little Rock is abundantly able
to tax itself for better schools, as it is for better pavements. In all
the schools most attention seems to be paid to mathematics, and it is
noticeable how proficient colored children under twelve are in figures.
The most important school in the State, which I did not see, is the
Industrial University at Fayetteville, which received the Congressional
land grant and is a State beneficiary; its property, including
endowments and the University farm, is reckoned at $300,000. The general
intention is to give a practical industrial education. The collegiate
department, a course of three years, has 77 pupils; in the preparatory
department are about 200; but the catalogue, including special students
in art and music, the medical department at Little Rock of 60, and the
Normal School at Pine Bluff of 215, foots up about 600 students. The
University is situated in a part of the State most attractive in its
scenery and most healthful, and offers a chance for every sort of mental
and manual training.
The most widely famous place in the State is the Hot Springs. I should
like to have seen it when it was in a state of nature; I should like to
see it when it gets the civilization of a European bath-place. It
has been a popular and even crowded resort for several years, and the
medical treatment which can be given there in connection with the use
of the waters is so nearly a specific for certain serious diseases, and
going there is so much a necessity for many invalids, that access to
it ought by this time to be easy. But it is not. It is fifty-five miles
south-west of Little Rock, but to reach it the traveller must leave
the Iron Mountain road at Malvern for a ride over a branch line of some
twenty miles. Unfortunately this is a narrow-gauge road, and however
ill a person may be, a change of cars must be made at Malvern. This is
a serious annoyance, and it is a wonder that the main railways and the
hotel and bath keepers have not united to rid themselves of the monopoly
of the narrow-gauge road.
The valley of the Springs is over seven hundred feet above the sea;
the country is rough and broken; the hills, clad with small pines and
hard-wood, which rise on either side of the valley to the height’ of two
or three hundred feet, make an agreeable impression of greenness;
and the place is capable, by reason of its irregularity, of becoming
beautiful as well as picturesque. It is still in the cheap cottage and
raw brick stage. The situation suggests Carlsbad, which is also jammed
into a narrow valley. The Hot Springs Mountain—that is, the mountain
from the side of which all the hot springs (about seventy) flow—is a
Government reservation. Nothing is permitted to be built on it except
the Government hospital for soldiers and sailors, the public bath-houses
along the foot, and one hotel, which holds over on the reserved land.
The Government has enclosed and piped the springs, built a couple of
cement reservoirs, and lets the bath privileges to private parties at
thirty dollars a tub, the number of tubs being limited. The rent money
the Government is supposed to devote to the improvement of the mountain.
This has now a private lookout tower on the summit, from which a most
extensive view is had over the well-wooded State, and it can be made
a lovely park. There is a good deal of criticism about favoritism in
letting the bath privileges, and the words “ring” and “syndicate”
are constantly heard. Before improvements were made, the hot water
discharged into a creek at the base of the hill. This creek is now
arched over and become a street, with the bath-houses on one side and
shops and shanties on the other. Difficulty about obtaining a good title
to land has until recently stood in the way of permanent improvements.
All claims have now been adjudicated upon, the Government is prepared to
give a perfect title to all its own land, except the mountain, forever
reserved, and purchasers can be sure of peaceful occupation.
Opposite the Hot Springs Mountain rises the long sharp ridge of West
Mountain, from which the Government does not permit the foliage to be
stripped. The city runs around and back of this mountain, follows the
winding valley to the north, climbs up all the irregular ridges in the
neighborhood, and spreads itself over the valley on the south, near the
Ouachita River. It is estimated that there are 10,000 residents in this
rapidly growing town. Houses stick on the sides of the hills, perch on
terraces, nestle in the ravines. Nothing is regular, nothing is as
might have been expected, but it is all interesting, and promising
of something pleasing and picturesque in the future. All the springs,
except one, on Hot Springs Mountain are hot, with a temperature ranging
from 93° to 157° Fahrenheit; there are plenty of springs in and among
the other hills, but they are all cold. It is estimated that the present
quantity of hot water, much of which runs to waste, would supply about
19,000 persons daily with 25 gallons each. The water is perfectly clear,
has no odor, and is very agreeable for bathing. That remarkable cures
are performed here the evidence does not permit one to doubt, nor can
one question the wonderfully rejuvenating effect upon the system of a
course of its waters.
It is necessary to suggest, however, that the value of the springs
to invalids and to all visitors would be greatly enhanced by such
regulations as those that govern Carlsbad and Marienbad in Bohemia. The
success of those great “cures” depends largely upon the regimen enforced
there, the impossibility of indulging in an improper diet, and the
prevailing regularity of habits as to diet, sleep, and exercise. There
is need at Hot Springs for more hotel accommodation of the sort that
will make comfortable invalids accustomed to luxury at home, and at
least one new and very large hotel is promised soon to supply this
demand; but what Hot Springs needs is the comforts of life, and not
means of indulgence at table or otherwise. Perhaps it is impossible
for the American public, even the sick part of it, to submit itself to
discipline, but we never will have the full benefit of our many curative
springs until it consents to do so. Patients, no doubt, try to follow
the varying regimen imposed by different doctors, but it is difficult
to do so amid all the temptations of a go-as-you-please bath-place.
A general regimen of diet applicable to all visitors is the only safe
rule. Under such enlightened rules as prevail at Marienbad, and with the
opportunity for mild entertainment in pretty shops, agreeable walks
and drives, with music and the hundred devices to make the time pass
pleasantly, Hot Springs would become one of the most important sanitary
resorts in the world. It is now in a very crude state; but it has the
water, the climate, the hills and woods; good saddle-horses are to be
had, and it is an interesting country to ride over; those who frequent
the place are attached to it; and time and taste and money will, no
doubt, transform it into a place of beauty.
Arkansas surprised the world by the exhibition it made of itself at
New Orleans, not only for its natural resources, but for the range and
variety of its productions. That it is second to no other State in
its adaptability to cotton-raising was known; that it had magnificent
forests and large coal-fields and valuable minerals in its mountains was
known; but that it raised fruit superior to any other in the South-west,
and quite equal to any in the North, was a revelation. The mountainous
part of the State, where some of the hills rise to the altitude of 2500
feet, gives as good apples, pears, and peaches as are raised in any
portion of the Union; indeed, this fruit has taken the first prize in
exhibitions from Massachusetts to Texas. It is as remarkable for flavor
and firmness as it is for size and beauty. This region is also a good
vineyard country. The State boasts more miles of navigable waters than
any other, it has variety of soil and of surface to fit it for every
crop in the temperate latitudes, and it has a very good climate.
The range of northern mountains protects it from “northers,” and its
elevated portions have cold enough for a tonie. Of course the low
and swampy lands are subject to malaria. The State has just begun to
appreciate itself, and has organized efforts to promote immigration.
It has employed a competent State geologist, who is doing excellent
service. The United States has still a large quantity of valuable land
in the State open to settlement under the homestead and preemption laws.
The State itself has over 2,000,000 acres of land, forfeited and granted
to it in various ways; of this, the land forfeited for taxes will be
given to actual settlers in tracts of 160 acres to each person, and the
rest can be purchased at a low price. I cannot go into all the details,
but the reader may be assured that the immigration committee make an
exceedingly good showing for settlers who wish to engage in farming,
fruit-raising, mining, or lumbering. The Constitution of the State
is very democratic, the statute laws are stringent in morality, the
limitations upon town and city indebtedness are severe, the rate of
taxation is very low, and the State debt is small. The State, in short,
is in a good condition for a vigorous development of its resources.
There is a popular notion that Arkansas is a “bowie-knife” State, a
lawless and an ignorant State. I shared this before I went there. I
cannot disprove the ignorance of the country districts. As I said, more
money is needed to make the public-school system effective. But in
its general aspect the State is as orderly and moral as any. The laws
against carrying concealed weapons are strict, and are enforced.. It is
a fairly temperate State. Under the high license and local option laws,
prohibition prevails in two-thirds of the State, and the popular vote
is strictly enforced. In forty-eight of the seventy-five counties no
license is granted, in other counties only a single town votes license,
and in many of the remaining counties many towns refuse it. In five
counties only is liquor perfectly free. A special law prohibits
liquor-selling within five miles of a college; within three miles of a
church or school, a majority of the adult inhabitants can prohibit it.
With regard to liquor-selling, woman suffrage practically exists. The
law says that on petition of a majority of the adult population in any
district the county judge must refuse license. The women, therefore,
without going into politics, sign the petitions and create prohibition.
The street-cars and railways make no discrimination as to color of
passengers. Everywhere I went I noticed that the intercourse between the
two races was friendly. There is much good land on the railway between
Little Rock and Arkansas City, heavily timbered, especially with the
clean-boled, stately gum-trees. At Pine Bluff, which has a population
of 5000, there is a good colored Normal School, and the town has many
prosperous negroes, who support a racetrack of their own, and keep up a
county fair. I was told that the most enterprising man in the place, the
largest street-railway owner, is black as a coal. Farther down the road
the country is not so good, the houses are mostly poor shanties, and
the population, largely colored, appears to be of a shiftless
character. Arkansas City itself, low-lying on the Mississippi, has a bad
reputation.
Little Rock, already a railway centre of importance, is prosperous and
rapidly improving. It has the settled, temperate, orderly society of
an Eastern town, but democratic in its habits, and with a cordial
hospitality which is more provincial than fashionable. I heard there a
good chamber concert of stringed instruments, one of a series which had
been kept up by subscription all winter, and would continue the coming
winter. The performers were young Bohemians. The gentleman at whose
pleasant, old-fashioned house I was entertained, a leading lawyer and
jurist in the South-west, was a good linguist, had travelled in most
parts of the civilized globe, had on his table the current literature of
France, England, Germany, and America, a daily Paris newspaper, one
New York journal (to give its name might impugn his good taste in
the judgment of every other New York journal), and a very large and
well-selected library, two-thirds of which was French, and nearly half
of the remainder German. This was one of the many things I found in
Arkansas which I did not expect to find.
XIV.—ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
St. Louis is eighty years old. It was incorporated as a town in 1808,
thirteen years before the admission of Missouri into the Union as a
State. In 1764 a company of thirty Frenchmen made a settlement on its
site and gave it its distinguished name. For nearly half a century,
under French and Spanish jurisdiction alternately, it was little more
than a trading post, and at the beginning of this century it contained
only about a thousand inhabitants. This period, however, gave it a
romantic historic background, and as late as 1853, when its population
was a hundred thousand, it preserved French characteristics and a French
appearance—small brick houses and narrow streets crowded down by the
river. To the stranger it was the Planters’ Hotel and a shoal of big
steamboats moored along an extensive levee roaring with river traffic.
Crowded, ill-paved, dirty streets, a few country houses on elevated
sites, a population forced into a certain activity by trade, but
hindered in municipal improvement by French conservatism, and touched
with the rust of slavery—that was the St. Louis of thirty-five years
ago.
Now everything is changed as by some magic touch. The growth of the
city has always been solid, unspeculative, conservative in its business
methods, with some persistence of the old French influence, only
gradually parting from its ancient traditions, preserving always
something of the aristocratic flavor of “old families,” accounted “slow”
in the impatience of youth. But it has burst its old bounds, and grown
with a rapidity that would be marvellous in any other country. The levee
is comparatively deserted, although the trade on the lower river is
actually very large. The traveller who enters the city from the east
passes over the St. Louis Bridge, a magnificent structure and one of the
engineering wonders of the modern world, plunges into a tunnel under the
business portion of the old city, and emerges into a valley covered with
a net-work of railway-tracks, and occupied by apparently interminable
lines of passenger coaches and freight cars, out of the confusion of
which he makes his way with difficulty to a carriage, impressed at once
by the enormous railway traffic of the city. This is the site of
the proposed Union Depot, which waits upon the halting action of the
Missouri Pacific system. The eastern outlet for all this growing traffic
is over the two tracks of the bridge; these are entirely inadequate, and
during a portion of the year there is a serious blockade of freight.
A second bridge over the Mississippi is already a necessity to the
commerce of the city, and is certain to be built within a few years.
St. Louis, since the war, has spread westward over the gentle ridges
which parallel the river, and become a city vast in territory and most
attractive in appearance. While the business portion has expanded into
noble avenues with stately business and public edifices, the residence
parts have a beauty, in handsome streets and varied architecture, that
is a continual surprise to one who has not seen the city for twenty
years. I had set down the length of the city along the river-front
as thirteen miles, with a depth of about six miles; but the official
statistics are: length of river-front, 19.15 miles; length of western
limits, 21.27; extent north and south in an air line, 17; and length
east and west on an air line, 6.62. This gives an area of 61.37 square
miles, or 39,276 acres. This includes the public parks (containing 2095
acres), and is sufficient room for the population of 450,000, which
the city doubtless has in 1888. By the United States census of 1870 the
population was reported much larger than it was, the figures having no
doubt been manipulated for political purposes. Estimating the natural
increase from this false report, the city was led to claim a population
far beyond the actual number, and unjustly suffered a little ridicule
for a mistake for which it was not responsible. The United States census
of 1880 gave it 350,522. During the eight years from 1880 there were
erected 18,574 new dwelling-houses, at a cost of over fifty millions of
dollars.
The great territorial extension of the city in 1876 was for a time a
disadvantage, for it threw upon the city the care of enormous street
extensions, made a sporadic movement of population beyond Grand avenue,
which left hiatuses in improvement, and created a sort of furor of
fashion for getting away from what to me is still the most attractive
residence portion of the town, namely, the elevated ridges west of
Fourteenth Street, crossed by Lucas Place and adjoining avenues. In this
quarter, and east of Grand avenue, are fine high streets, with detached
houses and grounds, many of them both elegant and comfortable, and
this is the region of the Washington University, some of the finest
club-houses, and handsomest churches. The movements of eity populations,
however, are not to be accounted for. One of the finest parts of the
town, and one of the oldest of the better residence parts, that south of
the railways, containing broad, well-planted avenues, and very stately
old homes, and the exquisite Lafayette Park, is almost wholly occupied
now by Germans, who make up so large a proportion of the population.
One would have predicted at an early day that the sightly bluffs below
the eity would be the resort of fashion, and be occupied with fine
country houses. But the movement has been almost altogether westward and
away from the river. And this rolling, wooded region is most inviting,
elevated, open, cheerful. No other eity in the West has fairer suburbs
for expansion and adornment, and its noble avenues, dotted with
conspicuously fine residences, give promise of great beauty and
elegance. In its late architectural development, St. Louis, like
Chicago, is just in time to escape a very mediocre and merely imitative
period in American building. Beyond Grand avenue the stranger will be
shown Vandeventer Place, a semiprivate oblong park, surrounded by many
pretty and some notably fine residences. Two of them are by Richardson,
and the city has other specimens of his work. I cannot refrain from
again speaking of the effect that this original genius has had upon
American architecture, especially in the West, when money and enterprise
afforded him free scope. It is not too much to say that he created a new
era, and the influence of his ideas is seen everywhere in the work of
architects who have caught his spirit.
The city has addressed itself to the occupation and adornment of its
great territory and the improvement of its most travelled thoroughfares
with admirable public spirit. The rolling nature of the ground has been
taken advantage of to give it a nearly perfect system of drainage and
sewerage. The old pavements of soft limestone, which were dust in dry
weather and liquid mud in wet weather, are being replaced by granite in
the business parts and asphalt and wood blocks (laid on a concrete base)
in the residence portions. Up to the beginning of 1888 this new pavement
had cost nearly three and a half million dollars, and over thirty-three
miles of it were granite blocks. Street railways have also been pushed
all over the territory. The total of street lines is already over one
hundred and fifty-four miles, and over thirty miles of these give rapid
transit by cable. These facilities make the whole of the wide territory
available for business and residence, and give the poorest inhabitants
the means of reaching the parks.
The park system is on the most liberal scale, both public and private;
the parks are already famous for extent and beauty, but when the
projected connecting boulevards are made they will attain world-wide
notoriety. The most extensive of the private parks is that of the
combined Agricultural Fair Grounds and Zoological Gardens. Here is held
annually the St. Louis Fair, which is said to be the largest in the
United States. The enclosure is finely laid out and planted, and
contains an extensive park, exhibition buildings, cottages, a
race-track, an amphitheatre, which suggests in size and construction
some of the largest Spanish bull-rings, and picturesque houses for
wild animals. The zoological exhibition is a very good one. There are
eighteen public parks. One of the smaller (thirty acres) of these, and
one of the oldest, is Lafayette Park, on the south side. Its beauty
surprised me more than almost anything I saw in the city. It is a gem;
just that artificial control of nature which most pleases—forest-trees,
a pretty lake, fountains, flowers, walks planned to give everywhere
exquisite vistas. It contains a statue of Thomas II. Benton, which may
be a likeness, but utterly fails to give the character of the man. The
largest is Forest Park, on the west side, a tract of 1372 acres, mostly
forest, improved by excellent drives, and left as much as possible in
a natural condition. It has ten miles of good driving-roads. This park
cost the city about $850,000, and nearly as much more has been expended
on it since its purchase. The surface has great variety of slopes,
glens, elevations, lakes, and meadows. During the summer music is
furnished in a handsome pagoda, and the place is much resorted to.
Fronting the boulevard are statues of Governor Edward Bates and Frank P.
Blair, the latter very characteristic.
Next in importance is Tower Grove Park, an oblong of 276 acres. This and
Shaw’s Garden, adjoining, have been given to the city by Mr. Henry Shaw,
an Englishman who made his fortune in the city, and they remain under
his control as to care and adornment during his life. Those who have
never seen foreign parks and pleasure-gardens can obtain a very good
idea of their formal elegance and impressiveness by visiting Tower Grove
Park and the Botanical Gardens. They will see the perfection of lawns,
avenues ornamented by statuary, flower-beds, and tasteful walks. The
entrances, with stone towers and lodges, suggest similar effects in
France and in England. About the music-stand are white marble busts of
six chief musical composers. The drives are adorned with three statues
in bronze, thirty feet high, designed and cast in Munich by Frederick
Millier. They are figures of Shakespeare, Humboldt, and Columbus, and so
nobly conceived and executed that the patriotic American must wish they
had been done in this country. Of Shaw’s Botanical Garden I need to say
little, for its fame as a comprehensive and classified collection
of trees, plants, and flowers is world-wide. It has no equal in this
country. As a place for botanical study no one appreciated it
more highly than the late Professor Asa Gray. Sometimes a peculiar
classification is followed; one locality’ is devoted to economic
plants—camphor, quinine, cotton, tea, coffee, etc.; another to “Plants
of the Bible.” The space of fifty-four acres, enclosed by high stone
walls, contains, besides the open garden and allées and glass houses,
the summer residence and the tomb of Mr. Shaw. This old gentleman, still
vigorous in his eighty-eighth year, is planning new adornments in the
way of statuary and busts of statesmen, poets, and scientists. His plans
are all liberal and cosmopolitan. For over thirty years his botanical
knowledge, his taste, and abundant wealth and leisure have been devoted
to the creation of this wonderful garden and park, which all bear the
stamp of his strong individuality, and of a certain pleasing foreign
formality. What a source of unfailing delight it must have been to him!
As we sat talking with him I thought how other millionaires, if they
knew how, might envy a matured life, after the struggle for a competency
is over, devoted to this most rational enjoyment, in an occupation as
elevating to the taste as to the character, and having in mind always
the public good. Over the entrance gate is the inscription, “Missouri
Botanical Gardens.” When the city has full control of the garden the
word “Missouri” should be replaced by “Shaw.”
The money expended for public parks gives some idea of the liberal and
far-sighted provision for the health and pleasure of a great city. The
parks originally cost the city 81,309,944, and three millions more have
been spent upon their improvement and maintenance. This indicates an
enlightened spirit, which we shall see characterizes the city in other
things, and is evidence of a high degree of culture.
Of the commerce and manufactures of the town I can give no adequate
statement without going into details, which my space forbids. The
importance of the Mississippi River is much emphasized, not only as an
actual highway of traffic, but as a regulator of railway rates. The town
has by the official reports been discriminated against, and even the
Inter-State Act has not afforded all the relief expected. In 1887
the city shipped to foreign markets by way of the Mississippi and the
jetties 3,973,000 bushels of wheat and 7,365,000 bushels of corn—a
larger exportation than ever before except in the years 1880 and 1881.
An outlet like this is of course a check on railway charges. The trade
of the place employs a banking capital of fifteen millions. The deposits
in 1887 were thirty-seven millions; the clearings over 8894,527,731—the
largest ever reached, and over ten per cent, in excess of the clearings
of 1886. To whatever departments I turn in the report of the Merchants’
Exchange for 1887 I find a vigorous growth—as in building—and in
most articles of commerce a great increase. It appears by the tonnage
statements that, taking receipts and shipments together, 12,060,995 tons
of freight were handled in and out during 1886, against 14,359,059 tons
in 1887—a gain of nineteen and a half per cent. The buildings in 1886
cost $7,030,819; in 1887, $8,162,914. There were $44,740 more stamps
sold at the post-office in 1887 than in 1886. The custom-house
collections were less than in 1886, but reached the figures of
$1,414,747. The assessed value of real and personal property in 1887 was
$217,142,320, on which the rate of taxation in the old city limits was
$2.50.
It is never my intention in these papers to mention individual
enterprises for their own sake, but I do not hesitate to do so when it
is necessary in order to illustrate some peculiar development. It is a
curious matter of observation that so many Western cities have one or
more specialties in which they excel—houses of trade or manufacture
larger and more important than can be found elsewhere. St. Louis finds
itself in this category in regard to several establishments. One of
these is a wooden-ware company, the largest of the sort in the country,
a house which gathers its peculiar goods from all over the United
States, and distributes them almost as widely—a business of gigantic
proportions and bewildering detail. Its annual sales amount to as much
as the sales of all the houses in its line in New York, Chicago, and
Cincinnati together. Another is a hardware company, wholesale and
retail, also the largest of its kind in the country, with sales annually
amounting to six millions of dollars, a very large amount when we
consider that it is made up of an infinite number of small and cheap
articles in iron, from a fish-hook up—indeed, over fifty thousand
separate articles. I spent half a day in this establishment, walking
through its departments, noting the unequalled system of compact
display, classification, and methods of sale and shipment. Merely as
a method of system in business I have never seen anything more
interesting. Another establishment, important on account of its
central position in the continent and its relation to the Louisiana
sugar-fields, is the St. Louis Sugar Refinery.
The refinery proper is the largest building in the Western country
used for manufacturing purposes, and, together with its adjuncts of
cooper-shops and warehouses, covers five entire blocks and employs 500
men. It has a capacity of working up 400 tons of raw sugar a day, but
runs only to the extent of about 200 tons a day, making the value of its
present product $7,500,000 a year.
During the winter and spring it uses Louisiana sugars; the remainder
of the year, sugars of Cuba and the Sandwich Islands. Like all other
refineries of which I have inquired, this reckons the advent of the
Louisiana crop as an important regulator of prices. This establishment,
in common with other industries of the city, has had to complain of
business somewhat hampered by discrimination in railway rates. St. Louis
also has what I suppose, from the figures accessible, to be the largest
lager-beer brewing establishment in the world; its solid, gigantic, and
architecturally imposing buildings lift themselves up like a fortress
over the thirty acres of ground they cover. Its manufacture and sales
in 1887 were 456,511 barrels of beer—an increase of nearly 100,000 since
1885-86. It exports largely to Mexico, South America, the West Indies,
and Australia. The establishment is a marvel of system and ingenious
devices. It employs 1200 laborers, to whom it pays $500,000 a year.
Some of the details are of interest. In the bottling department we saw
workmen filling, corking, labelling, and packing at the rate of 100,000
bottles a day. In a year 25,000,000 bottles are used, packed in 400,000
barrels and boxes. The consumption of barley is 1,100,000 bushels
yearly, and of hops over 700,000 pounds, and the amount of water used
for all purposes is 250,000,000 gallons—nearly enough to float our navy.
The charges for freight received and shipped by rail amount to nearly a
million dollars a year. There are several other large breweries in the
city. The total product manufactured in 1887 was 1,383,301 barrels,
equal to 43,575,872 gallons—more than three times the amount of 1877.
The barley used in the city and vicinity was 2,932,192 bushels, of which
340,335 bushels came from Canada. The direct export of beer during 1887
to foreign countries was equal to 1,924,108 quart bottles. The greater
part of the barley used comes from Iowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin.
It is useless to enumerate the many railways which touch and affect St.
Louis. The most considerable is the agglomeration known as the Missouri
Pacific, or South-western System, which operated 6994 miles of road on
January 1, 1888. This great aggregate is likely to be much diminished
by the surrender of lines, but the railway facilities of the city are
constantly extending.
There are figures enough to show that St. Louis is a prosperous city,
constantly developing new enterprises with fresh energy; to walk its
handsome streets and drive about its great avenues and parks is
to obtain an impression of a cheerful town on the way to be most
attractive; but its chief distinction lies in its social and
intellectual life, and in the spirit that has made it a pioneer in so
many educational movements. It seems to me a very good place to study
the influence of speculative thought in economic and practical affairs.
The question I am oftenest asked is, whether the little knot of
speculative philosophers accidentally gathered there a few years
ago, and who gave a sort of fame to the city, have had any permanent
influence. For years they discussed abstractions; they sustained for
some time a very remarkable periodical of speculative philosophy, and
in a limited sphere they maintained an elevated tone of thought and life
quite in contrast with our general materialism. The circle is broken,
the members are scattered. Probably the town never understood them,
perhaps they did not altogether understand each other, and maybe the
tremendous conflict of Kant and Hegel settled nothing. But if there is
anything that can be demonstrated in this world it is the influence of
abstract thought upon practical affairs in the long-run. And although
one may not be able to point to any definite thing created or
established by this metaphysical movement, I think I can see that it was
a leaven that had a marked effect in the social, and especially in the
educational, life of the town, and liberalized minds, and opened the way
for the trial of theories in education. One of the disciples declares
that the State Constitution of Missouri and the charter of St. Louis are
distinctly Hegelian. However this may be, both these organic laws are
uncommonly wise in their provisions. A study of the evolution of the
city government is one of the most interesting that the student can
make. Many of the provisions of the charter are admirable, such as those
securing honest elections, furnishing financial checks, and guarding
against public debt. The mayor is elected for four years, and the
important offices filled by his appointment are not vacant until the
beginning of the third year of his appointment, so that hope of reward
for political work is too dim to affect the merits of an election. The
composition and election of the school board is also worthy of notice.
Of the twenty-one members, seven are elected on a general ticket,
and the remaining fourteen by districts, made by consolidating the
twenty-eight city wards, members to serve four years, divided into two
classes. This arrangement secures immunity from the ward politician.
St. Louis is famous for its public schools, and especially for the
enlightened methods, and the willingness to experiment in improving
them. The school expenditures for the year ending June 30, 1887, were
$1,095,773; the school property in lots, buildings, and furniture in
1885 was estimated at $3,445,254. The total number of pupils enrolled
was 56,936. These required about 1200 teachers, of whom over a thousand
were women. The actual average of pupils to each teacher was about
42. There were 106 school buildings, with a seating capacity for about
50,000 scholars. Of the district schools 13 were colored, in which were
employed 78 colored teachers. The salaries of teachers are progressive,
according to length of service. As for instance, the principal of the
High-school has $2400 the first year, $2500 the second, $2600 the third,
$2750 the fourth; a head assistant in a district school, $650 the first
year, $700 the second, $750 the third, $800 the fourth, $850 the fifth.
The few schools that I saw fully sustained their public reputation as
to methods, discipline, and attainments. The Normal School, of
something over 100 pupils, nearly all the girls being graduates of
the High-school, was admirable in drill, in literary training, in
calisthenic exercises. The High-school is also admirable, a school with
a thoroughly elevated tone and an able principal. Of the 600 pupils at
least two-thirds were girls. From appearances I should judge that it is
attended by children of the most intelligent families, for certainly
the girls of the junior and senior classes, in manner, looks, dress,
and attainments, compared favorably with those of one of the best girls’
schools I have seen anywhere, the Mary Institute, which is a department
of the Washington University. This fact is most important, for the
excellence of our public schools (for the product of good men and women)
depends largely upon their popularity with the well-to-do classes. One
of the most interesting schools I saw was the Jefferson, presided over
by a woman, having fine fire-proof buildings and 1100 pupils, nearly all
whom are of foreign parentage—German, Russian, and Italian, with many
Hebrews also—a finely ordered, wide-awake school of eight grades. The
kindergarten here was the best I saw; good teachers, bright and happy
little children, with natural manners, throwing themselves gracefully
into their games with enjoyment and without self-consciousness, and
exhibiting exceedingly pretty fancy and kindergarten work. In St.
Louis the kindergarten is a part of the public-school system, and the
experiment is one of general interest. The question cannot be called
settled. In the first place the experiment is hampered in St. Louis by
a decision of the Supreme Court that the public money cannot be used for
children out of the school age, that is, under six and over twenty. This
prevents teaching English to adult foreigners in the evening schools,
and, rigidly applied, it shuts out pupils from the kindergarten under
six. One advantage from the kindergarten was expected to be an extension
of the school period; and there is no doubt that the kindergarten
instruction ought to begin before the age of six, especially for the
mass of children who miss home training and home care. As a matter
of fact, many of the children I saw in the kindergartens were only
constructively six years old. It cannot be said, also, that the Froebel
system is fully understood or accepted. In my observation, the success
of the kindergarten depends entirely upon the teacher; where she is
competent, fully believes in and understands the Froebel system, and is
enthusiastic, the pupils are interested and alert; otherwise they are
listless, and fail to get the benefit of it. The Froebel system is the
developing the concrete idea in education, and in the opinion of his
disciples this is as important for children of the intelligent
and well-to-do as for those of the poor and ignorant. They resist,
therefore, the attempt which is constantly made, to introduce the
primary work into the kindergarten. But for the six years’ limit the
kindergarten in St. Louis would have a better chance in its connection
with the public schools. As the majority of children leave school for
work at the age of twelve or fourteen, there is little time enough
given for book education; many educators think time is wasted in the
kindergarten, and they advocate the introduction of what they call
kindergarten features in the primary classes. This is called by the
disciples of Froebel an entire abandonment of his system. I should like
to see the kindergarten in connection with the public school tried long
enough to demonstrate all that is claimed for it in its influence on
mental development, character, and manners, but it seems unlikely to
be done in St. Louis, unless the public-school year begins at least as
early as five, or, better still, is specially unlimited for kindergarten
pupils.
Except in the primary work in drawing and modelling, there is no manual
training feature in the St. Louis public schools. The teaching of German
is recently dropped from all the district schools (though retained in
the High), in accordance with the well-founded idea of Americanizing our
foreign population as rapidly as possible.
One of the most important institutions in the Mississippi Valley, and
one that exercises a decided influence upon the intellectual and social
life of St. Louis, and is a fair measure of its culture and the value
of the higher education, is the Washington University, which was
incorporated in 1853, and was presided over until his death, in 1887,
by the late Chancellor William Green-leaf Eliot, of revered memory.
It covers the whole range of university studies, except theology,
and allows no instruction either sectarian in religion or partisan in
politics, nor the application of any sectarian or party test in the
election of professors, teachers, or officers. Its real estate and
buildings in use for educational purposes cost $625,000; its libraries,
scientific apparatus, casts, and machinery cost over $100,000, and it
has investments for revenue amounting to over $650,000. The University
comprehends an undergraduate department, including the college (a
thorough classical, literary, and philosophical course, with about sixty
students), open to women, and the polytechnic, an admirably equipped
school of science; the St. Louis Law School, of excellent reputation;
the Manual Training School, the most celebrated school of this sort, and
one that has furnished more manual training teachers than any other;
the Henry Shaw School of Botany; the St. Louis School of Fine Arts; the
Smith Academy, for boys; and the Mary Institute, one of the roomiest and
most cheerful school buildings I know, where 400 girls, whose collective
appearance need not fear comparison with any in the country, enjoy the
best educational advantages. Mary Institute is justly the pride of the
city.
The School of Botany, which is endowed and has its own laboratory,
workshop, and working library, was, of course, the outgrowth of the Shaw
Botanical Garden; it has usually from twenty to thirty special students.
The School of Fine Arts, which was reorganized under the University
in 1879, has enrolled over 200 students, and gives a wide and careful
training in all the departments of drawing, painting, and modelling,
with instructions in anatomy, perspective, and composition, and has life
classes for both sexes, in drawing from draped and nude figures. Its
lecture, working rooms, and galleries of paintings and casts are in
its Crow Art Museum—a beautiful building, well planned and justly
distinguished for architectural excellence. It ranks among the best Art
buildings in the country.
The Manual Training School has been in operation since 1880. It may be
called the most fully developed pioneer institution of the sort. I spent
some time in its workshops and schools, thinking of the very interesting
question at the bottom of the experiment, namely, the mental development
involved in the training of the hand and the eye, and the reflex help to
manual skill in the purely intellectual training of study. It is, it may
be said again, not the purpose of the modern manual training to teach
a trade, but to teach the use of tools as an aid in the symmetrical
development of the human being. The students here certainly do beautiful
work in wood-turning and simple carving, in ironwork and forging. They
enjoy the work; they are alert and interested in it. I am certain that
they are the more interested in it in seeing how they can work out and
apply what they have learned in books, and I doubt not they take hold of
literary study more freshly for this manual training in exactness. The
school exacts close and thoughtful study with tools as well as in books,
and I can believe that it gives dignity in the opinion of the working
student to hand labor. The school is large, its graduates have been
generally successful in practical pursuits and in teaching, and it lias
demonstrated in itself the correctness of the theory of its authors,
that intellectual drill and manual training are mutually advantageous
together. Whether manual training shall be a part of all district school
education is a question involving many considerations that do not enter
into the practicability of this school, but I have no doubt that manual
training schools of this sort would be immensely useful in every city.
There are many boys in every community who cannot in any other wayr be
awakened to any real study. This training school deserves a chapter
by itself, and as I have no space for details, I take the liberty of
referring those interested to a volume on its aims and methods by Dr. C.
M. Woodward, its director.
Notwithstanding the excellence of the public-school system of St. Louis,
there is no other city in the country, except New Orleans, where so
large a proportion of the youths are being educated outside the public
schools. A very considerable portion of the population is Catholic.
There are forty-four parochial schools, attended by nineteen thousand
pupils, and over a dozen different Sisterhoods are engaged in teaching
in them. Generally each parochial school has two departments—one for
boys and one for girls. They are sustained entirely by the parishes. In
these schools, as in the two Catholic universities, the prominence of
ethical and religious training is to be noted. Seven-eighths of the
schools are in charge of thoroughly trained religious teachers. Many of
the boys’ schools are taught by Christian Brothers. The girls are almost
invariably taught by members of religious Sisterhoods. In most of the
German schools the girls and smaller boys are taught by Sisters, the
larger boys by lay teachers. Some reports of school attendance are given
in the Catholic Directory: SS. Peter and Paul’s (German), 1300 pupils;
St. Joseph’s (German), 957; St. Bridget’s, 950; St. Malaehy’s, 756; St.
John’s, 700; St. Patrick’s, 700. There is a school for colored children
of 150 pupils taught by colored Sisters.
In addition to these parochial schools there are a dozen academies
and convents of higher education for young ladies, all under charge of
Catholic Sisterhoods, commonly with a mixed attendance of boarders
and day scholars, and some of them with a reputation for learning that
attracts pupils from other States, notably the Academy of the Sacred
Heart, St. Joseph’s Academy, and the Academy of the Visitation, in
charge of cloistered nuns of that order. Besides these, in connection
with various reformatory and charitable institutions, such as the House
of the Good Shepherd and St. Mary’s Orphan Asylum, there are industrial
schools in charge of the Sisterhoods, where girls receive, in addition
to their education, training in some industry to maintain themselves
respectably when they leave their temporary homes. Statistics are
wanting, but it will be readily inferred from these statements that
there are in the city a great number of single women devoted for life,
and by special religious and intellectual training, to the office of
teaching.
For the higher education of Catholic young men the city is distinguished
by two remarkable institutions. The one is the old St. Louis University,
and the other is the Christian Brothers’ College. The latter, which a
few years ago outgrew its old buildings in the city, has a fine pile of
buildings at Côte Brillante, on a commanding site about five miles out,
with ample grounds, and in the neighborhood of the great parks and the
Botanical Garden. The character of the school is indicated by the motto
on the façade of the building—Religio, Mores, Cultura. The institution
is designed to accommodate a thousand boarding students. The present
attendance is 450, about half of whom are boarders, and represent twenty
States. There is a corps of thirty-five professors, and three courses of
study are maintained—the classical, the scientific, and the commercial.
As several of the best parochial schools are in charge of Christian
Brothers, these schools are feeders of the college, and the pupils have
the advantage of an unbroken system with a consistent purpose from the
day they enter into the primary department till they graduate at the
college. The order has, at Glencoe, a large Normal School for the
training of teachers. The fame and success of the Christian Brothers
as educators in elementary and the higher education, in Europe and the
United States, is largely due to the fact that they labor as a unit in
a system that never varies in its methods of imparting instruction,
in which the exponents of it have all undergone the same pedagogic
training, in which there is no room for the personal fancy of the
teacher in correction, discipline, or scholarship, for everything is
judiciously governed by prescribed modes of procedure, founded on long
experience, and exemplified in the co-operative plan of the Brothers.
In vindication of the exceptional skill acquired by its teachers in the
thorough drill of the order, the Brotherhood points to the success of
its graduates in competitive examinations for public employment in this
country and in Europe, and to the commendation its educational exhibits
received at London and New Orleans.
The St. Louis University, founded in 1829 by members of the Society of
Jesus, and chartered in 1834, is officered and controlled by the Jesuit
Fathers. It is an unendowed institution, depending upon fees paid
for tuition. Before the war its students were largely the children of
Southern planters, and its graduates are found all over the South and
South-west; and up to 1881 the pupils boarded and lodged within the
precincts of the old buildings on the corner of Ninth Street and
Washington, where for over half a century the school has vigorously
flourished. The place, which is now sold and about to be used for
business purposes, has a certain flavor of antique scholarship, and the
quaint buildings keep in mind the plain but rather pleasing architecture
of the French period. The University is in process of removal to the new
buildings on Grand avenue, which are a conspicuous ornament to one of
the most attractive parts of the city. Soon nothing will be left of
the institution on Ninth Street except the old college church, which is
still a favorite place of worship for the Catholics of the city. The new
buildings, in the early decorated English Gothic style, are ample and
imposing; they have a front of 270 feet, and the northern wing extends
325 feet westward from the avenue. The library, probably the finest room
of the kind in the West, is sixty-seven feet high, amply lighted,
and provided with three balconies. The library, which was packed for
removal, has over 25,000 volumes, is said to contain many rare and
interesting books, and to fairly represent science and literature.
Besides this, there are special libraries, open to students, of over
