as though the rind of a lemon had been mixed therewith.
"I will give one to Zut, if I may," he said, and thereat he tossed one,
which the dog caught on the fly and swallowed with the discreetest
blink. And then, with the appreciation of a gourmet, Tancred added:
"It is excellent; may I have another?"
The dish again was passed to him. Before he rose from the table the
majority of the sweets had disappeared. It was evident that both master
and dog had a taste for just such comestibles as these. As he devoured
one and then another, he noticed that Liance was watching him.
"The general was in Mexico some years ago," Mrs. Lyeth added,
inconsequently. "I have heard him speak of the beauty of the women. But
in New York they are more beautiful still, are they not?"
"Yes, they are pretty enough," Tancred answered.
"I hear they propose to the men," Liance interjected.
"Ah, that is a libel. In leap-year, perhaps, and in jest, such a thing
may occur, but--"
"They are well behaved, then?"
"Yes, indeed. I remember, though, one girl--her name was--there, I have
forgotten it. However, a young fellow was evidently taken with her, and
she, as evidently, was taken with him. But for some reason or other he
never seemed to get to the point. One afternoon, when he was drinking
tea with her, the heat of the room--our houses, you know, are fearfully
hot--must have affected her. She went off like that! The young fellow
was at his wits' end. It may be that he had never seen anyone faint
before. 'What shall I do? what shall I do?' he exclaimed, and he was
about to scream for assistance, when the girl in her swoon murmured:
'Kiss me.' He did so and she recovered at once. H'm--they were married
last spring."
During the telling of this anecdote Tancred noticed that the girl's eyes
were still on his. But as the ultimate phrase dropped from him she rose
and left the room.
"She is exquisite," Tancred confided in a whisper to Mrs. Lyeth. To this
that lady assented. "But you--" he added, and then stopped short.
"Let us go to the pavilion, it is cooler there." Mrs. Lyeth had risen,
and Tancred, hesitant still, followed as she led the way.
"But you," he added at last, "you are perfect."
She had found a seat and he another. A fan which she held she unfurled
and shut again with a sudden click. For a moment she toyed with a fold
of her frock, but presently her hand fell to her side. He caught it up
and kissed the finger-tips. At once she drew it from him.
"It is the climate that has affected you," she said, "not I."
"It is you," he muttered, "it is you."
"Even so, there let it rest."
"I cannot," he insisted; "I love you." As he spoke he started, startled
at his own temerity. And as her eyelids drooped he tried to catch her
hand again.
"Then, if you love me, say nothing." She had straightened herself and
looked him now in the face. "If the general should even imagine--" A
gesture completed the sentence.
Tancred nodded. He seemed confident and assured. Evidently the general
had aroused no fear in him.
"It was in Mexico," she continued. "Liance was in the cradle. Her
mother"--and Mrs. Lyeth turned her head and looked cautiously
around--"her mother was younger than I am now. She was beautiful, I have
understood; more so even than her daughter. The general suspected that
she was flirting with the Austrian attaché. He had him out and shot him.
His wife he drove to suicide. It is only recently I learned this. And
yet it is not for that reason that I fear. I have no intention of
flirting with you; you know that. It is because--because--"
"Don't hunt for a reason. I am willing to be shot."
Mrs. Lyeth hastened to laugh, but her laugh was troubled. It sounded
thin, as forced laughter ever does. She unfurled her fan again, and
agitated it with sudden vigor.
"It may not be," she murmured.
Her voice was so low that even the breeze did not catch it. And now, as
she turned to her companion, it seemed to him that her eyes were
compassionate, sympathetic even, awake to possibilities yet careless of
result.
At the moment there came to Tancred that annoyance which visits us in
dream. Before him was a flower more radiant than any parterre had ever
produced. With a reach of the arm it could be his, but his arm had lost
its cunning. Do what he might, it refused to move. And still the flower
glowed, and still the arm hung pendent and quasi-paralyzed at his side.
It may be--such things have happened--it may be that of the inward
effort Mrs. Lyeth marked some sign. She shut her fan again, and made as
though to rise. But this movement of hers, like the clock in the fable,
must have dissolved the spell. Abruptly Tancred was on his feet.
"One instant," he said. "There, you can give me that. Nay, see, if you
wish to--go."
And at this he stood aside, as though to let her pass. The magnetism,
however, which youth possesses, may have coerced her. In any event she
made no further effort to leave; she sat, her eyes a trifle dilated, a
whiteness quivering beneath the lace-work at her neck.
"That is good of you," he added; "I have but a word to say. Listen to
it, will you? I was sure you would. Last night--or was it last
night?--it seems a year ago. H'm, there are people whom we meet--you
must have experienced the same thing--people that disturb us with
suggestions of something that has gone before. When I saw you last
evening--no, not that; but when I heard your voice, there came with it a
reminiscence of earlier and forgotten days. It was not of the present I
thought, but of a past I remembered I had dreamed. It was like a tangled
skein. One after another the threads unloosed, and as they separated
from each parting knot a memory returned. You were not a stranger, you
were a friend I had lost. I could have sat with you, and from yesterday
I could have led you back from one horizon to another until that
posting-house was reached where our destiny changed its horses and our
hands were first unclasped."
This fine speech delivered, he looked down and plucked at his cuff. And
presently, as he was about to speak again, Mrs. Lyeth raised her fan.
"After that I have either to thank you or to go!" Her voice was less
severe than pained, and she seemed to retreat yet further in her chair.
"And I thank you," she added, after a pause, "but it is you that must
go."
To this Tancred answered nothing. He contented himself with looking
insubordinate and cross.
"My poor boy!" she murmured, and sighed--or was it a sigh?--a sound that
seemed to come less from the heart than the spirit. "My poor boy! But
don't you know that you are absurd? I have three brothers--one of them,
by the way, is here now; he went down the coast on Tuesday with some
friends; he will be back, though, to-morrow or the day after. However,
each of my brothers has fallen in love with a woman older than himself,
and each of them has fallen in love again and again. I am, believe me,
grateful for your homage. What you have said is enough to make any woman
pleased. And were I younger--well, then, since you will have it so--were
I free, I would ask to hear it until I knew the words by heart. It
would be pleasant, that. Oh, there might be so very many pleasant
things; yet that is one that may not be. To-morrow, the next day, no
matter, presently you will go; a week later you will find some beauty in
Madras, and, if you think of me then, it will be but with a smile."
She had risen at last, and stood now smiling too. For the life of him
Tancred could not imagine anything fairer, more debonair, nor yet more
just than she.
"If I vex you," he said, "I will hold my tongue. But at least you might
stay. I will promise this--"
But whatever the intended promise may have been it remained
unformulated. In the entrance of the balé-balé Liance had suddenly
appeared.
"It is late, is it not?" Mrs. Lyeth, for countenance sake, inquired.
The girl shrugged her shoulders. A gong in the distance answered in her
stead.
"It is late," Mrs. Lyeth announced. "We had better go in."
She moved from the pavilion, and presently all three reached the house.
The hallway was unlighted, a flicker from the dining-room beyond serving
only to make the darkness more opaque.
"Where is Atcheh?" she asked, and called the "boy" by name.
"There," said Tancred, "let me try to find a match."
He groped down the corridor to his room and in a moment or two returned.
On the way back he passed some one he took to be Liance.
"I could not find one," he exclaimed.
So well as he was able to make out, Mrs. Lyeth had not moved. To his
speech she answered nothing. He advanced a little nearer and tried to
take her hand again, but it eluded him. And in an effort to possess
himself of it he approached nearer still. Her face seemed to be in the
way; for one fleeting second his lips rested on it, then a noise of
hoofs must have alarmed him, for he wheeled like a rat surprised. And
presently, after he had reached his room again, he heard Mrs. Lyeth
welcoming her future husband on the porch.
III.
From his window the next morning Tancred caught a glimpse of Mrs. Lyeth
entering the pavilion beyond. He left the house at once and hastened to
join her; but Liance must have preceded him. When he reached the
pavilion she was already there. On her head was a hat unribboned and
broad of brim, in her hand a basket. She struck Tancred as being more
restless than usual, but the widow was thoroughly at ease. Apparently
the episode in the hallway had not disturbed her in the least. For a few
moments there was a common indulgence in those amiable platitudes of
which the morning hours are prolific, and then Liance stood up.
"If you are going to the coppice, take Mr. Ennever," Mrs. Lyeth
suggested. "He looks bored to death."
"Certainly I will," the girl answered.
Her voice was cordial and her eyes and mouth seemed to invite. Tancred,
however, did not on that account experience any notable desire to
accompany her. On the contrary, he infinitely preferred to remain where
he was. But there was no help for him, not even an excuse. He had his
choice between going and being downright rude. Accordingly he smiled,
but inwardly he swore.
"Show him the rafflesia," Mrs. Lyeth added.
"The what?"
"You shall see it; come."
Liance turned and led the way, and as Tancred followed he marvelled at
the widow's attitude. If he had not kissed her at all she could not have
appeared more unconcerned.
To the left was a grove of betel-nut palms, to the right a patch of
aroids, broad and leathery of leaf. Save for a whir of pheasants in the
distance, and the hum of insects, the hour was still. Even the sea was
silent; and had it not been for the odors of strange plants Tancred
could have closed his eyes and fancied himself in some New England
intervale, loitering through a summer noon. It needed but the toll of a
bell to make it seem a Sabbath. A mosquito alighted on his hand, and he
slaughtered it with a slap. Presently he found himself in a part of the
plantation which he had not yet visited, a strip of turf, the
background defended by trees. And there, in the centre, was an object
such as he had never seen before. He turned inquiringly to Liance; her
eyes were on his own.
"The rafflesia," she lisped, and nodded.
And as he moved to get a nearer view she caught him by the arm.
"Be careful," she added, and warned him with a glance.
But Tancred was not one to fear the immobile; he moved yet nearer to it,
the girl hovering at his side. And as he moved there came to greet him a
heavy, sullen odor, a smell like to that of an acid burning and blent
with rose.
"The heart is poisonous," the girl continued; "don't touch it without
gloves."
The admonition, however, was unnecessary. Tancred was motionless with
surprise. Before him was a flower, its petals of such consistency and of
such unpleasant hue that they resembled huge slabs of uncooked veal. The
chalice was deep enough to hold two gallons of liquid, the pistil was
red, and the supporting stem was gnarled and irruptive with
excrescences. In appearance it suggested an obese and giant lily, grown
in a nightmare and watered with blood. It was hideous yet fascinating,
as monstrosity ever is. And as Tancred stared, a page of forgotten
botany turned in his mind, and he remembered that he had read of this
plant, which Sumatra alone produces, and in whose pistil lurks a poison
swifter than the cantarella of the Borgias, deadlier than the essences
of Locuste.
The odor, more pungent now, drove him back a step. At the moment it
seemed to carry with it a whiff of that atmosphere of creosote and
tooth-wash which is peculiar to the dentist's chair. And slaughtering
another mosquito, he moved yet further away.
"What do you think of it?" asked Liance.
"It would hardly do for the button-hole, would it?" he answered.
The girl nodded appreciatively. Evidently she was of the same mind as
he.
"There are few of them here," she continued. "This is the only one in
Siak, but back there," and she pointed to the mountains, "they are
plentiful. When a Malay prepares for war he slashes the pistil with his
kriss. The wound that that kriss makes is death."
"H'm," mused Tancred, with an uncomfortable shrug, "if I happened to
fall out with a Malay--"
"Don't."
The monosyllable fell from her like a stone.
"I will do my best," he said.
She turned again and led him back through the coppice. The air was
sultrier than ever, heavy with fragrance and enervating with forebodings
of a storm. And now, as the girl preceded him, her step seemed more
listless than before. She is tired, he reflected. These noons are
fierce.
"You are to be with us some time, are you not?" Liance asked.
"No, a day or two at the most. When the next steamer goes, so must I."
"Could you not stay longer?" She stopped and looked at him, the little
basket swaying to and fro.
"I should like to, really I should like to very much," he replied. The
episode with Mrs. Lyeth was still oppressing him, and in answer to the
oppression he added aloud, "But perhaps it is better I should not."
Liance lowered her eyes, and with the point of her shoe tormented a tuft
of grass.
"Why?" she asked.
"Because--well, because I feel an intruder."
The girl raised her eyes at once, her lips quivered.
"You are wrong, so wrong."
And then, curiously enough, as such things happen, Tancred--who was not
a bit stupider than the rest of us--felt an oracle within him. It was
more than probable, he told himself, that widow and maid, being nearly
of an age, had, in their Sumatran idleness, become the fastest friends;
and at once, with that logic which is peculiar to those that love, he
decided that, being friends, they must be confidantes as well, and he
concluded that two fair heads had come together and determined he should
remain. That woman is variable, was a song he knew by heart, and he also
knew that woman is apt to do one thing and mean another--to dismiss, for
instance, the very man whom she wishes most at her feet.
These ruminations, however long in the telling, did not in reality
outlast a moment's space. It was all very clear to him now, and his
blood pulsed quickly.
"If you tell me so, I must indeed be wrong," he answered. "And let me
add," he continued, impetuously, "it is a boon to know it."
To his face a flush had come, and his eyes were eager. He had never been
accounted anything else than good-looking, but now he was attractive as
well.
"You will not be in haste to go, then?"
"In haste to go--" His face completed the sentence. "Tell her from me,"
he was about to say, when from the girl's loosening fingers the basket
fell; she drooped like a flower, her eyes half closed, and he had but
the time to hold out his arm when she sank unconscious on it.
The grass seemed an inviting couch, and very gently he let her from him.
"It is the heat," he reflected, and kneeling at her side he took her
small hand and beat it with his own. "What shall I do?" he wondered.
Her cheeks were colorless, though her lips were red, and as, in his
perplexity, he gazed at them, he saw them move. "Kiss me," they seemed
to say. Her eyes opened and she smiled.
And still he stared. "Merciful heaven!" he thought; "she thinks I am in
love with her;" and feigning that the invitation had passed unheard he
sprang to his feet.
"Help me," she murmured, smiling still; and as he bent again to aid her,
before him in the coppice stood Mrs. Lyeth. Already the girl was on her
feet. Whether she had been aware of Mrs. Lyeth's approach, who shall
say? She patted out a rumpled fold of her frock, and picking the basket
up, glanced over at her father's choice.
"I almost fell," she announced. "Mr. Ennever was gallant enough to
prevent me."
In single file all three then returned to tiffin at the bungalow.
IV.
The afternoon slipped by like a chapter in a fairy tale. It promised but
it did not fulfil, and at dinner the champagne sparkled, but the
conversation was flat. When the cloth was removed the general manifested
a desire to look over some papers, and Tancred and the ladies retreated
to the pavilion beyond. Yet even there the wheels of talk were clogged.
Mrs. Lyeth indeed discoursed amiably enough on the subject of nothing at
all, and now and then Liance interjected an apposite sally; but Tancred
was taciturn. He divided his time between biting his moustache and
bidding Zut be still. And when at last through some channel of thought
Mrs. Lyeth anchored herself in the shallows of Anglo-Saxon verse, for a
moment the young man fancied that the girl was about to go. Liance made
a movement, but whether some signal from her future step-mother detained
her, or whether of her own accord she reconsidered her purpose, Tancred
was unable to decide. The girl resumed her seat, and, one arm extended
on the woodwork, the other pendent at her side, her feet crossed, her
head thrown back, she sat staring at the stars in that abstracted
attitude which powder and shot are alone qualified to disturb.
There is much in an opportunity that might be and is not. In
recollection it appears more fecund in possibilities than any other
opportunity ever enjoyed. And later on, when Tancred, without having
had the opportunity to exchange in private so much as a word with Mrs.
Lyeth, found himself in his room, he ravened at fate and at his own
ill-luck. Nothing that he could imagine would have been sweeter to him
than to have sat the evening through alone with that human flower. There
would have been no need of speech; the languors of the night, the caress
of the stars, the scent of palms and of orchids, the accent of the waves
beyond, these things would have spoken for him more subtly than words
could do. Through their silence the breeze would have whispered, and who
does not know what a breeze can say? Though they sat apart, the stars
that the old gods used as go-betweens were there to join their hands.
They might be timid, but is not the surge of the sea a call that stirs
the pulse? And the palms had their secrets to tell, and they would have
told them, too; nay, the very fire-flies would have conspired together
and made the night more dark. And, instead of a communion such as that,
there had been an aimless chit-chat, an awkwardness that was sentient,
and an embarrassment terminated only by a chill "Good-night." Truly Zut,
who had treed a hedgehog, was to be envied. His evening at least had not
been squandered and misspent.
The morrow differed from the day preceding merely in this, that not for
one instant during it did Tancred have an opportunity of seeing either
Mrs. Lyeth or Liance alone. After tiffin they were inseparate. And
Tancred, who had made plans for the afternoon, then made plans for the
evening. But the hope which buoyed him was idle. The evening which
followed was a counterpart of the one that had gone before, save in
this, the general, having no papers to look over, held forth as generals
will, and Zut searched for a hedgehog in vain. That night, for the first
time, Tancred entered fully into the feelings of Tantalus and those of
Sisyphus too. He was dumbly exasperated, the more so perhaps in that he
divined that to one cleverer than he no obstacle would exist. If a woman
has an ear, and as a rule women have, there is always a way to get at
it. Unfortunately for Tancred, the way in this case was by no means
clear, and what helped to confuse him was the fact that he was impatient
to find it at once, no, but there and then, and without delay. And as in
his exasperation he dashed his head against the pillow, he told himself
that he had been abrupt, that he had unmasked his batteries too soon,
that he had frightened where he had meant to charm. Of Liance he gave no
thought whatever, except to decide that she was a nuisance. And such is
the selfishness of man, that he wished she would topple over again and
sprain a joint; in short, that anything might happen which would keep
her to her room and out of the way of Mrs. Lyeth. The idea that the
general's bride-elect might be keeping her purposely at her side was one
that never occurred to him. She is a nuisance, he decided, and dismissed
her from his thoughts.
Before he fell asleep his mind was clear as to one thing; to wit, that
in a small household it is more difficult to be alone with one
particular person than in a household where there are many. Whether he
was correct or not is a matter of the smallest possible importance. The
next morning, when Atcheh appeared with coffee and fruit, he was aware
that he had wandered through an assortment of dreams in which the
rafflesia and the general were confusedly connected; at one moment the
general had changed into that unhallowed flower, at another the
rafflesia had bristled with the moustaches of his host. And as he rose
from these fancies to his coffee he encountered a scheme which he
detained and examined. It was not particularly shrewd, yet at the moment
it seemed luminous to him. It was to the effect that if he were
inhibited from private speech with Mrs. Lyeth, there was no reason in
the world why he should not write. And as he mused, from the porch
beyond rose the sound of her voice.
He was too far away to hear what she was saying, and, parenthetically,
had he been nearer he would not have listened. But now the intonation,
the trailing accent of her speech affected him as a balm. The irritation
faded, as irritation ever does; he found some paper, and as, to the
accompaniment of her voice, he prepared to write one of those letters in
which punctuation is disregarded and sequence of idea forgot, he heard
her waving inflection cut by a harsher note. It was the general, he
knew. For the moment he wondered why he had not already gone to the
consulate, but presently the noise of hoofs, the creak of wheels, a
shrill cry, and the hiss of a whip seemed to announce that the
conveyance which took the consul each morning to Siak was at the door.
Tancred's window did not give on the road, but on the coppice and the
pavilion, yet when again he caught the creak of wheels it demanded
little imagination on his part to picture the general sitting bolt
upright in a gharry, driving to the sun-smitten town beyond. And as the
clatter of hoofs fainted in the distance, Tancred took up the pen again.
The letter which he then succeeded in producing was one similar to what
we have all of us written and all of us received--a clear call of love,
in which the words are less jotted than shaken from the end of the pen.
Its transcription here is needless.
A love-letter which can pleasure anyone save the recipient proceeds not
from the heart but the head. Moreover, when Tancred began it he had not
the faintest idea what he intended to say, and when it was finished he
did not remember what he had written. Oh, sweethearts and swains! mind
ye of this: when a love-letter differs from that, it emanates from a
poet or a fraud. Tancred was neither. He was simply a young man suddenly
enthralled by the charm of a woman older than himself. He intended no
wrong, and if you or I or any other implacable moralist had happened
that way and told him, as would have been our duty, that he was
betraying the sacredest of trusts, the confidence of a host, he would
have exhibited the surprise of a child frowned at for innocent prattle.
Bear with him then; of wrong he intended none. It is the essence of
crime that it be committed with malice aforethought, that the intention
to commit it be clear. In the present case the intention was wholly
lacking. Tancred was carried along by one of those unreasoning impulses
which the psychologist recognizes and cannot explain. And that impulse,
after throwing him at Mrs. Lyeth's feet and dictating a letter to her,
left his conscience unruffled and at peace.
His pulse, however, still was stirred. And, the letter completed, he was
not in a greater hurry to do anything else than to get it safely in her
hand. The manner in which this was to be accomplished was another
matter. He might offer it to her in person, or he might leave it in her
room. He might even watch his opportunity and slip it into her hand;
but, for that, he immediately reflected he would have to wait the
opportunity--a tedious operation at best; and, moreover, was he not in
haste? And as he mused he remembered that Dugald Maule, a New Yorker
like himself, finding himself in similar strait, had, under the very
nose of a duenna, deliberately abstracted a handkerchief from his
inamorata's pocket, and, wrapping a letter up in it, handed it back with
the civilest inquiry as to whether she had not just let the handkerchief
fall? That was a remarkably neat trick, Tancred told himself, but
somehow it seemed to demand a degree of assurance of which he felt
unpossessed. Besides, it was a trick, and as such distasteful to him.
And as he twirled his moustache, vaguely perplexed, undecided in what
way to act, determining that it were better perhaps to leave it all to
chance, he caught a glimpse of Mrs. Lyeth entering the pavilion alone.
She was in white from head to foot, alluring as spring, and doubtless
every whit as fragrant; she moved easily, her body erect and unswayed,
and as Tancred caught sight of her he would have taken his chances then
and there, but almost simultaneously he saw Liance following behind. In
the annoyance he filliped forefinger and thumb together, and tried to
possess his soul with patience. It was not impossible that in a moment
the girl might go, and then his time would come. Meanwhile it behooved
him to be careful and to remain unseen. But no, Liance must have seated
herself at the other side of the pavilion, for he could hear Mrs. Lyeth
address her, and the murmurs of the girl's replies. Presumably they
would remain together until tiffin, and if before tiffin the note was
not delivered, another afternoon, the evening too, perhaps, would be
wasted and lost.
And as he thought of this, behind him he divined rather than heard
Atcheh's noiseless tread. He turned at once. Another idea had come to
him, one on which he determined to act at once. The "boy" was already
retreating, a tray in his hand.
"Dja keno," Tancred called.
On shipboard he had not been altogether idle. The Malay tongue is as
easy to speak badly as Italian, and Tancred had found slight difficulty
in acquiring enough mouthfuls for ordinary needs. "Dja keno--come here."
The sultry savage wheeled and obeyed.
"Ba gnio inong--take this to the lady." And as Tancred spoke he pointed
through the lattice to Mrs. Lyeth.
The Malay took the note and bowed.
"Baë, Tuan," he answered. "Your lordship, it is well."
In a moment the man had gone, and in another moment Tancred saw him
approach Mrs. Lyeth and place the letter in her hand. He could see that
she was eying it, wonderingly no doubt, for now she turned her head, but
already the Malay had disappeared. And as she still looked about her,
holding the letter unopened before her, Tancred felt as though something
were clutching at his throat. From out the coppice, not a dozen yards
distant, the general had suddenly emerged.
In a state similar to that mental paralysis which visits us in dream,
Tancred marked his advance. It seemed perfectly natural that he should
be there; without an effort he recalled the fact, forgotten albeit until
now, yet still the unaccountable fact that it was Sunday; and presently,
as the general halted, his thin figure erect, a bamboo switch in his
hand, his cavalry moustache more bristling than ever, and
proprietor-fashion surveyed the grounds, it was to Tancred as though he
had been there for all of time. Then at once the cerebral swoon
departed, in a confusion of visions, with that thing still clutching at
his throat and his heart beating like mad, he saw on one side Mrs. Lyeth
open the letter, and on the other the general decapitate a poppy with
his switch.
Already Mrs. Lyeth had turned the initial page; she had read the second
and was beginning at the last, when the general, to whose presence
behind her she was obviously oblivious, advanced on tiptoe to where she
sat. Tancred saw him raise a warning finger to his lips, beneath the
moustache he divined a smile, invisible to him, yet apparent, doubtless,
to Liance, at whom the warning gesture must have been made, and then,
bending over his fiancée's shoulder, he peered at the letter which
she held. Yet before he could have deciphered so much as a line of it,
Mrs. Lyeth started, as we all do when taken unaware. In an instant,
however, she recovered her self-possession. She turned to the general,
her mouth compressed into a pout.
"Do you know," she said, from the tips of her lips, "you are as bad as
Atcheh. A cat would make more noise."
At this reproof the general laughed aloud, and, as though in sheer
excess of glee, beat his leg with the switch. Tancred could see it was,
indeed, a merry jest to him.
"My bonny Kate!" he gurgled. "I frightened her, did I not?" And again he
beat his leg and laughed. "And whom is the missive from?" he asked. "I
heard the gharry's wheels an hour ago. Will you pay me if I wager and I
win? Will you pay me? I wager it is from--h'm--let me see. I wager it is
from that coffee planter's wife you met at Singapore."
And Mrs. Lyeth, with her bravest smile, answered:
"You have lost."
"From whom is it then? There is no European mail to-day." He eyed her,
laughing still. "From whom is it?" he repeated. And as he spoke he bent
again and looked down at the letter, which still lay open in her hand.
"Tancred Ennever!" he exclaimed. "Why, what has he to write to you
about?"
"Don't ask me," she answered, airily; and then, presumably, she must
have understood the uselessness of further parry, for she added,
carelessly enough, "It is to Liance, not to me."
From the window Tancred could see the general turn to where his daughter
sat. And as he watched he saw the girl issue from the shadow, take the
letter from Mrs. Lyeth, and escape with it to the house. During the
entire scene she had not uttered a word. She had been a witness, not an
actor, and now as she crossed the lawn, the letter rumpled in her hold,
there was an alertness in her step and such expectance in her face that
you would have thought her hastening to a rendez-vous. It was evident
that she, too, had taken the fib for truth.
Tancred moved back. When he again peered out, the general and his
bride-elect had disappeared.
V.
Over the luncheon to which Tancred was presently summoned a foreboding
hovered, ambient in the air. Mrs. Lyeth was not present, confined by a
headache, Liance explained, to her room. The girl herself preserved her
every-day attitude, and Tancred did his best to engage her in speech;
but she did not second his endeavors. When he addressed her she
answered, if at all, with her eyes, and in them she put something that
resembled a monition. Save for the reference to her future step-mother,
she broke bread in silence. As for the general, Cruikshank would have
taken him to his heart; he was both jocose and irritable; he feigned a
glutton interest in his plate; he loaded the soft Malay tongue with
curious oaths, which he exploded at the servant; he alternately praised
and reviled the food, and from beneath his bushy eyebrows he glanced in
the kindliest fashion now at his daughter and now at his guest. And so
well did he succeed in heightening the enervation of the latter that it
was not until the acrid caramels were passed that Tancred even pretended
to eat. Then, remembering that it was Liance that made them, he ventured
to compliment the girl, and, as she answered nothing, acknowledging the
tribute only by an inclination of the head, he saw in the expression of
her face that she was even more emotionalized than he. Presently a
burning coal and some cigars were brought. Liance rose from the table,
and Tancred, rising too, accompanied her to the door. There, it may be,
she had some message to impart; her lips moved, yet before Tancred could
grasp its import the general called him, and he was obliged to turn. The
girl wandered out on the veranda, and Tancred resumed his seat.
"Will you smoke?" the general asked. His tone was so friendly that
Tancred felt more miserable than before. "Take one," he continued.
"Sumatran tobacco ranks nearly with the Havanese."
For a fraction of time which seemed immeasurable the two men smoked in
silence. But in a moment the general gave a poke at the coal, and looked
up at his guest.
"Mrs. Lyeth tells me that you have done us the honor to ask for my
daughter's hand."
Tancred glanced at the point of his cigar, and discovered that it was
out.
"May I trouble you?" he murmured.
The general shoved the brasier toward him, and watched the relighting
with evident solicitude.
"It's the dampness," he announced. "H'm. Am I correctly informed?"
Tancred gave a puff or two, and then, withdrawing the weed, he held it
contemplatively between forefinger and thumb; but he answered not a
word.
The general knocked the ashes from his own cigar and eyed the burning
coal.
"H'm, let me ask you, did you write to my daughter this morning?"
And Tancred, with that long-drawn breath we take when we prepare for the
worst, answered shortly:
"I did."
To this avowal the general nodded encouragingly. Tancred, however,
seemed averse to further confidences; he kept looking at his cigar as
though it were some strange and uncanny thing.
"H'm, well--er--did you, did you begin the letter with a term of
endearment?"
"Yes, general."
Tancred had tossed his cigar--a cigar that ranked nearly with a
Havanese--into the finger-bowl. He straightened himself and looked his
host in the face.
"Yes, general, and I am sorry for it. I have no excuse, not one. It was
a piece of unpardonable ill-breeding. I had no right to send the note; I
had no encouragement to write it. The only amend in my power is an
apology. I make one now to you; let me beg that you will convey another
to your daughter."
The general half rose from his seat and hit the table with his fist. His
face was convulsed. He was hideous.
"But, bandit that you are," he cried, "she loves you."
"No, general, you are wrong."
"Ah, I am wrong, am I? Not an hour ago she told me so of her own
accord."
"General, it was a jest."
"A jest! You call it a jest to surprise a girl in the dark"--
"To what?" gasped Tancred. "To what?"
"There, you know well enough what I mean. I refer to the other evening."
"Merciful heaven!" groaned Tancred, "it was she then that I kissed."
"It is a jest to do a thing like that, to write impassioned letters, and
to win a heart. Is it a jest you call it, sir, or did I misunderstand
your words?"
"No general, not that. What I meant was that it was impossible for Miss
Van Lier to have confessed to any love for me--"
The lattice at the window was thrust aside. For a second the girl's
sidereal eyes blazed into the room.
"He is right, father: I do not love; I hate."
The lattice fell again. She had gone.
During the moment that followed you could have heard a lizard move.
Tancred fumbled at his collar, and General Van Lier sank bank in his
chair.
"Mr. Ennever," he said, at last, "you are my guest."
The tone in which he spoke was low and self-restrained, but in it there
was an accent that was tantamount to a slap in the face.
Tancred was on his feet at once.
"If you permit me, I will leave to-day."
General Van Lier moved to the door.
"There is a boat from Siak at five," he answered.
"General," Tancred hesitated; he was humiliated as he had never been,
and rightly humiliated, he knew. He was trying to say something that
would express his sense of abasement, and a fitting speech was on the
end of his tongue.
"General--"
"After you, sir." The general was pointing to the door.
"General--"
"Nay, sir, after you. I insist."
Tancred bowed and passed out. A moment later he was in his room.
In a corner was a trunk. In another a shirt-box. Tancred gathered his
traps together, and tossed some into the one, some into the other, a
proceeding at which Zut yelped and fawned with delight. Evidently on him
at least the attractions of the bungalow had begun to pall.
"Yes, Zut, we are going."
And at this the dog yelped again and curveted sheer across the room.
"But you must be quiet," Tancred added. "There, be still."
He was thinking of Mrs. Lyeth, and wondering whether he should see her
before he went. If he could exchange but one word with her, surely, he
told himself, she would understand. He lounged to the window and leaned
on the sill.
It was one of those afternoons, brutal and terrible in beauty, which
only the equator provides. The sky was like the curtain of an alcove,
the sun a vomiter of living glare. Beyond was a riot of color such as
Delacroix never dreamed, a combination more insolent than the Quetzal
possesses, all the primaries interstriated, a rainbow of insolent hues.
And there, in white, a parasol over her head, a basket dangling from her
wrist, Liance appeared, emerging, as her father had, from the coppice
beyond.
Instinctively he drew back: he had no wish to see her eyes charged with
hate again. She was not one to forgive, he knew; the beauty of the
equator was in her, and its pitilessness as well. And yet, he reflected,
if I could but tell her not alone how she and I have erred, but how
sorry I am for it all. But no; manifestly an explanation was impossible.
Did he attempt one it might inculpate another. He was not alone solely
to blame, he was blockaded in his own disgrace. He told himself this; he
repeated it even in varying keys; but beneath it all he felt that some
redress should be. The idea that the house he had entered as an honored
guest would see him depart in shame had already brought the blood to his
cheeks. And that blood now was leaving a stain that years would not
efface. "I must write," he decided; "I must write some word." And he was
about to seat himself at the table, when Atcheh appeared.
"Tuan," he murmured, in the soft vocables of his tongue. "The gharry
waits your lordship."
At this Zut, who was surprisingly polyglot of ear, yelped with renewed
delight. Tancred pointed to his effects, and waited until they had been
removed. It was possible, he reflected, that he might meet Liance or
Mrs. Lyeth in the hall. Yet should he not do so, then, he told himself,
he would write from Singapore.
But when he reached the veranda, only the general was there. Beyond, the
gharry stood in readiness, and by it was Atcheh, the trunk and shirt-box
already strapped in place. Tancred stretched his hand.
"General--"
"I wish you a pleasant journey, sir," that gentleman answered, and
lifted his hat.
Mechanically Tancred raised his own.
"I thank you," he said. And with a backward glance he called to Zut and
entered the conveyance.
A whip cracked, the gharry started; in a moment it was on the road.
Tancred turned to take another and a parting look. Already the general
had disappeared, but from a window he caught a glimpse of some one robed
in white. A curve was rounded and the bungalow disappeared.
For an hour over a road beside which the Corniche is commonplace indeed,
the gharry rolled on. To Tancred, however, its beauties were remote and
undiscerned. If he noticed them at all it was only as accessories. He
was wholly absorbed in his own discomfiture, and the gharry drew up and
halted at the wharf before he was aware that Siak had been reached and
the journey was done.
About him was the same assortment of fat-faced Celestials and gaunt
Malays that he had noticed before. Apparently nothing had happened to
them; they had contented themselves with continuing to be. Before him
was a glistening sea, a limitless horizon. To the left the shore
extended, fairer and more brilliant than the courtyard of a royal
domain. Just beyond, one of the ships of the Dutch East India service
was moored, her funnels lengthening and fading in spirals of smoke. And
when Tancred had attended to the transfer of his luggage, and was about
to step into the sampan that was to convey him to the steamer, there
came a clatter of horse's hoofs, and on a black and panting pony Atcheh
suddenly appeared.
"Tuan," he cried, and waved something in the air. "Tuan, a moment more."
In that moment he had sprung from the pony and run to where Tancred
stood.
"From the little lady, Lord," he said, and, handing a basket to his
master's guest, bowed to the ground.
Tancred found a bit of gold.
"For you," he said, and the Malay bowed again. "To the lady, give my
thanks."
And at once his heart gave an exultant throb; his departure was
regretted. As he lowered himself into the boat his excess of joy was so
acute he nearly fell. Truly, if it be pleasant to appreciate, it is also
pleasant to be appreciated. He still clutched at the basket, his hands
moist with excitement, his face aglow, and it was not until the ship was
reached that he noticed that Zut was sniffing at it.
"Behave," he ordered. But his voice was so kindly that the little fellow
only sniffed the more. It was easy to see that he was jubilating too.
On deck Tancred experienced some difficulty in securing a cabin. But for
what were rupees coined and tips invented? The steward consulted the
purser, the purser consulted the first officer, and in five minutes the
cabin of the latter functionary was at Tancred's disposal. It was roomy
and cool; or perhaps it would be more exact to say that it was fully as
large as a closet and that the thermometer did not mark one degree above
ninety. In short, Tancred had every reason to consider himself in luck.
He shut the door and throwing himself on a wicker settee he opened the
basket, which until now he had kept tight clasped in his hand.
It was, he saw, filled with sweetmeats such as he had eaten at the
bungalow. On top, pinned to the interior of the basket, was a slip of
paper that contained a single line--Souvenir et bon voyage--and for
signature, Liance. He read the message twice, and, it may be, he would
have repeated the message aloud, but Zut kept bothering him with little
hungry yelps. To quiet the dog be tossed him a sweet and put the basket
down.
In some mysterious manner his joy had taken itself away. It was not from
Liance he had expected a remembrance. When Atcheh placed the basket in
his hand, he had told himself that, whatever it might contain, it was at
least a gift from Mrs. Lyeth, a token expressive of her regret at his
departure. And instead of that there was a handful of bonbons that might
have been sent to a child, and a meaningless message from one to whose
solicitude he was indifferent. The disappointment, indeed, was great.
For a while he let it intensify within him. But presently he stood up:
it was getting dark; long since the sob of water displaced had told him
that the ship had started; a turn on deck might do him good, he thought;
and as he moved to the door he called to his dog.
"Zut!"
And as the dog did not immediately appear, Tancred wondered could he
have got out. But no, the door was closed.
"What the dickens can have become of him?" he muttered, and turning
again he caught sight of Zut stretched on the floor. "Hello!" he
exclaimed, "there you are. Why don't you come when you're called?"
Even at this, however, the dog did not move. Tancred bent over and
touched him, and then suddenly kneeled down. "Why, what is the matter
with him? A moment ago he was right enough; it is impossible that--Zut!
Zut Alors!"
And raising the dog's head up he stared at it. The eyes were convulsed,
the tongue was swollen and distorted. "He is dead," he murmured. "He is
dead. But how?"
To this question no answer was vouchsafed. In his bewilderment he stood
up again and leaned at the port-hole. Already Siak had faded. Above was
a splatter of callous stars, beneath was the sea, black now and almost
chill.
"But how?" he repeated. Then at once he clutched at the woodwork; his
eyes had fallen on the basket; he remembered the sweet he had tossed to
the dog. The cabin seemed to be turning round.
At his side the door opened, and the steward looked in. "Supper is
ready, sir; will you come?"
"The rafflesia!" Tancred gasped at him. But what he meant by that absurd
reply the steward did not think it necessary to ask.
"Very good, sir," he answered, and shut the door.
THE GRAND DUKE'S RUBIES.
There is in New York a club called the Balmoral, which has two
peculiarities--no one ever goes there much before midnight, and it is
the only place in town where you can get anything fit to eat at four
o'clock in the morning. The members are politicians of the higher grade,
men about town, and a sprinkle of nondescripts. In the unhallowed
inspiration of a moment, Alphabet Jones, the novelist,--in polite
society Mr. A. B. Fenwick Chisholm-Jones,--baptized it the Smallpox, a
name which has stuck tenaciously, the before-mentioned members being
usually pitted--against each other. Of the many rooms of the club, one,
it should be explained, is the most enticing. It is situated on an upper
floor, and the siren that presides therein is a long table dressed in
green. Her name is Baccarat.
One night last February, Alphabet Jones rattled up to the door in a
vagabond hansom. He was thirsty, impecunious, and a trifle tired. He had
been to a cotillon, where he had partaken of champagne, and he wanted to
get the taste of it out of his throat. He needed five hundred dollars,
and in his card-case there were only two hundred and fifty. The bar of
the Athenæum Club he knew at that hour was closed, possible
money-lenders were in bed, and it was with the idea of killing the two
birds of the legend that he sought the Balmoral.
He encountered there no difficulty in slaking his thirst; and when, in
one draught, which brought to his tonsils a suggestion of art, science,
and Wagner combined, he swallowed a brandy-and-soda, he felt better, and
looked about to see who might be present. The room which he had entered
was on what is called the parlor floor. It was long, high-ceiled,
comfortably furnished, and somewhat dim. At the furthermost end three
men were seated, two of whom he recognized, the one as Sumpter Leigh,
the other as Colonel Barker; but the third he did not remember to have
seen before. Some Westerner, he thought; for Jones prided himself on
knowing every one worth knowing in New York, and, it may be added, in
several other cities as well.
He took out his card-case and thumbed the roll of bills reflectively.
If he went upstairs, he told himself, he might double the amount in two
minutes. But then, again, he might lose it. Yet, if he did, might not
five hundred be as easily borrowed as two hundred and fifty?
"It's brutal to be so hard up," he mused. "Literature doesn't pay. I
might better set up as publisher, open a drug-shop, turn grocer, do
anything, in fact, which is brainless and remunerative, than attempt to
earn a living by the sweat of my pen. There's that Interstate
Magazine: the editor sent me a note by a messenger this morning, asking
for a story, adding that the messenger would wait while I wrote it.
Evidently he thinks me three parts stenographer and the rest
kaleidoscope. What is a good synonym for an editor, anyway?"
And as Jones asked himself this question he glared fiercely in a mirror
that extended from cornice to floor. Then, mollified, possibly, by his
own appearance, for he was a handsome man, tall, fair, and clear of
skin, he threw himself on a sofa, and fell to thinking about the
incidents of the ball.
For some time past he had been as discreetly attentive as circumstances
permitted to a young girl, the only child of a potent financier, and on
that particular evening he had sat out the cotillon with her at an
assembly. She was very pretty and, unusual as it may seem in a
débutante, rather coy. But when, a half-hour before, he had wished her
sweet dreams in that seductive manner for which he was famous, she had
allowed the tips of her fingers to rest in his own just one fleeting
second longer than was necessary, and, what is more to the point, had
looked into his eyes something which now, under the influence of the
brandy-and-soda, seemed almost a promise. "Dear little soul!" he
muttered; "if she marries me I will refuse her nothing. It will be the
devil's own job, though, to get her any sort of an engagement ring.
