"Yes, or made way with ourselves in an access of 
emotional insanity, supposed to have been induced 
by unavailing flat-hunting," he suggested. 
She fell in with the notion. "I'm beginning to 
feel crazy. But I don 't want you to lose your head, 
Basil. And I don't vrant you to sentimentalise any 
of the tilings you see in New York. I think you 
were disposed to do it in that street we drove through. 
I don't believe there 's any real suffering — not real 
suffering — among those people   that is, it would he 
suffering from our i)oint of view, hut they've been 
used to it all their lives, and they don't feel their 
discomfort so much." 
" Of course I understand that, and I don't propose 
to sentimentalise them. I think when people get 
used to a bad state of things they had better stick 
to it ; in fact they don't usually like a better state 
so well, and I shall keep that firmly in mind." 
She laughed with him, and they walked along the 
L-bestridden avenue, exhilarated by their escape 
from murder and suicide in that cellar, toward the 
nearest cross-town track, which they meant to take 
home to their hotel. " Now to-night we will go to 
the theatre," she said, "and get this whole house 
business out of our minds, and be perfectly fresh for 
a new start in the morning." Suddenly she clutched 
his arm. " Why, did you see that man ? " and she 
signed with her head toward a dfecently dressed 
person who walked beside them, next the gutter, 
stooping over as if to examine it, and half halting at 
times. 
"No. What?" 
'' Why, I saw him pick up a dirty bit of cracker 
from the pavement and cram it into his mouth and 
eat it down as if he were famished. And look ! he 's 
actually hunting for more in those garbage heaps !" 
This was what the decent-lookinn; man with the 
 
hard hands and broken nails of a workman was 
doing — like a hungry dog. They kept up with him, 
in the fascination of the sight, to the next corner, 
where he turned down the side street still searching 
the gutter. 
They walked on a few paces. Then March said, 
" I must go after him," and left his wife standing. 
"Are you in want — hungry?" he asked the 
man. 
The man said he could not speak English, 
monsieur. 
March asked his question in French. 
The man shrugged a pitiful, desperate shrug, 
'' Mais, monsieur " 
March put a coin in his hand, and then suddenly 
the man's face twisted up ; he caught the hand of 
this alms-giver in both of his, and clung to it. 
" Monsieur ! monsieur ! " he gasped, and the tears 
rained down his face. 
His benefactor pulled himself away, shocked and 
ashamed, as one is by such a chance, and got back 
to his wife, and the man lapsed back into the 
mystery of misery out of which he had emerged. 
March felt it laid upon him to console his wife for 
what had happened. " Of course we might live 
here for 3  years and not sec another case like that ; 
and of course there are twenty places where he 
could have gone for help if he had known where to 
find them." 
"Ah, but it's the possibility of his needing the 
help so badly as that ! " she answered. " That 's 
 
what I can't bear, and I sliall not come to a place 
where such things are possible, and we may as well 
stop our house-hunting here at once.' 
" Yes ? And what part of Christendom will you 
live in ? Such things are possible everywhere in our 
conditions." 
" Then we must change the conditions " 
" Oh no ; we must go to the theatre and forget 
them. We can stop at Brentano's for our tickets as 
we pass through Union Square." 
" I am not going to the theatre, Basil. I am 
going home to Boston to-in'ght. You can stay and 
find a flat." 
Ho convinced her of the absurdity of her position, 
and even of its selfishness ; but she said that her 
mind was quite made up irrespective of what had 
happened ; that she had been away from the 
children long enough ; that she ought to be at home 
to finish up the work of leaving it. The word 
brought a sigli. " Ah, I don't know why we should 
see nothing but sad and ugly things now. When 
we were young " 
" Younger," he put in. " We 're still young." 
" That 's what we pretend, but we know better. 
But I was thinking how pretty and pleasant things 
used to be turning up all the time on our travels in 
the old days. Why, when we were in New York 
here on our wedding journey the place didn't seem 
half so dirty as it does now, and none of these dis- 
mal things happened." 
" It was a good deal dirtier," he answered ; "and I 
fancy worse in every way — liungrier, raggeJer, more 
wretchedly housed. But that wasn't the period of 
life for us to notice it. Don't you remember, 
when we started to Niagara the last time, how 
everybody seemed middle-aged and commonplace ; 
and when we got there there were no evident 
brides ; nothing but elderly married people ? " 
" At Icvast they wcrcn't starving," she rebelled. 
"No, you don't starve in parlour cars and first- 
class hotels ; but if you step out of them you run 
your chance of seeing those who do, if you 're get- 
ting on pretty well in the forties. If it's the un- 
happy who see unhappiness, think what misery must 
be revealed to people who pass their lives in the 
really squalid tenement-house streets — I don't mean 
picturesque avenues like that we passed through." 
" But we are not unhappy," she protested, bring- 
ing the talk back to the personal base again, as 
women must to get any good out of talk. " We 're 
really no unhappier than we were when we were 
young." 
"We're more serious." 
" Well, I hate it ; and I wish you wouldnt be so 
serious, if that 's what it brings us to." 
"I will be trivial from this on," said March. 
" Shall we go to the Hole in the Ground to-night ? " 
"I am going to Boston." 
" It 's much the same thing. How do you like that 
for triviality ? It 's a little blasphemous, I 'll allow." 
" It 's very silly," she said. 
At the hotel they found a letter from the agent 
 
who had sent them the permit to see Mrs. Gros- 
venor Green's apartment. He wrote that she had 
heard they were pleased with her apartment, and 
that she thought she could make the terms to suit. 
She had taken her passage for Europe, and was very 
anxious to let the flat before she sailed. She would 
call that evening at seven. 
" Mrs. Grosvcnor Green ! " said Mrs. March. 
" Which of the ten thousand flats is it, Basil ? " 
" The gimcrackery," ho answered. " In the 
Xenophon, you know." 
" Well, she may save herself the trouble. I shall 
not see her. Or yes — I must. I couldn't go away 
without seeing what sort of creature could have 
planned that fly-away flat. She must be a perfect " 
''Parachute," March suggested. 
"No : anybody so light as that couldn't come down. " 
"Well, toy balloon." 
" Toy balloon will do for the present," Mrs. March 
admitted. " But I feel that naught but herself can 
be her parallel for volatility." 
When Mrs. Grosvenor Green's card came up they 
both descended to the hotel parlour, which March 
said looked like the saloon of a Moorish day -boat ; 
not that he knew of any such craft, but the decora- 
tions were so Saracenic and the architecture so 
Hudson Riverish. They found there on the grand 
central divan a large lady whose vast smoothness, 
placidity, and plumpness set at defiance all their 
preconceptions of Mrs. Grosvenor Green, so that Mrs. 
March distinctly paused with her card in her hand 
 
before venturing even tentatively to address her. 
Then slie was astonished at the Ioav calm voice in 
which Mrs. Green acknowledged herself, and slowly 
proceeded to apologise for calling. It was not quite 
true that she had taken her passage for Europe, but 
she hoped soon to do so, and she confessed that in 
the meantime she was anxious to let her flat. She 
was a little worn out with the care of house-keeping 
— Mrs. March breathed, " Oh yes ! " in the sigh with 
which ladies recognise one another's martyrdom — 
and Mr. Green had business abroad, and she was 
going to pursue her art studies in Paris ; she drew 
in Mr. Ilcomb's class now, but the instruction was 
so much better in Paris ; and as the Superintendent 
seemed to think the price was the only objection, 
she had ventured to call. 
" Then we didn't deceive him in the least," 
thought Mrs. March, while she answered sweetly : 
"No; we were only afraid that it would be too 
small for our family. We require a good many 
rooms." She could not forego the opportunity of 
saying, " My husband is coming to New York to 
take charge of a literary periodical, and he will 
have to have a room to write in," which made 
Mrs. Green bow to March, and made Tilarch look 
sheepish, "But we did think the apartment very 
charming (It was architecturally charming," she pro- 
tested to her conscience), '' and we should have been 
so glad if we could have got into it." She followed 
this with some account of their house-hunting, amid 
soft murmurs of sympathy from Mrs. Green, who 
 
said that she had been through all that, and tliat if 
she could have shown hor apartment to them she 
felt sure that she could have explained it so that 
they would have seen its capabilities better. Mrs. 
March assented to this, and Mrs. Green added that 
if they found nothing exactly suitable she would be 
glad to have them look at it again ; and then Mrs. 
March said that she was going back to Boston her- 
self, but she was leaving Mr. March to continue the 
search, and she had no doubt he would be only too 
glad to see the apartment by dayliglit. " But if 
you take it, Basil," she warned him, when they were 
alone, " I shall simply renounce you. I wouldn't 
live in that junk shop if you gave it to me. But 
who would have thought she was that kind of look- 
ing person ? Though of course I might have known 
if I had stopped to think once. It's because the 
place doesn't express her at all that it 's so unlike 
her. It couldn't be like anybody, or anything that 
flies in the air, or creeps upon the earth, or swims 
in the waters under the earth. I wonder where in 
the world she 's from ; she 's no New-Yorker ; even 
we can see that ; and she 's not quite a country 
person either ; she seems like a person from some 
large town, where she 's been an {esthetic authority. 
And she can't find good enough art instruction in 
New York, and has to go to Paris for it ! Well, it 's 
pathetic, after all, Basil. I can't help feeling sorry 
for a person who mistakes herself to that extent." 
" I can't help feeling sorry for the husband of a 
person who mistakes herself to that extent. What 
 
is Mr. Grosvenor Green going to do in Paris while 
she 's working her way into the Salon ? " 
" Well, you keep away from her apartment, Basil ; 
that 's all I 've got to say to you. And yet I do like 
some things about her." 
" I like everything about her but her ajiartment," 
said March. 
'' I like her going to be out of the country," said 
his wife. " We shouldn't be overlooked. And the 
place was prettily shaped, you can't deny it. And 
there was an elevator and steam-heat. And the loca- 
tion is very convenient. And there was a hall-boy 
to bring up cards. The halls and stairs were kept 
very clean and nice. But it wouldn't do. I could 
put you a foMing bed in the room where you wrote, 
and we could even have one in the parlour " 
" Behind a portiere ? I couldn't stand any more 
portieres ! " 
"And we could squeeze the two girls into one 
room, or perhaps only bring Margaret, and put out 
the whole of the wash. Basil ! " she almost shrieked, 
" it isn't to be thought of ! " 
He retorted, "I 'm not thinking of it, my dear." 
Fidkerson came in just before they started for Mrs. 
March's train, to find out what had become of them, 
he said, and to see whether they had got anything 
to live in yet. 
" Not a thing," she said. " And I 'm just going 
back to Boston, and IcaA'ing Mr. March here to do 
anything he pleases about it. He has carte blanche." 
"But freedom brings responsibility, you know, 
 
Fulkerson, and it 's the same as if I 'd no choice. I 'in 
staying behind because I 'm left, not because I expect 
to do anything." 
" Is that so ] " asked Fulkerson. " Well, \vc must 
see what can be done. I suj)posed you would be all 
settled by this time, or I should have humped myself 
to find you something. None of those places I gave 
you amount to anything ? " 
" As much as forty thousand others we 've looked 
at," said Mrs. March. "Yes, one of them does 
amount to something. It comes so near being what 
we want that I 've given Mr. March particular in- 
structions not to go near it." 
She told him about Mrs. Grosvenor Green and her 
flats, and at the end he said — 
" Well, well, we must look out for that. I 'll keep 
an eye on him, Mrs. March, and see that he doesn't 
do anything rash, and I won't leave him till he'.s 
found just the right thing. It exists, of course ; it 
must in a city of eighteen hundred thousand people, 
and the only question is where to find it. You leave 
him to me, Mrs. March ; I 'll watch out for him." 
Fulkerson showed some signs of going to the 
station when he found they were not driving, but 
she bade him a peremptory good-bye at the hotel door. 
'' He 's very nice, Lasil, and his way with you is 
perfectly charming. It's very sweet to see how 
really fond of you lie is. But I didn't want him 
stringing along up to Forty-second Street with ns, 
and spoiling our last moments together." 
At Third wenue they took the Elevated, for 
 
which she confessed an infatuation. She declared it 
the most ideal -way of getting about in the -world, 
and was not ashamed -vvhcn he reminded her of how 
she used to say that nothing under the sun could 
induce her to travel on it. She now said that the 
night transit was even more interesting than the 
day, and that the fleeting intimacy you formed with 
people in second and third floor interiors, while all 
the usual street life went on underneath, had a 
domestic intensity mixed with a perfect repose that 
was the last effect of good society with all its security 
and exclusiveness. He said it was better than the 
theatre, of which it reminded him, to see those 
people through their windows : a family party of 
work-folk at a late tea, some of the men in their 
shirt sleeves ; a woman sewing by a lamp ; a mother 
laying her child in its cradle ; a man with his head 
fallen on his hands upon a table ; a girl and her 
lover leaning over the window-sill together. "What 
suggestion ! what drama ! what infinite interest ! 
At the Forty-second Street station they stopped a 
minute on the bridge that crosses the track to the 
branch road for the Central Depot, and looked up 
and down the long stretch of the eleA\ated to north 
and south. The track that found and lost itself a 
thousand times in the flare and tremor of the innu- 
merable lights ; the moony sheen of the electrics 
mixing wiih the reddish points and blots of gas far 
and near; the architectural shapes of houses and 
churches and tOwers, rescued by the obscurity from 
all that was iirnoble in them, and the comin" and 
going of the trains marking the stations with vividor 
or fainter phimes of flame-shot steam — formed an 
incomparable perspective. They often talked after- 
ward of the superb spectacle, which in a city full of 
painters nightly works its unrecorded miracles ; and 
they were just to the Arachne roof spun in iron 
over the cross street on which they ran to the depot ; 
but for the present they were mostly inarticulate 
before it. They had another moment of rich silence 
when they paused in the gallery that leads from the 
elevated station to the waiting-rooms in the Central 
Depot and looked down upon the great night trains 
lying on the tracks dim under the rain of gas-lights 
that starred without dispersing the vast darkness of 
the place. What forces, what fates, slept in these 
bulks which would soon l)c hurling themselves north 
and cast and west through the night ! Now they 
waited there like fablcil monsters of Arab story ready 
for the magician's touch, tractable, reckless, will-less 
— organised lifelessness full of a strange semblance 
of life. 
The Marches admired the impressive sight with a 
thrill of patriotic pride in the fact that the whole 
world perhaps could not afTord just the like. Then 
they hurried down to the ticket offices, and he got 
her a lower berth in the Boston sleeper, and went 
with her to the car. They made the most of the 
fact that her berth AA-as in the very middle of the 
car ; and she promised to write as soon as she reached 
home. She promised also that having seen the 
limitations of Ncav York in respect to flats, she 
 
svould not be hard on him if lie took something not 
quite ideal. Only he must remember that it was 
not to be above Twentieth Street nor below Wash- 
ington Square ; it must not be higher than the third 
floor; it must have an elevator, steam-heat, hall- 
boys, and a pleasant janitor. These were essentials ; 
if he could not get them, then they must do without. 
But he must get them. 
XI. 
Mrs. March was one of those wives avIio exact a 
more rigid adherence to their ideals from their hus- 
bands than from themselves. Early in their married 
life she had taken charge of liim in all matters "which 
she considered practical. She did not include the 
business of bread-winning in these ; that was an 
affair that might safely be left to his absent-minded, 
dreamy inefficiency, and she did not interfere with 
him there. But in such things as relumging the pic- 
tures, deciding on a summer boarding-place, taking a 
seaside cottage, repapering rooms, choosing seats at 
the theatre, seeing what the children ate when she 
was not at table, shutting the cat out at night, keep- 
ing run of calls and invitations, and seeing if the fur- 
nace was damped, he had failed her so often that she 
felt she could not leave him the slightest discretion 
in regard to a flat. Her total distrust of his judg- 
ment in the matters cited and others like them con- 
sisted with the greatest admiration of his mind and 
respect for his character. She often said that if he 
would only bring them to bear in such exigencies he 
would be simply perfect; but she had long given up 
his ever doing so. She subjected him, therefore, to 
 
ail iron code, but after proclaiming it she was apt to 
abandon him to the native hxwlessness of his tem- 
perament. She expected him in this event to do as 
he pleased, and she resigned herself to it with con- 
siderable comfort in holding him accountable. He 
learned to expect this, and after suffering keenly 
from her disappointment with M'hatever he did he 
waited patiently till she forgot her grievance and 
began to extract what consolation lurks in the irre- 
parable. She would almost admit at moments that 
what he had done was a very good thing, but she 
reserved the right to return in full force to her 
original condemnation of it; and she accumulated 
each act of independent volition in witness and 
warning against him. Their mass oppressed but 
never deterred him. He expected to do the wrong 
thing when left to his own devices, and he did io 
without any apparent recollection of his former mis- 
deeds and their consequences. There was a good 
deal of comedy in it all, and some tragedy. 
He now experienced a certain expansion, such as 
husbands of his kind will imagine, on going back to 
his hotel alone. It was, perhaps, a revulsion from 
the pain of parting ; and he toyed with tho idea 
of Mrs. Grosvenor Green's apartment, which, in its 
preposterous unsuitability, had a strange attraction. 
He felt that he could take it with less risk than 
anything else they had seen, but he said he would 
look at all the other places in town first. He really 
spent the greater part of the next day in hunting up 
the owner of an apartment that had neither steam- 
heat nor an elevator, but was otherwise perfect, and 
trying to get him to take less than the agent asked. 
By a curious psychical operation he was able, in the 
transaction, to work himself into quite a passionate 
desire for the apartment, while he held the Gros- 
venor Green apartment in the background of his 
mind as something that he could return to as alto- 
gether more suitable. He conducted some simul- 
taneous negotiation for a furnished house, which 
enhanced still more the desirability of the Grosvenor 
Green apartment. Toward evening he went off at 
a tangent far up-town, so as to be able to tell his 
wife how utterly preposterous the best there would 
be as compared even with this ridiculous Grosvenor 
Green gimcrackery. It is hard to report the pro- 
cesses of his sophistication ; perhaps this, again, 
may best be left to the marital imagination. 
He rang at the last of these up-town apartments 
as it was falling dusk, and it was long before the 
janitor appeared. Then the man was very surly, 
and said if he looked at the flat now he would say 
it was too dark, like all the rest. His reluctance 
irritated March in proportion to his insincerity in 
proposing to look at it at all. He knew he did not 
mean to take it under any circumstances; that he 
was going to use his inspection of it in dishonest 
justification of his disobedience to his wife ; but he 
put on an air of offended dignity. "If you don't 
wish to show the apartment," he. said, " I don't care 
to see it." 
The man groaned, for he was heavy, and no doubt 
dreaded the stairs. He scratched a match on his 
thigh, and led the way up. March was sorry for 
him, and he put his fingers on a quarter in his 
waistcoat-pocket to give him at parting. At the 
same time, he had to trump up an objection to the 
flat. This was easy, for it was advertised as con- 
taining ten rooms, and he found the number eked 
out with the bath-room and two large closets. " It 's 
light enough," said March, " but I don't see how you 
make out ten rooms." 
'' There 's ten rooms," said the man, deigning no 
prool 
March took his fingers off the quarter, and went 
downstairs and out of the door without another 
word. It would be wrong, it would be impossible, 
to give the man anything after such insolence. He 
reflected, with shame, that it was also cheaper to 
punish than forgive him. 
He returned to his hotel prepared for any 
desperate measure, and convinced now that the 
Grosvenor Green apartment was not merely the 
only thing left for him, but was, on its own merits, 
the best thing in New York. 
Fulkerson was waiting for him in the reading-room, 
and it gave March the curious thrill with which a 
man closes with temptation when he said: "Look 
here ! Why don't you take that woman's flat in the 
Xenophon ? She 's been at the agents again, and 
they 've been at me. She likes your look — or Mrs. 
March's — and I guess you can have it at a pretty 
heavy discount from the original price. I 'm author- 
 
ised to say you can have it for one seventy- five a 
month, and I don't believe it would be safe for you 
to offer one fifty." 
!March shook his head, and dropped a mask of 
virtuous rejection over his corrupt acquiescence. 
" It 's too small for us — we couldn't squeeze into it." 
" Why, look here ! " Fulkerson persisted. "How 
many rooms do you people want ? " 
" I 've got to have a place to work " 
" Of course ! And you 've got to have it at the 
Fifth Wheel office." 
"I hadn't thought of that," March began. "I 
suppose I could do my work at the office, as there 's 
not much writing " 
" Why, of course you can't do your work at home. 
You just come round with me now, and look at that 
flat again." 
"No; I can't do it." 
"Why?" 
"I— I've got to dine." 
" All right," said Fulkerson, "Dine with me. I 
want to take you round to a little Italian place that 
I know." 
One may trace the successive steps of March's 
descent in this simple matter with the same edifica- 
tion that would attend the study of the self-delusions 
and obfuscations of a man tempted to crime. The 
process is probably not at all different, and to the 
philosophical mind the kind of result is unimpor- 
tant ; tlio process is everything. 
Fulkofsoii led him down one block and hilf 
 
across another to the steps of a small dwelling-house, 
transformed, like many others, into a restaurant 
of the Latin ideal, with little or no structural 
change from the pattern of the lower middle-class 
New York home. There were the corroded brown- 
stone steps, the mean little front door, and the 
cramped entry with its narrow stairs by which 
ladies could go up to a dining-room appointed for 
them on the second floor ; the parlours on the first 
were set about with tables, where men smoked 
cigarettes between the courses, and a single waiter 
ran swiftly to and fro "with plates and dishes, and 
exchanged unintelligible outcries with a cook be- 
yond a slide in the back parlour. He rushed at the 
new-comers, brushed the soiled table-cloth before 
them with a towel on his arm, covered its worst 
stains with a napkin, and brought them, in their 
order, the vermicelli soup, the fried fish, the cheesc- 
strcwn spaghetti, the veal cutlets, the tepid roast 
fowl and salad, and the wizened pear and coffee 
which form the dinner at such places. 
" Ah, this is nice ! " said Fulkerson, after the 
laying of the charitable napkin, and he began to 
recognise acquaintances, some of whom he described 
to March as young literary men and artists with 
whom they should probably haA'C to do ; others 
were simply frequenters of the place, and were of 
all nationalities and religions apparently — at least, 
several were Hebrews and Cubans. " You get a 
pretty good slice of New York here," he said, " all 
except the frosting on top. That you won't find 
 
much at Maroni's, though you will occasionally. I 
don't mean the ladies ever, of course." The ladies 
present seemed liarmless and reputable looking 
people enough, but certainly they wore not of the 
first fashion, and, except in a few instances, not 
Americans. "It's like cutting straight down 
through a fruit-cake," Fulkerson went on, "or a 
mince-pie, when you don't know who made the pie ; 
you get a little of everything." He ordered a small 
flask of Chianti with the dinner, and it came in 
its pretty wicker jacket. March smiled upon it 
with tender reminiscence, and Fulkerson laughed. 
" Lights you up a little. I brought old Dryfoos 
here one day, and he thought it was sweet-oil ; 
that 's the kind of bottle they used to have it in at 
the country drug-stores." 
" Yes, I remember now ; but I 'd totally forgotten 
it," said March. " How far back that goes ! who 's 
Dryfoos ? " 
"Dryfoos?" Fulkerson, still smiling, tore off a 
piece of the half-yard of French loaf which had been 
supplied them, with two pale, thin disks of butter, 
and fed it into himself. " Old Dryfoos ? Well, of 
course ! I call him old, but he ain't so very. 
About fifty, or along there." 
"No," said March, "that isn't very old — or not 
so old as it used to be." 
" Well, I suppose you 've got to know about him, 
anyway," said Fulkerson thoughtfully. "And I've 
been wondering just how I should tell you. Can't 
always make out exactly how much of a Bostoiiian 
 
you really are ! Ever been out in the natural gas 
country ? " 
" No," said March. " I 've had a good deal of 
curiosity about it, but I 've never been able to get 
away except in summer, and then we always pre- 
ferred to go over the old ground, out to Niagara 
and back through Canada, the route we took on our 
 wedding journey. The children like it as much as 
we do." 
"Yes, yes," said Fulkerson. "Well, the natural 
gas country is worth seeing. I don't mean the 
Pittsburg gas-fields, but out in Northern Ohio and 
Indiana around Moffitt — that 's the place in the 
heart of the gas region that they 've been booming 
so. Yes, you ought to see that country. If you 
haven't been "West for a good many years, you 
haven't got any idea how old the country looks. 
You remember how the fields used to be all full of 
stumps ] " 
" I should think so." 
" "Well, you won't see any stumps now. All that 
country out around Moffitt is just as smooth as a 
checker-board, and looks as old as England. You 
know how we used to burn the stumps out ; and 
then somebody invented a stump-extracter, and we 
pulled them out with a yoke of oxen. Now they 
just touch 'em off with a little dynamite, and they 've 
got a cellar dug and filled up with kindling ready 
for house-keeping whenever you want it. Only 
they haven't got any use for kindling in that coimtry 
— all gas. I rode along on the cars through those 
level black fields at corn-planting time, and every 
once in a -while I 'd come to a place witli a piece of 
ragged old stove-pipe stickin' up out of the ground, 
and blazing away like forty, and a fellow jiloughing 
all round it and not minding it any more than if it 
was spring violets. Horses didn't notice it, either. 
Well, they 've always known about the gas out there ; 
thoy say there are places in the woods whoreit's 
been burning ever since the country was settled. 
" But when \ on come in sight of Moffitt — my, oh 
my ! Well, you come in smell of it about as soon. 
That gas out there ain't odourless, like the Pittsburg 
gas, and so it 's perfectly safe ; but the smell isn't 
bad — about as bad as the finest kind of benzine. 
Well, the first thing that strikes you when you 
come to Moffitt is the notion that there has been a 
good warm, growing rain, and the town's come up 
overnight. That 's in the suburbs, the annexes, and 
additions. But it ain't shabby — no shanty-town 
business ; nice brick and frame houses, some of 'em 
Queen Anne style, and all of 'cm looking as if they 
had come to stay. And whcn you drive up from 
the depot you think everybody 's moving. Every- 
thing seems to be piled into the street ; old houses 
made over, and new ones going up everywhere. You 
know the kind of street Main Street always used to 
be in our section — half plank-road and turnpike, and 
the rest mud-hole, and a lot of stores and doggeries 
strung along with false fronts a story higher than 
the back, and here and there a decent building with 
the gable end to the public; and a court-house and 
 
jail and two taverns and three or four churches. 
Well, they 're all there in Moffitt yet, but architecture 
has struck it hard, and they 've got a lot of new 
huildings that needn't be ashamed of themselves 
anywhere ; the new court-house is as big as St. 
Peter's, and the Grand Opera-house is in the highest 
style of the art. You can't buy a lot on that street 
for much less than you can buy a lot in New York 
— or you coiildn't when the boom was on; I saw 
the place just when the boom was in its prime. I 
went out there to work the newspapers in the 
syndicate business, and I got one of their men to 
write me a real bright, snappy account of the gas ; 
and they just took me in their arms and showed me 
everything. Well, it was wonderful, and it was 
beautiful, too! To see a whole community stirred up 
like that was — just like a big boy, all hope and high 
spirits, and no discount on the remotest future ; 
nothing but perpetual boom to the end of time — I 
tell you it warmed your blood. Why, there were 
some things about it that made you think what a 
nice kind of world this would be if people ever took 
hold together, instead of each fellow fighting it out 
on his Own hook, and devil take the hindmost. They 
made up their minds at Moffitt that if they wanted 
their town to grow they 'd got to keep their gas 
public property. So they extended their corporation 
line so as to take in pretty much the whole gas 
region round there ; and then the city took posses- 
sion of every well that was put doAA'n, and held it 
for the common good. Anybody that 's a mind to 
 
come to Moffitt and start any kind of manufacture 
can have all the gas he wants free ; and for fifteen 
dollars a year you can have all the gas you want to 
heat and light your private house. The people hold 
on to it for themselves, and, as I say, it 's a grand 
sight to see a whole community hanging together 
and working for the good of all, instead of splitting 
up into as many diflcrcnt cut-throats as there are 
able-bodied citizens. See that fellow ] " Fulkerson 
broke off, and indicated with a twirl of his head a 
short, dark, foreign-looking man going out of the 
door. " They say that fellow 's a Socialist. I think 
it 's a shame they 're allowed to come here. If they 
don't like the way we manage our affairs, let 'em 
stay at home," Fulkerson continued. "They do a 
lot of mischief, shooting off their mouths round here. 
I believe in free speech and all that ; but I 'd like 
to see these fellows shut up in jail and left to jaw 
each other to death. JFe don't want any of their 
poison." 
March did not notice the vanishing Socialist. He 
was watching, with a teasing sense of familiarity, a 
tall, shabbily dressed, elderly man, who had ju&t 
come in. He had the aquiline profile uncommon 
among Germans, and yet March recognised him at 
once as German. His long, soft beard and moustache 
had once been fair, and they kept some tone of their 
yellow in the gray to which they had turned. His 
eyes were full, and his lips and chin shaped the beard 
to the noble outline which shows in the beards the 
Italian masters liked to paint for their Last Suppers. 
 
His carnage was erect and soldierly, and March 
presently saw that he had lost his left hand. He 
took his place at a table where the overworked 
waiter found time to cut up his meat, and put 
everything in easy reach of his right hand. 
" Well," Fulkerson resumed, " they took me round 
everywhere in Moffitt, and showed me their big 
wells — lit 'cm up for a private view, and let me hear 
them purr with the soft accents of a mass-meeting 
of locomotives. Why, when they let one of these 
wells loose in a meadow that they'd piped it into 
temporarily, it drove the flame away forty feet from 
the mouth of the jjipc and blew it over half an acre 
of ground. They say when they let one of their 
big wells burn away all winter before they had 
learned how to control it, that well kept up a little 
summer all around it ; the grass stayed green, and 
the flowers bloomed all through the winter. I don't 
know whether it's so or not. But I can believe 
anything of natural gas. My ! but it was beautiful 
when they turned on the full force of that well and 
shot a roman candle into the gas — that's the way 
they light it — and a plume of fire about twenty feet 
wide and seventy-five feet high, all red and yellow 
and violet, jumped into the sky, and that big roar 
shook the ground under your feet ! You felt like 
saying, 'Don't trouble yourself; I'm perfectly con- 
vinced. I believe in Moffitt.' "\Ve-e-e-ll ! " drawled 
Fulkerson, with a long breath, " that 's wliere I met 
old Dryfoos." 
" Oh yes ! — Dryfoos," said March. He observed 
 
that the waiter had brought the old one-liandcd 
German a towering glass of beer. 
" Yes," Fulkerson laughed. " we 've got round 
to Dryfoos again. I thought I could cut a long 
story short, but I seem to be cutting a short story 
long. If you 're not in a hurry, though " 
" Not in the least. Go on as long as you like." 
" I met him there in the office of a real-estate man 
—speculator, of course ; everybody was, in loffitt ; 
but a first-rate fellow, and public-spirited as all get- 
out ; and when Dryfoos left he told me about him. 
Dryfoos was an old Pennsylvania Dutch farmer, 
about three or four miles out of Moffitt, and he 'd 
lived there pretty much all his life; father was one 
of the first settlers. Everybody knew he had the 
right stuff in him, but he was slower than molasses 
in January, like those Pennsylvania Dutch. He 'd 
got together the largest and handsomest farm any- 
where around there ; and he was making money on 
it, just like he was in some business somewhere ; 
he was a very intelligent man ; he took the papers 
and kept himself posted ; but he was awfully old- 
fashioned in his ideas. He hung on to the doctrines 
as well as the dollars of the dads ; it was a real 
thing with him. Well, when the boom began to 
come he hated it awfully, and he fought it. He 
used to write communications to the weekly news- 
paper in Moffitt — they've got three dailies there 
now — and throw cold water on the boom. He 
couldn't catch on no way. It made him sick to 
hear the clack that went on about the rras the 
whole while, and that stirred up the neighbour- 
hood and got into his family. Whenever he'd 
hear of a man that had been offered a big price 
for his land and was going to sell out and move 
into town, he 'd go and labour with him and try to 
talk him out of it, and tell him how long his fifteen 
or twenty thousand would last him to live on, and 
shake the Standard Oil Company before him, and 
try to make him believe it wouldn't be five years 
before the Standard owned the whole region. 
" Of course he couldn't do anything with them. 
When a man 's offered a big price for his farm, he 
don't care whether it 's by a secret emissary from 
the Standard Oil or not ; he 's going to sell and get 
the better of the other fellow if he can. Dryfoos 
couldn't keep the boom out of his own family even. 
His wife was with him. She thought whatever he 
said and did was just as right as if it had been 
thundered down from Sinai. But the young folks 
were sceptical, especially the girls that had been 
away to school. The boy that had been kept at 
home because he couldn't be spared from helping 
his father manage the farm was more like him, but 
they contrived to stir the boy up with the hot end 
of the boom too. So when a fellow came along one 
day and offered old Dryfoos a cool hundred thousand 
for his farm, it was all up with Dryfoos. He 'd 'a' 
liked to 'a' kept the offer to himself and not done 
anything about it, but his A-anity wouldn't let him 
do that ; and when he let it out in his family the 
girls outA'oted him. They just made him sell. 
