"You ought to have told me. I have money."
"I guess he wouldn't take it. He's had pretty hard lines all round; he
wanted terribly bad to go straight to Ferdie, as soon as he heard he was
shot. But Mrs. Morrison--she had come here, you know; and he had all
Ferdie's expenses to think of too, so that kept him grinding along. But
he wanted awfully to go; he thought the world and all of Ferdie."
"I know he did," said Eve. And now her face was like a tragic
mask--deadly white, with a frown, the eyes under her straight brows
looking at him fixedly.
"Oh, eheu!" thought Hollis distressfully, disgustedly. "You screw
yourself up to tell her all these things about him, because you think it
will please her; and this is the way she takes 'em!"
He looked at her again; she gave no sign. Feeling painfully
insignificant and helpless, he turned and left the room.
A few minutes later Paul came in. "You have sold your Clay County iron!"
said Eve.
"I have always intended to sell it."
"Not at a sacrifice."
"One does as one can--a business transaction."
"How much money have you sent to your brother all these years?"
"I don't know that it is--I don't know what interest you can have in
it," Paul answered.
"You mean that it is not my business. Oh, don't be so hard! Say three
words just for once."
"Why, I'll say as many as you like, Eve. Ferdie was one of the most
brilliant fellows in the world; if he had lived, all his investments
would have turned out finely, he was sure of a fortune some time."
"And, in the meanwhile, you supported him; you have always done it."
"You are mistaken. I advanced him money now and then when he happened to
be short, but it was always for the time being only; he would have paid
me back if he had lived."
The door opened, and the judge came in. "I'm glad you're here," said
Paul; "now we can decide, we three, upon what is best to be done. The
doctor says that while this heat is very bad for Cicely, travel would be
still worse; she cannot go anywhere by train, and hardly by
steamer--though that is better; there would be no use, then, in trying
to take her south."
"It's ten times hotter here to-day than I ever saw it at Romney,"
interposed the judge. "It's a tophet--this town of yours!"
"I was thinking also of Miss Abercrombie's illness," Paul went on.
"Though her fever is light, her room is still a sick-room, and that
would depress Cicely, I feel sure. But, meanwhile, the poor girl is
hourly growing weaker, and so this is what I have thought of: we will go
into camp in the pines near Jupiter Light. Don't you remember how much
good camp-life did her before?"
Six days later they were living in the pine woods at Jupiter. This time
lodges had been built; the nurse accompanied Cicely; they were a party
of eight, without counting the cook and the Indians.
At first Cicely remained in much the same state, she recognized no one
but Jack.
Jack continued to be his mother's most constant adorer; he climbed often
into her lap, and, putting his arms round her neck, "loved" her with his
cheek against hers, and with all his little heart; he came trotting up
many times a day, to stroke her face with his dimpled hand. Cicely
looked at him, but did not answer. After ten days in the beneficent
forest, however, her strength began to revive, and their immediate fears
were calmed. One evening she asked for her grandfather, and when he came
hastily in and bent over her couch, she smiled and kissed him. He sat
down beside her, holding her hand; after a while she fell into a sleep.
The old man went softly out, he went to the camp-fire, and made it
blaze, throwing on fresh pine-cones recklessly.
"Sixty-five in the shade," remarked Hollis.
"This Northern air is always abominable. Will you make me a taste of
something spicy? I feel the need of it. Miss Bruce,--Eve--Cicely knows
me!"
Eve looked at his brightened face, at the blazing fire, the rough table
with the tumblers, the flask, and the lemons. Hollis had gone to the
kitchen to get hot water.
"She knows me," repeated the judge, triumphantly. "She sent for me
herself."
Paul now appeared, and the good news was again told. Paul had just come
from Port aux Pins. After establishing them at Jupiter, he had been
obliged to return to town immediately, and he had remained there closely
occupied for more than a week. He sat down, refusing Hollis's proffered
glass. The nurse came out, and walked to and fro before Cicely's lodge,
breathing the aromatic air; this meant that Cicely still slept. Eve had
seated herself a little apart from the fire; her figure was in the
shadow. Her mind was filled with but one thought: "Cicely better? Then
must I tell her?" By-and-by the conversation of the others came to her.
"Hanging is too good for them," said the judge.
"But wasn't it supposed to be a chance shot?" remarked Hollis. "Not
intentional, exactly?"
"That makes no difference. You may call it absolute chance, if you like;
but the negro who dares to lift a pistol against a white man should not
be left alive five minutes afterwards," declared the old planter,
implacably.
"You'd ought to have lived in the days of religious wars," drawled
Hollis. "I don't know anything else carnivorous enough to suit you."
"You must be a Quaker, sir! Tennant feels as I do, he'd shoot at sight."
"Oh no, he wouldn't," said Hollis. "He ain't a Southerner."
"Tennant can speak for himself," said the judge, confidently.
"I'd shoot the man who shot my brother," answered Paul. "I'd go down
there to-morrow--I should have gone long ago--if I thought there was the
least chance of finding him." A dark flush rose in his face. "I'm
afraid--even if it was an unintentional shot--that I should want to
kill that man just the same; I should be a regular savage!"
"Would you never forgive him?" asked Eve's voice from the shadow.
"Blood for blood!" responded Paul, hotly. "No, not unless I killed him;
then I might."
Eve rose.
Paul got up. "Oh, are you going?" But she did not hear him; she had gone
to her lodge. He sat down again. She did not reappear that night.
The next morning she went off for a solitary walk. By chance her steps
took the direction of a small promontory that jutted sharply into the
lake, its perpendicular face rising to a height of forty feet from the
deep water below; she had been here several times before, and knew the
place well; it was about a mile from the camp. As she sat there, Paul's
figure appeared through the trees. He came straight to her. "I have been
looking for you, I tried to find you last night." He paused a moment.
"Eve, don't you see what I've come for? Right in the midst of all this
grief and trouble I've found out something. It's just this, Eve: I love
you."
She tried to rise, but he put his hand on her shoulder to keep her where
she was. "Oh, but I do, you needn't doubt it," he went on, with an
amused smile--amused at himself; "in some way or other the thing has
come about, I may say, in spite of me. I never thought it would. But
here 'tis--with a vengeance! I think of you constantly, I can't help
thinking of you; I recognize, at last, that the thing is unchangeable,
that it's for life; have you I must." The words were despotic, but the
tone was entreating; and the eyes, looking down upon her, were
caressing--imploring. "Yes, I'm as helpless as any one," Paul went on,
smiling as he said it; "I can't sleep, even. Come, take me; I'm not such
a bad fellow, after all--I really think I'm not. And as regards my
feeling for you, you need not be troubled; it's strong enough!"
She quailed under his ardor.
"I haven't spoken before because there has been so much to do," Paul
continued; "there has been Cicely, and then I've been harassed about
business; I've been in a box, and trying to get out. Besides, I wasn't
perfectly sure that my time had come." He laughed. "I'm sure now." He
took her in his arms. "Don't let us make any delays, Eve; we're not so
young, either of us. Not that you need be afraid that you're to be the
less happy on that account; I'll see to that!"
She broke from him.
But again he came to her, he took her hands, and, kneeling, laid his
forehead upon them. "I will be as humble as you like; only--be good to
me. I long for it, I must have it."
A sob rose in her throat. He sprang up. "Don't do that! Why, I want to
make you absolutely happy, if I can. We shall have troubles enough, and
perhaps we shall have sorrows, but at least we shall be together; you
must never leave me, and I will do all I can to be less rough. But on
your side there's one thing, Eve: you must love me." These last words
were murmured in her ear.
She drew herself away from him. The expression of her face was almost
like death.
"You look as though you were afraid of me! I thought you loved me, Eve?"
"I do."
"Pretend you are a man, then, long enough to say 'yes' without any more
circumlocution. We will be married at Port aux Pins. Then we can take
care of Cicely together."
"I shall never marry."
"Yes, you will."
"I do not wish to leave Cicely."
"She wouldn't care about that. She isn't even fond of you."
"Oh, what shall I say to you?" cried Eve, her hands dropping by her
sides. "Listen: it will be absolutely impossible for you to change my
determination. But I am so horribly unhappy that I do believe I cannot
stand anything more--any more contests with you. Leave me to myself; say
nothing to me. But don't drive me away; at least let me stay near you."
"In my arms, Eve."
"Let me stay near you; see you; hear you talk; but that is all."
"And how long do you suppose that could last? It's a regular woman's
idea: nonsense."
"Paul, be merciful!"
"Merciful? Oh, yes!" He took her again in his arms.
"I swear to you that I cannot marry you," she said, trembling as his
cheek touched hers. "Since I've known you I haven't wanted to die, I've
wanted to live--live a long life. But now I do want to die; there is a
barrier between us, I cannot lift it."
He released her. "There could be but one.--I believe that you are
truthful; is the barrier another man?"
Another man? She hesitated a moment. "Yes."
He looked at her. "I don't believe you! You are lying for some purpose
of your own. See here, Eve, I don't want to be played with in this way;
you love me, and I worship you; by this time next week you are to be my
wife."
"I must go away from you, then? You won't help me? Where can I go!" She
left him; she walked slowly towards the lake, her head bowed.
He followed her. He had paid no attention to what she was saying;
"feminine complications"--this was all he thought. He was very masterful
with women.
As he came up she turned her head and looked at him. And, by a sort of
inspiration, he divined that the look was a farewell. He caught her, and
none too soon, for, as he touched her, he felt the impulse, the first
forward movement of the spring which would have taken her over the edge,
down to the deep water below.
Carrying her in his arms, close against his breast, he hastened away
from the edge; he went inland for a long distance. Then he stopped,
releasing her. He was extremely pale.
"I believe you now," he said. "All shall be as you like--just as you
like; I will do anything you wish me to do." He seemed to be still
afraid, he watched her anxiously.
She came and put her hands on his shoulders; she lifted her head and
kissed his cheek. It was like the kiss one gives in the chamber of
death.
He did not move, he was holding himself in strict control. But he felt
the misery of her greeting so acutely that moisture rose in his eyes.
She saw it. "Don't be troubled about me," she said. "I didn't want to
die--really, I didn't want to at all. It was only because just at that
moment I could not bear it to have you keep asking me when it was
impossible,--I felt that I must go away; and apart from you, and Cicely
and baby, there seemed no place in the world for me! But now--now I
want to live. Perhaps we shall both live long lives."
"I'm not a woman, you know," said Paul, with a faint smile. "Women do
with make-believes; men can't."
She had left him. "Go now," she said.
He turned to obey. Then he came back. "Eve, can't you tell me your real
reason?"
But her face changed so quickly to its old look of agony that he felt a
pang of regret that he had spoken. "I will never ask you again," he
said.
This was the offering he made her--a great one for Paul Tennant. He went
away.
An hour later she came back to the camp.
"Paul has gone to Potterpins," said Hollis, who was sitting by the fire.
"Told me to give you this." He handed her a note.
It contained but two lines: "I shall come back next week. But send a
note by mail; I want to know if you are contented with me."
Eve wrote but one word--"Yes."
XXV.
PAUL remained away for ten days; not by his own wish, but detained by
business.
During his absence Hollis's services were in demand. Cicely was now able
to go out on the lake, and he took her for an hour or two every morning
in one of the larger canoes; the nurse and Cicely sat at the bow, then
came Porley and Jack, then Eve, then Hollis. Cicely still did not talk,
she had not again asked for her grandfather; but she looked at the water
and the woods on the shore, and her face showed occasionally some
slight childish interest in what was passing. Eve, too, scarcely spoke;
but it was pleasure enough for poor Hollis to be opposite to her, where
he could see her without appearing to gaze too steadily. He had always
admired her; he had admired her voice, her reticent, independent way; he
had admired her tall, slender figure, with the broad sweep of the
shoulders, the erect carriage, and lithe, strong step. He had never
thought her too cold, too pale; but now in the increased life and color
which had come to her she seemed to him a daughter of the gods--the
strong Northern gods with flaxen hair; the flush in her cheeks made her
eyes bluer and her hair more golden; the curve of her lips, a curve
which had once been almost sullen, was now strangely sweet. Her love had
made her beautiful; her love, too, made her kind to Hollis;--women are
often unconsciously cruel in this way. The poor auctioneer lived in a
fool's paradise and forgot all his cautions; day-dreams began to visit
him, he was a boy again.
On the eleventh day Paul returned.
Hollis happened to see him meet Eve. Outwardly it was simply that they
shook hands, and stood for a moment exchanging an unimportant question
or two; or rather Paul asked, and Eve answered; but Paul's tone was not
what it once had been, his eyes, looking at Eve, were different. It was
one thing to know that she loved Paul, Hollis was used to that; it was
another to know that Paul loved her. He watched through the day, with
all the acuteness of jealousy, discovering nothing. But that evening,
when Eve had said good-night and started towards her lodge, Paul rose
and followed her.
"I guess I'll go down to the lake for a moment or two," Hollis said to
the judge, who was sitting by the fire. He walked away in the direction
of the lake; then, doubling upon his track, he returned, avoiding the
fire and going towards the row of lodges. Presently he saw two dusky
figures, a man and a woman; they stood there for a moment; then the man
bent his head and touched with his lips the woman's wrist. It was but
for a second; they separated, she going towards her lodge, and he
returning to the fire. The watcher in the wood stole noiselessly down to
the beach and got out a canoe; then he went off and woke an Indian.
Presently the two were paddling westward over the dark lake. They caught
the steamer. Hollis reached Port aux Pins the following evening.
From the boat he went to a restaurant and ordered dinner; he called it
"dinner" to make it appear more fine. He ordered the best that the
establishment could offer. He complained because there were no
anchovies. He said to the waiter: "This patty de fograr?--You must be
sick! Take away these off-color peaches and bring me something first
class. Bring lick-koors, too; can you catch on to that?" He drank a
great deal of wine, finishing with champagne; then he lit a cigar and
sauntered out.
He went to a beer-garden. The place was brightly lighted; dusty
evergreens planted in tubs made foliage; little tables were standing in
the sand; there was a stage upon which four men, in Tyrolese costume,
were singing, "O Strassburg, du wunderschöne Stadt!" very well,
accompanied by a small orchestra.
"Hello, Katty, wie geht's?" said Hollis to a girl who was passing with a
tray of empty beer-glasses. She stopped. "Want some ice-cream, Katty?"
"Oh, come now, Mr. Hollis, you know there's no ice-cream here."
"Did I say here? Outside, of course. Come along."
Katty went, nothing loath.
She was a girl of sixteen, with bright eyes, thick braids of brown hair,
and a sweet voice; the fairness of extreme youth gave her a fictitious
innocence. He took her to the ephemeral saloon, and sat looking at her
while she devoured two large slabs of a violently pink tint; her
preposterous Gainsborough hat, with its imitation plumes, she had taken
off, and the flaring gas-light shone on her pretty face.
"Now shall we have a walk, Katty?"
They strolled through the streets for half an hour. He took her into a
jeweller's shop, and bought her a German-silver dog-collar which she had
admired in the window; she wanted it to clasp round her throat: "Close
up, you know, under the chin; it's so cute that way." She was profuse in
her thanks; of her own accord, when they came out, she took his arm.
He fell into silence. They passed his rooms; Katty looked up. "All
dark," she said.
"Yes. I guess I'll take you back now, Katty; do you want to go home, or
to the garden again?"
"I ain't accustomed to going to bed at this early hour, Mr. Hollis,
whatever you may be. I'll go back to the gardens, please."
When they reached the entrance, he put his hand in his pocket and drew
something out. "There, Katty, take that and buy more dog-collars.
Money's all an old fellow like me is good for."
"Oh, Mr. Hollis,--when I like you better than many that's young."
"Thank you, Katty. Good-night."
He went, as he would have called it, "home." On the way he passed his
office; a vague impulse made him unlock the door, and look in, by the
light of a match. The skeleton was there, and the bonnets in their
bandboxes. "I must try to work 'em off before winter," he thought; "they
are really elegant." He locked the door again, and, going a little
farther down the street, he entered an open hallway, and began to climb
a long flight of stairs. On the second floor he inserted his key in a
door, and, opening, entered; he was at home. The air was close and hot,
and he threw up the windows; leaving the candle in the outer room, he
went and sat down in his parlor, crossing his legs, and trying to lean
back; every chair in the room was in its very nature and shape
uncomfortable. Sitting there, his life in retrospect passed slowly
before him, like a picture unrolling itself on the dark wall; he saw all
the squalid poverty of it, all its disappointments, its deprivations.
"From first to last it's been a poor affair; I wonder how I've stood
it!" The dawn came into the room, he did not move; he sat there with his
hat on until the little bell of the Baptist church near by began to ring
for Sabbath-school. He listened to the sound for a while, it was
persistent; finally he got up; his legs felt stiff, he brushed some dust
from his trousers with the palm of his hand; then he went out.
He went down to the street, and thence to the Baptist church. The door
stood open, and he went in; the children were already in their places,
and the organ was sounding forth a lively tune; presently the young
voices began all together in a chorus,
    "The voice of free grace cries escape to the mount-ins--"
His mother used to sing that song, he remembered. She often sang it over
her work, and she was always at work--yes, to the very day of her death;
she was a patient, silent creature.
"I don't know that I'd oughter have less pluck than she had," thought
her son.
"Brother, will you have a book?" whispered a little man in a duster,
proffering one from behind.
Hollis took it, and followed the words as the children sang them to the
end. When the prayer began, he laid the book down carefully on the seat,
and went out on tiptoe. He went down to the pier; the westward bound
boat had just come in; he went on board.
"Business," he explained to the judge, when he reached the camp. "Had to
go."
"Sold the skeleton, perhaps?"
"Well, I've laid one!" responded Hollis, grimly.
The judge was in gay spirits, Cicely had been talking to him; it had
been about Jack, and she had said nothing of importance; but the
sentences had been rational, connected.
Several days passed, and the improvement continued; consciousness had
returned to her eyes, they all felt hopeful. They had strolled down to
the beach one evening to see the sunset, and watch the first flash of
Jupiter Light out on its reef. Eve was with Hollis; she selected him
each day as her companion, asking him in so many words to accompany her;
Hollis went, showering out jokes and puns. Now and then he varied his
efforts at entertainment by legends of what he called "old times on the
frontier." They always began: "My father lived on a flat-boat. He was a
bold and adventurous character." In reality, his father was a teacher of
singing, who earned his living (sometimes) by getting up among
school-children, who co-operated without pay, a fairy operetta called
The Queen of the Flowers; he was an amiable man with a mild tenor
voice; he finally became a colporteur for the Methodist Book Concern.
To-day Hollis was talking about the flat-boat--maundering on, as he
would himself have called it; Paul and the judge strolled to and fro.
The water came up smoothly in long, low swells, whose edge broke at
their feet with a little sound like "whisssh," followed by a retreating
gurgle.
"Paul Tennant, are you there?" asked a voice.
Startled, they turned. On the bank above the beach, and therefore just
above their heads (the bank was eight feet high), stood Cicely.
"It is you I want, Paul Tennant. Everything has come back to me; I know
now that Ferdie is dead. You would not let me go to him; probably he
thought that it was because I did not want to go. This I owe to you, and
I curse you for it. I curse you, Paul Tennant, I curse your days and
nights; all the things and people you like, all your hopes and plans. If
you trust any one, I hope that person will betray you; if you love any
one, I hope that person will hate you; if you should have any children,
I hope they will be disobedient, and, whatever they may be to others,
undutiful to you."
"Cicely, stop!" cried Eve. "Will no one stop her?"
"God, curse Paul Tennant. He has been so cruel!" She was now kneeling
down, her arms held up to heaven in appeal.
The judge looked waxily pallid; Hollis did not move; Paul, much less
disturbed than any one, was already climbing the bank. It was
perpendicular, and there was neither footing nor hold, but after one or
two efforts he succeeded. When he reached the top, however, Cicely was
gone. He went to her lodge; here he found her sitting quietly beside
Jack's bed; she was alone, neither the nurse nor Porley was with her.
Before he could speak, Eve appeared, breathless.
"Where is the nurse, Cicely?" Paul asked, in his usual tone.
"Do you mean that woman whom you have put over me? She has gone for a
walk."
"And Porley?"
"You will find Porley at the big pine."
"What is she doing there?"
"I didn't want her about, so I tied her to the trunk," Cicely answered.
"Probably she is frightened," she added, calmly.
"Go and find her," said Eve to Paul. "I will stay here."
"Have nothing to do with Paul Tennant, Eve," Cicely remarked. "He is
almost a murderer. He didn't go to his brother; he let him die alone."
"I shall not leave you," said Paul, looking at Eve's white cheeks.
"Have you fallen in love with each other?" asked Cicely. "It needed only
that."
"I beg you to go," Eve entreated.
Paul hesitated. "Will you promise not to leave this lodge until I come
back?"
"Yes."
Paul went out. As he did so, he saw the judge approaching, leaning
heavily on Hollis's arm.
"It's nothing," Hollis explained. "The judge, he's only tuckered out; a
night's rest is all he needs."
"Take me to Cicely," the judge commanded.
"Cicely ought to be quiet now," Paul answered in a decided voice. "Eve
is with her, and they're all right; women do better alone together, you
know, when one of them has hysteria."
"Hysteria! Is that what you called it?" said the judge.
"Of course. And it's natural," Paul went on:--"poor little girl, coming
to herself suddenly here in the woods, only to realize that her husband
is dead. We shall have to be doubly tender with her, now that she is
beginning to be herself again."
"You didn't mind it, then?" pursued the judge. He was relieved, of
course--glad. Still it began to seem almost an impertinence that Paul
should have paid so little attention to what had been to the rest of
them so terrible.
"Mind? Do you mean what she was saying? I didn't half hear it, I was
thinking how I could get up that bank. And that reminds me there's
something wrong with Porley; she's at the big pine. I am going out there
to see. Cicely told me that she had tied her in some way."
"If she did, the wench richly deserved it," said the judge, going
towards his lodge, his step stiff and slow.
"He came mighty near a stroke," said Hollis to Paul in an undertone.
"Hadn't you better go with him, then?"
"Oh yes; I'll go." He went towards the judge's lodge. "You go right
into that lodge, fool Hollis, and stay there,--stay with that
unreasonable, vituperative, cantankerous old Bourbon of a judge,
and--judge of Bourbon! You smooth him down, and you hearten him up, you
agree with him every time; you tuck him in, you hang his old clothes
over a chair, you take his shoes out, and black 'em; and you conduct
yourself generally like one of his own nigs in the glorious old days of
slavery--Maryland, my Maryland!" He lifted the latch of the door, and
went in.
Paul, meanwhile, had gone to the big pine; when he reached it, the
twilight had darkened into night. A crouching figure stood close to the
trunk--Porley; she was tied by a small rope to the tree, the firm
ligatures encircling her in three places--at the throat, the waist, and
the ankles; in addition, her hands were tied behind her.
"Well, Porley, a good joke, isn't it?" Paul said, as he cut the knots of
the rope with his knife.
"Ah-hoo!" sobbed the girl, her fright breaking into audible expression
now that aid was near.
"Mrs. Morrison thought she would see how brave you were."
"Ah-hoo! Ah-hoo-hoo-hoo!" roared Porley, in a paroxysm of frantic
weeping.
"If you are so frightened as that, what did you let her do it for? You
are five times as strong as she is."
"I coulden tech her, marse--I coulden! Says she, 'A-follerin' an'
spyin', Porley? Take dat rope an' come wid me.' So I come. She's cunjud
me, marse; I is done fer."
"Nonsense! Where's the nurse?"
"I doan know--I doan know. Says she, 'We'll take a walk, Miss Mile.' An'
off dey went, 'way ober dat way. Reckon Miss Mile's dead!"
"No more dead than you are. Go back to the camp and un-cunjer yourself;
there's a dollar to help it along."
He went off in the direction she had indicated. After a while he began
to call at intervals; there was a distant answer, and he called again.
And then gradually, nearer and nearer, came the self-respecting voice of
Mary Ann Mile. Each time he shouted, "Hello there!" her answer was,
"Yes, sir; present-lée," in a very well-educated tone.
"What is this, Mrs. Mile?"
"You may well ask, sir. Such an incident has never happened to me
before. Mrs. Morrison remarked that she should enjoy a walk, and I
therefore went with her; after we had proceeded some distance, suddenly
she darted off. I followed her, and kept her in sight for a while, or
rather she kept me in sight; then she disappeared, and I perceived not
only that I had lost her, but that I myself was lost. It is a curious
thing, sir,--the cleverness of people whose minds are disordered!"
"Her mind is no longer disordered, Mrs. Mile; she has got back her
senses."
"Do you consider this an instance of it?" asked the nurse, doubtfully.
When Paul left Cicely's lodge, Eve closed the door. "Cicely, I have
something to tell you. Listen."
"It is a pity you like that man--that Paul Tennant," Cicely answered.
"If I do like him, I can never be anything to him. This is what I
wanted to tell you: that I shot his brother."
"Well, if his brother was like him--"
"Oh, Cicely, it was Ferdie--your Ferdie."
"What do you know about Ferdie?" demanded Cicely, coldly. "He never
liked you in the least."
"Don't you know, Cicely, that Ferdie is dead?"
"Oh, yes, I know it. Paul would not let me go to him, and he died all
alone."
"And do you know what was the cause of his death?"
"Yes; he was shot; there were some negroes, they got away in a boat."
"No, there were no negroes; I shot him. I took a pistol on purpose."
"It seems to be very hard work for you to tell me this, you are crying
dreadfully," remarked Cicely, looking at her. "Why do you tell?"
"Because I am the one you must curse. Not Paul."
"It's all for Paul, then."
"But it was for you in the first place, Cicely. Don't you remember that
we escaped?--that we went through the wood to the north point?--that you
tried to push the boat off, and couldn't? Baby climbed up by one of the
seats, and Ferdie saw him, and made a dash after him; then it was that I
fired. I did it, Cicely. Nobody else."
"Oh," said Cicely, slowly, "you did it, did you?" She rose. "And Paul
kept me from going to him! It was all you two." She went to the crib,
and lifted Jack from his nest. He stirred drowsily; then fell asleep
again. (Poor little Jack, what journeys!)
"Open that door; and go," Cicely commanded.
Eve hesitated a moment. Then she obeyed.
Cicely wrapped a shawl about Jack, and laid him down; she set to work
and made two packets of clothing--one for herself, and one for the
child--slinging them upon her arm; she put on her straw hat, took Jack,
and went out, closing the door behind her. Eve, who was waiting outside
in the darkness, followed her. She dared not call for help; she hoped
that they might meet Paul coming back, or Porley, or the nurse. But they
met no one, Paul was still at the big pine. Cicely turned down to the
beach, and began to walk westward. Eve followed, moving as noiselessly
as possible; but Cicely must have heard her, though she gave no sign of
it, for, upon passing a point, Eve found that she had lost her, there
was no one in sight. She ran forward, she called her name entreatingly;
she stood by the edge of the water, fearing to see something dark
floating there. She called again, she pleaded. No answer from the dusky
night. She turned and ran back to the camp.
At its edge she met Paul. "You promised me that you would not leave the
lodge," he said.
"Oh, Paul, I don't know where she is. Oh, come--hurry, hurry!"
They went together. She was so tired, so breathless, that he put his arm
round her as a support.
"Oh, do not."
"This is where you ought always to be when you are tired--in my arms."
"Don't let us talk. She may be dead."
"Poor little Cicely! But you are more to me."
His tones thrilled her, she felt faint with happiness. Suddenly came the
thought: "When we find her, she will tell him! She will tell him all I
said."
"Don't believe her; don't believe anything she may tell you," she
entreated, passionately. A fierce feeling took possession of her; she
would fight for her happiness. "Am I nothing to you?" she said, pausing;
"my wish nothing? Promise me not to believe anything Cicely says against
me,--anything! It's all an hallucination."
Paul had not paid much heed to her exclamations, he thought all women
incoherent; but he perceived that she was excited, exhausted, and he
laid his hand protectingly on her hair, smoothing it with tender touch.
"Why should I mind what she says? It would be impossible for her to say
anything that could injure you in my eyes, Eve."
Beyond the next point they saw a light; it came from a little fire of
twigs on the beach. Beside the fire was Jack; he was carefully wrapped
in the shawl, the two poor little packets of clothing were arranged
under him as a bed; Cicely's straw hat was under his head, and her
handkerchief covered his feet. But there was no Cicely. They went up and
down the beach, and into the wood behind; again Eve looked fearfully at
the water.
"She isn't far from Jack," said Paul. "We shall find her in a moment or
two."
Eve's search stopped. "In a moment or two he will know!"
"Here she is!" cried Paul.
And there was Cicely, sitting close under the bank in the deepest
shadow. She did not move; Paul lifted her in his arms.
"The moon is under a cloud now," she explained, in a whispering voice;
"as soon as it comes out, I shall see Ferdie over there on the opposite
shore, and I shall call to him. "Don't let that fire go out, I haven't
another match; he will need the light as a guide."
"She thinks she is on Singleton Island!" said Eve;--"the night we got
away."
Her tone was joyous.
XXVI.
PAUL AND EVE took Cicely back to the camp. And almost immediately,
before Mrs. Mile could undress her, she had fallen asleep. It was the
still slumber of exhaustion, but it seemed also to be a rest; she lay
without moving all that night, and the next day, and the night
following. As she slumbered, gradually the tenseness of her face was
relaxed, the lines grew lighter, disappeared; then slowly a pink colored
her cheeks, restoring her beauty.
They all came softly in from time to time to stand beside her for a
moment. The nurse was sure that the sleep was nature's medicine, and
that it was remedial; and when at last, on the second day, the dark eyes
opened, it could be seen that physically the poor child was well.
She laughed with Jack, she greeted her grandfather, and talked to him;
she called Porley "Dilsey," and told her that she was much improved. "I
will give you a pair of silver ear-rings, Dilsey, when we get home." For
she seemed to comprehend that they were not at home, but on a journey of
some sort. The memory of everything that had happened since Ferdie's
arrival at Romney had been taken from her; she spoke of her husband as
in South America. But she did not talk long on any subject. She wished
to have Jack always with her, she felt a tranquil interest in her
grandfather, and this was all. With the others she was distant. Her
manner to Eve was exactly the manner of those first weeks after Eve's
arrival at Romney. She spoke of Paul and Hollis to her grandfather as
"your friends."
She gathered flowers; she talked to the Indians, who looked at her with
awe; she wandered up and down the beach, singing little songs, and she
spent hours afloat. Mrs. Mile, who, like the well-trained nurse that she
was, had no likes or dislikes as regarded her patients, and who
therefore cherished no resentment as to the manner in which she had been
befooled in the forest--Mrs. Mile thoroughly enjoyed "turning out" her
charge each morning in a better condition than that of the day before.
Cicely went willingly to bed at eight every evening, and she did not
wake until eight the next morning; when she came out of her lodge after
the bath, the careful rubbing, and the nourishing breakfast which formed
part of Mrs. Mile's excellent system, from the crisp edges of her hair
down to her quick-stepping little feet, she looked high-spirited,
high-bred, and fresh as an opening rose. Mrs. Mile would follow,
bringing her straw hat, her satisfaction expressed by a tightening of
her long upper lip that seemed preliminary to a smile (though the smile
never came), and by the quiet pride visible in her well-poised back.
When, as generally happened, Cicely went out on the lake, Mrs. Mile,
after over-seeing with her own eyes the preparations for lunch, would
retire to a certain bench, whence she could watch for the returning
boats, and devote herself to literature for a while, always reading one
book, the History of Windham, Connecticut, Windham being her native
place. As she sat there, with her plain broad-cheeked face and smooth
scanty hair, her stiff white cuffs, her neat boots, size number seven,
neatly crossed before the short skirt of her brown gown, she made a
picture of a sensible, useful person (without one grain of what a man
would call feminine attractiveness). But no one cared to have her
attractive at Jupiter Light; they were grateful for her devotion to
Cicely, and did not study her features. They all clustered round Cicely
more constantly than ever now, this strange little companion, so fair
and fresh, so happily unconscious, by God's act, of the sorrows that had
crushed her.
Paul was back and forth, now at the camp for a day or two, now at Port
aux Pins. One afternoon, when he was absent, Eve went to the little
forest burying-ground belonging to Jupiter Light. On the way she met
Cicely, accompanied by Mrs. Mile.
"Where are you going? I will go with you, I think," Cicely remarked. "It
can't be so tiresome as this."
Mrs. Mile went intelligently away.
"I am very tired of her," Cicely continued; "she looks like the Mad
Hatter at the tea-party: this style ten-and-six. Why are you turning
off?"
"This path is prettier."
"No; I want to go where you were going first."
"Perhaps she won't mind," thought Eve.
When they came to the little enclosure, Cicely looked at it calmly. "Is
this a garden?" she asked. She began to gather wild flowers outside.
Eve went within; she cleared the fallen leaves from the grave of the
little girl. While she was thus occupied, steps came up the path, and
Hollis appeared; making a sign to Eve, he offered his arm quickly to
Cicely. "Mrs. Morrison, the judge is in a great hurry to have you come
back."
"Grandpa?" said Cicely. "Is he ill?"
"Yes, he is very ill indeed," replied Hollis, decidedly.
"Poor grandpa!" said Cicely. "Let us hurry."
They went back to the camp. Reaching it, he took her with rapid step to
her lodge, where the judge and Mrs. Mile were waiting. "You are ill,
grandpa?" said Cicely, going to him.
"I am already better."
"But not by any means well yet," interposed Mrs. Mile; "he must stay
here in this lodge, and you shouldn't leave him for one moment, Mrs.
Morrison."
Porley and Jack were also present; every now and then Mrs. Mile would
give Porley a peremptory sign.
Hollis and Eve stood together near the door talking in low tones. "A
muss among the Indians," Hollis explained. "Those we brought along are
peaceful enough if left to themselves; in fact, they are cowards. But a
dangerous fellow, a very dangerous scamp, joined them this morning on
the sly, and they've got hold of some whiskey; I guess he brought it. I
thought I'd better tell you; the cook is staying with them to keep
watch, and the judge and I are on the lookout here; I don't think there
is the least real danger; still you'd better keep under cover. If Paul
comes, we shall be all right."
"Do you expect him to-day?"
"Sorter; but I'm not sure."
A drunken shout sounded through the forest.
"An Indian spree is worse than a white man's," remarked Hollis. "But you
ain't afraid, I see that!" He looked at her admiringly.
"I'm only afraid of one thing in the world," replied Eve, taking,
woman-like, the comfort of a confession which no one could understand.
"Can you shoot?" Hollis went on.--"Fire a pistol?"
She blanched.
"There, now, never mind. 'Twas only a chance question."
"No, tell me. I can shoot perfectly well; as well as a man."
"Then I'll give you my pistol. You'll have no occasion to use it, not
the least in the world; but still you'll be armed."
"Put it on the table. I can get it if necessary."
"Well, I'll go outside. I'm to stroll about where I can see the cook;
that's my cue; and you can stay near the door, where you can see me;
that's yours. And the judge, he has the back window, one of the guns is
there. All right? Bon-sor, then." He went out.
Eve sat down by the door. The judge kept up a conversation with Cicely,
and anxiously played quiet games with little Jack, until both fell
asleep; Cicely fell asleep very easily now, like a child. Mrs. Mile
lifted her in her strong arms and laid her on the bed, while Porley took
Jack; poor Porley was terribly frightened, but rather more afraid of
Mrs. Mile, on the whole, than of the savages.
By-and-by a red light flashed through the trees outside; the Indians had
kindled a fire.
Twenty minutes later Hollis paused at the door. "Paul's coming, I guess;
I hear paddles."
"Of course you'll go down and meet him?" said Eve.
"No, I can't leave the beat."
"I can take your place for that short time."
"Don't you show your head outside--don't you!" said Hollis, quickly.
Eve looked at him. "I shall go down to the beach myself, if you don't."
Her eyes were inflexible.
All Hollis's determination left him. "The judge can take this beat,
then; you can guard his window," he said, in a lifeless tone. He went
down to the beach.
All of them--the judge, Mrs. Mile, and Porley, as well as Eve--could
hear the paddles now; the night, save for the occasional shouts, was
very still. Eve stood at the window. "Will the Indians hear him, and go
down?"
But they did not hear him. In another five minutes Paul had joined them.
Hollis, who was with him, gave a hurried explanation. "We're all right,
now that you are here," he concluded; "we are more than a match for the
drunken scamps if they should come prowling up this way. When the
whiskey's out of 'em to-morrow, we can reduce 'em to reason."
"Why wait till to-morrow?" said Paul.
"No use getting into a fight unnecessarily."
"I don't propose to fight," Paul answered.
"They're eleven, Tennant," said the judge; "you wouldn't have time to
shoot them all down."
"I'm not going to shoot," Paul responded. He went towards the door.
"Don't go," pleaded Eve, interposing.
He went straight on, as though he had not heard her.
"I can't move him," she thought, triumphantly. "I can no more move him
than I could move a mountain!"
Paul was gone. Hollis followed him to the door. "We two must stay here
and protect the women, you know," said the judge, warningly.
"Why, certainly," said Hollis; "of course,--the ladies." He came back.
Suddenly Eve hurried out.
Paul reached the Indian quarters, and walked up to the fire. He gave a
look round the circle.
The newly arrived man, the one whom Hollis had called dangerous, sprang
to his feet.
Paul took him by the throat and shook the breath out of him.
When Hollis came hurrying up, the thing was done; the other Indians,
abject and terrified, were helping to bind the interloper.
"The cook can watch them now," said Paul. "I suppose there's no supper,
with all this row?"
Hollis gave a grim laugh. "At a pinch--like this, I don't mind cooking
one."
Paul turned. And then he saw Eve behind him.
Hollis had gone to the kitchen; he did not wish to see them meet.
"You did absurdly wrong to come, Eve," said Paul, going to her. "What
possible good was it? And if there had been real danger, you would have
been in the way."
"You are trembling; are you so frightened, then?" he went on, his voice
growing softer.
"I am not frightened now."
They went towards the lodge.
"It's a desolate life you've arranged for me, Eve," he said, going back
to his subject, the Indians already forgotten. "I'm not to say anything
to you; I'm to have nothing; and so we're to go on apparently forever.
What is it you are planning for? I am sure I don't know. I know you care
for me, and I don't believe that you'll find anything sweeter than the
love I could give you,--if you would let me."
"There is nothing sweeter," Eve answered.
"Have you given up keeping me off?" He drew her towards him. She did not
resist.
In her heart rose the cry, "For one day, for one hour, let me have it,
have it all! Then--"
XXVII.
On the second day after the alarm, Paul took the Indians back to Port
aux Pins, and dismissed them, after handing the ringleader to the proper
authorities; the others slunk away with their long black hair hanging
down below their white man's hats, their eagle profiles, in spite of
fierceness of outline, entirely unalarming. Paul then selected half a
dozen Irishmen, the least dilapidated he could find (the choice lay
between Indians and Irishmen), and brought them to Jupiter Light to take
the place of the crestfallen aborigines. He remained there a few days to
see that all went well; then he returned to Port aux Pins for a week's
stay. "Come a little way up the lake to meet me," he said to Eve, as he
bade her good-by; "I shall be along about four o'clock next Wednesday
afternoon."
His manner still remained a little despotic. But to women of strong will
despotism is attractive; when a despotism of love, it is enchanting.
Eve's feeling was, "Oh, to have at last found some one who is stronger
than I!"
Even now not for a moment did she bend her opinions, her decisions, to
his, of her own accord; each time it was simply that she was conquered;
after contesting the point as strongly as she could, how she gloried in
feeling herself overridden at last! She would look at Paul with
delighted eyes, and laugh in triumph. To have yielded because she loved
him, would have had a certain sweetness; but to be conquered unyielding,
that was a satisfaction whose intensity could go no further.
Since that walk in the darkness from the Indian quarters to Cicely's
lodge, when, suddenly, she had let her love have its way, she had
allowed herself to be carried along by chance events whithersoever they
pleased; she had defied conscience, she had accepted the bliss that hung
temptingly before her; she did not think, she only enjoyed. Once or
twice she had sent forth mentally this defiance,--"If you feel as I do,
then you may judge me!" To whom was this said? To Fate? To the world
at large? In reality it was said to all women who in that summer of 1869
were young enough to love: "If you can feel as I do, then you may
judge me." But it was only once or twice that this mood had come to her,
only once or twice that she thought of anything but Paul; his offered
hand taken, her acceptance of it was at least superb in its
completeness; there was no looking back, no fear, no regret; nothing
but the fulness of joy.
Still sweeter was it to feel that, deeply as she loved, she was loved as
deeply. Paul might be imperious, he might be negligent in explaining
things, and in other small ways; but there was nothing negligent in his
passion. His genius for directness, which puzzled Hollis in other
matters, showed itself also here; he had little to say--that was
possible--but no woman could have misunderstood the language of his eyes
or of the touch of his hand; or fail to be thrilled by it. The feeling
that possessed him went straight to its end, namely, Eve Bruce for his
wife; the same Eve whom he had not liked at all at first; to whom he had
found it difficult only a few weeks before to write a short letter. This
inconsistency did not trouble him; love had arrived, had descended upon
him in some way, he knew not how, had taken possession of him by force
