Hermia an attachment very sincere as far as it went—it may be added
that, if there had been more of Miss Simms, there would have been more
attachment. It is possible that Hermia, without her brilliant position,
would not have attracted the attention of Miss Simms, but it is only
just to Helen to say that the conditions affected her not a whit; she
was quite free from snobbery.
She liked Hermia because she could not understand her—much as she was
influenced by the sea in a storm, or by mountains with lightning darting
about their crests. Whenever she entered Hermia’s presence she always
felt as if the air had become suddenly fresher; and she liked new
sensations. She did not in the least resent the fact that she could not
understand Hermia, that her chosen friend was intellectually a
hemisphere beyond her, and in character infinitely more complex. She was
pleased at her own good taste, and quite generous enough to admire where
she could not emulate.
She was constantly amused at Hermia’s abiding and aggressive desire to
fall in love, but she was by no means unsympathetic. She would have
regarded an emotional tumult in her own being as a bore, but for Hermia
she thought it quite the most appropriate and advisable thing. Once in a
while, in a half-blind way, she came into momentary contact with the
supreme loneliness and craving of Hermia’s nature, and she invariably
responded with a sympathetic throb and a wish that the coming man would
not tarry so long.
She was so glad she had thought of Cryder. She honestly believed him to
be the one man of all men who could make the happiness of her friend;
and she entered the ranks of the Fates with the pleasurable suspicion
that she was the author of Hermia’s infinite good.
She surprised her father, the morning after her last interview with
Hermia, by coming down to breakfast. She was careful to let him finish
his roll to the last crumb and to read his paper to the acrid end. Then
she went over and put her finger-tips under his chin.
He glanced up with a groan. “What do you want now?” he demanded, looking
at her over his eye-glasses. His periodical pettings had made him
cynical.
“Nothing—for myself. Did you not say that some one had sent you tickets
for the next meeting of the Free Discussion?”
“Yes; but you can’t have them to give to some girl who would only go to
show herself, or to some boy whose thimbleful of gray matter would be
addled before the lecture was half over. I am going to hear that lecture
myself.”
“How perfectly enchanting! That is what I wished, yet dared not hope
for. And you are not only going yourself, but you are going to take
Hermia Suydam with you.”
“Oh!” Mr. Simms raised his eyebrows. “I am? Very well. I am sure I have
no objection. Miss Suydam is the finest girl in New York.”
“Of course she is, and she will make a sensation at the club; you will
be the envied of all men. And there is one thing else you are to do. As
soon as the exercises are over I want you to present Ogden Cryder to
her. I have particular reasons for wishing them to meet.”
“What are the reasons?”
“Never mind. You do as you are told, and ask no questions”—this in a
tone which extracted the sting, and was supplemented by a light kiss on
Mr. Simms’ smooth forehead.
“Very well, very well,” said her father, obediently, “she shall meet
him; remind me of it just before I leave. And now I must run. I have a
case in court at ten o’clock.”
He stood up and gave one of his handsome, iron-gray side-whiskers an
absent caress. He was not a particularly good-looking man, but he had a
keen, dark eye, and a square, heavy jaw, in both of which features lay
the secret of his great success in his profession. He was devoted to
Helen, and had allowed her, with only an occasional protest, to bring
him up. He could be brusque and severe in court, but in Helen’s hands he
was a wax ball into which she delighted to poke her dainty fingers.
Helen wrote a note to Hermia, and he took it with him to send by an
unwinged Mercury.
On Friday morning Helen went over to Second Avenue to make sure that her
friend had not changed her mind. She found Hermia in her boudoir, with
one of Cryder’s books in her hand and another on a table beside her.
“What do you think of him?” demanded Miss Simms, somewhat anxiously, as
she adjusted her steel-bound self in a pile of cushions—straight-backed
chairs in this room there were none.
Hermia shrugged her shoulders: “A decorous seasoning of passion; a
clear, delicate gravy of sentiment; a pinch of pathos; a garnish of
analysis; and a solid roast of dialect. Woe is me!—I have read two
whole volumes; and I pray that I may like the author better than his
books. But he is clever; there is no denying that!”
“Oh, horribly clever! What are you going to wear, to-night?”
“That dark-green velvet I showed you the other day.”
“Lovely! And it will match your eyes to a shade. You will look, as
usual, as if you had just stepped out of an old picture. Mr. Cryder will
put you in a book.”
“If he does I shall be a modern picture, not an old one. That man could
not write a tale of fifty years ago.”
“So much the better for you! What you want is to fall in love with a
modern man, and let him teach you that the mediæval was a great animal,
who thought of nothing but what he ate and drank. I do not claim that
the species is extinct; but, at least, in these days we have a choice.”
                 
                              CHAPTER XII.
                      THE CLUB OF FREE DISCUSSION.
Hermia looked at her reflection that evening with a smile. The shadowed
emerald of her velvet gown made her hair glow like vibrant flame. The
color wandered through her cheeks and emptied itself into her lips. Her
eyes were as green as the limpid floor of ocean-hollowed caverns. Across
her ivory-white shoulder swept a curving blue vein, thin as an infant’s
lash, and on the rise of her right breast were three little moles, each
marking the corner of a tiny triangle.
Mr. Simms called for her promptly, and when they arrived at the
club-rooms they strolled about looking at the pictures and the people
until the exercises began. There were many literary and artistic
celebrities present, all of whom looked much like ordinary and well-bred
people; but to Hermia there was a luminous halo about each. It was her
first experience in the literary world, and she felt as if she had
entered the atmosphere of a dream. It was one of her few satisfactory
experiments. She was much stared at; everybody knew her by reputation if
not by sight; and a number of men asked to be presented.
Among them was Mr. Overton, the editor who had published her poem in his
magazine. She changed color as he came up, but his manner at once
assured her that she was not recognized: he would have vindicated his
fraternity, indeed, had he been keen-sighted enough to recognize in this
triumphant, radiant creature the plain, ill-dressed, stooping girl with
whom he had talked for half an hour at the close of a winter’s day two
years before. Hermia, of course, no longer wrote; life offered her too
many other distractions.
Mr. Overton suggested that they should go into the lecture-room and
secure good seats. He found them chairs and took one beside Hermia.
“Ogden Cryder gives the address to-night,” he said, after he had
satisfied Hermia’s curiosity in regard to the names of a half-dozen
people. “Do you like his books?”
“Fairly. Do you?”
Mr. Overton laughed. “That is rather a direct question, considering that
I print one of his stories about every six months.”
“Oh, you might not like them. You might publish them out of tender
regard for the demands of your readers.”
Mr. Overton had a characteristic American face, thin, nervous, shrewd,
pleasant. He gave Hermia a smile of unwonted frankness. “I will confide
to you, Miss Suydam, that such is the case with about two-thirds I
publish. I thank Heaven that I do not have to read a magazine as well as
publish it. I have an associate editor who sits with his finger on the
pulse of the public, and relieves me of much vexation of spirit.”
“But tell me what you think of Mr. Cryder.”
Mr. Overton raised his eyebrows. “He is indisputably the best dialect
writer we have, and he is a charming exponent of surface passions.
Whether he would drown if he plunged below the surface is a question; at
all events he might become improper, and morality pays in this magazine
era. There he is now; no doubt we shall have a delightful address.”
Hermia turned her head quickly, but Cryder had taken a chair at the foot
of the rostrum, and there were many heads between her own and his. A
moment later, however, the president of the club made the preliminary
remarks, and then gave place to Cryder.
Hermia watched him breathlessly as he ascended the steps and stood
beside the table, waiting for the hearty welcome to subside. Was it he
at last? He was certainly good to look at; she had never seen more
charming eyes—clear golden-hazel, half melancholy, wholly intelligent.
His small, well-shaped head was thickly covered with short, soft,
gold-brown hair; the delicate, aristocratic features were as finely cut
as those on an intaglio; and the thin, curved lips were shaded by a
small mustache. His figure, tall, light, graceful, had a certain
vibrating activity even in repose. His hand was white and tapering as
that of a woman, and his auditors were given opportunity to appreciate
it.
The subject of the lecture was “The Dialect Element in American
Fiction,” and Mr. Cryder did it justice in a clear, ringing, musical
voice. He very properly remarked that it was the proud boast of America
that no other country, ancient or modern, could present such an array of
famous dialects, consequently no other country had ever had such
infinite variety in her literature. He would say nothing of the several
hundred dialects as yet awaiting the Columbus-pen of genius; he would
merely speak of those nine already discovered and immortalized—the
Negro, the Yankee, the Southern, the Creole, the Tennessee Mountain, the
Cow-boy, the Bret Harte Miner, the Hoosier, and the Chinese. Each of
these, although springing from one bosom, namely, that of the Great
American People, had as distinct an individuality as if the product of
an isolated planet. Such a feature was unique in the history of any
country or any time. The various patois of the French, the
provincialisms of the English, the barbarisms of the Scotch, the brogue
of the Irish, were but so many bad and inconsequent variations upon an
original theme. Reflect, therefore, upon the immense importance of
photographing and preserving American neologies for the benefit of
posterity! In the course of time would inevitably come the homogeneity
of the human race; the negro, for instance, would pervade every corner
of the civilized earth, and his identity become hopelessly entangled
with that of his equally de-individualized blonde brother. His dialect
would be a forgotten art! Contemporaries would have no knowledge of it
save through the painstaking artists of their ancestors’ time. Reflect,
then, upon the heavy responsibility which lay upon the shoulders of the
author of to-day. Picture what must be the condition of his conscience
at the end of his record if he has failed to do his duty by the negro
dialect! Picture the reproaches of future generations if they should be
left ignorant of the unique vernacular of their grandfathers’ serfs!
(Applause.) He did not lay such stress upon the superior importance of
the negro dialect because he had enrolled himself among its faulty
exponents; he had taken his place in its ranks because of that
superior importance. Nevertheless, he was by no means blind to the
virtues of those other eight delightful strings in the Great National
Instrument. No one enjoyed more than he the liquid and incomprehensible
softness of the Creole, the penetrating, nasonic strength of the Yankee,
the delicious independence of the Hoosier, the pine-sweet, redwood-calm
transcriptions of the prose-laureate of the West. He loved them all, and
he gloried in the literary monument of which they were the separate
stones.
To do Mr. Cryder’s oration justice would be a feat which no modest
novelist would attempt. Those who would read that memorable speech in
its entirety and its purity will find it in the archives of the club, in
the sixth volume of the Sessional Records. After reading brief and pithy
extracts from the nine most famous dialect stories of the day, he sat
down with the applause of approval in his ears.
Hermia turned to Mr. Overton: “He was guying, I suppose,” she said.
Mr. Overton stared. “Certainly not,” he said, severely. “The value of
precisely rendered dialect is incalculable.”
Hermia, quite snubbed, said no more; and in a few moments, Mr. Duncan, a
shrewd, humorous-looking little Scotchman, rose to reply.
“I have nothing whatever to say in contradiction to Mr. Cryder’s remarks
regarding the value of dialect,” he said, looking about with a bland,
deprecating smile. “On the contrary, I have yet another word to add in
its favor. I hold that the value of dialect to the American author has
never yet been estimated. When a story has a lot of dialect, you never
discover that it hasn’t anything else. (Laughter, and a surprised frown
from Cryder.) Furthermore, as America is too young to have an
imagination, the dialect is an admirable and original substitute for
plot and situations.” (Laughter and mutterings; also a scowl from
Cryder.) “Again, there is nothing so difficult as the handling of modern
English: it is a far speedier and easier road to fame to manipulate a
dialect familiar to only an insignificant section of our glorious sixty
millions.” (“Hear, hear!” from a pair of feminine lips, and many
sympathetic glances at Cryder’s flashing eyes.) “Yet again, the common
fault found with our (I wish it understood that I speak always from the
standpoint of the country which I have adopted)—with our writers is
lack of passion. Now, nobody can be expected to be passionate when
groaning in the iron stays of dialect. Dialect is bit and curb to the
emotions, and it is only an American who is sharp enough to perceive the
fact and make the most of it. What is more, pathos sounds much better in
dialect than in cold, bald English, just as impropriety sounds better in
French, and love-making in Spanish. Contrast, for instance, the relative
pathos of such sentences as these—the throbbing sadness of the one, the
harsh bathos of the other: ‘I done lubbed you, Sally!’ ‘I loved you,
Maria.’” (Laughter from one side of the house; ominous silence from the
other.) “Truly, ’tis in the setting the jewel shines. I would like to
say, in conclusion,” he went on, imperturbably, “that Mr. Cryder, in his
enumeration of American neologics has omitted one as important and
distinctive as any in his category, namely, that of fashionable society.
In the virility, the variety, and the amplitude of her slang, America is
England’s most formidable rival.”
He left the platform amidst limited applause, and then Mr. Cryder’s
pent-up wrath burst forth, and he denounced in scathing terms and
stinging epigrams the foreigner who had proved himself incapable of
appreciating one of his country’s most remarkable developments, and
attempted to satirize it from his petty point of view.
The auditors were relieved when the exercises were over and the club’s
disruption postponed, and, betaking themselves to the supper-room,
dismissed both lecture and reply from their minds.
Hermia was standing by one of the tables talking to three or four men,
when Mr. Simms brought up Cryder and introduced him. Cryder looked
absent and somewhat annoyed. He was evidently not in a mood to be
impressed by feminine loveliness. At the end of a few moments Hermia
wisely let him go, although with a renewed sense of the general flatness
of life. At the same time she was somewhat amused, and sensible enough
to know that it could not have been otherwise.
                 
                             CHAPTER XIII.
                             OGDEN CRYDER.
Only the nineteenth century could have evolved Cryder. The infancy of a
democratic civilization produces giants. The giants build hot-houses,
and a flower, delicate, beautiful, exquisitely perfumed, but fragile,
light as bubbles of blown glass, is the result. America is now doing the
best she can with her hot-house flora. She has no great men, but the
flora is wondrous fine. Outside the forcing-houses is a wilderness of
weeds in which lies her future’s hope.
Cryder would have taken the medal at an orchid show. He was light as a
summer breeze, yet as stimulating and fresh. He was daintily humorous,
yet seldom witty enough to excite envy. His conversation was like the
song of a lark, clear, brilliant, trilling, with never a bass note to
disturb the harmony. In a quick, keen, flashing way, he had an exact
knowledge of the salient world. He was artistic to his finger-tips, and
preferred an aquarelle to an oil. He had loved many times and hoped to
love as many more, and his love was always that of an æsthete. For
coarse passions he had a cold contempt. He had broken many roses from
their stems, but more because he thought an herbarium looked better when
filled than because he enjoyed the plucking of the flower. Probably it
is needless to observe that he never drank more than a pint bottle of
champagne, and that he never over-ate.
The day after his address at the club he was walking down the avenue
when he met Helen Simms. He turned back with her, and finished the
afternoon in her drawing-room.
Helen did not give him so much of her time without an object. She cared
little for Cryder, and few of her doings were unprompted by motive; life
was too brief.
“You met Miss Suydam last night, did you not?” she asked, when Cryder
was comfortably established in an easy-chair near the fire.
“Yes, for a moment. I was a little put out by Duncan’s attack on me, and
only stayed for a few words. I needed the solace of a cigarette.”
“I read the account of the affair in this morning’s papers. Mr. Duncan’s
remarks were purely foolish, as he must have realized when he saw them
in print. However, you have the consolation of knowing that after your
reply he will not be likely to attack you again. But I am glad you met
Miss Suydam. She will interest you as a study. She is all the rage at
present. Every other man in town is in love with her.”
Cryder turned to her with some interest in his eyes. “Is she so very
fascinating? She is certainly handsome—yes—stylishly handsome.”
“Oh, she is a beauty! Such a unique type! And she is quite as different
from other people herself. That is her great trouble. She is called a
terrible flirt, but it is the men’s fault, not hers. She is always
looking for something, and can never find it.”
“Sad and strange! Is she a young woman with yearnings?”
“Not at all. She is the most sensible woman I know. She is merely
unusually clever, consequently she is very lonely. I do not believe any
man will ever satisfy her. She is like the sleeping princess in the
enchanted castle. She shuts herself up in that wonderful house of hers
and dreams of the lover who never comes.”
“You touch my fancy; and what do you mean by her wonderful house?”
“That house would delight your author’s soul. Every room is the
materialization of a dream, as Hermia would say;” and she gave him an
account of her friend’s inartistic but original abode.
Cryder listened with much interest. Romance was a dead-letter to him,
but he was alive to the picturesque. He concluded that it would be quite
enchanting to make love to a woman in a feudal library or an Indian
jungle, and more than satisfactory to awaken the sleeping beauty. It
would be a charming episode for his present brief stay in New York,
altogether quite the choicest specimen in his herbarium. What she was
waiting for was a combination of brain and skill.
“You have made me want to know her,” he said, “but, of course, she did
not ask me to call.”
“I will take you to see her some time.”
“That is very good of you. Some afternoon when you have nothing better
to do.”
“Come on Monday. That is her day. You won’t have much chance to talk to
her, but then you can go again as soon as you like.”
Cryder took out his note-book and penciled a memorandum, “On Monday,
then.”
Helen concluded that if she had been born a man she would have elected
diplomacy as a career.
                 
                              CHAPTER XIV.
                       IN A METROPOLITAN JUNGLE.
Cryder called on Hermia Monday afternoon. Although the room was full he
had a few words with her, and she thought him very charming.
“I want to talk to you,” he said. “I have wanted to talk to you ever
since I met you, but I was in such a bad humor the other night that I
would not inflict you. Are you ever alone? Cannot I have an hour or two
some evening?”
Hermia smiled. “Come on Thursday evening. I have not another evening
until late next week.”
“I have an engagement, but I will break it. And will you think me
impertinent if I ask you to show me all over this wonderful house? There
is nothing like it in Europe.”
“I shall be delighted,” said Hermia, enthusiastically. “So few people
appreciate it.”
“It is good of you to think I can. But in thought I always dwell in the
past (he hated the past), and although my work is realistic, because
realism is of more value to literature, yet my nature is essentially a
romantic one. Only, one so seldom acknowledges romance, one is so afraid
of being laughed at.”
He watched her as he spoke, and saw a sudden gleam come into her eyes. A
year’s training and her own native cleverness had taught Hermia not to
believe all that men said to her, but Cryder had struck a well-loved
chord. And she had no wish to be skeptical.
On Thursday evening Hermia arrayed herself with great care. After much
deliberation she donned a gown which as yet she had never worn. It was
of tan-gold velvet, with irregular appliqués of dark-brown plush. Down
the front was a curious design of gold braid and deep-green brilliants.
She received Cryder in the conservatory. It had but recently been
completed, and looked enough like a jungle to deceive the most
suspicious of tigers. The green tiles of the floor were painted with a
rank growth of grasses and ferns. Through the palms and tropical shrubs
that crowded the conservatory glared the wild beasts of far-off jungles,
marvelously stuffed and poised. The walls were forgotten behind a
tapestry of reeds and birds of the Orient. In one corner was a fountain,
simulating a pool, and on its surface floated the pink, fragrant lilies
that lie on eastern lakes. Few people had seen this jungle—before its
completion, Hermia had learned that it was dangerous to test her city’s
patience too far.
Hermia sat down on a bank and waited for the curtain to rise. She felt
the humor of the situation, but she knew that the effect was good. A few
moments later Cryder came in and was charmed. He had the same remote
yearning for the barbaric that the small, blonde actor has for the part
of the heavy villain. As he walked down the jungle toward Hermia, he
felt that he gave this Eastern ideal its completing touch.
Hermia held up her hand. “I would not have dared do this for any one but
you,” she said, “but you will understand.”
“For Heaven’s sake do not apologize!” exclaimed Cryder. He raised her
hand to his lips and sat down on the bank beside her. “There was never
anything so enchanting in real life. And you—you are Cleopatra in your
tiger-hood.”
“I was Semiramis before,” said Hermia, indifferently. She turned her
head and gave him a meditative glance. “Do you know,” she said, with an
instinct of coquetry rare to her, “I cannot understand your being a
realistic author.”
He was somewhat taken aback, but he replied promptly: “That is a mere
accident. To tell you the truth, I care no more for realism than I do
for idealism, and dialect is a frightful bore. I will tell you what I
have told no one else. Now that my position is established, my name
made, I am going to leave dialect to those who can do no better, and
write a great romantic novel.”
Hermia thought his last remark a trifle conceited, but she forgave it
for the sake of its sentiment. “I shall like that,” she said, “and be
romantic without sensationalism. Tell me the plot of your book.”
“It is too vague to formulate, but you and your house are to be its
inspiration. I have wanted to meet a woman like you; the study will be
an education. Tell me of your life. You have not always been as you are
now?”
Hermia gave him a startled glance. “What do you mean?” she demanded.
“I mean that you have two personalities, an actual and an assumed. You
are playing a part.”
Hermia gave him a fierce glance from beneath her black brows. “You know
that until a year ago I was poor and obscure, and you are rude enough to
remind me that I play the part of grande dame very badly,” she
exclaimed.
“I beg your pardon,” said Cryder, quickly, “I knew nothing of the kind.
You might have spent the last ten years in a fashionable boarding-school
for all I have heard to the contrary. But I repeat what I said. I
received two impressions the night we met. One was that you were at war
with something or somebody; the other that you had a double personality,
and that of one the world had no suspicion. It is either that you have a
past, or that you are at present in conditions entirely new and
consequently unfamiliar. I believe it is the latter. You do not look
like a woman who has lived. There is just one thing wanting to make
your face the most remarkable I have seen; but until it gets that it
will be like a grand painting whose central figure has been left as the
last work of the artist.”
Hermia leaned her elbow on her knee and covered her face with her hand.
She experienced the most pleasurable sensation she had ever known. This
was the first man who had shown the faintest insight into her
contradictory personality and complicated nature. For the moment she
forgot where she was, and she gave a little sigh which brought the blood
to her face. To love would not be so difficult as she had imagined.
“What is it?” asked Cryder, gently. He had been watching her covertly.
“I want to amend something I said a moment ago. You have not lived in
fact but you have in imagination, and the men your fancy has created
have made those of actual, prosaic life appear tame and colorless.”
Hermia’s heart gave a bound. She turned to him with shining eyes. “How
do you know that?” she murmured.
“Is it not true?”
“Yes,” she said, helplessly, “it is true.”
“Then I will tell you how I know. Because I have lived half my natural
life with the population of my brain, and dream-people know one another.
Ours have met and shaken hands while we have been exchanging
platitudes.”
“That is very pretty,” said Hermia; “I hope their estates border upon
each other, and that their chosen landscape is the same, for
dream-people may have their antipathies, like the inhabitants of the
visible world. Because we have taken out our title-deeds in dream-land,
it does not follow that our tenants live in harmony.”
“It would not—except that we both instinctively know that there has not
been even border warfare. There have been marriage and inter-marriage;
the princes of my reigning house have demanded in state——”
Hermia interrupted him harshly: “There is no marriage or giving in
marriage in my kingdom. I hate the word! Are you very much shocked?”
Cryder smiled. “No,” he said, “one is surprised sometimes to hear one’s
own dearest theories in the mouth of another, but not shocked. It only
needed that to make you the one woman I have wanted to know. You have
that rarest gift among women—a catholic mind. And it does not spring
from immorality or vulgar love of excitement—you are simply brave and
original.”
Hermia leaned forward, her pupils dilating until her eyes looked like
rings of marsh about lakes of ink. “You know that—you understand that?”
she whispered, breathlessly.
Cryder looked her full in the eyes. “Yes,” he said, “and no one ever did
before.”
His audacity had the desired effect. Men were always a little afraid of
Hermia. She looked at him without speaking—a long gaze which he
returned. He was certainly most attractive, although in quite a
different way from any man born of her imaginings. Perhaps, however,
that gave him the charm of novelty. He was almost magnetic; he almost
thrilled her—not quite, but that would come later. She had received so
many impressions this evening that no one could master her. Yes, she was
sure she was going to love him.
“No,” she said, at last, “no one ever did.”
“You have been loved in a great many ways,” Cryder went on; “for your
beauty, which appeals to the senses of men, yet which at the same time
frightens them, because of the tragic element which is as apparent as
the passionate; for your romantic surroundings, which appeal to their
sentiment; for the glamour which envelops you as one of the most
sought-after women in New York; for your intellect; and for your
incomprehensibility to the average mind, which has the fascination of
mystery. But I doubt if any man has ever known or cared whether you have
a psychic side. If I fall in love with you, I shall love your soul,
primarily. Passion is merely the expression of spiritual exaltation.
Independently of the latter it is base. A woman of your strong psychical
nature could never forget the soul for the body—not for a moment.”
“That is very beautiful,” murmured Hermia, dreamily. “Can it be? And are
you sure that I have any spirituality?”
“If you do not know it, it is because you have never loved and never
been loved in the right way.” He sprang suddenly to his feet, and then,
before she could answer, he was gone.
She sank her elbow into a cushion and leaned her cheek on her palm.
Cryder had touched her sensuous nature by the artistic novelty of his
wooing—her ideal had been brutal and direct. She had always imagined
she should like that best, but this was a new idea and very charming. It
appealed to the poetic element in her. The poetic vase tossed aloft the
spray of refined passion and rode contemptuously over the undertow of
sensuality. That was as it should be.
She went up-stairs, and, after she was in bed, thought for a long time.
She slept until late the next day, and in the afternoon paid a number of
calls. In the temporary seclusion of her carriage she took pleasure in
assuring herself that Cryder was uppermost in her mind.
                 
                              CHAPTER XV.
                           A CLEVER TRIFLER.
The next afternoon Cryder came again. Hermia received him this time in
the hall which, with its Gothic roof, its pictured windows, its walls
ribbed and dark, and its organ, looked like a cathedral. As she came
down the broad staircase, in a gown that made her look as if she had
stepped from some old French canvas, Cryder stood gazing at her for a
moment, then without a word sat down before the organ and began to play.
The organ needs only a skillful hand; its own rich, sonorous tones pour
soul through cold, calm fingers. Cryder played Tristan’s Death Song, and
Hermia sank into a chair and felt that naught existed but glory of color
and surge of sound.
Cryder played but a short time—he never did anything too long—then
went over and sat beside her. He made her talk about herself, and
managed to extract much of her past. He learned nothing, however, of her
former lack of beauty. Then he entertained her brilliantly for an hour
with accounts of celebrated people he had met.
After he had gone she felt a vague sense of disappointment; he had not
touched upon co-personal topics for a moment. The sense of
disappointment grew and deepened, and then she gave a sudden start and
smiled. She could not feel disappointment were she not deeply
interested. Was this the suffering, the restlessness, which were said to
be a part of love? Surely! She was pained that he could talk lightly
upon indifferent subjects, and apparently quite forget the sympathy
which existed between them. The pain and the chagrin might not be very
acute, but they were forewarnings of intenser suffering to come. Of
course she wanted to suffer. All women do until the suffering comes.
After that they do not go out of their way to look for it.
She went up-stairs and sat down before the fire in her boudoir. It was
very delightful to fall in love with a man as mentally agreeable as
Cryder. He would always entertain her. She would never be bored! The
intervals between love-making would never drag; she had heard that they
were sometimes trying. And then the pictures between those framing
intervals—when the fierce, hot tide of passion within her would leap
like a tidal wave, lashed into might by the convulsion at its heart. And
Cryder! To see the tiger in the man fling off its shackles and look
through the calm brown of his eyes! (Like all girls, Hermia believed
that every man had a tiger chained up inside him, no matter how cold he
might be exteriorly.) What a triumph to break down that cool
self-control!
Her maid brought her a cup of tea and she drank it; then, resting her
elbows on her knees leaned her chin on her locked fingers. There were
some things she did not like about Cryder. He lacked literary
conscience, and she doubted if he had much of any sort. Her high ideals
still clung to her; but perhaps this was her mission in life—to remold
Cryder. A man is always much under the influence of the woman who gives
him his happiness; she would have a grand opportunity to make him
better. When the end came, as of course it would—she was no longer such
a fool as to imagine that love lasted forever—he should have much to
thank her for.
When a woman thinks she loves a man, she dreams of making him better.
When she really loves him, she would have him share his virtues with the
saints. She loves his faults and encourages them; she glories in the
thought that his personality is strong enough to make her indifferent to
defects. This lesson, however, Hermia had yet to learn; but she was
pleased with the idea of putting the spirituality of which Cryder had
accused her to some practical use. She had not a very clear idea what
spirituality meant, but she thought she was learning.
                 
                              CHAPTER XVI.
                           A LITERARY DINNER.
A few weeks later Hermia gave a dinner to Cryder. The other guests were
Mr. Overton, Mr. Simms, Alan Emmet, a young author who combined the
literary and the sensational in a manner which gave him much notoriety,
Mr. Langley, Cryder’s publisher, and Ralph Embury, a noted young
journalist. Helen Simms was there to chatter serious thought to ambush,
and Miss Starbruck, primly alert, and waiting to be shocked.
Poor Miss Starbruck! She drifted like a gray shadow through Hermia’s
rooms, and longed for her modest cottage at Nantucket. She had been an
active member of sewing-circles and reading-clubs, and the farther down
her past’s perspective did this unexciting environment retreat, the
oftener did she sigh as she contrasted its cool shadows with the hot
glare into which fate’s caprice had suddenly cast her. But Hermia was
considerate—if Miss Starbruck appeared at her niece’s dinners and
receptions, and drove with her occasionally, she could sit up in her
room and dream of Nantucket and bewail duty as much as she pleased. Mrs.
Dykman was chaperon-in-chief.
Hermia wore a gown of white velvet, simply made, and fitting in
wrinkleless perfection the free lines and curves of her full, lithe
figure. About her throat hung a silver chain of Roman workmanship, and
around her waist a girdle of similar but heavier links. The wiry maze of
her hair outshone the diamond pins that confined it.
Miss Simms wore a dinner-gown of black tulle and a profusion of
chrysanthemums. Her hair was as sleek as a mole.
The conversation was naturally more or less literary, and Hermia drew
out her ambitious guests with a good deal of skill. It was hard to curb
them when they were started, but she managed to make each feel that he
had had an opportunity to shine. Some day, when her personal interest in
life had ceased, she intended to have a salon, and this was a pleasant
foretaste. She even let Mr. Simms tell a few anecdotes, but after the
third gently suppressed him.
It is not easy to check the anecdotal impulse, and both Mr. Langley and
Mr. Overton were reminiscent. The former told a tale of a young man who
had brought him a manuscript ten years before, and never returned to ask
its destiny.
“He looked delicate, and I imagine he died of consumption,” said the
great publisher, placidly, as he discussed his pâté. “At all events I
have never heard from him since. Our readers unanimously advised us not
to publish the manuscript. It was entirely out of our line, and would
have involved great risk. We put it aside and forgot all about it. The
other day I happened to meet one of the readers through whose hands it
passed—he has not been with us for some years—and he asked me why I
did not publish the rejected book. ‘That sort of thing has become
fashionable now,’ he said, ‘and you would make money out of it.’ I
merely mention this as an illustration of how fashion changes in
literature as in everything else.”
“You publishers are awful cowards,” said Emmet, in his drawling tones;
“you are so afraid of anything new that all authors you introduce are
branded Prophets of the Commonplace.”
Mr. Langley’s blonde, pleasant little face took a warmer hue, and he
answered somewhat testily: “The publisher was brave, indeed, who
presented you to the public, Mr. Emmet.”
In spite of the general laugh, Emmet replied imperturbably: “The best
advertisement I had, and the only one which I myself inserted, was that
‘Mrs. Bleeker’ had been refused by every conservative house in New York.
My reward is that I have the reputation instead of the firm.”
“No; the firm hasn’t any left—that’s a fact,” retorted Mr. Langley; and
Emmet turned to Helen with a pout on his boyish face.
“Do my books shock you?” he asked her.
Helen smiled. “No, they do not,” she said, briefly. “I quite adore them.
I don’t always acknowledge having read them, but I don’t mind telling
you, considering that you are the author.”
“Oh, some women assure me that nothing would induce them to read my
books. I am glad you have the courage of your opinions. I scorn women
who have not, and I will not talk to a girl unless I can do so as freely
as to a man.”
“Oh, I am not a prude,” said Helen, lightly. “I only draw the line at
positive indecency, and you are quite vague enough. But do you always
talk to men on improper subjects?”
“Oh—no; I merely meant that I like to feel the same lack of restraint
with women as with men. It is a bore to call up every thought for
inspection before you utter it.”
“Yes,” said Helen; “you wouldn’t talk at all, you would only inspect.”
“Speaking of mysterious disappearances,” broke in Embury’s voice, “what
has become of that girl who used to give us such bucketfuls of soulful
lava?—the one who signed herself ‘Quirus’?”
Mr. Overton laughed, and much to Hermia’s relief every one turned to
him. “She brought me that poem I published, herself, and I came near
laughing outright once or twice. I have seen few plainer women; there
was such a general dinginess about her. At the same time there was a
certain magnetism which, I imagine, would have been pronounced had she
been a stronger woman. But I should not be surprised to hear that she
had died of consumption.”
“Is it possible?” said Embury. “Her work was strong, however. Why didn’t
you take her in hand and bring her up in the way she should go?”
“My dear Embury, life is too short. That girl was all wrong. She worked
her syllogisms backward, so to speak. Her intellect was molten with the
heat of her imagination, and stunted with the narrowness of her
experience. She reasoned from effect to cause. Her characters, instead
of being the carefully considered products of environment and heredity,
were always altered or distorted to suit some dramatic event. Intellect
without experience of the heart and of life is responsible for more
errors than innate viciousness which is controlled by worldly wisdom, or
natural folly which is clothed in the gown of accumulated knowledge. I
have seen so many clever writers go to pieces,” he added, regarding his
empty plate with a sigh; “they lie so. They have no conscience whatever,
and they are too clever to see it.”
“Then how can they help themselves?” asked Hermia, with a puzzled look.
“They had better wait until they can.”
Hermia did not care to pursue the subject, and saw, moreover, that
Embury was waiting to be heard. “What would journalism do if no one knew
how to lie?” she asked him, with a smile, and was somewhat surprised
when every man at the table except Embury laughed aloud.
Embury colored, but replied promptly: “It would probably die for want of
patronage.”
“You are right, Embury,” said Cryder. “You could not have found a more
appreciative field for your talents.”
Embury looked at him reproachfully, and Cryder continued: “I never could
resist the temptation to kick a friend when he was down. I will give you
an opportunity later.”
“Life is made up of lost opportunities—I probably shall not see it.
True, I might review your books, but to do so I should have to read
them.”
“Is this the way literary people always spar?” murmured Hermia to
Cryder.
“Oh! do not let it worry you,” he replied. “This is only
facetiousness—American humor. It doesn’t hurt.” He dropped his voice.
“Are you not well? You look tired.”
“I am tired,” said Hermia, returning his gaze—he seemed very near to
her at that moment. “Clever people, singly, are very delightful, but en
masse they keep one on the rack.”
“Don’t bother any more!” said Cryder. “Leave them to me; I will take
care of them.”
“You are good,” murmured Hermia. “When I am old I shall like a salon;
I shall like the power of it. Now—it bores me a little.”
Cryder bent somewhat nearer to her. “Do not wait too long for anything,”
he murmured. “A man’s power comes with age; a woman’s power goes with
age.”
He turned from her suddenly and addressed a remark to Embury which
immediately gave that clever young man a chance to entertain his
companions for ten minutes. Hermia found herself drifting from her
guests. She had undergone many evolutions of thought and feeling during
the past few weeks. At times she had believed herself in love with
Cryder; at others, she had been conscious of indifferent liking. She was
puzzled to find that his abstract image thrilled her more than his
actual presence. On the other hand, she liked him better when with
him. He was so entertaining, so sympathetic; he had such delicate tact
and charm. When absent, she sometimes thought of him with a certain
distaste; he had qualities that she disliked, and he was diametrically
different from all imagined lovers. Then she would make up her mind to
close her eyes to his deficiencies and to love him spiritually. She
would compel herself to think of him for hours together on an exalted
mental and spiritual plane, where passion had no place. Not that she
believed him incapable of passion, by any means—she believed that all
men were constructed on the same plan—but he was so different from that
man who now dwelt behind a barred door in her brain that she felt it her
duty, to both, to love him in a different way. She was surprised to find
that after such æsthetic communion she almost hated him. Reaction
following excess of passion may be short-lived; but immoderate
sentimentality leaves a mental ennui that requires a long convalescence.
Sentimentality is a growth of later civilization, and trails its roots
over the surface like a pine; while passion had its seeds planted in the
garden of Eden, and is root, branch, twig, and leaf of human nature.
In summing up her sensations she had come to the conclusion that on the
whole she was in love with him. No one had ever moved her one-tenth as
much before. If she had not lost her head about him, it was because her
nature had slept too long to awake in a moment. That would come by
degrees. There were times when she felt the impulse to cast herself on
her face and sob farewell to the dreams of her youth and to the lover
who had been a being more real than Ogden Cryder; but she thrust aside
the impulse with a frown and plunged into her daily life.
At opportune moments Hermia’s attention returned to her guests. Miss
Starbruck rose at a signal from her niece and the women went into the
library. The men joined them soon after, and Cryder, much to the
gratitude of his tired and dreamy hostess, continued to entertain them
until eleven o’clock, when they went home.
                 
                             CHAPTER XVII.
                         AN ILLUSION DISPELLED.
The front door had closed after the last guest, the butler had turned
down the lights in the hall, Miss Starbruck had gone up-stairs, and
Hermia was standing by the library fire. She heard some one come down
the hall, and turned her head, her expression of indifference and mental
fatigue lifting a little. The portière was pushed aside and Cryder
entered the room.
                 
The next morning Hermia stood gazing at her bedroom fire for a few
moments before going down-stairs. Her face wore a peculiar expression.
“Is there anything in love?” she murmured, half aloud. “Is there?”
She went down to the library and sank listlessly into a chair, and
covered her face with her hands. She did not love Cryder. There was but
one answer to the question now. Imagination and will had done their
utmost, but had been conquered by fact. She had made a horrible mistake.
She felt an impulse to fling herself on the floor and shriek aloud. But
the self-control of years was stronger than impulse. In spite of the
softening influences of happier conditions, she must suffer or enjoy in
her old dumb way until something had smashed that iron in her nature to
atoms or melted it to lava.
But, if she was saturated with dull disgust and disappointment, her
conscience rapped audibly on her inactive brain. It was her duty to
herself and to Cryder to break the thing off at once—to continue it, in
fact, was an impossibility. But she shrank from telling Cryder that he
must go and not return. He loved her, not as she had wanted to be loved,
perhaps, but with his heart, his sentiment. She liked him—very much
indeed—and had no desire to give him pain. He might suffer the more
keenly because of the fineness of his sensibilities. Suppose he should
kill himself? Men so often killed themselves for women who did not love
them. She remembered that she had dreamed of men dying for hopeless love
of her; but, now that it seemed imminent, the romance was gone. It would
be nothing but a vulgar newspaper story after all.
What should she do? She must tell him. She turned to her desk, then sank
back into her chair. She could not write. He would come again that
evening. She would tell him then. Written words of that sort were always
brutal.
How she got through that day she never knew. It seemed as if the very
wheels of life were clogged. The sky was gray and the snow fell heavily;
the gas had to be lighted in the house. No one called; but Hermia was
willing to be left to solitude. She was not restless, she was dully
indifferent. The grayness of the day entered into her and enveloped her;
life in the Brooklyn flat had never looked colder and barer than in this
palace which her will and her wealth had created.
When evening came she gave orders that no one but Cryder should be
admitted. Somewhat to her surprise he did not come. She did not care
particularly, but went to bed at half-past nine, and had Miss Newton rub
her to sleep.
                 
                             CHAPTER XVIII.
                        A BLOODLESS ENTHUSIAST.
Cryder did not come the next day or evening, nor did he write. At first
Hermia experienced a mild fear that he was ill; but Helen Simms called
the following morning and said, en passant, that she had met him a few
moments before on the street. Then Hermia began to be piqued and a
little mortified. For several hours she thought less about dismissing
him. The next day the whole thing seemed like a dream; she caught
herself wondering if it had really happened. At this point she received
a note from Cryder.
    “It is a year since I have seen you, but I have a book due at
    the publisher’s on Thursday, and I have been working night and
    day. After the weary grind is over you will see too much of me.
    In the mean time I am with you always. In fancy I look into your
    eyes and see the waves break over the rocks, and watch the moon
    coquet with the tides. Now the green bosom of the sea is placid
    for a moment, and I see * * * the mermaids * * * sleeping in
    their caves—
                                              “Until to-night!
                                                          “O. C.”
Hermia shrugged her shoulders. It was very pretty, but rather tame. At
the same time her pride was glad to be reassured that he still loved
her, and she once more put her dismissal into mental shape and blunted
the arrow of decree with what art she possessed.
When he was shown into the library that evening she rose nervously,
wondering how she was to keep him from kissing her. He raised her hand
lightly to his lips after his old habit, complimented her Catherine de’
Medici gown, and threw himself into an easy-chair by the fire.
“How grateful this fire is!” he exclaimed. “It is one of those horrid,
sleety nights. The horse slipped once or twice.”
“Did you come in a cab?” asked Hermia.
“Yes; I had not the courage to face that long block from the elevated.”
He settled himself back in his chair, asked permission to light a
cigarette, and for an hour entertained her in his most brilliant vein.
Hermia listened with the most complex sensations of her life. The
predominating one at first was intense mortification. There was no
danger of this man blowing out his brains for any woman. She was rather
the most agreeable woman he knew just then, but—there were plenty of
