manent. There is deification of the body and 
insult to the soul. There is ruin of the body 
and construction of the soul. An untimely 
fit of hysteria may cost a woman the intel- 
lectual ambition of all her days. A man with 
the prosperities of life in his hand may lose, 
by a rude word or a selfish deed, the heart 
of the woman who woold have been worth 
to him the world and the glory thereof. Of 
Napoleon, it has been said by a recent histo- 
rian that he w r as a threefold being, of active 
intellect, imperious will, and deficient moral 
sense ; and, from the hollow of that deficiency, 
(history measures his surplus and his success, 
Christ was called a failure by his conteni- 
It needs no historian to remind us that individuality 
is, in fact, the result of a conflict 
between widely differing and by no means 
necessarily obvious agencies — the effect of 
counteraction between the evident and the suggested,
or between the seen and the unseen. 
!. It needs no prophet to tell us that this coun- 
teraction is to become more complicated as it 
is overtaken by civilization ; that the propor- 
tion of the obvious to the latent is likely to be 
lessened ; that the relativity of the evident to 
the suggested will undergo change ; and that 
the ratio of the seen to the unseen may be 
expected to suffer mathematical transference, 
 This is to say, in brief, that, for a man to 
?, become a force, is to be one among diversely 
imany, or one through harmoniously many 
raiings. And, that to become a force in the 
future, is probably to be a much less simple 
matter than it is now, or has ever been. An 
individual, in fact, represents not only a huge 
capacity, but must represent an increasing amount of tactical ability. 
A powerful personality may be said to be 
what the Hahnemannians call " a complex of 
symptoms." 
The love of life is one of the elements o£ 
life ; we might say that it is what physiolo- 
gists call one of the " proximate principles " 
of life. It is not enough merely to say that 
the love of life is normal — it is life. The 
most exhausted victim of existence will admit 
that it is his exhaustion which ails him. Bul- 
wer says somewhere that there is a want more 
fierce than the want of food, more terrible 
than the want of sleep ; it is " the want to 
die." The world-weariness which is so incon- 
testable a feature of our age was foretold 
long ago by an ancient Persian proverb, which 
ran : " When men, in passing by the newly 
made grave, shall say, ' Would God I were 
there ! ' the end of the world is nigh." 
But even suicide in no sense intrudes upon 
the main truth, simple as a primary color, and 
organic as the action of the heart ; — that to 
be alive is to wish to live. He who desires 
death has already begun to die. He who 
reaches the point of encroaching upon death 
is already virtually dead. Such encroachment
is simply a form of the universal fact. 
The passion for self-destruction is but one 
means of accomplishing dissolution. One man 
"has typhus fever ; one cuts his throat ; one 
has consumption ; another has suicide. Each 
is a disease. The incipient cough that nobody 
notices, and the first toying with the cocked 
pistol that nobody knows, may be, for phi- 
losophical purposes, the same thing. This is 
not the place to discuss the moral aspects of 
suicide, of which I have here nothing to say. 
The undeniable extension of self-destruction,
as tabulated by the best statisticians of 
the subject to-day, only substantiates the 
premise in a high sense. It is reluctantly 
admitted by some of the bleakest materialists 
among these statisticians that one of the 
prevailing causes of the increase of suicide is the 
increase of religious unbelief. This is, per- 
haps, the subtlest illustration yet in hand of 
our point — setting quite aside its use in a 
didactic sense. 
The doomed being who anticipates death 
everlasting, as his part and lot in the prob- 
lem of universal suffering, stretches forth his 
hand to clutch his portion, and is, in effect, 
already dead, because he is to die. Death sets 
in with the passion for death. Life implies 
the love of life. Other things being equal, 
the healthy body craves life. Other things 
being equal, the healthy soul demands life. It 
may be said that none of us are ever actually 
beaten in the battle of existence except by 
untimely death, by madness, or by what it is 
now a little old-fashioned to call sin. 
The desire for eternal life is a very old human
preference. It must be also admitted to 
be a very strong one. It is impossible here 
to do more than recall the existence of the 
immense mass of scholarship and sentiment, 
faith and dogmatism, wisdom and folly, which 
have been wreaked upon the sole aspect of 
the subject that raises the question whether 
belief in the future life is intuitive in the 
mind of man. 
This paper does not presume to enter upon 
that venerable and tremendous discussion, but 
would suggest its huge proportions in the 
history of thought as significant far beyond the 
reach of mere argument. However we come 
by the wish to live forever, the fact seems to 
be that most of us have it. Whatever were 
the private views of the Cave-men, or even 
the current of thought in the Jewish theocracy 
upon this point, it seems to be true, so far as 
the evidential testimony is in, that the race 
has desired, if not expected, continuance after 
death. 
This fact alone would not prove that we 
should get what we desire ; but it is certainly 
not a good reason for showing why we should 
miss it. To say that no subject whatever has 
so deeply stimulated the human mind as that 
of a life to come is not to overstate the case. 
The agitations of love and the consequences 
of death have been the two fundamental 
objects of interest in this world ; and of these 
twin princes, the gentler has yielded the crown 
to the sterner brother. Where is the lover 
whose ardor would not be chilled by an
apparition or an earthquake ? 
A glance at the literature of eschatology, 
as represented in the catalogues of even our 
secular and popular libraries, astonishes one 
who looks at them for the first time. A 
celebrated publisher once said that to put the 
word Heaven into the title of a book was 
enough to insure the sale of it. I remember 
to have heard one of the most philosophical of 
men — the least impetuous either in thought 
or speech, and one of the best trained in in- 
tellect and character — say that he would pre- 
fer any life, even that of a supposable world 
of woe, to annihilation. A man who has ac- 
quired the habit of living is loath to suspend it. 
His custom has become his appetite ; it seems 
to him even to have become his right. 
Christian philosophy has a certain respect- 
able position among systems of thought. As 
a system, it has somewhat emphatic bearings 
upon the idea which we are pursuing. 
It is the great point, so to speak, of the 
Christian religion, that it conforms vigorously 
to the vigorous love of existence in the ex- 
isting. It meets this high instinct on lofty 
ground ; it treats it with the respect due any 
such elemental impulse ; it deals not with the 
dream, but the deed ; it offers no fantasy, but 
a promise ; it plunges us in no reverie, but 
holds us to an assurance ; and mocks us not 
with myths, but controls us with facts. 
"God," it has been well said, by a great 
metaphysician, " is chiefly of interest to us in 
so far as he is the condition of our immortality." 
Recognizing this truth, Christian phi- 
losophy squarely offers duration of life to the 
individual. 
Such an offer, it will be said, has been 
made before. True, and happily true. Were 
this not so, had the race existed six thousand 
years — or sixty — more or less, with no more 
hope of perpetuity after death than so many 
kangaroos, the originality of Christianity might 
have been her practical destruction, and that 
which has been accepted as an inspiration 
might have been set aside as an "ism." It 
may be claimed, however, that the Christian 
form of the offer of immortality is, up to this 
time, the most reasonable which has been pre- 
sented in the history of religion ; that it is the 
most explicit, the most logical, the most fin- 
ished ; in short, that it is a progression from 
other and lower phases of the same thing, and 
in so far entitled to the respect due to any 
highly advanced organization. 
Passing the outworn superstitions, whether 
of savagery or civilization, and attending to 
those forms of belief which are fashionable 
to-day, it will not be disputed that Christian- 
ity is the only one which advances consistent 
hope of personal immortality. The vagueness 
and vagary of Buddhism upon this doctrine 
are too well known to need explanation here. 
The " Dream-religion " may, or may not, make 
you a man or a cloud, at the thither side of 
death ; it is not clear whether one shall be an 
angel or an atom. Much aesthetico-religious 
sensibility which luxuriates over the " Light of 
Asia," would be cured by a sound acquaint- 
ance with the Suttas or Dhammapadas in a 
standard translation. " Never," says Max 
Miiller, " had a scheme of salvation been put 
forth ... so independent of, so even antag- 
onistic to the belief in a soul, the belief in 
God, and the hope of a future life." 
Shall we ask Agnosticism for her eternal 
hope ? Hollow is her evasive reply ! Such 
dreary elusion is not a new one, at best, in the 
history of belief. " When," says Miiller again, 
" after many centuries of thought, a pantheis- 
tic or monotheistic unity has been evolved out 
of the chaos of polytheism . . . there has 
always arisen, at last, a school to whom theo- 
logical discussions Lave lost their interest, and 
who have sought for a new solution of the 
questions to which the theologies have given 
inconsistent answers, in a new system in 
which man was to work out here on earth his 
own salvation." Up to a certain point Agnos- 
ticism has, indeed, pilfered from Christianity 
in the attempt to substitute for a strong and 
glorious affirmation a weak and pitiful ne- 
gation. So intense is the love of life in the 
human soul that even this negation is pathet- 
ically snatched. He who has no longer any 
hope of existence beyond the incident of his 
own death-bed palliates his condition by prat- 
ing of posterity ; or, he who buries the beloved 
of his life, standing comfortless at the grave's 
gap, listens to feeble talk of her continuance 
in the future of the race. 
The Christian religion, in offering duration 
to the individual, is, as we have said, explicit 
and logical ; but it is also conditional. It is 
difficult for the mind, reared among the fami- 
liar speech with which most of us dispose of 
this subject, to be alertly aware of the fact 
that immortality is nowhere proved to be a 
natural right. Yet such is the fact. Like 
suffrage, immortality is not a right, but a 
privilege. It is not property, but a gift. This 
gift is offered to you or me upon conditions 
which we can accept or deny at will. The 
founder of our religion makes, we may say 
that he constitutes, the conditions. Everlast- 
ing life is, in fact, according to this religion, 
bestowed by Jesus Christ upon the human 
soul. The consequence of declining this gift 
and its conditions would seem to be logically, 
if not theologically, wrapped in the phrase, 
" everlasting death." But this opens debat- 
able ground, upon which our paper can do no 
more than glance. 
Theology is not Christianity. The word 
and the creed are not one and the same. The 
premise of the master and the conclusion of 
the priest may diverge through pressure of a 
hundred inevitable causes. 
The writer is no theologian and is not writ- 
ing to theologians, and is loath to touch upon 
a point which laymen must treat rather by in- 
stinct and judgment than by equipment. Yet 
the great common sense and heart of the world 
will have their way with the great common 
problems. The universal must abide the universal test. 
The question whether any por- 
tion, large or small, of the human race is to 
suffer forever is, at least, one which it would 
seem to be in poor taste to treat flippantly, 
and poor religion to treat acrimoniously. If 
there be any question above all others in which 
people who think as well as feel, or people 
who feel as well as think, should grant each 
other large and solemn charity, this is that 
question. 
It is not a matter to be frivolously set aside, 
either by theological prejudice, or personal 
preference. It is difficult to suppose that the 
eternal future of the mass of the human race 
depends upon the culture of an exegete, or the 
translation of a Greek word. Whatever may 
be the truth, or the choice between the chances 
of the truth, such a choice should be made in 
a spirit above the reproach of controversial 
bitterness or pettiness, and " on the height" 
of a sacred gentleness of soul, wherein "lies 
repose." 
It would be seen by an exegetical study of 
the subject that it may be at least no unscriptural 
or unreasonable form of Christian 
faith which offers immortality — any kind of 
immortality — as a gift, on specified condi- 
tions, to the individual. To this extent, there- 
fore, Christianity may be called in support of 
the suggestion to which we find ourselves now 
clearly directed by the train of thought that 
we have pursued ; and, in so far, those who are 
themselves believers in the value of the Chris- 
tian faith, and tolerant of its differing inter- 
pretations of the Bible text, may be inclined 
to follow us. For those who are not such, the 
argument stands or falls by itself ; lacking, 
in that case, a certain emphasis, but not, we 
trust, without order. 
" He that belie veth on me," said Jesus 
Christ, " hath everlasting life." " Immortal- 
ity," said Emerson, " will come to such as are 
fit for it. He who would be a great soul in 
the future must be a great soul now." Both 
the religious and the philosophical aspects of 
our thought have their force ; he who accepts 
either has something ; he who holds both has 
much. " Blessed be the day," cries the modern 
Buddhist, " when I shall draw the veil from 
the face of my beloved. . . . But the veil on 
the face of my beloved is the dust of this 
earthly body." " There is a spiritual body," 
asserted the Christian apostle. " I am the res- 
urrection," said his Master. 
Now, then, it will be remembered that we 
have gone over certain ground in this paper, 
not unfamiliar in itself, but holding, as the 
writer hopes, some fresh relation to contiguous 
territory. We have traced the nature and 
effects of personality as a factor in power. 
We have noticed that the tendency of indi- 
viduality is to vigor, and because to vigor, 
therefore to duration of life. We have re- 
membered that modern science has given us 
proof, so overwhelming as to partake of the 
nature of revelation, of a truth so familiar that 
we had all but overlooked it — the truth that 
man, to the most solemn ends, is born to fight 
for his life. We have recollected that the 
struggle for existence is decided by the ratio 
of individuality to the odds ; that individual- 
ity may be subtle or strong ; that victory 
may be real or apparent ; that individuality is 
likely to become, with the progress of civiliza- 
tion, a more complex fact, in which the rela- 
tion between the seen and the unseen may 
change its present proportions. We have 
called to mind, also, that the love of life is 
one of the elements of life, and that death 
sets in with the passion, whether real or ap- 
parent, for death. We have remembered that 
the desire for eternal, and therefore unseen, 
life is an important human impulse ; and we 
have alluded to the contributions of Christian 
philosophy toward the love of eternal life es- 
pecially as framed in the theory of conditional 
immortality. We have further suggested that 
the Christian offer of immortality is a progres- 
sion from lower phases of the same thing, and 
entitled to the respect due to any highly ad- 
vanced organization. 
Does it not remain to be said that strength 
of individuality is probably proportional to the 
strife for eternal existence ? Tremendous is 
the truth, if this be true. A man may be neg- 
ligent of his own noblest nature if he deem 
himself the victim of a blind chance, or a re- 
lentless tyrant, or even an arbitrary governor. 
He must start, if he be a man, to a view of 
life and time which puts him on his mettle 
before both. The appeal to self-respect, in 
such a view, is as powerful as self-respect can 
bear. Suppose that this view be true. Sup- 
pose that the struggle for existence which be- 
gins with the Protozoa, or the Promammalia, 
and advances  to Aristotle or Darwin, has 
become nothing more nor less than a struggle 
for immortality. 
Suppose that the challenge is thus broadly 
thrown down to you, or me, or Newton, or the 
Jukes family. Live or die ! It is your own 
affair. You have the conditions and the 
chances. Accept or decline. No gods, pagan 
or Christian, shall interfere to compel you. 
Your personality has sacred and awful rights. 
You are caught in the machinery of inextri- 
cable law. Love is a part of that law; but 
both love and law must take the material that 
you give them. Of what stuff are you made ? 
Abide the test. It is ours to ask. Are you 
a man or a molecule? Are you a soul or 
a cell ? It is yours to decide. Give us the 
proof. 
Truth has endless corridors by which to ap- 
proach conviction, and one can see in such a 
 We say advances. We cannot say ends ; for we have 
no evolutionist yet returned from the silence of apparent 
end to classify whatever possible superior form of being 
may exist beyond reach of our microscope or telescope. 
view as this, a marked appeal to certain types 
of nature which seem to be left out of the 
usual religious argument. It is perhaps true 
that many a person objects to troubling him- 
self with immortality, either as an advantage 
or a disadvantage, when his attention is con- 
centrated exclusively upon the fact that eter- 
nal life involves definite moral conditions. 
That it should imply, also, certain conditions 
of a very different sort is quite another mat- 
ter; that it should touch the intellect, the 
force, the good sense, or even the simple 
pluck of a man — this is to be regarded. We 
may be conquered through our pride, when we 
cannot be won through our conscience. He 
who does not find it any longer exciting to be 
told that he is not good enough to live for- 
ever, will scarcely hear without interest that 
he is not strong enough. Many of us would 
rather be called bad than weak. It is an arrest 
to the thoughtf ulness of any man but an 
inferior one to show him reason why he may be 
in the way of losing an obvious gain through 
inferiority. Precisely that, such a view of 
the struggle for immortality as we have sug- 
gested would undertake to show. 
In proportion to the force and vigor of the 
individual is the love of life, present and to 
come. Eternal life should be at least as 
much a test of power as temporal life. Indi- 
viduality means the acquisition of life; one 
rates one's self accordingly. To love life, to 
strike out for it, to overcome it, to insist on it, 
is strength. To fail of it is weakness. We 
do not stay just now to remind you that a 
pure heart, forgiven sin, consecrated deeds, are 
the conditions of immortality, and that a given 
being may miss of it by missing these ; we say 
only that he misses it because there is not 
enough of him, or because he does not make 
enough of himself to get it. He of the centri- 
fugal nature, w T hose mind works from within 
outward, moving in spirals about moral prob- 
lem s; who finds it easy to doubt accepted 
truths because of what strikes him repeatedly, 
at the same point, as the excess of his own 
originality — he will be reluctant to believe 
that he may be declining immortality simply 
because he is not man enough to have it. Yet, 
metaphysically as physically, the argument 
holds. He is thrust upon a battle-field, enor- 
mous and deadly. As for the bread of the 
body, so for the bread of the soul, he fights. 
As for life, love, success, fame, and the trifles 
of time, so for eternal hope, and its majes- 
tic possibilities, he shall be challenged. Is he 
a man ? Let him show his colors. Is he a sol- 
dier ? Ask for his scars. Does he hold his 
ground ? Does he shirk, desert, surrender, or 
fly ? Let him look to it. By so much as he 
is a force, he will keep the field. 
Retreat from the great effort of being to 
secure its own continuity, may have whatever 
moral aspects ; it is at least true that to re- 
treat is to be beaten ; that to be beaten is to 
be weak ; and that such weakness may be the 
last fate which has presented itself as probable 
to the type of soul most likely to succumb. 
For, let us notice, the struggle for immor- 
tality is not a simple and obvious affair. The 
armor and sabre, the powder and shot, are not, 
in fact, altogether the urgent and the tangible. 
The blood and dust and mortal cries 
may not be the apparent, or the audible ; and 
he who is hurled down 66 unable or to move or 
die," may give no sign. As with the silent 
defeats of life, so with its dumb victories. He 
needs the higher education in the deaf-mute 
language of the soul, who would apply his tac- 
tics to the estimate ; and his is the best mar- 
tial culture of the spirit which is most con- 
scious of its own unfitness to specialize that es- 
timate. But so much as this it is easy to see : 
as civilization refines, the intricacy and deli- 
cacy of the struggle for existence must refine 
with it ; and, that this is likely to be true of 
eternal as well as of temporal existence, the 
course of our argument has already suggested, 
and now finds itself obliged to emphasize. 
The struggle for eternal life is no light 
matter, like ladies' calisthenics, which exercise 
only certain muscles. The athletics of the 
soul are virile ; they are impartial ; they are 
not ornamental and fanciful. Development is 
demanded for use, not for exhibit. Tissue and 
sinew and blood and bone respond ; now this, 
now the other, urgency on one, relief of the 
other, pressure here, repose there, strain to-day, 
rest to-morrow, this faculty aroused, the other 
lulled, this feat to be performed, that danger 
scorned, a boy's medal won to-day, and a 
man's life saved next year ; thus the soul, in 
the hands of the Silent Trainer, grows in 
frame and fibre. Will we play battle-door 
and shuttle-cock for our prizes ? Or close and 
wrestle for them ? 
We have spoken of the evolution of a 
higher than the physical, from the physical 
science which holds so disproportionate, but 
none the less useful, an influence over the 
thought of the instructed world to-day. " We 
are spirits," said one of the coolest of scien- 
tific men, a century ago. " We are spirits. 
That bodies should be lent to us while they 
can afford us pleasure, assist us in acquiring 
knowledge, or in doing good to our fellow- 
creatures, is a kind and benevolent act of 
God." The practical Franklin showed his 
keen good sense in this matter-of-fact way 
of expressing a truth which is too often ap- 
proached upon the mystical and most difficult 
side. We are, indeed, spirit ; and we may, 
without hesitation, dispute so much as this 
with him who begins by saying that we are 
matter. It cannot be denied that we have at 
least as good a right to start with the one asser- 
tion, as he with the other. " I should never," 
says Elizabeth Peabody, " teach a child, " You 
have a soul,' but, ; You have a body.' " 
Let us then call the struggle for immortality 
an advanced form of the lower encounter. 
It is a struggle historic and dramatic, as it is 
involved and unconcluded. A man cannot 
fight this fight with part of his nature. It 
takes the whole of him. A stout fist avails 
him little without sound thought. He cannot 
gain the day by his intellect, lest he lose it on 
the side of his heart. Neither does emotion 
win without reflection, and hysteria is a poor 
weapon to substitute for common sense. We 
find at once, that we have approached herein 
a problem complex to the edge of mystery. 
For, there enters into this struggle a strange 
law of spiritual selection, differing from that 
governing the conflicts in the lower phases of 
organization, as fineness differs from momentum, 
the telephone from a war-cry, or the 
Flower Charity from the Inquisition. 
The conditions of immortality wholly refuse 
to rest upon the piers which hold the conditions 
of conquest in the life of time. Brute 
force ceases now to keep its relative value in 
this larger contest. There is what may be 
called a brute force of the mind, of which this 
is equally and terribly true. Sheer intellect 
has no greater chance at everlasting life than 
sheer muscle. Immortality is not promised by 
their Creator, to great men. Mere mincl holds 
no passport to eternity. There is no limited 
express to Paradise for able people. Goethe, 
for being Goethe, is none the more likely to 
last forever. Frederica, so far as we can see, 
stands quite as good, or a better chance. 
The law of spiritual selection would seem 
to be at once severe and delicate. The obscurest 
mother, transmitting a pure heart to her 
boys, never having heard of protoplasm, and 
knowing no philosophy beyond her prayers, 
may enter into this higher contention with an 
equipment which the discoverer of the missing 
link might envy. It is quite conceivable that 
the soul of a felon might survive the soul of a 
prince or a priest. The tests of the world fail. 
Fine causes, and finer sequences, enter the 
list. Who are we that we should win? What 
is our standard of success ? What the temper 
of our weapons ? We buy and sell, we woo 
and wed, we gain us a friend, or fame; and 
the stranger without our gates, or the servant 
under our feet, may be fighting for a soul's 
life where we are fooling with it, and may, 
therefore, be better worth life, and so the more 
likely to live. For law is but law, and spirit- 
ual law loses nothing of its grip for its gain in 
quality, and holds us none the less robustly be- 
cause of a touch so velvet. 
Suppose that this view be the true one. 
Suppose that he who wishes to live indefi- 
nitely, or always, is the subject of such law. 
Suppose that the complete and complex nature 
— physical, mental, moral, spiritual — be- 
comes, by an ascending scale of strain, the sol- 
dier in such a strife. Suppose that the ulti- 
mate atom of the permanent individual may 
prove to be the vigor or the honor of his con- 
science. Suppose that from this, as, in the 
physical case, from the cell of the embryo, the 
life of what we call a soul evolves. Suppose 
that the development of this spiritual cell-life 
is, to the requisite extent, under the control of 
the human will. Suppose that this development 
is governed by a just, or even a generous 
relativity to the environment which spiritual 
science is not yet advanced enough to formulate. 
Suppose that the grandest work performed 
by the physical science of our times 
should prove to be its contribution to such a 
spiritual science, and that such a spiritual 
seience is yet to become a matter of more or- 
derly, more manly, and more nearly universal 
acceptance, than any form of religious belief 
detached from natural research is now likely to 
command. Suppose that the revelation of fact 
and the revelation of faith are met together. 
Suppose that the progress of fact does not pro- 
ceed, as Spencer would have it, from evolution 
to dissolution, but from evolution through ap- 
parent dissolution to real evolution ; and that 
the splendid blossom of the greatest discovery 
of modern thought has as yet but begun to 
bud. 
We ask for this aloe, precious and perfect, 
in the name of reason, that it may be rooted 
in the hope of everlasting life, for which it is 
our honorable service to contend. 
We ask for this hope in the name of science, 
which has rendered unto nature the 
things that are nature's, but unwittingly unto 
God the things that are God's. The glory of 
the law moves on. The higher science has its 
prophets. Its scholars are to come. In an 
age when we are called upon to study " the 
sagacity and morality of plants," we may be 
justified in demanding an adaptation of sci- 
entific method to the fine fibres and hidden 
seed of the human spirit. 
If these things be so, the mind is dazzled 
by the vision of those future types of which 
both faith and science promise us so much. 
To what refinement and enforcement the high 
organizations of this present life may rise, he 
only can intelligently imagine who has the 
student's lens and the believer's eye. What 
man may be a century or two hence, what the 
average of nature with which he must contend, 
what the ideal by which he shall achieve superiority,
what, in short, the intensification of 
his entire form of strife with his conditions, 
it is only possible for us to guess by some 
conception of the fact of spiritual nature, and 
the nature of a science based upon that fact. 
What the select man, survivor of this or the 
future environment, may become in the life 
beyond, to what unimagined evolution he may 
be liable, through what supreme equilibration 
of power incapable of dissolution the rhythm 
of spiritual motion shall sweep him, who can 
say? 
Once again. We have spoken of the love 
of life as one of the constituent elements of 
life ; and, in this connection, we have observed
that death sets in with the passion for 
death. It is reasonable to suggest that in the 
higher, as in the lower life, the analogy holds. 
In the strife for eternal existence, it may be 
true that the amount of contending desire represents 
the amount of contending power ; that 
the love of eternal life, itself, bespeaks, to an 
extent, the capacity for it ; that the instincts 
or the impulses of belief are not without their 
significance, other things being equal, as salvable
agencies ; in short, that the longing to 
live forever not only carries with it the power 
to conquer the materials of duration, but indicates 
in a measure the force of the life-prin- 
ciple in the soul. A man may live forever 
because he loves his eternal life, and he loves 
his eternal life because he is to live forever. 
If, on the other hand, death sets in with the 
passion for death, may there be a significance 
invisible and invincible as a zymotic disease, 
in the reluctance to conquer immortality which 
is sometimes cultivated either as a conscious 
whim, or a supposed sign of mental strength ? 
Hume speaks, somewhere, of a " decline of 
soul." Side by side with what may be almost 
called devout unbelievers, we find men whose 
skepticism as to spiritual facts is a species of 
new game, a philosophical lawn-tennis, where- 
with to pass life's midsummer; and over against 
these, we find others still, by whom dispute 
with supernaturalism is rated as a synonym 
for force of character, and cultivated as an 
egotism rather than a consecration. May there 
not be among these cases of spiritual suicide ? 
Has he perhaps already begun to die in whom 
the tolerance of death is so indulgently regarded ? 
Is his life-principle already vitiated 
who can so idly court results which a sound 
and sane soul-vigor should abhor ? " Earnest- 
ness is the path of life," says the Dhamma- 
pada, " Thoughtlessness the path of death. 
Those who are in earnest do not die ; those 
who are thoughtless are as if dead already ! " 
Experts will tell us with what firmness, yet 
with what tenderness, the suicidal impulse is 
treated in hospitals for the insane ; how the 
unnatural passion for death is discouraged by 
exposing its unnaturalness, or by fostering 
the feeble love of life, if that be possible ; how 
gently the nature is aroused against itself; 
how surgically the diseased conditions are 
handled, and how, upon the chance of the sufferer's 
recognizing his pathological position, 
and approaching himself as his own patient, 
all his hope of cure may hang. 
It is by no means impossible that the sui- 
cidal nature of unbelief in a life to come, may 
yet find its soul-physicians in some psycholog- 
ical asylum of the future, wherein these dis- 
eases of the spirit shall be treated by a skill 
which must make our present methods of dealing
with them seem, by contrast, like the 
blood-letting and strait - jacket, the dungeons 
and the chains of the Dark Age. 
But once again : If these things be so, the 
familiar thought (even, as we have already 
seen, the familiar language) of the lower sci- 
ence has been the subject of a solemn uncon- 
scious selection in the service of that higher 
science of the soul to which we look. 
In the struggle for immortality, the position 
of the individual holds a curiously interesting 
attitude toward the elevated nature of his en- 
vironment. What is the insistence of individuality 
but the persistence of force ? Or what its 
victory but a conservation of energy ? What 
close economies there may be in spiritual 
agency, or what Law of Variation in spiritual 
inheritance, we know not. What is the 
protoplasm of spirit we can but guess. What 
supernatural selection may be at work upon 
us, we have yet to learn. 
And yet again : Supposing there to be any 
value in these thoughts, they go toward prov- 
ing the doctrine of the survival of the fittest 
a sublime and an inspired thing. If we have 
been thinking in the right direction, that is a 
doctrine which substantiates religious belief 
only less than religious belief substantiates it. 
The revelation of nature and the revelation 
of the Word confirm each other as respects 
this stimulating conception of the human 
problem. The old urgency of faith and the 
new impetus of science move upon the same 
pulley. 
Life is a proof of the power to live. Life 
is a proof of the qualification for life. We 
compete and strive, we yield or conquer, we 
adjust our individuality to our odds, we adjust 
our moral freedom to our individuality, we 
adjust our elemental love of duration to our 
moral freedom, and the lawful result abides. 
The spiritually weakest goes to the wall. The 
spiritually strongest conquers. He is the unfit 
who is beaten to death on the spiritual side of 
his nature. He is the fit survivor who saves 
his soul alive. 
What manner of man may he be who shall 
be found capable of the final survival ? Honest 
perplexity has its visions, and struggles toward 
them with noble discontent. Believing Chris- 
tianity points to her Nazarene and clings to 
the feet of the sweet and solemn ideal which 
he has carved like a statue in the world. 
Whether we have fixed our eyes upon the 
marble or the dream, the complicated nature 
of the struggle in which we are involved re- 
mains at least the one fact about which there 
can be no dispute. The finer we are, the more 
threads to our destinies. The stronger we are, 
the more strain upon our fibre. That first 
flaw of conduct which weakens our resistant 
power may find no steel fingers like those in 
the machinery of woolen-mills, which detect 
the defective threads and stop the weaving on 
the spot. 
Supernatural selection has what may be 
called an artistic task in dealing with human 
character. The materials of duration may be 
 
found in mere morality, or a martyr's fate ; 
they may pause at veracity, or fly to aspira- 
tion ; they may be sought in common human- 
ity, or hide in exalted consecration. 
Who shall say how the chance turns? At 
least, plainly, since law is justice, not against 
the paupers of heredity ; not against the poor 
devils of the world as opposed to their betters. 
Noblesse oblige in the aristocracy of nature as 
in that of accident, and the highly-born may 
run the highest risks. 
The man of many excellent qualities who 
