o'clock. Let me pick you up on the way, and we can go together."
"Roland Mistrial, as sure as there is a God in heaven I will have you in
the Tombs."
"See here, put up your umbrella. You are not in a condition to expose
yourself--let alone anyone else. You are daft, Thorold--that is what is
the matter with you. If you persist in chattering Tombs at me in a
snow-storm I will answer Bloomingdale to you. You frightened me once, I
admit; but I am ten years older now, and ten years less easily scared.
Besides, what drivel you talk! You haven't that much to go on."
As Roland spoke his accent changed from affected suavity to open scorn.
"Now stop your bluster," he continued, "and listen to me. Because you
happen to find me in there, you think I have intentions on the
heiress--"
"It's a lie! She--"
"There, don't be abusive. I know you want her for yourself, and I hope
you get her. But please don't think that I mean to stand in your way."
"I should say not."
"In the first place, I went there on business."
"What business, I would like to know?"
"So you shall. I took some papers for Mr. Dunellen to examine--papers
relative to my father's estate. To-morrow I return to learn his opinion.
Next week I go abroad again. When I leave I promise you shall find your
cousin still heart-whole and fancy-free."
As Roland delivered this little stab he paused a moment to note the
effect. But apparently it had passed unnoticed--Thorold seemingly was
engrossed in the statements that preceded it. The scowl was still on his
face, but it was a scowl into which perplexity had entered, and which in
entering had modified the aggressiveness that had first been there. At
the moment his eyes wandered, and Roland, who was watching him, felt
that he had scored a point.
"You say you are going abroad?" he said, at last.
"Yes; I have to join my wife."
At this announcement Thorold looked up at him and then down at the
umbrella. Presently, with an abrupt gesture, he unfurled it and raised
it above his head. As he did so, Roland smiled. For that night at least
the danger had gone. Of the morrow, however, he was unassured.
"Suppose we walk along," he said, encouragingly; and before Thorold knew
it, he was sharing that umbrella with his foe. "Yes," he continued, "my
poor father left his affairs in a muddle, but Mr. Dunellen says he
thinks he can straighten them out. You can understand that if any
inkling of this thing were to reach him he would return the papers at
once. You can understand that, can't you? After all, you must know that
I have suffered."
"Suffered!" Thorold cried. "What's that to me? It made my mother
insane."
"God knows I nearly lost my reason too. I can understand how you feel
toward me: it is only what I deserve. Yet though you cannot forget, at
least it can do you no good to rake this matter up."
"It is because of--" and for a second the cousin halted in his speech.
"Voilà!" mused Roland. "Je te vois venir."
"However, if you are going abroad--"
"Most certainly I am. I never expect to see Miss Dunellen again."
"In that case I will say nothing."
They had reached Fifth Avenue, and for a moment both loitered on the
curb. Thorold seemed to have something to add, but he must have had
difficulty in expressing it, for he nodded as though to reiterate the
promise.
"I can rely upon you then, can I?" Roland asked.
"Keep out of my way, sir, and I will try, as I have tried, to forget."
A 'bus was passing, he hailed it, and disappeared.
Roland watched the conveyance, and shook the snow-flakes from his coat.
"Try, and be damned," he muttered. "I haven't done with you yet."
The disdain of a revenge at hand is accounted the uniquest possible
vengeance. And it is quite possible that had Roland's monetary affairs
been in a better condition, on a sound and solid basis, let us say, he
would willingly have put that paradox into action. But on leaving Tuxedo
he happened to be extremely hungry--hungry, first and foremost, for the
possession of that wealth which in this admirably conducted country of
ours lifts a man above the law, and, an adroit combination of
scoundrelism and incompetence aiding, sometimes lands him high among the
executives of state. By political ambition, however, it is only just to
say he was uninspired. In certain assemblies he had taken the trouble to
assert that our government is one at which Abyssinia might sneer, but
the rôle of reformer was not one which he had any inclination to
attempt. Several of his progenitors figured, and prominently too, in
abridgments of history; and, if posterity were not satisfied with that,
he had a very clear idea as to what posterity might do. In so far as he
was personally concerned, the prominence alluded to was a thing which he
accepted as a matter of course: it was an integral part of himself; he
would have missed it as he would have missed a leg or the point of his
nose; but otherwise it left his pulse unstirred. No, his hunger was not
for preferment or place. It was for the ten million which the Hon. Paul
Dunellen had gathered together, and which the laws of gravitation would
prevent him from carrying away when he died. That was the nature of
Roland Mistrial's hunger, and as incidental thereto was the thirst to
adjust an outstanding account.
Whatever the nature of that account may have been, in a more ordinary
case it might have become outlawed through sheer lapse of time. But
during that lapse of time Roland had been in exile because of it; and
though even now he might have been willing to let it drift back into the
past where it belonged, yet when the representative of it not only
loomed between him and the millions, but was even attempting to gather
them in for himself, the possibility of retaliation was too complete to
suffer disdain. The injury, it is true, was one of his own doing. But,
curiously enough, when a man injures another the more wanton that injury
is the less it incites to repentance. In certain dispositions it becomes
a source of malignant hate. Deserve a man's gratitude, and he may
forgive you; but let him do you a wrong, and you have an enemy for life.
Such is the human heart--or such at least was Roland Mistrial's.
And now, as the conveyance rumbled off into the night, he shook the
snow-flakes from his coat.
"Try, and be damned," he repeated; "I haven't done with you yet."
IV.
To the New Yorker March is the vilest month of all the year. In the
South it is usually serene. Mrs. Metuchen, who gave herself the airs of
an invalid, and who possessed the invalid's dislike of vile weather, was
aware of this; and while the first false promises of February were being
protested she succeeded in persuading Miss Dunellen to accompany her out
of snow-drifts into the sun. It was Aiken that she chose as refuge; and
when the two ladies arrived there they felt satisfied that their choice
had been a proper one--a satisfaction which they did not share alone,
for a few days after their arrival Roland Mistrial arrived there too.
During the intervening weeks he had seemed idle; but it is the thinker's
characteristic to appear unoccupied when he is most busily engaged, and
Roland, outwardly inactive, had in reality made the most of his time.
On the morning succeeding the encounter with Thorold something kept
coming and whispering that he had undertaken a task which was beyond his
strength. To many of us night is apt to be more confident than are the
earlier hours of the day, and the courage which Roland had exhibited
spent itself and went. It is hard to feel the flutter of a bird beneath
one's fingers, and, just when the fingers tighten, to discover that the
bird is no longer there. Such a thing is disappointing, and the
peculiarity of a disappointment consists in this--the victim of it is
apt to question the validity of his own intuitions. Thus far--up to the
looming of Thorold--everything had been in Roland's favor. Without
appreciable effort he had achieved the impossible. In three days he had
run an heiress to earth, gained her father's liking, captivated her
chaperon, and, at the moment when the air was sentient with success,
the highway on which he strode became suddenly tortuous and obscure. Do
what he might he could not discern so much as a sign-post; and as in
perplexity he twirled his thumbs, little by little he understood that he
must either turn back and hunt another quarry, or stand where he was and
wait. Another step on that narrowing road and he might tumble into a
gully. Did he keep his word with Thorold he felt sure that Thorold would
keep his word with him. But did he break it, and Thorold learn he had
done so, several consequences were certain to ensue, and among them he
could hear from where he stood the bang with which Mr. Dunellen's door
would close. The only plank which drifted his way threatened to break
into bits. He needed no one to tell him that Justine was not a girl to
receive him or anyone else in the dark; and even fortune favoring, if in
chance meetings he were able to fan her spark of interest for him into
flame, those chance meetings would be mentioned by her to whomsoever
they might concern. No, that plank was rotten; and yet in considering
it, and in considering too the possibilities to which, were it a trifle
stronger, it might serve as bridge, he passed that morning, a number of
subsequent mornings. A month elapsed, and still he eyed that plank.
Meanwhile he had seen Miss Dunellen but once. She happened to be driving
up the Avenue, but he had passed her unobserved. Then the weather became
abominable, and he knew it was useless to look for her in the Park; and
once he had visited her father's office and learned again, what he
already knew, that in regard to the lost estate, eternity aiding,
something might be recovered, but that the chances were vague as was it.
And so February came and found his hunger unappeased. The alternate
course which had suggested itself came back, and he determined to turn
and hunt another quarry. During his sojourn abroad he had generally
managed a team of three. There was the gerundive, as he termed the
hindmost--the woman he was about to leave; there was another into whose
graces he had entered; and there was a third in training for future use.
This custom he had found most serviceable. Whatever might happen in less
regulated establishments, his stable was full. And that custom, which
had stood him in good stead abroad, had nothing in it to prevent
adoption here. Indeed, he told himself it was because of his negligence
in that particular that he found himself where he was. Instead of
centring his attention on Miss Dunellen, it would have been far better
to wander in and out of the glittering precincts of Fifth Avenue, and
see what else he could find. After all, there was nothing like being
properly provisioned. If one comestible ran short, there should be
another to take its place. Moreover, if, as Jones had intimated, there
were heiresses enough for export purposes, there must surely be enough
to supply the home demand.
The alternate course alluded to he had therefore determined to adopt,
when an incident occurred which materially altered his plans. One
particularly detestable morning he read in public print that Mrs.
Metuchen and Miss Dunellen were numbered among the visitors to South
Carolina, and thereupon he proceeded to pack his valise. A few days
later he was in Aiken, and on the forenoon of the third day succeeding
his arrival, as he strolled down the verandah of the Mountain Glen
Hotel, he felt at peace with the world and with himself.
It was a superb morning, half summer, half spring. In the distance a
forest stretched indefinitely and lost itself in the haze of the horizon
beyond. The sky was tenderly blue, and, beneath, a lawn green as the
baize on a roulette-table was circled by a bright-red road. He had
breakfasted infamously on food that might have been cooked by a butcher
to whom breakfast is an odious thing. Yet its iniquity he accepted as a
matter of course. He knew, as we all do, that for bad food, bad service,
and for futility of complaint our country hotels are unrivalled, even in
Spain. He was there not to enjoy himself, still less for the pleasures a
blue ribbon can cause: he was there to fan into flame the interest which
Miss Dunellen had exhibited; and as he strolled down the verandah, a
crop under his arm, his trousers strapped, he had no intention of
quarrelling with the fare. Quite a number of people were basking in the
sunlight, and, as he passed, some of them turned and looked; for at
Aiken men that have more than one lung are in demand, and, when Roland
registered his historic name, to the unattached females a little flutter
of anticipation came.
But Roland was not in search of flirtations: he moved by one group into
another until he reached a corner of the verandah in which Mrs.
Metuchen and Miss Dunellen sat. Merely by the expression on the faces of
those whom he greeted it was patent to the others that the trio were on
familiar terms; and when presently he accompanied Miss Dunellen off the
verandah, aided her to mount a horse that waited there, mounted another
himself, and cantered off with the girl, the unattached females declared
that the twain must be engaged. In that they were in error. As yet
Roland had not said a word to the charge he might not have said to the
matron. Both of these ladies had been surprised when he reached Aiken,
and both had been pleased as well. In that surprise, in that pleasure,
Roland had actively collaborated; and taking on himself to answer before
it was framed the question which his advent naturally prompted, he
stated that in journeying from Savannah to Asheville he had stopped over
at Aiken as at a halfway house, and that, too, without an idea of
encountering anyone whom he knew. Thereafter for several days he managed
to make himself indispensable to the matron, companionable to her
charge; but now, on this particular morning, as he rattled down the red
road, the courage which had deserted him returned; and a few hours
later, when before a mirror in his bedroom he stood arranging his
cravat, he caught a reflection of Hyperion, son-in-law of Croesus.
V.
In a fortnight that reflection was framed with a promise. Justine had
put her hand in his. The threads by which he succeeded in binding her to
him are needless to describe. He understood that prime secret in the art
of coercing affection which consists in making one's self desired. He
was never inopportune. Moreover, he saw that Justine, accustomed to the
devotion of other men, accepted such devotion as a matter of course; in
consequence he took another tack, and bullied her--a treatment which was
new to her, and, being new, attractive. He found fault with her openly,
criticised the manner in which she sat her horse, contradicted her
whenever the opportunity came, and jeered--civilly, it is true, but the
jeer was there and all the sharper because it was blunted--at any
enthusiasm she chanced to express. And then, when she expected it
least, he would be enthusiastic himself, and enthusiastic over nothing
at all--some mythical deed canned in history, the beauty of a child, or
the flush of the arbutus which they gathered on their rides. To others
whom he encountered in her presence he showed himself so
self-abnegatory, so readily pleased, sweet-tempered, and indulgent, so
studious even of their susceptibilities and appreciative of what they
liked and what they did not, that in comparing his manner to her and his
manner to them the girl grew vexed, and one evening she told him so.
They happened to be sitting alone in a corner of the verandah. From
within came the rhythm of a waltz; some dance was in progress,
affectioned by the few; Mrs. Metuchen was discussing family trees with a
party of Philadelphians; the air was sweet with the scent of pines and
of jasmines; just above and beyond, a star was circumflexed by the moon.
"I am sorry if I have offended," he made answer to her complaint. "Do
you mind if I smoke?" Without waiting for her consent he drew out a
cigarette and lighted it. "I have not intended to," he added. "To-morrow
I will go."
"But why? You like it here. You told me so to-day."
With a fillip of forefinger and thumb Roland tossed the cigarette out
into the road. "Because I admire you," he answered curtly.
"I am glad of that."
The reproof, if reproof there were, was not in her speech, but in her
voice. She spoke as one does whose due is conceded only after an effort.
And for a while both were mute.
"Come, children, it is time to go to bed." Mrs. Metuchen in her
fantastic fashion was hailing them from the door. Already the waltz had
ceased, and as Mrs. Metuchen spoke, Justine rose from her seat.
"Good-night, Don Quichotte," the old lady added; and as the girl
approached she continued in an audible undertone, "I call him Don
Quichotte because he looks like the Chevalier Bayard."
"Good-night, Mrs. Metuchen, and the pleasantest of dreams." But the
matron, with a wave of her glove, had disappeared, and Justine returned.
"At least you will not go until the afternoon?"
"Since you wish it, I will not."
She had stretched out her hand, but Roland, affecting not to notice it,
raised his hat and turned away. Presently, and although, in spite of
many a vice, he was little given to drink, he found himself at the bar
superintending the blending of gin, of lemon-peel, and of soda; and as
he swallowed it and put the goblet down he seemed so satisfied that the
barkeeper, with the affectionate familiarity of his class, nodded and
smiled.
"It takes a Remsen Cooler to do the trick, don't it?" he said.
And Roland, assenting remotely, left the bar and sought his room.
The next morning, as through different groups he sought for matron and
for maid, he had a crop under his arm and in his hand a paper.
"I have been settling my bill," he announced.
"But are you going?" exclaimed Mrs. Metuchen.
"I can hardly take up a permanent residence here, can I?" he replied.
"Oh, Justine," the old lady cried, and clutched the girl by the arm,
"persuade him not to." And fixing him with her glittering eyes, she
added, "If you go, sir, you leave an Aiken void."
The jest passed him unnoticed. He felt that something had been said
which called for applause, for Mrs. Metuchen was laughing immoderately.
But his eyes were in Justine's as were hers in his.
"You will ride, will you not? I see you have your habit on." And with
that, Justine assenting, he led her down the steps and aided her to the
saddle.
There are numberless tentative things in life, and among them an amble
through green, deserted lanes, where only birds and flowers are, has
witcheries of its own. However perturbed the spirit may have been, there
is that in the glow of the morning and the gait of a horse that can make
it wholly serene. The traveller from Sicily will, if you let him, tell
of hours so fair that even the bandits are coerced. Man cannot always be
centred in self; and when to the influence of nature is added the
companionship of one whose presence allures, the charm is complete. And
Roland, to whom such things hitherto had been as accessories, this
morning felt their spell. The roomy squalor of the village had been
passed long since. They had entered a road where the trees arched and
nearly hid the sky, but through the branches an eager sunlight found its
way. Now and then in a clearing they would happen on some shabby, silent
house, the garden gay with the tender pink of blossoming peach; and at
times, from behind a log or straight from the earth, a diminutive negro
would start like a kobold in a dream and offer, in an abashed, uncertain
way, a bunch of white violets in exchange for coin. And once an old man,
trudging along, saluted them with a fine parabola of hat and hand; and
once they encountered a slatternly negress, very fat and pompous, seated
behind a donkey she could have carried in her arms. But practically the
road was deserted, fragrant, and still.
And now, as they rode on, interchanging only haphazard remarks, Roland
swung himself from his horse, and, plucking a spray of arbutus, handed
it to the girl.
"Take it," he said; "it is all I have."
His horse had wandered on a step and was nibbing at the grass, and, as
he stood looking up at her, for the first time it occurred to him that
she was fair. However a girl may seem in a ball-room, if she ever looks
well she looks best in the saddle; and Justine, in spite of his
criticism, did not sit her horse badly. Her gray habit, the high white
collar and open vest, brought out the snuff-color of her eyes and hair.
Her cheeks, too, this morning must have recovered some of the flush they
had lost, or else the sun had been using its palette, for in them was
the hue of the flower he had gathered and held.
She took it and inserted the stem in the lapel of her coat.
"Are you going?" she asked.
"What would you think of me if I remained?"
"What would I? I would think--"
As she hesitated she turned. He could see now it was not the sun alone
that had been at work upon her face.
"Let me tell. You would think that a man with two arms for sole income
has no right to linger in the neighborhood of a girl such as you. That
is what you would think, what anyone would think; and while I care
little enough about the existence which I lead in the minds of other
people, yet I do care for your esteem. If I stay, I lose it. I should
lose, too, my own; let me keep them both and go."
"I do not yet see why?"
"You don't!" The answer was so abrupt in tone that you would have said
he was irritated at her remark, judging it unnecessary and ill-timed.
"You don't!" he repeated. "Go back a bit, and perhaps you will remember
that after I saw you at your house I did not come back again."
"I do indeed remember."
"The next day I saw you in the Park; I was careful not to return."
"But what have I done? You said last night--"
"Why do you question? You know it is because I love you."
"Then you shall not go."
"I must."
"You shall not, I say."
"And I shall take with me the knowledge that the one woman I have loved
is the one woman I have been forced to leave."
"Roland Mistrial, how can you bear the name you do and yet be so unjust?
If you leave me now it is because you care more for yourself than you
ever could for me. It is not on my account you go: it is because you
fear the world. There were heroes once that faced it."
"Yes, and there were Circes then, as now."
As he made that trite reply his face relaxed, and into it came an
expression of such abandonment that the girl could see the day was won.
"Tell me--you will not go?"
Roland caught her hand in his, and, drawing back the gauntlet of kid, he
kissed her on the wrist. "I will never leave you now," he answered;
"Only promise you will not regret."
"Regret!" She smiled at the speech--or was it a smile? Her lips had
moved, but it was as though they had done so in answer to some prompting
of her soul. "Regret! Do you remember you asked me what I would think if
you remained? Well, I thought, if you did, there were dreams which do
come true."
At this avowal she was so radiant yet so troubled that Roland detained
her hand. "She really loves," he mused; "and so do I." And it may be,
the forest aiding, that, in the answering pressure which he gave, such
heart as he had went out and mingled with her own.
"Between us now," he murmured, "it is for all of time."
"Roland, how I waited for you!"
Again her lips moved and she seemed to smile, but now her eyes were no
longer in his, they were fixed on some vista visible only to herself.
She looked rapt, but she looked startled as well. When a girl first
stands face to face with love it allures and it frightens too.
Roland dropped her hand; he caught his horse and mounted it. In a moment
he was at her side again.
"Justine!"
And the girl turning to him let her fresh lips meet and rest upon his
own. Slowly he disengaged the arm with which he had steadied himself on
her waist.
"If I lose you now--" he began.
"There can be no question of losing," she interrupted. "Have we not come
into our own?"
"But others may dispute our right. There is your cousin, to whom I
thought you were engaged; and there is your father."
"Oh, as for Guy--" and she made a gesture. "Father, it is true, may
object; but let him. I am satisfied; in the end he will be satisfied
also. Why, only the other day I wrote him you were here."
"H'm!" At the intelligence he wheeled abruptly.
Already Justine had turned, and lowering her crop she gave her horse a
little tap. The beast was willing enough; in a moment the two were on a
run, and as Roland's horse, a broncho, by-the-way, one of those eager
animals that decline to remain behind, rushed forward and took the lead,
"Remember!" she cried, "you are not to leave me now."
But the broncho was self-willed, and this injunction Roland found or
pretended it difficult to obey; and together, through the green lane and
out of it, by long, dismal fields of rice, into the roomy squalor of the
village and on to the hotel, they flew as though some fate pursued.
Justine never forgot that ride, nor did Roland either.
At the verandah steps Mrs. Metuchen was in waiting. "I have a telegram
from your father," she called to Justine. "He wishes you to return
to-morrow."
"To-morrow?" the girl exclaimed.
"Thorold has learned I am here, and has told," her lover reflected. And
swinging from his saddle he aided the girl to alight.
"To-morrow," Mrs. Metuchen with large assumption of resignation replied;
"and we may be thankful he did not say to-day."
And as Roland listened to the varying interpretations of the summons
which, during the absence of her charge, Mrs. Metuchen's riotous
imagination had found time to conceive, "Thorold has told," he repeated
to himself, "but he has told too late."
After a morning such as that, an afternoon on a piazza is apt to drag.
Of this Roland was conscious. Moreover, he had become aware that his
opportunities were now narrowly limited; and presently, as Mrs.
Metuchen's imaginings subsided and ceased, he asked the girl whether,
when dinner was over, she would care to take a drive.
Protest who may, at heart every woman is a match-maker; and Mrs.
Metuchen was not an exception. In addition to this, she liked
family-trees, she was in cordial sympathy with good-breeding, and
Roland, who possessed both, had, through attentions which women of her
age appreciate most, succeeded in detaining her regard. In conversation,
whenever Justine happened to be mentioned, she had a habit of extolling
that young woman--not beyond her deserts, it is true, but with the
attitude of one aware that the girl had done something which she ought
to be ashamed of, yet to which no one was permitted to allude. This
attitude was due to the fact that she suspected her, and suspected that
everyone else suspected her, of an attachment for her cousin Guy. Now
Guy Thorold had never appealed to Mrs. Metuchen. He was not prompt with
a chair; when she unrolled her little spangle of resonant names he
displayed no eagerness in face or look. Such things affect a woman. They
ruffle her flounces and belittle her in her own esteem. As a
consequence, she disliked Guy Thorold; from the heights of that dislike
she was even wont to describe him as Poke--a word she could not have
defined had she tried, but which suggested to her all the attributes of
that which is stupid and under-bred. Roland, on the other hand, seemed
to her the embodiment of just those things which Thorold lacked, and in
the hope that he might cut the cousin out she extolled him to her charge
in indirect and subtle ways. You young men who read this page mind you
of this: if you would succeed in love or war, be considerate of women
who are no longer young. They ask but an attention, a moment of your
bountiful days, some little act of deference, and in exchange they sound
your praises more deftly than ever trumpeter or beat of drums could do.
But because Mrs. Metuchen had an axe of her own to grind was not to her
mind a reason why she should countenance a disregard of the Satanic
pomps of that which the Western press terms Etiquette. And so it
happened that, when Roland asked Justine whether she would care to
drive, before the girl could answer, the matron stuck her oar in:
"Surely, Mr. Mistrial, you cannot think Miss Dunellen could go with you
alone. Not that I see any impropriety in her doing so, but there is
the world."
The world at that moment consisted of a handful of sturdy consumptives
impatiently waiting the opening of the dining-room doors. And as Roland
considered that world, he mentally explored the stable.
"Of course not," he answered; "if Miss Dunellen cares to go, I will have
a dogcart and a groom."
With that sacrifice to conventionality Mrs. Metuchen was content. For
Justine to ride unchaperoned was one thing, but driving was another
matter. And later on, in the cool of the afternoon, as Roland bowled the
girl over the yielding sand, straight to the sunset beyond, he began
again on the duo which they had already rehearsed, and when Justine
called his attention to the groom, he laughed a little, and well he
might. "Don't mind him," he murmured; "he is deaf."
In earlier conversations he had rarely spoken of himself, and, when he
had, it had been in that remote fashion which leaves the personal
pronoun at the door. There is nothing better qualified to weary the
indifferent than the speech in which the I jumps out; and knowing this,
he knew too that that very self-effacement before one whose interest is
aroused excites that interest to still higher degrees. The Moi seul est
haïssable is an old maxim, one that we apprehend more or less to our
cost no doubt, and after many a sin of egotism; but when it is learned
by rote, few others serve us in better stead. In Roland's relations
with Justine thus far it had served him well. It had filled her mind
with questions which she did not feel she had the right to ask, and in
so filling it had occupied her thoughts with him. It was through arts of
this kind that Machiavelli earned his fame.
But at present circumstances had changed. She had placed her hand in
his; she had avowed her love. The I could now appear; its welcome was
assured. And as they drove along the sand-hills she told him of herself,
and drew out confidences in exchange. And such confidences! Had the
groom not been deaf they might have given him food for thought. But they
must have satisfied Justine, for when they reached the hotel again her
eyes were so full of meaning that, had Mrs. Metuchen met her in a pantry
instead of on the verandah, she could have seen unspectacled that the
girl was fairly intoxicated--drunk with that headiest cup of love which
is brewed not by the contact of two epiderms, but through communion of
spirit and unison of heart.
That evening, when supper was done, Mrs. Metuchen, to whom any breath of
night was synonymous with miasmas and microbes, settled herself in the
parlor, and in the company of her friends from School Lane discussed
that inexhaustible topic--Who Was and Who Was Not.
But the verandah, deserted at this hour by the consumptives, had
attractions for Justine, for Roland as well; and presently, in a corner
of it that leaned to the south, both were seated, and, at the moment,
both were dumb. On the horizon, vague now and undiscerned, the
peach-blossoms and ochres of sunset had long since disappeared; but from
above rained down the light and messages of other worlds; the sky was
populous with stars that seemed larger and nearer than they do in the
north; Venus in particular shone like a neighborly sun that had strayed
afar, and in pursuit of her was a moon, a new one, so slender and
yellow you would have said, a feather that a breath might blow away. In
the air were the same inviting odors, the scent of heliotrope and of
violets, the invocations of the woodlands, the whispers of the pines.
The musicians had been hushed, or else dismissed, for no sound came from
them that night.
Roland had not sought the feverish night to squander it in
contemplation. His hand moved and caught Justine's. It resisted a
little, then lay docile in his own. For she was new to love. Like every
other girl that has passed into the twenties, she had a romance in her
life, two perhaps, but romances immaterial as children's dreams, and
from which she had awaked surprised, noting the rhythm yet seeking the
reason in vain. They had passed from her as fancies do; and, just as she
was settling down into leisurely acceptance of her cousin, Roland had
appeared, and when she saw him a bird within her burst into song, and
she knew that all her life she had awaited his approach. To her he was
the fabulous prince that arouses the sleeper to the truth, to the
meaning, of love. He had brought with him new currents, wider vistas,
and horizons solid and real. He differed so from other men that her mind
was pleasured with the thought he had descended from a larger sphere.
She idealized him as girls untrained in life will do. He was the lover
unawaited yet not wholly undivined, tender-hearted, impeccable,
magnificent, incapable of wrong--the lover of whom she may never have
dreamed, yet who at last had come. And into his keeping she gave her
heart, and was glad, regretting only it was not more to give. She had no
fears; her confidence was assured as Might, and had you or I or any
other logician passed that way and demonstrated as clearly as a = a
that she was imbecile in her love, she would not have thanked either of
us for our pains. When a woman loves--and whatever the cynic may
affirm, civilization has made her monandrous--she differs from man in
this: she gives either the first-fruits of her affection, or else the
semblance of an after-growth. There are men, there are husbands and
lovers even, who will accept that after-growth and regard it as the
verdure of an enduring spring. But who, save a lover, is ever as stupid
as a husband? Man, on the other hand, is constant never. Civilization
has not improved him in the least. And when on his honor he swears he
has never loved before, his honor goes unscathed, for he may never yet
have loved a woman as he loves the one to whom he swears.
With Justine this was the primal verdure. Had she not met Roland
Mistrial, she might, and in all probability would, have exhibited
constancy in affection, but love would have been uncomprehended still.
As it was, she had come into her own; she was confident in it and
secure; and now, though by nature she was rebellious enough, as he
caught her hand her being went out to him, and as it went it thrilled.
"I love you," he said; and his voice was so flexible that it would have
been difficult to deny that he really did. "I will love you always, my
whole life through."
The words caressed her so well she could have pointed to the sky and
repeated with Dona Sol:
    "Regarde: plus de feux, plus de bruit. Tout se tait.
    La lune tout à l'heure à l'horizon montait:
    Tandis que tu parlais, sa lumière qui tremble
    Et ta voix, toutes deux m'allaient au coeur ensemble:
    Je me sentais joyeuse et calme, ô mon amant!
    Et j'aurais bien voulu mourir en ce moment."
But at once some premonition seemed to visit her. "Roland," she
murmured, "what if we leave our happiness here?"
And Roland, bending toward her, whispered sagely: "We shall know then
where to find it."
VI.
New York meanwhile, in its effeminateness, had forgotten the snow, and
was listening to the sun. And the day after the return from Aiken, as
Roland, in accordance with an agreement of which the locus sigilli had
a kiss for token, went down to knock at Mr. Dunellen's office door, the
sky was as fair as it had been in the South. Yet to him it was
unobtrusive. His mind was occupied with fancies that had a birth, a
little span of life, and which in passing away were succeeded by others
as ephemeral as themselves--thoughts about nothing at all that came and
went unnoticed: a man he had met in Corfu, and whom a face in the street
recalled; the glisten of silk in a window that took him back to
Japan;--but beneath them was a purpose settled and dominant, a
resolution to trick Fate and outwit it--one which, during the journey
from Aiken, had so possessed him that, in attending to the wants of Mrs.
Metuchen or in ministering to Justine, at times he had been
quasi-somnambulistic, at others wholly vague. But now, as he gave his
card to an office-boy, to all outward intent he was confident and at
ease; he picked up a paper and affected to lose himself in its columns.
Presently the boy returned, and he was ushered into the room which he
had previously visited. On this occasion Mr. Dunellen was not seated,
but standing, his back to the door. As Roland entered he turned, and the
young man stepped forward, his hand outstretched.
To his contentment, and a little also to his surprise, in answer to that
outstretched hand Honest Paul extended his, and Roland had the pleasure
of holding three apparently docile fingers in his own; but in a moment
they withdrew themselves, and he felt called upon to speak.
"Mr. Dunellen," he began, with that confident air a creditor has who
comes to claim his due, "Mr. Dunellen, I have ventured to interrupt you
again. And again I am a suppliant. But this time it is of your daughter,
not of my father, that--"
He hesitated, and well he might. Mr. Dunellen, who had remained
standing, and who in so doing had prevented Roland from sitting down,
now assumed the suspicious appearance of one who detects an unpleasant
smell; his features contracted, and for no other reason, apparently,
than that of intimidating the suppliant in his prayer.
But Roland was not to be abashed; he recovered himself, and continued
glibly enough: "The matter is this. I am sincerely attached to your
daughter, and I am come to ask your consent to our marriage."
"That is the purpose of your visit, is it?"
"It is."
"My daughter is aware of it, I suppose?"
"She is."
"And she consented, did she?"
"Perfectly."
"H'm! My daughter has made a mistake. I told her as much last night.
There can be no question of marriage. You will do me the favor to let
the matter drop."
"I am hot a rich man, Mr. Dunellen, but--"
"So I am informed. But that has nothing to do with it. There are other
things that I take into consideration, and in view of them I insist that
this matter be dropped."
"Mr. Dunellen, I love your daughter; I have reason to believe that she
cares for me. We became engaged a few days ago. I came here now to ask
your consent. If you refuse it, I have at least the right to ask what
your objection is."
"Rather unnecessary, don't you think?"
"I cannot imagine, sir, what you mean." And Roland, holding himself
unaffectedly straight, without the symptom of a pose, looked the old man
in the eyes.
That look Mr. Dunellen returned. "Take a seat," he said; and, motioning
Roland to a chair, he sat down himself.
"All this is needless," he announced; "but since you are anxious for an
explanation, I will give it. In the first place, when you were at my
house you remember that my nephew Dr. Thorold happened in. The other day
I mentioned to him that you were at Aiken. He then informed me of a
certain incident in your career, one which you have not forgotten, and
of which I do not care to speak. I may say, however, that it utterly
precludes the possibility of any further intercourse between my daughter
and yourself."
And the old man, still gazing at his guest, added: "This explanation
should, it seems to me, suffice." But he made no attempt to rise, or to
signify that the interview was at an end, and Roland, who was shrewd,
interpreted this in his own favor. "He is not altogether positive," he
reflected, "but he can be so to-morrow," and with a show of shame that
did him credit he hung his head.
"I had thought the incident to which you refer was forgotten," he
murmured, penitently enough.
"Forgotten? Do you suppose Thorold forgets? Do you suppose any man could
forget a thing like that--a sister's death, a mother's insanity? No, you
did not think it was forgotten. What you thought was this: you thought
that my nephew would hesitate to speak; and indeed even to me for ten
years he has kept silent. But now--there, you need not fear a criminal
charge. It was that you feared once, I understand, and it was on that
account you went abroad. At this date, of course, no proof is possible;
and, even were it otherwise, a charge would not be brought. Linen of
that kind is better washed at home."
"Mr. Dunellen, if you could know! It is the regret of my life."
"That I can believe; but I believe also that our natures never vary. We
may mould and shape them to our uses, but beneath the surface they
remain unchanged. I say this parenthetically. In regard to this incident
there are in one particular certain excuses you might allege--youth for
instance, inexperience, common attraction, love even. If you did, I
could enter into them. I have been young myself, and I have no wish to
imply that through the temptations of youth I passed unscathed. The man
who asserts he has reminds me of the horseman who declares he has never
been thrown. Nor because your victim happened to be my niece am I
actuated by retrospective indignation. I am too old for that; and,
moreover, the incident is too stale. No: my reason for forbidding my
daughter to receive you, as I have done, is this: the man that can
seduce a girl, and then, to conceal the effect, permit her to be
butchered by a quack, especially when he could have protected her by
marriage--that man, Mr. Mistrial, I tell you very plainly, is a
scoundrel, and being a scoundrel will never be anything else." And as
Honest Paul made this assertion he stood up and nodded affirmatively at
his guest.
"You are very hard, Mr. Dunellen."
"I may be, but so is justice."
"If I could tell you all. It was so sudden, so unpremeditated even, at
the first idea of a possibility of a catastrophe I lost my head."
"It was your honor you lost."
"Yes, and for years I have tried to recover it."
"That I am glad to learn, and I hope you have succeeded; but--"
"And will you not aid me?"
"In my sight you can never appear an honest man."
At this reproach, Roland, who had sat like Abjection, one hand
supporting his head, his eyes lowered and his body bent, sprang to his
feet.
"There are several forms of honesty," he exclaimed, "and frankness I
believe is counted among them. That you evidently possess. Let me
emulate you in it. I intend that your daughter shall be my wife. If you
don't care to come to the wedding your presence can be dispensed with."
And without any show of anger, but with an inclination of the head that
was insolent in its deference, he picked up his hat and left the room.
Presently he found himself in the street. "Who is ever as stupid as a
wise man?" he queried, and laughed a little to himself--"unless"--and he
fell to wondering whether Dunellen could have told his daughter all. On
the corner a cab was loitering; he hailed and entered it. A little later
he was ringing at the door of Honest Paul's abode.
Yes, Miss Dunellen was at home. And as the servant drew the portière to
the drawing-room aside, Roland was visited by that emotion the gambler
knows who waits the turning of a card. Another second, and the
expression of the girl's face would tell him what the future held. The
drawing-room, however, happened to be untenanted, and as he paced its
spacious splendors he still wondered was she or was she not informed. In
a corner was a landscape signed Courbet--a green ravine shut down by
bluest sky. The coloring was so true, it jarred. In another was a
statue--a cloaked and hooded figure of Death supporting a naked girl. As
he contemplated it, he heard the tinkle of the portière rings. It was
she, he knew; he turned, and at once his heart gave an exultant throb;
in her eyes was an invitation; he put his arms about her, and for a
moment held her so.
She does not know, he told himself, and to her he murmured, "I have
come to say good-bye."
"Wait, Roland." She led him to a seat. "Wait; I spoke to father last
night; he has some objection--"
"I told you I was poor--"
"It is that, I suppose; he did not say--"
"He will never consent, unless--"
"There, Roland. I know him best." She closed her eyes, and as he gazed
at her it seemed to him she had done so to shut some memory out. "It is
money with him always; you do not know--" And between her parted lips
she drew a breath he heard. "Last night he told me I must never see you
again. Hitherto his will has ruled: it is my turn to-day."
With this there came a splendor to her he had never marked before; she
looked defiant, and resolute as well. There was strength in her face,
and beauty too.
"He is unjust," she added. "It was my duty to tell him, and there my
duty ends. I am not a school-girl. I know my mind; better, perhaps,
than he knows his own. I have obeyed him always. It is easy to obey, but
now I will act for myself."
"He will never give his consent," Roland repeated.
"He may keep it, then."
Within her something seemed to rankle; and as Roland, mindful of the
slightest change in her expression, detected this, he wondered what it
could portend.
"Sweetheart," he ventured, "I have these two arms; they are all in all
for you."
At this Justine awoke at once. "If I did not know it--feel it; if I were
not sure of it, do you think I would speak to you as I do? No, Roland. I
have something of my own; when we are married, believe me, his consent
will come at once."
"It is not his consent I want--you know that; it is yours."
"You have it, Roland; I gave it you among the pines."
"Where is your hat, then? Let us go."
He caught her to him again, then suffered her to leave the room. And as
the portière which he had drawn that she might pass fell back into its
former folds, for a moment he stood perplexed. Somewhere a screw was
loose, he could have sworn. But where? Could it be that Honest Paul was
supporting a separate establishment? or did Justine think he wished to
mate her to some plutocrat of his choice? The first supposition was
manifestly absurd; the second troubled him so little that he turned and
occupied himself with the naked girl swooning in the arms of Death.
"I am ready, Roland." It was Justine, bonneted and veiled, buttoning her
glove.
"I have a cab," he answered, and followed her to the door.
VII.
When Roland and Justine re-entered the drawing-room that afternoon they
found Mr. Dunellen there. With him was Guy Thorold.
During the infant days of photography family groups were so much in
vogue that anyone with an old album in reach can find them there in
plenty. They are faded, no doubt; the cut of the garments is absurd;
even the faces seem to have that antique look which is peculiar to the
miniatures of people dead and departed: yet the impression they convey
is admirably exalting. That gentleman in the wonderful coat must have
been magnificent in every sphere of life: his mere pose, his attitude,
is convincing as a memoir. And that lady in the camel's-hair shawl--how
bewitchingly lovable she surely was! There is her daughter, who might be
her niece, so prettily does she seem inclined to behave; and there is
the son, a trifle effaced perhaps, yet with the makings of a man
manifest even in that effacement. Oh, good people! let us hope you were
really as amiable as you look: the picture is all we have of you; even
your names are forgot; and truly it were discomforting to have the
impression you convey disturbed in its slightest suggestion. We love you
best as you are; we prefer you so. I, for one, will have none of that
cynicism which hints that had a snap camera caught you unprepared the
charm would disappear.
Yet now, in the present instance, as Mr. Dunellen and his nephew stood
facing Roland and Justine, a photographer who had happened there could
have taken a family group which would in no manner have resembled those
which our albums hold.
"I told you last night," Mr. Dunellen was shrieking, "that I forbade you
to see that man."
And Justine, raising her veil, answered, "He was not my husband then."
"Husband!" The old man stared at his daughter, his face distorted and
livid with rage. "If you--"
But whatever threat he may have intended to make, Thorold interrupted.
"He is married already," he cried; "he is no more your husband than I."
At this announcement Mr. Dunellen let an arm he had outstretched fall to
his side; he turned to Thorold, and Justine looked wonderingly in
Roland's face.
"What does he mean?" she asked.
Roland shrugged his shoulders, "God knows," he answered. "He must be
screwed."
"You are married," Thorold called out. "You needn't attempt to deny it
here."
"I don't in the least: this lady has just done me the honor to become my
wife."
"But you have another--you told me so yourself."
Roland, who had been really perplexed, could not now conceal a smile.
He remembered that he had indeed told Thorold he was married, but he had
done so merely as an easy way of diverting the suspicions which that
gentleman displayed.
Justine, still looking at him, caught the smile.
"Why don't you speak?" she asked.
"What is there to say?" he answered. "It is false as an obituary."
"Then tell him so."
But for that there was no time. Mr. Dunellen, trained in procedure, had
already questioned Thorold, and found that save Mistrial's word he had
nothing to grapple on.
"Leave the house, sir," he shouted, and pointed to the door.
"When he goes, father, I go too."
"Then go." And raising his arms above his head as though to invoke the
testimony of heaven, he bawled at her, "I disown you."
"There's Christian forbearance," muttered Mistrial; and he might have
asserted as much, but Justine had lowered her veil.
