against you." The tears came into her eyes, and 
she put out her hand to him. 
  
" You liill ? " he shouted, in a rapture. " In 
every way — and always — as long as you live ? Do 
you mean it ? " He had caught her hand to his 
breast and was grappling it tight there, and drawing 
her to him. 
The changing emotions chased each other through 
her heart and over her face : dismay, shame, pride, 
tenderness. " You don't believe," she said hoarseh% 
" that I meant that ? " 
" No, but I hope you do mean it ; for if you don't, 
nothing else means anything." 
There was no spacg, there was only a point of 
wavering. " Ah do mean it," 
When- they lifted their eyes from each other again 
it was half-past ten. " No' yon most go," she said. 
"But the colonel— our fate ? " 
" The co'nel is often oat late, and Ah 'm not 
afraid of any fate, no' that we 've taken it into ouah 
own hands." She looked at him with dewy eyes of 
trust, of inspiration. 
" Oh, it 's going to come out all right," he said. 
" It can't come out wrong now, no matter what 
happens. But who 'd have thought it, M'hen I came 
into this house, in such a state of sin and misery, 
half an hour ago " 
"Three houahs and a half ago ! " she said. "No' 
you most jost go. Ah'ra tahed to death. Good 
night. You can come in the mawning to see — papa." 
She opened the door, and pushed him out with 
enrapturing A'iolence, and he ran laughing down the 
steps into her father's arms. 
  
" Why, colonel ! I was just going up to meet you." 
He really thought ho would walk off his exultation 
in that direction. 
"I am very sorry to say, Mr. Fulkerson," the 
colonel began gravely, " that Mr. Dryfoos adheres 
to his position." 
"Oh, all right," said Fulkerson, with unabated 
joy. "It's what I expected. "Well, my course is 
clear ; I shall stand by March, and I guess the world 
won't come to an end if he bounces us both. But 
I 'm everlasting obliged to you, Colonel Woodburn, 
and I don't know what to say to you. I — I won't 
detain you now ; it 's so late. I 'll see you in the 
morning. Good ni " 
Fulkerson did not realise that it takes two to 
part. The culonel laid hold of his arm and turned 
away with him. "I will walk toward your })]ace 
with you. I can understand why you should be 
anxious to know the particulars of my interview 
with Mr. Dryfoos ;" and in the statement which 
followed he did not spare him the smallest. It out- 
lasted their walk, and detained them long on the 
steps of the Every Other Week building. But at the 
end, Fulkerson let himself in with his key as light 
of heart as if he had been listening to the gayest 
promises that fortune could make. 
By the time he met March at the office next 
morning, a little, but only a A'ery little, misgiving 
saddened his golden heaven. He took March's 
hand with high courage, and said, "Well, the old 
man sticks to his point, March." He added, with the 
sense of saying it before Miss Woodburn, "And I 
stick by you. I 've thought it all over, and I 'd 
rather be right with you than wrong with him." 
" "Well, I appreciate your motive, Fulkerson," 
said March. "But perhaps — perhaps we can save 
over our heroics for another occasion. Lindau 
seems to have got in with his, for the present." 
He told hira of Lindau's last visit, and they stood 
a moment looking at each other rather queerly. 
Fulkerson was the first to recover his spirits. 
" well,'"' he said cheerily, " that let 's us out." 
" Does it ? I 'm not sure it lets me out," said 
March; but he said this in tribute to his crippled 
self-respect rather than as a forecast of any action 
in the matter. 
" why, what are you going to do ? " Fulkerson 
asked. " If Lindau won't work for Dryfoos you 
can't make him." 
March sighed. " "What are you going to do with 
this money ? " He glanced at the heap of bills he 
had flung on the table between them. 
Fulkerson scratched his head. "Ah, dogged if 
I know. Can't we give it to the deserving poor, 
somehow, if we can find 'era ? " 
"I suppose we've no right to use it in any way. 
You must give it to Dryfoos." 
" To the deserving rich ] "Well, you can always 
find them. I reckon you don't want to appear in 
the transaction ; I don't, either ; but I guess I 
must." Fulkerson gathered up the money and 
carried it to Conrad. He directed him to account 
  
for it in his books as conscience-money, and he 
enjoyed the joke more than Conrad seemed to do 
when he was told wlierc it came from. 
Fulkerson was aide to wear off the disagreeable 
impression the affair left during the course of the 
forenoon, and he met Miss Woodburn with all a 
lover's buoyancy when he went to lunch. She was 
as happy as he when he told her how fortunately 
the whole thing had ended, and he took her view 
that it was a reward of his courage in having dared 
the worst. They both felt, as the newly ])liglitcd 
always do, that they were in the best relati(jns witli 
the beneficent powers, and that their felicity had 
l)een especially looked to in the disposition of events. 
They were in a glow of rapturous content with 
themselves and radiant worship of each other; she 
was sure that he merited the bright future opening 
to them both, as much as if he owed it directly to 
some noble action of his oavu ; he felt that he was 
indebted for the favour of Heaven entirely to the 
still incredible accident of her preference of him 
over other men. 
Colonel Woodburn, who was not yet in the secret 
of their love, perhaps failed for this reason to share 
their satisfaction with a result so unexpectedly 
brought about. The blessing on their hopes seemed 
to his ignorance to involve certain sacrifices of 
personal feeling at which he hinted in suggesting 
that Dryfoos should now be asked to make some 
abstract concessions and acknowledgments ; his 
daughter hastened to deny that these werc at all 
  
necessary ; and Fulkerson easily explained wlij-. 
The tiling was over ; what was the use of opening 
it up again ? 
" Perhaps none," the colonel admitted. But he 
added, " I should like the opportunity of taking Mr. 
Lindau's hand in the presence of Mr. Dryfoos, and 
assuring him that I considered him a man of principle 
and a man of lionour ; a gentleman, sir, whom I was 
proud and happy to have known." 
" Well, Ah 've no doabt," said his daughter 
demurely, " that you 'll have the chance some day ; 
and we would all lahke to join you. But at the 
same tahme, I think Mr. Fulkerson is well oat of it 
fo' the present." 
PART FIFTH. 
Superficially, the affairs of Every Other Wceh 
settled into their wonted form again, and for Fulker- 
son they seemed thoroughly reinstated. But !March 
liad a feeling of impermanency from wliat had 
happened, mixed witli a fantastic sense of shame 
toward Lindau. lie did not sympathise with 
Lindau's opinions, lie thought his remedy for existing 
evils as wildly impracticable as Colonel woodbnrn's. 
But while he thought this, and while he could justly 
blame Fulkerson for Lindau's presence at Dryfoos's 
dinner, which his zeal had brought about in sjiite of 
March's protests, still he could not rid himself of 
the reproach of uncandour with Lindau. He ought 
to have told him frankly about the ownership of the 
magazine, and what manner of man the man was 
whose money he was taking. But he said that ho 
never could have imagined that he was serious in 
his preposterous attitude in regard to a class of men 
who embody half the prosperity of the country ; 
and he had moments of revolt against his own 
humiliation before Lindau, in which he found it 
  
monstrous tliat lie should return Dryfoos's money as 
if it had been the spoil of a robber. His wife agreed 
with him in these moments, and said it was a great 
relief not to have that tiresome old German coming 
about. They had to account for his absence 
evasively to the children, whom they could not very 
well tell that their father was living on money that 
Lindau disdained to take, even thougli Lindau was 
wrong and their father was right. This heightened 
Mrs. March's resentment toward both Lindau and 
Dryfoos, who between them had placed her husband 
in a false position. If anything, she resented 
Dryfoos's conduct more than Lindau's. He had 
never spoken to March about the affair since Lindau 
had renounced his work, or added to the apologetic 
messages he had sent by Fulkerson, So far as 
March knew, Dryfoos had been left to suppose that 
Lindau had simply stopped for some reason that did 
not personally affect him. They never spoke of him, 
and March was too proud to ask either Fulkerson or 
Conrad whether the old man knew that Lindau had 
returned his money. He avoided talking to Conrad, 
from a feeling that if he did, he should involuntarily 
lead him on to speak of his differences with his 
father. Between himself and Fulkerson, even, he 
was uneasily aware of a want of their old perfect 
friendliness. Fulkerson had finally behaved with 
honour and courage ; but his provisional reluctance 
had given March the measure of Fulkerson's 
character in one direction, and he could not ignore 
the fact that it was smaller than he could have wished. 
  
lie coukl not make out wliether Fulkerson shared 
his discomfort or not. It certainly wore away, even 
with March, as time passed, and with Fulkerson, in 
the bliss of his fortunate love, it was probably far 
more transient, if it existed at all. He advanced 
into the winter as radiantly as if to meet the spring, 
and he said that if there were any pleasanter month 
of the year than November, it was December, 
especially when the weather was good and wet and 
muddy most of the time, so that you had to keej) 
indoors a long while after you called anywhere. 
Colonel Woodburn had the anxiety, in view of his 
daughter's engagement, when she asked his consent 
to it, that such a dreamer must have in regard to 
any reality that threatens to aftcct the course of his 
reveries. lie had not perhaps taken her marriage 
into account, except as a remote contingency ; and 
certainly Fulkerson was not the kind of son-indaw 
that he liad imagined in dealing with that abstrac- 
tion. But because he had nothing of the sort 
definitely in mind, he could not oppose the selection 
of Fulkerson with success ; he really knew nothing 
against him, and lie knew many things in his 
favour; Fulkerson insjjired him with the liking that 
every one felt for him in a measure ; he amused 
him, he cheered him ; and the Colonel had been so 
much used to leaving action of all kinds to his 
daughter that when he came to close quarters with 
the question of a son-indaw, he felt helpless to 
decide it, and he let her decide it, as if it were still 
to be decided when it was submitted to him. She 
  
was competent to treat it in all its phases : not 
merely those of personal interest, but those of duty 
to the broken Southern past, sentimentally dear to 
him, and practically absurd to her. No such South 
as he remembered had ever existed to her know- 
ledge, and no such civilisation as he imagined would 
ever exist, to her belief, anywhere. She took the 
world as she found it, and made the best of it. She 
trusted in Fulkerson ; she had proved his magna- 
nimity in a serious emergency ; and in small things 
she was willing fearlessly to chance it with him. 
She was not a sentimentalist, and there was nothing 
fantastic in her expectations ; she was a girl of 
good sense and right mind, and she liked the im- 
mediate practicality as well as the final honour of 
Fulkerson. She did not idealise him, but in the 
highest effect she realised him ; she did him justice, 
and she would not have believed that she did him 
more than justice if she had sometimes known him 
to do himself less. 
Their engagement was a fact to which the 
Leighton household adjusted itself almost as simply 
as the lovers themselves ; Miss "Woodburn told the 
ladies at once, and it was not a thing that Fulkerson 
could keep from March very long. He sent word 
of it to Mrs. March by her husband ; and his 
engagement perhaps did more than anything else 
to confirm the confidence in him which had been 
shaken by his early behaviour in the Lindau epi- 
sode, and not wholly restored by his tardy fidelity 
to March. But now she felt that a man who 
 
wishcJ to get married so obviously and entirely for 
love was full of all kinds of the best instincts, and 
only needed the guidance of a wife to become very 
noljle. She interested herself intensely in balancing 
the respective merits of the engaged couple, and 
after her call upon Miss woodburn in her new 
character she prided herself upon recognising the 
worth of some strictly Southern qualities in her, 
while maintaining the general average of New 
England superiority. She could not reconcile her- 
self to the Virginian custom illustrated in her 
having been christened with the surname of Madi- 
son J and she said that its pet form of Mad, which 
Fulkerson promptly invented, only made it more 
ridiculous. 
Fulkerson was slower in telling Beaton. He was 
afraid, somehow, of Beaton's taking the matter in 
the cynical way ; Miss Woodburn said she would 
break off the engagement if Beaton was left to guess 
it or find it out by accident, and then Fulkerson 
plucked up his courage. Beaton received the news 
with gravity, and witii a sort of melancholy meek- 
ness that strongly moved Fulkerson's sympathy, and 
made him wish that Beaton was engaged too. 
It made Beaton feel very old; it somehow left 
him behind and forgotten; in a manner, it made 
him feel trifled with. Something of the unfriendli- 
ness of fate seemed to overcast his resentment, and 
he allowed the sadness of his conviction that ho had 
not the means to marry on to tinge his recognition 
of tiic fact that Alma Leighton would not have 
  
wanted him to marry her if he had. He was now 
often in that martyr mood in which he wished to 
help his father ; not only to deny himself Chianti, 
but to forego a fur-lined overcoat which he intended 
to get for the winter. He postponed the moment 
of actual sacrifice as regarded the Chianti, and he 
bought the overcoat in an anguish of self-reproach. 
He wore it the first evening after he got it in going 
to call upon the Leightons, and it seemed to him a 
piece of ghastly irony when Alma complimented his 
picturesqueness in it, and asked him to let her 
sketch him. 
"Oh, you can sketch me," he said, with so much 
gloom that it made her laugh. 
" If you think it 's so serious, I 'd rather not." 
" No, no ! Go ahead ! How do you want me ? " 
" Oh, fling yourself down on a chair in one of 
your attitudes of studied negligence ; and twist one 
corner of your moustache with affectetl absence of 
mind." 
" And you think I 'm ahvays studied, always 
affected ? " 
"I didn't say so." 
"I didn't ask you what you said." 
" And I won't tell you what I think." 
"Ah, I know what you think." 
" What made you ask, then ? " The girl laughed 
again with the satisfaction of her sex in cornering 
a man. 
Beaton made a show of not deigning to reply, and 
put himself in the pose she suggested frowuing. 
  
" Ah, tliat 's it. But a little more animation. 
"As when a great thought strikes along the brain, 
And flushes all the cheek.' " 
She put her forehead down on the hack of her 
hand and laughed again. " You ought to he photo- 
graphed. You look as if you were sitting for it." 
Beaton said : " That 's because I know I am being 
photographed, in one "way. I don't think you ouglit 
to call me affected. I never am so with you ; I 
know it wouMu't be of any use." 
" Oh, Mr. Beaton, you flatter." 
" No, I never flatter you." 
" I meant you flattered yourself." 
"Howl" 
" Oh, I don't know. Imagine." 
" I know what you mean. You think I can't be 
sincere with anybody." 
"Oh, no I don't." 
" What do you think ? " 
"That you can't — try." Alma gave another 
victorious laugh. 
Miss Woodburn and Fulkerson would once have 
both feigned a great interest in Alma's sketching 
Beaton, and made it the subject of talk, in which 
they approached as nearly as possible the real 
interest of their lives. Now they frankly remained 
away, in the dining-room, which was very cozy after 
the dinner had disappeared ; the colonel sat with his 
lamp and paper in the gallery beyond; Mrs. Leigh ton 
was about her housekeeping affairs, in the content 
she always felt when Alma was with Beaton. 
  
" They seem to be having a pretty good time in 
there," said. Fulkerson, detaching himself from his 
own absohite good time as well as he could. 
" At least Alma does," said Miss Woodburn. 
"Do you think she cares for him ? " 
" Quahte as moch as he desoves." 
" What makes you all down on Beaton around 
here ? He 's not such a bad fellow." 
" We awe not all doan on him. Mrs. Leighton 
isn't doan on him." 
" Oh, I guess if it was the old lady, there w.ouldn't 
be much question about it." 
They both laughed, and Alma said, " They seem 
to be greatly amused with something in there." 
"Me, probably," said Beaton, "I seem to amuse 
everybody to-night." 
"Don't you always?" 
" I always anmse you, I 'm afraid. Alma." 
She looked at him as if she were going to snub 
him openly for using her name ; but apparently she 
decided to do it covertly. " You didn't at first. I 
really used to believe you could be serious once." 
" Couldn't you believe it again ? Now ? " 
" Not when you i)ut on that wind-harp stop." 
" Wetmore has been talking to you about me. 
He would sacrifice his best friend to a phrase. He 
spends his time making them." 
"He's made some very pretty ones about you." 
" Like the one you just quoted ? " 
" No, not exactly He admires you ever so much. 
He says ." She stopped, teasingly. 
  
" What ? " 
" He says you could be almost anything you 
 wished, if you didn't wish to be everything." 
"That sounds more like the school of Wetmoro. 
That's what you say, Alma. Well, if there were 
something you wished me to bo, I could be it." 
" we might adapt Kingsley : ' Be good, sweet 
maid, and let who will be clever.' " He could not help 
laughing. She went on : "I always thought that 
was the most patronising and exasperating thing ever 
addressed to a human girl ; and we 've had to stand 
a good deal in our time. I should like to have it 
applied to the other * sect ' a while. As if any girl 
that cas a girl would be good if she had the remotest 
chance of being clever." 
" Then you wouldn't wish me to be good ? ' 
Beaton asked. 
" Not if you were a girl." 
"You want to shock me. Well, I suppose I 
deserve it. But if I were one-tenth part as good as 
you are, Alma, I should have a lighter heart than I 
have now. I know that I 'm fickle, but I 'm not 
false, as you think I am." 
" Who said I thought you were false ? " 
" No one," said Beaton. " It isn't necessary, 
when you look it — live it." 
" Oh, dear ! I didn't know I devoted my whole 
time to the subject." 
'•'I know I'm despicable. I could tell you some- 
thing — the history of this day, even — that would 
make you despise me." Beaton had in mind his 
  
purchase of the overcoat, which Alma was getting 
in so effectively, with the money he ought to have 
sent his father. '• But," he went on darkly, with a 
sense that what he was that moment suffering for 
his selfishness must somehow be a kind of atonement, 
which would finally leave him to the guiltless enjoy- 
ment of the overcoat, "you wouldn't believe the 
depths of baseness I could descend to." 
" I would try," said Alma, rapidly shading the 
collar, ** if you 'd give me some hint." 
Beaton had a sudden wish to pour out his remorse 
to her, but he was afraid of her laughing at him. 
He said to himself that this was a very wholesome 
fear, and that if he could always have her at hand 
he should not make a fool of himself so often. A 
man conceives of such an office as the very noblest 
for a woman; he worships her for it if he is 
magnanimous. But Beaton was silent, and Alma 
put back her head for the right distance on her 
sketch. " Mr. Fulkerson thinks you are the 
sublimest of human beings for advising him to get 
Colonel Woodburn to interview Mr. Dryfoos about 
Lindau. "What have vou ever done with your 
Judas ? " 
" I haven't done anything with it. Nadel thought 
he would take hold of it at one time, but he dropped 
it again. After all, I don't suppose it could be 
popularised. Fulkerson wanted to offer it as a 
premium to subscribers for Every Other Week, but I 
sat down on that." 
Alma could not feel the absurdity of this, and she 
merely said, " Every Other Week seems to l)e going on 
just the same as ever." 
" Yes, the trouble has all hlown over, I believe 
Fulkerson," said Beaton, with a return to what they 
were saying, '• has managed the whole business very 
well. But he exaggerates the value of my advice." 
"Very likely," Alma suggested vaguely. " Or 
no ! Excuse me ! He couldn't, he couldn't ! She 
laughed delightedly at Beaton's foolish look of 
embarrassment. 
He tried to recover his dignity in saying, "He's 
a very good fellow, and he deserves his happiness " 
"Oh, indeed!" said Alma perversely. "Does 
any one deserve happiness ? " 
"I know I don't," sighed Beaton. 
" You mean you don't get it." 
"I certainly don't get it." 
"Ah, but that isn't the reason." 
" What is ? " 
" That 's the secret of the universe." She bit in 
her lower lip, and looked at him witli eyes of gleam- 
ing fun. 
" Are you ever serious ? " he asked. 
" "With serious people — alwaj's.' 
" I am serious ; and you have the secret of ray 
happiness ." He threw himself impulsively 
forward in his chair, 
"Oh, pose, pose !" she cried. 
"I icon't pose," he answered, "and you have got 
to listen to me. You know I 'm in love with you ; 
and I know that once you cared for me. Can't that 
  
time — won't it — come back again ? Try to think so, 
Alma ! " 
" No," she said, briefly and seriously enough. 
" But that seems impossible. What is it I 've 
done — what have you against me ? " 
" Nothing. But that time is past. I couldn't 
recall it if I wished. Why did you bring it up ? 
You've broken your word. You know I M'ouldn't 
have let you keep coming here if you hadn't 
promised never to refer to it." 
" How could I help it ? With that happiness near 
us — Fulkerson " 
" Oil, it 's that ? I might have known it ! " 
" No, it isn't that — it 's something far deeper. 
But if it 's nothing you have against me, what is it, 
Alma, that keeps you from caring for me now as 
you did then ? I haven't changed." 
" But I have. I shall never care for you again, 
Mr. Beaton ; you might as well understand it once 
f>rall. Don't think it's anything in yourself, or 
that I think you unworthy of me. I 'm not so self- 
satisfied as that; I know very well that I'm not a 
perfect character, and that I 've no claim on perfec- 
tion in anybody else. I think women who want 
that are fools ; they won't get it, and they don't 
deserve it. But I 've learned a good deal more about 
myself than I knew in St. Barnaby, and a life of 
work, of art, and of art alone — that's what I've 
made up my mind to." 
"A woman that's made up her mind to that has 
no heart to hinder her ! " 
  
" "Would a man liavc that had done so V 
"Cut I don't believe you, Alma. You're merely 
laughing at me. And besides, with me you needn't 
give uj) art. We could work together. You know 
how much I admire your talent. I believe I could 
help it — serve it ; I would be its willing slave, and 
yours, Heaven knows ! " 
" I don't want any slave — nor any slavery. I want 
to be free — always. Now do you see ? I don't care 
for you, and I never could in the old way ; but I 
should have to care for some one more than I believe 
I ever shall to give up my work. Shall we go on ? " 
She looked at her sketch. 
" No, we shall not go on," he said, gloomily as 
he rose. 
" I suppose you blame me," she said, rising too. 
" Oh no ! I blame no one — or only myself. I 
threw my chance away." 
" I 'm glad you see that ; and I 'm glad you did 
it. You don't believe me, of course. Why do men 
think life can be only the one thing to women ] 
And if you come to the selfish view, who are the 
happy women ? I 'm sure that if work doesn't fail 
me, health won't, and happiness won't." 
" But you could work on with me " 
" Second fiddle. Do you suppose I shouldn't be 
woman enough to wish my work always less and 
lower than yours ? At least I 've heart enough for 
that ! " 
"You've heart enough for anything, Alma. I 
was a fool to say you hadn't," 
  
'•' I think the women who keep their hearts haA'e 
au even chance, at least, of having heart " 
" Ah, there 's where you 're wrong ! " 
" But mine isn't mine to give you, anyhow. And 
now I don't want you ever to speak to me about this 
again." 
" Oh, there 's no danger !" he cried bitterly. " I 
shall never willingly see you again." 
"That's as you like, Mr. Beaton. We've had to 
be very frank, but I don't see why we shouldn't be 
friends. Still, we needn't, if you don't like." 
" And I may come — I may come here — as — as 
usual . " 
" Why, if you can consistently," she said, with a 
smile, and she held out her hand to him. 
He went home dazed, and feeling as if it were a 
bad joke that had been put upon him. At least the 
affair went so deep that it estranged the aspect of 
his familiar studio. Some of the things in it were 
not very familiar ; he had spent lately a great deal 
on rugs, on stuffs, on Japanese bric-a-brac. When 
he saw these things in the shops he had felt that he 
must have them ; that they were necessary to him ; 
and he was partly in debt for them, still without 
having sent any of his earnings to pay his father. 
As he looked at them now he liked to fancy some- 
thing weird and conscious in them as the silent wit- 
nesses of a broken life. He felt about among some 
of the smaller objects on the mantel for his pipe. 
Before he slept he was aware, in the luxury of his 
despair, of a remote relief, an escape ; and after all. 
  
the understanding lie had come to with Ahna was 
only the explicit formulation of terms long tacit 
between them. Beaton woukl have been iuzded 
more than he knew if she had taken him seriously. 
It was inevitable that he should declare himself in 
love with her ; but he was not disappointed at her 
rejection of his love ; perhaps not so much as he 
would have been at its acceptance, though he tried 
to think otherwise, and to give himself airs of 
tragedy. He did not really feel that the result was 
worse than what had gone before, and it left him 
free. 
But he did not go to the Leightons again for so 
long a time that Mrs. Leighton asked Alma what 
had happened. Alma told her. 
"And he won't come any more?" her mother 
sighed, with reserved censure. 
" Oh, I think he will. He couldn't very well come 
the next night. But he has the habit of coming, 
and with Mr. Beaton habit is everything — even tlio 
habit of thinking he's in love with some one." 
"Alma," said her mother, "I don't think it's 
very nice for a girl to let a young man keep coming 
to see her after she 's refused him." 
" Why not, if it amuses him and doesn't hurt the 
girl ? " 
" But it does hurt her, Alma. It — it 's indelicate. 
It isn't fair to him ; it gives him hopes." 
" Well, mamma, it hasn't happened in the given 
case yet. If Mr. Beaton comes again I won't see 
him, and you can forbid him the house." 
" If I coukl only feel sure, Alma," said her 
mother, taking up another branch of the inquiry, 
" that you really knew your own mind, I should be 
easier about it." 
'* Then you can rest perfectly quiet, mamma. I 
do know my own mind ; and what 's worse, I know 
Mr. Beaton's mind." 
" What do you mean ? " 
" I mean that he spoke to me the other night 
simply because Mr. Fulkerson's engagement had 
broken him all up." 
" what expressions!" Mrs. Leighton lamented. 
"lie let it out himself," Alma went on. "And 
you wouldn't have thought it was very flattering 
yourself. When I 'm made love to, after this, I 
prefer to be made love to in an off-year, when there 
isn't another engaged coujile anywhere about." 
" Did you tell him that, Alma ? " 
" Tell him that ! What do you mean, mamma ? 
I may be indelicate, but I 'm not quite so indelicate 
as that." 
" I didn't mean you were indelicate, really, Alma, 
but I wanted to warn you. I think Mr. Beaton Mas 
very much in earnest." 
" Oh, so did he !" 
" And you didn't ? " 
" Oh yes, for the time being. I suppose he 's very 
much in earnest with Miss Vance at times, and with 
Miss Dryfoos at others. Sometimes he 's a painter, 
and sometimes he 's an architect, and sometimes he 's 
a sculptor. He has too many gifts — too many tastes." 
  
" And if Miss Vance, and Miss Dryfoos " 
" Oh, do say Sculpture and Architecture, mamma ! 
It 's getting so dreadfully personal ! " 
" Alma, you know that I only wish to get at your 
real feeling in the matter." 
" And you know that I don't want to let you — 
especially when I haven't got any real feeling in the 
matter. But I should think — speaking in the 
abstract entirely — that if either of those arts was 
ever going to be in earnest about him, it would 
want his exclusive devotion for a week at least." 
"I didn't know," said Mrs. Leighton, "that lie 
was doing anything now at the others. I thought 
he was entirely taken up with his work on Eccnj 
Other ireet" 
"Oh, he is! he is!" 
"And you certainly can't say, my dear, that he 
hasn't been very kind — very useful to you, in that 
matter." 
"And so I ought to have said yes out of grati- 
tude ? Thank you, mamma ! I didn't know you 
held me so cheap." 
"You know whether I hold you cheap or not. 
Alma. I don't want you to cheapen yourself. I 
don't want you to trifle with any one. I want you 
to be honest with yourself." 
" Well, come now, mamma I Suppose you begin. 
I've been i:»erfectly honest with myself, and I've 
been honest with Mr. Beaton. I don't care for him, 
and I 've told him I didn't ; so he may be supposed 
to know it. If he comes here after this, he 'll come 
  
as a plain, unostentatious friend of the family, and 
it's for you to say -whether he shall come in that 
capacity or not. I hope you won't trifle with him, 
and let him get the notion that he 's coming on any 
other biisis." 
Mrs. Leighton felt the comfort of the critical 
attitude far too keenly to abandon it for anything 
constructive. She only said, "You know very well, 
Alma, that 's a matter I can have nothing to do with." 
" Then you leave him entirely to me ? " 
" I hope you will regard his right to candid and 
open treatment." 
" He 's had nothing but the most open and candid 
treatment from me, mamma. It 's you that want to 
pTy fast and loose with him. And to tell you the 
truth, I believe he would like that a good deal 
better ; I believe that if there 's anything he hates, 
it's openness and candour." 
Alma laughed, and put her arms round her 
mother, who could not help laughing a little too. 
IT. 
TiiK winter did not renew for Christine and Mela 
the social opportunity which the spring had ofl'ered. 
After the mu.'iicale at Mrs. Horn's, they both made 
their party-call, a.s Mela said, in due season ; but 
they did not find Mrs. Horn at home, and neither 
she nor Miss Vance came to see them after people 
returned to town in the fall. They tried to believe 
for a time that Mrs. Horn had not got their cards ; 
this pretence failed them, and they fell back upon 
their pride, or rather Christine's pride. Mela had 
little but her good-nature to avail her in any exi- 
gency, and if Mrs. Horn or Miss Vance had come to 
call after a year of neglect, she would have received 
them as amiably as if they had not lost a day in 
coming. But Christine had drawn a line, beyond 
which they would not have been forgiven ; and she 
had planned the words and the behaviour with 
which she would have punished them if they had 
appeared then. Neither sister imagined herself in 
anywise inferior to them ; but Christine was sus- 
picious, at least, and it was Mela who invented the 
hypothesis of the lost cards. As nothing happened 
  
to prove or to disprove the fact, she said, " I move 
we put Coonrod up to gittuu' it out of Miss Vance, 
at some of their meetin's." 
" If you do," said Christine, " I 'll kill you." 
Christine, however, had the visits of Beaton to 
console her, and if these seemed to have no definite 
aim, she was willing to rest in the pleasure they 
gave her vanity ; but Mela had nothing. Sometimes 
she even wished they were all back on the farm. 
"It would be the best thing for both of you," 
said Mrs. Dryfoos, in answer to such a burst of 
desperation. " I don't think New York is any place 
for girls." 
" Well, what I hate, mother,' said Mela, " is, it 
don't seem to be any place for young men, either." 
She found this so good when she had said it that 
she laughed over it till Christine was angry. 
" A body would think there had never been any 
joke before." 
"I don't see as it's a joke," said Mrs. Dryfoos. 
" It 's the plain truth." 
" Oh, don't mind her, mother," said Mela. " She 's 
put out because her old Mr. Beaton ha'n't been 
round for a couple o' weeks. If you don't watch 
out, that fellow 'll give you the slip, yit, Christine, 
after all your pains." 
" "Well, there ain't anybody to give you the slip, 
Mela," Christine clawed back. 
"No; I ha'n't ever set my traps for anj'body." 
This was what Mela said for want of a better retort ; 
but it was not quite true. "When Kendricks came 
with Beaton to call after her father's dinner, .she 
used all her cunning to ensnare him, and she had 
him to herself as long as Beaton stayed ; Dryfoos 
sent down word that he was not very well, and had 
gone to bed. The novelty of Mela had worn off for 
Kendricks, and she found him, as she frankly told 
him, not half as entertaining as he was at Mrs. 
Horn's ; but she did her best with him as the only 
flirtable material which had yet come to her hand. 
It would have been her ideal to have the young men 
stay till past midnight, and her father come down- 
stairs in his stocking-feet, and tell them it was time 
to go. But they made a visit of decorous brevity, 
and Kendricks did not come again. She met him 
afterward, once, as she was crossing the pavement 
in Union Square, to "get into her couple, and made 
the most of him ; but it was necessarily very little, 
and so he passed out of her life without having left 
any trace in her heart, though Mela had a heart 
that she would have put at the disposition of almost 
any young man that wanted it. Kendricks himself, 
Manhattan cockney as he was, with scarcely more 
outlook into the average American nature than if he 
liad been kept a prisoner in New York society all 
his days, perceived a property in her which forbade 
him as a man of conscience to trifle with her ; some- 
thing earthly good and kind, if it was simple and 
vulgar. In revising his impressions of her, it seemed 
to him that she would come even to better literary 
effect if this were recognised in her; and it made 
her sacred, in spite of her willingness to fool and to 
be fooled, in her merely human quality. After all, 
he saw that she wished honestly to love and to be 
loved, and the lures she threw out to that end 
seemed to him pathetic rather than ridiculous ; he 
could not join Beaton in laughing at her ; and he 
did not like Beaton's laughing at the other girl, 
cither. It seemed to Kendricks, with the code of 
honour which he mostly kept to himself because he 
was a little ashamed to find there were so few others 
like it, that if Beaton cared nothing for the other 
girl — and Christine appeared simply detestable to 
Kendricks — ho had better keep away from her, and 
not give her the impression he was in love with her. 
He rather fancied that this was the part of a gentle- 
man, and he could not have penetrated to that 
jesthetic and moral complexity which formed the con- 
sciousness of a nature like Beaton, and was chiefly a 
