"Then go to the devil!" roared the infuriated German, shutting his window
again with a vicious slam. A grunt of satisfaction from other directions
was followed by the shutting of other windows, and presently all was
silent again.
"I am afraid they sleep at the back of the house," said Vjera, growing
despondent at last.
"I am afraid so, too," answered Johann Schmidt, proudly conscious that the
noise he had made would have disturbed the slumbers of the Seven Sleepers
of Ephesus.
CHAPTER VII.
"You had better let me take you home," said Schmidt, kindly, after the
total failure of the last effort.
Vjera seemed to be stupefied by the sense of disappointment. She went back
to the door of the tobacconist's house and put out her hand as though to
ring the bell again then, realising how useless the attempt would be, she
let her arms fall by her sides and leaned against the door-post, her
muffled head bent forward and her whole attitude expressing her despair.
"Come, come, Vjera," said the Cossack in an encouraging tone, "it is not
so bad after all. By this time the Count is fast asleep and is dreaming of
his fortune, you know, so that it would be a cruelty to wake him up. In
the morning we will all go with Fischelowitz and have him let out, and he
will be none the worse."
"I am afraid he will be--very much the worse," said Vjera. "It is
Wednesday to-morrow, and if he wakes up there--oh, I do not dare think of
it. It will make him quite, quite mad. Can we do nothing more? Nothing?"
"I think we have done our best to wake up this quarter of the town, and
yet Fischelowitz is still asleep. No one else can be of any use to
us--therefore--" he stopped, for his conclusion seemed self-evident.
"I suppose so," said Vjera, regretfully. "Let us go, then."
She turned and with her noiseless step began to walk slowly away, Schmidt
keeping close by her side. For some minutes neither spoke. The streets
were deserted, dry and still.
"Do you think there is any truth at the bottom of the Count's story?"
asked the Cossack at last.
"I do not know," Vjera answered, shaking her head. "I do not know what to
think," she continued after a little pause. "He tells us all the same
thing, he speaks of his letters, but he never shows them to anyone. I am
afraid--" she sighed and stopped speaking.
"I will tell you this much," said her companion. "That man is honest to
the backbone, honest as the good daylight on the hills, where there are no
houses to darken it and make shadows."
"He is an angel of goodness and kindness," said Vjera softly.
"I know he is. Is he not always helping others when he is starving
himself? Now what I say is this. No man who is as good and as honest as he
is, can have become so mad about a mere piece of fancy--about an invented
lie, to be plain. What there is in his story I do not know, but I am sure
that there was truth in it once. It may have been a long time ago, but
there was a time once, when he had some reason to expect the money and the
titles he talks of every Tuesday evening."
"Do you really think that?" asked Vjera, eagerly. Her own understanding
had never gone so far in its deduction.
"I am sure of it. I know nothing about mad people, but I am sure that no
honest man ever invented a story out of nothing and then became crazy
because it did not turn out true."
"But you, who have travelled so much, Herr Schmidt, have you ever heard
the name before--have you ever heard of such a family?"
"I have a bad memory for names, but I believe I have. I cannot be sure. It
makes no difference. It is a good Russian name, in any case, and a
gentleman's name, I should think. Of course I only mean that I--that you
should not think that because I--in fact," blundered out the good man,
"you must not suppose that you will be a real countess, you know."
"I?" exclaimed Vjera, with a nervous, hysterical laugh, which the Cossack
supposed to be genuine.
"That is all I wanted to say," he continued in a tone of relief, as though
he felt that he had done his duty in warning the poor girl of a possible
disappointment. "It may be true--of course, and I am sure that it once
was, or something like it, but I do not believe he has any chance of
getting his own after so long."
"I cannot think of it--in either way. If it is all an old forgotten tale
which he believes in still-why then, he is mad. Is it not dreadful to see?
So quiet and sensible all the week, and then, on Tuesday night, his
farewell speech to us all--every Tuesday--and his disappointment the next
day, and then a new week begun without any recollection of it all! It is
breaking my heart, Herr Schmidt!"
"Indeed, poor Vjera, you look as though it were."
"And yet, and yet--I do not know. I think that if it were one day to turn
out true--then my heart would be quite broken, for he would go away, and I
should never see him again."
Accustomed as she was to daily association with the man who was walking by
her side, knowing his good heart and feeling his sympathy, it is small
wonder that the lonely girl should have felt impelled to unburden her soul
of some of its bitterness. If her life had gone on as usual, undisturbed
by anything from without, the confessions which now fell from her lips so
easily would never have found words. But she had been unsettled by what
had happened in the early evening, and unstrung by her great anxiety for
the Count's safety. Her own words sounded in her ear before she knew that
she was going to speak them.
"I am sure that something dreadful is going to happen," she continued
after a moment's pause. "He will go mad in that horrible prison, raving
mad, so that they will have to--to hold him--" she sobbed and then
recovered herself by an effort. "Or else--he will fall ill and die, after
it--" Here she broke down completely and stopping in the middle of the
street began crying bitterly, clutching at Schmidt's arm as though to keep
from falling.
"I should not wonder," he said, but she fortunately did not catch the
words.
He was very sorry for the poor girl, and felt inclined to take her in his
arms and carry her to her home, for he saw that she was weak and exhausted
as well as overcome by her anxiety. Before resorting to such a measure,
however, he thought it best to try to encourage her to walk on.
"Nothing that one expects, ever happens," he said confidently, and passing
his arm through hers, as though to lead her away. "Come, you will be at
home presently and then you will go to bed and in the morning, before you
are at the shop, everything will have been set right, and I daresay the
Count will be there before you, and looking as well as ever."
"How can you say that, when you know that he never comes on Wednesdays!"
exclaimed Vjera through her tears. "I am sure something dreadful will
happen to him. No, not that way--not that way!"
Schmidt was trying to guide her round a sharp corner, but she resisted
him.
"But that is the way home," protested the Cossack.
"I know, but I cannot go home, until I have seen where he is. I must
go--you must not prevent me!"
"To the police-station?" inquired Schmidt in considerable astonishment.
"They will not let us go in, you know. You cannot possibly see him. What
good can it do you to go and look at the place?"
"You do not understand, Herr Schmidt! You are good and kind, but you do
not understand me. Pray, pray come with me, or let me go alone. I will go
alone, if you do not want to come. I am not at all afraid--but I must go."
"Well, child," answered Schmidt, good-humouredly. "I will go with you,
since you are so determined."
"Is this the way? Are you not misleading me? Oh, I am sure I shall never
see him again--quick, let us walk quickly, Herr Schmidt! Only think what
he may be suffering at this very moment!"
"I am sure he is asleep, my dear child. And when we are outside of the
police-station we cannot know what is going on inside, whether our friend
is asleep or awake, and it can do no good whatever to go. But since you
really wish it so much, we are going there as fast as we can, and I
promise to take you by the shortest way."
Her step grew more firm as they went on and he felt that there was more
life in the hand that rested on his arm. The prospect of seeing the walls
of the place in which the Count was unwillingly spending the night gave
Vjera fresh strength and courage. The way was long, as distances are
reckoned in Munich, and more than ten minutes elapsed before they reached
the building. A sentry was pacing the pavement under the glare of the
gaslight, his shadow lengthening, shortening, disappearing and lengthening
again on the stone-way as he walked slowly up and down. Vjera and her
companion stopped on the other side of the street. The sentinel paid no
attention to them.
"You are quite sure it is there?" asked the girl, under her breath.
Schmidt nodded instead of answering.
"Then I will pray that all may be well this night," she said.
She dropped the Cossack's arm and slipped away from him; then pausing at a
little distance, in the deep shadow of an archway opposite the station,
she knelt down upon the pavement, and taking some small object, which was
indistinguishable in the darkness, from the bosom of her frock she clasped
her hands together and looked upwards through the gloom at the black walls
of the great building. The Cossack looked at her in a sort of half-stupid,
half-awed surprise, scarcely understanding what she was doing at first,
and feeling his heart singularly touched when he realised that she was
praying out here in the street, kneeling on the common pavement of the
city, as though upon the marble floor of a church, and actually saying
prayers--he could hear low sounds of earnest tone escaping from her
lips--prayers for the man she loved, because he was shut up for the night
in the police-station like an ordinary disturber of the peace. He was
touched, for the action, in its simplicity of faith, set in vibration the
chords of a nature accustomed originally to simple things, simple hopes,
simple beliefs. Instinctively, as he watched her, Johann Schmidt raised
his hat from his round head for a moment, and if he had possessed any
nearer acquaintance with praying in general or with any prayer in
particular it is almost certain that his lips would have moved. As it was,
he felt sorry for Vjera, he hoped that the Count would be none the worse
for his adventure, and he took off his hat. Let it be counted to him for
righteousness.
As for poor Vjera herself, she was so much in earnest that she altogether
forgot where she was. For love, it has been found, is a great suggester of
prayer, if not of meditation, and when the beloved one is in danger a
little faith seems magnified to such dimensions as would certainly accept
unhesitatingly a whole mountain of dogmas. Vjera's ideas were indeed
confused, and she would have found it hard to define the result which she
so confidently expected. But if that result were to be in any proportion
to her earnestness of purpose and sincerity of heart, it could not take a
less imposing shape than a direct intervention of Providence, at the very
least; and as the poor Polish girl rose from her knees she would hardly
have been surprised to see the green-coated sentinel thrust aside by
legions of angelic beings, hastening to restore to her the only treasure
her humble life knew of, or dreamed of, or cared for.
But as the visions which her prayers had called before her faded away into
the night, she saw again the dingy walls of the hated building, the gilt
spike on the helmet of the policeman and the shining blade that caught the
light as he moved on his beat. For one moment Vjera stood quite still.
Then with a passionate gesture she stretched out both arms before her, as
though to draw out to herself, by sheer strength of longing, the man whose
life she felt to be her own--and at last, wearied and exhausted, but no
longer despairing altogether, she covered her face with her hands and
repeated again and again the two words which made up the burden of her
supplication.
"Save him, save him, save him!" she whispered to herself.
When she looked up, at last, Schmidt was by her side. There was something
oddly respectful in his attitude and manner as he stood there awaiting her
pleasure, ready to be guided by her whithersoever she pleased. It seemed
to him that on this evening he had begun to see Vjera in a new light, and
that she was by no means the poor, insignificant little shell-maker he had
always supposed her to be. It seemed to him that she was transformed into
a woman, and into a woman of strong affections and brave heart. And yet he
knew every outline of her plain face, and had known every change of her
expression for years, since she had first come to the shop, a mere girl
not yet thirteen years of age. Nor had it been from lack of observation
that he had misunderstood her, for like most men born and bred in the
wilderness, he watched faces and tried to read them. The change had taken
place in Vjera herself and it must be due, he thought, to her love for the
poor madman. He smiled to himself in the dark, scarcely understanding why.
It was strange to him perhaps that madness on the one side should bring
into life such a world of love on the other.
Vjera turned towards him and once more laid her hand upon his arm.
"Thank you," she said. "I could not have slept if I had not come here
first, and it was very good of you. I will go home, but do not come with
me--you must be tired."
"I am never tired," he answered, and they began to walk away in the
direction whence they had come.
For a long time neither spoke. At last Schmidt broke the silence.
"Vjera," he said, "I have been thinking about it all and I do not
understand it. What kind of love is it that makes you act as you do?"
Vjera stood still, for they were close to her door, and there was a street
lamp at hand so that she could see his face. She saw that he asked the
question earnestly.
"It is something that I cannot explain--it is something holy," she
answered.
Perhaps the forlorn little shell-maker had found the definition of true
love.
She let herself in with her key and Schmidt once more found himself alone
in the street. If he had followed his natural instinct he would have
loitered about in one of the public squares until morning, making up for
the loss of his night's rest by sleeping in the daytime. But he had taken
upon himself the responsibilities of marriage as they are regarded west of
the Dnieper, and his union had been blessed by the subsequent appearance
of a number of olive-branches. It was therefore necessary that he should
sleep at night in order to work by day, and he reluctantly turned his
footsteps towards home. As he walked, he thought of all that had happened
since five o'clock in the afternoon, and of all that he had learned in the
course of the night. Vjera's story interested him and touched him, and her
acts seemed to remind him of something which he nevertheless could not
quite remember. Far down in his toughened nature the strings of a
forgotten poetry vibrated softly as though they would make music if they
dared. Far back in the chain of memories, the memory once best loved was
almost awake once more, the link of once clasped hands was almost alive
again, the tender pressure of fingers now perhaps long dead was again
almost a reality able to thrill body and soul. And with all that, and with
the certainty that those things were gone for ever, arose the great
longing for one more breath of liberty, for one more ride over the
boundless steppe, for one more draught of the sour kvass, of the camp brew
of rye and malt.
The longing for such things, for one thing almost unattainable, is in man
and beast at certain times. In the distant northern plains, a hundred
miles from the sea, in the midst of the Laplander's village, a young
reindeer raises his broad muzzle to the north wind, and stares at the
limitless distance while a man may count a hundred. He grows restless from
that moment, but he is yet alone. The next day, a dozen of the herd look
up, from the cropping of the moss, snuffing the breeze. Then the Laps nod
to one another, and the camp grows daily more unquiet. At times, the whole
herd of young deer stand at gaze, as it were, breathing hard through wide
nostrils, then jostling each other and stamping the soft ground. They grow
unruly and it is hard to harness them in the light sledge. As the days
pass, the Laps watch them more and more closely, well knowing what will
happen sooner or later. And then at last, in the northern twilight, the
great herd begins to move. The impulse is simultaneous, irresistible,
their heads are all turned in one direction. They move slowly at first,
biting still, here and there, at the bunches of rich moss. Presently the
slow step becomes a trot, they crowd closely together while the Laps
hasten to gather up their last unpacked possessions, their cooking
utensils and their wooden gods. The great herd break together from a trot
to a gallop, from a gallop to a break-neck race, the distant thunder of
their united tread reaches the camp during a few minutes, and they are
gone to drink of the polar sea. The Laps follow after them, dragging
painfully their laden sledges in the broad track left by the thousands of
galloping beasts--a day's journey, and they are yet far from the sea, and
the trail is yet broad. On the second day it grows narrower, and there are
stains of blood to be seen; far on the distant plain before them their
sharp eyes distinguish in the direct line a dark, motionless object,
another and then another. The race has grown more desperate and more wild
as the stampede neared the sea. The weaker reindeer have been thrown down,
and trampled to death by their stronger fellows. A thousand sharp hoofs
have crushed and cut through hide and flesh and bone. Ever swifter and
more terrible in their motion, the ruthless herd has raced onward,
careless of the slain, careless of food, careless of any drink but the
sharp salt water ahead of them. And when at last the Laplanders reach the
shore their deer are once more quietly grazing, once more tame and docile,
once more ready to drag the sledge whithersoever they are guided. Once in
his life the reindeer must taste of the sea in one long, satisfying
draught, and if he is hindered he perishes. Neither man nor beast dare
stand between him and the ocean in the hundred miles of his arrow-like
path.
Something of this longing came upon the Cossack, as he suddenly remembered
the sour taste of the kvass, to the recollection of which he had been
somehow led by a train of thought which had begun with Vjera's love for
the Count, to end abruptly in a camp kettle. For the heart of man is much
the same everywhere, and there is nothing to show that the step from the
sublime to the ridiculous is any longer in the Don country than in any
other part of the world. But between poor Johann Schmidt and his draught
of kvass there lay obstacles not encountered by the reindeer in his race
for the Arctic Ocean. There was the wife, and there were the children, and
there was the vast distance, so vast that it might have discouraged even
the fleet-footed scourer of the northern snows. Johann Schmidt might long
for his kvass, and draw in his thin, wan lips at the thought of the taste
of it, and bend his black brows and close his sharp eyes as in a dream--it
was all of no use, there was no change in store for him. He had cast his
lot in the land of beer and sausages, and he must work out his salvation
and the support of his family without a ladleful of the old familiar brew
to satisfy his unreasonable caprices.
So, last of all those concerned in the events of the evening, Johann
Schmidt went home to bed and to rest. That power, at least, had remained
with him. Whenever he lay down he could close his eyes and be asleep, and
forget the troubles and the mean trifles of his thorny existence. In this
respect he had the advantage of the others.
Vjera lay down, indeed, but the attempt to sleep seemed more painful than
the accepted reality of waking. The night was the most terrible in her
remembrance, filled as it was with anxiety for the fate of the man she so
dearly loved. To her still childlike inexperience of the world, the
circumstances seemed as full of fear and danger as though the poor Count
had been put upon his trial for a murder or a robbery on an enormous
scale, instead of being merely detained because he could not give a
satisfactory account of a puppet which had been found in his possession.
In the poor girl's imagination arose visions of judges, awful personages
in funereal robes and huge Hack caps, with cruel lips and hard, steely
eyes, sitting in solemn state in a gloomy hall and dispensing death,
disgrace, or long terms of prison, at the very least, to all comers. For
her, the police-station was a dungeon, and she fancied the Count chained
to a dank and slimy wall in a painful position, chilled to the marrow by
the touch of the dripping stone, his teeth chattering, his face distorted
with suffering. Of course he was in a solitary cell, behind a heavy door,
braced with clamps and bolts and locks and studded with great dark iron
nails. Without, the grim policemen were doubtless pacing up and down with
drawn swords, listening with a murderous delight to the groans of their
victim as he writhed in his chains. In the eyes of the poor and the young,
the law is a very terrible thing, taking no account of persons, and very
little of the relative magnitude of men's misdeeds. The province of
justice, as Vjera conceived it, was to crush in its iron claws all who had
the misfortune to come within its reach. Vjera had never heard of Judge
Jeffreys nor of the Bloody Assizes, but the methods of procedure adopted
by that eminent destroyer of his kind would have seemed mild and humane
compared with what she supposed that all men, innocent or guilty, had to
expect after they had once fallen into the hands of the policeman. She was
not a German girl, taught in the common school to understand something of
the methods by which society governs itself. Her early childhood had been
spent in a Polish village, far within the Russian frontier, and though the
law in Russian Poland is not exactly the irresponsible and blood-thirsty
monster depicted by young gentlemen and old maids who traverse the country
in search of horrors, yet it must be admitted by the least prejudiced that
it sometimes moves in a mysterious way, calculated to rouse some
apprehension in the minds of those who are governed by it. And Vjera had
brought with her her childish impressions, and applied them in the present
case as descriptive of the Munich police-station. The whole subject was to
her so full of horror that she had not dared to ask Schmidt for the
details of the Count's situation. To her, a revolutionary caught in the
act of undermining the Tsar's bedroom, could not be in a worse case. She
would not have believed Schmidt, had he told her that the Count was
sitting in an attitude of calm thought upon the edge of a broad wooden
bench, his hands quite free from chains and gyves, and occupied in rolling
cigarettes at regular intervals of half an hour--and this, in a clean and
well-ventilated room, lighted by a ground glass lantern. She would have
supposed that Schmidt was inventing a description of such comfort and
comparative luxury in order to calm her fears, and she would have been ten
times more afraid than before.
It is small wonder that she could not sleep. The Count's arrest alone
would have sufficed to keep her in an agony of wakefulness, and there were
other matters, besides that, which tormented the poor girl's brain. She
had been long accustomed to his singular madness and to hearing from him
the assurance of his returning to wealth. At first, with perfect
simplicity, she had believed every word of the story he told with such
evident certainty of its truth, and she had reproached her older
companions, as far as she dared, for their incredulity. But at last she
had herself been convinced of his madness as through the weeks, and
months, and years, the state of expectation returned on Tuesday evenings,
to be followed by the disappointments of Wednesday and by the oblivion
which ensued on Thursday morning. Vjera, like the rest, had come to regard
the regularly recurring delusion as being wholly groundless, and not to be
taken into account, except inasmuch as it deprived them of the Count's
company on Wednesdays, for on that day he stayed at home, in his garret
room, waiting for the high personages who were to restore to him his
wealth. Sometimes, indeed, when he chanced to be very sure that they would
not come for him until evening, he would stroll through the town for an
hour, looking into the shop windows and making up his mind what he should
buy; and sometimes, on such occasions, he would visit the scene of his
late labours, as he called the tobacconist's shop on that day of the week,
and would exchange a few friendly words with his former companions. On
Thursday morning he invariably returned to his place without remark and
resumed his work, not seeming to understand any observations made about
his absence or strange conduct on the previous day.
So far the story he had told Vjera had always been the same. Now, however,
he had introduced a new incident in the tale, which filled poor Vjera with
dismay. He had never before spoken of his father and brother, except as
the causes of his disasters, explaining that the powerful influence of his
own friends, aided by the machinery of justice, had at last obliged them
to concede him a proportional part of the fortune. Fischelowitz was
accustomed to laugh at this statement, saying that if the Count were only
a younger son, the law would do nothing for him and that he must continue
to earn his livelihood as he could. In the course of a long time Vjera had
come to the conclusion, by comparing this remark with the Count's
statement when in his abnormal condition, that he was indeed the son of a
great noble who had turned him out of doors for some fancied misdeed, and
from whom he had in reality nothing to expect. Such was the girl's present
belief.
Now, however, he had suddenly declared that his father and his brother
were dead. With a woman's keenness she took alarm at this new development.
She really loved the poor man with all her heart. If this new addition to
his story were a mere invention, it was a sign that his madness was
growing upon him, and she had heard her companions discuss their comrade
often enough to know that, in their opinion, if he began to grow worse, he
would very soon be in the madhouse. It was bad enough to go through what
she suffered so often, to see the inward struggle expressed on his face,
whenever he chanced to be alone with her on a Tuesday afternoon, to hear
from his lips the same assurance of love, the same offer of marriage, and
to know that all would be forgotten and that his manner to her would
change again, by Thursday, to that of a uniform, considerate kindness. It
was bad enough, for the girl loved him and was sensitive. But it would be
worse--how much worse, she dared not think--to see him go mad before her
very eyes, to see him taken away at last from the midst of them all to the
huge brick house in the outskirts of the city beyond the Isar.
One more hypothesis remained. This time the story might turn out true. She
believed in his birth and in his misfortunes, and in the existence of his
father and his brother. They might indeed be dead, as he had told her, and
he would then, perhaps, be sole master in their stead--she did not know
how that would be, in Russia. But then, if it were all true, he must go
away--and her life would be over, with its loving hope and its hopeless
love.
It is small wonder that Vjera did not sleep that night.
CHAPTER VIII.
Once or twice in the course of the night, the Count changed his position,
got up, stretched himself and paced the length of the room. Dumnoff lay
like a log upon his pallet, his head thrown back, his mouth open, snoring
with the strong bass vibration of a thirty-two-foot organ pipe. The Count
looked at him occasionally, but did not envy him his power of sleep. His
own reflections were in a measure more agreeable than any dream could have
been, certainly more so in his judgment than the visions of unlimited
cabbage soup, vodka, and fighting which were doubtless delighting
Dumnoff's slumbering soul.
As the church clocks struck one hour after another, his spirits rose. He
had, indeed, never had the least apprehension concerning his own liberty,
since he knew himself to be perfectly innocent. He only desired to be
released as soon as possible in order to repair the damage done to his
coat and collar before the earliest hour at which the messengers of good
news could be expected at his house. Meanwhile he cared little whether he
spent the night on a bench in the police-station, or on one of the rickety
wooden chairs which afforded the only sitting accommodation in his own
room. He could not sleep in either case, for his brain was too wide awake
with the anticipations of the morrow, and with the endless plans for
future happiness which suggested themselves.
At last he was aware that the nature of the light in the room was changing
and that the white ground glass of the lantern was illuminated otherwise
than by the little flame within. The high window, as he looked up, was
like a grey figure cut out of dark paper, and the dawn was stealing in at
last.
"Wednesday at last!" he exclaimed softly to himself. "Wednesday at last!"
A gentle smile spread over his tired face, and made it seem less haggard
and drawn than it really was.
The day broke, and somewhere not far from the window, the birds all began
to sing at once, filling the room with a continuous strain of sound, loud,
clear and jubilant. The soft spring air seemed to awake, as though it had
itself been sleeping through the still night and must busy itself now in
sending the sweet breezes upon their errands to the flowers.
"I always thought it would come in spring," thought the Count, as he
listened to the pleasant sounds, and then held one of his yellow hands up
to the window to feel the freshness that was without.
He wondered how long it would be before Fischelowitz would come and tell
the truth of the Gigerl's story. By his knowledge of the time of daybreak,
he guessed that it was not yet much past four o'clock, and he doubted
whether Fischelowitz would come before eight. The tobacconist was a kind
man, but a comfortable one, loving his rest and his breakfast and his ease
at all times. Moreover, as the Count knew better than any one else,
Akulina would be rejoiced to hear of the misadventure which had befallen
her enemy and would in no way hurry her husband upon his mission of
justice. She would doubtless consume an unusual amount of time in the
preparation of his coffee, she would presumably tell him that the milkman
had not appeared punctually, and would probably assert that there were as
yet no rolls to be had. The immediate consequence of these spiteful
fictions would be that Fischelowitz would dress himself very leisurely,
swallowing the smoke of several cigarettes in the meanwhile, and that he
would hardly be clothed, fed and out of the house before eight in the
morning, instead of being on the way to the shop at seven as was his usual
practice.
But the Count was not at all disturbed by this. The persons whose coming
he expected were not of the class who pay visits at eight o'clock. It was
as pleasant to sit still and think of the glorious things in the future,
as to do anything else, until the great moment came. Here, at least, he
was undisturbed by the voices of men, unless Dumnoff's portentous snore
could be called a voice, and to this his ear had grown accustomed.
He sat down again, therefore, in his old position, crossed one knee over
the other and again produced the piece of crumpled newspaper which held
his tobacco. The supply was low, but he consoled himself with the belief
that Dumnoff probably had some about him, and rolled what remained of his
own for immediate consumption.
He was quite right in his surmises concerning his late employer and the
latter's wife. Akulina had in the first place let her husband sleep as
long as he pleased, and had allowed a considerable time to elapse before
informing him of the events of the previous evening. As was to be
expected, the good man stated his intention of immediately procuring the
Count's liberation, and was only prevailed upon with difficulty to taste
his breakfast. One taste, however, convinced him of the necessity of
consuming all that was set before him, and while he was thus actively
employed Akulina entered into the consideration of the theft, recalling
all the details she could remember about the intimacy supposed to exist
between the Count and the swindler in coloured glasses, and
conscientiously showing the matter in all its aspects.
"One fact remains," she said, in conclusion, "he promised you upon his
honour last night that he would pay you the fifty marks to-day, and, in my
opinion, since he has been the means of your losing the Gigerl after all,
he ought to be made to pay the money."
"And where can he get fifty marks to pay me?" inquired Fischelowitz with
careless good-humour.
"Where he got the doll, I suppose," said Akulina, triumphantly completing
the vicious circle in which she caused her logic to move.
Fischelowitz smiled as he pushed away his cup, rose and lighted a fresh
cigarette.
"You are a very good housekeeper, Akulina, my love," he observed. "You
always know how the money goes."
"That is more than can be said for some people," laughed Akulina. "But
never mind, Christian Gregorovitch, your wife is only a weak woman, but
she can take care for two, never fear!"
Fischelowitz was of the same opinion as he, at last, took his hat and left
the house. To him, the whole affair had a pleasant savour of humour about
it, and he was by no means so much disturbed as Johann Schmidt or Vjera.
He had lived in Munich many years and understood very well the way in
which things are managed in the good-natured Bavarian capital. A night in
the police-station in the month of May seemed by no means such a terrible
affair, certainly not a matter involving any great suffering to any one
concerned. Moreover it could not be helped, a consideration which, when
available, was a great favourite with the rotund tobacconist. Whatever the
Count had done on the previous night, he said to himself, was done past
undoing; and though, if he had found Akulina awake when he returned from
spending the evening with his friend, and if she had then told him what
had happened, he would certainly have made haste to get the Count
released--yet, since Akulina had been sound asleep, he had necessarily
gone to bed in ignorance of the story, to the temporary inconvenience of
the arrested pair.
He was not long in procuring an order for the Count's release, but
Dumnoff's case seemed to be considered as by far the graver of the two,
since he had actually been guilty of grasping the sacred, green legs of
two policemen, at the time in the execution of their duty, and of
violently turning the aforesaid policemen upside down in the public room
of an eating-house. It was, indeed, reckoned as favourable to him that he
had returned and submitted to being handcuffed without offering further
resistance, but it might have gone hard with him if Fischelowitz had not
procured the co-operation of a Munich householder and taxpayer to bail him
out until the inquiry should be made. It would have been a serious matter
for Fischelowitz to lose the work of Dumnoff in his "celebrated
manufactory" for any length of time together, since it was all he could do
to meet the increasing demands for his wares with his present staff of
workers.
"And how did you spend the night, Count?" he inquired as they walked
quickly down the street together. Dumnoff had made off in the opposite
direction, in search of breakfast, after which he intended to go directly
to the shop, as though nothing had happened.
"I spent it very pleasantly, thank you," answered the Count. "The fact is
that, with such an interesting day before me, I should not have slept if I
had been at home. I have so much to think of, as you may imagine, and so
many preparations to make, that the time cannot seem long with me."
"I am glad of that," said Fischelowitz, serenely. "I suppose we shall not
see you to-day?"
"Hardly--hardly," replied the Count, as though considering whether his
engagements would allow him to look in at the shop. "You will certainly
see me this evening, at the latest," he added, as if he had suddenly
recollected something. "I have not forgotten that I am to hand you fifty
marks--I only regret that you should have lost the Gigerl, which, I think
I have heard you say, afforded you some amusement. However, the money
shall be in your hands without delay, or with as little delay as possible.
My friends will in all probability arrive by the mid-day train and will,
of course, come to me at once. An hour or so to talk over our affairs, and
I shall then have leisure to come to you for a few moments and to settle
that unfortunate affair. Not indeed, my dear Herr Fischelowitz, that I
have ever held myself responsible for the dishonest young man who wore
green spectacles. I was, indeed, a loser by him myself, in an
insignificant sum, and as he turned out to be such an indifferent
character, I do not mind acknowledging the fact. I do not think it can
harm him, if I do. No. I was not responsible for him to you, but since
your excellent wife, Frau Fischelowitz, labours under the impression that
I was, I am quite willing to accept the responsibility, and shall
therefore discharge the debt before night, as a matter of honour."
"It is very kind of you," remarked the tobacconist, smiling at the
impressive manner in which the promise was made. "But of course, Count, if
anything should prevent the arrival of your friends, you will not consider
this to be an engagement."
"Nothing will prevent the coming of those I expect, nor, if anything
could, would such an accident prevent my fulfilling an engagement which,
since your excellent wife's remarks last night, I do consider binding upon
my honour. And now, Herr Fischelowitz, with my best thanks for your
intervention this morning, I will leave you. After the vicissitudes to
which I have been exposed during the last twelve hours, my appearance is
not what I could wish it to be. I have the pleasure to wish you a very
good morning."
Shaking his companion heartily by the hand, the Count bowed civilly and
turned into an unfrequented street. Fischelowitz looked after him a few
seconds, as though expecting that he would turn back and say something
more, and then walked briskly in the direction of his shop.
He found Akulina standing at the door which led into the workroom, in such
a position as to be able to serve a customer should any chance to enter,
and yet so placed as to see the greater part of her audience. For she was
holding forth volubly in her thick, strong voice, giving her very decided
opinion about the events of the previous evening, the Count, considered in
the first place as a specimen of the human race, and secondly, as in
relation to his acts. Her hearers were poor Vjera, her insignificant
companion and the Cossack who listened, so to say, without enthusiasm,
unless the occasional foolish giggle of the younger girl was to be taken
for the expression of applause.
"I am thoroughly sick of his crazy ways," she was saying, "and if he were
not really such a good workman we should have turned him out long ago. But
he really does make cigarettes very well, and with the new shop about to
be opened, and the demand there is already, it is all we can do to keep
people satisfied. Not but what my husband has been talking lately of
getting a new workman from Vilna, and if he turns out to be all that we
expect, why the Count may go about his business and we shall be left in
peace at last. Indeed it is high time. My poor nerves will not stand many
more such scenes as last night, and as for my poor husband, I believe he
has lost as much money through the Count and his friends as he has paid to
him for work, and if you turn that into figures it makes the cigarettes he
rolls worth six marks a thousand instead of three, which is more than any
pocket can stand, while there are children to be fed at home. And if you
have anything to say to that, little husband, why just say it!"
Fischelowitz had entered the shop and the last words were addressed to
him.
"Oh, nothing, nothing," he answered, beginning to bustle cheerily about
the place, setting a box straight here, removing an empty one there,
opening the till and counting the small change, and, generally, doing all
those things which he was accustomed to do when he appeared in the
morning.
Poor Vjera looked paler and more waxen than ever in her life before, so
pale indeed was she that the total absence of colour lent a sort of
refinement to her plain features, not often found even in really beautiful
faces. She had suffered intensely and was suffering still. From the first
words that Akulina had spoken she had understood that the Count had been
in the station-house all night, and she found herself reviewing all the
hideous visions of his cruel treatment which she had conjured up since the
previous evening. Akulina of course hastened to say that Fischelowitz had
lost no time in having the poor man set at liberty, and this at least was
a relief to Vjera's great anxiety. But she wanted to hear far more than
Akulina could or would tell, she longed to know whether he had really
suffered as she fancied he had, and how he looked after spending in a
prison the night that had seemed so long to her. She would have given
anything to overwhelm the tobacconist with questions, to ask for a minute
description of the Count's appearance, to express her past terrors to some
one and to have some one tell her that they had been groundless.
But she dared not open her lips to speak of the matters which filled her
thoughts. She was so wretchedly nervous that she felt as though the tears
would break out at the sound of her own voice, and at the same time she
was disturbed by the consciousness that Johann Schmidt's eyes watched her
closely from the corner in which he was steadily wielding his swivel
knife. It had been almost natural to tell him of her love in the darkness
of the streets, in the mad anxiety for the loved one's safety, in the
weariness and the hopelessness of the night hours. But now, sitting at her
little table, at her daily work, with all the trivial objects that
belonged to it recalling her to the reality of things, she realised that
her day-dreams were no longer her secret, and she was ashamed that any one
should guess the current of her thoughts. It was hard for her to
understand how she could have thus taken the Cossack into her confidence,
and she would have made almost any sacrifice to take back the confession.
Good he was, and honest, and kind-hearted, but she was ashamed of what she
had done. It seemed to her that, besides giving up to another the
knowledge of her heart, she had also done something against the dignity of
him she loved. She herself felt no superiority over Johann Schmidt; they
were equals in every way. But she did feel, and strongly, that the Cossack
was not the equal of the Count, and she reproached herself with having
made a confidant of one beneath her idol in station and refinement. This
feeling sprang from such a multiplicity of sources, as almost to defy
explanation. There was, at the bottom of it, the strange, unreasoning
notion of the superiority of one class over another by right of blood,
from which no race seems to be wholly exempt, and which has produced such
surprising results in the world. Poor Vjera had been brought up in one of
those countries where that tradition is still strongest. The mere sound of
the word "Count" evoked a body of impressions so firmly rooted, so deeply
ingrained, as necessarily to influence her judgment. The outward manner of
the man did the rest, his dignity under all circumstances, his
uncomplaining patience, his unquestioning generosity, his quiet courtesy
to every one. There was something in every word he spoke, in his every
action, which distinguished him from his companions. They themselves felt
it. He was sometimes ridiculous, poor man, and they laughed together over
his carefully chosen language, over the grand sweep of his bow and his
punctilious attention to the smallest promise or shadow of a promise.
These things amused them, but at the same time they felt that he could
never be what they were, and that those manners and speeches of his,
which, if they had imitated them, would have seemed in themselves so many
forms of vulgarity, were somehow not vulgar in him. Vjera, as she loved
him, felt all this far more keenly than the others. And besides, to add to
her embarrassment at present, there was the girl's maidenly shyness and
timidity. Since she had told Johann Schmidt her secret, she felt as though
all eyes were upon her, and as though every one were about to turn upon
her with those jesting questions which coarse natures regard as
expressions of sympathy where love is concerned. And yet no one spoke to
her, nor disturbed her. There was only the disquieting consciousness of
the Cossack's curious scrutiny to remind her that all things were not as
they had been yesterday.
The hours of the morning seemed endless. On all other days, Vjera was
accustomed to see the Count's quiet face opposite to her, and when she was
most weary of her monotonous toil, a glance at him gave her fresh courage,
and turned the currents of her thoughts into a channel not always smooth
indeed, but long familiar and never wearisome to follow. The stream
emptied, it is true, into the dead sea of doubt, and each time, as she
ended the journey of her fancy, she felt the cruel chill of the
conclusion, as though she had in reality fallen into a deep, dark water;
but she was always able to renew the voyage, to return to the
fountain-head of love, enjoying at least the pleasant, smooth reaches of
the river, that lay between the racing rapids and the tumbling falls.
But to-day there was no one at the little table opposite, and Vjera's
reflections would not be guided in their familiar course. Her heart
yearned for the lonely man who, on that day, sat in the solitude of his
poor chamber confidently expecting the messengers of good tidings who
never came. She wondered what expression was on his face, as he watched
the door and listened for the fall of feet upon the stairs. She knew, for
she knew his nature, that he had carefully dressed himself in what he had
that was best, in order to receive decently the long-expected visit; she
fancied that he would move thoughtfully about the narrow room, trying to
give it a feebly festive look in accordance with his own inward happiness.
He would forget to eat, as he sat there, hearing the hours chime one after
another, seeing the sun rise higher and higher until noon and watching the
lengthening shadows of the chimneys on the roofs as day declined. More
than all, she wondered what that dreadful moment could be like when, each
week, he gave up hope at last, and saw that it had all been a dream. She
had seen him more than once, towards the evening of the regularly
recurring day, still confidently expecting the coming of his friends,
explaining that they must come by the last train, and hastening away in
order to be ready to receive them. Somewhere between the Wednesday evening
and the Thursday morning there must be an hour, of which she hardly dared
to think, in which all was made clear to him, or in which a veil descended
over all, shutting out in merciful obscurity the brilliant vision and the
bitter disappointment. If she could only be with him at that moment, she
thought, she might comfort him, she might make his sufferings more easy to
bear, and at the idea the tears that were so near rose nearer still to the
flowing, kept back only by shame of being seen.
It was a terrible day, and everything jarred upon the poor girl's nature,
from Akulina's thick, strong voice, continually discussing the question of
marks and pennies, with occasional allusions to late events, to the
disagreeable, scratching, paring sound of the Cossack's heavy knife as it
cut its way through the great packages of leaves. The mid-day hour
afforded no relief, for the pressure of work was great and each of the
workers had brought a little food to be eaten in haste and almost without
a change of position. For the work was paid for in proportion to its
quantity, and the poor people were glad enough when there was so much to
do, since there was then just so much more to be earned. There were times
when the demand was slack and when Fischelowitz would not keep his people
at their tables for more than two or three hours in a day. They might
occupy the rest of their time as they could, and earn something in other
ways, if they were able. When those hard times came poor Vjera picked up a
little sewing, paid for at starvation rates, Johann Schmidt turned his
hand to the repairing of furs, in which he had some skill, and which is an
art in itself, and Dumnoff varied his existence by exercising great
economy in the matter of food without making a similar reduction in the
allowance of his drink. Under ordinary circumstances Vjera would have
rejoiced at the quantity of work to be done, and as it was, her mental
suffering did not make her fingers awkward or less nervously eager in the
perpetual rolling of the little pieces of paper round the glass tube. Even
acute physical pain is often powerless to affect the mechanical skill of a
hand trained for many years to repeat the same little operation thousands
of times in a day with unvarying perfection. Vjera worked as well and as
quickly as ever, though the hours seemed so endlessly long as to make her
wonder why she did not turn out more work than usual. From time to time
the two men exchanged more or less personal observations after their
manner.
"It seems to me that you work better than usual," remarked the Cossack,
looking at Dumnoff.
"I feel better," laughed the latter. "I feel as though I had been having a
holiday and a country dance."
"For the sake of your health, you ought to have a little excitement now
and then," continued Schmidt. "It is hard for a man of your constitution
to be shut up day after day as you are here. A little bear-fight now and
then would do you almost as much good as an extra bottle of brandy,
besides being cheaper."
"Yes." Dumnoff yawned, displaying all his ferocious white teeth to the
assembled company. "That is true--and then, those green cloth policemen
look so funny when one upsets them. I wish I had a few here."
"You have not heard the last of your merry-making yet," said Fischelowitz,
who was standing in the doorway. "If I had not got you out this morning
you would still be in the police-station."
"There is something in that," observed Schmidt. "If he were not out, he
would still be in."
"Well, if I were, I should still be asleep," said Dumnoff. "That would not
be so bad, after all."
"You may be there again before long," suggested Fischelowitz. "You know
there is to be an inquiry. I only hope you will do plenty of work before
they lock you up for a fortnight."
"I suppose they will let me work in prison," answered Dumnoff,
indifferently. "They do in some places."
Vjera, whose ideas of prisons have been already explained at length, was
so much surprised that she at last opened her lips.
"Have you ever been in prison?" she asked in a wondering tone.
"Several times," replied the other, without looking up. "But always," he
added, as though suddenly anxious for his reputation, "always for that
sort of thing--for upsetting somebody who did not want to be upset. It is
a curious thing--I always do it in the same way, and they always tumble
down. One would think people would learn--" he paused as though
considering a profound problem.
"Perhaps they are not always the same people," remarked the Cossack.
"That is true. That may have something to do with it." The ex-coachman
relapsed into silence.
"But, is it not very dreadful--in prison?" asked Vjera rather timidly,
after a short pause.
"No--if one can sleep well, the time passes very pleasantly. Of course,
one is not always as comfortable as we were last night. That is not to be
expected."
"Comfortable!" exclaimed the girl in surprise.
"Well--we had a nice room with a good light, and there happened to be
nobody else in for the night. It was dry and clean and well
furnished--rather hard beds, I believe, though I scarcely noticed them. We
smoked and talked some time and then I went to sleep. Oh, yes--I passed a
very pleasant evening, and a comfortable night."
"But I thought--" Vjera hesitated, as though fearing that she was going to
say something foolish. "I thought that prisoners always had chains," she
said, at last.
Everybody laughed loudly at this remark and the poor girl felt very much
ashamed of herself, though the question had seemed so natural and had been
in her mind a long time. It was an immense relief, however, to know that
things had not been so bad as she had imagined, and Dumnoff's description
of the place of his confinement was certainly reassuring.
