"No, it isn't, but it's kind," she answered, looking away 
from him. 
Her voice had a quality, as she uttered these words, which 
made him exclaim, " Every now and then you say some- 
thing ! " 
She turned her eyes back to him, smiling. " I don't want 
it to come by accident." Then she added : "If there's any 
good to be got from trying, from showing one's self, how can 
it come unless one hears the simple truth, the truth that turns 
one inside out? It's all for that to know what one is, if 
one's a stick ! " 
" You have great courage, you have rare qualities," said 
Sherringham. She had begun to touch him, to seem different : 
he was glad she had not gone. 
For a moment she made no response to this, putting down 
her empty cup and looking vaguely over the table, as if to 
select something more to eat. Suddenly she raised her head 
and broke out with vehemence : " I will, I will, I will ! " 
" You'll do what you want, evidently." 
" I will succeed I will be great. Of course I know too 
little, I've seen too little. But I've always liked it ; I've never 
liked anything else, I used to learn things, and to do scenes, 
and to rant about the room, when I was five years old." She 
went on, communicative, persuasive, familiar, egotistical (as 
was necessary), and slightly common, or perhaps only natural ; 
with reminiscences, reasons and anecdotes, an unexpected 
profusion, and with an air of comradeship, of freedom of inter- 
course, which appeared to plead that she was capable at least 
of embracing that side of the profession she desired to adopfc. 
He perceived that if she had seen very little, as she said, she 
had also seen a great deal ; but both her experience and her 
innocence had been accidental and irregular. She had seen 
very little acting the theatre was always too expensive. If 
she could only go often in Paris, for instance, every night for 
six months to see the best, the worst, everything, she would 
make things out, she would observe and learn what to do, 
what not to do : it would be a kind of school. But she 
couldn't, without selling the clothes off her back. It was vile 
and disgusting to be poor ; and if ever she were to know the 
bliss of having a few francs in her pocket she would make up 
for it that she could promise ! She had never been acquainted 
with any one who could tell her anything if it was good or 
bad, or right or wrong except Mrs. Delamere and poor 
Ruggieri. She supposed they had told her a great deal, but 
perhaps they hadn't, and she was perfectly willing to give it 
up if it was bad. Evidently Madame Carre thought so ; she 
thought it was horrid. Wasn't it perfectly divine, the way 
the old woman had said those verses, those speeches of Celie ? 
If she would only let her come and listen to her once in a 
while, like that, it was all she would ask. She had got lots of 
ideas, just from that ; she had practised them over, over and 
over again, the moment she got home. He might ask her 
mother he might ask the people next door. If Madame 
Carre didn't think she could work she might have heard 
something that would show her. But she didn't think her 
even good enough to criticize ; for that wasn't criticism, tell- 
ing her her head was good. Of course her head was good ; 
she didn't need travel up to the quartiers excentriques to 
find that out. It was her mother the way she talked who 
gave that idea, that she wanted to be elegant, and very 
moral, and a femme du monde, and all that sort of trash. 
Of course that put people off, when they were only thinking 
of the right way. Didn't she know, Miriam herself, that that 
was the only thing to think of? But any one would be kind 
to her mother who knew what a dear she was. " She doesn't 
know when it's right or wrong, but she's a perfect saint," said 
the girl, obscuring considerably her vindication. " She doesn't 
mind when I say things over by the hour, dinning them into 
her ears while she sits there and reads. She's a tremendous 
reader ; she's awfully up in literature. She taught me every- 
thing herself I mean all that sort of thing. Of course I'm not 
so fond of reading ; I go in for the book of life." Sherringham 
wondered whether her mother had not, at any rate, taught her 
that phrase, and thought it highly probable. " It would give 
on my nerves, the life I lead her," Miriam continued ; " but 
she's really a delicious woman." 
The oddity of this epithet made Sherringham laugh, and 
altogether, in a few minutes, which is perhaps a sign that he 
abused his right to be a man of moods, the young lady had 
produced a revolution of curiosity in him, re-awakened his 
sympathy. Her mixture, as it spread itself before one, was a 
quickening spectacle : she was intelligent and clumsy she 
was underbred and fine. Certainly she was very various, and 
that was rare ; not at all at this moment the heavy-eyed, 
frightened creature who had pulled herself together with such 
an effort at Madame Carre's, nor the elated " phenomenon " 
who had just been declaiming, nor the rather affected and 
contradictious young person with whom he had walked home 
from the Rue de Constantinople. Was this succession of 
phases a sign that she really possessed the celebrated artistic 
temperament, the nature that made people provoking and 
  PP 
interesting ] That Sherringham himself was of that shifting 
complexion is perhaps proved by his odd capacity for being of 
two different minds at very nearly the same time. Miriam 
was pretty now, with likeable looks and charming usual eyes. 
Yes, there were things he could do for her ; he had already 
forgotten the chill of Mr. Nash's irony, of his prophecy. He 
was even scarcely conscious how much, in general, he detested 
hints, insinuations, favours asked obliquely and plaintively : 
that was doubtless also because the girl was so pretty and so 
fraternizing. Perhaps indeed it was unjust to qualify it as 
roundabout, the manner in which Miss Rooth conveyed to him 
that it was open to him not only to pay for lessons for her, 
but to meet the expense of her nightly attendance, with her 
mother, at instructive exhibitions of theatrical art. It was a 
large order, sending the pair to all the plays ; but what Sher- 
ringham now found himself thinking about was not so much 
its largeness as that it would be rather interesting to go with 
them sometimes and point the moral (the technical one), 
showing her the things he liked, the things he disapproved. 
She repeated her declaration that she recognized the fallacy 
of her mother's views about "noble " heroines and about the 
importance of her looking out for such tremendously proper 
people. " One must let her talk, but of course it creates a 
prejudice," she said, with her eyes on Mr. and Mrs. Lovick. 
who had got up, terminating their communion with Mrs. 
Rooth. " It's a great muddle, I know, but she can't bear 
anything coarse and quite right, too. I shouldn't, either, if 
I didn't have to. But I don't care where I go if I can act, or 
who they are if they'll help me. I want to act that's what 
I want to do ; I don't want to meddle in people's affairs. I 
can look out for myself I'm all right ! " the girl exclaimed, 
roundly, frankly, with a ring of honesty which made her 
crude and pure. "As for doing the bad ones, I'm not afraid 
of that." 
" The bad ones. " 
"The bad women, in the plays like Madame Carre. I'll 
do anything." 
" I think you'll do best what you are," remarked Sherrin'- 
ham, laughing. " You're a strange girl." 
" Je crois bien ! Doesn't one have to be, to want to go and 
exhibit one's self to a loathsome crowd, on a platform, with 
trumpets and a big drum, for money to parade one's body 
and one's soul? " 
Sherringham looked at her a moment : her face changed 
constantly ; now there was a little flush and a noble delicacy 
in it. 
"Give it up ; you're too good for it," he said, abruptly. 
" Never, never never till I'm pelted ! " 
" Then stay on here a bit ; I'll take you to the theatres." 
" Oh, you dear ! " Miriam delightedly exclaimed. Mr. and 
Mrs. Lovick, accompanied by Mrs. Rooth, now crossed the 
room to them, and the girl went on, in the same tone : 
" Mamma, dear, he's the best friend we've ever had ; he's a 
great deal nicer than I thought." 
" So are you, mademoiselle," said Peter Sherringham. 
" Oh, I trust Mr. Sherringham I trust him infinitely," 
Mrs. Rooth returned, covering him with her mild, respectable, 
wheedling eyes. " The kindness of every one has been beyond 
everything. Mr. and Mrs. Lovick can't say enough. They 
make the most obliging offers ; they want you to know their 
brother." 
" Oh, I say, he's no brother of mine," Mr. Lovick protested, 
good-naturedly. 
" They think he'll be so suggestive, he'll put us up to the 
right things," Mrs. Rooth went on. 
" It's just a little brother of mine such a dear, clever boy," 
Mrs. Lovick explained. 
" Do you know she has got nine ? Upon my honour she 
has ! " said her husband. " This one is the sixth. Fancy if 
I had to take them over ! " 
"Yes, it makes it rather awkward," Mrs. Lovick amiably 
conceded. " He has gone on the stage, poor dear boy ; he 
acts rather well." 
" He tried for the diplomatic service, but he didn't precisely 
dazzle his examiners," Mr. Lovick remarked. 
" Edmund's very nasty about him. There are lots of 
gentlemen on the stage ; he's not the first." 
" It's such a comfort to hear that," said Mrs. Rooth. 
" I'm much obliged to you. Has he got a theatre ? " Miriam 
asked. 
" My dear young lady, he hasn't even got an engage- 
ment," replied the young man's unsympathizing brother- 
in-law. 
" He hasn't been at it very long, but I'm sure he'll get on. 
He's immensely in earnest, and he's very good-looking. I 
just said that if he should come over to see us you might 
rather like to meet him. He might give you some tips, as my 
husband says.'"' 
" I don't care for his looks, but I should like his tips," 
said Miriam, smiling. .' 
" And is he coming over to see you?" asked Sherringham, to 
whom, while this exchange of remarks, which he had not lost, 
was going on, Mrs. Rooth had, in lowered accents, addressed 
herself. 
" Not if I can help it, I think ! " Mr. Lovick declared, but 
so jocosely that it was not embarrassing. 
" Oh, sir, I'm sure you're fond of him," Mrs. Rooth re- 
monstrated, as the party passed together into the ante- 
chamber. 
" No, really, I like some of the others four or five of them ; 
but I don't like Arty." 
'" We'll make it up to him, then ; we'll like him," Miriam 
declared, gaily ; and her voice rang in the staircase (Sherring- 
ham went a little way with them), with a charm which her 
host had not perceived in her sportive note the day before. 
IX. 
NICK DORMER found his friend Nash, that evening, on the 
spot he had designated, smoking a cigar in the warm, bright 
night, in front of the cafe at the corner of the square before 
the Opera. He sat down with him, but at the end of five 
minutes he uttered a protest against the crush and confusion, 
the publicity and vulgarity, of the place, the shuffling pro- 
cession of the crowd, the jostle of fellow-customers, the per- 
petual brush of waiters. " Come away. I want to talk to 
you, and I can't talk here," he said to his companion. " I 
don't care where we go. It will be pleasant to walk ; we'll 
stroll away to the quartiers serieux. Each time I come to 
Paris, at the end of three days, I take the boulevard, with its 
conventional grimace, into greater disfavour. I hate even 
to cross it, I go half a mile round to avoid it." 
The young men took their course together down the Rue 
de la Pnix to the Rue de Rivoli, which they crossed, passing 
beside the gilded railing of the Tuileries. The beauty of 
the night the only defect of which was that the immense 
illumination of Paris kept it from being quite night enough, 
made it a sort of bedizened, rejuvenated day gave a charm 
to the quieter streets, drew our friends away to the right, to 
the river and the bridges, the older, duskier city. The pale 
ghost of the palace that had died by fire hung over them 
awhile, and, by the passage now open at all times across the 
garden of the Tuileries, they came out upon the Seine. They 
kept on and on, moving slowly, smoking, talking, pausing, 
stopping to look, to emphasize, to compare. They fell into 
discussion, into confidence, into inquiry, sympathetic or satiric, 
and into explanation which needed in turn to be explained. 
The balmy night, the time for talk, the amusement of Paris, 
the memory of young confabulations gave a quality to the 
occasion. Nick had already forgotten the little brush he had 
had with Mrs. Dallow, when they quitted Peter's tea-party 
together, and that he had been almost disconcerted by the 
manner in which she characterized the odious man he had 
taken it into his head to present to her. Impertinent and 
fatuous she had called him ; and when Nick began to explain 
that he was really neither of these things, though he could 
imagine his manner might sometimes suggest them, she had 
declared that she didn't wish to argue about him or even 
to hear of him again. Nick had not counted on her liking 
Gabriel Nash, but he had thought it wouldn't matter much if 
she should dislike him a little. He had given himself the 
diversion, which he had not dreamed would be cruel to any 
one concerned, of seeing what she would make of a type she 
had never encountered before. She had made even less than 
he expected, and her implication that he had played her a 
trick had been irritating enough to prevent him from reflect- 
ing that the fault might have been in some degree with Nash. 
But he had recovered from his resentment sufficiently to ask 
this personage, with every possible circumstance of implied 
consideration for the lady, what he, on his side, had made of 
his charming cousin. 
" Upon my word, my dear fellow, I don't regard that as a 
fair question," was the answer. " Besides, if you think Mrs. 
Dallow charming, what on earth need it matter to you what I 
think ? The superiority of one man's opinion over another's is 
never so great as when the opinion is about a woman." 
"It was to help me to find out what I think of yourself," 
said Nick Dormer. 
" Oh, that you'll never do. I shall bother you to the end. 
The lady with whom you were so good as to make me 
acquainted is a beautiful specimen of the English garden- 
flower, the product of high cultivation and much tending ; a 
tall, delicate stem, with the head set upon it in a manner 
 
which, as I recall it, is distinctly so much to the good in my 
day. She's the perfect type of the object raised, or bred, and 
everything about her is homogeneous, from the angle of her 
elbow to the way she drops that vague, conventional, dry 
little ' Oh ! ' which dispenses with all further performance. 
That sort of completeness is always satisfying. But I didn't 
satisfy her, and she didn't understand me. I don't think they 
usually understand." 
" She's no worse than I, then." 
" Ah, she didn't try." 
"No, she doesn't try. But she probably thought you con- 
ceited, and she would think so still more if she were to hear 
you talk about her trying." 
"Very likely very likely," said Gabriel Nash. "I have 
an idea a good many people think that. It appears to me so 
droll. I suppose it's a result of my little system." 
"Your little system?" 
'Oh, it's nothing wonderful. Only the idea of being just 
the same to every one. People have so bemuddled themselves 
that the last thing they can conceive is that one should be 
simple." 
"Lord, do you call yourself simple?" Nick ejaculated. 
"Absolutely; in the sense of having no interest of my own 
to push, no nostrum to advertize, no power to conciliate, no 
axe to grind. I'm not a savage ah, far from it but I really 
think I'm perfectly independent." 
"Oh, that's always provoking ! " laughed Nick. 
" So it would appear, to the great majority of one's fellow- 
mortals ; and I well remember the pang with which I origin- 
ally made that discovery. It darkened my spirit, at a time 
when I had no thought of evil. What we like, when we are 
unregenerate, is that a new-comer should give, us a password, 
.come over to our side, join our little camp or religion, get into 
our little boat, in short, whatever it is, and help us to row 
it. It's natural enough ; we are mostly in different tubs and 
cockles, paddling for life. Our opinions, our convictions and 
doctrines and standards, are simply the particular thing that 
will make the boat go our boat, naturally, for they may very 
often be just the thiug that will sink another. If you won't 
get in, people generally hate you." 
"Your metnphor is very laiue," said Nick; "it's the over- 
crowd d boat that got-s to the bottom." 
" Oh, I'll give it another leg or two ! Boats can be big, in 
the infinite of space, and a doctrine is a raft that floats the 
better the more passengers it carries. A passenger jumps over 
from time to time, not so much from fear of sinking as from 
a want of interest in the course or the company. He swims, 
he plunges, he dives, he dips down and visits the fishes and 
the mermaids and the submarine caves ; he goes from craft to 
craft and splashes about, on his own account, in the blue, cool 
water. The regenerate, as I call them, are the passengers who 
jump over in search of better fun. I turned my somersault 
long ago." 
" And now, of course, you're at the head of the regenerate ; 
for, in your turn, you all form a select school of porpoises." 
" Not a bit, and I know nothing about heads, in the sense 
you mean. I've grown a tail, if you will ; I'm the merman 
wandering free. It's a delightful trade ! " 
Before they had gone many steps further Nick Dormer 
stopped short and said to his companion : "I say, my dear 
fellow, do you mind mentioning to me whether you are the 
greatest humbug and charlatan on earth, or a genuine 
intelligence, one that has sifted things for itself ? " 
" I do puzzle you I'm so sorry," Nash replied, benignly. 
" But I'm very sincere. And I have tried to straighten out 
things a bit for myself." 
"Then why do you give people such a handle ? " 
"Such a handle?" 
" For thinking you're an for thinking you're not wise." 
"I dare say it's my manner; they're so unused to 
candour." 
"Why don't you try another?" Nick inquired. 
" One has the manner that one can ; and mine, moreover, 
is a part of my little system." 
"Ah, if you've got a little system you're no better than 
any one else," said Nick, going on. 
" I don't pretend to be better, for we are all miserable 
sinners ; I only pretend to be bad in a pleasanter, brighter 
way, by what I can see. It's the simplest thing in the world ; 
I just take for granted a certain brightness in life, a certain 
frankness. What is essentially kinder than that, what is 
more harmless? But the tradition of dreariness, of stodginess, 
of dull, dense, literal prose, has so sealed people's eyes that 
they have ended by thinking the most normal thing in the 
world the most fantastic. Why be dreary, in our little day? 
No one can tell me why, and almost every one calls me names 
for simply asking the question. But I keep on, for I believe 
one can do a little good by it. I want so much to do a little 
good," Gabriel Nash continued, taking his companion's arm. 
" My persistence is systematic : don't you see what I mean ? 
I won't be dreary no, no, no; and I won't recognize the 
necessity, or even, if there is any way out of it, the accident 
of dreariness in the life that surrounds me. That's enough 
to make people stare : they're so stupid ! " 
" They think you're impertinent," Dormer remarked. 
At this his companion stopped him short, with an ejacula- 
tion of pain, and, turning his eyes, Nick saw under the lamps 
of the quay that he had brought a vivid blush into Nash's 
face. "I don't strike you that way?" Gabriel asked, 
reproachfully. 
" Oh, me ! Wasn't it just admitted that I don't in the 
least make you out? " 
"That's the last thing!" Nash murmured, as if he were 
thinking the idea over, with an air of genuine distress. 
"But with a little patience we'll clear it up together, if you 
care enough about it," he added, more cheerfully. He let his 
friend go on again and he continued : " Heaven help us all ! 
what do people mean by impertinence? There are many, I 
think, who don't understand its nature or its limits ; and 
upon my word I have literally seen mere quickness of 
intelligence or of perception, the jump of a step or two, a 
little whirr of the wings of talk, mistaken for it. Yes, I 
have encountered men and women who thought you were 
impertinent if you were not so stupid as they. The only 
impertinence is aggression, and I indignantly protest that I 
am never guilty of that clumsiness. Ah, for what do they 
take one, with their presumptions'? Even to defend myself, 
sometimes, I have to make believe to myself that I care. I 
always feel as if I didn't successfully make others think so. 
Perhaps they see an impertinence in that. But I dare say 
the offence is in the things that I take, as I say, for granted ; 
for if one tries to be pleased one passes, perhaps inevitably, 
for being pleased above all with one's self. That's really not 
my case, for I find my capacity for pleasure deplorably below 
the mark I've set. That's why, as I have told you, I cultivate 
it, I try to bring it up. And I am actuated by positive 
benevolence ; I have that pretension. That's what I mean 
by being the same to every one, by having only one manner. 
If one is conscious and ingenious to that end, what's the 
harm, when one's motives are so pure? By never, never 
making the concession, one may end by becoming a per- 
ceptible force for good," 
"What concession are you talking about I " asked Nick 
Dormer. 
" Why, that we are only here for dreariness. It's im- 
possible to grant it sometimes, if you wish to withhold it ever." 
" And what do you mean by dreariness ? That's modern 
slang, and it's terribly vague. Many good things are dreary 
virtue and decency and charity and perseverance and 
courage and honour." 
" Say at once that life is dreary, my dear fellow ! " Gabriel 
Nash exclaimed. 
" That's on the whole my most usual impression." 
" C'est Id que je vous attends ! I'm precisely engaged in 
trying what can be done in taking it the other way. It's my 
little personal experiment. Life consists of the personal 
experiments of each of us, and the point of an experiment is 
that it shall succeed. What we contribute is our treatment 
of the material, our rendering of the text, our style. A sense 
of the qualities of a style is so rare that many persons should 
doubtless be forgiven for not being able to read, or at all 
events to enjoy us ; but is that a reason for giving it up for 
not being, in this other sphere, if one possibly can, a Macaulay, 
a Ruskin, a Kenan ? Ah, we must write our best ; it's the 
great thing we can do in the world, on the right side. One 
has one's form, que diable, and a mighty good thing that one 
has. I'm not afraid of putting alL life into mine, without 
unduly squeezing it. I'm not afraid of putting in honour and 
courage and charity, without spoiling them : on the contrary, 
I'll only do them good. People may not read you at sight, 
may not like you, but there's a chance they'll come round ; 
and the only way to court the chance is to keep it up 
always to keep it up. That's what I do, my dear fellow, if 
you don't think I've perseverance. If some one likes it here 
and there, if you give a little impression of solidity, that's 
your reward ; besides, of course, the pleasure for yourself." 
" Don't you think your style is a little affected ? " Nick 
asked, laughing, as they proceeded. 
" That's always the charge against a personal manner ; if 
"you have any at all people think you have too much. 
Perhaps, perhaps who can say] Of course one isn't perfect ; 
but that's the delightful thing about art, that there is always 
more to learn and more to do ; one can polish and polish and 
refine and refine. No doubt I'm rough still, but I'm in the 
right direction : I make it my business to take for granted an 
interest in the beautiful," 
"Ah, the beautiful there it stands, over there!" said 
Nick Dormer. " I am not so sure about yours I don't know 
what I've got hold of. But Notre Dame is solid ; Notre Dame 
is wise ; on Notre Dame the distracted mind can rest. Come 
over and look at her ! " 
They had come abreast of the low island from which the 
great cathedral, disengaged to-day from her old contacts and 
adhesions, rises high and fair, with her front of beauty and 
her majestic mass, darkened at that hour, or at least simplified, 
under the stars, but only more serene and sublime for her 
happy union, far aloft, with the cool distance and the night. 
Our young men, gossiping as profitably as I leave the reader 
to estimate, crossed the wide, short bridge which made them 
face toward the monuments of old Paris the Palais do 
Justice, the Conciergerie, the holy chapel of Saint Louis. 
They came out before the church, which looks down on a 
square where the past, once so thick in the very heart of 
Paris, has been made rather a blank, pervaded, however, by 
the everlasting freshness of the great cathedral-face. It 
greeted Nick Dormer and Gabriel Nash with a kindness 
which the centuries had done nothing to dim. The lamplight 
of the great city washed its foundations, but the towers and 
buttresses, the arches, the galleries, the statues, the vast rose- 
window, the large, full composition, seemed to grow clearer as 
they climbed higher, as if they had a conscious benevolent 
answer for the upward gaze of men. 
" How it straightens things out and blows away one's 
vapours anything that's done ! " said Nick ; while his com- 
panion exclaimed, blandly and affectionately : 
"The dear old thing!" 
" The great point is to do something, instead of standing 
muddling and questioning ; and, by Jove, it makes me 
want to ! " 
" Want to build a cathedral ] " Nash inquired. 
" Yes, just that." 
" It's you who puzzle me, then, my dear fellow. You can't 
build them out of words." 
"What is ib the great poets do? " asked Nick. 
" Their words are ideas their words are images, enchanting 
collocations and ' unforgettable signs. But the verbiage of 
parliamentary speeches ! " 
" Well," said Nick, with a candid, reflective sigh, "you can 
rear a great structure of many things not only of stones arid 
timbers and painted glass." They v:alked round Notre Dame, 
pausing, criticizing, admiring and discussing ; mingling the 
grave with the gay and paradox with contemplation. Behind 
and at the sides the huge dusky vessel of the church seemed 
to dip into the Seine, or rise out of it, floating expansively a 
ship of stone, with its flying buttresses thrown forth like an 
array of mighty oars. Nick Dormer lingered near it with 
joy, with a certain soothing content ; as if it had been the 
temple of a faith so dear to him that there was peace and 
security in its precinct. And there was comfort too, and 
consolation of the same sort, in the company, at this moment, 
of N ash's equal response, of his appreciation, exhibited by his 
own signs, of the great effect. Jle felt it so freely and uttered 
his impression with such vividness that Nick was reminded of 
the luminosity his boyish admiration had found in him of old, 
the natural intelligence of everything of that kind. " Every- 
thing of that kind " was, in Nick's mind, the description of a 
wide and bright domain. 
They crossed to the further side of the river, where the 
influence of the Gothic monument threw a distinction even 
over the Parisian smartnesses the municipal rule and measure, 
the importunate symmetries, the " handsomeness " of every- 
thing, the extravagance of gaslight, the perpetual click on the 
neat bridges. In front of a quiet little cafe on the right bank 
Gabriel Nash said, " Let's sit down " he was always ready 
to sit down. It was a friendly establishment and an un- 
fashionable quarter, far away from the Grand Hotel ; there 
were the usual little tables and chairs on the quay, the muslin 
curtains behind the glazed front, the general sense of sawdust 
and of drippings of watery- beer. The place was subdued to 
stillness, but not extinguished, by the lateness of the hour ; 
no vehicles passed, but only now and then a light Parisian 
foot. Beyond the parapet they could hear the flow of the 
Seine. Nick Dormer said it made him think of the old Paris, 
of the great Revolution, of Madame Roland, quoi ! Gabriel 
Nash said they could have watery beer but were not obliged 
to drink it. They sat a long time ; they talked a great deal, 
and the more they said the more the unsaid came up. Pre- 
sently Nash found occasion to remark: " I go about my business, 
like any good citizen that's all." 
" And what is your business? " 
' The spectacle of the world." 
Nick laughed out. "And what do you do with that? " 
" What does any one do with a spectacle ? I look at it." 
' You are full of contradictions and inconsistencies. You 
described yourself to me half an hour ago as an apostle of 
beauty." 
"Where is the inconsistency? I do it in the broad light of 
day, whatever I do : that's virtually what I meant. If I look 
at the spectacle of the world I look in preference at what is 
charming in it. Sometimes I have to go far to find it very 
likely ; but that's just what I do. I go far as far as my 
means permit me. Last year I heard of such a delightful 
little spot : a place where a wild fig-tree grows in the south 
wall, the outer side, of an old Spanish city. I was told it was 
a dellciously brown corner, with the sun making it warm in 
winter ! As soon as I could I went there." 
" And what did you do? " 
" I lay on the first green grass I liked it." 
" If that sort of thing is all you accomplish you are not 
encouraging." 
" I accomplish my happiness it seems to me that's some- 
thing. I have feelings, I have sensations : let me tell you 
that's not so common. It's rare to have them ; and if you 
chance to have them it's rare not to be ashamed of them. I 
go after them when I judge they won't hurt any one." 
" You're lucky to have money for your travelling-expenses," 
said Nick. 
" No doubt, no doubt ; but I do it very cheap. I take my 
stand on my nature, on my disposition. I'm not ashamed of 
it, I don't think it's so horrible, my disposition. But we've 
befogged and befouled so the whole question of liberty, of 
spontaneity, of good-humour and inclination and enjoyment, 
that there's nothing that makes people stare so as to see one 
natural." 
"You are always thinking too much of 'people.' " 
"They say I think too little," Gabriel smiled. 
"Well, I've agreed to stand for Harsh," said Nick, with a 
roundabout transition. 
"It's you then who are lucky to have money." 
'' I haven't," Nick replied, " My expenses are to be paid." 
" Then you too must think of ' people.' " 
Nick made no answer to this, but after a moment he said : 
" I wish very much you had more to show for it." 
"To show for what?" 
'-Your little system the sesthetic life." 
Nash hesitated, tolerantly, gaily, as he often did, with an 
air of being embarrassed to choose between several answers, 
any one of them would be so right. " Oh, having something 
to show is such a poor business. It's a kind of confession of 
failure." 
' Yes, you're more affected than anything else," said Nick, 
impatiently. 
" No, my dear boy, I'm more good-natured : don't I prove 
it ? I'm rather disappointed to find that you are not worthy of 
the esoteric doctrine. But there is, I confess, another plane of 
intelligence, honourable, and very honourable in its way, from 
which may legitimately appear important to have something to 
show. If you must confine yourself to that plane I won't re- 
fuse you my sympathy. After all, that's what  have to show ! 
But the degree of my sympathy must of course depend on the 
nature of the manifestation that you wish to make." 
" You know it very well you've guessed it," Nick rejoined, 
looking before him in a conscious, modest way which, if he 
had been a few years younger, would have been called sheepish. 
"Ah, you've broken the scent with telling me you are going 
to return to the House of Commons," said Nash. 
" No wonder you don't make it out ! My situation is cer- 
tainly absurd enough. What I really want to do is to be a 
painter. That's the abject, crude, ridiculous fact. In this 
out-of-the-way corner, at the dead of night, in lowered tones, 
I venture to disclose it to you. Isn't that the aesthetic 
life?" 
" Do you know how to paint ] " asked Nash. 
" Not in the least. No element of burlesque is therefore 
wanting to my position." 
" That makes no difference. I'm so glad ! " 
" So glad I don't know how ? " 
" So glad of it all. Yes, that only makes it better. You're 
a delightful case, and I like delightful cases. We must see it 
through. I rejoice that I met you." 
" Do you think I can do anything ? " Nick inquired. 
" Paint good pictures? How can I tell till I've seen some 
of your work? Doesn't it come back to me that at Oxford 
you used to sketch very prettily ? But that's the last thing 
that matters." 
"What does matter, then?" Nick demanded, turning his 
eyes on his companion. 
" To be on the right side on the side of beauty." 
" There will be precious little beauty if I produce nothing 
but daubs." 
" Ah, you cling to the old false measure of success. I must 
cure you of that. There will be the beauty of having been 
  Ill 
disinterested and independent ; of having taken the world in 
the free, brave, personal way." 
" I shall nevertheless paint decently if I can," Nick declared. 
" I'm almost sorry ! It will make your case less clear, your 
example less grand." 
" My example will be grand enough, with the fight I shall 
have to make." 
" The fight with whom ? " 
" With myself, first of all. I'm awfully against it." 
" Ah, but you'll have me on the other side," smiled Nash. 
" Well, you'll have more than a handful to meet every- 
thing, every one that belongs to me, that touches me, near or 
far : my family, my blood, my heredity, my traditions, my 
promises, my circumstances, my prejudices ; my little past, 
such as it is ; my great future, such as it has been supposed 
it may be." 
" I see, I see ; it's admirable ! " Nash exclaimed. " And 
Mrs. Dallow into the bargain," he added. 
" Yes, Mrs. Dallow, if you like." 
" Are you in love with her ? " 
"Not in the least." 
" Well, she is with you so I perceived." 
" Don't say that," said Nick Dormer, with sudden sternness. 
" Ah, you are, you are ! " his companion rejoined, judging 
apparently from this accent. 
" I don't know what I am heaven help me ! " Nick broke 
out, tossing his hat down on his little tin table with vehemence. 
" I'm a freak of nature and a sport of the mocking gods ! Why 
should they go out of their way to worry me? Why should 
they do anything so inconsequent, so improbable, so prepos- 
terous? It's the vulgarest practical joke. There has never 
been anything of the sort among us ; we are all Philistines to 
the core, with about as much aesthetic sense as that hat. It's 
excellent soil I don't complain of it but not a soil to grow 
that flower. From where the devil, then, has the seed been 
dropped ? I look back from generation to generation ; I scour 
our annals without finding the least little sketching grand- 
mother, any sign of a building, or versifying, or collecting, or 
even tulip-raising ancestor. They were all as blind as bats 
and none the less happy for that. I'm a wanton variation, an 
unaccountable monster. My dear father, rest his soul, went 
through life without a suspicion that there is anything in it 
that can't be boiled into blue-books ; and he became, in that 
conviction, a very distinguished person. He brought me up 
in the same simplicity and in the hope of the same eminence. 
It would have been better if I had remained so. I think it's 
partly your fault that I haven't," Nick went on. "At Oxford 
you were very bad company for me, my evil genius ; you 
opened my eyes, you communicated the poison. Since then, 
little by little, it has been working within me ; vaguely, 
covertly, insensibly at first, but during the last year or two 
with violence, pertinacity, cruelty. I have taken every anti- 
dote in life ; but it's no use I'm stricken. It tears me to 
pieces, as I may say." 
" I see, I follow you," said Nash, who had listened to this 
recital with radiant interest and curiosity. " And that's why 
you are going to stand." 
" Precisely it's an antidote. And, at present, you're 
another." 
"Another?" 
" That's why I jumped at you. A bigger dose of you may 
disagree with me to that extent that I shall either die or get 
better." 
" I shall control the dilution," said Nash. " Poor fellow 
if you're elected ! " he added. 
" Poor fellow either way. You don't know the atmosphere 
in which I live, the horror, the scandal that my apostasy would 
inspire, the injury and suffering that it would inflict. I believe 
it would kill my mother. She thinks my father is watching 
me from the skies." 
" Jolly to make him jump ! " Nash exclaimed. 
" He would jump indeed ; he would come straight down on 
top of me. And then the grotesqueness of it to begin, all of 
a sudden, at my age." 
" It's perfect indeed ; it's a magnificent case," Nash went on. 
" Think how it sounds a paragraph in the London papers : 
' Mr. Nicholas Dormer, M.P. for Harsh and son of the late 
Right Honourable, and so forth and so forth, is about to give 
up his seat and withdraw from public life in order to devote 
himself to the practice of portrait-painting. Orders respectfully 
solicited.' " 
"The nineteenth century is better than I thought," said 
Nash. " It's the portrait that preoccupies you ? " 
" I wish you could see ; you must come immediately to my 
place in London." 
" You wretch, you're capable of having talent ! " cried Nash. 
"No, I'm too old, too old. It's too late to go through the 
mill." 
" You make me young ! Don't miss your election, at your 
peril. Think of the edification." 
" The edification ] " 
"Of your throwing it all up the next moment." 
" That would be pleasant for Mr. Carteret," Nick observed. 
"Mr. Carteret?" 
" A dear old fellow who will wish to pay my agent's bill." 
" Serve him right, for such depraved tastes." 
" You do me good," said Nick, getting up and turning 
away. 
" Don't call me useless then." 
" Ah, but not in the way you mean. It's only if I don't 
get in that I shall perhaps console myself with the brush," 
Nick continued, as they retraced their steps. 
" In the name of all the muses, then, don't stand. For you 
will get in." 
-" Very likely. At any rate I've promised." 
" You've promised Mrs. Dallow? " 
" It's her place ; she'll put me in," Nick said. 
" Baleful woman ! But I'll pull you out ! " 
X. 
FOE several days Peter Sherringham. had business in hand 
which left him neither time nor freedom of mind to occupy 
himself actively with the ladies of the Hotel de la Garonne. 
There were moments when they brushed across his memory, 
but their passage was rapid and not lighted up with any par- 
ticular complacency of attention ; for he shrank considerably 
from bringing it to the proof the question of whether Miriam 
would be an interest or only a bore. She had left him, after 
their second meeting, with a qxiickened expectation, but in the 
course of a few hours that flame had burned dim. Like many 
other men Sherringham was a mixture of impulse and reflec- 
tion ; but he was peculiar in this, that thinking things over 
almost always made him think less well of them. Ee found 
illusions necessary, so that in order to keep an adequate number 
going he often earnestly forbade himself that exercise. Mrs. 
Rooth and her daughter were there and could certainly be 
trusted to make themselves felt. He was conscious of their 
anxiety, their calculations, as of a kind of oppression ; he knew 
that, whatever results might ensue, he should have to do some- 
thing positive for them. An idea of tenacity, of worrying 
feminine duration, associated itself with their presence ; he 
would have assented with a silent nod to the proposition 
(enunciated by Gabriel Nash) that he was saddled with them. 
Bemedies hovered before him, but they figured also at the 
same time as complications ; ranging vaguely from the ex- 
penditure of money to the discovery that he was in love. This 
latter accident would be particularly tedious ; he had a full 
perception of the arts by which the girl's mother might succeed 
in making it so. It would not be a compensation for trouble, 
but a trouble which in itself would require compensation. 
Would that balm spring from the spectacle of the young lady's 
genius ? The genius would have to be very great to justify a 
rising young diplomatist in making a fool of himself. 
With the excuse of pressing work he put off his young 
pupil from day to day, and from day to day he expected to 
hear her knock at his door. It would be time enough when 
they came after him ; and he was unable to see how, after all, 
he could serve them even then. He had proposed impetu- 
ously a course of theatres ; but that would be a considerable 
personal effort, now that the summer was about to begin, with 
bad air, stale pieces, tired actors. When, however, more than 
a week had elapsed without a reminder of his neglected 
promise, it came over him that he must himself in honour 
give a sign. There was a delicacy in such discretion he was 
touched by being let alone. The flurry of work at the 
Embassy was over, and he had time to ask himself what, in 
especial, he should do. He wished to have something definite 
to suggest before communicating with the Hotel de la 
Garonne. 
As a consequence of this speculation he went back to 
Madame Carre, to ask her to reconsider her unfavourable 
judgment and give the young English lady to oblige him a 
dozen lessons of the sort that she knew how to give. He was 
aware that this request scarcely stood on its feet ; for in the 
first place Madame Carre never reconsidered, when once she 
had got her impression, and in the second she never wasted 
herself on subjects whom nature had not formed to do her 
honour. He knew that his asking her to strain a pointy to 
please him would give her a false idea (for that matter, she 
had it already) of his relations, actual or prospective, with 
the girl; but he reflected that he needn't care for that, as 
Miriam herself probably wouldn't care. What he had mainly 
in inind was to say to the old actress that she had been mis- 
taken thejeune Anglaise was not; such a duffer. This would 
take some courage, but it would also add to the amusement of 
his visit. 
He found her at home, but as soon as he had expressed the 
conviction I have mentioned she exclaimed : " Oh, your jeune 
Anglaise, I know a great deal more about her than you ! She 
has been back to see me twice ; she doesn't go the longest 
way round. She charges me like a grenadier, and she asks 
me to give her guess a little what ! private recitations, all 
to herself. If she doesn't succeed it won't be for want of 
knowing how to thump at doors. The other day, when I 
