any other person, Dave. Don't call yourself a nigger; I don't like the
word, and you are ninety degrees in the shade above the lower class of
negroes in the South."
"Thank you, sir," replied the steward with an expansive smile.
"There is one thing I wish you to understand particularly, Dave. I have
not set you to watch any officer of the ship," said Christy
impressively.
"No, sir; I reckon Pink Mulgrum is not an officer any more than I am."
"But you may discover, if you find that Mulgrum can speak and hear, that
he is talking to an officer," added the captain in a low tone.
"What officer, Captain Passford?" asked the steward, opening his eyes
to their utmost capacity, and looking as bewildered as an owl in the
gaslight.
"I repeat that I do not set you to watch an officer; and I leave it to
you to ascertain with whom Mulgrum has any talk, if with any one. Now I
warn you that, if you accomplish anything in this mission, you will do
it at night and not in the daytime. That is all that need be said at the
present time, Dave, and you will attend to your duty as usual. If you
lose much sleep, you may make it up in the forenoon watch."
"I don't care for the sleep, Captain Passford, and I can keep awake all
night."
"One thing more, Dave; between eight bells and eight bells to-night,
during the first watch, you may get at something, but you must keep
out of sight as much as you can," added Christy, as he rose from his
armchair, and went into his state room.
Dave busied himself in clearing the table, but he was in a very
thoughtful mood all the time. Loading up his tray with dishes, he
carried them through the steerage to the galley, where he found Mulgrum
engaged in washing those from the ward room, which he had brought out
some time before. The steward looked at the deaf mute with more interest
than he had regarded him before. He was a supernumerary on board, and
any one who had anything to do called Pink to do it. Another waiter was
greatly needed, and Mr. Nawood, the chief steward, had engaged one, but
he had failed to come on board before the steamer sailed. Pink had been
pressed into service for the steerage; but he was of little use, and the
work seemed very distasteful, if not disgusting, to him. He carried in
the food, but that was about all he was good for.
Dave watched him for a few minutes as he washed and wiped the dishes,
and saw that he was very awkward at it; it was plain to him that he was
not an experienced hand at the business. But he was doing the steward's
work, and Dave took hold and helped him. Pink was as solemn as an owl,
and did his work in a very mechanical manner, and without the slightest
interest in it. The cabin steward had a mission, and he was profoundly
interested in its execution.
By the side of the galley, or range, was a sink at which they were at
work. Dave thought he might as well begin then and there to test the
hearing powers of his companion. Picking up one of the large blowers
of the range, he placed himself so that Pink could not see what he was
about, and then banged the sheet iron against the cast iron of the great
stove. He kept his eye fixed all the time on the scullion. The noise was
enough for the big midship gun on deck, or even for a small earthquake.
Pink was evidently startled by the prodigious sound, and turned towards
the steward, who was satisfied that he had heard it; but the fellow was
cunning, and realizing that he had committed himself, he picked up one
of his feet, and began to rub it as though he had been hit by the
falling blower. At the same time, he pretended to be very angry, and
demonstrated very earnestly against his companion.
Dave felt that he had made a point, and he did not carry his
investigation of the auditory capacity of the scullion any farther that
night. He finished his work below, and then went on deck. He lounged
about in a very careless manner till eight bells were struck. Mr. Flint
on the bridge was relieved by Mr. Lillyworth, and the port watch came on
duty for the next four hours, or until midnight. This was the time the
captain had indicated to Dave as a favorable one for the discharge of
his special duty. Taking advantage of the absence of any person from the
vicinity of the foremast, he adroitly curled himself up in the folds of
the foresail, which was brailed up to the mast. He had his head in such
a position that he could see without being seen by any casual passer-by.
He waited in this position over an hour, and during that time Pink went
back and forth several times, and seemed to be looking up at the bridge,
which was just forward of the foremast. On the top-gallant forecastle
were two men on the lookout; in the waist was a quartermaster, who was
doing the duty that belonged to the third lieutenant, if the scarcity of
officers had permitted the Bronx to have one. The body of the port watch
were spinning yarns on the forecastle, and none of them were very near
the foremast. After a while, as Pink was approaching the forecastle,
Dave saw the second lieutenant gesticulating to him very earnestly to
come on the bridge. The supernumerary ascended the ladder, and the
officer set him at work to lace on the sailcloth to the railing of the
bridge, to shelter those on duty there from the force of the sea blast.
Dave listened with all his ears for any sound from the bridge; but he
soon realized that if there was any, he was too far off to hear it. With
the aid of the lashings of the foresail, he succeeded in climbing up on
the mast to a point on a level with the bridge, and at the same time to
make the mast conceal him from the eyes of Mr. Lillyworth and the
scullion. The latter pretended to be at work, and occasionally the
second lieutenant "jawed" at him for his clumsiness in lacing the
sailcloth. Between these growls, they spoke together in a low tone, but
Dave was near enough to hear what they said. Though he had never heard
the voice of Pink Mulgrum before, he knew that of the second lieutenant,
and he was in no danger of confounding the two. Pink used excellent
language, as the steward was capable of judging, and it was plain enough
that he was not what he had appeared to be.
  [Illustration: Lillyworth and Mulgrum on the bridge.]
CHAPTER VII
AN INTERVIEW ON THE BRIDGE
Although Mr. Lillyworth knew very well that Pink Mulgrum was deaf and
dumb, he "jawed" at him as though his hearing was as perfect as his own,
doubtless forgetting for the moment his infirmity.
"Draw up the bight, and lace it tighter," exclaimed the second
lieutenant, intermixing an expletive at each end of the sentence. "Oh,
you can't hear me!" he shouted, as though the fact that the scullion
could not hear him had suddenly come to his mind. "Well, it is a nice
thing to talk to a deaf man!"
Dave could see that Mulgrum also seemed to forget that his ears were
closed to all sounds, for he redoubled his efforts to haul the screen
into its place.
"I could not hear anything that was of any consequence," the steward
heard the deaf mute say in a lower tone than his companion used.
"Couldn't you hear anything?" asked Mr. Lillyworth, making a spring
at the canvas as though he was disgusted with the operations of his
companion on the bridge.
"Only what I have just told you," replied Mulgrum.
"But you were at the door when the captain and the first lieutenant were
talking together in the cabin," continued the officer in a low tone.
"But they were talking about me, as I told you before," answered the
scullion, rather impatiently, as though he too had a mind of his own.
"Wasn't anything said about the operations of the future?" demanded Mr.
Lillyworth.
"Not a word; but you know as well as I do that the captain has sealed
orders which he will not see before to-morrow. I heard him tell his
father that he was to open the envelope in latitude 38," said the
supernumerary.
"You must contrive some way to hear the captain when he reads his
orders," continued the second lieutenant. "He will be likely to have
Mr. Flint with him when he opens the envelope."
"It will be difficult," replied Mulgrum, and Dave could imagine that he
saw him shake his head. "The captain has found me cleaning the brasses
on his door twice, and it will hardly do to be found at the door again."
"Isn't there any place in his cabin where you can conceal yourself?"
inquired Mr. Lillyworth.
"I don't know of any place, unless it is his state room; and the cabin
steward has been at work there almost all the time since we got under
way. Dave seems to be a sort of confidant of the captain," suggested
Mulgrum; and it looked as though the deaf mute had not held his tongue
and kept his ears open for nothing; but the steward could not understand
how he had got this idea into his head, for he had received his
instructions while the commander was at supper, and he was sure, as
he had thrown the door open several times, that the scullion was not
on the other side of it.
"A nigger for his confidant!" exclaimed the second lieutenant, as he
interpolated a little jaw for the benefit of the seamen and petty
officers within earshot of him. "What can we expect when a mere boy
is put in command of a steamer like this one?"
"I think you need not complain, Pawcett, for you are on board of this
vessel, and so am I, because she is under the command of a boy. But he
is a tremendous smart boy, and he is older than many men of double his
age," added Mulgrum.
Dave realized that the supernumerary was well informed in regard to
current history in connection with naval matters, and he was willing to
believe that he was quite as shrewd as the officer at his side.
"The boy is well enough, though he is abominably overrated, as you will
see before I have done with him," said Mr. Lillyworth contemptuously.
"It is galling for one who has seen some service to touch his cap to
this boy and call him captain."
"I hope you are not forgetting yourself, Pawcett--"
"Don't mention my name on board of this vessel, Hungerford," interposed
the officer.
"And you will not mention mine," added the scullion promptly. "We are
both careless in this matter, and we must do better. I think I ought to
caution you not to neglect any outside tokens of respect to the captain.
You can have your own opinions, but I think you do not treat him with
sufficient deference."
"Perhaps I don't, for it is not an easy thing to do," replied the second
lieutenant. "But I think the captain has no cause to complain of me.
We must find out something about these orders, and you must be on the
lookout for your chances at meridian to-morrow. If you can stow yourself
away under the captain's berth in his state room, you may be able to
hear him read them to the first lieutenant, as he will be sure to do."
"I don't believe in doing that," replied Mulgrum. "If I am discovered,
no explanation could be made as to why I was concealed there."
"But we must take some risks," persisted Mr. Lillyworth. "After what you
told me in the first of our talk, it may not be necessary to conceal
yourself. I shall say something to the captain on the subject at which
you hinted as soon as I get a chance. You may be in a situation to hear
all that is said without danger."
Dave wondered what could be meant by this remark, for he had not heard
the conversation between the captain and the first lieutenant which was
intended as a "blind" to the listener, known to be at the door.
"I am willing to take any risk that will not ruin our enterprise,"
Mulgrum responded to the remark of his companion.
"At noon to-morrow I shall come on deck in charge, and the first
lieutenant will be relieved, so that he will be at liberty to visit the
captain in his cabin. That will be your time, and you must improve it."
"But I shall meet you again to-morrow, and I will look about me, and see
what can be done," said Mulgrum, as he made a new demonstration at the
canvas screen.
"I will keep my eyes open, and you must do the same. How is it with our
men forward?" asked the officer.
"I have had no chance to speak with any of them, for they are all the
time in the midst of the rest of the seamen," replied the deaf mute.
"But I have no doubt they are all right."
"But you must have some way to communicate with them, or they might as
well be on shore. As there are six of them, I should say you might get a
chance to speak to one of them whenever you desire."
"I have had nothing to say to them so far, and I have not considered the
matter of communicating with them."
"It is time to know how you can do so."
"I can manage it in some way when the time comes," replied Mulgrum
confidently. "I am sure the captain and the first lieutenant have no
suspicion that I am not what I seem to be. The executive officer put me
through a full examination, especially in regard to Cherryfield, where I
told him I used to live. I came off with flying colors, and I am certain
that I am all right now."
Dave knew nothing about the examination to which Mr. Flint had subjected
the deaf mute. It is evident that Mulgrum took an entirely different
view of the result of the test from that taken by the examiner and the
captain; but both of the latter had taken extreme pains to conceal their
opinion from the subject of the test.
"I think we had better not say anything more to-night, and you have been
on the bridge long enough," said Mr. Lillyworth, walking to the windward
end of the bridge, and peering out into the gloom of the night.
He had hardly looked in the direction of the deaf mute while he was on
the bridge, but had busied himself with the lashing of the screen, and
done everything he could to make it appear that he was not talking to
his companion. Mulgrum, overhauling the screen as he proceeded, made his
way to the steps by the side of the foremast. But he did not go down, as
he had evidently intended to do, and waited till the second lieutenant
came over to the lee side of the vessel.
"Perhaps the man at the wheel has been listening to our conversation,"
said the deaf mute, plainly alarmed at the situation. "I did not think
of him."
"I did," replied Mr. Lillyworth; "but it is all right, and the man at
the wheel is Spoors, one of our number."
"All right," added Mulgrum, and he descended the steps.
Dave kept his place in the folds of the foresail, and hardly breathed
as the scullion passed him. With the greatest caution, and after he had
satisfied himself that no one was near enough to see him, he descended
to the deck. He wandered about for a while, and saw that the
supernumerary went to the galley, where, in the scarcity of
accommodations for the extra persons on board, he was obliged to sleep
on the floor. He was not likely to extend his operations any farther
that night, and Dave went to the companion way, descended the steps,
and knocked at the door of the captain's cabin.
"Come in," called the occupant, who had been writing at his desk in the
state room, though the door was open.
Dave presented himself before the commander, who was very glad to see
him. Christy wiped the perspiration from his forehead, for he had
evidently been working very hard all the evening. Four bells had just
struck, indicating that it was ten o'clock in the evening. Flint's
prediction in regard to the weather seemed to be in the way of
fulfilment, for the Bronx had been leaping mildly on a head sea for the
last hour. But everything was going well, and the motion of the vessel
was as satisfactory to the commander in rough water as it had been in a
smooth sea.
"I am glad to see you, Dave," said Christy, as the steward presented
himself at the door of the state room. "I suppose from your coming
to-night that you have something to tell me."
"Yes, sir; I have; and I will give you the whole Gulf of Mexico if it
isn't a big thing," replied Dave with his most expansive smile. "You
done get into a hornet's nest, Captain Passford."
"Not so bad as that, I hope," replied Christy, laughing.
"Bad enough, sir, at any rate," added Dave. "Pink Mulgrum has been
talking and listening to the second lieutenant all the evening."
"Then he is not a deaf mute, I take it."
"Not a bit of it; he can talk faster than I can, and he knows all about
his grammar and dictionary. You have just eight traitors on board of the
Bronx, Captain Passford," said Dave very impressively.
"Only eight?"
"That's all I know about; and I think that is enough for one cruise in a
Yankee ship."
"Eight will do very well, Dave; but who are they?" asked the captain
with interest.
"I know just three of them. One is the second lieutenant; Pink Mulgrum
is another, and Spoors, one of the quartermasters, is the third. They
didn't mention any more of them."
"All right, Dave; now sit down on that stool, and tell me the whole
story," said Christy, pointing to the seat.
The steward, believing that he had done a "big thing" that evening, did
not hesitate to seat himself in the presence of the commander, and
proceeded at once to relate all that he had done, and all that he had
seen and heard on the bridge. When Dave had finished his story, and
answered the questions put to him, the commander was willing to believe
that he had done a big thing; though he said nothing beyond a few words
of general commendation to the steward. Then he dismissed him, and,
locking his desk, he went on deck. After taking an observation of the
weather he mounted the bridge.
CHAPTER VIII
IMPORTANT INFORMATION, IF TRUE
"Good evening, Mr. Lillyworth," said Captain Passford, when he reached
the bridge.
"Good evening, Captain Passford," replied the second lieutenant, as he
touched his cap to his superior, galling as the act was, according to
his own statement.
"It looks as though we should have some wind," added the captain.
"Yes, sir; and we shall have a nasty time of it across the Gulf Stream."
"If there is any decided change in the weather during your watch, you
will oblige me by having me called," added the captain; "I think I am
tired enough to turn in, for I have been very busy all the evening,
copying letters and papers. I think I need a clerk almost as much as
the captain of a frigate."
"I think you ought to have one, sir," added Mr. Lillyworth, manifesting
a deep interest in this matter.
"As the matter now stands I have to use a good deal of my time in
copying documents. By the way, if we fall in with any United States
man-of-war, I wish to communicate with her."
"Of course I shall report to you, sir, if one comes in sight during my
watch," replied the second lieutenant, with a greater manifestation of
zeal than he had before displayed in his relations with his commander,
evidently profiting by the suggestion made to him by Pink Mulgrum.
"But I hope we shall not fall in with one before day after tomorrow, for
I have not copied all the letters I desire to use if such an occasion
offers," said Captain Passford, who was really playing out a baited hook
for the benefit of the second lieutenant, in regard to whose intentions
he had no doubt since the revelations of the steward.
"By the way, Captain Passford, what you say in regard to the amount of
writing imposed upon you reminds me that there is a man on board who
might afford you some relief from this drudgery. Possibly you may have
noticed this man, though he is doing duty as a mere scullion."
"Do you mean the man I have seen cleaning brass work about the cabin?"
asked Christy, glad to have the other take hold of the baited hook.
"That is the one; he is deaf and dumb, but he has received a good
education, and writes a good hand, and is rapid about it," added the
second lieutenant, with some eagerness in his manner, though he tried
to conceal it.
"But my writing is of a confidential nature," replied the captain.
"I have known this man, whose name is Pink Mulgrum, for some time. He is
deaf and dumb, and you must have noticed him."
"Oh, yes; I have seen him, and he had an interview with Mr. Flint in my
presence. I observed that he wrote a good hand, and wrote very rapidly."
"I am very confident that you can trust him with your papers, Captain
Passford. He could not go into the service as a soldier or a sailor
on account of his infirmity; but he desired to do something for his
country. He was determined to go to the war, as he called it, in any
capacity, even if it was as a scullion. He wrote me a letter to this
effect, and Mr. Nawood consented to take him as a man of all work.
If he ever gets into an action, you will find that he is a fighting
character."
"That is the kind of men we want, and at the present time, when we are
hardly in a fighting latitude, perhaps I can use him as a copyist, if he
will agree to make no use whatever of any information he may obtain in
that capacity. I will speak to Mr. Nawood about the matter."
"Thank you, Captain Passford. Mulgrum is a very worthy man, patriotic in
every fibre of his frame, and in every drop of his blood. I should be
glad to obtain some permanent occupation for him in the service of his
country, for nothing else will suit him in the present exciting times.
Perhaps when you have tested his qualifications, this will make an
opening for him."
"I will consider the subject tomorrow," said Christy, as he descended
from the bridge.
The commander was satisfied that the portion of the conversation which
had taken place between the aspirant for the position of captain's clerk
and the second lieutenant and which had been finished before the steward
had reached his perch on the foremast, related to this matter. Mulgrum
had heard the conversation between the first lieutenant and himself,
which was intended to blind the listener, and he had reported it to his
confederate. It was only another confirmation, if any were needed, in
regard to the character of the conspirators.
Christy had no doubt in regard to the disloyalty of these two men; but
nothing in respect to their ultimate intentions had yet been revealed.
They had brought six seamen on board with them, and they appeared to
have influence enough in some quarter to have had these men drafted
into the Bronx. Eight men, even if two of them were officers, was an
insignificant force, though he was willing to believe that they intended
to obtain possession of the vessel in some manner. The captain returned
to his cabin, and resumed his work in the state room.
Though Christy had spent several hours at his desk, he had really
produced but a single letter, and had not yet finished it. When he heard
eight bells strike, he left his state room, and seated himself at the
table in the middle of his cabin. The door was open into the companion
way. Mr. Flint presently appeared, and went on deck to relieve the
second lieutenant, who came below a few minutes later, though the
captain did not allow himself to be seen by him. Then he closed the
cabin door, and turned in, for he began to realize that he needed some
rest. He went to sleep at once, and he did not wake till four bells
struck in the morning. The Bronx was pitching heavily, though she still
maintained her reputation as an easy-going ship in spite of the head
sea. He dressed himself, and seated himself at his desk at once,
devoting himself to the letter upon which he had been engaged the
evening before. The second lieutenant was on duty at this time, and the
first was doubtless asleep in his berth, but he had been below six hours
during the night, and, calling Dave with his bell, he sent him for Mr.
Flint, who presented himself a few minutes later.
"Good morning, Captain Passford; you have turned out early, sir," said
the first lieutenant.
"Not very early, and I am sorry to wake you so soon. I did not turn in
till after you had gone on deck to take the midwatch. I have been very
busy since we parted, and I need your advice and assistance," replied
the commander. "I have got at something."
"Indeed! I am glad to hear it," added Mr. Flint.
Without the loss of any time, the captain called Dave, who was at work
in the ward room, and told him to see that no one came near the door of
his cabin. The steward understood him perfectly, and Christy resumed his
place at the table with the executive officer, and proceeded to detail
to him as briefly as he could all the information he had obtained
through Dave, and the manner of obtaining it. It required some time
to do this, and the first lieutenant was intensely interested in the
narrative.
"I am not greatly surprised so far as Lillyworth is concerned, for there
has been something about him that I could not fathom since both of us
came on board," said Mr. Flint.
"Of course these men are on board for a purpose, though I acknowledge
that I cannot fathom this purpose, unless it be treason in a general
sense; but I am inclined to believe that they have some specific
object," added the captain. "Of course you will be willing to believe
that both of these men are sailing under false colors."
"Undoubtedly. It has occurred to me that the second lieutenant invented
the name that represents him on the ship's books. Lillyworth is a little
strained; if he had called himself Smith or Brown, it would have been
less suspicious."
"In the conversation to which Dave listened on the bridge, both of them
blundered, and let out their real names, though each of them reproved
the other for doing so. The second lieutenant's real name is Pawcett,
and that of the deaf mute is Hungerford."
"The last is decidedly a southern name, and the other may be for aught
I know. Hungerford, Hungerford," said Mr. Flint, repeating the name
several times. "It means something to me, but I can't make it out yet."
The first lieutenant cudgelled his brains for a minute or two as though
he was trying to connect the name with some event in the past. The
captain waited for him to sound his memory; but it was done in vain;
Flint could not place him. He was confident, however, that the
connection would be made in his mind at some other moment.
"The interesting question to us just now is to determine why these men,
eight in number, are on board of the Bronx at all, and why they are on
board at the present time," said the captain. "I happen to know that
Lillyworth was offered a better position than the one he now fills
temporarily; but my father says he insisted on going in the Bronx."
"Certainly he is not here on a fool's errand. He has business on board
of this particular steamer," replied Flint, speaking out of his musing
mind. "Ah! now I have it!" he suddenly exclaimed. "Hungerford was the
executive officer of the Killbright, or the Yazoo, as they called her
afterwards. I had a very slight inkling that I had seen the face of the
deaf mute before; but he has shaved off his beard, and stained his face,
so that it is no wonder I did not identify him; but the name satisfies
me that he was the first officer of the Yazoo."
"That means then that he is a regular officer of the Confederate
navy," suggested the captain; "and probably Lillyworth is also. The
only other name Dave was able to obtain was that of Spoors, one of the
quartermasters; and very likely he is also another."
"We have almost a double crew on board, Captain Passford, and what can
eight men do to capture this vessel?" asked Flint.
"I don't know what they intend to do, and I must give it up. Now I want
to read a letter to you that I have written; and you can tell me what
you think of it." The commander then read as follows from the sheet in
his hand, upon which appeared no end of changes and corrections:
  "TO THE COMMANDER OF ANY UNITED STATES SHIP OF WAR, Sir:-- The
  undersigned, master in the United States Navy, in temporary command
  of the United States Steamer Bronx, bound to the Gulf of Mexico,
  respectfully informs you that he has information, just received,
  of the approach to the coast of the southern states of two steamers,
  the Scotian and the Arran, believed to be fitted out as cruisers for
  the Confederate Navy. They will be due in these waters about March
  17. They are of about five hundred tons each. A letter from the
  confidential agent of my father, Captain Horatio Passford, an agent
  in whom he has perfect confidence, both on account of his loyalty
  to his country undivided, and because of his skill as a shipmaster,
  contains this statement, which is submitted to you for your
  guidance: 'I have put twelve loyal American seamen, with an officer,
  on board of each of the steamers mentioned above; and they comprise
  about one-half of the crew of each vessel; and they will take
  possession of each of the two steamers when supported by any United
  States man-of-war. WARNOCK.'
    Respectfully yours,
      CHRISTOPHER PASSFORD,
        Master Commanding."
"I beg your pardon, Captain Passford, but what under the canopy is that
letter for?" asked Flint, not a little excited.
"It is for Pink Mulgrum to copy," replied the captain. "That is all the
use I intend to make of it."
Flint leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily, and the commander
could not help joining him.
CHAPTER IX
A VOLUNTEER CAPTAIN'S CLERK
Mr. Flint was really amused at the plan of the commander of the Bronx,
as indicated in the letter he had just read, and he was not laughing out
of mere compliment to his superior officer, as some subordinates feel
obliged to do even when they feel more like weeping. Perhaps no one knew
Christy Passford so well as his executive officer, not even his own
father, for Flint had been with him in the most difficult and trying
ordeals of his life. He had been the young leader's second in command in
the capture of the Teaser, whose cabin they now occupied, and they had
been prisoners together. He had been amazed at his young companion's
audacity, but he had always justified his action in the end. They had
become excellent friends as well as associates in the navy, and there
was a hearty sympathy between them.
Christy laughed almost in spite of himself, for he had been giving very
serious attention to the situation on board of the Bronx. In the ship's
company were at least two officers on the other side of the great
question of the day, both of them doubtless men of great experience
in their profession, more mature in years than their opponent on this
chess-board of fate, and they had come on board of the steamer to
accomplish some important purpose. The game at which they were engaged
had already become quite exciting, especially as it looked as if the
final result was to be determined by strategy rather than hard fighting,
for Pawcett and Hungerford could hardly expect to capture the Bronx with
only a force of eight men.
"Mulgrum is to copy this letter," said Flint, suppressing his laughter.
"I have written the letter in order to have something for him to copy,
and at the same time to give him and his confederate something to think
about," replied Christy; and he could hardly help chuckling when he
thought of the effect the contents of the letter would produce in the
minds of those for whom the missive was really intended.
"Do you think they will swallow this fiction, Captain Passford?" asked
the first lieutenant.
"Why shouldn't they swallow it, hook, bait, and sinker? They are
Confederate agents beyond the possibility of a doubt; and they are
looking for a ship in which they intend to ravage the commerce of the
United States," replied Christy; and the question had done something to
stimulate his reasoning powers. "They want a vessel, and the Bronx would
suit them very well."
"But they will not attempt to capture her under present circumstances,
I am very confident. They know that we have about twenty seamen extra
on board."
"They know that certainly; but possibly they know some things in this
connection that we do not know," added Christy, as he put his hand on
his forehead, and leaned over the table, as though his mind were
strongly exercised by some serious question he was unable to answer
satisfactorily to himself.
"What can they know that we don't know in regard to this vessel?"
demanded Flint, looking quite as serious as the commander.
"Whether our extra men are loyal or not," answered Christy, dropping his
hand, and looking his companion full in the face.
"Do you think there is any doubt in regard to them?"
"I confess that I have not had a doubt till this moment," said the
captain, wiping the perspiration from his brow, for the terrible
possibility that any considerable portion of the extra men were in the
employ of the two Confederates had almost overcome him.
For a few moments he was silent as he thought of this tremendous idea.
It was appalling to think of going into action with the Scotian or the
Arran, or both of them, and have a part of his own force turn against
him on his own deck. This was possible, but he could hardly believe it
was probable. Dave had reported very faithfully to him all the details
of the conversation between the Confederates, and they had claimed only
six men. If they had any hold on the extra men on board, they would have
been likely to say so, or at least to speak more indefinitely than they
had of their expectations.
"Have you any friends on board, Mr. Flint, among the crew?" asked
Christy suddenly, as though a solution of the difficult question of the
loyalty of the men had suggested itself to him.
"I have at least half a dozen whom I worked hard to have drafted into
the Bronx, for I know that they are good and true men, though they may
not be able to pass the technical examination of the naval officers,"
replied the first lieutenant promptly. "I can trust every one of them as
far as I could trust myself. One of them was the mate of my vessel at
the time I sold her, and he has since been in command of her."
"Who is he?"
"His name is Baskirk; and he is a quartermaster now. I wrote to him, and
promised to do the best I could to advance him. He is not a graduate of
a college, but he is a well-informed man, well read, sober, honest, and
a man of good common-sense."
"The others?"
"McSpindle was a classmate of mine in college, and he is a capital
fellow. Unfortunately, he got into the habit of drinking more than was
good for him, and spoiled his immediate future. He has made two foreign
voyages, and he is a good seaman. He came home second mate of an
Indiaman, promoted on his merit. He is also a quartermaster," said
Flint, who was evidently very deeply interested in the persons he
described.
"Any more?"
"Luffard is a quartermaster, for I selected the best men I had for these
positions. He is a young fellow, and the son of a rich man in Portland.
He is a regular water bird, though he is not over eighteen years old."
"His age is no objection," added Christy with a smile.
"I suppose not; but I have taken Luffard on his bright promise rather
than for anything he has ever done, though I have seen him sail a
forty-footer in a race and win the first prize. The other men I happen
to think of just now have been sailors on board of my coaster. They are
good men, and I can vouch for their loyalty, though not for their
education. They are all petty officers."
"I have a mission for your men, to be undertaken at once, and I shall
be likely to want the first three you named for important positions, if
my orders do not fetter me too closely," said Christy. "As the matter
stands just now, Mr. Flint, it would hardly be expedient for us to
capture a schooner running the blockade for the want of an officer to
act as prize master."
"The three quartermasters I named are competent for this duty, for they
are navigators, and all of them have handled a vessel."
"I am glad to hear it; we are better off than I supposed we were. My
father told me that several vessels had been sent to the South short of
officers, and we are no worse off than some others, though what you say
makes us all right."
"I can find three officers on board who are as competent as I am, though
that is not saying much," added Flint.
"I can ask no better officers, then. But to return to this letter.
I have spent a considerable part of my time at Bonnydale in talking
with my father. He is in the confidence of the naval department."
"He ought to be, for he gave to the navy one of its best steamers, to
say the least."
"I don't want to brag of my father," suggested Christy, laughing;
"I only wanted to show that he is posted. Coming to the point at once,
putting this and that together of what I learned on shore, and of what
I have discovered on board of the Bronx, I am inclined to believe that
Pawcett and Hungerford have their mission on board of this steamer in
connection with the Scotian and the Arran. I will not stop now to
explain why I have this idea, for I shall obtain more evidence as
we proceed. At any rate, I thought I would put the ghost of a
stumbling-block in the path of these conspirators; and this is the
reason why I have put thirteen American seamen on board of each of the
expected steamers. If my conjectures are wrong the stumbling-block will
be nothing but a ghost; if I am right, it will make our men somewhat
cautious as to what they do if we should be so fortunate as to fall in
with the two vessels."
"I understand you perfectly, Captain Passford. You said that you had
something for my men to do at once; but you did not explain what this
duty was," said Flint. "If you require their services at once, I will
instruct them."
"I did not explain, for I have so many irons in the fire that I am
afraid I am getting them mixed, and I forgot to tell you what they were
to do. But I shall leave the details to be settled in your own way.
I want to know who are loyal men and who are not. There are at least
six men, according to the report of Dave, who are followers of Pawcett
and Hungerford. We don't know who they are; but doubtless they have
been selected for their shrewdness. Probably they will be looking for
information among the men. Spoors is one of them, and by watching him
some clew may be obtained to the others."
"I am confident my men can find out all you want to know," added the
first lieutenant.
"It should be done as soon as possible," replied the commander.
"Not a moment shall be lost. I have the deck at eight this morning, and
one of the quartermasters will be at the wheel. I will begin with him."
Mr. Flint left the cabin, for his breakfast was waiting for him in
the ward room. Christy walked through to the steerage, where he found
Mulgrum attending to the wants of the warrant officers as well as he
could. He looked at this man with vastly more interest than before he
had listened to Dave's report. It was easy to see that he was not an
ordinary man such as one would find in menial positions; but it was not
prudent for him to make a study of the man, for his quick eye was taking
in everything that occurred near him.
Eight bells struck, and Mr. Flint hastened on deck to relieve the second
lieutenant. Christy took his morning meal at a later hour, and when he
had finished it, he sent for Pink Mulgrum. Of course the conversation
had to be written, and the captain placed the scullion opposite himself
at the table.
"I learn from Mr. Lillyworth that you are a good writer, and that you
are well educated," Christy wrote on a piece of paper, passing it to the
deaf mute.
Mulgrum read the sentence, and nodded his head with something like
a smile. If Christy was a judge of his expression, he was certainly
pleased, evidently to find that his confederate's plan was working well.
"I have a letter of which I desire several copies. Can I trust you to
make these copies?" Christy wrote.
The man read and nodded his head eagerly.
"Will you promise on your honor as a man that you will not reveal what
you write to any person whatever?" Christy proceeded. Mulgrum read, and
nodded his head earnestly several times.
The commander procured paper and other writing materials for him,
and placed them before him. Then he seated himself again opposite the
copyist, and fixed his gaze upon him; unfolding the letter, of which he
had made a fair copy himself, he placed it under the eyes of the deaf
mute. Mulgrum had retained his smile till this moment. He had arranged
his paper and taken a pen in his hand. Then he began to read; as he
proceeded the smile deserted his face. He was plainly startled.
CHAPTER X
THE UNEXPECTED ORDERS
Christy sat for some minutes watching the expression of Mulgrum as he
read the letter he was to copy. Like a careful man, he was evidently
taking a glance at it as a whole. The interested observer could see that
he fixed his gaze upon the last part of the letter, the extract from the
missive of Warnock, relating to the twelve loyal American seamen and
their officer. In fact, he seemed to be paralyzed by what he read.
The commander was satisfied with what he had seen, and he rose from his
chair. His movement seemed to restore the self-possession of the deaf
mute, and he began to write very rapidly. Christy went into his state
room, where he kept all his important papers in his desk. He gave
himself up to a consideration of the situation in which he was placed.
He had partly closed the door. But he had not been in the room half an
hour before he heard a knock.
"Come in," said he, supposing the caller was Dave.
The door was pushed open, and Mulgrum came in with his tablet in his
hand. The deaf mute had certainly heard his reply to the knock, for
he had heeded it instantly, and he smiled at the manner in which the
conspirator had "given himself away." The scullion presented his tablet
to the captain with a very deferential bow.
"There is an error in the copy of the letter you gave me--in the
extract. If you will give me the original letter from Mr. Warnock,
I will correct the mistake," Christy read on the tablet. It was not
impossible that he had made a mistake in copying his letter; but the
object of Mulgrum in desiring to see the original of the letter from
England was sufficiently apparent. "Bring me my copy of the letter,"
he wrote on the tablet, and handed it back to the owner.
The captain took from his desk a bundle of letters and selected one,
which he opened and laid on the table, though not where his copyist
could see it. Mulgrum returned and presented him the letter, pointing
out the mistake he had discovered. He looked at the blind letter, and
then at the other. There was certainly an error, for his letter said
"and they comprise about one of crew of each vessel." This was nonsense,
for he had accidentally omitted the word "half" after "one." He inserted
the word above the line in its proper place, and gave it back to the
copyist. It was clear enough that Mulgrum was disappointed in the result
of this interview; but he took the letter and returned to the table.
At the end of another quarter of an hour, he brought the first copy of
the letter. He knocked as before, and though Christy told him in a loud
tone to come in, he did not do so. He repeated the words, but the
conspirator, possibly aware of the blunder he had made before, did
not make it again. Then he wrote on his tablet, after the captain had
approved his work, that he found the table very uncomfortable to write
upon while the ship was pitching so smartly, and suggested that he
should be allowed to make the rest of the copies on the desk in
the state room, if the captain did not desire to use it himself.
Unfortunately for the writer, he did desire to use it himself, and he
could not help smiling at the enterprise of the deaf mute in his attempt
to obtain an opportunity to forage among the papers in his drawers.
Mulgrum certainly did his work nicely and expeditiously, for he had
finished it at three bells in the forenoon watch. He was dismissed
then, for his presence was not particularly agreeable to the commander.
Christy locked his desk and all the drawers that contained papers, not
as against a thief or a burglar, but against one who would scorn to
appropriate anything of value that did not belong to him, for he had no
doubt now that Mulgrum was a gentleman who was trying to serve what he
regarded as his country, though it was nothing but a fraction of it.
In fact, inheriting, as it were, the broad and generous policy of his
father, Christy had no personal prejudices against this enemy of his
country, and he felt just as he would if he had been sailing a boat
against him, or playing a game of whist with him. He was determined to
beat him if he could. But he was not satisfied with locking his papers
up; he called Dave, and set him as a watch over them. If the conspirator
overhauled his papers, he would have been more concerned about what he
did not find than in relation to what he did find, for the absence of
the original of Warnock's letter would go far to convince him that the
extract from it was an invention.
When he had taken these precautions he went on deck. The wind was
blowing a moderate gale; but the Bronx was doing exceedingly well,
lifting herself very lightly over the foaming billows, and conveying
to one walking her deck the impression of solidity and strength. The
captain went to the bridge after a while, though not till he had noticed
that something was going on among the crew; but he was not disposed to
inquire into the matter, possibly regarding it as beneath the dignity of
a commander to do so.
Christy mounted the steps to the bridge. This structure is hardly
a man-of-war appendage. It had been there, and it had been permitted
to remain. The first shot in action might carry it away, and this
contingency had been provided for, as she was provided with a duplicate
steam-steering apparatus, as well as a hand wheel at the stern. The
proper position of the officer of the watch, who is practically in
command for the time being, is on the quarter deck, though he is
required during his watch to visit all parts of the deck. On board of
the Bronx this officer was placed on the bridge, where he could overlook
all parts of the ship.
The first lieutenant, who had the forenoon watch, saluted him, but there
was nothing of interest to report. Christy asked the meaning of the
movement he had observed among the seamen and petty officers, and was
told that Baskirk was getting up an association on board, the first
requirement to which was for all who wished to become members to sign
the oath of allegiance to the United States government, "as represented
by and presided over by the President at Washington." It was to be a
secret society, and Flint added that it was really a branch of the Union
League. Christy did not think it wise to ask any more questions, but he
understood that this was really a movement to ascertain the sentiments
of the members of the ship's company as to the extent of their duty in
supporting the government.
"Mr. Flint, I am not a little dissatisfied with the manner in which we
are compelled to carry on our duty on board of the Bronx, though no
blame is to be attached to the naval department on account of it," said
Christy, after he had walked the bridge for a time.
"Is anything going wrong, Captain Passford?" asked the first lieutenant
anxiously.
"Oh, no: I have no fault to find with any one, and least of all with
you," added the captain promptly. "The trouble is that we are short of
officers, though all that could be spared for this vessel were sent on
board of her. As the matter now stands, Dr. Spokeley and I are the only
idlers on board in the cabin and ward room. The first lieutenant has to
keep a watch, which is not at all regular, and I foresee that this
arrangement will be a very great disadvantage to me. It could not be
helped, and the Bronx was evidently regarded as of no great importance,
for she is little more than a storeship just now, though the flag
officer in the Gulf will doubtless make something more of her."
"We have a big crew for this vessel, but we are short of officers,"
added Flint.
"From the best calculations I have been able to make, with my father to
help me, we ought to fall in with the Scotian and the Arran; and in view
of such an event, I propose to prepare for the emergency by appointing a
temporary third lieutenant."
"I think that would be a very wise step to take," added Flint very
cordially.
"Of the men you mentioned to me, who is the best one for this position?"
asked Christy.
"I have no hesitation in saying that Baskirk is the right man for the
position."
"Very well; he shall be appointed," added Christy, as he left the
bridge. But in a few minutes he returned, and handed an order to the
first lieutenant.
Baskirk was sent for, and the captain had a long talk with him. He
found that the candidate had more knowledge of naval discipline than
he had supposed, and he was pleased with the man. He was the leading
quartermaster in rank, having been appointed first. After another talk
with Flint, the latter gave the order to pass the word for Mr. Giblock,
who was the acting boatswain, though in rank he was only a boatswain's
mate. He was directed to call all hands. When the ship's company were
assembled on the forward deck, though this is not the usual place for
such a gathering, the first lieutenant read the order of the commander
appointing George Baskirk as acting third lieutenant of the Bronx, and
directing that he should be respected and obeyed as such. A smart cheer
followed the announcement, though the second lieutenant, who had taken
a place on the bridge, looked as though he did not approve the step the
captain had taken. The officer of the deck next appointed Thomas McLinn
a quartermaster. The ship's company were then dismissed.
Just before noon by the clocks, Lieutenant Baskirk appeared on the
bridge, dressed in a brand-new uniform, with a sextant in his hands.
Christy, who did not depend upon his pay for the extent of his wardrobe,
had not less than three new suits, and he had presented one of them to
the newly appointed officer, for there was no material difference in the
size of the two persons. All the officers who kept watches were required
to "take the sun," and at the moment the meridian was crossed, the
captain gave the word to "make it noon," and the great bell sounded out
eight bells. The officers proceeded to figure up the results of the
observations. The longitude and latitude were entered on the log slate,
to be transferred to the log book. Baskirk was directed to take the
starboard watch, and he was formally presented to the second lieutenant
by the captain; and whatever his feeling or opinions in regard to the
step which had just been taken, he accepted the hand of the new officer
