 
" My dear Miss Halford, do not distress yourself," and he 
takes her slim, cold hand. " I think not. My opinion is 
that Jasper Bradley will not appear in the matter at all, 
for the simple reason that he cannot face it, that he knows 
the truth;" the lawyer gives a grim suggestion of a smile. 
" Then the case will be a very easy one. But you do not 
mean to allow Perdita ever to go back to him ? though I 
doubt if he asks it." 
" You think a separation is just ? " B.egina asks it hesi- 
tatingly. She has been curiously balancing it in her miii<l, 
because she would like to sever every thread of connec- 
tion with him. She doubts her own sense of that higher 
right. It was for good and ill alike. 
"Jasper Bradley lives merely on the surface, and re- 
spects no law, human or divine, that interferes with his 
personal comfort. He would not make a good husband for 
any woman ; he is capable of being an especially bad one 
for Perdita. No doubt he would desert her if it suited his 
purpose. I dare say he knows just where she is. If he 
should come and demand her, my advice is not to let her 
go. A man who talks of shutting his wife in an asylum, 
before he has been married a year ! " 
Eegina shudders. "No, it would never do." 
Then a few days later she surprises Perdita one morning 
in a tempest of passionate sobs, her slight frame rent 
with emotion. 
"I've been thinking it all over as I lay here, Eegina, 
and how happy we were at first, when I could forget that 
horrible secret ! He told me once I had no business to 
enter the room, and T had not. I was a mean, wretched 
little spy ! I deserved all the miserable recollections. 
But you can't think how delightful he was at times, and he 
had that warm, goldeny beauty like the sunshine. I miss 
him so much, — his caressing arms, his soft, sweet, bewil- 
dering kisses, all his tender pet names, his dainty, endear- 
ing ways. I want to be loved, and I can't live without it ! 
You are so cold, Regina ! He said you were like an ice- 
berg ; that you would freeze a man's soul out of him ; that 
you had a beautiful face, but no tenderness ; that you only 
wanted a man to do homage to you, and not even kiss your 
finger tips. But I love him, love him ! It has all come 
back to me. I cannot stand the intolerable loneliness. 
Can't we find him ? " And she looks up with wild, pathetic 
eagerness. 
" Perdita ! " The elder is horrified with this outburst. 
" I'm so young," she goes on piteously, " to live a whole 
long life without him ? and when he came to know that it 
wasn't my fault, that I didn't betray him, but the secret 
came to light in an altogether different manner, I think, he 
would forgive me, and love me again. Doesn't anybody know 
where to write ? Why, I'd go back if I could be sure of 
finding him. I want him so ! He did love me. And 
when he came here I dare say you were cold and cruel to 
him. He said you hated to have him love anybody else ; 
that you would keep me from him if you could ! You know 
you wanted to send me away to school ! And he was afraid 
you would persuade them all to refuse to let me marry 
him. You were jealous " — 
"I — jealous ! " Eegina's eyes transfix her. " Why, he 
asked me to marry him a week or two before we went to 
Mount Sardis. I had meant that he never should, and 
thought I had made him understand. I dare say all this 
time he was pretending to care for you." 
" He asked you to marry him ! " Perdita interrupts, and 
her face is ghostly white. 
Certainly she can say with all honesty that was what he 
meant. 
" He pretended to love you ? It was all a pretence. 
Why, he loved me from the very first day he came ; he told 
me so a hundred times. And there was all our playing all 
the delicious summer " — Her voice falls to that sweet, 
indescribable credulity. 
" Yes, you were much better suited to him, and, Perdita, 
no one would have made any serious objection. I liked 
him very much at first, but I had a fancy that he wasn't 
quite true. And I think he may have pretended to love 
 
me, but you and he are both deeply, wholly mistaken, if 
you think I could have cared in that way." 
Her whole body seems to sway with passionate indigna- 
tion, and her face is in a scarlet flame that turns slowly to 
white heat. 
Ferdita rises from her pillow and leans her tear-wet face 
upon her hand. 
" You can't understand what a delight it was to be with 
him — no, you couldn't have loved him," in a dreamy, far- 
off manner. " Go away and leave me ! " starting suddenly and 
beating the pillow with her small fist desperately clinched, 
Eegina turns haughtily and sweeps out of the room in 
her most imperious fashion. She cannot understand this 
inconsequent being. Was it just or kindly to repeat that 
detestable episode ? Oh, how does Cynthia steer clear of 
all these rocks and shoals ? How little wisdom she, Eegina, 
has, after all her search ! She feels suddenly weak and help- 
less — it is not a new experience of late. If she could be 
taken in some one's arms and comforted ! Like a far halo 
of light shining out of darkness a vision comes to her, a 
loyal lover, her loyal lover ! All this time there has never 
been an hour when she needed him, and now — 
An unfathomable longing sweeps through her, that trans- 
port of worship for something near by, human, that shall 
be strong and comprehending, that shall impel her through 
the mysterious channels of womanhood to some haven of 
exultant rest. She is so tired of fighting and studying all 
these things in the secret darkness of her own soul. 
Mrs. Halford is sitting placidly by the shaded window 
where the languid sweetness of the first day lilies mingles 
with a bed of pungent heliotrope. She has lain down her 
book upon the window-sill, and is watching the dancing 
shadows of the vines as the sun quivers in and out. Eegina 
crosses the room swiftly, throws herself on the hassock, and 
buries her face in her mother's lap. A deep, tearless sob 
shakes her tumultuously. 
" My dear Regina ! " The soft fingers caress her hair, 
and the very touch seems grateful. 
" It is Perdita ! " she begins brokenly. " Or, have I 
some fatal quality that interferes with the comfort I would 
fain give, and turns it into bitterness ? We have all blindly 
allowed her to stray into this trouble; but I wanted to 
strengthen her to live out of it." 
"It is too soon. She has hardly reached beyond the 
rough, broken shore ; she has not gone out to the overwhelm- 
ing sea. It may be that Heaven will keep her from the 
deeper sorrow," 
'' But — how can she love him ! " 
" Ah, she has come to that !" says the mother. "There 
will be many alternations. She did, no doubt, love him, 
but she does not know her own capabilities, her judgment 
is so immature. Our greatest hope is that he may not 
return and take her in an unguarded moment. She has 
hardly longed for him yet." 
" But a man who can so deceive, who can lie, and defraud, 
and possibly forge " — Kegina cries with horror. 
" You do not understand." Mrs. Halford studies her faiir 
daughter. " It is looking at different sides of a picture. 
Jasper had a great many charming ways and occasionally 
the love and tenderness will flood her being and sweep 
out all other memories. So far, she has taken the matter 
very lightly, with more indifference than I could really 
approve. To show so little sorrow at the downfall of her 
youthful romance would prove her indeed heartless. Have 
patience, Eegina, with her changes. It will be bitter 
enough for the poor child. I must go to her." 
It is a sad, long day for Perdita. Mrs. Halford soothes 
and comforts. It seems so hard to -have her, in some de- 
gree, repeat her mother's story ; but this will not be as 
full of suffering. Perdita has friends to stand by her 
in any emergency. And if Jasper Bradley never comes 
back — 
Late in the afternoon Perdita begs to see Eegina. She 
looks so little and childish lying there, her pallid face 
defined like a cameo on the pillow, the once pretty, rounded 
cheeks fallen in, and the outline of the chin sharpened. 
 
The brown eyes have wept themselves softly lustrous, 
though their rims are still discolored. 
" O Ke," she cries pathetically, " was I very dreadful to 
you this morning ? I had been thinking of him and all 
the delights, the journeys, and plays, and operas, and ten- 
der words and caresses until I quite forgot about the rest. 
And you have all been so kind to me ! What if I had not 
come here, but wandered away off and been sick in a hos- 
pital ? For I was almost dead with fatigue when I reached 
Warwick ; and Mr. Winterburne was gentle and tender and 
would not let me go off as I had planned. For the horror 
of being thrust into an asylum was upon me. You don't 
understand how I can love him after all tbat, and all the 
falsehoods ! I think it isn't the true Jasper that I love, 
it is the graces, and tenderness, and beauty that I seein to 
incorporate in what I believed he was. And it made me so 
angry when you said — but he used to make me angry too, 
by admiring you, and all beautiful, stately women. Only 
I can't always be glad for the love lost out of my life." 
"My dear cbild," and Eegina kneels beside her, takes 
the small, throbbing fingers in liers so firm and white, " I 
am sorry I said what I did. I had no right to betray my 
own and Jasper's secret as well. I never had any real faith 
in his regard for me, but after that I really desired to save 
you, a;t least, to keep you from any entanglement until you 
bad seen enough of the world to judge a little and compare." 
" 'No, it was quite right. It will help me to understand 
the hollowness of his protestations ; " and a sad, .serious ex- 
pression wavers over ber face. " Mother has aided me to 
look at it in the i-ight ligbt. If Jasper comes and is repent- 
ant, she thinks I niight venture to begin life again with 
him ; but now I feel as if all the anger were spent, and I can. 
see my own wilfulness and disregard o,f you all, and the 
trouble I have brought upon you. Ee dear, I wish you 
would help me to be strong and clear-minded, and take right 
views of everything." 
There are teai-s in Eegina's eyes as slie kisses the plead- 
ing lips. 
" You must get well first," she says cheerfully. " You 
and I will have some nice times, for you see I am quite 
lonely with Cynthia being away. I never told you how 
brave she was last autumn when we had only such a very 
little money." 
" She went over there and taught school for that ! " 
Perdita cries breathlessly. " Jasper took the money away 
from you all ! And he told me he should never disturb 
your share, that it was only Mr. Winterburne he meant to 
dispossess. Oh, I quite hate myself for loving him ! I am 
filled with horror and shame that I should long for him ! " 
and now Perdita swings to the farther extreme. " I wonder 
if you will all be able to forgive me ? I do not deserve it." 
Kegina has only gone such a little way in that divine 
endeavor, she is such a fearful and trembling pilgrim that 
comforting and directing is a new, strange language, and 
halts on her tongue. For even in this has she not been 
living to herself, withholding in her cold, quiet grace, 
rather than reaching out to other souls ? She has not 
Cynthia's generous aptitude, and the work is harder in its 
newness. But if she is strong, and earnest, and willing, 
she must also be compassionate, patient with all mental 
inferiority as well as the sort of moral weakness that 
depends so largely upon others, that draws its strength 
from outside sources rather than the living wells that can 
spring from the soul. She has taken this for her task, let 
her then accept it joyfully, not with secret distaste. 
" How sweet you are Regina," the soft voice says 
tremulously. "And I called you cold! If you only will 
love me a little and help me ! I am so frivolous and good 
for nothing. Yes, I have a genius, really. You haven't 
heard me play in so long. When I am better, I want a 
violin again. A professor of music told me that I had an 
extraordinary gift. At first Jasper allowed me to take 
lessons, then he grew desperately tired of it. But I used 
to pi ly through the long hours when he was away. Re — 
you will let me have a violin again ? " 
That is a crucial test for Regiua, and she weakly evades. 
 
She thinks she can never listen to a violin with com- 
posure. 
They are just through supper, and Mrs. Halford has 
gone up-stairs, while Kegina attends to a few household 
matters. Mr. Winterbnrne is announced. A most inoppor- 
tune guest, she thinks — does he ever strike that perfect 
moment, making a harmony ? 
She goes quietly through to the parlor. It is not dark 
enough for lamps, but she is thankful for the soft uncer- 
tainties that are beginning to gather about the room. The 
tall, compact figure with its sentient vitality almost 
oppresses her in her curiously relaxed state. He takes 'her 
hand and leads her to the window; there is a corner just 
below it, and the chairs ranged as if for a tete-a-tete. In one 
of those unheeding moods, ignorant that she has conceded 
anything, she takes her position nearest the window, and 
faces him in twilight softness, unconsciously indifferent. 
There is so much to tell. He has spent his Sunday at 
the seaside. Cynthia is already improved, blooming and 
full of vivid life, but Alice he finds very languid. 
" I don't know what she would do without your sister," 
he says eagerly. " She has been so much stronger than 
usual since we came to Warwick, that I was not prepared 
for her dropping down in this fashion; but there has been 
a great deal to keep her on the strain all the time, so much 
that was new and of vital interest. And I am very thank- 
ful they were able to get off as they did. There is some 
rather alarming sickness at Warwick." 
" Alarming ! " Regina repeats. 
"Well, yes. Everything is unfavorable. The extreme 
heat and the showers have made all kinds of vegetation 
rank, — for that, read a large crop of weeds in corners and 
byways, and not infrequently back yards, and the rapid 
decay; the pools that serve for ducks and geese, the cow- 
sheds in a horrible condition. I don't wonder fever and 
other things break out ! The authorities are cleaning up a 
little, but it should have been done in the spring. Last 
week one of our best workmen died after a brief illness, 
though it hegan with a drinking bout on Saturday night. 
His oldest girl is one of Cynthia's finest scholars, and she 
is down now. What these manufacturing towns want are 
good clean tenements, not all huddled in together. The 
larger cities can't help it very well, but in a country place 
where land is cheap, it is simply heathenish. I beg your 
pardon," he says suddenly, "I know you are not interested 
in these things. I am so accustomed to discussing them 
with Cynthia." 
" But — health " — she says tentatively. " And you are 
in it " — Can any evil touch that robust yitality ? 
"I don't have to sleep there;" and he gives a short, 
comforting laugh. " If I did — But I am most concerned 
for Armitage. He is in the thick of it. Old Dr. Farrand 
isn't well, and there's so much sick visiting — he has takeli 
several of the doctor'-s funerals. Last winter the old 
gentleman considered him almost a heathen and a publican," 
and Regina can see the smile that is amusement, not con- 
tempt. "I drag Armitage out home with me to sleep 
where the air is fresh and restful, and Mrs. Prall gives us 
a splendid breakfast. He was a rather ethereal young 
fellow when I first took him in hand, and I don't want to 
lose my good efforts in having him get shadowy again. 
But I have not inquired especially after Mrs. Bradley ? " 
" She is — I think she does not improve rapidly. She 
comes down-stairs, and I have taken her out for a brief 
drive. Have you heard anything concerning Mr. 
Bradley ? " 
" I wanted to ask you. He has not been here then ? " 
" No," answers Eegina. 
"He is hardly likely to come." Winterburne's' tone 
verges on assured assertiveness. 
" I should be glad " — Regina hesitates. She has not 
been used to telling him her hopes and fears like Cynthia. 
" I think you need not fear. The question is, how she 
will take it ? It seems a very cruel happening tor a glad, 
joyous young life like that, to be unexpectedly torn up by 
the roots, even if it is thrown over the garden fence from 
 
which it was transplanted. One would hardly expect just 
these things I'vom Jasper Bradley. I want to tell you how 
I iirst saw him." 
He makes a picture of it all. She has never given him 
credit for vivid descriptive powers. Has she not dealt him 
scant measure in many respects beside ? Or is  that 
lie has not stood still — that he, like some others, has a 
grand capacity for self-improvement as well as that general 
outside advancement. Did she think this capability was 
inherent in special natures tonly ? And what if his is the 
special, the unusual soul ? 
She has a ctil'ious, lost feeling, another as strange, as if 
she were aware of a strongly marked presence crowding 
into her life thait she protests against with passionate 
sincerity. 
" Jasper Bl-adtey has many of the qualities and attrac- 
tions of a very dangerous man," he isays presently, when 
she is sileii't a long while, it seems to him. She never 
talked much, he remembers. " But there is a latent quality 
quite indescribable tha;t puts -one on guard." 
Regina Hal'ford flushes with a guilty feeling, thankful 
that it is now too dark for him to see. If she had taken 
her first subtle warniTig — if ste had -not been so urgently 
fitting her theories to the facts they could not really 
assimilate. 
Itis getting quite dark now. He can see the whiteness 
of her face with its crown of dusky hair, and he has an 
inward feeling that it is strangely weary. It is too soon 
to comfoft her; this time he will be wary. But oh, the 
passionate longing that l-ends him !
She rises and aslts Martha to bring in the lamps. While 
the good woman is arranging them to the proper degree of 
softness for a summer night, Eegina goes to summon her 
mother. Perdita has fallen asleep after her battling day. 
Mrs. Halford takes the lead in the conversation now. 
Regina is one of the few women born to repose ; she never 
indulges in restless little habits. Her statuesque symmetry 
has fine poses in any position she takes : every line seems 
to adapt itself to the harmonious whole. Her hands lie 
idly in her lap, and her slim fingers look as if they might 
be sculptured. Could they grasp and hold, he wonders ? 
He has so much to say about Cynthia. The mother 
quality in Mrs. Halford takes a finer pride in her daughter's 
venture and possible fame than he has supposed. 
" She cannot miss success If she perseveres," he says. 
" She has such a quick eye for the homely little details of 
every-day life, she goes so down to the very heart of things, 
she catches the salient peculiarities of these out-of-the-way 
lives, their simple, unimaginative steadfastness, their nar- 
row range, their shrewd, unconscious humor. She has so 
much of it herself. Everything is tinted and textured by 
her bright hopefulness ; Armitage is very proud of her." 
He is proud too, Regina can see. A sudden, quick 
thought comes to her. He will marry her. She is just the 
sympathetic, appreciative kind of woman that he needs, 
who will make him happy, — immeasurably so. It leaves 
a great blank and coldness in her soul, not because she 
loves him, but that the best gifts of life are likely to pass 
her by. All of her ideals have been too high : she recog- 
nizes this sadly. 
Yet she looks brightly across at him. Now she wants to 
do him full justice, to make amends for the scant measure 
she has dealt out to him. As a friend she can do this. 
Her sincerity is evident ; it softens the firm lines in her 
face, and he, watching her in a diffident, neutral fashion, 
is rather doubtful, yet wholly delighted. 
He does not plume himself on any conquest. It is enough 
just now to be on the simplest terms of friendship. He 
means to stretch it a long way, to make it. cover a great 
many points. • ., _ 
" You will not mind my coming again ? " he asks per- 
suasively ; " I promised Cynthia. And I miss them so 
much, all the friendly home interest and delight. I have 
bepu quite spoiled of late." 
" Yes," she answers softly, glancing up utterly uncon- 
scious of the deeper meaning on his part. 
 
In a vagne, mysterious mood she goes to her room, won- 
dering why this matter does not touch her more keenly 
regards herself. She is not jealous, she is not stirred, not 
excited, neither does she feel to blaine him for transferring 
his allegiance to another ; she has simply put him out of 
her life, and he has at last comprehended the fact. There 
is a sacred kind of gladness that through all the long time 
when they knew nothing of each other he never wavered 
in his fancy. He was her loyal lover. Her sincere desire 
to accept the consequence of her own act keeps her from 
the consciousness of sacrifice ; to her at present there is 
none. She cannot suffer over a love lost, for she has never 
given any.. He has generously desired to shield her from 
the inconvenience of poverty — she can understand this 
now — it was because he fancied her so illy fitted to cope 
with it. An agony of scarlet drenches her face as she 
thinks of this low estimate ; but she will meet bravely the 
consequences of her labored impression — it must have 
been that. Cynthia — how happy Cynthia will be ! just 
the bright, eager sort of happiness that she enjoys. For 
a moment Regina Halford wishes — what ? That she had 
made this late choice in the beginning, that she had not 
to retrace so many steps, to see so many dethroned, useless 
ideals, staring her in the face with their blind, dumb eyes. 
Still, she is not the first who has lived out of and over 
grave mistakes. Youth is hers, health, opportunity. In- 
deed, she sees rare and golden ones if she has the courage 
to take them. Whatever has been best and truest in her 
desires seems to rise in her soul to-night like a high tide. 
Is it because she is glad of another's happiness ? Is it 
because the true inspiration has reached her at last ? She 
lies there in a strange, ineffable content, and when morn- 
ing dawns she hardly knows whether she has slept or not. 
Perdita is weak and miserable after her day of excite- 
ment. Eegina reads to her a pretty, heart-breaking story, 
but she will have it — a story of sin and suffering, of repent- 
ance and final happiness. Not in so high a key that it is 
above her comprehension. 
There has been a shower in the morning ; everything is 
eaii and bright, and filled with wonderful fragrance. In 
the late afternoon Regina coaxes her out to drive, and it 
does brighten her. They pass several acquaintances who 
nod in a friendly fashion. Part of the town has gone out 
oil its summering ; strangers have come in. Phaetons, 
iio,f-oarts, and glittering bnc'kboards bowl along the wide, 
shiuled streets. 
Oddly enough it is quite a prevalent whim to drive up 
to Bradley House. It is a rather picturesque niin with its 
broken and blackened stone walls, that have defied wind 
and storm for so many years ; and now it is one of the old 
places with a story. 
They go around by the post-office. 
" Oh," says Perdita with a faint smile, " how natural it 
all seems ! Cynthia and I used to come down, you remem- 
ber. Were you not lost when you gave up Dolly ? And — 
would you mind very much if you took me up to Bradley 
House some day ? " 
" We will go any morning you like." 
She cannot face the idle pleasure-seekers in the after- 
noon, and perhaps have Perdita pointed out as the heroine 
of a rather mysterious occurrence. 
" Can yon hold Dolly ? " Eegina places the reins in her 
useless looking little hands. 
Perdita laughs. 
There is a letter from Cynthia. AnotheT note in a bold, 
firm hand — why should it startle her ? She tears the 
end of the envelope. On a half sheet of business paper 
there are a few lines that beg her not to mention to Cynthia 
the prevailing sickness at Warwick ; he would he sorry to 
have the pilgrims needlessly alarmed. 
Dr. Parker has stopped to speak to Perdita. A faint 
pink of pleasurable emotion has crept into the brown 
cheeks. Perdita looks like a foreigner with her unusual 
tints. She does not mind being stared at. Regina would 
shrink with sensitive pain ; she does as it is, but she 
nerves herself and keeps calm. 
 
It is a full week before Winterbuvne ventures to repeat 
his call. Perdita is able to see company, indeed, is improv- 
ing steadily. There are alternations of moods, but when 
she is most herself, she shrinks from the prospect of meet- 
ing her husband. Indeed, her romance is fast fading from 
its brilliant tints to gray ashes. She has an inner mis- 
giving that its consequences will be more unpleasant than 
she has supposed. This clearer atmosphere defines matters 
more strictly. Eegina softens, but she does not make 
futile compromises, her own experience has proved too 
bitter. Mrs. Halford comforts, but even she cannot dis- 
guise the fact that Perdita has thrown away the sweet 
liberty of her girlhood, the richness of a true, chei-ishing 
love for this wild, tumultuous passion. Jasper Bradley's 
name will always have attached to it some sort of stigma. 
He cannot be proved entirely innocent, Perdita knows, even 
if the actual crime is not fastened upon him. If she had 
been ignorant of it all, her imprudence would be a lighter 
burden. Still she is not forever snatching at her soul 
and drenching it in seas of remorse. She suffers acutely 
for a while, then her natural buoyancy asserts itself. 
On this second visit of Winterburne's, which is made a 
family matter, Perdita quite surprises Kegina by a certain 
aplomb that her experience of society has given her. She 
is entertaining in a bright, felicitous manner, even if it is 
superficial. Her pretty graces that she has learned to use 
for Jasper become her charmingly. Regina sits rather 
silent and amazed, as they toss bits of bright talk to and 
fro. It is elusive, hardly to be defined, cheery. Cynthia 
has this gift. After all, is it to be despised ? 
Norman Winterburne thinks not, as he drops the sorrows 
and cares and anxieties that beset his path. He is glad if 
she can be happy. Eegina would be weighed down in the 
dust under this burden. As he listens, he watches the 
proud, beautiful girl. Oh, what save love can take her out 
in the open beyond, in the " sunshine calm and sweet ! " 
If she would throw aside this restraining influence, and let 
herself drift to a glad haven ! She has been making the 
efforts of her life impersonal, yet it is not the large and 
sweet renunciation of self, the life in the midst of human 
wants and affections, the tender beneficence where the 
earthly and commoner duties subserve the divine. She 
has gone a little way — will she halt and grope about? 
Will she let some strong arm guide her hesitating .steps ? 
How is a man to cross over this wide ocean of uncer- 
tainty ? 
Perdita details her small enjoyments, her improvements, 
and some of her desires. 
" I want a violin," she says in her soft yet insistent 
manner. " There are none to be had here, and I don't feel 
competent to judge. Do you know of any one ? " she turns 
her small, dark face to Winterburne, and the eyes 'are 
alight with artistic fervor. 
" It is too soon to begin. You are not strong enough," 
protests Eegina in a throb of agonized humiliation. 
" I get so weary of doing nothing." Her voice is pathet- 
ically sweet. "I read, but I can't go through your wise 
tomes, Eegina. And I like verses — the kind that sing 
themselves. I'm not intellectual, I don't love to study. 
So when the rainy days come, T creep into bed and cry. I 
should feel so much better playing the violin in some cor- 
ner. It is so sweet. It is a human voice talking to you, a 
sort of disembodied spirit that comes at your summons, 
and with it you go off to enchanted realms." 
Her face is eager, shining, inspired. Winterburne has 
never seen her in such a glow of longing. Like Regina, 
he feels that the violin has played a rather fatal part in 
luring her to misfortune, and he should want never to hear 
the sound. But if it is her life ! 
" Why, yes," he says cheerfully. " And if I haven't a 
friend whose musical judgment I can trust, I know Ariiii- 
tage has. He was in all that wonderful musical and artistic 
circle in the city. Sometimes I wonder how he can throw 
himself heart and soul in the work over there," nodding 
southward. " He can make a larger mark in the world when 
he chooses. But I've been more than thankful to have him. 
Of course we will see about vonr violin." 
 
"Oh, thank you a thousand times," Perdita cries joyfully. 
After he has gone she twines her arms passionately 
about Regina's neck. 
" Are you very angry ? " she beseeches, as if she would 
disarm displeasure. " You see, I feel quite different about 
Mr. Winterburue — he was like a brother. He is so large 
and generous and restful ; one could go to him in any 
stress, sure of comfort. And he doesn't mind. I think he 
likes to be asked for help and assistance. Re, I can't un- 
derstand about your curious dislike j" and the straight 
brows are drawn together in .perplexity. 
"I — I don't dislike. I am not demonstrative," she re- 
plies weakly, excusingly. 
" He will have to be the brother out of the Bradley ark 
of relationship for us. And we must all appreciate him," 
Perdita says with gentle gravity. 
" Cynthia — likes him " — it seems wrested from Regina, 
a passionate admission to right herself. 
"And he likes Cynthia. But there is some one who 
Icmes Cynthia. I have seen it." She nods her head confi- 
dently. "And — Re" — she presses the slowly yielding 
figure with sudden passion, while her voice falters through 
a prescient tremulousness. 
Whatever secret trembles on the lips Regina kisses back 
again. 
CHAPTEE XXVII 
rOR HIS SAKE 
Every young man haa a fine season in hia life wlien lie will accept no office, 
and every young woman has the same when ahe will, accept no husband. By 
and by they obaage and take one another in the bargain. — Jisan Paul Richteu. 
Peedita is delighted when a note comes to her announ- 
cing Winterburne's successful quest, and that he will de- 
liver the precious article in safety on a certain evening. 
There has been a curious truce between her and Eegina 
that brings about an unwonted gentleness on both sides. 
The weather has proved very trying  hot and moist with 
drenching showers, and scorching sunshine almost before 
the rain has ceased. 
The evening comes, but it does not bring the promised 
visitor. Perdita waits impatiently after the trains come 
in, lingers on the porch, and ventures down the path. 
Mrs. Halford has a besetting fear that she may be spirited 
away. 
"I do not think Jasper will ever want me again," she 
says reassuringly, yet with a certain sadness. She would 
rather stay here in a kind of joyous liberty, but one can- 
not put even the semblance of love underground without 
moments of regret. 
" Something has happened ! " she cries in a vehement 
fashion. " Re, suppose he has beeju taken with the 
fever ! Even if Mr. Armitage were, he would not leave 
him, only he would send word. And if he is alone there 
and ill ! He is so good to everybody else ! Why, we ought 
to go and care for him ! " 
Perdita is fertile in impossible methods that wear a prac- 
tical semblance. Eegina shudders. She has not considered 
the fever as any personal matter. It has been confined 
 
among the poor, and once or twice almost stamped, out. 
I iideed, he had not referred to it during Ms last call. But 
all this time he has been in danger and Armitage as well. 
She endeavors to be severely impartial. Indeed, as an ad- 
mirer of Cynthia's he has a certain claim upon her atten- 
tion. She tries to recall her sister's references to him. 
He has a high appreciation of her literary efforts, and is 
intensely proud of her success. Tbey have certain affini- 
ties in this large work for humanity. But she cannot dis- 
cern any point in which Winterburne suffers by contrast. 
He, too, gives of his manful strength and comprehensive 
abilities. 
Regina Halford has a nervous, wakeful night. There is 
really nothing on her mind, she tells herself, unless it is 
the vague apprehension of the coming will contest. Oddly 
enough that seems to have settled into a firm belief that 
the first award of the law was just. She solaces herself 
with favorite poems ; she tries to recall some fine points in 
a magazine article on one of the industrial problems of the 
day, but her mind does not obey its usual methodic guid- 
ance. 
Towards morning there comes a beneficent suggestion of 
bracing autumnal weather. The air is crisp and clear, the 
murkiness and moisture have vanished. The sky is a bril- 
liant blue to its farthest depths, the sun shines in magnifi- 
cent splendor. Even a little fire does not come amiss in 
the breakfast-room. 
Perdita is cross and cold. It will all be right when the 
world gets warmed up, no doubt ; but she wants a shawl 
about her, and her chair close to the cheerful blaze on the 
hearth. She looks pinched and wan, and this morning is 
not pretty. 
Regina goes out alone to attend to the daily wants of the 
household. It is quite the fashion iu Beverly. Everybody 
comments upon the unusual fineness of the day until she 
meets Mr. Sayre hurrying along. 
"Have you heard?" — he begins abruptly. "But you 
could not — there was, or might have been, a frightful acci- 
dent last evening at Warwick station. I don't know the 
straight of it myself, but I am going down to see. There 
was the inevitable conjunction, — a special with railroad 
officials whizzing along, a train coming in, a drunken man, 
and Winterburne. Why he should have been in the melee 
— but he is everywhere," and he gives an irritated half 
pause. 
" Not hurt — not " — Eegina Halford seems stricken to 
stone. Who could fill the large place in the world if he 
went out of it ? 
" Well, not killed. First the word was that his leg 
was cut off, then his arm. The other fellow wouldn't have 
been much loss. You Bradleys seem to go naturally to the 
tragic side," he subjoins resentfully. 
Eegina stares with wide, terrified eyes. 
"There's my train. I'll bring back the report. As if 
it wasn't enough for him to stay there in that fever-stricken 
hole ! " Then he waves a formal adieu with his hand, and 
hurries down the street. 
On Regina's return she finds Perdita thawed out, but in 
a rather fretful, wondering state because there is no note 
to explain. She simply cannot talk over the matter, but 
fills every moment with duties, and then takes up a difiicult 
piano exercise. 
"If I only had my violin!" bewails Perdita. "We 
could play duets, as you and Jasper used." 
It is only by a supreme effort of will that Eegina goes 
on unheeding the small creature beside her, whose careless 
words have a keen, wasp-like sting. Why does all the old 
life, the past summer, rise up like a flood-tide and threaten 
to ingulf her as she wanders on a mysterious shore, stricken 
with a nameless terror, impelled forward, yet clinging to 
the very weeds and debris that give her no foothold and 
alike slip through her hands ? She knows the crisis of her 
life has come upon her and found her with only a few in- 
effectual weapons to ward it off. That she will not succeed 
comes to her in a vague, penetrative consciousness that 
envelops her like a midnight cloud in which she can only 
grope blindly. 
 
At noon Mr. Sayre's office-boy appears with a laconic 
note. It is directed to Miss Halford, and she is at the 
door to receive it. 
" Arm broken. Have brought him home with me." 
A great flood of thankfulness surges over her. He will 
not die, he will not be maimed. Now she can go her way 
enfranchised from this awesome terror that has grasped her 
very soul. She draws a long, triumphant breath. She can 
explain — it will be much less awkward than when he 
comes. She wants no secret of his to hamper her. 
" What is it ? " asks Perdita, who has seen the boy from 
her window up-stairs. " Not " — 
" Not Jasper. Oh, no." How suddenly tranquil she is ! 
" I will tell you why you did not get your violin. Come 
to mother," and she leads the way, briefly repeating her 
small adventure of the morning, and handing the note to 
impatient Perdita, who asks a dozen questions in a breath. 
" We shall hear how it happened," she says in an arid, 
almost impatient tone. " Conjecture is useless." 
" And he might have been killed ! Regina, do you care 
for anybody ? " Perdita stamps her small foot upon the 
floor. " Will he come, do you think ? Or ought we to go 
to the Sayres' ? " 
" A broken arm does not prevent journeying about," she 
says tremulously. 
He will come soon enough for her. She would like to 
delay it indefinitely. What it will be she does not formu- 
late even in her thoughts ; neither does she ask herself any 
questions. She seems to have passed beyond the inward 
control so certain heretofore ; she can only stand in that 
awesome, breathless mood. 
To Perdita never were moments so leaden. She is ex- 
cited to the uttermost. She puts on a gown, then dislikes 
herself and changes it for another. She gathers great 
clusters of flowers and thrusts them in her belt; she 
hovers about like a restless bird. It might be her lover, 
Regina thinks in dismay. She sits in her room in yester- 
day's white gown, with no ornament, not even a flower, at 
her throat. And it seems the merest space of time when 
. she hears an exclamation, her own name called, and a step 
on the flags below. She looks down with a swift shiver in 
her blood, her pulses throb, she can feel the scarlet heat in ' 
her cheek. If she might fly to the ends of the earth ! It 
appears in that instant as if flight were her only resource. 
How can she meet him ? 
His step is not so strong and imperious, there is a new 
languor in his face which has been robbed of its brilliant 
coloring. His left arm is in a sling. As he turns toward 
the porch she catches the direction of the intent, searching 
eyes. Perdita, with a child's eagerness, runs down the steps 
to meet him. She hears her mother's gentle tone through 
the wide open door, and then goes slowly, the white wraith 
following behind, like quivering billows. She steps out 
blindly. He has both hands in the one of his — did she 
give them — did he take them ? — All is confusion as if 
she were miles deep in the sea, and the waves chanting 
their murmurous diapason over her. 
" No," he is saying in answer to Perdita, " I am not very 
much of a hero, though I shall come in for some news- 
paper glory, I dare say. It was only a little presence of 
mind and a strong arm. A moment later it would have 
been all over with the poor fellow ! He was crazed with 
grief. He had that morning buried the second child in a 
month. I suppose he thought drinking the only remedy 
for his anguish, — what did the poor wife do at home to 
assuage hers ? And he was blindly, shamefully drunk — 
that is the terrible factor in it. I was carrying your pre- 
cious violin, Perdita" — he glances over at her, still holding 
in his the hands that were ice cold a moment since, and are 
now throbbing in great pulses of fire. " No one was think- 
ing of the special, at least, not among the bystanders. 
Braxton staggered on the track, there was a whiz and a 
blinding flare of light and a cry from half a dozen throats, 
and somehow we rolled over together, outside the track ; 
that was enough. It was Braxton falling on me that broke 
 
my arm and wrenched my shoulder. The only thing really 
bi-uised and mangled and ground to powder was your pretty 
violin asleep in its case, Perdita ; and there are others in 
the world. If you want to' cry at all, you must weep over 
that poor little martyr." 
Still holding one hand, he leads Eegina to the willow 
chair laced with soft red ribbons, and takes the seat beside 
her. He has impelled her to meet him on his own ground, 
he has not reached up to her prideful remoteness. She has 
flushed and throbbed, and sits downcast and trembling. He 
is not the suppliant but the master. 
" You are very pale," Mrs. Halford says alarmed. " Will 
you have a glass of water ? " 
For a brief instant he has the sensation of fainting. The 
joy of his- victory has well-nigh overcome him. 
" No," he says with a long, quivering breath. He cannot 
send the two away. And if he could — he is too merciful 
to put her to any deeper strain. 
" A man gets a little shaken up under such circumstances. 
I didn't sleep at all — of course, I didn't go home. A 
good Samaritan took me in, and" — he laughs softly, more 
from that tremendous overflow of emotion than any sense 
of amusement — " bound up my wounds and comforted me 
generally ; but I don't know as any money passed in the 
transaction," and there is a gleam of humor in his deep, 
luminous eyes. " Then this morning, who should come to 
hand but Mr. Sayre, and he insisted on bringing me home 
and making much of me. He believes he has a mortgage 
on me until the 10th of September." 
" But you look so very tired, so exhausted." All Mrs. 
Halford's motherly instincts are aroused. "Perhaps it 
would be more comfortable for you to lie on the sofa in the 
parlor ? " 
" I have been ' cuddled ' — isn't that the word ? " and he 
smiles over at Perdita. "Mrs. Sayre is enchanting. In 
fact, she would hardly allow me to come out. I am under 
marching orders for nine o'clock sharp." 
Perdita gives a long, sighing breath. The story has not 
been sufficiently explicit. She can think of twenty points 
that need elaborating, and she plies him with eager ques- 
tions. There is a charm in his simplicity, in las touches 
of exaggerative humor, that wards off the danger and the 
pathos, that keeps the episode to the strong, friendly com- 
monplace. All the same, Regina Halford knows that two 
lives have come very near a fatal termination, and she won- 
ders if the worthless one could ever counterbalance the 
other, even in God's sight. For now she is quite ready to 
