improved. This is owing to better cultivation, knowledge of proper
irrigation, and the adoption of the best varieties for the soil. As
different sorts of oranges mature at different seasons, a variety is
needed to give edible fruit in each month from December to May
inclusive. In February, 1887, I could not find an orange of the first
class compared with the best fruit in other regions. It may have been
too early for the varieties I tried; but I believe there has been a
marked improvement in quality. In May, 1890, we found delicious oranges
almost everywhere. The seedless Washington and Australian navels are
favorites, especially for the market, on account of their great size and
fine color. When in perfection they are very fine, but the skin is thick
and the texture coarser than that of some others. The best orange I
happened to taste was a Tahiti seedling at Montecito (Santa Barbara). It
is a small orange, with a thin skin and a compact, sweet pulp that
leaves little fibre. It resembles the famous orange of Malta. But there
are many excellent varieties--the Mediterranean sweet, the paper rind
St. Michael, the Maltese blood, etc. The experiments with seedlings are
profitable, and will give ever new varieties. I noted that the "grape
fruit," which is becoming so much liked in the East, is not appreciated
in California.
[Illustration: ORANGE CULTURE. Packing Oranges--Navel Orange-tree Six
Years Old--Irrigating an Orange Grove.]
The city of Riverside occupies an area of some five miles by three, and
claims to have 6000 inhabitants; the centre is a substantial town with
fine school and other public buildings, but the region is one succession
of orange groves and vineyards, of comfortable houses and broad avenues.
One avenue through which we drove is 125 feet wide and 12 miles long,
planted in three rows with palms, magnolias, the Grevillea robusta
(Australian fern), the pepper, and the eucalyptus, and lined all the way
by splendid orange groves, in the midst of which are houses and grounds
with semi-tropical attractions. Nothing could be lovelier than such a
scene of fruits and flowers, with the background of purple hills and
snowy peaks. The mountain views are superb. Frost is a rare visitor. Not
in fifteen years has there been enough to affect the orange. There is
little rain after March, but there are fogs and dew-falls, and the ocean
breeze is felt daily. The grape grown for raisins is the muscat, and
this has had no "sickness." Vigilance and a quarantine have also kept
from the orange the scale which has been so annoying in some other
localities. The orange, when cared for, is a generous bearer; some trees
produce twenty boxes each, and there are areas of twenty acres in good
bearing which have brought to the owner as much as $10,000 a year.
The whole region of the Santa Ana and San Gabriel valleys, from the
desert on the east to Los Angeles, the city of gardens, is a surprise,
and year by year an increasing wonder. In production it exhausts the
catalogue of fruits and flowers; its scenery is varied by ever new
combinations of the picturesque and the luxuriant; every town boasts
some special advantage in climate, soil, water, or society; but these
differences, many of them visible to the eye, cannot appear in any
written description. The traveller may prefer the scenery of Pasadena,
or that of Pomona, or of Riverside, but the same words in regard to
color, fertility, combinations of orchards, avenues, hills, must appear
in the description of each. Ontario, Pomona, Puente, Alhambra--wherever
one goes there is the same wonder of color and production.
Pomona is a pleasant city in the midst of fine orange groves, watered
abundantly by artesian-wells and irrigating ditches from a mountain
reservoir. A specimen of the ancient adobe residence is on the Meserve
plantation, a lovely old place, with its gardens of cherries,
strawberries, olives, and oranges. From the top of San José hill we had
a view of a plain twenty-five miles by fifty in extent, dotted with
cultivation, surrounded by mountains--a wonderful prospect. Pomona, like
its sister cities in this region, has a regard for the intellectual side
of life, exhibited in good school-houses and public libraries. In the
library of Pomona is what may be regarded as the tutelary deity of the
place--the goddess Pomona, a good copy in marble of the famous statue in
the Uffizi Gallery, presented to the city by the Rev. C. F. Loop. This
enterprising citizen is making valuable experiments in olive culture,
raising a dozen varieties in order to ascertain which is best adapted to
this soil, and which will make the best return in oil and in a
marketable product of cured fruit for the table.
The growth of the olive is to be, it seems to me, one of the leading and
most permanent industries of Southern California. It will give us, what
it is nearly impossible to buy now, pure olive oil, in place of the
cotton-seed and lard mixture in general use. It is a most wholesome and
palatable article of food. Those whose chief experience of the olive is
the large, coarse, and not agreeable Spanish variety, used only as an
appetizer, know little of the value of the best varieties as food,
nutritious as meat, and always delicious. Good bread and a dish of
pickled olives make an excellent meal. The sort known as the Mission
olive, planted by the Franciscans a century ago, is generally grown now,
and the best fruit is from the older trees. The most successful attempts
in cultivating the olive and putting it on the market have been made by
Mr. F. A. Kimball, of National City, and Mr. Ellwood Cooper, of Santa
Barbara. The experiments have gone far enough to show that the industry
is very remunerative. The best olive oil I have ever tasted anywhere is
that produced from the Cooper and the Kimball orchards; but not enough
is produced to supply the local demand. Mr. Cooper has written a careful
treatise on olive culture, which will be of great service to all
growers. The art of pickling is not yet mastered, and perhaps some other
variety will be preferred to the old Mission for the table. A mature
olive grove in good bearing is a fortune. I feel sure that within
twenty-five years this will be one of the most profitable industries of
California, and that the demand for pure oil and edible fruit in the
United States will drive out the adulterated and inferior present
commercial products. But California can easily ruin its reputation by
adopting the European systems of adulteration.
We drove one day from Arcadia Station through the region occupied by
the Baldwin plantations, an area of over fifty thousand acres--a happy
illustration of what industry and capital can do in the way of variety
of productions, especially in what are called the San Anita vineyards
and orchards, extending southward from the foot-hills. About the home
place and in many sections where the irrigating streams flow one might
fancy he was in the tropics, so abundant and brilliant are the flowers
and exotic plants. There are splendid orchards of oranges, almonds,
English walnuts, lemons, peaches, apricots, figs, apples, and olives,
with grain and corn--in short, everything that grows in garden or field.
The ranch is famous for its brandies and wines as well as fruits. We
lunched at the East San Gabriel Hotel, a charming place with a peaceful
view from the wide veranda of live-oaks, orchards, vineyards, and the
noble Sierra Madre range. The Californians may be excused for using the
term paradisiacal about such scenes. Flowers, flowers everywhere, color
on color, and the song of the mocking-bird!
CHAPTER XII.
HOW THE FRUIT PERILS WERE MET.--FURTHER DETAILS OF LOCALITIES.
In the San Gabriel Valley and elsewhere I saw evidence of the perils
that attend the culture of the vine and the fruit-tree in all other
countries, and from which California in the early days thought it was
exempt. Within the past three or four years there has prevailed a
sickness of the vine, the cause of which is unknown, and for which no
remedy has been discovered. No blight was apparent, but the vine
sickened and failed. The disease was called consumption of the vine. I
saw many vineyards subject to it, and hundreds of acres of old vines had
been rooted up as useless. I was told by a fruit-buyer in Los Angeles
that he thought the raisin industry below Fresno was ended unless new
planting recovered the vines, and that the great wine fields were about
"played out." The truth I believe to be that the disease is confined to
the vineyards of Old Mission grapes. Whether these had attained the
limit of their active life, and sickened, I do not know. The trouble for
a time was alarming; but new plantings of other varieties of grapes have
been successful, the vineyards look healthful, and the growers expect no
further difficulty. The planting, which was for a time suspended, has
been more vigorously renewed.
The insect pests attacking the orange were even more serious, and in
1887-88, though little was published about it, there was something like
a panic, in the fear that the orange and lemon culture in Southern
California would be a failure. The enemies were the black, the red, and
the white scale. The latter, the icerya purchasi, or cottony cushion
scale, was especially loathsome and destructive; whole orchards were
enfeebled, and no way was discovered of staying its progress, which
threatened also the olive and every other tree, shrub, and flower.
Science was called on to discover its parasite. This was found to be the
Australian lady-bug (vedolia cardinalis), and in 1888-89 quantities of
this insect were imported and spread throughout Los Angeles County, and
sent to Santa Barbara and other afflicted districts. The effect was
magical. The vedolia attacked the cottony scale with intense vigor,
and everywhere killed it. The orchards revived as if they had been
recreated, and the danger was over. The enemies of the black and the red
scale have not yet been discovered, but they probably will be. Meantime
the growers have recovered courage, and are fertilizing and fumigating.
In Santa Ana I found that the red scale was fought successfully by
fumigating the trees. The operation is performed at night under a
movable tent, which covers the tree. The cost is about twenty cents a
tree. One lesson of all this is that trees must be fed in order to be
kept vigorous to resist such attacks, and that fruit-raising,
considering the number of enemies that all fruits have in all climates,
is not an idle occupation. The clean, handsome English walnut is about
the only tree in the State that thus far has no enemy.
One cannot take anywhere else a more exhilarating, delightful drive than
about the rolling, highly cultivated, many-villaed Pasadena, and out to
the foot-hills and the Sierra Madre Villa. He is constantly exclaiming
at the varied loveliness of the scene--oranges, palms, formal gardens,
hedges of Monterey cypress. It is very Italy-like. The Sierra Madre
furnishes abundant water for all the valley, and the swift irrigating
stream from Eaton Cañon waters the Sierra Madre Villa. Among the peaks
above it rises Mt. Wilson, a thousand feet above the plain, the site
selected for the Harvard Observatory with its 40-inch glass. The
clearness of the air at this elevation, and the absence of clouds night
and day the greater portion of the year, make this a most advantageous
position, it is said, to use the glass in dissolving nebulæ. The Sierra
Madre Villa, once the most favorite resort in this region, was closed.
In its sheltered situation, its luxuriant and half-neglected gardens,
its wide plantations and irrigating streams, it reminds one of some
secularized monastery on the promontory of Sorrento. It only needs good
management to make the hotel very attractive and especially agreeable in
the months of winter.
Pasadena, which exhibits everywhere evidences of wealth and culture, and
claims a permanent population of 12,000, has the air of a winter resort;
the great Hotel Raymond is closed in May, the boarding-houses want
occupants, the shops and livery-stables customers, and the streets lack
movement. This is easily explained. It is not because Pasadena is not an
agreeable summer residence, but because the visitors are drawn there in
the winter principally to escape the inclement climate of the North and
East, and because special efforts have been made for their entertainment
in the winter. We found the atmosphere delightful in the middle of May.
The mean summer heat is 67°, and the nights are always cool. The hills
near by may be resorted to with the certainty of finding as decided a
change as one desires in the summer season. I must repeat that the
Southern California summer is not at all understood in the East. The
statement of the general equability of the temperature the year through
must be insisted on. We lunched one day in a typical California house,
in the midst of a garden of fruits, flowers, and tropical shrubs; in a
house that might be described as half roses and half tent, for added to
the wooden structure were rooms of canvas, which are used as sleeping
apartments winter and summer.
This attractive region, so lovely in its cultivation, with so many
charming drives, offering good shooting on the plains and in the hills,
and centrally placed for excursions, is only eight miles from the busy
city of Los Angeles. An excellent point of view of the country is from
the graded hill on which stands the Raymond Hotel, a hill isolated but
easy of access, which is in itself a mountain of bloom, color, and
fragrance. From all the broad verandas and from every window the
prospect is charming, whether the eye rests upon cultivated orchards and
gardens and pretty villas, or upon the purple foot-hills and the snowy
ranges. It enjoys a daily ocean breeze, and the air is always
exhilarating. This noble hill is a study in landscape-gardening. It is a
mass of brilliant color, and the hospitality of the region generally to
foreign growths may be estimated by the trees acclimated on these
slopes. They are the pepper, eucalyptus, pine, cypress, sycamore,
red-wood, olive, date and fan palms, banana, pomegranate, guava,
Japanese persimmon, umbrella, maple, elm, locust, English walnut, birch,
ailantus, poplar, willow, and more ornamental shrubs than one can well
name.
I can indulge in few locality details except those which are
illustrative of the general character of the country. In passing into
Orange County, which was recently set off from Los Angeles, we come into
a region of less "fashion," but one that for many reasons is attractive
to people of moderate means who are content with independent simplicity.
The country about the thriving village of Santa Ana is very rich, being
abundantly watered by the Santa Ana River and by artesian-wells. The
town is nine miles from the ocean. On the ocean side the land is mainly
agricultural; on the inland side it is specially adapted to fruit. We
drove about it, and in Tustin City, which has many pleasant residences
and a vacant "boom" hotel, through endless plantations of oranges. On
the road towards Los Angeles we passed large herds of cattle and sheep,
and fine groves of the English walnut, which thrives especially well in
this soil and the neighborhood of the sea. There is comparatively little
waste land in this valley district, as one may see by driving through
the country about Santa Ana, Orange, Anaheim, Tustin City, etc. Anaheim
is a prosperous German colony. It was here that Madame Modjeska and her
husband, Count Bozenta, first settled in California. They own and occupy
now a picturesque ranch in the Santiago Cañon of the Santa Ana range,
twenty-two miles from Santa Ana. This is one of the richest regions in
the State, and with its fair quota of working population, it will be one
of the most productive.
From Newport, on the coast, or from San Pedro, one may visit the island
of Santa Catalina. Want of time prevented our going there. Sportsmen
enjoy there the exciting pastime of hunting the wild goat. From the
photographs I saw, and from all I heard of it, it must be as picturesque
a resort in natural beauty as the British Channel islands.
Los Angeles is the metropolitan centre of all this region. A handsome,
solid, thriving city, environed by gardens, gay everywhere with flowers,
it is too well known to require any description from me. To the
traveller from the East it will always be a surprise. Its growth has
been phenomenal, and although it may not equal the expectations of the
crazy excitement of 1886-87, 50,000 people is a great assemblage for a
new city which numbered only about 11,000 in 1880. It of course felt the
subsidence of the "boom," but while I missed the feverish crowds of
1887, I was struck with its substantial progress in fine, solid
buildings, pavements, sewerage, railways, educational facilities, and
ornamental grounds. It has a secure hold on the commerce of the region.
The assessment roll of the city increased from $7,627,632 in 1881 to
$44,871,073 in 1889. Its bank business, public buildings, school-houses,
and street improvements are in accord with this increase, and show
solid, vigorous growth. It is altogether an attractive city, whether
seen on a drive through its well-planted and bright avenues, or looked
down on from the hills which are climbed by the cable roads. A curious
social note was the effect of the "boom" excitement upon the birth
rate. The report of children under the age of one year was in 1887, 271
boy babies and 264 girl babies; from 1887 to 1888 there were only 176
boy babies and 162 girl babies. The return at the end of 1889 was 465
boy babies, and 500 girl babies.
Although Los Angeles County still produces a considerable quantity of
wine and brandy, I have an impression that the raising of raisins will
supplant wine-making largely in Southern California, and that the
principal wine producing will be in the northern portions of the State.
It is certain that the best quality is grown in the foot-hills. The
reputation of "California wines" has been much injured by placing upon
the market crude juice that was in no sense wine. Great improvement has
been made in the past three to five years, not only in the vine and
knowledge of the soil adapted to it, but in the handling and the curing
of the wine. One can now find without much difficulty excellent table
wines--sound claret, good white Reisling, and sauterne. None of these
wines are exactly like the foreign wines, and it may be some time before
the taste accustomed to foreign wines is educated to like them. But in
Eastern markets some of the best brands are already much called for, and
I think it only a question of time and a little more experience when the
best California wines will be popular. I found in the San Francisco
market excellent red wines at $3.50 the case, and what was still more
remarkable, at some of the best hotels sound, agreeable claret at from
fifteen to twenty cents the pint bottle.
It is quite unnecessary to emphasize the attractions of Santa Barbara,
or the productiveness of the valleys in the counties of Santa Barbara
and Ventura. There is no more poetic region on the continent than the
bay south of Point Conception, and the pen and the camera have made the
world tolerably familiar with it. There is a graciousness, a softness, a
color in the sea, the cañons, the mountains there that dwell in the
memory. It is capable of inspiring the same love that the Greek
colonists felt for the region between the bays of Salerno and Naples. It
is as fruitful as the Italian shores, and can support as dense a
population. The figures that have been given as to productiveness and
variety of productions apply to it. Having more winter rainfall than
the counties south of it, agriculture is profitable in most years. Since
the railway was made down the valley of the Santa Clara River and along
the coast to Santa Barbara, a great impulse has been given to farming.
Orange and other fruit orchards have increased. Near Buenaventura I saw
hundreds of acres of lima beans. The yield is about one ton to the acre.
With good farming the valleys yield crops of corn, barley, and wheat
much above the average. Still it is a fruit region, and no variety has
yet been tried that does not produce very well there. The rapid growth
of all trees has enabled the region to demonstrate in a short time that
there is scarcely any that it cannot naturalize. The curious growths of
tropical lands, the trees of aromatic and medicinal gums, the trees of
exquisite foliage and wealth of fragrant blossoms, the sturdy forest
natives, and the bearers of edible nuts are all to be found in the
gardens and by the road-side, from New England, from the Southern
States, from Europe, from North and South Africa, Southern Asia, China,
Japan, from Australia and New Zealand and South America. The region is
an arboreal and botanical garden on an immense scale, and full of
surprises. The floriculture is even more astonishing. Every land is
represented. The profusion and vigor are as wonderful as the variety. At
a flower show in Santa Barbara were exhibited 160 varieties of roses all
cut from one garden the same morning. The open garden rivals the Eastern
conservatory. The country is new and many of the conditions of life may
be primitive and rude, but it is impossible that any region shall not be
beautiful, clothed with such a profusion of bloom and color.
I have spoken of the rapid growth. The practical advantage of this as to
fruit-trees is that one begins to have an income from them here sooner
than in the East. No one need be under the delusion that he can live in
California without work, or thrive without incessant and intelligent
industry, but the distinction of the country for the fruit-grower is the
rapidity with which trees and vines mature to the extent of being
profitable. But nothing thrives without care, and kindly as the climate
is to the weak, it cannot be too much insisted on that this is no place
for confirmed invalids who have not money enough to live without work.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE ADVANCE OF CULTIVATION SOUTHWARD.
The immense county of San Diego is on the threshold of its development.
It has comparatively only spots of cultivation here and there, in an
area on the western slope of the county only, that Mr. Van Dyke
estimates to contain about one million acres of good arable land for
farming and fruit-raising. This mountainous region is full of charming
valleys, and hidden among the hills are fruitful nooks capable of
sustaining thriving communities. There is no doubt about the salubrity
of the climate, and one can literally suit himself as to temperature by
choosing his elevation. The traveller by rail down the wild Temecula
Cañon will have some idea of the picturesqueness of the country, and, as
he descends in the broadening valley, of the beautiful mountain parks of
live-oak and clear running water, and of the richness both for grazing
and grain of the ranches of the Santa Margarita, Las Flores, and Santa
Rosa. Or if he will see what a few years of vigorous cultivation will
do, he may visit Escondido, on the river of that name, which is at an
elevation of less than a thousand feet, and fourteen miles from the
ocean. This is only one of many settlements that have great natural
beauty and thrifty industrial life. In that region are numerous
attractive villages. I have a report from a little cañon, a few miles
north of Escondido, where a woman with an invalid husband settled in
1883. The ground was thickly covered with brush, and its only product
was rabbits and quails. In 1888 they had 100 acres cleared and fenced,
mostly devoted to orchard fruits and berries. They had in good bearing
over 1200 fruit-trees among them 200 oranges and 283 figs, which yielded
one and a half tons of figs a week during the bearing season, from
August to November. The sprouts of the peach-trees grew twelve feet in
1889. Of course such a little fruit farm as this is the result of
self-denial and hard work, but I am sure that the experiment in this
region need not be exceptional.
San Diego will be to the southern part of the State what San Francisco
is to the northern. Nature seems to have arranged for this, by providing
a magnificent harbor, when it shut off the southern part by a mountain
range. During the town-lot lunacy it was said that San Diego could not
grow because it had no back country, and the retort was that it needed
no back country, its harbor would command commerce. The fallacy of this
assumption lay in the forgetfulness of the fact that the profitable and
peculiar exports of Southern California must go East by rail, and reach
a market in the shortest possible time, and that the inhabitants look to
the Pacific for comparatively little of the imports they need. If the
Isthmus route were opened by a ship-canal, San Diego would doubtless
have a great share of the Pacific trade, and when the population of that
part of the State is large enough to demand great importations from the
islands and lands of the Pacific, this harbor will not go begging. But
in its present development the entire Pacific trade of Japan, China, and
the islands, gives only a small dividend each to the competing ports.
For these developments this fine harbor must wait, but meantime the
wealth and prosperity of San Diego lie at its doors. A country as large
as the three richest New England States, with enormous wealth of mineral
and stone in its mountains, with one of the finest climates in the
world, with a million acres of arable land, is certainly capable of
building up one great seaport town. These million of acres on the
western slope of the mountain ranges of the country are geographically
tributary to San Diego, and almost every acre by its products is
certain to attain a high value.
The end of the ridiculous speculation in lots of 1887-88 was not so
disastrous in the loss of money invested, or even in the ruin of great
expectations by the collapse of fictitious values, as in the stoppage of
immigration. The country has been ever since adjusting itself to a
normal growth, and the recovery is just in proportion to the arrival of
settlers who come to work and not to speculate. I had heard that the
"boom" had left San Diego and vicinity the "deadest" region to be found
anywhere. A speculator would probably so regard it. But the people have
had a great accession of common-sense. The expectation of attracting
settlers by a fictitious show has subsided, and attention is directed to
the development of the natural riches of the country. Since the boom San
Diego has perfected a splendid system of drainage, paved its streets,
extended its railways, built up the business part of the town solidly
and handsomely, and greatly improved the mesa above the town. In all
essentials of permanent growth it is much better in appearance than in
1887. Business is better organized, and, best of all, there is an
intelligent appreciation of the agricultural resources of the country.
It is discovered that San Diego has a "back country" capable of
producing great wealth. The Chamber of Commerce has organized a
permanent exhibition of products. It is assisted in this work of
stimulation by competition by a "Ladies' Annex," a society numbering
some five hundred ladies, who devote themselves not to æsthetic
pursuits, but to the quickening of all the industries of the farm and
the garden, and all public improvements.
To the mere traveller who devotes only a couple of weeks to an
examination of this region it is evident that the spirit of industry is
in the ascendant, and the result is a most gratifying increase in
orchards and vineyards, and the storage and distribution of water for
irrigation. The region is unsurpassed for the production of the orange,
the lemon, the raisin-grape, the fig, and the olive. The great reservoir
of the Cuyamaca, which supplies San Diego, sends its flume around the
fertile valley of El Cajon (which has already a great reputation for its
raisins), and this has become a garden, the land rising in value every
year. The region of National City and Chula Vista is supplied by the
reservoir made by the great Sweetwater Dam--a marvel of engineering
skill--and is not only most productive in fruit, but is attractive by
pretty villas and most sightly and agreeable homes. It is an
unanswerable reply to the inquiry if this region was not killed by the
boom that all the arable land, except that staked out for fancy city
prices, has steadily risen in value. This is true of all the bay region
down through Otay (where a promising watch factory is established) to
the border at Tia Juana. The rate of settlement in the county outside of
the cities and towns has been greater since the boom than before--a most
healthful indication for the future. According to the school census of
1889, Mr. Van Dyke estimates a permanent growth of nearly 50,000 people
in the county in four years. Half of these are well distributed in small
settlements which have the advantages of roads, mails, and
school-houses, and which offer to settlers who wish to work adjacent
unimproved land at prices which experience shows are still moderate.
CHAPTER XIV.
A LAND OF AGREEABLE HOMES.
In this imperfect conspectus of a vast territory I should be sorry to
say anything that can raise false expectations. Our country is very big;
and though scarcely any part of it has not some advantages, and
notwithstanding the census figures of our population, it will be a long
time before our vast territory will fill up. California must wait with
the rest; but it seems to me to have a great future. Its position in the
Union with regard to its peculiar productions is unique. It can and will
supply us with much that we now import, and labor and capital sooner or
later will find their profit in meeting the growing demand for
California products.
There are many people in the United States who could prolong life by
moving to Southern California; there are many who would find life easier
there by reason of the climate, and because out-door labor is more
agreeable there the year through; many who have to fight the weather and
a niggardly soil for existence could there have pretty little homes with
less expense of money and labor. It is well that people for whom this is
true should know it. It need not influence those who are already well
placed to try the fortune of a distant country and new associations.
I need not emphasize the disadvantage in regard to beauty of a land
that can for half the year only keep a vernal appearance by irrigation;
but to eyes accustomed to it there is something pleasing in the contrast
of the green valleys with the brown and gold and red of the hills. The
picture in my mind for the future of the Land of the Sun, of the
mountains, of the sea--which is only an enlargement of the picture of
the present--is one of great beauty. The rapid growth of fruit and
ornamental trees and the profusion of flowers render easy the making of
a lovely home, however humble it may be. The nature of the
industries--requiring careful attention to a small piece of
ground--points to small holdings as a rule. The picture I see is of a
land of small farms and gardens, highly cultivated, in all the valleys
and on the foot-hills; a land, therefore, of luxuriance and great
productiveness and agreeable homes. I see everywhere the gardens, the
vineyards, the orchards, with the various greens of the olive, the fig,
and the orange. It is always picturesque, because the country is broken
and even rugged; it is always interesting, because of the contrast with
the mountains and the desert; it has the color that makes Southern Italy
so poetic. It is the fairest field for the experiment of a contented
community, without any poverty and without excessive wealth.
CHAPTER XV.
SOME WONDERS BY THE WAY.--YOSEMITE.--MARIPOSA TREES.--MONTEREY.
I went to it with reluctance. I shrink from attempting to say anything
about it. If you knew that there was one spot on the earth where Nature
kept her secret of secrets, the key to the action of her most gigantic
and patient forces through the long eras, the marvel of constructive and
destructive energy, in features of sublimity made possible to mental
endurance by the most exquisite devices of painting and sculpture, the
wonder which is without parallel or comparison, would you not hesitate
to approach it? Would you not wander and delay with this and that
wonder, and this and that beauty and nobility of scenery, putting off
the day when the imagination, which is our highest gift, must be
extinguished by the reality? The mind has this judicious timidity. Do we
not loiter in the avenue of the temple, dallying with the vista of giant
plane-trees and statues, and noting the carving and the color, mentally
shrinking from the moment when the full glory shall burst upon us? We
turn and look when we are near a summit, we pick a flower, we note the
shape of the clouds, the passing breeze, before we take the last step
that shall reveal to us the vast panorama of mountains and valleys.
I cannot bring myself to any description of the Grand Cañon of the
Colorado by any other route, mental or physical, than that by which we
reached it, by the way of such beauty as Monterey, such a wonder as the
Yosemite, and the infinite and picturesque deserts of New Mexico and
Arizona. I think the mind needs the training in the desert scenery to
enable it to grasp the unique sublimity of the Grand Cañon.
The road to the Yosemite, after leaving the branch of the Southern
Pacific at Raymond, is an unnecessarily fatiguing one. The journey by
stage--sixty-five miles--is accomplished in less than two
days--thirty-nine miles the first day, and twenty-six the second. The
driving is necessarily slow, because two mountain ridges have to be
surmounted, at an elevation each of about 6500 feet. The road is not a
"road" at all as the term is understood in Switzerland, Spain, or in any
highly civilized region--that is, a graded, smooth, hard, and
sufficiently broad track. It is a makeshift highway, generally narrow
(often too narrow for two teams to pass), cast up with loose material,
or excavated on the slopes with frequent short curves and double curves.
Like all mountain roads which skirt precipices, it may seem "pokerish,"
but it is safe enough if the drivers are skilful and careful (all the
drivers on this route are not only excellent, but exceedingly civil as
well), and there is no break in wagon or harness. At the season this
trip is made the weather is apt to be warm, but this would not matter so
much if the road were not intolerably dusty. Over a great part of the
way the dust rises in clouds and is stifling. On a well-engineered road,
with a good road-bed, the time of passage might not be shortened, but
the journey would be made with positive comfort and enjoyment, for
though there is a certain monotony in the scenery, there is the wild
freshness of nature, now and then an extensive prospect, a sight of the
snow-clad Nevadas, and vast stretches of woodland; and a part of the way
the forests are magnificent, especially the stupendous growth of the
sugar-pine. These noble forests are now protected by their
inaccessibility.
From 1855 to 1864, nine years, the Yosemite had 653 visitors; in 1864
there were 147. The number increased steadily till 1869, the year the
overland railroad was completed, when it jumped to 1122. Between 4000
and 5000 persons visit it now each year. The number would be enormously
increased if it could be reached by rail, and doubtless a road will be
built to the valley in the near future, perhaps up the Merced River. I
believe that the pilgrims who used to go to the Yosemite on foot or on
horseback regret the building of the stage road, the enjoyment of the
wonderful valley being somehow cheapened by the comparative ease of
reaching it. It is feared that a railway would still further cheapen, if
it did not vulgarize it, and that passengers by train would miss the
mountain scenery, the splendid forests, the surprises of the way (like
the first view of the valley from Inspiration Point), and that the
Mariposa big trees would be farther off the route than they are now. The
traveller sees them now by driving eight miles from Wawona, the end of
the first day's staging. But the romance for the few there is in staging
will have to give way to the greater comfort of the many by rail.
The railway will do no more injury to the Yosemite than it has done to
Niagara, and, in fact, will be the means of immensely increasing the
comfort of the visitor's stay there, besides enabling tens of thousands
of people to see it who cannot stand the fatigue of the stage ride over
the present road. The Yosemite will remain as it is. The simplicity of
its grand features is unassailable so long as the Government protects
the forests that surround it and the streams that pour into it. The
visitor who goes there by rail will find plenty of adventure for days
and weeks in following the mountain trails, ascending to the great
points of view, exploring the cañons, or climbing so as to command the
vast stretch of the snowy Sierras. Or, if he is not inclined to
adventure, the valley itself will satisfy his highest imaginative
flights of the sublime in rock masses and perpendicular ledges, and his
sense of beauty in the graceful water-falls, rainbow colors, and
exquisite lines of domes and pinnacles. It is in the grouping of objects
of sublimity and beauty that the Yosemite excels. The narrow valley,
with its gigantic walls, which vary in every change of the point of
view, lends itself to the most astonishing scenic effects, and these the
photograph has reproduced, so that the world is familiar with the
striking features of the valley, and has a tolerably correct idea of the
sublimity of some of these features. What the photograph cannot do is to
give an impression of the unique grouping, of the majesty, and at times
crushing weight upon the mind of the forms and masses, of the
atmospheric splendor and illusion, and of the total value of such an
assemblage of wonders. The level surface of the peaceful, park-like
valley has much to do with the impression. The effect of El Capitan,
seen across a meadow and rising from a beautiful park, is much greater
than if it were encountered in a savage mountain gorge. The traveller
may have seen elsewhere greater water-falls, and domes and spires of
rock as surprising, but he has nowhere else seen such a combination as
this. He may be fortified against surprise by the photographs he has
seen and the reports of word painters, but he will not escape (say, at
Inspiration Point, or Artist Point, or other lookouts), a quickening of
the pulse and an elation which is physical as well as mental, in the
sight of such unexpected sublimity and beauty. And familiarity will
scarcely take off the edge of his delight, so varied are the effects in
the passing hours and changing lights. The Rainbow Fall, when water is
abundant, is exceedingly impressive as well as beautiful. Seen from the
carriage road, pouring out of the sky overhead, it gives a sense of
power, and at the proper hour before sunset, when the vast mass of
leaping, foaming water is shot through with the colors of the spectrum,
it is one of the most exquisite sights the world can offer; the
elemental forces are overwhelming, but the loveliness is engaging. One
turns from this to the noble mass of El Capitan with a shock of
surprise, however often it may have been seen. This is the hour also, in
the time of high-water, to see the reflection of the Yosemite Falls. As
a spectacle it is infinitely finer than anything at Mirror Lake, and is
unique in its way. To behold this beautiful series of falls, flowing
down out of the blue sky above, and flowing up out of an equally blue
sky in the depths of the earth, is a sight not to be forgotten. And
when the observer passes from these displays to the sight of the aerial
domes in the upper end of the valley, new wonders opening at every turn
of the forest road, his excitement has little chance of subsiding: he
may be even a little oppressed. The valley, so verdant and friendly with
grass and trees and flowers, is so narrow compared with the height of
its perpendicular guardian walls, and this little secluded spot is so
imprisoned in the gigantic mountains, that man has a feeling of
helplessness in it. This powerlessness in the presence of elemental
forces was heightened by the deluge of water. There had been an immense
fall of snow the winter before, the Merced was a raging torrent,
overflowing its banks, and from every ledge poured a miniature cataract.
Noble simplicity is the key-note to the scenery of the Yosemite, and
this is enhanced by the park-like appearance of the floor of the valley.
The stems of the fine trees are in harmony with the perpendicular lines,
and their foliage adds the necessary contrast to the gray rock masses.
In order to preserve these forest-trees, the underbrush, which is
liable to make a conflagration in a dry season, should be removed
generally, and the view of the great features be left unimpeded. The
minor cañons and the trails are, of course, left as much as possible to
the riot of vegetation. The State Commission, which labors under the
disadvantages of getting its supplies from a Legislature that does not
appreciate the value of the Yosemite to California, has developed the
trails judiciously, and established a model trail service. The Yosemite,
it need not be said, is a great attraction to tourists from all parts of
the world; it is the interest of the State, therefore, to increase their
number by improving the facilities for reaching it, and by resolutely
preserving all the surrounding region from ravage.
This is as true of the Mariposa big tree region as of the valley.
Indeed, more care is needed for the trees than for the great chasm, for
man cannot permanently injure the distinctive features of the latter,
while the destruction of the sequoias will be an irreparable loss to the
State and to the world. The Sequoia gigantea differs in leaf, and size
and shape of cone, from the great Sequoia semper virens on the coast
near Santa Cruz; neither can be spared. The Mariposa trees, scattered
along on a mountain ridge 6500 feet above the sea, do not easily obtain
their victory, for they are a part of a magnificent forest of other
growths, among which the noble sugar-pine is conspicuous for its
enormous size and graceful vigor. The sequoias dominate among splendid
rivals only by a magnitude that has no comparison elsewhere in the
world. I think no one can anticipate the effect that one of these
monarchs will have upon him. He has read that a coach and six can drive
through one of the trees that is standing; that another is thirty-three
feet in diameter, and that its vast stem, 350 feet high, is crowned with
a mass of foliage that seems to brush against the sky. He might be
prepared for a tower 100 feet in circumference, and even 400 feet high,
standing upon a level plain; but this living growth is quite another
affair. Each tree is an individual, and has a personal character. No man
can stand in the presence of one of these giants without a new sense of
the age of the world and the insignificant span of one human life; but
he is also overpowered by a sense of some gigantic personality. It does
not relieve him to think of this as the Methuselah of trees, or to call
it by the name of some great poet or captain. The awe the tree inspires
is of itself. As one lies and looks up at the enormous bulk, it seems
not so much the bulk, so lightly is it carried, as the spirit of the
tree--the elastic vigor, the patience, the endurance of storm and
change, the confident might, and the soaring, almost contemptuous pride,
that overwhelm the puny spectator. It is just because man can measure
himself, his littleness, his brevity of existence, with this growth out
of the earth, that he is more personally impressed by it than he might
be by the mere variation in the contour of the globe which is called a
mountain. The imagination makes a plausible effort to comprehend it, and
is foiled. No; clearly it is not mere size that impresses one; it is the
dignity, the character in the tree, the authority and power of
antiquity. Side by side of these venerable forms are young sequoias,
great trees themselves, that have only just begun their millennial
career--trees that will, if spared, perpetuate to remote ages this race
of giants, and in two to four thousand years from now take the place of
their great-grandfathers, who are sinking under the weight of years, and
one by one measuring their length on the earth.
The transition from the sublime to the exquisitely lovely in nature can
nowhere else be made with more celerity than from the Sierras to the
coast at Monterey; California abounds in such contrasts and surprises.
After the great stirring of the emotions by the Yosemite and the
Mariposa, the Hotel del Monte Park and vicinity offer repose, and make
an appeal to the sense of beauty and refinement. Yet even here something
unique is again encountered. I do not refer to the extraordinary beauty
of the giant live-oaks and the landscape-gardening about the hotel,
which have made Monterey famous the world over, but to the sea-beach
drive of sixteen miles, which can scarcely be rivalled elsewhere either
for marine loveliness or variety of coast scenery. It has points like
the ocean drive at Newport, but is altogether on a grander scale, and
shows a more poetic union of shore and sea; besides, it offers the
curious and fascinating spectacles of the rocks inhabited by the
sea-lions, and the Cypress Point. These huge, uncouth creatures can be
seen elsewhere, but probably nowhere else on this coast are they massed
in greater numbers. The trees of Cypress Point are unique, this species
of cypress having been found nowhere else. The long, never-ceasing swell
of the Pacific incessantly flows up the many crescent sand beaches,
casting up shells of brilliant hues, sea-weed, and kelp, which seems
instinct with animal life, and flotsam from the far-off islands. But the
rocks that lie off the shore, and the jagged points that project in
fanciful forms, break the even great swell, and send the waters, churned
into spray and foam, into the air with a thousand hues in the sun. The
shock of these sharp collisions mingles with the heavy ocean boom.
Cypress Point is one of the most conspicuous of these projections, and
its strange trees creep out upon the ragged ledges almost to the water's
edge. These cypresses are quite as instinct with individual life and
quite as fantastic as any that Doré drew for his "Inferno." They are as
gnarled and twisted as olive-trees two centuries old, but their
attitudes seem not only to show struggle with the elements, but agony in
that struggle. The agony may be that of torture in the tempest, or of
some fabled creatures fleeing and pursued, stretching out their long
arms in terror, and fixed in that writhing fear. They are creatures of
the sea quite as much as of the land, and they give to this lovely coast
a strange charm and fascination.
CHAPTER, XVI.
FASCINATIONS OF THE DESERT.--THE LAGUNA PUEBLO.
The traveller to California by the Santa Fé route comes into the arid
regions gradually, and finds each day a variety of objects of interest
that upsets his conception of a monotonous desert land. If he chooses to
break the continental journey midway, he can turn aside at Las Vegas to
the Hot Springs. Here, at the head of a picturesque valley, is the
Montezuma Hotel, a luxurious and handsome house, 6767 feet above
sea-level, a great surprise in the midst of the broken and somewhat
savage New Mexican scenery. The low hills covered with pines and piñons,
the romantic glens, and the wide views from the elevations about the
hotel, make it an attractive place; and a great deal has been done, in
the erection of bath-houses, ornamental gardening, and the grading of
roads and walks, to make it a comfortable place. The latitude and the
dryness of the atmosphere insure for the traveller from the North in our
winter an agreeable reception, and the elevation makes the spot in the
summer a desirable resort from Southern heat. It is a sanitarium as well
as a pleasure resort. The Hot Springs have much the same character as
the Töplitz waters in Bohemia, and the saturated earth--the
Mütterlager--furnishes the curative "mud baths" which are enjoyed at
Marienbad and Carlsbad. The union of the climate, which is so favorable
in diseases of the respiratory organs, with the waters, which do so much
for rheumatic sufferers, gives a distinction to Las Vegas Hot Springs.
This New Mexican air--there is none purer on the globe--is an enemy to
hay-fever and malarial diseases. It was a wise enterprise to provide
that those who wish to try its efficacy can do so at the Montezuma
without giving up any of the comforts of civilized life.
It is difficult to explain to one who has not seen it, or will not put
himself in the leisurely frame of mind to enjoy it, the charms of the
desert of the high plateaus of New Mexico and Arizona. Its arid
character is not so impressive as its ancientness; and the part which
interests us is not only the procession of the long geologic eras,
visible in the extinct volcanoes, the barrancas, the painted buttes,
the petrified forests, but as well in the evidences of civilizations
gone by, or the remains of them surviving in our day--the cliff
dwellings, the ruins of cities that were thriving when Coronado sent his
lieutenants through the region three centuries ago, and the present
residences of the Pueblo Indians, either villages perched upon an almost
inaccessible rock like Acamo, or clusters of adobe dwellings like Isleta
and Laguna. The Pueblo Indians, of whom the Zuñis are a tribe, have been
dwellers in villages and cultivators of the soil and of the arts of
peace immemorially, a gentle, amiable race. It is indeed such a race as
one would expect to find in the land of the sun and the cactus. Their
manners and their arts attest their antiquity and a long refinement in
fixed dwellings and occupations. The whole region is a most interesting
field for the antiquarian.
We stopped one day at Laguna, which is on the Santa Fé line west of
Isleta, another Indian pueblo at the Atlantic and Pacific junction,
where the road crosses the Rio Grande del Norte west of Albuquerque.
Near Laguna a little stream called the Rio Puerco flows southward and
joins the Rio Grande. There is verdure along these streams, and gardens
and fruit orchards repay the rude irrigation. In spite of these
watercourses the aspect of the landscape is wild and desert-like--low
barren hills and ragged ledges, wide sweeps of sand and dry gray bushes,
with mountains and long lines of horizontal ledges in the distance.
Laguna is built upon a rounded elevation of rock. Its appearance is
exactly that of a Syrian village, the same cluster of little, square,
flat-roofed houses in terraces, the same brown color, and under the same
pale blue sky. And the resemblance was completed by the figures of the
women on the roofs, or moving down the slope, erect and supple, carrying
on the head a water jar, and holding together by one hand the mantle
worn like a Spanish rebozo. The village is irregularly built, without
much regard to streets or alleys, and it has no special side of entrance
or approach. Every side presents a blank wall of adobe, and the entrance
seems quite by chance. Yet the way we went over, the smooth slope was
worn here and there in channels three or four inches deep, as if by the
passing feet of many generations. The only semblance of architectural
regularity is in the plaza, not perfectly square, upon which some of the
houses look, and where the annual dances take place. The houses have the
effect of being built in terraces rising one above the other, but it is
hard to say exactly what a house is--whether it is anything more than
one room. You can reach some of the houses only by aid of a ladder. You
enter others from the street. If you will go farther you must climb a
ladder which brings you to the roof that is used as the sitting-room or
door-yard of the next room. From this room you may still ascend to
others, or you may pass through low and small door-ways to other
apartments. It is all haphazard, but exceedingly picturesque. You may
find some of the family in every room, or they may be gathered, women
and babies, on a roof which is protected by a parapet. At the time of
our visit the men were all away at work in their fields. Notwithstanding
the houses are only sun-dried bricks, and the village is without water
or street commissioners, I was struck by the universal cleanliness.
There was no refuse in the corners or alleys, no odors, and many of the
rooms were patterns of neatness. To be sure, an old woman here and there
kept her hens in an adjoining apartment above her own, and there was the
litter of children and of rather careless house-keeping. But, taken
altogether, the town is an example for some more civilized, whose
inhabitants wash oftener and dress better than these Indians.
We were put on friendly terms with the whole settlement through three or
four young maidens who had been at the Carlisle school, and spoke
English very prettily. They were of the ages of fifteen and sixteen, and
some of them had been five years away. They came back, so far as I could
learn, gladly to their own people and to the old ways. They had resumed
the Indian dress, which is much more becoming to them, as I think they
know, than that which had been imposed upon them. I saw no books. They
do not read any now, and they appear to be perfectly content with the
idle drudgery of their semi-savage condition. In time they will marry in
their tribe, and the school episode will be a thing of the past. But not
altogether. The pretty Josephine, who was our best cicerone about the
place, a girl of lovely eyes and modest mien, showed us with pride her
own room, or "house," as she called it, neat as could be, simply
furnished with an iron bedstead and snow-white cot, a mirror, chair, and
table, and a trunk, and some "advertising" prints on the walls. She said
that she was needed at home to cook for her aged mother, and her present
ambition was to make money enough by the sale of pottery and curios to
buy a cooking stove, so that she could cook more as the whites do. The
house-work of the family had mainly fallen upon her; but it was not
burdensome, I fancied, and she and the other girls of her age had
leisure to go to the station on the arrival of every train, in hope of
