not home earlier than you expected?"

"Yes, mother. There was as an accident that broke up the party."

He described the affair, but said nothing of his own part in it.

The next morning, after Fred had taken breakfast and gone to business,
a neighbor came in.

"I congratulate you, Mrs. Fenton," she said. "You have a right to be
proud of Fred."

"Thank you," said the widow, puzzled. "I'm glad you think well of him."

"There's few boys that would have done what he did."

"What has he done?" asked Mrs. Fenton, stopping short on her way to the
pantry.

"You don't mean to say you don't know? Why, it's in all the papers."

"I am sure I don't know what you are talking about."

"Didn't I tell you how he saved the little girl from burning to death?"

"Was it Fred who saved her? He didn't tell me that."

"Of course it was. Read that, now!"

She put in the hand of the widow a copy of the Sun in which the whole
scene was vividly described.

"What do you say now, Mrs. Fenton?"

"That I am all the more proud of Fred because he did not boast of what
he did," and a look of pride shone in the widow's eyes.

That morning, when Raymond Ferguson entered the breakfast-room rather
later than usual, he found his father reading a paragraph in the Sun
with every appearance of surprise.

"What is it, papa?" asked Raymond.

"Read that!"

Raymond took the paper, and his eye was drawn to some conspicuous
headlines.

A NARROW ESCAPE FROM A TERRIBLE DEATH!

A BROKER'S DAUGHTER IN FLAMES!

SAVED BY A BOY'S HEROISM!

A TRAGIC SCENE AT A NEW YEAR'S PARTY!

"Why, it's Rose Wainwright!" said Raymond excitedly. "Whom do you think
I saw on his way to the party last evening?"

"Fred Fenton."

"How did you hear it?" asked Raymond in surprise.

"Read the account and you will understand."

This is what Raymond read:

Last evening a terrible tragedy came near being enacted at the house of
the well-known broker, John Wainwright. The occasion was a juvenile
party given by his little daughter Rose, eleven years of age. One part
of the entertainment provided was a series of tableaux upon a miniature
stage at one end of the dining-room. All went well till the third
tableau, in which the young hostess took part, She incautiously
approached too near the footlights, when her white dress caught fire
and instantly blazed up. All present were spellbound, and it seemed as
if the little girl's fate was sealed. Luckily one of the young guests,
Fred Fenton, retained his coolness and presence of mind. Without an
instant's delay he sprang upon the stage, directed the little girl to
lie down, and wrapped his coat around her. Thanks to his promptitude,
she escaped with slight injuries. By the time the rest of those present
recovered from the spell of terror, Rose was saved.

We understand that the brave boy who displayed such heroic qualities
was formerly a train boy on the Erie Railroad, but is now employed in
the office of Mr. Wainwright.

Raymond read this account with lowering brow. He felt sick with
jealousy. Why had he not been lucky enough to receive an invitation to
the party, and enact the part of a deliverer? He did not ask himself
whether, if the opportunity had been afforded, he would have availed
himself of it. It is fortunate for Rose that she had Fred to depend
upon in her terrible emergency, and not Raymond Ferguson. There was
little that was heroic about him. A hero must be unselfish, and Raymond
was the incarnation of selfishness.

"Your cousin seems to have become quite a hero," said Mr. Ferguson, as
Raymond looked up from the paper.

"Don't call him my cousin! I don't care to own him."

"I don't know," said his father, who was quite as selfish, but not as
malicious as Raymond. "I am not sure but it will be considered a credit
to us to have such a relative."

"Anybody could have done as much as he did," said Raymond in a tone of
discontent. "Here's some news of your train-boy, Luella," he continued,
as his sister entered the room.

"Has he been arrested?" asked Luella listlessly.

"Not at all! He turns out to be a hero," said her father.

"I suppose that is a joke."

"Read the paper and see."

The young lady read the account with as little pleasure as Raymond.

"How on earth came a boy like that at the Wainwrights' house?" she said
with a curl of the lip. "Really, society is getting very much mixed."

"Perhaps," said her father, "it was his relationship to the future
Countess Cattelli."

Luella smiled complacently. She had fallen in with an Italian count, an
insignificant looking man, very dark and with jet black hair and
mustache, of whom she knew very little except that he claimed to be a
count. She felt that he would propose soon, and she had decided to
accept him. She did not pretend to love him, but it would be such a
triumph to be addressed as the Countess Cattelli. She would let Alfred
Lindsay see that she could do without him.




CHAPTER XXVII.

A CONFIDENTIAL MISSION.

When Fred met Mr. Wainwright at the office the next morning his
employer greeted him with a pleasant smile, but did not stop to speak.
Fred felt relieved, for it embarrassed him to be thanked, and since the
evening previous no one had met him without speaking of his heroism.
Now Fred was inclined to be modest, and he could not possibly feel that
he had done anything heroic, though he was quite aware that he had
saved the life of Rose Wainwright. He looked upon it rather as a
fortunate opportunity for rendering his employer a valuable service.

At one o'clock Fred took his hat, intending to go to lunch. He lunched
at a quiet place in Nassau Street, and never spent over twenty-five
cents for this meal, feeling that he must give the bulk of his salary
to his mother.

He was just going out when he heard his name called.

Looking back, he saw that it was the broker himself who was speaking to
him. Mr. Wainwright had his hat on, and seemed about going out, too.

"You must go to lunch with me to-day, Fred."

"Thank you, sir," answered Fred respectfully.

They walked through Wall Street together, the broker chatting
pleasantly. On the way Fred met Raymond, who stared in surprise and
disgust as he saw the intimate terms on which Fred appeared to be with
his wealthy employer. Mr. Wainwright led the way into an expensive
restaurant of a very select character, and motioned Fred to sit down at
a table with him.

After the orders were given, he said: "I have invited you to lunch with
me, as I could not speak at the office without being overheard. Of
course the great service which you rendered me and mine last evening, I
can never forget. I do not propose to pay you for it."

"I am glad of that, sir," said Fred earnestly.

"I feel that money is entirely inadequate to express my gratitude, but
I shall lose no opportunity of advancing your interests and pushing you
on in business."

"Thank you, sir."

"Indeed, it so happens that I have an opportunity even now of showing
my confidence in you."

Fred listened with increased attention.

"Some months since," continued the broker, "a confidential clerk who
had been employed in my office for years suddenly disappeared, and with
him about fifteen thousand dollars in money and securities. As they
were my property, and no one else was involved, I did not make the loss
public, thinking that I might stand a better chance of getting them
back."

"But, sir, I should think the securities would be sold, and the amount
realized spent."

"Well thought of, but there was one hindrance. They were not negotiable
without the indorsement of the owner in whose name they stood."

"Yes, sir, I see."

"Sooner or later, I expected to hear from them, and I have done so.
Yesterday this letter came to me from my defaulting clerk."

He placed a letter, with a Canadian postmark in Fred's hand.

"Shall I read it?'" asked Fred.

"Yes, do so."

This was the letter:

MR. WAINWRIGHT,

DEAR SIR--I am ashamed to address you after the manner in which I have
betrayed your confidence and robbed you, but I do it in the hope of
repairing to some extent the wrong I have committed, and of restoring
to you a large part of the stolen bonds. If it depended on myself alone
I should have little difficulty, but I had a partner in my crime. I may
say indeed that I never should have robbed you had I not been
instigated to it by another, This man, who calls himself Paul Bowman, I
made acquaintance with at a billiard saloon in New York. He insinuated
himself into my confidence, inquired my salary, denounced it as
inadequate, and finally induced me to take advantage of the confidence
reposed in me to abstract the securities which you lost. He had made
all arrangements for my safe flight, accompanying me, of course. We
went to Montreal first, but this is so apt to be the refuge of
defaulters that we finally came to the small village from which I
address these lines.

There was a considerable sum of money which we spent, also five hundred
dollars in government bonds on which we realized. The other securities
we have not as yet been able to negotiate. I have proposed to Bowman to
restore them to you by express, and trust to your kindness to spare us
a criminal prosecution, and enable us to return to the States, for
which I have a homesick longing. But he laughs the idea to scorn, and
has managed to spirit away the bonds and conceal them in some place
unknown to me. Of course this makes me entirely dependent upon him. To
make matters worse, I have fallen sick with rheumatism, and am
physically helpless.

If you could send here a confidential messenger who could ascertain the
hiding-place of the bonds, I would thankfully consent to his taking
them back to you, and I would make no conditions with you. If you felt
that you could repose confidence in me once more. I would willingly
return to your employment, and make arrangements to pay you by degrees
the value of the money thus far expended by Bowman and myself. There
are still thirteen thousand five hundred dollars' worth of securities
left untouched in their original packages.

We are living in a small village called St. Victor, thirty miles from
the American line. We occupy a small cottage rather out of the village,
and go by our own names. Do not write to me, for the letter would be
seen by Paul Bowman, and defeat my plans, but instruct your messenger
to seek a private interview with me. I am detained at home by sickness
at present, but Bowman is away most of the day. He is fond of hunting,
and spends considerable of the day in the woods, while his evenings are
spent at the inn, where there is a pool table. I have managed to send
this to the post office by a small girl who comes here in the morning
to make the bed and sweep. Hoping earnestly that this communication may
reach you, I sign myself

                           Your repentant clerk,

                           JAMES SINCLAIR.

Fred read this letter with great interest. "He seems to write in good
faith," he said, as he handed it back.

"Yes; Sinclair is not so wicked as weak. I quite believe him when he
says that it was Bowman who instigated him to the deed."

"Do you think there is any chance of recovering the securities?" asked
Fred.

"That depends upon whether I can secure a discreet and trustworthy
messenger."

"Yes, sir; I suppose that is important."

"Perhaps you can suggest some one?" said the broker, eying Fred
attentively.

Fred shook his head.

"I have too few acquaintances to think of anyone who would be fit," he
answered.

"Would you undertake it yourself?" asked Mr. Wainwright.

"I?" stammered Fred in genuine surprise.

"Yes."

"But don't you think I am too young?"

"Perhaps your youth may be a recommendation."

"I don't see how, sir."

"By drawing away suspicion from you. Should I send a man, the
appearance of a stranger in a small place like St. Victor--I think it
has little more than a thousand inhabitants--would very likely excite
the suspicions of this Bowman, and so defeat the chances of success."

"Yes, sir, I see that."

"Of course your youth presents this objection--that you may not have
the requisite judgment and knowledge of the world for so delicate a
mission."

"That is what I am afraid of, sir."

"Still, I have observed you closely, and have found you prompt,
self-reliant, and possessed of unusual good sense. So, upon the whole,
having no other person in my mind, I have decided to send you to St.
Victor if you will consent to go."

"I will certainly go, sir, if you desire it, and will do my best to
succeed."

"That is all that any one could do, whatever might be his age and
experience. When will you be ready?"

"To-morrow, if you wish it, sir."

"The sooner the better. I shall provide you with ample funds to defray
your expenses. As to instructions, I have none to give. You must be
guided by circumstances, and fall back in times of perplexity upon your
natural shrewdness. Now let us address ourselves to the dinner."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

ST. VICTOR.

"So this is St. Victor," said Fred, as he got out of the train on the
Grand Trunk Railroad, and looked about him curiously.

It was a small, unpretending village, composed entirely of frame
houses, of modest size, and a few small stores kept, as the signs
indicated, by Frenchmen. On a little elevation stood a wooden Catholic
church, surmounted by a cross.

"It seems a quiet place," thought Fred. "I shall find it dull enough,
but if I accomplish my purpose I won't complain of that."

He scarcely needed to inquire for the village inn, for it was in plain
sight, not a hundred yards from the station. As the town seemed to be
peopled chiefly by French residents it would have been natural to
conclude that the hotel also would be French. This, however, was not
the case, for the Lion Inn (there was a swinging signboard adorned by
the figure of a lion, the work of a fourth-rate sign painter) was kept
by a short, stout, red-faced Englishman, who stood in the doorway as
Fred came up, valise in hand.

"Is this the hotel?" asked Fred.

"Yes, sir," was the reply.

"I should like to stay with you for a while."

"All right, sir. Come right in, and we'll accommodate you with a room.
Have you had supper?"

"No. I should like some, for I am very hungry."

"It shall be ready for you, sir, in a jiffy. Will 'am and heggs suit
you, sir?"

"Yes, I shall relish them."

"James, take the young gentleman's bag up to No. 5."

"I should like water and towels, as I have had a long and dusty ride."

Fred was ushered into a small bedroom on the second floor, very plainly
furnished, but the train boy was not accustomed to luxurious
accommodations, and found it satisfactory. He indulged himself in a
thorough ablution, then sat down at the window, which was in the front
of the house.

Soon there was a knock at the door, and the boy James made his
appearance.

"Please, sir, your supper's ready," he said.

"And so am I," returned Fred with alacrity.

He descended to a small dining-room, adjoining the bar. It was not more
than twelve feet square, and from its size it might be inferred that
the Lion Inn was seldom overrun with guests.

Fred sat down at the table alone, but presently a man of thirty-five or
thereabouts entered and took a seat opposite him.

"Good evening, young man," he said. "Where do you come from?"

"Good evening," answered Fred, civilly. "I come from New York."

The other arched his brows.

"So do I," he said. "What sent you here to this out-of-the-way place?"

"There's good hunting hereabouts, isn't there?"

"Yes, are you fond of hunting?"

"I like it pretty well. I've just had a present of a handsome rifle."

It should be mentioned here that before Fred left New York Mr.
Wainwright had given him a gun which would serve him as an excuse for
his journey.

"We'll go out together to-morrow. My name's Bowman."

Fred heard the name with a thrill of excitement. Why, this must be the
man referred to in Sinclair's letter as having instigated him to the
crime. He surveyed Bowman with attention, taking stock of him, so to
speak. He found him to be a man of middle height, rather spare than
stout, with dark, shifty eyes and a sallow complexion. He wore a
mustache, but no whiskers.

"I may find it worth while to get well acquainted with him," thought
Fred. "I shall be glad to go out with you," he said aloud.

"That's all right! But how does a boy like you happen to be traveling
so far from home?"

"I have a vacation," said Fred. "I have never been in Canada, and
thought it would be something new to come here."

"I'm pretty tired of it, I can tell you."

"Then why do you stay?" asked Fred innocently.

"My partner's taken down with rheumatism, and I can't leave him,"
answered Bowman in a tone of hesitation. "When he gets well I may go
back to New York."

"I doubt if you will," thought Fred.

"Were you in a business position in New York?" asked Bowman.

"I have been for some time train boy on the Erie Railroad," answered
Fred, feeling that it would never do to mention his connection with Mr.
Wainwright.

"Train boys don't usually have money to spend on vacation trips," said
Bowman shrewdly.

"That's true," laughed Fred. "If I had depended on my savings, I
shouldn't have been able to go farther than Hoboken, or Coney Island,
but a rich friend supplied me with a moderate sum for expenses."

"Then you were in luck."

Fred was a little afraid that Bowman would inquire the name of the rich
friend, and made up his mind that he would evade answering. However,
his companion showed no curiosity on the subject.

"Will you take a glass of ale with me?" asked Bowman, as he filled his
own glass from a bottle beside his plate.

"No, thank you. I have no taste for it."

"I didn't like it myself at first but I've come to like it."

"Does your partner board with you at the hotel?" asked Fred.

"No," was the careless reply. "We have a small cottage just out of the
village."

"I wonder how he gets along for meals," thought Fred.

However that might be, Paul Bowman didn't permit anxiety to interfere
with his own appetite. He did ample justice to the supper, and so
indeed did Fred. Fortunately the ham and eggs were well cooked, and the
loaf of bread was fresh. In place of ale Fred contented himself with
tea.

At length they rose from the table.

"This is a beastly hole--St. Victor, I mean," said Bowman, as he led
the way to the reading-room, "but the eating is fair. An Englishman
keeps the inn, and though he has no French kickshaws on his table, he
gives you solid food and enough of it. Do you smoke? I believe I have a
cigar somewhere, but I smoke a pipe myself."

"Thank you," answered Fred, "but I don't smoke. I used to smoke
cigarettes, but a young man--an acquaintance of mine--died of
cigarette-smoking, so the doctor said, and I gave it up."

"Smoking never hurt me that I know of," said Bowman. "Even if it did,
what's a man to do in this dull hole? Shall you stay here long?"

"I don't know how long. It's a cheap place to stay in, isn't it?"

"Yes, it has that recommendation."

"Then I may stay a week possibly," said Fred in an off-hand way.

"I've been here six weeks," said Bowman.

"Then you have had a chance to get well acquainted with St. Victor."

"A good deal better than I want to be. I was just getting ready to
leave, when my partner had a sharp attack of rheumatism."

"Is he from New York too?"

"No, from Philadelphia," answered Bowman cautiously, though he had no
suspicion that Fred was other than he represented himself.

"I have never been in Philadelphia," said Fred indifferently. "What is
your partner's name?"

"James Sinclair," answered Bowman after a moment's hesitation. "Have
you ever heard that name before?"

"Yes."

"Where?" I asked Bowman quickly.

"I had a schoolmate of that name."

"Oh! Yes, I suppose the name is not an uncommon one. Do you play
billiards?"

"I have seen it played."

"There is a poor table in the house. Such as it is, it may afford us a
little recreation. Will you try a game?"

"Yes, if you will teach me."

Fred felt that it was his policy to cultivate the acquaintance of Mr.
Bowman, as it might afford him an opportunity to obtain the information
he desired. He had never played a game of billiards, but he was willing
to try it.

"Come in, then," said Bowman.

He led the way into a room opposite the office, where stood a
venerable-looking billiard table, probably twenty years old. It had
been given to the landlord some years before by a gentleman, and it had
seen hard service since then.

They played one game, and were about to commence another when a small
girl with black hair cut short entered the room.

"Monsieur Bowman," she said, "your friend would like to see you. He
feels quite bad."

"Plague take it!" said Bowman pettishly. "I can do him no good, but I
suppose I shall have to go."

"Is it your partner?" asked Fred.

"Yes."

"If you don't mind I will walk over with you."

"Glad of your company. Claudine, tell Mr. Sinclair that I will be with
him directly."

"Oui, monsieur," and the little girl vanished.

"I wish Sinclair would get well or something," grumbled Bowman, as they
walked to the lower end of the main street of the village. "It's hard
luck for me to be tied to a sick man."

"Still he has the worst of it," suggested Fred, who was not altogether
pleased with the cold selfishness of his companion.

"Yes, I suppose so; but it isn't right that I should suffer for his
misfortune."

"Do you employ a doctor?"

"Yes; I called in a doctor once--a Frenchman--Dr. St. Hilaire. He left
some medicines, and Sinclair takes them."

"He doesn't seem to get better, then?"

"At any rate he is very slow about it," said Bowman, who spoke as if
his unfortunate friend were in fault.

At last they reached the cottage. It was very small, containing three
rooms and an attic. Bowman opened the door, and entered what might
perhaps be designated as the sitting-room, though it contained a bed,
on which, propped up by pillows, lay James Sinclair.

"What's amiss with you, Sinclair?" grumbled Bowman.

"Everything is amiss. You have left me alone all day."

"What good could I do you if I were here? It would only mope me to
death."

"I have had nothing to eat since morning, except a boiled egg."

"Why not? Couldn't you send Claudine after food?"

"Of what use would that be, when I had no money to give her? I warrant
you have had your regular meals."

"I took my meals at the hotel--it was more convenient."

"I warrant me you took care to provide for yourself. At least give me
some money so that I may not quite starve."

"Money, money, all the time! Do you know, Sinclair, our stock is
running very low?"

"I demand my share of it as long as it lasts. You take advantage of my
helplessness----"

"There's a dollar! Mind you make it last as long as possible," said
Bowman. "It will be well to put off your complaints till another time,
for I have brought company."

He signaled to Fred, who had remained outside, to enter, and the boy
did so. He regarded the sick man with interest and sympathy, not alone
because he seemed in sorry plight, and ill treated by his companion in
crime, but also because he was clearly the less guilty of the two, and
seemed disposed to make amends to the man whom he had wronged.

James Sinclair, unprepared for the advent of a boy, regarded him with
surprise.

"Who is this?" he asked.

"My name is Fred Fenton," answered the train boy, remembering that
Bowman was as yet ignorant of his name.

"He is a guest at the inn," explained Bowman carelessly. "He arrived
to-night. He will be some company for me in this dull hole. We were
playing a game of billiards when Claudine broke in and told me you
wanted to see me. I expected to find you at the point of death," he
finished impatiently.

"That may come sooner than you think," said Sinclair. "May I ask where
you come from, young man?" he added, in a tone of suppressed eagerness
which Fred well understood.

"I come from New York," answered the boy, trying to throw a degree of
significance into this brief answer.

"From New York!" said Sinclair, in some excitement, and trying to read
in Fred's face whether he was the expected messenger. "You have come
for your health, I suppose?"

"Not exactly for that, for my health is always good, but I thought it
might be a pleasant place to spend an unexpected holiday that has been
granted me."

"Pleasant!" repeated Bowman scornfully. "If you can find anything
pleasant at St. Victor, you will have greater luck than I."

"Is Claudine in the kitchen?" asked the sick man. "Claudine!" he
called, raising his voice.

"Yes, monsieur," answered the little handmaid, appearing at the door.

"Go to the baker's and buy a loaf of bread. Here is money. Is there any
tea left?"

"Yes, monsieur."

"Then buy a cupful of milk and half a pound of sugar. I am almost
famished. A cup of tea and some toast will put new life into me."

Claudine departed on her errand, and Sinclair once more fixed his eyes
on Fred. There was a question he very much wished to ask, but in
Bowman's presence he could not do it safely.



CHAPTER XXIX.

FRED TAKES THE FIRST STEP.

"And so you come from New York?" Sinclair repeated, for the want of
something better to say.

"When did you leave the city, may I ask?"

"On Tuesday."

"Then you came directly here?"

"Yes, I came directly here."

"You must then have heard of St. Victor before starting."

"Yes."

"Yet I fancy it is so obscure that its existence can be known to very
few in the great city."

"I presume you are right. I was recommended to come here by a friend."

"Ah!" commented James Sinclair, beginning to think he was right, though
it seemed to him very strange that Mr. Wainwright should have selected
so young a messenger. "I should like to see New York once more."

"Who wouldn't?" interposed Bowman impatiently. "In New York you can
live. Here in St. Victor one can only vegetate."

"Don't you expect to go back to New York some day, Mr. Sinclair?" asked
Fred.

"I don't know; I hope so."

"When our business in Canada is completed," said Bowman, "we shall
probably both go back."

"Are you going to sleep here to-night, Bowman?" asked Sinclair.

"No, I think not. I have taken a room in the hotel."

"You must do as you like, of course, but it is lonely for me. Besides I
might need assistance."

"Let the girl stay here, then. I should make a miserable sick nurse. I
will ask young Fenton, here, if it is reasonable to expect me to bury
myself in such a cheerless place when it will do no good."

Fred was disgusted with the man's selfishness. "If I had a friend
sick," he said, "I think I would be quite willing to keep him company."

"You say so now, but wait till the time comes."

"Your words, Mr. Fenton," said Sinclair, "embolden me to ask you a
favor."

"Name it," said Fred, in a tone of kindly encouragement.

"I spend all my time alone, except when Claudine is ministering to my
wants. Your time is hardly likely to be very much occupied in this dull
place. Can't you spare me an hour or two at your convenience during the
day?"

"You have promised to go hunting with me tomorrow," interrupted Bowman.

"That is true. I will go with you in the forenoon, and in the afternoon
I will call on Mr. Sinclair."

Bowman shrugged his shoulders.

"It is a rash promise. You will be sorry for having made it."

"I will risk that," answered Fred.

Sinclair gave him a grateful glance. The promise cheered him, and
kindled hopes in his breast. Now he would have a chance of learning,
when alone with Fred, whether he came as a messenger from Mr.
Wainwright. If so, and through his means he could make restitution and
regain his place and lost character, he would still have something to
live for. He execrated his folly in weakly submitting to the guidance
of Paul Bowman, and for having taken that first step in crime, which is
so difficult to retrace.

"Don't forget your promise," he said earnestly as Fred rose to go.

"I won't fail you," replied Fred quietly.

"You're in for it now," remarked Bowman, as they started to walk home.
"You might as well turn sick nurse at once as give up your time to
Sinclair."

"I might be sick sometime myself," said Fred, "and in that case I
should be sorry to be left alone."

"Oh, well, suit yourself," said Bowman carelessly. "I'd rather it would
be you than me, for that matter. I shall expect you to go out to the
woods with me in the forenoon."

"All right!"

"Well," thought Fred, as he slipped into bed at ten o'clock, "I've made
a beginning. I have formed the acquaintance of both parties to the
robbery. The next step will be more difficult."



CHAPTER XXX.

A HUNTING EXCURSION.

Fred did not rise till eight o'clock the next morning. He was fatigued
by his long journey, and slept late. When he descended, he found Bowman
seated at the breakfast-table.

"I got ahead of you," said Bowman.

