than an older person to pass a whole night on difficult duty, without
a wink of sleep, for he had been accustomed to spend a portion of every
night in planking the deck on his watch; but at Bonnydale, his quiet
home, far removed from the scenes of actual conflict, he was an
industrious sleeper, giving his whole attention to his slumbers, as a
proper preparation for the stirring scenes in which he was again about
to engage.
He slept soundly; but he had dreamed that some one opened the door of
his room, or some one had actually done so. He was not a believer in
dreams, and when an impression had fastened itself upon his mind, he was
inclined to investigate it. It seemed to him that he had been awakened
from his sleep by the opening of the door of his chamber. Some member of
the family might be sick, and he might be needed to go for the doctor,
or for some other service.
He leaped from his bed when no answer came to his second demand, lighted
his lamp, and put on his trousers. With the light in his hand, he opened
the door; but there was no one there, and not a sound of any kind could
be heard. He walked about the hall in his bare feet, and listened
attentively at the doors of several of the chambers, especially at that
of Mr. Pembroke, the invalid gentleman whom, with his daughter, he had
brought home as a passenger in the captured Vixen.
Christy heard nothing, and he silently descended the stairs to the lower
hall. All was as quiet there as upon the floor above, and he had begun
to think that the impression he had received had been given him in a
dream, though he could not remember that he had been dreaming. But when
he came to the front door, he found it was ajar. It was usually secured
by a spring lock, and those who were liable to be out in the evening
were provided with night-keys.
At the present time his father was in Washington, and he could not have
neglected to close the door. He had been to the railroad station to meet
the last train, thinking it possible that his father might return, and
he was confident that he had been the last to enter the house. He was
very sure that he had not left the door unfastened, and this assurance
made him confident that some person had entered the house. The noise at
the door of his chamber was not an illusion or a dream: though it had
been made by closing rather than by opening it, or he would have been
likely to find the intruder in his room when he lighted his lamp.
It seemed to him to be a matter of course that the midnight visitor had
come into the mansion for the purpose of plundering its occupants, or of
securing the valuables it contained. Putting his lamp on the table, he
went out upon the veranda, and looked all about him. The grounds were
very extensive, and a broad avenue led to the street. It was very dark;
but as he cast his eyes in the direction of the grand entrance to the
estate, he discovered some dark object in motion; but he lost sight of
it in a moment.
It was a living being, or it would not move, and he was certain that he
had made a discovery. Then two regrets flashed through his mind as he
stepped down from the veranda; the first, that he had not put on his
shoes before he left his chamber, and the second, that he had not taken
his pistols, for a bullet would travel a great deal faster than a
barefooted officer, even of the United States Navy. But he ran with all
his speed to the street, to the great detriment of his uncovered feet.
He reached the grand entrance in an exceedingly short space of time;
but he might as well have been in his chamber, for no ruffian, robber,
or Confederate spy could be seen. He had no means of knowing which way
the intruder at the mansion had turned, to the right or the left, or
whether, like the timid colored gentleman in a trying situation, he
had taken to the woods. Christy walked up the street, and then down the
street; but the underbrush had recently been cut in the grove, and he
did not venture to explore it without any protection for his feet.
He peered into the gloom of the night with all his eyes, and listened
with all his ears for over an hour; and then, watchful and careful
officer as he was, there were five hundred chances against him to one
in his favor, of finding the intruder, and he reluctantly returned to
the mansion.
Like the other male occupants of the house, the lieutenant was provided
with a night-key. For one who had only just developed a tolerably
thriving mustache, Christy was a prudent and methodical young gentleman.
As a part of his method, he had a great many small drawers in his rooms,
and a dozen or more keys; but he had never lost them, for the reason
that he carried them chained to his nether garment. But he had two sets
of keys, one for the house, and one for the ship. He had taken the
night-key from the former, and put it in his vest pocket; and when he
reached the front door of the mansion, the key he wanted was in his
chamber, and he had been careful to shut the door when he left the
house.
He could not get in, and he walked around the building to find a window
which had not been closed. His mother had a reasonable dread of robbers,
and she always looked out for the windows before she retired. He did
not wish to arouse the family by ringing the great gong bell, but it was
too cold to spend the rest of the night out-doors in his half-clothed
condition, for he was as liable to take a severe cold as any less
brilliant individual, and he might have to spend a month in his chamber,
instead of reporting to the flag-officer of the Eastern Gulf squadron,
in command of the Bronx.
He rang the bell, and the sound from it reverberated through the entire
mansion. It was some time before a servant came to open the door; but
the man who let him in was astonished to see him partially dressed, and
wondered if he had not been walking in his sleep. In the lower hall, he
was satisfied that the whole house was astir, for the gong which had
sounded was the "emergency bell," used only when the ordinary one at the
front door was not likely to be heard.
"Walsh!" called Mrs. Passford from the head of the stairs.
"Yes, ma'am," replied the man who had admitted Christy, and who was
still wondering what fit, freak, or fancy had beset the young officer.
"Who is it? What is the matter?" demanded the lady of the mansion, in
tones which indicated anxiety if not alarm.
"It is Mr. Christy, ma'am; nothing is the matter," replied Walsh;
but then he appeared to think that he had replied without proper
consideration, and he revised his speech. "I don't know that anything's
the matter, ma'am," and still he gazed at the young gentleman, as though
he deemed it possible that he had suddenly gone crazy.
"Nothing is the matter, mother," called Christy. "I am all right."
"But why are you out at this time of night, my son? It is nearly two
o'clock in the morning," said Mrs. Passford, as she descended the
stairs. "You are not half dressed, Christy."
"But I am all right, mother, and there is not the least reason to worry
about anything, for the ship is not going to the bottom just yet,"
replied Christy, indulging in a forced laugh to assist in quieting his
mother's fears.
"But why are you out doors at this time of night?" Mrs. Passford
insisted. "You will catch a cold that will lay you up, if you go out
in that condition."
"I should not have rung that bell if I had not been afraid of taking
cold," added the son.
"But, Christy, something has happened; and you must tell me about it, or
I shall not sleep another wink to-night," persisted the lady, concluding
that her son was trying to conceal something from her, as indeed he was,
for he feared it would alarm her if he told her some one had come into
the house.
"There is nothing to be frightened about, mother; and I will tell you
all about it," added Christy, as he took his overcoat from the stand and
put it on. "I waked an hour ago, or more, with the idea that some one
had opened the door of my room," and he related the circumstances to his
mother, including his search in the grounds and the road.
"Do you think any one came into the house?" asked Mrs. Passford, though
with but little of the woman's terror that such a statement might have
caused.
"That is my decided opinion. A noise at my chamber door woke me; I found
the front door ajar, though I know I closed it when I came in last
night, and I saw something moving down the avenue, which could only have
been a man. Of course, I conclude that it was a burglar; but none of us
have been killed or harmed."
Christy went to his room and completed his toilet. The house was warm,
and he was soon comfortable enough after the out-door chill. By this
time Miss Florry Passford had put in an appearance in the upper hall,
with Bertha Pembroke. The alarm was again briefly explained, and the
invalid gentleman was assured that nothing alarming had occurred. Then
the young lieutenant and his mother proceeded to ascertain what the
burglar had accomplished in the house.
On the lower floor nothing appeared to have been disturbed. In the
parlor a gold watch, adorned with diamonds, had been left on the table
by Florry, who had forgotten it; but it had not been taken. The burglar
could not have helped seeing it if he had explored the house as such
gentry do on such occasions. In the dining-room no attempt to open the
steel safe set in the wall, which contained a vast amount of silver,
jewelry, money, and other valuables, had been made. In a word,
wherever they examined the rooms, no sign of any depredations could be
discovered. The burglar did not appear to have lunched in the pantry
where some choice viands had been placed. The robber had certainly
been very considerate, and had done no mischief either for plunder or
diversion. He had evidently, in the opinion of Mrs. Passford and her
son, undertaken a profitless enterprise.
"But what could have been his object in coming into the house?" asked
the bewildered lady.
"I shall have to give it up, mother."
"He might have taken Florry's watch, she was so careless as to leave on
the table in the sitting-room," added she.
"But he did not."
"He could not have been disturbed until you spoke to him; and he might
have ransacked the whole of the lower part of the house."
"But he did not."
They had given up the examination of the premises, and given up the
conundrum, and Christy was leading the way up-stairs. He went into his
room, followed by his mother.
"He must have come into your room, my son, or you would not have heard
him at the door. Perhaps he has robbed you," suggested Mrs. Passford.
The young officer declared he had nothing there to steal. As he spoke,
he took from his coat pocket on the bedpost an envelope containing his
commission and other papers. It was safe; so were his purse and watch.
The mystery was not solved till Christy embarked for the Gulf.
CHAPTER II
THE ABSCONDING MAN-SERVANT
Lieutenant Christopher Passford, in his two years' experience in
the navy, had been under the fire of the enemy too many times to
be intimidated by a burglar, and he felt a certain contempt for the
midnight marauder, who had entered the mansion and disturbed his restful
slumbers. He returned to his bed, therefore, and slept like a marine
till the call bell woke him in the morning.
As he dressed himself he could not help thinking of the mysterious
visitation, and he asked himself a great many questions in regard to the
object of the intruder, since it did not appear that he had entered the
house for the purpose of robbing its occupants. He could not determine
whether or not the fellow had actually come into his room; but his
porte-monnaie, which contained a considerable sum of money, and his gold
repeater, a very valuable watch, were just where he had left them the
night before.
In the breast pocket of his uniform coat he found the envelope which
contained his commission as a lieutenant, received only two days before
his orders, and some other papers. As a precaution against inquisitive
persons, if the package should happen to be mislaid in the house, he had
applied some mucilage in the library, and resealed the envelope. It had
not been tampered with so far as he could discover, and he returned it
to the pocket.
The mysterious visitor at the mansion, whoever or whatever he was, could
not be regarded as a burglar, or, if he was, he had strangely neglected
his opportunities, for he had failed to appropriate at least five
hundred dollars worth of watches and money, which he could hardly have
helped seeing. His object was not plunder, and there was nothing to
indicate the purpose of his visit. In retiring from the house the
intruder had left the front door ajar: and Christy thought it would
have been the most natural thing in the world to close it, in order to
conceal the way by which he had left the mansion. But he might have done
this to avoid the noise of shutting it, or had neglected it in his haste
to escape.
When he had completed his toilet Christy looked at his watch, and was
rather surprised to find that it was a full hour later than usual when
the call bell had been rung. He went down-stairs, and found his mother
and Florry very busy in the dining-room, setting the table. This was the
man's work, and the young officer was astonished to see his mother and
sister doing it.
"What has broken now, mother?" asked the lieutenant, glancing from one
to the other of the busy couple.
"I don't know that anything has broken," replied Mrs. Passford, with a
smile, after she had said good-morning to her son.
"You and Florry are not in the habit of setting the table, mother; and
the first bell rang an hour later than usual," added Christy.
"We were all disturbed last night, and I did not wake till the cook
knocked at my door. She told me she could not find Walsh, and breakfast
had been ready half an hour. That is the reason why everything is late
this morning," Mrs. Passford explained.
"But where is Walsh?" inquired Christy.
"I am sure I do not know. I called in the coachman, and he has been to
his room and looked all over the place without finding him."
"That is very odd," mused the officer, wondering whether this sudden
disappearance had anything to do with the principal event of the
preceding night.
"Peach says he has taken his valise with him, which indicates that he
has gone for good."
"Who is Peach?" asked Christy, who had been at home so little that he
hardly knew the names of the servants.
"He is the coachman. I am not sorry that Walsh has gone, for he has
saved me the trouble of discharging him. Wilder, who had been with us so
many years, took it into his head to enlist in the army, and I was not
willing to persuade him to shirk his duty. Walsh has not been here quite
two weeks. He said he was born in the West Indies; but he was always
prying into matters that did not concern him, and I have several times
found him standing at the door when we were talking about family
matters. I reproved him for it; but it did no good. Your father intended
to discharge him as soon as he returned from Washington."
Christy went to the library, and busied himself in considering whether
or not the sudden departure of Walsh had any connection with the
mysterious midnight intruder. The two events had been near together in
point of time; but he could establish no other relation between them.
Then it flashed upon his mind that the man-servant had been the person
who had opened or closed his door, and visited his room; but he was sure
he had seen a man near the grand entrance of the estate. He had been all
around the house, and Walsh could not have escaped his observation. He
had answered the bell, and admitted him after his search. He concluded
that the servant was not the person who had disturbed his slumbers.
The morning mail brought a letter from Captain Passford, informing the
family that he was detained in Washington, and that he could not be at
home to say good-by to his son, who was to leave that day in the store
ship Vernon. He wrote a special letter to Christy, containing not only
his adieux, but the good advice he would otherwise have given him in
person.
The breakfast was rather a sad gathering on account of this parting, for
Christy was to leave in another hour. Bertha Pembroke and her father
were quite as sad as the mother and sister, and the young officer did
his best to cheer up the family and the guests. He tried to make them
laugh, but he found it was up-hill work.
"You will be in command of a steamer, Christy, when you reach the Gulf.
I hope you will not be rash, and try to do too much," said Mrs.
Passford, as they rose from the table.
"I don't think I am ever rash, mother; and if I have been exceedingly
fortunate, it was more because the circumstances favored me than because
I ran great risks," replied Christy very seriously, for he was sensitive
on the point his mother had brought up. "Father has said a great deal to
me on this subject, and I have always done my best to carry out his
principles. It is not my fault that I have a friend at court, and have
had opportunities that have not been offered to many others. But the
tide may turn against me on my next cruise."
"I hope it will not, my son," added his mother very earnestly.
"No one knows what is going to happen, and I may spend the next year or
two in a Confederate prison. I don't think my Uncle Homer would cry his
eyes out if such should be my fate, for he has lost several vessels and
cargoes of cotton on my account," returned Christy.
"But I am sure he has no ill-will against you."
"I don't think he has."
"By the way, Christy, have you heard anything from him or his family
lately?" asked Mrs. Passford.
"Not a word, and I am not likely to hear from them. Corny Passford was
exchanged, and sent back to the South a year ago or more; and I have no
idea what has become of him since."
After breakfast Christy packed his valise, where he placed the new
uniform in which he intended to present himself on the quarter-deck of
the Bronx. The carriage was at the door to convey him to the railroad
station. The parting was not less tender than it had been on former
similar occasions, and Mrs. Passford preferred that it should be in the
house rather than at the railroad station, in the presence of curious
observers. Many tears were shed after the carriage drove off, for the
patriotic young man might find a grave in southern soil, or beneath
southern waters.
The young lieutenant choked down his emotions, and tried to think of the
future; his case was not different from that of hundreds of thousands of
others who had gone forth to fight the battles of their country, many
thousands of whom slumber in hallowed graves far away from home and
friends. As the train moved on towards the great city, he obtained the
command of his emotions, and felt a new inspiration of patriotic ardor.
On his arrival in New York he hastened across the ferry to the
navy-yard. As he approached the opposite shore, he discovered a steamer
getting under way. He had not seen the vessel on board of which he was
ordered to report as a passenger, but when he asked a deck hand what the
steamer was, he was informed that it was the Vernon. The ferry-boat had
just gone into the slip, and Christy was terribly startled to learn that
he was late. He was still two hours ahead of the time indicated in his
orders, and the Vernon was actually getting under way.
The young officer was more excited than he had ever been in the face of
the enemy, for the present looked like a case in which his honor was at
stake. He felt that it would be his ruin if the Vernon sailed without
him. There had been some mistake in his orders, or in those of the
commander of the store ship, and he was likely to be the sufferer for
it. He rushed to the stern end of the ferry-boat in order to obtain a
better view of the steamer; and at this moment he discovered a boat,
pulled by one man, headed towards the navy-yard.
"Boat, ahoy!" shouted Christy, with almost frantic earnestness.
"On board the ferry-boat!" replied the man, resting on his oars.
"Five dollars if you will put me on board of that steamer before she
gets off!" added the officer.
"I'm the one for your money," returned the oarsman, as he headed his
boat into the slip.
Without much difficulty Christy dropped his valise into the boat, and
then dropped himself in after it. The belated passenger cast an earnest
look at the Vernon, which had just begun to move, though at a snail's
pace, and he hoped he should be able to get on board of her.
"Naval officer, sir?" interrogated the boatman.
"Yes; but I have no time to spare, and you must not stop to talk,"
replied Christy rather sharply.
"Time enough, sir, if you are going on board of the Vernon, and I will
give you one of my oars if I don't put you on her deck," said the
boatman very positively. "I hope you are nimble with your feet and
hands, sir."
"I will take care of that part of the matter if you will put me
alongside the steamer," answered Christy. "No more talk, if you please,
for you are wasting your wind."
"I have plenty of it for this job. You said five dollars, I believe,
sir," added the man, looking earnestly at his passenger.
"Five dollars is just what I said," replied the lieutenant, as he took
a bill of that denomination from his porte-monnaie, rolled it around the
boat-hook, and fixed it so that it should not blow away.
"Thank you, sir," said the rower, as he pulled with more vigor even than
before, and did not say another word till the boat was alongside the
Vernon.
Christy found a rope hanging over the side, to which the boatman
attached his valise, the young officer going up the line hand over hand
as though he was used to that sort of thing. The oarsman secured his
five-dollar bill, and Christy hauled up his valise. He felt that he had
saved himself from the dishonor of failing to obey his orders, and he
looked about him for some one who would be able to explain to him how
the steamer happened to be sailing two hours before the time named in
his orders. Three or four sailors were at work in the waist, where the
lieutenant came on board; and Christy was not a little astonished to
observe that Walsh, the absconding man-servant, was one of them.
CHAPTER III
CHRISTY PASSFORD IS UTTERLY CONFOUNDED
The appearance of Walsh, fully dressed in the garb of a seaman, was so
great a surprise to Christy Passford, that he hardly noticed any other
person on the deck of the Vernon. He had given no particular attention
to the man when he saw him at his father's house, though he regarded him
as a very good-looking and intelligent person for one in the situation
in which he found him. The absconding man-servant had certainly made
good use of his time since he left Bonnydale, for he appeared to have
become a full-fledged sailor in the space of ten hours.
For the size of the steamer, she seemed to be manned by a very large
crew; but the letter he had received from his father that morning
informed him that the greater part of the crew of the Bronx had been
transferred to other vessels upon more active service, and that a large
number of seamen were to be sent immediately to reinforce the squadron.
This was not pleasant intelligence, for he had become acquainted with
all on board of the Bronx, and he would have preferred to begin his
permanent service as commander with the former ship's company of the
little steamer. However, the exigencies of the service required the
change, and he could not complain.
It was probable that the greater part of his new crew would be made up
from the men now on board of the Vernon; and this belief caused him to
regard these men with more interest than he might otherwise have done.
He had no fault to find after the glance he had bestowed upon them, for
they presented a very trim appearance in their new uniform, and looked a
great deal more tidy than they would after they had been on duty a few
weeks.
Lieutenant Passford was on board of the Vernon, and he had no further
solicitude in regard to a literal obedience to his orders. The commander
of the steamer, whoever he was, did not appear to have noticed the new
arrival, and no one gave any attention to Christy. He walked forward
to take a better view of the crew, and the seamen touched their caps
to the shoulder straps of a lieutenant with which he had been careful
to ornament his coat.
The men at work in the waist finished their task as Christy was
returning from his promenade, with the intention of presenting himself
to the commander. Among those who saluted him in proper form was Walsh.
He seemed to be a little diffident about encountering the son of his
late employer, and turned his face away as he touched his cap. But the
officer had fully identified him, and spoke to him, calling him by name.
The sailor made no reply; but Christy had placed himself directly before
him, and he could not escape without a breach of discipline.
"I spoke to you, Walsh," said the lieutenant, in the tone he had learned
to use when he intended to enforce respect and obedience.
"I beg your pardon, sir; my name is not Walsh," replied the sailor, with
all the deference the occasion required.
"Your name is not Walsh!" exclaimed Christy with a frown.
"No, sir; that is not my name, and I supposed that you spoke to some
other man," pleaded the late man-servant of the mansion at Bonnydale.
The lieutenant gazed earnestly into the face of the sailor, for he was
willing to admit to himself the possibility of a mistake. Walsh, or
whatever his name might have been, was a man of robust form, not more
than an inch or two short of six feet in height. He was clean-shaved,
with the exception of his upper lip, whereon he sported a rather long
dark brown mustache, of which a Broadway dandy might have been vain. As
a servant, he had been rather obsequious, though Christy had observed
that he used very good language for one in his menial position. As the
officer examined his form and features, and especially regarded the
expression in general, he was satisfied that he could not be mistaken.
"I did not speak to another man; I spoke to you," added Christy, as he
intensified the gaze with which he confronted the man, resorting to the
tactics of a sharp lawyer in the cross-examination of an obdurate
witness.
"I ask your pardon, sir, but you called me Welch, or some such name,"
replied the late servant, as Christy was sure he was in spite of his
denial.
"I called you Walsh; and that is the name to which you responded at two
o'clock this morning," persisted the lieutenant.
"That is not my name, sir; and I refer you to the ship's papers to prove
it. I am not the man to be ashamed of my name, which is not Welch or
Walsh, sir, if you will excuse me for saying so."
"Will you deny that you were employed as a servant at the house of
Captain Passford, at Bonnydale on the Hudson?" demanded Christy, with
not a little energy in his tones and manner.
"Where, sir, if you please?" asked the sailor, with a sort of bewildered
look.
"At Bonnydale!"
"Boddyvale? I never heard of the place before in my life, sir," answered
the runaway servant.
Possibly the man under examination was not wholly responsible for his
distortion of the name of Captain Passford's estate, as Christy was
beginning to reap the penalty of his imprudence the night before, in
exposing himself barefooted and half-clothed to the chill midnight
air, and was developing a cold in the head that already affected his
enunciation.
"Bonnydale!" repeated the officer, after using his handkerchief, and
thus improving his utterance of the word.
"I never heard of the place before, sir," persisted the seaman.
"Byron!" called a boatswain's mate from the forecastle.
"That's my name--Byron, sir, at your service," said the man, as he
touched his cap to the lieutenant, and rushed forward in answer to the
call of his superior, evidently glad to escape from the inquisition to
which he had been subjected. "On deck!" he added, as he made his way to
the forecastle.
Christy was a passenger on board of the Vernon, and he had nothing to
do. The commanding officer appeared to be engaged in the details of his
duty, though the steamer was in charge of a pilot. He could see from
his shoulder straps that he was an ensign, and the officers in the waist
and on the forecastle were of the same rank. If there were any other
passengers on board of the vessel who were commissioned officers, they
were not visible on the deck, though they might be in their staterooms,
arranging their affairs for the voyage.
The young lieutenant leaned against the rail, and gave himself up to the
consideration of what had occurred since he came on board. He had been
bewildered by one mystery the night before, and he could not help asking
himself if the conduct of Walsh had anything to do with the visit of the
intruder at Bonnydale. He could not trace out any connection between the
two events; but, on the other hand, he was unable to satisfy himself
that the mysterious visit, the sudden disappearance of the man-servant,
and the denial of his identity by the latter, were not in some manner
related to each other.
He had no premises on which to base an argument for or against one thing
or another. All was dark to him, and he could not get hold of anything.
After he had raised up a variety of suppositions, and combated
vigorously with them, the darkness seemed only to become more dense,
and he was compelled to abandon the subject without arriving at any
reasonable explanation. Under the instruction of his father, he had
cultivated "a judicial mind," which compelled him to reject all mere
speculation.
Christy was not disposed to believe that he was a brilliant officer,
or to accept unchallenged the extravagant praise that had been bestowed
upon him. He endeavored to follow the Gospel injunction "not to think of
himself more highly than he ought to think." But while he tried to keep
the flower of modesty in full bloom in his soul, he could not deny that
he had given the enemies of his country a great deal of trouble, and
subjected them to some heavy losses. Then he recalled the conspiracy on
board of the Bronx while he was acting-commander of her; and though it
was for the interest of the Confederacy to get rid of so active an
officer, he believed it was the vessel and not himself that the
conspirators desired to obtain.
Before the Vernon reached The Narrows, everything on her deck had been
put in order by the large crew, and less activity prevailed on board.
Christy thought it was time for him to report to the commander, and he
moved aft for this purpose. He did not even know the name of this
gentleman, and he saw no one to introduce him formally; but the ensign
in command had doubtless received an order to take him as a passenger to
the Gulf.
Before he reached the sacred limits of the quarter-deck, Christy met a
quartermaster, of whom he inquired the name of the commander.
"He has a good name for the captain of a fighting ship," replied the
petty officer, respectfully touching his cap to the shoulder straps of
the inquirer. "The commander is Captain Battleton."
"Captain Battleton," repeated Christy, to assure himself that he had
correctly understood the name.
"Captain Battleton," added the quartermaster. "I hope you are feeling
better to-day, sir."
"I am feeling very well to-day, except that I have started a cold in the
head," replied Christy, astonished at this display of interest in the
state of his health.
"I am glad to hear it, sir, for you appeared to be quite sick last night
when you came on board," added the quartermaster.
"Did I, indeed? I was not aware of it. I came on board last night? I was
not aware of that fact," said Christy.
The petty officer did not hear his remarks, for he had been called by
the second lieutenant in the waist, and, with a touch of his cap,
hastened away. The lieutenant opened his eyes very wide, as he looked
down at the seams in the deck, and wondered whether he were asleep or
awake. He had been quite sick, and he had come on board the night
before! It was very strange that he was not at all aware of either of
these facts. He felt reasonably confident that he had slept in his own
chamber at Bonnydale the night before, and at that time he was certainly
in a very robust state of health, however it might be at the present
moment. Even now, he could not complain of anything more severe than an
embryo cold in the head, which the medicine his mother had given him
would probably reduce to a state of subjection in a day or two.
At first, he was disposed to be amused at the answers the quartermaster
had given him, for it was evident to him then that he had been mistaken
for another person. It looked as though some officer had come on board,
and reported under his name, for he had not yet learned anything in
regard to the gentleman who had appeared to be quite sick when he
reported himself. It had the elements of another mystery in it. But the
petty officer could easily have made an honest mistake; and this was the
solution he accepted, without bothering his bewildered brain any further
about it.
The commander appeared to be less occupied at this moment than he had
been before, and Christy stepped forward to the quarter-deck, and
politely saluted him. Captain Battleton was not less punctilious in his
etiquette. He was a young man, though he was apparently six or seven
years older than Christy. He was an ensign, and looked like a gentleman
who was likely to give a good account of himself when he was called to
more active duty than that of commanding a store ship.
"Good-morning, Lieutenant Passford!" said Captain Battleton, as he
extended his hand to his passenger. "I am glad to see that you are
better."
Christy was utterly confounded at this salutation.
CHAPTER IV
THE SICK OFFICER IN THE STATEROOM
Captain Battleton spoke to Christy as though he had met him before, and
needed no introduction. He was glad to see that the young officer was
better, which indicated that he had been sick. He was confounded by the
situation, for he had not been sick an hour, and he had never seen the
commander of the Vernon in his life. The petty officer had told him that
he appeared to be quite sick when he came on board the night before.
What he had learned within the last few moments was even more perplexing
than the mysterious visitation at Bonnydale. Then the appearance of
Walsh on board, and his denial of his identity, were still in his mind,
and he wondered whether or not all these strange circumstances had any
connection. But he was standing in the presence of the commander of the
steamer, and he had no time to reach a conclusion of any kind,
satisfactory or otherwise.
Christy took the offered hand of Captain Battleton, and looked earnestly
into his face to determine whether he had ever seen him before; but the
face was entirely new to him. He was quite confident that he had never
seen the commander before. There was something rather ludicrous in the
situation, and he felt as though he was taking part in a farce; at any
rate, there was nothing serious or compromising in it, and in spite of
the confusion in his mind, he could not help smiling.
"I thank you, Captain Battleton, for your very kind interest in the
state of my health, but with the exception of the first signs of a cold
in the head, I never was better in my life," said Christy in reply to
the salutation of the commander, still holding his hand.
"Then you have improved wonderfully since last evening," added Captain
Battleton.
"I am glad to be informed of the fact, for I am not conscious of any
such improvement as you describe. In fact, I am not in quite so good
condition in a sanitary point of view as I was last evening, for I took
my cold about midnight, or a little later, last night," added Christy,
his smile becoming a little more pronounced.
It was now the turn of Captain Battleton to be puzzled, if not
mystified, by the statement of his passenger, and he looked inquiringly
into his face as if to ascertain if he was not the victim of a practical
joke. But naval officers on duty are not given to pleasantries; and if
he had any such suspicion, he banished it at once, for there was nothing
in the appearance of the lieutenant to warrant it.
"Pardon me, Mr. Passford, but were you not sick when you came on board
of the Vernon last evening?" asked the commander, with something like a
frown upon his brow as the situation became more bewildering.
"If you will excuse me for making an indirect reply, captain, I did not
come on board of the Vernon last evening," answered Christy, his smile
becoming still more decided; and if he had not been on the quarter-deck
of a vessel in service, he might have suspected that he was himself the
victim of a practical joke.
"You did not come on board of the Vernon last evening!" exclaimed
Captain Battleton, gazing very earnestly into the face of his passenger.
"I did not, captain," replied Christy quietly, though he was amused
rather than disquieted by the earnestness of the commander.
"You did not?"
"Certainly not; and if my simple affirmation is not enough, I could
prove that I slept in my father's house at Bonnydale last night, took
my breakfast there this morning, and was in the city of New York at ten
o'clock this forenoon," answered Christy, in the best of humor.
"This is very strange," said Captain Battleton, fixing his gaze upon
the planks on which he stood, possibly considering whether he or his
passenger was dreaming or out of his head.
"If I were still at Brooklyn doubtless I could find the boatman who put
me on board of the Vernon not more than an hour ago," continued Christy,
willing to convince his auditor that he was entirely in earnest in his
statement.
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Passford, but I did not intend to question the
truth of your reply to my question," said the commander, fearing that he
had overstated his doubts. "I am simply bewildered, confused, confounded
by this interview."
"So am I, captain," added the lieutenant, laughing outright at the
perplexity in which both of them were involved. "I have told you the
simple truth in regard to my movements."
"And you did not come on board of the Vernon last evening?"
"Emphatically I did not."
"You were not sick last evening?"
"I was not; not even as sick as I am at this moment," replied Christy,
using his handkerchief.
"I don't understand it," said Captain Battleton, shaking his head.
"Now, captain, will you permit me ask what you do not understand, for I
assure you I am profoundly ignorant of the situation which perplexes
you. I was ordered to be on board of the Vernon at one o'clock, and I
found her under way at eleven. I happened to find a boatman before I
left the ferry-boat, who put me on board, or I should have missed my
passage. That is simply all I know about the matter."
"When I called upon you in your stateroom this morning, you told me
that"--
"I beg your pardon, Captain Battleton, but I have not been in any
stateroom, sick or well, on board of the Vernon, and I respectfully
suggest that it was quite impossible for you to have called upon me this
morning, or at any other time," Christy interposed, very pleasantly,
though quite as perplexed as the commander.
"Of course I shall not raise an issue as to your veracity, Mr. Passford,
but after the statement you have made to me, I must change the form of
my phraseology," continued the commander, using a smile to cover any
possible doubts or suspicions in his mind. "When I called at the
stateroom of the officer who reported on board last evening as
Lieutenant Christopher Passford, he told me that I was expected to
get under way and proceed to my destination as soon as the officer and
the seamen were on board."
"Did he bring you an order to this effect?" asked Christy more
seriously.
"He did not, and perhaps I have made a mistake, though my superior
officer told me at the yard that it would be safe for me to obey the
verbal order," replied Captain Battleton, looking somewhat troubled.
"I have no intention to meddle with what does not concern me, captain.
It appears that Lieutenant Passford has already reported to you," said
Christy; and this was the astounding fact to him of the situation.
He was absolutely confident that he was himself Lieutenant Christopher
Passford, and as absolutely confident that the other officer could not
be that person, whoever else he might be. The commander appeared to be
considering what Christy had suggested to him in regard to his orders,
and the passenger had a minute or two to think of the situation in which
he found himself placed. But what was the use to think of it? He was at
the end of a blind alley, where there was no light from any direction
except that by which he had entered it. He had no premises from which to
reason, and it was useless to consider the matter.
"Mr. Passford, I find myself placed in a very unpleasant position," said
the commander, after he had deliberated a few minutes. "I have stated
the facts to you; and the deduction I have to draw from them is, that I
have two persons by the name of Lieutenant Passford on board."
"That seems to me to be a correct deduction," added Christy.
"The brilliant officer who bears this name is too well known to hide his
light under a bushel. I have not the honor to be personally acquainted
with him, and therefore I am unable to decide which of the gentlemen who
report to me under that name is the real one."
"Precisely so."
"You will pardon me if I add that I think one or the other of them must
be an impostor," added Captain Battleton with some diffidence.
"That is a perfectly justifiable conclusion; and it rests with you to
decide which is the genuine Lieutenant Passford, and which is the
impostor," replied Christy frankly. "You will be perfectly justified
in calling upon both for all the evidence they are able to present.
I suggest that each of them must carry his commission about him, as
well as his orders from the department; and it seems to me that these
documents will enable you to decide without any delay;" and Christy
involuntarily put his hand upon his breast pocket, where he carried
these valuable papers.
He could feel the envelope that contained them, and he was satisfied of
the triumph which awaited him when the evidence should be required of
the two claimants of the name. At the same time he felt that he was
moving in a cloud of mystery, which had begun to enfold him in the
middle of the preceding night.
"I thank you for the suggestion, Mr. Passford, and I must say that you
seem to be entirely fair," said the commander.
"If I am the impostor, I do not know myself; but I have no desire to
forestall your decision. You saw the sick officer when he came on board
last evening, and you have visited him in his stateroom to-day. Do I
look enough like him to be taken for him?" asked Christy with a smile,
as he placed himself in an attitude to be scrutinized by the commander.
"I am sure that you do, sir; and when I saw you on the quarter-deck for
the first time, I had no doubt you were the officer who came on board
sick last evening," replied Captain Battleton.
"That makes it all the more remarkable, for I was not aware that there
was any officer in the navy who resembled me so closely," added Christy
more bewildered than before, and beginning to scent a plot of some kind
against him or his country.
"I must say that any man who will take upon himself the position and
reputation of the real Lieutenant Passford is a bold man, and even, if
he succeeds in taking his place, he will fail in playing the rôle."
"I should thank you, Captain Battleton, for the compliment, if I were
not under suspicion of being some other person. May I ask when it will
be convenient for you to settle the question, for it is not pleasant for
me to feel that I am looked upon as even a possible impostor?"
"I shall not regard you as an impostor, Mr. Passford, for I mean to be
entirely impartial, and I shall not brand you even in thought until the
evidence warrants me in doing so," replied the commander, as he called
the surgeon who was just coming on deck. "How do you find your patient,
Dr. Connelly?"
"I find him--I thought I found him; but he appears to be on deck,"
replied the surgeon, as he fixed his gaze upon Christy, preluded by
a start, dramatic enough to prove that he was astonished to find his
patient was not in his room below. "I left him not five minutes ago, for
I have not yet been able to discover what ails him. He complained of a
severe headache and pains in his bones; but he has not a particle of
fever, or any symptom of anything that I can discover. I am glad to see
you on deck, Mr. Passford. How is your headache?"
"If I have had any headache, I have entirely recovered from it," replied
Christy, laughing heartily. "I came on board only an hour ago, doctor,
and I have had no headache, thank you."
"Looking at you more closely, I see that you are not my patient, and you
will excuse me for giving you a headache. But you resemble my patient
very closely," added the doctor.
"I did not answer your question, Mr. Passford," interposed Captain
Battleton. "In an hour we will settle the question."
Christy seated himself and began to consider the strange situation.
CHAPTER V
LIEUTENANT PASSFORD AND HIS APPARENT DOUBLE
The Vernon continued on her course, and in another hour the pilot
had been discharged. Christy had puzzled his brains over the events of
the day and the night before without being able to arrive at any
satisfactory conclusion. He was extremely anxious to see the officer
who had taken his name and assumed his character, as he was to obtain
all the information within his reach. His reflections assured him
that some one had chosen the rôle of an impostor for the purpose of
accomplishing some treasonable object, and he was anxious to fathom the
mystery for his country's sake rather than his own.
Captain Battleton would soon begin his investigation, and Christy was
confident that the sick officer would be proved to be the impostor. He
was not at all worried or even disturbed in regard to the result, for he
felt that "truth is mighty and must prevail." His only solicitude was to
unravel the plot. Bands of Confederates had been put on board of several
steamers for the purpose of capturing them; and it was possible that
this plan had been adopted to obtain possession of the Vernon, for she
was a good vessel, and was fitted out as a man-of-war.
It was plain enough to Christy that the remarkable attempt of one or the
other of the officers on board as passengers to personate the other had
been explained to those on the quarter-deck, for he observed that they
all regarded him with curiosity, and were interested in the matter. As
the surgeon passed near him he spoke to him.
"Does your patient below seem to be improving, doctor?" he asked.
"He still complains that his head and his bones ache, so that I cannot
say he is improving," replied Dr. Connelly.
"How old a man does he appear to be?"
"I should take him for a young man of twenty or twenty-one, but he says
he is only eighteen. He is a very young officer to be put in charge of
a steamer, for I understand that he is ordered to the command of the
Bronx. But then he has made a reputation as the commander of that
vessel, which doubtless justifies his appointment."
"Does he talk at all?"
"Oh, yes; he has told me about some of his exploits; and as he seems to
forget his aches when he speaks of them, I have encouraged him to talk
as much as possible."
"Is he really sick, doctor?" asked Christy, with a smile which meant
something.
"He says he is, and I have to take his word for it," replied the
surgeon, with a corresponding smile.
"I heard you tell the captain that you could not make out the nature of
his malady."
"I cannot so far, though that does not prove that he is not sick; but I
will venture to say he could not get his discharge from the navy on his
present symptoms. He may have drunk too much wine or whiskey recently,
though he certainly was not in liquor when he came on board."
"How is your patient, Dr. Connelly?" asked Captain Battleton, joining
them at this moment.
"About the same the last time I saw him. He ate all the toast I sent
to him, and seemed to enjoy it. I don't think he is in a dangerous
condition," replied the surgeon.
"I am glad to hear it. Have you informed him that we have another
lieutenant on board of the Vernon?" continued the commander.
"No, captain: I have not. That is not my affair, and I don't meddle with
what does not concern me."
"An excellent rule. Is he aware of the fact that there is another
Richmond in the field?"
"If he is, he has said nothing to me about the matter."
"Do you think he could go out into the cabin, doctor?" asked the
captain. "I wish to see him on a matter of the utmost importance.
Is he dressed?"
"He is; he dressed himself this morning, and sits up part of the time."
"Then you will oblige me by getting him into the cabin; I mean my cabin.
I will be there in ten minutes."
The surgeon went below, leaving the commander and Christy together.
"Can you make anything of this affair yet, Mr. Passford?" asked Captain
Battleton.
"I can come to no conclusion in regard to it, though I may be able to
do so when I have seen my double," replied Christy, whose curiosity
in regard to the sick officer was strongly excited. "It looks like a
conspiracy of some kind, but I can go no farther in the direction of a
solution."
The commander looked at his watch after they had conversed a little
while longer, and then invited Christy to visit his cabin with him.
The other Lieutenant Passford was seated in an arm-chair at the table.
Christy looked at him with the deepest interest, but the back of the
other was turned to him, and he did not get a full view of his face. The
sick man was dressed in the naval uniform with the shoulder straps of a
