going to have trouble with that boy. Of course Mr. Shick won’t be paid,
and he’ll send in his bill to you or me likely. He can’t make us pay,
for he has trusted a minor without consultin’ his parents or guardians.
I wash my hands of the matter.”
So saying, Mr. Tarbox left the room.
“Grant,” said his mother, “I can’t help feeling anxious. It does seem a
crazy idea for you to order a twenty-dollar suit.”
“Why should it, mother?”
“When you have no money to pay for it.”
“Mother, did you ever know me to tell a lie?”
“No, Grant.”
“Then, when I tell you that I’ve got money enough to pay for this suit,
and more, too, you can believe me.”
“Was it got honestly, Grant?”
“Of course it was.”
“And the money is really and truly yours?”
“It is.”
“Are you willing to tell me where you got it?”
“Not just yet, mother. I will before long.”
“Well, Grant, I will trust your word,” said Mrs. Tarbox, relieved, “and
I am really glad of your good fortune.”
“You won’t worry any more, then, mother?”
“No, Grant.”
“I am glad you haven’t lost confidence in me.”
Grant took an opportunity, after supper, to go to Luke Weldon’s, and
draw twenty-five dollars. On his way back he called at the tailor’s, and
paid Mr. Shick for his suit in advance. The remaining five dollars, in
silver, he kept in his pocket.
“It is so long since I carried any money,” he said to himself, “that I
want to know how it seems.”
Meanwhile Jotham Perry, a neighbor, called at the farm-house on an
errand.
“That’s a pretty bad thing, the breaking down of the railroad bridge,
isn’t it?”
“I haven’t heard of it,” said Seth Tarbox, pricking up his ears.
“Sho! I thought everybody knew it.”
“How did it happen?”
“I don’t know, except it gave way from old age. It’s long been shaky.”
“When was it found out?”
“This afternoon, just before the accommodation train came along. I tell
you it was a narraw escape for the train. They stopped just a few rods
before they got to the bridge.”
“What made them stop? How did the engineer come to suspect?”
“It seems a boy came along that way, and saw the condition of the
bridge, and signalled the train.”
“A boy?”
“Yes. He had a pitchfork, and stuck his hat and a handkerchief on the
tines, and so attracted the engineer’s attention.”
Mr. Tarbox opened his eyes wide, and a sudden revelation came to him.
“Why, it must have been Grant,” he said.
“Didn’t he tell you anything about it?”
“No.”
“I heerd the passengers took up a collection for the boy, whoever he
was. He must have got as much as twenty-five dollars.”
“That’s where Grant’s money came from,” exclaimed Seth Tarbox, slapping
his leg vigorously. “He’s gone and ordered a twenty-dollar suit, and
been hintin’ mysteriously that he’d got money enough to pay for it.”
“Yes, I suppose that explains it. Well, the boy needs a new suit and
he’s earned it easy.”
“But it’s such a foolish way of spendin’ his money. My grandson Rodney
offered him a suit of his for nothin’, and he might have given me the
money to keep for him.”
“Yes, he might,” said Jotham with a queer smile, “but I think if I’d
been in Grant’s place I’d have done the same thing he did.”
Mr. Perry went away directly afterward, and Seth Tarbox sought his wife.
“Where is Grant, Mrs. T.?”
“He went out to walk after his chores were done, but he didn’t say where
he was going.”
“I’ve found out where he got his money,” said Seth, nodding his head.
“Where, then? He didn’t do anything wrong, I am sure.”
“Well, no, not in gettin’ the money, but he’d ought to have consulted me
before bein’ so extravagant.”
“Where did he get the money?”
“He found out the bridge was broken, and signalled the train and saved
it from being wrecked.”
Mrs. Tarbox’s eyes sparkled with maternal pride.
“It was a noble act,” she said.
“The passengers took up a contribution, and Jotham Perry thinks Grant
got about twenty-five dollars.”
“He deserved it.”
“Well, I’m glad he got it, but he had no right to spend it himself.
Ther’s one thing that don’t occur to you, Mrs. T. What he did was done
in time, and he lost at least an hour by the delay it cost. You know
yourself how late he came home.”
“What is that, Mr. Tarbox, to the lives of the passengers and the safety
of the train?”
“You don’t understand me, Mrs. T. Under the circumstances I think I
ought to have half the money he received.”
“Mr. Tarbox!” exclaimed his wife in profound disgust.
“That’s so, and of course if I had it he wouldn’t have no twenty dollars
to throw away on a suit of clothes.”
“You forget, Mr. Tarbox, that it has saved you the money you would have
to pay for a new suit for him.”
“It has saved me nothing. I wouldn’t have bought him a new suit. My
grandson, Rodney, was goin’ to give him one of his old suits. Now I
think of it, I’ll go down and see Mr. Shick and warn him not to make up
the suit, tellin’ him that Grant can’t pay for it with my permission.”
“That will be a mean thing to do, Seth Tarbox.”
Mrs. Tarbox always called her husband by his full name when she had
occasion to feel displeased with him.
“You and I don’t look on things in the same way, Mrs. T.,” said her
husband calmly. “I’ll go and see Mr. Shick at once.”
The tailor shop was still open for business when Mr. Tarbox entered.
“Well, Mr. Tarbox, have you come to pick out a suit for yourself?”
“No, I haven’t. Have you cut out Grant’s suit yet?”
“Yes; it is nearly finished.”
“Then I’m sorry for you. You mustn’t make it up?”
“Why not?”
“Because I shall forbid the boy to pay for it. He’s got the money, as
I’ve found out, but part of it belongs to me, and I won’t have him
spendin’ it so extravagantly.”
“I shan’t be able to oblige you, Mr. Tarbox. The suit will be made up,
as I agreed, and delivered to Grant.”
“Well, you’ll be takin’ a risk. I’ve warned you that you won’t get your
pay.”
“You are behind the times, Mr. Tarbox. You have taken your walk for
nothing. The suit is already paid for.”
“What!” ejaculated Mr. Tarbox.
“It is just as I said. Grant has paid me for the suit in advance. I
advise you to give me an order and do the same thing.”
Mr. Tarbox felt that he had been outwitted. He persuaded himself that
Grant had treated him meanly. Of course there was no resource. He was
too wise to ask Mr. Shick to refund the money, for he knew he would not
do it. He found nothing to say, and shuffled out, looking down in the
mouth.
“There goes the meanest man in town!” soliloquized the tailor, as his
visitor walked slowly down the road. “Grant must have a pretty
uncomfortable time at home. I am glad that in this case the boy has got
the better of his step-father.”
“He’s got five dollars left,” reflected Mr. Tarbox. “I’d ought to have
that, for it was in my time that he earned the money. I’ll go upstairs
and get it to-night when Grant is asleep.”
Grant went to bed about nine o’clock, for he was tired out, and he was
soon asleep.
Usually he did not wake up at all till morning, but it so happened that
this night he waked up about eleven, and saw Mr. Tarbox rummaging in the
pocket of his pantaloons.
He hardly knew whether to feel amused or indignant.
“What are you doing here, Mr. Tarbox?” he demanded in a voice which he
made purposely loud.
                              CHAPTER VII.
                        GRANT MAKES UP HIS MIND.
Mr. Tarbox had not bargained for Grant’s being awake, and he had the
grace to look ashamed, but he put a bold face on it.
“I’ve come for the rest of the money you got for stoppin’ the train,” he
said.
“What right have you to it, Mr. Tarbox,” said Grant, more amused than
surprised. “It was given to me.”
“Mebbe it was, but you stopped the train in my time, and I’d ought to
have half the money.”
“You can’t have it, Mr. Tarbox.”
“I know you’ve fooled away twenty dollars on a new suit, when you might
have had Rodney’s; but you got as much as twenty-five dollars, so Jotham
Perry said.”
“How did he find out?” asked Grant in artful surprise.
“Then you did get twenty-five?”
“Yes.”
“So I thought. Well, I want you to give me the five. You came home an
hour late.”
“And you charge me five dollars for an hour? If you’ll pay me at that
rate, Mr. Tarbox, I’ll work for you all my life.”
“Quit your foolin’, Grant Colburn,” said Seth, feeling that logic was
against him. “I’m your guardian, and I claim the money. I’ll keep four
dollars of it for you.”
“The fact is, Mr. Tarbox, I’ve disposed of part of the money. I’ve only
got a dollar left.”
This was true, for Grant had given his mother four dollars, to buy a new
print dress.
“What did you do with it?” asked his step-father, disappointed.
“I gave it to mother.”
“You’d ought to have given it to me.”
“I don’t think so.”
“Where’s the other dollar?”
“It’s in my vest pocket.”
Seth Tarbox thrust his fingers into the pocket of Grant’s vest, and drew
out two silver half-dollars. It was better than nothing, but he felt
disappointed.
“I’ll take this,” he said, “to pay for your time.”
“You are welcome to it, but don’t you think you could spare me one
half-dollar?” asked Grant meekly.
“When you’ve gone and spent twenty for a suit? No, I guess not. You can
think yourself pretty lucky to get as much as you did.”
Seth Tarbox took the candle, and went slowly down stairs. Grant was so
much amused by the way in which he had outwitted his step-father that he
laughed loud enough for Mr. Tarbox to hear.
“That’s a queer boy,” said Tarbox to himself. “I don’t think he’s
exactly right in his head. I’d ought to have got more than one dollar
out of all the money the passengers raised for him; but still it’s
something.”
When Grant came down stairs to breakfast the next morning he looked very
cheerful, in spite of losing his money the night before, and laughed two
or three times, without any apparent reason for doing so. Mr. Tarbox had
suggested to his wife the propriety of giving up to him half the money
she had received from Grant, but Mrs. Tarbox, yielding as she generally
was, had positively refused. Indeed, Grant had made her promise to do
so.
Grant’s new suit was finished in time for him to wear it on Sunday. He
had great satisfaction in entering the village church decently clothed.
Indeed, he felt that he was as well dressed as any boy in town, and this
was for him a decidedly new sensation.
Grant had one hundred and twenty-seven dollars left in the hands of Luke
Weldon. He withdrew ten dollars, and bought some shirts and
underclothing. This did not come to the notice of Mr. Tarbox, who was
under the impression that Grant’s stock of money was exhausted. Had he
known the truth, he would have moved heaven and earth to get hold of the
balance of Grant’s little fortune.
Grant was anxious to see John Heywood, the returned Californian. He was
more than ever determined to leave the service of his step-father, and
make a bold stroke for a fortune. All day he thought of the Golden State
of the Pacific Coast, and all night he dreamed of it. For him it had the
greatest fascination. The idea of wandering across the continent to this
wonderful new land became strengthened, and he felt that, with the sum
he had at command, he would be able to do it. He spoke of it to his
mother privately, and, though it made her feel anxious, he succeeded in
persuading her that it would be for the best.
But he could do nothing without seeing John Heywood, and getting more
information. He thought of going to Crestville, and accordingly, one
morning after breakfast, he started without notifying Mr. Tarbox, and
walked the whole distance—six miles.
Mr. Heywood lived half a mile this side of the village, and Grant had
the luck to find him at home.
“Good-morning, Grant,” said the young man. “What brings you to
Crestville so early?”
“I came to see you, Mr. Heywood.”
“You did? Well, I’m glad to see you. Won’t you come into the house?”
“No, I’ll sit down here,” and Grant took a seat on a wood horse, while
Heywood leaned against the well curb, and waited for his young visitor
to open his business.
“I hear you have been very lucky in California, Mr. Heywood.”
“Yes,” answered the young man, with complacency. “I brought home ten
thousand dollars. It makes me feel like a rich man. I’m only
twenty-nine, and I didn’t look to be worth that sum before I was
sixty-nine. A clear gain of forty years!” he added with a laugh.
“You got it by digging gold, didn’t you?”
“Yes.”
“And I suppose there’s more gold in California? You didn’t take it all?”
“I should say not. There’s piles, and piles of it left.”
“Is digging gold very hard work? Is it too hard for a boy?”
“You don’t mean to say you’re thinkin’ of goin’ to California yourself?”
said Heywood quickly.
“Yes, I do.”
“Well, you’re a good, stout boy. I don’t see why you should not succeed.
But you’ll have to work hard.”
“I am willing to.”
“What will your folks say?”
“Mother has given her consent. As for Mr. Tarbox, my step-father, he
hasn’t got anything to say about it.”
“You are working for him now, aren’t you?”
“Yes, I’m working for my board and clothes. The board is fair enough,
but he is not willing to give me any clothes.”
“That’s a nice suit you have on.”
“So it is, but I had to buy it with my own money. He hasn’t spent but
ten dollars for my clothing in a whole year.”
“I’ve heard he was a mean man.”
“He thinks everything of a dollar. Mother made a great mistake in
marrying him.”
“Then, under the circumstances, Grant, I don’t know as I blame you. But,
you know, it takes money to go to California.”
“I know that. How much did it cost you?”
“I went across the plains. By the time I reached the mines I had spent
about ninety dollars.”
“Ninety dollars!” repeated Grant in a tone of satisfaction. “But how am
I to go, even if I have the money. I can’t start across the plains
alone.”
“No, of course not. It’s always better to have a little company. There’s
a family goin’ from this town in about a week—Mr. Cooper’s family. I am
sure they will be willing to have you go with them. Shall I speak to
them about it?”
“Yes, I wish you would.”
Much pleased, Grant set out on his long walk home. He found his
step-father furious at his absence.
“Where have you been, Grant?” he demanded.
“Over to Crestville.”
“You’ve taken ’most a day of my time. It’s a shame! I can’t afford to
take care of you, and give you victuals and clothes, when you’re playin’
truant half the time.”
“I don’t expect you to, Mr. Tarbox. I don’t want you to lose money by
me,” said Grant demurely, “so I’ve made up my mind to leave you.”
“To leave me?” ejaculated Seth Tarbox, aghast. “Where are you goin’?”
“I’m going to California!”
Seth Tarbox dropped the hoe he had in his hand, and stared at Grant as
though the boy had taken leave of his senses.
                             CHAPTER VIII.
                            ALL IS SETTLED.
“Goin’ to Californy!” ejaculated Mr. Tarbox in a dazed tone.
“Yes. I’ve seen John Heywood—that’s what I went to Crestville for—and he
tells me there’s a chance for a boy to make money out there.”
“Goin’ to walk, I s’pose,” said Seth satirically.
“I’m going across the plains, if that’s what you mean.”
“Where are you goin’ to get the money? It will cost a good deal.”
“I have made arrangements about the money.”
“Is John Heywood goin’ to supply you with funds?”
“I’d rather not tell,” answered Grant mysteriously. He was glad that
this idea had occurred to his step-father, as he did not wish him to
know that he had any funds of his own.
“I don’t know as I’ll let you go,” went on Seth Tarbox slowly.
“What right have you to stop me?” demanded Grant, not very much alarmed.
“I’m your step-father.”
“Yes; but you’re not my guardian.”
“Mind, I don’t say I’ll stop you,” said Seth, for an idea had occurred
to him whereby he might turn the expedition to his own advantage. Should
Grant bring back a good sum of money, he meant to get control of it, and
thought he should succeed on account of the boy’s being so young.
“No, Mr. Tarbox, it wouldn’t be any use.”
“Does John Heywood really think you can make it pay?”
“He says there’s piles of gold there.”
“Piles of gold!” repeated Seth Tarbox, an expression of greed stealing
over his face.
“Yes, that’s what he said.”
“I wish I was a young man. I ain’t sure but I’d go myself. But I’m
sixty-eight.”
“That’s a little too old to go.”
“If you are prosperous, Grant, take care of your money and bring it all
home. We’ll be glad to see you back safe and prosperous, your mother and
me.”
“Thank you, Mr. Tarbox.”
This conversation relieved Grant’s mind. Even if Mr. Tarbox were opposed
to his going, he meant to go all the same, but it was pleasanter to have
no trouble in the matter.
The next day he went to Crestville again, this time to see Jerry Cooper,
as everybody called him, and his son Tom, and ascertain whether they
were willing that he should join their party.
Mr. Cooper, a weather-beaten man of fifty, was at work in his yard when
Grant came up. Grant knew him by sight, and bade him good-morning.
“Has John Heywood spoken to you about me?” he asked.
“Yes. You’re the boy that wants to go to Californy with us.”
“Yes, sir.”
“You look kind of rugged; I guess you can stand it,” said the
blacksmith, surveying critically Grant’s broad shoulders and athletic
frame.
“Yes, Mr. Cooper; I’m not a city dude. I’ve always been accustomed to
hard work.”
“That’s good. There’s a good deal of hard work in goin’ across the
plains.”
“How long do you think it will take to make the journey?”
“About four months.”
“It will give us a good chance to see the country——”
“That ain’t what I’m goin’ for. When you get to be fifty years old you
won’t care much about seein’ the country. You will be more practical.”
“I shall try to be practical,” said Grant, with a smile.
“It’s my belief we shall see more of the country than we care for. I
wish it wasn’t so fur.”
“So do I. Some time there may be a railroad across the continent.”
Mr. Cooper shook his head.
“I never expect to see that,” he said. “It wouldn’t pay. You’re a boy,
and by the time you get to be an old man there may be a railroad, but I
doubt it.”
“When do you expect to start, Mr. Cooper?”
“Next Thursday. Can you be ready?”
“I could be ready to-morrow if necessary,” returned Grant promptly. “How
much is it going to cost me, Mr. Cooper?” he added. “If you will tell
me, I can give you the money in a lump, and you can undertake to see me
through.”
“Mebbe that will be a good plan, as I shall have to lay in more
supplies. We’ll say seventy-five dollars; and it will be well for you to
bring a pair of blankets.”
“All right. I will give you the money now if you will give me a paper
acknowledging the receipt, and what it is for.”
“Just as you say, Grant.”
Grant had brought a hundred dollars with him, and handed over to Jerry
Cooper the sum he had mentioned, receiving back a receipt. This he put
into his pocket with a sense of satisfaction. He felt that now the die
was cast, and he was really bound for California; that he had taken the
first step on the road to fortune.
On his way home he chanced to meet Rodney Bartlett. Rodney was walking
with an affected step and swinging his cane. He had an idea that he was
a striking figure and excited the admiration of all whom he met.
When his eyes fell on Grant, he started in genuine surprise.
“How do you happen to be over here, Grant Colburn?” he asked.
“I am here on business,” answered Grant.
“Oh, come over on an errand for my grandfather, I suppose.”
“No, I came on business of my own.”
Rodney arched his eyebrows.
“Oh, so you have business of your own?” he said, in a ironical tone.
“Yes.”
“What is it?”
“I don’t think you would feel interested in it.”
“Look here, Grant, I don’t believe you have any business here at all,”
said Rodney rudely.
“It makes little difference to me what you think,” returned Grant
briefly.
“I think you are playing truant from the farm—that you have come over
here to get rid of work. If I were grandfather I wouldn’t let you come.
I’d keep you at work.”
“You are very kind and considerate, as usual, Rodney. However, you are
mistaken in one thing.”
“What’s that?”
“You think I am in the employ of your grandfather.”
“I know you are a farm boy.”
“I was, but am so no longer.”
“What do you mean? Has grandfather discharged you?”
“No, I have discharged myself. I don’t expect to work for your
grandfather any longer.”
“What are you going to do? Do you expect to live without work?”
“No; I expect to work harder next year than ever before.”
“I don’t understand you,” said Rodney, puzzled. “Are you trying to fool
me?”
“No.”
“Then what do you mean?”
“I start next Thursday for California.”
Rodney was surprised.
“You—don’t—mean—it!” he ejaculated.
“It’s true.”
“Who are you going with?”
“With Jerry Cooper’s family.”
“But you can’t go without money.”
“That’s true.”
“And you haven’t got any.”
“That’s a mistake. I have all I need.”
“Where did you get it?”
“That’s my business.”
“Who put you up to going?”
“I had a talk with John Heywood. He told me he thought I would succeed
in making money.”
“Oh, I see. I suppose he was fool enough to lend you the money.”
Grant smiled, but did not answer. This confirmed Rodney in his belief.
He looked at Grant with envy and dislike. With the amiable desire to
depress him, he said, “I predict that you’ll come back poorer than you
went away.”
“It may be so, but I don’t believe it.”
When he parted with Grant, Rodney went around to John Heywood’s house,
with the view of ascertaining whether he had supplied Grant with the
funds necessary for his journey.
“I think you are foolish, Mr. Heywood,” Rodney began, “to lend Grant
Colburn money to go to California.”
John Heywood looked up from his work.
“Who told you I had supplied him with money?” he asked.
“Well, no one.”
“Then why do you say I did?”
“He must have got the money somewhere, so I concluded you had let him
have it.”
“Then you concluded wrong. He never asked me to lend him money. If he
had——”
“Well, if he had?” repeated Rodney eagerly.
“If he had, I should probably have done it. Grant Colburn’s a
hardworking boy and a good fellow, and I think he’ll be happier out in
California than on your grandfather’s farm.”
“It’ll be a relief to grandfather to have him go. He’s been supporting
him for the last two years.”
“Grant has earned his living twice over. He’ll have to work hard in
California, but he’ll be paid for it. I shouldn’t be surprised to see
him a rich man some time.”
Rodney scowled and walked away. He thought the prediction ridiculous,
and hoped it would not come true.
                              CHAPTER IX.
                        THE LONG JOURNEY BEGINS.
The day before they were to start Grant came over and spent the night
with Mr. Cooper and his family. The blacksmith had been guided by John
Heywood in making his preparations. Independence, Mo., was at that time
the usual starting-point for overland emigrants, and it was to this
point that the little party directed their course. Mr. Cooper started
with two horses, but at Independence he exchanged one of them for a yoke
of oxen, being advised that oxen were upon the whole more reliable, and
less likely to be stolen by the Indians. Here, too, he laid in a supply
of flour, bacon, coffee, and sugar, with a quantity of rice, crackers,
and smaller articles, for they were going through a land where there
were no hotels, and must carry their own provender.
When they had completed their outfit they set out. A long journey lay
before them. From Independence to the gold region was rather more than
two thousand miles, and such were the difficulties of the way that they
only averaged about fifteen miles a day. A detailed account of the trip
would only be wearisome, and I shall confine myself to some of the
salient incidents.
The custom was to make an early start and stop at intervals, partly for
the preparation of meals and partly to give the patient animals a chance
to rest.
One evening—it was about ten weeks after the start—they had encamped for
the night, and Mrs. Cooper, assisted by Grant, was preparing supper, a
fire having been kindled about fifty feet from the wagon, when steps
were heard, and a singular looking figure emerged from the underbush. It
was a man, with a long, grizzled beard, clad in a tattered garb, with an
old slouch hat on his head, and a long, melancholy visage.
“I trust you are well, my friends,” he said. “Do not be alarmed. I mean
you no harm.”
Tom Cooper laughed.
“We are not alarmed,” he said. “That is, not much. Who are you?”
“An unhappy wayfarer, who has been wandering for days, almost famished,
through this wilderness.”
“Do you live about here?”
“No; I am on my way to California.”
“Not alone, surely?”
“I started with a party, but we were surprised a week since by a party
of Cheyenne Indians, and I alone escaped destruction.”
Mrs. Cooper turned pale.
“Are the Indians so bloodthirsty, then?”
“Some of them, my dear lady, some of them. They took all our supplies,
and I have been living on what I could pick up. Pardon my saying so, but
I am almost famished.”
“Our supper is nearly ready,” said Mrs. Cooper hospitably. “You are
welcome to a portion.”
“Ah, how kind you are!” ejaculated the stranger, clasping his hands. “I
shall, indeed, be glad to join you.”
“What is your name, sir?” asked the blacksmith cautiously.
“Dionysius Silverthorn.”
“That’s a strange name.”
“Yes, but I am not responsible for it. We do not choose our own names.”
“And where are you from?”
“I came from Illinois.”
“Were you in business there?”
“Yes. Ahem! I was a teacher, but my health gave way, and when I heard of
the rich discoveries of gold in California, I gathered up, with
difficulty, money enough for the journey and started; but, alas! I did
not anticipate the sad disaster that has befallen me.”
Mr. Silverthorn was thin and meager, but when supper was ready he ate
nearly twice as much as any of the little party.
“Who is this young man?” he asked, with a glance at Grant.
“My name is Grant Colburn.”
“You are the image of a boy I lost,” sighed Dionysius. “He was strong
and manly, like you—a very engaging youth.”
“Then he couldn’t have looked like you,” was Tom Cooper’s inward
comment.
“Did he die of disease?” asked Mrs. Cooper.
“Yes; he had the typhoid fever—my poor, poor Otto,” and Mr. Silverthorn
wiped his eyes with a dirty red silk handkerchief. “Have you a father
living, my young friend?”
“No, sir.”
“Then it would be a gratification to me if you would look upon me as a
parent.”
Grant was quite overwhelmed by this unexpected suggestion.
“Thank you, sir,” he said; “but you are a stranger, and I have a
step-father living.”
He said this on the impulse of the moment, as a reason for not acceding
to Mr. Silverthorn’s request, but it occurred to him that it would be
about as difficult to regard Mr. Tarbox with filial feelings as the
newcomer.
“Ah, he is indeed fortunate!” sighed Mr. Silverthorn. He had a habit of
sighing. “My friend”—here he addressed himself to the blacksmith—“do you
ever smoke?”
“Yes, when I get the chance.”
“And have you, perchance, a cigar?”
“No; a cigar is too high-toned for me. I have a pipe.”
“That will do.”
“But I have no tobacco.”
“Ah!” Here there was another long-drawn sigh.
After supper they sat down around the fire, to rest and chat for a while
before retiring.
“I suppose, my friends,” continued Dionysius, “you would be surprised if
I should tell you that I was once wealthy.”
“You don’t look like it now,” said Tom Cooper bluntly.
“No; indeed I don’t. Yet six years ago I was worth fifty thousand
dollars.”
“I shall be glad if I am worth as much six years hence.”
“How did you lose it?” asked Jerry Cooper.
“Through the knavery of wicked men. I was so honest myself that I
supposed all with whom I had dealings were equally honorable, and I was
deceived. But I am happy to think that when I was rich I contributed to
every good work. I gave a thousand dollars to the church in my town. I
gave five thousand dollars as a fund for a town library. All men spoke
well of me, but when I lost my fortune all turned the cold shoulder, and
I found I had no friends. It is the way of the world.”
“If you were a teacher I don’t see where you got so much money,”
remarked Grant curiously.
“I didn’t make it by teaching, my young friend. An old uncle died and
left me his money. He had been a miser, and never took any notice of me,
so it was a great surprise to me when his will was read and I was
constituted his sole heir.”
“I wish an old uncle would die and leave me fifty thousand dollars,”
said Tom.
“Such may be your luck.”
“Not much chance of that. I haven’t got but one uncle living, and he’s
as poor as Job after he lost all his flocks and herds.”
“I don’t complain of my unhappy condition,” said Dionysius meekly. “I
have been rich and now I am poor, but I am resigned to the Lord’s will.”
“He seems to be a very good man,” whispered Mrs. Cooper to Tom.
Tom shrugged his shoulders.
“I don’t take much stock in him,” he whispered back.
“How did you happen to escape when the rest of your party were destroyed
by the Indians?” asked the blacksmith.
“The attack was made in the night. I had been unable to sleep, and I got
up and went for a walk in the woods, hoping to become fatigued and
drowsy. I was absent for an hour and a half, as well as I can estimate.
When I returned to the camp, what was my dismay when I saw that my
friends had been surprised, their goods confiscated, and a scene of
violence enacted.”
“Were all killed?”
“I don’t know, but on the ground, by the dismantled tent, I saw a human
arm which had been lopped from the shoulder.”
“Do you know whose it was?” asked Tom.
“Yes, it was the arm of a young man about your age, who doubtless had
excited the anger of the Indians by resistance.”
Mr. Silverthorn put his red handkerchief to his eyes and sobbed, or
appeared to do so, convulsively.
“Excuse these tears,” he said. “They are a tribute to my murdered
friends.”
“Did you follow the Indians? Did you try to find out where they had
carried your companions?”
“No. It would have been no good. I was single-handed.”
“I would have done it!” said Tom resolutely.
“I would expect it of you, for you are a brave young man.”
“How do you know I am?”
“By your looks and manner. I am not. You may despise me, but I am
obliged to confess that I am chicken-hearted. I am afraid I am a coward.
It is not a pleasant confession, but I do not wish to represent myself
other than I am.”
“Then I am afraid that you are not the right kind of a man to cross the
plains to California.”
“I am not sure but you are right. I sometimes think so myself. But I
hoped to retrieve my fortunes, and in my state of health there seemed no
other way open to me.”
“You haven’t had much encouragement yet?”
“No, but I feel that I am fortunate in meeting with your friendly party.
And this emboldens me to make a request.”
“What is it?” asked the blacksmith.
“Will you let me travel with you? I am alone, quite alone. It would make
me happy to be with you. The sight of that boy, who reminds me of my
lost son, would be a daily source of happiness to me.”
Mr. Cooper hesitated, and the expression of his face showed that the
proposal was distasteful to him.
“You can stay with us to-night,” he answered briefly. “I cannot promise
more.”
                               CHAPTER X.
                      MR. SILVERTHORN’S TREACHERY.
The little party generally lay down to sleep soon after eight. The days
were always fatiguing, and they were in the habit of rising early.
The weather was warm, for it was toward the end of June, and they did
not even raise the tent, but lay down on the ground with a blanket
underneath and above them. Mrs. Cooper generally slept in the wagon.
“We have an extra pair of blankets, Mr. Silverthorn,” said Mrs. Cooper.
“We cannot offer you a bed; you will fare as well as my husband and the
boys.”
“How kind you are!” murmured Dionysius. “To me this simple provision
will be a luxury. For a week I have slept on the bare ground without a
blanket.”
“You need not go to bed as early as the rest of us, unless you like.”
“My dear lady, if you don’t object, I will retire into the woods for an
hour and indulge in religious meditation. I wish to express my thanks to
Providence for my happy encounter with your kind party.”
“There is no objection, I am sure, Mr. Silverthorn,” said Mrs. Cooper.
“What a good man he is!” she said to herself.
“That man makes me sick,” remarked Tom, aside to Grant.
“I think he is a humbug,” whispered Grant.
“I am sure he is.”
The little party stretched themselves on the ground, and Dionysius
Silverthorn walked pensively into the woods.
When he returned, Mr. and Mrs. Cooper and Tom were asleep.
The pair of blankets assigned to the stranger lay ready for use. He did
not immediately lie down, but thoughtfully surveyed the sleepers.
“They seem fast asleep, but perhaps it will be better to wait awhile,”
he murmured thoughtfully to himself. “It will not do for me to get
caught. That young man, Tom, is very muscular, and the old man is strong
in spite of his years. I will lie down awhile.”
It was well for him that he decided thus, for Grant awoke—a thing
unusual for him—and, looking around, saw their visitor.
“Haven’t you gone to bed yet, Mr. Silverthorn?” he asked.
“No, my young friend; I have been into the woods, engaged in meditation
and thanksgiving, but now I feel weary and I think I shall soon be
lulled to rest. Do you often wake during the night?”
“No; it is unusual for me to wake at all.”
“That is well. Boys like you should sleep soundly. I would I were a boy
again! Good-night, my dear young friend.”
“Good-night!”
Grant was soon asleep. An hour later Mr. Silverthorn, who had been lying
quietly, lifted his head gently, and throwing off his blanket, rose to
his feet.
He walked up to where Grant lay asleep.
“I wonder whether the boy has any money in his pocket?” he thought.
He went up softly to where Grant lay, and, kneeling down, quietly
detached the blanket, so that Grant would be uncovered. Then he inserted
his hand into his pocket, and drew out some silver change, about two
dollars in all.
He looked at it with disappointment.
“Is that all he has?” he muttered. “It won’t pay me for my trouble.”
He was about to search his other pocket, but Grant stirred in his sleep,
and, fearing he would awake, Dionysius rose hastily.
“I would try the others,” he said, “but I don’t dare to. If they should
wake, they might murder me, particularly the young man. Now I will lie
down again, and get up about four o’clock. I must have a little rest.”
Dionysius Silverthorn was one of those men who can rouse themselves at
any hour they fix upon. It didn’t vary much from four o’clock in the
morning when he rose and rubbed his eyes. It was already growing light
in the east, and there was promise of a fine day.
“I feel quite refreshed,” he said, stretching himself. “It is time I
took my departure. Is there nothing else I can take?”
Some remains of the supper of the previous night had been left near the
wagon, including a box of crackers.
“I will pocket a few crackers,” said Dionysius, “and keep them for
lunch. I will take the liberty of breakfasting before I go. Shall I take
the blankets?” he said thoughtfully. “No, they would be in my way. I
wish I had a little more money—but it would be dangerous to seek for it.
I will, however, take the liberty of borrowing the horse, as he will
materially assist me in my journey.”
The horse had been tied to a tree. Mr. Silverthorn gently unfastened the
rope and led him away. He was nervously anxious lest he should whinny or
make some noise that would arouse the little party. But the horse seemed
unusually docile, and, though he was probably sorry to be roused from
sleep quite so early, allowed himself to be led away without any
manifestation of discontent.
An hour later Tom Cooper stretched himself and opened his eyes.
“Another fine day!” he said to himself. “Well, we must make the most of
it. It is high time we began to make preparations to start. Hello,
Grant!” he said, shaking the boy till he murmured drowsily, “What is it,
Tom?”
“Time to get up, Grant, my boy. We must be on our way by six.”
Grant jumped up, and, throwing off the blankets, began to fold them up.
“Where’s Mr. Silverthorn?” he asked, turning his eyes in the direction
of the stranger’s bed.
“There’s his blankets!” said Tom. “Perhaps he has gone to the woods to
meditate,” he added, with a laugh. “I shan’t be sorry, for one, if he
doesn’t come back.”
“Nor I,” assented Grant.
“It’s my belief that he’s a rascal!”
“Whether he is or not, I don’t like him.”
“You forget, Grant, that you are the image of his lost boy,” said Tom,
with a laugh.
“I hope not. I shouldn’t like to look like any one belonging to him. Do
you believe his story about the Indians attacking his party?”
“It may be true, though I think the man is capable of lying. Well, I
must wake up father.”
The blacksmith was soon roused.
“A fine day!” he said cheerily. “We are in luck. Where is the horse?” he
asked abruptly, the next instant.
Startled by the question, Tom and Grant turned their eyes in the
direction of the tree to which old Dobbin had been tethered.
“Sure enough, where is he?” ejaculated Tom.
“Wasn’t he securely tied?”
“Yes,” answered Grant. “I tied him myself. He couldn’t have got away
without hands.”
“I tell you what, Grant,” said Tom Cooper suddenly, “that scoundrel’s
stolen him!”
“What scoundrel? Whom do you mean?” demanded the father.
“That tramp—Silverthorn.”
“Why, he’s gone, too!”
“Yes, and has stolen Dobbin to help him on his way. I’d like to get hold
of the rascal!” And stern resolution glittered in the eyes of the young
man.
“But I don’t understand it.”
“It’s easy enough to understand. The man’s a humbug. All his story was
made up to impose upon us.”
“Then you don’t believe his party was attacked by Indians?”
“No, I don’t; but if I catch him he’ll think he has been attacked by
Indians.”
“It will be a serious loss to us, Tom,” said the blacksmith, with a
troubled face.
“We’ll get him back if we can, father. I wonder if the fellow has stolen
anything else.”
Grant thrust his hand into his pocket and made a discovery.
“I’ve lost about two dollars in silver,” he said.
“It may have slipped out of your pocket during the night.”
Grant examined the ground on which he had been lying, and shook the
blankets; but not one of the missing silver coins was found.
“No,” he said. “The silver must have been taken from my pocket. No; I
had some bills in my right-hand pocket. I was lying on my right side, so
he could not get at it without the risk of waking me up. Have you lost
anything, Tom?”
Tom had been examining his pockets.
“No,” he said grimly. “The fellow didn’t dare to tackle me, I reckon. If
I had caught him at it I would have strangled him. Father, how is it
with you?”
“I am all right, Tom.”
“Then he didn’t get much outside of the horse. But that’s a serious
enough loss. Poor Dobbin!”
“If I only knew which way he went,” said Tom slowly.
But this was not clear. There was nothing to do but to get ready for the
day’s march, and set out. The loss of Dobbin made it necessary that all
should walk except Mrs. Cooper, who sat in the wagon.
They had been about three hours on the way when a tramping sound was
heard, and Dobbin came running up to the party, whinnying with joy.
“There’s nothing amiss with him,” said Tom joyfully. “I wonder how he
got away from the man that stole him. Are you glad to get back, old
fellow?”
There could be no doubt on that point, for the horse seemed content and
happy.
“Where’s old Silverthorn, I wonder?” said Tom.
The question was soon to be answered.
                              CHAPTER XI.
                          AN INDIAN ENCOUNTER.
The country through which the Cooper party were now travelling was
partially wooded. Soon, however, they would reach the long and barren
stretch of country—the great salt plain—which was the dread of all
overland parties. Then there would be no woods till they approached the
borders of the Golden State.
About the middle of the afternoon, while the oxen were plodding along at
the rate of barely two miles an hour, they received a surprise.
Tom Cooper, whose eyes were the sharpest, called out suddenly:
“Look there!”
Grant looked, but had to approach nearer before he could realize the
situation. Then he saw a white man tied to a slender tree, while half a
dozen Indians were dancing round him, uttering a series of guttural
cries, which appeared to fill the captive with intense dread. It was too
far to distinguish the features of the prisoner, but when they came
nearer Tom cried out, “Dang me, if it aint Silverthorn!”
It was indeed Dionysius Silverthorn, and his plight was certainly a
serious one.
“What shall we do?” asked Grant.
“We must rescue him,” answered Tom. “He’s a mean rascal, and he’s repaid
our hospitality by robbing us; but we can’t let him be killed by those
redskins.”
“I’m with you!” said Grant.
By this time the Indians had caught sight of the approaching party. They
ceased dancing and appeared to be conferring together. When Silverthorn
saw that some of his own color were at hand he uttered a loud cry, and
would have stretched out his hands if they had not been fettered.
“Help me! help me!” he cried. “Save me from these fiends!”
The Indians—six in number—seeing that there were but three in the
approaching party, took courage and decided to maintain their ground.
They uttered, a yell and fired a volley of arrows, one of which whizzed
by Grant’s ear.
Tom Cooper gritted his teeth.
“We’ll teach them a lesson,” he said.
He raised his rifle, and, aiming at the foremost Indian, fired
