"I spose, if Captain Stopfoot kill me for w'at I done do, you'll bury me
side de old woman dat done gone to glory ten year ago?" continued the
negro, who did not look old enough to have buried a wife ten years
before.

"I am not in the burying business, my friend, and after you are dead,
you had better send for your sons to do the job, for they will know
where to find the grave of the departed companion of your joys and
sorrows," replied Christy, as the boat came in sight of the bowsprit of
the Reindeer again.

"My sons done gone away to Alabamy, sar, and"--

"That's enough about that. There are no alligators about here, and you
can swim ashore if you are so disposed; but you must shut up your wide
mouth and keep still if you stay in the boat. Heave the lead, bowman!"

"Mark under water two, sir," reported the leadsman.

In a few moments more the cutter had gained a position where the steamer
could be fully seen. She was a side-wheeler, and appeared to be a very
handsome vessel. She had a considerable deck-load of cotton, and
doubtless her hold was filled with the same valuable commodity.

"Is that steamer armed, Quimp?" asked Christy, who could see no signs of
life on board of her.

"She don't got no arms, but she hab two field-pieces on her for'ad
deck," replied the negro.

"How many men has she on board?"

"L'em me see: the cap'n and de mate is two, two ingineers, two firemen;
dat makes six; and den she hab two deck-hands."

"But that makes only eight in all," replied Christy. "Are you sure that
is all?"

"Dead shoar dat's all, Massa Ossifer."

"But that is not enough to handle the steamer on a voyage to a foreign
port, for I dare say she is going to Nassau," added Christy, who was on
the lookout for some piece of strategy by which his boat and its crew
might be destroyed.

"I don't know not'ing about dat, sar; but Cap'n Stopfoot is a pow'ful
smart man; and he's Yankee too. I done hear him say he gwine to j'in de
Yankee navy."

What Quimp said was rather suspicious; but Christy could see nothing to
justify his doubts. He directed the cockswain to steer the cutter as
closely to the side of the Reindeer as the movement of the oars would
permit, so that the field-pieces could not be brought to bear upon it.
The steamer lay at a sort of temporary pier, which had evidently been
erected for her accommodation, and the cotton had doubtless been brought
to the key by river steamers by the Suwanee and other streams from
cotton regions.

There was no habitation or other building on the shore, but a gangway
was stretched to the land, over which a couple of men were hastening on
board when the cutter reached the stern of the Reindeer. From
appearances Christy judged that the water had been deepened by dredges,
for a considerable quantity of sand and mud was disposed in heaps in the
shallow water a hundred feet or more from the rude wharf.

"Boat ahoy!" shouted a person on board, near the starboard accommodation
ladder, which the officer of the boat had noticed was in place.

"On board the steamer!" replied Christy.

"What is your business here?" inquired the person on the deck of the
Reindeer, though he could not be seen from the cutter.

"I will go on board and inform you," replied Christy.

As there were no signs of resistance on board of the vessel, the officer
of the cutter directed his men to make a dash for the accommodation
ladder, which had the appearance of having been left to make things
convenient for a boarding-party. The crew were all armed with a cutlass
and revolver in the belt.

"Lay her aboard!" said Christy, quietly enough, as he led the way
himself, for he was a bold leader, and was not content to follow his
men. As he leaped down from the bulwarks to the deck, he confronted the
person who had hailed him in the boat.

"What is your business on board of the Reindeer?" demanded, in a very
tame tone, the man in front of him.

"I am an officer of the United States navy, and my business is to make a
prize of this steamer and her cargo," replied Christy.

"Is that so? You did not give me your name, sir," added the man.

"Lieutenant Passford, attached to the United States steamer Bellevite.
Do me the favor to explain who you are, sir," returned Christy.

"I am Captain Solomon Stopfoot, in command of the Reindeer, at your
service, born and brought up on Long Island," answered the commander of
the steamer.

"Then what are you doing here?" demanded the naval officer. "Where were
you born on Long Island?"

"In Babylon, on the south shore."

"Then Babylon is fallen!" exclaimed Christy, indignant to find a man
born so near his own home doing the dirty work of the Confederate
government.

"Perhaps not; and perhaps you may change your view of me when you have
heard my story," added Captain Stopfoot.

"Well, Captain, there is only one story that I care to hear just now,
and its title is simply 'Surrender,'" replied Christy rather
impatiently. "You understand my business on board of the Reindeer; and
if you propose to make any resistance, it is time for you to begin."

"It would be folly for me to make any resistance, and I shall not make
any. I have only two engineers, two firemen, foreigners, hired in
Nassau, who would not fight if I wished them to do so, and two
deck-hands. I could do nothing against the eight well-armed men you have
brought on board. I surrender."

"I should say that was a wise step on your part, Captain Stopfoot,"
replied Christy. "When you are more at leisure, I hope you will indulge
me in an explanation of the manner in which a Long Islander happens to
be engaged in blockade-running."

"I am an American citizen now, as I have always been; I shall be only
too happy to get back under the old flag. As an evidence of my
sincerity, I will assist you in getting the Reindeer out of this place.
The tide is high at this moment; and half an hour from now it will be
too late to move the vessel," said Captain Stopfoot, with every
appearance of sincerity in his manner.

"I will see you, Captain, as soon as I have looked the steamer over,"
replied Christy, as he left the commander of the Reindeer at the door of
his cabin, and went forward to examine the vessel.

He found the steam up; and the engineer bowed to him as he looked into
his room. There was nothing to be seen but cotton, piled high on the
deck, and stuffed into the hold; and he returned to the cabin.




CHAPTER XXIX

BRINGING OUT THE PRIZE


It seemed to Christy, after he had completed his examination of the
Reindeer, that she carried an enormous deck-load for a steamer of her
size, and that the bales were piled altogether too high for a vessel
that was liable to encounter a heavy sea. But the cotton was where it
could be readily thrown overboard if the safety of the steamer was
threatened by its presence. He found only the six men mentioned by
Stopfoot, though he had looked in every part of the vessel, even to the
fire-room and the quarters of the crew and firemen.

"I find everything as you stated, Captain Stopfoot; but I should say
that you were proposing to go to sea short-handed. I did not even see a
person whom I took for the mate. Is it possible that you could get along
without one?" said Christy, when he met the commander at the door of the
cabin.

"The truth is, that my men deserted me when they saw the two men-of-war
come into the bay, for they knew I had no adequate means of making a
defence. In fact, the Reindeer was as good as captured as soon as your
two steamers came into the bay, for you were morally sure to find her,"
replied the captain.

"But where are your men? How could they get away?" asked Christy.

"They have not got away a great distance. You could see the gangway to
the shore; and all they had to do was to land, without even the trouble
of taking to a boat. They are all on the long key; and without some sort
of a craft they will not be able to leave it. If you desire to spend
your time in hunting them down, I have no doubt you could find them
all."

"How many of them are there on the island, Captain Stopfoot?"

"The mate, four deck-hands, and two firemen. It would not be a difficult
task for you to capture them all, for I did not look upon them as
fighting material; they have crowded about all the men of that sort into
the army."

"I have no desire to find them, and they may stay on the key till
doomsday, so far as I am concerned," replied Christy. "We don't regard
the men employed on blockade-runners as of much account. But it is time
to get under way, Captain; I have men enough to do all the work, and I
think I have learned the channel well enough to find the way out into
the deep water of the bay."

"As I said before, Lieutenant Passford, I am willing to assist you, for
I am anxious to get back among my own people, and to find a position in
the old navy. I have been master of a vessel for the last ten years, and
I know the Southern coast better than most of your officers."

"No doubt you will find a place when you want one, for all competent men
are taken," replied Christy, as he went to the quarter to see if the
Bellevite's cutter was in condition to be towed by the Reindeer.

He had left the boat in charge of Quimp, or rather he had left him in it
without assigning any particular duty to him. He was no longer in the
cutter, and the officer concluded that he had taken to the long key, and
was fraternizing with the renegades who had deserted the Reindeer. The
long painter of the boat was taken to the stern and made fast in a
suitable place, and Christy hastened to the forward part of the vessel
with six of his men, leaving a quartermaster, who was the cockswain of
the cutter, with two others, in charge of the after part.

On his way he went into the engine-room, which opened from the main
deck, where he had before seen the two engineers, the chief of whom had
received him very politely. He suggested to the captain that he had made
no arrangement with these officers, and he was not quite sure that they
would be willing to do duty now that the steamer was a prize.

"There will be no trouble about them, for they are Englishmen, engaged
at Nassau, and they will do duty as long as they are paid for it, as
they have no interest in the quarrel between the North and the South,"
said Captain Stopfoot; and Christy could not help seeing that he was
making everything very comfortable for him.

"We are willing to work for whoever will pay us," added the chief
engineer, "and without asking any hard questions."

"I will see that you are paid," returned Christy. "You will attend to
the bells as usual, will you?"

"Yes, sir; we will do our duty faithfully," answered the chief.

Christy and the captain proceeded to the pilot-house, which appeared to
have been recently added to the vessel to suit the taste of her American
owners. The naval officer stationed one of his own men at the wheel, and
then took a careful survey of the position of the steamer. He directed
his crew to cast off the fasts.

"Is there a United States flag on board of this craft, Captain
Stopfoot?" asked Christy.

"To be sure there is, Lieutenant," said the captain with a laugh; "but I
do not get much chance to get under its folds."

"Of course you have Confederate flags in abundance?"

"Enough of them," replied the commander, as he drew forth from a
signal-box the flags required. "What do you intend to do with these?"

"I intend to hoist the United States flag over the Confederate to show
that this steamer is a prize, otherwise the Bellevite might put a shot
through her as soon as she shows herself outside of the key," replied
Christy.

"A wise precaution," added Captain Stopfoot.

The naval officer rang one bell as one of his men reported to him that
the fasts had been cast off, and that all was clear. The grating sound
of the engine was immediately heard, with the splash of the paddle
wheels. Very slowly the Reindeer began to move forward. Christy had very
carefully noted the bearings of the channel by which the steamer must
pass out into the deep water of the bay, and the instructions which the
captain volunteered to give him were not necessary.

"I suppose I am as really a Northern man in principle as you are, Mr.
Passford," said the captain, as the steamer crept very cautiously
through the pass between the keys.

"If you are, you have taken a different way to show it," replied
Christy, glancing at the speaker.

"But the circumstances have compelled me to remain in the service of my
Southern employer until the present time, and this promises to be the
first favorable opportunity to escape from it that has been presented to
me," Captain Stopfoot explained.

"You have been to Nassau a number of times, I judge; and it was possible
for you to abandon your employment any time you pleased," suggested the
naval officer.

"It was not so easy a matter as you seem to think; for there were no
Northern vessels there in which I could take passage to New York, or any
other loyal port.

"Mr. Groomer, the mate of the Reindeer, is part owner of her, though he
is not competent to navigate a vessel at sea, and he kept close watch of
me all the time, on shore as well as on board."

"But I understand that Mr. Groomer, the mate, has deserted you, and gone
on shore with the others of your ship's company," added Christy, rather
perplexed at the situation indicated by the captain.

"What else could he do?"

"What else could you do? and why did you not abandon the steamer when he
did so? If one of the owners would not stand by the vessel, why did you
do so?"

"I have told you before why I did not: because I wish to get back to my
friends in the North, and find a place in the old navy, which would be
more congenial to me than selling cotton for the benefit of the
Confederacy," replied Captain Stopfoot with considerable energy.

The explanation seemed to be a reasonable one, and Christy could not
gainsay it, though he was not entirely satisfied with the declarations
of the commander. He admitted that he regarded the Reindeer as good as
captured when he saw the Bellevite and Bronx come into the bay; and he
could easily have escaped in a boat to one of the gunboats after the
watchful mate "took to the woods," as he had literally done, for the key
was partly covered with small trees.

"And a quarter two!" reported the leadsman who had been stationed on the
forecastle.

"The water don't seem to vary here," added Christy.

"No, for the owners had done some dredging in this channel; in fact,
there was hardly anything like a channel here when they began the work,"
replied Captain Stopfoot. "To which of the steamers do you belong, Mr.
Passford?"

"To the Bellevite, the one which lies below the long key. The other has
gone up the bay."

"She has gone on a fruitless errand, for there is not another vessel
loading in these waters," said the captain. "I suppose you will report
on board of the Bellevite, Mr. Passford?"

"Of course I shall not leave the Reindeer without an order from the
commander of the ship," replied the lieutenant.

"And a half two!" shouted the leadsman.

"The channel deepens," said Christy.

"You will be in deep water in five minutes."

On this report Christy rang four bells, and the Reindeer went ahead at
full speed.

"By the mark three!" called the man at the lead.

The water was deepening rapidly, and presently the report of three and a
half fathoms came from the forecastle. It was soon followed by "And a
half four," upon which the lieutenant directed the wheelman to steer
directly for the Bellevite. He had hardly given the order before the
report of heavy firing from the upper waters of the bay came to his ear.

"What can that be?" he asked, looking at Captain Stopfoot.

"I don't know; but I suppose that the gunboat which went up the bay is
firing at some battery she has discovered. They have strengthened the
works in that direction which defend the town, since the only one there
was silenced by one of your gunboats," the captain explained.

The guns were heard on board of the Bellevite, and she began to move up
the bay as though she intended to proceed to the assistance of her
consort. Mr. Blowitt in the first cutter had followed the Bronx, and the
third cutter, in charge of Mr. Lobscott, had gone over to Piney Point,
to which there was a channel with from three to five fathoms of water,
and which seemed to be a favorable place to load a vessel with cotton.

As the Reindeer approached the Bellevite, the latter stopped her screw,
and Christy directed the wheelman to run the steamer alongside, and
within twenty or thirty feet of her. There was no sea in the bay, and
there was no danger in doing so. As the Reindeer approached the position
indicated, two bells were struck to stop her. The flags that had been
hoisted on board, informed Captain Breaker of the capture of the
steamer, so that no report was necessary.

"I have to report the capture of the Reindeer, loaded with cotton, and
ready to sail for Nassau," said Christy, mounting one of the high piles
of cotton bales, and saluting the commander of the Bellevite, who had
taken his place on the rail to see the prize.

"Do you know the cause of the firing up the bay, Mr. Passford?" asked
Captain Breaker.

"I do not, Captain; but I learn that the battery below the town has been
strengthened, and I should judge that the Bronx had engaged it."

"Have you men enough to hold your prize, Mr. Passford?"

"I think I have, Captain."

"You will go down the bay, and anchor outside of Egmont Key."

Christy rang one bell, and then four.




CHAPTER XXX

A VERY IMPORTANT SERVICE


The Reindeer went ahead at full speed, while the Bellevite stood up the
bay, picking up the crew of Mr. Blowitt's boat on the way, evidently
with the intention of taking part in the action which the Bronx had
initiated. The loud reports at intervals indicated that the Bronx was
using her big midship gun, while the feebler sounds proved that the
metal of the battery was much lighter. The prize was not a fast steamer,
and she was over an hour in making the dozen miles to Egmont Island, on
which was the tower of a lighthouse forty feet high, but no use was made
of it at that time.

The Bellevite proceeded very slowly, sounding all the time; but at the
end of half an hour the Reindeer was at least ten miles from her, which
was practically out of sight and hearing. About this time Christy
observed that Captain Stopfoot left the pilot-house, where he had
remained from the first; but he paid no attention to him. He had three
men on the quarter-deck of the steamer, one in the pilot-house with him,
and five more in other parts of the vessel.

Christy knew the channel to the south of the lighthouse, and piloted
the steamer to a point about half a mile to the westward of the island.
He was looking through one of the forward windows of the pilot-house,
selecting a proper place to come to anchor, in accordance with the
orders of Captain Breaker. While he was so engaged he heard some sort of
a disturbance in the after part of the steamer.

"On deck there!" he called sharply; and the five men who had been
stationed in this part of the steamer stood up before him, jumping up
from the beds they had made for themselves on the cotton bales, or
rushing out from behind them. "Hopkins and White, go aft and ascertain
the cause of that disturbance," he added.

The two men promptly obeyed the order, and the naval officer directed
the other three to stand by to anchor the steamer. In a few minutes the
anchor was ready to let go. Perhaps a quarter of an hour had elapsed,
when Christy began to wonder what had become of the two men he had sent
aft to report on the disturbance.

"Linman," he called to one of the three men on the forecastle, "go aft
and see what has become of Hopkins and White."

Linman proceeded to obey the order, but had not been gone twenty
seconds, before the noise of another disturbance came to Christy's ears,
and this time it sounded very much like a scuffle. Up to this moment,
and even since Captain Stopfoot had left the pilot-house, Christy had
not suspected that anything on board was wrong. The sounds that came
from the after part of the vessel excited his suspicions, though they
did not assure him that the ship's company of the steamer were engaged
in anything like a revolt.

"Follow me, Bench and Kingman!" he shouted to the two men that remained
on the forecastle. "Strike two bells, Landers," he added to the
wheelman.

Christy had drawn the cutlass he carried in his belt, and was ready,
with the assistance of the two men he had called, to put down any
insubordination that might have been manifested by the ship's company of
the prize. He would have been willing to admit, if he had given the
matter any attention at that moment, that it was the natural right of
the captured captain and his men to regain possession of their persons
and property by force and violence; but he was determined to make it
dangerous for them to do so.

"On the forecastle, sir!" exclaimed Landers, the wheelman.

Christy had put his hand upon the door of the pilot-house to open it as
the two men were moving aft; but he looked out the window at the
exclamation of the wheelman. The cotton bales seemed to have become
alive all at once, for half a dozen of them rolled over like a spaniel
just out of the water, and four men leaped out from under them, or from
apertures which had been formed beneath them.

  [Illustration:
  "His assailant put his arms around him and hugged him like a bear."
  Page 339.]

Bench and Kingman seemed to be bewildered, and both of them were thrown
down by the movement of the bales. The four men who had so suddenly
appeared sprang upon them, and almost in the twinkling of an eye had
tied their hands behind them. Christy drew one of the revolvers from his
belt; but he did not fire, for he was as likely to hit his own men as
their assailants. The victors in the struggle dragged the two men into
the forecastle, and disappeared themselves.

Christy was almost confounded by the suddenness of the attack; but he
did not give up the battle, for he had at least six men in the after
part of the steamer. Bidding Landers draw his cutlass and follow him, he
rushed out at the door he had before opened. He could not see anything
aft but the walls of cotton bales, with a narrow passage between them
and the bulwarks. He moved aft with his eyes wide open; but he had not
gone ten feet before a man dropped down upon him from the top of the
deck-load with so much force as to carry him down to the planks.

His assailant put his arms around him and hugged him like a bear, so
that he could neither use his cutlass nor his revolvers. At the same
moment another man dropped down on Landers in like manner. It was
impossible to resist an attack made from overhead, where it was least
expected, and when they were taken by surprise. Christy was a prisoner,
and his hands were bound behind him.

At this moment Captain Stopfoot presented himself before the
prize-master, his face covered with smiles, and nervous from the excess
of his joy at the recapture of the Reindeer. Christy could not see what
had become of the rest of his men. He knew that three of them had been
secured, but he did not know what had become of the other six, and he
had some hope that they had escaped their assailants, and were in
condition to render him needed assistance, for it seemed impossible that
all of them could have been overcome.

In spite of his chagrin and mortification, Christy could not help seeing
that the affair on the part of Captain Stopfoot had been well managed,
and that the author of the plot was smart enough to be a Yankee, whether
he was one or not. It was evident enough now that the mate and the rest
of the crew had not "taken to the woods," but had been concealed in such
dens as could be easily made among the cotton bales.

"I hope you are not very uncomfortable, Mr. Passford," said Captain
Stopfoot, as he presented his smiling face before his late captor.

"Physically, I am not very uncomfortable, in spite of these bonds; but
otherwise, I must say that I am. I am willing to acknowledge that it is
a bad scrape for me," replied Christy as good-naturedly as possible, for
his pride would not allow him to let the enemy triumph over him.

"That would not be at all unnatural, and I think it is a very bad scrape
for a naval officer of your high reputation to get into," added the
captain. "But I desire to say, Mr. Passford, that I have no ill-will
towards you, and it will not be convenient for me to send you to a
Confederate prison, important as such a service would be to our cause."

"I judge that you are not as anxious as you were to get into the old
navy," added Christy.

"I confess that I am not, and that I should very much prefer to obtain a
good position in the Confederate navy. I hope you will excuse the little
fictions in which I indulged for your amusement. I was born in the very
heart of the State of Alabama, and never saw Long Island in all my
life," continued the captain. "By the way, my mate is not part owner of
the Reindeer, though he is just as faithful to her interests as though
he owned the whole of her; and it was he that pounced down upon you at
the right moment. I assure you he is a very good fellow, and I hope you
will not have any grudge against him."

"Not the least in the world, Captain Stopfoot," replied Christy.

"I hope I shall not be obliged to detain you long, Mr. Passford; and I
shall not unless one of your gunboats chases me. I shall endeavor to put
you and your men on shore at the Gasparilla Pass, where you can hail one
of the gunboats as it comes along in pursuit of the Reindeer, though I
hope they will not sail for this purpose before night."

"The Bellevite is not likely to discover the absence of the prize at
present, for she will have to remain up the bay over one tide," said the
mate.

"That is what I was calculating upon," added the captain. "Now, Mr.
Passford, I shall be compelled to take my leave of you, for we have to
stow the cotton over again before we go to sea. I am exceedingly obliged
to you for the very valuable service you have rendered me."

"I was not aware that I had rendered you any service," replied Christy,
wondering what he could mean.

"You are not? Then your perception is not as clear as I supposed it was.
When it was reported to me that two gunboats were coming into the bay I
considered the Reindeer as good as captured, as I have hinted to you
before. My cargo will bring a fortune in Nassau, and I am half owner of
the steamer and her cargo, if Mr. Groomer, the mate, is not. I was
almost in despair, for I could not afford to lose my vessel and her
valuable cargo. I considered myself utterly ruined. But just then I got
an idea, and I came to a prompt decision;" and the captain paused.

"And what was that decision?" asked Christy curiously.

"When I saw your boat coming, for I was on the long key, I determined
that you should bring the Reindeer out into the Gulf, and save me all
trouble and anxiety in regard to her, and I knew that you could do it a
great deal better than I could. Wherefore I am extremely grateful to you
for this very important service," said Captain Stopfoot, bowing very
politely. "But I am compelled to leave you now to your own pleasant
reflections. Mr. Passford, I shall ask you and your men to take
possession of the cabin, and not show yourselves on deck; and you will
pardon me if I lock the door upon you."

The captive officer followed the captain aft to the door of the cabin.
On a bale of cotton he saw the cutlasses and revolvers which had been
taken from him and his men, which had apparently been thrown in a heap
where they happened to hit, and had been forgotten. Seated on the cotton
he found all his men, with their hands tied behind them. Captain
Stopfoot opened the cabin door, and directed his prisoners to enter.

"Excuse me for leaving you so abruptly, Mr. Passford," continued the
captain while he was feeling in his pocket for the key of the door. "It
looks as though it were going to blow before night, and I must get ready
for it. Besides, the Bellevite may return on the present tide, and I am
informed that she is a very fast sailer, as the Reindeer is not, and I
must make the most of my opportunity; but when my fortune is made out of
my present cargo, I shall owe it largely to you. Adieu for the present."

Captain Stopfoot left the cabin, locking the door behind him. The hands
of the prisoners, ten in number, were tied behind them with ropes, for
probably the steamer was not provided with handcuffs. Christy examined
his men in regard to the manner in which they had been overcome. The
three men who had been left near the cabin door had been overthrown by
those who jumped down upon them when they were separated, one at the
stern, one on the bales, watching the Bellevite in the distance, and the
third asleep on a cotton bale. The lieutenant had seen the rest of the
enterprise.

"This thing is not going to last long, my men," said Christy, who
realized that he should never be able to stand up under the obloquy of
having brought out a blockade-runner for the enemy.

He caused the hands to march in front of him till he found one who had
been carelessly bound. He backed this one up in the rear of Calwood, the
quartermaster, and made him untie the line, which he could do with his
fingers, though his wrists were bound. It was not the work of three
minutes to unbind the rest of them.

Christy broke a pane of glass in the door, and unlocked it with the key
the captain had left in the keyhole.




CHAPTER XXXI

AN UNDESIRED PROMOTION


As Christy unlocked the cabin door, he discovered a negro lying on the
deck, as close as he could get to the threshold. The man attempted to
spring to his feet, but the officer seized him by the hair of the head,
and pulled him into the cabin.

"Here, Calwood, put your hand over this fellow's mouth!" said Christy to
the quartermaster, who laid violent hands on him, assisted by Norlock.

The latter produced a handkerchief, which he thrust into the mouth of
the negro, so that he could not give the alarm. All the men were alert
and eager to wipe out the shame, as they regarded it, of the disaster;
and those who had been stationed near the cabin had certainly been
wanting in vigilance. Two of them seized a couple of the lines with
which they had been bound, and tied the arms of the negro behind him.

A second look at the negro assured Christy that it was Quimp, and he was
more mortified than before at the trick which had been played upon him.
Thrusting his hand into the pocket of the fellow, he drew from it the
three sovereigns and the three shillings he had paid him for his boat
and his information. It was evident enough now that he belonged to the
Reindeer, and that he had been sent out by Captain Stopfoot to do
precisely what he had done, taking advantage of the general good feeling
which prevailed between the negroes and the Union forces.

Christy thought that Captain Stopfoot had been over-confident to leave
his prisoners without a guard; but it appeared now that Quimp had been
employed in this capacity, though it was probable that he had been
instructed not to show himself to them, and for that reason had crept to
his station and lain down on the deck.

"Now, my men, take your arms from that bale of cotton; but don't make
any noise," said Christy in a low tone, as he took his revolvers and
cutlass from the heap of weapons; and the seamen promptly obeyed the
order. "The captain of this steamer managed his affair very well indeed,
and I intend to adopt his tactics."

The steamer was under way, and had been for some time. Christy climbed
upon the bales of cotton far enough to see what the crew of the vessel
were doing. The hatches appeared to have been taken off in the waist and
forward, and the crew were lowering cargo into the hold. A portion of
the cotton had either been hoisted out of the hold, or had been left on
deck, to form the hiding-places for the men. The captain must have had
early notice of the approach of the Bellevite and Bronx; but there had
been time enough after the former began to fire at the battery to enable
him to make all his preparations.

Captain Stopfoot was not to be seen, and was probably in the
pilot-house. The officer concluded that there must be as many as four
men in the hold attending to the stowage of the bales, and four more
could be seen tumbling the cargo through the hatches. This accounted for
eight men; and this was the number Christy had figured out as the crew
of the Reindeer, though there was doubtless a man at the wheel. The
force was about equal to his own, not counting the engineers and the
firemen.

Christy stationed his men as he believed Captain Stopfoot had arranged
his force. The cabin was in a deck-house; between the door of it and the
piles of cotton was a vacant space of about six feet fore and aft, which
could not be overlooked from the forward part of the vessel. It was here
that the first movement had been made. Calwood, who had been on duty
here, said that two men had dropped down upon them; and when the third
man came to learn the cause of the disturbance, he had been secured by
two more.

This was the noise that Christy had heard when he sent two hands from
the forecastle to ascertain the occasion of it. The three prisoners had
been disarmed, bound, and concealed in the cabin. They were threatened
with instant death if they made any outcry, and one of their own
revolvers was pointed at them. Linman, who had been sent to learn what
had become of Hopkins and White, was treated in the same manner. Then he
went himself, and the mate had dropped upon him, while those from under
the bales secured Bench and Kingman.

Every sailor was fully instructed in regard to the part he was to have
in the programme, and Christy had crawled forward to the point where he
found the aperture in which Groomer, the mate, had been concealed. He
was followed by Norlock, a very powerful man, who was to "make the drop"
on Captain Stopfoot, and stuff a handkerchief into his mouth before he
could call for assistance. Christy believed that the commander would be
the first one to come aft when the men by the cabin fired their
revolvers, as they had been instructed to do.

Two hands had been placed where they could fall upon the two who were
rolling the cotton into the hold at the hatch in the waist; and two more
were instructed to rush forward and fall upon the two men at work at the
fore-hatch. The four men in the space in front of the cabin were to leap
upon the bales and rush forward, revolvers in hand, and secure those at
work in the hold. If there was any failure of the plan to work as
arranged, the sailors were to rally at the side of their officer, ready
for a stand-up fight.

Christy gave the signal for the two revolvers to be discharged. The
captain did not appear at the report of the arms as expected; but he
ordered the two hands at work at the after-hatch to go aft and look out
for the prisoners. The two seamen on that side of the steamer dropped
upon them, gagged them, and secured them so quickly that they could
hardly have known what had happened to them. The enterprise had been
inaugurated without much noise; but the captain had heard it, and called
one of the men at the fore-hatch to take the wheel, from which it
appeared that he had been steering the steamer himself.

The naval officer saw this man enter the pilot-house, from which Captain
Stopfoot had come out. He moved aft quite briskly with a revolver in his
hand; but as soon as he had reached the point where the mate had dropped
upon him, Christy leaped upon his head and shoulders, and he sank to
the deck, borne down by the weight of his assailant. He was surprised,
as the first victim of the movement had been, and a handkerchief was
stuffed into his mouth. He had dropped his weapon, which Christy picked
up and discharged while his knees were placed on the chest of the
prostrate commander, and his left hand grappled his throat. He was
conquered as quickly as the first victim had been.

The shots had been the signal for all not engaged to rally at the side
of the lieutenant, and the men rushed forward. All of them had removed
their neck handkerchiefs to serve as gags, and they brought with them
the lines with which they had been bound. The captain was rolled over,
and his arms tied behind him. He was sent aft to the cabin, while
Christy led six of his crew forward. The hands in the hold had attempted
to come on deck, but the two sailors at each hatch dropped upon them.

In less than five minutes every one of the crew of the Reindeer had been
"jumped upon," as the sailors put it, bound, and marched to the cabin.
The battle was fought and the victory won. Christy was quite as happy as
Captain Stopfoot had been when he had taken possession of the steamer.
The man at the wheel had been the last to be secured, and Calwood was
put in his place, with directions to come about and steer for Egmont
Key.

Christy determined not to make the mistake Captain Stopfoot had
committed in leaving his prisoners insufficiently guarded. He selected
four of his best men, ordered them to hold the cutlass in the right hand
and the revolver in the left, and to keep their eyes on the prisoners
all the time. He then went to those who had been gagged, and removed the
handkerchiefs from their mouths.

"I am as grateful to you, Captain Stopfoot, as you were to me less than
an hour ago," said Christy, and he removed the gag from his mouth. "I am
happy to be able to reciprocate your complimentary speeches."

"I am not aware that I have done anything to merit your gratitude, Mr.
Passford," said the chief prisoner.

"You are not? Why, my dear Captain, you could not have arranged
everything better than you did for the recapture of the Reindeer,"
replied Christy.

"I did not think that ten men with their hands tied behind them could do
anything to help themselves; but you Yankees are very ingenious, and it
seems that you found a way to liberate yourselves. Besides, I had a hand
here to watch you, with instructions to call me if there was any
trouble," added the captain, in an apologetic tone.

"When the trouble came he was not in condition to call you," the
lieutenant explained.

"No, sar! Dem beggars gagged me, and den robbed me of all my money!"
howled Quimp, whose greatest grievance was the loss of his fifteen
dollars.

"That was hardly justifiable, Mr. Passford," added the captain shaking
his head.

"It would not have been justifiable if the rogue had not first swindled
me out of the money," replied the naval officer.

"How was that?" asked the chief prisoner.

Christy explained the manner in which he had encountered Quimp, saying
that he had paid him five dollars for the loss of his boat, and ten for
the information that a steamer was loaded with cotton and ready to sail
behind the long key.

