the divinity of the divine. 
To wield such a sceptre securely 
requires grace, no doubt, majesty too, 
but certainly strength ; the latter 
Caligula possessed, but it was the 
feverish strength of one who had 
fathomed the unfathomable, and who 
sought to make its depths his own. 
Caligula was haunted by the intarr 
gible. His sleep was a communion 
with Nature, with whom he believed 
himself one. At times the Ocean 
talked to him; at others the 
 
Earth had secrets which it wished to 
tell. Again there was some matter of 
moment which he must mention to 
the day, and he would wander out in 
the vast galleries of the palace and 
invoke the Dawn, bidding it come and 
listen to his speech. The day was 
deaf, but there was the moon, and he 
prayed her to descend and share his 
couch. Luna declined to be the 
mistres of a mortal; to seduce her 
Caligula determined to become a god. 
Nothing was easier. An emperor 
had but to open his veins, and in an 
hour he was a divinity. But the 
divinity which Caligula desired was 
not of that kind. He wished to be a 
god, not on Olympus alone, but on 
earth as well. He wished to be a 
palpable, tangible, living god ; one that 
mortals could see, which was more, 
he knew, than could be said of the 
others. The mere wish was sufficient 
 Rome fell at his feet. The patent 
of divinity was in the genuflections of 
a nation. At once he had a temple, 
priests and flamens. Inexhaustible 
Greece was sacked again. The 
statues of her gods, disembarked at 
Rome, were decapitated, and on them 
the head of Caius shone. 
Heretofore his dress had not been 
Roman, nor, for that matter, the garb 
of a man. On his wrists were bracelets; about his shoulders was a mantle 
made bright with gems; beneath it 
was a tunic, and on his feet were the 
high white slippers that women wore. 
But when the god came the costume 
changed. One day he was Apollo, 
the nimbus on his curls, the Graces at 
his side; the next he was Mercury, 
wings at his heels, the caduceu.s in 
his hand; again he was Venus. But 
it was as Jupiter Latialis, armed with 
the thunderbolt and decorated with a 
great gold benrd, th.it he appeared at 
his best. 
The role was very real to him. 
After the fashion of Olympians he 
became frankly Incestuous, seducing 
vestals, his sisters too, and gaining 
in boldness with each metamorpho- 
sis, he menaced the Capitoline Jove. 
"Prove your power," he cried to him, 
"or fear my own!" lie thundered at 
him with machine-made thunder, with 
lightning that flashed from a pan. 
"Kill me," he shouted, "or I will kill 
you!" Jove, ummoved, must have 
moved his assailant, for presently 
Caligula lowered his voice, whispered 
in the old god's ear, questioned him, 
meditated on his answer, grew per- 
plexed, violent again, and threatened 
to send him home. 
These interviews humanized him. 
He forgot the moon and mingled with 
men, inviting them to die. The invitation being invariably' accepted, he 
became a connoisseur in death, an artist in blood, a ruler to whom cruelty 
was not merely an aid to government 
but an individual pleasure, and there- 
with such a perfect lover, such a 
charming host! 
"Dear heart," he murmured to his 
mistress Pryallis, as she lay one night 
in his arms, "I think I will have you 
tortured that you may tell mc why I 
love you so," But of that the girl 
saw no need. She either knew the 
reason or invented one, for presently 
he sighed in her ear: "And to think 
that I have but a sign to make and 
that beautiful head of yours is off!" 
Musings of this description were so 
pleasurable that one evening he explained to guests whom he had star- 
tled with his laughter, that it was 
amusing to reflect how easily he could 
have all of them killed. 
 
But even to a god life is not an unmixed delight. Caligula had his little troubles. About him there had 
settled a disturbing quiet. Rome was 
hushed, the world was very still. 
There was not so much as an earth- 
quake. The reign of Augustus had 
been marked by the defeat of Varus. 
Under Tiberius a falling amphithea- 
tre had killed a multitude. Caligula 
felt that through sheer felicity his own 
reign might be forgot, A famine, a 
pest, an absolute defeat, a terrific conflagration—any prodigious calamity 
that should sweep millions away and 
stamp his own memory immutably on 
the chronicles of time, how desirable 
it were ! But there was nothing. 
The crops had never been more 
abundant; apart from the arenas and 
the prisons, the health of the empire 
was excellent; on the frontiers not so 
much as the rumor of an insurrection 
 
could be heard, and Nero was vet to 
come. 
Perplexed, Caligula reflected, and 
presently from Baije to Puzzoli, over 
the waters of the bay, he galloped on 
horseback, the cuirass of Alexander 
glittering on his breast. The intervening miles had been spanned by a 
bridge of ships and on them a road 
had been built, one of those roads for 
which the Romans were famous, a 
road like the Appian Way, in earth 
and stone, bordered by inns, by pink 
arcades, green retreats, forest reaches, 
the murmur of trickling streams. So 
many ships were anchored there that 
through the unrepleted granaries the 
fear of famine stalked. Caligula, 
meanwhile, his guests behind him, 
made cavalry charges across the sea, 
or in a circus-chariot held the ribbons, 
while four white horses, maddened by 
swaying lights, bore him to the other 
 
shore. At night the entire coast was 
illuminated; the bridge was one great 
festival, brilliant but brief. Caligula 
had weaned of it all. At a signal 
the multitude of guests he had assem- 
bled there were tossed into the sea. 
By way of a souvenir, Tiberius, 
whom he murdered, had left him the 
immensity of his treasure. "I must be 
economical or Csesar," Caligula reflected, and tipped a coachman a million, rained on the people a hail of 
coin, bathed in essences, drank pearls 
dissolved in wine, set before his guests 
loaves of silver, gold omelettes, sau- 
sages of gems; sailed to the hum of 
harps on a ship that had porticoes, 
gardens, baths, bowers, spangled sails 
and a jewelled prow ; removed a mountain, and put a palace where it had 
been; filled in a valley and erected a 
temple on the top; supplied a horse 
with a marble home, with ivory stalls, 
 
with furniture and slaves ; contemplated making him consul; made him 
a host instead, one that in his own 
equine name invited the fashion of 
Rome to sup with Incitatus. 
In one year Tiberius' legacy, a 
sum that amounted to four hundred 
million of our money, was spent. 
Caligula was radiant; he had achieved 
the impossible; he was a bankrupt 
god, an emperor without a copper- 
But the very splendor of that triumph 
demanded a climax. If Caligula hesitated, no one knew it. On the morrow the palace of the Ca sars was 
turned into a lupanar, a little larger, 
a littie handsomer than the others, 
but still a brothel, one of which the 
inmates were matrons of Rome and 
the keeper Jupiter Latialis. 
After that, seemingly, there was 
nothing save apotheosis. But Caligula, in the nick of time, remembered 
the ocean. At the head of an army 
he crossed Gaul, attacked it, and re- 
turned refreshed. Decidedly he had 
not exhausted everything yet. He 
recalled Tiberius' policy, and abruptly 
the world was tilled again with accusers and accused. Gold poured in 
on him, the earth paid him tribute. 
In a vast hall he danced naked on the 
wealth of nations. Once more he 
was rich, richer than ever; there 
were still illusions to be looted, other 
dreams to be pierced; yet, even as he 
mused, conspirators were abroad. 
He loosed his pretorians. "Had 
Rome but one head!" he muttered. 
"Let them feel themselves die," he 
cried to his officers. "Let me be 
hated, but let me be feared." 
One day, as he was returning from 
the theatre, the dagger did its usual 
work. Rome had lost a genius; in 
his place there came an ass. 
 
There is a verse in Greek to the 
effect that the blessed have children 
in three months. Livia and Augustus 
were blessed in this pleasant fashion. 
Three months after their marriage a 
child was born — a miracle which sur- 
prised no one aware of their previous 
intimacy. The child became a man, 
and the father of Claud, an imbecile 
whom the pretorians, after Caligula's 
death, found in a closet, shaking with 
fright, and whom for their own protection they made emperor in his 
stead. 
Caligula had been frankly adored; 
there was in him an originality, and 
with it a grandeur and a mad magnifi- 
cence that enthralled. Then, too, he 
was young, and at his hours what the 
French call channeui-. If at times he 
frightened, always he dazzled. Of 
course he was adored; the prodigal 
emperors always were; so were their 
successors, the wicked popes. The 
virtue and moderation, which we of 
a later day admire so much, were 
not entirely appreciated then. Man 
was still too near to nature to be 
aware of shame, and infantile enough 
to care to be surprised. In that was 
Caligula's charm; he petted his peo- 
ple and surprised them too. Claud 
wearied. Between them they assimilate every contradiction, and in their 
incoherences explain that incomprehensible chaos which was Rome. 
Caligula jeered at everybody, everybody jeered at Claud. 
The latter was a fantastic, vacillating, abstracted, well-meaning and 
cowardly tyrant, issuing edicts in 
regard to the proper tarring of barrels, 
and rendering decisions which would 
insure the fortune of an opera-bouffe; 
declaring himself to be of the opinion 
of those who were right ; falling asleep 
on the bench, and on awakening 
announcing that he gave judgment 
in favor of those whuse reasons were 
the best; slappeJ in the face by an 
irritable plaintiff; held down by main 
force when he wanted to leave; inviting to supper those whom he had 
killed before breakfast; answering the 
mournful salute of the gladiators with 
a grotesque j4i?e/e vos — " Be it well too 
with you," a response, parenthetically, 
which the gladiators construed as a 
pardon and refused to fight; dowering 
the alphabet with three new letters 
which lasted no longer than he did; 
asserting that he would give centennial games as often as he saw fit; an 
emperor whom no one obeyed, whose 
eunuchs ruled in his stead ; whose 
lackeys dispensed exiles, death, con- 
sulates and crucifixions; whose valets 
insulted the senate, insulted Rome, 
insulted the sovereign that ruled the 
 
world ; whose people shared his consort's couch; a sHpshod drunkard in a 
tattered gown — such was the gentleman that succeeded Caligula and had 
Messalina for wife. 
It were curious to have seen that 
woman as Juvenal did, a veil over her 
yellow wig, hunting adventures 
through the streets of Rome, prostituting herself in the ergastules, while 
her husband in the Forum censured 
the dissoluteness of citizens. And it 
were curious, too, to understand 
whether it was her audacity or his 
stupidity which left him the only man 
in Rome unacquainted lAfith the pro- 
digious multiplicity and variety of her 
lovers. History has its secrets, yet, 
in connection with Messalina, there is 
one that historians have not taken the 
trouble to probe; to them she has 
been an imperial strumpet, a hetaira 
on a throne. Messalina was not that. 
 
At heart she was probably no better 
and no worse than any otlicr lady of 
the land, but physically she was a 
victim of nymphomania, one who to- 
day would be put through a course of 
treatment, instead of being put to 
death. When Claud at last learned, 
not the truth, but certain facts, 
namely, that some of her lovers were 
conspiring to get rid of him, he was 
not indignant; he was frightened 
to death. The conspirators were 
promptly disposed of, Messalina with 
them. Suetonius says that, a few 
days later, as he went in to supper, he 
asked why the empress did not ap- 
pear. 
Ap-vt from the malady from which 
she suffered, we're it possible to find 
an excuse for her conduct, the excuse 
would be Claud. The purple which 
made Caligula mad, made him an 
idiot; and when in course of time he 
 
was served with a succulent poison, 
there must have been many conjec- 
tures in Rome as to what the empire 
would next produce. 
The empire was extremely fecund, 
enormously vast. About Rome extended an immense circle of provinces 
and cities that were wholly hers. 
Without that circle was another, the 
sovereignty exercised over vassals 
and allies; beyond that, beyond the 
Rhine on one side, were the silenced 
Teutons; beyond the Euphrates on 
the other, the hazardous Parthians, 
while remotely to the north there 
extended the enigmas of barbarism; 
to the south, those semi-fabulous 
regions where geography ceased to 
be. 
Little by little, through the pa-tience of a people that felt i' elf 
eternal, this immensity had been 
assimilated and fused. A few fortresses and legions on the frontiers, a 
stretch of soldiery at any spot an invasion might be feared; a little tact, 
a maternal solicitude, and that was 
all. Rome governed unarmed, or 
perhaps it might be more exact to 
say she did not govern at all; she 
was the mistress of a federation of 
realms and republics that governed 
themselves, in whose government she 
was content, and from whom she exacted little, tribute merely, and obeisance to herself. Her strength was 
not in the sword; the lioness roared 
rarely, often slept; it was the fear 
smaller beasts had of her awakening 
that made them docile; once aroused, 
those indolent paws could do terrible 
work, and it was well not to excite 
them. When the Jews threatened to 
revolt, Agrippa warned them : "Look 
at Rome; look at her well; her arms 
are invisible, her troops are afar; she 
 
rules, not by them, but by the certainty of her power. If you rebel, the 
invisible sword will flash, and what 
can you do against Rome armed, 
when Rome unarmed frightens the 
world?" 
The argument was pertinent and 
suggestive, but the secret of Rome's 
ascendency consisted in the fact that 
where she conquered she dwelt. 
Wherever the eagles pounced, Rome 
multiplied herself in miniature. In 
the army was the nation, in the legion 
the city. Where it camped, presto! 
a judgment seat and an altar. On 
the morrow there was a forum; in a 
week there were paved avenues; in a 
fortnight, temples, porticoes ; in a 
month you felt yourself at home. 
Rome built with a magic that startled 
as surely as the glint of her sword. 
Time and again the nations whom 
Caesar encountered planned to eliminate his camp. When they reached 
it the camp had vanished; in its place 
was a walled, impregnable town. 
As the standards lowered before 
that town, the pomcerium was traced. 
Within it the veteran found a home, 
without it a wife; and, the family 
established, the legion that had conquered the soil with the sword, sub- 
sisted on it with the plow. Presently 
there were priests there, aqueducts, 
baths, theatres and games, all the 
marvel of imperial elegance and vice. 
When the aborigine wandered that 
way, his seduction was swift. 
The enemy that submitted became 
a subject, not a slave. Rome commanded only the free. If his goods 
were taxed, his goods remained his 
own, his personal liberty untrammeled. His land had become part of a 
new province, it is true, but provided 
he did not interest himself in such matters as peace and war, not only was 
he free to manage his own affairs, but 
that land, were it at the uttermost 
end of the earth, might, in recompense 
of his fidelity, come to be regarded 
as within the Italian territory ; as such, 
sacred, inviolate, free from taxes, and 
he a citizen of Rome, senator even, 
emperor ! 
Conquest once solidified, the rest 
was easy. Tattered furs were replaced 
by the tunic and uncouth idioms by 
the niceties of Latin speech. In some 
cases, where the speech had been 
beaten in with the hilt of the sword, 
the accent was apt to be rough, but a 
generation, two at most, and there 
were sweethearts and swains quoting 
Horace in the moonlight, naively unaware that only the verse of the 
Greeks could pleasure the Roman ear. 
Of the principalities and kingdoms 
that of their own wish [a wish often 
 
suggested, and not aiwajs amicably 
either] had become aUies of Rome 
and mingled their freedom with hers, 
nothing worth mentioning was required; they entered into an alliance 
whereby in return for Rome's patronage and protection they agreed to 
have a proper regard for the dignity 
of the Roman people and to have no 
other friends or enemies than those 
that were Rome's — a formula ex- 
quisite in the civility with which it 
exacted the renunciation of every in- 
herent right. "I have obeyed," wrote 
a king to the senate. "I have obeyed 
your deputy as I would have obeyed 
a god." "And you have done wisely," 
the senate answered, a reply, which, 
in its terseness, tells all. 
Diplomacy and the plow, such were 
 Rome's methods. As for herself she 
jought, she did not till. Italy, devas- 
ated by the civil wars, was uncultivated, cut up into vast unproductive 
estates. From one end to the other 
there was barely a trace of agriculture, not a sign of traffic. You met 
soldiers, cooks, petty tradesmen, gladiators, philosophers, patricians, market 
gardeners, lazzaroni and millionaires; 
the merchant and the farmer, never. 
Rome's resources were in distant commercial centers, in taxes and tribute; 
her wealth had come of pillage and 
exaction. Save her strength, she had 
nothing of her own. Her religion, literature, art, philosophy, luxury and corruption, everything had come from 
abroad. In Greece were her artists; in 
Africa, Gaul and Spain, her agriculturists; in Asia her artisans. Her own 
breasts were sterile. When she gave 
birth it was to a litter of monsters, 
sometimes to a genius, by accident to 
a poet. She consumed, she did not produce. It was because of that she fell. 
"Save a monster  what can you 
expect from Agrippina and myself?" 
It was Domitius, Nero's father, 
who made this ingenious remark. 
He was not a good man; he was not 
even a good-looking man — a brawling 
trickster who, in spite of his wealth, 
which was great, appears to h;n"c 
pleased no one as thoroughly as he 
did his sister, whom he pleased too 
well. But such capacity for wicked- 
ness as he possessed paled beside that 
of Agrippina, who poisoned him when 
Nero's birth insured the heritage of 
his wealth. 
In all its galleries history has no 
other portrait such as hers. Caligula's sister, his mistress as well, 
 
prostituted by him, exiled and threatened with death, her eyes dazzled and 
nerves unstrung by the impossibilities 
of that fabulous reign, it was not 
until Claud, her uncle, recalled her 
and Messalina disappeared, that the 
empress awoke. She too, she deter- 
mined, would rule, and the Jus osculi 
aiding, she married out of hand that 
imbecile uncle of hers, on whose knee 
she had played as a child. 
The day of the wedding a young 
patrician, expelled from the senate, 
killed himself. Agrippina had accused 
him of incest, not because hewasguilty, 
nor yet because the possibility of such 
a sin shocked her, but because he 
was betrothed to Octavia, a slender 
maiden with blue, pathetic eyes, who  
happened to be Claud's daughter, and 
who, Agrippina determined, should 
be Nero's wife. Presently Caligula's 
widow, an old rival of her own, a 
 
lady who had thoucrht she would like 
to be empress twice, and whom 
Claud had eyed grotesquely, was disencumbered of three million worth of 
emeralds, with which she heightened 
her beauty, and told very civilly that 
it was time to die. So too disap- 
peared a Calpurina, a Lepida; women 
young, rich, handsome, impure, and 
as such dangerous to Agrippina's 
peace of mind. The legality of her 
crimes was so absolute that the mere 
ownership of an enviable object was 
a cause for death. - A senator 
had a vilia which pleased her; he was 
invited to die. A knight had a pair 
of those odorous murrhine vases, 
which Pompey had found in Armenja, 
and which on their first appearance 
set Rome wild; he, too, was invited 
to die. 
But, though Agrippina dealt in 
death, she dealt in seductions too. 
 
Rome, that had adored Caligula, 
promptly fell under his sister's sway. 
There was a splendor in her eyes, 
which so many crimes had lit; in her 
carriage there was such majesty, the 
pomp with which she surrounded herself was so magnificent, that Rome, 
enthralled, applauded. Beyond, on 
the Rhine, a city which is to-day 
Cologne, rose in honor of her sover- 
eignty. To her wishes the senate 
was subservient, to her indiscretions 
blind. Claud, who meanwhile had 
been wholly sicfhtless, suddenly sliowcd 
signs of discernment. A woman, 
charged with illicit commerce, 
was brought to his tribunal. He 
condemed her, of course. "In my 
case," he explained, "matrimony has 
not been successful, but the fate that 
destined mc to marry impure women 
destined me also to punish them." It 
was then that Agrippina ordered of 
 
Locusta that famous stew of poison 
and mushrooms, which Nero, in allusion to Claud's apotheosis, called the 
food of the gods. The fate that destined Claud to marry Agrippina destined her to kill him. 
It was under her care, between a 
barber and a ballerine, amid the 
shamelessness of his stepfather's place, 
where any day he could have seen his 
mother beckon indolently to a centurion and pointing to some lover who 
had ceased to please, make the gesture 
which signified Death, that the young 
Enobarbus— Nero, as he subsequently 
called himself — was trained for the 
throne. 
He had entered the world like a 
tiger cub, feet first; a circumstance 
which is said to have disturbed his 
mother, and well it might. During 
his adolescence that lady made herself feared. He was but seventeen 
 
when the pretorians called upon him 
to rule the world; and at the time an 
ingenuous Ind, one who blushed like 
Lalage, very readily, particularly at 
the title of Father of the Country, 
which the senate was anxious to give 
him ; endowed with excellent instincts, 
which he had got no one knew whence; 
a trifle petit titattre, perhaps, perfuming the soles of his feet, and careful 
about the arrangement of his yellow 
curls, but withal generous, modest, 
sympathetic — in short, a flower in a 
cesspool, a youth not over well-fitted 
to reign. But his mother was there; 
as he developed so did his fear of her, 
to such proportions even that he gave 
certain orders, and his mother was 
killed. That duel between mother 
and son, terrible in its intensity and 
unnameable horror, even the Borgias 
could not surpass. Tacitus has told 
it, dramatically, as was his wont. 
 
he told it in Latin, in which tongue 
it had best remain. 
At that time the ingenuous lad had 
disappeared. The cub was full-grown. 
Besides, he had tasted blood. Octa- 
via, the slender maiden, who with her 
brother, Britannicus, and her sister, 
Antonia, had been his playmates; who 
was almost his own sister; whose earliest memories interhnked with his, 
and who had become his wife, had 
been put to death; not that she had 
failed to please, but because a lady, 
Sabina Poppcea, who, Tacitus says, 
lacked nothing except virtue, had declined to be his mistress. At the 
time Sabina was married. But 
divorce was easy. Sabina got one at 
the bar; Nero with the axe. The 
twain were then united. Nero seems 
to have loved her greatlj-, a fact, as 
Suetonius puts it, which did not pre- 
vent him from kicking her to death. 
 
Already he had poisoned Britannicus, 
and with Octavia decapitated and 
Agrippina gone, of the imperial house 
there remained but Antonia and him- 
self. The latter he invited to marry 
him; she declined. He invited her to 
die. He was then alone, the last of 
his race. Monsters never engender. 
A thinker who passed that way 
thought him right to have killed his 
mother; her crime was in giving him 
birth. 
Therewith he was popular; more 
so even than Caligula, who was a poet, 
and as such apart from the crowd, 
while Nero was frankly canaille —  well- 
meaning at that — which Caligula 
never was. During .the early years 
of his reign he could not do good 
enough. The gladiators were not 
permitted to die; he would have no , 
shedding of blood; the smell of it was  
distasteful. He would listen to no 
 
denunciations ; when a decree of death 
was brought to him to sign, he re- 
gretted that he knew how to write. 
Rome had never seen a gentler prince, 
nor yet one more splendidly lavish. 
The people had not only the necessities 
of life, but the luxuries, the superfluities, too. For days and days in the 
Forum there was an incessant shower 
of tickets that were exchangeable, not 
for bread or trivial sums, but for gems, 
pictures, slaves, fortunes, ships, villas 
and estates. The creator of that 
shower was bound to be adored. 
It was that, no doubt, which awoke 
him. A city like Rome, one that had 
over a million inhabitants, could make 
a terrific noise, and when that noise 
I was applause, the recipient found it 
 heady. Nero got drunk on popularity, 
 and heredity aiding where the prince 
 had been emerged the cad, a poseur 
I that bored, a beast that disgusted, a 
caricature of the impossible in a crimson frame. 
"What an artist the world is to 
lose! " he exclaimed as he died ; 
and artist he was, but in the Roman 
sense; one that enveloped in the same 
contempt the musician, acrobat and 
actor; one that branded every public 
performer with an appellation which 
even yet has not been rehabilitated. 
It was the artist that played the tlute 
while gladiators died and lovers em- 
braced; it was the artist that enter- 
tained the crowd. 
As an artist Nero would have made 
the fortune of a dozen concert-halls. 
Fancy the attraction — an emperor 
before the footlights; but fancy the 
boredom also. The joy at the announcement of his first appearance was 
so great that thanks were offered to 
the gods; and the verses he was to 
sing, graven in gold, were dedicated 
 
to the Capitoline Jove. The joy was 
brief. The exits of the theatre were 
closed. It was treason to attempt to 
leave. People pretended to be dead, 
in order to be carried out, and well 
they might. The star was a fat man 
with a husky tenorino voice, who sang 
drunk and half-naked to a, protecting 
claque of ten thousand hands. 
But it was in the circus that Nero 
was at his best ; there, no matter 
though he were last in the race, it 
was to him the palm was awarded, or 
rather it was he that awarded the 
palm to himself, and then quite magnificently shouted, "Nero, Caesar, victor in the race, gives his crown to 
the People of Rome!" 
On the stage he had no rivals, and 
by chance did one appear, he was 
invited to die. In that respect he 
was artistically susceptible. When 
he turned acrobat, the statues of 
former victors were tossed in the 
latrina;. Yet, as competitors were 
needed, and moreover, all emperor 
that he was, as he, singly, could fill 
neither a stage nor a track, it was the 
nobility of Rome that he ordered to 
appear with him. The nobility was 
willing enough to appear, only there 
were few that cared to be forced, and 
for this command the unforgiving 
nobility never forgave him. On the 
other hand, the proletariat loved him 
all the better. What greater salve 
could it have than the sight of the 
conquerors of the world entertaining 
the conquered, lords amusing their 
lackeys ? 
Greece meanwhile sent him crowns 
and prayers ; crowns for anticipated! 
victories, prayers that he would come  
and win them. Homage so delicate! 
was not to be disdained. Nero set 
forth, an army at his heels; a legioa 
 
of claqueurs, a phalanx of musicians, 
cohorts of comedians, and with these 
for retinue, through sacred groves that 
Homer knew, through intervales 
which Hesiod sang, through a year of 
festivals he wandered, always victorious. It was he who conquered at 
Olympia; it was he who conquered 
at Corinth. No one could withstand 
him. Alone in history he won in 
every game, and with eighteen hundred crowns as trophies of war he repeated Cesar's triumph. In a robe 
immaterial as a moonbeam, the 
Olympian wreath on his curls, the 
Isthmian laurel in his hand, his army 
behind him, the clown that was em- 
peror entered Rome. Victims were 
immolated as he passed, the Via Sacra 
was strewn with saffron, the day 
was rent with acclaiming shouts. 
Throughout the empire sacrifices 
Lwere ordered. Old people that lived 
 
in the country fancied him, Philostratus says, the conqueror of new na- 
tions, and sacrificed with dehght. 
But if as artist he bored everybody 
to death, he was yet an admirable 
impresario. The spectacles he gave 
were unique. At one which was held 
in the Taurian amphitheatre it must 
have been deli<i;htfui to assist. Fancy 
eighty thousand people on ascending 
galleries, protected from the sun by a 
canopy of spangled silk ; an arena 
three acres large carpeted with sand, 
cinnabar and borax, and in that arena 
death in every form, on those galleries 
colossal delight. 
The lowest gallery, immediately 
above the arena, was a wide terrace 
where' the senate sat. There were 
the dignitaries of the empire, and 
with them priests in their sacerdotal 
robes; vestals in linen, their hair 
arranged in the six braids that were 
 
symbolic of virginity; swarms of 
oriental princes, rainbows of foreign 
ambassadors; and in the centre, the 
imperial pulvinar, an enclosed pavilion, in which Nero lounged, a 
mignon at his feet. 
In the gallery above were the 
necklaced knights, their tunics bor- 
dered with the augusticlave, their 
deep-blue cloaks fastened to the 
shoulder; and there, too, in their wide 
white togas, were the citizens of 
Rome. 
Still higher the people sat. In the 
topmost gallery were the women, and 
in a separate enclosure a thousand 
musicians answered the cries of the 
multitude with the blare and the 
laugh of brass. 
Beneath the terraces, behind the 
barred doors that punctuated the 
marble wall which circled the arena, 
were Mauritian panthers that had 
been entrapped with rotten meat ; 
hippopotami from Sals, lured by the 
smell of carrots into pits; the rhinoceros of Gaul, taken with the net; lions, 
lassoed in the deserts; Lucanian 
bears, Spanish bulls; and, in remoter 
dens, men, unarmed, that waited. 
By way of foretaste for better 
things, a handful of criminals, local 
desperadoes, an impertinent slave, a 
machinist, who in a theatre the night 
before had missed an effect — these, 
together with a negligent usher, were 
