neither seen nor guessed at before, and she began to understand, dimly
at first and then more clearly, the strong liking her husband had always
shown for him. He was capable of deep and earnest beliefs and of high
and generous impulses, in spite of his contempt for himself and of the
irregular life he led. His present existence, so far as she knew
anything of it, she condemned as unworthy. She was not, however, a woman
so easily shocked at the spectacle of evil in the lives of others as
might have been expected. There was a great deal of sound good sense in
the composition of her character, and she had seen enough of the world
to have learnt that perfection is a word used to define what is a little
better than the average. What she had disliked in Ghisleri from her
first acquaintance with him was not connected with his reputation, of
which, at that time, she had known very little. Besides, though people
called him fast and wild and more or less heartless, he was liked, on
the whole, as much as any unmarried man in society. He was known to be
honourable, courageous, and very discreet, and the latter quality almost
invariably brings its reward in the end. That he should have been
entangled in more than one love affair was only what was to be expected
of such a man, at two or three and thirty years of age, and no one
really considered him any the worse on that account, while the great
majority of women thought him vastly more interesting for that very
reason. Laura was not, perhaps, so entirely different from the rest of
her sex as Ghisleri was fond of believing. Her education had not been
that of young Roman girls, it is true, and the singular circumstances of
her short married life had not developed her character in the same
direction as theirs generally was by matrimony. But in real womanliness
she was as much a woman as any of them, liable to the same influences
and to the same class of enthusiasms. Because she had loved and married
Herbert Arden, it did not follow that she could not and did not admire
all that was brave and generous and strong, independently of moral
weakness and faults.
Arden himself, indeed, though he had excited her pity by his physical
defects, had commanded her respect by the manly courage he showed under
all his sufferings. She had been able to forget his deformity in the
superior gifts of intelligence and heart which had unquestionably been
his, and, after all, she had loved him most because she had felt that
but for an accident he would have been pre-eminently a manly man.
Cripple as he was, she had always known that she could rely on him, and
her instinct had always told her that he could protect her.
But she had never trusted Ghisleri. He had the misfortune to show his
worst side to most people, and he had shown it to her. She had seen more
than once that he was ready to undertake and carry out almost anything
for his friend's sake, and she had been honestly grateful to him for all
he had done. But she had not been able, until now, to shake off that
feeling of distrust and timid dislike she had always felt in his
presence. She had, indeed, succeeded tolerably well in hiding it from
him, but it had always made her cold in conversation and somewhat formal
in manner, and he, being outwardly a rather formal and cold man had, so
to say, put himself in harmony with her key. For the first time in their
acquaintance, and under pressure of what he considered necessity, he had
suddenly unbent, and had told her the principal story of his life with a
frankness and simplicity that had charmed her. From that hour she judged
him differently. After that first visit, he went often to see her, and
on each occasion he felt drawn more closely to her than before.
"You are very much changed," he said to her one day. "Do you mind my
saying it?"
"Not in the least," Laura answered, with a smile. "But in what way am I
different?"
"In one great thing, I think. You used to be very imposingly calm with
me. You never seemed quite willing to speak freely about anything. Now,
it is almost always you who make me talk by making me feel that you will
talk yourself. That is not very clearly put, is it? I do not know
whether you ever disliked me--if you did, you never showed it. But I
really begin to think that you almost like me. Is there any truth in
that?"
"Yes--a great deal." She smiled again. "More truth than you guess--for I
do not mind saying it since it is all over. I did not like you, and I
used to try and hide it. But I like you now, and I am quite willing that
you should know it."
"That is good of you--good as everything you do is. But I would really
like to know why you have changed your mind. May I?"
"Because I have found out that you are not what I took you for."
"Most discoveries of that kind are disappointments," observed Ghisleri,
with a dry laugh.
"That is just the sort of remark I used to dislike you for," said Laura.
"The world is not all bad, and you know it. Yet out of ten observations
you make, nine, at least, would lead one to believe that you think it
is."
"Excepting yourself, we are all as bad as we can be. What is the use of
denying it?"
"We are not all bad, and I do not choose to be made an exception of. I
am just like other people, or I should be if I were placed as they are.
I not only am sure that you are not a bad man, but I am quite convinced
that in some ways you are a very good one."
"What an odd mistake!"
"Why do you persistently try to make yourself out worse than you are,
and to show your worst side to the world?"
"I suppose that is the side most apparent to myself," answered Ghisleri.
"I cannot help seeing it."
"Because you are not Launcelot, you take yourself for Cæsar Borgia--"
"That would be flattering myself too much. Borgia was by far the more
intelligent of the two. Say Thersites."
"I know nothing about Thersites."
"Then say Judas. There seems to be very little difference of opinion as
to that personage's moral obliquity," Ghisleri laughed.
"Very well," said Laura, gravely. "I suppose you have no doubt, then,
that Judas would have acted as you did in your affair with Don
Gianforte. He would, of course, have submitted to insult rather than
break a promise, and would have allowed--"
"Will you please stop, Lady Herbert?" Ghisleri fixed his blue eyes on
her.
"No, I will not," answered Laura, with decision. "What I like about you
is precisely what you try the most to hide, and I mean to see it and to
make you see it, if possible. You would be much happier if you could. I
suppose that if the majority of people could hear us talking now, they
would think our conversation utterly absurd. They would say that you
were posing, in order to make yourself interesting, and that I was
enough attracted by you to be deceived by the comedy. Is not that the
way the world would look at it?"
"Probably," assented Ghisleri. "Perhaps I am really posing. I do not
pretend to know."
"I am willing to believe that you are not, if you will let me, and I
would much rather. In the first place, you are, at all events, not any
worse than most men one knows. That is evident enough from your actions.
Secondly,--you see I am arguing the case like a lawyer,--if you had not
a high ideal of what you wish to be, you would not have such a poor
opinion of what you are. Is that clear?"
"If there were no right, there could not possibly be any wrong. But
black would be black, even if you could only compare it with blue,
green, and yellow, instead of with white."
"I am not talking of chromolithographs," said Laura. "What I say is
simple enough. If you did not wish to be good, and know what good means,
and if you had not a certain amount of goodness in you, you would not
think yourself so bad. And you are unhappy, as you have told me before
now, because you think all your motives are insincere, or vain, or
defective in some way. I suppose you wish to be happy, and if you do,
you must learn to find some satisfaction in having done your best. I
have said precisely what I mean, and you must not pretend to
misunderstand me."
"Think yourself good, and you will be happy," observed Ghisleri. "That
is the modern form of the proverb."
"Of course it is, and the better reason you really have for thinking
yourself good, the more real and lasting your happiness will be."
Ghisleri laughed to himself, and at himself, as he went away, for being
so much impressed as he was by what Laura said. But he could not deny
that the impression had been made and remained for some time after he
had left her. There was a healthy common-sense about her mind which was
beginning to act upon the tortuous and often morbid complications of his
own. She seemed to know the straight paths and the short cuts to simple
goodness, and never to have guessed at the labyrinthine ways by which he
seemed to himself to be always trying to escape from the bugbear sent to
pursue him by the demon of self-mistrust. He laughed at himself, for he
realised how utterly impossible it would always be for him to think as
she did, or to look upon the world as she saw it. There had been a time
when he had thought more plainly, when a woman had exerted a strong
influence over him, and when a few good things and a few bad ones had
made up the sum of his life. But she was dead, and he had changed. Worse
than that, he had fallen. As he sat in his room and glanced from time to
time at the only likeness he had of Bianca Corleone, he thought of
Beatrice's reproach to Dante in the thirty-first canto of the
"Purgatory":
   "And yet, because thou'rt shamed of me in all
    Thy sin, and that in later days to come
    Thou mayst be brave, hearing the Siren's voice
    Sow deep the seed of tears and hear me speak.
    So shalt thou know how thou should'st have been moved
    By my dead body in ways opposite.
    Nor art nor nature had the power to tempt thee
    With such delight as that fair body could
    In which I lived--which now is scattered earth--
    And if the highest joy was lost to thee
    By my young death, what mortal living thing
    Should have had strength to drag thee down with it?"
As he repeated the last words he started for they reminded him with
painful force of Gianforte Campodonico's insulting speech, and he
detested himself for even allowing the thought to cross his mind--for
allowing himself to repeat Beatrice's words up to that point. It was he
who had dragged down Maddalena dell' Armi to his level, not she who had
made him sink to hers. And yet Campodonico had said almost the same
thing as Beatrice, and certainly without knowing it. In his heart he
knew that Bianca might have reproached him so, but then, deeper still,
he knew that the reproach, from her lips, would have fallen on himself
alone, and would never have been meant for Maddalena.
Ghisleri fell to thinking over his own life and the lives of others, in
one of those black moods which sometimes seized him and in which he
believed in no one's motives, from his own upward. In the course of his
lonely and bitter meditations, he came across an idea which at first
seemed wild and improbable enough, but which, little by little, took
shape as he concentrated his attention upon it, and at last chased every
other memory away. He was not naturally an over-suspicious man, but when
his suspicions were once roused he was apt to go far in pursuit of the
truth, if the matter interested him. He rose and got a book from the
shelves which lined one side of the wall, and began to turn over the
pages rapidly, until he stopped at the place he was looking for. He read
three or four pages very carefully twice over and returned the volume to
its place. Then he sat down to think, and did not move for another
quarter of an hour. At the end of that time he called his servant, a
quiet, hard-working fellow from the Abbruzzi, who rejoiced in the name
of Bonifazio.
"Do you happen to know," he asked, "if there was much scarlet fever in
the city last winter? I have always wondered how poor Lord Herbert
caught it."
Bonifazio had known Lord Herbert for years, just as Donald had known
Ghisleri, for the two friends had often made short journeys together,
taking their servants with them. The Italian thought a long time before
he gave an answer.
"No, Signore. I do not remember hearing that there were many cases. But
then, I am not in the way of knowing. It may have been."
"You are a very discreet man, Bonifazio," said Ghisleri. "Lord Herbert
fell ill on the day after he had dined in Casa Savelli. Do you think you
could find out for me whether any one of the servants had the scarlet
fever at that time?"
"Perhaps, signore. I will try. I know Giuseppe, the butler, who is a
very good person, but who is not fond of talking. When there is such an
illness they either send the servants to the hospital, in the Roman
houses, or else they put them in an attic and try not to let any one
know. For the rest, I will do what I can. You say well, Signore, for it
is possible that the blessed soul of the Milord caught the fever at the
dinner in Casa Savelli."
"That is what I think," said Ghisleri. And he thought a good deal more
also, which he did not communicate to his man.
Bonifazio, as his master said, was discreet. He was also very patient
and very uncommunicative, as the men of the Abbruzzi often are. They
make the best servants when they can be got, for, in addition to the
good qualities most of them possess in a greater or less degree, they
are almost always physically very strong men, though rarely above middle
height, and often extremely pale. Ghisleri knew that so soon as
Bonifazio had anything to tell, he would tell it without further
question or reminder.
Several days passed, during which Ghisleri, who gained strength rapidly,
began to resume his former mode of life, went to the club, saw his
friends, and made a few visits. He went more than once to Maddalena's
house and stayed some time with her when he found her alone. Little by
little he fancied that her look was changing and growing more
indifferent. He was glad of it. He wished that he might be to her
exactly what she was to him. That, indeed, could never be, but he wished
it were possible. He knew that when she ceased to love him altogether,
she could never feel friendly devotion, gratitude, or respect for him,
and he felt all three for her in a far greater degree than she could
imagine. On the whole, during that time their relations were peaceable,
and altogether undisturbed by the frequent differences that had so often
nearly estranged them from one another in earlier days. There was, of
course, an air of constraint about their meetings, more evident in
Maddalena's manner than in Ghisleri's, and the latter hardly hoped that
this could ever quite wear off and leave at last a sincere and true
friendship behind it. That was, indeed, the best that could be hoped for
either of them, and he had no right to expect the best, nor anything
approaching to it.
One evening as he was dressing for dinner, Bonifazio gave him the news
he desired. It had not been easy to extract any communication on the
subject from old Giuseppe, the Savelli's butler, but such as he had at
last given was clear, concise, and to the point. There had been a case
of scarlet fever in the house. Donna Adele's maid had taken it, and was
just convalescent at the time when the Ardens dined with Adele and her
husband. The woman's name was Lucia, and on falling ill she had been at
once removed to a distant room in the upper part of the palace. The case
had been rather a severe one, Giuseppe believed, and it was only within
the last few weeks that Lucia seemed to have regained her strength. She
was at present at Gerano with her mistress, but had written to the wife
of the Savelli's porter saying that she had been dismissed, and was to
leave at the end of the month, and asking for assistance in finding a
new place. Ghisleri was satisfied for the present. It was quite clear
that Arden must have caught the fever that killed him so suddenly in
Casa Savelli. Whether Donna Adele had in any way communicated the
contagion was another matter, and not easily decided. Her inexplicable
nervousness, beginning about the time that Arden died, might be
accounted for on the ground that she was aware of having been the
unintentional cause of his illness, and felt that by a little precaution
she might have averted the catastrophe. The idea was constantly present
in Ghisleri's mind, but it lacked detail and clearness, and constituted
at most a rather strong suspicion. Of course it was quite possible, and,
considering Adele's character, more than likely, that she had never been
near the maid during her illness. If she had never had the scarlet fever
herself, it was quite certain. But that was a point easily settled, and
was a very important one.
On the following day, Ghisleri called at the Palazzo Braccio. The
Princess received him, as she always did, without any signs of
satisfaction, but without marked coldness. To her he was always "that
wild Ghisleri," and she thoroughly disapproved of him, wishing that he
would not visit her daughter so often. He was quite aware of the feeling
she entertained towards him, and was always especially careful in his
conversation with her. In spite of her long residence in Rome, as a
Roman, and among Romans, she had remained altogether English in nature.
Laura, English on both sides by her birth, had far less of prejudice
than her mother, and was altogether more of a cosmopolitan in every way.
On the present occasion, Ghisleri led the conversation so as to speak of
her. He began by asking the Princess where she herself meant to spend
the summer, and whether she intended to be with her daughter.
"I hope to be with her a great part of the time," she answered. "I do
not like to think of her as travelling about the world alone. Indeed, I
do not at all approve of her living without a companion, as she insists
upon doing. She is far too young, and people are far too ready to talk
about her."
"She has such wonderful dignity," answered Ghisleri, "that she could do
with impunity what most women could not do at all. Besides, her mourning
protects her for the present, and her child. She is looking wonderfully
well--do you not think so?"
"Yes. When one thinks of all she has suffered, it is amazing. But she
was always strong."
"I should suppose so. Any one else would have caught the scarlet fever."
"As for that," said the Princess, unsuspiciously, "people rarely have it
twice."
"She has had it, then."
"Oh, yes. Both the girls had it at the same time, when they were little
things. Let me see--Laura must have been six years old then. They had it
rather badly, and I remember being terribly anxious about them."
"I see," answered Ghisleri, carelessly. "That accounts for it. But to go
back to what we were speaking of, I wonder that Lady Herbert does not
spend the summer with you at Gerano, if you go there as usual."
"I do not think she will consent to that," said the Princess, rather
coldly. "She says she prefers the north for the baby. It is quite true
that it is often very hot at Gerano."
"Donna Adele was good enough to ask me to go out and spend a day or two
while she is there. It must be very pleasant just now, in the spring
weather."
"Why do you not go?" asked the Princess, with more warmth, for she
preferred that Ghisleri should be where he could not see Laura every
day, as she believed he now did. "You would be doing them both a
kindness. Poor Adele was obliged to go to the country against her
will--she is in such a terribly nervous state. I really do not know what
to make of it."
"What news have you of her?" inquired Ghisleri, in a tone of polite
solicitude. "Is she at all better?"
"She was better after the first few days. Then it appears that she had a
fright--I do not quite understand how it was from what Francesco wrote
to my husband--but it seems to have been one of those odd
accidents--optical illusions, I suppose--which sometimes terrify
people."
"How very unfortunate! What did she fancy she saw?"
"It was absurd, of course!" answered the Princess, who had no special
reason for being reticent on the subject. "It seems that there was a
blue cloak of hers hanging somewhere in her dressing-room,--at a window,
I believe,--and she went in suddenly very early in the morning before it
was quite broad daylight, and took the cloak for a man. In fact she
thought it was poor dear Arden. You know he always used to wear blue
serge clothes. Francesco saw it himself afterwards and says that it was
extraordinarily like. But I cannot understand how any one in their
senses could be deceived in that way. Adele is dreadfully overwrought
and imaginative. She has danced too much this winter, I suppose."
When Ghisleri went away he was almost quite persuaded that Adele was
conscious of having communicated the fever to Arden. Of course, it might
all be mere coincidence, but to him the evidence seemed strong. He wrote
a note to Adele, asking whether he might avail himself of her
invitation, and spend a day at Gerano. Her answer came by return of
post, begging him to come at once, and to stay as long as possible. The
handwriting was so illegible that he had some difficulty in reading it.
To judge from that, at least, Adele was no better.
Before leaving Rome, he thought it best to inform Laura of his intended
visit. He had never spoken of her step-sister in a way to make her
suppose that he disliked her, but Laura knew very well what part he had
played at the time when Adele was spreading slanderous reports, for her
mother had repeated the story precisely as the Prince had told it to
her. Ghisleri, of course, was not aware of this, for Arden had not
mentioned the matter to him, unless his reference to the enemies he and
Laura had in Rome, during the last conversation he had with his friend,
could be taken as implying that Ghisleri knew as much as he himself. But
in any case, he was sure that Laura would be surprised at his going to
Gerano, even for a day, and it was better to warn her beforehand, and
if possible give her some reasonable explanation of his conduct. He
chose to refer his visit at once to motives of curiosity, together with
a natural desire to breathe the purer air of the country, now that he
was able to make the short journey without fatigue or danger.
"I have never been to Gerano," he added. "It is said to be a wonderful
place--one of the finest mediæval castles in this part of the world. I
really wish to see it--they say the air is good--and since Donna Adele
is so kind as to ask me, I shall go."
"You would see it better if you went when my mother and step-father are
there. He would show you everything and give you all sorts of historical
details which Adele has forgotten and which Francesco never knew."
"No doubt, but there is one objection," answered Ghisleri. "They have
never asked me. I am not a favourite with the Princess. I am sure you
know that."
"She thinks you are very wild," said Laura, with a smile. "She
disapproves of you on moral grounds--not at all in the way I used
to--and still do, sometimes," she added, incautiously.
"Still?"
"Oh, it is very foolish! Do not talk about it. When are you going out?"
Laura had undeniably felt a sudden return of her old distrust in him,
when she had heard of the visit. It was natural enough that she should,
considering what she knew. She suspected some new and tortuous
development of his character, and would have instinctively drawn back
from the intimacy she felt was growing up between him and herself, had
she not by experience found out that she might be quite wrong about him
after all. She tried, at the present juncture, to shake off the
sensation which was now far more distasteful to her than it had formerly
been, in proportion as she had fancied that she understood him better.
But she could not altogether succeed. It was too strange, in her
opinion, that he should willingly be Adele's guest, and put himself
under even a slight obligation to her. It showed, she thought, how
individual views could differ in regard to friendship. She was even
rather surprised to find that she was asking herself whether, if
Gianforte and Christina Campodonico possessed a habitable castle and
invited her to stop with them, she would accept, considering that
Gianforte had almost killed her husband's best friend. She
unhesitatingly decided that she would not, and resented Ghisleri's
willingness to receive hospitality from one who, as he well knew, had
foully slandered both Arden and herself. Her doubts were certainly
justifiable to a certain extent. But there was no immediate probability
that they would be cleared away for the present. Ghisleri understood her
perfectly, and wondered whether he were not risking too much in
endangering a friendship so precious to him for the sake of following
out a suspicion which might, in the end, prove to have been altogether
without foundation. On the other hand, his natural obstinacy of purpose
when once called into play was such as not to leave the smallest
hesitation in his mind between doing what he had determined to do, or
not doing it, when he had once made up his mind, irrespective of
consequences. Having lost sight of the virtue of constancy, he clung to
a vicious obstinacy as a substitute.
CHAPTER XVIII.
When Adele had read Padre Bonaventura's letter twice over and had
realised its meaning, she behaved like a person stunned by an actual
blow. She sank into the nearest chair, utterly overcome. She had barely
the presence of mind to tear up the sheet of paper into minute shreds,
which she gathered all in one hand, until she could find strength to
scatter them out of the window. The position was a terrible one indeed,
and for a long time she was unable to think connectedly about it, or of
anything else. But for the two nights of sound sleep she had got by
taking the chloral, she must inevitably have broken down. As it was, her
strong constitution had asserted itself so soon as she had been able to
rest, and she was better able to meet this new and real trouble than she
had been to face the imaginary horror of Herbert Arden's presence in her
dressing-room. But even so, half an hour elapsed before she was able to
rise from her seat. She tossed the scraps of paper out of the window and
watched them as the wind chased them in all directions, upwards and
downwards, upon the castle wall. Then, all at once, she began to think,
and her brain seemed to act with an accuracy and directness it had never
had before.
Either the letter had been opened in the house or at the post-office. It
could not have been opened in Rome, or at least, the probabilities were
enormously against such an hypothesis. It was scarcely more like that
the man at the Gerano post-office should have ventured to tamper with a
sealed envelope coming from the castle, and for which he had given a
receipt before taking charge of it. He could not have the smallest
interest in reading Donna Adele's correspondence, and he had everything
to lose if he were caught. He would certainly not have supposed that she
or her husband, having but lately left the city, were sending back a sum
of money in notes large enough to make it worth his while to incur such
a risk. In other words, the theft had been committed in the house, and
no one but Lucia could have been the thief. Lucia had been summarily
dismissed; Lucia was the only servant in the establishment who had
serious cause for discontent; Lucia had guessed from the address that
the letter contained something at least of the nature of a confession,
and had resolved to hold her mistress in her power. Moreover, it was
possible--barely possible--that Lucia knew something else. In any case,
she had read every word Adele had written with her own hand, and Adele
knew very well why the woman had not returned the sheets to the envelope
after mastering their contents. She was utterly, hopelessly, and
entirely in Lucia's power. The maid would go from her to a new
situation, and wherever she might be would always be able to control
Donna Adele's life by merely threatening to betray what she knew to the
person or persons concerned.
Adele felt that her courage was almost failing her in this extremity, at
a time when she needed more than she had ever possessed. And yet it was
necessary to act promptly, for the maid might even now be engaging
herself with some one else. Come what might, she must never leave Casa
Savelli, if it cost Adele all the money she could beg of her husband or
borrow of her father to keep the woman with her. First of all, however,
she must regain some sort of composure, lest Lucia should suspect that
the post had brought her news of the loss of the document. She looked at
herself in the glass and scrutinised every feature attentively. She was
very pale, but otherwise was looking better than two days earlier. Any
kind of stimulant, as she knew, sent the blood to her face in a few
minutes, and she saw that what she needed was a little colour. A
teaspoonful of Benedictine cordial, of which she had a small flask in
her dressing-case, was enough to produce the desired effect. The doctor
had formerly recommended her to take it before going to sleep, but she
did not like such things, and the flask was almost full. She saw in the
mirror that the result was perfectly satisfactory, and when she at last
met her husband he remarked that her appearance was very much improved.
"I feel so much better!" she exclaimed, knowing that she was speaking
the first words of a comedy which would in all probability have to be
played during the rest of her life. "I always said that if they would
only give me something to make me sleep I should get well at once."
She walked again on that day, and by an almost superhuman effort kept
up appearances until bedtime, even succeeding in eating a moderately
abundant dinner. That night she told Lucia that, on the whole, she would
prefer to keep her, that she had always been more than satisfied with
her services, and that if she had suddenly felt an aversion to her, it
was the result of the extreme nervousness she had suffered of late. Now
that she could sleep, she realised how unkind she had been. Lucia humbly
thanked her, and said that she hoped to live and die in the service of
the most excellent Casa Savelli. Thereupon Adele thanked her too, said
very sweetly that she was a good girl and would some day be rewarded by
finding a good husband, and ended by giving her five francs. She
reflected that to give her more might look like the beginning of a
course of bribery, and that to give nothing might be construed as
proceeding from the fear of seeming to bribe.
The second day could not be harder than the first, she said to herself,
as she swallowed her chloral and laid her head upon the pillow, to be
read to sleep by the nurse. She slept, indeed, that night, but not so
well as before, and she awoke twice, each time with a start, and with
the impression that Lucia was reciting the contents of the lost letter
to Laura Arden and a whole roomful of the latter's friends.
Under the circumstances, she behaved with a courage and determination
admirable in themselves. Few women could have borne the constant strain
upon the faculties at all, still fewer after such illness as she had
suffered. But she was really very strong, though everything which
affected her feelings and thoughts reacted upon her physical nature as
such things never can in less nervously organised constitutions. She
bore the excruciating anxiety about the lost confession better than the
shadowy fear of the supernatural which still haunted her in the hours of
the night. On the third day she begged her husband to increase the dose
of chloral by a very small quantity, saying that if only she could sleep
well for a whole week she would then be so much better as to be able to
give it up altogether. Savelli hesitated, and at last consented. Since
she had seemed so much more quiet he dreaded a return of her former
state, for he was a man who loved his ease and hated everything which
disturbed it.
The doctor had particularly cautioned him to keep the chloral put away
in a safe place, warning Francesco that the majority of persons who took
it soon began to feel a craving for it in larger quantities, which must
be checked to avoid the risk of considerable damage to the health in the
event of its becoming a habit. It was, after all, only a palliative, he
said, and could never be expected to work a cure on the nerves except as
an indirect means to a good result. Francesco kept the bottle in his
dressing-bag, which remained in his own room and was fitted with a
patent lock. He yielded to Adele's request on the first occasion, and
she went with him as he took the glass back to strengthen the dose. "Why
do you keep it locked up?" she said. "Do you suppose I would go and take
it without consulting you?"
"The doctor told me to be careful of it," he answered. "The servants
might try a dose of it out of curiosity." He took what he considered
necessary and locked the bag again, returning the key to his pocket.
Two or three days passed in this way. Adele began to feel that she
longed for the night and the soothing influence of the chloral, as she
had formerly longed for daylight to end the misery of the dark hours.
The days were now made almost intolerable for her by the certainty that
her maid knew her secret, and by the necessity for treating the woman
with consideration. Yet she could do nothing, and she knew that she
never could do anything to lessen her own anxiety, as long as she lived.
She was much alone, too, during the day. She walked or drove with her
husband during two or three hours in the afternoon, but the rest of the
time hung idly on her hands. It is true that his society was not very
congenial, and under ordinary conditions she would rather have been
left alone than have been obliged to talk with him. At present, however,
she thought less when she was with him, and that was a gain not to be
despised. She had quite forgotten that she had asked Ghisleri to come
out and spend a day or two, when his note came, reminding her of the
invitation, and asking if he still might accept it. Francesco liked him,
as most men did, and was glad that any one should appear to vary the
monotony of the dull country life with a little city talk. He bade her
write to Pietro to come and stay as long as he pleased, if she herself
cared to have him. She concealed her satisfaction well enough to make
Francesco suppose that she wished the guest to come for his sake rather
than her own.
Ghisleri started early, taking his servant with him, and reached Gerano
in time for the midday breakfast. Francesco Savelli received him with
considerable enthusiasm, and Adele's habitually rather forced smile
became more natural. Both felt in different ways that the presence of a
third person was a relief, and would have been delighted to receive a
far less agreeable man than their present guest. They overwhelmed him
with questions about Rome and their friends.
"Of course you have seen everybody and heard everything, now that you
are so much better," said Adele, as they sat down to breakfast in the
vaulted dining-room. "You must tell us everything you know. We are
buried alive out here, and only know a little of what happens through
the papers. How are they all? Have you seen Laura again, and how is the
baby? My step-mother writes that she is going to spend the summer with
them in some place or places unknown. I never thought of her as a
grandmother when my own children were born--of course she is not my
mother, but it used to seem just the same. What is Bompierre doing? And
Maria Boccapaduli? I am dying to hear all about it."
Ghisleri laughed at the multitude of questions which followed each other
almost without a breathing-space between them.
"Donna Maria would have sent you her love if she had known that I was
coming to Gerano," he answered. "As for Bompierre, he is an inscrutable
mixture of devotion and fickleness. He attaches himself to the new
without detaching himself from the old. He worships both the earthly and
the Olympian Venus. He is a good fellow, little Bompierre, and I like
him, but it is impossible for any man to adore women at the rate of six
at a time. I begin to think that he must be a very deep character."
"That is the last thing I should say of him," observed Savelli, who was
deficient in the sense of humour.
"How literal you are, Francesco," laughed his wife. "And yourself,
Ghisleri--tell us about yourself. Are you quite well again? You still
look dreadfully thin, but you look better than when I saw you last. What
does your doctor say?"
"He says that if I do not happen to catch cold, or have a choking fit,
or a cough, or any of fifty things he names, and if I do not chance to
get shot in the same place again, in the course of a year or two I may
be as good a man as ever. It appears that I have a good constitution. I
always supposed so, because I never had anything the matter with me, so
far as I knew."
"No one will ever forgive Gianforte!" exclaimed Adele. "If you had died,
he would have had to go away for ever. Everybody says he was utterly in
the wrong."
"The matter is settled," said Ghisleri, "and I do not think either of us
need have anything to say about the other's conduct in the affair. I
suppose you have heard that the ministry has fallen," he continued,
turning to Savelli. "Yesterday afternoon--the old story, of
course--finance."
"For Heaven's sake do not begin to talk politics at this hour,"
protested Adele. "To-night, when I am asleep, you can smoke all the
cigars in the house, and reconstitute a dozen ministries if you like. I
want to hear all about my friends. You have not told me half enough
yet."
"Where shall I begin? Ah, by the bye, there is an engagement, I hear. I
have not left cards because it is not official. Pietrasanta and Donna
Guendalina Frangipani--rather an odd match, is it not?"
"Pietrasanta!" exclaimed Adele. "Who would have thought that! And
Guendalina, of all people! But they will starve, my dear Ghisleri; they
will positively not have twenty thousand francs a year between them."
"No," said Savelli, "you are quite right, my
dear--twelve--seventeen--eighteen thousand five hundred, almost
exactly."
Savelli was intimately acquainted with the affairs of his friends, and
both parties were related to him in the present case. He prided himself
upon his extreme exactness about all questions of money.
So they talked and gossiped throughout the meal. Ghisleri knew just what
sort of news most amused his hostess, and as usual he succeeded in
telling her the truth about things and people without saying anything
spiteful of any one. He had resolved, too, that he would make himself
especially agreeable to the couple in their voluntary exile. He had come
with a set purpose, and he meant to execute it if possible. As he was
evidently not yet strong, Savelli proposed that they should drive
instead of walking. Ghisleri acceded readily, though he would have
preferred to stay at home after having travelled nearly thirty miles in
a jolting carriage during the morning. The sensation of physical fatigue
which he constantly experienced since he had been wounded was new to him
and not at all pleasant.
Nothing of any importance occurred during the afternoon. The
conversation continued in much the same way as it had begun at
breakfast, interspersed with remarks about agriculture and the
probabilities of crops. Savelli understood the financial side of farming
better than Ghisleri, but the latter had a much more practical
acquaintance with the capabilities of different sorts of land.
After they had returned to the castle, Francesco left Ghisleri with his
wife in the drawing-room, and went off to his own quarters to talk with
the steward of the estate. Tea was brought, but Pietro noticed that
Adele did not take any.
"I suppose you are afraid that it would keep you awake at night," he
remarked. "How is your insomnia? Do you sleep at all?"
"I am getting quite well again," Adele answered. "You know I always told
you that I needed something really strong to make me sleep. The doctor
has given me chloral, and I never wake up before eight or nine o'clock.
It is a wonderful medicine."
"Insomnia is one of the most unaccountable things," said Ghisleri, in a
meditative tone. "I knew a man in Constantinople who told me that at one
time he never slept at all. For three months he literally could not lose
consciousness for a moment. I believe he suffered horribly. But then, he
had something on his mind at the time which accounted for it to a
certain extent."
"I suppose he had lost money or something of that kind," conjectured
Adele, stirring two lumps of sugar in a glass of water.
"No, it was much worse than that. He had accidentally killed his most
intimate friend on a shooting expedition in the Belgrad forest."
Ghisleri heard the spoon rattle sharply against the glass, as Adele's
hand shook, and he saw that she bent down her head quickly, pretending
to watch the lumps of sugar as they slowly dissolved.
"How terrible!" she exclaimed, in a low voice.
"Yes," answered Ghisleri, in the same indifferent tone. "But if you will
believe it, he had the courage to refuse chloral, or any sort of
sleeping-draught, though he often sat up reading all night. He had been
told, you see, that the habit of such things was much more dangerous
than insomnia itself, and he was ultimately cured by taking a great deal
of exercise. He had an extraordinary force of will. I believe he has
never felt any bad effect from what he endured. You know one can get
used to anything. Look at the people who starve in public for forty days
and do not die."
"We shall see Pietrasanta and his wife doing that for the next forty
years," said Adele, with a tolerably natural laugh. "They ought to go
into training as soon as possible if they mean to be happy. They say
nothing spoils the temper like hunger. Were you ever near being starved
to death on any of your travels, Ghisleri?"
"No; I never got further than being obliged to live on nothing but beans
and bad water for nine days. That was quite far enough, though. I got
thin, and I have never eaten beans since."
"I do not wonder. Fancy eating beans for nearly a fortnight. I should
have died. And where was it? Were you imprisoned for a spy in South
America? One never knows what may or may not have happened to you--you
are such an unaccountable man!"
"That never happened to me. It was at sea. I took it into my head to go
to Sardinia in a small vessel that was sailing from Amalfi with a cargo
of beans to bring back Sardinian wine. We were becalmed, and got short
of provisions, so that we fell back on the beans. They kept us alive,
but I would rather not try it again."
"What endless adventures you have had! How tame this society life of
ours must seem to you after what you have been accustomed to! How can
you endure it?"
"It is never very hard to put up with what one likes," answered
Ghisleri, "nor even to endure what one dislikes for the sake of somebody
to whom one is attached."
"If any one else said that, it would sound like a platitude. But with
you, it is quite different. One feels that you mean all you say."
Adele was evidently determined to be complimentary, and even more than
complimentary, to-day. She was never cold or at all unfriendly with
Ghisleri, whom she liked and admired, and whom she always hoped to see
ultimately established as a permanent member of her own immediate
circle, but he did not remember that she had ever talked exactly as she
was talking now, and he attributed her manner to her nervousness. He
laughed carelessly at her last remark.
"I am not used to such good treatment," he said, "though I never can
understand why people take the trouble to doubt one's word. It is so
much easier to believe everything--so much less trouble."
"I should not have thought that you were a very credulous person,"
answered Adele. "You have had too much experience for that."
"Experience does not always mean disillusionment. One may find out that
there are honest people as well as dishonest in the world."
If Laura Arden had been present she would have been more than ever
inclined to distrust Ghisleri just then. She would have wondered what
possessed him to make him say things so very different from those he
generally said to her. As a matter of fact, he wished Adele to trust
him, for especial reasons, and he knew her well enough to judge how his
speeches would affect her. She had betrayed herself to him a few minutes
earlier and he desired to efface the impression in her mind before
leading her into another trap.
"Do you think the world is such a very good place?" she asked. "Have you
found it so?"
"It is often very unjustly abused by those who live in it--as they are
themselves by their friends. Belief on the one side must mean disbelief
on the other."
This time Adele gave no sign of being touched by the thrust. She was too
much accustomed to whatever sensations she experienced when accidental
or intentional reference was made to her astonishing talent for gossip.
"As for that," she said quite naturally, "every one talks about every
one else, and some things are true just as some are not. If we did not
talk of people how should we make conversation? It would be quite
impossible, I am sure!"
"Oh, of course. But if there is to be that sort of conversation, it can
always take the form of a discussion, and one can put oneself on the
right side from the beginning just as easily as not. It saves so much
trouble afterwards. The person who is always on the wrong side is
generally the one about whom the others are talking. If we could hear a
tenth of what is said about ourselves I fancy we should be very
uncomfortable."
"Yes, indeed. Even our servants--think how they must abuse us!"
"No doubt. But they have a practical advantage over us in that way. When
they really know anything particularly scandalous about us they can
convert it into ready money."
Ghisleri had not the least intention of conveying any hidden meaning by
his words, for he was of course completely ignorant of the occurrence
which had disturbed Adele's whole life more than any other hitherto. But
he noticed that she again bent over her glass and looked into it, though
the sugar was by this time quite dissolved. Her hand shook a little as
she moved the spoon about in the sweetened water. Then she drank a
little, and drew a long breath.
"That is always a most disagreeable position," she said boldly. "We were
talking about it the other day. I wish you had been there. Gouache was
telling a foreigner--Prince Durakoff, I think it was--the old story of
how Prince Montevarchi was murdered by his own librarian because he
would not pay the man a sum of money in the way of blackmail. You know
it, of course. The two families, the Montevarchi and the Saracinesca,
kept it very quiet and no one ever knew all the details. Some people say
that San Giacinto killed the librarian, and some say that the librarian
killed himself. That is no matter. What would you have done? That is the
question. Would you have paid the money in the hope of silencing the
man? Or would you have refused as the old Prince did? Gouache said that
it was always a mistake to yield, and that Montevarchi did quite
right."
Ghisleri considered the matter a few moments before he gave an answer.
He was almost sure by this time that she actually found herself in some
such position as she described, and that she really needed advice. It
was characteristic of the man who had been trying to make her betray
herself and had succeeded beyond his expectation, that he was unwilling
to give her such counsel as might lead to her own destruction. In his
complicated code, that would have savoured of treachery. He suddenly
withdrew into himself as it were, and tried to look at the matter
objectively, as an outsider.
"It is a most difficult question to answer," he said at last. "I have
often heard it discussed. If you care for my own personal opinion, I
will give it to you. It seems to me that in such cases one should be
guided by circumstances as they arise, but that one can follow very
safely a sort of general rule. If the blackmailer, as I call the person
in possession of the secret, has any positive proof, such as a written
document, or any other object of the kind, without which he or she could
not prove the accusation, and if the accusation is really of a serious
nature, then I think it would be wiser to buy the thing, whatever it is,
at any price, and destroy it at once. But if, as in most of such
affairs, the secret is merely one of words which the blackmailers may
speak or not at will, and at any time, I believe it is a mistake to
bribe him or her, because the demand for hush-money can be renewed
indefinitely so long as the person concerned lives, or has any money
left with which to pay."
Adele had listened with the greatest attention throughout, and the
direct good sense of his answer disarmed any suspicion she might have
entertained in regard to the remark which had led to her asking his
advice. She reasoned naturally enough that if he knew anything of her
position, and had come to Gerano to gather information, he would have
suggested some course of action which would throw the advantage into his
own hands. But she did not know the man. Moreover, in her extreme fear
of discovery, she had for a moment been willing to admit that he might
know far more than was in any way possible, if he knew anything at all;
whereas in truth he was but making the most vague guesses at the actual
facts. It was startling to realise how nearly she had taken him for an
enemy, after inviting him as a friend, and in perfectly good faith, but
as she thought over the conversation she saw how naturally the remarks
which had frightened her had presented themselves. There was her own
insomnia--he had an instance of a man who had suffered in the same way.
A remark about unjust abuse of other people--that was quite natural, and
meant nothing. Blackmail extorted by servants--she had herself led
directly to it, by speculating upon what servants said of their masters.
It was all very natural. She made up her mind that she had been wrong in
mistrusting his sincerity. Besides, she liked him, and her judgment
instinctively inclined to favour him.
"I think you are quite right," she said, after a few moments' thought.
"I never heard it put so directly before, and your view seems to be the
only sensible one. If the secret can be kept by buying an object and
destroying it, then buy it. If not, deny it boldly, and refuse to pay.
Yes, that is the wisest solution I have ever heard offered."
Ghisleri saw that he had produced a good effect and was well-satisfied.
He turned back to a former point in order to change the subject of the
conversation.
"That old story of the Montevarchi has interested me," he said. "I wish
I knew it all. Without being at all of an historical genius, I am fond
of all sorts of family histories. Lady Herbert was saying yesterday that
there are many strange legends and stories connected with this old
place, and that your father knows them all. You must know a great deal
about Gerano yourself, I should think."
"Oh, of course I do," answered Adele, with alacrity. "I will show you
all over the castle to-morrow morning. It is an enormous building, and
