" Why couldn't Winchester have fallen in love 
with her ! that would have settled it," he thought. 
Then he realized the tangible differences. " But 
her soul isn't bound up in the old place as his is. 
One has the true love of inheritance. If there 
was any wrong, she is guiltless." • 
He turned Bess into the mill-yard, though she 
was not stabled with the draught horses. Win- 
chester came out of the office with a repressed 
eagerness in every line of his face, amounting 
almost to a scowl. 
" I have seen the old place, the old garden, and 
Miss Disbrowe. I shouldn't suspect her of fight- 
ing," and a softening of the mouth did duty for 
a smile. 
"Miss Disbrowe.?" Winchester raised his 
brows with perplexed inquiry. 
"Isn't she"— 
"The owner of Chester House is a Miss Sa- 
brina Eastwood. To mention her age would be 
ungallant, but somewhere about two years and 
a half ago she attained her majority. She is on 
the side where it is safe to laugh at time. I do not 
know anything about Miss Disbrowe. Is she 
young or old ? " 
" Young." 
" And you found your people ? " 
" Yes. I had a ^magnificent ride^ thanks to 
you." 
Winchester turned away, and led Bess to the 
stables. Olmstead had some calls on his mind. 
He could put them in between this and noon. 
They had dinner at the old-fashioned hour of 
twelve at Mrs. Kent's. But as he went he said 
to himself, " Sabrina Eastwood. ' Sabrina, cool 
and fair.' " Where had he heard the name be- 
fore ? Some glimmer of the past, something he 
ought to remember, that evaded him. 
Miss Disbrowe suggested it curiously. A bit 
of hesitation, some puzzle or uncertainty, a touch 
of pity or regret. Well, it would come to him ; 
many things did, sooner or later. 
Miss Eastwood remembered better. When 
Pearl had rejoiced with, soothed and comforted, 
her " old ladies," she went up-stairs to tell Sa- 
brina the wonderful story. She kept the bit of 
pasteboard in her hand, bending it gently out and 
in, with a restless movement that rarely came to her. 
" It sounds like a romance," returned Sabrina, 
" Do you suppose this clergyman made him do 
it, Pearl, as a Roman priest sometimes insists 
upon restitution ? I am afraid it isn't an underly- 
ing law in all creeds. But it must have taken 
some courage, when the man had resolved to leave 
a great name behind him, — to found a charity. 
That is really the strong point in the matter. 
What is this Mr. — the clergyman, like .^ " 
" Mr. Olmstead, Mr. Parke Olmstead ;" and she 
tossed the card gracefully over into Sabrina's lap. 
" I can't tell, really. I think I never actually 
looked. He is tall and has a curious voice, — a 
sort of penetrating, inspiring, glad, stirring voice ; 
just the kind to come with good tidings. I think 
he persuaded the dying man, -Sabrina ; impressed 
him with the right, until he couldn't help doing 
justice. I like him. There is something manly 
in his air and bearing. But I was so taken up 
with all the other " — 
" And that has come to an end," said Sabrina 
disappointedly. "Now something will happen 
to Miss Vasilis, and our occupation will be gone. 
We shall have to go back to the pomps and van- 
ities of the world." 
Pearl smiled. " No, it is not anywhere near 
ended. And even this fortnight — oh, when you 
think of that dreadful den (can any one call it by 
a better name ?), that wretched little room, with 
no outlook but the windows opposite, so near, you 
could see into the neighboring apartment ; the vile- 
smelling court, with its lines of wet clothes ; the 
close, bad air of the house ; the commingled odors 
of cooking ; the crying children ; the scolding, 
brawling women ! And to have no peace day nor 
night, amid the multitude no man can number, I 
was going to say," and Pearl gave a faint smile, 
full of pathos. 
" If you had done nothing else but to give this 
fortnight's rest, quiet, and loveliness, though it may 
seem a little thing to you, it is much ; for I think 
by this time Miss Barclay would have died, and 
now she has lived to hear this good news. It is 
over seven thousand dollars. But, oh, what it rep- 
resents to them ! And they will still need friends. 
Besides, we have hardly begun. I do not dare think 
of all the sufferers " — 
" You were to fill the house. There are still 
some empty rooms." 
" And the summer is only just begun. There ! 
I promised to see Desire ; let me run away ten 
minutes." 
Sabrina still studied the card. She could see 
herself again in that long English drawing-room, 
where " calls " and " teas " and " evenings " filled 
up all the time. The delicate homage had pleased 
her. To be sure, she was a handsome young girl, 
and a comparative heiress, with her money in her 
own right. Mrs. Vantine managed beautifully. 
She was quite at home in London or Paris, Rome 
or Florence. She had set out to make a good 
marriage for her ward ; and Lord Aylesbury, with 
a prospective earldom, was fair innings for the ele- 
gant young American. She remembered the first 
morning some one brought in her compatriot, Mr. 
Olmstead. There was a little knot talking curious 
things, — Theosophy, Buddhism, lost Oriental reli- 
gions, — and the scene quite fascinated her. He 
had been in again one evening. He was going 
on to Egypt, Arabia, Palestine, of course. He 
had stood up manfully for the religion of Christ, 
and demanded for it at least a fair showing with 
the others. Miss Eastwood had been coquetting 
with agnosticism, and his comment had been 
made in a general way. She wondered now why 
it had influenced her so strongly, when she had 
never seen him since ! 
He will marry Pearl," she said in her thought. 
Pearl is born for a clergyman's wife. I wonder 
some one has not seen it before." She smoothed 
out the card softly, and slipped it into the novel she 
had been reading. Then she took it out, reached 
over to the table, and took up Browning's Poems, 
a small volume that opened at " Evelyn Hope.' 
"I have lived, I shall say, so much since then; 
Given up myself so many times " — 
were the lines that caught her eyes. She laid the 
card softly over them. Had he lived " much " ? 
Was he " giving up himself '' ? She was giving 
up a little money that she was taking a whim 
not to spend on herself, and a touch of some- 
thing like scorn just wavered over her lips. 
The large, rather low-ceiled room was beauti- 
fully appointed, not especially extravagant. It 
was summer, and airiness was more harmonious. 
On the matted floor were two handsome rugs. 
The furnishing was ligh^ French maple ; there 
was a writing-desk with some shelves above, a 
small cabinet bookcase, two pretty tables, willow 
chairs, a lounge with a Persian silk spread, a few 
pictures and "jugs." A low bowl of flowers was 
on one stand. 
She had made additions to the parlors. The 
house had been comfortably furnished, and it was 
suitable for the experiment. The parlors were on 
the north side. The opposite rooms had been de- 
voted to the ladies, since they found Miss Barclay 
so very feeble. Miss Disbrowe's room opened 
into hers. Both had spacious end windows, be- 
sides the smaller ones. Desire White had taken 
the room in the ell ; it was handy to the back 
stairs. Miss Vasilis had that at the head of the 
hall. She had been employed in an art needle- 
work establishment, and was lame from an incura- 
ble hip trouble. The confinement had affected 
her health so seriously that her eyesight was 
much impaired. Pearl had known her for a year 
or two, and had felt that the girl's real genius 
for designing had been quite overlooked. But 
now rest was imperative. 
" If I were strong in body," she said to Miss 
Disbrowe, "I would go to some country place and 
work for my board. I shall have to make some 
change." 
So Pearl had added her to her list. There were 
dozens of others, but she felt a little hampered 
in making her selections. There must be no ad- 
verse influence in the small household. Neither 
did she wish to turn her experiment into an actual 
hospital. But thus far she had been much en- 
grossed in getting matters into running order and 
learning the capabilities of the place. She had 
several people in her mind that the great world 
had overlooked ; but she endeavored to persuade 
Miss Eastwood to add to the number, to exercise 
her newly awakened sympathies. 
" I really don't know of any one," Sabrina had 
said. " It is curious, isn't it ? And, as I said 
when we first talked about it, I shouldn't know 
whether they were worthy or not. There are so 
many impostors. I have wondered how you could 
be certain." 
" I can't always be certain until I try. I have 
found impostors too, but one learns to weed them 
out when one is thoroughly in earnest." 
This sentence came back to Sabrina. Was it a 
day of retrospect .^ When Mr. Olmstead preached 
restitution, he must have been very much in ear- 
nest. What had happened — why, it was four 
years ago they had their talk ! He was not a cler- 
gyman then, — a young man of leisure, it rather 
seemed to her. What was the vitalizing power ? 
Was it "getting religion".? Pearl said religion 
was the daily living, not the exceptional moment ; 
the working in the vineyard. And Mrs. Herrick, 
— even all those who held up the arms of the la- 
borers, who made it possible for them to work all 
through the long day until even, were laborers as 
well. Yet it seemed as if she were only playing 
at the larger purpose. She recalled the day they 
had gone to make arrangements for the removal 
of the two ladies from the wretched place they 
and so many others called home. It sickened her 
even now. She would have drawn back but for 
pride's sake. If Pearl, in all her delicate woman- 
liness, could go into such foul dens, and come out 
with no smell of the fire in her garments, why 
not she ? And when the door of the room had 
been opened and shut again, leaving the noisy, 
dirty hall on the other side, she had been amazed 
at the neatness, at the pathetic attempts to make 
poverty endurable, at the refinement and delicacy 
of these two women, at their pitiful protest against 
what seemed charity while they could do for 
themselves. How had Pearl persuaded them to 
accept the beneficence? With what rare sweet- 
ness, what acceptable grace, she had presented her 
plea ! It was a pleasure to her to bestow. Ah, 
she gave what was best in herself ! Sabrina 
would have saved it for some auspicious moment, 
when all the accessories were arranged to a nicety. 
Could she ever give up her real self ? Would not 
the money always stand in the way ? 
No, the lack of will stood in the way. She was 
deceiving herself all along by specious reasoning. 
Ah, sfie would not give her fair body to be burned 
with or without charity, — the great love that God 
sent into the world ! 
There was a flush in her face as she rose, but 
she did not want to look at it in the glass. ' She 
shook out her pretty white gown and went down- 
stairs, out on the porch, where the two women 
sat with their hands clasped in each other's, and 
their eyes still showing traces of tears; for the 
many privations had left their marks on weakened 
nerves, that even gratitude tried to the uttermost. 
" I have come to rejoice with you," Sabrina 
Eastwood said, and her smile went out to both 
hearts. Like Stacy Delamater, they had felt a 
little afraid of this beautiful girl, who seemed to 
belong to another sphere. She pushed the has- 
sock so near that her soft gown swept over theirs 
like a billow. And her hand dropped on the 
wrinkled one, soft still, though so many years 
had gone over it, — a little kindly touch that 
somehow took her into the very heart of events. 
There had been nothing to offer her before but 
gratitude — an awkward coin often. It was not 
until they had come to Chester House that they 
had learned the whole purpose. Sabrina would 
have it so. 
"Would you mind telling me all the story ? " 
she said persuasively. " It is so strange to hap- 
pen to one ! " 
The eyes were beguiling in their interest. She 
desired to reach to that inner living where pur- 
poses were really accomplished. 
"You have been so good to us,"said Mrs. 
Duane. " O my dear Miss Eastwood, I hope you 
may never know any such misfortunes ! Of course 
we were not rich in those early times as people 
count riches now, but we had the luxury of that 
day, and were tenderly cared for. It almost seems 
as if it were centuries ago, or some other beauti- 
ful life far removed from wiiat came afterward. 
I was eighteen when papa died, and that is 
forty-three years ago. The world seems to have 
all changed since then. Of five children, Mar- 
garet and I are the only ones left. Ah, how 
happy those past days were ! And this Mr. How- 
land and his wife were old family friends. It 
seemed nothing to trust him with one's money. 
My dear, I think we owe this young clergyman a 
great debt as well. For, though he did not say 
so, I felt certain it was his influence that led Mr. 
Rowland to do as he did at the last. I went to 
him once, after he was prospering again, but I 
saw clearly that he would take no steps toward 
making amends. And they were living in such a 
beautiful house, with servants everywhere! We 
were not the only ones who suffered. I used to 
think the Lord had forgotten ; but there is a 
special way for us, and it is not shown until the 
day comes when we have to walk therein. I can't 
help hoping the Lord will show him more mercy 
than he showed to many others." 
Pearl was a little surprised to find Miss East- 
wood listening attentively to bits and snatches of 
life, that modern conditions had changed almost 
entirely. Would they change as much in another 
half -century ? Then they two would have touched 
the far point of middle life. 
Pearl took Miss Barclay in to dinner. Mrs. 
Duane seemed small and shrunken, leaning on 
Sabrina's arm. 
" I don't wonder you are quite in love with her,' 
Mrs. Duane said to Pearl that evening, as they 
were wandering about the flower-beds. " O my 
dear Miss Disbrowe, do young women like Miss 
Eastwood know how much they have in their 
hands, along with their beauty and their sweet- 
ness and their wealth ? Why, it almost seems as 
if the whole world must join and worship them for 
trying to make life better to poor, weary, suffering 
souls! Since I have seen so much of you two, I 
begin to wish I could live my own life over again. 
There might be opportunities of making it better. 
One doesn't realize how grand it is, when one is 
shut up in a back room in a tenement house. If 
many of the poor souls could be taken out — they 
are worth saving." 
" The least of these," returned Pearl softly. " I 
think we are learning." 
And it seemed the next morning as if there was 
a new purpose manifested in Sabrina's face, an 
earnestness in her voice that had not been there 
before. 
" I am going to be nurse to-day," she said, as 
Mrs. Duane was lingering about her sister with 
touches of tenderness that only devoted love can 
bestow. "I think you may safely leave her with 
me. 
Miss Barclay smiled. It was delightful to 
resign herself to the fascination. 
Miss Vasilis brought her designing down on 
the porch and kept them company, listening to 
the pleasant bits of talk. Her life had run in a 
still different channel. There had never been any 
luxuries in it, hardly comforts, — an inefficient 
mother, an intemperate father, brothers straying 
off and lost to sight ; a pitiful little figure sitting 
up in a high window, sewing, crocheting baby 
sacks and hoods, singing plaintive little songs 
to herself, keeping sweet and simple among the 
coarseness of the outer living. Her mother's 
death was hardly a loss ; then her father was ar- 
rested for vagrancy. She joined forces with a 
poor girl who had herself and her baby to keep. 
She was quick about all kinds of fancy-work, and 
raised herself in the social scale until she had 
attained to very tolerable living. For two years 
she had worked in the art establishment, and 
dreamed beautiful dreams over her work, — dreams 
that educated and refined and illumined her whole 
pathway. But at twenty she was worn out. The 
streams of life had been drained too heavily. She 
had come to know Miss Disbrowe quite well, and 
in her desperate strait had appealed to her for 
advice. 
"I shall ask you into the 'King's Country," 
Pearl had answered with her tender smile. 
"The 'King's Country!'" little stunted Rhea 
Vasilis had cried in amaze. "Why, Miss Dis- 
browe, that ought to be next door to heaven ! " 
"Come and make it so. Come and rest in the 
shade of the trees and hear the birds sing. My 
poor little pilgrim, it is time that some one gave 
you a foretaste of the better land." 
And it seemed like heaven that day, watching 
and listening to Miss Eastwood. The girl sat 
with a little drawing-case on her knees, doing 
sprays of conventional flowers in colored pencils, 
wonderful arabesques and scrolls, until the lines 
all ran together, and from very weakness of sight 
she was forced to lay by her work. Then she 
crept into the hammock, and, curling herself up 
like a kitten, listened to the exquisite voice that 
had been trained to perfectness in accent, but 
kept the wonderful charm of emotional purity. 
There were moments when she shut out the 
swaying gold and emerald lights with her hands, 
and cried softly from excess of feeling akin to 
desperation. 
Why was it this beautiful girl, in reality only a 
little older than herself, should have so many good 
gifts? It was the old question men and women 
have been fighting ever since the world began. 
Why should this man have so much? Why 
should the ninety and nine be crowded in holes i 
and dens, and go without all but a wretched sus- j 
tenance, while the hundredth one had -a path | 
through the roses and lilies of life? 
CHAPTER VI 
TO THINK OF WHAT WAS IN HER WILL 
Sabrina Eastwood was intensely self-con- 
scious. Her training had made her that. From 
early girlhood up to this period the thought of 
impressing others had been instilled into her as 
a second life, as the great impulse and governing 
motive. It was not whether this or that gift must 
be trained to a means of support ; it was that they 
all conduced to win the admiration of the world in 
which she moved. A less sweet and wholesome 
nature would have been made supremely selfish 
and indifferent to the needs of others. Back of 
all this was the yearning child sympathy for her 
father. Even now she could not analyze it ; and, 
as was best, she called it love. He was always 
very gentle with her. She had wished many 
times that she could have him back, but she 
had never desired the days and weeks with her 
mother. The very patience she had learned to 
exercise with the fretful, unreasonable, and dis- 
appointed woman had developed into the serene 
graciousness that people termed her " repose of 
manner " and her high-bred air. During the five 
years of prosperity she had seen very little of her 
mother. With the interviews had been mingled 
sharp criticisms on her figure, her manners, the 
care of her complexion, the hope that she, Mrs. 
Eastwood, would, after all her other dissatisfac- 
tions with life, have a handsome young girl to 
chaperon. She counted eagerly on this, that was 
not to be, for her pleasure and reward. 
Mrs. Vantine took Sabrina into account in an 
equally worldly fashion. A girl with less money 
and less beauty would not have met with so much 
indulgence at her hands. She was a little sorry 
now that she had yielded to so many of her 
whims. 
''I really don't see what Sabrina Eastwood is 
waiting for," she said rather crossly to her hus- 
band, when Sabrina's answer to her letter was 
under consideration. " She'll do just as her 
mother did. Laura Hollis was a pretty girl, not 
handsome, but pretty and attractive, and could 
have married well. But she went through the 
woods and picked up a crooked stick. To be sure 
the Eastwoods had good blood, but they were 
poor. The stamina had gone out of them. He 
was quite an old man, too, but she was far from 
youth. Sabrina has a good deal of the Eastwood 
Style. But what possesses her to cling so to those 
Wendover people, I can't divine. And to bury 
herself at Chester House ! The only offset I can 
see is her being fresh and radiant for an autumn 
campaign. Many of the girls get really worn out 
with summer's dissipation." 
Mr. Vantine paced the room with an air of vex- 
ation. Then he said : " Jarvis expects she'll be 
along with us ; he's wonderfully taken with her." 
"There will be no rival at Chester House to 
interfere with his fancy," was the rather ironical 
reply. " Perhaps it will not be a bad experiment. 
A girl fed on the admiration of society cannot 
exist very long without it." 
Was it an undercurrent of this that rendered 
Sabrina Eastwood so gracious and fascinating this 
day ? She had studied with a touch of newly 
awakened curiosity the source of Pearl's attrac- 
tiveness. The artistic side of her nature had been 
touched by it ; but not yet did she comprehend 
the high accord of spiritual living that so informed 
Pearl Disbrowe. Miss Barclay felt the fine influ- 
ence that took her back to the years of her lost 
youth. There was something flattering in the 
delicate attention, and the rich feast spread out 
before her. She did not understand Elizabeth 
Browning ; she had been brought up on Mrs. 
Hemans: but the trained voice made all things 
beautiful. The younger girl, with her hidden face 
full of tears of transport, longing, and despair, felt 
the quiver in every nerve. 
There had been dinner and a rest. It was la- 
ter afternoon now, with long shadows among the 
greenery. Miss Barclay's chair had been pushed 
farther out. There were times when breathing 
was difficult, and she needed the current of air. 
Sabrina sat on the step,' her soft white muslin 
falling about her and flowing outward, her hair in 
the Greek coil she affected so much, her brown 
eyes bathed in mysterious lights. Winding slowly 
around the path, Parke Olmstead caught sight of 
her. The infinite grace of the pose would have 
made the fortune of a sculptor ; but it was not 
until she raised her eyes and glanced out steadily 
that the tide of recollection came to him, with 
the impression of having seen her in some other 
existence. 
' He handed out Mrs. Duane and Miss Disbrowe. 
They crossed the little space. Miss Eastwood 
rose and held out her hand. If Miss Barclay had 
dreamed of lost youth, Esther Duane had been 
in the magical land, and quaffed the revivifying 
draught to the refreshment of soul and body. Her 
faded eyes were softly bright ; there was a delicate 
pink in her cheeks, and her lips were tremulous 
with the new life. 
" O my dear ! " she said, clasping the fair, slim 
fingers, and passing on to her sister. But as Miss 
Eastwood spoke to Pearl, Olmstead's circuit of 
remembrance was completed ; he hardly heard the 
introduction. 
" We have gone half around the world to meet 
each other," he said in a voice that sent a quick 
thrill through Miss Eastwood. " All day I have 
been haunted by a curious impression that kept 
eluding me at the supreme moment. Miss Dis- 
browe, I met your friend in London — four years 
ago, is it not ? And how delighted I am to take 
up the acquaintance again the future will prove 
better than any words." 
The curious doubt he had been fighting for 
hours vanished. Unconsciously he had been 
swayed by a few words from Winchester, and he 
was interested in the peculiar kind of complication 
between them. But standing there face to face, 
her high-bred, subtle beauty swayed him with an 
emotion so delightful he did not care to analyze it. 
Pearl and the two ladies were talking. There 
had been no mistake in the matter. All the old 
debt with interest had been repaid. They forgave 
Mr. Rowland in their great thankfulness. But 
what could make amends for the years wherein 
they had suffered.^ Could he look "across the 
gulf " and see the burden of them ? 
"Miss Disbrowe has been explaining to me 
your plan of the summer," Olmstead was saying, 
as they turned a little aside. " I want to thank 
you personally, and ask for a small share in the 
good work. You two deserve a great deal of 
credit for being willing to relinquish your per- 
sonal pleasures. You know I am not ignorant 
of them." 
A soft smile, just vague enough in its admira- 
tion to render it complimentary, crossed his fine 
face. 
Some inward consciousness, or the greater de- 
sire of being perfectly honorable to Pearl, moved 
Miss Eastwood. He should have the full oppor- 
tunity of admiring her. 
" She would not say it was her plan, I know, 
but it was. I found it out quite accidentally. 
And my share is this old house that was likely to 
be tenantless for the summer. But she is find- 
ing the people. It is a new country, and we are 
colonizing — is that appropriate ? " 
She raised her eyes with a proud kind of frank- 
ness that went far toward making them dangerous. 
"Mrs. Duane gave me such a quaint, beautiful 
idea as she was talking. It was good enough to 
use in a sermon ; in fact, it might do for the text. 
She said, 'In the King's Country.' " , 
"That was Miss Disbrowe's name. It was quite 
new to me. But — you surely are no stranger in 
it ? " and she paused with a delicate hesitation. 
" Let me see,' he said. " I need not ask if you 
remember one morning — so fresh in my mind 
that it might have been yesterday. How charm- 
ing it was at Lady Morley's ! We do not seem 
to have much of that kind here. How they all 
talked of everything ! One and another aired his 
ideas, and no one really took offence. I was sorry 
not to go again." His voice dropped, while his 
thoughts seemed wandering back. 
" You were going on to Egypt. And I suppose 
you had resolved " — She was a little curious to 
know if his plans had been definitely arranged. 
" No, I had not resolved upon anything. I had 
graduated and gone abroad, settling myself at a 
German University after a summer oji the Conti- 
nent. So you see I had come from the hotbed of 
discussions on all manner of social and religious 
questions. How to raise human souls and bodies 
to a higher level — we sneer gently at ideals, but 
we have a great fashion of idealizing theories. 
This or that will most benefit the coming man, — 
the appeal to his finer moral sense, — but if he 
grovels like the brute beast, and there is nothing 
to him but so much brute strength, that can till 
a field, guide some machine, or delve in a mine, 
where is the nobler aspiration to which we can 
appeal ? And it is the man of to-day who is to be 
helped, that he may aid the generations to come. 
Whether we shall preach to him that all existence 
is essentially evil, and that there is no hope of 
anything better ; whether we shall preach the one 
absorption of all in an endless Nirvana, or that 
Christianity is the hope for the race ? No other 
contains the inspiration of ultimate victory in the 
struggle ; no other holds out the hand of firm fel- 
lowship to man. And when I became convinced 
of this, I went to work in good earnest. On my 
return I entered a divinity school. Last winter I 
was in New York. I have taken a friend's place 
now, who has had an opportunity of a rare holiday 
after a dozen or so years of steady work. I had 
many holidays at first, thanks to the generosity of 
a kind old uncle. There, have I bored you about 
myself ? It is not very much when all is said." 
How much had these years been to her ? A 
search for pleasure, and secret dissatisfaction. 
" You remember they were talking religion 
when I saw you the last time,"and a smile 
crossed his face. " It is odd to take up the ac- 
quaintance just where it broke off, to find you 
have gone half around the world, and reached the 
same conclusion." 
" I don't know that I have," she interposed hur- 
riedly, flushing the most delicate, wavering pink, 
that made her lovelier than ever. Perhaps, too, 
the endeavor of the day, the putting aside of self 
even for a few hours, had left its peculiar impress 
on every expression. " I asked Miss Disbrowe to 
let me come into this new country with her, and 
she consented. I do not seem to be doing any 
real work. I think I have been playing at it. All 
these things appeal to the generous and heroic 
side of one's nature. We get quite in love with 
the idea of doing good, but I wonder " — 
"Well.? "he rejoined. 
" I did not know a soul to bring into this lovely 
country. So, you see, I haven't gone into the 
wayside places. Yes, all the credit is due to Miss 
Disbrowe." 
She would establish the matter on the founda- 
tions of utter truth. She would not give Pearl 
short measure in any respect. 
Olmstead smiled. " A great many hands are 
needed in this work, Miss Eastwood. Not the 
least little thing will ever go to waste. For if the 
deed fails of its high purpose, the grace of the ef- 
fort is left. And you see it might not have been 
possible for Miss Disbrowe to materialize her 
thought but for your assistance. When you give 
of the best you have " — 
" Is it the best you have, when it costs nothing ? 
It would have been a pity for the house to stand 
empty " — 
"Yes, it is a delightful old place." He thought 
of Winchester's protest. Why could not these 
two come to some amicable arrangement ? 
"Ask me to take a walk with you around the 
old garden. I didn't have half 'a ramble the other 
morning." He stepped down and gave a slight 
turn to his shoulder. " You see it will take them 
some time to talk over the day's events," and he 
made a gentle inclination toward Miss Barclay. 
" And I have a favor to ask, a candidate to propose 
for this delightful corner of the ' King's Country.'" 
The paths were all shady now. Sabrina East- 
wood followed the manly figure, whose very step 
had a certainty in it. Why had she taken a sud- 
den liking to him four years ago ? Why had 
people seemed different to her afterward ? She 
always remembered the brave, upright fearless- 
ness with which he had made his stand. 
"Miss Disbrowe was enlightening me about the 
'between people,' as she calls them. And one as 
quaintly charming as this Mrs. Duane could have 
been the heroine of an old-fashioned book, or 
stepped out of a picture in some old Colonial 
house. I am doubly glad to have been the bearer 
of good news to her. And this, you see, has 
brought me to the 'King's Country.' Now that 
I understand its beneficence, I can't help wishing 
another poor soul could have a share in it." 
" Yes ? " she answered half inquiringly. 
Olmstead had not been especially impressed 
with her beauty in that past episode, there were 
so many lovely women. Perhaps it had increased, 
maturied, since then. It seemed to-day the sort 
of beauty one could feel, as if it carried with it a 
kind of atmosphere that penetrated other pulses. 
She was in a curiously fascinating mood. 
" And your pilgrim ? " she said. " Tell me 
about her ! " 
"Do you like people's stories ? That is the 
only way to get at the real heart of the matter. 
Mine is one of the 'between' cases, — a pitiful 
one, without being tragic ; and I have been casting 
about for some pleasant place where there might 
be wells of water and trees of palm. Did it ever 
occur to you how many pleasant resting-places 
the Israelites found in the wilderness ? My poor 
pilgrim has had a rather sad life. She gave up 
the man she loved because her mother objected ; 
also a sister, who had married very well, that is, 
with plenty of money. Perhaps her lover was not 
worthy of her. Anyway, he went to the bad after- 
ward. Her mother was an invalid many years. 
She was nurse, governess, seamstress, house- 
keeper, for presently misfortunes fell upon her 
sister. She is worn out and something of an in- 
valid now herself. The family are to go out to 
Lake Superior, where the husband expects to re- 
trieve his fortunes. They do not need her ser- 
vices, and the physician has said she could not 
stand the climate. She desires to earn her own 
support, and applied to a friend of mine, who 
could find a place for her if she were in ordinary 
health ; but it will take weeks of rest to restore 
her. I suppose there are kindly women who 
would take such a person for a small compen- 
sation, but so far we have not found the right place. 
You see, it ought to be where all things would con- 
tribute toward her recovery. I can just understand 
how it would be here with Miss Disbrowe " — 
" Yes, yes," Sabrina cried eagerly. " Oh, how 
do you find these people } " 
"This particular one I have known of for the 
last ten years, but I never realized all the dreari- 
ness of life among the poor until recently. I may 
have been looking more closely into these mat- 
ters. I am coming to believe that people need, 
and perhaps deserve, more happiness than their 
fellow-creatures are willing to allow them. We 
seem to pile up a great deal of duty and sacrifice 
for them, while we sun ourselves on the delight- 
ful side of life. And when one finds two young 
women, with so many gifts, willing to cross over, 
to take some of their poorer sisters by the hand 
and lead them to pleasant places " — 
He was pulling the long sprays of southern- 
wood through his hand, and it gave the air a pun- 
gent fragrance. It was a hand with a good deal 
of character, rather long, with vigor in every one 
of the firm fingers. 
" But this girl's sister," Sabrina said, with a 
nervous flush under the implied praise. ''One 
would naturally look for her to care. Not but 
that Miss Disbrowe will be glad to add her to the 
family, and yesterday I was beginning to feel 
anxious lest our experiment should fall through." 
He laughed softly. Then, as his face settled 
into graver lines, he returned to the subject. 
" I am afraid relationship doesn't always count. 
The Wise One said: 'Whosoever shall do the will 
of God, the same is my brother and my sister and 
mother.' Still, that does not excuse the tie of 
nature. There ought to be more absolute kindli- 
ness in it. Children allow their parents to spend 
an old age in charitable institutions, perhaps the 
almshouse. Not that old age is always lovely; 
indeed, it is often trying. I know of a household 
that an old mother makes miserable. The son, 
an only child, by the way, and the daughter-in-law, 
are quite too conscientious to shift the burden. 
She was a good mother in her earlier years, and 
he is a good son. I often think how happy they 
might be. Perhaps some grace is being perfected ; 
we cannot see all," and he paused. 
" But we were talking of Miss Searle. I ought 
to explain that a year or so ago she had an oppor- 
tunity to marry that her sister felt she ought to 
accept. Relations have been strained since then. 
The children are nearly grown, so they do not 
require her services. When women have passed 
their youth and have no regular business training, 
it is hard to find places in which to put them. 
This girl would make an excellent housekeeper, 
but the first requisite is health. She is ambitious 
to earn her own living. She goes to my friend 
some time this week, but she needs a long, rest- 
ful change. We were planning how to bring it 
about." 
"It is a pathetic story," Miss Eastwood said, 
much moved. " And you will send her here at 
once.?" 
"We shall be only too glad. My friend is a 
very busy woman. She and Miss Disbrowe ought 
to know each other ; but eager as she is for good 
work, she can only devote the odds and ends of 
time to it. And the fields of labor are so large ! " 
Miss Eastwood glanced up and met the eyes 
that had been studying her. Something in them, 
more of admiration than disfavor, stirred her 
strangely, and brought a wandering tint to her 
cheek. 
" I was walking around here yesterday morning 
with Miss Disbrowe," he began, and there was a 
suggestion of a change in his voice that she noted, 
yet was not displeased with. " It is so beautiful! 
It ought never to be disturbed. But the ruthless 
procession of business will begin to tramp over it 
presently. I heard something in the city to-day — 
it may touch you. Up here — out beyond, there's 
a small settlement called Long Meadows." 
" Yes ; we drove over there a few days ago. A 
farming section. A great, beautiful, level stretch 
of country, orchards and fields ; then, to the east, 
a small river. The creek empties into that. You 
see, I have been making myself acquainted with 
my surroundings. It is lovely and quiet. I sup- 
pose people have lived there for generations. 
Don't you imagine they must get tired sometimes, 
and long for a change ? I am afraid I should hold 
out both hands of welcome to an earthquake." 
"The earthquake is coming, I think." He 
wondered how Winchester would take this news. 
What would Miss Eastwood do ? " I dropped into 
a friend's office to-day on a matter of business. A 
