CHAPTER VIII.
There was no lack of sympathy for Marion Darche, and it was shown in
many ways during the period of calm which succeeded her husband's
disappearance and the sudden death of his father. Every one was anxious
to be first in showing the lonely woman that she was not alone, but
that, on the contrary, those who had been her friends formerly were
more ready than ever to proclaim the fact now, and, so far as they were
able, not in words only, but in deeds also.
She was relieved, all at once, of the many burdens which had oppressed
her life during the past years--indeed, she sometimes caught herself
missing the constant sacrifice, the daily effort of subduing her
temper, the hourly care for the doting old man who was gone.
But with all this, there was the consciousness that she was not
altogether free. Somewhere in the world, John Darche was still alive, a
fugitive, a man for whose escape a reward was offered. It was worse
than widowhood to be bound to a husband who was socially dead. It would
have been easier to bear if he had never escaped, and if he were simply
confined in the Penitentiary. There would not have been the danger of
his coming back stealthily by night, which Marion felt was not
imaginary so long as he was at large.
Yet she made no effort to obtain a divorce from the man whose name was
a disgrace. On the contrary, so far as outward appearances were
concerned, she made no change, or very little, in her life. Public
opinion had been with her from the first, and society chose to treat
her as a young widow, deserving every sympathy, who when the time of
mourning should have expired, would return to the world, and open her
doors to it.
There was a great deal of speculation as to the reasons which prevented
her from taking steps to free herself, but no one guessed what really
passed in her mind, any more than the majority of her acquaintances
understood that she had once loved John Darche. It had been commonly
said for years that she had married him out of disappointment because
something had prevented her from marrying another man, usually supposed
to have been Russell Vanbrugh. People attributed to her a greater
complication of motives than she could have believed possible.
In order not to be altogether alone, she took a widowed cousin to live
with her--a Mrs. Willoughby, who soon became known to her more intimate
friends as Cousin Annie. She was a gray, colourless woman, much older
than Marion, kind of heart but not very wise, insignificant but
refined, a moral satisfaction and an intellectual disappointment,
accustomed to the world, but not understanding it, good by nature and
charitable, and educated in religious forms to which she clung by habit
and association rather than because they represented anything to her.
Cousin Annie was one of those fortunate beings whom temptation
overlooks, passing by on the other side, who can suffer in a way for
the loss of those dear to them, but whose mourning does not reach the
dignity of sorrow, nor the selfish power of grief.
Marion did not feel the need of a more complicated and gifted
individuality for companionship. On the contrary, it was a relief to
her to have some one at her side for whom she was not expected to
think, but who, on the contrary, thought for her in all the commonplace
matters of life, and never acted otherwise than as a normal, natural,
human unit. There had been enough of the unusual in the house in
Lexington Avenue, and Marion was glad that it was gone.
Three months passed in this way and the spring was far advanced. Then,
suddenly and without warning, came the news that John Darche had been
heard of, traced, seen at last and almost captured. He had escaped once
more and this time he had escaped, for ever, by his own act. He had
jumped overboard in the English Channel from the Calais boat, and his
body had not been found.
Mrs. Darche wore black for her husband, and Cousin Annie said it was
very becoming. Dolly Maylands thought it absurd to put on even the
appearance of mourning for such a creature, and said so.
"My dear child," answered Marion gently, "he was my husband."
"I never can realise it," said Dolly. "Do you remember, I used to ask
you if you did not sometimes forget it yourself?"
"I never forgot it." Mrs. Darche's voice had a wonderful gravity in it,
without the least sadness. She was a woman without affectation.
"No," said Dolly thoughtfully, "I suppose you never had a chance. It is
of no use, Marion dear," she added after a little pause, and in a
different tone, as though she were tired of pretending a sort of
subdued sympathy, "it is of no use at all! I can never be sorry, you
know--so that ends it. Why, just think! You are free to marry any one
you please, to begin life over again. How many women in your position
ever had such a chance? Not but what you would have been just as free
if you had got a divorce. But--somehow, this is much more solidly
satisfactory. Yes, I know--it is horrid and unchristian--but there is
just that--there is a solid satisfaction in--"
She was going to say "in death," but thought better of it and checked
herself.
"It will not make very much difference to me just yet," said Marion.
"Meanwhile, as I said, he was my husband. I shall wear mourning a short
time, and then--then I do not know what I shall do."
"It must be very strange," answered Dolly.
"What, child?"
"Your life. Now you need not call me child in that auntly tone, as
though you were five hundred thousand years older and wiser and duller
than I am. There are not six years between our ages, you know."
"Do not resent being young, Dolly."
"Resent it! No, indeed! I resent your way of making yourself out to be
old. In the pages of future history we shall be spoken of as
contemporaries."
Mrs. Darche smiled, and Dolly laughed.
"School-book style," said the girl. "That is my morning manner. In the
evening I am quite different, thank goodness! But to go back--what I
meant was that your own life must seem very strange to you. To have
loved really--of course you did--why should you deny it? And then to
have made the great mistake and to have married the wrong man, and to
have been good and to have put up the shutters of propriety and
virtue--so to say, and to have kept up a sort of Sunday-go-to-meeting
myth for years, expecting to do it for the rest of your life, and
then--to have the luck--well, no, I did not mean to put it that
way--but to begin life all over again, and the man you loved not
married yet, and just as anxious to marry you as ever--"
"Stop, Dolly! How do you know?" Marion knit her brows in annoyance.
"Oh! I know nothing, of course. I can only guess. But then, it is easy
to guess, sometimes."
"I am not so sure," answered Marion thoughtfully, and looking at Dolly
with some curiosity.
As for Brett, he said nothing to any one, when the news of John
Darche's death reached New York. He supposed that people would take it
for granted that in the course of time he would marry Marion, because
the world knew that he had formerly loved her, and that she had made a
mistake in not accepting him and would probably be quite willing to
rectify it now that she was free. There had always been a certain
amount of inoffensive chaff about his devotion to her interests. But he
himself was very far from assuming that she would take him now. He knew
her better than the world did, and understood the unexpected
hesitations and revulsions of which she was capable, much better than
the world could.
He took a hopeful view, however, as was natural. For the present he
waited and said nothing. If she chose to go through the form of
mourning, he would go through the form of respecting it while it
lasted. Society is the better for most of its conventionalities, a fact
of which one may easily assure oneself by spending a little time in
circles that make bold to laugh at appearances. A man may break the
social barriers for a great object's sake, or out of true passion--as
sheer necessity may force a man to sleep by the road side. But a man
who habitually makes his bed in the gutter by choice is a madman, and
one who thinks himself above manners and conventionalities is generally
a fool. There is nothing more intolerable than eccentricity for its
own sake, nor more pitiful than the perpetual acting of it to a gallery
that will not applaud.
For some time Brett continued to come and see Marion regularly, and she
did not hesitate to show him that he was as welcome as ever. Then,
without any apparent cause, his manner changed. He became much more
grave than he had ever been before, and those who knew him well were
struck by an alteration in his appearance, not easily defined at first,
but soon visible to any one. He was growing pale and thin.
Vanbrugh strolled into his office on a warm day in early June and sat
down for a chat. Brett's inner sanctum was in the Equitable Building,
measured twelve feet by eight, and was furnished so as to leave a space
of about six feet by four in the middle, just enough for two chairs and
the legs of the people who sat in them. Vanbrugh looked at his friend
and came to the just conclusion that something was materially wrong
with him.
"Brett," he said, suddenly, "let us run over to Paris."
"I cannot leave New York at present," Brett answered, without
hesitation, as though he had already considered the question of going
abroad.
"Not being able to leave New York is a more or less dangerous disease
which kills a great many people," observed Vanbrugh. "You must leave
New York, whether you can or not. I do not know whether you are ill or
not, but you look like an imperfectly boiled owl."
"I know I do. I want a change."
"Then come along."
"No, I cannot leave New York. I am not joking, my dear fellow."
"I see you are not. I suppose it is of no use to ask what is the
matter. If you wanted help you would say so. You evidently have
something on your mind. Anything I can do?"
"No, I wish there were. I will tell you some day. It is something
rather odd and unusual."
Brett was not an imaginative man, or Vanbrugh, judging from his
appearance and manner, would almost have suspected that he was
suffering from some persecution not quite natural or earthly. He had
the uneasy glance of a man who fancies himself haunted by a sight he
fears to see. Vanbrugh looked at him a long time in silence and then
rose to go.
"I am sorry, old man," he said, with something almost like a sigh. "You
live too much alone," he added, turning as he was about to open the
door. "You ought to get married."
Brett smiled in rather a ghastly fashion which did not escape his
friend.
"I cannot leave New York," he repeated mechanically.
"Perhaps you will before long," said Vanbrugh, going out. "I would if I
were you."
He went away in considerable perplexity. Something in Brett's manner
puzzled him and almost frightened him. As a lawyer, and one accustomed
to dealing with the worst side of human nature, he was inclined to play
the detective for a time; as a friend, he resolved not to inquire too
closely into a matter which did not concern him. In fact, he had
already gone further than he had intended. Only a refined nature can
understand the depth of degradation to which curiosity can reduce
friendship.
A day or two later Vanbrugh met Dolly Maylands at a house in Tuxedo
Park where he had come to dine and spend the night. There were enough
people at the dinner to insure a little privacy to those who had
anything to say to one another.
"Brett is ill," said Vanbrugh. "Do you know what is the matter with
him?"
"I suppose Marion has refused him after all," answered Dolly, looking
at her plate.
Vanbrugh glanced at her face and thought she was a little pale. He
remembered the conversation when they had been left together in the
library after John Darche's trial, and was glad that he had then spoken
cautiously, for he connected her change of colour with himself, by a
roundabout and complicated reasoning more easy to be understood than to
explain.
"Perhaps she has," he said coolly. "But I do not think it is probable."
"Mr. Brett does not go to see her any more."
"Really? Are you sure of that, Miss Maylands?"
"Marion has noticed it. She spoke to me of it yesterday. I wondered--"
"What?"
"Whether there had been any misunderstanding. I suppose that is what I
was going to say." She blushed quickly, as she had turned pale a moment
before. "You see," she continued rather hurriedly, "people who have
once misunderstood one another may do the same thing again. Say, for
instance, that he vaguely hinted at marriage--men have such vague ways
of proposing--"
"Have they?"
"Of course--and that Marion did not quite realise what he meant, and
turned the conversation, and that Mr. Brett took that for a refusal and
went away, and lost his appetite, and all that--would it not account
for it?"
"Yes," assented Vanbrugh with a smile. "It might account for it--though
Harry Brett is not a school girl of sixteen."
"Meaning that I am, I suppose," retorted Dolly, anxious to get away
from the subject which she had not chosen, and to lead Vanbrugh up to
what she would have called the chaffing point. But he was not in the
humour for that.
"No," he said quietly. "I did not mean that." And he relapsed into
silence for a time.
He was thinking the matter over, and he was also asking himself
whether, after all, he should not ask Dolly Maylands to marry him,
though he was so much older than she. That was a possibility which had
presented itself to his mind very often of late, and from time to time
he determined to solve the question in one way or the other, and be
done with it. But when he wished to decide it, he found it capable of
only two answers; either he must offer himself or not. Sometimes he
thought he would and then he fancied that he ought to prepare Dolly for
so grave a matter by giving up chaff when they were together. But the
first attempt at putting this resolution into practice was a failure
whenever he tried it. Chaff was Dolly's element,--she pined when she
was deprived of it. The serious part of her nature lay deep, and there
were treasures there, hidden far below the bright tide of rippling
laughter. Such treasures are sometimes lost altogether because no one
discovers them, or because no one knows how to bring them to the
surface.
As he sat by her side in silence, Vanbrugh was impelled to turn
suddenly upon Dolly and ask her to marry him, without further
diplomacy. But he reflected upon the proverbial uncertainty of woman's
temper and held his peace. He had never made love to her, and there had
never been anything approaching to a show of sentiment between them
until that memorable afternoon when the trial was over. Moreover
Russell Vanbrugh was a very comfortable man. Nothing less grammatically
incorrect could express the combination of pleasant things which made
up his life. He was not lonely, in his father's house--indeed, he was
not lonely anywhere. He was contented, rich enough to satisfy all his
tastes, popular in a certain degree among those he liked, peaceful,
never bored, occupying, as it were, a well upholstered stall at the
world's play, when he chose to be idle, and busy with matters in which
he took a healthy, enduring interest when he chose to work. To marry
would be to step into an unknown country. He meant to make the venture
some day, but he had just enough of indolence in his character to
render the first effort a little distasteful. Nevertheless, he was
conscious that he thought more and more of Dolly, and that he was, in
fact, falling seriously in love with her, and foreseeing that there was
to be a change in their relations, there arose the doubt, natural in a
man not over-vain, as to the reception he might expect at her hands.
When Dolly next saw Marion Darche she proceeded to attack the question
in her own way. Marion was still in town, hesitating as to what she
should do with her summer. She had no house in the country. The place
which had belonged to her husband had gone with such little property as
he had still owned at the time of his conviction to repair some of the
harm he had done.
The windows of the library were open, and a soft south-easterly breeze
was blowing up from the square bringing a breath of coming summer from
the park leaves. Those who love New York, even to the smell of its mud,
know the strange charm of its days and evenings in late spring. Like
the charm of woman, the charm of certain great cities can never be
explained by those who feel it to those who do not. There were flowers
in the library, and Dolly sat down near the windows and breathed the
sweet quiet air before she spoke.
"Harry Brett is ill," she said.
"Ill? Seriously?" Marion had started slightly at the news.
"Not ill at home," explained Dolly. "Mr. Vanbrugh spoke of it the other
night."
"Oh--" Marion seemed relieved. "Perhaps that is the reason why he does
not come to see me," she added rather inconsequently, after a moment's
pause.
Dolly turned in her seat and looked into her friend's eyes.
"Marion," she said gravely. "You know that is not the reason why he
does not come."
"I know? What do you mean, Dolly?"
In spite of the genuine and innocent surprise in the tone, Dolly was
not satisfied.
"He has asked you to marry him and you have refused him," she said with
conviction.
"I?"
For a moment Marion Darche stared in amazement. Then her eyes filled
with tears and she turned away suddenly. Her voice was unsteady as she
answered.
"No. He has not asked me to marry him."
"Are you quite sure, dear?" insisted Dolly. "You know men have such odd
ways of saying it, and sometimes one does not quite understand--and
then a word, or a glance--if a man is very sensitive--you know--"
"Do not talk like that," said Marion, a little abruptly.
A short silence followed, during which she moved uneasily about the
room, touching the objects on the table, though they needed no
arrangement. At last she spoke again, out of the dusk from the corner
she had reached in her peregrination.
"If he asked me to marry him, I should accept him," she said in a low
voice.
Dolly was silent in her turn. She had not expected a direct confidence
so soon, and had not at all foreseen its nature, when it came almost
unasked.
"It is very strange!" she exclaimed at last.
"Yes," echoed Marion Darche, quite simply. "It is very strange."
It was long before the mystery was solved, and Dolly did not refer to
it in the meantime. Brett did not go abroad, nor did he leave New York
for more than a few days during the summer, though it was almost
inconceivable that his business should require his constant presence
during the dull season, and he could certainly have left matters to his
partner, had he not had some very good reason for refusing to take a
holiday.
Mrs. Darche took Cousin Annie with her and wandered about during a
couple of months, visiting various places which did not interest her,
falling in with acquaintances often, and sometimes with friends, but
rather avoiding those she met than showing any wish to see much of
them.
To tell the truth, the great majority showed no inclination to intrude
upon her privacy. People understood well enough that she should desire
to be alone and undisturbed, considering the strange circumstances
through which she had passed during the winter and spring. Moreover
Brett's conduct elicited approval on all sides. It was said that he
showed good taste in not following Mrs. Darche from place to place, as
he might easily have done, and as most men in his position undoubtedly
would have done, for it was quite clear that he was seriously in love.
All his friends had noticed the change of appearance and manner, and
others besides Vanbrugh had advised him to take a rest, to go abroad,
to go and shoot bears, in short, to do one of the many things which are
generally supposed to contribute to health and peace of mind. Then it
was rumoured that he was working harder than usual, in view of his
approaching marriage, that he was not so well off as had generally been
supposed, and that he wished to forestall any remarks to the effect
that he was going to marry Mrs. Darche for the sake of her fortune,
which was considerable. In short, people said everything they could
think of, and all the things that are usually thought of in such cases,
and when they had reached the end of their afflictions they talked of
other friends whose doings formed a subject of common interest.
Mrs. Darche did not find much companionship in her cousin, but that was
not exactly what she required or expected of Mrs. Willoughby. She
wanted the gray, colourless atmosphere which the widowed lady seemed to
take about with her, and she liked it merely because it was neutral,
restful and thoroughly unemotional. She did not think of creating new
diversions for herself, nor of taking up new interests. Her life had
been so full that this temporary emptiness was restful to her. She was
surprised at finding how little the present resembled what she had
expected it to be, so long as it had been still a future. As yet, too,
there was an element of uncertainty in it which did not preclude
pleasant reflections. Though she had said to Dolly that Brett's conduct
was changed, she could still explain it to herself well enough to be
satisfied with her own conclusions. Doubtless he felt that it was yet
too soon to speak or even to show by his actions that he had anything
to say. She could well believe--and indeed it was flattering--that he
abstained from seeing her because he felt that in her presence he might
not be able to control his speech. She called up in her memory what had
taken place many months previously when she had sent for him and had
told him that she needed a large sum of money at short notice--how he
had lost his head on that occasion, and allowed words to break out
which both of them had regretted. Since there was now no obstacle in
the way, it would of course be harder for him than ever to act the part
of a disinterested friend, even for the short time--the shortest
possible--during which she went through the form of wearing mourning
for John Darche. She could still say to herself that it was delicate
and tactful on Brett's part to act as he was acting, although she
sometimes thought, or wished, that he might have allowed what was
passing in his mind to betray itself by a glance, a gesture or a gentle
intonation. It was certainly pushing the proprieties to the utmost to
keep away from her altogether. Even when he wrote to her, as he had
occasion to do several times during the summer, he confined himself
almost entirely to matters of business, and the little phrase with
which he concluded each of his communications seemed to grow more and
more formal. There had always been something a little exaggerated in
Harry Brett's behaviour. It had been that perhaps, which in old times
had frightened her, had prevented her from accepting him, and had made
her turn in mistaken confidence to the man of grave moderation and
apparently unchanging purpose who had become her husband.
Dolly Maylands had no such illusions with regard to Brett's conduct,
though she did not again discuss the matter with Russell Vanbrugh. She
was conscious that he felt as she did, that something mysterious had
taken place about which neither of them knew anything, but which was
seriously and permanently influencing Harry Brett's life. Dolly,
however, was more discreet than was commonly supposed, and kept her
surmises to herself. When Mrs. Darche and Brett were discussed before
her, she said as little as she could, and allowed people to believe
that she shared the common opinion, namely, that the two people would
be married before the year was out and that, in the meanwhile, both
were behaving admirably.
Vanbrugh wandered about a good deal during the summer, returning to New
York from time to time, more out of habit than necessity. He made
visits at various country houses among his friends, spent several days
on board of several yachts, was seen more than once in Bar Harbour, and
once, at least, at Newport and on the whole did all those things which
are generally expected of a successful man in the summer holidays. He
wrote to Brett several times, but they did not meet often. The tone of
his friend's letters tended to confirm his suspicion of some secret
trouble. Brett wrote in a nervous and detached way and often complained
of the heat and discomfort during July and August, though he never gave
a sufficient reason for staying where he was.
On the other hand, Vanbrugh found that where he was invited Dolly
Maylands was often invited too, and that there seemed to be a general
impression that they liked one another's society and should be placed
together at dinner.
More than once, Vanbrugh felt again the strong impulse to which he had
almost yielded at Tuxedo. More than once he made a serious attempt to
change the tone of his conversation with Dolly. She did not fail to
notice this, of course, and being slightly embarrassed generally became
grave and silent on such occasions, thereby leading Vanbrugh to
suppose that she was bored, which very much surprised the successful
man of the world at first and very much annoyed him afterwards.
So the summer passed away, and all concerned in this little story were
several months older if not proportionately wiser.
CHAPTER IX.
In the autumn, Marion Darche returned to town, feeling that since she
was to begin life over again, and since her friends had accepted the
fact, there was no reason for not taking the first steps at once. She
intended to live very quietly, occupying herself as best she could, for
she knew that some occupation was necessary to her, now that the whole
busy existence of the last five years was over. She did not know what
to do. She consulted Dolly, and would have liked to consult Brett, but
he rarely called, and then, by design or coincidence, he always seemed
to appear just when some one else was with her.
More than once she had thought of writing to him freely, asking him to
explain the cause of his conduct and to put an end to the estrangement
which was growing up between them. She even went so far as to begin a
letter, but it was never finished and found its way to the fire before
it was half written. She could not, however, keep her thoughts from
dwelling on him, since there was no longer any reason for trying to
forget his existence. She was not lacking in pride, and if she had
believed that Harry Brett no longer loved her, she would have still
been strong enough to bury the memory of him out of sight and beyond
danger of resurrection. But he did not behave in such a way as to
convince her of that. A woman's instinct is rarely wrong in telling her
whether she is loved or not, unless she is confronted with a man of
superior wickedness or goodness. The strength which breeds great
virtues and great vices lends that perfect control of outward manner
which is called diabolical or heroic according to circumstances. Harry
Brett was not such a man. He could keep away from the house in
Lexington Avenue, because for some reason or other he believed it
necessary to avoid Mrs. Darche's society; but he could not simulate
what he did not feel, nor conceal his real feelings when he was with
her. The cold, nervous hand, the quick glance, the momentary
hesitation, the choice of a seat a little too far from her side--all
told Marion that he loved her still, and that he believed himself
obliged to stay away, and was afraid to be alone with her.
At last she made up her mind to do something which should show him
definitely that she now regarded her mourning as a mere formality, and
intended before long to return to her former way of living, as though
nothing had happened. She determined to ask Brett and Vanbrugh and
Dolly to luncheon. It certainly was not a very wild dissipation which
she proposed, but it was the first time she had invited more than one
of them at the same time. And cousin Annie Willoughby petitioned for a
fourth guest by a very gentle and neutral hint. She had a certain
elderly friend, one James Brown, who was the only person living who
seemed able to talk to her for any length of time.
Mr. Brown had been a disappointment to his friends in his youth. He was
regarded as a failure. Great things had been expected of him when he
left college and during several years afterwards. But his so-called
gifts had turned out to be only tastes, and he had never accomplished
anything. He had not the enthusiastic, all-devouring, all-appreciative,
omnivorous nature which makes some amateurs delightful companions and
invaluable flatterers. Though he really knew something about several
subjects no one ever had the slightest respect for his opinion or
judgment. He was an agreeable man, a good-natured gossip, a harmless
critic. He always seemed to have read every word of books which most
people found tiresome and skimmed in half an hour, and he never was
acquainted with the book of the hour until the hour was past. No one
ever understood why he liked Mrs. Willoughby, nor why she liked him,
but if people thought of the matter at all they thought the friendship
very appropriate. Mr. Brown knew everybody in society and was useful in
filling a place, because he was a bachelor, and joined in the hum if
not in the conversation. In appearance he was a bald man with refined
features, a fair beard turning gray, gentle blue eyes, an average
figure, small feet and hands, well-made clothes, a chronic watch-chain
and a ring with an intaglio. His strong point was his memory, his weak
point was his absence of tact.
Marion, who intended that the general conversation of the table should
be followed by a general pairing off after the coffee, reflected that
Mr. Brown would amuse Mrs. Willoughby while Vanbrugh talked to Dolly
and she herself had an opportunity of speaking with Brett. So she asked
Mr. Brown to join the party, and he accepted. Dolly came first, but Mr.
Brown, who was punctuality itself, appeared a moment later. Vanbrugh
arrived next, and last of all Harry Brett, a little late and
apologising rather nervously.
"Did you get my note?" he inquired of Vanbrugh, after the first
greetings and as soon as he could exchange a word with him, unnoticed
in the general conversation.
"No. Anything important? I went out early--before eleven o'clock, and
have not been at home since."
"There was an interesting story of a wreck in the paper this morning,"
said Mr. Brown, addressing the three ladies.
"Stop him," said Brett to Vanbrugh in an energetic whisper. "Now
Brown, my dear fellow," he continued aloud, sitting down beside Mrs.
Darche, "do not begin the day by giving us the Sunday Herald entire,
because we have all read it and we know all about the wreck--"
Mr. Brown, who was used to interruption and to being checked when he
was about to bore people, looked up with mild eyes and protested a
little.
"I say, Brett, you know, you are rather abrupt sometimes, in your way
of shutting people up. But as you say, they have probably all read the
story. I only thought--"
"Only thought!" cried Vanbrugh, taking his cue from his friend. "Only!
As though thinking were not the most important function of the human
animal, next to luncheon--"
"I have not read the story Mr. Brown alludes to," observed Mrs.
Willoughby rather primly.
"Oh--it is all about natural history, and cannibals and latitudes and
people in a boat," said Brett talking very fast. "All that kind of
thing. As for the news I can give you lots of it. Great fire, strike, a
new bacillus in postage-stamp gum--awfully dangerous, Mrs. Willoughby.
Always use a sponge for moistening your stamps or you will get
something--some sort of new disease--what is it, Vanbrugh? You always
know everything."
"Gum-boils," suggested Vanbrugh, without hesitation.
Brett gave him a grateful look, as Mr. Brown's laughter assured him
that the danger was over for the present. But Brett did not desist
until Stubbs opened the dining-room door and they all went in to
luncheon. Mrs. Darche watched him curiously, wondering what was the
matter. She had never before heard him talk so nervously. Vanbrugh had
not the slightest idea of what had happened, but blindly followed
Brett's lead, and helped him to annihilate Mr. Brown, whenever the
latter showed the least inclination to tell a story.
Mr. Brown, however, was an obstinate person. He was not quick on his
feet mentally, so to say, and an insignificant idea had as strong a
hold upon his thoughts as an important one. Somehow he managed to tell
the tale of the wreck to Mrs. Willoughby and Dolly in the little
shifting of companionship which always takes place on leaving table. To
do him justice, he told it very shortly, and Mrs. Darche did not chance
to be listening at the time. Stubbs was offering everybody coffee, and
Marion had a box of cigarettes and was standing before the fireplace
with Vanbrugh and Brett, exchanging a few words with the latter.
Suddenly Mr. Brown's voice rose above the rest.
"Of course," he was saying, "nobody ever knew positively that the man
had really been drowned. But he had never turned up--"
"And probably never will," answered Dolly, glancing nervously at
Marion. But she had caught the words and had turned a little pale.
Vanbrugh looked over to Brown.
"For heaven's sake, Jim," he said, in a low voice. "Talk about
something else, if you must, you know!"
Mr. Brown's face fell as he realised his mistake.
"By Jove!" he exclaimed. "Just like me! I forgot that poor Darche
drowned himself."
Marion recovered herself quickly and came forward, offering her box of
cigarettes to everybody, while Brett carried the little silver spirit
lamp.
"You must all smoke and make yourselves happy," she said with a smile.
"Cousin Annie does not mind it in the least."
"Well, of course," began Mrs. Willoughby, primly polite, "nowadays--"
"There is nobody like you, Mrs. Darche," said Vanbrugh, accepting the
offer. "Thanks."
"They are your especial kind," answered Marion.
"I know they are--that is what I mean. How you spoil me!"
Marion went on.
"Mr. Brown?"
"Yes, thank you. I do smoke sometimes," answered Mr. Brown, hesitating
in the matter between his allegiance to Mrs. Willoughby, who
disapproved of smoking in the drawing-room, and his duty to his
hostess, who encouraged it.
"I hope you always do," said Marion. "When a man does not smoke--Mr.
Brett, take one."
She had stopped herself, remembering that her husband had not been a
smoker, but Mr. Brown finished the sentence for her with his usual
tact.
"Yes," he said, lighting his cigarette, "men who do not smoke always
seem to me to be suspicious characters."
"Dolly, try one," said Marion, trying not to hear him.
"Oh, Marion!" Dolly laughed.
"Try it," said Vanbrugh, sitting down beside her.
The party had paired off, and Marion found herself near the window with
Brett, beside a table covered with photographs and etchings.
"I wonder why Miss Maylands should seem shocked," began Brett, entering
into conversation rather awkwardly. "I have no doubt that she, and you,
and perhaps Mrs. Willoughby, have all tried a cigarette in secret, and
perhaps you have liked it?"
"If I liked cigarettes I would smoke them," said Mrs. Darche, with
decision.
"Do you always do what you like?"
"In little things."
"And how about the big things?" inquired Brett.
"I like to have other people take care of them for me."
"What people?" As he asked the question he absently took a photograph
from the table and looked at it.
"People who know me," said Marion.
"Meaning me?"
"If you like."
"If I like!" exclaimed Brett. Then, having broken the ice, as it were,
his voice suddenly changed. "There is nothing I like so much, there is
nothing I would rather do than take care of you and what belongs to
you."
"You have shown it," answered Mrs. Darche gently. She took the
photograph from Brett's hand and looked at it, in her turn, without
seeing it.
"I have tried to, once or twice," said Brett, "when you needed help."
"Indeed you have. And you know that I am grateful too."
"I do not care to know that," he replied. "If I ever did anything for
you--it was only what any other man would have done in my place--it was
not for the sake of earning your gratitude."
"For what then?"
Brett hesitated a moment before he answered, and then turned from her
towards the window as he spoke.
"It was not for the sake of anything."
"Mere caprice, then?" asked Marion, watching him closely.
"No, not that."
"I suppose your motives are a secret?" Marion laughed a little, perhaps
at her own curiosity.
"Yes." Brett pronounced the single word with great earnestness.
"Dear me!" exclaimed Marion.
"Yes. And I shall be very sorry if you ever find out what that secret
is."
"How mysterious!"
"Yes, is it not?"
Brett had suddenly assumed a tone of indifference. As he spoke Vanbrugh
and Dolly rose and came forwards towards the table.
"If you have quite finished not looking at those photographs, give them
to me, Brett," said Vanbrugh. "Miss Maylands wishes to see them."
"Oh, take them by all means," answered Brett, thrusting a dozen or more
into his hands. "As I was saying, Mrs. Darche, I am the worst judge of
architecture in the world--especially from photographs."
"Architecture, eh?" observed Vanbrugh, as he re-crossed the room with
Dolly. "Rather hard on photographs of etchings from portraits."
"Oh, no!" exclaimed Dolly, laughing softly and looking back at Brett
and Mrs. Darche. "They talk of love's temple, you know, and building up
one's happiness--and lots of things of that sort--the architecture of
the affections."
"You seem to care," said Vanbrugh, sitting down and laying the
photographs upon his knees.
"Do I? Do you not?"
"I--oh, well, in a sort of a fatherly way, I suppose." He held up one
of the photographs upside down and looked at it.
"Yes. Now I care in a sort of a sisterly way, you know. It is very much
the same thing, I fancy."
"Is that all?" asked Vanbrugh with a short laugh. "I thought you had
made up your mind."
"About what?"
"About Harry Brett."
Dolly looked at him in surprise and drew herself up a little stiffly.
"What about him?"
"I do not mean to be rude, nor inquisitive, nor anything of the
sort--so I think I had better turn the conversation."
"But you do not. You are waiting for me to say something. Do you think
I am afraid? Do you think I am like all the girls you meet and dance
with, and repeat your pretty speeches to?"
"Repeat is graceful," said Vanbrugh, "considerate--so kind of you."
"I do not feel kind," answered Dolly emphatically, "and I am not at all
afraid of telling the truth."
"Considering your interest in Sunday schools that is what I should
expect."
"I am just as fond of dancing and enjoying myself as any one else,"
said Dolly, relenting, "though I do take an interest in Sunday
schools."
"Fashionable charities and dissipations, as Brett calls them--I see."
"Do not see in that tone of voice, please--if what you see has anything
to do with me."
"Which it has," said Vanbrugh. "Mrs. Darche is one of your charities, I
suppose--and Harry Brett is one of your dissipations."
"You are too complicated," answered Dolly, really not understanding.
"Say it in American, will you not?"
"You love Brett, and you are nice to Mrs. Darche, though you hate her,"
said Vanbrugh in a tone which left Dolly in doubt as to whether he was
in earnest or only chaffing. She paused a moment and stared at him
before she answered, and then to his great astonishment spoke with more
coldness than he was accustomed to.
"Precisely," she said. "I love Mrs. Darche and I hate Brett because he
does not ask her to marry him as he should, now that Darche has been
dead so long. I am sorry, Marion," she said, turning to Mrs. Darche,
and going up to her rather suddenly, "dear--I really must be going."
"Already?" exclaimed Marion in surprise, "it is not three o'clock?"
"Almost," said Dolly, "and I have lots to do--ever so many people
waiting for me at a Committee, and then a visit I must make, and a
frock to try on--and then if we are to dine at seven so as to be
dressed in time for the tableaux there is no afternoon at all."
"How busy you are! Yet you always look so fresh! How in the world do
you do it?"
"A large appetite and a clear conscience--" suggested Brett, who seemed
to be more than usually absent-minded.
Dolly glanced at him rather angrily as she shook hands with her friend.
"Good-bye, dear Marion. It has been ever so nice! Good-bye."
She left the room. Vanbrugh was annoyed and discomforted by her sudden
departure, but he made the best of the situation, and after closing the
door behind her, sat down beside Mrs. Willoughby, who was listening to
one of Brown's stories.
"I suppose she is angry with me," said Brett to Marion. "What did I
say? I was thinking of something else."
"Then why did you choose that moment for speaking of her?" asked Mrs.
Darche reproachfully. "You really must take care, you will make
enemies."
"Of course. What does it matter?"
"It matters to me, if you make enemies of my friends."
"That is different," said Brett. "But seriously--do not people forgive
a lack of tact sometimes--being a little absent-minded? Look at Jim
Brown."
"That is quite another thing," Marion answered. "Yes--I heard what he
was telling as we came into the room after the luncheon. Of course it
was tactless. Of course no man in his senses should talk in a loud
tone, before me, of a man falling overboard at sea and being drowned,
still less--"
"What?" asked Brett.
A short pause followed the question, and when Marion answered it, it
was evident that she was making an effort.
"Still less of the possibility that such a man might be heard of again
some day."
"That at least is improbable," said Brett, very gravely.
"I shivered when I heard what he said."
"I do not wonder."
In the meantime, at the other end of the room, Mr. Brown was enjoying
at last the supreme satisfaction of talking without reserve about the
story he had seen in the papers that morning.
"One never knows what to believe," said Mrs. Willoughby.
"Believe nothing," said Vanbrugh with much conviction. "In particular,
my dear Mrs. Willoughby, do not believe in Brown's tales. He is a
perfectly idle man, and he does nothing but sleep and talk, because he
has a liver and cannot eat. A man who has nothing to do requires a
great deal of sleep and a great deal of conversation."
"I say, Russell, old man," protested Mr. Brown with a good-humoured
laugh, "this is rather unkind. Where would you get your conversation if
I did not supply you with the items? That is what one's best friends
come to, Mrs. Willoughby, in this bustling world. And why should not
people eat, sleep, and talk,--and do nothing else if they have time?
But as for this story, I never pretended that it was anything but
newspaper gossip--not even that--a sensation item, manufactured down
town, perhaps. 'Woman burned alive in Jersey City,'--five lines--'Deny
the report,'--five lines more--that is the sort of thing. But this is a
strange coincidence, or a strange story. It might almost be poor
Darche's case, with a sensational ending."
"Oh, well," answered Vanbrugh, who by this time quite understood the
meaning of Brett's strange conduct before luncheon, "of course it is
only a sensational paragraph, and belongs to your department, Brown.
But as you say, the coincidences are extraordinary. A man says he fell
overboard from a Channel boat, and was picked up by an Italian bark,
which took him to Valparaiso after all sorts of adventures. The weak
point in these stories generally is that the man never seems to take
the trouble to communicate with his relations from the first port he
reaches, and takes an awful lot of trouble to get shipwrecked somewhere
on the way. But in this case that is the strong point. What did you say
the fellow's name was?"
"Why, my dear man, that is three-quarters of the coincidence. He calls
himself John Drake. Transpose the 'r' and the 'a,' and that looks
uncommonly like John Darche."
"No doubt," said Vanbrugh; "but then there is nothing peculiar about
'John.' If he had been christened 'Eliphalet Xenophon' it would have
been considerably stranger. Besides if he really were Darche he would
not call himself either Darche or John."
"How can you suggest anything so dreadful!" exclaimed Mrs. Willoughby.
"Why 'dreadful'?" asked Mr. Brown.
"Only think of it," said Mrs. Willoughby. "An escaped suicide--I mean,
a convict who escaped and killed himself."
"And you think that the disgrace of having committed suicide will cling
to him in after life, so to say--in Sing-Sing?" inquired Mr. Brown.
"Do not make me out more stupid than I really am." Cousin Annie assumed
a deprecatory expression. "Do you not think that a man like
Darche--convicted of a crime--escaped--if he suddenly re--re--What is
the word?"
"Imperfectly resurrected," suggested Vanbrugh.
"Oh yes! Anything! If he came back to life, and yet was supposed to be
dead, and was trying to begin all over again and to make a fresh start,
and that kind of thing--under another name--"
"In order to enjoy the satisfaction of seeing his widow marry some one
else?" asked Vanbrugh, with less discretion than usual.
"I did not mean that," said Mrs. Willoughby quickly. "Poor Marion! Poor
Marion! What time is it, Mr. Brown?"
"Three."
"Oh dear!" exclaimed cousin Annie.
"Dear me!" echoed Vanbrugh.
"Yes, it is later than I thought," said Mr. Brown.
By a common impulse, all three rose at once and crossed the room to
take leave of their hostess.
"What, are you all going?" asked the latter.
"Do you know what time it is, Marion?" And not waiting for an answer,
Mrs. Willoughby held out her hand.
"It is awfully late," observed Vanbrugh, by way of explanation.
"Thank you so much," said Mr. Brown, shaking hands warmly.
"Yes, it is later than I thought." Brett looked at his watch, though by
this time he had made up his mind to outstay the others.
"Well--if you must go--"
Marion did not show any anxiety to detain her guests as they filed out
of the room.
"You did not mean me to go away with the crowd, did you?" asked Brett,
as the door closed behind Mr. Brown.
"Not if you wished to stay," answered Marion, taking her favourite
chair near the fire. "Take another cigarette. Sit down."
"And make myself at home? Thanks."
"If you can," said Mrs. Darche with a pleasant laugh.
"Did you hear what they were saying to each other over there while we
were talking?" inquired Brett, who by this time seemed to have
recovered from the unnatural embarrassment he had shown at first. He
had rather suddenly made up his mind that Marion ought to know
something about the story in the papers.
"No. Did you?" she asked.
"Yes."
"I do not like that." Mrs. Darche did not seem pleased. "It was not
nice of you--to be able to talk as you were talking, and to listen to
the conversation of other people at the same time."
"Do you know what they were saying?" asked Brett.
"No, certainly not."
"It is not a pleasant subject. They were talking about that paragraph
in the papers again. Of course there is nothing in the story, and yet
it is very strange. May I speak of it?"
"Is it of any use?" asked Mrs. Darche, beginning to suspect what was
coming.
