CHAPTER VI.
MORE THAN A MATCH.
Mrs. Mordaunt looked up anxiously as Dan entered the room. She had
little expectation that he had been able in one morning to make up the
large deficiency in the sum reserved for the rent, but there was a
possibility, and she clung to that. Dan thought of postponing the
relation of his good news, but when he saw his mother's anxious face, he
felt that it would be cruel.
So when she said, "Well, Dan?" he nodded his head cheerfully.
"I've got it, mother," he said.
"Thank God for all His goodness!" ejaculated Mrs. Mordaunt, fervently.
"You see He hasn't forgotten us," said Dan, gleefully.
"No, my boy, it is a rebuke to my momentary want of faith. How could you
raise so large a sum? Surely you did not earn it in one forenoon?"
"You're right there, mother. I'm not smart enough to earn two dollars
before twelve o'clock."
"But you've got the money, Dan?"
"Look at this, mother," and Dan displayed the bills.
"Where did you get them, Dan?" asked his mother, astonished.
"I borrowed them."
"I didn't know we had a friend left, able or willing to lend us that
sum."
"I borrowed them of Alexander Grant, of St. Louis, and gave my note for
them," answered Dan, in a tone of some importance.
"Alexander Grant, of St. Louis! I don't remember that name."
"He's a new friend of mine, mother. I haven't known him over twenty-four
hours. As the old friends have treated us so badly, I'm goin' in for new
ones."
"You quite mystify me, Dan. Tell me all about it."
Dan did so.
"He's very kind to a stranger, Dan. Heaven will reward him, I am sure."
"I hope it will, mother. I wish I was a rich man. I should enjoy helping
those who needed it. If I ever get rich--though it doesn't look much
like it now--I will do all the good I can. I wonder rich men don't do it
oftener."
"It springs from thoughtlessness sometimes, Dan."
"And from selfishness pretty often," added Dan, whose views of human
nature were considerably less favorable than they had been in his more
prosperous days. "A good many men are like Tom Carver, as he is now and
will be when he is grown up."
"Perhaps there are more good and generous men than we suppose, Dan,"
urged his mother, who liked to think well of her fellow-beings.
"Like Mr. Gripp and our landlord, for instance. By the way, I hear Mr.
Grab's steps on the stairs. I want to deal with him. Just you step into
the bedroom, mother."
Mrs. Mordaunt had no desire to meet Mr. Grab, but she was a little
afraid of Dan's impetuous temper.
"You will treat him respectfully, won't you, Dan?" she urged, as she
turned to go into the adjoining room.
Dan's eyes danced with fun.
"I'll treat him with all the respect he deserves, mother," he answered.
Mrs. Mordaunt looked a little doubtful, for she understood Dan, but did
not say more, for Mr. Grab was already knocking at the door.
"Don't come out, whatever you hear, mother," said Dan, in a low voice.
"I'll come out all right, though I shall tantalize him a little at
first."
The knock was repeated.
"Come in!" Dan called out, in a loud, clear tone.
The door opened, and a thin, undersized man, with bushy red hair and the
look of a cross mastiff, entered the room.
Before his entrance Dan had seated himself in the plain wooden
rocking-chair with his feet on a cricket. He looked quite easy and
unconcerned.
"How are you, Grab?" he said, in a friendly manner.
"You might call me Mr. Grab," returned the landlord, angrily.
"I've no objection, I'm sure, Mr. Grab," said Dan. "How is your health?
You're looking very yellow. Got the jaundice?"
"I am perfectly well, and I am not yellow at all. Do you mean to insult
me?" demanded Grab, irritated.
"I wouldn't do that for a cent, Mr. Grab. I am glad you feel well,
though you ain't looking so. It's very friendly of you to come round to
see me and mother."
"Where is your mother?" snapped Mr. Grab.
"She is engaged just now, and won't have the pleasure of seeing you."
"But I must see her."
"Must! You are quite mistaken. You can't see her. You can see me."
"I've seen more of you than I want to already," said Grab.
"That isn't talking like a friend, Mr. Grab," said Dan, "when I'm so
glad to see you. Perhaps you have come on business."
"Of course I have come on business, and you know very well what that
business is, you young monkey."
"Thank you, Mr. Grab, you are very complimentary. It isn't about the
rent, is it?"
"Of course it is!" snapped the landlord.
"Oh, dear, how could I have forgotten that it was rent-day," said Dan,
with well-feigned confusion.
Mr. Grab's brow grew dark. He concluded that he wasn't going to collect
the rent, and that always chafed him.
"It's your business to know when rent-day comes," he said, bringing down
his fist with such emphasis on the table that he hurt his knuckles, to
Dan's secret delight.
"Please don't break the table, Grab," said Dan.
"Oh, blast the table!" said Grab, surveying his red knuckles.
"We haven't got any blasting powder, and I don't think it would be a
very interesting experiment. It might blow you up, for you are nearest
to it."
"Have done with this trifling, boy," said the landlord.
"I am afraid you got out of the wrong end of the bed this morning, Mr.
Grab. You should control yourself."
"Look here, boy," said the landlord, savagely, "do you know what I am
tempted to do?"
"No, what is it?" asked Dan, indifferently.
"I am strongly tempted to chastise you for your impudence."
Dan looked critically at the small, thin form, and secretly decided that
Mr. Grab would find it difficult to carry out his threat.
"Oh, how you frighten me!" he said. "I don't believe I shall sleep any
to-night."
Mr. Grab made a motion to pound on the table again, but he looked at his
red knuckles and wisely forbore.
"I can't waste any more time," he said. "You must pay your rent, or turn
out. I want six dollars."
"Won't it do, Mr. Grab, if we pay you next week?"
"No, it won't. The rent must be paid to-day, or out you go."
"Why doesn't Dan pay him?" thought Mrs. Mordaunt, uneasily. "Really, he
ought not to tease the poor man so. He has such a bad temper, he might
hurt Dan."
"Mr. Gripp is owing mother for work. As soon as he pays her, I will call
round at your office and pay you."
"It won't do," said Grab. "I won't let you stay here another night, and
I mean to have security for my money, too."
So saying, the landlord seized the bundle of vests which lay on the
table beside him.
This aroused Dan to action.
He sprang to his feet, his eyes flashing with anger.
"Put down that bundle, Mr. Grab!" he exclaimed.
"Then pay me my rent," said the landlord, recoiling a little.
"Put down that bundle before you say another word about rent. It isn't
my mother's or mine. You have no business with it."
"What do you mean, boy, by your impudence?" demanded the landlord, a
little uneasily.
"I mean that if you take that bundle from the room, I shall put you in
charge of the nearest policeman on a charge of stealing."
"That is nonsense," said Grab; but he looked nervous, and laid down the
bundle.
"All right, Grab," said Dan. "Now, as I don't want any more of your
company, I'll pay the rent, if you'll give me a receipt."
"Have you got the money?" asked Grab, astonished.
"Of course I have. I never told you I hadn't."
"You made me think so."
"It isn't my business what you think. There, that is settled, and now,
Mr. Grab, I have the honor of wishing you good-evening. I hope you won't
hurt your knuckles again."
Mr. Grab left the room, inwardly wishing that he could wring Dan's neck.
"Oh, Dan, how could you?" asked his mother, reproachfully, as she
re-entered the room.
"He deserves it all," said Dan. "Didn't he turn out the poor Donovans on
a cold day last winter? I have no pity for him."
"He may turn us out."
"Not as long as we pay the rent."
CHAPTER VII.
MR. GRIPP IS WORSTED.
Punctually at three o'clock Dan knocked at the door of Mr. Grant's room
in the Astor House.
That gentleman looked at his watch as he admitted our hero.
"You are punctual to the minute," he said. "Your watch keeps excellent
time."
"I'll tell you why," answered Dan, smiling. "I always keep it at
Tiffany's. I don't dare to carry it for fear it will get out of order."
"You ought to have a watch," said Mr. Grant. "That will come in time."
"I hope so," said Dan. "Then I could be sure to keep my business
appointments. Now I have to depend on the City Hall clock. I'd rather
look at it than carry it round."
"Well, Dan, do you think Mr. Gripp is prepared to receive us?"
"He'll be glad to see you. He'll think you are going to buy some
clothes. I don't think he'll be very happy to see me."
"He must see us both, or neither. Has he any good clothes?"
"Yes, sir--good enough for me. I don't think you would like to patronize
his establishment."
"By the way, Dan, you have given me an order for money, and I have not
handed you the equivalent."
"You may not get the money, sir."
"I will make the effort at any rate. By the way, Dan, that coat of yours
is getting shabby."
"It is the best I have, sir. Boys in my business don't have to dress
much."
"That gives me an idea. Please hand me my hat, and we will start."
The two left the Astor House together. One or two of Dan's associates
whom they encountered on the way, were surprised to see him walking on
terms of apparent friendly companionship with a well-to-do stranger, but
decided that Dan was probably acting as his guide.
They found Mr. Gripp standing as usual in the door-way of his shop
watching for customers. He did not at first observe Dan, but his
attention was drawn to Mr. Grant.
"Walk in, sir," he said, obsequiously. "You will find what you want
here. Styles fashionable, and as for prices--we defy competition."
Alexander Grant paused, and looked critically about him. He understood
very well the sort of establishment he was about to enter, and would not
have thought of doing so but in Dan's interests.
He stepped over the threshold, and Dan was about to follow, when the
eagle eye of Mr. Gripp recognized our hero.
"Clear out, you young rascal!" he exclaimed. "Don't you come round here
any more."
Dan did not answer, for he knew Mr. Grant would do so for him.
Mr. Grant turned back, and said, quietly:
"To whom are you speaking, sir?"
"I beg your pardon, sir--it's that boy."
"Then, sir, you will oblige me by stopping at once. That boy is in my
company and under my protection."
Nathan Gripp stared as if transfixed.
"Do you know him, sir?" he asked.
"Yes, sir."
"You are mistaken in him, sir. He's an artful young rascal. He was here
yesterday, and acted outrageously. He assaulted my clerk and insulted
me."
"I have nothing to do with that. He is in my company, and if I enter the
store he will."
"Oh, of course, if he's with you he can come in. Samuel, show the
gentleman what he wants."
Dan smiled, and nothing but a sense of his own interest prevented Mr.
Gripp from objecting to his entrance.
"What will I show you, sir?" asked the callow young man named Samuel,
glaring at Dan in vivid remembrance of the blow which had doubled him
up.
"Have you any coats and vests that will fit this young gentleman?"
"Young gentleman!" repeated Samuel, mechanically, glancing at Dan in
silent hatred.
"That means me, Samuel," said Dan, mischievously. "Samuel is an old
friend of mine, Mr. Grant."
"I think we can fit him," said Samuel, by no means relishing the task of
waiting upon his young opponent. "Take off your coat, young feller."
"Don't be too familiar, Samuel. You may call me Mr. Mordaunt," said Dan.
"I'll be ---- if I do," muttered the young man.
Dan took off his coat, and tried on the one submitted to his inspection.
He afterward tried on the vest, and they proved to be a good fit.
"Do they suit you, Dan?" asked Mr. Grant.
"Yes, sir, they fit as well as if they had been made for me."
"What is the price of these articles, young man?" asked Mr. Grant.
"Twelve dollars," answered Samuel.
"He'll take eight," suggested Dan, in a low voice.
Mr. Grant knew well enough the ways of Chatham street merchants to
appreciate the suggestion.
"That is too high," he said, quietly.
Samuel, who was trained to read customers, after a glance at Mr. Grant's
face, prepared to reduce the price.
"We might say eleven," he said, meditatively. "Shall I put them up?"
"Not at that price."
"You don't want us to give 'em away?" said Samuel, in the tone of one
whose reasonable demands had been objected to.
"There is no fear of that, I apprehend," returned Mr. Grant, dryly.
"I've no objection, I'm sure," remarked Dan, on his own account.
"I'd make a few remarks to you, young feller, if you were alone," he
read in the eyes of the indignant salesman, and Dan enjoyed the
restraint which he knew Samuel was putting upon himself.
"You are still asking too much," said the customer.
"What'll you give, sir?" asked Samuel, diplomatically.
"Eight dollars."
"Eight dollars! Why the cloth cost more than that!" protested Samuel.
"The work didn't cost you much, I presume."
"We pay the highest prices for work in this establishment, sir," said
Samuel, hastily.
He forgot that Dan knew better.
"So they do, Mr. Grant," said Dan. "They pay twenty cents apiece for
making vests."
"We pay more than that to our best hands," said Samuel.
"You told me you never paid more," retorted Dan.
Mr. Grant interrupted this discussion.
"Young man," said he, "I will give you eight dollars for the clothes."
"Say nine, sir."
"Not a cent more."
As the regular price was eight dollars--when they couldn't get any
more--Samuel felt authorized to conclude the bargain without consulting
Mr. Gripp.
"Shall I do up the clothes?" he asked.
"No," said Dan, "I'll wear 'em. You may put up my old ones."
Samuel felt it derogatory to his dignity to obey the orders of our hero,
but there was no alternative.
The bundle was placed in Dan's hands.
"Now write me a receipt for the price," said Mr. Grant.
This was done.
Mr. Grant counted out six dollars and eighty cents.
"I have an order upon you for the balance," he said.
"I don't understand," ejaculated Samuel.
"Your principal owes my young friend, or his mother, one dollar and
twenty cents for work. This you will receive as part of the price."
"I must see Mr. Gripp," said Samuel.
Mr. Gripp came forward frowning.
"We can't take the order, sir," he said. "The boy's money is not yet
due."
"Isn't the work done and delivered?"
"Yes, sir; but it is our rule not to pay till a whole dozen is
delivered."
"Then it is a rule which you must break," said Mr. Grant, firmly.
"We can't."
"Then I refuse to take the suit."
Nathan Gripp did not like to lose the sale on the one hand, or abdicate
his position on the other.
"Tell your mother," he said to Dan, "that when she has finished another
half-dozen vests I will pay her the whole."
He reflected that the stranger would be gone, and Dan would be in his
power.
"Thank you," said Dan, "but mother's agreed to work for Jackson. He
pays better."
"Then you'll have to wait for your pay," said Mr. Gripp, sharply.
"Don't you care to sell this suit?" asked Mr. Grant, quickly.
"Yes, sir, but under the circumstances we must ask all cash."
"You won't get it, sir."
"Then I don't think we care to sell," said Gripp, allowing his anger to
overcome his interest.
"Very good. I think, Dan, we can find quite as good a bargain at
Jackson's. Mr. Gripp, do I understand that you decline to pay this
bill?"
"I will pay when the other half-dozen vests are made," said Gripp,
stubbornly.
"I have nothing to do with that. The bill is mine, and it is with me you
have to deal. The boy has nothing to do with it."
"Is that so?" asked Gripp, in surprise.
"It is. You may take your choice. Settle the bill now, or I shall
immediately put it in a lawyer's hands, who will know how to compel you
to pay it."
A determined will carries the day.
"Take this gentleman's money, Samuel," said Gripp, in a tone of
annoyance.
There was no further trouble. Dan walked out of the store better
dressed than he had been since the days of his prosperity.
"How can I thank you, Mr. Grant?" he said, gratefully.
"By continuing to care for your mother, my lad. You are lucky to have a
mother living. Mine is dead, God bless her! Now, my lad, what do you
think of my success in collecting bills?"
"You were too many for old Gripp, sir. He won't sleep to-night."
"He doesn't deserve to, for he grows rich by defrauding the poor who
work for him."
Opposite the City Hall Park Dan and his friend separated.
"I shall not see you again, my boy," said Mr. Grant, "for I take the
evening train. If you ever come to St. Louis, find me out."
"I will, sir."
"That's a good man," said Dan, as he wended his way homeward. "If there
were more such, it would be good for poor people like mother and me. If
I ever get rich, I mean to help along those that need it."
CHAPTER VIII.
MIKE RAFFERTY'S TRICK.
Dan carefully husbanded the money which Mr. Grant had lent him, and the
result was that for two months he was comparatively easy in his
circumstances. His mother earned five cents more daily, on account of
the higher price she received for work, and though this was a trifle, it
was by no means to be despised where the family income was so small as
in the case of the Mordaunts.
Still Dan was not satisfied.
"Mother," said he, "I suppose I ought to be contented with earning
enough to pay our expenses, but I should like to be saving something."
"Yes, Dan, it would be pleasant. But we ought to be thankful for what we
are now receiving."
"But, mother, suppose I should fall sick? What should we do then?"
Mrs. Mordaunt shuddered.
"Don't mention such a thing, Dan," she said. "The very idea terrifies
me."
"But it might happen, for all that."
"Don't you feel well, Dan? Is anything the matter with you?" asked Mrs.
Mordaunt, anxiously.
"Don't be frightened, mother," answered Dan, laughing. "I'm as strong as
a horse, and can eat almost as much. Still, you know, we would feel
safer to have a little money in the savings-bank."
"There isn't much chance of that, Dan, unless we earn more than we do
now."
"You are right there. Well, I suppose there is no use thinking of it. By
the way, mother, you've got enough money on hand to pay the rent
to-morrow, haven't you?"
"Yes, Dan, and a dollar over."
"That's good."
The door of the room was partly open, and the last part of the
conversation was heard by Mike Rafferty, the son of the tenant who
occupied the room just over the Mordaunts. He was a ne'er-do-well, who
had passed more than one term of imprisonment at Blackwell's Island. His
mother was an honest, hard-working washerwoman, who toiled early and
late to support herself and her three children. Mike might have given
her such assistance that she could have lived quite comfortably, for her
own earnings were by no means inconsiderable. Her wash-tub paid her much
more than Mrs. Mordaunts needle could possibly win, and she averaged a
dollar a day where her more refined neighbor made but twenty-five
cents. But Mike, instead of helping, was an additional burden. He got
his meals regularly at home, but contributed scarcely a dollar a month
to the common expenses. He was a selfish rowdy, who was likely to belong
permanently to the shiftless and dangerous classes of society.
Mike had from time to time made approaches to intimacy with Dan, who was
nearly two years younger, but Dan despised him for his selfishly
burdening his mother with his support, and didn't encourage him.
Naturally, Mike hated Dan, and pronounced him "stuck up" and proud,
though our hero associated familiarly with more than one boy ranking no
higher in the social scale than Mike Rafferty.
Only the day before, Mike, finding himself out of funds, encountering
Dan on the stairs, asked for the loan of a quarter.
"I have no money to spare," answered Dan.
"You've got money, Dan; I saw you take out some a minute ago."
"Yes, I've got the money, but I won't lend it."
"You're a mane skinflint," said Mike, provoked.
"Why am I?"
"Because you've got the money, and you won't lend it."
"What do you want to do with it?"
"I want to go to the Old Bowery to-night, if you must know."
"If you wanted it for your mother I might have lent it to you, though I
need all I can earn for my own mother."
"It's for my mother I want it, thin," said Mike. "I guess I won't go to
the theater to-night."
"That's too thin. Your mother would never see the color of it."
"Won't you lend me, thin?"
"No, I can't. If you want money, why don't you earn it, as I do?"
"I ain't lucky."
"It isn't luck. If you go to work and sell papers or black boots, you
will be able to help your mother and pay your way to the theater
yourself."
"Kape your advice to yourself," said Mike, sullenly. "I don't want it."
"You'd rather have my money," said Dan, good-humoredly.
"I'll never see that. You're too mane."
"All right. I'll be mane, then."
"I'd like to put a head on you," muttered Mike.
"I've got one already. I don't need another," said Dan.
"Oh, you think you're mighty smart wid your jokes," said Mike.
Dan smiled and walked off, leaving Mike more his enemy than ever.
This was the boy who overheard Mrs. Mordaunt say that she had more than
the rent already saved up. Mike's cupidity was excited. He knew that it
must amount to several dollars, and this he felt would keep him in
cigarettes and pay for evenings at the theater for several days.
"I wish I had it," he said to himself. "I wonder where the ould woman
kapes it."
The more Mike thought of it the more he coveted this money, and he set
to work contriving means to get possession of it.
Finally he arranged upon a plan.
About three o'clock in the afternoon he knocked at Mrs. Mordaunt's door.
She answered the knock in person.
"Mike Rafferty!" she said, in surprise. "Won't you come in?"
"Oh, no; I can't. It's bad news I bring you about Dan."
"What is it? Tell me quick, in Heaven's name!" she exclaimed, her heart
giving a great bound.
"He's been run over, ma'am, by a hoss, in front of the Astor House, and
they took him into the drug store at the corner. He wants you to go
right over."
"Is he--badly hurt?" asked the agonized mother.
"I guess he's broke his leg," said Mike.
In two minutes Mrs. Mordaunt, trembling with apprehension, her faltering
limbs almost refusing to bear her weight, was on her way to the Astor
House.
As Mike had calculated, she did not stop to lock the door.
The young scape-grace entered the deserted room, rummaged about till he
found the scanty hoard reserved for the landlord, and then went off
whistling.
"Now I'll have a bully time," he said to himself. "Didn't I fool the
ould woman good?"
CHAPTER IX.
MIKE'S THEFT IS DISCOVERED.
Dan was standing in front of the Astor House, talking to a boy
acquaintance, when his mother tottered up to him in a state of great
nervous agitation.
"Why, mother, what's the matter?" asked Dan, in surprise. "What brings
you out this afternoon?"
"Oh, Dan!" she gasped, "are you hurt?"
Dan opened his eyes in wonder. It occurred to him that his mother must
have lost her mind.
"Hurt!" he repeated.
"Yes; they told me you were run over, and had your leg broken."
"My leg broken! Who told you so?"
"Mike Rafferty."
"Then I wish I had him here," said Dan, indignantly; "I'd let him know
whether my leg is broken or not. You bet I would!"
"Haven't you been run over, then?"
"Not that I know of, and I guess it couldn't be done without my knowing
it."
"I am so glad, so relieved!" sighed Mrs. Mordaunt. "I don't know how I
got here, I was so agitated."
"When did Mike Rafferty tell you this cock-and-bull story, mother?"
asked Dan.
"Only a few minutes ago. He said you had been taken into a drug store,
and wanted me to come right over."
"It's a mean trick he played on you, mother," said Dan, indignantly. "I
don't see what made him do it."
"Nor I," said Mrs. Mordaunt. "He must have meant it as a joke."
"A pretty poor joke. I'll get even with him for that."
"I don't mind it now, Dan, since I have you safe. I am ready to forgive
him. He didn't know how much he was distressing me."
"Then he ought to have known. You may forgive him if you want to; I
sha'n't."
"I will go home now, Dan. I feel a good deal happier than I did when I
was hurrying over here."
"I will go with you, mother. I have sold my papers, and sha'n't work any
more this afternoon. Where did you leave Mike? I hope I can come across
him soon."
"I left him at the door of our room."
"Did you lock the door when you came away, mother?" asked Dan.
"No; I believe not."
"Then let us go home at once. Some one might get in."
"There isn't much to take, Dan," said Mrs. Mordaunt, with a faint smile.
"There is our rent money, mother."
"I didn't think of that."
"We shall be in a pretty pickle if that is lost."
"You don't think Mike would take it do you, Dan?"
"I think he would if he knew where to find it."
"I wish I had brought it with me," said Mrs. Mordaunt, in a tone of
anxiety.
"Don't fret, mother; I guess it's all right."
"Perhaps you had better go home at once without waiting for me, Dan. You
can go quicker."
"All right; I'll do it. Where is the money?"
"In my pocket-book, in the drawer of the work-table."
"Are the drawers locked?"
"No."
"Then hereafter you'd better lock them. Well, I'll be off, and will meet
you at the room."
Dan was not long in reaching his humble home. The more he thought of it,
the more he distrusted Mike, and feared that he might have had a
sinister design in the deception he had practiced upon his mother. To
lose the rent money would be a serious matter. Mr. Grab hated him, he
knew full well, and would show no mercy, while in the short time
remaining it would be quite impossible to make up the necessary sum.
Dan sprang up the stairs, several at a bound, and made his way at once
to the little work-table. He pulled the drawer open without ceremony,
and in feverish haste rummaged about until, to his great joy, he found
the pocket-book.
His heart gave a joyous bound.
"It's all right, after all," he said. "Mike isn't so bad as I thought
him."
He opened the pocket-book, and his countenance fell. There was a
twenty-five cent scrip in one of the compartments, and that was all.
"He's stolen the money, after all," he said, his heart sinking. "What
are we going to do now?"
He waited till his mother reached home. She looked inquiringly at him.
One glance told her what had happened.
"Is it gone, Dan?" she gasped.
"That is all that is left," answered Dan, holding up the scrip.
"Mike could not be wicked enough to take it."
"Couldn't he, though? You don't know him as I do, mother. He's a mean
thief, and he sent you off to have a clear field. I wish you had locked
the door."
"I couldn't think of that, or anything else, Dan, when I thought you
were hurt."
"That's why he told you."
"What can we do, Dan? Mr. Grab will be angry when he finds we can't pay
him."
"I will try to find Mike; and if I do, I will get the money if I can.
That's the first thing."
Dan went up stairs at once, and knocked at Mrs. Rafferty's door.
She came to the door, her arms dripping with suds, for she had been
washing.
"Is it you, Dan?" she said. "And how is your mother to-day?"
"Is Mike in?" asked Dan, abruptly, too impatient to answer the question.
"No; he went out quarter of an hour ago."
"Did he tell you where he was going, Mrs. Rafferty?"
"Yes, he did. He said he was going over to Brooklyn to see if he could
get a job, shure. Did you want him?"
"Yes, I did, Mrs. Rafferty. I'm sorry to tell you that Mike has played a
bad trick on my mother."
"Oh, whirra, whirra, what a bye he is!" wailed Mrs. Rafferty. "He's
always up to something bad. Sorra bit of worruk he does, and I at the
wash-tub all day long."
"He's a bad son to you, Mrs. Rafferty."
"So he is, Dan, dear. I wish he was like you. And what kind of trick has
he played on your good mother?"
"He told her that I had been run over and broken my leg. Of course she
went out to find me, thinking it was all true, and while she was away he
took the money from her pocket-book."
Some mothers would have questioned this statement, but Mrs. Rafferty
knew to her cost that Mike was capable of stealing, having been
implicated in thefts on several occasions.
"Was it much, Dan?" she asked.
"Six or seven dollars. I can't say just how much."
"Oh, what a bad bye! I don't know what to do wid him, shure."
"It was the money we were to pay our rent with to-morrow," continued
Dan. "It is a very serious matter."
"I wish I could make it up to you, Dan, dear. It's a shame it is."
"You are an honest woman, Mrs. Rafferty, but you ought not to make it
up. I wish I could find Mike. Do you think he has really gone to
Brooklyn."
"Shure, I don't know. He said so."
"He might have done it as a blind, just to put me on the wrong scent."
"So he might, shure."
"Well, Mrs. Rafferty, I can't stop any longer. I'll try to find him."
He went down stairs and told his mother what he had discovered or failed
to discover.
"Don't wait supper for me, mother," he said. "I'm going in search of
Mike."
"You won't fight with him, Dan?" said Mrs. Mordaunt, anxiously.
"I can't promise, mother. I will only agree to be prudent. I am not
going to submit to the loss without trying to get the money back, you
may be sure of that."
So Dan went down stairs, considerably perplexed in mind. Mike was sure
to keep out of the way for a time at least, anticipating that Dan would
be upon his track. While our hero was searching for him, he would have
plenty of opportunities of spending the money of which he had obtained
unlawful possession. To punish him without regaining the contents of the
lost pocket-book would be an empty triumph. In the street below Dan
espied Terence Quinn, an acquaintance of Mike.
"How are you, Terence?" he said. "Have you seen anything of Mike?"
"I saw him only a few minutes ago."
"Where did he go?"
"I don't know."
"I want to see him on business."
"I'll tell you where he'll be this evening."
"Where?"
"He's going to the Old Bowery, and I'm goin' wid him."
"Does he treat?"
"Yes."
"Where did he get the money?"
"He didn't tell me," said Terence.
"He's taken the rent money. I'm sure of it now," said Dan to himself. "I
wish I knew where to find him."
CHAPTER X.
DAN AS A DETECTIVE.
Dan quickly decided that if Mike had been going to Brooklyn, he would
not have announced it under the circumstances.
"He meant to send me there on a wild-goose chase," he reflected. "I am
not quite so green as he takes me to be."
Dan could not decide as easily where Mike had gone. Hood says in his
poem of "The Lost Heir,"
     "A boy as is lost in London streets is like a needle in a bundle
       of hay."
A hunt for a boy in the streets of New York is about equally hopeless.
But Dan did not despair.
"I'll just stroll round a little," he said to himself. "Maybe I'll find
him."
Dan bent his steps toward the Courtlandt-street Ferry.
"Perhaps Mike has gone to Jersey City," he said to himself. "Anyway,
I'll go over there."
It was not an expensive journey. Six cents would defray Dan's expenses
both ways, and he was willing to incur this expense. He meant to look
about him, as something might turn up by which he could turn an honest
penny.
Something did turn up.
Near him in the cabin of the ferry-boat sat a gentleman of middle age,
who seemed overloaded with baggage. He had two heavy carpet-bags, a
satchel, and a bundle, at which he looked from time to time with a
nervous and uncomfortable glance. When the boat touched shore he tried
to gather his various pieces of luggage, but with indifferent success.
Noticing his look of perplexity, Dan approached him, and said,
respectfully:
"Can't I assist you, sir?"
"I wish you would, my boy," said the gentleman, relieved.
"All right, sir. I'll take one of the carpet-bags and the satchel, if
you like."
"Thank you; that will do nicely."
So the two left the boat together.
"Where are you going, sir?" asked Dan.
"Do you know the wharf of the Cunard steamers?" asked the gentleman.
"Yes, sir."
"Is it far off?"
"Not more than five or six minutes' walk," answered Dan.
"Can you help me as far as that with my luggage?"
"Yes, sir."
"I will make it worth your while, and you will be doing me a great favor
besides. I was brought down to the ferry, but the rascally hackman
demanded five dollars more to carry me across and land me at the Cunard
pier. He thought I would have to submit to this imposition, but I was so
indignant that I tried to handle all my luggage myself. I don't know how
I should have managed without you."
"I won't charge you so much, sir," said Dan, smiling.
"It isn't for the money I cared so much as for the imposition. I would
rather pay you ten dollars than the hackman five."
"Be careful, sir," said Dan, smiling, "or I may take advantage of your
liberal offer."
The gentleman smiled in turn.
"You don't look like a boy that would take advantage of a traveler."
"You can't judge from appearances, sir. I have been robbed of six
dollars to-day, and I might try to make it up that way."
"You have been robbed! How?"
Dan briefly related the circumstances.
"Was it all the money your mother had?"
"Yes, sir."
"How did you happen to be coming across the ferry?"
"I thought Mike might be here somewhere."
By this time they were in sight of the Cunard wharf.
"Were you ever on a Cunard steamer?" asked the gentleman.
"No, sir."
"Help me on board with my luggage, and I will show you about."
"I thought the steamers generally left in the morning," said Dan.
"So they do; but to-day the tide did not serve till later."
Dan helped Mr. Stevens down below with his luggage, and assisted him in
storing them in his stateroom. He surveyed with interest the cabin, the
deck, the dining-saloon, and the various arrangements.
"Well," said the gentleman, smiling, "how do you like it?"
"First-rate, sir."
"Do you think you would like to be going with me?"
"Yes, sir, but for my mother."
"Of course, it won't do to desert her; otherwise I might be tempted to
make you an offer. I am sure you would be very useful to me."
"I should like it very much, if mother did not need me."
Dan went up stairs with Mr. Stevens, and remained till visitors were
warned that it was time to go ashore.
"I must go, sir," he said.
Mr. Stevens drew a five-dollar bill from his vest pocket and handed it
to Dan.
"I haven't any change, sir," said Dan.
"None is required," said the gentleman, smiling.
"Do you really mean to give me five dollars, sir?"
"That is what the hackman wanted to charge me."
"But it was too much."
"It was too much for him; it is not too much for you, if I am willing to
give it to you."
"You are very kind, sir," said Dan, almost doubting the reality of his
good fortune.
"It will prove that I spoke truly when I said I didn't care for the
amount of money, only for the imposition. I am really very glad to give
it to you. Good-by, my boy."
He offered his hand. Dan shook it heartily, and, wishing him a pleasant
voyage, descended the gangplank.
"That is almost as much as Mike robbed me of," he said to himself. "How
lucky I came over to Jersey City! Now, if I could only get back part of
the money Mike robbed me of, I should be the better off for his mean
trick."
Dan did not immediately return to New York. He had been so fortunate
that he decided to spend the rest of the afternoon as he liked.
He walked on for ten minutes, Mike being temporarily out of his mind,
when his attention was suddenly drawn to him. Just in front of him he
saw Mike himself swaggering along, with a ten-cent cigar in his mouth,
and both hands thrust deep in his trousers pockets. He was strolling
along in fancied security, not dreaming of the near presence of the boy
whom he had so meanly robbed.
Dan's eyes sparkled when he recognized his enemy, and hastening his
pace, he put his hand on Mike's shoulder.
Mike turned quickly, and his countenance changed when he saw Dan.
"Has he found it out?" suggested his guilty conscience. "Anyway, he
can't prove anything. I'll bluff him off."
"Hallo, Dan!" he said, in affected cordiality. "What brings you over
here?"
"What brings you over here, Mike?" asked Dan, significantly.
"I'm looking for a job," said Mike.
"You look like it," retorted Dan, "with both hands in your pockets and
a cigar in your mouth! Times seem to be good with you. How much did that
cigar cost?"
"I don't know," answered Mike, with unblushing falsehood. "A man gave it
to me for holdin' his hoss."
Mike was never at a loss for a plausible lie.
"I thought you bought it."
"I haven't got any money."
"Did they let you over the ferry free, then?"
"Oh, I had money enough for that."
"I guess you have got more."
"No, I haven't. Ten cents was all I had."
"Then how are you going to take Terence Quinn to the theater to-night?"
asked Dan.
Even Mike's brazen effrontery was hardly prepared to meet this
unexpected question.
"What do you mane?" he stammered.
"Terence told me you had invited him."
"Then he lies!" said Mike, his self-assurance returning. "He invited
me."
"Look here, Mike Rafferty," said Dan, out of patience; "that won't go
down! Terence told the truth. I know where you got the money you were
going to treat him with."
"Where, then?"
"From my mother's pocket-book."
"It's a lie!" blustered Mike.
"It's the truth, and if you don't hand over what's left without making
any more trouble, I'll have you arrested."
"You can't. We're in Jersey----"
"I shall have you arrested as soon as you get home."
"I didn't take the money," said Mike, sullenly.
"You did, and you know it," said Dan, firmly. "Give me what you have
left, and I'll make no trouble about it. If you don't, you're booked for
another term at the island."
Mike tried to save his ill-gotten gains, but Dan was persistent, and
finally extracted from him four dollars and a half. The rest Mike
pretended he had spent. He was sly enough, however, to have saved enough
to take him to the Old Bowery.
On the whole, Dan was satisfied, considering the five dollars he had
received on the Cunard steamer, but he could not forbear giving Mike a
farewell shot.
"How did it happen, Mike, that you took the Jersey Ferry to Brooklyn?"
Mike did not deign a reply.
"That is my first appearance as a detective," thought Dan. "It seems to
pay."
CHAPTER XI.
DAN HAS ANOTHER ADVENTURE.
It was only five o'clock when Dan, returning from Jersey City, found
himself again in front of the Astor House.
"Shall I buy any evening papers?" Dan asked himself. "No, I won't. I've
made enough to satisfy me for one day."
Dan stood at the corner of Vesey street, glancing at the hurrying
crowds.
He rather enjoyed his temporary freedom from business cares.
He had made a good day's work, the morrow's rent was provided for, and
he felt like a gentleman of leisure.
All at once his attention was drawn to a low sob. It proceeded from a
little flower-girl of ten years, who usually stood near the hotel.
"What's the matter, Fanny?" asked Dan, calling her by her name, for the
little flower-girl was one of his acquaintances. "Haven't you sold as
many bouquets as usual?"
"Yes," said Fanny, pausing in her sobs, "I've sold more."
"Then what's the matter? Has any one been teasing you?"
"No, but a young man passed a bad half-dollar on me."
"Let me see it."
Dan inspected the piece. He did not need to ring it, for it was dull in
appearance and unmistakably bad.
"When did you take it?"
"Just now. A young man came up and bought a five-cent bouquet, and gave
me this to change."
"Didn't you see that it was bad?"
"I didn't look at it till afterward. Then it was too late."
"So you gave him forty-five cents in good money, Fanny?"
"Yes," said the little girl, again beginning to sob.
"How many bouquets had you sold?"
"Seven."
"Then you have less money than when you began?"
"Yes, Dan."
"Do you think the fellow knew the piece was bad?"
"Yes, for he hurried away."
"Which way did he go?"
"Down Broadway."
"Maybe he was going to Jersey City."
"No, I saw him turn down Fulton street."
"Then he was going to Brooklyn. How did he look?"
"He was short and had red hair."
"How was he dressed?"
"He had on a gray suit."
"How long ago did this happen?"
