quietly and stay in my room as long as he’s in the house--quite as much
for my own sake as for his, you can tell him. If he asks about my
apologizing, tell him that I won’t, and that I expect an apology from
him. It can’t last forever. One of us will have to give in, at the
end--but I won’t. You can put it all as mildly as you like, only don’t
give him any impression that I’m submitting to him morally, even if I’m
willing to keep out of his way.”
“Couldn’t you say something a little nicer than that, dear?” asked Mrs.
Lauderdale, pleadingly, for she anticipated more trouble. “Couldn’t you
say that you’d let by-gones be by-gones--or something of that sort?”
“It wouldn’t be true. These are not by-gones. They’re present things.
The nice by-gones will never come back.”
Mrs. Lauderdale rose slowly to the height of her still graceful figure,
and stood before her daughter for a moment. In the emotion of the past
hour she had forgotten for a time her envy of the girl’s blossoming
beauty. For a moment she was impelled to throw her arms round
Katharine’s neck in the old way, and kiss her, and try to make things
again what they had been. But something hard in the young grey eyes
stopped her. She felt that she herself was not forgiven yet and might
never be, altogether.
“Very well,” she said, quietly. “I’ll do my best.”
She turned and left the room, leaving Katharine still leaning back
against the chest of drawers in the position she had not abandoned
throughout the conversation.
When Katharine was alone, she stood up, turned round and pulled out the
upper drawer. Amongst her gloves and handkerchiefs lay a photograph of
John Ralston. She took it out and looked at the keen, dark face, with
its set lips, its prominent bony temples, and its nervous lines that
would be furrows too soon.
“You’re worth all the Lauderdales and the Wingfields put together!” she
said, in a low voice.
She kissed the photograph, pressing it hard to her lips and closing her
eyes.
“I wish you were here!” she said.
She looked at it again, and again kissed it. Then she put it back with
an energetic movement that was almost rough, and shut the drawer. She
sat down in the chair her mother had occupied, and gave herself up to
thinking over all that had taken place.
Her instinct was to let John Ralston know as soon as possible what had
happened, but she knew how foolish that would be. He would insist that
the moment had come for declaring their marriage, and that she must go
and live under his mother’s roof. But she felt that something must be
done soon. If she was willing to submit to her father’s sentence, absurd
as it was, she found a reason for doing so in her own disinclination to
meet him. But the situation could not last. And yet, he was obstinate
beyond ordinarily obstinate people, and it would be like him to insist
upon banishing her for a week. In such things he had no sense of the
ridiculous. Apart from the inconvenience and constant annoyance of being
expected to keep out of his way, she was young enough to feel
humiliated. It was very like a punishment--this order not to be seen
when her father was in the house. She had no intention of disregarding
it, however. To do so would have been to produce an open war of which
the rumour would fill society. It was clear that her best course was to
be patient as long as possible, and then quietly to go to uncle Robert’s
house. The world would think it natural that she should pay him a visit.
She had done so before.
Alexander Junior seemed to be satisfied with the answer his wife brought
him. He felt that if he could make Katharine stay in her own room at his
discretion, he was still master in his own house, and his injured
dignity began to hold up its head again. The old philanthropist did not
even ask after Katharine at dinner, though he was fond of her. She so
often went out to dine alone with intimate friends, that it did not
occur to him to remark upon her absence. But, as usual, when she was not
there, the family meal was dull and silent. Alexander ate without
speaking, and with the methodical, grimly appreciative appetite of very
strong men. Mrs. Lauderdale was not hungry, and stared at the silver
things on the table most of the time. The old gentleman bolted his food
in the anticipation of tobacco, which tasted best after eating. He was a
cheerful old soul when he was not dreaming, an optimist and a professed
maker of happiness by the ton, so to say, for those who had been
forgotten in the distribution. He had big hands, shiny at the knuckles
and pink where a young man’s would be white, with horny, yellowish
nails, and he was not very neat in his dress, though he had survived
from the day when men used to wear dress coats and white ties in their
offices all day. The Lauderdale tribe regarded him as a harmless member
who had something wrong in his head, while his heart was almost too much
in the right place. A certain amount of respect was shown him on account
of his age, but though he was the oldest of them all, Robert the Rich
was undisputedly the head of the family. It was generally believed, and,
as has been seen, the belief was well founded, that he was not to have
any large share of the money in case he survived his brother.
Early on the following morning Alexander Junior emerged from his
dressing-room, equipped for the day. He wore the garments of
civilization, but a very little power of imagination might have
converted his dark grey trousers into greaves, his morning coat into a
shirt of mail, and his stiff collar into a steel throat-piece. He had
slept on his wrath, and had grown more obstinate with the grey of the
morning. His voice was metallic and aggressive when he spoke to the
serving-girl, demanding why his steak was overdone. When his wife
appeared, he rose formally, as usual, and kissed her cheek with a little
click, like the lock of a safe. He said little or nothing as he finished
his breakfast, and then, without telling her what he meant to do, he
went upstairs again and knocked at Katharine’s door.
“Katharine!” he called to her. “I wish to speak to you.”
“Well--” answered the young girl’s voice--“I’m not dressed yet. What is
it?”
“How long shall you be?” enquired Alexander, bending his brows as he
leaned against the panel to catch her answer.
“About three quarters of an hour--I should think--at least--judging from
the state of my hair. It’s all tangled.”
“Do you know what time it is?”
“No--I’ve not looked. Oh--my little clock has stopped. It’s a quarter
past four by my little clock.”
“It’s nine o’clock,” said Alexander Junior, severely. “Three minutes
to,” he added, looking at his watch.
“Well--I can’t help it now. It’s only--no--it’s sixteen minutes past
four by my little clock.”
“Never mind your little clock. I must be going down town at once, and I
wish to speak to you. I can’t wait three quarters of an hour.”
“No--of course not.”
“Well--can’t I come in? Aren’t you visible?”
“No. Certainly not. You can’t come in. I’m brushing--my hair. I always
brush it--ten minutes.”
“Katharine--this is absurd!” cried Alexander, becoming exasperated. “Put
on something and open the door.”
“No. I can’t just--now.” Her phrases were interrupted by the process of
vigorous brushing. “Besides--you can talk through the door. I can
hear--every word--you say. Can’t you hear me?”
“Yes, I can hear you. But I don’t wish to say what I have to say in the
hearing of the whole house.”
“Oh!” The soft sound of the brushing ceased. “In that case I’d rather
not hear it at all.”
“Katharine!” Alexander felt all his anger of the previous day rising
again.
“Yes--what is it?” She seemed to have come nearer to the door.
“I told you. I wish to speak to you.”
“Yes--I know. But you can’t unless you’ll say it through the door.”
“Katharine! Don’t exasperate me!”
“I’m not trying to. I understood that you didn’t wish to see me for some
days. If you’d sent me word, I should have been ready to receive you. As
it is, I can’t.”
“You know perfectly well that you can, in ten minutes, if you please. I
shall send your mother to you.”
“Oh--very well. I’ve not seen her this morning. But you’d better not
wait till I’m dressed. It will take a long time.”
“Very well,” answered Alexander Junior, who had completely lost his
temper by this time.
A moment later Katharine heard the sharp click of the lock, and the
rattle as the key was withdrawn. She never used it, having a bolt on the
inside.
“You are at liberty to take all day if you please,” said her father. “I
have the key in my pocket. Good morning.”
Katharine’s lips parted in astonishment, as she turned her eyes towards
the door, and she stood staring at it for a moment in speechless
indignation, realizing that she was locked in for the day. Then,
suddenly, her expression changed, and she laughed aloud. Alexander was
already far down the stairs.
But presently she realized that the situation was serious, or, at all
events, something more than annoying. She was to be shut up at least
until after five o’clock in the afternoon, all alone, without food or
drink, without the books she wanted, and without any one with whom to
exchange a few words. Her face became grave as she finished dressing.
She knew also that her father had lost his temper again, and she did not
care to have all the servants know it.
She rang the bell, and waited by the door till she heard the maid’s
footsteps outside.
“Ask my mother to come here a moment, Jane,” she said. “Say that it’s
important.”
A few moments later Mrs. Lauderdale turned the handle of the lock.
“Is that you, mother?” asked Katharine.
“Yes. The door’s locked. I can’t open it.”
“This is serious,” said Katharine, speaking in a low voice, close to the
panel. “Papa’s locked it and taken the key down town with him. Didn’t he
tell you?”
“No--it’s impossible, child! You must have slipped the bolt inside.”
“But, mother, he said he meant to, and I heard him do it. He got angry
because I wouldn’t let him in. I couldn’t then, for I wasn’t dressed,
and Jane’s putting a new ribbon on my dressing-gown, so I haven’t even
got that. But I didn’t want to. Never mind that--I’ll tell you by and
by. The question is how I’m to get out! Unless he didn’t quite mean it,
and has left the key on the table in the entry, with the latch-key. You
might look.”
Mrs. Lauderdale went downstairs and searched for the key, but in vain.
Katharine was locked in.
CHAPTER X.
Mrs. Lauderdale was indignant. Katharine, at least, had been able to see
the ludicrous side of the situation, and had laughed to herself on
finding that she was locked in. Less conventional than either her father
or mother, it had occurred to her for a moment that she was acting a
part in an amusing comedy. The idea that by one or two absurd phrases
she had so irritated Alexander as to make him forget his dignity and his
common sense together, and do a thoroughly foolish thing such as a child
in a passion might do, was funny in the extreme, she thought. But Mrs.
Lauderdale, being called in, as it were, after the play, thought the
result very poor fun indeed. In her opinion, her husband had done a
senseless thing, in the worst possible taste.
Fortunately the house was an old one, and the simple, old-fashioned lock
was amenable to keys which did not belong to it. In due time, Mrs.
Lauderdale found one which served the purpose, and Katharine was set at
liberty.
“This is just a little more than I can bear,” she said, as her mother
entered the room. “I didn’t expect this sort of thing last night when I
said I wouldn’t go to uncle Robert’s. Really--papa’s losing his head.”
“I must say, it’s going rather far,” admitted Mrs. Lauderdale.
“It’s gone a great deal too far,” Katharine answered. “I laughed when I
found I was locked in. It seemed so funny. But I won’t let him do it
again.”
“You two have a faculty for irritating each other that’s beyond
anything,” observed Mrs. Lauderdale. “It really would be much better if
you could be separated for a little while. My dear, what do you suppose
could happen, if you went to uncle Robert’s?”
“Just what I told you yesterday. Papa would be quite bland when I came
home again. By that time he could have got over his rage, and he’d want
to know things--oh, well! I won’t talk about all that. It only hurts
you, and it can’t do any good, can it? Hadn’t I better go up to uncle
Robert’s and ask if he can have me? Meanwhile, Jane could pack a few
things--just what I need to-day--I can always come down, or send down,
and get anything I want at a moment’s notice. Shan’t I, mother? What do
you think?”
“Well--I don’t quite know, child. Of course I ought not to, but then if
I don’t--” She paused, conscious of vagueness. “If I don’t let you go,”
she continued, “there’ll be worse trouble before long. This is an
impossible position, we know, and if you went to Washington, I’m sure
he’d go down on Sunday and bring you back. It was very clever of you to
think of going to uncle Robert’s.”
“I could go to the Crowdies’,” said Katharine, meditatively. “Of course,
Hester’s my best friend, but I do hate her husband so--I can’t help it.”
Walter Crowdie was a distinguished young painter, whose pale face and
heavy, red mouth were unaccountably repulsive to Katharine, and, in a
less degree, to her mother also. Mrs. Crowdie was Hamilton Bright’s
sister, and therefore a distant cousin.
“And papa might insist on bringing me back from there, too. There are
lots of reasons against it. Besides--Hamilton--”
“What about Hamilton?” asked Mrs. Lauderdale.
“Oh, nothing! Mother--I don’t want to do violent things and make a fuss,
and all that, you know--but if you agree, and think it’s sensible, I
will go up and ask uncle Robert if I may stay a few days. You can see,
yourself, that all this can’t go on much longer.”
In her resentment of her father’s behaviour, she felt quite reconciled
with her mother, and Mrs. Lauderdale was glad as she realized the fact.
There was an underthought in her mind, too, which was perhaps not
altogether so creditable. Though it was only to be for a few days,
Katharine was to be away from her. She, was to have a breathing space
from the temptation which tormented her. For a little while she should
be herself again, not contrasted, at every turn of her daily life, with
that terrible bloom which ever outshone the fading flower of her own
beauty. That was her dream. If she could but be supremely beautiful
still for one short month--that was all she asked--after that, she would
submit to time, and give up the pride of life, and never complain again.
She would not have acknowledged to herself that this was a motive, for
she honestly did her best to fight her sin; but it was there,
nevertheless, and influenced her to agree the more readily to
Katharine’s absence. It counteracted, indeed, the anxiety she felt about
her husband’s view of the case when he should return from his office
late in the afternoon; but her instinct told her, also, that he might
very probably be a little ashamed of what he had done, and be secretly
glad of the solution unexpectedly offered him.
Katharine got ready to go in a few minutes. As she put on her hat and
gloves, she glanced two or three times at the bit of red ribbon that lay
on her toilet-table. She had taken down the signal from the window on
the previous evening, in order to inform John Ralston that she could not
come that morning. On the whole, she was glad that she could not see
him, for it would be hard to conceal from him what had happened. She
would send him a message down town, and he could see her, undisturbed,
at their uncle’s house in the afternoon--more freely there than anywhere
else, indeed, since Robert Lauderdale was in the secret of the
clandestine marriage.
Before she left the house, Mrs. Lauderdale laid her hands upon the
girl’s shoulders and looked into her eyes with an anxious expression.
“Katharine, dear,” she said, “don’t ever let yourself think such things
as you said yesterday afternoon.”
“What things, mother?”
“About not believing--you know. You didn’t mean what you said, darling,
of course--and I’m not preaching to you. You know I promised long ago
that I would never talk about religion to you children, nor influence
you. I’ve kept my word. But this is different. Religion--well, we don’t
all agree in this world. But God--God’s for everybody, just the same,
dear. But then,” she added, quickly, “I know you didn’t really mean what
you said. Only keep the thought away, when it comes.”
Katharine said nothing, but she nodded gravely and kissed her mother on
both cheeks. At the last moment, as she was going to the door, she
stopped and turned back.
“I’m awfully sorry to bother you, mother dear,” she said, “but I’ve got
no money--not even twenty-five cents. Could you give me something? I
don’t like to be out with nothing at all in my pocket.”
The deprecating tone, the real, earnest regret at being obliged to ask
for even such a trifle, told the tale of what had gone on in the house,
unknown to the world, for years, far better than any words could have
done.
“Of course, child--I always have something, you know,” answered Mrs.
Lauderdale, promptly. “Here are ten dollars.”
“Oh--I don’t want so much!” cried Katharine. “I’m not going to buy
anything--it’s only for horse-cars, and things like that. Give me a
dollar and a little change, if you have it.”
But Mrs. Lauderdale insisted that she should take the note.
“I don’t want you to go to uncle Robert’s without a penny in your
pocket. It looks like poor relations.”
“Well--you’re always generous, mother,” answered the young girl, with a
little laugh. “But it’s papa’s relation, and not yours.”
“I know, dear--I know. But it makes no difference.”
As Katharine had anticipated, Robert Lauderdale was very glad to see
her. He was sitting in his library, into which the sun streamed through
the high windows, one of which was partly opened to let in the spring
freshness.
She thought he looked ill. He had not recovered from the effects of his
illness so quickly as Doctor Routh had expected, owing to a certain
weakness of the heart, natural enough at his age and after enduring so
severe a strain. His appetite had never returned, and he was thin in the
body and almost wasted in the face. If anything, Katharine thought he
looked worse than when she had last seen him a few days previously. But
he welcomed her with a cheery smile, and she sat down beside him.
“Come to pay me a little visit?” His voice was oddly hollow. “That’s
right! I wish you’d stay with me a few days again. But then, you’re too
gay, I suppose.”
“Not at all too gay,” laughed Katharine. “That’s exactly what I want to
do, and why I came at this hour. I wanted to ask if you’d have me for a
week, and then, if you would, I was going to send for my things. And now
you’ve spoken first, and I accept. My things are all ready,” she added,
still smiling. “You see, I knew you’d let me come.”
“Of course, little girl!” answered the old man, his sunken eyes fixing
themselves wistfully on her young face. “Ring for Leek and tell him to
send a man down at once.”
“Oh--there’s no hurry about it. I made myself as beautiful as I could
before starting--but I want to dazzle you at dinner. You sit up for
dinner, don’t you? How are you, uncle, dear? Better?”
“Yes--yes,” he answered, slowly. “I suppose I’m better. But it’s slow
work. Yes, I sit up for dinner. It makes the days shorter. They’re so
long. You look pale, my dear. What’s the matter? Too much dancing? Too
much flirting? Or what?”
“I never flirt, uncle Robert!” Katharine laughed again.
“Well, then, it’s time you began, and you’d better begin at once--with
me.”
And the old gentleman laughed, too, a queer hollow laugh that seemed to
come from his backbone, with a rattle in it. And he laid two of his
great bony fingers against the young girl’s pale, fresh cheek--as though
death played with life, and would like to kiss it.
So they chatted pleasantly together in the morning sunshine amongst the
grand old books which the rich man had collected about him. Katharine
had no intention of telling him what had happened in Clinton Place, if
she could help it. Uncle Robert did not seem to require any reason for
her sudden determination to pay him a visit, as she had done before on
more than one occasion. He was glad enough to have her, whatever her
reasons might be.
Katharine breathed the atmosphere of freedom and revived. The certainty
that for several days, at least, the perpetual contest with her father
was not to be renewed, brought colour to her cheeks and light to her
eyes. But as the time wore on towards the hour for luncheon, and she
came and went, and alternately talked with the old man and read aloud to
him a little and sat in silence, watching his face, the conviction came
over her that he could never get back his strength. The vitality was
gone out of him, and he had grown listless. She could not tell whether
he might live much longer, or not, but she felt that he had lost
something which he could never regain.
“You feel stronger, don’t you?” she asked, in an encouraging tone.
He did not answer at once, but looked at her affectionately and
dreamily.
“Don’t be worried about me, dear girl,” he said, at last. “I’m doing
very well.”
“No, but really--” Katharine’s face took an anxious expression.
“Really?” he repeated, looking at her still. Then his head fell back
against the dark red cushion. “I’m not dead yet,” he said, quietly. “But
it’s coming--it’s coming by inches.”
“Don’t say that!”
But she knew it was true, and she began to talk of other things. He,
however, seemed inclined to come back to the subject of his failing
strength.
“I should be better if they didn’t bother me,” he said. “They keep
coming to see whether I’m alive, and sending messages to enquire.
Confound them!” he exclaimed, with a momentary return of energy. “They
couldn’t send more flowers if the undertaker were in the house! What
does an old fellow like me want of flowers, I should like to know? They
may turn my grave into a flower show if they like, when I’m tucked away
in it, but I wish they’d leave me alone till I am!”
“Who are they?” asked Katharine, with some curiosity.
“The tribe, as you call the family. Your mother’s one. Didn’t she tell
you she sent me flowers?”
“No--I’ll tell her not to.”
“Don’t do that, little girl. You just let her alone. If she were the
only one--I shouldn’t care. I wouldn’t hurt her feelings for anything,
you know--and then, it means something when she sends them, because she
works for them and earns the money. But why the dickens the three Miss
Miners should think it necessary to send me American Beauties in
cardboard boxes, I can’t conceive. They’re comfortably off enough, now,
but that’s no reason, and they can’t stand the expense of that sort of
thing long. Perhaps they think it won’t last long. Of course it’s well
meant. I made Beman give them a lift with some little stocks they had
lying round, and he took an interest in the thing, I suppose, for I hear
that they’re very comfortable--ten thousand a year amongst the four of
them, with Frank--and I suppose he earns something with all his
writings, doesn’t he?”
“Oh, yes. The Century gave him a hundred and fifty dollars for an
article the other day. He was so pleased! You have no idea!”
“I daresay,” said the great millionaire, gravely. “Very nice, too--a
hundred and fifty for one article. Well--he’s another. He sends me all
he writes--there’s a heap of things on the table, there. That’s his
corner, you know, because he’s the literary man of the family. And he
scribbles me little notes with them. He’s rather humble about his
work--for he says he’d really be glad if anything he turned out could
help to pass the time for me. Well--it’s nice of him, I know. But it
irritates me, somehow. As for that Crowdie, he’s the worst of the
lot--as he’s the cleverest. By the bye, what day is to-day--Thursday,
isn’t it?”
“Yes--it’s Thursday. Why?”
“Well--he’s coming before luncheon to-day. It appears that he’s painted
a picture of you. I think you said something about it last winter,
didn’t you?”
“Yes. I told you I was sitting to him. He painted it for Hester. She’s
my great friend, you know.”
“Oh, yes--so she is--so she is! Well--that’s a singular thing, too. He
said in his last note that it was for me.”
“Did he?” Katharine laughed. “You’d better take it, uncle dear--that is,
if you want it. It’s a good picture.”
“Everything the young scoundrel does is good!” growled the old man. “Do
you like him, child?”
“Like him! I perfectly loathe him--but I can’t tell why,” she added, in
quick apology. “He’s always very kind.”
“I don’t see how Walter Crowdie can be kind to my niece,” said Robert
Lauderdale, with rough pride. “Anyhow, he wants to get something out of
me. So he’s bringing the picture to me this morning. I told you what I
meant to do for them in my will. I don’t see why I should do anything.
They’re rich, those people. She had money and he gets big prices, and
I’ll do him the credit to say he’s industrious, at all events. He seems
to be a good husband to Hester, too--isn’t he?”
“She adores him,” answered Katharine.
“Well--I suppose I’m like you. I can’t tell why I dislike the man, but I
do. It’s a case of ‘Doctor Fell.’ Yes--there’s Crowdie, and the
Miners--even Ham Bright--he’s always enquiring and leaving cards! As for
your father, he writes me long letters once a week, as though I were
abroad, and he comes to see me every Sunday afternoon at four o’clock,
rain or shine.”
“Oh--that’s where he goes!” cried Katharine. “I often wondered--he
always disappears on Sunday afternoon.”
“Yes--he comes here and tells me what a solid thing the Trust Company
is, and how he’s devoting his life to it, and sacrificing his chances of
getting rich, so as to be useful. Oh, it’s very fine, I admit. But then,
he never says anything about that money of his which he keeps put away.
And I never say anything about it, either. What’s the use--it would only
make him uncomfortable.”
“But you’re quite sure he has it, uncle Robert, aren’t you?” asked
Katharine. “You’re not doing him an injustice?”
“Yes. I’ve seen it.”
“What--the money? I don’t understand.”
“I’ve seen the value of a million of money in United States Bonds, which
were the property of your father,” answered the old man. “I won’t tell
you how it happened, because a banker accidentally betrayed your
father’s confidence. It was at the time of a conversion of bonds, two
years ago. For some reason or other, Alexander--your father--couldn’t
attend to it, or do it all himself. I don’t know why. Anyhow, he
employed a banker confidentially, and I came to know the fact, and I saw
the bonds. So that settles it. He’s not squandered a million on your
clothes in the last two years, has he, little girl?”
“Hardly!” Katharine laughed. “But mightn’t it have been trust money, or
something like that?”
“No. His name was there. He’s a careful man--your father. So it couldn’t
have been a trust. Well--I was going through the list, wasn’t I? I
haven’t half finished. There’s your grandfather. Sandy never had much
sense when he was a boy. He was all heart. I suppose he knows I’m dying,
and wants me to give my soul a lift in the shape of some liberal
contributions to his charities. I wish you could see the piles of
reports he sends, and letters without end--in his queer, shaky hand.
‘Dear old Bob; what’s a million, more or less, to you, and it would make
ten thousand homes happy.’ That’s the sort of thing. Ten thousand
idiots! Give them all a hundred dollars apiece--of course they’d be
happy, for a week or two. Sandy forgets the headaches they’d have
afterwards. He believes everything’s good, and everybody’s an angel,
more or less disguised, but recognizable. Well--I suppose it’s better to
be an optimist. They’re the happy people, after all.”
“Do you think so? I don’t know. People who are always happy can’t ever
feel how happy they are sometimes, as unhappy people do. That’s what’s
so nice about being sad--now and then, when one feels gay, the world’s a
ball of sunshine. Haven’t you felt like that sometimes? I do.”
“Sometimes--sometimes,” repeated the old man, with a faint smile. “Not
lately. I’ve had so many cares. Great wealth complicates the end of
life, Katharine. You’ll be very rich. Remember that. Have your fortune
settled so that it can be easily handled when you’re old. That’s what
I’ve done, and it’s something, at all events. If I had to be picking up
odds and ends and loose threads now, it would be harder than it is. And
perhaps I’ve made a mistake. Perhaps it’s better to tell people just
what they have to expect. People worry so! Now there are all the Miners’
rich relations, you know--the Thirlwalls and the Van De Waters, and all
that set. I don’t know what they think, I’m sure. They’ve got heaps of
money, and there’s no reason on earth why I should leave them a dollar.
But they worry. Ruth Van De Water comes and brings flowers--always
flowers--I make Leek take them away--I suppose he decorates the pantry
with them--and she says her mother would so much like to take me to
drive when it’s warmer. Why? What for? And one of the Thirlwalls sent me
some cigars he’d brought from Havana with him, and old Mrs.
Trehearne--the one who’s ‘old’ Mrs. Trehearne now, since her
sister-in-law died--didn’t she toddle in the other day and say she
wanted to talk about old times!--she’s another of those holy scarecrows
that hang round death-beds. Now, she’s nothing on earth to expect of me.
It’s sheer love of worry, I believe.”
“People may be fond of you for your own sake,” suggested Katharine. “You
don’t know how nice you are! That is--when you like!”
“Well--I don’t know. It may be--but I doubt it. You see, I’ve had a good
deal of experience in the way of being liked.”
“Has it been all a bad experience? You can’t tell me that nobody ever
liked you for your own sake--never, at all. I shouldn’t believe it. The
world can’t be all bad, right through.”
“Oh, no! I didn’t say that. And I suppose I shouldn’t say anything that
looks like cynicism to you, child. Still, I must say there’s a good deal
of personal interest in the affection a rich man gets. I used to hear
that said when I was a boy, and there’s a good deal about it in
old-fashioned books, but I didn’t believe it. It’s money that makes the
world go, Katharine, my dear. It’s love for one year, perhaps, but it’s
money all the other sixty-nine out of the seventy. I’ve seen a deal of
money earned and squandered, and stolen and wasted in my time, and
there’s no denying it--money’s the main object. It keeps the world
going, and when it gets stuck in one place, as it has in my hands,
there’s an attempt--a natural attempt, I suppose--to distribute it
again. And if it doesn’t get distributed, there’s a howl of pain from
all the relations. It’s natural--it’s natural--but it doesn’t make dying
easier.”
“Don’t talk about dying, uncle dear--there’s no reason for--”
The door opened, and Leek, the butler, appeared.
“Mr. Crowdie asks if you’ll see him, sir,” he said. “He says he wrote
that he was coming this morning, sir.”
“Yes--yes. I know. Show him in, Leek.” The butler disappeared. “I’m
sorry we don’t like him,” added the old gentleman, with a rather weary
smile. “But I want to see your picture. You said it was good?”
“Very.”
There was the short silence of expectancy which precedes the entry of a
visitor, and then the door opened again and Crowdie came in. He was of
average height, but ill made, slightly in-kneed and weak-shouldered,
neither thin nor stout; pale, with a pear-shaped face and bright red
lips, beautiful brown eyes and silky brown hair which was a little too
long. His hands and feet were small--the hands being very white, with
pointed fingers, and they looked soft. He dressed well.
“It’s so kind of you to let me come, sir,” he said, as he shook hands.
“I hope you’re really better. Why, Miss Lauderdale, I didn’t expect to
see you! How do you do?”
“Thanks--how do you do? I’m staying here, you know.”
Old Lauderdale pointed to a seat. He had shaken hands with the painter,
but had not spoken.
“Yes,” he said, as Crowdie sat down, “as my niece is here, we can
compare her with her portrait. I’m very much obliged to you for thinking
of giving it to me, I’m sure. I hope you’ve brought it.”
Crowdie had grasped the situation at a glance.
“It was meant for my wife--she’s Miss Lauderdale’s most intimate friend,
you know,” he said, with fine frankness. “But we consulted about it, and
we decided that I should offer you this one and do another for her from
the sketches I have. May I have it brought in? It’s rather a big thing,
I’m afraid.”
“By all means, let’s see it,” said the old man, touching the bell at his
elbow as Crowdie rose. “The men will bring it in all right--you needn’t
go, Mr. Crowdie.”
Crowdie went towards the door, however, with an artist’s instinctive
anxiety for the safety of his work, and while he was turned away Robert
Lauderdale’s eyes met Katharine’s. They both smiled a little at the same
moment, admiring the quick-witted ingenuity with which Crowdie had
turned the difficulty of presenting the portrait to the old man while
Katharine, to whom he had said that it was for her friend,--his
wife,--sat looking on.
Two footmen, marshalled and directed by Leek, brought in the picture.
“Set it up on this arm-chair,” said Crowdie. “It will be quite
steady--so--a little more to the light--the least bit the other
way--that’ll do--thanks. Can you see it well?” he asked, turning to the
other two.
“It’s a good picture, isn’t it?” asked Katharine, after they had both
gazed at it in silence for a full minute.
“It’s wonderful!” exclaimed the old man, in genuine admiration. “It’s a
great picture, Mr. Crowdie. I congratulate you--and myself--and the
young lady here,” he added, laying his hand on Katharine’s arm as she
sat beside him.
Crowdie was pleased. He knew very well, by long experience, when
admiration was real and when it was feigned. Of late years, the true
note had rarely failed in the chorus of approval. Whatever he might be
as a man, he was a thorough artist, and a very good one, too.
“I’m so glad you like it yourself, Miss Lauderdale,” he said, coming
nearer to her as he spoke. “That’s always a test.”
“Yes--I do like it. But--I suppose I ought not to criticise--ought I? I
don’t know anything about it.”
“Oh, yes, you do. I should like to hear what you think. You’ve not seen
it for two or three weeks, and then it was in the studio. You’ve got a
new impression of it now. Tell me--won’t you?”
“Well--you don’t mind? Really not? Then I’ll tell you. I think you’ve
put something of Hester into me. Look at it. Do you see it yourself?”
“No--frankly, I don’t,” answered Crowdie, but a change came over his
face as he spoke--a mere shadow of amusement, a slight thickening of the
heavy red lips.
“It’s in the eyes and the mouth,” continued Katharine. “I don’t know
exactly what it is, but it reminds me of Hester in such an odd way--as
I’ve seen her look sometimes. There’s a little sort of drawing down of
the eyelids at the corners and up in the middle, with a kind of
passionate, longing look she has now and then. Don’t you see it? And the
mouth--I don’t know--it reminds me of her, too--the lips just parted a
little--as though they wanted something--the way one looks at big
strawberries on the table before they’re served--” Katharine laughed.
“Yes--but that’s just the way you looked,” protested Crowdie. “Doesn’t
Miss Lauderdale raise her eyes just in that way, Mr. Lauderdale?” he
asked, turning to the old gentleman.
“Oh, no!” laughed Katharine. “I never look like that. I keep my mouth
shut and glare straight at people.”
“It seems to me to be very like,” said the old man, bending forward with
his great head on one side and his hands on his knees, as he looked at
the portrait.
“It’s a great picture, anyway--whether it’s like me or not,” said
Katharine.
She was too unaffected to make any foolish remarks about being flattered
too much. She accepted the fact that she was good-looking, and said
nothing about it. Crowdie reflected for a moment, wishing to turn a
graceful compliment upon her last speech, but he could think of nothing
new. His mind was preoccupied by the discovery she had made of a fact by
no means new to himself nor, perhaps, wholly unintentional.
“Where shall we hang it, Mr. Crowdie?” asked the old gentleman, at last.
“Ah--that’s an important question. Where should you like it, sir?”
Crowdie occasionally introduced a ‘sir’ when he addressed the
millionaire, by way of hinting, perhaps, that he considered him to be
the head of the family, though his only connection was through his wife,
and that was a distant one. Hester Crowdie’s maternal great-grandfather
had been Robert Lauderdale’s uncle.
“I should like it near me,” said the old man. “Couldn’t we have it in
this room?”
“Why not? Just where it is, if you like it there. I’ll get you an easel
and a bit of stuff to drape it with in an hour.”
“An easel? H’m--that’s not very neat, is it? An easel out in the middle
of the room--I don’t know how that would look.”
“What difference does it make--if you’d like it here?” asked Katharine.
“That’s true, child--why shouldn’t I have what I like?” asked the old
millionaire.
Crowdie laughed.
“If anybody has the right and the power to please himself, you have,” he
said. “Miss Lauderdale, would you mind sitting down beside the picture
for a moment? I want to have a good look at it once more--I should just
like to see if I can find that resemblance to Hester.”
“Certainly.”
Katharine sat down, assuming easily enough the attitude she had been
accustomed to during a number of sittings. Crowdie drew back and looked
at her. Then he came to her again and put out his hand towards her hair,
but instantly withdrew it.
“I remember,” he said, quickly, but in a low voice. “You don’t like me
to touch it. Would you raise your hair a little--on the sides? You know
how it was.”
She looked up into his face and saw the expression she detested--a sort
of disagreeable smile on the heavy red lips. The feeling of repulsion
was so strong that she almost shivered. Crowdie drew back and looked
again.
“I can’t see it--for the life of me!” said Crowdie, with a little laugh.
“If you’ll excuse me, Mr. Lauderdale, I’ll go and get the easel at
once.”
“Yes--do!” said Katharine.
“Well--but--won’t you stay to luncheon, Mr. Crowdie?” asked the old man.
“Thanks--I should like to--but I’ve got a sitter coming. You’re very
kind. I’ll bring the easel myself.”
“Thank you very much. See you by and by, then,” answered Mr. Lauderdale.
When Crowdie was gone, the old man looked long and earnestly at the
picture. Gradually what Katharine meant by the resemblance to Hester
dawned upon him, and he knit his bushy white eyebrows.
“I’m sorry you told me,” he said, at last. “I see it now--what you
mean--and I don’t like it.”
“Somehow--I don’t know--it looks like a woman who’s been through
something--I don’t know exactly what. Perhaps it is like an older
woman--a married woman.”
“H’m--perhaps so. I think it is. Anyhow, I don’t like it.”
CHAPTER XI.
It was the habit of Robert Lauderdale, since he had been ill, to rest
two hours before dinner, a fact of which Katharine was well aware, and
she had sent a message to John Ralston begging him to come and see her
when he came up town after business hours. But she did not mean to let
him come without informing the old gentleman. Before he retired to his
room late in the afternoon, she spoke to him about it.
“Of course, of course, my dear,” he answered quickly, in his hollow
voice. “He may spend the day here, if he likes--and if you like.”
“Well, you see,” said Katharine, “I’ve not seen him since yesterday
morning. You know, since he’s been going regularly to business, he’s not
free in the daytime as he used to be. And as for letting him come to
Clinton Place when papa’s at home, it’s simply out of the question.”
“Is it? Do you mean to say it’s as bad as that?”
“Yes--it’s pretty bad,” Katharine answered, thoughtfully. “We’ve not
been getting on very well, papa and I. That’s why I came to you so
suddenly to-day, without warning. My mother thought it would be better.”
“Oh--she did, did she?” The old man closed his eyes, as though thinking
it over. “And she’s generally a peacemaker,” he continued, after a
moment. “That’s a sign that she thinks the situation strained, as the
politicians say. What’s happened, little girl?”
“I don’t want to tell you all the details. It’s a long story, and
wouldn’t interest you. But they got it into their heads that I ought to
marry Mr. Wingfield--you know--Archie Wingfield--the beauty--and of
course I refused him. That was yesterday afternoon. And then--oh, I
don’t know--there was a scene, and papa got angry, and so this morning
after he’d gone down town I consulted with my mother and came here. I
only wanted you to know--that’s all.”
The old gentleman was silent for some time after she had finished
speaking.
“I wish you’d induce Jack to stay here, and announce your marriage under
my roof,” he said at last, in a low voice. “I’d like to see it all
settled before--Katharine, child, feel my pulse, will you?”
Katharine started a little, and leaned forward quickly, and laid her
firm white fingers on the bony wrist.
“Can you find it?” he asked, rather anxiously.
“No--yes--wait a moment--don’t speak!” She held her breath, her eyes
fixed upon his grey face as she pressed the point where she thought the
pulse should be. “Yes--there it is!” she exclaimed suddenly, in a tone
of relief. “It’s all right, uncle Robert, only I couldn’t find it at
first. I can feel it quite distinctly now. Does it always go so fast as
that?”
“It’s going very fast, isn’t it? I have a little fluttering--at my
heart.”
“Shan’t I send for Doctor Routh?” asked Katharine, with renewed anxiety.
“Oh, no--it’s no use.” His voice was growing perceptibly more feeble. “I
shall be better presently,” he whispered, and closed his eyes again.
Then, as though fearing lest his whisper should frighten her, he made an
effort and spoke aloud again. “It often happens,” he said. “Don’t be
afraid, little girl.”
Katharine had no experience of sickness, and did not know the danger of
that fluttering at the heart in such a case. She thought he knew better
than she whether he needed anything or not, and that it would be wiser
not to annoy him with questions. She was used to manly men who said what
they wished and nothing more. He lay back in his big chair, breathing
with some difficulty. A deep furrow appeared between his eyebrows, which
gave his face an expression of pain, and his jaw dropped a little,
making his cheeks look more hollow. Katharine sat quite still for
several minutes.
“Are you suffering, uncle dear?” she asked at last, bending to his ear.
He shook his head slowly, opened his eyes a little and closed them
again.
“I shall be better in a minute,” he said, a moment later.
He revived very slowly, as she sat there watching him, and as the furrow
disappeared from his brow and his mouth closed, the look of life came
back to his face. He was a strong old man, and, though little attached
to life, was to die hard. He opened his eyes at last and looked at
Katharine, smiling a little.
“I think I’ll go to my room,” he said. “It’s my time for resting, you
know. Perhaps I’ve been up a little too long.”
To Katharine’s surprise, he was able to stand when Leek and the footman
came to help him, and to walk without much difficulty. She followed the
little procession to the door of his bedroom and saw Mrs. Deems come and
take charge of him. He turned his head slowly towards Katharine and
smiled before the door closed.
“It’s all right, little girl,” he said.
She went downstairs again and returned to the library. It faced the
south and was still warm with the sunshine. She sat down again in the
chair she had occupied before. Presently her eyes turned instinctively
to her portrait. Crowdie had brought the easel while she and her uncle
had been at luncheon, and had arranged it himself. He had come into the
dining-room, and after exchanging a few more words, had gone away again.
She gazed at the beautiful features, now that she was alone with it, and
the feeling of dislike and repulsion grew stronger, till she felt
something like what she experienced when she looked at Crowdie’s pale
face and red mouth. She felt that he had put something into the painting
which had no right there, which he had no right to imagine--yet she
could not tell what it was. Presently she rose and glanced round the
room in search of a looking-glass. But old Lauderdale did not like
mirrors, and there was none in the library. On the table, however, stood
a photograph of herself in a silver frame. She seized it as soon as she
saw it and held it up in her hand, comparing it with the portrait. She
found it hard to tell where the difference lay, unless it was in the
eyelids and the slight parting of the lips, but she felt it and disliked
it more and more.
At that moment the door was opened by one of the footmen.
“Mr. Ralston,” said the man, announcing John, who entered immediately
afterwards.
The door closed behind him as he came forward. Katharine’s heart jumped,
as she became conscious of his presence. It was as though a strong
current of life had been turned upon her after having been long alone
with death. Ralston moved easily, with the freedom that comes naturally
of good proportions. His bright brown eyes gleamed with pleasure, and
the hard, defiant lines of the lean face relaxed in a rare smile.
He kissed her tenderly, with a nervous, passionate lightness that
belongs only to finely organized beings, twice or three times. And then
she kissed him once with all her heart, and looked into the eyes she
loved.
“How good it is to have this chance!” he exclaimed, happily. “This is
better than South Fifth Avenue at nine o’clock in the morning--isn’t it?
Why didn’t we think of it before?”
“I can’t be always stopping with uncle Robert, you know,” answered
Katharine. “I wish I could.”
Something in the tone of the last words attracted his attention. With a
gentle touch he made her turn her face to the light, and looked at her.
“What’s happened?” he asked, suddenly. “There’s been some trouble, I
know. Tell me--you’ve had more worry at home, haven’t you?”
“Oh--it’s nothing!” Katharine answered, lightly. “You see how easy it is
for me to get away. What does it matter?”
“Yes--but there has been something,” insisted John, shaking his head. “I
don’t like this, Katharine.”
He turned away from her, and his eyes fell upon the portrait. It
instantly fixed his attention.
“Holloa!” he exclaimed. “Why is it here? I thought it was for Hester.”
Katharine laughed.
“He brought it this morning,” she answered. “He’s changed his mind, and
has given it to uncle Robert. How do you like it?”
John looked at it long, his eyelids drooping a little. When he turned
his head, he looked directly at Katharine’s mouth critically.
“You haven’t got a mouth like that,” he said, suddenly. “And I never saw
that expression in your eyes, either,” he added, a moment later. “What’s
the fellow been doing?”
“I don’t know, Jack. But I don’t like it. I’m sure of that, at all
events.”
“Does uncle Robert like it?”
“No. He’s anything but pleased, though he thought it splendid at first.
Then he saw what you and I see. It wasn’t so in the studio, it seems to
me. He’s done something to it since. Never mind the picture, Jack. Sit
down, and let’s talk, since we’ve got a chance at last.”
John’s eyes lingered on the portrait a moment longer, then he turned
away with an impatient movement, and sat down beside Katharine. He
stroked her hand gently two or three times, and neither said anything.
Then he leaned back in his straight chair and crossed one knee over the
other.
“Somebody’s trying to get me out of Beman’s,” he said, and his face
darkened. “I wish I knew who it was.”
“Trying to get you out of the bank?” repeated Katharine, in surprise.
“Oh, Jack, you must be mistaken.”
Jack laughed a little without smiling.
“There’s no mistake,” he said. “Mr. Beman as good as told me so this
morning. We came near having a row.”
“Tell me all about it,” said Katharine, anxiously, and leaning forward
in sympathy. “It’s outrageous--whoever has done it.”
“Yes, I’ll tell you,” said John. “It was this way. In the first place, I
went to the Vanbrughs’ last night, after all.”
“But you said you weren’t asked! I’d have gone, too--why didn’t you send
