life, beyond the possibility of recall. And she did not wish to recall
it, for she had reached something like peace, very unexpectedly.
It was, of course, only temporary. Physically speaking, it might be
explained as the reaction from violent emotions, which had left her
nerves weary and deadened. And speaking not merely of the material side,
it is true that the life of love has moments of suspended animation,
during which it is hard to believe that love was ever alive at
all--times when love has a past and a future, but no present.
If she had met John at that moment, on the stairs, she would very
probably have put out her hand quite naturally, and would have greeted
him with a smile, before the reality of all that had happened could come
back to her. Many of us have dreamed that those dearest to us have done
us some cruel and bitter wrong, struck us, insulted us, trampled on our
life-long devotion to them; and in the morning, awaking, we have met
them, and smiled, and loved them just the same. For it was only a dream.
And there are those who have known the reality; who, after much time,
have very suddenly found out that they have been betrayed and wickedly
deceived, and used ill, by their most dear--and who, in the first
moment, have met them, and smiled, and loved them just the same. For it
was only a dream, they thought indeed. And then comes the waking, which
is as though one fell asleep upon his beloved’s bosom and awoke among
thorns, and having a crown of thorns about his brows--very hard to bear
without crying aloud.
Katharine pressed the polished banister of the staircase with her hand,
and with the other she found the point of the little gold pin she wore
at her throat and made it prick her a little. It was a foolish idea and
a childish thought. She knew that she was not really dreaming, and yet,
as though she might have been, she wanted a physical sensation to assure
her that she was awake. Griggs was close behind her. Crowdie had stopped
a moment to pull the cord of a curtain which covered the skylight of the
staircase.
“I wonder where real things end, and dreams begin!” said Katharine, half
turning her head, and then immediately looking before her again.
“At every minute of every hour,” answered Griggs, as quickly as though
the thought had been in his own mind.
From higher up came Crowdie’s golden voice, singing very softly to
himself. He had heard the question and the answer.
“‘La vie est un songe,’” he sang, and then, breaking off suddenly,
laughed a little and began to descend.
At the first note, Katharine stood still and turned her face upwards.
Griggs stopped, too, and looked down at her. Even after Crowdie had
laughed Katharine did not move.
“I wish you’d go on, Mr. Crowdie!” she cried, speaking so that he could
hear her.
“Griggs is anxious for the Blue Points,” he answered, coming down.
“Besides, he hates music, and makes no secret of the fact.”
“Is it true? Do you really hate music?” asked Katharine, turning and
beginning to descend again.
“Quite true,” answered Griggs, quietly. “I detest it. Crowdie’s a
nuisance with his perpetual yapping.”
Crowdie laughed good naturedly, and Katharine said nothing. As they
reached the lower landing she turned and paused an instant, so that
Griggs came beside her.
“Did you always hate music?” she asked, looking up into his
weather-beaten face with some curiosity.
“Hm!” Griggs uttered a doubtful sound. “It’s a long time since I heard
any that pleased me, at all events.”
“There are certain subjects, Miss Lauderdale, upon which Griggs is
unapproachable, because he won’t say anything. And there are others upon
which it is dangerous to approach him, because he is likely to say too
much. Hester! Where are you?”
He disappeared into the little room at the front of the house in search
of his wife, and Katharine stood alone with Griggs in the entry. Again
she looked at him with curiosity.
“You’re a very good-humoured person, Mr. Griggs,” she said, with a
smile.
“You mean about Crowdie? Oh, I can stand a lot of his chaff--and he has
to stand mine, too.”
“That was a very interesting answer you gave to my question about
dreams,” said Katharine, leaning against the pillar of the banister.
“Was it? Let me see--what did I say?” He seemed to be absent-minded
again.
“Come to luncheon!” cried Crowdie, reappearing with Hester at that
moment. “You can talk metaphysics over the oysters.”
“Metaphysics!” exclaimed Griggs, with a smile.
“Oh, I know,” answered Crowdie. “I can’t tell the difference between
metaphysics and psychics, and geography and Totem. It is all precisely
the same to me--and it is to Griggs, if he’d only acknowledge it. Come
along, Miss Lauderdale--to oysters and culture!”
Hester laughed at Crowdie’s good spirits, and Griggs smiled. He had
large, sharp teeth, and Katharine thought of the wolf and the rabbit
again. It was strange that they should be on such good terms.
They sat down to luncheon. The dining-room, like every other part of
the small house, had been beautified as much as its position and
dimensions would allow. It had originally been small, but an extension
of glass had been built out into the yard, which Hester had turned into
a fernery. There were a great number of plants of many varieties, some
of which had been obtained with great difficulty from immense distances.
Hester had been told that it would be impossible to make them grow in an
inhabited room, but she had succeeded, and the result was something
altogether out of the common.
She admitted that, besides the attention she bestowed upon the plants
herself, they occupied the whole time of a specially trained gardener.
They were her only hobby, and where they were concerned, time and money
had no value for her. The dining-room itself was simple, but exquisite
in its way. There were a few pieces of wonderfully chiselled silver on
the sideboard, and the glasses on the table were Venetian and Bohemian,
and very old. The linen was as fine as fine writing paper, the porcelain
was plain white Sèvres. There was nothing superfluous, but there were
all the little, unobtrusive, almost priceless details which are the
highest expression “of intimate luxury--in which the eye alone receives
rest, while the other senses are flattered to the utmost. Colour and the
precious metals are terribly cheap things nowadays compared with what
appeals to touch and taste. There are times when certain dainties, like
terrapin, for instance, are certainly worth much more than their weight
in silver, if not quite their weight in gold. But as for that, to say
that a man is worth his weight in gold has ceased to mean very much.
Some ingenious persons have lately calculated that the average man’s
weight in gold would be worth about forty thousand dollars, and that a
few minutes’ worth of the income of some men living would pay for a
life-sized golden calf. The further development of luxury will be an
interesting thing to watch during the next century. A poor woman in New
York recently returned a roast turkey to a charitable lady who had sent
it to her, with the remark that she was accustomed to eat roast beef at
Christmas, though she ‘did not mind turkey on Thanksgiving Day.’
Katharine wondered how far such a man as Griggs, who said that he hated
music, could appreciate the excessive refinement of a luxury which could
be felt rather than seen. It was all familiar to Katharine, and there
were little things at the Crowdies which she longed to have at home.
Griggs ate his oysters in silence. Fletcher came to his elbow with a
decanter.
“Vin de Grave, sir?” enquired the old butler in a low voice.
“No wine, thank you,” said Griggs.
“There’s Sauterne, isn’t there, Walter?” asked Hester. “Perhaps Mr.
Griggs--”
“Griggs is a cold water man, like me,” answered Crowdie. “His secret
vice is to drink a bucket of it, when nobody is looking.”
Fletcher looked disappointed, and replaced the decanter on the
sideboard.
“It’s uncommon to see two men who drink nothing,” observed Hester. “But
I remember that Mr. Griggs never did.”
“Never--since you knew me, Mrs. Crowdie. I did when I was younger.”
“Did you? What made you give it up?”
Katharine felt a strange pain in her heart, as they began to talk of the
subject. The reality was suddenly coming back out of dreamland.
“I lost my taste for it,” answered Griggs, indifferently.
“About the same time as when you began to hate music, wasn’t it?” asked
Crowdie, gravely.
“Yes, I daresay.”
The elder man spoke quietly enough, and there was not a shade of
interest in his voice as he answered the question. But Katharine, who
was watching him unconsciously, saw a momentary change pass over his
face. He glanced at Crowdie with an expression that was almost savage.
The dark, weary eyes gleamed fiercely for an instant, the great veins
swelled at the lean temples, the lips parted and just showed the big,
sharp teeth. Then it was all over again and the kindly look came back.
Crowdie was not smiling, and the tone in which he had asked the question
showed plainly enough that it was not meant as a jest. Indeed, the
painter himself seemed unusually serious. But he had not been looking at
Griggs, nor had Hester seen the sudden flash of what was very like
half-suppressed anger. Katharine wondered more and more, and the little
incident diverted her thoughts again from the suggestion which had given
her pain.
“Lots of men drink water altogether, nowadays,” observed Crowdie. “It’s
a mistake, of course, but it’s much more agreeable.”
“A mistake!” exclaimed Katharine, very much astonished.
“Oh, yes--it’s an awful mistake,” echoed Griggs, in the most natural way
possible.
“I’m not so sure,” said Hester Crowdie, in a tone of voice which showed
plainly that the idea was not new to her.
“I don’t understand,” said Katharine, unable to recover from her
surprise. “I always thought that--” she checked herself and looked
across at the ferns, for her heart was hurting her again.
She suddenly realized, also, that considering what had happened on the
previous night, it was very tactless of Crowdie not to change the
subject. But he seemed not at all inclined to drop it yet.
“Yes,” he said. “In the first place, total abstinence shortens life.
Statistics show that moderate consumers of alcoholic drinks live
considerably longer than drunkards and total abstainers.”
“Of course,” assented Griggs. “A certain amount of wine makes a man lazy
for a time, and that rests his nerves. We who drink water accomplish
more in a given time, but we don’t live so long. We wear ourselves out.
If we were not the strongest generation there has been for centuries, we
should all be in our graves by this time.”
“Do you think we are a very strong generation?” asked Crowdie, who
looked as weak as a girl.
“Yes, I do,” answered Griggs. “Look at yourself and at me. You’re not an
athlete, and an average street boy of fifteen or sixteen might kill you
in a fight. That has nothing to do with it. The amount of actual hard
work, in your profession, which you’ve done--ever since you were a mere
lad--is amazing, and you’re none the worse for it, either. You go on,
just as though you had begun yesterday. Heaving weights and rowing races
is no test of what a man’s strength will bear in everyday life. You
don’t need big muscles and strong joints. But you need good nerves and
enormous endurance. I consider you a very strong man--in most ways that
are of any use.”
“That’s true,” said Mrs. Crowdie. “It’s what I’ve always been trying to
put into words.”
“All the same,” continued Griggs, “one reason why you do more than other
people is that you drink water. If we are strong, it’s because the last
generation and the one before it lived too well. The next generation
will be ruined by the advance of science.”
“The advance of science!” exclaimed Katharine. “But, Mr. Griggs--what
extraordinary ideas you have!”
“Have I? It’s very simple, and it’s absolutely true. We’ve had the
survival of the fittest, and now we’re to have the survival of the
weakest, because medical science is learning how to keep all the
weaklings alive. If they were puppies, they’d all be drowned, for fear
of spoiling the breed. That’s rather a brutal way of putting it, but
it’s true. As for the question of drink, the races that produce the most
effect on the world are those that consume the most meat and the most
alcohol. I don’t suppose any one will try to deny that. Of course, the
consequences of drinking last for many generations after alcohol has
gone out of use. It’s pretty certain that before Mohammed’s time the
national vice of the Arabs was drunkenness. So long as the effects
lasted--for a good many generations--they swept everything before them.
The most terrible nation is the one that has alcohol in its veins but
not in its head. But when the effects wore out, the Arabs retired from
the field before nations that drank--and drank hard. They had no
chance.”
“What a horrible view to take!” Katharine was really shocked by the
man’s cool statements, and most of all by the appearance of indisputable
truth which he undoubtedly gave to them.
“And as for saying that drink is the principal cause of crime,” he
continued, quietly finishing a piece of shad on his plate, “it’s the
most arrant nonsense that ever was invented. The Hindus are total
abstainers and always have been, so far as we know. The vast majority of
them take no stimulant whatever, no tea, no coffee. They smoke a little.
There are, I believe, about two hundred millions of them alive now, and
their capacity for most kinds of wickedness is quite as great as ours.
Any Indian official will tell you that. It’s pure nonsense to lay all
the blame on whiskey. There would be just as many crimes committed
without it, and it would be much harder to detect them, because the
criminals would keep their heads better under difficulties. Crime is in
human nature, like virtue--like most things, if you know how to find
them.”
“That’s perfectly true,” said Crowdie. “I believe every word of it. And
I know that if I drank a certain amount of wine I should have a better
chance of long life, but I don’t like the taste of it--couldn’t bear it
when I was a boy. I like to see men get mellow and good-natured over a
bottle of claret, too. All the same, there’s nothing so positively
disgusting as a man who has had too much.”
Hester looked at him quickly, warning him to drop the subject. But
Griggs knew nothing of the circumstances, and went on discussing the
matter from his original point of view.
“There’s a beast somewhere, in every human being,” he said,
thoughtfully. “If you grant the fact that it is a beast, it’s no worse
to look at than other beasts. But it’s quite proper to call a drunkard a
beast, because almost all animals will drink anything alcoholic which
hasn’t a bad taste, until they’re blind drunk. It’s a natural instinct.
Did you ever see a goat drink rum, or a Western pony drink a pint of
whiskey? All animals like it. I’ve tried it on lots of them. It’s an old
sailors’ trick.”
“I think it’s horrid!” exclaimed Hester. “Altogether, it’s a most
unpleasant subject. Can’t we talk of something else?”
“Griggs can talk about anything except botany, my dear,” said Crowdie.
“Don’t ask him about ferns, unless you want an exhibition of ignorance
which will startle you.”
Katharine sat still in silence, though it would have been easy for her
at that moment to turn the conversation into a new channel, by asking
Griggs the first question which chanced to present itself. But she could
not have spoken just then. She could not eat, either, though she made a
pretence of using her fork. The reality had come back out of dreamland
altogether this time, and would not be banished again. The long
discussion about the subject which of all others was most painful to
her, and the cynical indifference with which the two men had discussed
it, had goaded her memory back through all the details of the last
twenty-four hours. She was scarcely conscious that Hester had
interfered, as she became more and more absorbed by her own suffering.
“Shall we talk of roses and green fields and angels’ loves?” asked
Griggs. “How many portraits have you painted since last summer,
Crowdie?”
“By way of reminding me of roses you stick the thorns into me--four, I
think--and two I’m doing now, besides Miss Lauderdale’s. There’s been a
depression down town. That accounts for the small number. Portrait
painters suffer first. In hard times people don’t want them.”
“Yes,” answered Griggs, thoughtfully. “Portrait painters and hatters.
Did you know that, Crowdie? When money is tight in Wall Street, people
don’t bet hats, and the hatters say it makes a great difference.”
“That’s queer. And you--how many books have you written?”
“Since last summer? Only one--a boshy little thing of sixty thousand.”
“Sixty thousand what?” asked Hester. “Dollars?”
“Dollars!” Griggs laughed. “No--only words. Sixty thousand words. That’s
the way we count what we do. No--it’s a tiresome little thing. I had an
idea,--or thought I had,--and just when I got to the end of it I found
it was trash. That’s generally the way with me, unless I have a stroke
of luck. Haven’t you got an idea for me, Mrs. Crowdie? I’m getting old
and people won’t give me any, as they used to.”
“I wish I had! What do you want? A love story?”
“Of course. But what I want is a character. There are no new plots, nor
incidents, nor things of that sort, you know. Everything that’s ever
happened has happened so often. But there are new characters. The end of
the century, the sharp end of the century, is digging them up out of the
sands of life--as you might dig up clams with a pointed stick.”
“That’s bathos!” laughed Crowdie. “The sands of life--and clams!”
“I wish you’d stick to your daubs, Crowdie, and leave my English alone!”
said Griggs. “It sells just as well as your portraits. No--what I mean
is that just when fate is twisting the tail of the century--”
“Really, my dear fellow--that’s a little too bad, you know! To compare
the century to a refractory cow!”
“Crowdie,” said Griggs, gravely, “in a former state I was a wolf, and
you were a rabbit, and I gobbled you up. If you go on interrupting me,
I’ll do it again and destroy your Totem.”
Katharine started suddenly and stared at Griggs. It seemed so strange
that he should have used the very words--wolf and rabbit--which had been
in her mind more than once during the morning.
“What is it, Miss Lauderdale?” he asked, in some surprise. “You look
startled.”
“Oh--nothing!” Katharine hastened to say. “I happened to have thought of
wolves and rabbits, and it seemed odd that you should mention them.”
“Write to the Psychical Research people,” suggested Crowdie. “It’s a
distinct case of thought-transference.”
“I daresay it is,” said Griggs, indifferently. “Everything is
transferable--why shouldn’t thoughts be?”
“Everything?” repeated Crowdie. “Even the affections?”
“Oh, yes--even the affections--but punched, like a railway ticket,”
answered Griggs, promptly. Everybody laughed a little, except Griggs
himself.
“Of course the affections are transferable,” he continued, meditatively.
“The affections are the hat--the object is only the peg on which it’s
hung. One peg is almost as good as another--if it’s within reach; but
the best place for the hat is on the man’s own head. Nothing shields a
man like devoting all his affections to himself.”
“That’s perfectly outrageous!” exclaimed Hester Crowdie. “You make one
think that you don’t believe in anything! Oh, it’s too bad--really it
is!”
“I believe in ever so many things, my dear lady,” answered Griggs,
looking at her with a singularly gentle expression on his weather-beaten
face. “I believe in lots of good things--more than Crowdie does, as he
knows. I believe in roses, and green fields, and love, as much as you
do. Only--the things one believes in are not always good for one--it
depends--love’s path may lie among roses or among thorns; yet the path
always has two ends--the one end is life, if the love is true.”
“And the other?” asked Katharine, meeting his far-away glance.
“The other is death,” he answered, almost solemnly.
A momentary silence followed the words. Even Crowdie made no remark,
while both Hester and Katharine watched the elder man’s face, as women
do when a man who has known the world well speaks seriously of love.
“But then,” added Griggs himself, more lightly, and as though to destroy
the impression he had made, “most people never go to either end of the
path. They enter at one side, look up and down it, cross it, and go out
at the other. Something frightens them, or they don’t like the colour of
the roses, or they’re afraid of the thorns--in nine cases out of ten,
something drives them out of it.”
“How can one be driven out of love?” asked Katharine, gravely.
“I put the thing generally, and adorned it with nice similes and
things--and now you want me to explain all the details!” protested
Griggs, with a little rough laugh. “How can one be driven out of love?
In many ways, I fancy. By a real or imaginary fault of the other person
in the path, I suppose, as much as by anything. It won’t do to stand at
trifles when one loves. There’s a meaning in the words of the marriage
service--‘for better, for worse.’”
“I know there is,” said Katharine, growing pale, and choking herself
with the words in the determination to be brave.
“Of course there is. People don’t know much about one another when they
get married. At least, not as a rule. They’ve met on the stage like
actors in a play--and then, suddenly, they meet in private life, and are
quite different people. Very probably the woman is jealous and
extravagant, and has a temper, and has been playing the ingenuous young
girl’s parts on the stage. And the man, who has been doing the
self-sacrificing hero, who proposes to go without butter in order to
support his starving mother-in-law, turns out to be a gambler--or
drinks, or otherwise plays the fool. Of course that’s all very
distressing to the bride or the bridegroom, as the case may be. But it
can’t be helped. They’ve taken one another ‘for better, for worse,’ and
it’s turned out to be for worse. They can go to Sioux City and get a
divorce, but then that’s troublesome and scandalous, and one thing and
another. So they just put up with it. Besides, they may love each other
so much that the defects don’t drive them out of it. Then the bad one
drags down the good one--or, in rare cases, the good one raises the bad
one. Oh, yes--I’m not a cynic--that happens, too, from time to time.”
Crowdie looked at his wife with his soft, languishing glance, and if
Katharine had been watching him, she might have seen on his red lips
the smile she especially detested. But she was looking down and pressing
her hands together under the table. Hester Crowdie’s eyes were fixed on
her face, for she was very pale and was evidently suffering. Griggs also
looked at her, and saw that something unusual was happening.
“Mrs. Crowdie,” he said, vigorously changing the subject, as a man can
who has been leading the conversation, “if it isn’t a very rude
question, may I ask where you get the extraordinary ham you always have
whenever I lunch with you? I’ve been all over the world, and I’ve never
eaten anything like it. I’m not sure whether it’s the ham itself, or
some secret in the cooking.”
Mrs. Crowdie glanced at Katharine’s face once more, and then looked at
him. Crowdie also turned towards him, and Katharine slowly unclasped her
hands beneath the table, as though the bitterness of death were passed.
“Oh--the ham?” repeated Mrs. Crowdie. “They’re Yorkshire hams, aren’t
they, Walter? You always order them.”
“No, my dear,” answered Crowdie. “They’re American. We’ve not had any
English ones for two or three years. Fletcher gets them. He’s a better
judge than the cook. Griggs is quite right--there’s a trick about
boiling them--something to do with changing the water a certain number
of times before you put in the wine. Are you going to set up
housekeeping, Griggs? I should think that oatmeal and water and dried
herrings would be your sort of fare, from what I remember.”
“Something of that kind,” answered Griggs. “Anything’s good enough that
will support life.”
The luncheon came to an end without any further incident, and the
conversation ran on in the very smallest of small talk. Then Griggs, who
was a very busy man, lighted a cigarette and took his departure. As he
shook hands with Katharine, and bowed in his rather foreign way, he
looked at her once more, as though she interested him very much.
“I hope I shall see you again,” said Katharine, quietly.
“I hope so, indeed,” answered Griggs. “You’re very kind to say so.”
When he was gone the other three remained together in the little front
room, which has been so often mentioned.
“Will you sit for me a little longer, Miss Lauderdale?” asked Crowdie.
“Oh, don’t work any more just yet, Walter!” cried Hester, with sudden
anxiety.
“Why? What’s the matter?” enquired Crowdie in some surprise.
“You know what Mr. Griggs was just saying at luncheon. You work so
hard! You’ll overdo it some day. It’s perfectly true, you know. You
never give yourself any rest!”
“Except during about one-half of the year, my dear, when you and I do
absolutely nothing together in the most beautiful places in the
world--in the most perfect climates, and without one solitary little
shadow of a care for anything on earth but our two selves.”
“Yes--I know. But you work all the harder the rest of the time. Besides,
we haven’t been abroad this year, and you say we can’t get away for at
least two months. Do give yourself time to breathe--just after luncheon,
too. I’m sure it’s not good for him, is it Katharine?” she asked,
appealing to her friend.
“Of course not!” answered Katharine. “And besides, I must run home. My
dear, just fancy! I forgot to ask you to send word to say that I wasn’t
coming, and they won’t know where I am. But we lunch later than you
do--if I go directly, I shall find them still at table.”
“Nonsense!” exclaimed Hester. “You don’t want to go really? Do you? You
know, I could send word still--it wouldn’t be too late.” She glanced at
her husband, who shook his head, and smiled--he was standing behind
Katharine. “Well--if you must, then,” continued Hester, “I won’t keep
you. But come back soon. It seems to me that I never see you now--and I
have lots of things to tell you.”
Katharine shook hands with Crowdie, whose soft, white fingers felt cold
in hers. Hester went out with her into the entry, and helped her to put
on her thick coat.
“Take courage, dear!” said Mrs. Crowdie in a low voice, as she kissed
her. “It will come right in the end.”
Katharine looked fixedly at her for a few seconds, buttoning her coat.
“It’s not courage that I need,” she said slowly, at last. “I think I
have enough--good-bye--Hester, darling--good-bye!”
She put her arms round her friend and kissed her three times, and then
turned quickly and let herself out, leaving Hester standing in the
entry, wondering at the solemn way in which she had taken leave of her.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Katharine’s mood had changed very much since she had entered the
Crowdies’ house. She had felt then a certain sense of strength which had
been familiar to her all her life, but which had never before seemed so
real and serviceable. She had been sure that she could defy the
world--in that black frock she wore--and that her face would be of
marble and her heart of steel under all imaginable circumstances. She
had carried her head high and had walked with a firm tread. She had felt
that if she met John Ralston she could tell him what she thought of him,
and hurt him, so that in his suffering, at least, he should repent of
what he had done.
It was different now. She did not attempt to find reasons for the
difference, and they would have been hard to discover. But she knew that
she had been exposed to a sort of test of her strength, and had broken
down, and that Hester Crowdie had seen her defeat. Possibly it was the
knowledge that Hester had seen and understood which was the most
immediately painful circumstance at the present moment; but it was not
the most important one, for she was really quite as brave as she had
believed herself, and what suffered most in her was not her vanity.
The conversation at table had somehow brought the whole truth more
clearly before her, as the developer brings out the picture on a
photographer’s plate. The facts were fixed now, and she could not hide
them nor turn from them at will.
Whether she were mistaken or not, the position was bad enough. As she
saw it, it was intolerable. By her own act, by the exercise of her own
will, and by nothing else, she had been secretly married to John
Ralston. She had counted with certainty upon old Robert Lauderdale to
provide her husband with some occupation immediately, feeling sure that
within a few days she should be able to acknowledge the marriage and
assume her position before the world as a married woman. But Robert
Lauderdale had demonstrated to her that this was impossible under the
conditions she required, namely, that John should support himself. He
had indeed offered to make her independent, but that solution of the
difficulty was not acceptable. To obtain what she and Ralston had both
desired, it was necessary, and she admitted the fact, that John should
work regularly in some office for a certain time. Robert Lauderdale
himself could not take an idle man from a fashionable club and suddenly
turn him into a partner in a house of business or a firm of lawyers, if
the idle man himself refused to accept money in any shape. Even if he
had accepted it, such a proceeding would have been criticised and
laughed at as a piece of plutocratic juggling. It would have made John
contemptible. Therefore it was impossible that John and Katharine should
have a house of their own and appear as a married couple for some time,
for at least a year, and probably for a longer period. Under such
circumstances to declare the marriage would have been to make themselves
the laughing-stock of society, so long as John continued to live under
his mother’s roof, and Katharine with her father. The secret marriage
would have to be kept a secret, except, perhaps, from the more discreet
members of the family. Alexander Lauderdale would have to be told, and
life would not be very pleasant for Katharine until she could leave the
paternal dwelling. She knew that, but she would have been able to bear
it, to look upon the next year or two as years of betrothal, and to give
her whole heart and soul to help John in his work. It was the worst
contingency which she had foreseen when she had persuaded him to take
the step with her, and she had certainly not expected that it could
arise; but since it had arisen, she was ready to meet it. There was
nothing within the limits of reason which she would not have done for
John, and she had driven those limits as far from ordinary common sense
as was possible, to rashness, even to the verge of things desperate in
their folly.
She knew that. But she had counted on John Ralston with that singularly
whole-hearted faith which characterizes very refined women. Many years
ago, when analytical fiction was in its infancy, Charles de Bernard made
the very wise and true observation that no women abandon themselves more
completely in thought and deed to the men they love, or make such real
slaves of themselves, as those whom he calls ‘great ladies,’--that is,
as we should say, women of the highest refinement, the most unassailable
social position, and the most rigid traditions. The remark is a very
profound one. The explanation of the fact is very simple. Women who have
grown up in surroundings wherein the letter of honour is rigidly
observed, and in which the spirit of virtue prevails for honour’s sake,
readily believe that the men they love are as honourable as they seem,
and more virtuous in all ways than sinful man is likely to be. The man
whom such a woman loves with all her heart, before she has met truth
face to face, cannot possibly be as worthy as she imagines that he is;
and if he be an honest man, he must be aware of the fact, and must
constantly suffer by the ever present knowledge that he is casting a
shadow greater than himself, so to say--and to push the simile further,
it is true that in attempting to overtake that shadow of himself, he
often deliberately walks away from the light which makes him cast it.
John Ralston could never, under any circumstances, have done all that
Katharine had expected of him, although she had professed to expect so
little. Woman fills the hours of her lover’s absence with scenes from
her own sweet dreamland. In nine cases out of ten, when she has the
chance of comparing what she has learned with what she has imagined, she
has a moment of sickening disappointment. Later in life there is an
adjustment, and at forty years of age she merely warns her daughter
vaguely that she must not believe too much in men. That is the usual
sequence of events.
But Katharine’s case just now was very much worse than the common. It is
not necessary to recapitulate the evidence against John’s soberness on
that memorable Thursday. It might have ruined the reputation of a Father
of the Church. Up to one o’clock on the following day no one but Mrs.
Ralston and Doctor Routh were aware that there was anything whatsoever
to be said on the other side of the question. So far as Katharine or any
one else could fairly judge, John had been through one of the most
outrageous and complete sprees of which New York society had heard for
a long time. A certain number of people knew that he had practically
fought Hamilton Bright in the hall of his club, and had undoubtedly
tripped him up and thrown him. Katharine, naturally enough, supposed
that every one knew it, and in spite of Bright’s reassuring words on the
previous night, she fully expected that John would have to withdraw from
the club in question. Even she, girl as she was, knew that this was a
sort of public disgrace.
There was no other word for it. The man she loved, and to whom she had
been secretly married, had publicly disgraced himself on the very day of
the marriage, had been tipsy in the club, had been seen drunk in the
streets, had been in a light with a professional boxer, and had been
incapable of getting home alone--much more of going to meet his wife at
the Assembly ball.
If he had done such things on their wedding day, what might he not do
hereafter? The question was a natural one. Katharine had bound herself
to a hopeless drunkard. She had heard of such cases, unfortunately,
though they have become rare enough in society, and she knew what it all
meant. There would be years of a wretched existence, of a perfectly
hopeless attempt to cure him. She had heard her father tell such
stories, for Alexander Junior was not a peaceable abstainer like Griggs
and Crowdie. He was not an abstainer at all--he was a man of ferocious
moderation. She remembered painful details about the drunkard’s
children. Then there was a story of a blow--and then a separation--a
wife who, for her child’s sake, would not go to another State and be
divorced--and the going back to the father’s house to live, while the
husband sank from bad to worse, and his acquaintances avoided him in the
street, till he had been seen hanging about low liquor saloons and
telling drunken loafers the story of his married life--speaking to them
of the pure and suffering woman who was still his lawful wife--and
laughing about it. Alexander had told it all, as a wholesome lesson to
his household, which, by the way, consisted of his aged father, his
wife, and his two daughters, none of whom, one might have thought, could
ever stand in need of such lessons. Charlotte had laughed then, and
Katharine had been disgusted. Mrs. Lauderdale’s perfectly classical face
had expressed nothing, for she had been thinking of something else, and
the old philanthropist had made some remarks about the close connection
between intemperance and idiocy. But the so-called lesson was telling
heavily against John Ralston now, two or three years after it had been
delivered.
It was clear to Katharine that her life was ruined before it had begun.
In those first hours after the shock it did not occur to her that she
could ever forgive John. She was therefore doubly sure that the ruin he
had wrought was irretrievable. She could not naturally think now of the
possibility of ever acknowledging her marriage. To proclaim it meant to
attempt just such a life as she had heard her father describe.
Unfortunately, too, in that very case, she knew the people, and knew
that Alexander Junior, who never exaggerated anything but the terrors of
the life to come, had kept within the truth rather than gone beyond it.
She did not even tell herself that matters would have been still worse
if she had been made publicly John Ralston’s wife on the previous day.
At that moment she did not seek to make things look more bearable, if
they might. She had faced the situation and it was terrible--it
justified anything she might choose to do. If she chose to do something
desperate to free herself, she wished to be fully justified, and that
desired justification would be weakened by anything which should make
her position seem more easy to bear.
Indeed, she could hardly have been blamed, whatever she had done. She
was bound without being united, married and yet not married, but
necessarily shut off from all future thought of marriage, so long as
John Ralston lived.
She had assumed duties, too, which she was far from wishing to avoid. In
her girlish view, the difference between the married and the single
state lay mainly in the loss of the individual liberty which seemed to
belong to the latter. She had been brought up, as most American girls
are, in old-fashioned ideas on the subject, which are good,--much better
than European ideas,--though in extended practice they occasionally lead
to some odd results, and are not always carried out in after life. In
two words, our American idea is that, on being married, woman assumes
certain responsibilities, and ceases, so to say, to be a free dancer in
a ball-room. The general idea in Europe is that, at marriage, a woman
gets rid of as many responsibilities as she can, and acquires the
liberty to do as she pleases, which has been withheld from her before.
Katharine felt, therefore, even at that crisis, that she had forfeited
her freedom, and, amidst all she felt, there was room for that bitter
regret. A French girl could hardly understand her point of view; a
certain number of English girls might appreciate it, and some might
possibly feel as she did; to an American girl it will seem natural
enough. It was not merely out of a feeling of self-respect that she
looked upon a change as necessary, nor out of a blind reverence for the
religious ceremony which had taken place. Every inborn and cultivated
instinct and tradition told her that as a married woman, though the
whole world should believe her to be a young girl, she could not behave
as she had behaved formerly; that a certain form of perfectly innocent
amusement would no longer be at all innocent now; that she had forfeited
the right to look upon every man she met as a possible admirer--she went
no further than that in her idea of flirtation--and finally that,
somehow, she should feel out of place in the parties of very young
people to which she was naturally invited.
She was a married woman, and she must behave as one, for the rest of her
natural life, though no one was ever to know that she was married. It
was a very general idea, with her, but it was a very strong one, and
none the less so for its ingenuous simplicity.
But the fact that she regretted her liberty did not even distantly
suggest that she might ever fall in love with any one but John Ralston.
Her only wish was to make him feel bitterly what he had done, that he
might regret it as long as he lived, just as she must regret her
liberty. The offence was so monstrous that the possibility of forgiving
it did not cross her mind. She did not, however, ask herself whether the
love that still remained was making the injury he had done it seem yet
more atrocious. Love was still in a state of suspended animation--there
was no telling what he might do when he came to life again. For the time
being he was not to be taken into consideration at all. If she were to
love him during the coming years, that would only make matters much
worse.
There is not, perhaps, in the yet comparatively passionless nature of
most young girls so great a capacity for real suffering as there is in
older women. But there is something else instead. There is a
sensitiveness which most women lose by degrees to a certain point,
though never altogether, the sensitiveness of the very young animal when
it is roughly exposed to the first storm of its first winter, if it has
been born under the spring breezes and reared amongst the flowers of
summer.
It will suffer much more acutely later,--lash and spur, or shears and
knife, sharper than wind and snow,--but it will never be so sensitive
again. It will never forget how the cruel cold bit its young skin, and
got into its delicate throat, and made its slender limbs tremble like
the tendrils of a creeper.
It was snowing again, but Katharine walked slowly, and went out of her
way in her unformulated wish to lose time, and to put off the moment at
which she must meet the familiar faces and hear the well-known voices at
home. Until Griggs had broached the fatal subject at table, she had been
taken out of herself at the Crowdies’. She must go back to herself now,
and she hated the thought as she hated all her own existence. But the
regions between Clinton Place and Fourth Avenue are not the part of New
York in which it is best for a young girl to walk about alone. She did
not like to be stared at by the loafers at the corners, nor to be
treated with too much familiarity by the patronizing policeman who saw
her over the Broadway crossing. Then, too, she remembered that she had
given no notice of her absence from luncheon, and that her mother might
perhaps be anxious about her. There was nothing for it but to take
courage and go home. She only hoped that Charlotte might not be there.
But Charlotte had come, in the hope of enjoying herself as she had done
on the previous day. Katharine ascertained the fact from the girl who
let her in, and went straight to her room, sending word to her mother
that she had lunched with the Crowdies and would come down presently.
Even as she went up the stairs she felt a sharp pain at the thought that
her mother and sister were probably at that very moment discussing
John’s mishaps, and comparing notes about the stories they had
heard--and perhaps reading more paragraphs from the papers. The shame of
the horrible publicity of it all overcame her, and she locked her door,
and tried the handle to be sure that it was fast--with a woman’s
distrust of all mechanical contrivances when she wishes to be quite sure
of a situation. It was instinctive, and she had no second thought which
she tried to hide from herself.
As she took off her hat and coat she grew very pale, and the deep
shadows came under her eyes--so dark that she wondered at them vaguely
as she glanced at herself in the mirror. She felt faint and sick. She
drank a little water, and then, with a sudden impulse, threw herself
upon her bed, and lay staring at the ceiling, as she had lain at dawn.
The same glare still came in from the street and penetrated every
corner, but not so vividly as before, for the snow was falling fast, and
the mist of the whirling flakes softened the light.
It was a forlorn little room. Robert the Rich would have been very much
surprised if he could have seen it. He was a generous man, and was very
fond of his grand-niece, and if he had known exactly how she lived under
her father’s roof it would have been like him to have interfered. All
that he ever saw of the house was very different. There was great
simplicity downstairs, and his practised eye detected the signs of a
rigid economy--far too rigid, he thought, when he calculated what
Alexander Junior must be worth; a ridiculously exaggerated economy, he
considered, when he thought of his own wealth, and that his only
surviving brother lived in the house in Clinton Place. But there was
nothing squalid or mean about it all. The meanness was relative. It was
like an aspersion upon the solidity of Robert’s fortune, and upon his
intention of providing suitably for all his relations.
Upstairs, however, and notably in Katharine’s room, things had a
different aspect. Nothing had been done there since long before
Charlotte had been married. The wall-paper was old-fashioned, faded, and
badly damaged by generations of tacks and pins. The carpet was
threadbare and patched, and there were holes where even a patch had not
been attempted. The furniture was in the style of fifty years ago or
more, veneered with dark mahogany, but the veneering was coming off in
places, leaving bare little surfaces of dusty pine wood smeared with
yellowish, hardened glue. Few objects can look more desperately shabby
than veneered furniture which is coming to pieces. There was nothing in
the room which Katharine could distinctly remember to have seen in good
condition, except the old carpet, which had been put down when she and
Charlotte had been little girls. To Charlotte herself, when she had come
in on Wednesday afternoon, there had been something delightful in the
renewal of acquaintance with all her old dinginess of intimate
surroundings. Charlotte’s own life was almost oppressed with luxury, so
that it destroyed her independence. But to Katharine, worn out and
heartsore with the troubles of her darkening life, it was all
inexpressibly depressing. She stared at the ceiling as she lay there, in
order not to look at the room itself. She was very tired, too, and she
would have given anything to go to sleep.
It was not merely sleep for which she longed. It was a going out. Again
the thought crossed her mind, as it had that morning, that if the whole
world were a single taper, she would extinguish the flame with one short
breath, and everything would be over. And now, too, in her exhaustion,
came the idea that something less complete, but quite as effectual, was
in her power. It had passed through her brain half an hour previously,
when she had bidden Hester Crowdie good-bye--with a sort of intuitive
certainty that she was never to see her friend again. She had left
Hester with a vague and sudden presentiment of darkness. She had
assuredly not any intention of seeking death in any definite form, but
it had seemed to be close to her as she had said those few words of
farewell. It came nearer still as she lay alone in her own room. It came
nearer, and hovered over her, and spoke to her.
It would be the instant solution of all difficulties, the end of all
troubles. The deep calm against which no storm would have power any
more. On the one hand, there was life in two aspects. Either to live an
existence of misery and daily torture with the victim of a most
degrading vice, a man openly disgraced, and at whom every one she
respected would forever look askance. Or else to live out that other
life of secret bondage, neither girl nor wife, so long as John Ralston
was alive, suffering each time he was dragged lower, as she was
suffering to-day, bound, tied in every way, beyond possibility of
escaping. Why should she suffer less to-morrow than now? It would be the
same, since all the conditions must remain unchanged. It would be the
same always. Those were the two aspects of living on in the future which
presented themselves. The torn carpet and the broken veneering of the
furniture made them seem even more terrible. There may be a point at
which the trivial has the power to push the tragic to the last
extremity.
And on the other side stood death, the liberator, with his white smile
and far-away eyes. The snow-glare was in his face, and he did not seem
to feel it, but looked quietly into it, as though he saw something very
peaceful beyond. It was a mere passing fancy that evoked the picture in
the weary, restless mind, but it was pleasant to gaze at it, so long as
it lasted. It was gone in a moment again, leaving, however, a new
impression--that of light, rather than of darkness. She wished it would
come back.
Possibly she had been almost or quite dozing, seeing that she was so
much exhausted. But she was wide awake again now. She turned upon her
side with a long-drawn sigh, and stared at the hideous furniture, the
ragged carpet, and the dilapidated wall-paper. It was not that they
meant anything of themselves--certainly not poverty, as they might have
seemed to mean to any one else. They were the result of a curious
combination of contradictory characters in one family, which ultimately
produced stranger results than Katharine Lauderdale’s secret marriage,
some of which shall be chronicled hereafter. The idea of poverty was not
associated with the absence of money in Katharine’s mind. She might be
in need of a pair of new gloves, and she and her mother might go to the
opera upstairs, because the stalls were too dear. But poverty! How could
it enter under the roof of any who bore the name of Lauderdale? If,
yesterday, she had begged uncle Robert to give her half a million,
instead of refusing a hundred thousand, it was quite within the bounds
of possibility that he might have written the cheque there and then. No.
The shabby furniture in Katharine’s room had nothing to do with poverty,
nor with the absence of money, either. It was the fatal result of
certain family peculiarities concerning which the public knew nothing,
and it was there, and at that moment it had a strong effect upon
Katharine’s mind. It represented the dilapidation of her life, the
literal dilapidation, the tearing down of one stone after another from
the crowning point she had reached yesterday to the deep foundation
which was laid bare as an open tomb to-day. She dwelt on the idea now,
and she stared at the forlorn objects, as she had at first avoided both.
Death has a strange fascination, sometimes, both for young and old
people. Men and women in the prime and strength of life rarely fall
under its influence. It is the refuge of those who, having seen little,
believe that there is little to see, and of the others who, having seen
all, have died of the sight, inwardly, and desire bodily death as the
completion of experience. Let one, or both, be wrong or right; it
matters little, since the facts are there. But the fascination aforesaid
is stronger upon the young than upon the old. They have fewer ties, and
less to keep them with the living. For the ascendant bond is weaker than
the descendant in humanity, and the love of the child for its mother is
not as her love for the child. It is right that it should be so. In
spite of many proverbs, we know that what the child owes the parent is
as nothing compared with the parent’s debt to it. Have we all found it
so easy to live that we should cast stones upon heart-broken youths and
maidens who would fain give back the life thrust upon them without their
consent?
Katharine clasped her hands together, as she lay on her side, and prayed
fervently that she might die that day--at that very hour, if possible.
It would be so very easy for God to let her die, she thought, since she
was already so tired. Her heart had almost stopped beating, her hands
were cold, and she felt numb, and weary, and miserable. The step was so
short. She wondered whether it would hurt much if she took it herself,
