Con. Once more thou shalt listen to me, Ione, and then I will be still
forever. Thou shalt be my judge, thy lips shall speak my fate. I
cannot love the princess. Wouldst thou bid me vow to cherish her while
my heart is wholly thine? Wouldst thou ask me to pass through life
beside her with a false vow on my lips, and, with words of love I do not
feel, conceal from her the grief of my divided heart? Must I give up all
the bright dreams of a happier lot, and feel that life is but a bitter
struggle, a ceaseless longing but for thee? Rather bid me to forget the
princess and bind with Love's sweet chains the slave unto my side,--my
bride forever.
Ione. The slave Ione can never be thy bride, and thou art bound by
solemn vows to wed the Princess Irene. My duty and thine honor are more
precious than a poor slave's love. Banish all thoughts of her, and prove
thyself a faithful lord unto the wife who comes now trustingly to thee.
Ask thine own heart if life could be a bitter pilgrimage, when a
sacrifice like this had been so nobly made. A tender wife beside thee,
a mother's blessing on thy head,--oh, were not this a happier fate than
to enjoy a short, bright dream of love, but to awake and find thy
heart's peace gone, thy happiness forever fled; to see the eyes that
once looked reverently upon thee now turned aside, and lips that spoke
but tender words now whisper scornfully of broken vows thou wert not
brave enough to keep. Forgive me, but I cannot see the prince so false
to his own noble heart. Cast off this spell; forget me, and Irene shall
win thee back to happiness.
Con. Never! All her loveliness can never banish the pure, undying love I
bear to thee. Oh, Ione, canst thou doubt its truth, when I obey thee now
and prove how great thy power o'er my heart hath grown? Oh, let the
sacrifice win from thee one gentle thought, one kind remembrance of
him whose life thou hast made so beautiful for a short hour. And in my
loneliness, sweet memories of thee shall cheer and gladden, and I will
bear all for thy dear sake. And now farewell. Forgive if I have grieved
thee, and at parting grant me one token to the silent love that
henceforth must lie unseen within my heart. Farewell, Ione! [He kisses
her.]
Ione [falling at his feet]. Ah, forgive me,--here let me seek thy
pardon for the grief I have brought thee. May all the happiness that
earth can bring be ever thine. But, if all others should forsake thee,
in thine hour of sorrow remember there is one true heart that cannot
change. Oh, may the gods bless thee! 'Tis my last wish, last prayer
[weeps]. Farewell!
Con. Stay! I would claim from thee one little word which hath the power
to brighten e'en my sorrow. I have never asked thee, for I thought my
heart had read it in thine eyes that looked so kindly on me; in the lips
that spoke such gentle words of hope. But ah! tell me now at parting
dost thou love me, dear Ione?
Ione. I do, most fondly, truly love thee.
Con. Ione, thy voice hath been a holy spell to win me to my duty. Thy
love shall keep me pure and faithful, till we meet above. Farewell!
Ione. Farewell!--and oh, remember how I have loved thee; and may the
memory of all I have borne for thee win thy pardon for any wrong I may
have done thee. The princess will repay the grief the slave hath caused
thy noble heart. Remember Ione, and be true.
                                                                [Exit.
Con. Gone, gone, now lost to me forever! Remember thee! Ah, how can I
ever banish thy dear image from this heart that now hath grown so
desolate? I will be true. None shall ever know how hard a struggle hath
been mine, that I might still be worthy thee. Yes, Irene, I will strive
to love thee, and may the gods give me strength; but Ione, Ione, how can
I give thee up! [Picks up a flower Ione has dropped, and puts it in
his bosom and goes sadly out.]
                                CURTAIN.
                           SCENE THIRTEENTH.
                [The Queen's pavilion. A dark curtain
              hangs before an alcove. Enter Constantine.]
Con. The hour hath come when I shall gaze upon the form of her who hath
cast so dark a shadow o'er my life. Beautiful and young, and blessed
with all that makes her worthy to be loved, and yet I fear I have not
taught my wilful heart the tenderness I ought.
I fear to draw aside the veil that hides her from me, for I cannot
banish the sweet image that forever floats before mine eyes. Ione's soft
gaze is on me, and the lips are whispering, "I love thee!" But I have
promised to be true,--no thoughts of her must lead me now astray. My
fate is here [approaches the curtain]. Let me gaze upon it, and think
gently of the wife so soon to be mine own. Why do I fear? Courage, my
heart! [He draws aside the curtain, and Ione, veiled, appears as a
statue upon its pedestal.] Another veil to raise! How hard the simple
deed hath grown. One last sweet thought of thee, Ione, and then I will
no longer falter. [He turns away and bows his head.]
Ione. Constantine! [He starts, and gazes in wonder as the statue,
casting aside the veil, comes down and kneels.] Here at thy feet kneels
thy hated bride,--the "proud, cold princess," asking thee to pardon all
the sorrow she hath given thee. Ah, smile upon me, and forget Ione, who
as a slave hath won thy love, but as the princess will repay
it,--forgive, and love me still!
Con. Thou, thou Irene,--she whom I so feared to look upon? Ah, no!--thou
art Ione, the gentle slave. Say am I dreaming? Why art thou here to make
another parting the harder to be borne? Fling by thy crown and be Ione
again.
Irene [rising]. Listen, Constantine, and I will tell thee all. I am
Irene. In my distant home I learned thou didst not love me, and I vowed
to win thy heart before I claimed it. Thus, unknown, the proud princess
served thee as a slave, and learned to love thee with a woman's fondest
faith. I watched above thee that no harm should fall; I cheered and
gladdened life for thee, and won the heart I longed for. I knew the
sorrow thou wouldst feel, but tried thy faith by asking thee to
sacrifice thy love and keep thine honor stainless. Here let me offer up
a woman's fondest trust and most undying love. Wilt thou believe, and
pardon mine offence? [Kneels again before him.]
Con. Not at my feet, Irene!--'tis I who should bend low before thee,
asking thy forgiveness. For all thou hast dared for me; for every
fearless deed; for every loving thought, all I can lay before thee is a
fond and faithful heart, whose reverence and love can never die, but
through the pilgrimage of life shall be as true and tender as when I
gave it to the slave Ione [embraces Irene].
                                                             [Tableau.
                                CURTAIN.
                                  ION.
                              NOTE TO ION.
This play was found too uninteresting for presentation, and was left
unfinished, but is here given as a specimen of what the young authors
considered very fine writing.
The drama was, of course, to end well. Cleon, being free, at once
assembles a noble army, returns to conquer Mohammed and release Ion, who
weds the lovely Zuleika, becomes king, and "lives happily forever
after."
                              CHARACTERS.
    Mohammed   .   .   .   .   .   .    The Turk.
    Cleon  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    Prince of Greece.
    Ion    .   .   .   .   .   .   .    Son of Cleon.
    Adrastus   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Priest.
    Hafiz  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    Turkish Envoy.
    Hassan .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Slave.
    Murad  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Slave.
    Abdallah   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Slave.
    Iantha .   .   .   .   .   .   .    Wife of Cleon.
    Zuleika    .   .   .   .   .   .    Daughter of Mohammed.
    Medon  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Slave.
    Selim  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Slave.
                                  ION.
                              SCENE FIRST.
                    [Room in the palace of Cleon.
                        Iantha and Adrastus.]
Iantha. How wearily the days wear on, and the heavy hours so fraught
with doubt press like death upon my aching heart. To the young, the
fair, the happy, life is a blissful dream, filled with bright joys; for
hope like a star beams on their pathway. But to the grief-worn heart,
worn with weary watching, vexed with sad cares, whose hours are filled
with fear, and ever thronging sorrows, whose star burns with a dim
uncertain light,--oh, weary, weary is the pilgrimage; joyless the
present, dark the future; and the sooner all is o'er, the better.
Adrastus. Daughter, thou hast forgot. The radiant star may pale and
fade, but He who giveth it its light still liveth. Turn unto Him thy
worn and bleeding heart, and comfortless thou shalt not be.
Iantha. Father, I cannot. When I would pray for resignation, words fail
me, and my soul is filled with murmuring, while round me throng visions
of battle-fields and death. Ever comes before me the form of Cleon,--no
longer bright and beautiful as when, burning with hope and confidence in
his high calling, he went forth to conquer or to die; but fallen,
bleeding, perhaps dead, or a captive in the dungeon of the pagan, doomed
to waste in hopeless misery the long years of his manhood. And my
boy,--what will be his fate? Father, can I think on this and pray?
Adrastus. 'Tis hard, Iantha; but to His aid alone canst thou look up to
save thy husband from the horrors of a bloody war. Call on Him, and He,
the merciful, will in thy great need be near thee.
                                                         [Enter Medon.
Medon. A stranger craveth audience.
Iantha [rushing forward]. A stranger! Cometh he from my lord?
Medon. I know not, lady; but as a messenger is he clad, and with great
haste demandeth speech of thee, saying he bore tidings of great import.
Iantha. Admit him instantly. [Exit Medon.] Father, do thou follow, and
speed him hither.
Adrastus. I hasten to obey thee. Bear a brave heart, my daughter. I feel
that hope is near.
                                                       [Exit Adrastus.
Iantha [joyfully]. Hope,--thrice blessed word!--wilt thou indeed visit
this doubting heart once more, and sweeten the cup thou hast so long
forsaken? [Enter Hafiz.] Welcome! comest thou from my lord? Thy
tidings speedily!
Hafiz. To the wife of Cleon, late commander of the rebel Greeks, am I
sent to bear tidings of their defeat by Mohammed, now master of all
Greece.
Adrastus. And my lord,--the noble Cleon?
Hafiz. Betrayed, defeated, and now lying under sentence of immediate
death in the dungeon of the Sultan.
Iantha. Lost! lost! lost! [Falls fainting on a couch.]
                                                      [Enter Adrastus.
Adrastus. Daughter, look up!--there is yet hope. There is no time for
rest. Up! rouse thy brave, till now, unconquered heart and cast off this
spell. And thou, slave, hence,--away!
                                                          [Exit Hafiz.
Iantha [rousing]. Defeated, imprisoned, condemned,--words unto one
heart fraught with such dire despair. Tell me, Father, oh, tell me
truly, do I dream?
                                   [Enter Ion, who stands listening.
Adrastus. 'Tis no dream. The rough soldier did but tell thee in rude
speech, what I was hastening in more guarded words to bear thee. 'Tis
true; thy lord is in Mohammed's power, a victim to the perfidy of
pagans, and doomed unto a speedy death. Nay, Iantha, shrink not, but as
a soldier's wife, glory in the death of thy brave knight, dying for his
country; and in his martyrdom take to thy soul sweet comfort.
Iantha. Comfort! Oh, man, thou little knowest woman's heart! What to her
is glory, when him she loveth is torn from her forever? What to the
orphan is the crown of martyrdom, the hero's fame, the praise of
nations, the homage of the great? Will they give back the noble dead,
heal the broken heart, tear bitter memories from the wounded soul to
whom earth is desolate? Nay, Father, nay. Oh, Cleon, would I could die
with thee!
Adrastus. This mighty sorrow o'erpowers her reason and will destroy all
hope. Iantha, daughter, rouse thyself; let the love thou dost bear thy
lord now aid in his deliverance. From the wealth of thy heart's true
affection, devise thou some way to save him.
Iantha. Aid me, Father; I have no power of thought. I will trust all to
thee.
                                                      [Ion approaches.
Adrastus. I know not what to counsel thee; my life hath ill fitted me to
deal with soldiers and with kings. But if some messenger--
Iantha. Nay, it will not serve. None will dare brave the anger of the
pagan, and death were the doom of such as approach him other than as a
slave. And yet,--perchance he might relent. Oh, were there some true
heart, fearless and loving, to aid me now in mine hour of distress!
Where can I look for help?
Ion [coming forward]. Here, Mother,--I will seek the camp of
Mohammed.
Iantha. Thou!--my Ion, my only one. No, no; it may not be,--thy tender
youth, thy gentle, untried spirit. 'Tis madness e'en to think on!
Ion. Mother, am I not a soldier's son, cradled 'mid warriors? Runs not
the blood of heroes in these veins? Are not my father's deeds, his
bright, untarnished name, my proud inheritance? What though this tender
form is yet untried; what though these arms have never borne the
knightly armor? No victor's laurels rest on this youthful brow, and I
bear no honored name among the great and glorious of our land; yet,
Mother, have I not a father, for whose dear sake I may yet purchase that
knighthood for which this young heart glows? Am I not the son of Cleon?
Adrastus. Verily doth a spirit move the boy. Look on him now, Iantha,
and let no weak, unworthy doubt of thine curb the proud spirit that
proves him worthy of his sire.
Iantha. My son, my fair, young Ion, thou art all now left my widowed
heart. How can I bid thee go! The barbarous pagan will doom thee to a
cruel death. How canst thou, an unknown youth, move the fierce heart
that hath slain thy sire?
Ion. Fear not, Mother; he who calls me to this glorious mission will
protect me. Shall I stand weeping while my father still breathes the air
of pagan dungeons; while the base fetters of the infidel rest on his
limbs, and his brave followers lie unavenged in their cold, bloody
graves; while my country's banner, torn, dishonored, is trampled in the
dust,--and he the proud, the brave, till now unconquered defender of
that country's honor, lies doomed to an ignominious death? Oh, Mother,
bid me go!
Adrastus. Iantha, speak to the boy! Let him not say his mother taught
him fear.
Iantha. My Ion, go,--strong in thine innocence and faith, go forth upon
thy holy mission; and surely He who looketh ever with a loving face on
those who put their trust in Him, will in His mercy guard and guide thee
[girds on his sword]. Farewell! Go,--with thy mother's blessing on
thee!
Ion. Now is my heart filled all anew with hope and courage, and I go
forth trustingly. Father, thy blessing [kneels before Adrastus].
Adrastus. Go, thou self-anointed victim on the altar of thy love. Bless
thy pure, faithful heart!
Ion [rising]. Farewell! Embrace me, Mother.
Iantha [pressing Ion to her breast]. Farewell, my Ion. And if the
great Father wills it that I look not again on thee in life, into His
care do I commit thee. Farewell!
Ion. Mother, farewell! And if I fall, mourn not, but glory that I died
as best became the son of Cleon [draws his sword]. And now leap forth,
my sword!--henceforth is there no rest nor honor till we have conquered.
Father, I come, I come! [Ion rushes out; Iantha rushes to the window,
tears off her veil and waves it to Ion.]
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE SECOND.
                 [Tent of Mohammed; maps and arms lying
                       about. Mohammed and Hafiz.]
Moh'd. And spake they no word of ransom or of hostage?
Hafiz. None, sire. The lady lay as one struck dead; and the priest, foul
Christian dog, bade me go hence, and tarry not.
Moh'd. And held you no speech with those about the princess. Sure, there
were some to listen to thy master's word.
Hafiz. Great master, I sought in vain to set before them the royal will.
At first it were as though a spell had fallen on them. Nay, some did
turn aside and weep, rending their hair, as though all hope were lost.
Then, when I strove to win them to some counsel, they woke to such an
uproar, cursing thy perfidy, and vowing most dire and speedy vengeance
on thee, clashing their weapons and crying, "Down with the pagan dogs!"
Then, drawing forth their lances with fierce oaths, they drove me from
the gates in such warlike manner, I could but strive with haste to make
good mine escape, and without rest have I journeyed hither to bring thee
tidings.
Moh'd. By the prophet! and is it thus they serve the royal messenger.
But they shall rue it dearly. Cleon shall die. To-morrow's sun shall
never shine for him. The proud Greeks shall learn to dread Mohammed's
ire, and bend their haughty heads before him in the dust. I offer
ransom, and they will not harken. I send them honorable terms, and they
thrust my messenger rudely from their gates. They have dared to brave
me,--they shall feel my power!
Hafiz. Mighty Mohammed, if thy poor slave might offer counsel, were it
not wise to tarry till the Greeks on cooler thought shall seek thee with
some treaty which may avail thee better than such hasty vengeance. How
much more worthy were a heavy ransom than the life of a single miserable
prince.
Moh'd. Peace, slave! I have said Cleon shall die, and, by Allah! so I
have not word from these rebel dogs ere three days shall wear away, his
body swung from the battlements shall bear them tidings of Mohammed's
power. [Enter Selim.] What hath befallen, Selim, that thou comest in
such haste?
Selim. Most mighty king, there waits without a youth, demanding speech
of thee.
Moh'd. A youth! Who may he be, and what seeks he with us?
Selim. Most gracious sire, I know not. Our guard surprised him wandering
without the camp,--alone, unarmed, save with a single sword; young, and
I think a Greek. Abdallah seized him as a spy, and led him hither to
await thy royal will. He doth refuse all question, demanding to be led
before thee, where he will unfold his errand.
Moh'd. A Greek! Bring him before us, an he prove a spy he shall hang
before the day waxeth older by an hour. Hence,--bring him hither!
[Exit Selim.] By Allah! my proud foes have deigned to send us
messengers, and seek to win the favor so rudely scorned. They know not
Mohammed, and, so they humble not themselves, will sue in vain.
                                         [Enter Selim, dragging Ion.
Selim. Your Mightiness doth behold the youth. [To Ion, who stands
proudly.] Kneel, slave!
Ion. I kneel not unto tyrants.
Moh'd. How, bold stripling! Weigh with more care thy speech, and forget
not before whom thou dost stand. [To Selim.] Go, slave, and stand
without; see that none enter here unbidden. [Exit Selim.] Speak, boy!
Who art thou, and why dost thou seek thus fearlessly the presence of thy
foe?--and beware thou speakest truly if it is as a friend to treat in
honorable fashion, or as a spy, thou now standest before us.
Ion. I am a Greek, son to the noble Cleon, now thy captive; I seek his
rescue.
Moh'd. Son to Cleon! Now, by the Prophet, 'tis wondrous strange! And
thou hast ventured alone into the camp amid thy deadly foes? Speak,
boy,--thine errand!
Ion. To offer hostage; to treat with Mohammed for a father's life; to
move to pity or to justice the heart that hath doomed a noble soldier
unto an unjust death.
Moh'd. And where, my bold prince, are thy followers, thy slaves, thy
royal train?
Ion. On yonder plain, cold in their graves.
Moh'd. Hast thou brought ransom? Where is thy gold?
Ion. In the coffers of the Turkish Mohammed, plundered from his
slaughtered foes.
Moh'd. Thou spakest of hostage,--I see it not.
Ion. 'Tis here,--the son of Cleon.
Moh'd. Thou! and thinkest thou thy young, worthless life were a fit
hostage for the leader of a rebel band, the enemy of all true followers,
whose capture hath cost blood and slaves and gold? By Allah! boy, thou
must name a higher price to win the life thou doth seek.
Ion. I have nought else to offer. Thy hand hath rent from me friends,
followers, gold, a sire. But if this young life hath any worth to thee,
if these arms may toil for thee, this form bear burdens to thy royalty,
take them,--take all, O king, but render unto me that life without which
Greece is lost.
Moh'd. Peace! Thy speech is vain; thy life is nought to me.
Ion. I will serve thee as a slave; in all things do thy
bidding,--faithful, unwearied, unrepining. Grant but my boon, and
monarch shall never have a truer vassal than I will be to thee. Great
Mohammed, let me not plead in vain.
Moh'd. Peace, I say; anger me not.
Ion. O king, hast thou no heart? Think of the ruined home, the mourning
people, the land made desolate by thee; of her who now counts the weary
hours for tidings of those dear to her,--tidings fraught with life or
death as thou shalt decree; of the son by thee doomed to see his honored
sire, hero of a hundred battles dragged like a slave unto a shameful
death. As thou wilt have mercy shown to thee, that mercy show thou unto
me. Oh, say to me, "Thy father lives!"
Moh'd. Away! I will not listen.
Ion. Nay, I will kneel to thee. I who never knelt to man before, now
implore thee with earnest supplication. 'Tis for a father's life.
Moh'd. Kneel not to me,--it is in vain. Thy father is my captive, my
deadliest foe, whom I hate, and curse,--ay, and will slay. Boy, dost
thou know to whom thou dost bow?
Ion [rising proudly]. To the pagan Mohammed,--he who with murderous
hand hath bathed in blood the smiling plains of Greece; profaned her
altars, enslaved her people, and filled the land with widows' tears and
orphans' cries; he who by perfidy makes captives of his foes, refusing
hostage and scorning honorable treaty; turns from all supplicants,
closes his heart to mercy, and tramples under foot all pity and all
justice,--the murderer, and the tyrant. Yes, king, I know to whom I
plead.
Moh'd. [in great anger]. Ho, without there, guards!--Selim! [Enter
Selim and soldiers.] Away with the prisoner! Bind him fast; see he
escape not. Mohammed stands not to be braved by a beardless boy! Hence!
[Guards approach with chains.]
Ion. Lay not hands upon me,--I am no slave! One more appeal: May a son
look once more upon his father ere death parts them forever? May I but
for an hour speak with Cleon?
Moh'd. Once more thou mayst look upon the rebel Greek. When he hangs
from yonder battlement thou mayst gaze unbidden as thou will. Away! With
to-morrow's sun, he dies.
Ion. So soon, O king!--nay, the son of Cleon kneels not to thee again
[turns to go].
Moh'd. Stay,--yield up thy sword! Bend thy proud knee, and surrender
unto me the arms thou art unworthy now to bear.
Ion [drawing his sword]. This, my sword, girded on by a mother's hand,
pledged to the deliverance of a captive sire, dedicated to the service
of my country, unstained, unconquered,--thus do I surrender thee. [He
breaks the sword, and flings it down.]
Moh'd. Again dost thou brave me! Away with the rebel! Bind him hand and
foot. He shall learn what it is to be Mohammed's slave. Hence, I say!
Ion. I am thy captive, but thy slave--never! Thou mayst chain my limbs,
thou canst not bind my freeborn soul! Lead on,--I follow.
                                               [Exit Ion and guards.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE THIRD.
              [Tent of Zuleika; guitar, ottoman, etc.]
Zuleika [pacing up and down]. Night draweth on apace, and ever nearer
comes the fatal hour. With to-morrow's dawn all hope is o'er, for
Mohammed hath sworn the Greek shall die, and when was he ere known to
fail in his dread purpose? In vain have I wept before him, imploring him
to have some mercy; in vain have I sought with golden promises to move
the stony-hearted Hafiz,--all, all hath failed, and I am in despair. And
that brave youth, his true heart filled with love's pure devotion,
seeking by the sacrifice of his own life to save a father! And now each
moment bringeth nearer the death-hour of that father, and he is mourning
in solitude that he may not say farewell. Where can I turn for help? Ah,
Hassan! my faithful slave. He is true, and loveth me like his own. He
must aid me [claps her hands; enter Hassan]. Hassan, thou lovest me,
and would not see me grieve?
Hassan. Allah, forbid! Thou art dear to old Hassan as the breath of
life, and while life lingers he will serve thee.
Zuleika. Then must thou aid me in a deed of mercy. Who doth keep watch
to-night before the tent of the young Greek?
Hassan. Mine is the watch. Wherefore dost thou seek to know?
Zuleika. Hassan, thou hast sworn to serve me. I have a boon to ask of
thee.
Hassan. Speak, lady! thy slave doth listen.
Zuleika. Thou knowest that with the morning sun Mohammed hath sworn
Cleon shall die. Such is the fierce anger he doth bear his foe he hath
refused all mercy and scorned to listen to the prayers of the young
prince who hath journeyed hither at peril of his own life to place
himself in the power of the king as hostage for his father.
Hassan. It is indeed most true. Poor youth!
Zuleika. 'Tis of him I would speak to thee. Mohammed, angered at his
boldness, hath, as thou knowest, guarded him in yonder tent, denying him
his last sad prayer to speak once more in life with his father. Oh,
Hassan, what must be the agony of that young heart to see the hours
swift speeding by, and know no hope.
Hassan. What wouldst thou have me do?
Zuleika. Lead him to his father; give him the consolation of folding to
his breast the beloved one to save whose life he hath sacrificed his
own.
Hassan. Dear mistress, thou art dreaming, and cannot know the danger of
so rash a deed. Bethink thee of Mohammed's anger, the almost certain
doom of such as dare to brave his mighty will. I pray thee let not thy
noble heart lead thee astray. Thou canst not save him, and will but harm
thyself.
Zuleika. Hassan, thy love and true devotion, I well know, doth prompt
thee to thus counsel, and in thy fear for me thou dost forget to think
of mercy or of pity. I thank thee; but thou canst not move me from my
firm resolve. Again I ask thee, Wilt thou aid me?
Hassan [falling at her feet]. Pardon, but I cannot. Heed, I implore
thee, the counsel of thy faithful servant, and trust to the wisdom these
gray hairs have brought. Thou art young and brave, but believe me,
maiden, dangers of which thou dost not dream beset the path, and I were
no true friend did I not warn thee to beware. Do not tempt me; I cannot
aid thee to thy ruin.
Zuleika. Then will I go alone. I will brave the peril, and carry comfort
to a suffering soul [turns to go; Hassan catches her robe].
Hassan. Maiden! once more let thy slave entreat. Thy father places faith
in me. I am the captive's guard.
Zuleika. Peace, Hassan, peace; if life be then so dear to thee, and thy
duty to thy king greater than that thou dost owe to thy fellow-man,
Allah forbid that I should tempt thee to forget it. But did death look
me in the face, I would not tarry now.
Hassan. And thou wouldst seek the captive's cell?
Zuleika. This very hour. Soon it will be too late.
Hassan. Thou knowest not the way,--soldiers guard every turn. Oh, tarry
till the dawn, I do implore thee.
Zuleika. The darkness shall be my guide, Allah my guard; shrouded in yon
dark mantle none will deem me other than a slave. Again I ask thee, Wilt
thou go?
Hassan. I go. I were no true man to tremble when a woman fears not. I
will guide thee, and may Allah in his mercy shield us both. Say thy
prayers, Hassan, for thy head no longer rests in safety.
Zuleika. Come, let us on! The moments speed. The darkening gloom
befriends us. First to the tent of the young prince, and while I in
brief speech do acquaint him with mine errand, thou shalt keep guard
without. Then will we guide him to his father, and unto Allah leave the
rest [shrouds herself in dark mantle and veil]. Lead on, good Hassan.
Let us away!
Hassan. Fold thy veil closer, that none may know the daughter of
Mohammed walks thus late abroad. Come, and Allah grant we sleep not in
paradise to-morrow!
                                               [Exit, leading Zuleika.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE FOURTH.
                             [Ion's tent.
           Ion chained, in an attitude of deep despair, upon
            a miserable couch. He does not see the entrance
                       of Zuleika and Hassan.]
Zuleika. Stand thou without as watch, good Hassan, and warn me if any
shall approach. [Exit Hassan.] Young Greek, despair not; hope is nigh.
Ion [starting up]. Bright vision, whence comest thou? Art thou the
phantom of a dream, or some blest visitant from that better land, come
to bear me hence? What art thou?
Zuleika. I am no vision, but a mortal maiden, come to bring thee
consolation.
Ion. Consolation! ah, then indeed thou art no mortal; for unto grief
like mine there is no consolation, save that which cometh from above.
Zuleika. Nay, believe it not. Human hearts are at this moment hoping,
and human hands are striving earnestly to spare thee the agony thou dost
dread.
Ion. Are there then hearts to feel for the poor Greek? I had thought I
was alone,--alone 'mid mine enemies. Sure, those fetters are no dream,
this dark cell, the words "Thy father dies!" No, no! it is a dread
reality. The words are burned into my brain.
Zuleika. Is death, then, so dread a thing unto a warrior? I had thought
it brought him fame and glory.
Ion. Death! Oh, maiden! To the soldier on the battle-field, fighting for
his father-land 'mid the clash of arms, the fierce blows of foemen, the
shouts of victory; 'neath the banner of his country, the gratitude of a
nation, the glory of a hero round his brow,--death were a happy, ay, a
welcome friend. But alone, 'mid foes, disgraced by fetters, dragged to a
dishonored grave, with none to whisper of hope or comfort, death is a
cruel, a most bitter foe.
Zuleika. Mine errand is to take from that death the bitterness thou dost
mourn, to give a parting joy to the life now passing.
Ion. Oh, hast thou the power to save my father's life! Oh, use it now,
and Greece shall bless thee for thy mercy!
Zuleika. Oh, that the power were mine, how gladly would I use it in a
cause so glorious! I am but a woman, and tho' the heart is strong, the
arm is very weak. I cannot save thy father, but trust I may still cheer
the parting hours with a brief happiness.
Ion. Lady, thy words of kindly sympathy fall like sweet music on my
troubled heart, and at thy magic call hope springeth up anew. Thou art
unknown, and yet there is that within that doth whisper I may trust
thee.
Zuleika. Thou mayst indeed. Heaven were not more true than I will be
unto my word. [Hassan pauses before the door.]
Hassan. Lady, the hours are fleeting. It were best to make good speed.
Zuleika. Hassan, thou dost counsel aright; morn must not find me here.
[To Ion.] Young Greek, thou knowest with the coming dawn thy father
dies.
Ion. Ay, ere another moon doth rise that life, so dear to Greece, shall
be no more; the heart that beat so nobly at his country's call be still
forever,--I know it well!
Zuleika. And hast thou no last word for him, no parting wish?
Ion. O maiden, my life were a glad sacrifice, so that I might for a
single hour look on him,--for the last time say, "My father, bless thy
Ion."
Zuleika. That hour shall be thine. Fold thyself in yonder cloak, and
follow me.
Ion. Follow thee,--and whither?
Zuleika. To thy father's presence. Thou shalt spend with him the last
hours of his earthly life. Stay not; this friendly gloom will ere long
pass away.
Ion [falling on his knees and catching her robe]. Art thou my guardian
angel? Oh, may the consolation thou hath poured into a suffering soul,
fall like heaven's dew upon thine own; and if the prayers of a grateful
heart bring hope and joy and peace, thy life shall bloom with choicest
blessings. O maiden, how do I bless thee! [Kisses her robe.]
Zuleika. Speak not of that,--kneel not to me, a mortal maiden. Thy
gratitude is my best reward. Hassan, lead on!
Hassan. Lady, I do thy bidding. First let me lead thee to a place of
safety.
Zuleika. Nay, Hassan, I tarry here,--thou canst return; I will await
thee. Now make all speed,--away!
Ion. Let us hence; my heart can ill contain its joy. Oh, my father,
shall I see thee, hear thy voice, feel thine arms once more about me,
and die with thy blessing on my head. Heaven hath blessed my mission.
Zuleika. Shall we depart? The hour wanes.
Ion. I will follow whither thou shalt lead. But, stay! is there no
danger unto thee? Will thy deed of mercy bring suffering to thee, my
kind deliverer?
Zuleika. Fear not for me. Yet one pledge must I ask of thee on which my
safety doth depend. 'Tis this: Swear that from the moment thou dost
leave me until thou art again a prisoner here, though the path lie plain
before thee thou wilt not fly.
Ion. I swear. Thou mayst trust me.
Zuleika. Yet once again. Breathe not to mortal ear the means by which
thou sought'st thy sire, and let the memory of this hour fade from thy
heart forever. [Ion bows assent.] What pledge have I of thy secrecy,
and of thy truth?
Ion. The word of a Greek is sacred, and were not my gratitude my surest
pledge to thee?
Zuleika. Pardon, I do trust. Now haste thee.
Ion [pointing to his fetters]. Thou dost forget I am a prisoner still.
Zuleika. Hassan, unloose these fetters, and give the Greek his freedom.
[Hassan takes off the chains; Ion springs joyfully forward.]
Ion. Now am I free again, and with the Turk's base fetters have I cast
off my fears and my despair. Hope smiles upon me, and my father calls.
Oh, let us tarry not.
Zuleika [folding a dark mantle round him]. Thus shrouded, in safety
thou mayst reach his cell; this ring will spare thee question. Hassan
will guide thee, and I--will pray for thy success. Farewell! May Allah
aid thee!
Ion. Lady, though I may never know thee, never look on thee again, the
memory of this brief hour will never fade. The blessed gift of mercy
thou dost bestow will I ever treasure with the deepest gratitude, and my
fervent prayer that all Heaven's blessings may rest upon thee cease but
with my life [falls on his knee and kisses her hand]. Pardon,--'tis my
only thanks. Spirit of mercy, farewell! farewell! [Follows Hassan;
Zuleika gazes after him, then sinks down weeping.]
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE FIFTH.
                     [Tent of Cleon the Greek.
                 Cleon, chained, pacing to and fro.]
Cleon. A few short hours and all is o'er,--Cleon sleeps with his
fathers. I could have wished to die like a hero in my harness, and have
known my grave were watered by my loved one's tears; to take my wife
once more unto my bosom; once more bless my noble Ion; and pass hence
with the blest consciousness of victory won. 'Tis bitter thus to die,
ingloriously and alone. [Proudly raising his head.] But the name of
Cleon is too dear unto his people e'er to be forgotten. The memory that
he strove ever for his country's welfare shall strew with tearful
blessings his unhonored grave. [Steps approach; voices are heard.] Ah,
they come! They shall find me ready. [Enter Ion.] Has mine hour come?
I am here.
           [Ion casts off his cloak, and springs forward.]
Ion. Father! O my father!
Cleon [starting back wildly]. Thou? Here!
Ion. Yes, thy Ion; bless me, Father [kneels].
Cleon [raising and clasping Ion to his breast]. Here, on my heart,
dear one. I turn to meet my executioners, and see thee, my boy. Great
Heaven, I bless thee! [They embrace tenderly and weep.] Thou camest
thither--how?
Ion. Alone, with my good sword.
Cleon. Thy guide through the perils of the way, my child?
Ion. The good Father who doth guide all who trust in him.
Cleon. And thine errand?
Ion. To behold thee, my father, and with my life to strive for thy
release.
Cleon. My noble boy, thou hast come unto thy death. Oh, who could bid
thee thus brave the doom that must await thee?
Ion. My mother bid me forth; and as she girded on my sword, she bid me
seek my father, with her blessing on my mission.
Cleon. My brave Iantha, thus for thy country's sake to doom thine own
heart to so deep a sorrow [looks sadly upon Ion]. Tell me, my son, did
thy mother bear bravely up against the fatal tidings? I had feared her
tender heart might but ill meet a blow so fearful. Speak to me of her.
Ion. When the rude Turk did in rough speech acquaint her with thy fell
defeat, she sank as one o'erpowered by her grief, praying the friendly
hand of death might take her hence; but soon the spirit of the Greek
rose high within her, and, banishing her fears, with brave and trusting
heart she sent me forth to seek, and if it might be, save thee. Ah, my
father, that I might die for thee!
Cleon. And thou hath come to see me die! Dost thou not know that with
the night thy father passeth hence, and when the stars again look forth
it will be upon his grave?
Ion. Father, 'tis because thou art doomed that I am here. And if my
heart speak truly, those same bright stars shall serve to guide thee
back to freedom.
Cleon. Thou doth speak wildly. What wilt thou do? Wilt thou brave the
king?
Ion [proudly]. Nay, I have knelt for the last time unto Mohammed. I
have offered him my liberty, my service, ay, my life itself, and he hath
scorned me. I have deigned to bow before him as a suppliant, and he hath
spurned me; I have sought by all the power love and despair could teach
to move him, and his ear was closed to me. I seek him not again.
Cleon. Child, what hath led thee to the presence of the king? How didst
thou brave the frown of him before whom even armed men do tremble? Didst
thou dream thy feeble voice could reach a heart so cruel, that thy
prayers could soften one who knoweth not the name of mercy?
Ion. Love can brave all dangers. It giveth wisdom to the untaught,
strength to the weak, hope to the despairing, comfort to the mourner.
Love hath been my guide, my guard.
Cleon. My boy! my Ion! Truly doth God place in the pure heart of such as
thou his truest wisdom, his deepest faith [embraces him with deep
emotion]. But--art not thou in danger? Did not thy bold speech anger
the proud king? Art thou still free?
Ion. Let not thy heart be vexed with fears for me,--I am unharmed.
Cleon. Ion, deceive me not, but as thou hopest for thy father's love,
speak truly. Art thou in danger from the Turk, and in thy devotion to
thy father dost thou seek to be thyself the sacrifice? Answer me, Ion.
Ion. Father, I sought to spare thy too o'erburdened heart another grief.
I am a prisoner in Mohammed's power, and know not if my fate be life
or death.
Cleon. 'Tis as I feared; and thou, the last hope of thy country, must
fall,--all, all, for me! Oh, mine own disgrace were bitter, but to see
thee die! Oh, woe is me!
Ion. Father, were it not better thus to die, than in disgraceful peace
to pass away with no thought for our fatherland, no proud consciousness
of having at the call of duty sacrificed all we held most dear, and
leave a name held sacred as one who yielded life and liberty on the
altar of his country?
Cleon. But that thou in thine innocence and bloom should meet death at
the hands of heartless foemen; and for my sake! 'Tis this that tears
my heart.
Ion. The purer the victim the more acceptable the sacrifice. But fear
not, dear father. The Turk is yet a man; 'tis 'gainst thee he wars, and
he will not wreak his vengeance on a child. He may relent, and for my
love's sake, pardon mine offence.
Cleon. Child, thou knowest not Mohammed. He pardons none; all fall
before him, with relentless hand,--all strew his pathway unto victory.
Will he then spare and pity thee? Nay, sire and son must fall! [Stands
sorrowfully. Ion suddenly sees Zuleika's ring upon his hand, and
springs forward.]
Ion. Father, thou shalt yet breathe the air of freedom, shall clasp my
mother to thy heart; once more shall lead thy gallant band onward to
victory.
Cleon. Raise not bright hopes to crush them at their birth; wake not to
dreams of triumph the heart that hath striven to drive hence all save
the solemn thoughts meet for one so soon to pass away.
Ion [pointing to the door]. See, the gray morning 'gins to glimmer in
the east. 'Tis no time for despair. Haste, Father, freedom is near!
Cleon. What doth thus move thee, Ion? Dost thou forget these chains,
the guards, the perils at each step? Thou art dreaming!
Ion. I tell thee 'tis no dream. Thou shalt be free. This mantle will
disguise thee; this ring open a pathway through the guards; these stars
shall be thy silent guide. Wilt thou go?
Cleon. 'Tis strange! Whence then that ring? How dost thou, a captive,
wander thus freely, and offer liberty with such a bounteous hand?
Ion. A solemn oath doth forbid me to reveal to living man the secret of
this hour; but if ever angels do leave their homes to minister to
suffering souls, 'twas one most bright and beautiful who hath this night
led me unto thee, and placed in mine hand the power to set thee free.
Cleon. Truth speaketh in thine earnest eye and pleading voice, and yet I
dare not listen to thy tale.
Ion. Oh, Father, heed not thy fears, thy doubts! Take thy liberty,
believing it heaven-sent. No oath binds thee to Mohammed; thou art no
rightful prisoner of war,--neither duty nor honor doth demand thy stay.
Thy country calls, and Heaven doth point the way.
Cleon. 'Tis true; no oath doth bind me to the Turk, and yet to fly--My
soldier's spirit doth ill brook such retreat.
Ion. Then stay not, my father, but whilst thou may, depart.
Cleon. Bright hopes call me hence. Life, love, fame, beckon me away.
                                                    [Hassan looks in.]
Hassan. The promised hour hath well-nigh gone. Prepare, young Greek; we
must away.
Ion. A moment more. [Exit Hassan.] Father, time wanes. Once more I do
entreat thee,--go!
Cleon. Heaven grant I choose aright! Come Ion, we will forth together.
[Ion folds the cloak about Cleon; gives him the ring.] Come, let us
go.
Ion. Nay, but one can pass forth. Thou goest. I await the morning here.
Cleon. Then do I tarry also. Nay, Ion, I will not go hence without thee.
Ion. Then all is lost. Father, thy stay can nought avail me. It cannot
save, and thou wilt but sacrifice thine own priceless life.
Cleon. Then fly with me; let me bear thee to thy mother. Alone, I will
not go.
Ion. I cannot go; a vow doth bid me stay,--a vow that nought shall tempt
me from the camp to-night; and when did a Greek e'er break his plighted
word?
Cleon. If thine honor bid thee stay, thy father will not tempt thee
hence; but he may stay and suffer with thee the fate of the faithful
[throws off the mantle].
Ion. Oh, my father, do not cast from thee the priceless boon of liberty.
Think of thy broken-hearted wife, thy faithful followers, thy
unconquered foes; think, Father, of thy country calling on thee for
deliverance. What were my worthless life weighed 'gainst her freedom.
And what happier fate for a hero's son than for a hero's sake to fall!
Cleon. Thou true son of Greece! Mayst thou yet live to wield a sword for
thine oppressed land, and gird with laurels that brow so worthy them.
                                                       [Hassan enters.
Hassan. No longer may I stay: thine hour is past.
Ion. I come,--yet one moment more, good Hassan; it is my last. [Exit
Hassan.] Once more, my father, do I entreat thee,--go. Thou dost forget
a guardian spirit watcheth over me, and the power that led me hither may
yet accomplish my deliverance. If nought else can move thee, for my sake
go, and win for me that freedom mine honor doth now forbid me to seek.
Break not my heart, nor let me plead in vain.
Cleon. My boy, for thy dear sake do I consent. I will earn thy
deliverance bravely, as a soldier should; and thy dear image shall be
to me the star that leads me on to victory.
Ion [joyfully]. Away! Hassan will guide thee past the guards. Then
fly,--and Heaven guide thee, O my father! [Ion again shrouds Cleon in
the mantle, concealing his chains in the thick folds.] Thus muffle thy
tell-tale fetters, that no sound may whisper to the Turks there walks a
Greek under the free heavens forth to freedom.
Cleon. My Ion, one last embrace! God grant 'tis not our last on earth!
Bless thee, thou true young heart! Heaven guard thee!
                                              [Hassan enters in haste.
Hassan. Art ready? We must depart. [Cleon bows his head and follows.
Ion rushes after, looking from the tent.]
Ion. Saved! saved! The morning sun that was to shine upon his grave,
will smile upon him far, far from foemen's power. And Mohammed, thinking
to look upon a dying slave, shall waken to the sound of his victorious
war-trump. Ion, thy mission is accomplished. Thou hast given a saviour
to thy fatherland, and mayst fall thyself without a murmur [looks up
thankfully; a loud noise without].
                                         [Enter Abdallah and Murad.
Abd. Where is the prisoner? Come forth!
Ion. I am here [comes forward].
Abd. Ha!--here is treason! Without there!--the prisoner hath escaped!
Murad. Who flieth yonder, past the camp?
Abd. 'Tis he! Forth, call for aid! Search without delay! Here is foul
work abroad. First, seize yon boy; fetter the base spy; bear him before
the king. Speed hence!
Murad [to Ion]. Infidel dog, thou shalt learn what it is to brave
Mohammed's ire!
                [They seize Ion, and drag him away.]
                                CURTAIN.
                                BIANCA.
                            OPERATIC TRAGEDY.
                            NOTE TO BIANCA.
The peculiarity of this opera was that while the words were committed to
memory, the music was composed and sung as the scene proceeded.
In spite of its absurdity, this play was a great favorite; for Jo was
truly superb as the hapless Bianca, while her trills and tragic agonies
were considered worthy of the famous Grisi herself.
                              CHARACTERS.
    Adelbert   .   .   .   .   .   .    Betrothed to Bianca.
    Huon   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    His Rival.
    Juan   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Page.
    Bianca .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Spanish Lady.
    Hilda  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Witch.
                                BIANCA.
                           OPERATIC TRAGEDY.
                              SCENE FIRST.
                               [A wood.
                             Enter Huon.]
Huon. Hist! All is still. They are not yet here. On this spot will the
happy lovers meet. O wretched Huon! she whom thou so passionately doth
love will here speak tender words to thy thrice hated rival. Yet I,
unseen, will watch them, and ere long my fierce revenge shall change
their joy to deepest woe. Hark! they come! Now, jealous heart, be still!
[Hides among the trees.]
                                        [Enter Bianca and Adelbert.
Adel. Nay, dearest love, fear not; no mortal eye beholds us now, and yon
bright moon looks kindly down upon our love.
