without a tinge of red — she wore a white lace 
mantilla. Her straight narrow brows and . 
heavy lashes were black; but her skin was


mcHre purely white than her gown. Her nose 
was finely cut, the arch almost indiscernible, 
and she had the most sculptured mouth I have 
ever seen. Her long eyes were green, dark, 
and luminous. Sometimes they had the look 
of a child, sometimes she allowed them to flash 
with the fire of an animated spirit. But the 
expression she chose to cultivate was that 
associated with crowned head and sceptered hand; 
and sure no queen had ever looked so calm, 
so inexorable, so haughty, so terribly clear of 
vision. She never posed — for any one, at least, 
but herself. For some reason — ^a youthful 
reason probably — the iron in her nature was most 
admired by her. Wherefore, — ^also, as she had 
the power, as twin, to heal and curse, — I had 
named her the Doomswoman, and by this name 
she was known far and wide. By the lower class 
of Santa Barbara she was called The Golden
Sefiorita, on account of her hair and of her father's 
vast wealth. 

"Come," she said, " every one is waiting. 
Do not you hear the voices ? " 

The windows were closed, but through 
them came a murmur like that of a pine 
forest 

The governor motioned to the nurse to 
follow Chonita and myself, and she trotted 
after us, her ugly face beaming with pride of 
position. Was not in her arms the oldest-born 
of a new generation of Alvarados ? the daughter
of the governor of The Californias ? Her 
smock, embroidered with silk, was new, and 
looked whiter than fog against her bare brown 
arms and face. Her short red satin skirt, a 
gift of her happy lady's, was the finest ever 
worn by exultant nurse. About her stringy 
old throat was a gold chain, bright red roses 
were woven in her black reboso. I saw her " 
admire Chonita's stately figure with scornful 
reserve of the colorless gown. 

We were followed in a moment by the gov- 
ernor, adjusting his collar and smoothing his 
hair. As he reached the door-way at the front 
of the house he was greeted with a shout from 
assembled Monterey. The plaza was gay 
with beaming faces and bright attire. The 
men, women, and children of the people were 
on foot, a mass of color on the opposite side 
of the plaza : the women in gaudy cotton 
frocks girt with silken sashes, tawdry jewels, 
and spotless camisas, the coquettish reboso 
draping with equal grace faces old and brown, 
faces round and olive ; the men in glazed 
sombreros, short calico jackets and trousers ;
Indians wound up in gala blankets. In the fore- 
ground, on prancing silver trapped horses, were 
caballeros and doHas, laughing and coquet- 
ting, looking down in triumph upon the 
duenas and parents who rode older and milder 
mustangs and shook brown knotted fingers at 
heedless youth. The young men had ribbons 
twisted in their long black hair, and silver 
eagles on their soft gray sombreros. Their 
velvet serapes were embroidered with gold ; 
the velvet knee-breeches were laced with gold 
or silver cord over fine white linen ; long 
deerskin botas were gartered with vivid 
ribbon ; flaunting sashes bound their slender 
waists, knotted over the hip. The girls and 
young married women wore black or white 
mantillas, the silken lace of Spain, regardless 
of the sun which might darken their Castilian 
fairness. Their gowns were of flowered silk 
or red or yellow satin, the waist long and 
pointed, the skirt full ; jeweled buckles of tiny 
slippers flashed beneath the hem. The old 
people were in rich dress of sober color. A 
few Americans were there in the ugly garb of 
their country, a blot on the picture. 

At the door, just in front of the cavalcade, 
stood General Vallejo's carriage, the only one 
in California, sent from Sonoma for the
occasion. Beside it were three superbly-trapped 
horses. 

The governor placed the swelling" nurse in 
the carriage, then glanced about him. " Where 
is Estenega ? — and the Castros ? " he asked. 

" There are Don Jose and Dona Modeste 
Castro," said Chonita. 

The crowd had parted suddenly, and two 
men and a woman rode toward the governor. 
One of the men was tall and dark, and his 
somber military attire became the stern 
sadness of his face. Castro was not Comandante- 
general of the army at that time, but his 
bearing was as imperious in that year of 1840 as 
when six years later the American Occupation 
closed forever the career of a man made in 
derision for greatness. At his right rode his 
wife, one of the most queenly beauties of her 
time, small as she was in stature. Every 
woman's eye turned to her at once ; she was our 
leader of fashion, and we all copied the gowns 
that came to her from the city of Mexico. 

But Chonita gave no heed to the Castros. 
She fixed her cold direct regard on the man 
who rode with them, and whom, she knew, 
must be Diego Estenega, for he was their 
guest. She was curious to see this enemy of 
her house, the political rival of her brother, the 

owner of the voice which had given her the 
first thrill of her life. He was dressed as 
plainly as Castro, and had none of the rich 
southern beauty of the caballeros. His hair 
was cut short like Alvarado's, and his face was 
thin and almost sallow. But the life that was in 
that face ! the passion, the intelligence, the 
kindness, the humor, the grim determination ! 
And what splendid vitality was in his tall thin 
figure, and nervous activity under the repose 
of his carriage ! I remember I used to think 
in those days that Diego Estenega could con- 
quer the world if he wished, although I sus- 
pected that he lacked one quality of the great 
rulers of men, — inexorable cruelty. 

From the moment his horse carried him into 
the plaza he did not remove his eyes from 
Chonita's face. She lowered hers angrily after 
a moment. As he reached the house he sprang 
to the ground, and Alvarado presented the 
sponsors. He lifted his cap and bowed, but 
not as low as the caballeros who were wont to 
prostrate themselves before her. They mur- 
mured the usual form of salutation : 

" At your feet, senorita. " 

" I appreciate the honor of your 
acquaintance." 

"It is my duty and pleasure to lift you to 

your horse." And, still holding his cap in his 
hand, he led her to one of the three horses 
which stood beside the carriage ; with little 
assistance she sprang to its back, and he 
mounted the one reserved for him. 

The cavalcade started. First the carriage, 
then Alvarado and myself, followed by the 
sponsors, the Castros, the members of the
Departmental Junta and their waives, then the 
taballeros and the dofias, the old people and 
the Americans ; the populace trudging gayly 
in the rear, keeping good pace with the riders, 
who were held in check by a fragment of pulp too 
young to be jolted. 

" You never have been in Monterey before, 
seftorita, I understand," said Estenega to
Chonita. No situation could embarrass him. 

"No ; once they thought to send me to the 
convent here, — to Dona Concepcion Argillo, 
— but it was so far, and my mother does not 
like to travel. So Dofia Concepcion came to 
lis for a year, and, after, I studied with an
instructor who came from Mexico to educate my 
brother and me." She had no intention of
being communicative with Diego Estenega, but 
his keen reflective gaze confused her, and she 
took refuge in words. 

" Dona Eustaquia tells me that^ unlike most 

of our women, you have read many books. Few 
Californian women care for anything but to look 
beautiful and to marry, — not, however, being 
unique in that respect. Would you not rather 
live in our capital? You are so far away down 
there, and there are but few of the gente de razon, 
no?" 

"We are well satisfied, seiior, and we are 
gay when, we wish. There are ten families in 
the town, and many rancheros within a hundred 
leagues. They think nothing of com- 
ing to our balls. And we have grand religious 
processions, and bull-fights, and races. We 
have beautiful canons for meriendas ; and I 
could dance every night if I wished. We are 
few, but we are quite as gay and quite as happy 
as you in your capital. " The pride of the Itur- 
bi y Moncadas and of the Barbarina flashed 
in her eyes, then made way for anger under 
the amused glance of Estenega. 

'*Oh, of course, "he said, teasingly. "You 
are to Monterey what Monterey is to the city 
of Mexico. But, pardon me, senorita ; I would 
not anger you for all the gold which is said to 
lie like rocks under our Californias, — if it be 
true that certain padres hold that mighty secret.
(God ! how I should like to get one by 
the throat and throttle it out of him !) Pardon 


me again, sefiorita ; I was going to say that 
you may be pleased to know that there is little 
magnificence where my ranchos are, — high on 
the coast, among the redwoods. I live in a 
house made of big ugly logs, unpainted. 
There are no cavalcades in the cold depths of 
those redwood forests, and the ocean beats 
against ragged cliffs. Only at Fort Ross, in her 
log palace, does the beautiful Russian, Princess 
H^l^ne Rotscheff, strive occasionally to make 
herself and others forget that the forest is not the 
Bois of her beloved Paris, that in it the grizzly 
and the panther hunger for her, and that an Ind- 
ian Prince, mad with love for the only fair-haired 
woman he has ever seen, is determined to carry 
her off '' 

" Tell me ! tell me ! " cried Chonita, eagerly, 
forgetting her role and her enemy. ''What is 
that ? I do not know the princess, although she 
has sent me word many times to visit her — 
Did an Indian try to carry her off ? " 

"It happened only the other day. Prince 
Solano, perhaps you have heard, is chief of all 
the tribes of Sonoma, Valley of the Moon. He 
is a handsome animal, with a strong will and 
remarkable organizing abilities. One day I 
was entertaining the Rotscheffs at dinner when 
Solano suddenly flung the door open and strode 

into the room : we are old friends, and my 
servants do not stand on ceremony with him. 
As he caught sight of the princess he halted 
abruptly, stared at her for a moment, much as 
the first man may have stared at the first 
woman, then turned and left the house, sprang 
on his mustang and galloped away. The 
princess, you must know, is as blonde as only 
a Russian can be, and an extremely pretty 
woman, small and dainty. No wonder the 
mighty prince of darkness took fire. She was 
much amused. So was Rotscheff, and he joked 
her the rest of the evening. Before he left, 
however, I had a word with him alone, and 
warned him not to let the princess stray be- 
yond the walls of the fortress. That same 
night I sent a courier to General Vallejo — 
who, fortunately, was at Sonoma — bidding him 
watch Solano. And, sure enough — the day I 
left for Monterey the Princess H61ne was in 
hysterics, Rotscheff was swearing like a 
madman, and a soldier was at every carronade : 
word had just come from General Vallejo that 
he had that morning intercepted Solano in his 
triumphant march, at the head of six tribes, 
upon Fort Ross, and sent him flying back to 
his mountain-top in disorder and bitterness 
of spirit" 



"That is very interesting ! " cried Chonita. 
" I like that. What an experience those 
Russians have had ! That terrible tragedy ! — Ah, I 
remember, it was you who were to have aided 
Natalie Ivanhoff in her escape " 

" Hush ! " said Estenega. '' Do not speak of 
that. Here we are. At your service, senorita. 
'' He sprang to the whaleboned pavement 
in front of the little church facing the blue bay 
and surrounded by the gray ruins of the old 
Pregidio, and lifted her down. 

Chonita recalled, and angry with herself for 
having been beguiled by her enemy, took the 
infant from the nurse's arms and carried it 
fearfully up the aisle. Estenega, walking beside her, 
regarded her meditatively. 

" What is she ? " he thought, " this Californian
woman with her hair of gold and her un- 
mistakable intellect, her marble face crossed 
now and again by the animation of the clever 
American woman ? What an anomaly to find 
on the shores of the Pacific ! All I had heard 
of The Doomswoman, The Golden Senorita, 
gave me no idea of this. What a pity that our 
houses are at war ! She is not maternal, at 
all events ; I never saw a baby held so 
awkwardly. What a poise of head ! She looks 
better fitted for tragedy than for this little 


comedy of life in the Califomias.
A sovereignty would suit her, — were it not for her eyes. 
They are not quite so calm and just and inex- 
orable as the rest of her face. She would not 
even make a good household tyrant, like Dona 
Jacoba Duncan. Unquestionably she is religious, 
and swaddled in all the traditions of her 
race ; but her eyes, — they are at odds wkh all 
the rest of her. They are not lovely eyes ; 
they lack softness and languor and tractability ; 
their expression changes too often, and they 
mirror too much intelligence for loveliness, but 
they never will be old eyes, and they never 
will cease to look. And they are the eyes best 
worth looking into that I have ever seen. No, 
a sovereignty would not suit her at all ; a salon 
might. But, like a few of us, she is some 
years ahead of her sphere. Glory be to the 
Californias — of the future, when we are dirt, 
and our children have found the gold ! " 

The baby was nearly baptized by the time 
he had finished his soliloquy. She had kicked 
alarmingly when the salt was laid on her 
tongue, and squalled under the deluge of water 
which gave her her name and also wet Cho- 
nita's sleeve. The godmother longed for the 
ceremony to be over ; but it was more protracted 
than usual, owing to the importance 



of the restless object on the pillow in her 
weary arms. When the last word was said, 
she handed pillow and baby to the nurse with 
a fervent sigh of relief which made her appear 
girlish and natural. 

After Estenega had lifted her to her horse he 
dried her sleeve with his handkerchief. He 
lingered over the task ; the cavalcade and 
populace went on without them, and when they 
started they were in the rearward of the blithe-
some crowd. 

"Do you know what I thought as I stood 
by you in the church ? " he asked. 

" No," she said, indifferently. ''I hope you 
prayed for the fortune of the little one." 

'*I did not; nor did you. You. were too 
afraid you would drop it. I was thinking how 
unmotherly, I had almost said unwomanly, 
you looked. You were made for the great 
world, — the restless world, where people fly 
faster from monotony than from a tidal wave. " 

She looked at him with cold dignity, but 
flushed a little. ' ' I am not unwomanly, senor, 
although I confess I do not understand babies 
and do detest to sew. But if I ever marry I 
shall be a good wife and mother. No Spanish 
woman was ever otherwise, for every Spanish 
woman has had a good mother for example.' 

"You have said exactly what you should 
have said, voicing the inborn principles and 
sentiments of the Spanish woman. I should 
be interested to know what your individual 
sentiments are. But you misunderstand me. 
I said that you were too good for the average 
lot of woman. You are a woman, not a doll ; 
an intelligence, not a bundle of shallow 
emotions and transient desires. You should have 
a larger destiny." 

She gave him a swift sidelong flash from 
eyes that suddenly looked childish and eager. 

"It is true," she said, frankly, " I have no 
desire to marry and have many children. My 
father has never said to me, *Thou must 
marry ; ' and I have sometimes thought I 
would say *No' when that time came. For 
the present I am contented with my books and 
to ride about the country on a wild horse ; but 
perhaps — I do not know — I may not always 
be contented with that. Sometimes when 
reading Shakespeare I have imagined myself 
each of those women in turn. But generally, 
of course, I have thought little of being any 
one but myself What else could I be here .? " 

" Nothing; excepting a Joan of Arc when 
the Americans sweep down upon us. But 
that would be only for a day ; we should be such 

easy prey. If I could put you to sleep and 
awaken you fifty years hence, when California 
was a modern civilization ! God speed the 
Americans: Therein lies our only chance.' 

" What ! " she cried. '*You — you would 
have the Americans ? You — a Californian ! 
But you are an Estenega ; that explains every- 
thing." 

'* I am a Californian," he said, ignoring the 
scorn of the last words, ' ' but I hope I have 
acquired some common-sense in roving about 
the world. The women of California are ad- 
mirable in every way, — chaste, strong of 
character, industrious, devoted wives and 
mothers, born with sufficient capacity for 
small pleasures. But what are our men ? 
Idle, thriftless, unambitious, too lazy to walk 
across the street, but with a horse for every 
step, sleeping all day in a hammock, gambling 
and drinking all night. They are the natural 
followers of a race of men who came here to 
force fortune out of an unbroken country ^yith 
little to help them but brains and will. The 
great effort produced great results ; therefore 
there is nothing for their sons to do, and they 
luxuriously do nothing. What will the next 
generation be ? Our women will marry Americans, 
— respect for men who are men will 
overcome prejudice, — the crossed blood will 
fight for a generation or two, then a race will 
be born worthy of California. Why are our 
few great men so very great to us? What 
have men of exceptional talent to fight down 
in the Californias except the barriers to its de- 
velopment ? In England or the United States 
they still would be great men, — Alvarado and 
Castro, at least, — but they would have to work 
harder. " 

Chonita, in spite of her disapproval and her 
blood, looked at him with interest His ideas 
and language were strikingly unlike the sentimental
rhetoric of the caballeros. 

"It is as you say," she admitted ; "but the 
Califomian's highest duty is loyalty to his country. 
Ours is a double duty, isolated as we are 
on this far strip of land, away from all other 
civilization. We should be more contemptible
than Indians if we were not true to our 
flag." 

"No wonder that you and that famous patriot 
of ours. Dona Eustaquia Ortega, are bonded 
friends. I doubt if you could hate as well as 
she. You have no such violence in your nature ; 
you could neither love nor hate very 
hard. You would love (if you loved at all) 
with majesty and serenity, and hate with chill 
severity." While he spoke he watched her 
intently. 

She met his gaze unflinchingly. " True, 
senor ; I am no * bundle of shallow emotions,' 
nor have I a lion in me, like Eustaquia. I am 
a creature of deliberation, not of impulse : I 
love and hate as duty dictates. " 

"You are by nature the most impulsive wo- 
man I ever saw," he said, much amused, "and 
Eustaquia's lion is a kitten to the one that sleeps 
in you. You have cold deliberation enough, 
but it is manufactured, and the result of pretty 
hard work at that. Like all edifices reared 
without a foundation, it will fall with a crash some 
day, and the fragments will be of very little use 
to you." And there the conversation ended: 
they had reached the plaza, and a babel of 
voices surrounded them. Governor Alvarado 
stood on the upper corridor of his house, 
throwing handfuls of small gold coins among the 
people, who were shrieking with delight. The 
girl guests mingled with them, seeing that no 
palm went home empty. Beside the governor 
sat Doiia Martina, radiant with pride, and 
behind her stood the nurse, holding the infant on its 
pillow. 

"We had better go to the house as soon as 
possible," said Estenega. "It is nearly time 

for the bull-bear fight, and we must have good 
seats." 

They forced their way through the crowd, 
dismounted at the door, and went up to the 
corridor. The Castros and I were already there, 
with a number of other invited guests. The 
women sat in chairs, close to the corridor 
railing ; several rows of men stood behind them. 

The plaza was a jagged circle surrounded by 
dwelling-houses, some one story in height, 
others with overhanging balconies ; from it 
radiated five streets. All corridors were crowded 
with the elegantly-dressed men and women of 
the aristocracy ; large black fans were waving ; 
every eye was flashing expectantly ; the 
people stood on platforms which had been erected 
in four of the streets. 

Amidst the shouts of the spectators, two 
vaqueros, dressed in black velvet short-clothes, 
dazzling linen, and stiff black sombreros, 
tinkling bells attached to their trappings, jingling 
spurs on their heels, galloped into the plaza, 
driving a large aggressive bull. They chased 
him about in a circle, swinging their reatas, 
dodging his onslaughts, then rode out, and four 
others entered, dragging an unwilling bear by a 
reata tied to each of its legs. By means of a long 
chin and pauch dexterity they fastened the two 



 



 



 

beasts together, freed the legs of the bear, then 
retired to the entrance to await events. But the 
bull and the bear would not fight. The latter 
arose on his haunches and regarded his enemy 
warily ; the bull appeared to disdain the bear 
as too small game ; he but lowered his horns 
and pawed the ground. The spectators grew 
impatient. The brave caballeros and dainty 
donas wanted blood. They tapped their feet 
and murmured ominously. . As for the populace, 
it howled for slaughter. Governor Al- 
varado made a sign to one of the vaqueros ; the 
man rushed abruptly upon the bull and hit him 
a sharp blow across the nose with the cruel 
quirto. The bulls dignity vanished. With the 
quadrupedian capacity for measuring distance, 
he inferred that the blow had been inflicted by 
the bear, who sat some twenty feet away, mildly 
licking his paws. He made a savage onset. 
The bear, with the dexterity of a vaquero, 
leaped aside and sprang upon the assailant's 
neck, his teeth meeting argumentatively in the 
rope-like tendons. The bull roared with pain 
and rage and attempted to shake him off, but 
he hung on ; both lost their footing and rolled 
over and over amidst clouds of dust, a mighty 
noise, and enough blood to satisfy the early 
thirst of the beholders. Then the bull wrenched 

himself free ; before the mountain visitor could 
scramble to his feet, he fixed him with his horns 
and tossed him on high. As the bear came 
down on his back with a thud and a snap which 
would have satisfied a bull less anxious to show 
what a bull could do, the victor rushed upon 
the corpse, kicked and stamped and bit until 
the blood spouted into his eyes, and pulp and 
dust were indistinguishable. Then how the 
delighted spectators clapped their hands and 
cried "Brava I " to the bull, who pranced about 
the plaza, dragging the carcass of the bear 
after him, his head high, his big eyes red and 
rolling! The women tore off their rebosos and 
waved them like banners, smashed their fans, 
and stamped their little feet ; the men whirled 
their sombreros with supple wrists. But the 
bull was not satisfied; he pawed the ground 
with demanding hoofs ; and the vaqueros gal- 
loped into the ring with another bear. Nor had 
they time to detach their reatas before the bull 
was upon the second antagonist; and they 
were obliged to retire in haste. 

Estenega, who stood between Chonita and 
myself, watched The Doomswoman atten- 
tively. Her lips were compressed fiercely ; 
for a moment they bore a strange resemblance 
to his own as I had seen them at times. Her 


nostrils were expanded, her lids half covered 
her eyes. '*She has cruelty in her," he mur- 
mured to me as the first battle finished ; " and 
it was her imperious wish that the bull should 
win, because he is the more lordly animal. 
She has no sympathy for the poor bundle 
of hair and quivering flesh that bounded on 
the mountain yesterday. Has she brutality 
in her.? — ^just enough " 

"Brava! Brava I " The women were on 
their feet ; even Chonita for the moment forgot 
herself, and beat the railing with her small 
fist. Another bear had been impaled and 
tossed and trampled. The bull, panting from 
his exertions, dashed about the plaza, still 
dragging his first victim after him. Suddenly 
he stopped ; the blood gushed from his nos- 
trils ; he shivered like a skeleton hanging in 
the wind, then fell in an ignominious heap — 
dead. 

'* A warning, Diego," I said, rising and shak- 
ing my fan at him. "Be not too ambitious, 
else wilt thou die of thy victories. And do not 
love the polar star," I murmured in his ear, 
" lest thou set fire to it and fall to ashes 
thyself,"



III. 


In the long dining-room, opening upon the 
large high-walled garden at the back of the 
Governor's house, a feast was spread for fifty 
people. Dona Martina sat for a little time at 
the head of the table, her yellow gown almost 
hidden by the masses of hair which her small 
head could not support. Castro was on one 
side of her, Estenega on the other, Chonita by 
her arch-enemy. A large bunch of artificial 
flowers was at each plate, and the table was 
loaded with yellowed chickens sitting proudly 
in scarlet gravy, tongues covered with walnut 
sauce, grilled meats, tamales, mounds of tor- 
tillas, and dulces. 

Alvarado, at the lower end of the table, sat 
between Dona Modeste Castro and myself ; and 
between the extremes of the board were faces 
glowing, beautiful, ugly, but without exception 
fresh and young. From all, the mantilla and 
serape had been removed, jewels sparkled in 
the lace shirts of the men, white throats were 
encircled by the invariable necklace of Baja 

Californian pearls. Chonita alone wore a string* 
of black pearls. I never saw her without it. 

Dona Martina took little part in the talk and 
laughter, and after a time slipped away, mo- 
tioning to Chonita to take her place. The con- 
versation turned upon war and politics, and in 
its course Estenega, looking from Chonita to 
Castro with a smile of good-natured irony, 
said, — 

"Dona Chonita is of your opinion, coronel, 
that California was the direct gift of heaven to 
the Spaniards, and that the Americans cannot 
have us." 

Castro raised his glass to the comadre. 
" Dona Chonita has the loyal bosom of all Cali- 
fornian women. Our men love better the olive 
of peace than the flavor of discord; but did 
the bandoleros dare to approach our peaceful 
shores with dastardly intent to rob, then, 
thanks be to God, I know that every man among 
them would fight for this virgin land. Thou, 
too, Diego, thou wouldst unsheathe thy sword, 
in spite of thy pretended admiration of the 
Americans. " 

Estenega raised his shoulders. " Possibly. 
But in American occupation lies the hope of 
California. What have we done with it in our 
seventy years of possession ? Built a few 
missions, which are rotting, terrorized or cajoled 
a few thousand worthless Indians into civilized 
imbecility, and raised a respectable number of 
horses and cattle. Our hide and tallow trade 
is only good ; the Russians have monopolized 
the fur trade ; we continue to raise cattle and 
horses because it would be an exertion to 
suppress them ; and meanwhile we dawdle 
away our lives very pleasurably, whilst a 
magnificent territory, filled with gold and 
richer still in soil, lies idle beneath our feet. 
Nature never works without a plan. She com- 
pounded a wonderful country, and she created 
a wonderful people to develop . it. She has 
allowed us to drone on it for a little time, but 
it was not made for us ; and I am sufficiently 
interested in California to wish to see her rise 
from her sleep and feel and live in every part 
of her. " He turned suddenly to Chonita. ' ' If 
I were a sculptor," he said; " I should use you 
as a model for a statue of California. I have 
the somewhat whimsical idea that you are the 
human embodiment of her." 

Before she could muster her startled and 
angry faculties for reply, before Estenega had 
finished speaking, in fact, Castro brought his 
open palm down on the table, his eyes blazing. 


"Oh, execrable profanation!" he cried. 
'* Oh, unheard-of perfidy ! Is it possible that 
a man calling himself a Californian could give 
utterance to such sentiments ? Oh, abomina- 
tion ! You would invite, welcome, uphold, the 
American adventurer ? You would tear apart 
the bosom of your country under pretense of 
doctoring its evils ? You would cast this fair 
gift of Almighty God at the feet of American 
swine? Oh, Diego ! Diego ! This comes of 
the heretic books thou hast read. It is better 
to have heart than brain." 

" True : the palpitations do not last as long. 
We have had proof which I need not recapitu- 
late that to preserve California to itself it must 
be tied fast to Mexico, otherwise would it die 
of anarchy or fall a prey to the first invader. 
So far so good. But what has Mexico done for 
California ? Nothing ; and she will do less. 
She is a mother who has forgotten the child she 
put out to nurse. England and France and 
Russia would do as little. But the United 
States, young and ambitious, will give her 
greedy attention, and out of their greed will 
California's good be wrought. And although 
they sweep us from the earth, they will plant 
fruit where they found weeds." 

Don Jose pushed back his chair violently and 
left the table. Estenega turned to Chonita and 
found her pallid, her nostrils tense, her eyes 
flashing. 

" Traitor! " she articulated. "I hate you ! 
And it was yo\x— you — who kept my loyal 
brother from serving his country in the Depart- 
mental Junta. He is as full of fire and
patriotism as Castro ; and yet you, whose blood is 
ice, could be a member of the Electoral College 
and defeat the election of a man who is as 
much an honor to his country as you are a 
shame. " 

He smiled a little cruelly, but without anger 
or shame in his face. "Senorita," he said, " I 
defeated your brother because I did not believe 
him to be of any use to his country. He 
would only have been in the way as a mem- 
ber of the Junta, and an older man wanted the 
place. Your brother has Don Josh's enthusiasm 
without his magnetism and remarkable execu- 
tive power. He is too young to have had 
experience, and has done neither reading nor 
thinking. Therefore I did my best to defeat 
him. Pardon my rudeness, senorita ; ascribe 
it to revenge for calling me a traitor." 

' You — you " she stammered, then bent 

her head over her plate, her Spanish dignity 
aghast at the threatening tears. Her hand 

hung clinched at her side. Diego took it in 
spite of resistance, and, opening the rigid
fingers, bent his head beneath the board and 
