as pale as a woman ! " 
 
" Might be Marcy. Must be Marcy." 
" Ghosts are played out," said one fellow 
contemptuously. " Protoplasm 's done away 
with em. Spooks are out of fashion. They 
give us the amosba these days. No chance 
for dead people. The missing link takes it. 
Don't be jackasses. It 's Marcy, of course. 
Marcy f" 
The boys huddled together. They all 
looked a little gray about the mouth. He 
who had the dark lantern flashed it full on 
the receiving-vault. 
Marcy was nowhere to be seen. They 
called him in every tone of jest, anger, 
threat, and entreaty. No one responded. 
One of the boys swore that the door of the 
receiving-tomb swung in and out upon its 
hinges. Another vowed that a muffled fig 
ure glided behind the old brick vault, and 
crouched and watched there. There was one 
fellow who saw six apparitions, and each 
had eyes of flame, and their winding-sheets 
smoked. Ben Braggs moved that they go 
home. He explained that he did not refer 
to the ghosts. They were on their own 
ground ; had a right there, so far as he 
knew; and, so far as he cared, they were 
welcome to it. One of the boys reminded 
him that they couldn't go home and leave a 
fellow buried alive. He thought they might 
get as much as forty marks apiece for it. 
While they were disputing and discussing 
the situation in their fashion, one of the 
most nervous fellows in the group suddenly 
gave a piercing yell, and took to his legs as 
fast as he could, without a word or sign of 
explanation. The boys sprang to their feet 
simultaneously, and glared at the receiving- 
vault with dilated eyes. Their teeth chat 
tered in their heads when they distinguished, 
past the doubt or query of the coolest or 
bravest, two tall, vague, threatening figures 
advancing upon them from the tomb. There 
was no Marcy about that. The rest of the 
hazing party made after the nervous fellow 
as fast as possible, and stayed to make no 
further investigations. They got a good 
start, and clattered down the long, deserted, 
frozen road like wild colts. The apparitions 
gave chase. They certainly did that very 
thing. This circumstance added vigor to the 
scene. Presumably, the boys were younger 
and better gymnasts than the tenants of a 
graveyard of that ancient description. At 
any rate, they had their start, and kept the 
advantage of it. The ghosts gave out before 
long, very much out of breath, and 
returned to their receiving-tomb in ghostly 
silence. 
Donald Marcy, sitting on the graveyard 
grass with Calhoun 's head upon his lap, and 
Calhoun 's pulse beneath his terrified fingers, 
looked up in his quick, alert fashion, when 
he heard the steps approaching him across 
the graves. He was uncomfortable, there is 
no denying. It was almost entirely dark. 
The figures advanced in a silence which was 
appalling. 
There was no whisper ; not a breath could 
be heard. They came like shadows, as 
unsubstantial, and as still. Don did not find 
this funny either ; but he did not flinch ; he 
was responsible for a human life, and he sat 
at his post doggedly. 
Suddenly one of the figures melted from 
sight. It had never occurred to Don before 
that a ghost could stumble over its own 
grave ; but this one had, it had gone down 
in a heap upon the brambly mound. The 
other one came to a standstill beside it. 
Then a voice, live, human, and emphatic, 
broke the dismal silence : 
"Be jabers, then, I've thripped over a 
dooced corrups ! The oncivil gossoon ! why 
don't he kape in his own quharthers ? Saint 
Father tache him manners ! " 
It was the too familiar voice of Jerry McCarty. 
" Are you hurt, my dear sir ? " inquired 
the modulated, controlled speech of a gentle 
man who was divided between wrath and 
laughter. 
That was the educated accent of the tutor 
in North Middle 's second floor. 
Donald Marcy waited to see and to hear 
no more. Confident that Calhoun would 
now be discovered, and every care given 
to the unlucky Freshman, the Sophomore 
thought it time to give some attention to 
his personal salvation. He slid his knees 
out from under Lee 's head, laid the body 
gently down, and glided away. In a mo 
ment he was over the graveyard wall, and 
dashing through the underbrush of a little 
grove of pines, which faithfully concealed 
his flight. 
A slight noise whirred through the leaves 
over his head, followed by a sharp report. 
He recognized Jerry McCarty 's revolver. 
But Jerry had missed that time, as he 
probably meant to. 
CHAPTER VI. 
IS IT MURDER? 
WHEN the monitor marked the roll at 
prayers next morning, he passed his pencil 
opposite the name of " Calhoun, Lee." 
All the hazing party were conspicuously 
and virtuously present at that devotional 
exercise. They were thoroughly alarmed at 
the state of the case as daylight revealed it 
to college rumor. The facts were running 
like forest fire all over the university by 
eight o clock. 
The tutor, Mr. Middleton, to whose in 
genious mind it had occurred in the course 
of the evening that something had gone 
wrong in his Freshman floor, had, it seemed, 
instituted entirely on his own behalf the 
chase which resulted in tracking down the 
offenders. His meeting with Jerry McCarty 
was one of those fortunate accidents which 
sometimes befall law and order in college 
government. Jerry, whose dogged and 
limited intellect had not yet evolved beyond the 
absorbing subject of body-snatching, track 
ing the hazing party on his own account, 
confident, excited, and relentless, had come 
face to face with the tutor behind the 
receiving-vault. When the two men reached the 
open grave from which the flying figure of 
Donald Marcy had retreated in good order, 
Jerry 's professional pleasure amounted to 
personal agitation, he was so sure, now, of 
his game and his glory. The policeman 's 
countenance, as he lighted and swung his 
lantern upon the prostrate figure of the 
Freshman, was a memorable sight. 
" Begorra, it 's a corrups ! " cried Jerry, 
radiant. " But, be jabers ! " his face fell 
like a plummet in a deep sea " it 's a live 
corrups, bad luck to em ! Glory to God ! " 
added Jerry, with gratification, putting his 
practiced hand to Calhoun 's heart. " It 's 
me belafe we'll have a murther here, sir, 
ennyhow. There 's some comfort in that, 
sir." 
The outlook for Calhoun, even as late as 
the next morning, was dark enough to jus 
tify the policeman 's prognosis. 
The poor fellow had been carefully're 
moved to his room, and faithfully watched 
all night by the best medical skill in the 
 
city. He was breathing, but still uncon 
scious. His brain, the physicians said, was 
affected ; how much, time only could 
determine. He might not outlive the day ; in 
which event they should give a verdict of 
" Death from exposure and fright." He 
might fall into brain fever of a violent and 
deadly type. He might simply sink into 
insanity or idiocy. Such was the cheerful 
choice of results liable to follow from one 
evening 's hazing, and " a little fun." 
Perhaps this is the place to say that such 
" fun " as this has been long since 
abandoned at Harle College. Calhoun 's case 
came into the rude and now outgrown days 
of hazing history. 
The students of Harle College were sober 
enough that morning. It was quite 
unnecessary for the hazors to assume any of 
those expressions of hilarity or indifference 
by which the college boy is accustomed to 
hide his head in the sand of his offenses. 
Such idle pretense would only have identi 
fied them in the general gloom and anxiety. 
Donald Marcy, if not the most guilty, was, 
perhaps, the most sensitive of the culprits ; 
and his distress was greater than the sunny, 
easy, happy - go - lucky fellow knew how to 
bear. Life had gone lightly with Don ; it 
had been one long play-day ; the events of 
his young history had been so many games 
to be won on holiday afternoons. He had 
always come off on the winning side. His 
father had supplied him freely with money 
for the asking ; his mother was an invalid 
who was disabled from interfering with his 
wishes, and quite unfit to do so if she could. 
From the restraints of a home which Don 
did not love very much, he had easily freed 
himself since he came to college, by vacation 
stays too short to interfere with his freedom 
as a rare and flying guest. He had traveled, 
visited, yachted, flirted, sung, joked, . and 
laughed his way through his irresponsible 
youth so merrily and so charmingly, that it 
seldom occurred to anybody to find more 
fault with him than with a bumble-bee. He 
had never been a bad boy. Vice was vulgar, 
and Don had the tastes of a gentleman. On 
the whole, too, he had meant to study - 
some time ; he would take rank when he 
got round to it. The primary object of a 
collegiate education, of course, was to have 
a good time, and form pleasant acquaint 
ances ; that achieved, he really preferred to 
come singing to the upper end of the upper 
 
division of his large class; in fact, lie 
pictured himself as waltzing in among the 
honors at the turn of the dance, when it 
suited him, as some day it assuredly would. 
For Don was no dunce ; in his solitary mo 
ments, he had but few such moments ; he 
was too popular, there was always a fellow 
around, or a girl to take somewhere, in 
his attacks of occasional solitude, he went so 
far, sometimes, as to dream of scholarship, 
and intellectual power and the world of 
thought, and the glory thereof. But he 
supposed that kind of thing would come to 
him, somehow, without too much trouble. 
Everything else had. 
Then he had been such a likable fellow ; 
it had occupied most of his time to see that 
people loved him ; they always did. It was 
a matter of course. Popularity is an 
occupation, if not a trade. Don had accepted 
his sincerely enough, he was no trickster, 
but it had kept him quite busy. Matters 
had always gone pleasantly with the lova 
ble fellow. His classmates liked him ; his 
young lady friends fell in love with him ; 
his " sweep " and his laundress adored him ; 
the society of whatever place he might 
happen to bestow his easy young presence upon 
invited him ; even the faculty had never 
been hard on him ; he called on the 
Professor 's daughters, and was on pleasant per 
sonal terms with the President, and, up to 
this time, had successfully evaded the black 
list of college discipline. Don had seen no 
reason why this sort of thing t should not go 
on forever. When he came face to face 
with the full horror and the full danger of 
the Calhoun affair, into whose consequences 
he had suffered himself to slip so jauntily, 
the shock was something inconceivable by a 
more thoughtful or a worse boy. 
Don was almost too miserable to keep 
about, and play the little part necessary to 
his own self-preservation. He sat most of 
the day in his own room, with Jamie Fleet. 
Don 's room was less gorgeous than it used 
to be in Freshman year; he had learned 
simplicity of living, and the healthy pleasure 
of adapting one 's self to the circumstances 
of one 's comrades ; it was a pretty, comfort 
able room, handsomely appointed, but of a 
little more studious cast. The Axminster 
carpet remained ; but there was less bric-a- 
brac, the upholstery was shabbier, and there 
were more books. 
Don sat in his pleasant room with his 
 
sympathetic chum, and faced his first serious 
scrape as well as he could. Jamie was grave ; 
it was a grave business. Jamie never went 
in for that sort of thing. But he did not 
preach to Don, or exasperate him by one 
" I-told-you-so." Jamie 's quiet " Didn't 
pay, Don, did it ? " meant more to Don 
than any keener moral rebuke that ever 
visited him. 
" Jamie," said Don wretchedly, " if I ever 
get out of this, I 'll try a new track." 
" Oh, I know you will ! " cried Jamie 
Fleet lovingly. He looked up from his 
Tacitus with sad, adoring eyes, that followed 
Don with something finer than reproach. 
" But he 'll die," groaned Don. " Calhoun 
will die, I know he will. I expect some of 
us will be hung, J. It 's just as likely to be 
I. I don't know," added Don desperately, 
" but I should rather be hung. I think I 
should enjoy it. If Calhoun dies, I don't 
see but it would be the only thing left for 
a fellow to do, to give himself up to the 
authorities. I 'll do it, if you say so, J. 
You're about right, every time." 
" I'd wait awhile," said Jamie Fleet en 
couragingly. "Don't plan for the gallows 
to-day. Learn your Latin, and keep in your 
room, and stay by me. You can't do better. 
It will steady your head." 
" Bless you, J," said Don forlornly, 
taking up his books, " I know how a boat feels 
tugging at her anchor, when I sit here with 
you. I want to get up and go, and be into 
something, but I'm happier here. I really 
am, Jamie. But Lee will die. I am a 
murderer. Lee Calhoun will die. He 's just such 
a flat," added Don, with a spurt of his nat 
ural spirit. " Why, I could have made my 
way out of that coffin in no time. What 
are a few screws ? It only needed a little 
gumption and muscle. Just like Lee ! " 
Lee did not die that day. He lived till 
morning, and despair blunted into acute 
anxiety. He held on two days, and the 
more sanguine students began easily to hope. 
On the third day, he showed signs of 
consciousness, and fifteen hundred faces in 
Harle College brightened. The next morning 
his physician pronounced him in for a 
clear case of brain fever, and fifteen hundred 
faces fell. 
Now the bitterest lesson of life the tor 
ment of prolonged suspense set in for the 
hazing party. 
CHAPTER VII. 
A MANLY ACT. 
THE students all bore the suspense of 
Calhoun 's illness better, in a way, than 
Don, whose athletic strength shook beneath 
the strain. lie paled and weakened and 
worried, till Jamie Fleet warned him that 
the faculty would need no evidence against 
him ; his own honest face would be his un 
answerable accuser. Don replied that he 
didn't care if it did. If he'd got to be a 
murderer, he needn't be a cheat ; and if 
this lasted many weeks more he should die 
before Lee did, and glad of it. 
" Oh, brace up ! " said Trouncey O Grian. 
" Brace up, and square off ! " 
But that same day Trouncey came into 
the rhetoric class looking almost as pale as 
Don. He tossed over six settees a paper 
ball, which Don, snatching, unfolded, and 
read : 
" Faculty swooped like a wolf on the fold. 
Braggs and me hit for ringleaders. Shall 
be sat on to-night." 
And, indeed, that night, at half-past 
eleven, Trouncey tumbled into Donald 's 
room, and flinging himself into Fleet 's empty 
revolving study-chair (Jamie had gone to 
bed), put his feet on the table, wheeled 
around slowly, and heavily said : 
" It 's all up, Marey. I'm expelled from 
Harle College." 
" What for ? " asked Don sharply, wheel 
ing too. 
" Oh, for the graveyard business." 
" Nothing else ? " 
" They didn't mention anything else. 
That was the point. Buried alive ; brutal 
ity, and that sort of thing." 
"Did you deny it?" 
" Oh, yes, yes. I said I never hit foul. 
I said I wasn't there. Middleton said I 
was. Prexy advised me to own up. Said 
it would be better for me. I said I'd be 
blanked first, for I wasn't there. So I was 
expelled. That 's all." 
" Anything said about me ? " asked Don 
ald thoughtfully ; his handsome face, refined 
by the suffering of the last few weeks, 
showed sensitive agitation while Trouncey 
spoke. 
" Not a word. Didn't seem to spot you. 
 
Impression out that you were cramming for 
Peeker Prizes that night. Friends of yours 
circulated it. I'm glad of it," added Trouncey 
generously. " I don't want you floored." 
There was a silence between the two boys, 
which neither seemed inclined to break. 
Don did not even offer Trouncey a cigar, 
the occasion seemed above smoking, some 
how. Donald looked haggardly at Troun- 
cey 's big, good-natured, lumbering face. Its 
distress was the more striking because he 
could not remember ever to have seen 
Trouncey look sad before. 
" My father," added the prize-fighter 's 
son stoutly, " will knock me down. I ex 
pect he 'll kill me, he 'll be so mad. He 
thought I'd make a scholar, turn out a're 
spectable fellow, and that sort of thing ; he 
said he didn't want a son of his in the ring. 
He promised my mother he'd make a su 
perior citizen of me, he did really. She 
died five years ago. My father liked my 
mother. She was a good woman. Hard 
hit to father that I'm such a dunce, any 
how. T is, really. He thought I'd win for 
a purse of a thousand on rank, and that. I 
can't, you know, Marcy. T isn't in me. I 
expect to come out as I sailed in, last 
division, and a good way down, too. But I 
never thought I'd be expelled from Harle," 
said Trouncey, with a broken voice. " My 
mother would have been disappointed, 
wouldn't she ? Well, I can stand the lick 
ing, I guess. He can pommel me, if he 
wants to. But I'm sort o glad she ain't 
around." 
" Trouncey," said Donald, in a firm voice, 
"you just wait here a few minutes, will 
you ? I've got a little errand to attend to. 
I 'll be back directly, and we 'll get up some 
thing hot, and talk it over. I 'll run over 
and get a few lemons ; and I believe I'm 
out of sugar." 
Donald Marcy did not go for lemons and 
sugar ; at least not just then. On the con 
trary, he went to the President 's house ; he 
went as straight as he could go ; he ran all 
the way, and came panting up to the door 
of the official mansion, a very short-winded 
and heavy-hearted young man. 
Yet there was a curious, delicate lightness 
in his soul, too, as if rudiments of wings 
were there, ready to fly, if they had a 
chance. It was an odd sensation, to which 
the boy was not used. 
The sombre house of the President was 
 
dark ; only one light burned in it ; that was 
in the study, and the study was an ell. The 
President sat in the room, hard at work. 
The ell had an outer door of its own, 
expressly for the use of the students, and Don 
ald, without a moment 's hesitation, loudly 
rang the bell of the study door. 
The President opened it directly, with 
some nervousness ; and, seeing who it was, 
he said, with the irritation of a man who 
feels that he has been needlessly alarmed : 
" Marcy ? Why, come in ! What can 
you want at this hour ? " 
Donald stepped into the bright, warm 
room, and stood among the books, which 
reached from floor to ceiling all about the 
study. At that moment nothing seemed so 
vivid to him as the educated life which this 
spot represented ; the honor and the 
preciousness of all those intangible values which 
come to a man from the self-denial of 
thought, and toil, and gravity of purpose, 
and simplicity of life. His own vague 
young dreams of the some time when he, too, 
would belong to that high world which 
scholars know, swam before his brain 
dizzily. He had to collect himself, he tried 
to control himself, not to think of what 
he was about to surrender forever ; he found 
it difficult to articulate. He looked at the 
President appealingly. 
"Speak out, man ! " cried President Bax 
ter, a little crossly. " What is your 
errand ? " 
A woman 's figure seemed, to Donald 's 
excited vision, to float between his faltering 
purpose and the stern face of the college 
officer. Odd ! But the thing which stead 
ied the boy, and gave him the grace and 
strength of his emergency at that moment, 
the only thing that calmed his tumultuous 
thoughts into words, and his words into the 
prompt and manly ring that the President 
spoke of afterward, was the image of 
Trouncey 's mother. A pity to " disappoint 
" a woman, and a dead one, too ! 
" Sir," said Donald simply, " I've come 
to own up. Don't expel O Grian. He 
wasn't in that graveyard scrape. I was." 
When Donald got back to his room, he 
had lemons and sugar, and proceeded 
quietly to make his lemonade. Trouncey was 
asleep on the lounge, looking as miserable 
as a boy, when misery could not keep him 
awake, might be expected to look. 
 
Donald waited till the lemonade was hot, 
and then brought some (in his toilet mug), 
and waked the sleeper with a little push. 
" Come, Trouncey," he said gently, 
" here 's your lemonade. It 's piping hot. 
And you're not expelled, Trouncey. I've 
seen the President. It 's all right." 
Trouncey O Grian sat up sleepily and 
stared at Donald 's excited face. 
" The dickens you have ! Say ! Marcy ? 
well. Yes. Seen the President ! Good 
heavens ! But what in time did he say to 
you ? " 
" Oh, he didn't say very much," said 
Don quietly. "He told me the faculty 
would consider my case and let me know in 
a few days." 
CHAPTER VIII. 
THE FACULTY S VIEW OF IT. 
HARLE COLLEGE grew no calmer when 
the latest developments in the hazing scrape 
became widely known. Calhoun was be 
ginning to improve ; the fever had abated, 
and signs of intelligence in the sick boy 
returned. His doctor ventured to give a 
favorable prognosis for the outcome of the 
illness ; and the easy hope of the sanguine 
students bobbed to the surface gayly. 
College sympathy, now that the Freshman 's 
danger had decreased, lurched over to the 
popular Sophomore. 
Ben Braggs was expelled in good ear 
nest; and there was no more than the usual 
amount of college growling at this 
exhibition of discipline. But Braggs was not pop 
ular. He was a rough, fast, surly fellow, 
who had disgraced the university in other 
ways than heavy hazing, before this ; and 
he retired from the catalogue of the 
institution without any warmer regret than that 
 
vague amount of class feeling which the 
boys thought it proper to expend upon their 
departed comrade. 
With Donald it was another matter. 
Everybody liked Don Marcy too much to 
accept his disgrace. It was fought like a 
general injustice. Then he had done such 
a manly, honorable deed in sacrificing him 
self to save the prize-fighter 's son ; in the 
language of the boys, it was " such a square 
deal" that his immediate popularity was 
amazing. Instead of being the culprit of 
the faculty, Don was likely to become the 
hero of the college. This would have spoiled 
a vainer boy, or one with less basis of real 
sense in his nature. It might have hurt 
Don more than it did but for the sturdy, 
steady power of his chum, to which, in that 
hour of his humiliation and misery, Donald 
affectionately yielded. 
Jamie Fleet loved Don more than all 
Harle College put together did or could, 
and Don knew it ; but Jamie never flattered 
nor fooled him. 
In this case, he told him, frankly enough, 
that he had gone too far ; that he had done 
a cruel deed : " not manly," Jamie called it 
once ; and Don, who had never heard those 
iron words from anybody 's lips before, 
winced before his gentle friend. 
"Don't let the fellows gull you, Don," 
said Jamie Fleet. " It 's a bad business. I 
wouldn't forget that. It 's awfully nice of 
you to let up on Trouncey. But I don't 
see how you could have done less ; do you, 
Don?" 
" No," said Don mournfully. " I'm a 
gentleman and a man of honor. I had to 
let up on Trouncey." 
" I guess they 'll be easy on you," urged 
Jamie hopefully. It was impossible for 
him to scold Don. In his heart he felt that 
he would be expelled himself, if he could 
save his chum ; he had a passionate sort of 
unselfish, almost feminine adoration for the 
gayer, more brilliant, more polished boy, 
who had all the qualities that he himself 
lacked, and who, it must be owned, lacked 
the best of the qualities possessed by the 
shy, scholarly, silent fellow who " studied 
for rank" and got it. But he did not tell 
Don his little, yearning, sensitive feeling 
about wanting to bear the punishment for 
him. Jamie hid it in his heart. Boys don't 
say such things. It would have embarrassed 
them both. He only turned his soft, dark 
 
eyes, burning like a lamp behind a delicate 
shade, mutely upon his chum, and patted 
him upon the shoulder once or twice, and 
said, " Those fish-balls at breakfast must 
have been made of sculpins," and changed 
the subject to the landlady 's daughter. 
In the course of the week, Donald 's 
suspense came to an official end. The Pres 
ident sent for him to come to the ell study, 
and there he was examined by Mr. Middleton. 
Don told a straight, true story, excusing 
nothing, and accusing nobody, withholding 
all names but his own, of course, as in 
college honor bound, but otherwise giving the 
history of the hazing scrape simply, honestly, 
and gloomily. He was very unhappy. He 
was prepared for the worst, and had writ 
ten to his father to expect it. 
" The faculty will hold another meeting 
to-night," observed the President, when the 
hearing was over. He said nothing more. 
He and the tutor exchanged grave and in 
scrutable looks. Don felt that all hope for 
him was over. He had a sort of scorn of 
pleading his own case. He asked no favor 
or clemency from the authorities, but sadly 
and silently bowed himself out of the study, 
and went to his room by back streets, avoid 
ing all the fellows. 
The next morning he received the offi 
cial verdict of the faculty : " Not 
expelled. Suspended, and rusticated for two 
months" 
This was so much better than was to be 
feared that Don was generally congratulated 
by the fellows. His class proposed to 
treat him to a canvas-back duck supper, 
which he declined, on the ground that he 
preferred roast peacock ; and the hazing 
party came to his room and gave his health 
in cider and peanuts ; which he accepted, 
at the cost of a headache. 
Now the line of demarcation between 
headache and heartache is always extremely 
vague ; and in this case it was hard to find 
title-deeds for the boundaries. Don was mis 
erable in soul. Don was uncomfortable in 
body. He did not know which was the 
other. Life took on one of those fogs of 
heavy coloring which made it seem, for the 
time, unworthy of the attention of a very 
young person. Donald felt that his career 
was ended. He told Jamie Fleet that no 
thing remained for him to live for. 
 
" There 's one thing ; you've forgotten it, 
may be," said Jamie Fleet. 
" Some fellows have homes yes," replied 
Don moodily. " Mine bores me. Father 's 
off at Wall Street. He 's as much ab 
sorbed as a fellow in love, don't you know, 
doesn't notice, and that. Mother 's shut 
up with her nurse and her doctor. I'm 
noisy. I plague the life out of her." 
" I thought you had a nice home, when I 
went there," suggested Jamie, whose 
imagination or tact failed him a little just here ; 
it was not easy for the struggling lad, reared 
in privations of which Donald had no 
intellectual comprehension, to estimate the value 
of mere luxury. 
" Oh, there are things enough at our 
house," said Don nonchalantly ; " but  isn't 
things that make a home." 
" I wasn't thinking of houses, though," 
added his chum. 
"What, then?" demanded Don, rather 
shortly, for him. " Let on." 
" Oh, never mind," answered Jamie, 
shrinking, a little hurt. " Only a notion 
I had about people recovering themselves. 
Seemed to me there was something in it, 
but it doesn't matter. Pluck up, Don, 
do ! I'm off, now, to my old gentleman. 
I 'll see you later." 
Jamie Fleet was working his own way 
through college as best he might. What 
ever came up he managed to do ; he tutored 
a Frenchman, or took care of a professor 's 
horse, or "ran" a landlady 's furnace, with 
equal simplicity and fidelity. It never oc 
curred to the minister 's boy that he was 
less of a gentleman for doing all sorts of 
straight, sturdy, manly work. It was 
characteristic of the American college that he 
was seldom, if ever, made to feel uncomfort 
able for this cause by the more fortunate 
fellows. Just then he was reading the even 
ing paper to a rich, old man up town. So 
he went away to his client, and Don and 
his gloom were left together. 
There is a point where depression turns 
into desperation so easily that one must be 
older than the college boy to anticipate it ; 
and Don, before he knew it, was seized with 
one of those fits of immature recklessness 
which have about the same relation to real 
despair that the chicken-pox has to the 
small-pox. 
It occurred to him that his future was 
blasted, that his misery was complete, and 
 
that he must be amused directly, on peril of 
his reason, or something of that kind, he 
was not clear what. He only had the wild, 
young impulse to hide thought in distraction, 
and so plunged in. 
Feminine distraction seemed to be the 
natural thing. He did not care for the 
fellows in his discomfort and disgrace. For 
similar reasons, he did not feel like seeing 
any of what are called " very nice girls." 
He knew girls of various kinds. Don 
usually had invitations enough to spoil any 
young man who was less accustomed to 
them. There were several cards on his table 
that night, and he looked them over after 
Jamie had gone. 
" Here ! " he said aloud ; " there 's a dance 
at Merry Gorond s. Just the thing. I 'll go. 
No Prof 's daughter for me this night ! " 
CHAPTER IX. 
MERRY GOROND. 
Miss MERRY GOROND assuredly was no 
Professor 's daughter. If a social critic had 
observed that she belonged to the "gay set," 
Miss Gorond could hardly have brought a 
case of slander against him. Neither would 
she have cared to ; the term would not have 
troubled her ; perhaps, indeed, she took a 
certain pride in it ; such girls do. 
Merry Gorond welcomed Marcy with 
expressive hospitality at her little dance, that 
night. 
Her mother 's parlors were full of young 
people ; but Mrs. Gorond was not visible. 
Miss Merry said she had a headache, and 
added : " What 's the odds ? Better time 
without old folks, don't we, Marcy? So 
glad to see you ! Haven't seen you at a 
hop for a perfect age. How low you look ! 
You need something lively. I 'll put you 
clown for a waltz and two polkas, directly. 
Won't that chirk you up ? " 
 
" I am honored, I'm sure." Donald, a 
graceful fellow in his evening suit, bowed 
low, but looked at Miss Gorond with eyes 
that did not smile. But his lips did. His 
laugh rang out heavily if not heartily. He 
had come to have a good time at Merry 
Gorond 's gay house, and he meant to get it. 
He was surprised that it came so hard. 
Merry Gorond called herself a young 
lady, and she meant in a careless, 
good-natured way, to deserve the name. But she was 
the kind of girl whom a fellow smokes a 
cigarette with, or takes too long drives with, 
too late, alone, on dark nights ; the sort of 
girl whose hand a man would feel at liberty 
to hold without asking ; and when he had 
got home would wish he hadn't. 
Miss Gorond was a handsome girl; a 
very handsome girl. Don remembered that 
he had forgotten how striking she was. She 
was a brilliant, blazing beauty, black of hair 
and eye, solid of figure, large and imposing 
at sight. On acquaintance, she did not 
seem so imposing ; dignity she had none ; 
her manners frothed over in that pert viva 
city which a certain kind of girl takes for 
cleverness. She wore a red satin dress (a 
scarlet red), much a-glitter with white bead 
trimmings. The music went to Donald 's 
head like light wine ; there was always good 
music at Merry Gorond s. He began to 
feel in better spirits. What a jolly place 
it was ! Don was glad to forget everything 
outside of it. 
She talked to him in merry snatches as 
they waltzed : 
" So sorry Heard of your scrape 
Mean of the faculty  said it was. 
Oh ! Do you think that 's too tall a word ? 
But when a girl is worked up about a 
friend Suspended ? Why, you poor 
fellow! You don't deserve it. Handsome, 
gentlemanly boy like you, and such a 
dancer ! So glad you came straight here to 
be comforted ! I'll cheer you up, Marcy ! 
Awfully good friends, ain't we ? Always 
depend on Merry Gorond ! She 's your girl 
every time ! Come into the reception- 
