grooves. It was a little jerky, at first, because 
none of the family could get smoothly through a 
sentence without a wabble in it here and a break 
there, caused by some new surprise in the way of 
attitude or gesture on the part of the twins. The 
weather suffered the most. The weather was all 
finished up and disposed of, as a subject, before the 
simple Missourians had gotten sufficiently wonted 
to the spectacle of one body feeding two heads to 
feel composed and reconciled in the presence of so 
bizarre a miracle. And even after everybody's 
mind became tranquilized there was still one slight 
distraction left: the hand that picked up a biscuit 
carried it to the wrong head, as often as any other 
way, and the wrong mouth devoured it. This was a 
puzzling thing, and marred the talk a little. It 
 
bothered the widow to such a degree that she 
presently dropped out of the conversation without 
knowing it, and fell to watching and guessing and 
talking to herself: 
"Now that hand is going to take that coffee to 
— no, it's gone to the other mouth; I can't under- 
stand it ; and now, here is the dark-complected hand 
with a potato on its fork, I'll see what goes with it 
— there, the light-complected head's got it, as sure 
as I live!" Finally Rowena said: 
"Ma, what is the matter with you? Are you 
dreaming about something?" 
The old lady came to herself and blushed; then 
she explained with the first random thing that came 
into her mind: "I saw Mr. Angelo take up Mr. 
Luigi's coffee, and I thought maybe he — sha'n't I 
give you a cup, Mr. Angelo?" 
"Oh no, madam, I am very much obliged, but I 
never drink coffee, much as I would like to. You 
did see me take up Luigi's cup, it is true, but if you 
noticed, I didn't carry it to my mouth, but to his." 
"Y-es, I thought you did. Did you mean to?" 
"How?" 
The widow was a little embarrassed again. She 
said: 
"I don't know but what I'm foolish, and you 
mustn't mind; but you see, he got the coffee I was 
expecting to see you drink, and you got a potato 
that I thought he was going to get. So I thought it 
might be a mistake all around, and everybody get- 
ting what wasn't intended for him." 
Both twins laughed and Luigi said: 
"Dear madam, there wasn't any mistake. We 
are always helping each other that way. It is a 
great economy for us both; it saves time and labor. 
We have a system of signs which nobody can notice 
or understand but ourselves. If I am using both 
my hands and want some coffee, I make the sign and 
Angelo furnishes it to me; and you saw that when 
he needed a potato I delivered it." 
"How convenient!" 
"Yes, and often of the extremest value. Take 
the Mississippi boats, for instance. They are always 
overcrowded. There is table-room for only half of 
the passengers, therefore they have to set a second 
table for the second half. The stewards rush both 
parties, they give them no time to eat a satisfying 
meal, both divisions leave the table hungry. It isn't 
so with us. Angelo books himself for the one table, 
I book myself for the other. Neither of us eats any- 
thing at the other's table, but just simply works — 
works. Thus, you see there are four hands to feed 
Angelo, and the same four to feed me. Each of us 
eats two meals." 
The old lady was dazed with admiration, and kept 
saying, "It is perfectly wonderful, perfectly wonder- 
ful!" and the boy Joe licked his chops enviously, 
but said nothing — at least aloud. 
"Yes," continued Luigi, "our construction may 
have its disadvantages — in fact, has — but it also 
has its compensations of one sort and another. 
Take travel, for instance. Travel is enormously ex- 
pensive, in all countries; we have been obliged to 
do a vast deal of it — come, Angelo, don't put any 
 
more sugar in your tea, I'm just over one indiges- 
tion and don't want another right away — been 
obliged to do a deal of it, as I was saying. Well, 
we always travel as one person, since we occupy but 
one seat; so we save half the fare." 
"How romantic!" interjected Rowena, with effu- 
sion. 
"Yes, my dear young lady, and how practical 
too, and economical. In Europe, beds in the hotels 
are not charged with the board, but separately — 
another saving, for we stood to our rights and 
paid for the one bed only. The landlords often 
insisted that as both of us occupied the bed we 
ought—" 
"No, they didn't," said Angelo. "They did it 
only twice, and in both cases it was a double bed — 
a rare thing in Europe — and the double bed gave 
thern some excuse. Be fair to the landlords; twice 
doesn't constitute 'often.'" 
"Well, that depends — that depends. I knew a 
man who fell down a well twice. He said he didn't 
mind the first time, but he thought the second time 
was once too often. Have I misused that word, 
Mrs. Cooper?" 
"To tell the truth, I was afraid you had, but it 
seems to look, now, like you hadn't." She stopped, 
and was evidently struggling with the difficult prob- 
lem a moment, then she added in the tone of one 
who is convinced without being converted, ' ' It seems 
so, but I can't somehow tell why." 
Rowena thought Luigi's retort was wonderfully 
quick and bright, and she remarked to herself with 
satisfaction that there wasn't any young native of 
Dawson's Landing that could have risen to the 
occasion like that. Luigi detected the applause in 
her face, and expressed his pleasure and his thanks 
with his eyes; and so eloquently withal, that the 
girl was proud and pleased, and hung out the deli- 
cate sign of it on her cheeks. 
Luigi went on, with animation: 
"Both of us get a bath for one ticket, theater 
seat for one ticket, pew-rent is on the same basis, 
but at peep-shows we pay double." 
"We have much to be thankful for," said Angelo, 
impressively, with a reverent light in his eye and 
a reminiscent tone in his voice, "we have been 
greatly blessed. As a rule, what one of us has 
lacked, the other, by the bounty of Providence, has 
been able to supply. My brother is hardy, I am 
not; he is very masculine, assertive, aggressive; I 
am much less so. I am subject to illness, he is 
never ill. I cannot abide medicines, and cannot 
take them, but he has no prejudice against them, 
and—" 
"Why, goodness gracious," interrupted the widow, 
"when you are sick, does he take the medicine for 
you?" 
"Always, madam." 
"Why, I never heard such a thing in my life! I 
think it's beautiful of you." 
"Oh, madam, it's nothing, don't mention it, it's 
really nothing at all." 
"But I say it's beautiful, and I stick to it!" cried 
the widow, with a speaking moisture in her eye. 
 
"A well brother to take the medicine for his poor 
sick brother — I wash I had such a son," and she 
glanced reproachfully at her boys. "I declare I'll 
never rest till I've shook you by the hand," and she 
scrambled out of her chair in a fever of generous 
enthusiasm, and made for the twins, blind with her 
tears, and began to shake. The boy Joe corrected 
her: 
"You're shaking the wrong one, ma." 
This flurried her, but she made a swift change and 
went on shaking. 
"Got the wrong one again, ma," said the boy. 
"Oh, shut up, can't you!" said the widow, em- 
barrassed and irritated. "Give me all your hands, 
I want to shake them all ; for I know you are both 
just as good as you can be." 
It was a victorious thought, a master-stroke of 
diplomacy, though that never occurred to her and 
she cared nothing for diplomacy. She shook the 
four hands in turn cordially, and went back to her 
place in a state of high and fine exultation that 
made her look young and handsome. 
"Indeed I owe everything to Luigi," said Angelo, 
affectionately. "But for him I could not have sur- 
vived our boyhood days, when we were friendless 
and poor — ah, so poor! We lived from hand to 
mouth — lived on the coarse fare of unwilling charity, 
and for weeks and weeks together not a morsel of 
food passed my lips, for its character revolted me 
and I could not eat it. But for Luigi I should have 
died. He ate for us both." 
"How noble!" sighed Rowena. 
'Do you hear that?" said the widow, severely, 
to her boys. "Let it be an example to you — I 
mean you, Joe." 
Joe gave his head a barely perceptible disparaging 
toss and said: "Et for both. It ain't anything — 
I'd 'a' done it." 
"Hush, if you haven't got any better manners 
than that. You don't see the point at all. It 
wasn't good food." 
"I don't care — it was food, and I'd 'a' et it if it 
was rotten." 
"Shame! Such language! Can't you under- 
stand? They were starving — actually starving — 
and he ate for both, and — " 
"Shucks! you gimme a chance and I'll — " 
"There, now — close your head! and don't you 
open it again till you're asked." 
[Angelo goes on and tells how his parents the Count and 
Countess had to fly from Florence for political reasons, and died 
poor in Berlin bereft of their great property by confiscation; 
and how he and Luigi had to travel with a freak-show during 
two years and suffer semi-starvation.] 
"That hateful black-bread; but I seldom ate 
anything during that time; that was poor Luigi's 
affair—" 
"I'll never Mister him again!" cried the widow, 
with strong emotion, "he's Luigi to me, from this 
out!" 
"Thank you a thousand times, madam, a thousand 
times! though in truth I don't deserve it." 
"Ah, Luigi is always the fortunate one when 
honors are showering," said Angelo, plaintively; 
"now what have I done, Mrs. Cooper, that you 
leave me out? Come, you must strain a point in 
my favor." 
"Call you Angelo? Why, certainly I will; what 
are you thinking of! In the case of twins, why — " 
"But, ma, you're breaking up the story — do let 
him go on." 
"You keep still, Rowena Cooper, and he can go 
on all the better, I reckon. One interruption don't 
hurt, it's two that makes the trouble." 
"But you've added one, now, and that is three." 
"Rowena! I will not allow you to talk back at 
me when you have got nothing rational to say." 
CHAPTER in 
ANGELO IS BLUE 
[After breakfast the whole village crowded in, and there was a 
grand reception in honor of the twins; and at the close of it the 
gifted "freak" captured everybody's admiration by sitting down 
at the piano and knocking out a classic four-handed piece in 
great style. Then the Judge took it — or them — driving in his 
buggy and showed off his village.] 
ALL along the streets the people crowded the 
windows and stared at the amazing twins. 
Troops of small boys flocked after the buggy, ex- 
cited and yelling. At first the dogs showed no 
interest. They thought they merely saw three men 
in a buggy — a matter of no consequence; but 
when they found out the facts of the case, they 
altered their opinion pretty radically, and joined the 
boys, expressing their minds as they came. Other 
dogs got interested; indeed, all the dogs. It was a 
spirited sight to see them come leaping fences, 
tearing around corners, swarming out of every by- 
street and alley. The noise they made was some- 
thing beyond belief — or praise. They did not seem 
to be moved by malice but only by prejudice, the 
common human prejudice against lack of conformity. 
If the twins turned their heads, they broke and fled 
in every direction, but stopped at a safe distance 
and faced about; and then formed and came on 
again as soon as the strangers showed them their 
 
back. Negroes and farmers' wives took to the 
woods when the buggy came upon them suddenly, 
and altogether the drive was pleasant and animated, 
and a refreshment all around. 
[It was a long and lively drive. Angelo was a Methodist, Luigi 
was a Free-thinker. The Judge was very proud of his Free- 
thinkers' Society, which was flourishing along in a most pros- 
perous way and already had two members — himself and the 
obscure and neglected Pudd'nhead Wilson. It was to meet 
that evening, and he invited Luigi to join; a thing which Luigi 
was glad to do, partly because it would please himself, and 
partly because it would gravel Angelo.] 
They had now arrived at the widow's gate, and 
the excursion was ended. The twins politely ex- 
pressed their obligations for the pleasant outing 
which had been afforded them; to which the Judge 
bowed his thanks, and then said he would now go 
and arrange for the Free-thinkers ' meeting, and 
would call for Count Luigi in the evening. 
"For you also, dear sir," he added hastily, turn- 
ing to Angelo and bowing. "In addressing myself 
particularly to your brother, I was not meaning to 
leave you out. It was an unintentional rudeness, 
I assure you, and due wholly to accident — accident 
and preoccupation. I beg you to forgive me." 
His quick eye had seen the sensitive blood mount 
into Angelo's face, betraying the wound that had 
been inflicted. The sting of the slight had gone 
deep, but the apology was so prompt, and so evident- 
ly sincere, that the hurt was almost immediately 
healed, and a forgiving smile testified to the kindly 
Judge that all was well again. 
 
Concealed behind Angelo's modest and unas- 
suming exterior, and unsuspected by any but his 
intimates, was a lofty pride, a pride of almost ab- 
normal proportions, indeed, and this rendered him 
ever the prey of slights; and although they were 
almost always imaginary ones, they hurt none the 
less on that account. By ill fortune Judge Driscoll 
had happened to touch his sorest point, i.e., his 
conviction that his brother's presence was welcomer 
everywhere than his own ; that he was often invited, 
out of mere courtesy, where only his brother was 
wanted, and that in a majority of cases he would 
not be included in an invitation if he could be left 
out without offense. A sensitive nature like this 
is necessarily subject to moods; moods which trav- 
erse the whole gamut of feeling; moods which know 
all the climes of emotion, from the sunny heights of 
joy to the black abysses of despair. At times, in 
his seasons of deepest depressions, Angelo almost 
wished that he and his brother might become seg- 
regated from each other and be separate individuals, 
like other men. But of course as soon as his mind 
cleared and these diseased imaginings passed away, 
he shuddered at the repulsive thought, and earnest- 
ly prayed that it might visit him no more. To be 
separate, and as other men are! How awkward it 
would seem; how unendurable. What would he 
do with his hands, his arms? How would his legs 
feel? How odd, and strange, and grotesque every 
action, attitude, movement, gesture would be. To 
sleep by himself, eat by himself, walk by himself — 
how lonely, how unspeakably lonely! No, no, any 
 
fate but that. In every way and from every point, 
the idea was revolting. 
This was of course natural; to have felt other- 
wise would have been unnatural. He had known 
no life but a combined one; he had been familiar 
with it from his birth; he was not able to conceive 
of any other as being agreeable, or even bearable. 
To him, in the privacy of his secret thoughts, all 
other men were monsters, deformities: and during 
three-fourths of his life their aspect had rilled him 
with what promised to be an unconquerable aver- 
sion. But at eighteen his eye began to take note of 
female beauty; and little by little, undefined long- 
ings grew up in his heart, under whose softening 
influences the old stubborn aversion gradually di- 
minished, and finally disappeared. Men were still 
monstrosities to him, still deformities, and in his 
sober moments he had no desire to be like them, but 
their strange and unsocial and uncanny construction 
was no longer offensive to him. 
This had been a hard day for him, physically and 
mentally. He had been called in the morning be- 
fore he had quite slept off the effects of the liquor 
which Luigi had drunk; and so, for the first half- 
hour had had the seedy feeling, and languor, the 
brooding depression, the cobwebby mouth and 
druggy taste that come of dissipation and are so ill 
a preparation for bodily or intellectual activities; 
the long violent strain of the reception had followed ; 
and this had been followed, in turn, by the dreary 
sight-seeing, the Judge's wearying explanations and 
laudations of the sights, and the stupefying clamor 
 
of the dogs. As a congruous conclusion, a fitting 
end, his feelings had been hurt, a slight had been 
put upon him. He would have been glad to forego 
dinner and betake himself to rest and sleep, but he 
held his peace and said no word, for he knew his 
brother, Luigi, was fresh, unweary, full of life, spirit, 
energy; he would have scoffed at the idea of wast- 
ing valuable time on a bed or a sofa, and would have 
refused permission. 
CHAPTER IV 
SUPERNATURAL CHRONOMETRY 
ROWENA was dining out, Joe and Harry were 
belated at play, there were but three chairs 
and four persons that noon at the home dinner- 
table — the twins, the widow, and her chum, Aunt 
Betsy Hale. The widow soon perceived that An- 
gelo's spirits were as low as Luigi's were high, and 
also that he had a jaded look. Her motherly solici- 
tude was aroused, and she tried to get him interested 
in the talk and win him to a happier frame of mind, 
but the cloud of sadness remained on his counte- 
nance. Luigi lent his help, too. He used a form and 
a phrase which he was always accustomed to employ 
in these circumstances. He gave his brother an affec- 
tionate slap on the shoulder and said, encouragingly : 
"Cheer up, the worst is yet to come!" 
But this did no good. It never did. If anything, 
it made the matter worse, as a rule, because it 
irritated Angelo. This made it a favorite with 
Luigi. By and by the widow said: 
"Angelo, you are tired, you've overdone your- 
self; you go right to bed after dinner, and get a 
good nap and a rest, then you'll be all right." 
"Indeed, I would give anything if I could do 
that, madam." 
"And what's to hender, I'd like to know? Land, 
 
the room's yours to do what you please with! The 
idea that you can't do what you like with your 
own!" 
"But, you see, there's one prime essential — 
an essential of the very first importance — which 
isn't my own." 
"What is that?" 
"My body." 
The old ladies looked puzzled, and Aunt Betsy 
Hale said: 
"Why bless your heart, how is that?" 
"It's my brother's." 
"Your brother's! I don't quite understand. I 
supposed it belonged to both of you." 
"So it does. But not to both at the same time." 
"That is mighty curious; I don't see how it can 
be. I shouldn't think it could be managed that 
way." 
"Oh, it's a good enough arrangement, and goes 
very well; in fact, it wouldn't do to have it other- 
wise. I find that the teetotalers and the anti- 
teetotalers hire the use of the same hall for their 
meetings. Both parties don't use it at the same 
time, do they?" 
"You bet they don't!" said both old ladies in a 
breath. 
"And, moreover," said Aunt Betsy, "the Free- 
thinkers and the Baptist Bible class use the same 
room over the Market house, but you can take my 
word for it they don't mush up together and use it 
at the same time." 
"Very well," said Angelo, "you understand it 
 
now. And it stands to reason that the arrangement 
couldn't be improved. I'll prove it to you. If our 
legs tried to obey two wills, how could we ever get 
anywhere? I would start one way, Luigi would 
start another, at the same moment — the result 
would be a standstill, wouldn't it?" 
"As sure as you are born! Now ain't that won- 
derful! A body would never have thought of it." 
"We should always be arguing and fussing and 
disputing over the merest trifles. We should lose 
worlds of time, for we couldn't go down-stairs or 
up, couldn't go to bed, couldn't rise, couldn't wash, 
couldn't dress, couldn't stand up, couldn't sit down, 
couldn't even cross our legs, without calling a meet- 
ing first and explaining the case and passing resolu- 
tions, and getting consent. It wouldn't ever do — 
now would it?" 
"Do? Why, it would wear a person out in a 
week! Did you ever hear anything like it, Patsy 
Cooper?" 
"Oh, you'll find there's more than one thing 
about them that ain't commonplace," said the 
widow, with the complacent air of a person with a 
property right in a novelty that is under admiring 
scrutiny. 
"Well, now, how ever do you manage it? I 
don't mind saying I'm suffering to know." 
"He who made us," said Angelo reverently, "and 
with us this difficulty, also provided a way out of 
it. By a mysterious law of our being, each of us 
has utter and indisputable command of our body 
a week at a time, turn and turn about." 
'Well, I never! Now ain't that beautiful!" 
'Yes, it is beautiful and infinitely wise and just. 
The week ends every Saturday at midnight to the 
minute, to the second, to the last shade of a fraction 
of a second, infallibly, unerringly, and in that instant 
the one brother's power over the body vanishes and 
the other brother takes possession, asleep or awake." 
"How marvelous are His ways, and past finding 
out!" 
Luigi said: "So exactly to the instant does the 
change come, that dining our stay in many of the 
great cities of the world, the public clocks were 
regulated by it; and as hundreds of thousands of 
private clocks and watches were set and corrected in 
accordance with the public clocks, we really fur- 
nished the standard time for the entire city." 
"Don't tell me that He don't do miracles any 
more! Blowing down the walls of Jericho with 
rams' horns wa'n't as difficult, in my opinion." 
"And that is not all," said Angelo. "A thing 
that is even more marvelous, perhaps, is the fact 
that the change takes note of longitude and fits 
itself to the meridian we are on. Luigi is in com- 
mand this week. Now, if on Saturday night at a 
moment before midnight we could fly in an instant 
to a point fifteen degrees west of here, he would 
hold possession of the power another hour, for the 
change observes local time and no other." 
Betsy Hale was deeply impressed, and said with 
solemnity : 
' ' Patsy Cooper, for detail it lays over the Passage 
of the Red Sea." 
 
"Now, I shouldn't go as far as that," said Aunt 
Patsy, "but if you've a mind to say Sodom and 
Gomorrah, I am with you, Betsy Hale." 
"I am agreeable, then, though I do think I was 
right, and I believe Parson Maltby would say the 
same. Well, now, there's another thing. Suppose 
one of you wants to borrow the legs a minute from 
the one that's got them, could he let him?" 
"Yes, but we hardly ever do that. There were 
disagreeable results, several times, and so we very 
seldom ask or grant the privilege, nowadays, and 
we never even think of such a thing unless the case 
is extremely urgent. Besides, a week's possession 
at a time seems so little that we can't bear to spare 
a minute of it. People who have the use of their 
legs all the time never think of what a blessing it is, 
of course. It never occurs to them; it's just their 
natural ordinary condition, and so it does not excite 
them at all. But when I wake up, on Sunday 
morning, and it's my week and I feel the power all 
through me, oh, such a wave of exultation and 
thanksgiving goes surging over me, and I want to 
shout 'I can walk! I can walk!' Madam, do you 
ever, at your uprising, want to shout 'I can walk! 
I can walk!'?" 
"No, you poor unfortunate cretur', but I'll nevei 
get out of my bed again without doing it! Laws, 
to think I've had this unspeakable blessing all my 
long life and never had the grace to thank the good 
Lord that gave it to me!" 
Tears stood in the eyes of both the old ladies and 
the widow said, softly: 
 
"Betsy Hale, we have learned something, you 
and me." 
The conversation now drifted wide, but by and by 
floated back once more to that admired detail, the 
rigid and beautiful impartiality with which the pos- 
session of power had been distributed between the 
twins. Aunt Betsy saw in it a far finer justice than 
human law exhibits in related cases. She said: 
"In my opinion it ain't right now, and never has 
been right, the way a twin born a quarter of a 
minute sooner than the other one gets all the land 
and grandeurs and nobilities in the old countries and 
his brother has to go bare and be a nobody. Which 
of you was born first?" 
Angelo's head was resting against Luigi's; weari- 
ness had overcome him, and for the past five min- 
utes he had been peacefully sleeping. The old 
ladies had dropped their voices to a lulling drone, to 
help him to steal the rest his brother wouldn't take 
him up-stairs to get. Luigi listened a moment to 
Angelo's regular breathing, then said in a voice 
barely audible: 
"We were both born at the same time, but I am 
six months older than he is." 
"For the land's sake!" 
"'Sh! don't wake him up; he wouldn't like my 
telling this. It has always been kept secret till 
now." 
"But how in the world can it be? If you were 
both born at the same time, how can one of you be 
older than the other?" 
" It is very simple, and I assure you it is true. I 
 
was born with a full crop of hair, he was as bald as 
an egg for six months. I could walk six months 
before he could make a step. I finished teething 
six months ahead of him. I began to take solids six 
months before he left the breast. I began to talk 
six months before he could say a word. Last, and 
absolutely unassailable proof, the sutures in my skull 
closed six months ahead of his. Always just that 
six months' difference to a day. Was that accident? 
Nobody is going to claim that, I'm sure. It was 
ordained — it was law — it had its meaning, and we 
know what that meaning was. Now what does this 
overwhelming body of evidence establish ? It estab- 
lishes just one thing, and that thing it establishes 
beyond any peradventure whatever. Friends, we 
would not have it known for the world, and I must 
beg you to keep it strictly to yourselves, but the 
truth is, we are no more twins than you are." 
The two old ladies were stunned, paralyzed — 
petrified, one may almost say — and could only sit 
and gaze vacantly at each other for some moments; 
then Aunt Betsy Hale said impressively: 
"There's no getting around proof like that. I 
do believe it's the most amazing thing I ever heard 
of." She sat silent a moment or two and breathing 
hard with excitement, then she looked up and sur- 
veyed the strangers steadfastly a little while, and 
added: "Well, it does beat me, but I would have 
took you for twins anywhere." 
"So would I, so would I," said Aunt Patsy with 
the emphasis of a certainty that is not impaired by 
any shade of doubt. 
"Anybody would — anybody in the world, I don't 
care who he is," said Aunt Betsy with decision. 
"You won't tell," said Luigi, appealingly. 
"Oh, dear, no!" answered both ladies promptly, 
"you can trust us, don't you be afraid." 
"That is good of you, and kind. Never let on; 
treat us always as if we were twins." 
"You can depend on us," said Aunt Betsy, "but 
it won't be easy, because now that I know you ain't 
you don't seem so." 
Luigi muttered to himself with satisfaction: 
"That swindle has gone through without change of 
€ars." 
It was not very kind of him to load the poor 
things up with a secret like that, which would be 
always flying to their tongues' ends every time they 
heard any one speak of the strangers as twins, and 
would become harder and harder to hang on to with 
every recurrence of the temptation to tell it, while 
the torture of retaining it would increase with every 
new strain that was applied; but he never thought 
of that, and probably would not have worried much 
about it if he had. 
A visitor was announced — some one to see the 
twins. They withdrew to the parlor, and the two 
old ladies began to discuss with interest the strange 
things which they had been listening to. When 
they had finished the matter to their satisfaction, 
and Aunt Betsy rose to go, she stopped to ask a 
question : 
"How does things come on between Roweny and 
Tom Driscoll?" 
 
"Well, about the same. He writes tolerable 
often, and she answers tolerable seldom." 
"Where is he?" 
"In St. Louis, I believe, though he's such a gad- 
about that a body can't be very certain of him, I 
reckon." 
"Don't Roweny know?" 
"Oh, yes, like enough. I haven't asked her lately. ' ' 
"Do you know how him and the Judge are get- 
ting along now?" 
"First rate, I believe. Mrs. Pratt says so; and 
being right in the house, and sister to the one and 
aunt to t'other, of course she ought to know. She 
says the Judge is real fond of him when he's away; 
but frets when he's around and is vexed with his 
ways, and not sorry to nave him go again. He has 
been gone three weeks this time — a pleasant thing 
for both of them, I reckon." 
"Tom's ruther harum-scarum, but there ain't 
anything bad in him, I guess." 
"Oh, no, he's just young, that's all. Still, 
twenty- three is old, in one way. A young man 
ought to be earning his living by that time. If 
Tom were doing that, or was even trying to do it, 
the Judge would be a heap better satisfied with him. 
Tom's always going to begin, but somehow he can't 
seem to find just the opening he likes." 
"Well, now, it's partly the Judge's own fault. 
Promising the boy his property wasn't the way to 
set him to earning a fortune of his own. But what 
do you think — is Roweny beginning to lean any 
toward him, or ain't she?" 
 
Aunt Patsy had a secret in her bosom; she 
wanted to keep it there, but nature was too strong 
for her. She drew Aunt Betsy aside, and said in 
her most confidential and mysterious manner: 
"Don't you breathe a syllable to a soul — I'm 
going to tell you something. In my opinion Tom 
Driscoll's chances were considerable better yester- 
day than they are to-day." 
"Patsy Cooper, what do you mean?" 
"It's so, as sure as you're born. I wish you 
could 'a' been at breakfast and seen for yourself." 
"You don't mean it!" 
"Well, if I'm any judge, there's a leaning — 
there's a leaning, sure." 
"My land! Which one of 'em is it?" 
"I can't say for certain, but I think it's the 
youngest one — Anjy." 
Then there were handshakings, and congratula- 
tions, and hopes, and so on, and the old ladies 
parted, perfectly happy — the one in knowing some- 
thing which the rest of the town didn't, and the 
other in having been the sole person able to furnish 
that knowledge. 
The visitor who had called to see the twins was 
the Rev. Mr. Hotchkiss, pastor of the Baptist 
church. At the reception Angelo had told him he 
had lately experienced a change in his religious 
views, and was now desirous of becoming a Baptist, 
and would immediately join Mr. Hotchkiss's church. 
There was no time to say more, and the brief talk 
ended at that point. The minister was much grati- 
fied, and had dropped in for a moment now, to 
 
invite the twins to attend his Bible class at eight 
that evening. Angelo accepted, and was expecting 
Luigi to decline, but he did not, because he knew 
that the Bible class and the Free-thinkers met in the 
same room, and he wanted to treat his brother to 
the embarrassment of being caught in free-cninking 
company. 
CHAPTER V 
GUILT AND INNOCENCE FINELY BLENT 
[A long and vigorous quarrel follows, between the twins. And 
there is plenty to quarrel about, for Angelo was always seeking 
truth, and this obliged him to change and improve his religion 
with frequency, which wearied Luigi, and annoyed him too; 
for he had to be present at each new enlistment — which placed 
him in the false position of seeming to indorse and approve his 
brother's fickleness; moreover, he had to go to Angelo 's pro- 
hibition meetings, and he hated them. On the other hand, 
when it was his week to command the legs he gave Angelo just 
cause of complaint, for he took him to circuses and horse-races 
and fandangoes, exposing him to all sorts of censure and criticism; 
and he drank, too; and whatever he drank went to Angelo 's 
head instead of his own and made him act disgracefully. When 
the evening was come, the two attended the Free-thinkers' meet- 
ing, where Angelo was sad and silent; then came the Bible 
class and looked upon him coldly, finding him in such company. 
Then they went to Wilson's house and Chapter XI of Pudd'nhead 
Wilson follows, which tells of the girl seen in Tom Driscoll's 
room; and closes with the kicking of Tom by Luigi at the anti- 
temperance mass -meeting of the Sons of Liberty; with the 
addition of some account of Roxy's adventures as a chamber- 
maid on a Mississippi boat. Her exchange of the children had 
been flippantly and farcically described in an earlier chapter.] 
NEXT morning all the town was a-buzz with great 
news ; Pudd'nhead Wilson had a law case ! The 
public astonishment was so great and the public curi- 
osity so intense, that when the justice of the peace 
opened his court, the place was packed with people, 
and even the windows were full. Everybody was 
flushed and perspiring; the summer heat was almost 
unendurable. 
Tom Driscoll had brought a charge of assault and 
battery against the twins. Robert Allen was re- 
tained by Driscoll, David Wilson by the defense. 
Tom, his native cheerfulness unannihilated by his 
back-breaking and bone-bruising passage across the 
massed heads of the Sons of Liberty the previous 
night, laughed his little customary laugh, and said 
to Wilson: 
"I've kept my promise, you see; I'm throwing 
my business your way. Sooner than I was expect- 
ing, too." 
"It's very good of you — particularly if you 
mean to keep it up." 
"Well, I can't tell about that yet. But we'll see. 
If I find you deserve it I'll take you under my pro- 
tection and make your fame and fortune for you." 
"I'll try to deserve it, Tom." 
A jury was sworn in; then Mr. Allen said: 
"We will detain your honor but a moment with 
this case. It is not one where any doubt of the fact 
of the assault can enter in. These gentlemen — the 
accused — kicked my client at the Market Hall last 
night ; they kicked him with violence ; with extraor- 
dinary violence; with even unprecedented violence, 
I may say; insomuch that he was lifted entirely off 
his feet and discharged into the midst of the audi- 
ence. We can prove this by four hundred wit- 
nesses — we shall call but three. Mr. Harkness will 
take the stand." 
Mr. Harkness, being sworn, testified that he was 
 
chairman upon the occasion mentioned ; that he was 
close at hand and saw the defendants in this action 
kick the plaintiff into the air and saw him descend 
among the audience. 
"Take the witness," said Allen. 
"Mr. Harkness," said Wilson, "you say you 
saw these gentlemen, my clients, kick the plaintiff. 
Are you sure — and please remember that you are 
on oath — are you perfectly sure that you saw both 
of them kick him, or only one? Now be careful." 
A bewildered look began to spread itself over the 
witness's face. He hesitated, stammered, but got 
out nothing. His eyes wandered to the twins and 
fixed themselves there with a vacant gaze. 
"Please answer, Mr. Harkness, you are keeping 
the court waiting. It is a very simple question." 
Counsel for the prosecution broke in with impa- 
tience : 
"Your honor, the question is an irrelevant trivial- 
ity. Necessarily, they both kicked him, for they 
have but the one pair of legs, and both are respon- 
sible for them." 
Wilson said, sarcastically: 
"Will your honor permit this new witness to be 
sworn? He seems to possess knowledge which can 
be of the utmost value just at this moment — knowl- 
edge which would at once dispose of what every one 
must see is a very difficult question in this case. 
Brother Allen, will you take the stand?" 
"Go on with your case!" said Allen, petulantly. 
The audience laughed, and got a warning from the 
court. 
 
"Now, Mr. Harkness," said Wilson, insinuat- 
ingly, "we shall have to insist upon an answer to 
that question." 
"I — er — well, of course, I do not absolutely 
know, but in my opinion — " 
"Never mind your opinion, sir — answer the 
question." 
"I — why, I can't answer it." 
"That will do, Mr. Harkness. Stand down." 
The audience tittered, and the discomfited witness. 
retired in a state of great embarrassment. 
Mr. Wakeman took the stand and swore that he 
