"Monsieur Nouveau, you are not wise. But 
some day you will learn better, when you are 
no longer a nouveau," said Clifford, kindly. 
The man looked puzzled, but kept his fists up. 

"Now I am going to punish you a little," 
proceeded Clifford, in even tones, "not harshly, 
but with firmness, for your good," he added, 
walking straight up to the Frenchman. 

The latter struck heavily at Clifford's head, 
but he ducked like a flash, and catching his 
antagonist around the waist, carried him, kicking, to the water-basin, where he turned on 
the water, and shoved the squirming Frenchman . 
under. The scene was painful, but brief; 





when one of the actors in it emerged from under 
the water-spout, he no longer asked for any 
body's blood. 

"Go and dry yourself," said Clifford, cheerfully; and walking over to his easel, sat down 
and began to work. 

In ten minutes, all trace of the row had disappeared, excepting that one gentleman's collar 
looked rather limp and his hair was uncommonly 
sleek. The men worked steadily. Snatches 
of song and bits of whistling rose continuously from easel and tabouret, all blend 
ing in a drowsy hum. Gethryn and Elliott 
caught now and then, from behind them, words 
of wisdom which Clifford was administering to 
the now subdued Rowden. 

"Yes," he was saying, "many a man has been 
injured for life by these Frenchmen, for a mere 
nothing. I had two brothers," he paused, "and 
my golden-haired boy " he ceased again, apparently choking with emotion. 

"But I say you're not married, you know," 
said the Englishman. 

"Hush," sighed Clifford, "I I married the 
daughter of an African duke. She was brought 
to the States by a slave trader in infancy." 



 

"Black?" gasped Mr. Rowden. 

"Very black, but beautiful. I could not keep 
her. She left me, and is singing with Haverley's Minstrels now." 

Like the majority of his countrymen, Mr. 
Rowden was ready to believe anything he heard 
of social conditions in the States, but one point 
required explanation. 

"You said the child had golden hair." 

"Yes, his mother's hair was red," sighed 
Clifford. 

Gethryn, glancing round, saw the English 
man's jaw drop, as he said, "How extraordinary!" Then he began to smile as if suspecting 
a joke. But Clifford's eye met his in gentle rebuke. 

"C est 1 heure! Rest!" Down jumped the 
model. The men leaned back noisily. Clifford 
rose, bowed gravely to the Englishman, and 
stepped across the tabourets to join his 
friends. 

Gethryn was cleaning his brushes with turpentine and black soap. 

"Going home, Rex?" inquired Clifford, picking up a brush and sending a fine spray of turpentine over Elliott, who promptly returned the 
attention. 

"Quit that," growled Gethryn, "don't ruin 
those brushes." 

"What's the nouveau like, Clifford?" asked 
Elliott. "We heard you instructing him a lit 
tle. He seems to have the true Englishman's 
sense of humor." 

"Oh, he's not a bad sort," said Clifford. 
"Come and be introduced. I'm half ashamed 
of myself for guying him, for he's really a very 
decent, plucky fellow, a bit stiff and pig-headed, 
as many of em are at first, and as for humor, I 
suppose they know their own kind, but they do 
get a little confused between fact and fancy when 
they converse with us." 

The two strolled off with friendly intent, to 
seek out and ameliorate the loneliness of Cholmondeley Rowden, Esq. 

Gethryn tied up his brushes, closed his color 
box and, flinging on his hat, hurried down the 
stairs and into the court, nodding to several students who passed with canvas and paint-boxes 
tucked under their arms. He reached the street, 
and, going through the Passage Brady, emerged 
upon the Boulevard Sebastopol. 



 

A car was passing and he boarded it, climbing 
up to the imperiale. The only vacant seat was 
between a great, red-faced butcher, and a market 
woman from the Halles, and although the 
odors of raw beef and fish were unpleasantly 
perceptible, he settled himself back and soon 
became lost in his own thoughts. The butcher 
had a copy of the "Petit Journal" and every 
now and then he imparted bits of it across Gethryn, to the market woman, lingering with relish 
over the criminal items. 

"Dites done," he cried, "here is the affair 
Rigaud!" 

Gethryn roused up and listened. 

"This morning, I knew it," cackled the wom 
an, folding her fat hands across her apron. "I 
said to Sophie, Voyons Sophie, I said " 

"Shut up," interrupted the butcher, "I'm going 
to read." 

"I was sure of it," said the woman, address 
ing Gethryn, " Voyons, Sophie, said " but 
the butcher interrupted her, again reading aloud: 

"The condemned struggled fearfully, and it 
required the united efforts of six gendarmes " 

"Cochon!" said the woman. 





"Listen, will you!" cried the man. "Some 
disturbance was caused by a gamin who broke 
from the crowd and attacked a soldier. But 
the miserable was seized and carried off, screaming. Two gold pieces of 20 francs each, fell 
from some hiding-place in his ragged clothes, 
and were taken charge of by the police." 

The man paused and gloated over the column. "Here," he cried, "Listen Even un 
der the knife the condemned " 

Gethryn rose roughly and, crowding past the 
man, descended the steps and, entering the car 
below, sat down there. 

"Butor!" roared the butcher. "Cochon! He 
trod on my foot!" 

"He is an English pig!" sneered the woman, 
reaching for the newspaper. "Let me read 
it now," she whined. 

"Hands off;" growled the man, "I'll read you 
what I think good." 

"But it's my paper." 

"It's mine now shut up." 

The first thing Gethryn did on reaching home 
was to write a note to his friend, the Prefect 
of the Seine, telling him how the child of Rigaud came by the gold pieces. Then he had a 
quiet smoke, and then he went out and lunched 
at the Cafe des Ecoles, frugally, on a sand 
wich and a glass of beer. After that he returned 
to his studio, and sat down to his desk again. 
He opened a small memorandum book and examined some columns of figures. They were 
rather straggling, not very well kept, but they 
served to convince him that his accounts were 
forty francs behind, and he would have to economize a little for the next week or two. After 
this, he sat and thought steadily. Finally he 
took a sheet of his best cream laid note paper, 
dipped his pen in the ink, and began to write. 
The note was short, but it took him a long 
while to compose it, and when it was sealed and 
directed to Miss Ruth Deane, Lung Arno 
Guicciardini, Florence, Italy, he sat holding it 
in his hand as if he did not know what to do 
with it. 

Two o clock struck. He started up, and 
quickly rolling up the shades from the glass 
roof, and pulling out his easel, began to squeeze 
tube after tube of color upon his palette. The 
parrot came down and tip-toed about the floor, 





peering into color boxes, pastel cases, and pots 
of black soap, with all the curiosity of a regulation studio bore. Steps echoed on the tiles out 
side. 

Gethryn opened the door quickly. "Ah, 
Elise! Bon jour!" he said, pleasantly. "Entrez 
done!" 

"Merci, Monsieur Gethryn," smiled his visitor, a tall, well-shaped girl, with dark eyes and 
red cheeks. 

"Ten minutes late, Elise," said Gethryn, 
laughing, "my time's worth a franca minute; 
so prepare to pay up." 

"Very well," retorted the girl, also laughing, 
and showing her pretty teeth, "but I have decided to charge twenty francs an hour from to 
day. Now, what do you owe me, Mon 
sieur?" 

Gethryn shook his brushes at her. "You are 
spoiled, Elise, you used to pose very well, and 
were never late." 

"And I pose well now!" she cried, her 
professional pride piqued. "Monsieur Bonnat 
and Monsieur Constant have praised me all this 
week. "Voila," she finished, throwing off her 



 

waist and letting her skirts fall in a circle to 
her feet. 

"Oh, you can pose if you will," answered 
Gethryn, pleasantly. "Come, we begin?" 

The girl stepped daintily out of the pile of discarded clothes, and picking her way across the 
room with her bare feet, sprang lightly upon 
the model stand. 

"The same as last week?" she asked, smiling 
frankly. 

"Yes, that's it," he replied, shifting his easel, 
and glancing up at the light; "only drop the 
left elbow a bit, there, that's it; now a little 
to the left, the knee, that will do." 

The girl settled herself into the pose, glanced 
at the clock, and then turning to Gethryn said, 
"And I arn to look at you, am I not?" 

"Where could you find a more charming ob 
ject?" murmured he, sorting his brushes. 

"Thank you," she pouted, stealing a glance at 
him; "than you?" 

"Except Mademoiselle Elise. There, now 
we begin !" 

The rest of the hour was disturbed only by 
the sharp rattle of brushes and the scraping of 
the palette knife. 





"Are you tired?" asked Gethryn, looking at the 
clock; "you have ten minutes more." 

"No," said the girl, "continue." 

Finally Gethryn rose and stepped back. 

"Time," he said, still regarding his work. 
"Come and give me a criticism, Elise." 

The girl stretched her limbs, and then, stepping down, trotted over to Gethryn. 

"What do you say?" he demanded, anxiously. 

Artists often pay more serious attention to 
the criticisms of their models than to those of a 
brother artist. For, although models may be 
ignorant of methods which, however, is not 
always the case, from seeing so much good 
work, they acquire a critical acumen which 
often goes straight to the mark. 

It was for one of these keen criticisms that 
the young man was listening now. 

"I like it very much, very much," answered 
the girl, slowly; "but, you see, I am not so cold 
in the face, am I?" 

"Hit it, as usual," muttered the artist, biting 
his lip; "I've  got more greens and blues in 
there than there are in a peacock's tail. You're 
right," he added, aloud, "I must warm that up 



 

a bit, there in the shadows, and keep the high 
lights pure and cold." 

Elise nodded seriously. "Monsieur Chaplain 
and I have finished our picture," she announced, 
after a pause. 

It is a naive way models have of appropriat 
ing work, in which, truly enough, they have no 
small share. They often speak of "our pictures" 
and "our success." 

"How do you like it?" asked the artist, ab 
sently. 

"Good;" she shrugged her shoulders, "but 
not truth." 

"Right again," murmured Gethryn. 

"I prefer Dagnan," added the pretty critic. 

"So do I, rather!" laughed Gethryn. 

"Or you," said the girl. 

"Come, come," cried the young man, coloring 
with pleasure, "you don't mean it, Elise!" 

"I say what I mean, always," she replied, 
marching over to the pups and gathering them 
into her arms. 

"I'm going to take a cigarette," she an 
nounced, presently. 

"All right," said Gethryn, squeezing more 





paint on his palette, "you'll find some mild ones 
on the bookcase." 

Elise gave the pups a little hug and kiss, and 
stepped lightly over to the bookcase. Then she 
lighted a cigarette and turned and surveyed her 
self in the mirror. 

"I'm thinner than I was last year. What do 
you think?" she demanded, studying her pretty 
figure in the glass. 

"Perhaps a bit, but it's all the better. Those 
corsets simply ruined you as a model last year." 

Elise looked serious, and shook her head. 

"I do feel so much better without them. I 
won't wear them again." 

"No, you have a pretty, slender figure, and 
you don't want them. That's why I always get 
you when I can. I hate to draw or paint from 
a girl whose hips are all discolored with ugly 
red creases from her confounded corset." 

The girl glanced contentedly at her supple, 
clean-limbed figure, and then, with a laugh, 
jumped upon the model stand. 

"It's not time," said Gethryn, "you have five 
minutes yet." 

"Go on, all the same." And soon the rattle 
of the brushes alone broke the silence. 



 

At last Gethryn rose and backed off with a sigh. 

"How's that, Elise?" he called. 

She sprang down and stood looking over his 
shoulder. 

"Now I'm like myself!" she cried, frankly; 
"it's delicious! But hurry and block in the legs, 
why don't you?" 

"Next pose," said the young man, squeezing 
out more color. 

And so the afternoon wore away, and at six 
o clock Gethryn threw down his brushes with a 
long-drawn breath. 

"That's all for to-day. Now, Elise, when 
can you give me the next pose? I don't want a 
week at a time on this; I only want a day now 
and then." 

The model went over to her dress and rum 
maged about in the pockets. 

"Here," she said, handing him a note-book 
and diary. 

He selected a date, and wrote his name and 
the hour. 

"Good," said the girl, reading it; and replacing the book, picked up her stockings and slowly 
began to dress. 





Gethryn lay back on the lounge, thoroughly 
tired out. Elsie was humming a Normandy fish 
ing song. When, at last, she stood up, and drew 
on her gloves, he had fallen into a light sleep. 

She stepped softly over to the lounge, and 
listened to the quiet breathing of the young man. 

"How handsome and how good he is!" she 
murmured, wistfully. 

She opened the door very gently. 

"So different, so different from the rest!" she 
sighed, and noiselessly went her way. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Although the sound of the closing door was 
hardly perceptible, it was enough to wake 
Gethryn. 

"Elise!" he called, starting up, "Elise!" 

But the girl was beyond earshot. 

"And she went away without her money, too; 
I'll drop around to-morrow and leave it; she 
may need it," he muttered, rubbing his eyes 
and staring at the door. 

It was dinner time, and past, but he had lit 
tle appetite. 

"I'll just have something here," he said to 
himself, and catching up his hat ran down-stairs. 
In twenty minutes he was back with eggs, but 
ter, bread, a pate, a bottle of wine and a can of 
sardines. The spirit lamp was lighted and the 
table deftly spread. 

"I'll have a cup of tea too, "he thought, shak 
ing the blue tea canister, and then, touching a 






match to the well-filled grate, soon had the kettle 
fizzling and spluttering merrily. 

The wind had blown up cold from the east, 
and the young man shivered as he closed and 
fastened the windows. Then he sat down, his 
chin on his hands, and gazed into the glowing 
grate. Mrs. Gummidge, who had smelled the 
sardines, came rubbing up against his legs, 
uttering a soft mew from sheer force of habit. 
She was not hungry, in fact, Gethryn knew 
that the concierge, whose duty it was to feed 
all the creatures, overdid it from pure kindness 
of heart, at Gethryn's expense. 

"Gummidge, you're stuffed up to your eyes, 
aren't you?" he said. 

At the sound of his voice the cat hoisted her 
tail, and began to march in narrowing circles 
about her master's chair, making gentle observations in the cat language. 

Gethryn placed a bit of sardine on a fork 
and held it out, but the little humbug merely 
sniffed at it daintily, and then rubbed against 
her master's hand. 

He laughed and tossed the bit of fish into the 
fire, where it spluttered and blazed until the 



 

parrot woke up with a croak of annoyance. 
Gethryn watched the kettle in silence. 

Faces he could never see among the coals, 
but many a time he had constructed animals 
and reptiles from the embers, and just now he 
fancied he could see a resemblance to a shark 
among the bits of blazing coal. 

He watched the kettle dreamily. The fire 
glowed and flashed and sank, and glowed again. 
Now he could distinctly see a serpent twisting 
among the embers. The clock ticked in meas 
ured unison with the slow oscillation of the flame 
serpent. The wind blew hard against the panes, 
and sent a sudden chill creeping to his feet. 

Bang! Bang! went the blinds. The hall 
way was full of strange noises. He thought he 
heard a step on the threshold; he imagined 
that his door creaked, but he did not turn around 
from his study of the fire; it was the wind, of 
course, 

The sudden hiss of the kettle, boiling over, 
made him jump and seize it. As he turned to 
set it down, there was a figure standing beside 
the table. Neither spoke. The kettle burnt his 
hand and he set it back on the hearth; then he 





remained standing, his eyes fixed on the 
fire. 

After a while Yvonne broke the silence, 
speaking very low: "Are you angry?" 

"Why?" 

"I don't know," said the girl with a sigh. 

The silence was too strained to last, and 
finally Gethryn said, "Won't you sit down?" 

She did so silently. 

"You see I'm I'm about to do a little cook 
ing," he said, looking at the eggs. 

The girl spoke again, still very low. 

"Won't you tell me why you are angry?" 

"I'm not," began Gethryn, but he sat down 
and glanced moodily at the girl. 

"For two weeks you have not been to see 
me." 

"You are mistaken, I have been" he began, 
but stopped. 

"When?" 

"Saturday." 

"And I was not at home?" 

"And you were at home," he said grimly. 
"You had a caller, it was easy to hear his 
voice, so I did not knock," 



 

She winced, but said quietly, "Don't you think 
that is rude?" 

"Yes," said Gethryn, "I beg pardon." 

Presently she continued: "You and and he 
are the only two men who have been in my 
room." 

"I'm honored, I'm sure," he answered, dryly- 

The girl threw back her mackintosh, and 
raised her veil. 

"I ask your pardon again," he said; "allow 
me to relieve you of your waterproof." 

She rose, suffering him to aid her with her 
cloak, and then sat down and looked into the fire 
in her turn. 

"It has been so long, I hoped you would 
come." 

"Whom were you with in the Luxembourg 
Gardens?" he suddenly broke out. 

She did not misunderstand or evade the question, and Gethryn, watching her face, thought 
perhaps she had expected it. But she resented 
his tone. 

"I was with a friend," she said, simply. 

He came and sat down opposite her. 





"It is not my business, "he said, sulkily; "excuse me." 

She looked at him for some moments in si 
lence. 

"It was Mr. Pick," she said at length. 

Gethryn could not repress a gesture of disgust. 

"And that, Jew was in your rooms? That 
Jew!" 

"Yes." She sat nervously rolling and unroll 
ing her gloves. "Why do you care?" she asked, 
looking into the fire. 

"I don't." 

"You do." 

There was a pause. 

"Rex," she said, very low, "will you listen?" 

"Yes, I'll listen." 

"He is a a friend of my sister s. He came 
from her to to " 

"To what!" 

"To borrow a little money. I distrusted 
him, the first time he came, the time you heard 
him in my room, and I refused him. Saturday he stopped me in the street, and, hoping 
to avoid a chance of meeting you, I walked 
through the park," 



 

"And you gave him the money, I saw you!" 

I did, all I could spare." 

"Is he, is your sister married?" 

"No," she whispered. 

"And why" began Gethryn, angrily, "Why 
does that scoundrel come to beg money He 
stopped, for the girl was in evident dis 
tress. 

"Ah! You know why," she said in a scarce 
audible voice. 

The young man was silent. 

"And you will come again ?" she asked timidly. 

No answer. 

She moved toward the door. 

"We were such very good friends." 

Still he was silent. 

"Is it au revoir?" she whispered, and waited 
for a moment on the threshold. 

"Then it is adieu." 

"Yes," he said, huskily, "that is better." 

She trembled a little and leaned against the 
doorway. 

"Adieu, mon ami-" She tried to speak, but 
her voice broke and ended in a sob. 

Then, all at once, and neither knew just how 





it was, she was lying in his arms, sobbing passionately. 



"Rex," said Yovnne, half an hour later, as 
she stood before the mirror arranging her disordered curls, "are you not the least little bit 
ashamed of yourself?" 

The answer appeared to be satisfactory, but 
the curly head was in a more hopeless state of 
disorder than before, and at last the girl gave a 
little sigh, and exclaimed, "There! I'm all 
rumpled, but it's your fault. Will you oblige me 
by regarding my hair?" 

"Better let it alone; I'll only rumple it some 
more!" he cried, omniously. 

"You mustn t! I forbid you!" 

"But I want to!" 

"Not now, then " 

"Yes immediately !" 

    "Rex you mustn't O, Rex II" 

"What?" he laughed, holding her by her slen 
der wrists. 

She flushed scarlet and struggled to break 
away. 

"Only one," 



 

"No." 

"One." 

"None." 

"Shall I let you go?" 

"Yes," she said, but catching sight of his 
face, stopped short. 

He dropped her hands with a laugh and looked 
at her. Then she came slowly up to him, and 
flushing crimson, pulled his head down to hers. 

"Yvonne, do you love me? Truthfully?" 

"Rex, can you ask?" Her warm little head 
lay against his throat, her heart beat against his, 
her breath fell upon his cheek, and her curls 
clustered among his own. 

"Yvonne Yvonne," he murmured, "I love 
you, once and forever." 

"Once and forever," she repeated, in a half 
whisper. 

"Forever," he said. 

