some minds forget the very name of comfort. For they were far from their
old home; they were cramped as to money; there was Dolly's suffering to
reckon with; and there was a load of debt. The children, however, were
ignorant in a great measure of this last difficulty; whatever property
there was, belonged to Mrs. Franklin personally, and she kept her cares
to herself. These fresh debts, made after the estate had finally been
cleared, were incurred by the mother's deliberate act--an act of folly
or of beauty, according to the point from which one views it; after her
husband's death she had borrowed money in order to give to her daughter
Dora every possible aid and advantage in her contest with fate--the long
struggle which the girl made to ignore illness, to conquer pain. These
sums had never been repaid, and when the mother thought of them, she was
troubled. But she did not think of them often; when she had succeeded
(with difficulty) in paying the interest each year, she was able to
dismiss the subject from her mind, and return to her old habit of taking
life easily; for neither her father, the army officer, nor her husband,
the liberal-handed editor, had ever taught her with any strictness the
importance of a well-balanced account. Poor Dolly's health had always
been uncertain. But when her childhood was over, her mother's tender
help from minute to minute had kept her up in a determined attempt to
follow the life led by other girls of her age. A mother's love can do
much. But heredity, coming from the past, blind and deaf to all appeal,
does more, and the brave effort failed. The elder Miss Franklin had now
been for years an invalid, and an invalid for whom no improvement could
be expected; sometimes she was able, with the aid of her cane, to take a
walk of a mile's length, or more, and often several weeks would pass in
tolerable comfort; but sooner or later the pain was sure to come on
again, and it was a pain very hard to bear. But although Dolly was an
invalid, she was neither sad nor dull. Both she and her mother were
talkers by nature, and they never seemed to reach the end of their
interest in each other's remarks. Ruth, too, was never tired of
listening and laughing over Dolly's sallies. The whole family, in fact,
had been born gay-hearted, and they were always sufficiently entertained
with their own conversation and their own jokes; on the stormy days,
when they could expect no visitors, they enjoyed life on the whole
rather more than they did when they had guests--though they were fond of
company also.

One evening, a week after the masquerade at the rink, Mrs. Franklin,
leaning back in her easy-chair with her feet on a footstool, was
peacefully reading a novel, when she was surprised by the entrance of
Miss Breeze; she was surprised because Billy had paid her a visit in the
afternoon. "Yes, I thought I would come in again," began Billy, vaguely.
"I thought perhaps--or rather I thought it would be better--"

"Take off your bonnet and jacket, won't you?" interposed Ruth.

"Why, how smart you are, Billy!" remarked Mrs. Franklin, as she noted
her guest's best dress, and the pink ribbon round her throat above the
collar.

"Yes," began Billy again; "I thought--it seemed better--"

"Dolly," interrupted Ruth, "get out planchette, and make it write Billy
a love letter!" And she gave her sister a glance which said: "Head her
off! Or she will let it all out."

Dolly comprehended. She motioned Miss Breeze solemnly to a chair near
her table, and taking the planchette from its box, she arranged the
paper under it.

"I don't like it! I don't like it!" protested Mrs. Franklin.

"His Grand, if you don't like it, beat it," said Ruth, jumping up. "Give
it a question too hard to answer. Go to the dining-room and do
something--anything you like. Then planchette shall tell us what it
is--aha!"

"A good idea," said Mrs. Franklin, significantly. And with her light
step she left the room. The mother was as active as a girl; no one was
ever deterred, therefore, from asking her to rise, or to move about, by
any idea of age. She was tall, with aquiline features, bright dark eyes,
and thick silvery hair. As she was thin, her face showed the lines and
fine wrinkles which at middle age offset a slender waist. But, when she
was animated, these lines disappeared, for at such moments her color
rose, the same beautiful color which Ruth had inherited.

Dolly sat with her hands on the little heart-shaped board, pondering
what she should say; for her familiar spirit was simply her own quick
invention. But while it would have been easy to mystify Miss Billy, it
was not easy to imagine what her mother, a distinctly hostile element,
might do for the especial purpose of perplexing the medium; for although
Mrs. Franklin knew perfectly well that her daughter invented all of
planchette's replies, she remained nevertheless strongly opposed to even
this pretended occultism. Dolly therefore pondered. But, as she did so,
she was saying to herself that it was useless to ponder, and that she
might as well select something at random, when suddenly there sprang
into her mind a word, a word apropos of nothing at all, and, obeying an
impulse, she wrote it; that is, planchette wrote it under the unseen
propelling power of her long fingers. Then Ruth pushed the board aside,
and they all read the word; it was "grinning."

"Grinning?" repeated Ruth. "How absurd! Imagine mother grinning!"

She opened the door, and called, "What did you do, His Grand?"

"Wishing to expose that very skilful pretender, Miss Dora Franklin, I
did the most unlikely thing I could think of," answered Mrs. Franklin's
voice. "I went to the mirror, and standing in front of it, I grinned at
my own image; grinned like a Cheshire cat."

Miss Billy looked at Dolly with frightened eyes. Dolly herself was
startled; she crumpled the paper and threw it hastily into the
waste-basket.

Mrs. Franklin, returning through the hall, was met by Anthony Etheridge,
who had entered without ringing, merely giving a preliminary tap on the
outer door with his walking-stick. Dolly began to talk as soon as they
came in, selecting a subject which had nothing to do with planchette.
For the unconscious knowledge which, of late years, she seemed to
possess, regarding the thoughts in her mother's mind, troubled them
both.

"Commodore, I have something to tell you. It is for you especially, for
I have long known your secret attachment! From my window, I can see that
field behind the Mackintosh house. Imagine my beholding Maud Muriel
opening the gate this afternoon, crossing to the big bush in the centre,
seating herself behind it, taking a long clay pipe from her pocket,
filling it, lighting it, and smoking it!"

"No!" exclaimed Etheridge, breaking into a resounding laugh. "Could she
make it go?"

"Not very well, I think; I took my opera-glass and watched her. Her
face, as she puffed away, was exactly as solemn as it is when she models
her deadly busts."

"Ho, ho, ho!" roared Etheridge again. "Ladies, excuse me. I have always
thought that girl might be a genius if she could only get drunk!
Perhaps the pipe is a beginning."

While he was saying this, Horace Chase was ushered in. A moment later
there came another ring, and the Rev. Mr. Hill appeared, followed by
Achilles Larue.

"Why, I have a party!" said Mrs. Franklin, smiling, as she welcomed the
last comer.

"Yes, His Grand, it is a party," said Ruth. "Now you may know, since
they are here, and you cannot stop it. I invited them all myself, late
this afternoon; and it is a molasses-candy-pulling; Dolly and I have
arranged it. We did not tell you beforehand, because we knew you would
say it was sticky."

"Sticky it is," replied Mrs. Franklin.

"Vilely sticky!" added Etheridge, emphatically.

"And then we knew, also, that you would say that you could not get up a
supper in so short a time," Ruth went on. "But Zoe has had her sister to
help her, and ever so many nice things are all ready; chicken salad, for
instance; and--listen, His Grand--a long row of macaroon custards, each
cup with three macaroons dissolved in madeira!" And then she intoned
the family chant, Dolly joining in from her easy-chair:

    "Mother Franklin thinks,
     That General Jackson,
     Jared the Sixth,
     Macaroon custards,
     And Bishop Carew,
     Are per-fec-tion!"

"What does she mean by that?" said Chase to Miss Billy.

"Oh, it is only one of their jokes; they have so many! Dear Mrs.
Franklin was brought up by her father to admire General Jackson, and
Dolly and Ruth pretend that she thinks he is still at the White House.
And Jared the Sixth means her son, you know. And they say she is fond of
macaroon custards; that is, fondish," added Miss Billy, getting in the
"ish" with inward satisfaction. "And she is much attached to Bishop
Carew. But, for that matter, so are we all."

"A Roman Catholic?" inquired Chase.

"He is our bishop--the Episcopal Bishop of North Carolina," answered
Miss Breeze, surprised.

"Oh! I didn't know. I'm a Baptist myself. Or at least my parents were,"
explained Chase.

The kitchen of L'Hommedieu was large and low, with the beams showing
overhead; it had a huge fireplace with an iron crane. This evening a pot
dangled from the crane; it held the boiling molasses, and Zoe, brilliant
in a new scarlet turban in honor of the occasion, was stirring the syrup
with a long-handled spoon. One of the easy-chairs had been brought from
the parlor for Dolly. Malachi Hill seated himself beside her; he seemed
uneasy; he kept his hat in his hand. "I did not know that Mr. Chase was
to be here, Miss Dolly, or I would not have come," he said to his
companion, in an undertone. "I can't think what to make of myself--I'm
becoming a regular cormorant! Strange to say, instead of being satisfied
with all he has given to the Mission, I want more. I keep thinking of
all the good he might do in these mountains if he only knew the facts,
and I have fairly to hold myself in when he is present, to keep from
flattering him and getting further help. Yes, it's as bad as that!
Clergymen, you know, are always accused of paying court to rich men, or
rather to liberal men. For the first time in my life I understand the
danger! It's a dreadful temptation--it is indeed. I really think, Miss
Dolly, that I had better go."

"No, you needn't; I'll see to you," answered Dolly. "If I notice you
edging up too near him, I'll give a loud ahem. Stay and amuse yourself;
you know you like it."

And Malachi Hill did like it. In his mission-work he was tirelessly
energetic, self-sacrificing, devoted; on the other hand, he was as fond
of merrymaking as a boy. He pulled the candy with glee, but also with
eager industry, covering platter after platter with his braided sticks.
His only rival in diligence was Chase, who also showed great energy.
Dolly pulled; Mrs. Franklin pulled; even Etheridge helped. Ruth did not
accomplish much, for she stopped too often; but when she did work she
drew out the fragrant strands to a greater length than any one else
attempted, and she made wheels of it, and silhouettes of all the
company, including Mr. Trone. Miss Billy had begun with much interest;
then, seeing that Larue had done nothing beyond arranging the platters
and plates in mathematical order on the table, she stopped, slipped out,
and went up-stairs to wash her hands. When she returned, fortune favored
her; the only vacant seat was one near him, and, after a short
hesitation, she took it. Larue did not speak; he was looking at Ruth,
who was now pulling candy with Horace Chase, drawing out the golden rope
to a yard's length, and throwing the end back to him gayly.

Finally, when not even the painstaking young missionary could scrape
another drop from the exhausted pot, Dolly, taking her violin, played a
waltz. The uncarpeted floor was tempting, and after all the sticky hands
had been washed, the dancing began--Ruth with Chase, Etheridge with Miss
Billy; then Etheridge with Mrs. Franklin, while Miss Billy returned
quickly to her precious chair.

"But these dances do not compare with the old ones," said Mrs. Franklin,
when they had paused to let Dolly rest. "There was the mazurka; and the
varsovienne--how pretty that was! La-la-la, la, la!" And humming the
tune, she took a step or two lightly. Etheridge, who knew the
varsovienne, joined her.

"Go on," said Ruth. "I'll whistle it for you." And sitting on the edge
of a table she whistled the tune, while the two dancers circled round
the kitchen, looking extremely well together.

"Whistling girls, you know," said Chase, warningly.

He had joined Ruth, and was watching her as she performed her part. She
kept on, undisturbed by his jests, bending her head a little to the
right and to the left in time with the music; her whistling was as clear
as a flute.

"And then there was the heel-and-toe polka. Surely you remember that,
commodore," pursued Mrs. Franklin, with inward malice.

For the heel-and-toe was a very ancient memory. It was considered old
when she herself had seen it as a child.

"Never heard of it in my life," answered Etheridge. "Hum--ha."

"Oh, I know the heel-and-toe," cried Ruth. "I learned it from mother
ages ago, just for fun. Are you rested, Dolly? Play it, please, and
mother and I will show them."

Dolly began, and then Mrs. Franklin and Ruth, tall, slender mother, and
tall, slender daughter, each with one arm round the other's waist, and
the remaining arm held curved above the head, danced down the long room
together, taking the steps of the queer Polish dance with charming grace
and precision.

"Oh, dear Mrs. Franklin, so young and cheerful! So pleasant to see
her, is it not? So lovely! Don't you think so? And dancing is so
interesting in so many ways! Though, of course, there are other
amusements equally to be desired," murmured Miss Billy, incoherently, to
Larue.

"Now we will have a quadrille, and I will improvise the figures," said
Ruth. "Mother and the commodore; Miss Billy and Mr. Larue; Mr. Chase
with me; and we will take turns in making the fourth couple."

"Unfortunately, I don't dance," observed Larue.

"Spoil-sport!" said Ruth, annihilatingly.

"You got it that time," remarked Chase, condolingly, to the other man.

"Miss Ruth, I can take the senator's place, if you like," said Malachi
Hill, springing up, good-naturedly.

Since the termination of the candy-pulling, he had been sitting
contentedly beside Dolly, watching her play, and regaling himself
meanwhile with a stick of the fresh compound, its end carefully
enveloped in a holder of paper.

"Excellent," said Ruth. "Please take Miss Billy, then."

Poor Miss Billy, obliged to dance with a misguided clergyman! This time
there was not the excuse of the Mission; it was a real dance. He already
smoked; the next step certainly would be cards and horse-racing! While
she was taking her place, Rinda ushered in a new guest.

"Maud Muriel--how lucky!" exclaimed Ruth. "You are the very person we
need, for we are trying to get up a quadrille, and have not enough
persons. I know you like to dance?"

"Yes, I like it very much--for hygienic reasons principally," responded
the new-comer.

"Please take my place, then," Ruth went on. "This is Mr. Chase, Miss
Maud Mackintosh. Now we will see if our generic geologist and
sensational senator will refuse to dance with me." And sinking
suddenly on her knees before Larue, Ruth extended her hands in petition.

"What is all that she called him, Miss Maud?" inquired Chase, laughing.

"Miss Mackintosh," said his partner, correctively. "They are only
alliterative adjectives, Mr. Chase, rather indiscriminately applied.
Ruth is apt to be indiscriminate."

Larue had risen, and Ruth triumphantly led him to his place. He knew
that she was laughing at him; in fact, as he went through the figures
calmly, his partner mimicked him to his face. But he was indifferent
alike to her laughter and her mimicry; what he was noticing was her
beauty. If he had been speaking of her, he would have called her
"prettyish"; but as he was only thinking, he allowed himself to note the
charm of her eyes for the moment, the color in her cheeks and lips. For
he was sure that it was only for the moment. "The coloring is
evanescent," was his mental criticism. "Her beauty will not last. For
she is handsome only when she is happy, and happiness for her means
doing exactly as she pleases, and having her own way unchecked. No woman
can do that forever. By the time she is thirty she may be absolutely
plain."

Maud Muriel had laid aside her hat and jacket. She possessed a wealth of
beautiful red hair, whose thick mass was combed so tightly back from her
forehead that it made her wink; her much-exposed countenance was not at
all handsome, though her hazel eyes were large, calm, and clear. She was
a spinster of thirty-six--tall and thin, with large bones. And from her
hair to her heels she was abnormally, extraordinarily straight. She
danced with much vigor, scrutinizing Chase, and talking to him in the
intervals between the figures. These intervals, however, were short, for
Ruth improvised with rapidity. Finally she kept them all flying round in
a circle so long that Mrs. Franklin, breathless, signalled that she must
pause.

"Now we are all hungry," said Ruth. "Zoe, see to the coffee. And, Rinda,
you may make ready here. We won't go to the dining-room, His Grand; it's
much more fun in the kitchen."

Various inviting dishes were soon arrayed upon a table. And then Ruth,
to pass away the time until the coffee should be ready, began to sing.
All the Franklins sang; Miss Billy had a sweet soprano, Maud Muriel a
resonant contralto, and Malachi Hill a tenor of power; Etheridge, when
he chose, could add bass notes.

    "Hark, the merry merry Christ-Church bells,
             One, two, three, four, five, six;
     They sound so strong, so wondrous sweet,
     And they troll so merrily, merrily."

Horace Chase took no part in the catch song; he sat looking at the
others. It was the Franklin family who held his attention--the mother
singing with light-hearted animation; Dolly playing her part on her
violin, and singing it also; and Ruth, who, with her hands clasped
behind her head, was carolling like a bird. To Chase's mind it seemed
odd that a woman so old as Mrs. Franklin, a woman with silver hair and
grown-up children, should like to dance and sing. Dolly was certainly a
very "live" invalid! And Ruth--well, Ruth was enchanting. Horace Chase's
nature was always touched by beauty; he was open to its influences, it
had been so from boyhood. What he admired was not regularity of feature,
but simply the seductive sweetness of womanhood. And, young as she was,
Ruth Franklin's face was full of this charm. He looked at her again as
she sat singing the chorus:

    "Hark, the first and second bell,
     Ring every day at four and ten"--

Then his gaze wandered round the kitchen. From part of the wall the
plastering was gone; it had fallen, and had never been replaced. The
housewives whom he had hitherto known, so he said to himself, would have
preferred to have their walls repaired, and spend less, if necessary,
upon dinners. Suppers, too! (Here he noted the rich array on the kitchen
table.)

This array was completed presently by the arrival of the coffee, which
filled the room with its fragrant aroma, and the supper was consumed
amid much merriment. When the clock struck twelve, Maud Muriel rose. "I
must be going," she said. "Wilhelmina, I came for you; that is what
brought me. When I learned at the hotel that you were here, I followed
for the purpose of seeing you home."

"Allow me the pleasure of accompanying you both," said Chase.

"That is not necessary; I always see to Wilhelmina," answered Miss
Mackintosh, as she put on her hat.

"Yes; she is so kind," murmured Miss Billy. But Miss Billy in her heart
believed that in some way or other Achilles Larue would yet be her
escort (though he never had been that, or anything else, in all the
years of their acquaintance). He was still in the house, and so was she;
something might happen!

What happened was that Larue took leave of Mrs. Franklin, and went off
alone.

Then Billy said to herself: "On the whole, I'm glad he didn't suggest
it. For it is only five minutes' walk to the hotel, and if he had gone
with me it would have counted as a call, and then he needn't have done
anything more for a long time. So I'm glad he did not come. Very."

"Maud Muriel," demanded Dolly, "why select a clay pipe?"

"Oh, did you see me?" inquired Miss Mackintosh, composedly. "I use a
clay pipe, Dolly, because it is cleaner; I can always have a new one.
Smoking is said to insure the night's rest, and so I thought it best to
learn it, as my brother's children are singularly active at night. I
have been practising for three weeks, and I generally go to the woods,
where no one can see me. But to-day I did not have time."

Chase broke into a laugh. Etheridge had emitted another ho, ho, ho! Then
he gave Maud a jovial tap. "My dear young lady, don't go to the woods.
Let me come, with another clay pipe, and be your protector."

"I have never needed a protector in my life," replied Miss Mackintosh;
"I don't know what that feeling is, commodore. I secrete myself simply
because people might not understand my motives; they might think that I
was secretly given to dissolute courses. Are you ready, Wilhelmina?"

As the two ladies opened the outer door and stepped forth into the
darkness, Chase, not deterred by the rebuff he had received from the
stalwart virgin, passed her, and offered his arm to the gentler Miss
Billy. And then Malachi Hill, feeling that he must, advanced to offer
himself as escort for the remaining lady.

"Poor manikin! Do you think I need you?" inquired the sculptress
sarcastically, under her breath.

The young clergyman disappeared. He did not actually run. But he was
round the corner in an astonishingly short space of time.

Etheridge was the last to take leave. "Well, you made a very merry
party for your bubbling friend," he said to Mrs. Franklin.

"It wasn't for him," she answered.

"He is not mother's bubbling friend, and he is not Dolly's, either,"
said Ruth; "he is mine alone. Mother and Dolly do not in the least
appreciate him."

"Is he worth much appreciation?" inquired Etheridge, noting her beauty
as Larue had noted it. "How striking she grows!" he thought. And,
forgetting for the moment what they were talking about, he looked at her
as Chase had looked.

Meanwhile Ruth was answering, girlishly: "Much appreciation? All,
commodore--all. Mr. Chase is splendid!"




CHAPTER IV


Nothing could exceed the charm of the early summer, that year, in this
high valley. The amphitheatre of mountains had taken on fresher robes of
green, the air was like champagne; it would have been difficult to say
which river danced more gayly along its course, the foam-flecked French
Broad, its clear water open to the sunshine, or the little Swannanoa,
frolicking through the forest in the shade.

One morning, a few days after the candy-pulling at L'Hommedieu, even
Maud Muriel was stirred to admiration as she threw open the blinds of
her bedroom at her usual early hour. "No humidity. And great
rarefaction," she said to herself, as she tried the atmosphere with a
tentative snort. Maud Muriel lived with her brother, Thomas Mackintosh;
that is, she had a room under his roof and a seat at his table. But she
did not spend much time at home, rather to the relief of Mrs. Thomas
Mackintosh, an easy-going Southern woman, with several young children,
including an obstreperous pair of twins. Maud Muriel, dismissing the
landscape, took a conscientious sponge-bath, and went down to breakfast.
After breakfast, on her way to her studio, she stopped for a moment to
see Miss Billy. "At any rate, I walk well," she had often thought
with pride. And to-day, as she approached the hotel, she was so straight
that her shoulders tipped backward.

Miss Billy was staying at the inn. This hotel bore the name "The Old
North State," the loving title given by native North-Carolinians to
their commonwealth--a commonwealth which, in its small long-settled
towns, its old farms, and in the names of its people, shows less change
in a hundred years than any other portion of the Union. The Old North,
as it was called, was a wooden structure painted white, with outside
blinds of green; in front of it extended a row of magnificent
maple-trees. Miss Billy had a small sitting-room on the second floor;
Maud Muriel, paying no attention to the negro servants, went up the
uncarpeted stairway to her friend's apartment, and, as she opened the
door, she caught sight of this friend carefully rolling a waste bit of
string into a small ball.

"Too late--I saw you," she said. (For Miss Billy had nervously tried to
hide the ball.) "I know you have at least fifty more little wads of the
same sort somewhere, arranged in graded rows! A new ball of string of
the largest size--enough to last a year--costs a dime, Wilhelmina. You
must have a singularly defective sense of proportion to be willing to
give many minutes (for I have even seen you taking out knots!) to a
substance whose value really amounts to about the thousandth part of a
cent! I have stopped on my way to the barn to tell you two things,
Wilhelmina. One is that I do not like your 'Mountain Walk.'" Here she
took a roll of delicately written manuscript, tied with blue ribbons,
from her pocket, and placed it on the table. "It is supposed to be about
trees, isn't it? But you do not describe a single one with the least
accuracy; all you do is to impute to them various allegorical
sentiments, which no tree--a purely vegetable production--ever had."

"It was only a beginning--leading up to a study of the pre-Adamite
trees, which I hope to make, later," Miss Billy answered. "Ruskin, you
know--"

"You need not quote Ruskin to me--a man who criticises sculpture without
any practical knowledge whatever of human anatomy; a man who
subordinates correct drawing in a picture to the virtuous state of mind
of the artist! If Ruskin's theory is true, very good persons who visit
the poor and go to church, are, if they dabble in water-colors, or
pen-and-ink sketches, the greatest of artists, because their piety is
sincere. And vice versa. The history of art shows that, doesn't it?"
commented Maud, ironically. "I am sorry to see that you sat up so late
last night, Wilhelmina."

"Why, how do you know?" said Miss Billy, guiltily conscious of midnight
reading.

"By the deep line between your eyebrows. You must see to that, or you
will be misjudged by scientific minds. For marked, lined, or wrinkled
foreheads indicate criminal tendencies; the statistics of prisons prove
it. To-night put on two pieces of strong sticking-plaster at the
temples, to draw the skin back. The other thing I had to tell you is
that the result of my inquiries of a friend at the North who keeps in
touch with the latest investigations of Liébeault and the Germans, is,
that there may, after all, be something in the subject you mentioned to
me, namely, the possibility of influencing a person, not present, by
means of an effort of will. So we will try it now--for five minutes. Fix
your eyes steadily upon that figure of the carpet, Wilhelmina"--she
indicated a figure with her parasol--"and I will do the same. As subject
we will take my sister-in-law. We will will her to whip the twins. Are
you ready?" She took out her watch. "Begin, then."

Miss Billy, though secretly disappointed in the choice of subject, tried
hard to fix her mind upon the proposed castigation. But in spite of her
efforts her thoughts would stray to the carpet itself, to the pattern of
the figure, and its reds and greens.

"Time's up," announced Maud, replacing her watch in the strong
watch-pocket on the outside of her skirt; "I'll tell you whether the
whipping comes off. Do you think it is decent, Wilhelmina, to be
dressing and undressing yourself whenever you wish to know what time it
is?" (For Miss Billy, who tried to follow the fashions to some extent,
was putting her own watch back in her bodice, which she had unbuttoned
for the purpose.) "Woman will never be the equal of man until she has
grasped the conception that the position of her pockets should be
unchangeable," Maud went on.

"I think I will go with you as far as L'Hommedieu," suggested Billy,
ignoring the subject of the watch-pocket (an old one). "I have some
books to take, so I may as well." She put on her hat, and piled eight
dilapidated paper-covered volumes on her arm.

"Are you still collecting vapid literature for that feather-headed
woman?" inquired Maud. For Billy went all over Asheville, to every house
she knew, and probed in old closets and bookcases in search of novels
for Mrs. Franklin. For years she had performed this office. When Mrs.
Franklin had finished reading one set of volumes, Billy carried them
back to their owners, and then roamed and foraged for more.

"If you do go as far as L'Hommedieu, you must stop there definitely; you
must not go on to the barn," Maud Muriel announced, as they went down
the stairs. "For if you do, you will stay. And then I shall be going
back with you, to see to you. And then you will be coming part way back
with me, to talk. And thus we shall be going home with each other all
the rest of the day!" She passed out and crossed the street, doing it in
the face of the leaders of a team of six horses attached to one of the
huge mountain wagons, which are shaped like boats tilted up behind; for
two files of these wagons, heavily loaded, were coming slowly up the
road. Miss Billy started to cross also, but after three or four steps
she turned and hurried back to the curb-stone. Then suddenly she started
a second time, running first in one direction, then in another, and
finally and unexpectedly in a third, so that the drivers of the wagons
nearest to her, and even the very horses themselves, were filled with
perplexity as to the course which she wished to pursue. Miss Billy,
meanwhile, finding herself hemmed in, began to shriek wildly. The
drivers in front stretched their necks round the corners of the canvas
hoods erected, like gigantic Shaker bonnets, over their high-piled
loads, in order to see what was the matter. And the drivers who were
behind stood up and peered forward. But they could make out nothing,
and, as Miss Billy continued her yells, the whole procession, and with
it the entire traffic of the main street, came slowly to a pause. The
pause was not long. The energetic Maud Muriel, jerking up the heads of
two of the leaders, made a dive, caught hold of her frightened friend,
and drew her out by main strength. The horses whom she had thus
attacked, shook themselves. "Hep!" called their driver. "Hep!" called
the other drivers, in various keys. And then, one by one, with a jerk
and a creak, the great wains started on again.

When the friends reached L'Hommedieu, Billy was still trembling.

"I'd better take them in for you," said Maud Muriel, referring to the
load of books which Billy was carrying for her companion. They found
Dolly in the parlor, winding silk for her next pair of stockings. "Here
are some volumes which Wilhelmina is bringing to Mrs. Franklin," said
Maud Muriel, depositing the pile on a table.

"More novels?" said Dolly. "I'm so glad. Thank you, Miss Billy. For
mother really has nothing for to-day. The one she had yesterday was very
dull; she said she was 'worrying' through it. It was a story about
female suffrage--as though any one could care for that!"

"Care for it or not, it is sure to come," declared Miss Mackintosh.

"Yes, in A.D. 5000."

"Sooner, much sooner. We may not see it," pursued Maud Muriel, putting
up her finger impressively. "But, mark my words, our children will."

Miss Billy listened to this statement with the deepest interest.

"Well, Maud Muriel--Miss Billy, yourself, and myself as parents--that
certainly is a new idea!" Dolly replied.

Ruth came in. At the same moment Maud Muriel turned to go; and,
unconsciously, Billy made a motion as if about to follow.

"Wilhelmina, you are to stay," said Maud, sternly, as she departed,
straighter than ever.

"Yes, Miss Billy, please stay," said Ruth. "I want you to go with me to
see Genevieve."

"Genevieve?" repeated Dolly, surprised.

"Yes. She has bought another new dress for me, and this time she is
going to fit it herself, she says, so that there may be no more
bagging," answered Ruth, laughing. "I know she intends to squeeze me
up. And so I want Miss Billy to come and say it's dangerous!"

Ruth was naturally what is called short-waisted; this gave her the long
step which in a tall, slender woman is so enchantingly graceful.
Genevieve did not appreciate grace of this sort. In her opinion Ruth's
waist was too large. If she had been told that it was the waist of Greek
sculpture, the statement would not have altered her criticism; she had
no admiration for Greek sculpture; the few life-sized casts from antique
statues which she had seen had appeared to her highly unpleasant
objects. Her ideas of feminine shape were derived, in fact, from the
season's fashion plates. Her own costumes were always of one unbroken
tint, the same from head to foot. To men's eyes, therefore, her attire
had an air of great simplicity. Women perceived at once that this
unvarying effect was not obtained without much thought, and Genevieve
herself would have been the last to disclaim such attention. For she
believed that it was each woman's duty to dress as becomingly as was
possible, because it increased her attraction; and the greater her
attraction, the greater her influence. If she had been asked, "influence
for what?" she would have replied unhesitatingly, "influence for good!"
Her view of dress, therefore, being a serious one, she was disturbed by
the entire indifference of her husband's family to the subject, both
generally and in detail. She had the most sincere desire to assist them,
to improve them; most of all she longed to improve Ruth (she had given
up Dolly), and more than once she had denied herself something, and
taken the money it would have cost, to buy a new costume for the
heedless girl, who generally ruined the gifts (in her sister-in-law's
opinion) by careless directions, or no directions at all, to the
Asheville dressmaker.

Ruth bore Miss Billy away. But as they crossed the garden towards the
cottage she said: "I may as well tell you--there will be no fitting. For
Mr. Chase is there; I have just caught a glimpse of him from the upper
window."

"Then why go now?" inquired Miss Billy, who at heart was much afraid of
Genevieve.

"To see Mr. Chase, of course. I wish to thank him for my philopena,
which came late last night. Mother and Dolly are not pleased. But I
am, ever so much." She took a morocco case from her pocket, and, opening
it, disclosed a ring of very delicate workmanship, the gold circlet
hardly more than a thread, and enclosing a diamond, not large, but very
pure and bright.

"Oh-ooh!" said Miss Billy, with deep admiration.

"Yes; isn't it lovely? Mother and Dolly say that it is too much. But I
have never seen anything in the world yet which I thought too much! I
should like to have ever so many rings, each set with one gem only, but
that gem perfect. And I should like to have twenty or thirty bracelets,
all of odd patterns, to wear on my arms above the elbow. And I should
like close rows of jewels to wear round my throat. And clasps of jewels
for the belt; and shoe-buckles too. I have never had an ornament, except
one dreadful silver thing. Let me see; it's on now!" And feeling under
her sleeve, she drew off a thin silver circlet, and threw it as far as
she could across the grass.

"Oh, your pretty bracelet!" exclaimed Miss Billy.

"Pretty? Horrid!"

Horace Chase had called at the Cottage in answer to a note from
Genevieve, offering to take him to the Colored Home. "As you have shown
so much kindly interest in the Mission, I feel sure that this second
good work of ours will also please you," she wrote.

"I think I won't go to-day, Gen, if it's all the same to you," said
Chase, when he entered. "For my horses have come and I ought not to
delay any longer about making some arrangements for them."

"Any other time will do for the Home," answered Genevieve, graciously.
"But can't you stay for a little while, Horace? Let me show you my
house."

Chase had already seen her parlor, with its velvet carpet, its set of
furniture covered with green, its pictures arranged according to the
size of the frames, with the largest below on a line with the eye, and
the others above in pyramidical gradations, so that the smallest were
near the cornice. At that distance the subjects of the smaller pictures
were more or less indistinguishable; but at least the arrangement of the
frames was full of symmetry. In the second story, at the end of the
house, was "Jay's smoking-room." "Jay likes to smoke; it is a habit he
acquired in the navy; I have therefore fitted up this room on purpose,"
said Jay's wife.

It was a small chamber, with a sloping ceiling, a single window
overlooking the kitchen roof, oil-cloth on the floor, one table, and one
chair.

"Do put in two chairs," suggested Chase, jocularly. For though he
thought the husband of Genevieve a fortunate man, he could not say that
his smoking-room was a cheerful place.

"Oh, I never sit here," answered Genevieve. "Now come down and take a
peep at my kitchen, Horace. I have been kneading the bread; there it is
on the table. I prefer to knead it myself, though I hope that in time
Susannah will be able to do it according to my method" (with a glance
towards the negro servant, who returned no answering smile). "And this
is my garden. I can never tell you how glad I am that we have at last a
fixed home of our own, Horrie. No more wandering about! Jay is able to
spend a large part of his summers here, and, later, when he has made a
little more money, he will come for the whole summer--four months. And I
go to Raleigh to be with him in the winter; I am hoping that we can
have a winter home there too, very soon. We are so much more
comfortable in every way than we used to be. And looking at it from
another point of view, it is inexpressibly better for Jay himself to be
out of the navy. It always disturbed me--such a limited life!"

Jared Franklin, when an ensign, had met Genevieve Gray, fallen in love
with her, and married her, in the short space of three months. He had
remained in the navy throughout the war, and for two years longer; then,
yielding at last to his wife's urgent entreaties, he had resigned. After
his resignation he had been for a time a clerk in Atlanta. Now he was in
business for himself in a small way at Raleigh; it was upon his
establishment there that Genevieve had started this summer home in
Asheville. "Our prospects are much brighter," she went on, cheerfully;
"for at present we have a future. No one has a future in the navy; no
one can make money there. But now there is no reason why Jay should not
succeed, as other men have succeeded; that is what I always tell him.
And I am not thinking only of ourselves, Horrie, as I say that; when Jay
is a rich man, my principal pleasure in it will be the power which we
shall have to give more in charity, to do more in all good works." And
in saying this, Genevieve Franklin was entirely sincere.

"You must keep me posted about the railroad," she went on, as she led
the way across the garden.

"Oh yes; if we decide to take hold of it, you shall be admitted into
the ring," answered Chase--"the inside track."

"I could buy land here beforehand--quietly, you know?"

"You've got a capital head for business, haven't you, Gen! Better than
any one has at your mother-in-law's, I reckon?"

"They are not clever in that way; I have always regretted it. But they
are very amiable."

"Not that Dolly!"

"Oh, Dolly? My principal feeling for poor Dolly, of course, is simply
pity. This is my little dairy, Horrie; come in. I have been churning
butter this morning."

Ruth and Miss Billy, finding no one in the house, had followed to the
dairy; and they entered in time to hear this last phrase.

"She does churning and everything else, Mr. Chase, at three o'clock in
the morning," said Ruth, with great seriousness.

"Not quite so early," Genevieve corrected.

The point was not taken up. The younger Mrs. Franklin, a fresh, strong,
equable creature, who woke at dawn as a child wakes, liked an early
breakfast as a child likes it. She found it difficult, therefore, to
understand her mother-in-law's hour of nine, or half-past nine. "But you
lose so much time, mamma," she had remarked during the first weeks of
her own residence at Asheville.

"Yes," Dolly answered. (It was always Dolly who answered Genevieve;
Dolly delighted in it.) "We do lose it at that end of the morning--the
raw end, Genevieve. But when we are once up, we remain up, available,
fully awake, get-at-able, until midnight; we do not go off and seclude
ourselves impregnably for two hours or so in the middle of the day." For
Dolly was aware that it was her sister-in-law's habit to retire to her
room immediately after her one o'clock dinner, and take a nap; often a
long one.
