"I think they will keep on running for the next three miles," said
Redway. "I went up the road to look for them, but I could see nothing of
them."
"But we shall be outnumbered if we let the two parts of this company
come together. I have found that they fight like Texans. If we meet the
whole of them together, we shall be whipped, as Makepeace was. There is
only one thing to do. Form the whole company in column by fours, and we
must go back and beat our pursuers, before they get as far as this,"
said Captain Dingfield, suddenly becoming very animated and energetic.
Deck concluded that the time had come for him to leave his retreat; and
he felt that he had not lost his time in carrying out the plan he had
suggested. But it would be safer for him to retreat in five minutes more
than at that moment. He looked on while the Rangers formed, and saw them
march on their present mission. He had not a very high opinion of the
strategy of Captain Dingfield; and if his subordinate officer had given
him correct information, perhaps he would have adopted a different
course.
The Rangers could no longer see him, and he broke into a run as soon as
they had gone. He found everything as he had left it, and he proceeded
to report his intelligence to Lieutenant Belthorpe.
CHAPTER XXV
SUNDRY FLANK MOVEMENTS ARRANGED
Captain Dingfield, with the portion of his company with which he had
attacked Major Lyon near the cross-roads, where he had been badly beaten
at the first assault, had fled across the country, and was continuing
his flight along the hill road. Doubtless he did not intend to fight a
battle at the point mentioned, but had made the attack immediately after
the explosion on the bridge to occupy the attention of the force there
until his men had completed the destruction of the structure.
He appeared to have discovered that the squadron of cavalry he had
encountered was not so easily annihilated as he had believed they would
be by his invincible Rangers. On the contrary, he found his troop in a
difficult situation, with a superior force near him. Doubtless he had
read in what manner Napoleon I. defeated an army of superior numbers by
taking it when divided into two parts, delivering battle to each in
turn.
Captain Gordon, with half his company, had been sent in pursuit of him,
but had been somewhat delayed in his movements. Captain Dingfield had
united the two portions of his company after the skirmish of one of them
with Lieutenant Belthorpe, who was believed to have retreated to the
railroad.
Deck Lyon had listened to the interview between the captain and
lieutenant of the Rangers, and fully understood their plan. As soon as
the company had departed on their mission to annihilate the detachment
of Captain Gordon, he hastened back to the big tree where he had left
Lieutenant Belthorpe. Tom had just crossed swords with the enemy for the
first time, and had fought like a lion; but he was nervous in regard to
the situation. He had no superior officer near him, and he felt the
responsibility of his position.
"Well, Deck, what next?" he asked, before the young soldier could get
within talking distance of him.
"There is work for you," replied Deck; and though he knew precisely what
ought to be done, he was very careful not to suggest anything. He did
not wish to overstep the line of his duty as a private, though he and
the lieutenant were on the most intimate and familiar terms of
friendship. He hurried his steps; and in as few words as possible he
related all he had seen and heard.
"Then, Captain Dingfield has gone out with his whole company to
intercept Gordon?" said the officer.
"Precisely so; and I don't know what force Captain Gordon has with him,"
added Deck. "The Rangers believe your command has retreated to the
railroad, and are well out of the way."
"We will convince them to the contrary very soon," said Tom with energy,
and darted off at the best speed of his horse for the knoll where he had
left his men.
Deck restored his sabre to its place, and mounted his horse. He was
ready to return to the ranks; but Tom called him, and he took his place
at the side of his friend. The lieutenant asked him a great many
questions; for the troop could not move at their best speed on account
of the trees and bushes.
"I suppose we have nothing to do but follow and pitch in when we find
the enemy," said Tom, when they came out on the hill road. "We can't see
anything of Dingfield's company yet."
"He has not got over the top of that hill we see ahead, and is in the
valley this side. Neither of us has been over this road, and we know
nothing at all about it," replied Deck, careful not to wound the pride
of his officer.
"Why don't you speak out, Deck, and tell me what you are thinking
about?" said the lieutenant somewhat impatiently. "You keep in your
shell as tight as a Baltimore oyster. You did not hesitate to tell me
what you had in your sconce when we were fighting that detachment in the
road."
"I only intended to give you the information that Dingfield's company
was coming, and would then outnumber you," replied Deck.
"You advised me to retreat, and I did so, for I saw that you were
right."
"But you are my superior officer, and my business consists in obeying
your orders," replied the private with becoming humility.
"None of that, Deck! We will keep up all the forms and ceremonies; but I
want you to be Deck Lyon, while I am Tom Belthorpe, when we are side by
side as we are at this moment. I say all we have to do is to ride ahead
till we find the enemy, and then pitch in. Is that your idea, Deck?"
"With all due deference, Tom, it is not," replied the private.
"Confound your deference!" exclaimed the lieutenant. "I asked your
advice, and you mumble about forms."
"I will speak as plainly as I know how to speak. If you show yourself to
Captain Dingfield, he will run away if he can. He has been badly
punished to-day, and he can't stand much more of it. When he finds
himself pinched between Captain Gordon and yourself, I don't believe he
will feel like cutting his way out."
"But he outnumbers Gordon just now," Tom objected.
"Of course you will not let Captain Gordon suffer," continued Deck. "If
you will allow me to say it, I will suggest what I should do if I were
in your place."
"Allow you! Confound you, Deck! Didn't I ask you point-blank what you
would do?" demanded Tom.
"We are moving at a dog-trot now, and that is just right. Before we get
to the top of that hill yonder in the road, I should halt, and send a
scout ahead to report on what there is to be seen," said Deck.
"All right! I detail you as the scout," answered the lieutenant very
promptly.
"Then I will leave you. If I raise my cap over my head, hurry up. If I
make no sign, come along leisurely," added Deck, as he urged his steed
to a gallop, and dashed ahead.
Just then he wished he had Ceph; but he had left him hitched near the
bridge when he ascended it to take in the flag, though the horse he had
was not a bad one. How far in the rear of Captain Dingfield's company
Captain Gordon had been he had no means of judging. Deck reached the
summit of the hill over which the road passed. He reined in his steed,
and walked him till his own head was high enough to see over the crest
in front of him.
Captain Dingfield's company was not in sight. Not more than half a mile
ahead of him was another hill, beyond which the enemy had disappeared.
He took off his cap and waved it in the air above his head. Tom could
not help seeing it; and his command were immediately galloping towards
him. Deck did not wait for them, but ran his own horse till he reached
the summit of the second hill. Here he halted again. There was a third
hill, and probably one every mile or half-mile; for this was the hill
road.
Captain Dingfield had not hurried his men, and Deck discovered his force
on the lowest ground between the two hills. He had halted there, and the
men appeared to be watering their horses. Deck was sorry he had not a
field-glass. He fell back a short distance, so that his horse should not
be seen by the enemy, hitched him to a sapling, and returned to the top
of the hill on foot. After examining the location of the enemy as well
as he could, he concluded that a road crossed that upon which both
forces were moving, though he was not sure.
Returning to his horse, he mounted again, and descended the hill a few
rods. The lieutenant had reached the top of the first hill, and Deck
waved his cap again. As soon as Tom reached the spot where the private
was, he halted his command. He hastily informed his officer that the
enemy were at the foot of the hill on the other side.
"I must not lose sight of them for long," said Deck. "I will go ahead
again, and make the same signal for you to advance."
"But you expect there will be a fight, don't you, Deck?" asked the
lieutenant.
"There will be if Captain Dingfield don't run away by a road I believe
extends through the valley. I think the captain of the Rangers is
waiting for Captain Gordon to come upon him in this place. I will keep a
lookout for our men," replied Deck, as he rode up the hill again.
The private was a very enthusiastic soldier; and he thought it would be
a capital idea to bag the Rangers, and make prisoners of the whole
company. It would be a feather in Tom Belthorpe's cap, and he would have
been glad to place it there. He hitched his horse again, and then
climbed a tree. Some of the hills in the vicinity were cultivated, and
some were not. From his elevated perch he discovered a farmhouse on the
road, of whose existence he had not before been confident. He had no
doubt of the fact now.
There was a cornfield on the left of the road where he was, but at some
distance from it. Between this tilled land and the hill road was a
considerable extent of wild land, covered with hillocks, and the whole
of it overgrown with small trees and bushes. Near the place where the
platoon had halted, Deck perceived a practicable passage through the
tanglewood; and he went down the tree in a desperate hurry, to the
imminent peril of his limbs, though he reached the ground in safety.
A glance at the summit of the third hill assured him that Captain Gordon
was not yet in sight. Slinging his carbine, and buckling on his belt, he
hastened to the lieutenant, and, without any unnecessary manifestations
of deference, stated the plan he had brewed in the top of the tree.
"I should like to see the whole of that company bagged, Tom," said he,
as he led the way to the opening he had seen. "I should like to see you
do it, I am only afraid Dingfield will escape by that road, and I should
like to have you block his way in that direction."
"But if we shut up that road against him, we shall leave the hill road
open to him," replied Tom.
Deck bit his lip, for he had not thought of this; for he was not a
full-fledged strategist any more than his officer.
"You are right, Tom; and that is the end of my scheme," added Deck.
"Not a bit of it, Deck. Why not compromise on your idea; send half our
force across the cornfield, and leave the other half to take care of
this road? I like that idea," said Tom with enthusiasm.
"You would have but twenty-five men to hold this road against the whole
of Dingfield's company," said Deck.
"But we don't intend to move till Captain Gordon is here to take a hand
in the game," answered Tom. "You will go with Sergeant Fronklyn to the
cross-road, and I will stay here. As soon as I see the rest of our
company coming down the hill, I will strike the enemy in the rear, while
the captain goes in on the front. You will sail in from the by-road as
soon as you hear the firing, Deck. That is fixed. Now have deference
enough for your officer to hold your tongue, and obey your orders."
"I am as dumb as a dead horse," replied Deck.
Both of them were laughing; and Deck hastened to a place where he could
see over the crest of the hill, while the lieutenant divided his force
for the two undertakings. In a few moments all was ready, and Tom joined
his friend.
"It is time we were moving," said Deck.
"All is ready for you; and Fronklyn will take counsel of you when
necessary," replied the lieutenant.
"Don't show yourself on the top of the hill, Tom; for that might let the
cat out of the bag," added Deck.
The scout, as Deck considered himself for the present, joined the
detachment detailed for the by-road, and led them into the wild region,
Fronklyn remaining some distance behind him. The enemy were in a deep
hollow, and the guide soon assured himself that the detachment could be
neither seen nor heard by them. The sergeant advanced in response to his
signals. A spur of the hill concealed them, and they galloped across the
field, from which the crop had been harvested. He guided the force to a
point beyond the farmer's house. Leaving the sergeant and his men where
the buildings shut off the view of the hill road, Deck rode cautiously
to the other side of the house.
"What you uns doin' here?" asked the farmer, showing himself from behind
his barn.
"We are attending to our own business, and it wouldn't be a bad idea for
you to do the same," replied Deck, who did not like the looks of the
man.
"I reckon you uns is Confedrits," he added.
"You are out of your reckoning."
"There's some more on 'em over to the brook. I reckon I'll go over, and
let 'em know you're here," suggested the farmer.
"If you do, you will get a bit of lead through your upper story,"
replied Deck, as he rode on.
He had hardly started his horse before a volley was heard in the
direction of the hill road.
CHAPTER XXVI
THE ENEMY'S BATTLE WITH THE MUD
The sound of the volley did not come from the top of the hill, and
Captain Gordon would not have been so simple as to waste the powder and
balls in the carbines of his men at an impracticable distance from the
object of his attack. Lieutenant Belthorpe must have seen his force as
soon as he reached the top of the hill; and no doubt he had hurried to
join in the attack at the right moment, so that it could be made in the
front and rear at the same time.
But plans do not always work precisely as they are arranged beforehand.
Deck turned his steed as soon as he heard the volley, and hastened back
to notify the sergeant; but Fronklyn had heard the discharge, and
marched on the instant. For a non-commissioned officer, he was decidedly
a man of parts, though he had not been in a fight till that day.
"Hurry up, Sergeant! I think we shall have warm work over on the hill
road as soon as we can reach it. They are firing lively now on both
hills," said Deck, as he took his place by the side of the officer.
"We are all ready for it; and the men were as mad as a bull in a swarm
of hornets as the recall was sounded back there a while ago, when they
were licking the enemy out of his boots," replied Fronklyn.
"They are likely to get enough of it now," added Deck, as they galloped
forward at the best speed they could get out of the horses.
But the firing suddenly ceased, and there was a noise ahead other than
the sounds of battle, which attracted the attention of Deck and the
sergeant. It was the clang of sabres and the rattle of accoutrements,
and the sounds came from a less distance than to the hill road.
"What does this mean?" asked Deck, as he reined in his horse. "Halt your
men here!" he added, as he obtained a full view ahead.
Fronklyn promptly accepted the suggestion, and gave the order; but he
did not understand the reason for making it. The cross-road extended
through the wild region over which the detachment had passed farther up
the hill. In this part of it the surface was more irregular than above;
on the left was a meadow, through which flowed the brook that crossed
the main road. Just ahead of the force the road wound through a narrow
pass, between lofty pinnacles of rock.
From a point in the road Deck had obtained a glance across the meadow at
the cross-road near the main highway. There he saw the Rangers
retreating vigorously, and coming directly towards him. He could not
quite understand this change in the programme, as laid down by
Lieutenant Belthorpe and himself. But it did not take him long to
explain the situation to his own satisfaction, whether correctly or not.
Captain Gordon's men had made the attack with a volley from the
carbines. As soon as Tom Belthorpe heard the report, he dashed down the
hill to have a finger in the pie; for his men were eager for the affray.
Captain Dingfield had seen them coming, and probably mistook the force
for a much larger one, and ordered a retreat by the cross-road.
Doubtless he had chosen to await the attack of Captain Gordon in this
locality on account of this convenient outlet. The enemy had not waited
for a charge, and neither of the detachments from the two hills had
reached the brook.
Deck hurriedly stated the situation to Sergeant Fronklyn. Then he
pointed out the narrow pass in the road, which would conceal the men for
a few moments. He advised him to advance to it, and then fall upon the
head of the column as it entered the narrow passage. The officer gave
the order to advance, and with it a few ringing words of encouragement.
Fronklyn placed himself at the head of his men, with Deck near him, and
they dashed into the pass at a breakneck speed. The enemy had not yet
reached the narrow defile.
The troopers had their carbines all ready for use, and the sergeant
halted them at a point where they could see the Rangers as they
approached. At the right moment he gave the command to fire, and the
report was the first intimation to Captain Dingfield that an enemy was
in front of him. As soon as the Union soldiers had discharged their
pieces, they were ordered to sling their carbines, and draw their
sabres.
"To the charge! March!" shouted Fronklyn.
The volley had been a surprise to the Rangers, and they were evidently
staggered as some of their saddles were emptied. Captain Dingfield was
not at the front of his company; for the danger was supposed to be in
the rear, and he was as brave a man as ever sat on a horse. Of course he
could form no idea of the strength of the force in front of him, and he
must have realized that he had fallen into a trap. If he had not been
prudent before, he was so now, for the bugler immediately sounded the
recall.
Sergeant Fronklyn did not wait to see what Captain Dingfield would do,
or where he would retreat. He led his men forward, and they charged
furiously upon what had been the right of the column. The Rangers
defended themselves with vigor and determination for a few minutes, and
the accounts of three of them were closed for this world. The next thing
that Deck saw, for he made a business of knowing all that was going on
around him, was a column of cavalry fleeing across the meadow.
The captain of the Rangers, from his position near the rear, had
evidently found a means of escape. Deck fought with his sabre as long as
there was one of the enemy near him; but as fast as the Texans could get
out of the mêlée they fled to the rear. The pass was so narrow that
the Union troopers, few as there were of them on the by-road, had not
room enough to do themselves justice. But Fronklyn urged them on, and
drove them before him, till he heard the clashing of arms in front of
him.
Both Captain Gordon and Lieutenant Belthorpe dashed into the narrow
road, and followed up the enemy, till the last of them had taken to the
meadow. When the ground was examined later, it was found that there was
only one narrow causeway by which the descent to the low ground could be
made; and the Rangers covered and defended this pass till all of their
number had left the road. It was in vain that the fresh troopers pressed
forward from the hill road, for the way was blocked against them. In the
inability of the captain and the lieutenant to bring their numbers to
bear, the combat was on equal terms.
The Rangers defended themselves bravely and skilfully. There were a
number of hand-to-hand struggles with which there was no space for the
interference of others. But it looked as though the Texans had leaped
from the frying-pan into the fire; for they had gone out but a short
distance from the by-road before their horses began to mire; for the
ground proved to be very soft. Several of the Texans were obliged to
dismount, and pull their steeds out of the mud.
Captain Gordon had pressed forward, and engaged the rear of the
retreating column; and he was about to order a pursuit, when he
discovered the enemy was sinking in the mire, and that the meadow was no
place for horses. It was located all along the wild region; and,
doubtless, some of those sink-holes and caverns which abound in this
part of the State existed in this section of wild land. But the captain
was not willing to permit the escape of the enemy.
Deck Lyon was reasonable enough to abandon the idea of "bagging the
game;" for the Rangers could now hardly be regarded as an organized
military company. The meadow proved to be nothing but a quagmire, though
the farmer appeared to get the hay from it, as there were two stacks of
it on the field; but he had to take the occasion when the ground was
frozen to obtain his crop. By this time the Texans were scattered all
over the meadow, wandering about in search of more solid ground.
It would have been easy enough to shoot down the whole of them; but
Captain Gordon was too chivalrous a man to murder the defenceless
fellows. A few of them had crossed the brook, and were ascending the
hill on the other side. A number of them were making a road of the
bottom of the little stream, which seemed to be composed of sand washed
in from the hills.
The first company were at ease all along the by-road, watching the
movements and the struggles of the enemy; and no doubt Captain Dingfield
wished he had fought it out, or surrendered on the hard ground. The
night was coming on; and even if the Texans extricated themselves from
their pitiable condition, they must be so demoralized that they could do
no further mischief till they had rested and recruited from the effects
of their battle with the mud.
"What are them men doin' in there?" asked the farmer, who wandered as
far as the causeway, when it was safe to do so, and there encountered
Deck, whom he had met before.
"They are trying to get out," replied Private Lyon.
"They can't do it!" exclaimed the native, who indulged in much profane
speech. "They'll make a cemetry of the whole medder. It's nothin' but
muck in there till you git to the bottom on't, and that's where them
fellers will go. I had a colt git in there, and all on us couldn't git
him out; and I reckon his carcass is lyin' on the bottom now. They've
sp'ilt my medder," continued the farmer; and he heaped curses on the
unfortunate troopers, who were tearing up the soft sod at a fearful
rate.
The native had picked up the three horses of the troopers who had been
killed in the affray, and they were some compensation for the damage
done him in the meadow, which looked as though it had been ploughed up.
"Isn't there any way for those men to get out of that quagmire?" asked
Captain Gordon, as he encountered the farmer.
"I don't know o' none," replied the man in a surly tone, "If they was
only Yankees, I'd like it better."
"I like it better as it is," replied the captain.
He knew of no way to extricate the troopers from their plight. It was
the dry season of the year, and probably there was less water and less
mud than in the wet season. The bodies of the horses seemed to be
resting on the sod, with their legs wholly plunged in the soft soil. The
riders had dismounted, and attacked two stacks of hay on the field, and
were placing it in front of their animals. It afforded a better
foundation for them than the oozy turf; and a couple of them were
already standing on their legs.
The darkness was gathering rapidly, and Captain Gordon gave the order
for his men to form in column; and then he marched them out to the hill
road. He was satisfied that the Texans would escape from their miserable
plight, though it might require many hours for them to accomplish it.
They had already begun to build a sort of causeway of the hay, to
connect with the solid one by which they had fled from the fight. The
hay was of a coarse quality, abundantly mixed with weeds and bushes, and
it appeared to be substantial enough to support the horses.
It was evident to the captain that the entire force of the enemy could
be easily captured as they came off the meadow; but it might require the
whole night to secure them. The first company, now united, marched to
the hill road, and halted in a field which had been selected before for
the camping-ground. The men proceeded to feed themselves and their
horses. A half-dozen scouts were left on the by-road to watch the mired
Texans. They had built a great fire to afford them light, and continued
their labors.
A portion of the field where they had encamped consisted of a grove of
big trees, such as the company had frequently seen. The baggage-train
had been left at the bridge, and the men had no tents, but they were
provided with overcoats and blankets; and thus protected from the cold
of the chill night, it was not accounted a hardship to sleep on the
ground. Sentinels surrounded the camp, and two scouts had been sent out
in each direction on the hill road.
"Scouts coming in from both ways!" shouted the sentinels in the road;
and the word was carried to the guard quarters.
The captain was immediately informed. As Deck happened to be in the
detail for guard duty, he had been stationed in the road, and it was his
voice which first announced the return of the scouts. Captain Gordon,
who had stretched himself under a tree for a nap, hastened to the road
to ascertain the cause of the alarm.
"Where are the scouts, Deck?" he asked, as he confronted the sentinel in
the road.
"They have not got here yet," replied Deck, as he saluted the captain.
"I saw them at the top of the hills, coming in at full speed."
"But there is no enemy in this vicinity, except the Texans in the
quagmire," added the captain.
"I know of none, Captain."
The two scouts came in almost at the same moment, before the captain and
the private could discuss the situation, and reported a detachment of
cavalry approaching from either direction.
CHAPTER XXVII
AT THE CAMP-FIRE NEAR THE ROAD
As Captain Gordon suggested, there was no enemy in the vicinity with the
exception of the Texan Rangers, half buried in the mud. The approach of
cavalry from both directions, and in the darkness, was rather an
alarming announcement; and if the scouts had not been close by, he would
have ordered the long roll, and prepared for defence. The camp-fires
were blazing near the road, and a weird light was cast upon the scene.
"Well, Beck, what is your news?" demanded the captain, as the scout
saluted him.
"A detachment of cavalry was coming up when I left the top of the hill,"
replied the trooper.
"What were they?" demanded the captain impatiently.
"I don't know, Captain; we could not make them out in the darkness,"
replied the scout; and he was the one who came from the south.
"How many were there of them?"
"We looked at them as they came down the hill, and Wilder and I reckoned
there were about fifty of them. They had a wagon train behind them."
"Very well, Beck. What have you to say, Layder?" asked Captain Gordon,
turning to the scout from the north.
"My report is just about the same as Beck's; though the detachment comes
from the other way. But they didn't have no baggage-train."
"Did you make out how many there were, Layder?"
"We made out about forty of 'em, Captain; we could not see very well,
and there may have been more of 'em."
"Return to your mates, and ascertain, if you can, who and what they
are," added Captain Gordon.
Deck Lyon had something to say, but he did not feel like saying it. He
was perfectly satisfied that there would be no fighting with the
approaching detachments. He had been reasoning over the situation, and
he had formed a decided opinion. He had heard the train on the railroad,
both when it went down and when it returned about dark; but he knew
nothing about the events which had transpired at the camp by the bridge.
The only fact that bothered him was that the detachment from the south
had a baggage-train.
"Well, Deck, what do you make of it?" asked Captain Gordon, as he halted
in front of the sentinel.
"The two detachments are the second company of Riverlawn Cavalry,"
replied Deck without any hesitation; for this was the decided opinion he
had reached.
"What makes you think so, Deck?" asked the captain with a smile.
"Except the Texans in the mud, there is no other cavalry in these parts.
That's the first reason. The second is, that Major Lyon sent half the
first company under Lieutenant Belthorpe up the railroad, and he can
have heard nothing from this force since; and he would naturally get a
little anxious about it. The third reason is, that he sent you and the
rest of the first company in pursuit of the Texans. If you have not
sent any messenger to him, I shouldn't wonder if the major had worried a
little about you, Captain," said Deck.
"I sent no messenger to him; I could not spare a single man, for I was
liable to meet the whole company of Texans," added the captain. "But I
think you are right, and the same suggestions came to my mind."
Half an hour later the same scouts returned to the camp, and reported
that the captain and Deck were correct in their suppositions. In a
quarter of an hour more the second company rode into the camp. Major
Lyon was with the detachment from the south. The moment he saw Deck, he
leaped from his horse as lightly as his son could have done it, and
grasped both of the hands of the sentinel.
"I am glad to see you again. Dexter!" exclaimed the father. "I have had
a deal of worry over your disappearance, and I was afraid I should have
to send bad news to your mother and your sister."
"No use of worrying about me, father," replied Deck, still holding the
hand of the major. "I have had considerable experience to-day, but I
have worked through it all."
"But what became of you?" asked the anxious father.
"I was captured by the bridge-burners, and I was only sorry that I could
not prevent them from setting the bridge afire. I suppose it was all
burnt up, and your business here is all a failure."
"Not at all, my son; the bridge was hardly damaged at all, and a train
has been over it twice since they tried to burn it. But I will see you
later," added the major, as he pressed the hand of his son again.
Captain Gordon was considerate enough to relieve the sentinel from duty,
and he went with his father to the nearest camp-fire. The wagons were
driven into the field, and a few minutes later the headquarters tent was
pitched. Stools were placed before the fire, and all the commissioned
officers of both companies were sent for. It looked like a council of
war, though the object of the meeting was to receive the reports of the
officers. For the first time since the arrival of the squadron, the two
companies were united.
Captain Gordon, as the senior, was called upon first for his report; and
he recited it at length, ending with the skirmish at the cross-roads
near the camp. Lieutenant Belthorpe described his wanderings with half
the company, including his brief engagement with the Rangers.
"I feel as though I should be mean if I failed to inform the officers of
the squadron how much service Deck Lyon has rendered to me since I found
him on the road," said Tom. "We are not on parade just now, and I
suppose I may say it."
"Dry up, Tom!" exclaimed Deck, loud enough to be heard by the speaker,
though hardly by the others.
"Not just yet, Lieutenant," interposed the major. "I don't understand
how you happened to meet Dexter in the road; for the last he told me of
himself was that he was taken prisoner by the enemy. I should like to
hear his narrative first, for it may throw some light on other matters."
Deck was admonished by his father to tell the whole story, without any
omissions; and he related his adventure from the time he had first seen
Brown Kipps. He explained how he had been duped by that worthy
Tennesseean, and in what manner he had been tempted to shoot his four
custodians through the back of the head.
"I hope you didn't do it, Dexter," interposed his father, before he had
come to the sequel of the affair.
"I did not, father; for I feared the deed would haunt me to the last day
of my life, be it long or short," replied Deck. "It looked like
cold-blooded murder to me."
The assembled officers applauded him vigorously with their hands; and
the young soldier was glad to receive this testimonial of his officers,
for to him it seemed to settle the moral question involved in his
action.
"I do not believe in carrying on the war upon peace principles; but I do
believe that soldiers should not become assassins," added the major.
The officers likewise applauded this sentiment of their commander.
"We are ready to hear you now, Lieutenant Belthorpe, as I know how
Dexter came into your path. It is important to remember that the
bridge-burners, with their wagon and supplies of combustibles,
proceeded to the north by the hill road. Go on, Lieutenant."
Tom Belthorpe described the action with half the Rangers under
Lieutenant Redway, and the interposition of Deck when he discovered the
approach of the other half of the Rangers. He had retreated rather
against his will by Deck's advice.
"I think his advice was good, if he is my son," added the major.
"No doubt of it; you would have been pinched between the two portions of
the Confederate force, and outnumbered nearly two to one," added Captain
Gordon.
"I was quite satisfied in regard to the wisdom of the advice, badly as
we desired to fight out the action, as soon as I had a chance to think
of it," continued Tom. "Then Deck did a very neat piece of spy-work,
which enabled us to follow the enemy without being seen or heard. The
whole of the Rangers had come together, and they outnumbered Captain
Gordon's command. It was Deck's suggestion to strike across lots, and
reach the by-road; but I did not follow it in full, and divided my
force, so that the Texans should not retreat by the way we came."
"And when you came down the hill with hardly more than twenty men, the
Texans took fright, and retreated up that by-road, where they were
received by Sergeant Fronklyn," added Captain Gordon. "This caused them
to seek a new avenue of escape; and they plunged into the quagmire,
where they are now."
"What you say of Deck leads me to indorse his conduct in the action on
the east road this morning," said Captain Truman, who had said nothing
before; and he proceeded to describe what the young man had done in that
affair.
"Pleasant as it is to hear such excellent reports of the behavior of my
son, I must add that his brother has behaved equally well, though he has
not had the opportunity to distinguish himself except in doing his
simple duty," said the major. "But I have more important business than
this, for I received new orders before I left the camp at the bridge. I
am required to assure the safe passage of trains on the railroad first;
but it appears that the State has been invaded in the south-east, or is
liable to further invasion in that direction.
"The worst feature of this aspect of the situation is that hordes of
guerillas have been turned loose upon us; and even now they are engaged
in their work of plundering and destroying the property of Union men,
not to speak of the outrages committed upon the citizens. These
guerillas, or some of them, take the name of 'Partisan Rangers.' Indiana
and Ohio troops are moving in the direction mentioned; but the enemy are
still busy there. 'The Confederate cavalry,'" continued the commander,
reading from a letter he had taken from his pocket, "'scoured the
country in the vicinity of their camp, arrested prominent Union men, and
destroyed their property.' This is the situation for a hundred miles
east of us; and I am ordered to check these raids of the guerillas with
all my available force.
"I am ordered to move without any unnecessary delay, and I shall march
to-morrow morning. I expect a company of Union Home Guards here by
to-morrow; and I shall be obliged to leave Captain Truman and half his
company; but as soon as he is relieved by the infantry company, he will
rejoin the squadron."
"We have been unable to make out that there is any Confederate force in
this vicinity, with the exception of the Rangers who are just now
struggling with the mud in the bog meadow near us," said Captain Gordon.
"How many of them are there?" asked the major.
"I am sure I don't know," replied the captain.
"I counted eighty-one of them, including Captain Dingfield; but some few
of them had escaped through the mud to the hill on the other side of the
bog," said Deck, who was always doing some useful work when he found a
chance.
"As many as that; perhaps half a company is not force enough to leave
with you, Captain Truman," suggested the major.
"Quite enough, Major Lyon; for we should have to act mainly on the
defensive," replied the captain of the second company. "My men have
fought the Texans once to-day; and though they are brave and daring
fellows, they are not such terrible bugbears as they have been
represented to be. But infantry can guard the bridge better than
cavalry."
"The infantry will probably relieve you by to-morrow. If the Texans,
with their bridge-burners, were out of the way, I need leave no force,"
added the major.
"But we can put them out of the way very easily," suggested Captain
Gordon.
"Do you mean to shoot them down as they stick in the mud there? We are
not murderers, Captain," replied the major sternly.
"I meant nothing of the kind," returned the captain with a blush. "I
could have ordered my men to do that before it appeared that the action
was finished."
"Pardon me, Captain; I know you are not a murderer."
"They are stuck fast there, eighty-one of them, according to Deck's
figures; and we can make prisoners of them as they get out of the bog,
as I think they will before morning, for they have hit upon an effective
plan."
"It would take one of our companies to capture them, and to dispose of
them as prisoners, so that we should gain nothing," replied the major,
vetoing the plan at once. "The Union Home Guards may be here early in
the morning, for they have had time enough to make the march."
The meeting closed; and officers and privates were tired enough after
the long day to wrap themselves in their blankets and sleep.
CHAPTER XXVIII
A MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE
The night passed without any alarm. The sentinels were relieved at
regular intervals, including the two who patrolled the by-road. The
latter complained, when others were put in their places, that they might
as well be asleep in the camp, for they could see nothing of the Texans.
There was only one place where they could obtain a view of them when it
was light enough for them to see anything.
The night was unusually dark, for a heavy mass of black clouds had
rolled up from the west, promising a smart shower. The Rangers had
extinguished their fires at an early hour in the evening, for what
reason the guards were unable to determine; but the fact was suspicious,
and they redoubled their vigilance. The last that had been seen of the
bemired troopers, they were building the causeway of hay to unite with
the one of solid rocks and earth built by the farmer to obtain access
to his hay-field.
This causeway was believed to be the only possible way to get on or off
the meadow. Captain Gordon had made a survey of the locality in person,
and had gone up the road as far as the house of the farmer, the only one
in the vicinity. He had met the native in his walk, and had questioned
him with all the skill he possessed in regard to the surroundings; for
the fellow was not disposed to give any information. The only statement
of any importance he could drag out of him was that the causeway was the
only way by which the Texans could leave the meadow. The captain could
see none himself, though he believed from his manner that the man was
lying to him.
The place looked as though there had been an immense sink-hole there at
some remote period in the past, which had been filled up by the wash
from the hills around it. This flow had brought down quantities of dry
leaves and other vegetable matter; and this, with the growth of rank
grass and weeds decaying on the spot, had formed what is called a bog in
Ireland, and a peat meadow in the Northern States.
There was fuel enough in it to supply a village for a hundred years; but
wood was so plentiful in this region that it would not pay to cut, dry,
and carry it to more solid ground. Whether the captain was satisfied or
nor with his investigations, he could obtain no further information. The
meadow seemed to be surrounded with rocky formations; though his
knowledge of it, obtained in the darkness, was very imperfect. But he
and his men had seen the troopers laying the causeway of hay to the one
of earth, as though they believed this was the only avenue of escape.
The two sentinels extended their beat as far as the farmer's house.
After nine o'clock in the evening its windows were dark, and the people
within appeared to have retired. But the big dog of the native did not
retire with the rest of the family, and he made a rude attack upon the
guards every time they approached the house. About midnight he had
assailed one of the men so furiously that he was obliged to defend
himself with his sabre; and the brute was so badly wounded that nothing
more was seen of him. His dead body was found the next morning near the
house; and the farmer was as furious as the canine had been, though he
had a proper respect for carbines and sabres.
When the guard was relieved after midnight, all was quiet on the meadow,
and it was believed that the troopers had taken to their blankets. One
of the sentinels declared that he could hear them snore; but this was
doubtless a camp-fire exaggeration. They watched the causeway, as they
had been instructed to do; and certainly none of the Texans came out
that way. One of them proposed to explore the space between the by-road
and the position of the troopers; but the other insisted that such an
enterprise would result in certain death, for no doubt the enemy had
sentinels whose carbines were loaded with ball cartridges.
So far as the guards could report, there was no change at the by-road
during the night. The headquarters tent had been pitched, and Major Lyon
had been up half the night studying his maps, and repeatedly reading the
written orders he had received, as well as a mass of newspaper cuttings
which had been sent with them. The latter were, for the most part,
accounts of outrages committed by Confederate cavalry of companies of
"Partisan Rangers," and of bands who were not provided with even the
doubtful authority of the insurrectionary government.
Before daylight in the morning Major Lyon was on his feet; for he felt
that he was loaded with a heavy responsibility. He was charged with the
protection of the railroad bridges in the vicinity, though he was to be
immediately relieved from this duty to enable him to assist with the
more vigor in suppressing the guerillas and other predatory bands.
Artie, now his orderly, slept in the tent with him, and he was sent to
have "The Assembly of Buglers" sounded; and this is the call for the
troopers to appear on the parade.
There was a commotion at the guard quarters; and before Artie had roused
the bugler from his slumbers, he was called by the officer of the day.
Was Major Lyon awake? He was, for he had called his orderly.
"Inform him at once that the sentinel from the by-road reports the
disappearance of the enemy in the bog," said the officer.
As soon as he received the information, the major hastened to the guard
tent, where the sentinel who had brought the news was detained. The
trooper repeated his information to the commander. It was hardly light
enough in the bog to see anything, but he and his mate had satisfied
themselves that the Rangers had all disappeared; but of how or where
they had made their escape he had no knowledge.
"Did you hear no noise of any kind?" asked the major.
"Nothing at all; it was as still as a tomb all the time I was on guard,"
replied the sentinel. "We were not sure they were gone till we walked
out a piece on the meadow, and found the hay, of which they had made a
road to solid ground; but it did not lead to the causeway."
"Where did it lead?" demanded the major.
"In the direction of the farmer's house; but we did not follow it, for
it was decided that I should come up to the camp and report what we had
found out."
"Who was with you, More?" asked the officer of the guard.
"Bunch; and he was to follow the hay-road after I left him," replied the
sentinel.
Major Lyon was very prompt in deciding upon his action, and the first
company was soon in line, and ready to march. Deck belonged in one of
its ranks, and Artie was in close attendance upon the commander. As the
former had conducted the detachment "across lots" the afternoon before,
the major sent for him; and the two young soldiers rode side by side
behind their father, who had Captain Gordon at his side.
"It seems that we are to have a long tramp of it after this; and we are
not likely to be at home Christmas or Thanksgiving this year," said
Artie, as the column descended the hill to the by-road.
"Wherever we may be, it looks like a lively time ahead; for things seem
to be very much mixed in the State," replied Deck.
"How do you suppose the Texans got out of the mud-hole, Deck?"
"I don't know; but I have no doubt the farmer who lives near it and owns
the farm helped them out of it. He is a surly fellow, and I saw that he
was a Secessionist when I met him."
"What do these two darkies want?" asked Artie, pointing to a couple of
colored men, who were running down the hill from the northward as though
their very lives depended upon their speed.
"Probably they are messengers who have come from the vicinity of the
bridge by the same route I did," replied Deck, as he noticed that one
of them was flourishing what looked like a letter in the air.
The two men reached the brook before the column turned in at the
by-road, and had a chance to catch their breath before the officers came
up to them. They had probably seen the column come out from the camp,
and had hurried to intercept it before it turned into the highway they
saw ahead; and it was probable that they were familiar with the
locality.
"W'ich o' you uns is Mars'r Major Lyon?" asked the man with the letter
of the first one he met, who happened to be Deck.
"The one with the plume in his hat," replied the private. "Where do you
come from, Cæsar?"
"From de souf road; more'n a t'ousand so'diers dar. De man wid de feder
in his hat," replied the negro, as he rushed forward to the major and
delivered his letter, with a jumbled speech, of which the recipient took
no notice.
Major Lyon drew up his horse at the side of the brook, his sons
remaining with him, while the column continued on the march. He tore
open the envelope, and read the epistle written with a pencil.
"Be'n a-lookin' fo' you all night, Mars'r," said the bearer. "De gin'ral
done gib me de letter 'fo' dark, an done tell me to find you. Done tramp
seben miles on de roleraid; but we done couldn't found you."
"Where did you sleep?" asked the major, who was evidently pleased with
the information contained in the letter.
"In a swotch-house," replied the messenger, who was very much confused,
and his small stock of English was badly mixed. "In a swotch-house on de
roleraid."
"He means a switch-house," laughed Deck, who could not see why the
fellow upset his words so badly.
The major read the missive a second time, and then took a sort of
portfolio from his pocket, and hastily wrote a reply to it, which he
folded and pinned together in the absence of an envelope.
"How did you find us this morning?" asked the major.
"We done find de hoss-tracks an' de wagon-tracks, an' we follers dem."
"Here's a dollar for your service; but don't spend it for apple-jack, my
boy," said the major, as he handed a couple of half-dollars to the
messengers. "You may go to the camp yonder, and get something to eat, if
you like, before you return."
The men were grateful; and the one who received the money gave half of
it to his companion. The major and his orderlies hurried forward, and
found that Captain Gordon had halted the company at the causeway, where
the inquiry must begin.
"The Home Guards arrived at the bridge last night, and the captain of
the company reports to me as directed. I have written out what
information I have to give him, and you will send a couple of your men
to deliver the paper."
Two troopers were despatched at once as the bearers of the order. It was
possible that the men might encounter some of the Rangers who had
escaped from the other side of the meadow; and they were cautioned by
the major to be on the lookout for them, and to return as soon as
possible. They departed at a gallop, which promised a speedy return.
"One thing is plain enough: the Texans did not come out of the mire by
this causeway," said the major, as he turned his attention to the
question under consideration.
"The sentinels were here all night," replied Captain Gordon.
"But we can easily discover where they did escape," added the commander
as he dismounted, indicating that he intended to conduct the inquiry
personally; and Deck and Artie followed his example. "Detail ten men to
