" She couldn't be," he ultimately decided, 
and, consoled by the reflection, settled down 
to work. 
But the Sunday which followed was fertile in surprises. Who was this that looked 
like a willis in a ballad, and who, as he 
entered the drawing-room, came forward 
with an enchanted smile ? Surely this 
could not be Myrrha. And what was she 
saying to him ? When had he heard such 
melody before ? 
Her hand was in his ; about her mobile 
lips a smile was fluttering, one that mounted 
to her eyes, danced in them, and played 
again in the curves of her mouth. No, 
never had he seen that mouth before, nor 
yet in all the world any mouth that for 
sweetness resembled it. And that hand! 
Why was it in his ? And that face ? Surely 
this was some princess stepping from an 
idyl in a dream ! 
" Is it you ? " he asked grotesquely, and for 
countenance' sake ran his fingers through 
the tangles of his hair. 
The phantasmagoria had lasted but a 
second ; the sound of his voice awoke him ; 
he was on earth again. It is true, the hand 
had gone. 
" I am glad to see you," he added ciwilly 
enough, and in a moment he was hobnobbing with Mrs. Smithwick, congratulating 
her on her safe return. 
During the meal that followed you might 
have mistaken him for your own cousin, so 
nicely did he behave. The girl, too, was 
bright and debonair ; Mrs. Smith wick's 
tongue ran till it seemed as though it must 
fall from her mouth ; and, though it was 
Sunday, even Mr. Attersol seemed pleased 
and content. In short, the dinner was so 
little unsuccessful that when Quain got 
back to the lodgings in the lower Thirties 
which he had selected for his use, he smiled 
a trifle grimly at himself. 
" That little catamount has improved," he 
reflected. " Well, there was room for it. 
Improved ? " he repeated after a moment. 
" Improved ? It isn't the same girl at all. 
They have done her all over and set her up 
anew. I wonder, though" 
He hesitated, bolting mentally at the 
eccentricity of his own thought; but it must 
have pursued him, for when he awoke in the 
morning it was with him still. 
For weaknesses of this kind there is no 
such tonic as the matter-of-factness of the 
open air. Quain had not stepped into the 
Elevated before all memory of the girl had 
gone ; and, his new duties aiding, it was 
not until the following Sunday he remembered that she lived. But as the weeks 
succeeded he became less oblivious. Once 
he discowered himself daintily occupied in 
tracing on a blotter the letters of her name. 
And once on the avenue, as he caught sight 
of her returning with Mrs. Smithwick from 
the park, he saluted the carriage with quickening pulse. But these things, however sig- 
nificant, were as nothing in comparison to an 
incident which presently occurred. It was 
in October that the girl had reached New 
York, and after that first Sunday she treated 
Quain as though in reality he were one of 
the family ; interesting herself in his pursuits, questioning him in regard to himself, 
and when the cloth was gone and they had 
all moved to the drawing-room, telling him 
tales of Europe, adventurous episodes of 
schoolgirl career, the gemiithlichkeit of the 
Dresden court, the sauciness of Paris, the 
fatuousness of the Florentines, interrupted, 
if at all, but now and then by interludes 
from her aunt, or some comment that issued 
from behind the periodical in which Mr. 
Attersol was supposed to be absorbed. 
Then Mrs. Smithwick would vanish like a 
wraith, Mr. Attersol, too, would disappear, 
and there would be more tales, punctuated 
by interchange of confidences, until the clock 
struck the eleventh hour and Quain knew it 
was time to go. During these sessions, 
when the girl was occupied with the impressions which foreign lands had supplied, it 
was a pleasure to watch her. Her voice was 
resonant as a bell, delightfully modulated ; 
it charmed the ear. But the mobility of her 
features, the varying expressions which her 
face took on at the situations which she saw 
before describing, and which she made her 
auditor expect, were a caress to the eye. 
There were quivers in her mouth, flushes 
that would come and go, inclinations and 
poises of the head, and particularly a little 
trick she had, when hesitating for the word 
she wanted, of drawing breath, her lips half 
parted, the tip of her tongue just visible, 
that gave her a grace too ambient to be 
portrayed. 
But when it was Quain, in turn, who led 
the talk, she exhibited an assenting, impersonal interest, which in the lengthening 
interviews changed almost into perplexity, 
as though her thoughts were occupied less 
with what he said than with what he suggested ; as though she had become doubly 
receptive, attentive at once to him and to 
some other, invisible to them both. 
Now, it so happened that Mrs. Smithwick, 
who had more fancies than a composer of 
ballets, conceived, in an entirely painless 
manner, an idea that Myrrha should "come 
out." Her own people had been notable at 
a time when Union Square was a suburb ; 
and though the fair precinct in which she 
now resided was largely inhabited by ladies 
and gentlemen whose names had never, in 
those less complex days, appeared on any 
visiting list of which she had cognizance, 
still among them were offshoots and lineages which she could recognize. Then, 
too, there was the wide, the wealthy, and 
the fabulously respectable contingent adherent to the Presbyterian Church, of which, as 
already noted, Mr. Attersol was a pillar. 
And inevitably the flying squadron of 
acquaintances and friends encountered and 
recruited among the penal colonies on the 
Seine, on the Arno, and the Riviera ladies 
of a certain age, whose conception of 
morality appeared to consist in the improper 
thoughts they had of other people ; and 
stately gentlemen of suave address, without 
an enemy in the world or an idea in their 
heads. 
Where was the obstacle that should prevent these representatives of fashion from 
becoming aware that Miss Attersol was to 
enter society ? Mrs. Smithwick saw but 
one Miss Attersol's father. To her surprise, however, and more to her content, the 
suggestion made, there was no veto from 
him ; a protest merely from Myrrha, to 
which Mrs. Smithwick paid no attention at 
all, but promptly consulted with Sherry and 
ordered the cards. 
To this function Quain was duly bidden. 
It needed some urging, though, before he 
consented to come. Oh, not much ! He 
balked ; he was not a society man, he 
insisted ; he would not know what not 
to do, nor what not to say. But Myrrha 
brushed his objections aside like cob- 
webs. " I want you," she told him, and 
he came. 
But the visit was brief. " I'm off," 
he muttered to her the first chance he 
got. 
The drawing-room, the great dining-room 
beyond, the reception-rooms, the hall, the 
stairway too, were pervaded and possessed 
by a set of people as well sent out as any 
capital of the globe could produce. At the 
time being Myrrha was engaged in talk 
with Arthur Bancroft, a lawyer still young 
yet already famous, a man with the look of 
an athlete that had taken honors, one in 
whom her father reposed great trust, as well 
he might, for he was frank as a sword and 
just as keen. 
" I feel like a pike in a tank of goldfish," 
Quain added. 
The girl looked up. " Nonsense ! " she 
exclaimed. "I won't have you go." 
But as he nodded merely, a flush 
mounted to her cheek, she turned away. 
A moment, and he had gone. 
" What rights has she over me ? " he 
queried indignantly. There was no one to 
reply. 
That night the question haunted him, 
and in the morning it greeted him anew. 
" What is her ill-humor to me ?" he asked 
himself. "Haven't I provoked and experienced it a thousand times before ? I 
thought her changed : she isn't. Since her 
return she has done nothing but try to get 
me under her thumb. It's absurd." 
But in spite of the irritation Myrrha inhabited his thoughts. Yet not the Myrrha 
whom he had known. Another had come, 
a new one, so to speak, made up of beauties 
and imperfections, perversities and charms, 
that fused into a unity, adorable, gracious, 
sincere. The form, invisible and undefined, 
which surely accompanies the thoughts of 
the adolescent, and which is but the unincarnated soul of her that is destined to 
reside therein, abruptly took substance. As 
a weed of the sea, loosened and detached, 
rises slowly, stayed by one eddy, then by 
another, before achieving its gradual yet 
sure ascent, a revelation, arrested now by 
an objection, again by a query, yet ever 
nearer the surface, rose from the depths of 
his being and suddenly surged before him. 
" But I love her," he cried. 
There is a magic in those words. No 
sooner were they uttered than an exterior 
force seemed to lift him from himself. His 
mind became a rendezvous of apparitions. 
Myrrha reappeared in countless phases, 
as he had seen her first, as he had seen 
her last, in all the different changes of 
the years ; and a shudder seized him at 
the perception of this love which had 
not existed the day before, and which had 
revealed itself, causelessly, after a night of 
dream, after too many glasses of champagne, perhaps. 
" I love her," he repeated. " But but 
she is not for such as I. She would be 
amused indeed could she suspect." 
He drew breath, went to the dressing- 
table, shut his eyes, waited a moment, 
opened them, and stared at the thing which 
was there. 
" Never," he muttered, as he turned away, 
" never could she care for that" 
During the rest of the day that weariness 
which succeeds a long journey oppressed 
him. He had travelled far indeed into 
that loveliest of lands where the flowers 
distil the reason of love, where the unknown 
and the divine saunter familiarly like the 
gods of old, through mornings mellower 
than August nights, through dusks more 
languid than the moon. But he returned, 
outwearied ; and, as the day waned, a vision 
retreated. His heart was lighter ; he felt 
that his love was decreasing, that it would 
last but a few hours yet, that with sleep 
perhaps it would fade and be lost in the 
penumbra of the past. 
As he lay down, a face seemed pressed to 
his, lips were seeking his own. Myrrha was 
with him still. 
The morrow happened to be Sunday. He 
would see her as a matter of course, and, 
perhaps, through that clairvoyant intuition 
which girls possess, she would divine and 
jest. As he told himself this, it occurred to 
him that he might parry any possible thrust 
by the announcement that he was to leave 
town. After all, never yet had he asked 
for a holiday ; there was not an imaginable 
reason why he should not demand and 
obtain leave for an outing in Florida. But 
fate, that uncertain force which we recognize secretly and openly deny, willed otherwise. He was not destined to mingle with 
the magnolias that year no, nor on any 
other. 
" I think," he began, when the soup had 
gone, " I think, if Mr. Attersol don't mind, 
that I will take a run out of town to-morrow. 
What do you say, Myrrha ? Wouldn't it be 
a good idea for me to go to St. Augustine, 
or somewhere? These gayeties, you know, 
are upsetting." 
The girl shrugged a shoulder indiffer- 
ently. " A good idea yes, if you want to." 
Quain bit his lip. There had been a failure in the street, others were imminent. A 
political job, a triumph in trickery had been 
unearthed. The papers were dripping with 
scandals social, financial, ecclesiastic. A 
wave of corruption seemed to be crossing 
the continent. Mr. Attersol touched on the 
subject, but distantly, with his finger-tips. 
Quain picked it up bodily. Never had he 
appeared so intractable. You would have 
said that everything which was occurring 
was a matter of personal import. The 
ataraxia had gone. 
"At this rate," he declared, by way of 
conclusion, " the hour is near when this 
globe of ours, in whirling through space, 
will poison the universe with the fetidity of 
its exhalations." 
" My ! " exclaimed Mrs. Smithwick, whom 
the prospect startled. " My ! my ! ! " 
But Quain had turned to Myrrha. There 
was a violence in his eyes, a bitterness, an 
unreasoning anger, a light as well, which 
suddenly inundated her. A flush flamed to 
her face, she could have cried aloud ; she 
wished herself anywhere save where she was ; 
she was smitten by emotion as by a blow. 
"He loves me," she reflected. "He is 
angry because I have not seen it and I 
have." 
Mr. Attersol leaned from his seat : 
" What is the matter with you ? You are 
scarlet." 
The girl muttered something, but what ? 
The words were inaudible. She stood up 
and left the room. 
" Gayeties are upsetting," Mr. Attersol 
announced significantly. " Adelaide," he 
continued to Mrs. Smithwick, " see to it 
that she goes nowhere this week." 
As quickly as he could Quain got from 
the house. On the steps he reeled. He, too, 
had seen. He was blinded. It was unreal, 
he kept telling himself. It was impossible. 
He was the toy of an illusion. But the expression which her face had taken on in 
answer to the reproach on his was voluble. 
" She knows that I love her," he muttered. 
"She knows it, and if I read her eyes aright 
dear God, if I have, life is as fair as a 
dream." 
On the morrow he was irresolute, vacillant 
still. By four he left the office. An hour 
later he was at the house, determined if at 
all but as to one thing to know. 
" Yes, Miss Attersol was at home," he 
learned from the serwant ; and from coats in 
the hall, that Miss Attersol was not alone. 
How he entered the room he could not afterward recall. He was conscious merely that 
Melanchthon Stitt spoke to him, Bancroft 
as well, that he hated them both, and that 
for a second he held Myrrha's hand in his. 
"Yes, it was most odd," Stitt was saying. 
" Have you heard, Quain ? " the novelist interrupted himself to ask. " That little rival 
of mine, Mrs. Fordyce, has committed suicide. I was just telling Miss Attersol. Suicide always seems to me such a poor climax, 
particularly as life is well enough, agreeable 
even, if you let it have its own way. Of 
course, if you try to oppose it with all sorts 
of ideas you have got you don't know how, 
you make a mess of the whole thing. Life 
is a current. Of your conceptions of right 
or wrong, of your likes and dislikes, it takes 
no account at all. Drift with it, don't op- 
pose it. It is a guide that won't be guided ; 
you must yield to it or drown." 
The novelist stood up. The little speech 
was just so much " copy " which he pro- 
posed to amplify at leisure. 
" But how did she do it ? " Myrrha asked. 
"Who? Mrs. Fordyce? How did she 
kill herself, do you mean ? Oh, she just 
threw a glance out of the window and followed it. By the way, I wanted to tell you, 
Miss Attersol, how much I enjoyed your entirely charming affair the other day." 
And the novelist smiled and bowed. 
"Bancroft," he added, for the lawyer had 
also risen, " if you are going my way, you 
can give me a lift." 
A moment, and Quain and the girl were 
alone. 
"Myrrha," he began at once, "that idiot 
gave you his views of life, at second-hand, 
too, I dare say. What are your views of 
love ? " 
He must have looked a very fierce wooer 
as he spoke, for the girl shrank ; he saw it 
and moved closer. 
" Shall I tell you his, Bancroft's, all the 
world's ? To them love is the affection of 
some one else. But to you, what is it to 
you ? What does it imply ? Answer me. 
You must tell me." 
He was staring into her eyes ; there was a 
pathos in them, a dread, a wonder too. But 
they were not in his ; they looked rapt yet 
startled. When a girl first stands face to 
face with love, it may allure, but always 
it alarms. 
" Tell me," he repeated ; and at the moment, awkwardly, as men will do such things, 
he attempted to take her hand.. But she 
freed herself and moved a little. The effort 
presumably aroused her. 
" I do not know that I know what love is ; 
but if the feeling which I have experienced 
since yesterday be that, then then" 
She hesitated and paused. Her eyes now 
seemed set on some vista visible only to 
herself, and she added slowly, with the air 
of one returning from some inordinate distance : 
" Then it is the sweetest shape of pain." 
As she said this, for the first time she 
turned to him and she smiled. Yet was it a 
smile ? On her lips there was a gladness, 
but in her eyes were the phantoms of twin 
tears. She ran a hand across them, and for 
a moment held it so. 
"Oswald," she continued, the hand still 
raised, " let me tell you, or rather let me 
try to tell, for as yet I myself do not understand. Perhaps you can make it clear. I 
think I love you " and at the avowal she 
blushed divinely "yet again, in some way 
which I cannot explain to myself, I think it 
may not be love at all. For love should 
bring happiness, should it not ? And it is 
not happiness that I feel, it is a dread and 
of what ? Of myself or of you ? " 
The hand dropped to her side, the flush 
had gone, her face was pale, and she turned 
to him again. 
" Shall I tell you? How shall I? Os- 
wald, I am as one bewitched ; you fascinate 
and repel." 
As she said this there came to him the 
look of a beaten dog that crouches, fearing 
another blow. She divined his thought at 
once and shook her head almost angrily. 
" No, no ; no, no," she cried. " Not 
that, Oswald, it is your soul I fear " 
" My soul ! Myrrha, I did not know I had 
one till I saw it mirrored in your eyes. I 
used to deny that such a thing could be. 
I was as an idiot at the sea-shore ; the 
infinite was before me, and I was uncon- 
scious of it. My soul ! But, Myrrha, it is 
you that have created it " 
" I do not know, perhaps it is your heart I 
fear, perhaps my own ; it may be that it is 
you." 
" My heart is yours ; will you take it, 
Myrrha, or will you put it aside, a thing forever dead ? " 
His hand again had sought her own, and 
for a moment now she let it lie in his. 
" Myrrha," he whispered, " this is the 
birthday of my life." The girl made no 
reply, nor even did she attempt to frame 
one ; she made no revolt either, and for a 
while hand in hand they sat, silent, oppressed by that melancholy which is the 
woof of love, interrogating the future, marvelling at the past. 
" I am frightened," the girl murmured at 
last, but so faintly that he barely heard. 
" And I ! I, too, am frightened. Myrrha, 
joy affrights." 
She shook her head. " Perhaps it is that 
in love there are three ; the third is the 
Unknown. Oswald, I know now, it is that 
I fear." 
She had stood up. What vision had she 
seen ? She had been pale before, but now she 
was white. She reached to a chair for support. 
" Children, what are you up to ? " In the 
doorway was Mrs. Smithwick. " Snuff, I 
suppose," she added flightily. " Well, even 
so ! Oswald, I thought you were shooting 
crocodiles. And Myrrha ! Do you know 
it is seven ? Do you know the Wentworths 
are coming ? Do you know why, what is 
the matter with her ? " 
On the chair, her head on her shoulder, 
Myrrha seemed to have sunk in a heap. 
Quain sprang at her. " She's fainted," 
he almost yelped. 
" Be still, you great booby. Ring the 
bell, can't you ? Call Antoinette." 
Already Mrs. Smithwick had raised the 
girl and was beating her hands with hers, 
but instantly almost she opened her eyes. 
" There, it's over now." 
She straightened herself, and for a 
moment sat, Quain and Mrs. Smithwick 
on either side, unconscious of them, unconscious perhaps of herself, in that attitude 
which Diirer gave to Melancholy. 
Mrs. Smithwick, however, had no intention 
of experiencing any such emotion without 
enjoying the due reward. 
" It is your stays, Myrrha," she began 
sewerely. " Don't tell me it isn't. It's 
always the same thing. I don't know what 
gets into girls." And looking over at 
Quain she added in a shrill aside, " The 
devil, I think." 
Myrrha nodded, but to which solution was 
by no means clear. Then with that motion 
a swan has, she turned to Quain : 
" Come to-morrow, won't you ? " 
Yes, indeed he would. And when he 
found himself in the street he repeated that 
promise aloud. He was vexed, nervous too, 
distraught by the episodes of the afternoon, 
which had left him little wiser than before. 
Her attitude, too, filled him with surmises. 
He asked himself a dozen questions in as 
many seconds, and let them pass unanswered. 
There was but one that he detained of 
what was she afraid ? Was it his face ? 
Surely that were enough to frighten a 
braver and stronger one yet than she. But 
had she not insisted, angrily almost, that it 
was not that? And yet, admitting that in 
her heart of hearts she really loved, was it 
not less himself for whom she cared than 
for some illusion of her fancy ? 
It is the corollary of love to doubt, to 
doubt always, to doubt in certainty, in conviction ; and though such shrewd people as 
you and I could have told at a glance that 
the girl was not illusionized in the least, yet 
Quain was in the toils. Love may frighten, 
but it blinds as well. 
He had reached a club where, latterly, he 
had dined, and entered querying still. In 
the main room Stitt was seated, his back to 
the door. About him were a group of men 
in evening dress. Quain's entrance was 
unnoticed. He picked up the Post and 
glanced at a leader. But the sound of his 
own name caused him, as involuntarily it 
will cause the best of us, to listen. It was 
Stitt that was speaking. 
"You are wrong, dear boy. Men such as 
he have opportunities the rest of us never 
enjoy. Women must be loved, yes, though 
it be by monsters, perhaps particularly by 
monsters " 
The paper Quain held fell from him. It 
was as though a veil had been rent. Light 
poured in upon him. He turned to go, but 
another phrase from the novelist, the answer 
to some objection, no doubt, followed after 
and caught him on the way. 
" Psychology ! But what is psychology 
but common sense with the gas turned on ? " 
"And what is a paradox? " he asked him- 
self as he reached the street. " What is it 
but the commonplace in fancy dress ? For 
once, and by accident, that idiot is right. If 
Myrrha loves me it is because I differ from 
all other men, because I am a monster, 
because outside of Patagonia and Sing Sing 
I am the ugliest being on earth. Because I 
am unique. But what is it that she fears ? 
Is my nature as hideous as my face ? " 
The man who has followed the old world 
recommendation, the man who has taken 
cognizance of himself, is rare. Quain was 
no exception. The philosophy of the Athenians had disorganized him admirably ; it 
had divested him of the incessant preoccupation of what Stitt might have termed the 
cant-dira-t-on. The opinion of the third 
person had lost its value. But what philos- 
ophy had not taught him, and that for the 
reason that only life can, was that in the 
depths of every man, however intellectual, 
however refined, are the same possibilities 
for evil that bandits share. Only with the 
former the dregs do not get to the surface. 
Yet now, as he asked himself that simple 
little question, he stared at the abysses 
which he discowered. The man who divests 
himself of prejudices divests himself of prin- 
ciples as well. And as Quain looked the 
closer, there was not one that he could call 
his own, nothing at all, in fact, save the flicker and flame of a passion, the lawlessness of 
one desire, a determination fixed and resolute to possess that girl. 
" She is right to be afraid," he muttered. 
It had begun to snow; the cool flakes were 
grateful, exhilarating too, and as he strode 
on up the avenue again there came to him a 
sense of larger life, the freedom that eagles 
know; his lungs expanded with fresh odors ; 
beyond was a new horizon, brutally beauti- 
ful, wholly solid, dreamless and real, and in 
it, fairer than the desire of a fallen god, was 
Myrrha aglow with gold. 
At once he understood himself. Other 
men had infirmities, he was sound no gastritis called good taste, none of that obesity 
of the mind which is known as decorum, no 
rheumatism of the nerves, none of the anchylosis of rectitude. He was an ambition 
animated, one with which nothing should 
interfere. No, nothing ; and as he repeated 
those two words, unconsciously yet surely 
the old world recommendation, Tv&Qi <ys- 
avrov had been put in practice. He knew 
and was confident of himself. Myrrha 
indeed was adorable, another Psyche. Yet 
had she been sister to the Harpies it would 
have mattered now not in the least. Beauty, 
genius, virtue, or the lack of them, anything 
and everything he was aware could be 
talked away, yet never wealth. It was that 
she represented,, and it was that he proposed 
to get. At the moment, had some newer 
Diogenes flashed a lantern, it would have 
disclosed not a man but an aim. 
Between conception and accomplishment, 
however, there is a margin, and there is also 
fatality ; or, if you prefer, there is that chain 
of circumstance, the interconnection of cause 
and effect in which we are all immeshed. 
On the morrow the highroad which Quain 
had discowered became suddenly tortuous 
and obscure. Mr. Attersol sent for him. 
"Oswald," he began at once, "Myrrha 
has told me what occurred yesterday. 
Don't let it happen again" 
"I love her," Quain with blunt boldness 
retorted. "And she loves me." 
Mr. Attersol nodded. " I dare say you 
both think so, but it is a mistake" 
" Mistake ! " 
" Don't interrupt me. I said mistake, that 
is sufficient. The other evening you spoke 
of going to Florida ; if you still wish, you 
may." 
And as Quain said nothing he added : 
"In any event, you will, until further notice, 
oblige me by discontinuing your visits to 
the house. That will do." 
Before the window of the cage to which 
Quain's stool had been removed, he found, 
after this interview, four men in line. As he 
raised the curtain, the first man handed in a 
cheque and glared savagely. 
" Another minute," he declared, " and I 
would have had it protested." 
" Protest and be damned," Quain gnashed 
back. And to him, to the others, he tossed 
out money ragefully, without a second 
counting, indifferent of results. He was 
furious, angry with fate, angry with the 
world. 
" Here, Brisbane," he called. And relinquishing his stewardship to an under-clerk, 
in half an hour he was at Myrrha's door. 
But Miss Attersol was not at home. He 
went away, idled at a club, and returning 
rang again. The answer was the same. 
After an hour's interval, he reappeared. 
This time he was admitted. 
As the girl entered the drawing-room, he 
almost sprang at her. 
" Do you know what your father says ? 
I am not to come here. I told him I loved 
you ; I told him, too, that you loved me. 
He says it is a mistake. Is it a mistake, 
Myrrha ? Don't you love me ? " 
Her hands were in his, his eyes in hers. 
The question he saw was needless, but he 
repeated it with all a true lover's show of 
poignant anxiety. 
" Don't you, Myrrha ? " 
She drew her hands away ; but her eyes 
still rested in his own, and it was with her 
eyes she answered. 
At once his arm was about her. " Forever ? " he cried, in a voice in which there 
was a reminiscence of the stage. " Forever ? Myrrha, tell me, you will not 
change ? " 
The girl smiled, yet such a joyless smile, 
one which was nearer to tears than to 
laughter. 
" He will never consent, Oswald " 
With the bravest gesture he interrupted : 
" And what of that ? I may be poor, but 
I have two arms. They are all in all for 
you." 
The girl shook her head : " It is not that. 
He told me last night that it would break 
his heart if I did not give you up." 
" And you ? " 
" I told him it would break mine if I did." 
Well ? " 
" We will have to wait, Oswald. He told 
me I would kill him. He said " 
From beyond came a jostle of portiere 
rings. The girl turned. At the door her 
father stood, his hand on the curtain. For 
a second that seemed a minute no one 
spoke, then Mr. Attersol motioned : 
" Myrrha, go to your room." 
He had spoken quietly, in the low voice 
he used when he wished to impress, and 
dumbly the girl obeyed. 
" Now, sir," he added to Quain, " will 
you explain what you mean by disobeying 
my orders?" 
 
In matters of this sort, Mr. Attersol, 
orders are not for you to give, nor for me 
to receive. I love Myrrha, and I propose 
to make her my wife." 
" And you propose also, I imagine, to 
support her on money taken from the 
till " 
"What?" 
In that one word which he propelled with 
teeth and tongue there were angers, men- 
aces too, great enough to have deterred any 
one not wholly sure of his ground. Mr. 
Attersol, however, did not appear to notice 
the interruption. He continued in the same 
tone in which he had begun : 
" Mr. Brisbane discowered an error in 
your accounts to-day. There are others, I 
presume. But even otherwise, one is suf- 
ficient. Your services are no longer re- 
quired." 
Quain consulted his finger-tips. The hot 
wrath seemed to have gone. He looked 
down and away, and then up at his judge. 
" Do you mean " 
" There is another matter. Your father 
intrusted me with a sum of money to be 
given to you at my discretion. It amounts 
now to about two hundred thousand. The 
income will be paid as long as you remain 
out of this country." 
He turned and touched a bell. A serwant 
entered. 
" Harris, get Mr. Quain his hat. Miss 
Attersol will not be at home to him in 
future. " 
A metaphysician will, if you let him, tell 
you that Time is a category of thought, a 
figment of fancy, the shadow of that which 
is not, a baseless appearance which imagination creates. Quain was not a metaphysician. In his brain were two compartments. 
One held the present, the other the future, 
and during that night he examined them 
both. The two hundred thousand dollars 
assumed a variety of entrancing shapes and 
danced seductively before him. But how 
slight and trumpery they seemed in com- 
parison to the glare which the parade of 
twenty million created. It was dazzling, 
nothing less. Yet why, he wondered, why 
might it no.t be perfectly practicable to use 
the one as means to the other ? His dis- 
missal and the reason of it, the banishment 
which had ensued, affected him remotely ; it 
was of these things that he thought. Surely 
the money which had been left to him was 
not money which Mr. Attersol could retain. 
There were certainly courts and codes 
enough to prevent him. And with that 
money it would not be difficult to support 
Myrrha until Mr. Attersol concluded to 
leave the planet and the twenty million 
behind. 
Manifestly he could not live forever. 
Quain's keen nostrils had already detected 
about him some trace of that aroma of fresh 
earth which is the pre-symptom of decay, 
and of Myrrha he now was confident. With 
two hundred thousand then for the needs 
of the present, of the future he felt secure. 
These preoccupations resulted in a con- 
sultation with a member of the bar which 
robbed him of much of his serenity. To 
begin with, there was not a thing except Mr. 
Attersol's own unwitnessed statement to go 
on. The records in the surrogate's office 
were examined ; the will of Quain's father 
was not on file. In the total absence of evidence, any action which might be instituted 
would be thrown out of court. There was 
but one course possible threats. And 
Quain consenting, a letter was prepared and 
sent one of those communications, at once 
courteous and ferocious, which are the aver- 
age lawyer's stock in trade. At the expiration of a fortnight, no reply having been 
received, a second and more aggressive 
missive was despatched. The result was 
identical, and the attorney stepped out. 
A month or two later, and Quain had so 
nearly run his tether that acceptance of Mr. 
Attersol's offer seemed obligatory. But an 
incident prevented. Chance took him into 
a gambling-house and permitted him to win. 
The next day he returned and won again. 
Thereafter he became an habitue, sometimes 
winning, sometimes losing, but managing 
usually to get out ahead of the game. In 
the course of these diversions he made an 
acquaintance a fat man with a hook in his 
nose and a jocular, cockney swing to his 
talk. In the lengthening evenings the two 
became intimate. They had seances over 
the bottle and exchanged cigars. One 
night Quain drank too much and unbur- 
dened himself. 
" And I say, Isaacstein," he announced, 
by way of conclusion, "that old scoundrel 
out of the way, and I am up to my neck in 
millions." 
Meanwhile he had written to Myrrha let- 
ters overflowing with rhetoric and pearls of 
thought. The answers were simple, but 
they were steadfast. And once hazard 
brought them face to face in the street. 
The interview was brief, yet it sufficed to 
show him that the girl was unchanged, per- 
haps unchangeable. And once he encoun- 
tered Mrs. Smithwick, who had not in the 
least understood the cause of her brother-in- 
law's edict and was inclined to condole with 
the young man in consequence. 
But after the unburdening alluded to, 
Isaacstein took him in hand. 
"You should helope," he kept saying. 
" Why, bless your sweet soul, the old toff 
will come down then quick enough, and 
don't you slip up and forget it." 
The value of this counsel was not to be 
talked away ; the difficulty lay in its ob- 
servance. Meanwhile, Parkhurst aiding, the 
gambling-house had been closed', and at the 
