moderate, and pretty soon we shed our furs. But 
it kept on moderating, and in a precious little while 
it was 'most too moderate. Why, the sweat begun 
to fairly bile out of us. We was close down, now, 
and just blistering ! 
We settled down to within thirty foot of the land. 
That is, it was land if sand is land ; for this wasn't 
anything but pure sand. Tom and me dumb down 
the ladder and took a run to stretch our legs, and 
it felt amazing good ; that is, the stretching did, but 
the sand scorched our feet like hot embers. Next, 
we see somebody coming, and started to meet him ; 
but we heard Jim shout, and looked around, and he 
was fairly dancing, and making signs, and yelling. 
We couldn't make out what he said, but we was 
scared, anyway, and begun to heel it back to the 
balloon. When we got close enough, we understood 
the words, and they made me sick : 
' Eun ! run fo' yo' life ! Hit's a lion — I kin see 
him thoo de glass ! Run, boys ! do please heel it 
de bes' you kin ! He's busted outen de menagerie, 
en dey ain't nobody to stop him ! ' 
It made Tom fly, but it took the stiffening all 
out of my legs. I could only just gasp along the 
way you do in a dream when there's a ghost a-gain- 
ing on you. 
Tom got to the ladder and shinned up it a piece 
and waited for me ; and as soon as I got a footholt 
on it he shouted to Jim to soar away. But Jim had 
clean lost his head, and said he had forgot how. 
So Tom shinned along up and told me to follow ; but 
the lion was arriving, fetching a most gashly roar 
with every lope, and my legs shook so I dasn't try 
to take one of them out of the rounds for fear the 
other one would give way under me. 
But Tom was aboard by this time, and he 
started the balloon up a little, and stopped it again 
as soon as the end of the ladder was ten or twelve 
foot above ground. And there was the lion, a-rip- 
ping around under me, and roaring, and springing 
up in the air at the ladder, and only missing it about 
a quarter of an inch, it seemed to me. It was delicious
to be out of his reach— perfectly delicious — 
and made me feel good and thankful all up one side ; 
but I was hanging there helpless, and couldn't climb, 
and that made me feel perfectly wretched and 
miserable all down the other. It is 'most seldom 
that a person feels so mixed, like that ; and it is not 
to be recommended, either. 
Tom asked me what he better do, but I didn't 
know. He asked me if I could hold on whilst he 
sailed away to a safe place and left the lion behind; 
I said I could if he didn't go no higher than he was 
now, but if he went higher I would lose my head and 
fall, sure. So he said, ' Take a good grip ! ' and 
he started. 
' Don't go so fast I shouted ; ' it makes my head 
swim.' 
He had started like a lightning express. He 
slowed down, and we glided over the sand slower, 
but still in a kind of sickening way, for it is uncom- 
fortable to see things gliding and sliding under you 
like that and not a sound. 
But pretty soon there was plenty of sound, for 
the lion was catching up. His noise fetched others. 
You could see them coming on the lope from every 
direction, and pretty soon there was a couple of 
dozen of them under me skipping up at the ladder 
and snarling and snapping at each other ; and so 
we went skimming along over the sand, and these 
fellers doing what they could to help us to not for- 
git the occasion ; and then some tigers come, with- 
out an invite, and they started a regular riot down 
there. 
We see this plan was a mistake. We couldn't 
ever git away from them at this gait, and I couldn't 
hold on for ever. So Tom took a think and struck 
another idea. That was to kill a lion with the 
pepper-box revolver, and then sail away while the 
others stopped to fight over the carcase. So he 
stopped the balloon still, and done it, and then 
we sailed off while the fuss was going on, and come 
down a quarter of a mile off, and they helped me 
aboard ; but by the time we was out of reach again 
that gang was on hand once more. And when they 
see we was really gone and they couldn't get us, 
they sat down on their hams and looked up at us 
so kind of disappointed that it was as much as a 
person could do not to see their side of the matter. 
CHAPTER VI 
I was so weak that the only thing I wanted was a 
chance to lay down, so I made straight for my 
locker-bunk and stretched myself out there. But 
a body couldn't git back his strength in no such 
oven as that, so Tom give the command to soar, and 
Jim started her aloft. And, mind you, it was a 
considerable strain on that balloon to lift the fleas, 
and reminded Tom of Mary had a little lamb, its 
fleas was white as snow. But these wasn't ; these 
was the dark-complected kind— the kind that's 
always hungry and ain't particular, and will eat pie 
when they can't git Christian. Wherever there's 
sand, you are going to find that bird ; and the more 
sand, the bigger the flock. Here it was all sand, 
and the result was according. I never see such a 
turn-out. 
We had to go up a mile before we struck comfortable 
weather; and we had to go up another 
mile before we got rid of them creturs ; but when 
they begun to freeze they skipped overboard. 
Then we come down a mile again, where it was 
breezy and pleasant and just right, and pretty soon 
I was all straight again. Tom had been setting 
quiet and thinking ; but now he jumps up and 
says : 
' I bet you a thousand to one I know where we 
are. We're in the Great Sahara, as sure as 
guns ! ' 
He was so excited he couldn't hold still. But 
I wasn't ; I says : 
'Well, then, where's the Great Sahara? In 
England, or in Scotland ? ' 
' Tain't in either : it's in Africa.' 
Jim's eyes bugged out, and he begun to stare 
down with no end of interest, because that was 
where his originals come from ; but I didn't more 
than half believe it. I couldn't, you know; it 
seemed too awful far away for us to have 
travelled. 
But Tom was full of his discovery, as he called 
it, and said the lions and the sand meant the Great 
Desert, sure. He said he could 'a' found out, before 
we sighted land, that we was crowding the land 
somewheres, if he had thought of one thing 
and when we asked him what, he said : 
' These clocks. They're chronometers. You 
always read about them in sea-voyages. One of 
them is keeping Grinnage time, and the other one 
is keeping St. Louis time, like my watch. When 
we left St. Louis, it was four in the afternoon by 
my watch and this clock, and it was ten at night 
by this Grinnage clock. Well, at this time of the 
year the sun sets about seven o'clock. Now, I 
noticed the time yesterday evening when the sun 
went down, and it was half past five o'clock by the 
Grinnage clock, and half past eleven a.m. by my 
watch and the other clock. You see, the sun rose 
and set by my watch in St. Louis, and the 
Grinnage clock was six hours fast ; but we've come 
so far east that it comes within less than an hour 
and a half of setting by the Grinnage clock now, 
and I'm away out — more than four hours and a 
half out. You see, that meant that we was closing 
up on the longitude of Ireland, and would strike it 
before long if we was p'inted right — wEich we 
wasn't. No, sir ; we've been a-wandering — wander- 
ing 'way down south of east — and it's my opinion 
we are in Africa. Look at this map. You see how 
the shoulder of Africa sticks out to the west. 
Think how fast we've travelled; if we had gone 
straight east we would be long past England by 
this time. You watch for noon, all of you, and 
we'll stand up, and when we can't cast a shadow 
we'll find that this Grinnage clock is coming mighty 
close to marking twelve. Yes, sir ; I think we're in 
Africa ; and it's just bully.' 
Jim was gazing down with the glass. He shook 
his head and says : 
' Mars Tom, I reckon dey's a mistake somers. I 
hain't seen no niggers yit.' 
' That's nothing— they don't live in the desert. 
What is that, 'way off yonder ? Gimme a glass.' 
He took a long look, and said it was like a 
black string stretched across the sand, but Le 
couldn't guess what it was. 
'Well,' I says, 'I reckon ma} be you've got a 
chance now to find out whereabouts this balloon is, 
because as like as not that is one of these lines here, 
that's on the map, that you call meridians of longi- 
tude, and we can drop down and look at its number, 
and ' 
' Oh, shucks, Huck Finn ! I never see such a 
lunkhead as you. Did you s'pose there's meridians 
of longitude on the earth ? ' 
' Tom Sawyer, they're set down on the map, and 
you know it perfectly well, and here they are, and 
you can see for yourself.' 
' Of course they're on the map, but that's 
nothing ; there ain't any on the ground,' 
' Tom, do you know that to be so ? ' 
'Certainly I do.' 
' Well then, that map's a liar again. I never 
see such a liar as that map.' 
Hi iired up at that, and I was ready for him, 
and Jim was warming up his opinion too, and the 
next minute we'd 'a' broke loose on another argu- 
ment, if Tom hadn't dropped the glass and begun 
to clap his hands like a maniac and sing out : 
' Camels ! — camels ! ' 
So I grabbed a glass, and Jim too, and took a 
look, but I was disappointed, and says : 
 Camels, you granny— they're spiders ! ' 
' Spiders in a desert, you shad ? Spiders walk- 
ing in a procession ? You don't ever reflect, Huck 
Finn, and I reckon you really haven't got anything 
to reflect with. Don't you know we're as much as 
a mile up in the air, and that that string of crawlers 
is two or three miles away '? Spiders — good land ! 
Spiders as big as a cow ? P'raps you'd like to go 
down and milk one of 'em. But they're camels, 
just the same. It's a caravan, that's what it is, 
and it's a mile long.' 
' Well, then, le's go down and look at it. I 
don't believe in it, and ain't going to till I see it 
and know it.' 
'All right,' he says, and give the command: 
 Lower away ! ' 
As we come slanting down into the hot weather, 
we could see that it was camels, sure enough, plod- 
ding along, an everlasting string of them, with 
bales strapped to them, and several hundred men in 
long white robes, and a thing like a shawl bound 
over their heads and hanging down with tassela 
and fringes; and some of the men had long guns 
and some hadn't, and some was riding and some 
was walking. And the weather — well, it was just 
roasting. And how slow they did creep along ! W« 
swooped down, now, all of a sudden, and stopped 
about a hundred yards over their heads. 
The men all set up a yell, and some of them fell 
flat on their stomachs, some begun to fire their 
guns at us, and the rest broke and scampered every 
which way, and so did the camels. 
We see that we was making trouble, so we went 
up again about a mile, to the cool weather, and 
watched them from there. It took them an hour 
to get together and form the procession again ; 
then they started along, but we could see by the 
glasses that they wasn't paying much attention to 
anything but us. We poked along, looking down 
at them with the glasses, and by-and-by we 
big sand mound, and something like people the 
other side of it, and there was something like a man 
laying on top of the mound, that raised his head 
up every now and then, and seemed to be watching 
the caravan or us, we didn't know which. As the 
caravan got nearer, he sneaked down on the other 
side and rushed to the other men and horses — for 
that is what they was — and we see them mount in 
a hurry ; and next, here they come, like a house 
afire, some with lances and some with long guns, 
and all of them yelling the best they could. 
They come a-tearing down on to the caravan, 
and the next minute both sides crashed together 
and was all mixed up, and there was such another 
popping of guns as you never heard, and the ail 
got so full of smoke you could only catch glimpses 
of them struggling together. There must 'a' been 
six hundred men in that battle, and it was terrible 
to see. Then they broke up into gangs and groups, 
fighting tooth and nail, and scurrying and scamper- 
ing around, and laying into each other like every- 
thing ; and whenever the smoke cleared a little you 
could see dead and wounded people and camels 
scattered far and wide and all about, and camels 
racing off in every direction. 
At last the robbers see they couldn't win, so 
their chief sounded a signal, and all that was left 
of them broke away, and went scampering across 
the plain. The last man to go snatched up a 
child, and carried it off in front of him on his 
horse ; and a woman run screaming and begging 
after hiin, and followed hira away off across the plain 
till she was separated a long ways from her people ; 
but it warn't no use, and she had to give it up, and 
we see her sink down on the sand and cover her 
face with her hands. Then Tom took the helium, 
and started for that yahoo, and we come a-whizzing 
down and made a swoop, and knocked him out of 
the saddle, child and all ; and he was jarred con- 
siderable, but the child wasn't hurt, but laid there 
working its hands and legs in the air like a tumble- 
bug that's on its back and can't turn over. The 
man went staggering off to overtake liis horse, and 
didn't know what had hit him, for we was three or 
four hundred yards up in the air by this time. 
We judged the woman would go and get the 
child now, but she didn't. We could see her, 
through the glass, still setting there, with her head 
bowed down on her knees ; so of course she hadn't 
seen the performance, and thought her child was 
clean gone with the man. She was nearly a half a 
mile from her people, so we thought we might go 
down to the child, which was about a quarter of a 
mile bevond her, and snake it to her before the 
caravan-people could git to us to do us any harm ; 
and, besides, we reckoned they had enough business 
on their hands for one while, anyway, with the 
wounded. We thought we'd chance it, and we did. 
We swooped down and stopped, and Jim shinned 
down the ladder and fetched up the cub, which was 
a nice fat little thing, and in a noble good humour, 
too, considering it was just out of a battle and been 
tumbled off of a horse ; and then we started for the 
mother, and stopped back of her and tolerable near 
by, and Jim slipped down and crept up easy, and 
when he was close back of her the child goo-goo'd, 
the way a child does, and she heard it, and whirled 
and fetched a shriek of joy, and made a jump for 
the kid and snatched it and hugged it, and dropped 
it and hugged Jim, and then snatched off a gold 
chain and hung it around Jim's neck, and hugged 
him again, and jerked up the child again and 
mashed it to her breast, a- sobbing and glorifying 
all the time ; and Jim he shoved for the ladder and 
up it, and in a minute we was back up in the sky, 
and the woman was staring up, with the back of 
her head between her shoulders and the child with 
its arms locked around her neck. And there she 
stood, as long as we was in sight a-sailiug away in 
the sky. 
CHAPTER VII 
' Noon ! ' says Tom, and so it was. His shadder 
was just a blot around his feet. We looked, and 
the Grinnage clock was so close to twelve the 
difference didn't amount to nothing. So Tom said 
London was right north of us or right south of us, 
one or t'other, and he reckoned by the weather and 
the sand and the camels it was north ; and a good 
many miles north, too — as many as from New 
York to the city of Mexico, he guessed. 
Jim said he reckoned a balloon was a good deal 
the fastest thing in the world, unless it might be 
some kinds of birds — a wild pigeon, maybe, or a 
railroad. 
But Tom said he had read about railroads in 
England going nearly a hundred miles an hour for a 
little ways, and there never was a bird in the world 
that could do that, except one— and that was a flea. 
' A flea ? Why, Mars Tom, in de fust place he 
ain't a bird, strickly speakin' ' 
' He ain't a bird, ain't he ? Well, then, what 
is he?' 
' I don't rightly know, Mars Tom, but I speck 
he's only jist a animal. No, I reckon dat won't 
do, nuther— he ain't big enough for a animal. He 
mus' be a bug. Yassir,dat's what he is — he's a bug.' 
'I bet he ain't, but let it go. What's your 
second place ? ' 
' Well, in de second place, birds is creturs dat 
goes a long ways, but a flea don't.' 
' He don't, don't he ? Come, now, what is a 
long distance, if you know ? ' 
' Why, it's miles, en lots of 'em — anybody knows 
dat.' 
' Can't a man walk miles ? ' 
' Yassir, he kin.' 
' As many as a railroad ? ' 
' Yassir, if you give him time.' 
'Can't a flea?' 
' Well, I s'pose so — ef you gives him heaps of 
time.' 
' Now you begin to see, don't you, that distance 
ain't the thing to judge by at all ; it's the time it 
takes to go the distance in, that counts, ain't it ? ' 
' Well, hit do look sorter so, but I wouldn't 'a' 
b'lieved it, Mars Tom.' 
' It's a matter of proportion, that's what it is ; 
and when you come to gauge a thing's speed by its 
size, where's your bird, and your man, and your 
railroad, alongside of a flea ? The fastest man 
can't run more than about ten miles in an hour — 
not much over ten thousand times his own length. 
But all the books says any common ordinary third- 
class flea can jump a hundred and fifty times his 
own length ; yes, and he can make five jumps a 
second, too — seven hundred and fifty times his own 
length in one little second ; for he don't fool away 
any time stopping and starting— he does them 
both at the same time; you'll see if you try to 
put your finger on him. Now, that's a common 
ordinary third-class flea's gait; but you take an 
Eyetalian y?rs£-class, that's been the pet of the 
nobility all his life, and hasn't ever knowed what 
want or sickness or exposure was, and he can jump 
more than three hundred times his own length, and 
keep it up all day, five such jumps every second — 
which is fifteen hundred times his own length. 
Well, suppose a man could go fifteen hundred times 
his own length in a second — say, a mile and a half. 
It's ninety miles a minute ; it's considerable more 
than five thousand miles an hour. Where's your 
man now ? — yes, and your bird, and your railroad, 
and your balloon ? Laws ! they don't amount to 
shucks 'longside of a flea. A flea is just a comet 
b'iled down small.' 
Jim was a good deal astonished, and so was I. 
Jim said : 
' Is dem figgers jist edjackly true, en no jokin' 
en no lies, Mars Tom ? ' 
' Yes, they are ; they're perfectly true.' 
 Well, den, honey, a body's got to respec' a flea. 
I ain't had no respec' for um befo', scasely, but dey 
ain' no gittin' roun' it — dey do deserve it, dat's 
certain.' 
 Well, I bet they do. They've got ever so much 
more sense, and brains, and brightness, in proportion
to their size, than any other cretur in the 
world. A person can learn them 'most anything ; 
and they learn it quicker than any other cretur, 
too. They've been learnt to haul little carriages in 
harness, and go this way and that way and t'other 
way according to orders ; yes, and to march and 
drill like soldiers, doing it as exact, according to 
orders, as soldiers does it. They've been learnt to 
do all sorts of hard and troublesome things. S'pose 
you could cultivate a flea up to the size of a man, 
and keep his natural smartness a-growing and 
a-growing right along up, bigger and bigger, and 
keener and keener, in the same proportion — where' d 
the human race be, do you reckon ? That flea 
would be President of the United States, and you 
couldn't any more prevent it than you can prevent 
lightning.' 
' My Ian', Mars Tom ! I never knowed dey was 
so much to de beas'. No, sir; I never had no idea 
of it, and dat's de facV 
'There's more to him, by a long sight, than 
there is to any other cretur, man or beast, in pro- 
portion to size. He*s the interestingest of them 
all. People have so much to say about an ant's 
strength, and an elephant's, and a locomotive's. 
Shucks ! they don't begin with a flea. He can 
lift two or three hundred times his own weight, 
and none of them can come anywhere near it. And 
moreover, he has got notions of his own, and is very 
particular, and you can't fool him : his instinct, or 
his judgment, or whatever it is, is perfectly sound 
and clear, and don't ever make a mistake. People 
think all humans are alike to a flea. It ain't so. 
There's folks that he won't go near, hungry or not 
hungry, and I'm one of them. I've never had one 
of them on me in my life.' 
'Mars Tom ! ' 
' It's so ; I ain't joking.' 
' Well, sah, I hain't ever heard de likes er dat 
befo'.' 
Jim couldn't believe it, and I couldn't ; so we 
had to drop down to the sand and git a supply, and 
see. Tom was right. They went for me and Jim 
by the thousand, but not a one of them lit on Tom. 
There warn't no explaining it, but there it was, and 
there warn't no getting around it. He said it bad 
always been just so, and he'd just as soon be 
where there was a million of them as not, they'd 
never touch him nor bother him. 
We went up to the cold weather for a freeze-out, 
and stayed a little spell, and then come back to the 
comfortable weather and went lazying along twenty 
or twenty-five miles an hour, the way we'd been 
doing for the last few hours. The reason was that 
the longer we was in that solemn, peaceful Desert 
the more the hurry and fuss got kind of soothed 
down in us, and the more happier and contented and 
satisfied we got to feeling, and the more we got to 
liking the Desert, and then loving it. So we had 
cramped the speed down, as I was saying, and was 
having a most noble good lazy 7 time, sometimes 
watching through the glasses, sometimes stretched 
out on the lockers reading, sometimes taking a nap. 
It didn't seem like we was the same lot that was 
in such a sweat to find land and git ashore, but it 
was. But we had got over that — clean over it. 
We was used to the balloon now, and not afraid 
any more, and didn't want to be anywheres else. 
Why, it seemed just like home ; it 'most seemed as 
if I had been born and raised in it, and Jim and 
Tom said the same. And always I had had hateful 
people around me, a-nagging at me, and pestering 
of me, and scolding and finding fault, and 
fussing and bothering, and sticking to me, and 
keeping after me, and making me do this, and 
making me do that and t'other, and always 
selecting out the things I didn't want to do, and 
then giving me Sam Hill because I shirked and 
done something else, and just aggravating the life 
out of a body all the time ; but up here in the sky 
it was so still, and sunshiny and lovely, and plenty 
to eat, and plenty of sleep, and strange things to 
see, and no nagging and pestering, and no good 
people, and just holiday all the time. Land! I 
warn't in no hurry to git out and buck at civilisa- 
tion again. Now, one of the worst things about 
civilisation is that anybody that gits a letter with 
trouble in it comes and tells you all about it, and 
makes you feel bad, and the newspapers fetches you 
the troubles of everybody all over the world, and 
keeps you down hearted and dismal 'most all the 
time, and it's such a heavy load for a person. I 
hate them newspapers, and I hate letters ; and if 
I had my way I wouldn't allow nobody to load his 
troubles on to other folks he ain't acquainted with, 
on t'other side of the world, that way. Well, up in 
a balloon there ain't any of that, and it's the 
darlingest place there is. 
We had supper, and that night was one of the 
prettiest nights I ever see. The moon made it 
just like daylight, only a heap softer; and once we 
see a lion standing all alone by himself, just all 
alone in the earth, it seemed like, and his shadder 
laid on the sand by him like a puddle of ink. 
That's the kind of moonlight to have. 
Mainly we laid on our backs and talked ; we 
didn't want to go to sleep. Tom said we was right 
in the midst of the ' Arabian Nights ' now. He said 
it was right along here that one of the 'cutest things 
in that book happened; so we looked down and 
watched while he told about it, because there ain't 
anything that is so interesting to look at as a place 
that a book has talked about. It was a tale about 
a camel-driver that had lost his camel, and he 
come along in the Desert and met a man, and 
says : 
' Have you run across a stray camel to-day ? ' 
And the man says : 
' Was he blind in his left eye ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' Had he lost an upper front tooth ? ' 
'Yes.' 
' Was his off hind leg lame ? ' 
'Yes.' 
' Was he loaded with millet seed on one side 
and honey on the other ? ' 
' Yes, but you needn't go into no more details 
— that's the one, and I'm in a hurry. Where did 
you see him ? ' 
' I hain't seen him at all,' the man says. 
' Hain't seen him at all ? How can you describe 
him so close, then ? ' 
' Because when a person knows how to use his 
eyes, everything has got a meaning to it ; but most 
people's eyes ain't any good to them. I knowed a 
camel had been along, because I seen his track. I 
knowed he was lame in his off hind leg because he 
had favoured that foot and trod light on it and his 
track showed it. I knowed he was blind on his 
left side because he only nibbled the grass on the 
right side of the trail. I knowed he had lost an 
upper front tooth because where he bit into the sod 
his teeth-print showed it. The millet seed sifted 
out on one side — the ants told me that ; the honey 
leaked out on the other — the flies told me that. I 
know all about your camel, but I hain't seen him.' 
Jim says : 
' Go on, Mars Tom ; hit's a mighty good tale, 
and powerful interestinY 
' That's all,' Tom says. 
' All ? ' says Jim, astonished.  What 'come o' 
de camel ? ' 
' I don't know.' 
' Mars Tom, don't de tale say ? ' 
'No.' 
Jim puzzled a minute, then he says : 
' Well ! ef dat ain't de beatenes' tale ever J 
struck. Jist gits to de place whah de intrust is 
gittin' red hot, en down she breaks. Why, Mars 
Tom, dey ain't no sense in a tale dat acts like dat. 
Hain't you got no idea whether de man got de 
camel back er not ? ' 
' No, I haven't.' 
I see myself there warn't no sense in the tale, 
to chop square off that way, before it come to any- 
thing, but I warn't going to say so, because I could 
see Tom was souring up pretty fast over the way it 
flatted out and the way Jim had popped on to the 
weak place in it, and I don't think it's fair for 
everybody to pile on to a feller when he's down. 
But Tom he whirls on me and says : 
' What do you think of the tale ? ' 
Of course, then I had to come out and make a 
clean breast, and say it did seem to me 'too, same 
as it did to Jim, that as long as the tale stopped 
square in the middle, and never got to no place, it 
really warn't worth the trouble of telling. 
Tom's chin dropped on his breast, and 'stead of 
being mad, as I reckoned he'd be, to hear me scoff 
at his tale that way, he seemed to be only sad ; 
and he says : 
' Some people can see, and some can't — just as 
that man said. Let alone a camel, if a cyclone 
had gone by, you duffers wouldn't 'a' noticed the 
track.' 
I don't know what he meant by that, and he 
didn't say ; it was just one of his irrulevances, I 
reckon — he was full of them sometimes, when he 
was in a close place and couldn't see no other way 
out— but I didn't mind. We'd spotted the soft 
place in that tale sharp enough — he couldn't git 
away from that little fact. It gravelled him like 
the nation, too, I reckon, much as he tried not to 
let on. 
CHAPTER VIII 
We had an early breakfast in the morning, and set 
looking down on the Desert, and the weather was 
ever so bammy and lovely, although we warn't high 
up. You have to come down lower and lower after 
sundown in the Desert, because it cools off so fast ; 
and so by the time it is getting towards dawn you 
are skimming along only a little ways above the 
sand. 
We was watching the shadder of the balloon 
slide along the ground, and now and then gazing 
off across the Desert to see if anything was stirring, 
and then down at the shadder again, when all of a 
sudden almost right under us we see a lot of men 
and camels laying scattered about, perfectly quiet, 
like they was asleep. 
We shut off the power, and backed up and 
stood over them, and then we see that they was all 
dead. It give us the cold shivers. And it made 
us hush down, too, and talk low, like people at a 
funeral. We dropped down slow, and stopped, 
and me and Tom dumb down and went amongst 
them. There was men, and women, and children. 
They was dried by the sun, and dark and Bhriveiled 
and leathery, like the pictures of mummies you see 
in books. And yet they looked just as human, 
you wouldn't 'a' believed it; just like they was 
asleep — some laying on their backs, with their 
arms spread on the sand, some on their sides, 
some on their faces, just as natural, though the 
teeth showed more than usual. Two or three was 
setting up. One was a woman, with her head 
bent over, and a child was laying across her lap. 
A man was setting with his hands locked around 
his knees, staring out of his dead eyes at a young 
girl that was stretched out before him. He looked 
so mournful, it was pitiful to see. And you never 
see a place so still as that was. He had straight 
black hair hanging down by his cheeks, and when 
a little faint breeze fanned it and made it wag, it 
made me shudder, because it seemed as if he was 
wagging his head. 
Some of the people and animals was partly 
covered with sand, but most of them not, for the 
sand was thin there, and the bed was gravel, and 
hard. Most of the clothes had rotted away and 
left the bodies partly naked ; and when you took 
hold of a rag, it tore with a touch, like spider-web. 
Tom reckoned they had been laying there for years. 
Some of the men had rusty guns by them, 
some had swords on and had shawl-belts with long 
silver-mounted pistols stuck in them. All the 
camels had their loads on yet, but the packs had 
busted or rotted and spilt the freight out on the 
ground. We didn't reckon the swords was any 
good to the dead people any more, so we took one 
apiece, and some pistols. We took a small box, 
too, because it was so handsome and inlaid so fine ; 
and then we wanted to bury the people ; but there 
warn't no way to do it that we could think of, and 
nothing to do it with but sand, and that would 
blow away again, of course. We did start to cover 
up that poor girl, first laying some shawls from a 
busted bale on her ; but when we was going to put 
sand on her, the man's hair wagged again and give 
us a shock, and we stopped, because it looked like 
he was trying to tell us he didn't want her covered 
up so he couldn't see her no more. I reckon she 
was dear to him, and he would 'a' been so lonesome. 
Then we mounted high and sailed away, and 
pretty soon that black spot on the sand was out of 
sight, and we wouldn't ever see them poor people 
again in this world. We wondered, and reasoned, 
and tried to guess how they come to be there, and 
how it all happened to them, but we couldn't make 
it out. First we thought maybe they got lost, and 
wandered around and about till their food and 
water give out and they starved to death; but Tom 
said no wild animals nor vultures hadn't meddled 
with them, and so that guess wouldn't do. So at 
last we give it up, and judged we wouldn't think 
about it no more, because it made us low-spirited. 
Then we opened the box, and it had gems and 
jewels in it, quite a pile, and some little veils of the 
kind the dead women had on, with fringes made 
out of curious gold money that we warn't acquainted 
with. We wondered if we better go and try to find 
them again and give it back ; but Tom thought it 
over and said no ; it was a country that was full of 
robbers, and they would come and steal it, and then 
the sin would be on us for putting the temptation 
in their way. So we went on ; but I wished we 
had took all they had, so there wouldn't 'a' been no 
temptation at all left. 
We had had two hours of that blazing weather 
down there, and was dreadful thirsty when we got 
aboard again. We went straight for the water, but 
it was spoiled and bitter, besides being pretty near 
hot enough to scald your mouth. We couldn't 
drink it. It was Mississippi river water, the best 
in the world, and we stirred up the mud in it to see 
if that would help ; but no, the mud wasn't any 
better than the water. 
Well, we hadn't been so very, very thirsty before, 
whilst we was interested in the lost people, but we 
was now, and as soon as we found we couldn't have 
a drink we was more than thirsty — five times as 
thirsty as we was a quarter of a minute before. 
Why, in a little while we wanted to hold our mouths 
open and pant like a dog. 
Tom said keep a sharp look-out all around, 
everywheres," because we'd got to find an oasis, or 
there warn't no telling what would happen. So 
we done it. We kept the glasses gliding around all 
the time, till our arms got so tired we couldn't hold 
them any more. Two hours — three hours — just 
gazing and gazing, and nothing but sand, sand, 
sand, and you could see the quivering heat-shimmer 
playing over it. Dear, dear ! a body don't know 
what real misery is till he is thirsty all the way 
through and is certain he ain't ever going to come 
to any water any more. At last I couldn't stand it 
to look around on them baking plains ; I laid down 
on the locker and give it up. 
But by-and-by Tom raised a whoop, and there 
she was. A lake, wide and shiny, with pam trees 
leaning over it asleep, and their shadders in the 
water just as soft and delicate as ever you see. I 
never see anything look so good. It was a long 
ways off, but that warn't anything to us ; we just 
slapped on a hundred-mile gait, and calculated to 
be there in seven minutes ; but she stayed the same 
old distance away all the time— we couldn't seem to 
gain on her ; yes, sir, just as far, and shiny, and 
like a dream, but we couldn't get no nearer ; and 
at last, all of a sudden, she was gone. 
Tom's eyes took a spread, and he says : 
' Boys, it was a ?nyridge ! ' 
Said it like he was glad. I didn't see nothing 
to be glad about. I says : 
' Maybe. I don't care nothing about its name : 
the thing I want to know is, what's become of it ? ' 
Jim was trembling all over, and so scared he 
couldn't speak, but he wanted to ask that question 
himself if he could 'a' done it. Tom says : 
' What's ha-ontc of it ? Why, you see yourself 
it's gone.' 
'Yes, I know ; but where's it gone to ? ' 
He looked me over and says : 
Well, now, Huck Finn, where would it go to ? 
Don't you know what a myridge is ? ' 
' No, I don't. What is it ? ' 
'It ain't anything but imagination. There 
ain't anything to it.' 
It warmed me up a little to hear him talk like 
that, and I says : 
' What's the use you talking that kind of stuff, 
Tom Sawyer ? Didn't I see the lake ? ' 
' Yes ; you think you did.' 
' I don't think nothing about it ; I did see it.' 
' I tell you you didn't see it, either — because it 
warn't there to see.' 
It astonished Jim to hear him talk so, and he 
broke in and says, kind of pleading and dis- 
tressed : 
' Mars Tom, please don't say sich things in sich 
an awful time as dis. You ain't only reskin' yo' 
own self, but you's reskin' us— same way like Anna 
Nias en Suffira. De lake wuz dah — I seen it jis' as 
plain as I sees you en Huck dis minute.' 
I says : 
' Why, he seen it himself ! He was the very 
one that seen it first. Noic, then.' 
' Yes, Mars Tom, hit's so — you can't deny it. 
We all seen it, en dat prove it was dah.' 
' Proves it ! How does it prove it ? ' 
' Same way it does in de courts en everywheres, 
Mars Tom. One pusson might be drunk or dreamy 
or suthin',en he could be mistaken; en two might, 
maybe; but I tell you, sah, when three sees a thing, 
drunk er sober, it's so. Dey ain't no gittin' aroun' 
dat, en you knows it, Mars Tom.' 
'I don't know nothing of the kind. There used 
to be forty thousand million people that seen the 
sun move from one side of the sky to the other 
every day. Did that prove that the sun done it ? ' 
' 'Course it did. En, besides, dey warn't no 
'casion to prove it. A body 'at's got any sense 
ain't gwyne to doubt it. Dah she is now — a sailin' 
thoo de sky des like she allays done.' 
Tom turned on me then, and says : 
' What do you say — is the sun standing still ? ' 
' Tom Sawyer, what's the use to ask such a 
jackass question ? Anybody that ain't blind can 
see it don't stand still.' 
' Well,' he says, ' I'm lost in the sky with no 
company but a passel of low-down animals that 
don't know no more than the head boss of a uni- 
versity did three or four hundred years ago. W r hy, 
