exactly the same, with a sort of rising quaver at the end; do you know
what I mean? Unmistakable.
The truth is, I had not realised that the doctor and his wife were not
on good terms. They used to bicker a bit now and then when I was here,
and I often noticed that little Mrs. Pratt got very red and bit her lip
hard to keep her temper, while Luke grew pale and said the most
offensive things. He was that sort when he was in the nursery, I
remember, and afterward at school. He was my cousin, you know; that is
how I came by this house; after he died, and his boy Charley was killed
in South Africa, there were no relations left. Yes, it's a pretty little
property, just the sort of thing for an old sailor like me who has taken
to gardening.
One always remembers one's mistakes much more vividly than one's
cleverest things, doesn't one? I've often noticed it. I was dining with
the Pratts one night, when I told them the story that afterwards made so
much difference. It was a wet night in November, and the sea was
moaning. Hush!--if you don't speak you will hear it now....
Do you hear the tide? Gloomy sound, isn't it? Sometimes, about this time
of year--hallo!--there it is! Don't be frightened, man--it won't eat
you--it's only a noise, after all! But I'm glad you've heard it,
because there are always people who think it's the wind, or my
imagination, or something. You won't hear it again to-night, I fancy,
for it doesn't often come more than once. Yes--that's right. Put another
stick on the fire, and a little more stuff into that weak mixture you're
so fond of. Do you remember old Blauklot the carpenter, on that German
ship that picked us up when the Clontarf went to the bottom? We were
hove to in a howling gale one night, as snug as you please, with no land
within five hundred miles, and the ship coming up and falling off as
regularly as clockwork--"Biddy te boor beebles ashore tis night, poys!"
old Blauklot sang out, as he went off to his quarters with the
sail-maker. I often think of that, now that I'm ashore for good and all.
Yes, it was on a night like this, when I was at home for a spell,
waiting to take the Olympia out on her first trip--it was on the next
voyage that she broke the record, you remember--but that dates it.
Ninety-two was the year, early in November.
The weather was dirty, Pratt was out of temper, and the dinner was bad,
very bad indeed, which didn't improve matters, and cold, which made it
worse. The poor little lady was very unhappy about it, and insisted on
making a Welsh rarebit on the table to counteract the raw turnips and
the half-boiled mutton. Pratt must have had a hard day. Perhaps he had
lost a patient. At all events, he was in a nasty temper.
"My wife is trying to poison me, you see!" he said. "She'll succeed some
day." I saw that she was hurt, and I made believe to laugh, and said
that Mrs. Pratt was much too clever to get rid of her husband in such a
simple way; and then I began to tell them about Japanese tricks with
spun glass and chopped horsehair and the like.
Pratt was a doctor, and knew a lot more than I did about such things,
but that only put me on my mettle, and I told a story about a woman in
Ireland who did for three husbands before any one suspected foul play.
Did you never hear that tale? The fourth husband managed to keep awake
and caught her, and she was hanged. How did she do it? She drugged them,
and poured melted lead into their ears through a little horn funnel when
they were asleep.... No--that's the wind whistling. It's backing up to
the southward again. I can tell by the sound. Besides, the other thing
doesn't often come more than once in an evening even at this time of
year--when it happened. Yes, it was in November. Poor Mrs. Pratt died
suddenly in her bed not long after I dined here. I can fix the date,
because I got the news in New York by the steamer that followed the
Olympia when I took her out on her first trip. You had the Leofric
the same year? Yes, I remember. What a pair of old buffers we are coming
to be, you and I. Nearly fifty years since we were apprentices together
on the Clontarf. Shall you ever forget old Blauklot? "Biddy te boor
beebles ashore, poys!" Ha, ha! Take a little more, with all that water.
It's the old Hulstkamp I found in the cellar when this house came to me,
the same I brought Luke from Amsterdam five-and-twenty years ago. He had
never touched a drop of it. Perhaps he's sorry now, poor fellow.
Where did I leave off? I told you that Mrs. Pratt died suddenly--yes.
Luke must have been lonely here after she was dead, I should think; I
came to see him now and then, and he looked worn and nervous, and told
me that his practice was growing too heavy for him, though he wouldn't
take an assistant on any account. Years went on, and his son was killed
in South Africa, and after that he began to be queer. There was
something about him not like other people. I believe he kept his senses
in his profession to the end; there was no complaint of his having made
bad mistakes in cases, or anything of that sort, but he had a look about
him----
Luke was a red-headed man with a pale face when he was young, and he
was never stout; in middle age he turned a sandy grey, and after his son
died he grew thinner and thinner, till his head looked like a skull with
parchment stretched over it very tight, and his eyes had a sort of glare
in them that was very disagreeable to look at.
He had an old dog that poor Mrs. Pratt had been fond of, and that used
to follow her everywhere. He was a bull-dog, and the sweetest tempered
beast you ever saw, though he had a way of hitching his upper lip behind
one of his fangs that frightened strangers a good deal. Sometimes, of an
evening, Pratt and Bumble--that was the dog's name--used to sit and look
at each other a long time, thinking about old times, I suppose, when
Luke's wife used to sit in that chair you've got. That was always her
place, and this was the doctor's, where I'm sitting. Bumble used to
climb up by the footstool--he was old and fat by that time, and could
not jump much, and his teeth were getting shaky. He would look steadily
at Luke, and Luke looked steadily at the dog, his face growing more and
more like a skull with two little coals for eyes; and after about five
minutes or so, though it may have been less, old Bumble would suddenly
begin to shake all over, and all on a sudden he would set up an awful
howl, as if he had been shot, and tumble out of the easy-chair and trot
away, and hide himself under the sideboard, and lie there making odd
noises.
Considering Pratt's looks in those last months, the thing is not
surprising, you know. I'm not nervous or imaginative, but I can quite
believe he might have sent a sensitive woman into hysterics--his head
looked so much like a skull in parchment.
At last I came down one day before Christmas, when my ship was in dock
and I had three weeks off. Bumble was not about, and I said casually
that I supposed the old dog was dead.
"Yes," Pratt answered, and I thought there was something odd in his tone
even before he went on after a little pause. "I killed him," he said
presently. "I could not stand it any longer."
I asked what it was that Luke could not stand, though I guessed well
enough.
"He had a way of sitting in her chair and glaring at me, and then
howling." Luke shivered a little. "He didn't suffer at all, poor old
Bumble," he went on in a hurry, as if he thought I might imagine he had
been cruel. "I put dionine into his drink to make him sleep soundly, and
then I chloroformed him gradually, so that he could not have felt
suffocated even if he was dreaming. It's been quieter since then."
I wondered what he meant, for the words slipped out as if he could not
help saying them. I've understood since. He meant that he did not hear
that noise so often after the dog was out of the way. Perhaps he thought
at first that it was old Bumble in the yard howling at the moon, though
it's not that kind of noise, is it? Besides, I know what it is, if Luke
didn't. It's only a noise, after all, and a noise never hurt anybody
yet. But he was much more imaginative than I am. No doubt there really
is something about this place that I don't understand; but when I don't
understand a thing, I call it a phenomenon, and I don't take it for
granted that it's going to kill me, as he did. I don't understand
everything, by long odds, nor do you, nor does any man who has been to
sea. We used to talk of tidal waves, for instance, and we could not
account for them; now we account for them by calling them submarine
earthquakes, and we branch off into fifty theories, any one of which
might make earthquakes quite comprehensible if we only knew what they
are. I fell in with one of them once, and the inkstand flew straight up
from the table against the ceiling of my cabin. The same thing happened
to Captain Lecky--I dare say you've read about it in his "Wrinkles."
Very good. If that sort of thing took place ashore, in this room for
instance, a nervous person would talk about spirits and levitation and
fifty things that mean nothing, instead of just quietly setting it down
as a "phenomenon" that has not been explained yet. My view of that
voice, you see.
Besides, what is there to prove that Luke killed his wife? I would not
even suggest such a thing to any one but you. After all, there was
nothing but the coincidence that poor little Mrs. Pratt died suddenly in
her bed a few days after I told that story at dinner. She was not the
only woman who ever died like that. Luke got the doctor over from the
next parish, and they agreed that she had died of something the matter
with her heart. Why not? It's common enough.
Of course, there was the ladle. I never told anybody about that, and it
made me start when I found it in the cupboard in the bedroom. It was
new, too--a little tinned iron ladle that had not been in the fire more
than once or twice, and there was some lead in it that had been melted,
and stuck to the bottom of the bowl, all grey, with hardened dross on
it. But that proves nothing. A country doctor is generally a handy man,
who does everything for himself, and Luke may have had a dozen reasons
for melting a little lead in a ladle. He was fond of sea-fishing, for
instance, and he may have cast a sinker for a night-line; perhaps it was
a weight for the hall clock, or something like that. All the same, when
I found it I had a rather queer sensation, because it looked so much
like the thing I had described when I told them the story. Do you
understand? It affected me unpleasantly, and I threw it away; it's at
the bottom of the sea a mile from the Spit, and it will be jolly well
rusted beyond recognising if it's ever washed up by the tide.
You see, Luke must have bought it in the village, years ago, for the man
sells just such ladles still. I suppose they are used in cooking. In any
case, there was no reason why an inquisitive housemaid should find such
a thing lying about, with lead in it, and wonder what it was, and
perhaps talk to the maid who heard me tell the story at dinner--for that
girl married the plumber's son in the village, and may remember the
whole thing.
You understand me, don't you? Now that Luke Pratt is dead and gone, and
lies buried beside his wife, with an honest man's tombstone at his head,
I should not care to stir up anything that could hurt his memory. They
are both dead, and their son, too. There was trouble enough about Luke's
death, as it was.
How? He was found dead on the beach one morning, and there was a
coroner's inquest. There were marks on his throat, but he had not been
robbed. The verdict was that he had come to his end "by the hands or
teeth of some person or animal unknown," for half the jury thought it
might have been a big dog that had thrown him down and gripped his
windpipe, though the skin of his throat was not broken. No one knew at
what time he had gone out, nor where he had been. He was found lying on
his back above high-water mark, and an old cardboard bandbox that had
belonged to his wife lay under his hand, open. The lid had fallen off.
He seemed to have been carrying home a skull in the box--doctors are
fond of collecting such things. It had rolled out and lay near his head,
and it was a remarkably fine skull, rather small, beautifully shaped and
very white, with perfect teeth. That is to say, the upper jaw was
perfect, but there was no lower one at all, when I first saw it.
Yes, I found it here when I came. You see, it was very white and
polished, like a thing meant to be kept under a glass case, and the
people did not know where it came from, nor what to do with it; so they
put it back into the bandbox and set it on the shelf of the cupboard in
the best bedroom, and of course they showed it to me when I took
possession. I was taken down to the beach, too, to be shown the place
where Luke was found, and the old fisherman explained just how he was
lying, and the skull beside him. The only point he could not explain
was why the skull had rolled up the sloping sand toward Luke's head
instead of rolling downhill to his feet. It did not seem odd to me at
the time, but I have often thought of it since, for the place is rather
steep. I'll take you there to-morrow if you like--I made a sort of cairn
of stones there afterward.
When he fell down, or was thrown down--whichever happened--the bandbox
struck the sand, and the lid came off, and the thing came out and ought
to have rolled down. But it didn't. It was close to his head, almost
touching it, and turned with the face toward it. I say it didn't strike
me as odd when the man told me; but I could not help thinking about it
afterward, again and again, till I saw a picture of it all when I closed
my eyes; and then I began to ask myself why the plaguey thing had rolled
up instead of down, and why it had stopped near Luke's head instead of
anywhere else, a yard away, for instance.
You naturally want to know what conclusion I reached, don't you? None
that at all explained the rolling, at all events. But I got something
else into my head, after a time, that made me feel downright
uncomfortable.
Oh, I don't mean as to anything supernatural! There may be ghosts, or
there may not be. If there are, I'm not inclined to believe that they
can hurt living people except by frightening them, and, for my part, I
would rather face any shape of ghost than a fog in the Channel when it's
crowded. No. What bothered me was just a foolish idea, that's all, and I
cannot tell how it began, nor what made it grow till it turned into a
certainty.
I was thinking about Luke and his poor wife one evening over my pipe and
a dull book, when it occurred to me that the skull might possibly be
hers, and I have never got rid of the thought since. You'll tell me
there's no sense in it, no doubt; that Mrs. Pratt was buried like a
Christian and is lying in the churchyard where they put her, and that
it's perfectly monstrous to suppose her husband kept her skull in her
old bandbox in his bedroom. All the same, in the face of reason, and
common sense, and probability, I'm convinced that he did. Doctors do all
sorts of queer things that would make men like you and me feel creepy,
and those are just the things that don't seem probable, nor logical, nor
sensible to us.
Then, don't you see?--if it really was her skull, poor woman, the only
way of accounting for his having it is that he really killed her, and
did it in that way, as the woman killed her husbands in the story, and
that he was afraid there might be an examination some day which would
betray him. You see, I told that too, and I believe it had really
happened some fifty or sixty years ago. They dug up the three skulls,
you know, and there was a small lump of lead rattling about in each one.
That was what hanged the woman. Luke remembered that, I'm sure. I don't
want to know what he did when he thought of it; my taste never ran in
the direction of horrors, and I don't fancy you care for them either, do
you? No. If you did, you might supply what is wanting to the story.
It must have been rather grim, eh? I wish I did not see the whole thing
so distinctly, just as everything must have happened. He took it the
night before she was buried, I'm sure, after the coffin had been shut,
and when the servant girl was asleep. I would bet anything, that when
he'd got it, he put something under the sheet in its place, to fill up
and look like it. What do you suppose he put there, under the sheet?
I don't wonder you take me up on what I'm saying! First I tell you that
I don't want to know what happened, and that I hate to think about
horrors, and then I describe the whole thing to you as if I had seen it.
I'm quite sure that it was her work-bag that he put there. I remember
the bag very well, for she always used it of an evening; it was made of
brown plush, and when it was stuffed full it was about the size of--you
understand. Yes, there I am, at it again! You may laugh at me, but you
don't live here alone, where it was done, and you didn't tell Luke the
story about the melted lead. I'm not nervous, I tell you, but sometimes
I begin to feel that I understand why some people are. I dwell on all
this when I'm alone, and I dream of it, and when that thing
screams--well, frankly, I don't like the noise any more than you do,
though I should be used to it by this time.
I ought not to be nervous. I've sailed in a haunted ship. There was a
Man in the Top, and two-thirds of the crew died of the West Coast fever
inside of ten days after we anchored; but I was all right, then and
afterward. I have seen some ugly sights, too, just as you have, and all
the rest of us. But nothing ever stuck in my head in the way this does.
You see, I've tried to get rid of the thing, but it doesn't like that.
It wants to be there in its place, in Mrs. Pratt's bandbox in the
cupboard in the best bedroom. It's not happy anywhere else. How do I
know that? Because I've tried it. You don't suppose that I've not tried,
do you? As long as it's there it only screams now and then, generally at
this time of year, but if I put it out of the house it goes on all
night, and no servant will stay here twenty-four hours. As it is, I've
often been left alone and have been obliged to shift for myself for a
fortnight at a time. No one from the village would ever pass a night
under the roof now, and as for selling the place, or even letting it,
that's out of the question. The old women say that if I stay here I
shall come to a bad end myself before long.
I'm not afraid of that. You smile at the mere idea that any one could
take such nonsense seriously. Quite right. It's utterly blatant
nonsense, I agree with you. Didn't I tell you that it's only a noise
after all when you started and looked round as if you expected to see a
ghost standing behind your chair?
I may be all wrong about the skull, and I like to think that I am--when
I can. It may be just a fine specimen which Luke got somewhere long ago,
and what rattles about inside when you shake it may be nothing but a
pebble, or a bit of hard clay, or anything. Skulls that have lain long
in the ground generally have something inside them that rattles, don't
they? No, I've never tried to get it out, whatever it is; I'm afraid it
might be lead, don't you see? And if it is, I don't want to know the
fact, for I'd much rather not be sure. If it really is lead, I killed
her quite as much as if I had done the deed myself. Anybody must see
that, I should think. As long as I don't know for certain, I have the
consolation of saying that it's all utterly ridiculous nonsense, that
Mrs. Pratt died a natural death and that the beautiful skull belonged to
Luke when he was a student in London. But if I were quite sure, I
believe I should have to leave the house; indeed I do, most certainly.
As it is, I had to give up trying to sleep in the best bedroom where the
cupboard is.
You ask me why I don't throw it into the pond--yes, but please don't
call it a "confounded bugbear"--it doesn't like being called names.
There! Lord, what a shriek! I told you so! You're quite pale, man. Fill
up your pipe and draw your chair nearer to the fire, and take some more
drink. Old Hollands never hurt anybody yet. I've seen a Dutchman in Java
drink half a jug of Hulstkamp in a morning without turning a hair. I
don't take much rum myself, because it doesn't agree with my rheumatism,
but you are not rheumatic and it won't damage you. Besides, it's a very
damp night outside. The wind is howling again, and it will soon be in
the southwest; do you hear how the windows rattle? The tide must have
turned too, by the moaning.
We should not have heard the thing again if you had not said that. I'm
pretty sure we should not. Oh yes, if you choose to describe it as a
coincidence, you are quite welcome, but I would rather that you should
not call the thing names again, if you don't mind. It may be that the
poor little woman hears, and perhaps it hurts her, don't you know?
Ghost? No! You don't call anything a ghost that you can take in your
hands and look at in broad daylight, and that rattles when you shake it.
Do you, now? But it's something that hears and understands; there's no
doubt about that.
I tried sleeping in the best bedroom when I first came to the house,
just because it was the best and the most comfortable, but I had to give
it up. It was their room, and there's the big bed she died in, and the
cupboard is in the thickness of the wall, near the head, on the left.
That's where it likes to be kept, in its bandbox. I only used the room
for a fortnight after I came, and then I turned out and took the little
room downstairs, next to the surgery, where Luke used to sleep when he
expected to be called to a patient during the night.
I was always a good sleeper ashore; eight hours is my dose, eleven to
seven when I'm alone, twelve to eight when I have a friend with me. But
I could not sleep after three o'clock in the morning in that room--a
quarter past, to be accurate--as a matter of fact, I timed it with my
old pocket chronometer, which still keeps good time, and it was always
at exactly seventeen minutes past three. I wonder whether that was the
hour when she died?
It was not what you have heard. If it had been that I could not have
stood it two nights. It was just a start and a moan and hard breathing
for a few seconds in the cupboard, and it could never have waked me
under ordinary circumstances, I'm sure. I suppose you are like me in
that, and we are just like other people who have been to sea. No natural
sounds disturb us at all, not all the racket of a square-rigger hove to
in a heavy gale, or rolling on her beam ends before the wind. But if a
lead pencil gets adrift and rattles in the drawer of your cabin table
you are awake in a moment. Just so--you always understand. Very well,
the noise in the cupboard was no louder than that, but it waked me
instantly.
I said it was like a "start." I know what I mean, but it's hard to
explain without seeming to talk nonsense. Of course you cannot exactly
"hear" a person "start"; at the most, you might hear the quick drawing
of the breath between the parted lips and closed teeth, and the almost
imperceptible sound of clothing that moved suddenly though very
slightly. It was like that.
You know how one feels what a sailing vessel is going to do, two or
three seconds before she does it, when one has the wheel. Riders say the
same of a horse, but that's less strange, because the horse is a live
animal with feelings of its own, and only poets and landsmen talk about
a ship being alive, and all that. But I have always felt somehow that
besides being a steaming machine or a sailing machine for carrying
weights, a vessel at sea is a sensitive instrument, and a means of
communication between nature and man, and most particularly the man at
the wheel, if she is steered by hand. She takes her impressions directly
from wind and sea, tide and stream, and transmits them to the man's
hand, just as the wireless telegraph picks up the interrupted currents
aloft and turns them out below in the form of a message.
You see what I am driving at; I felt that something started in the
cupboard, and I felt it so vividly that I heard it, though there may
have been nothing to hear, and the sound inside my head waked me
suddenly. But I really heard the other noise. It was as if it were
muffled inside a box, as far away as if it came through a long-distance
telephone; and yet I knew that it was inside the cupboard near the head
of my bed. My hair did not bristle and my blood did not run cold that
time. I simply resented being waked up by something that had no
business to make a noise, any more than a pencil should rattle in the
drawer of my cabin table on board ship. For I did not understand; I just
supposed that the cupboard had some communication with the outside air,
and that the wind had got in and was moaning through it with a sort of
very faint screech. I struck a light and looked at my watch, and it was
seventeen minutes past three. Then I turned over and went to sleep on my
right ear. That's my good one; I'm pretty deaf with the other, for I
struck the water with it when I was a lad in diving from the foretopsail
yard. Silly thing to do, it was, but the result is very convenient when
I want to go to sleep when there's a noise.
That was the first night, and the same thing happened again and several
times afterward, but not regularly, though it was always at the same
time, to a second; perhaps I was sometimes sleeping on my good ear, and
sometimes not. I overhauled the cupboard and there was no way by which
the wind could get in, or anything else, for the door makes a good fit,
having been meant to keep out moths, I suppose; Mrs. Pratt must have
kept her winter things in it, for it still smells of camphor and
turpentine.
After about a fortnight I had had enough of the noises. So far I had
said to myself that it would be silly to yield to it and take the skull
out of the room. Things always look differently by daylight, don't they?
But the voice grew louder--I suppose one may call it a voice--and it got
inside my deaf ear, too, one night. I realised that when I was wide
awake, for my good ear was jammed down on the pillow, and I ought not to
have heard a fog-horn in that position. But I heard that, and it made me
lose my temper, unless it scared me, for sometimes the two are not far
apart. I struck a light and got up, and I opened the cupboard, grabbed
the bandbox and threw it out of the window, as far as I could.
Then my hair stood on end. The thing screamed in the air, like a shell
from a twelve-inch gun. It fell on the other side of the road. The night
was very dark, and I could not see it fall, but I know it fell beyond
the road. The window is just over the front door, it's fifteen yards to
the fence, more or less, and the road is ten yards wide. There's a
quickset hedge beyond, along the glebe that belongs to the vicarage.
I did not sleep much more that night. It was not more than half an hour
after I had thrown the bandbox out when I heard a shriek outside--like
what we've had to-night, but worse, more despairing, I should call it;
and it may have been my imagination, but I could have sworn that the
screams came nearer and nearer each time. I lit a pipe, and walked up
and down for a bit, and then took a book and sat up reading, but I'll be
hanged if I can remember what I read nor even what the book was, for
every now and then a shriek came up that would have made a dead man turn
in his coffin.
A little before dawn some one knocked at the front door. There was no
mistaking that for anything else, and I opened my window and looked
down, for I guessed that some one wanted the doctor, supposing that the
new man had taken Luke's house. It was rather a relief to hear a human
knock after that awful noise.
You cannot see the door from above, owing to the little porch. The
knocking came again, and I called out, asking who was there, but nobody
answered, though the knock was repeated. I sang out again, and said that
the doctor did not live here any longer. There was no answer, but it
occurred to me that it might be some old countryman who was stone deaf.
So I took my candle and went down to open the door. Upon my word, I was
not thinking of the thing yet, and I had almost forgotten the other
noises. I went down convinced that I should find somebody outside, on
the doorstep, with a message. I set the candle on the hall table, so
that the wind should not blow it out when I opened. While I was drawing
the old-fashioned bolt I heard the knocking again. It was not loud, and
it had a queer, hollow sound, now that I was close to it, I remember,
but I certainly thought it was made by some person who wanted to get in.
It wasn't. There was nobody there, but as I opened the door inward,
standing a little on one side, so as to see out at once, something
rolled across the threshold and stopped against my foot.
I drew back as I felt it, for I knew what it was before I looked down. I
cannot tell you how I knew, and it seemed unreasonable, for I am still
quite sure that I had thrown it across the road. It's a French window,
that opens wide, and I got a good swing when I flung it out. Besides,
when I went out early in the morning, I found the bandbox beyond the
thickset hedge.
You may think it opened when I threw it, and that the skull dropped out;
but that's impossible, for nobody could throw an empty cardboard box so
far. It's out of the question; you might as well try to fling a ball of
paper twenty-five yards, or a blown bird's egg.
To go back, I shut and bolted the hall door, picked the thing up
carefully, and put it on the table beside the candle. I did that
mechanically, as one instinctively does the right thing in danger
without thinking at all--unless one does the opposite. It may seem odd,
but I believe my first thought had been that somebody might come and
find me there on the threshold while it was resting against my foot,
lying a little on its side, and turning one hollow eye up at my face, as
if it meant to accuse me. And the light and shadow from the candle
played in the hollows of the eyes as it stood on the table, so that they
seemed to open and shut at me. Then the candle went out quite
unexpectedly, though the door was fastened and there was not the least
draught; and I used up at least half a dozen matches before it would
burn again.
I sat down rather suddenly, without quite knowing why. Probably I had
been badly frightened, and perhaps you will admit there was no great
shame in being scared. The thing had come home, and it wanted to go
upstairs, back to its cupboard. I sat still and stared at it for a bit,
till I began to feel very cold; then I took it and carried it up and set
it in its place, and I remember that I spoke to it, and promised that it
should have its bandbox again in the morning.
You want to know whether I stayed in the room till daybreak? Yes, but I
kept a light burning, and sat up smoking and reading, most likely out of
fright; plain, undeniable fear, and you need not call it cowardice
either, for that's not the same thing. I could not have stayed alone
with that thing in the cupboard; I should have been scared to death,
though I'm not more timid than other people. Confound it all, man, it
had crossed the road alone, and had got up the doorstep and had knocked
to be let in.
When the dawn came, I put on my boots and went out to find the bandbox.
I had to go a good way round, by the gate near the highroad, and I found
the box open and hanging on the other side of the hedge. It had caught
on the twigs by the string, and the lid had fallen off and was lying on
the ground below it. That shows that it did not open till it was well
over; and if it had not opened as soon as it left my hand, what was
inside it must have gone beyond the road too.
That's all. I took the box upstairs to the cupboard, and put the skull
back and locked it up. When the girl brought me my breakfast she said
she was sorry, but that she must go, and she did not care if she lost
her month's wages. I looked at her, and her face was a sort of greenish,
yellowish white. I pretended to be surprised, and asked what was the
matter; but that was of no use, for she just turned on me and wanted to
know whether I meant to stay in a haunted house, and how long I
expected to live if I did, for though she noticed I was sometimes a
little hard of hearing, she did not believe that even I could sleep
through those screams again--and if I could, why had I been moving about
the house and opening and shutting the front door, between three and
four in the morning? There was no answering that, since she had heard
me, so off she went, and I was left to myself. I went down to the
village during the morning and found a woman who was willing to come and
do the little work there is and cook my dinner, on condition that she
might go home every night. As for me, I moved downstairs that day, and I
have never tried to sleep in the best bedroom since. After a little
while I got a brace of middle-aged Scotch servants from London, and
things were quiet enough for a long time. I began by telling them that
the house was in a very exposed position, and that the wind whistled
round it a good deal in the autumn and winter, which had given it a bad
name in the village, the Cornish people being inclined to superstition
and telling ghost stories. The two hard-faced, sandy-haired sisters
almost smiled, and they answered with great contempt that they had no
great opinion of any Southern bogey whatever, having been in service in
two English haunted houses, where they had never seen so much as the
Boy in Gray, whom they reckoned no very particular rarity in
Forfarshire.
They stayed with me several months, and while they were in the house we
had peace and quiet. One of them is here again now, but she went away
with her sister within the year. This one--she was the cook--married the
sexton, who works in my garden. That's the way of it. It's a small
village and he has not much to do, and he knows enough about flowers to
help me nicely, besides doing most of the hard work; for though I'm fond
of exercise, I'm getting a little stiff in the hinges. He's a sober,
silent sort of fellow, who minds his own business, and he was a widower
when I came here--Trehearn is his name, James Trehearn. The Scotch
sisters would not admit that there was anything wrong about the house,
but when November came they gave me warning that they were going, on the
ground that the chapel was such a long walk from here, being in the next
parish, and that they could not possibly go to our church. But the
younger one came back in the spring, and as soon as the banns could be
published she was married to James Trehearn by the vicar, and she seems
to have had no scruples about hearing him preach since then. I'm quite
satisfied, if she is! The couple live in a small cottage that looks
over the churchyard.
I suppose you are wondering what all this has to do with what I was
talking about. I'm alone so much that when an old friend comes to see
me, I sometimes go on talking just for the sake of hearing my own voice.
But in this case there is really a connection of ideas. It was James
Trehearn who buried poor Mrs. Pratt, and her husband after her in the
same grave, and it's not far from the back of his cottage. That's the
connection in my mind, you see. It's plain enough. He knows something;
I'm quite sure that he does, by his manner, though he's such a reticent
beggar.
Yes, I'm alone in the house at night now, for Mrs. Trehearn does
everything herself, and when I have a friend the sexton's niece comes in
to wait on the table. He takes his wife home every evening in winter,
but in summer, when there's light, she goes by herself. She's not a
nervous woman, but she's less sure than she used to be that there are no
bogies in England worth a Scotchwoman's notice. Isn't it amusing, the
idea that Scotland has a monopoly of the supernatural? Odd sort of
national pride, I call that, don't you?
That's a good fire, isn't it? When driftwood gets started at last
there's nothing like it, I think. Yes, we get lots of it, for I'm sorry
to say there are still a great many wrecks about here. It's a lonely
coast, and you may have all the wood you want for the trouble of
bringing it in. Trehearn and I borrow a cart now and then, and load it
between here and the Spit. I hate a coal fire when I can get wood of any
sort. A log is company, even if it's only a piece of a deck-beam or
timber sawn off, and the salt in it makes pretty sparks. See how they
fly, like Japanese hand-fireworks! Upon my word, with an old friend and
a good fire and a pipe, one forgets all about that thing upstairs,
especially now that the wind has moderated. It's only a lull, though,
and it will blow a gale before morning.
You think you would like to see the skull? I've no objection. There's no
reason why you shouldn't have a look at it, and you never saw a more
perfect one in your life, except that there are two front teeth missing
in the lower jaw.
Oh yes--I had not told you about the jaw yet. Trehearn found it in the
garden last spring when he was digging a pit for a new asparagus bed.
You know we make asparagus beds six or eight feet deep here. Yes, yes--I
had forgotten to tell you that. He was digging straight down, just as he
digs a grave; if you want a good asparagus bed made, I advise you to
get a sexton to make it for you. Those fellows have a wonderful knack at
that sort of digging.
Trehearn had got down about three feet when he cut into a mass of white
lime in the side of the trench. He had noticed that the earth was a
little looser there, though he says it had not been disturbed for a
number of years. I suppose he thought that even old lime might not be
good for asparagus, so he broke it out and threw it up. It was pretty
hard, he says, in biggish lumps, and out of sheer force of habit he
cracked the lumps with his spade as they lay outside the pit beside him;
the jawbone of a skull dropped out of one of the pieces. He thinks he
must have knocked out the two front teeth in breaking up the lime, but
he did not see them anywhere. He's a very experienced man in such
things, as you may imagine, and he said at once that the jaw had
probably belonged to a young woman, and that the teeth had been complete
when she died. He brought it to me, and asked me if I wanted to keep it;
if I did not, he said he would drop it into the next grave he made in
the churchyard, as he supposed it was a Christian jaw, and ought to have
decent burial, wherever the rest of the body might be. I told him that
doctors often put bones into quicklime to whiten them nicely, and that
I supposed Dr. Pratt had once had a little lime pit in the garden for
that purpose, and had forgotten the jaw. Trehearn looked at me quietly.
"Maybe it fitted that skull that used to be in the cupboard upstairs,
sir," he said. "Maybe Dr. Pratt had put the skull into the lime to clean
it, or something, and when he took it out he left the lower jaw behind.
There's some human hair sticking in the lime, sir."
I saw there was, and that was what Trehearn said. If he did not suspect
something, why in the world should he have suggested that the jaw might
fit the skull? Besides, it did. That's proof that he knows more than he
cares to tell. Do you suppose he looked before she was buried? Or
perhaps--when he buried Luke in the same grave----
Well, well, it's of no use to go over that, is it? I said I would keep
the jaw with the skull, and I took it upstairs and fitted it into its
place. There's not the slightest doubt about the two belonging together,
and together they are.
Trehearn knows several things. We were talking about plastering the
kitchen a while ago, and he happened to remember that it had not been
done since the very week when Mrs. Pratt died. He did not say that the
mason must have left some lime on the place, but he thought it, and
that it was the very same lime he had found in the asparagus pit. He
knows a lot. Trehearn is one of your silent beggars who can put two and
two together. That grave is very near the back of his cottage, too, and
he's one of the quickest men with a spade I ever saw. If he wanted to
know the truth, he could, and no one else would ever be the wiser unless
he chose to tell. In a quiet village like ours, people don't go and
spend the night in the churchyard to see whether the sexton potters
about by himself between ten o'clock and daylight.
What is awful to think of, is Luke's deliberation, if he did it; his
cool certainty that no one would find him out; above all, his nerve, for
that must have been extraordinary. I sometimes think it's bad enough to
live in the place where it was done, if it really was done. I always put
in the condition, you see, for the sake of his memory, and a little bit
for my own sake, too.
I'll go upstairs and fetch the box in a minute. Let me light my pipe;
there's no hurry! We had supper early, and it's only half-past nine
o'clock. I never let a friend go to bed before twelve, or with less than
three glasses--you may have as many more as you like, but you shan't
have less, for the sake of old times.
It's breezing up again, do you hear? That was only a lull just now, and
we are going to have a bad night.
A thing happened that made me start a little when I found that the jaw
fitted exactly. I'm not very easily startled in that way myself, but I
have seen people make a quick movement, drawing their breath sharply,
when they had thought they were alone and suddenly turned and saw some
one very near them. Nobody can call that fear. You wouldn't, would you?
No. Well, just when I had set the jaw in its place under the skull, the
teeth closed sharply on my finger. It felt exactly as if it were biting
me hard, and I confess that I jumped before I realised that I had been
pressing the jaw and the skull together with my other hand. I assure you
I was not at all nervous. It was broad daylight, too, and a fine day,
and the sun was streaming into the best bedroom. It would have been
absurd to be nervous, and it was only a quick mistaken impression, but
it really made me feel queer. Somehow it made me think of the funny
verdict of the coroner's jury on Luke's death, "by the hand or teeth of
some person or animal unknown." Ever since that I've wished I had seen
those marks on his throat, though the lower jaw was missing then.
I have often seen a man do insane things with his hands that he does
not realise at all. I once saw a man hanging on by an old awning stop
with one hand, leaning backward, outboard, with all his weight on it,
and he was just cutting the stop with the knife in his other hand when I
got my arms round him. We were in mid-ocean, going twenty knots. He had
not the smallest idea what he was doing; neither had I when I managed to
pinch my finger between the teeth of that thing. I can feel it now. It
was exactly as if it were alive and were trying to bite me. It would if
it could, for I know it hates me, poor thing! Do you suppose that what
rattles about inside is really a bit of lead? Well, I'll get the box
down presently, and if whatever it is happens to drop out into your
hands that's your affair. If it's only a clod of earth or a pebble, the
whole matter would be off my mind, and I don't believe I should ever
think of the skull again; but somehow I cannot bring myself to shake out
the bit of hard stuff myself. The mere idea that it may be lead makes me
confoundedly uncomfortable, yet I've got the conviction that I shall
know before long. I shall certainly know. I'm sure Trehearn knows, but
he's such a silent beggar.
I'll go upstairs now and get it. What? You had better go with me? Ha,
ha! do you think I'm afraid of a bandbox and a noise? Nonsense!
Bother the candle, it won't light! As if the ridiculous thing
understood what it's wanted for! Look at that--the third match. They
light fast enough for my pipe. There, do you see? It's a fresh box, just
out of the tin safe where I keep the supply on account of the dampness.
Oh, you think the wick of the candle may be damp, do you? All right,
I'll light the beastly thing in the fire. That won't go out, at all
events. Yes, it sputters a bit, but it will keep lighted now. It burns
just like any other candle, doesn't it? The fact is, candles are not
very good about here. I don't know where they come from, but they have a
way of burning low occasionally, with a greenish flame that spits tiny
sparks, and I'm often annoyed by their going out of themselves. It
cannot be helped, for it will be long before we have electricity in our
village. It really is rather a poor light, isn't it?
You think I had better leave you the candle and take the lamp, do you? I
don't like to carry lamps about, that's the truth. I never dropped one
in my life, but I have always thought I might, and it's so confoundedly
dangerous if you do. Besides, I am pretty well used to these rotten
candles by this time.
You may as well finish that glass while I'm getting it, for I don't mean
to let you off with less than three before you go to bed. You won't
have to go upstairs, either, for I've put you in the old study next to
the surgery--that's where I live myself. The fact is, I never ask a
friend to sleep upstairs now. The last man who did was Crackenthorpe,
and he said he was kept awake all night. You remember old Crack, don't
you? He stuck to the Service, and they've just made him an admiral. Yes,
I'm off now--unless the candle goes out. I couldn't help asking if you
remembered Crackenthorpe. If any one had told us that the skinny little
idiot he used to be was to turn out the most successful of the lot of
us, we should have laughed at the idea, shouldn't we? You and I did not
do badly, it's true--but I'm really going now. I don't mean to let you
think that I've been putting it off by talking! As if there were
anything to be afraid of! If I were scared, I should tell you so quite
frankly, and get you to go upstairs with me.
       *       *       *       *       *
Here's the box. I brought it down very carefully, so as not to disturb
it, poor thing. You see, if it were shaken, the jaw might get separated
from it again, and I'm sure it wouldn't like that. Yes, the candle went
out as I was coming downstairs, but that was the draught from the leaky
window on the landing. Did you hear anything? Yes, there was another
scream. Am I pale, do you say? That's nothing. My heart is a little
queer sometimes, and I went upstairs too fast. In fact, that's one
reason why I really prefer to live altogether on the ground floor.
Wherever that shriek came from, it was not from the skull, for I had the
box in my hand when I heard the noise, and here it is now; so we have
proved definitely that the screams are produced by something else. I've
no doubt I shall find out some day what makes them. Some crevice in the
wall, of course, or a crack in a chimney, or a chink in the frame of a
window. That's the way all ghost stories end in real life. Do you know,
I'm jolly glad I thought of going up and bringing it down for you to
see, for that last shriek settles the question. To think that I should
have been so weak as to fancy that the poor skull could really cry out
like a living thing!
Now I'll open the box, and we'll take it out and look at it under the
bright light. It's rather awful to think that the poor lady used to sit
there, in your chair, evening after evening, in just the same light,
isn't it? But then--I've made up my mind that it's all rubbish from
beginning to end, and that it's just an old skull that Luke had when he
was a student; and perhaps he put it into the lime merely to whiten it,
and could not find the jaw.
I made a seal on the string, you see, after I had put the jaw in its
place, and I wrote on the cover. There's the old white label on it
still, from the milliner's, addressed to Mrs. Pratt when the hat was
sent to her, and as there was room I wrote on the edge: "A skull, once
the property of the late Luke Pratt, M.D." I don't quite know why I
wrote that, unless it was with the idea of explaining how the thing
happened to be in my possession. I cannot help wondering sometimes what
sort of hat it was that came in the bandbox. What colour was it, do you
think? Was it a gay spring hat with a bobbing feather and pretty
ribands? Strange that the very same box should hold the head that wore
the finery--perhaps. No--we made up our minds that it just came from the
hospital in London where Luke did his time. It's far better to look at
it in that light, isn't it? There's no more connection between that
skull and poor Mrs. Pratt than there was between my story about the lead
and----
Good Lord! Take the lamp--don't let it go out, if you can help it--I'll
have the window fastened again in a second--I say, what a gale! There,
it's out! I told you so! Never mind, there's the firelight--I've got the
window shut--the bolt was only half down. Was the box blown off the
table? Where the deuce is it? There! That won't open again, for I've put
up the bar. Good dodge, an old-fashioned bar--there's nothing like it.
Now, you find the bandbox while I light the lamp. Confound those
wretched matches! Yes, a pipe spill is better--it must light in the
fire--I hadn't thought of it--thank you--there we are again. Now,
where's the box? Yes, put it back on the table, and we'll open it.
That's the first time I have ever known the wind to burst that window
open; but it was partly carelessness on my part when I last shut it.
Yes, of course I heard the scream. It seemed to go all round the house
before it broke in at the window. That proves that it's always been the
wind and nothing else, doesn't it? When it was not the wind, it was my
imagination. I've always been a very imaginative man: I must have been,
though I did not know it. As we grow older we understand ourselves
better, don't you know?
I'll have a drop of the Hulstkamp neat, by way of an exception, since
you are filling up your glass. That damp gust chilled me, and with my
rheumatic tendency I'm very much afraid of a chill, for the cold
sometimes seems to stick in my joints all winter when it once gets in.
By George, that's good stuff! I'll just light a fresh pipe, now that
everything is snug again, and then we'll open the box. I'm so glad we
heard that last scream together, with the skull here on the table
between us, for a thing cannot possibly be in two places at the same
time, and the noise most certainly came from outside, as any noise the
wind makes must. You thought you heard it scream through the room after
the window was burst open? Oh yes, so did I, but that was natural enough
when everything was open. Of course we heard the wind. What could one
expect?
Look here, please. I want you to see that the seal is intact before we
open the box together. Will you take my glasses? No, you have your own.
All right. The seal is sound, you see, and you can read the words of the
motto easily. "Sweet and low"--that's it--because the poem goes on "Wind
of the Western sea," and says, "blow him again to me," and all that.
Here is the seal on my watch-chain, where it's hung for more than forty
years. My poor little wife gave it to me when I was courting, and I
never had any other. It was just like her to think of those words--she
was always fond of Tennyson.
It's of no use to cut the string, for it's fastened to the box, so I'll
just break the wax and untie the knot, and afterward we'll seal it up
again. You see, I like to feel that the thing is safe in its place, and
that nobody can take it out. Not that I should suspect Trehearn of
meddling with it, but I always feel that he knows a lot more than he
tells.
You see, I've managed it without breaking the string, though when I
fastened it I never expected to open the bandbox again. The lid comes
off easily enough. There! Now look!
What? Nothing in it? Empty? It's gone, man, the skull is gone!
       *       *       *       *       *
No, there's nothing the matter with me. I'm only trying to collect my
thoughts. It's so strange. I'm positively certain that it was inside
when I put on the seal last spring. I can't have imagined that: it's
utterly impossible. If I ever took a stiff glass with a friend now and
then, I would admit that I might have made some idiotic mistake when I
had taken too much. But I don't, and I never did. A pint of ale at
supper and half a go of rum at bedtime was the most I ever took in my
good days. I believe it's always we sober fellows who get rheumatism and
gout! Yet there was my seal, and there is the empty bandbox. That's
plain enough.
I say, I don't half like this. It's not right. There's something wrong
about it, in my opinion. You needn't talk to me about supernatural
manifestations, for I don't believe in them, not a little bit! Somebody
must have tampered with the seal and stolen the skull. Sometimes, when I
go out to work in the garden in summer, I leave my watch and chain, on
the table. Trehearn must have taken the seal then, and used it, for he
