neighborhoods, each district having manners, customs, and social code
peculiar to the village that was its germ. As one settlement ran into
another, a city grew that claims the respect of the mightier sister
across the river. The Cornells had lived in a pleasant house in a
pleasant street, and Susie had spoken truly in saying that they lived
well. With no pretense of entertaining, they were cordially hospitable,
“having” friends to supper, or to pass the evening, whenever fair
occasion offered. For the children’s sake the mother took her principal
meal with them at one o’clock, but the hearty tea prepared for the
father who had lunched frugally in town was invariably appetizing,
being well cooked and daintily served. He had the privilege not always
accorded to richer men who sit down daily to late “course dinners”—that
of bringing a crony home with him whenever he pleased. It was like
Arthur Cornell to choose as chance guests men who had not such homes as
his—bank clerks from the country, Bohemian artists of good character
and light purses, and the like. Such were the honored recipients of the
hostess’ smile and warm handshake. She had won the admiring reverence
of more than one homeless bachelor by her skill in delicate and savory
cookery and the gracious friendliness of her welcome, and these,
oftener than any other class, composed the delighted audience of the
music Arthur called for every evening.
Once or twice a month husband and wife went to the theater or a
concert, and twice or at the most three times a year to the opera.
They were pretty sure to have complimentary tickets to the water-color
exhibition and other displays of paintings in Brooklyn or New York.
Of receptions, they knew comparatively little except such as followed
weddings among their acquaintances. Neither had ever attended a regular
dinner party gotten up by a professional caterer, and the ladies’
luncheon of eight, ten, or a dozen courses was unknown by the seeing
of the eyes and the tasting of the palate to the bright woman whose
social successes in a new arena were foretold by the sanguine admirer
who craved the pleasure of bringing her out. There are still in fast
growing American cities tens of thousands of such people who live
honestly, comfortably, and beneficently, and whose homes are refined
centers of happiness and goodness.
There was, then, cause for the wife’s pleasurable flutter of spirits
and the doubtful satisfaction expressed, against his intention, in the
husband’s visage at the close prospect of a state banquet given in
honor of their undistinguished selves, at which anonymous edibles would
be washed down with foreign wines, and spicy entrées be punctuated by
spicy hors d’œuvres. Arthur’s predominant quality was sound sense,
and as his spouse had anticipated, his first emotion after hearing
her tale was wonder at the sudden and violent increase of friendship
consequent upon their change of residence, in one who had apparently
forgotten the unimportant fact of her favorite schoolfellow’s existence
for more than five years.
“I can’t imagine why she should care to take us up now,” he demurred.
Susie’s ready flush testified to the hurt he had dealt her pride or
affections. She thought to the latter.
“If you would only not let your prejudice master your reason!” she
sighed. “All New York women hate and dread ferries.”
“There is the Bridge!” put in the Brooklyn-born literalist.
“Which would have taken visitors miles away from us. I was afraid you
would wet-blanket the whole affair. I really dreaded to tell you of
what I was silly enough to look forward to with pleasure. You see you
don’t know what a fine, genuine creature Kitty is. But we won’t dispute
over her or her dinner party. I can write to her and say that we regret
our inability to accept the invitation.”
Arthur closed his teeth upon another struggling sentence. Although
even less of a society man than she was of a society woman, he had
a definite impression that invitations to dinner were usually sent
out some days in advance of the “occasion.” Less distinct, because
intuitive, was the idea that gay young women, already laden with social
obligations, did not press attentions upon everyday folk from Brooklyn,
E. D., unless they hoped to gain something by it, or were addicted to
patronage. The former hypothesis being, as he conceived, untenable, it
followed that Mrs. Hitt, a good-natured rattle, must have said more
than she meant of her intentions toward the strangers, or that she had
a native fondness for playing the lady patroness.
Loving and admiring his wife from the full depths of a quiet heart,
he held all this back. Susie was vivacious, ready of wit and speech,
and he was not. She dearly enjoyed excitement and new acquaintances.
Give him dressing jacket, slippers, and an interesting book, or his
wife’s music and his own fireside, and he would not have exchanged
places with Ward Macallister at his complacent best. Susie would shine
anywhere; she was born to it! He was not even a first-class reflector
of her rays. Yet this noblest of women had stood by him with cheerful
gallantry in their less prosperous days. He had told her over and over
that she had hidden her light under a bushel in becoming the mistress
of such a home as he had to give her, but she had loyally denied this,
and borne her part bravely in the struggle to lap the non-elastic ends
of their common income. To her capital management he owed much of their
present comfort.
Arthur Cornell reasoned slowly, but always in a straight line.
“I am a selfish, brutal fellow, darling,” he said at this point of his
cogitations. “I am afraid I am a little tired to-night. We have had
a busy day at the Bank. You mustn’t mind my growls. When we have had
sup—dinner, I would say!—you’ll find me more than willing to listen and
sympathize.”
Her satisfactory answer was to come over and kiss him silently, taking
his head between her hands and laying her cheek upon it. The hair
was getting thin on the top, and the gaslight brought into gleaming
conspicuousness a few gray hairs. He was older than she by nine years.
It would not be surprising if, for a long time yet, he continued to
say “supper” instead of “dinner.” She was certain he would never learn
to talk of the “drawing room.” But he was her very own, and dearly
beloved, and the kindest, noblest fellow in the world. Whatever he
might do or say, she could never be angry with or ashamed of him.
PART II.
THE evening meal—an excellent one, to which Mr. Cornell did ample
justice—was over. Father and mother, as was their custom, had visited
the nursery in company, heard the children’s prayers, and kissed them
“good-night.” The orderly household had settled down into cheerful
quiet that fell like dew upon weary nerves. Susie went to the piano
presently and played a pensive nocturne, then sang softly a couple of
Arthur’s favorite ballads. The night was blustering, and in the silence
succeeding the music, the wedded pair, seated before the soft-coal fire
in the back parlor, heard the hurrying tread of passers-by echoing
sharply from the frozen stones.
Arthur ended the restful pause. His choice of a theme and the lightness
of his tone were heroic.
“Low neck and short sleeves for me to-morrow night, I suppose, old
lady? That is to say, claw-hammer, and low-cut vest. It’s lucky I had
them made for Lou Wilson’s wedding last winter. There wouldn’t be time
to get up the proper rig, and regrets based upon ‘No dress-coat’ would
be rather awkward.”
“Decidedly! No man of whatever age should be without one,” rejoined
the nascent fashionist. “Some men never sit down to dinner except in
evening dress. It must be very nice to live in that way. I like such
graceful ceremony in everyday customs.”
Arthur cast about for something neater to say than the dismayed
ejaculation bitten off just in time.
“It must help a fellow to feel altogether at his ease in his company
accouterments”—inspiration coming in the nick of time. “Most men look,
and, judging by myself, feel like newly imported restaurant waiters
when decked out in their swallow-tails.”
The conventional “dress coat” is a shrewd test of innate gentlehood. A
thoroughbred is never more truly one than when thus appareled. The best
it can do for the plebeian, who would prefer to eat his dinner in his
shirt-sleeves, is to bring him up to the level of a hotel waiter.
Arthur looked like an unassuming gentleman on the following evening,
when he joined his wife below-stairs. If he had not an air of fashion,
he had not a touch of the vulgarian. Susie’s mien was, as he assured
her, that of a queen. Her head was set well above a pair of graceful
shoulders, she carried herself and managed her train cleverly. Arthur
had brought her a cluster of pink roses, all of which she wore in her
corsage except one bud which she pinned in his buttonhole. He put a
careful finger under her chin, and lifted her face to let the full
light of the chandelier rain upon it.
“It would have been a pity to keep you all to myself to-night,” he said.
The weather was raw, with menace of rain or snow, but neither of
them thought of the extravagance of a carriage. As she had done upon
previous festal occasions, the wife looped up the trailing breadths
of velvet, and secured them into a “walking length” of skirt with
safety pins. Over her gala attire she cast a voluminous waterproof,
buttoned all the way down the front. A bonnet would have deranged her
coiffure, and she wore, instead, a black Spanish lace scarf knotted
under her chin. Slippers and light gloves went in a reticule slung upon
her arm.
It lacked five minutes of seven when they alighted from a street-car
within a block of the Hitts’ abode. Four carriages were in line before
the door, and from these stepped men swathed in long, light ulsters,
who assisted to alight and ascend the stone steps apparitions in
furred and embroidered opera cloaks that ravished Susie’s wits, in the
swift transit of the gorgeous beings from curbstone to the hospitable
entrance. A dizzying sensation of unreality, such as one experiences
in finding himself unexpectedly upon a great height, seized upon her.
Could these people be collected to meet her? Humbled, yet elated,
she entered the house, and obeying the directions of the footman at the
foot of the stairs, mounted to the dressing room.
Four women in such elaborate toilets that our heroine felt forthwith
like a crow among birds-of-paradise, glanced carelessly over their
shoulders at her without suspending their chatter to one another, and
went on talking and shaking out their draperies. Each, in resigning her
wraps to the maids in waiting, stepped forth ready for drawing-room
parade. Susie retreated to a corner and began hurriedly to disembarrass
herself of her waterproof and to let down her skirt. A maid followed
her presently.
“Can I help you?” professionally supercilious.
“Thank you. If you would be so good as to take off my boots, I should
be obliged.”
The formula was ill-advised and justified the heightened hauteur of
the smart Abigail. With pursed mouth and disdainful finger-tips, she
removed the evidences that the wearer had trudged over muddy streets
to get here, and as gingerly fitted on the dry slippers. The heat in
Susie’s cheeks scorched the delicate skin when she found that the
time consumed in her preparations had detained her above-stairs after
everybody else had gone down. And Kitty had enjoined punctuality! She
met her husband in the upper hall with a distressed look.
“We are horribly late,” she whispered.
“I don’t suppose it makes any difference,” responded he to comfort her.
“It’s fashionable to be late, isn’t it?”
“Not at dinners,” she had barely time to admonish him when they crossed
the threshold of the drawing room.
Kitty advanced with empressement to meet them, but that they were
behind time was manifest from the celerity with which she introduced
her husband, and without the interval of a second, the man who was to
take Mrs. Cornell in to dinner. Then she whisked Mr. Cornell up to a
dried-up little woman in pearl-colored velvet, presented him, asked
him to take charge of her into the dining room, herself laid hold of
another man’s arm, and signaled her husband to lead the way.
Arthur seldom lost his perceptive and reasoning faculties, and having
read descriptions of state dinners and breakfasts, bethought himself
that had his wife and himself been in truth chief guests, they would
have been paired off with host and hostess. Moreover, although there
was a vast deal of talking at table and he did his conscientious
best to make conversation with the velvet-clad mummy consigned to
him, he had all the time the feeling of being left out in the cold.
Nobody addressed him directly in word, or indirectly by glance, and
at length, in gentlemanly despair of diverting the attention of his
fair companion from her plate to himself, he let her eat in peace and
pleased himself by comparing the rosy, piquant face of his wife with
the bismuth-and-rouge-powdered visages to the right, left, and front
of her. Susie seemed to be getting on swimmingly. The man next to her
was chatting gayly, and evidently recognized a responsive spirit in
his fair companion. How easily and naturally she met his advances, and
how gracefully she fitted into her novel position! What were pomps
and vanities to him accorded with her tastes. Again he thought how
niggardly would have been the refusal to allow her to take the place
she so adorned.
Not even love’s eye penetrated the doughty visor she kept jealously
closed throughout the meal. To begin with, she took the wrong fork
for the raw oysters! As course succeeded course, the dreadful
implement, in style so unlike those left beside other plates, actually
grinned at her with every prong. Everybody must be aware of the
solecism and deduce the truth that this was her first dinner party.
She was sure that she caught the waiters exchanging winks over the
fork, and that out of sheer malice, they allowed the tell-tale to
lie in full sight. The apprehension that she would eventually be
compelled to use the frail absurdity or leave untouched something—meat
or game, perhaps—assailed her. While she hearkened to the flippant
nothings her escort mistook for elegant small-talk, and plucked up
heart for repartee, hot and cold sweats broke out all over her. Had
she obeyed inclination that approximated frenzy at times, she would
have crept under the table and rolled over on the floor in anguished
mortification. If her sleight-of-hand had been equal to the rash
adventure, she would have pocketed the wretched bugbear in desperation
akin to that which makes the murderer fling far from him the weapon
with which the deed was done.
When the ghastly petty torture was ended by the removal of the
obnoxious article, and the substitution of one larger, plainer, and
less obvious, the poor woman could have kissed the perfunctory hand
that lifted the incubus from her soul.
She made other blunders, but none that were so glaring as this. Each
was a lesson and a stimulus to perfect herself in the minutiæ of
social etiquette. Before long, she would need no schooling; would
lead, instead of following. She would know better another time, too,
how to dress herself. Kitty’s gown of cream-colored faille, flounced
with lace; the pale blue brocade of one woman, and the pink-and-silver
bravery of a third, the maize velvet and black lace of the dowager
across the table, and the mauve-and-white marvel of still another
toilet, threw her apparel into blackest shade. She caught herself
hoping people would think that she was in slight mourning. Besides her
allotted attendant nobody at table spoke a word to her, but Kitty
shot many a smile at her during the feast, and nodded several times in
significance that might be approval or reassurance. Mr. Hitt, a rather
handsome man with big, bold eyes, looked hard at her now and then, but
did not accost her, even after he grew talkative under the faster flow
of wine. His glasses were filled so often and emptied so quickly that
Susie wondered to see his wife’s smiling unconcern. Perhaps she had
faith in the strength of his brain.
Arthur did not touch one of the five chalices of different shapes and
colors flanking his plate, and Susie was weak enough, perceiving that
his conduct in this respect was exceptional, to feel mortified by his
eccentricity. It was in bad taste, she thought, to offer tacit censure
of the practice of host and fellow-guests. To nullify the unfavorable
impression of her husband’s singularity, she sipped from each of her
glasses, and dipped so deeply into the iced champagne which cooled
thirst excited by highly seasoned viands, the heated room and agitation
of spirits, that her bloom was more vivid when she arose from dinner
than when she sat down. She was quite at ease now, and enjoying, with
the zest of an artistic nature, the features of the novel scene.
The tempered light streaming over and repeated by silver, china, and
cut-glass; the flower-borders that criss-crossed the lace table-cover
laid over rose-colored satin, the superb costumes of the women and the
faultless garments of the men; the rapid, noiseless exchange of one
delicacy for another, some of the dishes being as new to her as would
have been an entrée of peacocks’ brains or a salmi of nightingales’
tongues—were fascinating to one whose love of the picturesque and
beautiful was a passion. This was the sort of thing she had read of in
English novels and American newspapers, the enchanting mode of life for
which she had yearned secretly, the atmosphere in which she should have
been born.
The return in feminine file to the drawing room of part of the company
was a stage of the pageant with which Jane Eyre’s life at Thornhill,
and Annie Edwards’ and Ouida’s stories of hospitality at English
country houses had made her familiar. She hoped nobody else noticed
Arthur’s surprised stare, as the men arose and remained standing, with
no movement in the direction of the escaping fair ones. With flutter
and buzz and silken rustle, the dames swept through the hall back
into the drawing room and disposed themselves upon couches and in
easy-chairs, where tiny glasses of perfumed liqueur were handed to them.
“Exactly like a story of Oriental life,” mused entranced Susie.
Now, for the first time, Kitty had the opportunity to show to her
school-friend the pointed and peculiar attentions the rhapsodies of
yesterday had authorized her to expect. Up to this moment nobody had
been introduced to her except the man who took her to dinner.
“I must have you know all these friends of mine,” she purred, taking
Susie’s hand in both of hers, and leading her with engaging “gush” up
to the mauve-and-white marvel.
“Mrs. Vansittart, this is my dear old school-fellow, Mrs. Cornell,
who is going to play something for us now, and after a while, to sing
several somethings, and when our audience is enlarged by the return
of the men to us lorn women, she will, if properly entreated, give us
some of her charming recitations. Ah! you may well look surprised. It
is granted to few women to combine so many talents, but when you have
heard her, you will see that I do not promise too much.
“Mrs. Roberts!” to the symphony in pink-and-silver—“I bespeak your
admiration for my friend and school-crony”—etc., etc., until the
blushing débutante was the focus of six pairs of eyes, critical,
indifferent, and amiable, and wished that dear Kitty were not so
incorrigibly enthusiastic in praising those she loved.
Anyone but a refined novice would have divined at once that the act
of passing her around, like a plate of hot cakes, argued one of two
things—either that she was a “professional” of some sort, or that her
hostess was lamentably ignorant of the law demanding that the one to
be honored by an introduction should stand still and have the other
party to the ceremony brought to her. Kitty, at least, was no novice,
and everybody except her “school-crony” comprehended exactly what the
scene meant. Although she did not suspect it, she was on trial when
she sat down to the piano, the show-woman beside her, as the guileless
guest supposed, to give her affectionate encouragement. The first flash
of her fingers across the keys was the signal for general silence,
and the clapping of gloved hands at the conclusion of the brilliant
overture attested intelligent appreciation. She was not allowed to
leave the music stool for half an hour, one piece after another being
called for, and the choice of selections putting her on her mettle. Her
auditors were used to good music, and the assumption that she would
gratify them was a delicate compliment.
Kitty came to her elbow at length with a glass of clear liquid,
sparkling with pounded ice.
“Only lime-juice and water,” she whispered, “to clear your voice. I
have praised your singing until everybody is wild to hear you.”
Susie smiled happily, glancing over her shoulder with an unconscious
and graceful gesture of gratitude; a bow, slight, but comprehensive,
she might have but had not copied from a popular prima donna. Another
rapid run of the nimble fingers over the responsive ivory, and she
glided into the prelude to Gounod’s never-trite song, “Chantez! Riez!
Dormez!”
She had sung but a few bars when her ear caught the muffled tread of
feet in the hall. A side-glance at the mirror showed her a picture
that might have been clipped from her British contes de société, the
grouping of manly faces and fashionable dress coats in the curtained
arch, all intent upon herself as the enchantress who held them mute and
eager. Electric fire streamed through her veins, her voice soared and
swelled as never before; her enunciation, exquisitely pure and clear,
carried each word up to the loftiest story of the stilled mansion:
“Ah! riez, ma belle! riez! riez, toujours!”
“Fine, by Jove, now!” cried a big mustached man at Arthur’s side, as
the last notes died upon ecstatic ears. “Patti couldn’t have done it
better!”
The husband repeated this with other encomiums to the songstress after
they got home. He made the tired but animated little woman sit down in
an armchair and pulled off her rubbers and unbuttoned her boots in far
different fashion from that in which the sleepy Abigail had put them on
the feet and helped truss up the train of “the woman who hadn’t come in
a carriage like decent folks.”
He had had a stupid evening. He couldn’t make the women talk to him.
He was not “a ladies’ man,” and every mother’s daughter of them took
in the truth at a glance. The men gabbled over their wine of what did
not interest him, of clubs and horse races, and the fluctuations of
fancy stocks. He neither smoked nor drank, and was the only man there
who did not do both. His wife’s music was to him the only redeeming
feature of the occasion, and he would have enjoyed that more in his own
parlor. But she was enraptured with everything and full of delightful
anticipations. “Everybody had been so nice and kind, and what did
ill-natured people mean by saying there was no real sociability among
fashionable people? For her part, she believed that the higher one
mounted in the social scale the more genuine goodness and refined
feeling she would find.” Several of the ladies had promised to call
upon her, and, as one said, “to take her in with them.”
Arthur hearkened silently. He had never been able to give her such
pleasures, a fact that smote him hard when he saw how zestfully she
drank of the newly opened spring. He would not “wet-blanket” her
enthusiasm, so did not hint at a discovery made to him by a chance
remark of a guest to the host. Invitations for this particular dinner
party had been out for ten days.
“Then Susie and I were second fiddles,” inferred the sensible cashier.
“I wonder why she asked us at all!”
PART III.
MR. CORNELL’S unspoken suspicion that Mrs. Hitt would drop her
school-friend as suddenly as she had picked her up was in a way to be
falsified, if the events of the next few months were to be taken as
testimony.
The two matrons were nearly inseparable—shopping, driving, walking, and
visiting together. For Susie had a New York visiting list speedily,
and almost every name stood for an introduction by her indefatigable
“trainer.” The epithet was the taciturn husband’s, and, as may be
surmised, was never uttered audibly. Susie’s wardrobe, furniture,
table—her very modes of speech—sustained variations that amazed
old friends and confounded him who knew her best. The cherished
black velvet she had thought “handsome enough for any occasion”
was pronounced “quaintly becoming, but too old for the wearer by
twenty-five years.” Slashed and dashed and lashed with gold-color,
it did duty as a house evening gown. For small luncheons, she had a
tailor-made costume of fawn-colored cloth embroidered and combined
with silk; for “swell” luncheons, a rich silk—black ground relieved by
narrow crimson stripes, and made en demi-train.
For at-home afternoons were two tea gowns; before she received her
second dinner invitation, she had made by Mrs. Hitt’s dressmaker—(“a
Frenchwoman who doesn’t know enough yet to charge American prices, my
dear, and I hold it to be a sin to throw money away!”) a robe of
white brocade and sea-green velvet, in which garb she showed like a
moss-rose bud, according to her dear friend and trumpeter.
These strides into the realm of fashion, if at first startling to the
débutante, were quickly acknowledged to be imperatively necessary if
one would really live. Kitty’s taste in dress approximated genius. Even
she was hardly prepared for the ready following of her neophyte.
Had she needed corroborative evidence of the cashier’s liberal income,
his wife’s command of considerable sums supplied it. With all her
frankness, Mrs. Cornell did not confide to her bosom-friend where she
obtained the ready money that gained her credit with new tradespeople.
Now and then an uneasy qualm stirred the would-be comfortable soul
of the wife as to how much or how little Arthur speculated within
his sober soul upon the probable cost of her new outfit. There were
two thousand dollars deposited in her name, and drawing interest
in a Brooklyn Savings Bank. The rich aunt had given her namechild
three-quarters of it from time to time. The young couple had saved
the rest, and it was tacitly understood that it should not be touched
except of necessity. No landmark in her new career was more pronounced
than Susie’s resort to this fund for the equipment without which her
dawning social success would, she felt, lapse into obscurity more
ignominious than that from which she had emerged. She must have the
things represented by the money, and intoxicated though she was, she
had still too much sense and conscience to deplete her husband’s purse
to the extent demanded by the exigency. He would have opened an artery
to gratify her, had heart’s blood been coin, but she knew he would look
grave and pained did he suspect her visits to the Bank and their result.
He was sober enough, nowadays, without additional cause of discomfort.
When questioned, he averred that all was going right at the Bank, and
that he was well. Nor would he confess to loneliness on the evenings
when she was obliged to leave him in obedience to Kitty’s summons to
rehearsal or consultation in some of the countless schemes of amusement
the two were all the while concocting.
“Don’t trouble yourself to come for me or to sit up for me, dear,” the
pleasure-monger would entreat in bidding him “good-by.” “I’ll have one
of the maids call for me,” or “I have a carriage,” or—and after a time
this was most frequent of all—“Jack Hitt is always very obliging about
bringing me home.”
With a smile upon his lips and gravity she did not read in his eyes,
he would hand her to the carriage, or commit her to the spruce maid,
hoping that she would have a pleasant evening, and having stood upon
the steps until she was no longer in sight, would go back—as she
supposed—to sitting room or book. Whereas, it grew to be more and
more a habit with him to turn into the nursery instead, and sit there
in the dark until he heard the bustle of her return below-stairs.
He invariably sat up for her—she never asked why or where. The fire
burned cheerily to welcome her, and the offices of maid, assumed, in
the beginning in loverly supererogation, half jest, half caress, were
now duty and habit. Upon one point he was resolute. If she went to bed
late, she must sleep late next morning. This was a matter of health, a
concession she owed those to whom her health was all-important.
The two older children had breakfasted with their parents for a year,
and he made much of their company when their mother was not the fourth
of the party. Sometimes he sent for the baby as well, holding her on
his knee with one hand, while the other managed coffee cup and toast.
Susie surprised him thus one morning, having awakened unsummoned, and
dressed hastily that she might see him before he went out.
“Arthur Cornell!” The ejaculation was the first intimation he had of
her presence. “You spoil the children and make a slave of yourself!
Where is their nurse?”
“Don’t blame Ellen, dear!” checking her motion toward the bell. “I sent
for the children. They are very good, and I enjoy their company.”
Mrs. Cornell flushed hotly; her lips were compressed.
“I understand! After this, I will make a point of giving you your
breakfast. It was never my wish to lie in bed until this hour.”
“It was—and is mine!” rejoined her husband, steadily, unmoved by her
unwonted petulance. “As it is, you are pale and heavy-eyed. You have
had but five hours of sleep.”
“My head aches!” passing her hand over her forehead. “That will go off,
by-and-by. Baby! come to mamma, and let dear papa get his breakfast in
peace. Let me pour out a cup of hot coffee for you, first.”
Her softened tone and fond smile cleared the atmosphere for them all.
Arthur sunned himself in her presence as a half-torpid bird on an early
spring day. The children prattled merrily in answer to the pretty
mother’s blandishments; the baby stood up in her lap to make her fat
arms meet behind her neck. She looked pleadingly into the proud face
bent over mother and child. He was startled to see that the sweet eyes
were misty.
“Dear! can’t you go with me to-night?”
He fairly staggered at the unexpected appeal.
“If I had known——” he began.
“Yes, I know! I ought to have spoken before you made your engagement. I
was careless—forgetful—silly! I do nothing but silly things nowadays.
But I wish you could go, darling!”
“I’m afraid it’s impossible,” said Arthur regretfully. “The president
made a point of my attending the meeting. I am sorrier than you can be,
little wife.”
She shook her head and tried to laugh.
“That shows how little you know about it! Don’t make any more
engagements without consulting me. ‘I’m ower young’—not ‘to leave my
mammy yet’—but to be running about the world without my dear, old,
steady-going husband—and I’m not willing to do it any longer.”
He carried the memory of words and glance with him all day. Coming home
at evening, he found a note from her, stating that Kitty had sent for
her.
“There is a dress rehearsal at seven,” she wrote. “I wish you could be
there and see how ravishing I can be! If your business meeting is over
by ten o’clock, won’t you slip into society toggery and come around in
season to see ‘the old lady’ home?”
“The fever has run its course!” thought the husband, with kindling
eyes. “I knew I should get her back some day.”
His dinner was less carefully served than in the olden supper days,
but he dined as with the gods, and ran briskly upstairs to send Ellen
down to her meal while he undressed the children and put them to bed.
He had done this often during the winter, pretending to make a joke of
the disrobing, but knowing it to be duty and vicarious. According to
his ideas the mother should see to it in person. No hireling, whose
own the bairns are not, can care for them as those in whose veins runs
answering kindred blood. Usually, the task was done in heaviness of
spirit. To-night, no effort was required to bring laughter to his lips,
lightness to his heart. To-morrow mamma would breakfast with them, and
resume her place in the home, so poorly filled by him or anybody else.
She had come back to them. He tried to sing one of her lullabies as
he rocked the baby to sleep, but failed by reason of a “catch in his
throat.” Mamma would warble it like a nightingale to them to-morrow
night.
The business meeting was unexpectedly brief—“Thanks,” as the president
was pleased to say, “to the admirable epitome of the matter in hand
prepared and presented by Mr. Cornell.”
At ten o’clock the husband was in his dressing room, hurrying the
process of “slipping into society toggery.” He repeated the phrase
aloud while tying his cravat with fingers uncertain from nervous haste.
He was thankful beyond expression that he had never cast the shadow
of his disapproval over Susie’s spirits, even when they threatened to
carry her out of the bounds of reason. She was young and pretty; so
affluent of vitality, so richly endowed with talents, that a humdrum
fellow like himself could not comprehend the stress of the temptation
to plunge into and riot in the mad vortex of social parade.
“If there were any one thing I could do as cleverly as she does
everything, I should be doing it all the time,” he confessed in
contrite candor.
Yesterday he had thanked Heaven that Lent was close upon the panting
racers over the pleasure grounds. Now, he was indifferent to the
advance and duration of the penitential season. His darling had
returned of her own right-headed, right-hearted self to the sanctuary
of home, having detected, unaided by his pessimistic strictures, the
miserable vanity and carking vexation of the hollow system. He sewed
two buttons upon his shirt before he could put it on, and when he
pushed the needle through a hole and the linen beneath into the ball of
his thumb, he began to whistle “Annie Laurie.”
Susie had practiced “Annie Laurie” for an hour before dinner yesterday.
He wondered if she had sung it last night at the Hitts’. She had been
overrun with business of late, getting ready for the chamber concert
and private theatricals, and mercy knew what else of frolic and folly
gotten up by Mrs. Hitt for the benefit of the “Industrial Home” which
was the latest charitable fad in her set. He had paid ten dollars for a
reserved seat last week at the behest of the volatile Lady Patroness.
She had let him have it “at a bargain because he had the good luck to
be Susie’s husband.”
“Mr. Vansittart and Mr. Peltry paid fifty apiece for theirs, and I
made Jack give me thirty for his. My rooms will seat comfortably just
one hundred and fifty people, and I won’t sell a ticket over that
number at any price. None will be for sale at the door, and none are
transferable. Of course, the rush for them is fearful!”
Before going Arthur peeped into the nursery, dropping the most cautious
of kisses upon the cheek and forehead of each sleeper. Three-year old
Sue made up her lips into a tempting knot as he touched her velvety
face.
“Dee’ mamma!” she murmured in her sleep.
He kissed her again for that, the “catch in his throat” in full
possession.
“I don’t wonder they love her!” he said brokenly. “Who could help it?”
The block on which the Hitt mansion stood was lined with waiting
carriages, and Mr. Cornell supposed that the entertainment, which he
called to himself “a show,” must be nearly over. For an instant, he
meditated waiting without until the crowd began to pour out, then,
making his way into the hall, to send word to his wife that he awaited
her pleasure. Something in the immobility of the doors changed his
plan. He did not care to lurk for an hour or more among the coachmen
who stamped and swore upon the pavement, reminding him of some verses
Susie had read to him in other days when she had time for books and the
talk over them after they were read. He recalled the first and last
verses, and smiled in going through the discontented ranks and up the
flight of stone steps:
    “My coachman in the moonlight there
      Looks through the side light of the door;
    I hear him with his brethren swear,
      As I could do—but only more.
          
     Oh, could he have my share of din,
       And I his quiet!—past a doubt,
     ’Twould still be one man bored within,
       And just another bored without.”
A surge of hot and scented air enveloped him with the opening of the
door. The crowd in the hall contradicted the hostess’ declaration
that no more people would be admitted than could be comfortably
accommodated. Struggling up to the dressing room he got rid of hat and
overcoat, and struggled down again and to the door of the rear drawing
room. A curtain was rung up from a stage at the end of the apartment as
he gained a view of it.
The scene was the interior of an old-fashioned barn. Wreaths of
evergreen hung against the walls and depended from the rafters, and the
floor was cleared for dancing. From a door at the side a figure tripped
into the middle of the stage. Arthur looked twice before he recognized
the wearer of the colonial gown of old-gold brocade, brief of waist,
and allowing beneath the skirt glimpses of trim ankles in clocked
stockings. Her hair was piled over a cushion and powdered; eyebrows and
lashes were deftly darkened, and the carmine of cheek and mouth owed
brilliancy to rouge-pot and hare’s foot. She was the belle of the ball
to be held in the barn, and while waiting for the rest of the revelers,
she began to recite, in soliloquy, the old rhymes of Money Musk.
At the second line, from an unseen orchestra, issued low and faint,
like the echo of a spent strain, the popular dance tune. It stole so
insidiously upon the air as to suggest the musical thought of the
soliloquist, and was rather a background than an accompaniment to the
recitative. Gradually, as the story went on, the lithe figure began to
sway in perfect time to the phantom music; the eyes, smilingly eager,
seemed to look upon what the lips described; the feet stirred and
twinkled rhythmically; form and face were embodied melody. Vivified
by reverie, expectant and reminiscent, the radiant impersonation of
the poet’s picture floated airily through the enchanting measures. As
a morning paper put it, “she seemed to respire the music to which she
swayed and chanted.”
The audience, “though blasé with much merrymaking and sight-seeing,
hung entranced upon every motion, until, wafted by gentle degrees
toward the side-scene opposite to that by which she had entered, she
vanished on the last word of the poem.”
Recalled by a tumult of applause, she courtesied in colonial fashion,
and kissed her hand brightly to her admirers, but instead of
vouchsafing a repetition of what had stirred the spectators out of
their nil admirari mood, beckoned archly to the left and right. A
troop of young men and girls obeyed the summons and fell into place
in the country dance that went forward to the now ringing measures of
Money Musk.
The comedietta to which this was the prelude had been composed by a
well-known author, who was called out at the close of the second act,
and led forward the prima donna of the clever piece.
The interlude showed a moonlighted dell. On the distant hilltop was the
gleam of white tents; in the foreground stood a woman as colorless in
robe and visage as the moonbeams. Her voice, silvery and plaintive,
thrilled through the crowded rooms:
    “Give us a song!” the soldiers cried,
      The outer trenches guarding,
    When the heated guns of the camps allied
      Grew weary of bombarding.
And so, in distinct, unimpassioned narrative up to—
    They sang of love and not of fame,
      Forgot was Britain’s glory;
    Each heart recalled a different name,
      But all sang “Annie Laurie.”
Again the invisible orchestra bore up the uttered words; at first a
single cornet bringing down the air from the tented hilltop; then
deeper notes joining it, like men’s voices of varying tone and
strength, but all singing “Annie Laurie.”
    “Something upon the women’s cheeks
     Washed off the stains of powder.”
said dissonant, derisive tones at Arthur Cornell’s back, as the
curtain fell. “Battered veterans of a dozen seasons are snivelling
like ingenues of no season at all. What fools New Yorkers are to be
humbugged with their eyes open!”
“The fair manager hath a way of whistling the tin out of our pockets,”
replied a thin falsetto. “A wonderful creature, that same manager.”
A disagreeable, wheezing laugh finished the speech.
Arthur made an ineffectual effort to extricate himself from the packing
crowd, a movement unnoticed or uncared-for by the speakers.
“I admire—and despise—that woman!” continued the harsh voice. “As an
exhibition of colossal cheek she is unrivaled. For four years she has
preyed upon the majority that is up to her little ‘dodge,’ and the
minority that is not, pocketing her half of the profits of every
‘charitable’ show; borrowing from innocents that don’t know that she
pays not again, and actually—so I am told—receiving a commission for
introducing wild Westerners and provincial Easterners into what she
calls ‘our best circles.’ And we go on buying her tickets and accepting
her specimens, like the arrant asses we are.”
“Madame du Bois, upon a limited scale.”
“Exactly! Madame is her model. Her aping is more like monkeying, but
the resemblance is not lost. New Yorkers rather enjoy the sublime
audacity of Madame’s fleecing, and she does have the entrée of
uppertendom, sham though she is, with her drawing-room readings,
where geniuses are trotted out at big prices to ticket buyers, and no
price at all to Madame, and ranchmen’s daughters are provided with
blue-blooded Knickerbocker husbands. Her schemes are on a large scale.
She engineers benevolent pow-wows, clears her one thousand dollars
a night, and nobody dare charge her with pocketing a penny. You can
see where Kit learned her trade. To my certain knowledge she dresses
herself and pays for all her hospitable entertainments by these tricks.”
“Her latest investment isn’t a bad notion, but Kit is working the
scheme for all it’s worth. Anybody but the newest of the new would see
through the game.”
The other laughed gratingly.
“‘New’ is a mild way of putting it. We call her ‘Kit’s windfall’ at our
Club. Madame’s disciple had, as she fondly imagined, netted a couple
of veritable musical lions, and ten people were invited to hear their
after-dinner roar. The very day before the feast the male lion fell
sick, and the lioness wouldn’t or couldn’t leave her mate. Kitty was
tearing her false bang over the note apprising her of the disaster when
a card was brought in, telling her that an old schoolmate who had been
educated as a music-teacher, and had a niceish talent for recitation,
had removed to the city. Kit caught at the straw; raced around to
inspect her, judged her to be more than eligible, and roped her in.
Delorme was at the dinner and told me the story, which his wife had
from Kit’s own lips. The new ‘find’ had beauty as well as a voice and
a taste for theatricals, and a neat income, so Kit says—some thirty
thousand a year. Moreover, she is tremendously grateful for the lift in
the world, and so daft with enjoyment of her first glimpse of le bon
ton that she would send Kit ten out of the thirty thousand sooner than
lose her social standing. She doesn’t guess that she will be tossed
aside like a squeezed orange next year, poor thing!”
Arthur leaned against the door-frame, too giddy and sick to move, had
action been practicable in such a press. One of the tedious “waits”
inseparable from amateur performances gave every woman there a chance
to outscream her neighbor. It might be dishonorable not to make himself
known to the gossips who considered themselves absolved by the payment
of an entrance fee from the obligation to speak well, or not at all, of
their hosts. He did not put the question to himself whether or not he
should continue to listen. In a judicial mood he would have weighed the
pros and cons of fact or fiction in the tale he had heard. Every
word had, to his consciousness, the stamp of authenticity. In the shock
of the confirmation of his worst misgivings with regard to his wife’s
chosen intimate, his ruling thought was of the anguish the truth would
cause her. How best to lessen the shock to her tender, loving heart,
how to mitigate her mortification, began already to put his deliberate
faculties upon the strain.
The wiry falsetto and wheezy laugh struck in from his very elbow.
“Kit’s exemplary spouse may not share her pecuniary profits, but he has
an eye to innings of another sort. I met him at the Club last night,
and saw that he had about six champagnes and four cocktails more than
his brain could balance. An hour later, I was passing the house of our
pretty prima donna when a carriage drew up and out stepped Jack and
turned to help out his wife’s favorite. And, by Jove! the way he did it
was to put his arm about her waist, swing her to the side-walk and try
to kiss her! She espied me, I suppose, for she broke away from him with
a little screech, and flew up her steps like a lapwing. She must have
had her latchkey all ready, for she got the door open in a twinkling,
and slammed it. I guffawed outright, and didn’t Jack swear!”
“What a beastly cad he is!” said the deep voice disgustfully.
Few men in the circumstances would have kept so forcibly in mind the
shame to wife and children that would follow a blow and quarrel then
and there, as the commonplace husband upon whose ear and heart every
vile word had fallen like liquid fire. He rent a path through the
throng, got his hat and coat and went out of the abhorrent place. He
had seen to it that Susie’s hired carriage was always driven by the
same man—a steady, middle-aged American—and recognizing him upon the
box, signaled him to draw up to the sidewalk, stepped into the vehicle,
and prepared to wait as patiently as might be until the man’s number
should be called by the attendant policeman.
The “show” was not over for an hour longer, and his carriage was the
last called. The fair manager had detained her lieutenant to exchange
felicitations over the triumph of the evening. Susie appeared, finally,
running down the steps so fast that her attendant only overtook her at
the curbstone. He had come out bareheaded, and without other protection
against the bitter March wind than his evening dress and thin shoes.
Mrs. Cornell’s hand was on the handle of the carriage door, and he
covered it with his own.
“Are you cruel or coquettish, sweet Annie Laurie?” he asked in accents
thickened by liquor and laughter.
By the electric light Arthur saw the pale terror of her face, as she
tried to wrest her fingers from the ruffianly grasp. Without a second’s
hesitation the husband leaped out through the other door, passed behind
the carriage, lifted the man, taller and heavier than himself, by the
nape of the neck, and laid him in the gutter.
“The fellow is drunk!” he remarked contemptuously to the policeman who
hastened up, imagining that the gentleman had tripped and fallen. “It
is lucky you are here to look after him.”
He handed his trembling wife into the carriage, swung himself in after
her, and bade the coachman drive home.
Then—for as I have expressly affirmed, this man was heroic in naught
save his love for wife and children—he put strong tender arms about
the sinking woman, who clung to his neck, convulsed by sobs, as one
snatched from destruction might hang upon the saving hand.
“There, my darling! It is all over! I ought to have taken better care
of you. The old account is closed. We’ll begin another upon a clean
page.”
He was only a bank cashier, you see, and familiar with no figures
except such as he used every day.
THE ARTICLES OF SEPARATION.
BEFORE and since the day when a certain man—idling while Israel and
Syria warred—drew a bow at a venture (the margin has it, “in his
simplicity,”) that let a king’s life out, the air has vibrated to the
twang of other bowstrings, and millions of barbs, as idly sent, have
been dyed with life-blood.
In every 50,000 cases of this sort of manslaughter, 49,999 fall by the
tongue.
The Hon. Simeon Barton, radiating prosperity from every pore of his
snug person, and clothed with complacency as with a garment, rolled
about the soon-to-be-vacated bachelor quarters of his nephew-namesake,
thumbs in armholes, and chin in air, while he discoursed:
“You’re a pluckier fellow than your uncle, me boy! Of course, it is on
the cards that your head may be level. There are literary women and
literary women, no doubt, and this must be a favorable specimen of the
tribe, or you wouldn’t have been in your present fix, but none of the
lot in mine, if you please. When my turn comes—and I aint sure that I
shan’t look out for a match some day, when I am too stiff to trot well
in single harness, I shall hold the reins. No inside seat for me.”
The nephew laughed in a hearty, whole-souled way. He was not touched
yet.
“You mix your figures as you do your cobblers—after you get hold of
the sherry bottle—with a swing. Wait until you see my ‘match.’ She is
a glorious woman, Uncle Sim. The wonder is that she ever got her eyes
down to my level.”
The forty-year-old celibate continued to roll and harangue. His dress
coat was new and a close fit to his rotund dapperness; with one
lavender glove he smote the palm of his gloved left hand; the rose
in his buttonhole was paler than the hard red spots on cheeks like
underglazed pottery for smoothness and polish, his mustache curled
upward and wriggled at animated periods.
“Quite the thing, me dear boy, altogether proper. For me part, I
wouldn’t care to be under obligations to a woman when she had worked
down to my level, but tastes differ, and a man of twenty-six who has a
living to make ought to cast an anchor to windward, in case of squalls.
A woman who can chop a stick, at a pinch, to set the pot to boiling
is a convenience. Literature’s a better trade now than it used to be,
I suppose. Jones of Illinois was telling me last night of the prices
paid to good selling authors, and by George! I was surprised. All the
same, I’d fight shy of the Guild if I were contemplating matrimony. If
you could see some of the many objects that hang about the Capitol in
wait for Tom, Dick, or Harry to pick up a ‘personal,’ or lobby a bill,
or get subscriptions to a book or magazine, you wouldn’t wonder at my
‘prejudice,’ as you are pleased to style it. Pah!”
