mile.

"I think we are all right now, Louis," said Captain Scott when he had
completed his preparations.

"It looks as though you meant to fight the pirate," added Louis.

"Not if it can be avoided; but I do not intend to let Mazagan take any
one of my people out of the Maud; and all hands will shoot before
anything of that kind can happen," replied Scott very mildly, and with
no excitement in his manner; for he had studied the bearing of his
model, and tried to imitate him.

"Do you expect Mazagan will resort to violence, Captain Scott?"

"That is an odd question, Louis," answered Scott, laughing heartily,
perhaps as much to manifest his coolness as to treat the question
lightly. "Excuse me, Louis, but you make me smile. Do I expect Mazagan
to resort to violence? For what did he visit Pournea Bay? Did he resort
to violence when he caught you in that shop in the Muski? Did he resort
to violence when his assistants attempted to capture you and Miss
Blanche in Zante? What do you suppose he followed the Maud up here for,
Louis?"

"Perhaps to induce me to pay him twenty thousand dollars to let up on
Miss Blanche and myself," replied Louis, overwhelmed by the argument.

"Are you ready to pay him?"

"Never!"

"Then he will resort to some other means to accomplish his purpose in
coming to Cyprus. Do you wish me to surrender the Maud to him?" asked
the captain.

"Certainly not."

The Fatimé let go her anchor as near the Maud as the depth of water
would permit her to come.




CHAPTER VIII

THE LECTURE ON THE ISLAND OF CYPRUS


Captain Scott was ready to do anything the occasion might require.
Possibly he would not have been sorry to come into collision with
Captain Mazagan and his piratical craft, judging from what he had said
to Louis Belgrave, and he had pluck enough to precipitate a conflict
with the enemy; but sometimes it requires more courage to keep out of a
fight than to plunge into one.

As he had admitted himself, Louis was his model; and he felt that no
rashness, no braggadocio, no challenging, no casting down the gage of
battle to the pirate who had already outlawed himself, no holding out of
a temptation to cross swords with him, would be justified or palliated
when he came to render an account of his conduct in what was yet to
occur to the commander of the Guardian-Mother.

Whatever he did he was to do strictly in self-defence. The character of
Captain Ringgold and of Louis would permit nothing more than this. The
"Big Four" fully understood why the Fatimé was there. It was true that
the Maud had held out the temptation for her to follow her; but it was
as a man with a gold watch and plenty of money in his purse holds out a
temptation to the robber; but it does not follow that he should throw
away his valuables.

But the plan suggested by Scott and adopted by the commander had not
worked as had been expected. The Guardian-Mother ought to be there in
the bay, or somewhere in the vicinity; but nothing had been seen of her,
and no one knew what had become of her. According to the plan, the two
steamers were to find a way to escape from the pirate, and Scott had
marked out the manner in which it was to be done. The gale and the
non-appearance of the ship had upset the plan, though the Maud had
carried out her portion of the programme.

"What next, Captain Scott?" asked Louis.

"Wait," replied the captain.

"Wait for what?"

"I don't know," replied Scott, shaking his head. "Wait for whatever is
to come."

"But what is to come?" asked Louis, who still had a fear that the
captain would resort to some fool-hardy expedient.

"You know just as much about this affair as I do, Louis, and you may be
a better prophet than I am. It is not a question of navigation just now,
or I should be willing to take the entire responsibility. Of course the
handling of the Maud is an important element in getting out of the
scrape, whatever it may prove to be. I have somewhere seen a picture of
a good-looking gentleman playing chess with an individual provided with
horns, hoofs, and a caudal appendage. But in this game the mortal
appeared to have the best of it, and he says to the infernal power,
'Your next move.'"

"And that is what you say to the representative of the same infernal
majesty in Khrysoko Bay," interposed Louis, rather pleased with the
illustration, especially in its application to Captain Mazagan.

"Precisely so; it is the pirate's move, and I shall not do a thing till
he makes it," added Captain Scott. "What Mazagan will do, or how he will
do it, I have no more idea than you have, Louis. That is where we stand.
I am willing to listen to any advice that you wish to give me."

"I have no wish to give any advice," replied Louis; and by this time he
was entirely satisfied with the position Scott had taken, and he
approved everything he had done.

At this point Pitts announced that dinner was ready, and Scott led the
way to the cabin. The ledge of rocks appeared to cover at least half an
acre of the bottom of the bay. The Maud had anchored abreast of the
rock, in two fathoms of water. It was just about high tide when she came
in, as the captain had learned from his nautical almanac, and the ebb
placed the craft broadside to the Moorish steamer, so that the "Big
Four" could see her out the cabin windows.

The pirate made no demonstration of any kind, and the dinner was
disposed of in good order, and with hardly an allusion to the exciting
events that were expected. Pitts was instructed to give the engineers
their dinner as soon as possible; for all hands might be needed at any
moment.

"Heave the lead, Flix; it begins to look like shoal water around us,"
said the captain when they returned to the forecastle.

The great rock was of a light color, and could be distinctly seen from
the deck. A portion of it rose about six feet above the surface of the
water when the Maud anchored, and the receding tide now permitted two
feet more of the projecting cone to be seen.

"By the mark two," reported Felix, as he drew up the line.

"Twelve feet; we have not much to spare under the keel," added the
captain. "We had fourteen feet when we anchored, and the tide has been
ebbing five hours."

"Hold on, Captain Scott!" shouted Felix, as he carried the lead-line to
the other side of the vessel. "I have been measuring on the top of a
bulging rock. And a half two!"

"Fifteen feet; that looks more like it. There ought to be about three
feet ebb and flow here, and your sounding gave about double that, Flix."

"It was the fault of the rock on the bottom, Captain;" but the leadsman
heaved the line all around the steamer with the same result.

There was nothing to do except to observe the Fatimé; but she did
nothing, and there was no appearance of any movement on her deck.

"I think we had better attend to that lesson now, as we have nothing
else to do," said the captain after they had looked about them for a
time. "I don't care to have the pirate suppose we are on the anxious
seat."

"All right," replied Louis, as he seated himself on the rail by the bow
flag-pole. "I have studied my lesson, and I am all ready."

"Blaze away, then," replied the captain.

"If any of you have not yet found it out, I will begin by informing you
that the land on three sides of us belongs to the island of Cyprus, and
you are again on Turkish territory. The owners of the island call it
Kebris, written by them G'br's, if you can make anything of that
combination of consonants," Louis began, spelling out the strange names
he introduced. "The Greeks call it Kupros, and the French, Chypre. Venus
was the original goddess of spring among the Romans, but became the
goddess of love, the Aphrodite of the Greeks, and was worshipped as such
in this island by the Phoenicians and other ancients.

"One of this lady's names was Cypris, or Cypria; and that is why the
island happens to be called Cyprus. It is in about the same latitude as
South Carolina. It is about 35 to 50 miles from Asia Minor on the south
and Syria on the east. It is 140 miles long by 60 in breadth, containing
3,707 square miles, or larger than both Rhode Island and Delaware
united.

"It has two ranges of mountains extending east and west, the highest
peak being 6,352 feet. It has plenty of rivers, with no water in them
except after heavy rains, or when the snow melts on the mountains. There
is no room for lakes of any size, though there is a small one on the
east coast, which dries up completely in summer, like the rivers, but
has an abundance of fish in winter. This is rather remarkable, and the
fact is not doubted, though the phenomenon has not been explained."

"The fish must go down where the water goes," laughed Felix. "If there
are any volcanoes here, I suppose they come up in the winter all boiled
or broiled ready for the table."

"I don't know how that is, Flix, and we haven't time to investigate the
matter. The interior of the island is mostly composed of a great plain,
which was once famous for its crops of grain; but the system of
irrigation which prevailed has been discontinued, and its fertility no
longer exists. In a scarcity of rain five years ago there was almost a
famine in the island.

"As you have seen for yourselves, there is a deficiency of harbors, and
this bay is a fair specimen of them. It has two places they call
seaports, but they are not worthy of the name. They are on the south
side, and in such a blow as we had last night, they afford no shelter to
shipping from southerly storms; and Captain Scott was wise in coming
here instead of going to Limasol, which is just inside of Cape Gata.
The ports on this side of the island would be similarly exposed in a
northerly storm. Safe ports are necessary for the commerce of a country
or an island, and therefore to its prosperity.

"In ancient times there were ports at Salamis, Paphos, and Famagusta, in
the eastern part of the island, which was the portion celebrated in the
past. The capital is Leucosia, as I find it on my chart, though I find
it elsewhere put down as Nicosia; and even the cape we have in sight is
Pifanio in a standard atlas. The population is 186,000, of whom not
quite 50,000 are Mohammedans, and the rest are orthodox Greeks. The
great majority of the people speak the Greek language, but it is so much
corrupted that Flix would not understand it."

"You are right, my darling; I want the pure Greek of Kilkenny, or I
don't take it in," replied the Milesian.

"The island was colonized by the Phoenicians, who have a history too
long to be related now; but they occupied the northern part of Syria and
the country to the north of us. They were the New Yorkers of their day
and generation, and were largely engaged in commerce. They brought the
worship of Venus over here, and called the island Kupros after her. It
had at first nine independent kingdoms, and I should suppose that almost
anybody could afford to be a king in this locality. It was conquered by
the Egyptians about five hundred years before the time of Christ; then
by the Persians; and finally came into the possession of the Romans.

"It went with the Eastern Empire when Rome was divided. The people
embraced Christianity at an early date. It was said that a shepherd
discovered the body of St. Matthew and a part of his Gospel in the
island, which called many early saints to visit it. In 646 A.D., Cyprus
was taken by the Saracens, but was not long held by them. Richard
Coeur-de-Lion captured it on his way to Syria for the Third Crusade.
In 1570 the Turks obtained possession of it, and have practically held
it ever since.

"The ruins of Salamis may be seen at the other end of the island. In the
Book of Acts we read that Paul came over here. 'And when they were at
Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews.'
Then the account informs us that they went 'through the isle' to Paphos;
and doubtless the place was near Point Papho, which I find on my chart.
Don't forget to tell Mrs. Blossom, Flix, that you have been to an island
visited by Paul and Barnabas in their missionary travels.

"The island has about the same productions as Egypt. Carobs, or locust
beans, figure up to about $300,000. But I fear you will not remember any
more figures if I should give them; and I see there is something like a
movement on board of the pirate."

"You must repeat that lecture on board of the ship when we get back to
her," added the captain. "It was telling us just what I wanted to
know."

"I could have done better if I had had the library of the
Guardian-Mother for reference," replied Louis, as all hands fixed their
attention on the Fatimé.

"They are getting out a boat, sir," said Don, who had gone to the
hurricane deck to obtain a better view.

"That means that they intend to pay us a visit; and as I intend to
retain the command of the Maud until I am relieved by Captain Ringgold,
I shall allow no one from the pirate to come on board," said Captain
Scott in his most decided tones. "All hands except Felipe will arm with
breech-loaders and revolvers, with a supply of ammunition, and form in
the port gangway."

This order was promptly executed, and the force collected at the place
designated. This gangway was concealed from the enemy by the house on
deck. Louis had two revolvers, and he loaned one to Don. Scott had
carried out a handsaw which was kept in the pilot-house in readiness for
any emergency, as well as an axe and a hatchet. The captain had used
this same saw with decided effect upon some smugglers who attempted to
obtain possession of the little steamer in the Bay of Gibraltar, and he
placed it where it was ready for use at any moment.

In addition to this novel weapon, he had sent for a small heave-line
with which he had done some lassoing on the same occasion, and also on
Captain Mazagan at a later period. The five hands in the port gangway
had loaded their weapons, and were ready to be called into the field.
The captain took a look at them, and all was satisfactory. He hastened
back to the forecastle, where he saw that the boat was already pulling
for the Maud.




CHAPTER IX

A MOST IMPUDENT PROPOSITION


Certainly it looked decidedly warlike on board of the little steamer
Maud; and Felix, who was never inclined to be very serious over
anything, declared that she was like a bantam rooster ready for a
pitched battle in a farmyard. Captain Scott called Louis out, and
proposed to him that he should take the command of the riflemen, who
were required to keep out of sight of the Moors in the boat.

"Of course I will obey orders wherever I am placed; but, if you will
excuse me, I must protest against the appointment," replied Louis, as
they watched the approaching enemy. "Morris is one of our number in the
gangway, and it would not be fair or right to put another fellow over
the first officer."

"That is all right in theory; but Morris is the youngest fellow on
board," reasoned the captain.

"But he is just as resolute, plucky, and prompt as any one on board. He
thinks quick, and has good judgment," persisted Louis. "I should be very
sorry to be placed over his head."

"Say no more! I only thought it would be unfortunate to lose you in the
place where you could do the most good," added Scott. "I will give my
orders to Morris, and let him carry them out. I don't know any better
than the rest of the fellows what is coming out of this affair; but it
is plain enough now that Mazagan intends to do something."

"No doubt of that; but it does not follow that he intends to attack us.
He knows very well that such would be piracy," suggested Louis.

"Piracy! He makes no bones of anything that will put forty thousand
dollars into his pocket; and that is what he expects to make out of us.
Piracy is nothing but a pastime to him; and he relies upon His Highness
to save his neck from any undue stretching," replied Captain Scott, as
he walked to the port gangway. "Is everything ready here, Morris?"

"Everything, Captain," answered the first officer. "The rifles are all
loaded, and every man has a supply of cartridges in his pocket. Every
one has a revolver except Pitts."

"I have two, and he shall have one of them," interposed Felix, handing
his extra weapon to the cook, with a package of ammunition for it.

"I think we shall be able to render a good account of ourselves,
whatever may turn up in the course of the afternoon," added the captain.
"I want you with me on the forecastle for the present, Louis; for, after
all, there may be more talk than bullets in this affair."

"I hope so," added Louis sincerely; though it was evident that some of
the boys looked upon the adventure as decidedly exciting, and therefore
agreeable.

Louis walked to the forecastle with the captain, and both of them gave
their entire attention to the boat that was approaching, having now
accomplished more than half the distance between the two vessels.

"I can't imagine what has become of the Guardian-Mother," said Louis, as
he directed a spy-glass to seaward. "She cannot have intended to desert
us in this manner. What do you suppose has become of her, Captain
Scott?"

"I shall have to give it up at once, for I cannot form any idea,"
replied Scott. "She was to follow us, and in some such place as this bay
we were to bring things to a head, and give the pirate the slip."

"I hope nothing serious has happened to her. The last we saw of her she
was rounding a point near Damietta."

"She intended to get out of sight of the pirate as soon as possible, so
that the Fatty could follow the Maud; and she did all that in good
order. But I have no doubt that she is safe enough; and, if we don't get
chewed up in this scrape, I have no doubt she will soon put in an
appearance in these waters."

"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted a rather tall man in the stern-sheets of the
boat.

"In the boat!" replied Scott, after he had waited a moment, and then in
a very careless and indifferent tone.

"That's Mazagan," said Louis.

"Of course it is; I knew he was there before he opened his mouth, the
pirate!" added the captain.

"Is Mr. Belgrave on board?" demanded the captain of the Fatimé.

"What if he is? What if he is not?" answered the captain.

"I wish to see him."

"He is not to be seen at the present moment. What is your business with
him?" Scott inquired, as indifferently as though the affair did not even
remotely concern him.

Of course his manner was assumed, and Louis listened to him with the
most intense interest; for he was anxious to ascertain in what manner
the captain intended to conduct the negotiation, if there was to be
anything of that kind. In spite of his affectation of indifference, he
knew that Scott was quite as anxious in regard to the result of the
parley as he was himself, though he was the intended victim of the
pirate.

"My business is quite as important to Mr. Belgrave as it is to me,"
replied Mazagan.

"Very likely; but what is your business with him?"

"It is with him, and not with you," returned the pirate, apparently
vexed at the reply. "Who are you? I don't mean to talk my affairs with
one I don't know."

"I am Captain Scott, commander of the steamer Maud, tender of the
steamship Guardian-Mother, owned and in the service of Mr. Louis
Belgrave," replied the captain as impressively as he could make the
statement. "That ought to knock a hole through the tympanum of his
starboard ear," he added with a smile, in a lower tone.

"Of course he knew who you were before," added Louis.

"He ought to know me, for I fished him out of the water in the harbor of
Hermopolis."

"If Mr. Belgrave is on board, I wish to see him," continued Mazagan.

"I may as well face the music first as last," said Louis, as he stepped
out from the shelter of the pilot-house which had concealed him from
those in the boat.

"Of course it is no use to try to hide you. Do you wish to talk with the
pirate, Louis?" asked the captain.

"I don't object to hearing what he has to say, though certainly nothing
will come of it," replied the intended victim.

"It will use up some of the time, and the longer we wait before the
curtain rises, the better the chance that the Guardian-Mother will come
in to take a hand in the game," suggested the captain; and Louis took
another look through the glass to seaward.

"You needn't look so far out to sea for the ship, my dear fellow; for
when she appears she will come around Cape Arnauti, and not more than a
mile outside of it, where she will get eight fathoms of water. She is
coming up from the south; and if our business was not such here that
none of us can leave, I would send Morris and Flix to the top of that
hill on the point, where they could see the ship twenty miles off in
this clear air."

While the captain was saying all this, the four Moorish rowers in the
boat dropped their oars into the water, and began to pull again; for the
patience of their commander seemed to be oozing out.

"That won't do!" exclaimed Scott. "Boat ahoy! Keep off!" he shouted.

"I told you I wished to see Mr. Belgrave, Captain Scott; and you do not
answer me. You are using up my patience, and I tell you that I will not
be trifled with!" said Captain Mazagan in a loud tone, with a spice of
anger and impatience mixed in with it.

"That's just my case! I won't be trifled with! Stop where you are! If
you pull another stroke, I shall proceed to business!" called the
captain, with vim enough to satisfy the most strenuous admirer of pluck
in a moment of difficulty.

The oarsmen ceased rowing; and when the boat lost its headway it was not
more than forty feet from the side of the Maud. Scott did not object to
this distance, as there was to be a talk with the pirate.

"Mr. Belgrave will speak with you since you desire it," said Captain
Scott, as soon as he realized that the boat's crew did not intend to
board the steamer.

He walked over to the port side of the deck, where he could still
command a clear view of the boat all the time; and he did not take his
eyes from it long enough to wink. He was ready to order the riflemen to
the forecastle; and he intended to do so if the boat advanced another
foot.

"What is going on, Captain Scott?" asked Morris, who stood at the head
of the column.

"Mazagan wants to talk with Louis, and we are willing he should do so;
for we desire to gain all the time we can, in order to enable the
Guardian-Mother to arrive here before anybody gets hurt."

"We have heard all that has passed so far, and we expected to be called
out by this time," added Morris.

"I don't care to have you show those rifles just yet, and I hope you
will not have to exhibit them at all. You can sit down on the deck and
hear all that is going on," added the captain, as he moved away. If he
took his eyes off the boat at all, it was only to glance at the lofty
cape where the ship would first be seen.

Louis had placed himself at the rail, ready for the conference that the
pirate desired. Mazagan had met him face to face, and he could not help
knowing him.

"Are you Mr. Louis Belgrave?" demanded the Moorish captain, more gently
than he had spoken to Scott at the close of the interview with him.

"That is my name," replied the young millionaire with all his native
dignity.

"We have had some business relations together, and at the present moment
they are not in a satisfactory condition," the captain proceeded.

"Go on," replied Louis when he paused; for he had decided to say nothing
that would unnecessarily irritate the villain.

"I wish you to join in the conversation, and express your mind freely."

"I shall do so as occasion may require. I am ready to hear any statement
you wish to make; but I have nothing to say at present."

"Between the noble and exalted gentleman in whose services I sail his
steam-yacht, and the commander of your larger steam-yacht, Captain
Ringgold, there is a difficulty of very great magnitude;" and Captain
Mazagan paused as if to note the effect of this announcement upon his
auditor.

"Proceed, sir," added Louis.

"Do you deny the truth of what I have stated?"

"By no means," said Louis with a polite bow and a wave of his right
hand.

"His Highness, the Pacha, was grossly and disgracefully insulted and
assaulted by Captain Ringgold, who has so far declined to make any
apology or reparation such as one gentleman has the right to require of
another. Can you deny this statement?"

"Proceed, Captain Mazagan; I have nothing to say," repeated Louis.

"You will not speak?"

"If you desire it, I will; but simply to suggest that you wait on
Captain Ringgold with your grievance."

"That he has tried to do, and called upon him in Constantinople for that
purpose; but Captain Ringgold is a coward, a poltroon! He keeps himself
shut up in his cabin, and refuses to give my noble master any
satisfaction."

It was with a struggle that Louis maintained his dignity and preserved
his silence.

"Finding all the avenues to any satisfaction closed against him, my
noble master, one of the most exalted dignitaries of the Empire to which
he is an honor, employed me to obtain the redress to which he is
honorably entitled. So far I have not been successful. My noble master
has been graciously pleased to modify the terms and conditions upon
which he will consent to discontinue his efforts to obtain adequate
satisfaction for the insults heaped upon him. He will accept the
atonement of two hundred thousand francs for the injury done him,
assured that this penalty would be the severest punishment that could be
inflicted upon a cowardly and penurious American like Captain Ringgold."

"Why don't you send in your bill to him for the boodle?" asked Louis,
who thought somebody must have written out the speech of Mazagan for
him.

"He would not notice the claim," replied the pirate.

"I don't think he would," said Louis, inclined to laugh.

"I intend to make the matter sure this time. If you will do me the favor
to come on board of the Fatimé, and remain with me in the cabin, which
is quite as luxurious as your own on board of your large steam-yacht,
until the money is paid, it will save all trouble and settle the matter
at once," continued the Pacha's representative with a suavity creditable
to his French education.

"If you please, Captain Mazagan, we will not settle it in just that way;
and without any disrespect to you personally, I object to taking up my
quarters in the cabin of the Fatimé," replied Louis blandly.

"Then I must take you by force!" exclaimed the pirate.

He gave the order for his men to pull. Captain Scott called out his
force.




CHAPTER X

"JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE, MOTHER"


Morris Woolridge did not make use of any military forms, for he did not
claim to understand them; but he simply came on the forecastle himself,
followed by the other four of his party; for Louis had joined it when
directed to do so by his superior. Captain Scott took the rifle he had
reserved for his own use from the pilot-house. Those who had been
waiting for the order had only to move a few feet, and not a second of
delay had been made.

A boat large enough to contain six men, as did the pirate's, does not
overcome its inertia and shoot ahead forty feet without any apparent
lapse of time, like a bullet shot from a rifle. Morris and his men were
in position before the boat had made ten feet.

Morris gave no orders according to the manual of the soldier, but he
ranged his command on the forecastle, close to the starboard rail. The
guns were all loaded, and every one of the party had had some experience
in the use of the weapon, so that none of them had to be taught how to
fire it.

"Aim at the boat," said the first officer in a quiet tone; and all the
rifles were directed to the enemy.

It was a fact which came out afterwards, that every one of them aimed
at Mazagan, not only because he was the most prominent mark as he stood
in the standing-room, but he was regarded as the biggest villain of the
assailants, and they could shoot him with less compunction than the
Moors in his train. He was the representative of the villain behind the
scenes, and all the mischief seemed to come out of him.

"Stop where you are, or I shall order my men to fire!" shouted Captain
Scott, as soon as the rifles were all aimed at the boat. "Say that in
Arabic to them, Don!"

The engineer translated the warning for the benefit of those who were
back to the Maud, and perhaps did not see the weapons that were pointed
at the boat. But Mazagan could see the six rifles, including the one in
the hands of the captain; and before Don could finish his Arabic
sentence, he had given the order to cease rowing. At least it was
supposed he had done so, for the Moors dropped their oars, some of them
into the water.

The boat's crew were in a panic without any doubt, and Captain Scott was
inclined to feel that "the coon had come down." Mazagan spoke to them in
a savage tone, as though he was reproving them for their cowardice; but
they plainly did not relish the idea of being shot down without being
able to make any resistance, for there was nothing that looked like a
musket to be seen in the boat.

[Illustration: "STOP WHERE YOU ARE OR I SHALL ORDER MY MEN TO FIRE!"
Page 92.]

After his recent experience in Cairo, probably Captain Mazagan was
provided with a revolver; but he did not exhibit it, and in the face of
half a dozen breech-loaders, capable of sending three dozen bullets into
the boat, it would be a piece of useless bravado. It could be seen on
the forecastle of the Maud that the pirate's crew were demoralized. The
Mohammedans are said to be fatalists; and in what they regard as a holy
cause they have no fear of death, for they believe it bears them
directly to paradise. But some of them must have had sense enough to
understand that they were engaged in piracy, and that their heaven did
not open wide its gates to those who fell in the commission of crime.

The boat lost its headway, and became motionless at a distance of twenty
feet from the Maud, with the rifles still pointed at its crew. If the
pirate chief had a revolver in his pocket, this was the time to use it;
but he did not even produce it. He could not help seeing that if he
fired a shot, it would immediately cause half a dozen bullets to be sent
into the boat; and he had good reason to believe that he would himself
be the first victim.

"What are you about?" he demanded in angry tones.

"About to fire if you come any nearer," replied Captain Scott.

"Can't you see that we are unarmed? Do you mean to shoot us down like
dogs?"

"That depends upon you, Captain Mazagan. But you are so very polite
while you act as a pirate, that I think it is proper for me to say,
with your permission, that my crew can fire thirty-six balls without
stopping to load again. If you persist in this business, not one of your
number will ever get on board of the Fatimé again," added the captain of
the Maud, as decided as before; but the politeness of the pirate and
Louis had amused him at such a time, and he was disposed to imitate
them.

"If you mean to murder us all, I cannot help myself just now," howled
Mazagan, furiously mad at the disappointment which had suddenly
overtaken him; and he seemed like an angry child who had been denied a
piece of candy, and resented it with tears and yells.

"All you have to do is to pull back to your ship, and we shall not take
the trouble to follow you," answered Scott. "This difficulty is not of
our seeking."

"I came to you peaceably, unarmed, with a fair proposition"--

"A most impudent and presumptuous proposition!" shouted Captain Scott.

"I have been respectful and polite to you, and you threaten to shoot me
and my men."

"You have plainly announced your intention to take Mr. Belgrave on board
of your steamer by force. Do you call that respectful and polite?"

"But I gave him a polite invitation to take possession of my cabin
without the use of force, and he declined to accept it," argued Captain
Mazagan, somewhat mollified in his tone and manner.

"Which he had a perfect right to do. You proposed to rob him of the sum
of two hundred thousand francs; and you invite him to become a prisoner
on board of your ship in the capacity of a hostage for the payment of
the money of which you propose to rob him."

"What is the use of arguing the question with him, Captain Scott?"
interposed Louis, who retained his place in the ranks. "His position is
absurd, and the fellow is a fool as well as a knave."

"I have distinctly stated that my claim is to be indemnification for the
injury done to my noble master," replied the pirate, in reply to Scott's
last remark. "I do not propose to rob you."

"Call it blackmail then, if you please."

"I do not know what that means."

"Mr. Belgrave has nothing to do with your claim. He has not insulted or
assaulted your ignoble master; and, in United States dialect, you 'have
taken the wrong pig by the ear.' To come back to first principles, I
have nothing more to say," added Captain Scott, as he turned his back to
the claimant.

"I have something more to say," returned Mazagan, bristling up with
anger again. "My boat is unarmed; but I have not come up here without
being prepared to meet you. I wish to be fair and just, and I will state
the truth to you."

"I don't believe you know how to do it!" exclaimed Scott.

"I would not irritate him any more than is necessary," said Louis in a
whisper.

"I have lost all patience with him," replied the captain; and his manner
indicated that he spoke the truth.

"You will find before you have done with me that I can and do speak the
truth, Captain Scott. When I made my first attempt to obtain
satisfaction for my noble master in the Archipelago, I failed because
your large ship was armed with cannon, and she disabled my felucca. When
my noble master offered me the command of the Fatimé, to be used in
carrying out his wishes, I stipulated that she should be armed with two
twelve-pounders, with a supply of ammunition. I may add that I have
served as an officer in the Turkish navy. Now, Captain Scott, I have
nothing more to say from this boat, and the next time I speak it will be
with twelve-pounders; and my last word is that the Fatimé will not go
out of this bay till she leaves with Mr. Belgrave on board of her."

"Adieu!" shouted Scott in mocking tones.

"Do you suppose the villain spoke the truth, Captain?" asked Louis.

"Very likely he did, though he is not in the habit of doing so," replied
Scott, laughing; but he was accustomed to put the best face upon an
awkward situation.

The boat was pulling away from the Maud, and the danger of an attack was
removed for the present. Mazagan appeared to be urging his men to pull
with all their might, and they were doing so. He evidently had a purpose
before him, born of his failure to accomplish anything by his visit to
the Maud.

It seemed to be incredible that this man could be sane and sensible to
make such a proposition as he had put forward; and doubtless it was done
to clothe piracy in a more seemly garb than it usually wears. It was
simply ridiculous on the face of it, with no imaginable foundation for
the preposterous claim advanced.

Mazagan went on board of his steamer, and a few minutes later a cloud of
black smoke began to pour out of her smokestack. Captain Scott had
already ordered Felipe to put his furnaces in order for quick time. At
the indication given of the firing up of the enemy, he went to the
engine-room himself. Don was at work on the fires; and he gave Felipe
directions to get up all the steam possible, and to prepare to run the
Maud at the greatest speed she had ever attained.

Then he went to the pilot-house, and did not appear to be inclined to
talk even with Louis. He went to work upon the chart which included
Khrysoko Bay, called Pifanio on some maps, and studied intently for a
considerable time. It was clear to all on deck that he had something in
his head, and it was believed that he was preparing to meet the boastful
threats of Captain Mazagan.

"Well, my darling, what is to be the next scene in the comedy?" asked
Felix, as he seated himself by Louis in the bow.

"I don't know, Felix; but whatever it may be, Captain Scott is evidently
getting ready to play his part in it," replied Louis, still watching the
captain through the open front windows of the pilot-house.

"They are making the steam sizzle below, and I suppose the captain has
ordered this to be done. By the powers of mud! Do you mind that?"
exclaimed the Milesian, pointing to the Fatimé.

"What of her?"

"Don't you see that she has a gun run out on her port side? She had just
thrown open the port when I spoke," replied Felix.

"Then the pirate spoke the truth for once," added Louis.

"He said the vessel had been armed with two twelve-pounders, and we have
not even one. I suppose she has the other on the starboard side. If she
