Hush! Yes.’”
Then, with the perfect ease which he always sought to cultivate in
that place between speaker and hearer, “What is the matter?” he
asked in a conversational tone.
“Sir,” said an old captain, rising, “there’s a vessel gone ashore
off Ragged Rock.”
Bayard swept his book and manuscript off the desk.
“I was about to read you,” he said, “how a poor fellow with a
wretched life behind him died a noble death. Perhaps we can do
something as grand as he did. Anyhow, we’ll try. Come, boys!”
He thrust himself into his coat, and sprang down among the audience.
“Come on! You know the way better than I do! If there’s anything to
do, we’ll do it. Lead on, boys! I’m with you!”
The audience poured into Angel Alley, with the minister in their
midst. Confusion ran riot outside. The inmates of all the dens
on the street were out. Unnoticed, they jostled decent citizens
who had flocked as near as possible to the news-bearer. Panting
and white, a hatless messenger from the lighthouse, who had run
all the way at the keeper’s order to break the black word to the
town, reiterated all he knew: “It’s the Clara Em! She weighed
this afternoon under full canvas--and she’s struck with fourteen
men aboard! I knew I couldn’t raise nobody at the old Life-Saving
Station”--
“It’s t’other side the Point, anyhow!” cried a voice from the crowd.
“It’s four mile away!” yelled another.
“Good heavens, man!” cried Bayard. “You don’t propose to wait for
them?”
“I don’t see’s there’s anything we can do,” observed the old
captain deliberately. “The harbor’s chockful. If anybody could do
anything for ’em, some o’ them coasters--but ye see there can’t no
boat live off Ragged Rock in a breeze o’ wind like this.”
“How far off is this wreck?” demanded Bayard, inwardly cursing his
own ignorance of nautical matters and of the region. “Can’t we get
up some carts and boats and ropes--and ride over there?”
“It’s a matter of three mile an’ a half,” replied the mate of a
collier, “and it’s comin’ on thick. But I hev known cases where a
cart--Now there’s them I-talians with their barnana carts.”
“You won’t get no fog with this here breeze,” contended a very
ancient skipper.
“What’ll you bet?” said the mate of the collier.
An Italian with a fruit cart was pushed forward by the crowd; an
express cart was impressed; ropes, lanterns, and a dory appeared
from no one knew where, at the command of no one knew who. Bayard
suggested blankets and dry clothes. The proposal seemed to cause
surprise, but these supplies were volunteered from somewhere.
“Pile in, boys!” cried the minister, in a ringing voice. He sprang
into one of the carts, and it filled in a moment. One of the horses
became frightened at the hubbub and reared. Men swore and women
shrieked. In the momentary delay, a hand reached over the wheel,
and plucked at Bayard’s sleeve. He flashed the lantern in his hand,
and saw a woman’s strained, set face. It was Job Slip’s wife,
Mari, with the little boy crying at her skirts.
“Sir,” she said hoarsely, “if it’s the Clara Em, he’s aboard of
her--for they shipped him at five o’clock, though they see the
storm a-comin’--and him as drunk as death. But it’s true--he got it
at Trawl’s--I see ’em lift him acrost the wharf an’ sling him over
int’ the dory.”
“I’ll do my best,” said Bayard with set teeth. He reached over the
wheel as the horses started, plunging, and wrung the hand of the
drunkard’s wife. He could not trust himself to say more. Such a
vision of what life meant to such a woman swept through Angel Alley
upon the wings of the gale, that he felt like a man whose eyes have
beheld a panorama on a stage in hell.
Many people, as the carts rolled through the town, followed on
foot, among them a few women whose husbands, or lovers, or brothers
were known to be aboard the Clara Em.
“Here’s an old woman with a boy aboard! Seems you might find
room in one them wagons for her!” cried a young voice. It was the
girl known to Windover only by the name of Lena; she for whom the
“terrible sea” could have no horrors; the one woman of them from
whom no betrothed lover could sail away; to whom no husband should
return.
“She’s right about that. We must manage somehow!” called Bayard.
Strong hands leaned out and swept the old woman up over the wheel,
and the horses galloped on.
There was neither rain nor snow; but the storm, in the seaman’s
sense of the word, was approaching its height. The wind had now
become a gale, and blew southeast. The sky was ominously black. To
Bayard’s sensitive and excited imagination, as he looked out from
the reeling wagon, the mouth of the harbor seemed to gape and grin;
the lights of the fleet, furled and anchored for dear life, lost
their customary pleasant look, and snapped and shone like teeth in
the throat of a monster.
The wagons rolled on madly; the horses, lashed to their limit of
speed, leaped down Windover Point. They had now left the road, and
were dashing across the downs which stretched a mile farther to the
eastern shore. The roughness of the route had become appalling,
but a Cape horse is as used to boulders as a Cape fisherman;
neither wagon overset, though both rolled like foundering ships.
The lanterns cut swathes of light in the blackness which bounding
wheels and racing heels mowed down before them.
Walls of darkness rose ahead, and at its outermost, uttermost
margin roared the sea. It seemed to Bayard as if the rescuing party
were plunging into eternal mystery.
The old woman whose son was aboard the Clara Em crouched at the
minister’s feet. Both sat in the dory, which filled the wagon, and
which was packed with passengers. The old woman’s bare hands were
clenched together, and her lips shut like iron hinges. Bayard
wondered at her massive silence. It was something primeval, solemn,
outside of his experience. The women of the shore, in stress like
hers, would weep, would sob, or shriek. But to the women of the sea
this anguish was as old as life itself: to it they were born, and
of it they were doomed to die; they bore it as they did the climate
of the freezing Cape.
“That there saving service couldn’t ha’ done nothin’ agin’ a wreck
on Ragged Rock if they wanted to,” observed the old captain (they
called him Captain Hap), peering from the wagon towards the harbor
shore. “It’s jest’s I told ye; they’re too fur--five mile across.”
“But why is there no station nearer?” demanded Bayard with the
warmth of inexperience. “Why is nothing put over here--if this reef
is so bad--where it is needed?”
“Wall,” said Captain Hap, with deliberation, “that’s a nateral
question for a land-lubber. Every seaman knows there ain’t no
need of gettin’ wrecked on that there reef. It’s as plain as
the beard on your face. Windover Light to the west’ard, Twin
Lights to the east’ard,--a fog bell, and a bell-buoy, and a
whistlin’-buoy,--Lord! why, everybody knows how to keep off
Ragged Rock!”
“Then how did this vessel happen to strike?” persisted Bayard. The
men interchanged glances, and no one answered him.
“Hi there! Look, look! I see her! I see her spars!” yelled a young
fellow on the front seat of the wagon. “It’s her! It’s the Clara
Em!... Lord A’mighty! what in ---- was they thinkin’ of? She’s got
on full canvas! See her! see her! see her! See her lights! It’s
her, and she’s bumpin’ on the reef!”
Cries of horror ran from lip to lip. The driver lashed his horses
onward, and the men in the wagons flung their lanterns to and fro
in uncontrollable excitement. Some leaped over the wheels and ran
shouting against the gale.
“Clara Em, ahoy! Clara Em, aho--o--oy!”
But the old woman at Bayard’s feet sat still. Her lips only moved.
She stared straight ahead.
“Is she praying? or freezing? Perhaps she’s out of her mind,”
thought Bayard.
He gently pulled her blanket-shawl closer over her bare head, and
wrapped it around her before he sprang from the wagon.
VIII.
There was but little depth of snow upon the downs and cliffs, but
such as remained served to reflect and to magnify all possible
sources of light. These were few enough and sorely needed. The
Windover Light, a revolving lantern of the second power, is red
and strong. It flashed rapidly, now blood-red and now lamp-black.
Bayard thought of the pillar of fire and cloud that led the ancient
people. There should have been by rights a moon; and breaks in
battalions of clouds, at rare intervals, let through a shimmer
paler than darkness, though darker than light. Such a reduction
of the black tone of the night had mercifully befallen, when the
staggering wagons clattered and stopped upon the large, oval
pebbles of the beach.
The fog, which is shy of a gale, especially at that season of the
year, had not yet come in, and the vessel could be clearly seen.
She lay upon the reef, broadside to the breakers; she did not
pitch, but, to a nautical eye, her air of repose was the bad thing
about her. She was plainly held fast. Her red port-light, still
burning, showed as each wave went down, and the gray outlines of
her rigging could be discerned. Her foremast had broken off about
five feet from the deck, and the spar, held by the rigging, was
ramming the sides of the vessel.
The astonishing rumor was literally true. The Clara Em--one of the
famous fishermen of which Windover was too proud to be vain; the
Clara Em, newly-built and nobly furnished, none of your old-time
schooners, clumsy of hulk and rotten of timbers, but the fastest
runner on the coast, the stanchest keel that cleft the harbor,
fine in her lines as a yacht, and firm in her beams as an ocean
steamer--the Clara Em, fearing neither gods nor men nor weather,
and bound for Georges’ on a three weeks’ fresh-fishing trip, had
deliberately weighed anchor in the teeth of a March southeaster,
and had flung all her clean, green-white sails to the gale. As
nearly as could be made out from the shore, she had every stitch
up, and not a reef to her face, and she lay over against the
rock like a great eagle whose wings were broken. Even a landsman
could comprehend the nature of this dare-devil act; and Bayard,
running to lend a hand to slide the dory from the wagon, uttered an
exclamation of indignant horror.
“How did this happen? Were they mad?”
“Full,” replied the old captain laconically.
“Yes, I see she’s under full sail. But why?” he persisted
innocently.
The old captain, with a curious expression, flashed a lantern in
the young minister’s face, but made no reply.
Cries could now be heard from the vessel; for the wind, being dead
off, bore sounds from sea to shore which could by no means travel
from shore to sea. Ragged Rock was a rough spot in the kindest
weather; and in that gale, and with the wind in that direction, the
roar and power of the surf were great. But it should be remembered
that the blow had not been of long duration; hence the sea was not
what it would be in a few hours if the gale should hold. In this
fact lay the only possible chance of extending rescue in any form
to the shipwrecked crew.
“Clara Em! Aho--oy--oy!” yelled a dozen voices. But the united
throats of all Windover could not have made themselves articulate
to the straining ears upon the schooner.
“Where’s yer crew? Show up, there! Can’t ye do nothin’ for
yerselves? Where’s yer dories? Hey? What? Clara Em! Aho--oy--oy!”
“They’re deef as the two years’ drownded,” said the old captain.
“An’ they ain’t two hundred feet from shore.”
“Why, then, surely we can save them!” cried Bayard joyfully. But no
man assented to the cheerful words.
The dory, a strong specimen of its kind, was now out of the wagon,
and a score of arms dragged it over the pebbles. The surf dashed
far up the beach, splashing men, boat, wagon, horses. Against the
cliff the spray rose a hundred feet, hissing, into the air. The old
captain eyed the sea and measured the incoming rollers with his
deep-set eye.
“Ye cayn’t do it,” he pronounced. “There ain’t a dory in Windover
can live in that”--he pointed his gaunt arm at the breakers.
“Anyhow, we’ll try!” rang out a strong voice. Cries from the wreck
arose again. Some of the younger men pushed the dory off. Bayard
sprang to join them.
“I can row!” he cried with boyish eagerness; “I was stroke at
Harvard!”
“This ain’t Charles River,” replied one of the men; “better stand
back, Parson.”
They kindly withstood him, and leaped in without him, four of
them, seamen born and bred. They ran the dory out into the surf.
He held his lantern high to light them. In their wet oil-skins
their rough, wild outlines looked like divers, or like myths of the
deep. They leaped in and seized the oars with one of the wild cries
of the sailor who goes to his duty, his dinner, or his death, by
the rhythm of a song or the thrill of a shout. The dory rose on a
tremendous comber, trembled, turned, whirled, and sank from sight.
Then came yells, and a crash.
“There!” howled Captain Hap, stamping his foot, “I told ye so!”
“She’s over!”
“She’s busted!”
“She’s smashed to kindlin’ wood!”
“Here they be! Here they come! Haul ’em in!”
The others ran out into the surf and helped the brave fellows,
soaked and discomfited, up the beach. They were badly bruised, and
one of them was bleeding.
The pedestrians from the town had now come up; groups of men, and
the few women; and a useless crowd stood staring at the vessel. A
big third wave rolled over and smashed the port light.
“It’s been going on all these ages,” thought Bayard,--“the helpless
shore against the almighty sea.”
“Only two hundred feet away!” he cried; “I can’t see why
something can’t be done! I say, something shall!--Where are
your ropes? Where are your wits? Where is all your education to
this kind of thing? Are you going to let them drown before your
eyes?”
“There ain’t no need of goin’ so far’s that,” said the old captain
with the aggravating serenity of his class. “If she holds till it
ebbs they can clomber ashore, every man-jack of ’em. Ragged Rock
ain’t an island except at flood. It’s a long, pinted tongue o’rock
runnin’ along,--so. You don’t onderstand it, Parson. Why, they
could eeny most walk ashore, come mornin’, if she holds.”
“It’s a good pull from now till sun-up,” objected a fisherman. “And
it’s the question if she don’t break up.”
“Anyhow, I’m going to try,” insisted Bayard. A rope ran out through
his hands,--shot high into the air,--fell into the wind, and
dropped into the breakers. It had carried about ten feet. For the
gale had taken the stout cable between its teeth, and tossed it, as
a dog does a skein of silk, played with it, shook it to and fro,
and hurled it away. The black lips of the clouds closing over the
moon, seemed to open and grin as the old captain said:--
“You ken keep on tryin’ long’s you hev the inclination. Mebbe the
women-folks will feel better for’t; but you cay--n’t do it.”
“Can’t get a rope to a boat two hundred feet away?” demanded Bayard.
“Not without apparatus,--no, sir! Not in a blow like this here.”
The old seaman raised his voice to a bellow to make himself audible
twelve feet away. “Why, it’s reelly quite a breeze o’ wind,” he
said.
“Then what can we do?” persisted Bayard, facing the beach in
great agitation. “What are we here for, anyhow?”
“We ken watch for ’em to come ashore,” replied the captain grimly.
Turning, in a ferment half of anger, half of horror, to the younger
men, Bayard saw that some one was trying to start a bonfire.
Driftwood had been collected from dry spots in the rocks--or had
a bucket of coal-tar been brought by some thoughtful hand? And in
a little cave at the foot of the cliff, a woman, upon her knees
in the shallow snow, was sheltering a tiny blaze within her two
hands. It was the girl Lena. She wore a woolen cap, of the fashion
called a Tam o’ Shanter, and a coarse fur shoulder cape. Her rude
face showed suddenly in the flaming light. It was full of anxious
kindliness. He heard her say:--
“It’ll hearten ’em anyhow. It’ll show ’em they ain’t deserted of
God and men-folks too.”
“Where’s my old lady?” added the girl, looking about. “I want to
get her up to this fire. She’s freezing somewheres.”
“Look alive, Lena! Here she is!” called one of the fishermen. He
pointed to the cliff that hung over Ragged Rock. The old woman
stood on the summit and on the edge. How she had climbed there,
Heaven knew; no one had seen or aided her; she stood, bent and
rigid, with her blanket shawl about her head. Her gray hair blew
back from her forehead in two lean locks. Black against the
darkness, stone carved out from stone, immovable, dumb, a statue
of the storm, she stared out straight before her. She seemed a
spirit of the wind and wet, a solemn figure-head, an anathema,
or a prayer; symbol of a thousand watchers frozen on a thousand
shores:--woman as the sea has made her.
The girl had clambered up the cliff like a cat, and could be seen
putting her arms around the old woman, and pleading with her. Lena
did indeed succeed so far as to persuade her down to the fire,
where she chafed the poor old creature’s hands, and held to her
shrunken lips a bottle of Jamaica ginger that some fisherman’s wife
had brought. But the old woman refused.
“Keep it for Johnny,” she said, “till he gets ashore.” It was the
only thing she had been heard to say that night.
She pushed the ginger away, and crawled back to her solitary
station on the cliff. Some one said: “Let be! Let her be!”
And some one else said:--
“Whar’s the use?”
At that moment a voice arose:--
“There’s the cap’n! There’s Joe Salt, cap’n of the Clara Em! He’s
acrosst the bowsprit signalin’! He’s tryin’ to communicate!”
“We haven’t seen another living figure moving across that vessel,”
said Bayard, whose inexperience was as much perplexed as his
humanity was distressed and thwarted by the situation. “I see one
man--on the bows--yes. But where are the rest? You don’t suppose
they’re washed overboard already?--Oh, this is horrible!” he cried.
He was overwhelmed at the comparative, almost indifferent calmness
of his fellow-townsmen.
The light-keeper and the old captain had run out upon the reef.
They held both hands to their ears. The shouts from the vessel
continued. Every man held his breath. The whirling blast, like the
cone of a mighty phonograph, bore a faint articulation from the
wreck.
“Oh!” cried the young minister. “He says they’re all sunk!”
He was shocked to hear a laugh issue from the lips of Captain Hap,
and to see, in the light of the fire, something like a smile upon
the keeper’s face.
“You don’t understand, sir,” said one of the fishermen
respectfully. “He says they’re all--”
“May as well out with it, Bob,” said another. “The parson’s got to
get his initiation someways. Cap’n Salt says they’re drunk, sir.
The crew of the Clara Em is all drunk.”
At this moment a terrible shriek rang above the roar of the storm.
It came from the old woman on the top of the cliff.
Her eyes had been the first, but they were not the only ones now,
to perceive the signs of arousing life upon the wreck.
A second man was seen to climb across the bows, to pause for an
instant, and then to plunge. He went out of sight in a moment.
The inrolling surf glittered in the blaze of the bonfires like a
cataract of flame. The swimmer reappeared, struggled, threw up his
arms and disappeared.
“I have stood this as long as I can,” said Bayard in a low, firm
voice. “Give me a rope! Tie it around me, some of you, and hold on!
I’m going to try to save that man.”
“I’ll go, myself,” said one of the fishermen slowly.
“Bob,” replied the minister, “how many children have you?”
“Eleven, sir.”
“Stay where you are, then,” said Bayard. “Such things are for
lonely men.”
“Bring the rope!” he commanded. “Tie it yourselves--you know
how--in one of your sailor’s knots; something that will hold. I’m a
good swimmer. I saved a man once on a yachting trip. Quick, there!
Faster!”
“There’s another!” cried the light-keeper. “There’s a second
feller jumped overboard--swimming for his life! Look, look, look!
He’s sunk--no he ain’t, he ain’t! He’s bearing down against the
rocks--My God! Look at him, look, look, look!”
Busy hands were at the rope about the minister’s waist; they worked
slowly, from sheer reluctance to do the deed. Bayard stamped the
beach with divine impatience. His head whirled with such exaltation
that he scarcely knew who touched him; he made out to perceive that
Ben Trawl was one of the men who offered to tie the bow-line; he
heard the old captain say, shortly:--
“I’ll do it myself!”
He thought he heard little Jane Granite cry out; and that she
begged him not to go, “for his people’s sake,” and that Ben Trawl
roughly silenced her. Strangely, the words that he had been
reading--what ages since!--in the hall in Angel Alley spun through
his mind.
“‘Are you dying for him?’ she whispered. ‘And his wife and child.
Hush. Yes!’”
       
So! This is the “terrible sea!” This is what drowning means; this
mortal chill, this crashing weight upon the lungs, the heart, this
fighting for a man’s breath,--this asphyxia--this conflict with
wind and water, night and might--this being hurled out into chaos,
gaining a foot, and losing three--this sight of something human
yonder hurtling towards you on the billow which bears you back from
it--this struggling on again, and sweeping back, and battling out!
Blessing on the “gentleman’s muscle,” trained in college days to do
man’s work! Thanks to the waters of old Charles River and of merry
Newport for their unforgotten lessons! Thank God for that wasted
liberal education,--yes, and liberal recreation,--if it teach the
arm, and fire the nerve, and educate the soul to save a drunken
sailor now.
But save? Can human power save that sodden creature--only wit
enough left in him to keep afloat and drift, dashing inward on the
rocks? He swirls like a chip. But his cry is the mortal cry of
flesh and blood.
Bayard’s strangling lips move:--
“Now Almighty Father, Maker of Heaven and Earth”--
There were mad shouts upon the beach. A score of iron hands held
to the line; and fifty men said to their souls: “That is a hero’s
deed.” Some one flung the rest of the pailful of tar upon the fire,
and it blazed up. The swimmer saw the yellow color touch the comber
that broke above his head. The rope tightened like the hand of
death upon his chest. Caught, perhaps? Ah, there! It has grazed
the reef, and the teeth of the rock are gnawing at it; so a mastiff
gnaws at the tether of his chained foe, to have the fight out
unimpeded.
“If it cuts through, I am gone,” thought Bayard.--“And Jesus
Christ Thy Son, our Lord and Saviour.”--
“Haul in! Haul in, I say! Quick! Haul ’em in for life’s sake,
boys!--She tautens to the weight of two. The parson’s got him!”
The old captain jumped up and down on the pebbles like a boy. Wet
and glittering, through hands of steel, the line sped in.
“Does she hold? Is she cut? Haul in, haul in, haul in!”
The men broke into one of their sudden, natural choruses, moving
rhythmically to the measure of their song:--
    “Pull for the shore, sailor,
     Pull for the shore!”
As he felt his feet touch bottom, Bayard’s strength gave way. Men
ran out as far as they could stand in the undertow, and seized and
held and dragged--some the rescuer, some the rescued; and so they
all came dripping up the beach.
The rope dropped upon the pebbles--cut to a single strand.
Bayard was with difficulty persuaded to release his rigid clutch
from the shoulder of the fisherman, who fell in a shapeless mass at
his preserver’s feet. The light of the tar fire flared on the man’s
bloated face. It was Job Slip.
“Where’s the other?” asked Bayard faintly. “There were two.”
He dimly saw through streams of water, that something else had
happened; that men were running over the rocks and collecting in a
cleft, and stooping down to look, and that most of them turned away
as soon as they had looked.
The old woman’s was the only quiet figure of them all. She had not
left her place upon the cliff, but stood bent and stiff, staring
straight ahead. He thought he heard a girl’s voice say:--
“Hush! Don’t talk so loud. She doesn’t know--it’s Johnny; and he’s
been battered to jelly on the rocks.”
       
“Mr. Bayard, sir,” said Job, who had crawled up and got as far as
his knees, “I wasn’t wuth it.”
“That’s so,” said a candid bystander with an oath.
“Then be worth it!” said Bayard in a loud voice. He seemed to
have thrown all that remained to him of soul and body into those
four words; as he spoke them, he lifted his dripping arms high
above his head, as if he appealed from the drunkard to the sky;
then he sank.
The gentlest hands in the crowd caught him, and the kindest hearts
on the coast throbbed when the old captain called:--
“Boys! Stand back! Stir up the fire! Where’s the dry blankets?
There’s plenty to ’tend to Johnny. Dead folks can bury their dead
folks. Hurry up them dry clo’es an’ that there Jamaiky ginger! This
here’s a livin’ man. Just a drop, sir--here. I’ll hold ye kinder
easy. Can’t? What?--Sho!... Boys, the parson’s hurt.”
At that moment a sound solemn and sinister reverberated from the
tower of the lighthouse. The iron lips of the fog bell opened and
spoke.
IX.
Captain Hap had reached the years when a trip to the Grand Banks is
hard work, dory fishing off the coast a doubtful pleasure, and even
yachting in an industrial capacity is a burden. He had a quick eye,
a kind heart, a soft foot, and the gentle touch strangely enough
sometimes to be found in hands that have hauled in the cod-line
and the main-sheet for fifty years. In short, Captain Hap made an
excellent nurse, and sometimes served his day and generation in
that capacity.
Bayard lay on the straw mattress under the photograph of Leonardo’s
Christ, and thoughtfully watched Captain Hap. It was the first
day that conversation had presented itself to the sick man in the
light of a privilege; and he worked up to the luxury slowly through
intervals of delicious silence.
“Captain Hap, I am quite well now--as you see. I must speak next
Sunday.”
“Call it Sunday arter,” suggested Captain Hap.
“It was only a scratch on the head--wasn’t it, Cap’n? And this
cold. It is a bad cold.”
“For a cold, yes, sir; quite a cold. You see, it anchored onto
your lungs; there air folks that call such colds inflammation.
That there cut on the head was a beautiful cut, sir; it healed as
healthy as a collie dog’s, or a year-old baby’s. We’ll have you
round, now, sir, before you can say Cap’n Hap!”
“Cap’n Hap?”
“Well, sir?”
“You’ve done something for me--I don’t know just what; whether it’s
my life that’s saved, or only a big doctor’s bill.”
“Ask Mrs. Granite, sir, and that there handy girl of hers; we’re
all in it. You kept the whole crew on deck for a few days. You was
a sick man--for a spell.”
“Captain, I am a well man now; and there’s one thing I will know.
I’ve asked you before. I’ve asked when I was out of my head, and
I’ve asked when I was in it, and I’ve never got an answer yet.
Now I’m going to have it.”
“Be you?” said Captain Hap. His small, dark, soft eyes twinkled
gently; but they took on lustre of metal across the iris; as if a
spark of iron or flint had hit them.
“It is time,” said Bayard, “that I knew all about it.”
“Meaning”--began the captain softly.
“Meaning everything,” said Bayard impatiently. “The whole story.
It’s the best thing for me. I dream about it so.”
“Yes, I’ve noticed your dreams was bad,” replied the nurse
soothingly.
“Captain, where’s the Clara Em?”
“To the bottom,” responded the fisherman cheerfully.
“And the men? The crew? Her captain? Job Slip? How many were
drowned? Out with it, Cap’n! I’m not very easy to deceive, when I’m
in my senses. You may as well tell me everything.”
“Mebbe I mought,” observed the captain. “Sometimes it’s the best
way. There wasn’t but one of ’em drowned, sir,--more’s the pity.”
Bayard uttered an exclamation of shocked rebuke and indignation;
but the old captain sat rocking to and fro in Mrs. Granite’s best
wooden rocking-chair, with the placid expression of those who rest
from their labors, and are not afraid that their works should
follow them.
“Fellars that’ll take a new fisherman--a regular dandy like
that--and smash her onto Ragged Rock, bein’ in the condition those
fellars were, ain’t worth savin’!” said the seaman severely.
“Your treasurer here, J. B. S. Bond, he says last time he come to
see you, says he: ’The whole of ’em warn’t worth our minister!’”
“I must speak to Mr. Bond about that,” said the young man with a
clerical ring in his voice. “It wasn’t a proper thing for him to
say.--Who was drowned, Captain Hap?”
“Only Johnny,” replied the captain indifferently. “He was born
drunk, Johnny was; his father was so before him; and three uncles.
He ain’t any great loss.”
“Did you see Johnny’s mother, Captain,--on the cliff, there,--that
night?”
“I didn’t take notice of her particular,” replied Captain Hap
comfortably. “I see several women round. There’s usually a good
many on the rocks, such times.”
“Well, you’ve got me,” said Bayard with a smiling sigh. “I’m a
little too weak to play the parson on you yet, you Christian
heathen--you stony-hearted minister of mercy!”
“Sho!” said the captain. “’Tain’t fair to call names. I can’t hit
back; on a sick man.”
“Very well,” said Bayard, sinking back on his thin, small pillows.
“Just go ahead and tell me the whole business, then. Where is Job
Slip?”
“Off haddockin’.”
“Sober?”
“So far. He’s come over here half a dozen times, but the doctor
wouldn’t let him up to see you. His wife come, too. That woman,
she’d kiss the popples[1] underneath your rubber-boots.”
“Where’s Johnny’s mother?”
“They took her to the Widders’ Home yesterday. Some of ’em
screeches all the way over. Folks say she never said nothing.”
“What became of all those men--the crew and captain?”
“Why, they waited till ebb, just as I told you. Then they come
ashore, the whole twelve on ’em. The crew they come first, and
Cap’n Salt--that’s Joe Salt--he follered after. There was some
folks waited round to see ’em off--but it come up dreadful thick,
spite of the breeze; so thick it had stems to it. You couldn’t
see the vessel, not a line of her, and ’twas kinder cold and
disagree’ble. So most the folks went home. But they got ashore,
every man-jack of ’em alive.”
“Thank God!” breathed the sick man.
“Well,” said the captain, “that’s a matter of opinion. You’ve
talked enough, sir.”
“Just one more, Cap’n Hap! Just this! This I’ve got to know. What
was it--exactly--that those men did? How did they come to be in
such a plight? How in the world--that beautiful new boat--and an
intelligent officer at the helm, Captain--how on earth did it come
about?”
“The Clara Em was sot to sail,” replied Captain Hap calmly.
“That’s about all. Her owners they were sot, and her cap’n he was
sot. It was the sotness done it. They’d make the market first,
you see, if they got the start--and it’s a job gettin’ your crew
aboard, you know. Anything to get your crew. Drunk or sober, that
isn’t the point. Drunker they be, the easier to ship ’em. See? Get
your crew. Get ’em anyhow! They was all full, every mother’s son
of ’em. Cap’n Joe, he was the only sober soul aboard, and that’s
the truth, and he knew it when he set sail. Yes--oh, yes. The storm
was comin’. He knew it was breezin’ up.--Oh, yes, of course. So
he got some sober men off the wharves to help him at the sheets,
and he put up every stitch. Yes, sir! Every stitch he had! And
out he sails--with thirteen drunken men aboard--him at the wheel,
and not a hand to help him. That’s the English on’t. The boat was
d----drunk, beg your pardon, Parson! He driv right out the harbor,
and it was a sou’easter, and blew quite a breeze o’ wind, and you
see he tacked, and set in, and he was tackin’ out, and it had
breezed up consider’ble more’n he expected. So he drove right on
the reef. That’s about it.”
“But why didn’t he take in sail?”
“How was he goin’ to do it with that crew? Why, he couldn’t leave
the wheel to tie a reef-point.”
“But there was his anchor.”
“Did you ever try to heave one of them big anchors? It takes four
men.”
“What a situation! Horrible!”
“Wall, yes; it was inconvenient--him at the wheel, and a dead drunk
crew, thirteen of ’em, below. Why, they was too drunk to know
whether they drowned or not.”
“Can the boat be raised? Will she ever be good for anything?”
“Kindlin’ wood,” remarked the captain dryly.
“Captain Hap,” asked Bayard feebly, “do things like this often
happen?”
“Sometimes.”
“Isn’t this an extreme case?”
“Well, it don’t happen every day.”
“But things of this kind--do they occur often? Do you know of other
cases?”
“Windover don’t have the monopoly of ’em by no means,” mused
Captain Hap. “There was the Daredevil over on South Shore. She was
launched about a year ago. She went on a trial spin one day, and
everybody aboard was pretty jolly. They put all their canvas up to
show her off. It was a nor’wester that day, and they driv her right
before the wind. She jest plunged bows down, and driv straight to
the bottom, the Daredevil did. Some said it was her name. But,
Lord, rum done it.”
“What do people say--how do they take it here in Windover, this
case of the Clara Em? Weren’t they indignant?”
“Wall, the insurance folks was mad.”
“No, but the people--the citizens--the Christian people--how do
they feel about it?”
“Oh, they’re used to it,” said Captain Hap.
Bayard turned wearily on his hard bed. He did not answer. He looked
out and towards the sea. The engraved Guido over the study-table
between the little windows regarded him. St. Michael was fighting
with his dragon still.
“He never got wounded,” thought the sick man.
“Captain,” he said presently, “these rooms seem to be full
of--pleasant things. Who sent them all?”
“Them geraniums and other greens? Oh, the ladies of the mission,
every mother’s daughter of ’em, married and single, young an’ old.
Jellies? Lord! Yes. Jellies enough to stock a branch grocery. What
there is in the female mind, come to sickness, that takes it out
in jellies”--mused the captain.
“I’ve taken solid comfort out of this screen,” said Bayard
gratefully. “I did suffer with the light before. Who sent that?”
“That’s Jane Granite’s idee,” replied the captain. “She seems to
be a clever girl. Took an old clo’es-horse and some rolls of wall
paper they had in the house. They give fifteen cents a roll for
that paper. It’s kinder tasty, don’t you think? ’Specially that
cherubim with blue wings settin’ on a basket of grapes.”
“That reminds me. I see--some Hamburg grapes,” said Bayard, with
the indifferent air of a man who purposely puts his vital question
last. He pointed to a heaping dish of hothouse fruit and other
delicacies never grown in Windover.
The captain replied that those come from the Boston gentleman;
they’d kept coming all along. He thought she said there was a card
to ’em by the name of--
“Worcester?” asked the sick man eagerly.
That was it. Worcester.
“He hasn’t been here, has he? The gentleman hasn’t called to see
me?”
The nurse shook his head, and Bayard turned his own away. He would
not have believed that his heart would have leaped like that at
such a little thing. He felt like a sick boy, sore and homesick
with the infinite longing for the love of kin. It was something to
know that he was not utterly forgotten. He asked for one of the
Boston pears, and ate it with pathetic eagerness.
“There’s been letters,” said the captain; “but the doctor’s orders
are agin your seeing ’em this week. There’s quite a pile. You see,
its bein’ in the papers let folks know.”
“In the papers! What in the papers?”
“What do you s’pose?” asked the captain proudly. “A fellar don’t
swim out in the undertow off Ragged Rock to save a d---- fool of a
drunken fisherman every day.”
“I’ll be split and salted!” added the fisherman-nurse, “if we
didn’t have to have a watchman here three nights when you was
worst, to keep the reporters off ye. Thirteen Windover fellars
volunteered for the job, and they wouldn’t none of ’em take a cent
for it. They said they’d set up forty nights for you.”
“For me?” whispered the sick man. His eyes filled for the first
time since the Clara Em went ashore on Ragged Rock. Something new
and valuable seemed to have entered life as suddenly as the comfort
of kin and the support of friends, and that bright, inspiriting
atmosphere, which one calls the world, had gone from him. He had
not expected that precious thing--the love of those for whom we
sacrifice ourselves. He felt the first thrill of it with gratitude
touching to think of, in so young and lovable a man, with life and
all its brilliant and beautiful possibilities before him.
       
It was an April night, and sea and sky were soft in Windover.
A stranger stood in Angel Alley hesitating at a door, which bore
above its open welcome these seven words:--
  “THE CHURCH OF THE LOVE OF CHRIST.”
“What goes on here?” the gentleman asked of a bystander.
“Better things than ever went on here before,” was the reply.
“They’ve got a man up there. He ain’t no dummy in a minister’s
choker.”
The stranger put another question.
“Well,” came the cordial answer, “he has several names in Angel
Alley: fisherman’s friend is one of the most pop’lar. Some calls
him the gospel cap’n. There’s those that prefers jest to say, the
new minister. There’s one name he don’t go by very often, and
that’s the Reverend Bayard.”
“He has no right to the title,” murmured the stranger.
“What’s that?” interposed the other quickly. The stranger made no
reply.
“Some call him the Christ’s Rest man,” proceeded the bystander
affably.
“That is a singular--ah--remarkable cognomen. How comes that?”
“Why, you see, the old name for this place was Seraph’s Rest--it
was the wust hell in Angel Alley--see? before he took it up an’ sot
to prayin’ in it. So folks got it kinder mixed with the Love of
Christ up on that sign there. Some calls the place Christlove for
short. I heerd an I-talian call him the Christman t’other day.”
The stranger took off his hat by instinct, it seemed unconsciously;
glanced at the inscription above the door, and passed thoughtfully
up the steep, bare stairs into the hall or room of worship.
The service was already in progress, for the hour was late, and
the gentleman observed with an air of surprise that the place was
filled. He looked about for a comfortable seat, but was forced to
content himself with standing-room in the extreme rear of the hall.
Crowds overflowed the wooden settees, brimmed into the aisles, and
were packed, in serried rows as tight as codfish in a box, against
the wall. The simile of the cod was forced upon the visitor’s mind
in more senses than one. A strong whiff of salt fish assailed him
on every side. This was varied by reminiscences of glue factories,
taking unmistakable form. An expression of disgust crossed the
stranger’s face; it quickly changed into that abstraction which
indicates the presence of moral emotion too great for attention to
trifles.
The usual New England religious audience was not to be seen in the
Church of the Love of Christ in Angel Alley. The unusual, plainly,
was. The wealth and what the “Windover Topsail” called the society
of Windover were sparsely represented on those hard settees. The
clean, sober faces of respectable families were out in good force;
these bore the earnest, half-perplexed, wholly pathetic expression
of uninfluential citizens who find themselves suddenly important
to and responsible for an unpopular movement; a class of people
who do not get into fiction or history, and who deserve a quality
of respect and sympathy which they do not receive; the kind of
person who sets us to wondering what was the personal view of the
situation dully revolving in the minds of Peter and the sons of
Zebedee when they put their nets to dry upon the shores of Galilee,
and tramped up and down Palestine at the call of a stronger and
diviner mind, wondering what it meant, and how it would all end.
These good people, not quite certain whether their own reputations
were injured or bettered by the fact, sat side by side with men and
women who are not known to the pews of churches. The homeless were
there, and the hopeless, the sinning, the miserable, the disgraced,
the neglected, the “rats” of the wharves, and the outcasts of the
dens.
The stranger stood packed in, elbow to elbow between an Italian
who served the country of his adoption upon the town waterworks,
and a dark-browed Portuguese sailor. American fishermen, washed
and shaven, in their Sunday clothes, filled the rear seats.
Against the wall, lines of rude, red faces crowded like cattle
at a spring; men of the sea and the coast, men without homes or
characters; that uninteresting and dangerous class which we dismiss
in two idle words as the “floating population.” Some of these men
were sober; some were not; others were hovering midway between
the two conditions: all were orderly, and a few were listening
with evidences of emotion to the hymn, in which by far the greater
portion of the audience joined. A girl wearing a Tam o’ Shanter and
a black fur cape, and singing in a fine, untrained contralto, held
her hymn-book over the settee to the Italian.
“Come, Tony! Pass it along!” she whispered, “I can get on without
it. Make ’em pile in and sing along the wall, there!”
With rude and swelling cadence the fishermen sang:--
    “I need Thee every hour,
      Most gracious Lord.”
Their voices and their hearts rose high on one of those plaintive
popular melodies of which music need never be ashamed:--
    “I need Thee, oh, I need Thee,
      Every hour I need Thee;
    Oh, bless me now, my Saviour”....
The stranger, who had the appearance of a religious man, joined in
the chorus heartily; he shared the book which the girl had given to
the Italian, who came in a bar too late, and closed the stanza on
a shrill solo,--
    “I co--home to thee.”
This little accident excited a trifling smile; but it faded
immediately, for the preacher had arisen. His appearance was
greeted with a respect which surprised the stranger. The audience
at once became grave even to reverence; the Italian cuffed a
drunken Portuguese who was under the impression that responses to
the service were expected of him; the girl in the Tam o’ Shanter
shook a woman who giggled beside her. A fisherman whispered
loudly,--
“Shut up there! The parson ain’t quite tough yet. Keep it quiet for
him! Shut up there, along the wall!”
There is nothing like a brave deed to command the respect of
seafaring men. Emanuel Bayard, when he plunged into the undertow
after Job Slip’s drunken, drowning body, swam straight into the
heart of Windover. A rough heart that is, but a warm one, none
warmer on the freezing coast, and sea-going Windover had turned the
sunny side of its nature, and taken the minister in. The standards
by which ignorant men judge the superior classes--their superb
indifference to any scale of values but their own--deserve more
study than they receive.
It had never occurred to Bayard, who was only beginning to learn to
understand the nature of his material, that he had become in three
weeks the hero of the wharves and the docks, the romance of Angel
Alley, the admiring gossip of the Banks and Georges’, the pride
and wonder of the Windover fishermen. Quite unconscious of this
“sea-change,” wrought by one simple, manly act upon his popularity,
he rose to address the people. His heart was full of what he was
going to say. He gave one glance the length of the hall. He saw
the crowds packed by the door. He saw the swaying nets, ornamented
with globes and shells and star-fish, after the fashion of the
fishing-town; these decorations softened the bare walls of the
audience-room. He saw the faces of the fishermen lifting themselves
to him and blurring together in a gentle glow. They seemed to him,
as a great preacher once said of his audience, like the face “of
one impressive, pleading man,” whose life hung upon his words. He
felt as if he must weigh them in some divine scales into which no
dust or chaff of weakness or care for self could fall.
Something of this high consciousness crept into his face. He stood
for a moment silent; his beautiful countenance, thin from recent
suffering, took on the look by which a man represses noble tears.
Suddenly, before he had spoken a word, a storm of applause burst
out--shook the room from wall to wall--and roared like breakers
under his astonished feet. He turned pale with emotion, but the
fishermen thundered on. He was still so weak that this reception
almost overcame him, and involuntarily he stretched out both his
hands. At the gesture the noise sank instantly; and silence, in
which the sigh of the saddest soul in the room might have been
heard, received the preacher.
His sensitive face, melted and quivering, shone down upon them
tenderly. Men in drunken brawls, and men in drowning seas, and
women in terrible temptation, remembered how he looked that night
when the safe and the virtuous and the comfortable had forgotten.
