shop, the* modern saloon of the respectably virtu- 
ous. That he entered, and sat down on a stool by 
the soda-water counter. The expectant clerk stared 
at him while waiting the order, his hand tenta- 
tively seeking one of the faucets of refreshment. 
" I feel a little feverish," said the father. " You 
may give me five grains of quinine in whiskey." 
" That 'll put you all right," said the boy as he 
handed him the mixture. " It's all the go now." 
It seemed to revive him, and he went out and 
walked on towards the heights. Somehow, seeing 
this boy, coming back to common life, perhaps the 
strong and unaccustomed stimulant, gave a new 
shade to his thoughts. He was safe. Presently 
he would be at the Ketreat. He would rest, and 
then gird up his loins and face life again. The 
mood lasted for some time. And when the sense 
of physical weariness came back, that seemed to 
dull the acuteness of his spiritual torment. It was 
late when he reached the house and rang the night- 
bell. No one of the brothers was up except Father 
Monies, and it was he who came to the door. 
" You ! So late ! Is anything the matter ?" 
" I needed to come," the father said, simply, and 
he grasped the door-post, steadying himself as he 
came in. 
" You look like a ghost." 
" Yes. I'm tired. I walked." 
" Walked ? From Kivington Street ?" 
"Nearly. I felt like it." 
" It's most imprudent. You dined first ?" 
" I wasn't hungry." 
" But you must have something at once." And 
Father Monies hurried away, heated some bouillon 
by a spirit-lamp, and brought it, with bread, and 
set it before his unexpected guest. 
" There, eat that, and get to bed as soon as you 
can. It was great nonsense." 
And Father Damon obeyed. Indeed, he was too 
exhausted to talk. 
CHAPTER XVII 
FATHER DAMON slept the sleep of exhaustion. In 
this for a time the mind joined in the lethargy of 
the body. But presently, as the vital currents 
were aroused, the mind began to play its fantastic 
tricks. He was a seminary student, he was or- 
dained, he was taking his vows before the bishop, 
he was a robust and consecrated priest performing 
his first service, shining, it seemed to him, before 
the congregation in the purity of his separation 
from the world. How strong he felt. And then 
came perplexities, difficulties, interests, and conflict- 
ing passions in life that he had not suspected, good 
that looked like evil, and evil that had an alloy of 
virtue, and the way was confused. And then there 
was a vision of a sort of sister of charity working 
with him in the evil and the good, drawing near to 
him, and yet repelling him with a cold, scientific 
scepticism that chilled him like blasphemy ; but so 
patient was she, so unconscious of self, that grad- 
ually he lost this feeling of repulsion and saw only 
the woman, that wonderful creation, tender, pitiful 
comrade, the other self. And then there was dark- 
ness and blindness, and he stood once more before 
bis congregation, speaking words that sounded hol- 
low, hearing responses that mocked him, stared at 
by accusing eyes that knew him for a hypocrite. 
And he rushed away and left them, hearing their 
laughter as he went, and so into the street plainly 
it was Rivington Street and faces that he knew 
had a smile and a sneer, and he heard comments as 
he passed: "Hulloa, Father Damon, come in and 
have a drink." " I say, Father Damon, I seen her 
going round into Grand Street." 
When Father Monies looked in, just before day- 
light, Father Damon was still sleeping, but tossing 
restlessly and muttering incoherently ; and he did 
not arouse him for the early devotions. 
It was very late when he awoke, and opened his 
eyes to a confused sense of some great calamity. 
Father Monies was standing by the bedside with a 
cup of coffee. 
" You have had a good sleep. Now take this, and 
then you may get up. The breakfast will wait for 
you." 
Father Damon started up. " Why didn't you call 
me ? I am late for the mission." 
" Oh, Bendes has gone down long ago. You 
must take it easy ; rest to-day. You'll be all right. 
You haven't a bit of fever." 
" But," still declining the coffee, " before I break 
my fast, I have something to say to you. I 
" Get some strength first. Besides, I have an 
engagement. I cannot wait. Pull yourself to- 
gether ; I may not be back before evening." 
So it was fated that he should be left still with 
himself. After his coffee he dressed slowly, as if it 
were not he, but some one else going through this 
familiar duty, as if it were scarcely worth while to 
do anything any more. And then, before attempt- 
ing his breakfast, he went into the little oratory, 
and remained long in the attitude of prayer, trying 
to realize what he was and what he had done. He 
prayed for himself, for help, for humility, and he 
prayed for her ; he had been used of late to pray 
for her guidance, now he prayed that she might be 
sustained. 
When he came forth it was in a calmer frame of 
mind. It was all clear now. When Father Monies 
returned he would confess, and take his penance, 
and resolutely resume his life. He understood life 
better now. Perhaps this blow was needed for his 
spiritual pride. 
It was a mild winter day, bright, and with a 
touch of summer, such as sometimes gets shuffled 
into our winter calendar. The book that he took 
up did not interest him ; he was in no mood for the 
quiet meditation that it usually suggested to him, 
and he put it down and strolled out, directing his 
steps farther up the height, and away from the 
suburban stir. As he went on there was something 
consonant with his feelings in the bare wintry land- 
scape, and when he passed the ridge and walked 
along the top of the river slope, he saw, as it 
seemed to him he had not seen it before, that lovely 
reach of river, the opposite wooded heights, the 
noble pass above, the peacefulness and invitation 
of nature. Had he a new sense to see all this ? 
There was a softness in the distant outline, villas 
peeped out here and there, carriages were passing 
in the road below, there was a cheerful life in the 
stream there was a harmony in the aspect of nat- 
ure and humanity from this height. Was not the 
world beautiful? and human emotion, affection, 
love, were they alien to the Divine intention ? 
She loved beauty ; she was fond of flowers ; often 
she had spoken to him of her childish delight in 
her little excursions, rarely made, into the country. 
He could see her now standing just there and feast- 
ing her eyes on this noble panorama, and he could 
see her face all aglow, as she might turn to him 
and say, " Isn't it beautiful, Father Damon ?" And 
she was down in those reeking streets, climbing 
about in the foul tenement-houses, taking a sick 
child in her arms, speaking a word of cheer a 
good physician going about doing good ! 
And it might have been ! Why was it that this 
peace of nature should bring up her image, and that 
they should seem in harmony ? Was not the love 
of beauty and of goodness the same thing? Did 
God require in His service the atrophy of the affec- 
tions? As long as he was in the world was it 
right that he should isolate himself from any of its 
sympathies and trials ? "Why was it not a higher 
life to enter into the common lot, and suffer, if 
need be, in the struggle to purify and ennoble all ? 
He remembered the days he had once passed in the 
Trappist monastery of Gethsemane. The perfect 
peace of mind of the monks was purchased at the 
expense of the extirpation of every want, all will, 
every human interest. "Were these men anything 
but specimens in a Museum of Failures ? And yet, 
for the time being, it had seemed attractive to him, 
this simple vegetable existence, whose only object 
was preparation for death by the extinction of all 
passion and desire. No, these were not soldiers of 
the Lord, but the faint-hearted, who had slunk into 
the hospital. 
All this afternoon he was drifting in thought, 
arraigning his past life, excusing it, condemning it, 
and trying to forecast its future. "Was this a trial 
of his constancy and faith, or had he made a mis- 
take, entered upon a slavish career, from which he 
ought to extricate himself at any cost of the world's 
opinion ? But presently he was aware that in all 
these debates with himself her image appeared. 
He was trying to fit his life to the thought of her. 
And when this became clearer in his tortured mind, 
the woman appeared as a temptation. It was not, 
then, the love of beauty, not even the love of hu- 
inanity, and very far from being the service of his 
Master, that he was discussing, but only his desire 
for one person. It was that, then, that made him, 
for that fatal instant, forget his vow, and yield to 
the impulse of human passion. The thought of 
that moment stung him with confusion and shame. 
There had been moments in this afternoon wander- 
ing when it had seemed possible for him to ask for 
release, and to take up a human, sympathetic life 
with her, in mutual consecration in the service of 
the Lord's poor. Yes, and by love to lead her into 
a higher conception of the Divine love. But this 
breaking a solemn vow at the dictated of passion 
was a mortal sin there was no other name for it 
a sin demanding repentance and expiation. 
As he at last turned homeward, facing the great 
city and his life there, this became more clear to him. 
He walked rapidly. The lines of his face became 
set in a hard judgment of himself. He thought no 
more of escaping from himself, but of subduing 
himself, stamping out the appeals of his lower nat- 
ure. It was in this mood that he returned. 
Father Monies was awaiting him, and welcomed 
him with that look of affection, of more than 
brotherly love, which the good man had for the 
younger priest. 
" I hope your walk has done you good." 
" Perhaps," Father Damon replied, without any 
leniency in his face ; " but that does not matter. I 
must tell you what I could not last night. Can 
you hear me ?" 
They went together into the oratory. Father 
Damon did not spare himself. He kept nothing 
back that could heighten the enormity of his of- 
fence. 
And Father Monies did not attempt to lessen 
the impression upon himself of the seriousness of 
the scandal. He was shocked. He was exceed- 
ingly grave, but he was even more pitiful. His ex- 
perience of life had been longer than that of the 
penitent. He better knew its temptations. His 
own peace had only been won by long crucifixion 
of the natural desires. 
"I have nothing to say as to your own disci- 
pline. That you know. But there is one thing. 
You must face this temptation, and subdue it." 
" You mean that I must go back to my labor in 
the city ?" 
" Yes. You can rest here a few days if you feel 
too weak physically." 
" ~No ; I am well enough." He hesitated. " I 
thought perhaps some other field, for a time ?" 
" There is no other field for you. It is not for 
the moment the question of where you can do 
most good. You are to reinstate yourself. You 
are a soldier of the Lord Jesus, and you are to go 
where the battle is most dangerous." 
That was the substance of it all. There was 
much affectionate counsel and loving sympathy 
mingled with all the inflexible orders of obedience, 
but the sin must be faced and extirpated in pres- 
ence of the enemy. 
On the morrow Father Damon went back to his 
solitary rooms, to his chapel, to the round of visi- 
tations, to his work with the poor, the sinful, the 
hopeless. He did not seek her ; he tried not to 
seem to avoid her, or to seem to shun the streets 
where he was most likely to meet her, and the 
neighborhoods she frequented. Perhaps he did 
avoid them a little, and he despised himself for 
doing it. Almost involuntarily he looked to the 
bench by the chapel door which she occasionally 
occupied at vespers. She was never there, and he 
condemned himself for thinking that she might be ; 
but yet wherever he walked there was always the 
expectation that he might encounter her. As the 
days went by and she did not appear, his expecta- 
tion became a kind of torture. Was she ill, per- 
haps ? It could not be that she had deserted her 
work. 
And then he began to examine himself with a 
morbid introspection. Ilad the hope that he 
should see her occasionally influenced him at all 
in his obedience to Father Monies ? Had he, in 
fact, a longing to be in the streets where she had 
walked, among the scenes that had witnessed her 
beautiful devotion? Had his willingness to take 
up this work again been because it brought him 
nearer to her in spirit ? 
No, she could not be ill. He heard her spoken 
of, here and there, in his calls and ministrations 
to the sick and dying. Evidently she was going 
about her work as usual. Perhaps she was avoid- 
ing him. Or perhaps she did not care, after all, 
and had lost her respect for him when he discovered 
to her his weakness. And he had put himself on 
a plane so high above her. 
There was no conscious wavering in his purpose. 
But from much dwelling upon the thought, from 
much effort rather to put it away, his desire only 
to see her grew stronger day by day. He had no 
fear. He longed to test himself. He was sure 
that he would be impassive, and be all the stronger 
for the test. He was more devoted than ever in 
his work. He was more severe with himself, 
more charitable to others, and he could not doubt 
that he was gaining a hold yes, a real hold 
upon the lives of many about him. The attend- 
ance was better at the chapel; more of the pen- 
itent and forlorn came to him for help. And 
how alone he was ! My God, never even to see 
her! 
In fact, Ruth Leigh was avoiding him. It was 
partly from a womanly reserve called into ex- 
pression in this form for the first time and partly 
from a wish to spare him pain. She had been un- 
der no illusion from the first about the hopelessness 
of the attachment. She comprehended his charac- 
ter so thoroughly that she knew that for him any 
fall from his ideal would mean his ruin. He was 
one of the rare spirits of faith astray in a sceptical 
age. For a time she had studied curiously his ef- 
forts to adapt himself to his surroundings. One of 
these was joining a Knights of Labor lodge. An- 
other was his approach to the ethical-culture move- 
ment of some of the leaders in the Neighborhood 
Guild. Another was his interest in the philan- 
thropic work of agnostics like herself. She could 
see that he, burning with zeal to save the souls of 
men, and believing that there was no hope for the 
world except in the renunciation of the world, in- 
stinctively shrank from these contacts, which, nev- 
ertheless, he sought in the spirit of a Jesuit mis- 
sionary to a barbarous tribe. 
It was possible for such a man to be for a time 
overmastered by human passion ; it was possible 
even that he might reason himself temporarily into 
conduct that this natural passion seemed to justify; 
yet she never doubted that there would follow an 
awakening from that state of mind as from a hor- 
rible delusion. It was simply because Ruth Leigh 
was guided by the exercise of reason, and had built 
up her scheme of life upon facts that she believed 
she could demonstrate, that she saw so clearly their 
relations, and felt that the faith, which was to her 
only a vagary of the material brain, was to him an 
integral part of his life. 
Love, to be sure, was as unexpected in her 
scheme of life as it was in his ; but there was on 
her part no reason why she should not yield to it. 
There was every reason in her nature and in her 
theory why she should, for, bounded as her vision 
of life was by this existence, love was the highest 
conceivable good in life. It had been with a great 
shout of joy that the consciousness had come to 
her that she loved and was loved. Though she 
might never see him again, this supreme experi- 
ence for man or woman, this unsealing of the sa- 
cred fountain of life, would be for her an enduring 
sweetness in her lonely and laborious pilgrimage. 
How strong love is they best know to whom it is 
offered and denied. 
And why, so far as she was concerned, should 
she deny it ? An ordinary woman probably would 
not. Love is reason enough. Why should artifi- 
cial conventions defeat it? Why should she sacri- 
lice herself, if he were willing to brave the opinion 
of the world for her sake ? Was it any new thing 
for good men to do this? But Kuth Leigh was 
not an ordinary woman. Perhaps if her intellect 
had not been so long dominant over her heart it 
would have been different. But the habit of be- 
ing guided by reason was second nature. She knew 
that not only his vow, but the habit of life en- 
gendered by the vow, was an insuperable barrier. 
And besides, and this was the touchstone of her 
conception of life and duty, she felt that if he were 
to break his vow, though she might love him, her 
respect for him would be impaired. 
It was a singular phenomenon very much re- 
marked at the time that the women who did not 
in the least share Father Damon's spiritual faith, 
and would have called themselves in contradis- 
tinction materialists, were those who admired him 
most, were in a way his followers, loved to attend 
his services, were inspired by his personality, and 
drawn to him in a loving loyalty. The attraction 
to these very women was his unworldliness, his 
separateness, his devotion to an ideal which in 
their reason seemed a delusion. And no women 
would have been more sensitive than they to his 
fall from his spiritual pinnacle. 
It was easy with a little contrivance to avoid 
meeting him. She did not go to the chapel or in 
its neighborhood when he was likely to be going 
to or from service. She let others send for him 
when in her calls his ministration was required, 
and she was careful not to linger where he was 
likely to come. A little change in the time of her 
rounds was made without neglecting her work, for 
that she would not do, and she trusted that if ac- 
cident threw him in her way, circumstances would 
make it natural and not embarrassing. And yet 
his image was never long absent from her thoughts ; 
she wondered if he were dejected, if he were ill, if 
he were lonely, and mostly there was for him a 
great pity in her heart, a pity born, alas ! of her 
own sense of loneliness. 
How much she was repressing her own emotions 
she knew one evening when she returned from her 
visits and found a letter in his handwriting. The 
sight of it was a momentary rapture, and then the 
expectation of what it might contain gave her a 
feeling of faintness. The letter was long. Its 
coming needs a word of explanation. 
Father Damon had begun to use the Margaret 
Fund. He found that its judicious use was more 
perplexing than he had supposed. He needed ad- 
vice, the advice of those who had more knowledge 
than he had of the merits of relief cases. And 
then there might be many sufferers whom he in 
his limited field neglected. It occurred to him that 
Dr. Leigh would be a most helpful co - almoner. 
]STo sooner did this idea come to him than he was 
spurred to put it into effect. This common labor 
would be a sort of bond between them, a bond of 
charity purified from all personal alloy. He went 
at once to Mr. Henderson's office and told him his 
difficulties, and about Dr. Leigh's work, and the 
opportunities she would have. "Would it not be 
possible for Dr. Leigh to draw from the fund on 
her own checks independent of him? Mr. Hen- 
derson thought not. Dr. Leigh was no doubt a 
good woman, but he didn't know much about 
woman visitors and that sort ; their sympathies 
were apt to run away with them, and he should 
prefer at present to have the fund wholly under 
Father Damon's control. Some time, he intimated, 
he might make more lasting provisions with trus- 
tees. It would be better for Father Damon to give 
Dr. Leigh money as he saw she needed it. 
The letter recited this at length ; it had a check 
endorsed, and the writer asked the doctor to be 
his almoner. He dwelt very much upon the relief 
this would be to him, and the opportunity it would 
give her in many emergencies, and the absolute 
confidence he had in her discretion, as well as in 
her quick sympathy with the suffering about them. 
And also it would be a great satisfaction to him 
to feel that he was associated with her in such a 
work. 
In its length, in its tone of kindliness, of personal 
confidence, especially in its length, it was evident 
that the writing of it had been a pleasure, if not a 
relief, to the sender. Ruth read it and reread it. 
It was as if Father Damon were there speaking to 
her. She could hear the tones of his voice. And 
the glance of love that last overmastering appeal 
and cry thrilled through her soul. 
But in the letter there was no love ; to any third 
person it would have read like an ordinary friendly 
philanthropic request. And her reply, accepting 
gratefully his trust, was almost formal, only the 
writer felt that she was writing out of her 
heart. 
CHAPTER XVIII 
THE Koman poet Martial reckons among the ele- 
ments of a happy life " an income left, not earned 
by toil," and also " a wife discreet, yet blythe and 
bright." Felicity in the possession of these, the 
epigrammatist might have added, depends upon 
content in the one and full appreciation of the 
other. 
Jack Delancy returned from Washington more 
discontented than when he went. His speculation 
hung fire in a most tantalizing way ; more than 
that, it had absorbed nearly all the "income not 
earned by toil," which was at the hazard of opera- 
tions he could neither control nor comprehend. 
And besides, this little fortune had come to seem 
contemptibly inadequate. In his associations of 
the past year his spendthrift habits had increased, 
and he had been humiliated by his inability to keep 
pace with the prodigality of those with jvhom he 
was most intimate. Miss Tavish was an heiress in 
her own right, who never seemed-to give a thought 
to the cost of anything she desired ; the Hender- 
sons, for any whim, drew upon a reservoir of un- 
known capacity ; and even Mavick began to talk 
as if he owned a flock of geese that laid golden 
eggs. 
To be sure, it was pleasant coming home into an 
atmosphere of sincerity, of worship was it not? 
It was very flattering to his self-esteem. The 
master had come ! The house was in commotion. 
Edith flew to meet him, hugged him, shook him, 
criticised his appearance, rallied him for a recre- 
ant father. How well she looked buoyant, full 
of vivacity, running over with joy, asking a dozen 
questions before he could answer one, testifying 
her delight, her affection, in a hundred ways. And 
the boy ! He was so eager to see his papa. He 
could converse now that is, in his way. And that 
prodigy, when Jack was dragged into his presence, 
and also fell down with Edith and worshipped him 
in his crib, did actually smile, and appear to know 
that this man belonged to him, was a part of his 
worldly possessions. 
" Do you know," said Edith, looking at the boy 
critically, " I think of making Fletcher a present, 
if you approve." 
"What's that?" 
" He'll want some place to go to in the summer. 
I want to buy that old place where he was born 
and give it to him. Don't you think it would be 
a good investment ?" 
" Yes, permanent," replied Jack, laughing at such 
a mite of a real-estate owner. 
" I know he would like it. And you don't ob- 
ject?" 
" Not in the least. It's next to an ancestral feel- 
ing to be the father of a land-owner." 
They were standing close to the crib, his arm 
resting lightly across her shoulders. He drew her 
closer to him, and kissed her tenderly. " The little 
chap has a golden-hearted mother. I don't know 
why he should not have a Golden House." 
Her eyes filled with sudden tears. She could 
not speak. But both arms were clasped round his 
neck now. She was too happy for words. And 
the baby, looking on with large eyes, seemed to 
find nothing unusual in the proceeding. He was 
used to a great deal of this sort of nonsense him- 
self. 
It was a happy evening. In truth, after the first 
surprise, Jack was pleased with this contemplated 
purchase. It was something removed beyond 
temptation. Edith's property was secure to her, 
and it was his honorable purpose never to draw it 
into his risks. But he knew her generosity, and 
he could not answer for himself if she should offer 
it, as he was sure she would do, to save him from 
ruin. 
There was all the news to tell, the harmless gos- 
sip of daily life, which Edith had a rare faculty of 
making dramatically entertaining, with her insight 
and her feeling for comedy. There had been a rau- 
sical at the Blunts' oh, strictly amateur and 
Edith ran to the piano and imitated the singers 
and took off the players, until Jack declared that 
it beat the Conventional Club out of sight. And 
she had been to a parlor mind-cure lecture, and to 
a Theosophic conversation, and to a Reading Club 
for the Cultivation of a Feeling for Nature through 
Poetry. It was all immensely solemn and earnest. 
And Jack wondered that the managers did not get 
hold of these things and put them on the stage. 
Nothing could draw like them. Not burlesques, 
though, said Edith ; not in the least. If only these 
circles would perform in public as they did in pri- 
vate, how they would draw ! 
And then Father Damon had been to consult her 
about his fund. He had been ill, and would not 
stay, and seemed more severe and ascetic than ever. 
She was sure something was wrong. For Dr. Leigh, 
whom she had sought out several times, was re- 
served, and did not voluntarily speak of Father 
Damon ; she had heard that he was throwing him- 
self with more than his usual fervor into his work. 
There was plenty to talk about. The purchase of 
the farm by the sea had better not be delayed; 
Jack might have to go down and see the owner. 
Yes, he would make it his first business in the 
morning. Perhaps it would be best to get some 
Long-Islander to buy it for them. 
By the time it was ten o'clock, Jack said he 
thought he would step down to the Union a mo- 
ment. Edith's countenance fell. There might be 
letters, he explained, and he had a little matter of 
business ; he wouldn't be late. 
It was very agreeable, home was, and Edith was 
charming. He could distinctly feel that she was 
charming. But Jack was restless. He felt the 
need of talking with somebody about what was 
on his mind. If only with Major Fairfax. He 
would not consult the Major, but the latter was in 
the way of picking up all sorts of gossip, both so- 
cial and Street gossip. 
And the Major was willing to unpack his budget. 
It was not very reassuring, what he had to tell ; in 
fact, it was somewhat depressing, the general tight- 
ness and the panicky uncertainty, until, after a 
couple of glasses of Scotch, the financial world be- 
gan to open a little and seem more hopeful. 
" The Hendersons are going to build," Jack said 
at length, after a remark of the Major's about that 
famous operator. 
" Build ? What for ? They've got a palace." 
" Carmen says it's for an object-lesson. To show 
New York millionaires how to adorn their city." 
" It's like that little schemer. What does Hen- 
derson say ?" 
" He appears to be willing. I can't get the hang 
of Henderson. He doesn't seem to care what his 
wife does. He's a cynical cuss. The other night, 
at dinner, in Washington, when the thing was 
talked over, he said : ' My dear, I don't know why 
you shouldn't do that as well as anything. Let's 
build a house of gold, as Xero did ; we are in the 
Eoman age.' Carmen looked dubious for a mo- 
ment, but she said, ' You know, Rodney, that you 
always used to say that some time you would show 
New York what a house ought to be in this cli- 
mate.' 'Well, go on,' and he laughed. 'I sup- 
pose lightning will not strike that sooner than 
anything else.' " 
" Seems to me," said the Major, reflectively, 
reaching out his hand for the brown mug, " the 
way he gives that woman her head, and doesn't 
care what she does, he must have a contempt for 
her." 
" I wish somebody had that sort of contempt for 
me," said Jack, filling up his glass also. 
" But, I teU you," he continued, " Mrs. Hender- 
son has caught on to the new notions. Her idea 
is the union of all the arts. She has already got 
the refusal of a square 'way up-town, on the rise 
opposite the Park, and has been consulting archi- 
tects about it. It is to be surrounded with the 
building, with a garden in the interior, a tropical 
garden, under glass in the winter. The fagades 
are to be gorgeous and monumental. Artists and 
sculptors are to decorate it, inside and out. Why 
shouldn't there be color on the exterior, gold and 
painting, like the Fugger palaces in Augsburg, only 
on a great scale ? The artists don't see any reason 
why there should not. It will make the city brill- 
iant, that sort of thing, in place of our monotonous 
stone lanes. And it's using her wealth for the 
public benefit the architects and artists all say 
that. Gad, I don't know but the little woman is 
beginning to regard herself as a public benefactor." 
"She is that or nothing," echoed the Major, 
warmly. 
" And do you know," continued Jack, confiden- 
tially, " I think she's got the right idea. If I 
have any luck of course I sha'n't do that but if 
I have any luck, I mean to build a house that's got 
some life in it color, old boy something unique 
and stunning." 
" So you will," cried the Major, enthusiastically, 
and, raising his glass, "Here's to the house that 
Jack built !" 
It was later than he thought it would be when 
he went home, but Jack was attended all the way 
by a vision of a Golden House all gold wouldn't 
be too good, and he will build it, damme, for Edith 
and the boy. 
The next morning not even the foundations of 
this structure were visible. The master of the 
house came down to a late breakfast, out of sorts 
with life, almost surly. Not even Edith's bright 
face and fresh toilet and radiant welcome appealed 
to Mm. No one would have thought from her ap- 
pearance that she had waited for him last night 
hour after hour, and had at last gone to bed with 
a heavy heart, and not to sleep to toss, and listen, 
and suffer a thousand tortures of suspense. How 
many tragedies of this sort are there nightly in the 
metropolis, none the less tragic because they are 
subjects of jest in the comic papers and on tho 
stage ! What would be the condition of social lifo 
if women ceased to be anxious in this regard, and 
let loose the reins in an easy - going indifference ? 
What, in fact, is the condition in those households 
where the wives do not care ? One can even per- 
ceive a tender sort of loyalty to women in the 
ejaculation of that battered old veteran, the Major, 
" Thank God, there's nobody sitting up for me !" 
Jack was not consciously rude. He even asked 
about the baby. And he sipped his coffee and 
glanced over the morning journal, and he referred 
to the conversation of the night before, and said 
that he would look after the purchase at once. If 
Edith had put on an aspect of injury, and had in- 
timated that she had hoped that his first evening 
at home might have been devoted to her and the 
boy, there might have been a scene, for Jack 
needed only an occasion to vent his discontent. 
And for the chronicler of social life a scene is so 
much easier to deal with, an outburst of temper 
and sharp language, of accusation and recrimina- 
tion, than the well-bred commonplace of an unde- 
fined estrangement. 
And yet estrangement is almost too strong a 
word to use in Jack's case. He would have been 
the first to resent it. But the truth was that Edith, 
in the life he was leading, was a rebuke to him ; 
her very purity and unworldliness were out of ac- 
cord with his associations, with his ventures, with 
his dissipations in that smart and glittering circle 
where he was more welcome the more he lowered 
his moral standards. Could he help it if after the 
first hours of his return he felt the restraint of his 
home, and that the life seemed a little flat ? Al- 
most unconsciously to himself, his interests and his 
inclinations were elsewhere. 
Edith, with the divination of a woman, felt this. 
Last night her love alone seemed strong enough to 
hold him, to bring him back to the purposes and 
the aspirations that only last summer had appeared 
to transform him. Now he was slipping away 
again. How pitiful it is, this contest of a woman, 
who has only her own love, her own virtue, with 
the world and its allurements and seductions, for 
the possession of her husband's heart ! How pow- 
erless she is against these subtle invitations, these 
unknown and all - encompassing temptations! At 
times the whole drift of life, of the easy morality 
of the time, is against her. The current is so 
strong that no wonder she is often swept away in 
it. And what could an impartial observer of things 
as they are say otherwise than that John Delancy 
was leading the common life of his kind and his 
time, and that Edith was only bringing trouble on 
herself by being out of sympathy with it ? 
He might not be in at luncheon, he said, when 
he was prepared to go down -town. He seldom 
was. He called at his broker's. Still suspense. 
He wrote to the Long Island farmer. At the 
Union he found a scented note from Carmen. 
They had all returned from the capital. How re- 
joiced she was to be at home ! And she was dying 
to see him; no, not dying, but very much living; 
and it was very important. She should expect him 
at the usual hour. And could he guess what gown 
she would wear ? 
And Jack went. What hold had this woman on 
him? Undoubtedly she had fascinations, but he 
knew knew well enough by this time that her 
friendship was based wholly on calculation. And 
yet what a sympathetic comrade she could be ! 
How freely he could talk with her ; there was no 
subject she did not adapt herself to. No doubt it 
was this adaptability that made her such a favor- 
ite. She did not demand too much virtue or re- 
quire too much conventionality. The hours he was 
with her he was wholly at his ease. She made 
him satisfied with himself, and she didn't disturb 
his conscience. 
"I think," said Jack he was holding both her 
hands with a swinging motion when she came 
forward to -greet him, and looking at her critically 
" I think I like you better in New York than in 
Washington." 
" That is because you see more of me here." 
" Oh, I saw you enough in Washington." 
" But that was my public manner. I have to live 
up to Mr. Henderson's reputation." 
" And here you only have to live up to mine ?" 
" I can live for my friends," she replied, with an 
air of candor, giving a very perceptible pressure 
with her little hands. " Isn't that enough ?" 
Jack kissed each little hand before he let it drop, 
and looked as if he believed. 
" And how does the house get on ?" 
" Famously. The lot is bought. Mr. Van Brunt 
was here all the morning. It's going to be something Oriental, mediaeval, nineteenth-century, gorgeous, and domestic. Yan Brunt says he wants it 
to represent me.'' 
" How ?" inquired Jack ; " all the four facades 
different ?" 
" With an interior unity all the styles brought 
to express an individual taste, don't you know. A 
different house from the four sides of approach, 
and inside, home that's the idea." 
"It appears to me," said Jack, still bantering, 
" that it will look like an apartment-house." 
"That is just what it will not that is, outside 
unity, and inside a menagerie. This won't look 
gregarious. It is to have not more than three 
stories, perhaps only two. And then exterior color, 
decoration, statuary." 
"And gold?" 
"Not too much not to give it a cheap gilded 
look. Oh, I asked him about Nero's house. As I 
remember it, that was mostly caverns. Mr. Van 
Brunt laughed, and said they were not going to 
excavate this house. The Koman notion was barbarous grandeur. But in point of beauty and luxury, this would be as much superior to Nero's 
house as the electric light is to a Roman lamp." 
" Not classic, then ?" 
" Why, all that's good in classic form, with the 
modern spirit. You ought to hear Mr. Yan Brunt 
talk. This country has never yet expressed itself 
in domestic inhabitation." 
" It's going to cost ! What does Mr. Henderson 
" I think he rather likes it. He told Mr. Van 
Brunt to consult me and go ahead with his plans. 
But he talks queerly. He said he thought he 
would have money enough at least for the founda- 
tion. Do you think, Jack," asked Carmen, with a 
sudden change of manner, "that Mr. Henderson is 
really the richest man in the United States ?" 
" Some people say so. Really, I don't know how 
any one can tell. If he let go his hand from his affairs, I don't know what a panic would do." 
Carmen looked thoughtful. "He said to me 
once that he wasn't afraid of the Street any more. 
I told him this morning that I didn't want to begin 
this if it was going to incommode him." 
"What did he say?" 
"He was just going out. He looked at me a 
moment with that speculative sort of look no, it 
isn't cynical, as you say ; I know it so well and 
then said : ' Oh, go ahead. I guess it will be all 
right. If anything happens, you can turn it into 
a boarding-house. It will be an excellent sanita- 
rium.' That was all. Anyway, it's something to do. 
Come, let's go and see the place." And she started 
up and touched the bell for the carriage. It was 
more than something to do. In those days before 
her marriage, when her mother was living, and 
