he gave it. 
Now he looked at the little girl with the tender- 
ness that is only to be expected of those in whom 
the love of children is profound and genuine. 
She seemed to quiver beneath his look, but her 
color and her attitude did not change. Then he took 
her by the hand. 
Her little, wasted fingers lay for a few moments 
in his nervous and vital grasp ; then he felt them 
tremble. . . . Who sees the instant when the lily 
blossoms? Who could have detected the moment 
of time in which the child began to stir ? Was it 
his hand that moved, or hers that directed his slowly 
upward till it reached her pillow, and 'so ca^ue upon 
a level with her face ? 
It did not seem sudden or startling, but only the 
most natural thing in the world, when the little girl 
laid her cheek upon his palm. . . . 
" Give her something to eat," said the healer, 
quite in his ordinary tones. This sensible and com- 
monplace order restored their senses to the excited 
household. But Jairus remembered how he had 
thought of Jesus, perhaps how he had spoken to 
him, when the Nazarene stopped to cure the chronic 
case ; and the father felt ashamed ; but he did not 
know how to say so. And the little arms about 
his neck were warm ! How could he think of any- 
thing else in the world ? Jesus seemed to take this 
as a matter of course. That was the wonderful, the 
226 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
beautiful thing. Jairus felt as if lie could worship 
the Rabbi. 
The whole countryside rang with the story. 
" Death ! A second time I Why, he cheats the 
grave, as another may cheat in war or a bargain ! 
Who is this man who does the deeds of the living 
Grod ? " But Jesus had denied that the child was 
dead. He never retracted the denial. 
It would have been easy for him to rise just then 
on a great flight of popularity, had he chosen to 
mate the most of this reanimation. Instead, he 
made the least of it. Content with the doing of the 
thing, not concerned for the name of it, he w;ent 
serenely on, as if his own reputation as a worker of 
wonders were the last thing in the world about 
which he, had a care. In point of fact it was. He 
had so much loftier aims that he could well afford to 
let the lesser go. 
He had at this time, if no more leisure, at least 
more solitude than, usual, in which to reflect upon 
his position and his future ; for he had dismissed his 
chosen friends on an evangelistic tour about the 
country, dividing them two by two, selecting these 
couples with great care, that they might supplement 
one another's temperament. We wonder to whom he 
united John the preferred, gentlest and loveliest 
of companions ! Whose calmer nature moderated 
the hot temper of Peter, the spokesman of the 
group ? Who had the warm faith to melt the doubts 
of the skeptical Thomas ? Whose penetration kept 
watch upon the moods of Judas the treacherous ? 
JAIRUS' DAUGHTER 
PIVE THOUSAND GUESTS 227 
To these men Jesus now solemnly made over a 
measure of his own gift ; as if his power to relieve 
human misery were a thing communicable at his will 
to one who loved and trusted him. These men re- 
ceived a certain amount of quality as healers, and 
of success as missionaries. In his enthusiasm for 
humanity Jesus did not draw the line at anything, 
but tried to make his disciples wonder-workers as 
efficient as himself. 
" Raise the dead," he said. It is not recorded of 
them that they did this. Had he too much faith in 
them, or they too little in him ? 
When the twelve came back to their Rabbi, there 
had reached him news so black that the experiences 
of their missionary trip although they told him 
all about them volubly enough were put well into 
the background. During their absence had occurred 
the terrible supper at the palace of Herod, when a 
girl danced away the life of the greatest of prophets 
and one of the grandest of men. 
The execution of John, after all, had been sudden 
and was unexpected. Jesus was overwhelmed by it. 
He received the intelligence in silence, and went 
away alone as soon as he could. He spent that night 
by the sea in the solitary prayer which, while it made 
such havoc of his vitality, seemed strangely to renew 
the very treasure that it wasted. No man was wit- 
ness to those hours of grief and of resolve. 
In his personal bereavement a consciousness of 
personal peril now began distinctly to mingle. Jesus 
was not the man to be deceived by this thrust from 
the government. If he had ever doubted before, 
228 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
lie could doubt no longer that, as a political suspect, 
he himself was liable to mortal dangers. 
A strange story reached his ears about this time, 
which did not tend to allay his discomfort or the 
fears of his friends. For, when the rumors about his 
career went up to the palace, the murderer shook. 
Herod Antipas, turning pale with the superstition of 
guilt, tittered a cry whose weakness has gone into 
history with his unenviable name. 
" This," he said, " is John, the man I beheaded. 
He has risen from the dead to torment me I " 
Jesus, worried by dark facts and darker rumors, 
was thrown more and more into an inner solitude 
which no one could approach. His growing convic- 
tion that it was impossible to make the people under- 
stand the purpose of his life made him, at this time, 
a very sad man. 
An event soon occurred which revealed, past all 
mistaking, the significant and to him fatal truth. 
Up to this time he had secretly hoped something 
from human gratitude and from human intelligence. 
He was soon to learn that he had nothing to expect 
from either. 
It was at Bethsaida, upon the lake, a pleasant 
fishing-town (" House of Pish, 19 as the word goes), 
full of the cheerful bustle and the charming scenery 
which lend such vivacity to maritime life. There 
were two Bethsaidas, not of the same province. The 
peril of Jesus was now so obvious that he had found 
it necessary, for the time being, to take himself out 
of the political jurisdiction of. Antipas. From the 
fortress of Machserus John's meek spirit had bravely 
gone to God who made and loved it. 
FIVE THOUSAND GUESTS 229 
John's troubles were over ; but Herod's were not ; 
and those of Jesus had just begun. Haunted by re- 
morse for the cowardly slaughter of an innocent 
prisoner, Herod Antipas was very uncomfortable. 
But his superstitious uneasiness quickly developed 
into a more solid and reasonable alarm. 
The whole country was ringing with the name and 
with the achievements of the Nazarene. The mis- 
sionary trip of the twelve had immediate results 
which were almost disastrous. They had circulated 
the doctrines of their Rabbi so widely that it was 
impossible any longer to restrain these within local 
limits. Everybody was talking of Jesus, of his 
mysterious personality, his incredible deeds, his 
partly understood claims. That these could be any- 
thing but political, it was impossible for the Roman 
or the Hebrew mind to conceive. The palace now 
began distinctly to fear an insurrection. 
Jesus was no hot-headed enthusiast, narrow of 
sight, and blundering into avoidable dangers. For 
a man sacrificing himself utterly and with passion- 
ate gladness to a principle, he was remarkably care- 
ful in his public movements. He never anticipated 
his perils unnecessarily. He was perfectly sane, self- 
possessed, even adroit in his relation to affairs. He 
never forgot the true mathematics of a great work, 
which may put the terms of the equation a long 
way apart. He did not allow, as smaller souls 
may do, a false ideal of courage to blind him to the 
true. 
The time had not come to hurl his life away; 
a premature sacrifice was not in his plan. Herod 
230 THE STORY OF JESUS CHBIST 
Antipas could make no immediate trouble for a sus- 
pect beyond his own boundaries, and out of sight 
might be out of mind. Even for a day or so it 
might be worth while to be absent from Herod's 
range of vision. Jesus prudently went into Iturea, 
-the dominion of Philip the Tetrareh. 
Upper Bethsaida (known as Bethsaida, Julias), 
at the northeastern corner of the lake, was only six 
miles from Capernaum by water, though much fur- 
ther by land, and by either route the town was easily 
accessible. 
Jesus took his boat and sailed across the lake. 
The wind was light, and the voyage was a slow one. 
Seeking seclusion above all things at that time, he 
had chosen to land south of Bethsaida, off the plain 
of Batihah, in an uninhabited locality. 
It was a brilliant day. The sun and the sea were 
vivid. The sky was strong. The spring air was not 
too hot, but soft and pleasant. It was N"isan, the 
Month of Flowers. Vegetation was at its richest 
and brightest. Scarlet anemones ran everywhere. 
Touches of color, like candles of white and pink, told 
where the rock roses burned. The highly cultivated 
grass was like'plush to the eye and to the hand. 
The boat rocked gently upon the water. The 
fishermen moored it, and followed their Rabbi, 
wondering. For, see ! It looked as if all the world 
had come to meet him. Plainly, he was to be 
overwhelmed again. 
This was far larger and other than a local crowd. 
It was swelled by pilgrims en route to the Passover, 
and already it was perceived that the very persons 
FIVE THOUSAND GUESTS 231 
whom he had left behind, a throng accumulating as 
it moved, had overtaken Jesus. The people, won- 
dering only why the Nazarene had sailed away, had 
come around by land from Capernaum ; and were 
rapidly massing to meet him when he landed, intend- 
ing to head off his departure if, in fact, he meant 
to leave them. The consequence was a reception 
several thousand strong. 
The keen eye of Jesus swiftly took in the size of 
the crowd. He perceived that he was to have no 
ordinary audience, and that it would require no 
common handling. He walked thoughtfully on to 
meet it. 
It was a lonely plain where he landed, and, after 
glancing at the topography of the place and the 
position of the crowd, he climbed a knoll and began 
to give himself to their wants. The usual propor- 
tion of the diseased were in the throng. Even to-day, 
the traveler in the East is impressed with the hope- 
less, superstitious sick, who fill the roadsides wailing 
for relief which cannot be given to such ignorance. 
The sight of invalids drinking milk in which a line 
of the Koran has been washed, or of the disabled, 
suffering wounds to be stuffed with cayenne pepper, 
or the acutely ill swallowing prescriptions com- 
pounded of scorpions, silkworms, Spanish flies, and 
centipedes, gives us an idea of the kind of thing with 
which Jesus was always surrounded. 
The demands upon him that day at Batihah were 
enormous. He healed and preached, and healed 
again. He denied himself to nobody, and refused 
no act of mercy. He spoke with unusual fervor and 
232 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
healed with memorable power. The people seemed 
hardly to know which they wanted more, health 
for the soul or health for the body ; and hung upon 
him heavily, taking either or both, or anything that 
he might give. Meanwhile their number was grow- 
ing steadily, and became and remained utterly ab- 
sorbed in him. 
The day began to decline. The hot look passed 
from the cheek of the lake. The colors of the sky 
softened. The wind died down. The thick, short 
grass took on the golden radiance which strikes 
slantwise from a dipping sun. 
The throng numbered now as much as five thou- 
sand men, and many women and children who were 
not counted. These were of various nationalities, 
Hebrews, Greeks, Komans, Arabians, Persians, 
Phoenicians, and were more or less gorgeously 
dressed in the gay Oriental taste which the Eastern 
countries shared in common. It was a motley audi- 
ence, but it was a very picturesque one. 
Jesus had made himself heard quite plainly, 
though in the open air and by so many ; but as he 
approached the end of his afternoon discourse, his 
voice deepened and lowered with feeling, as if he 
felt that more depended upon the events of this day 
than he could explain or others understand. The 
hush in his own heart extended itself to his audience, 
which was so still and breathless when he ceased 
to speak that his last words roused an echo, gently 
answering him. 
Then a little bustle set in, and across it he heard 
the footsteps of two or three of his friends, who had 
FIVE THOUSAND GUESTS 233 
fallen back to common life again, and had resumed 
its cares. One of his disciples was speaking : 
" Send the people away. Lord. They have no- 
thing to eat. Look at them ! " 
Then the preacher, himself pale and weary, rous- 
ing from the abstraction of oratory, saw how faint 
they were, these people who had come so far, and 
had been so entranced by his address that they had 
forgotten even to notice that they had not eaten, and 
that they had no food with them. It was an invol- 
untary tribute to him, which he could but notice. 
It gratified him, and gave him some hope that his 
hard day's work had not been wasted. 
He shook his head when his anxious friends re- 
peated their desire to disperse the crowd, and order 
them away. It was some distance to Bethsaida vil- 
lage, and the way was wearisome. The hospitality 
of Jesus was warmly aroused. With a hearty im- 
pulse to treat his audience as his guests, he made a 
few practical inquiries into the condition of the com- 
missariat of his own parly. Significantly, Andrew 
exhibited five loaves and two small lake fish. This 
was all which the twelve had up to this moment pro- 
vided for their own meagre supper, and for his who 
had preached and healed all that severe day. The 
question of purchasing supplies was now discussed- 
But it was calculated that between thirty and forty 
dollars would be needed to provide any sort of enter- 
tainment, however simple, for so vast a number of 
guests. To the poor missionary band any such sum 
as this was out of the question, and the twelve were 
much disturbed that the Eabbi did not make short 
234 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 
work of the situation and command the crowd to 
"break up. 
It would have gone away at his wish. Just then 
it would have done anything for him. Impulsive, 
ardent, excitable, the throng was his. The people 
the sick whom he had cured, the troubled whom 
he had comforted, the erring whom he had startled, 
those longing for better lives whom he had invigor- 
ated at that moment adored him so that they did 
not see how they could leave him. This moved 
him, and he felt as if he could not send them away. 
A happy look swept his face. It was one of the 
rare moments when he felt that he was loved by 
the humanity he loved, and that what he did and 
suffered for it was not all thrown away. It is plea- 
sant to think that he had this hour of comfort, and 
that he had it just then and there. 
Suddenly came this unexpected order : " Make 
the company sit down. Separate them in groups of 
fifties on the grass. Then feed them as I shall com- 
mand you." 
The disciples, who had learned by this time to 
question no order, however astounding, which their 
master might give, obeyed him, perplexed enough. 
With precision the immense throng was divided, and 
delegates were deputed to attend to the wants of 
each division in its turn. This man of peace showed 
a military skill in the management of great bodies 
of men. The practical good sense, so rare in the 
exalted temperament, but so evident in his, mar- 
shaled his thousands like an experienced general. 
Indeed, we must remember that, in the handling of 
FIVE TEOUSAOT) GUESTS 235 
masses, Jesus had acquired an extraordinary experi- 
ence. Palestine, a small country, about one hundred 
and sixty miles long and seventy broad, was more 
thickly settled than Massachusetts. This little land 
is thought to have held between four and five millions 
of people. There were two hundred and four town- 
ships in Galilee alone ; the smallest had a population 
of fifteen thousand souls. Nazareth itself was a city 
of four or five thousand at the least, possibly of 
many more inhabitants. 
Palestine teemed ; and there was great compact- 
ness in the apportionment of life. No recluse in the 
wilderness, but a man always in contact with men, 
Jesus had exceptional opportunities to develop those 
elements of power which only masses of humanity 
can call forth. Of these opportunities he made, 
from first to last, an exceptional use. 
On this day in the Month of Flowers a day 
which proved to be one of the conclusive crises of 
his life he indulged his wish to entertain, his 
immense audience. He did not often indulge him- 
self in anything. He who had no home of his own, 
no chance to enjoy the happiness of being host ; he 
who would have made so gracious and so great a 
host, so generous, so thoughtful, so full of fine care- 
fulness for the comfort of his guests, felt a touch- 
ing pleasure on this evening. Excepting one other 
instance, somewhat like it, the occasion stands alone. 
This social entertainment personally given by Jesus 
was a beautiful scene. 
The people in their brilliant, many colored cos- 
tumes reclining on the vivid grass looked like flowers. 
236 THE STOBT OF JESUS CHRIST 
One of the recorders of the incidents, with more 
imagination than might have been expected of the 
plain and severe historians to whom we owe all that 
we know of Jesus, spoke of the brilliant ranks as 
garden beds, or parterres. 
Jesus in his blue talith, on the height above them, 
looked down; slightly flushed with happiness, and 
smiling. His white linen head-dress gave a certain 
pallor to his complexion, which was more delicate 
than that of most of his countrymen ; as his features 
were more regular: these had something of the 
Greek symmetry modeled by the Hebrew force. 
His countenance was both winning and commanding. 
In hours of exaltation, it drew the heart up to it by 
a kind of glory that awed, while it attracted. 
His appearance at that moment was one of great 
beauty. His expression was that of more than usual 
peace. It was one of the last times when those who 
loved him saw him ; saw him free from, anxiety or 
pain ; and they remembered it as long as they lived. 
His men had brought him their scanty provision 
for supper, and he had taken it into his outstretched 
hands. His eyes were fixed upon the sky. His 
smile settled into gravity ; this slowly assumed the 
look of prayer. Soon it was perceived that the 
Rabbi was asking the blessing of God upon the even- 
ing meal, and the twelve bowed their heads with the 
impulse of worship. Many in the throng did the 
same. Jesus used the Hebrew form of grace proper 
to be spoken over a meal of bread. He said : 
" Blessed art Thou, Jehovah our God, King of the 
world, who causes to come forth bre^d from the 
FIVE THOUSAND GUESTS 237 
earth." Somewhat suddenly, he gave the order to 
offer the food which he had blessed. 
BGs friends, half in consternation, much embar- 
rassed, but trusting that it would all come out well, 
somehow, began to distribute five loaves of bread and 
two fish, among five thousand people. 
This obedience and confidence seemed ridiculous, 
but proved sublime. 
What was to be said ? What was to be thought ? 
For five thousand ate, and were satisfied ; and ate 
and could eat no more. And they left upon the 
grass so much food, beyond the power of so many 
hungry people to make way with, that the astounded 
committee of the twelve went about, and picked up 
many basketf uls of scraps and untouched provisions. 
These were cheap wicker baskets, such as careful 
people carried on journeys, and used wherefrom to 
feed beggars. 
The wonder soon became understood among the 
throng. It raised a tempest of enthusiasm. The 
people were about dispersing, but now nothing could 
move them. Who could leave a man who could do 
a deed like that ? They rushed towards him. They 
clambered up to get nearer to him. Huzzas arose ; 
cries of admiration rent the still air. It was be- 
ginning to darken; but no one thought of home 
or shelter. No one thought of anything but the 
tall, serene form, the gleaming face, just beginning 
to grow indistinct in the dusk; those outstretched 
hands, that presence of serenity and of strength ; the 
loving heart, the mysterious gift, the mighty tender- 
ness, with the power to use it, and the will to use it, 
238 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
as no other man had done. Everybody tried to get 
nearer to him. Broken shouts arose, defining into 
words : 
"This is He!" 
The Messiah ! The Wonderful ! The Anointed ! " 
" Here He is ! Here is He we have sought so 
long ! No one else could do such things ! Our 
own eyes have seen ! It is the King ! " 
Then from the valley, as the shadow darkened 
and the outlines of the crowd became clouded to his 
eye, Jesus heard the shout taken up and carried on : 
" The King ! Let us to him ! Our King ! Our 
Bang I " 
The groves echoed the cry, and it reverberated 
with a curious sadness from rock to rock. The 
lake seemed to receive it wistfully, and to repeat it 
under breath of her lightest waves, as if she felt 
afraid to say it aloud for his sake, because she loved 
him. 
Jesus stood looking down ; now a dim form, a 
dimming face, high above the clamor of the people. 
He seemed at one instant, in the oncoming night, to 
blur and blend into it, like a mystery which might 
melt into it and vanish forever ; at the next, to stand 
there like some grand, eternal fact, carved out of 
the solid rock, and never to be shaken. He did not 
For his penetration was not deceived. He knew 
that in this happy evening hour, while the sun 
dipped and the wave whispered, and the light on the 
grass went out; while the people shouted, under- 
standing nothing, and loved him without consider- 
FTVB THOUSAND GUESTS 239 
ing Mm, lie knew that the turning of his fate was 
decreed. 
It has been said of him that he never trusted a 
mob. The wisest of men have been deluded by the 
adulation of an audience. He was not, even by 
this one, his kindest, his most pleasing. He knew 
that he could not depend upon these people to spare 
him or to save him ; that they would huzza to-day, 
and forget to-morrow. Did he understand that, 
having helped him to his doom, they would leave 
him to it ? We like to think that he did not, alto- 
gether, not quite yet. Even a few hours* respite 
was something to the tired man. But, while he 
stood, drowned in his own deep thoughts, the enthu- 
siasm of the people had made headway against a 
silence which they took to be that of irresolution 
or assent. 
The shout arose again ; this time with hot deter- 
mination : 
" Jesus, our King ! We will make "him King I " 
His quick divination perceived now the position 
in which he stood. Five thousand men were solidly 
moving from the plain, up the knoll, massing upon 
him from all points, with the intention of trying 
force upon him, if flattery and entreaty failed. By 
a bold coup his audience, his patients, his guests, 
all these people who were in debt to his sympathy 
and kindness, meant to capture him bodily, and 
drag him to the front of a great political rebellion. 
What should begin as a riot would end in a revolu- 
tion. An outburst of hero-worship would grow into 
an uncontrollable tragedy. 
CHAPTER XI 
A DECISIVE CRISIS 
SOME hours had passed. The "first evening," 
the " evening between the evenings," and the ** sec- 
ond evening " were gone. It was midnight ; and he 
was at last alone. 
It had been a hard contest ; but he had conquered 
the people. This was a much more difficult thing 
to do as his throbbing heart and exhausted nerve 
told him than it had been for him to feed five 
thousand men on five loaves of bread. In the esti- 
mate of his strange power one must rank verj high 
among mystical gifts the art, the force, the wit, 
the will wHch peaceably dispersed the mob that 
night. 
The personal friends of Jesus, swept into the gen- 
eral excitement, were almost carried off their feet. 
They would have liked nothing better than to see 
their Rabbi with a crown on his dear head. They 
considered no throne too good for him. They would 
have headed the rioters with equal zeal and indiscre- 
tion; and might have been in a Roman dungeon 
before another sunset. Jesus found it as important 
to control them as to dismiss the multitude of men 
who had gone into such a frenzy over the events of 
this exciting day. 
A DECISIVE CRISIS 241 
To the dismay of the twelve they were ordered to 
take to their boat at once and sail away, and that with- 
out his company. This was confounding. What a 
disappointment ! Not to stay and see what was going 
to happen ? To leave the Eabbi alone with the mob ? 
To have no share in this tremendous thing? To be 
sent home like children who could not be trusted in 
great public affairs ? It was hard. But they obeyed 
him, for the* command was given in a certain tone of 
his, not too often used, but as irresistible as whirl- 
wind, torrent, conflagration, or any force of nature 
when it came. When Jesus spoke in this way, it no 
more occurred to his friends to withstand him than 
to defy Jehovah. They went. Uncomfortable and 
unhappy, they set sail without him, and headed for 
the western shore of the lake. 
Jesus was now left* quite alone upon the plain of 
Batihah. He climbed to its highest hillock and 
sank, for he was worn out, upon the ground. 
He recognized perfectly that the crisis of his life 
had come. It was all in his own hands now, 
rather it was aE in his own heart. It was his to 
choose between glory and shame, between success 
and failure. Strictly speaking, it was not a choice 
between life and death. In either event, he stood 
but scant chance of life. An ordinary man would 
have been blinded by his position. A. demagogue 
would have suffered himself to be carried on the 
shoulders of the people into the maddest and great- 
est of Hebrew insurrections. The duller zealot, 
meaning generously, but thinking imperfectly, would 
have rushed headlong and tried to retreat too late; 
242 THE STORY OF JESUS CHBIST 
The trap would shut down on leader and on people 
alike; and it would snap with a Roman lock. 
Jesus recognized the fact that he lived in a time 
of anarchy and under an iron autocracy. From five 
million Jews Herod the Great had exacted three 
millions of dollars a year, a heavy tax for the 
average income. Desperate poverty filled the land 
which it stirred to perpetual revolt. The people 
were so poor that to be on the edge of starvation 
was a very common thing. Among the crowd that 
evening, no one knew how many there were who had 
no food with them simply because they could not 
afford it. The sympathy of Jesus with this kind of 
suffering was swift and steady. The first personal 
petition in what was known to literature and to 
worship as the Lord's Prayer was: Give us our 
daily bread. The Jews had not the resources in 
fiiemselves or in their conditions for a successful 
revolution against the proudest power of the world. 
The political astuteness of the Rabbi from Naza- 
reth has never received anything like its apprecia- 
tion. 
Jesus had extraordinary comprehension of affairs. 
In iihe lonely watch upon the shore of Gennesaret 
that night, he measured the force's of nations and 
grasped the situation of the civilized world. His 
own exalted enthusiasm, his personal success, his 
passion for humanity, did not confuse him for a 
moment as to the practical facts. He was familiar 
with the history of his people, of their riots, their 
famous insurrections, and the fates of their unsuc- 
cessful leaders. 
- A DECISIVE CBISIS 243 
He perceived distinctly that in any revolution, 
for any cause, under any leadership, subject Jeru- 
salem would stand no chance against omnipotent 
Rome. There would be an hour of fire of glory, of 
romance, of splendid patriotism, of brilliant resist- 
ance, and then the worst must be expected. Many 
a man has gladly given his life to be the chief figure 
of such an hour, and to go into history as a patriot 
defeated but magnificent. 
It is easy to die a hero. How hard to die a 
victim ! Jesus had to choose between the two. Lead 
his people on a hopeless national revolt he would 
not. Yet their political expectations were the sole 
basis on which they were likely to meet him. Their 
only intelligent idea of their Messiah was that of a 
powerful and obliging being who would free them 
from Rome and make a nation of them. He, Jesus 
their Christ, just for this hour their idol, he must 
disappoint them. But, if he did it, he must meet 
the consequences. There lay his terrible dilemma. 
True, there was another way. Yes . - . there 
was the other way. There had always been this 
other method of dealing with the great problem of 
his life. He had not used it, never once to his 
own advantage. 'It had been to him a holy treasure 
held in trust ; called upon only under what he be- 
lieved to be the orders of God. Suppose he fell 
back upon it now ? 
There in the midnight and the moonlight, with 
the lake at his feet, in silence, in exhaustion, in the 
utter solitude of a man who knows that even if his 
dearest friends were with him they could not under- 
THE STORY OF JESUS CHBIST 
stand Mm, and so feels less alone to be without 
them, he thought the question through. 
There was this other way. Powers which other 
souls knew not were his. He had not tested this 
beautiful and dangerous difference from his kind all 
this while to no avail. He had not cultivated his 
mystical force for over two years without a faith in 
it, and a comprehension of it, that had grown with 
the force itself. Between his first timid exercise of 
functions occult and sacred and the great deeds 
which he had done in the last six months there 
was a long march. He had learned much from the 
education of his own power. But it is not to be for- 
gotten that he learned everything from its restraint. 
How much more than he had wrought had he left 
undone! How much more than he had given had 
he held back ! How much more than the wildest 
enthusiasm of his maddest mob believed him capa- 
ble of might he have achieved 1 How much more 
might he yet achieve ? . . . Ah, how much ! 
His thoughts moved back to the first conflict in 
the desert near Jericho. Severe and decisive as 
that had been, it was the trial of the theory, not of 
the facts of life. It is one thing to forecast experi- 
ence and adjust it to principle in imagination. It is 
quite another to face the actual crisis which experi- 
ence has slowly and painfully brought. Sore with 
suffering yet throbbing with achievement, the mind 
comes up with a shock in the clutch of the situation 
which it has so long contemplated at a distance with 
all the ease of remoteness and much of the sense of 
unreality. The visions of the desert were now the 
A DECISIVE CRISIS 246 
struggles of the hour, Jesus was not free from the 
strange law by which a soul is often subjected to the 
same kinds of trial all through life. This terrible 
monotony in suffering he knew to the piteous end. 
He had now to front his old questions, and meet 
again the ghosts of the spiritual foes that he had 
laid at the outset of his career. 
Should he take that other, that omitted way? 
Should he pursue his Father's plan, dim, inscruta- 
ble, so f$r above his age and his people that it had 
no more coherence to them than a delusion of the 
demonized whom he healed ? Or should he do the 
thing, the only thing, from his position comprehen- 
sible to his race and his times ? Should he levy his 
mystical powers ? Should he summon invisible co- 
horts to his aid ? Should he carry out the national 
aspirations, not as a man among men, but as a God, 
scorning men and their methods, flinging aside 
human restrictions and assuming divine prerogatives? 
Should he confuse, baffle, smite, slay, triumph, by 
inexplicable means ? Should he work out the mis- 
sion of his life under human laws or above them ? 
The Jews had the primitive idea of royalty, of its 
purpose and its prerogatives. Jesus had quite an- 
other. The words "king," "kingdom," "throne/' 
meant one thing to them, quite a different one to 
him. In his brief, intense public life, wherein the 
energies and fervors of a very long career had been 
crowded into a little over three years, he had never 
been untrue to the dreams of his first youth. His 
exaltation did not desert him in the stress of his 
tremendous experience. He had kept his great 
246 THE STOEY OF JESUS CHKIST 
ideal. He had never deviated from his unapproach- 
able consecration. His belief remained unshaken 
that he knew the purposes of God in his life's his- 
tory, and that these were not the expectations of 
men. He had been selected for a fate as solitary as 
it was sublime. 
His was the kingdom of the soul. He was the 
King of the spirit. His was the realm in which 
the little life of nations, their wars, their revolu- 
tions, their political schemes, their paltry Clangor, 
could not enter. The ambitions of Augustus Irnpe- 
rator were petty beside the aspirations of Jesus. 
Nothing less than the permanent control of the 
world would ever realize these. But this force must 
come from within, not from without. 
His legions were the elements of human charac- 
ter ; his court was in the human heart ; his throne 
was humanity itself. Of its obligations and of its 
possibilities he had a perfectly new conception to 
enforce. 
This he had tried to make his practical, commer- 
cial people understand. He had preached, but they 
were puzzled ; he had lived, but they were perplexed. 
He had suffered, but they did not comprehend why 
or to what end. He had hoped against evidence 
and struggled against fate. They did not, could not, 
would not understand. 
Now ! To sweep over everything like flood or si- 
moom ; to start and surge on like any common revo- 
lutionist, this they could comprehend. The pa- 
tient, humble Kabbi, curing the sick, comforting the 
unhappy, helping the poor, was a mystery* What 
A DECISIVE CRISIS 247 
should be done with him ? With it ? A leader of 
revolts was altogether a simple problem. Add the 
mystical element, to which the Hebrew mind was 
quite accustomed. That was not half as perplexing 
as a modest man of power honoring the claims of 
duty in a plain way, using great gifts for no clearer 
end than to make people well, pure, and happy. 
Suppose he took off the check imposed by his 
subtle sense of spiritual honor? Suppose he gave 
his mysterious nature the rein ? Suppose he brought 
to the situation but a little portion of the forces, of 
the resources, which were his, and which he now 
knew were his ? If he had chosen precisely here to 
add the extra-natural touch to the natural powers ? 
. . . What a dazzling vision ! What success ! 
What glory ! How much more than the prospects 
of a politician! It was the future of a spiritual 
statesman. Jesus Christ was the only man of his 
age who could have hurled Rome from the throne 
of the world. But he could not have done it under 
common laws, and that he was meant to do it under 
the superhuman he did not believe. He would not 
touch it on that basis. What then ? 
The crisis was so profound, he had been so ab- 
sorbed, the night was passing in such emotion and 
exhaustion, that the solitary thinker had not noticed 
the change of weather. Suddenly a breeze fanned 
him in the face from the southerly, and he perceived 
that it had veered and was rising steadily. With 
his quick consciousness of the situation of others, 
always putting it before his own, he perceived in- 
THE STORY OF JESUS CHBIST 
stantiy that his friends were sailing against a head 
wind, and remembered that it was by his particular 
command that they were not ashore. 
He rose at once, and stood looking off over the 
lake, shading his eyes with his hand from the bril- 
liant Oriental moonlight. He could see from the 
point where he stood that the little boat was having 
a hard or even a dangerous time with what was now 
a severe squall, if not a gale. 
The claims of his solemn night's vigil yielded in- 
stantly to the interruption which mercy made upon 
them. He hurried down to the shore of the lake. 
His own trouble could wait. That of his disciples 
could not and should not. 
Six miles by water, but much more than that by 
land, the distance to the western shore spread before 
him. He had no boat. On that coast, now deserted, 
none was accessible. It was far on in the night, and 
no help was likely to reach the party ; they might 
drown before anything could be done for them. 
Overcome with anxiety for his chosen friends, Je- 
sus performed one of the few really impulsive acts 
of his life. He stepped directly into the water. It 
was soon deep, and grew rapidly deeper. The space 
between bfrn and the struggling boat was far too 
large for the strongest swimmer. The wind had 
now become a tempest. The waves ran high, and 
both wind and waves were against him. But he did 
not stop to think of that. Exalted, insistent, he 
trusted himself upon the little sea. His heart was 
so full of distress for those he loved that he could 
not think of himself. His soul was so full of trust 
A DECISIVE CRISIS 249 
i God his high mood vibrated so in harmony with 
he being of his invisible Father that the laws of 
ature seemed to him at that moment like his serfs. 
. . Through them or against them, reach the 
oat ! Defy the waves I Trample the water ! . . . 
Vho can tell? Had he ever done the deed before? 
n those long and lonely nights by the lake, un- 
matched, unseen, had he ever experimented with his 
lysterious faculties, trusting himself by these alone 
pon the waters ? Could he have explained in this 
ray any of his singular appearances or disappear- 
nces which his friends were not always altogether 
ble to follow? Had he ever freed himself from 
tie thrall of the land, from the bondage of the keel, 
i some weary and restless mood which only the 
ceedom of the water could calm ? Was the event 
f this night the movement of an educated or an 
ntried faculty? Or was it rather the overflow 
Dree of that hour of exaltation when five thousand 
