enemy came to the top of the hill, and the riflemen were likely to
bring them to a halt before they could reach that point. The captain
had taken a position where he could see without being seen. Sooner than
he expected he saw the head of the Confederate column, and ten minutes
later the riflemen began the discharge of their pieces. The first man
to drop from his saddle was the commander of the company, who was the
most conspicuous mark at the head of his command.
CHAPTER X
THE SHARPSHOOTERS OF MILLERSVILLE
The forty-two riflemen of the Home Guard were sharpshooters who had
practised for many years with the weapon, both as hunters and by firing
at a mark. Some of them were past the military age; and the lieutenant
in command of the detachment was sixty years old, and he had won his
spurs as the best shot in the town. He was a man of influence, and his
skill had procured him his present position in the company.
Lieutenant Ripley was at the right of the line of sharpshooters. He had
stationed his men in the woods, and ordered them not to fire till he
did so; and they were to load and fire at will after he had given the
first discharge. When the captain of the Confederate cavalry dropped
from his horse, it was known by whose shot he had fallen. A couple of
men were ordered to dismount, and bear him to the side of the roads;
and the lieutenant who succeeded to the command ordered a halt.
Captain Gordon and Colonel Halliburn were behind the farmer's house,
where they had retired, not to avoid the bullets of the enemy, but to
obtain a position where they could see without being seen. The horse of
the former stood on a knoll, from which his rider could look over the
corner of the low building, and the latter was at his side. Both of
them saw the captain of the company fall from his horse.
"Ripley fired that shot," said the colonel. "He was never known to miss
his aim when he had fair play."
"That was a good beginning, at any rate," added the captain.
"But why don't the next man in the line fire?" mused the commander of
the Home Guard, uttering his thought.
They could not know then the reason; but they learned afterwards that
the lieutenant had ordered them not to do so, as he wished to observe
the effect of the death of the captain, for he had not moved after he
fell. The company seemed to be staggered by the event for the space of
a minute. The men all turned their heads towards the woods; and as no
shot followed the first one at once, they might have inferred that the
fatality to the commander had been the work of an assassin.
This view was immediately confirmed by the captain's successor; for he
ordered four troopers to dismount, and go into the woods in search of
the murderer. But they did not reach the edge of the forest before fire
was opened upon them, and every one of them dropped dead or wounded.
The rifle was a terribly effective weapon in the hands of the
sharpshooters. The company had certainly fallen into an ambush. The
troopers could do nothing on their horses in the woods, and for the
moment they were practically helpless.
The fire continued all along the line of riflemen, one discharge at a
time, so that no two men should aim at the same soldier or officer; and
all along the detachment every one seemed to bring down his man. The
lieutenant saw the havoc made in his command; but Captain Gordon did
not give the order for his company to advance on the plan he had
arranged.
The battle appeared to be fighting itself without any assistance from
the summit of the hill, and it was evident that the enemy had no
knowledge of any force outside of the forest.
"That lieutenant has just given an order, but I could not make out what
he said," observed the colonel. "He is in a tight place, and you have
set a very ugly trap for that company to fall into, Captain Gordon."
"The assistance of your company, Colonel, has given me a very decided
advantage," replied the captain.
"And you have made excellent use of it. My men are safe in the woods,
and the lieutenant seems to be losing his time."
"You can see what his order meant now, for his men are dismounting.
They are going into the woods to clean out the enemy, and that is
really the only thing he can do," replied Captain Gordon. "It will be
time for me to put a finger in the pie very soon, for the protection of
your men, if for nothing else."
"You need not trouble your head about the riflemen, for they all have
legs; and even Ripley, the oldest man among them, can use his
walking-pins as well as any of them. They will retreat through the
woods, using their rifles as they retire."
Every alternate man of the company was dismounted, giving the
bridle-rein of his horse to one mounted. They double-quicked into the
forest; but they began to drop, to cling to the trees for support, or
to retire from the field before the observers on the hill lost sight of
them. Still Captain Gordon did not give the word to advance.
"Isn't it time for this company to move forward?" asked the colonel.
"Not quite; it is best to wait a short time, till the cavalrymen get a
little farther into the woods," answered the captain. "Your men are
firing quite rapidly now, and are evidently retiring in good order."
"I am not at all concerned about them. They can keep behind the trees,
firing as they retreat. The riflemen have hunted through that forest,
which extends five or six miles to the north, and they have known every
acre of it for years. They are quite at home there; and they will not
fall into any creek or mud-hole, as the enemy would without a guide."
"They are brave men, and they have done good work this morning. But it
is now time for my company to make a move; for I will not leave your
guards to do all the fighting," added Captain Gordon, as he descended
from the knoll, followed by his companion.
He had already explained to his two lieutenants in command of the
platoons what they were to do at a signal sounded by the bugler. The
captain rode to the top of the hill, though he did not expose himself
to the fire of the enemy, who were still unaware of his presence.
Stufton was near the head of the column, and he gave him the order to
sound the advance. He did it with full lungs. Lieutenant Lyon,
commanding the second platoon, gave the order to march, and his men
started at a trot, which was immediately changed to a gallop. The
farmer's fence had been removed by order of the captain when he had
arranged his plan for the action; and Deck, on the right flank of his
command, took to the field, where they had plenty of space, though
recent rains had turned the soil into soft mud. But the speed was kept
up in spite of this impediment till the head of the platoon reached the
left, or foot, of the Confederate company.
In response to the bugle signal, Lieutenant Belthorpe advanced upon the
head of the enemy's column, deploying to the side of the road, and
continuing till they filled up the space to the foot of Deck's force.
The enemy had discharged their carbines, or other pieces, at random,
and apparently without orders; but they inflicted no injury upon the
flying horsemen. Deck was the first to give the order to charge; but he
had been prohibited by the captain, to whom some one had reported the
young lieutenant's custom of leading his men into action, from placing
himself in front of his men when he went in upon a charge, unless in a
case of actual emergency.
Deck promised to obey this order, and he did so in the advance of his
platoon; and when he ordered the charge upon the left of the enemy's
column, he was on its right. Every man of the Confederates was
encumbered with an extra horse, though as they confronted the Union
cavalrymen he rid himself of his charge; and thus turned loose, the
animals were soon wandering wherever they found an opening. Deck had
very nearly his full complement of men, and so had Tom Belthorpe; for
the soldiers of the Home Guard had been detailed to guard the
baggage-wagons, and picket the rear of the column. One-half of the
Confederates had been sent into the woods, and by this time they had
advanced a considerable distance in pursuit of the riflemen.
The enemy were at present doubly outnumbered; and though they realized
the fact, they fought as though they had been contending man for man.
Indeed, they contended desperately against the odds before them, and
deserved victory for their steady valor. But with them then it was a
"lost cause," and through no fault of their own. Before the Union
column had reached the position assigned to them, the lieutenant in
command had sent his bugler into the forest to sound the retreat for
the portion of the company pursuing the riflemen.
As he returned, the officer shouted at him to give the signal for the
charge, and his men promptly responded to it. The fighting then became
furious on both sides. The second lieutenant in front of Deck's men was
a noble-looking young man, who fought like a lion at bay, and defended
himself with great skill from the two Union troopers that assailed him
in front; but it was an unequal conflict, and presently he was wounded
in the sword-arm, so that he could no longer use his sabre with that
hand, and grasped it with his left. He struck with it several times;
but he could not handle his weapon as he had before, and he was soon
cut near the shoulder of his left arm, receiving a wound which entirely
disabled him.
Deck, filled with admiration for the brave young officer, ordered one
of the men to lead the horse of the wounded soldier out of the crowd,
which he did, conducting him to the side of the Union lieutenant. It
was soon reported along the line that the first lieutenant of the
Confederates had been disabled, and had retired from the field. By this
time the crack of the rifles was again heard in the forest, though at a
considerable distance from the road. The captain interpreted these
sounds as the retreat of the force of the enemy sent into the woods,
the riflemen shooting them down as they retired.
Before this force, more than decimated by the sharpshooters, could
reach the road, however they hurried, the other half of the company had
been driven to the verge of the forest; but they realized that they
were thoroughly beaten, and that any further resistance meant nothing
but slaughter. The orderly sergeant of the company, who succeeded to
the command, shouted to Lieutenant Belthorpe that he was ready to
surrender. Tom repeated the words to the captain, and Stufton was
ordered to give the proper signal to bring the attack to an end.
"You have fought like a hero, sir, and I am sorry for you; but you are
my prisoner," said Deck to the wounded lieutenant when he was conducted
to his side.
"I surrender," replied the prisoner faintly; and it was evident to Deck
that he was in great pain from the wound in his shoulder.
[Illustration: "THEY LAID HIM ON THE GRASS JUST AS THE RECALL WAS
SOUNDED." Page 141.]
The Union lieutenant called a man to assist him in dismounting the
officer. They laid him on the grass just as the recall was sounded, and
proceeded to remove his coat. The blood was flowing freely from both of
his wounds, and he was quite faint. But Deck saw at once that the wound
was not fatal; and he sent word to the Confederate surgeon, who was
attending to the men that were brought into the field in the rear of
the column, that he was needed for the officer of his command.
In the meantime, Deck tied up the worst wound of the prisoner with his
handkerchief, and did what he could to stop the flow of blood. He used
some of the rags with which his mother had supplied him; but the
surgeon promptly appeared.
"I am sorry to see you wounded, Lieutenant Lawrence," said the doctor,
as he observed the pale face of the young officer; and then gave him a
medicine glass full of a dark fluid, which was probably brandy.
"It was a hard fight, Doctor," replied the sufferer.
"But Lieutenant Lawrence has fought like the bravest of the brave, and
I am sorry for his misfortune," added Deck.
"Who may you be, sir? I see that you wear the uniform of the blue,"
said the surgeon, looking him in the face.
"He is a Yankee officer; but he has been kind to me, and had me brought
out of the fight when I was utterly disabled," said the wounded
officer, apparently revived by the stimulant he had taken. "I am
grateful to him for his kindness."
"I am Lieutenant Lyon of the Riverlawn Cavalry," replied Deck. "This
gentleman's bravery and skill excited my admiration; and I have done
the little I could for him."
"I thank you, Lieutenant Lyon, for what you have done for my friend;
and if you are an enemy, you are a noble one, and I honor you for your
Christianity on the battle-field," replied the surgeon, as he took the
hand of Deck and pressed it warmly. "I reckon all the Yankee officers
are not like you, Lieutenant."
"Those in my squadron are," answered Deck.
"Your name is Lyon. I have heard of the Riverlawn Cavalry in Edmonson
County, where I have an uncle; and I was thinking you were the major in
command of it," added the surgeon, still at work on his patient.
"That is my father," replied the lieutenant.
Life Knox came to Deck at this moment, to announce that another force
of cavalry was approaching from the direction of Jamestown, though he
had not been able to make out what it was, whether friend or foe.
CHAPTER XI
THE APPROACH OF ANOTHER CAVALRY FORCE
The soldiers on both sides were already engaged in removing the dead to
the side of the road next to the woods, and the wounded to the
respective hospitals, which had been established in the fields of the
farmer. The riflemen had heard the recall, and followed the defeated
cavalrymen, bearing their wounded, and handed them over to the surgeon,
who had called in three medical students to his aid. Lieutenant Ripley
had handled his sharpshooters so skilfully that not a single man had
been killed, and only three had been wounded.
He had kept his force behind the trees, and fought the enemy at long
range, in which the carbines and other firearms were not effective; and
this policy explained the absence of all fatalities in Ripley's force.
The three wounded men were not severely injured, and only one was
disabled.
Deck sent Sergeant Knox to Captain Gordon with the information of the
approaching cavalry force which was now the great matter of interest.
He sent Life and Milton as scouts, to ascertain "their politics," as
the sergeant put it. His eyes were very sharp, and always looking about
him, like the skilful seaman when he comes on deck. He reported that he
had seen the force descending a hill more than a mile distant,
disappearing in a few minutes in the valley below. Life and Milton
started off at a gallop, and had soon passed out of sight.
"What does that report mean, Captain Gordon?" inquired Colonel
Halliburn, as soon as the two scouts had dashed down the column.
"I am sure I don't know; but if I should infer anything from the
appearance of a force at this time, it would be that it was another
company of Confederate cavalry," replied the captain. "Can any
intelligence of our movements have reached the enemy to the eastward of
us, Colonel?"
"It is more than possible that some one going across by the private
road passing my brother's mansion may have carried the news of what has
been going on at Breedings, and on the road from Millersville to
Harrison, but not to Jamestown, for the great wood lies in the route,
and no one travels that way."
"It is probable, then, that the force approaching is Confederate, on
its way either to forage or to retrieve the disasters to that side in
the affairs of yesterday; and all we have to do is to prepare to fight
another engagement. I believe the dead and wounded have all been
removed by this time. I see that the sharpshooters have assisted my men
in this work."
"I sent an order to them to that effect," added Colonel Halliburn.
"I thank you for doing so; and all the more that we are threatened by
another force of the enemy," continued the captain. "Your men,
especially the riflemen, have rendered very important service in this
action, and I shall report it to Major Lyon when the squadron is
reunited. The rest of your men have been very useful to us, not only in
guarding the wagons, but in the fight with the second platoon. I think
you had better send an orderly to Lieutenant Ripley with an order that
he remain where he is by the woods; for if we engage another company of
the enemy, the riflemen will be needed to act as sharpshooters, and to
render the same service as before, though they will probably not be
driven back again beyond rifle-shot distance from the road."
"As the enemy approach they will see the hospitals on their left, and
that will apprise them that a battle has been fought here."
"We have not time to remove these hospitals, and put everything as it
was at the beginning of the engagement; but I shall fight this
encounter so far as possible on the same plan as before, for it worked
admirably; and we owe the result as much to our fortunate position as
to anything else, for it enabled me to place your riflemen where they
did the most effective work of the morning."
Captain Gordon had already despatched messengers to his two
lieutenants, instructing them to move their platoons back to the side
of the hill to the positions they had occupied before the action; and
this order was now in process of being executed. Dr. Barlow, though he
had been a fighting man at the beginning of the engagement, was now
attending to the wounded, assisted by some men he had selected from his
own company.
"I think you had better take possession of the house of this Secesh
farmer for the wounded. He would have spoiled the morning's work if he
had escaped, for he would have warned the enemy of their danger from a
superior force."
The captain approved the idea, and instructed the colonel to effect the
removal with his own force. The riflemen were also directed to remove
the dead into the forest until there was time to dispose of them. The
ground was still strewn with the dead, as they had fallen under the
destructive fire of the sharpshooters. With the exception of the
Confederate hospital, which was near the foot of the hill,--for their
own surgeon had chosen the location by the side of a flowing brook, in
the shadow of some mighty walnuts,--the hill presented the same
appearance as when the enemy came in sight of it, and had been lured on
to their defeat by the deceptive silence of the locality; for not a
sound or a moving thing betrayed the peril that surrounded them.
Life Knox and Milton had run their horses to the utmost extent of their
ability for over half a mile. When the tramp of the horses was heard,
they halted and concealed themselves at the side of the road, at a bend
of it; but they had hardly done so before the sound of the horses' feet
ceased to be heard, and it looked as though the force had halted. Life
dismounted, and climbed a tree not less than a hundred feet in height,
which enabled him to see into the low ground on the other side of a
slight elevation.
The cavalry were extended along a brook, watering their horses on both
sides of it. The trees overtopped the stream so that it was quite dark
on its banks, and the distance was so great that Life could not make
out whether the men wore the blue or the gray, especially as he had
made up his mind that the force was an enemy, and the trees half hid
them from his view. He descended from his perch, and waited on the
ground till he heard the clatter of a couple of horses near his
hiding-place. He obtained a view of these men, and they wore blue
uniforms.
"All right!" exclaimed Life. "They wear the blue."
He waited no longer, but darted into the road, followed by Milton. The
two men, who were scouting in advance of the company, brought their
carbines to the shoulder.
"I reckon you needn't shoot, Keene," said the sergeant quietly.
"Sergeant Knox!" cried the chief scout. "How came you here? Where is
your company?"
"They ain't fur from here. Are you piloting the second company of the
Riverlawn Cavalry, Keene?"
"Fox and me are treading down the mud for the company."
"All right; we uns will fall back and report to Major Lyon," said Life,
and he galloped back to the main body of the company.
The commander of the squadron was riding at the head of the second
company, and appeared to be absorbed in his own thoughts. He had
learned a great deal about the situation in Pulaski, Russell, and Adair
Counties, where the Confederate foragers had raided to secure supplies
for the main army, and where, as in many other parts of the State, the
independent partisan bands had conducted operations on their own
responsibility. A spur of the Cumberland Mountains extended through the
eastern part of the first-named county, and most of the region between
this range and Virginia was mountainous. It was not so rich in supplies
for an army as the territory to the west of it, to which the raiders
had confined their depredations.
Major Lyon, like a good soldier, occasionally cast his eyes around him
to take in the condition and topography of the country through which he
was passing; and he discovered the two scouts as they approached the
head of the company. His first supposition was that the first company
had fallen into trouble, and that the two scouts had been sent forward
to hurry up the other company; for the two, as it had been arranged by
the major, were to come together at Harrison, twenty-five miles from
Millersville.
Life Knox rode forward in advance of Milton, and the commander of the
squadron promptly recognized the tall, gaunt form of the sergeant; and
his thoughts dwelt upon the occasion that had brought him this visit.
Life approached the major to within a rod of him, when he stopped his
horse, and saluted him with his usual deference to his superiors.
"Good-morning, Life," said the commander. "I hope no misfortune has
brought you in this direction. Are you escaping from an enemy that has
overwhelmed the first company?"
"Nothin' of the sort, Major Lyon," replied Life, a broad smile lighting
up his face. "We have met an enemy, and they'd run away if we'd let
'em."
This reply removed the burden of anxiety which had fallen upon the mind
of the major when he discovered the scouts, and he smiled in his placid
manner with the sergeant.
"Where is your company, Life?" he asked.
"I reckon it ain't more'n half a mile from here," replied the scout.
"I suppose you have news for me," continued the commander.
"Lots on't; but I can say that Captain Gordon, whether he is to meet a
friend or an enemy in the cavalry, is comin' down this road. I don't
reckon he's worryin' about it; but he may just be a bit anxious to know
whether or not he is to fight you. If you don't object, Major Lyon,
I'll let Milton ride back and tell the cap'n he won't have to fight no
more just yet."
"Send him at once, Life;" and in a minute more the other scout was
galloping his horse in the direction of the hill where the first
company were posted. "What have you been doing, sergeant?"
"The fust company has fit into three scrimmages, and cleaned out a gang
of gorillas," replied Life, as though he realized that he had a good
report to make in answer to the question.
"You have been busy; and that explains the reason why I did not find
you at Harrison as I expected," replied the major. "Tell me all about
it; and as Captain Gordon is not in need of a re-enforcement, we will
walk the horses, and listen to your story. Captain Truman, let the men
walk the horses."
"Company--attention!" shouted the captain, wheeling his horse.
"Walk--March!"
"Place yourself on the left of Sergeant Knox, and listen to his story."
Life saluted the captain, who said he was glad to see him, and took the
place to which he was assigned.
"We had not gone two miles from Columbia before a messenger came to us
and said that a cavalry force was moving down on Breedings," Life
observed. "The captain took the second platoon under Lieutenant
Belthorpe, and rushed over to Breedings. Lieutenant Lyon was ordered to
march with his platoon and the baggage-wagons towards Millersville,"
added Life.
"Dexter with an independent command!" exclaimed the young man's father;
for he seemed to regard him still as a small boy, and said so.
"He was; but the oldest officer in the squadron couldn't a done it no
better," replied Life with enthusiasm; and he proceeded to tell about
the appearance of Grace Morgan in the field, and gave a hurried account
of the manner in which the guerillas had been trapped and captured.
Then came the battle with the force which had escaped from Breedings,
the march to Millersville, the re-enforcement of the Home Guard, and
the fight at the hill. The major asked a great many questions, for the
sergeant had been obliged to hurry his narrative, and Life answered
them.
As they approached the hill, the head of the first company were
marching down the descent; for Milton had reported his message to
Captain Gordon, who was a little startled when he saw the private
returning without the sergeant, fearful that something had happened to
him.
The news brought by the new recruit was immediately circulated through
the company and that of Colonel Halliburn. The riflemen were called
from the forest, and came to the road mounted, with their weapons slung
on their backs. The whole force was formed on the slope of the hill;
and when the second company marched up the declivity, with Major Lyon
at the head of it, they presented arms, and then indulged in a vigorous
cheer.
CHAPTER XII
A NEW COMPANY OF MOUNTED RIFLEMEN
The troopers were dismissed for dinner, and all the officers of the
squadron assembled in front of the farmer's house while their horses
were fed; and it was an interesting occasion. The skirmishes were gone
over again more in detail than Life had been able to give them. Deck
was required to report his affair at the house of Mr. Halliburn, and he
went over it as minutely as his father desired.
"It was very well managed, my son," said the major, who was not
especially liberal in praise of the young man as a rule. "You captured
the entire gang without firing a gun, though if Captain Coonly had
conducted his raid with even ordinary prudence, it would have been
otherwise; but it is the business of a commanding officer to profit by
the blunders of the enemy."
"It was very handsomely done," suggested Captain Gordon.
"I think it was; but Captain Coonly will not be a great military
commander," added the major. "But what has become of the prisoners
captured in this affair?"
"We marched them to Millersville, and turned them over to Colonel
Halliburn," answered Deck.
"We quartered them in a disused tobacco factory; and probably in time
we shall let them go," added the colonel. "We have no use for them; and
we can use our supply of provisions and forage much better than in
feeding these ruffians and their horses."
"I believe there will soon be a change in the sentiments of the people
in this vicinity, or at least the guerillas will find it advisable to
cease preying upon their neighbors," said the major; but he did not
explain in what manner this change would be brought about. "How
happened you to fall into the fight in the road after you had brought
your prisoners there, Dexter?"
"I think my answer to that question ought to come in after Captain
Gordon's report of the action at Breedings," replied the lieutenant.
The commander of the first company reported in detail his affair at the
fort.
"Captain Letcher, of the Tennessee cavalry, could not get all his men
into the fort, and he stationed a platoon on a hill on the other side
of the road. I sent Lieutenant Belthorpe to attack them on the hill,
while I assaulted and carried the fort, riding the horses over the
breast-work, and upsetting the iron cannon. My lieutenant defeated the
force on the hills, and drove them across the country till the recall
was sounded for them. I understand now that the detachment followed the
road towards Millersville."
"They came down that road just as I reached it with my prisoners from
Mr. Halliburn's mansion. He is the brother of Colonel Halliburn, here
present. The retreating force was under the command of Captain Letcher,
and he attacked us as soon as we dashed into the road. We defeated him,
with a loss in killed and wounded of nearly half of his command. When
Captain Gordon arrived at the scene of the skirmish with the second
platoon, he paroled the prisoners. In the afternoon we marched to
Millersville."
"Who is the man that came over to the second company with Sergeant
Knox?" asked the major. "He was a stranger to me; and I thought I knew
every man in the squadron."
"His name is Winfield Milton, of Miltonville," replied Captain Gordon.
"My authority as a recruiting-officer is still in force, and I enlisted
him on the recommendation of Lieutenant Lyon."
"He is very useful to me as a guide, and for his knowledge of the
country for many miles around us. He is the intended of Grace Morgan,
who first informed Life of what was going on at the mansion of her
guardian," added Deck.
"You did not make any mistake when you enlisted him," said Colonel
Halliburn. "I have known him for many years, and I will vouch for him.
When I say that he is worthy of Grace Morgan, one of the noblest girls
ever raised in Kentucky, I say more than you can understand."
"He came into our ranks this morning; and he has done his duty
faithfully as a guide and a soldier, and fought like a hero in the
action this morning," added the captain of the first company.
"He ought to be an officer, for he is a very intelligent and
well-educated man; and he will be an honor to the service," continued
the colonel.
"I have not yet heard the particulars of the skirmish, which seems by
the looks of things about here to have swelled to something like the
proportions of a battle," added Major Lyon.
Captain Gordon referred to the colonel; and he repeated the story of
Squire Walcott, who had brought news from the other side of the
Cumberland, and had informed him of the intention of the company of the
Tennessee cavalry to move on Millersville.
The commander of the first company then minutely related the details,
beginning with his order of battle. The voluntary offer of his command
by Colonel Halliburn had proved to be of the greatest importance; for
while the cavalrymen had fought like lions, the burden of the action
had fallen on the riflemen acting as sharpshooters in the woods.
"They caused the enemy to divide his force in the road, sending half of
them into the woods. We owe a debt of gratitude to Lieutenant Ripley,
the oldest man in the line, who commanded the riflemen in the forest.
He can report that part of the action better than any other person."
"I understood the captain's plan of action, and I did my best to carry
it out," said Lieutenant Ripley. "I had forty-two men under my command,
and every one of them could split a rifle-ball on a knife. About every
one of them dropped his man in the road. When half the Confederates
were sent into the woods dismounted to clean us out, I drew them as far
away from the road as possible. I believed I could do the best thing
for the captain's plan by leading half the enemy as far as possible
from any support. If I was wrong, I am willing to be forgiven, for I
had only my general orders."
"You did exactly the right thing, Lieutenant Ripley," added the
captain. "I waited until you had led them at least half a mile, and
then I ordered my two platoons to advance. They charged into the
remainder of the company in the road. The enemy were tangled up with
the loose horses; and when the officers had all fallen, the force out
of the forest surrendered."
"What were our losses, Captain?" asked the major.
"Three men killed, and seven wounded; only one of the riflemen had a
wound of any consequence."
"We fought behind the trees, and at long range," interposed Lieutenant
Ripley. "I was ordered to do so."
"Do you know the enemy's loss, Captain Gordon?" inquired his superior
officer.
"Fifteen killed, or reported as missing, with no doubt that most of
them were killed in the woods, and twenty-one wounded. They fought at a
very great disadvantage, and the sharp-shooters probably caused the
greater portion of their loss."
"I think I understand what the first company have been doing since we
parted company at Columbia," said the major. "As soon as you are ready
we shall march back to Jamestown. I left Harrison very early this
morning. As I did not find you there, as I expected, day before
yesterday, and you did not arrive the following day, I became
considerably concerned, for your company had the shortest route from
Columbia to Harrison, Captain Gordon. The enemy were foraging in all
directions west of the hills, and I was afraid you had been overmatched
by some of them, and I concluded to march in search of you.
"When I reached Jamestown about eight, I learned that a company of
Tennessee cavalry had camped there over night, and had left at an early
hour this morning; but I have found you, and your delay is fully
explained."
"Have you met the enemy on your way, Major Lyon?" asked the senior
captain.
"The company was compelled, about half a mile from Columbia, to deal
with a horde of about thirty guerillas; but their officer was not so
stupid as the one with whom my son had to deal, and they ran away as
soon as they saw us. We pursued and killed about a dozen of them; but
they escaped by fording a swift-running stream, and some of them were
drowned there. It was not prudent to lose any of my men by drowning;
for that was not a proper death for a soldier to die, though it may be
just as creditable to his conduct as to fall from his horse on the
field."
As usual, the commander of the squadron kept his own counsel, and he
did not say what he intended to do when he reached Jamestown. He had
come down from Liberty to Harrison, which was on the road to Somerset,
where he had expected to join the other company, and wait for orders.
He was in possession of the current news, so far as it had been
divulged by those to whom the army operations had been intrusted; and
his orders were to halt somewhere in the vicinity of Somerset. He was
aware that General Thomas had been sent down with a considerable force,
and a portion of it was in the vicinity; but it had not yet been
concentrated for the attack upon the intrenched camps of General
Crittenden and General Zollicoffer.
The Union general was waiting for the rest of the force detailed to
take part in the campaign; and had also been detained by the condition
of the roads, which rendered it almost impossible to move the
baggage-wagons and the artillery. Friday and Saturday it rained
incessantly in torrents, and raised Fishing Creek and other streams so
that it was impracticable to cross them. The general had with him the
Fourth Kentucky Infantry, and a portion of the First Kentucky Cavalry,
to which the two companies of the Riverlawn force nominally belonged,
though they had been on detached duty thus far since they were mustered
in.
Thomas had also with him, or within call, regiments from Ohio, Indiana,
and Minnesota. Major Lyon informed his audience of officers that their
regiment was somewhere in the vicinity, though he did not know where;
but his officers had never seen this force, and were not greatly
interested. The regiment had not yet been filled up, though others
enlisted later had their full complement of men and companies.
"Don't you think we had better enlist another company?" asked Captain
Gordon, who evidently had in his head a big idea.
"I don't know about that; but I am inclined to think we had better
leave that to the proper authorities, or to local leaders where men are
available, for we are away from Riverlawn and Bar Creek. I doubt if we
could find men enough in that vicinity to form another company."
"That was not my idea," interposed the captain. "How many men have you
in your company of Home Guards, Colonel Halliburn?" he asked rather
abruptly, as he proceeded to develop his purpose.
"I have sixty-two here, and there are about fifty more from various
parts of three counties, many of whom seldom meet with us," replied the
colonel, wondering what the captain was driving at.
"We have forty-two riflemen here; are there any more of them?"
"As many more, I should say."
"Don't you think it is a great pity that your company, or a portion of
it, are not in actual service in the army, where they are so much
needed?"
"Well, it is rather necessary to have some at home to look out for the
women and children, and to raise food for the army and the people,"
replied the colonel with a smile, as he began to fathom the idea of the
questioner.
"It seems to me that Colonel Halliburn is right in the main, though he
might be able to spare a portion of his men," added the major.
"I might as well let it all out at once as do it in driblets," said
Captain Gordon. "I should like to enlist your forty-two sharpshooters
as the nucleus of a company of mounted riflemen, to be armed as
cavalry, except that the rifle shall take the place of the carbine, the
men to serve mounted or dismounted, as occasion may require; not a very
radical idea, for cavalry are not infrequently called upon to serve on
foot, as we have an instance this very day."
"I like the idea very much," returned the colonel.
"I will talk about the matter with my riflemen, and let you know what
they think of it at once," said Ripley; and he hastened to his command,
who were still eating their dinner.
The plan was talked over by the riflemen, and Lieutenant Ripley
heartily approved the scheme, but thought that he might be too old to
enlist, though he was still a healthy and vigorous citizen. The plan
was not entirely new; for steps had been taken, and perhaps
successfully, to organize "mounted infantry" in various places, and the
command of Lieutenant Ripley did not essentially differ from such a
force.
CHAPTER XIII
A NIGHT IN A JAIL AT JAMESTOWN
Lieutenant Ripley returned from the conference with the riflemen, and
reported that thirty of them were willing to enlist in such an
organization as that proposed; the others were unable to reply until
they had been home to their families. The lieutenant was confident that
he could raise the sixty proposed as a beginning within a reasonable
time, and the colonel had a similar confidence in the patriotism of the
loyal Kentuckians in that part of the State.
The men had finished their dinners, the prisoners had been paroled with
the approval of Major Lyon, who was beginning to be in a hurry to march
back to Jamestown as soon as the first company had rested from the hard
work of the day; and there had been much more of it than could be
indicated in the narrative of the principal events.
"I am sorry that we cannot take with us even a small company of those
riflemen, for I think they would be very useful in the course of a few
days," said Captain Gordon, after the major had given the order to form
the column for the march. "It is plain to everybody who knows anything
about the movements of the army that there will be a battle within a
week."
This statement seemed to fire the enthusiasm of the old lieutenant of
the Home Guards, and he talked apart with Colonel Halliburn very
earnestly for some time. Then he went over to the riflemen, who had
mounted their horses in readiness to return to their homes. He appeared
to have proposed something to them, and in a few minutes he hastened
back to the group of officers.
"Thirty-six of the riflemen desire to go with you as temporary
volunteers for immediate service," said Ripley. "Will you accept them,
Major Lyon?"
"I will, though I cannot take them as a part of my squadron, for our
ranks are now very full," replied the commander.
"I meant to have them go as an addition to your force, to be under your
command," replied the lieutenant.
"Of course there can be no objection to your going with us in this
manner, and you will bring up the rear of my command," added Major
Lyon, as the orderly sergeants reported that the companies were formed.
The officers took their proper places, and the order to march was given
to the captains. Life Knox and Milton were again ordered to scout the
road and its adjacent fields in advance. The wagons were ready to fall
in behind the riflemen, and the column moved. The company officers kept
in their places, but the major went where he pleased along the line.
When the column reached the foot of the hill, he fell back to the
second platoon of the first company, where Deck was riding on the left
of the first section.
"I was so busy that I neglected to ask the names of the men who were
killed in the action where you met the enemy on the road from
Columbia," said the major, as he wheeled his horse, and took his place
by the side of his son.
Deck had noticed that he had asked no questions when the report of the
killed was given to him; for something had called his attention away
from the subject at that moment. The lieutenant was glad to escape the
necessity in that presence of informing his father of the death of his
cousin; for this was a family matter, aside from military routine.
"I was glad you did not ask that question then," added Deck.
"I understand you, Dexter; for when I saw Sandy in the ranks I looked
for Orly Lyon; but I did not see him. Was he badly wounded?" inquired
the commander.
"Worse than that, for he was killed in the action. He fought bravely,
and he always did his duty faithfully; for, however it was with his
father and his brother, Orly's heart was in the work," replied Deck
with no little feeling.
The major was silent for a moment. It was evident that he was moved by
the news, though he always controlled himself; for the fact that his
two sons and two nephews were liable at any time to be struck down in
their youth was present to his mind when he had time to think of such
things. Orly was only sixteen, and he was the first of either his own
or his brother's family to pass over to the other shore.
"I am more sorry for his father and mother than for him; for he died in
defence of his country, and that is the death of the hero and patriot.
It will be a heavy blow to his poor mother; and, unlike her husband,
her heart was on the right side. She told me when her boys enlisted in
the Home Guard, a Secessionist body, that it broke her heart to have
her sons fight with the enemies of her country, but that she could be
even willing to have them sacrificed on the right side."
"Do you know where Uncle Titus is now, father?" asked Deck.
"He is in a prison-camp, the name of which I have in my valise in one
of the wagons. I shall write to him as soon as I have time, and to your
Aunt Meely."
In another hour the head of the column arrived in the midst of a
pouring rain at Jamestown, which is the capital of Russell County. It
was the 17th of January. It had been clear in the morning; but the rain
began to fall not a quarter of an hour before the column reached the
town. It was almost a deluge, and it was likely to continue into the
night. The Secessionist element was predominant in the place; but the
major took forcible possession of a number of buildings which would
afford shelter to his troopers and their horses.
He found several Unionists, who gave him all the information he needed
in regard to buildings, and he put some who attempted to prevent him
from occupying the buildings under arrest. The county prison was one of
the structures occupied; and the prisoners were confined in it, with
troopers enough lodging there to keep them in order.
"You'll catch fits when you fall in with Old Zollicoffer," said one of
the prisoners, as Life Knox, who was in charge of the jail, locked him
into the cell with half a dozen others.
"We uns 'll be very glad to see Old Zolly, and I reckon we shall pay
him a visit afore many days," replied the sergeant.
"If you do, you uns 'll git wiped out," added the man.
"Mebbe we shall do the wiping," said Life, as the keeper of the prison
came up to him.
"I reckon I needn't stop here no longer," said he. "But I'll show you a
room before I go, where you can sleep in a bed. It's where I sleep,
though I hain't got no prisoners in the jug just now. There ain't much
civil law afloat around here; and a Secesh man can kill a Union man,
and nothing said about it."
"I'm much obleeged to you; and I consayt that you ain't much of a
Secesh yourself," answered Life, as his conductor unlocked a door near
the entrance to the jail.
"I reckon I ain't," replied the keeper as he led the way into the room
and closed the door after him; "but it don't do for me to say much
about it here. Them fellers you brought in here would hang me to the
first tree they found if they knowed it."
The apartment was not a cell. It contained a bed and some furniture,
and the sergeant thought he could be very comfortable in it till
morning.
"Which way did your troopers come from, Sergeant?" asked the keeper.
"From the west. We left Millersville this morning," answered Life.
"We had a company of Cornfeds in town last night, and they started for
Millersville this mornin'. I reckon you hain't seen nothin' on 'em,
have you?" continued the keeper, as he seated himself on the bed while
the sergeant occupied the only chair in the room.
"Cornfeds is good," laughed Life; "but I cal'late they don't get much
of that sort of feed just now."
"Then I reckon you hain't seen 'em."
"I reckon that we uns have seen 'em; and I reckon them Cornfeds wish
just now that we hadn't seen 'em."
"Did you meet 'em?"
"I'll bet we did, about five miles from here; and about one-third on
'em got killed before they surrendered."
"Surrendered!" exclaimed the keeper. "I thought, when I heerd 'em talk,
that no Cornfeds ever did anything o' that sort."
"They got badly chawed up, and they couldn't help theirselves; that's
the whole on't. Is there any news floatin' about round here?" asked
Life.
"I reckon there is, lots on't. If Thomas ain't already camped round
here somewhere, he ain't fur off. They say he's waiting for some
general's brigade to jine 'im afore he goes for Old Zolly's
entrenchments," replied the keeper, whose name was Butters, as the
sergeant learned from him later.
"I reckon our major will find out where he is," added Life.
"This town is about fifteen miles from Mill Springs; and I consayt that
there will be a bigger battle than we have had in these parts, or
anywhere in the State, before long. General Thomas is sent down here to
clean out Old Zolly, and I reckon he'll do it," replied Butters. "I
wish I could have a hand in it."
"So you kin if you are so minded. You don't seem to have nothin' to do
here now. Ever been in the mili'try?"
"No; but I kin shoot a rifle nigh on to as good as old Ripley over to
Millersville, and he can beat any other man at it in Kaintuck."
"Ripley is here with a party of his riflemen, and I cal'late he'll take
you into his company if you want to go."
"Where is he now? I'd like to see him, for I've often been over to his
place to shoot with him," said Butters.
"He bunks in the jail with some of his company."
"I know a dozen others here who are in the same boat with me; and two
more on us were hanged a month ago for shooting a Cornfed sergeant for
killing two good Union men."
"I'll find Ripley for you," said Life, as he left the room, intent upon
adding more men to the loyal army.
He went through the jail, calling the name of the lieutenant till he
found him, and then conducted him to the room of the keeper. Ripley
gave his hand to Butters, and was very glad to see him. The bed was
wide enough for two, and Life invited the lieutenant to sleep with him.
"No; I reckon I'll take Lieutenant Ripley up to my house, for he's an
old friend of mine," interposed Butters; "and he's the only man that
can ever beat me shootin' with a rifle. I'm ready to jine for this
campaign under him."
"I have thirty-six men now, serving for a short time till we get things
settled, and I should like enough to make up a hundred," replied
Ripley, as he left the prison with Butters.
He had not been gone ten minutes before Lieutenant Lyon came in. The
sentinel on duty showed him Life's room. The visitor was wet to his
bones, as the French say; for he had been looking up some Union men his
father wished to see, and he had brought them to the hotel where the
officers were quartered. One of them was a captain, and another was his
host in the town; and the major had been directed to report to the
former.
Deck had been sent out to find him; for it was reported that he was in
Jamestown, and not in Harrison, where he had expected to find him, but
had not. His room had been taken from him for this officer, as he was
the lowest in rank of any commissioned officer. His father had sent
him out with directions to take a couple of men from the quarters of
Lieutenant Belthorpe, who was the officer of the day, and find a room
where he could in the town. But he knew that Life Knox was in command
at the jail, and he preferred to go there.
"You are wet to the skin, Leftenant!" exclaimed the sergeant, as he
admitted him to the room.
"Not the first time I have been so since we left Riverlawn," replied
Deck. "You have got a good room here, Life."
"Good enough; but I cal'late to camp on the floor, and give this bed to
