that they are sure to be such good friends, and are just suited to each
other. The law of natural selection applies to almost everything we want
in the world, from food and climate to a wife.
When Clare and her mother had established themselves as usual on the
terrace under the vines that afternoon, Brook came and sat beside them
for a while. Mrs. Bowring liked him and talked easily with him, but
Clare was silent and seemed absent-minded. The young man looked at her
from time to time with curiosity, for he was not used to being treated
with such perfect indifference as she showed to him. He was not spoilt,
as the phrase goes, but he had always been accustomed to a certain
amount of attention, when he met new people, and, without being in the
least annoyed, he thought it strange that this particular young lady
should seem not even to listen to what he said.
Mrs. Bowring, on the other hand, scarcely took her eyes from his face
after the first ten minutes, and not a word he spoke escaped her. By
contrast with her daughter's behaviour, her earnest attention was very
noticeable. By degrees she began to ask him questions about himself.
"Do you expect your people to-morrow?" she inquired.
Clare looked up quickly. It was very unlike her mother to show even that
small amount of curiosity about a stranger. It was clear that Mrs.
Bowring had conceived a sudden liking for the young man.
"They were to have been here to-day," he answered indifferently. "They
may come this evening, I suppose, but they have not even ordered rooms.
I asked the man there--the owner of the place, I suppose he is."
"Then of course you will wait for them," suggested Mrs. Bowring.
"Yes. It's an awful bore, too. That is--" he corrected himself
hastily--"I mean, if I were to be here without a soul to speak to, you
know. Of course, it's different, this way."
"How?" asked Mrs. Bowring, with a brighter smile than Clare had seen on
her face for a long time.
"Oh, because you are so kind as to let me talk to you," answered the
young man, without the least embarrassment.
"Then you are a social person?" Mrs. Bowring laughed a little. "You
don't like to be alone?"
"Oh no! Not when I can be with nice people. Of course not. I don't
believe anybody does. Unless I'm doing something, you know--shooting, or
going up a hill, or fishing. Then I don't mind. But of course I would
much rather be alone than with bores, don't you know? Or--or--well, the
other kind of people."
"What kind?" asked Mrs. Bowring.
"There are only two kinds," answered Brook, gravely. "There is our
kind--and then there is the other kind. I don't know what to call them,
do you? All the people who never seem to understand exactly what we are
talking about nor why we do things--and all that. I call them 'the other
kind.' But then I haven't a great command of language. What should you
call them?"
"Cads, perhaps," suggested Clare, who had not spoken for a long time.
"Oh no, not exactly," answered the young man, looking at her. "Besides,
'cads' doesn't include women, does it? A gentleman's son sometimes
turns out a most awful cad, a regular 'bounder.' It's rare, but it does
happen sometimes. A mere cad may know, and understand all right, but
he's got the wrong sort of feeling inside of him about most things. For
instance--you don't mind? A cad may know perfectly well that he ought
not to 'kiss and tell'--but he will all the same. The 'other kind,' as I
call them, don't even know. That makes them awfully hard to get on
with."
"Then, of the two, you prefer the cad?" inquired Clare coolly.
"No. I don't know. They are both pretty bad. But a cad may be very
amusing, sometimes."
"When he kisses and tells?" asked the young girl viciously.
Brook looked at her, in quick surprise at her tone.
"No," he answered quietly. "I didn't mean that. The clowns in the circus
represent amusing cads. Some of them are awfully clever, too," he added,
turning the subject. "Some of those fiddling fellows are extraordinary.
They really play very decently. They must have a lot of talent, when you
think of all the different things they do besides their feats of
strength--they act, and play the fiddle, and sing, and dance--"
"You seem to have a great admiration for clowns," observed Clare in an
indifferent tone.
"Well--they are amusing, aren't they? Of course, it isn't high art, and
that sort of thing, but one laughs at them, and sometimes they do very
pretty things. One can't be always on one's hind legs, doing Hamlet, can
one? There's a limit to the amount of tragedy one can stand during life.
After all, it is better to laugh than to cry."
"When one can," said Mrs. Bowring thoughtfully.
"Some people always can, whatever happens," said the young girl.
"Perhaps they are right," answered the young man. "Things are not often
so serious as they are supposed to be. It's like being in a house that's
supposed to be haunted--on All Hallow E'en, for instance--it's awfully
gruesome and creepy at night when the wind moans and the owls screech.
And then, the next morning, one wonders how one could have been such an
idiot. Other things are often like that. You think the world's coming to
an end--and then it doesn't, you know. It goes on just the same. You are
rather surprised at first, but you soon get used to it. I suppose that
is what is meant by losing one's illusions."
"Sometimes the world stops for an individual and doesn't go on again,"
said Mrs. Bowring, with a faint smile.
"Oh, I suppose people do break their hearts sometimes," returned Brook,
somewhat thoughtfully. "But it must be something tremendously serious,"
he added with instant cheerfulness. "I don't believe it happens often.
Most people just have a queer sensation in their throat for a minute,
and they smoke a cigarette for their nerves, and go away and think of
something else."
Clare looked at him, and her eyes flashed angrily, for she remembered
Lady Fan's cigarette and the preceding evening. He remembered it too,
and was thinking of it, for he smiled as he spoke and looked away at the
horizon as though he saw something in the air. For the first time in her
life the young girl had a cruel impulse. She wished that she were a
great beauty, or that she possessed infinite charm, that she might
revenge the little lady in white and make the man suffer as he deserved.
At one moment she was ashamed of the wish, and then again it returned,
and she smiled as she thought of it.
She was vaguely aware, too, that the man attracted her in a way which
did not interfere with her resentment against him. She would certainly
not have admitted that he was interesting to her on account of Lady
Fan--but there was in her a feminine willingness to play with the fire
at which another woman had burned her wings. Almost all women feel that,
until they have once felt too much themselves. The more innocent and
inexperienced they are, the more sure they are, as a rule, of their own
perfect safety, and the more ready to run any risk.
Neither of the women answered the young man's rather frivolous assertion
for some moments. Then Mrs. Bowring looked at him kindly, but with a
far-away expression, as though she were thinking of some one else.
"You are young," she said gently.
"It's true that I'm not very old," he answered. "I was five-and-twenty
on my last birthday."
"Five-and-twenty," repeated Mrs. Bowring very slowly, and looking at the
distance, with the air of a person who is making a mental calculation.
"Are you surprised?" asked the young man, watching her.
She started a little.
"Surprised? Oh dear no! Why should I be?"
And again she looked at him earnestly, until, realising what she was
doing, she suddenly shut her eyes, shook herself almost imperceptibly,
and took out some work which she had brought out with her.
"Oh!" he exclaimed. "I thought you might fancy I was a good deal older
or younger. But I'm always told that I look just my age."
"I think you do," answered Mrs. Bowring, without looking up.
Clare glanced at his face again. It was natural, under the
circumstances, though she knew his features by heart already. She met
his eyes, and for a moment she could not look away from them. It was as
though they fixed her against her will, after she had once met them.
There was nothing extraordinary about them, except that they were very
bright and clear. With an effort she turned away, and the faint colour
rose in her face.
"I am nineteen," she said quietly, as though she were answering a
question.
"Indeed?" exclaimed Brook, not thinking of anything else to say.
Mrs. Bowring looked at her daughter in considerable surprise. Then Clare
blushed painfully, realising that she had spoken without any intention
of speaking, and had volunteered a piece of information which had
certainly not been asked. It was very well, being but nineteen years
old; but she was oddly conscious that if she had been forty she should
have said so in just the same absent-minded way, at that moment.
"Nineteen and six are twenty-five, aren't they?" asked Mrs. Bowring
suddenly.
"Yes, I believe so," answered the young man, with a laugh, but a good
deal surprised in his turn, for the question seemed irrelevant and
absurd in the extreme. "But I'm not good at sums," he added. "I was an
awful idiot at school. They used to call me Log. That was short for
logarithm, you know, because I was such a log at arithmetic. A fellow
gave me the nickname one day. It wasn't very funny, so I punched his
head. But the name stuck to me. Awfully appropriate, anyhow, as it
turned out."
"Did you punch his head because it wasn't funny?" asked Clare, glad of
the turn in the conversation.
"Oh--I don't know--on general principles. He was a diabolically clever
little chap, though he wasn't very witty. He came out Senior Wrangler at
Cambridge. I heard he had gone mad last year. Lots of those clever chaps
do, you know. Or else they turn parsons and take pupils for a living.
I'd much rather be stupid, myself. There's more to live for, when you
don't know everything. Don't you think so?"
Both women laughed, and felt that the man was tactful. They were also
both reflecting, of themselves and of each other, that they were not
generally silly women, and they wondered how they had both managed to
say such foolish things, speaking out irrelevantly what was passing in
their minds.
"I think I shall go for a walk," said Brook, rising rather abruptly.
"I'll go up the hill for a change. Thanks awfully. Good-bye!"
He lifted his hat and went off towards the hotel. Mrs. Bowring looked
after him, but Clare leaned back in her seat and opened a book she had
with her. The colour rose and fell in her cheeks, and she kept her eyes
resolutely bent down.
"What a nice fellow!" exclaimed Mrs. Bowring when the young man was out
of hearing. "I wonder who he is."
"What difference can it make, what his name is?" asked Clare, still
looking down.
"What is the matter with you, child?" Mrs. Bowring asked. "You talk so
strangely to-day!"
"So do you, mother. Fancy asking him whether nineteen and six are
twenty-five!"
"For that matter, my dear, I thought it very strange that you should
tell him your age, like that."
"I suppose I was absent-minded. Yes! I know it was silly, I don't know
why I said it. Do you want to know his name? I'll go and see. It must be
on the board by this time, as he is stopping here."
She rose and was going, when her mother called her back.
"Clare! Wait till he is gone, at all events! Fancy, if he saw you!"
"Oh! He won't see me! If he comes that way I'll go into the office and
buy stamps."
Clare went in and looked over the square board with its many little
slips for the names of the guests. Some were on visiting cards and some
were written in the large, scrawling, illiterate hand of the head
waiter. Some belonged to people who were already gone. It looked well,
in the little hotel, to have a great many names on the list. Some
seconds passed before Clare found that of the new-comer.
"Mr. Brook Johnstone."
Brook was his first name, then. It was uncommon. She looked at it
fixedly. There was no address on the small, neatly engraved card. While
she was looking at it a door opened quietly behind her, in the opposite
side of the corridor. She paid no attention to it for a moment; then,
hearing no footsteps, she instinctively turned. Brook Johnstone was
standing on the threshold watching her. She blushed violently, in her
annoyance, for he could not doubt but that she was looking for his name.
He saw and understood, and came forward naturally, with a smile. He had
a stick in his hand.
"That's me," he said, with a little laugh, tapping his card on the
board with the head of his stick. "If I'd had an ounce of manners I
should have managed to tell you who I was by this time. Won't you excuse
me, and take this for an introduction? Johnstone--with an E at the
end--Scotch, you know."
"Thanks," answered Clare, recovering from her embarrassment. "I'll tell
my mother." She hesitated a moment. "And that's us," she added, laughing
rather nervously and pointing out one of the cards. "How grammatical we
are, aren't we?" she laughed, while he stooped and read the name which
chanced to be at the bottom of the board.
"Well--what should one say? 'That's we.' It sounds just as badly. And
you can't say 'we are that,' can you? Besides, there's no one to hear
us, so it makes no difference. I don't suppose that you--you and Mrs.
Bowring--would care to go for a walk, would you?"
"No," answered Clare, with sudden coldness. "I don't think so, thank
you. We are not great walkers."
They went as far as the door together. Johnstone bowed and walked off,
and Clare went back to her mother.
"He caught me," she said, in a tone of annoyance. "You were quite right.
Then he showed me his name himself, on the board. It's Johnstone--Mr.
Brook Johnstone, with an E--he says that he is Scotch. Why--mother!
Johnstone! How odd! That was the name of--"
She stopped short and looked at her mother, who had grown unnaturally
pale during the last few seconds.
"Yes, dear. That was the name of my first husband."
Mrs. Bowring spoke in a low voice, looking down at her work. But her
hands trembled violently, and she was clearly making a great effort to
control herself. Clare watched her anxiously, not at all understanding.
"Mother dear, what is it?" she asked. "The name is only a
coincidence--it's not such an uncommon name, after all--and besides--"
"Oh, of course," said Mrs. Bowring, in a dull tone. "It's a mere
coincidence--probably no relation. I'm nervous, to-day."
Her manner seemed unaccountable to her daughter, except on the
supposition that she was ill. She very rarely spoke of her first
husband, by whom she had no children. When she did, she mentioned his
name gravely, as one speaks of dead persons who have been dear, but that
was all. She had never shown anything like emotion in connection with
the subject, and the young girl avoided it instinctively, as most
children, of whose parents the one has been twice married, avoid the
mention of the first husband or wife, who was not their father or
mother.
"I wish I understood you!" exclaimed Clare.
"There's nothing to understand, dear," said Mrs. Bowring, still very
pale. "I'm nervous--that's all."
Before long she left Clare by herself and went indoors, and locked
herself into her room. The rooms in the old hotel were once the cells of
the monks, small vaulted chambers in which there is barely space for the
most necessary furniture. During nearly an hour Mrs. Bowring paced up
and down, a beat of fourteen feet between the low window and the locked
door. At last she stopped before the little glass, and looked at
herself, and smoothed her streaked hair.
"Nineteen and six--are twenty-five," she said slowly in a low voice, and
her eyes stared into their own reflection rather wildly.
CHAPTER V
Brook Johnstone's people did not come on the next day, nor on the day
after that, but he expressed no surprise at the delay, and did not again
say that it was a bore to have to wait for them. Meanwhile he spent a
great deal of his time with the Bowrings, and the acquaintance ripened
quickly towards intimacy, without passing near friendship, as such
acquaintance sometimes will, when it springs up suddenly in the shallow
ground of an out-of-the-way hotel on the Continent.
"For Heaven's sake don't let that man fall in love with you, Clare!"
said Mrs. Bowring one morning, with what seemed unnecessary vehemence.
Clare's lip curled scornfully as she thought of poor Lady Fan.
"There isn't the slightest danger of that!" she answered. "Any more than
there is of my falling in love with him," she added.
"Are you sure of that?" asked her mother. "You seem to like him.
Besides, he is very nice, and very good-looking."
"Oh yes--of course he is. But one doesn't necessarily fall in love with
every nice and good-looking man one meets."
Thereupon Clare cut the conversation short by going off to her own room.
She had been expecting for some time that her mother would make some
remark about the growing intimacy with young Johnstone. To tell the
truth, Mrs. Bowring had not the slightest ground for anxiety in any
previous attachment of her daughter. She was beginning to wonder whether
Clare would ever show any preference for any man.
But she did not at all wish to marry her at present, for she felt that
life without the girl would be unbearably lonely. On the other hand,
Clare had a right to marry. They were poor. A part of their little
income was the pension that Mrs. Bowring had been fortunate enough to
get as the widow of an officer killed in action, but that would cease at
her death, as poor Captain Bowring's allowance from his family had
ceased at his death. The family had objected to the marriage from the
first, and refused to do anything for his child after he was gone. It
would go hard with Clare if she were left alone in the world with what
her mother could leave her. On the other hand, that little, or the
prospect of it, was quite safe, and would make a great difference to
her, as a married woman. The two lived on it, with economy. Clare could
certainly dress very well on it if she married a rich man, but she could
as certainly not afford to marry a poor one.
As for this young Johnstone, he had not volunteered much information
about himself, and, though Mrs. Bowring sometimes asked him questions,
she was extremely careful not to ask any which could be taken in the
nature of an inquiry as to his prospects in life, merely because that
might possibly suggest to him that she was thinking of her daughter. And
when an Englishman is reticent in such matters, it is utterly impossible
to guess whether he be a millionaire or a penniless younger son.
Johnstone never spoke of money, in any connection. He never said that he
could afford one thing or could not afford another. He talked a good
deal of shooting and sport, but never hinted that his father had any
land. He never mentioned a family place in the country, nor anything of
the sort. He did not even tell the Bowrings to whom the yacht belonged
in which he had come, though he frequently alluded to things which had
been said and done by the party during a two months' cruise, chiefly in
eastern waters.
The Bowrings were quite as reticent about themselves, and each respected
the other's silence. Nevertheless they grew intimate, scarcely knowing
how the intimacy developed. That is to say, they very quickly became
accustomed, all three, to one another's society. If Johnstone was out of
the hotel first, of an afternoon, he moped about with his pipe in an
objectless way, as though he had lost something, until the Bowrings came
out. If he was writing letters and they appeared first, they talked in
detached phrases and looked often towards the door, until he came and
sat down beside them.
On the third evening, at dinner, he seemed very much amused at
something, and then, as though he could not keep the joke to himself, he
told his companions that he had received a telegram from his father, in
answer to one of his own, informing him that he had made a mistake of a
whole fortnight in the date, and must amuse himself as he pleased in the
interval.
"Just like me!" he observed. "I got the letter in Smyrna or somewhere--I
forget--and I managed to lose it before I had read it through. But I
thought I had the date all right. I'm glad, at all events. I was tired
of those good people, and it's ever so much pleasanter here."
Clare's gentle mouth hardened suddenly as she thought of Lady Fan.
Johnstone had been thoroughly tired of her. That was what he meant when
he spoke of "those good people."
"You get tired of people easily, don't you?" she inquired coldly.
"Oh no--not always," answered Johnstone.
By this time he was growing used to her sudden changes of manner and to
the occasional scornful speeches she made. He could not understand them
in the least, as may be imagined, and having considerable experience he
set them down to the score of a certain girlish shyness, which showed
itself in no other way. He had known women whose shyness manifested
itself in saying disagreeable things for which they were sometimes sorry
afterwards.
"No," he added reflectively. "I don't think I'm a very fickle person."
Clare turned upon him the terrible innocence of her clear blue eyes. She
thought she knew the truth about him too, and that he could not look her
in the face. But she was mistaken. He met her glance fearlessly and
quietly, with a frank smile and a little wonder at its fixed scrutiny.
She would not look away, rude though she might seem, nor be stared out
of countenance by a man whom she believed to be false and untrue. But
his eyes were very bright, and in a few seconds they began to dazzle
her, and she felt her eyelids trembling violently. It was a new
sensation, and a very unpleasant one. It seemed to her that the man had
suddenly got some power over her. She made a strong effort and turned
away her face, and again she blushed with annoyance.
"I beg your pardon," Johnstone said quickly, in a very low voice. "I
didn't mean to be so rude."
Clare said nothing as she sat beside him, but she looked at the opposite
wall, and her hand made an impatient little gesture as the fingers lay
on the edge of the table. Possibly, if her mother had not been on her
other side, she might have answered him. As it was, she felt that she
could not speak just then. She was very much disturbed, as though
something new and totally unknown had got hold of her. It was not only
that she hated the man for his heartlessness, while she felt that he had
some sort of influence over her, which was more than mere attraction.
There was something beyond, deep down in her heart, which was nameless,
and painful, but which she somehow felt that she wanted. And aside from
it all, she was angry with him for having stared her out of countenance,
forgetting that when she had turned upon him she had meant to do the
same by him, feeling quite sure that he could not look her in the face.
They spoke little during the remainder of the meal, for Clare was quite
willing to show that she was angry, though she had little right to be.
After all, she had looked at him, and he had looked at her. After dinner
she disappeared, and was not seen during the remainder of the evening.
When she was alone, however, she went over the whole matter
thoughtfully, and she made up her mind that she had been hasty. For she
was naturally just. She said to herself that she had no claim to the
man's secrets, which she had learned in a way of which she was not at
all proud; and that if he could keep his own counsel, he, on his side,
had a right to do so. The fact that she knew him to be heartless and
faithless by no means implied that he was also indiscreet, though when
an individual has done anything which we think bad we easily suppose
that he may do every other bad thing imaginable. Johnstone's discretion,
at least, was admirable, now that she thought of it. His bright eyes and
frank look would have disarmed any suspicion short of the certainty she
possessed. There had not been the least contraction of the lids, the
smallest change in the expression of his mouth, not the faintest
increase of colour in his young face.
So much the worse, thought the young girl suddenly. He was not only bad.
He was also an accomplished actor. No doubt his eyes had been as steady
and bright and his whole face as truthful when he had made love to Lady
Fan at sunset on the Acropolis. Somehow, the allusion to that scene had
produced a vivid impression on Clare's mind, and she often found herself
wondering what he had said, and how he had looked just then.
Her resentment against him increased as she thought it all over, and
again she felt a longing to be cruel to him, and to make him suffer just
what he had made Lady Fan endure.
Then she was suddenly and unexpectedly overcome by a shamed sense of her
inability to accomplish any such act of justice. It was as though she
had already tried, and had failed, and he had laughed in her face and
turned away. It seemed to her that there could be nothing in her which
could appeal to such a man. There was Lady Fan, much older, with plenty
of experience, doubtless; and she had been deceived, and betrayed, and
abandoned, before the young girl's very eyes. What chance could such a
mere girl possibly have? It was folly, and moreover it was wicked of her
to think of such things. She would be willingly lowering herself to his
level, trying to do the very thing which she despised and hated in him,
trying to outwit him, to out-deceive him, to out-betray him. One side
of her nature, at least, revolted against any such scheme. Besides, she
could never do it.
She was not a great beauty; she was not extraordinarily clever--not
clever at all, she said to herself in her sudden fit of humility; she
had no "experience." That last word means a good deal more to most young
girls than they can find in it after life's illogical surprises have
taught them the terrible power of chance and mood and impulse.
She glanced at her face in the mirror, and looked away. Then she glanced
again. The third time she turned to the glass she began to examine her
features in detail. Lady Fan was a fair woman, too. But, without vanity,
she had to admit that she was much better-looking than Lady Fan. She was
also much younger and fresher, which should be an advantage, she
thought. She wished that her hair were golden instead of flaxen; that
her eyes were dark instead of blue; that her cheeks were not so thin,
and her throat a shade less slender. Nevertheless, she would have been
willing to stand any comparison with the little lady in white. Of
course, compared with the famous beauties, some of whom she had seen,
she was scarcely worth a glance. Doubtless, Brook Johnstone knew them
all.
Then she gazed into her own eyes. She did not know that a woman, alone,
may look into her own eyes and blush and turn away. She looked long and
steadily, and quite quietly. After all, they looked dark, for the pupils
were very large and the blue iris was of that deep colour which borders
upon violet. There was something a little unusual in them, too, though
she could not quite make out what it was. Why did not all women look
straight before them as she did? There must be some mysterious reason.
It was a pity that her eyelashes were almost white. Yet they, too, added
something to the peculiarity of that strange gaze.
"They are like periwinkles in a snowstorm!" exclaimed Clare, tired of
her own face; and she turned from the mirror and went to bed.
CHAPTER VI
The first sign that two people no longer stand to each other in the
relation of mere acquaintances is generally that the tones of their
voices change, while they feel a slight and unaccountable constraint
when they happen to be left alone together.
Two days passed after the little incident which had occurred at dinner
before Clare and Johnstone were momentarily face to face out of Mrs.
Bowring's sight. At first Clare had not been aware that her mother was
taking pains to be always present when the young man was about, but when
she noticed the fact she at once began to resent it. Such constant
watchfulness was unlike her mother, un-English, and almost unnatural.
When they were all seated together on the terrace, if Mrs. Bowring
wished to go indoors to write a letter or to get something she invented
some excuse for making her daughter go with her, and stay with her till
she came out again. A French or Italian mother could not have been more
particular or careful, but a French or Italian girl would have been
accustomed to such treatment, and would not have seen anything unusual
in it. But Mrs. Bowring had never acted in such a way before now, and it
irritated the young girl extremely. She felt that she was being treated
like a child, and that Johnstone must see it and think it ridiculous. At
last Clare made an attempt at resistance, out of sheer contrariety.
"I don't want to write letters!" she answered impatiently. "I wrote two
yesterday. It is hot indoors, and I would much rather stay here!"
Mrs. Bowring went as far as the parapet, and looked down at the sea for
a moment. Then she came back and sat down again.
"It's quite true," she said. "It is hot indoors. I don't think I shall
write, after all."
Brook Johnstone could not help smiling a little, though he turned away
his face to hide his amusement. It was so perfectly evident that Mrs.
Bowring was determined not to leave Clare alone with him that he must
have been blind not to see it. Clare saw the smile, and was angry. She
was nineteen years old, she had been out in the world, the terrace was a
public place, Johnstone was a gentleman, and the whole thing was absurd.
She took up her work and closed her lips tightly.
Johnstone felt the awkwardness, rose suddenly, and said he would go for
a walk. Clare raised her eyes and nodded as he lifted his hat. He was
still smiling, and her resentment deepened. A moment later, mother and
daughter were alone. Clare did not lay down her work, nor look up when
she spoke.
"Really, mother, it's too absurd!" she exclaimed, and a little colour
came to her cheeks.
"What is absurd, my dear?" asked Mrs. Bowring, affecting not to
understand.
"Your abject fear of leaving me for five minutes with Mr. Johnstone. I'm
not a baby. He was laughing. I was positively ashamed! What do you
suppose could have happened, if you had gone in and written your letters
and left us quietly here? And it happens every day, you know! If you
want a glass of water, I have to go in with you."
"My dear! What an exaggeration!"
"It's not an exaggeration, mother--really. You know that you wouldn't
leave me with him for five minutes, for anything in the world."
"Do you wish to be left alone with him, my dear?" asked Mrs. Bowring,
rather abruptly.
Clare was indignant.
"Wish it? No! Certainly not! But if it should happen naturally, by
accident, I should not get up and run away. I'm not afraid of the man,
as you seem to be. What can he do to me? And you have no idea how
strangely you behave, and what ridiculous excuses you invent for me.
The other day you insisted on my going in to look for a train in the
time-tables when you know we haven't the slightest intention of going
away for ever so long. Really--you're turning into a perfect duenna. I
wish you would behave naturally, as you always used to do."
"I think you exaggerate," said Mrs. Bowring. "I never leave you alone
with men you hardly know--"
"You can't exactly say that we hardly know Mr. Johnstone, when he has
been with us, morning, noon, and night, for nearly a week, mother."
"My dear, we know nothing about him--"
"If you are so anxious to know his father's Christian name, ask him. It
wouldn't seem at all odd. I will, if you like."
"Don't!" cried Mrs. Bowring, with unusual energy. "I mean," she added in
a lower tone and looking away, "it would be very rude--he would think it
very strange. In fact, it is merely idle curiosity on my part--really, I
would much rather not know."
Clare looked at her mother in surprise.
"How oddly you talk!" she exclaimed. Then her tone changed. "Mother
dear--is anything the matter? You don't seem quite--what shall I say?
Are you suffering, dearest? Has anything happened?"
She dropped her work, and leaned forward, her hand on her mother's, and
gazing into her face with a look of anxiety.
"No, dear," answered Mrs. Bowring. "No, no--it's nothing. Perhaps I'm a
little nervous--that's all."
"I believe the air of this place doesn't suit you. Why shouldn't we go
away at once?"
Mrs. Bowring shook her head and protested energetically.
"No--oh no! I wouldn't go away for anything. I like the place immensely,
and we are both getting perfectly well here. Oh no! I wouldn't think of
going away."
Clare leaned back in her seat again. She was devotedly fond of her
mother, and she could not but see that something was wrong. In spite of
what she said, Mrs. Bowring was certainly not growing stronger, though
she was not exactly ill. The pale face was paler, and there was a worn
and restless look in the long-suffering, almost colourless eyes.
"I'm sorry I made such a fuss about Mr. Johnstone," said Clare softly,
after a short pause.
"No, darling," answered her mother instantly. "I dare say I have been a
little over careful. I don't know--I had a sort of presentiment that you
might take a fancy to him."
"I know. You said so the first day. But I sha'n't, mother. You need not
be at all afraid. He is not at all the sort of man to whom I should ever
take a fancy, as you call it."
"I don't see why not," said Mrs. Bowring thoughtfully.
"Of course--it's hard to explain." Clare smiled. "But if that is what
you are afraid of, you can leave us alone all day. My 'fancy' would be
quite, quite different."
"Very well, darling. At all events, I'll try not to turn into a duenna."
Johnstone did not appear again until dinner, and then he was unusually
silent, only exchanging a remark with Clare now and then, and not once
leaning forward to say a few words to Mrs. Bowring as he generally did.
The latter had at first thought of exchanging places with her daughter,
but had reflected that it would be almost a rudeness to make such a
change after the second day.
They went out upon the terrace, and had their coffee there. Several of
the other people did the same, and walked slowly up and down under the
vines. Mrs. Bowring, wishing to destroy as soon as possible the
unpleasant impression she had created, left the two together, saying
that she would get something to put over her shoulders, as the air was
cool.
Clare and Johnstone stood by the parapet and looked at each other. Then
Clare leaned with her elbows on the wall and stared in silence at the
little lights on the beach below, trying to make out the shapes of the
boats which were hauled up in a long row. Neither spoke for a long time,
and Clare, at least, felt unpleasantly the constraint of the unusual
silence.
"It is a beautiful place, isn't it?" observed Johnstone at last, for the
sake of hearing his own voice.
"Oh yes, quite beautiful," answered the young girl in a
half-indifferent, half-discontented tone, and the words ended with a
sort of girlish sniff.
Again there was silence. Johnstone, standing up beside her, looked
towards the hotel, to see whether Mrs. Bowring were coming back. But she
was anxious to appear indifferent to their being together, and was in no
hurry to return. Johnstone sat down upon the wall, while Clare leaned
over it.
"Miss Bowring!" he said suddenly, to call her attention.
"Yes?" She did not look up; but to her own amazement she felt a queer
little thrill at the sound of his voice, for it had not its usual tone.
"Don't you think I had better go to Naples?" he asked.
Clare felt herself start a little, and she waited a moment before she
said anything in reply. She did not wish to betray any astonishment in
her voice. Johnstone had asked the question under a sudden impulse; but
a far wiser and more skilful man than himself could not have hit upon
one better calculated to precipitate intimacy. Clare, on her side, was
woman enough to know that she had a choice of answers, and to see that
the answer she should choose must make a difference hereafter. At the
same time, she had been surprised, and when she thought of it afterwards
it seemed to her that the question itself had been an impertinent one,
merely because it forced her to make an answer of some sort. She decided
in favour of making everything as clear as possible.
"Why?" she asked, without looking round.
At all events she would throw the burden of an elucidation upon him. He
was not afraid of taking it up.
"It's this," he answered. "I've rather thrust my acquaintance upon you,
and, if I stay here until my people come, I can't exactly change my seat
and go and sit at the other end of the table, nor pretend to be busy all
day, and never come out here and sit with you, after telling you
repeatedly that I have nothing on earth to do. Can I?"
"Why should you?"
"Because Mrs. Bowring doesn't like me."
Clare rose from her elbows and stood up, resting her hands upon the
wall, but still looking down at the lights on the beach.
"I assure you, you're quite mistaken," she answered, with quiet
emphasis. "My mother thinks you're very nice."
"Then why--" Johnstone checked himself, and crumbled little bits of
mortar from the rough wall with his thumbs.
"Why what?"
"I don't know whether I know you well enough to ask the question, Miss
Bowring."
"Let's assume that you do--for the sake of argument," said Clare, with a
short laugh, as she glanced at his face, dimly visible in the falling
darkness.
"Thanks awfully," he answered, but he did not laugh with her. "It isn't
exactly an easy thing to say, is it? Only--I couldn't help noticing--I
hope you'll forgive me, if you think I'm rude, won't you? I couldn't
help noticing that your mother was most awfully afraid of leaving us
alone for a minute, you know--as though she thought I were a suspicious
character, don't you know? Something of that sort. So, of course, I
thought she didn't like me. Do you see? Tremendously cheeky of me to
talk in this way, isn't it?"
"Do you know? It is, rather." Clare was more inclined to laugh than
before, but she only smiled in the dark.
"Well, it would be, of course, if I didn't happen to be so painfully
respectable."
"Painfully respectable! What an expression!" This time, Clare laughed
aloud.
"Yes. That's just it. Well, I couldn't exactly tell Mrs. Bowring that,
could I? Besides, one isn't vain of being respectable. I couldn't say,
Please, Mrs. Bowring, my father is Mr. Smith, and my mother was a Miss
Brown, of very good family, and we've got five hundred a year in
Consols, and we're not in trade, and I've been to a good school, and am
not at all dangerous. It would have sounded so--so uncalled for, don't
you know? Wouldn't it?"
"Very. But now that you've explained it to me, I suppose I may tell my
mother, mayn't I? Let me see. Your father is Mr. Smith, and your mother
was a Miss Brown--"
"Oh, please--no!" interrupted Johnstone. "I didn't mean it so very
literally. But it is just about that sort of thing--just like anybody
else. Only about our not being in trade, I'm not so sure of that. My
father is a brewer. Brewing is not a profession, so I suppose it must be
a trade, isn't it?"
"You might call it a manufacture," suggested Clare.
"Yes. It sounds better. But that isn't the question, you know. You'll
see my people when they come, and then you'll understand what I
mean--they really are tremendously respectable."
"Of course!" assented the young girl. "Like the party you came with on
the yacht. That kind of people."
"Oh dear no!" exclaimed Johnstone. "Not at all those kind of people.
They wouldn't like it at all, if you said so."
"Ah! indeed!" Clare was inclined to laugh again.
"The party I came with belong rather to a gay set. Awfully nice, you
know," he hastened to add, "and quite the people one knows at home. But
my father and mother--oh no! they are quite different--the difference
between whist and baccarat, you know, if you understand that sort of
thing--old port and brandy and soda--both very good in their way, but
quite different."
"I should think so."
"Then--" Johnstone hesitated again. "Then, Miss Bowring--you don't think
that your mother really dislikes me, after all?"
"Oh dear no! Not in the least. I've heard her say all sorts of nice
things about you."
"Really? Then I think I'll stay here. I didn't want to be a nuisance,
you know--always in the way."
"You're not in the way," answered Clare.
Mrs. Bowring came back with her shawl, and the rest of the evening
passed off as usual. Later, when she was alone, the young girl
remembered all the conversation, and she saw that it had been in her
power to make Johnstone leave Amalfi. While she was wondering why she
had not done so, since she hated him for what she knew of him, she fell
asleep, and the question remained unanswered. In the morning she told
the substance of it all to her mother, and ended by telling her that
Johnstone's father was a brewer.
"Of course," answered Mrs. Bowring absently. "I know that." Then she
realised what she had said, and glanced at Clare with an odd, scared
look.
Clare uttered an exclamation of surprise.
"Mother! Why, then--you knew all about him! Why didn't you tell me?"
A long silence followed, during which Mrs. Bowring sat with her face
turned from her daughter. Then she raised her hand and passed it slowly
over her forehead, as though trying to collect her thoughts.
"One comes across very strange things in life, my dear," she said at
last. "I am not sure that we had not better go away, after all. I'll
think about it."
Beyond this Clare could get no information, nor any explanation of the
fact that Mrs. Bowring should have known something about Brook
Johnstone's father. The girl made a guess, of course. The elder
Johnstone must be a relation of her mother's first husband; though,
considering that Mrs. Bowring had never seen Brook before now, and that
the latter had never told her anything about his father, it was hard to
see how she could be so sure of the fact. Possibly, Brook strongly
resembled his father's family. That, indeed, was the only admissible
theory. But all that Clare knew and could put together into reasonable
shape could not explain why her mother so much disliked leaving her
alone with the man, even for five minutes.
In this, however, Mrs. Bowring changed suddenly, after the first evening
when she had left them on the terrace. She either took a totally
different view of the situation, or else she was ashamed of seeming to
watch them all the time, and the consequence was that during the next
three or four days they were very often together without her.
Johnstone enjoyed the young girl's society, and did not pretend to deny
the fact in his own thoughts. Whatever mischief he might have been in
while on the yacht, his natural instincts were simple and honest. In a
certain way, Clare was a revelation to him of something to which he had
never been accustomed, and which he had most carefully avoided. He had
no sisters, and as a boy he had not been thrown with girls. He was an
only son, and his mother, a very practical woman, had warned him as he
grew up that he was a great match, and had better avoid young girls
altogether until he saw one whom he should like to marry, though how he
was to see that particular one, if he avoided all alike, was a question
into which his mother did not choose to enter. Having first gone into
society upon this principle, however, and having been at once taken up
and made much of by an extremely fashionable young woman afflicted with
an elderly and eccentric husband, it was not likely that Brook would
return to the threshold of the schoolroom for women's society. He went
on as he had begun in his first "salad" days, and at five-and-twenty he
had the reputation of having done more damage than any of his young
contemporaries, while he had never once shown the slightest inclination
to marry. His mother, always a practical woman, did not press the
question of marriage, deeming that with his disposition he would stand a
better chance of married peace when he had expended a good deal of what
she called his vivacity; and his father, who came of very long-lived
people, always said that no man should take a wife before he was thirty.
As Brook did not gamble immoderately, nor start a racing stable, nor
propose to manage an opera troupe, the practical lady felt that he was
really a very good young man. His father liked him for his own sake; but
as Adam Johnstone had been gay in his youth, in spite of his sober
Scotch blood, even beyond the bounds of ordinary "fastness," the fact of
his being fond of Brook was not of itself a guarantee that the latter
was such a very good young man as his mother said that he was. Somehow
or other Brook had hitherto managed to keep clear of any entanglement
which could hamper his life, probably by virtue of that hardness which
he had shown to poor Lady Fan, and which had so strongly prejudiced
Clare Bowring against him. His father said cynically that the lad was
canny. Hitherto he had certainly shown that he could be selfish; and
perhaps there is less difference between the meanings of the Scotch and
English words than most people suppose.
Daily and almost hourly intercourse with such a young girl as Clare was
a totally new experience to Brook Johnstone, and there were moments
when he hardly recognised himself for the man who had landed from the
yacht ten days earlier, and who had said good-bye to Lady Fan on the
platform behind the hotel.
Hitherto he had always known in a day or two whether he was inclined to
make love to a woman or not. An inclination to make love and the
satisfaction of it had been, so far, his nearest approach to being in
love at all. Nor, when he had felt the inclination, had he ever
hesitated. Like a certain great English statesman of similar
disposition, he had sometimes been repulsed, but he never remembered
having given offence. For he possessed that tactful intuition which
guides some men through life in their intercourse with women. He rarely
spoke the first word too soon, and if he were going to speak at all he
never spoke too late--which error is, of the two, by far the greater. He
was young, perhaps, to have had such experience; but in the social world
of to-day it is especially the fashion for men to be extremely young,
even to youthfulness, and lack of years is no longer the atrocious crime
which Pitt would neither attempt to palliate or deny. We have just
emerged from a period of wrinkles and paint, during which we were told
that age knew everything and youth nothing. The explosion into nonsense
of nine tenths of all we were taught at school and college has given
our children a terrible weapon against us; and women, who are all
practical in their own way, prefer the blundering whole-heartedness of
youth to the skilful tactics and over-effective effects of the
middle-aged love-actor. In this direction, at least, the breeze that
goes before the dawn of a new century is already blowing. Perhaps it is
a good sign--but a sign of some sort it certainly is.
Brook Johnstone felt that he was in an unfamiliar position, and he tried
to analyse his own feelings. He was perfectly honest about it, but he
had very little talent for analysis. On the other hand, he had a very
keen sense of what we roughly call honour. Clare was not Lady Fan, and
would probably never get into that category. Clare belonged amongst the
women whom he respected, and he respected them all, with all his heart.
They included all young girls, and his mother, and all young women who
were happily married. It will be admitted that, for a man who made no
pretence to higher virtues, Brook was no worse than his contemporaries,
and was better than a great many.
Be that as it may, in lack of any finer means of discrimination, he
tried to define his own position with regard to Clare Bowring very
simply and honestly. Either he was falling in love, or he was not.
Secondly, Clare was either the kind of girl whom he should like to
marry, spoken of by his practical mother--or she was not.
So far, all was extremely plain. The trouble was that he could not find
any answers to the questions. He could not in the least be sure that he
was falling in love, because he knew that he had never really been in
love in his life. And as for saying at once that Clare was, or was not,
the girl whom he should like to marry, how in the world could he tell
that, unless he fell in love with her? Of course he did not wish to
marry her unless he loved her. But he conceived it possible that he
might fall in love with her and then not wish to marry her after all,
which, in his simple opinion, would have been entirely despicable. If
there were any chance of that, he ought to go away at once. But he did
not know whether there were any chance of it or not. He could go away in
any case, in order to be on the safe side; but then, there was no reason
in the world why he should not marry her, if he should love her, and if
she would marry him. The question became very badly mixed, and under the
circumstances he told himself that he was splitting hairs on the
mountains he had made of his molehills. He determined to stay where he
was. At all events, judging from all signs with which he was
acquainted, Clare was very far indeed from being in love with him, so
that in this respect his sense of honour was perfectly safe and
undisturbed.
Having set his mind at rest in this way, he allowed himself to talk with
her as he pleased. There was no reason why he should hamper himself in
conversation, so long as he said nothing calculated to make an
impression--nothing which could come under the general head of "making
love." The result was that he was much more agreeable than he supposed.
Clare's innocent eyes watched him, and her mind was divided about him.
She was utterly young and inexperienced, but she was a woman, and she
