"Beatrice is extremely lovely," he replied, turning his head and gazing
at the Arno, shining through an opening in the hedge. "I do not attempt
to pretend, even to myself, that she is not the loveliest woman I ever
knew."
"Since you do not pretend it to yourself you will not pretend it to me."
She spoke without interrogation; but he treated the words as a question.
"Why should I?" he said. And then he was silent.
"There is Aunt Ruth," said Miss Stowe; "I see the horses. She is
probably wondering what has become of me."
"You have not altogether denied me," he said, just before they reached
the carriage. "I assure you I will not be in the least importunate. Take
a day or two to consider. After all, if there is no one upon whom it can
really infringe (of course I know you have admirers; I have even heard
their names), why should you not find it even a little amusing?"
Miss Stowe turned towards him, and a peculiar expression came into her
eyes as they met his. "I am not sure but that I shall find it so," she
answered. And then they joined Miss Harrison.
The day or two had passed. There had been no formal question asked, and
no formal reply given; but as Miss Stowe had not absolutely forbidden
it, the experiment may be said to have been begun. It was soon reported
in Florence that Trafford Morgan was one of the suitors for the hand of
the heiress; and, being a candidate, he was of course subjected to the
searching light of Public Inquiry. Public Inquiry discovered that he was
thirty-eight years of age; that he had but a small income; that he was
indolent, indifferent, and cynical. Not being able to find any open
vices, Public Inquiry considered that he was too blasé to have them;
he had probably exhausted them all long before. All this Madame Ferri
repeated to Miss Harrison, not because she was in the least opposed to
Mr. Morgan, but simply as part of her general task as gatherer and
disseminator.
"Trafford Morgan is not a saint, but he is well enough in his way,"
replied Miss Harrison. "I am not at all sure that a saint would be
agreeable in the family."
Madame Ferri was much amused by this; but she carried away the
impression also that Miss Harrison favored the suitor.
In the meantime nothing could be more quiet than the manner of the
supposed suitor when he was with Miss Stowe. He now asked questions of
her; when they went to the churches, he asked her impressions of the
architecture; when they visited the galleries, he asked her opinions of
the pictures. He inquired what books she liked, and why she liked them;
and sometimes he slowly repeated her replies.
This last habit annoyed her. "I wish you would not do that," she said,
with some irritation. "It is like being forced to look at one's self in
a mirror."
"I do it to analyze them," he answered. "I am so dense, you know, it
takes me a long time to understand. When you say, for instance, that
Romola is not a natural character because her love for Tito ceases, I,
who think that the unnatural part is that she should ever have loved
him, naturally dwell upon the remark."
"She would have continued to love him in life. Beauty is all powerful."
"I did not know that women cared much for it," he answered. Then, after
a moment, "Do not be too severe upon me," he added; "I am doing my
best."
She made no reply.
"I thought certainly you would have answered, 'By contrast?'" he said,
smiling. "But you are not so satirical as you were. I cannot make you
angry with me."
"Have you tried?"
"Of course I have tried. It would be a step gained to move you--even in
that way."
"I thought your experiment was to be all on one side?" she said. They
were sitting in a shady corner of the cloisters of San Marco; she was
leaning back in her chair, following with the point of her parasol the
lines of the Latin inscription on the slab at her feet over an old
monk's last resting-place.
"I am not so consistent as I should be," he answered, rising and
sauntering off, with his hands in the pockets of his short morning-coat,
to look at St. Peter the Martyr.
At another time they were in the Michael Angelo chapel of San Lorenzo.
It was past the hour for closing, but Morgan had bribed the custode to
allow them to remain, and the old man had closed the door and gone away,
leaving them alone with the wondrous marbles.
"What do they mean?" he said. "Tell me."
"They mean fate, our sad human fate: the beautiful Dawn in all the pain
of waking; the stern determination of the Day; the recognition of
failure in Evening; and the lassitude of dreary, hopeless sleep in
Night. It is one way of looking at life."
"But not your way?"
"Oh, I have no way; I am too limited. But genius takes a broader view,
and genius, I suppose, must always be sad. People with that endowment, I
have noticed, are almost always very unhappy."
He was sitting beside her, and, as she spoke, he saw a little flush rise
in her cheeks; she was remembering when Mrs. Lovell had used the same
words, although in another connection.
"We have never spoken directly, or at any length, of Beatrice," she
said, suddenly. "I wish you would tell me about her."
"Here?"
"Yes, here and now; Lorenzo shall be your judge."
"I am not afraid of Lorenzo. He is not a god; on the contrary, he has
all our deepest humanity on his musing face; it is for this reason that
he impresses us so powerfully. As it is the first time you have
expressed any wish, Miss Stowe, I suppose I must obey it."
"Will it be difficult?"
"It is always difficult, is it not, for a man to speak of an unhappy
love?" he said, leaning his elbow on the back of the seat, and shading
his eyes with his hand as he looked at her.
"I will excuse you."
"I have not asked to be excused. I first met Mrs. Lovell in Sicily. I
was with her almost constantly during five weeks. She is as lovable as a
rose--as a peach--as a child." He paused.
"Your comparisons are rather remarkable," said Miss Stowe, her eyes
resting upon the grand massiveness of Day.
"They are truthful. I fell in love with her; and I told her so because
there was that fatal thing, an opportunity--that is, a garden-seat,
starlight, and the perfume of flowers. Of course these were
irresistible."
"Indeed?"
"Do not be contemptuous. It is possible that you may not have been
exposed to the force of the combination as yet. She rebuked me with that
lovely, gentle softness of hers, and then she went away; the Sicilian
days were over. I wrote to her--"
He was sitting in the same position, with his hand shading his eyes,
looking at her; as he spoke the last phrase he perceived that she
colored, and colored deeply.
"You knew the story generally," he said, dropping his arm and leaning
forward. "But it is not possible you saw that letter!"
She rose and walked across, as if to get a nearer view of Day. "I admire
it so much!" she said, after a moment. "If it should stretch out that
great right arm, it could crush us to atoms." And she turned towards him
again.
As she did she saw that he had colored also; a deep, dark flush had
risen in his face, and covered even his forehead.
"I am safe--very safe!" he said. "After reading such a letter as that,
written to another woman, you are not likely to bestow much regard upon
the writer, try as he may!"
Miss Stowe looked at him. "You are overacting," she said, coldly. "It is
not in your part to pretend to care so soon. It was to be built up
gradually."
"Lorenzo understands me," he said, recovering himself. "Shall I go on?"
"I think I must go now," she answered, declining a seat; "it is late."
"In a moment. Let me finish, now that I have begun. I had thought of
returning to America; indeed, Beatrice had advised it; she thought I was
becoming expatriated. But I gave it up and remained in Italy because I
did not wish to appear too much her slave (women do not like men who
obey them too well, you know). After this effort I was consistent enough
to follow her to England. I found her in--Devonshire, lovelier than
ever; and I was again fascinated; I was even ready to accept beforehand
all the rules and embargo of the strictest respect to the memory of Mr.
Lovell."
Miss Stowe's eyes were upon Day; but here, involuntarily, she glanced
towards her companion. His face remained unchanged.
"I was much in love with her. She allowed me no encouragement. But I did
not give up a sort of vague hope I had until this recent change. Then,
of course, I knew that it was all over for me."
"I am sorry for you," replied Miss Stowe after a pause, still looking at
Day.
"Of course I have counted upon that--upon your sympathy. I knew that you
would understand."
"Spare me the quotation, 'A fellow-feeling,' and so forth," she said,
moving towards the door. "I am going; I feel as though we had already
desecrated too long this sacred place."
"It is no desecration. The highest heights of art, as well as of life,
belong to love," he said, as they went out into the cool, low hall,
paved with the gravestones of the Medici.
"Don't you always think of them lying down below?" she said. "Giovanni
in his armor, and Leonore of Toledo in her golden hair?"
"Since when have you become so historical? They were a wicked race."
"And since when have you become so virtuous?" she answered. "They were
at least successful."
Time passed. It has a way of passing rapidly in Florence; although each
day is long and slow and full and delightful, a month flies. Again the
season was waning. It was now believed that Mr. Morgan had been
successful, although nothing definite was known. It was remarked how
unusually well Miss Stowe looked: her eyes were so bright and she had so
much color that she really looked brilliant. Madame Ferri repeated this
to Miss Harrison.
"Margaret was always brilliant," said her aunt.
"Oh, extremely!" said Madame Ferri.
"Only people never found it out," added Miss Harrison.
She herself maintained a calm and uninquiring demeanor. Sometimes she
was with her niece and her niece's supposed suitor, and sometimes not.
She continued to receive him with the same affability which she had
bestowed upon him from the first, and occasionally she invited him to
dinner and to drive. She made no comment upon the frequency of his
visits, or the length of his conversations upon the little balcony in
the evening, where the plash of the fountain came faintly up from below.
In truth she had no cause for solicitude; nothing could be more tranquil
than the tone of the two talkers. Nothing more was said about Mrs.
Lovell; conversation had sunk back into the old impersonal channel.
"You are very even," Morgan said one evening. "You do not seem to have
any moods. I noticed it last year."
"One is even," she replied, "when one is--"
"Indifferent," he suggested.
She did not contradict him.
Two things she refused to do: she would not sing, and she would not go
to the Boboli Garden.
"As I am especially fond of those tall, ceremonious old hedges and
serene statues, you cut me off from a real pleasure," said Morgan.
It was on the evening of the 16th of May; they were sitting by the open
window; Miss Harrison was not present.
"You can go there after we have gone," she said, smiling. "We leave
to-morrow."
"You leave to-morrow!" he repeated. Then, after an instant, "It is
immensely kind to tell me beforehand," he said, ironically. "I should
have thought you would have left it until after your departure!"
She made no reply, but fanned herself slowly with the beautiful gray
fan.
"I suppose you consider that the month is more than ended, and that you
are free?"
"You have had all you asked for, Mr. Morgan."
"And therefore I have now only to thank you for your generosity, and let
you go."
"I think so."
"You do not care to know the result of my experiment--whether it has
been a failure or a success?" he said. "You told me the result of
yours."
"I did not mean to tell you. It was forced from me by your
misunderstanding."
"Misunderstandings, because so slight that one cannot attack them, are
horrible things. Let there be none between us now."
"There is none."
"I do not know." He leaned back in his chair and looked up at the soft
darkness of the Italian night. "I have one more favor to ask," he said,
presently. "You have granted me many; grant me this. At what hour do you
go to-morrow?"
"In the afternoon."
"Give me a little time with you in the Boboli Garden in the morning."
"You are an accomplished workman, Mr. Morgan; you want to finish with a
polish; you do not like to leave rough ends. Be content; I will accept
the intention as carried out, and suppose that all the last words have
been beautifully and shiningly spoken. That will do quite as well."
"Put any construction upon it you please," he answered. "But consent."
But it was with great difficulty that he obtained that consent.
"There is really nothing you can say that I care to hear," she declared,
at last.
"The king is dead! My time is ended, evidently! But, as there is
something you can say which I care to hear, I again urge you to
consent."
Miss Stowe rose, and passed through the long window into the lighted
empty room, decked as usual with many flowers; here she stood, looking
at him, as he entered also.
"I have tried my best to prevent it," she said.
"You have."
"And you still insist?"
"I do."
"Very well; I consent. But you will not forget that I tried," she said.
"Good-night."
The next morning at ten, as he entered the old amphitheatre, he saw her;
she was sitting on one of the upper stone seats, under a statue of
Diana.
"I would rather go to our old place," he said, as he came up; "the seat
under the tree, you know."
"I like this better."
"As you prefer, of course. It will be more royal, more in state; but, to
be in accordance with it, you should have been clothed in something
majestic, instead of that soft, yielding hue."
"That is hardly necessary," she answered.
"By which you mean, I suppose, that your face is not yielding. And
indeed it is not."
She was dressed in cream color from head to foot; she held open, poised
on one shoulder, a large, heavily fringed, cream-colored parasol. Above
this soft drapery and under this soft shade the darkness of her hair and
eyes was doubly apparent.
He took a seat beside her, removed his hat, and let the breeze play over
his head and face; it was a warm summer morning, and they were in the
shadow.
"I believe I was to tell you the result of my experiment," he said,
after a while, breaking the silence which she did not break.
"You wished it; I did not ask it."
If she was cool, he was calm; he was not at all as he had been the night
before; then he had seemed hurried and irritated, now he was quiet. "The
experiment has succeeded," he said, deliberately. "I find myself often
thinking of you; I like to be with you; I feel when with you a sort of
satisfied content. What I want to ask is--I may as well say it at
once--Will not this do as the basis of a better understanding between
us?"
She was gazing at the purple slopes of Monte Morello opposite. "It
might," she answered.
He turned; her profile was towards him, he could not see her eyes.
"I shall be quite frank," he continued; "under the circumstances it is
my only way. You have loved some one else. I have loved some one else.
We have both been unhappy. We should therefore, I think, have a peculiar
sympathy for and comprehension of each other. It has seemed to me that
these, combined with my real liking for you, might be a sufficient
foundation for--let us call it another experiment. I ask you to make
this experiment, Margaret; I ask you to marry me. If it fails--if you
are not happy--I promise not to hold you in the slightest degree. You
shall have your liberty untrammelled, and, at the same time, all shall
be arranged so as to escape comment. I will be with you enough to save
appearances; that is all. In reality you shall be entirely free. I think
you can trust my word."
"I shall have but little from my aunt," was her answer, her eyes still
fixed upon the mountain. "I am not her heiress, as you suppose."
"You mean that to be severe; but it falls harmless. It is true that I
did suppose you were her heiress; but the fact that you are not makes no
difference in my request. We shall not be rich, but we can live; it
shall be my pleasure to make you comfortable."
"I do not quite see why you ask this," she said, with the same slow
utterance and her eyes turned away. "You do not love me; I am not
beautiful; I have no fortune. What, then, do you gain?"
"I gain," he said--"I gain--" Then he paused. "You would not like me to
tell you," he added; and his voice was changed.
"I beg you to tell me." Her lips were slightly compressed, a tremor had
seized her; she seemed to be exerting all her powers of self-control.
He watched her a moment, and then, leaning towards her while a new and
beautiful expression of tenderness stole into his eyes, "I gain,
Margaret," he said, "the greatest gift that can be given to a man on
this earth, a gift I long for--a wife who really and deeply loves me."
The hot color flooded her face and throat; she rose, turning upon him
her blazing eyes. "I was but waiting for this," she said, her words
rushing forth, one upon the other, with the unheeding rapidity of
passion. "I felt sure that it would come. With the deeply-rooted egotism
of a man you believe that I love you; you have believed it from the
beginning. It was because I knew this that I allowed this experiment of
yours to go on. I resisted the temptation at first, but it was too
strong for me; you yourself made it so. It was a chance to make you
conscious of your supreme error; a chance to have my revenge. And I
yielded. You said, not long ago, that I was even. I answered that one
was even when one was-- You said 'indifferent,' and I did not contradict
you. But the real sentence was that one was even when one was pursuing a
purpose. I have pursued a purpose. This was mine: to make you put into
words your egregious vanity, to make you stand convicted of your dense
and vast mistake. But towards the end a better impulse rose, and the
game did not seem worth the candle. I said to myself that I would go
away without giving you, after all, the chance to stultify yourself, the
chance to exhibit clearly your insufferable and amazing conceit. But you
insisted, and the impulse vanished; I allowed you to go on to the end. I
love you! You!"
He had risen also; they stood side by side under the statue of Diana;
some people had come into the amphitheatre below. He had turned slightly
pale as she uttered these bitter words, but he remained quite silent. He
still held his hat in his hand; his eyes were turned away.
"Have you nothing to say?" she asked, after some moments had passed.
"I think there is nothing," he answered, without turning.
Then again there was a silence.
"You probably wish to go," he said, breaking it; "do not let me detain
you." And he began to go down the steps, pausing, however, as the
descent was somewhat awkward, to give her his hand.
To the little Italian party below, looking at the Egyptian obelisk, he
seemed the picture of chivalry, as, with bared head, he assisted her
down; and as they passed the obelisk, these children of the country
looked upon them as two of the rich Americans, the lady dressed like a
picture, the gentleman distinguished, but both without a gesture or an
interest, and coldly silent and pale.
He did not accompany her home. "Shall I go with you?" he said, breaking
the silence as they reached the exit.
"No, thanks. Please call a carriage."
He signalled to a driver who was near, and assisted her into one of the
little rattling Florence phaetons.
"Good-bye," she said, when she was seated.
He lifted his hat. "Lung' Arno Nuovo," he said to the driver.
And the carriage rolled away.
      
Countries attract us in different ways. We are comfortable in England,
musical in Germany, amused in Paris (Paris is a country), and idyllic in
Switzerland; but when it comes to the affection, Italy holds the
heart--we keep going back to her. Miss Harrison, sitting in her carriage
on the heights of Bellosguardo, was thinking this as she gazed down upon
Florence and the valley below. It was early in the next autumn--the last
of September; and she was alone.
A phaeton passed her and turned down the hill; but she had recognized
its occupant as he passed, and called his name--"Mr. Morgan!"
He turned, saw her, bowed, and, after a moment's hesitation, ordered his
driver to stop, sprang out, and came back to speak to her.
"How in the world do you happen to be in Florence at this time of
year?" she said, cordially, giving him her hand. "There isn't a soul in
the place."
"That is the reason I came."
"And the reason we did, too," she said, laughing. "I am delighted to
have met you; one soul is very acceptable. You must come and see me
immediately. I hope you are going to stay."
"Thanks; you are very kind. But I leave to-morrow morning."
"Then you must come to-night; come to dinner at seven. It is impossible
you should have another engagement when there is no one to be engaged
to--unless it be the pictures; I believe they do not go away for the
summer."
"I really have an engagement, Miss Harrison; you are very kind, but I am
forced to decline."
"Dismiss your carriage, then, and drive back with me; I will set you
down at your hotel. It will be a visit of some sort."
He obeyed. Miss Harrison's fine horses started, and moved with slow
stateliness down the winding road, where the beggars had not yet begun
to congregate; it was not "the season" for beggars; they were still at
the sea-shore.
Miss Harrison talked on various subjects. They had been in Switzerland,
and it had rained continuously; they had seen nothing but fog. They had
come over the St. Gothard, and their carriage had broken down. They had
been in Venice, and had found malaria there. They had been in Padua,
Verona, and Bologna, and all three had become frightfully modern and
iconoclastic. Nothing was in the least satisfactory, and Margaret had
not been well; she was quite anxious about her.
Mr. Morgan "hoped" that it was nothing serious.
"I don't know whether it is or not," replied Miss Harrison. "Margaret is
rather a serious sort of a person, I think."
She looked at him as if for confirmation, but he did not pursue the
subject. Instead, he asked after her own health.
"Oh, I am as usual. It is only your real invalids who are always well;
they enjoy their poor health, you know. And what have you been doing
since I last saw you? I hope nothing out of the way. Let me see--Trieste
and Tarascon; you have probably been in--Transylvania?"
"That would be somewhat out of the way, wouldn't it? But I have not been
there; I have been in various nearer places, engaged rather
systematically in amusing myself."
"Did you succeed? If you did you are a man of genius. One must have a
rare genius, I think, to amuse one's self in that way at forty. Of
course I mean thirty-five, you know; but forty is a better
conversational word--it classifies. And you were amused?"
"Immensely."
"So much so that you have to come to Florence in September to rest after
it!"
"Yes."
Miss Harrison talked on. He listened, and made the necessary replies.
The carriage entered the city, crossed the Carraja bridge, and turned
towards his hotel.
"Can you not come for half an hour this evening, after your engagement
is over?" she said. "I shall be all alone, for Margaret cannot be there
before midnight; she went into the country this morning with Madame
Ferri--some sort of a fête at a villa, a native Florentine affair. You
have not asked much about her, I think, considering how constantly you
were with her last spring," she added, looking at him calmly.
"I have been remiss; pardon it."
"It is only forgetfulness, of course. That is not a fault nowadays; it
is a virtue, and, what is more, highly fashionable. But there is one
little piece of news I must tell you about my niece: she is going to be
married."
"That is not little; it is great. Please present to her my sincere good
wishes and congratulations."
"I am sorry you cannot present them yourself. But at least you can come
and see me for a little while this evening--say about ten. The
grandson of your grandfather should be very civil to old Ruth Harrison
for old times' sake." Here the carriage stopped at his door. "Remember,
I shall expect you," she said, as he took leave.
At about the hour she had named he went to see her; he found her alone,
knitting. It was one of her idiosyncrasies to knit stockings "for the
poor." No doubt there were "poor" enough to wear them; but as she made a
great many, and as they were always of children's size and black, her
friends sometimes thought, with a kind of amused dismay, of the regiment
of little funereal legs running about for which she was responsible.
He had nothing especial to say; his intention was to remain the shortest
time possible; he could see the hands of the clock, and he noted their
progress every now and then through the twenty minutes he had set for
himself.
Miss Harrison talked on various subjects, but said nothing more
concerning her niece; nor did he, on his side, ask a question. After a
while she came to fashions in art. "It is the most curious thing," she
said, "how people obediently follow each other along a particular road,
like a flock of sheep, no matter what roads, equally good and possibly
better, open to the right and the left. Now there are the wonderfully
spirited frescos of Masaccio at the Carmine, frescos which were studied
and copied by Raphael himself and Michael Angelo. Yet that church has no
vogue; it is not fashionable to go there; Ruskin has not written a
maroon-colored pamphlet about it, and Baedeker gives it but a scant
quarter-page, while the other churches have three and four. Now it seems
to me that--"
But what it seemed Morgan never knew, because here she paused as the
door opened. "Ah, there is Margaret, after all," she said. "I did not
expect her for three hours."
Miss Stowe came across the large room, throwing back her white shawl and
taking off her little plumed hat as she came. She did not perceive that
any one was present save her aunt; the light was not bright, and the
visitor sat in the shadow.
"It was very stupid," she said. "Do not urge me to go again." And then
she saw him.
He rose, and bowed. After an instant's delay she spoke his name, and put
out her hand, which he took as formally as she gave it. Miss Harrison
was voluble. She was "so pleased" that Margaret had returned earlier
than was expected; she was "so pleased" that the visitor happened to be
still there. She seemed indeed to be pleased with everything, and talked
for them both; in truth, save for replies to her questions, they were
quite silent. The visitor remained but a short quarter of an hour, and
then took leave, saying good-bye at the same time, since he was to go
early in the morning.
"To Trent?" said Miss Harrison.
"To Tadmor, I think, this time," he answered, smiling.
The next morning opened with a dull gray rain. Morgan was late in
rising, missed his train, and was obliged to wait until the afternoon.
About eleven he went out, under an umbrella, and, after a while, tired
of the constant signals and clattering followings of the hackmen, who
could not comprehend why a rich foreigner should walk, he went into the
Duomo. The vast church, never light even on a bright day, was now
sombre, almost dark, the few little twinkling tapers, like stars, on an
altar at the upper end, only serving to make the darkness more visible.
He walked down to the closed western entrance, across whose wall outside
rises slowly, day by day, the new façade under its straw-work screen.
Here he stood still, looking up the dim expanse, with the dusky shadows,
like great winged, formless ghosts, hovering over him.
One of the south doors, the one near the choir, was open, and through it
a slender ray of gray daylight came in, and tried to cross the floor.
But its courage soon failed in that breadth and gloom, and it died away
before it had gone ten feet. A blind beggar sat in a chair at this
entrance, his patient face faintly outlined against the ray; there
seemed to be no one else in the church save the sacristan, whose form
could be dimly seen moving about, renewing the lights burning before the
far-off chapels.
The solitary visitor strolled back and forth in the shadow. After a
while he noted a figure entering through the ray. It was that of a
woman; it had not the outlines of the usual church beggar; it did not
stoop or cringe; it was erect and slender, and stepped lightly; it was
coming down towards the western end, where he was pacing to and fro. He
stopped and stood still, watching it. It continued to approach--and at
last brushed against him. Coming in from the daylight, it could see
nothing in the heavy shadow.
"Excuse me, Miss Stowe," he said; "I should have spoken. My eyes are
accustomed to this light, and I recognized you; but of course you could
not see me."
She had started back as she touched him; now she moved away still
farther.
"It is grandly solitary here on a rainy day, isn't it?" he continued. "I
used often to come here during a storm. It makes one feel as if already
disembodied--as if he were a shade, wandering on the gray, unknown
outskirts of another world."
She had now recovered herself, and, turning, began to walk back towards
the ray at the upper door. He accompanied her. But the Duomo is vast,
and cannot be crossed in a minute. He went on talking about the shadows;
then stopped.
"I am glad of this opportunity to give you my good wishes, Miss Stowe,"
he said, as they went onward. "I hope you will be quite happy."
"I hope the same, certainly," she answered. "Yet I fail to see any
especially new reason for good wishes from you just at present."
"Ah, you do not know that I know. But Miss Harrison told me
yesterday--told me that you were soon to be married. If you have never
forgiven me, in the light of your present happiness I think you should
do so now."
She had stopped. "My aunt told you?" she said, while he was still
speaking. But now, as he paused, she walked on. He could not see her
face; although approaching the ray, they were still in the shadow, and
her head was turned from him.
"As to forgiveness, it is I who should ask forgiveness from you," she
said, after some delay, during which there was no sound but their
footsteps on the mosaic pavement.
"Yes, you were very harsh. But I forgave you long ago. I was a dolt, and
deserved your sharp words. But I want very much to hear you say that
you forgive me."
"There is nothing to forgive."
"That is gently spoken. It is your marriage present to me, and I feel
the better for it."
A minute later they had reached the ray and the door. He could see her
face now. "How ill you look!" he said, involuntarily. "I noticed it last
evening. It is not conventional to say so, but it is at least a real
regret. He should take better care of you."
The blind beggar, hearing their footsteps, had put out his hand. "Do not
go yet," said Morgan, giving him a franc. "See how it is raining
outside. Walk with me once around the whole interior for the sake of the
pleasant part of our Florentine days--for there was a pleasant part;
it will be our last walk together."
She assented silently, and they turned into the shadow again.
"I am going to make a confession," he said, as they passed the choir;
"it can make no difference now, and I prefer that you should know it. I
did not realize it myself at the time, but I see now--that is, I have
discovered since yesterday--that I was in love with you, more or less,
from the beginning."
She made no answer, and they passed under Michael Angelo's grand,
unfinished statue, and came around on the other side.
"Of course I was fascinated with Beatrice; in one way I was her slave.
Still, when I said to you, 'Forgive me; I am in love with some one
else,' I really think it was more to see what you would say or do than
any feeling of loyalty to her."
Again she said nothing. They went down the north aisle.
"I wish you would tell me," he said, leaving the subject of himself and
turning to her, "that you are fully and really happy in this marriage of
yours. I hope you are, with all my heart; but I should like to hear it
from your own lips."
She made a gesture as if of refusal; but he went on. "Of course I know I
have no right; I ask it as a favor."
They were now in deep obscurity, almost darkness; but something seemed
to tell him that she was suffering.
"You are not going to do that wretched thing--marry without love?" he
said, stopping abruptly. "Do not, Margaret, do not! I know you better
than you know yourself, and you will not be able to bear it. Some women
can; but you could not. You have too deep feelings--too--"
He did not finish the sentence, for she had turned from him suddenly,
and was walking across the dusky space in the centre of the great
temple whose foundations were so grandly laid six centuries ago.
But he followed her and stopped her, almost by force, taking both her
hands in his. "You must not do this," he said; "you must not marry in
that way. It is dangerous; it is horrible; for you, it is a crime."
Then, as he stood close to her and saw two tears well over and drop from
her averted eyes, "Margaret! Margaret!" he said, "rather than that, it
would have been better to have married even me."
She drew her hands from his, and covered her face; she was weeping.
"Is it too late?" he whispered. "Is there a possibility--I love you very
deeply," he added. And, cold and indifferent as Florence considered him,
his voice was broken.
      
When they came round to the ray again, he gave the blind beggar all the
small change he had about him; the old man thought it was a paper
golconda.
"You owe me another circuit," he said; "you did not speak through fully
half of the last one."
So they went around a second time.
"Tell me when you first began to think about me," he said, as they
passed the choir. "Was it when you read that letter?"
"It was an absurd letter."
"On the contrary, it was a very good one, and you know it. You have kept
it?"
"No; I burned it long ago."
"Not so very long! However, never fear; I will write you plenty more,
and even better ones. I will go away on purpose."
They crossed the east end, under the great dome, and came around on the
other side.
"You said some bitter things to me in that old amphitheatre, Margaret; I
shall always hate the place. But after all--for a person who was quite
indifferent--were you not just a little too angry?"
"It is easy to say that now," she answered.
They went down the north aisle.
"Why did you stop and leave the room so abruptly when you were singing
that song I asked for--you know, the 'Semper Fidelis?'"
"My voice failed."
"No; it was your courage. You knew then that you were no longer
'fidelis' to that former love of yours, and you were frightened by the
discovery."
They reached the dark south end.
"And now, as to that former love," he said, pausing. "I will never ask
you again; but here and now, Margaret, tell me what it was."
"It was not 'a fascination'--like yours," she answered.
"Do not be impertinent, especially in a church. Mrs. Lovell was not my
only fascination, I beg to assure you; remember, I am thirty-six years
old. But now--what was it?"
"A mistake."
"Good; but I want more."
"It was a will-o'-the-wisp that I thought was real."
"Better; but not enough."
"You ask too much, I think."
"I shall always ask it; I am horribly selfish; I warn you beforehand
that I expect everything, in the most relentless way."
"Well, then, it was a fancy, Trafford, that I mistook for--" And the
Duomo alone knows how the sentence was ended.
As they passed, for the third time, on their way towards the door, the
mural tablet to Giotto, Morgan paused. "I have a sort of feeling that I
owe it to the old fellow," he said. "I have always been his faithful
disciple, and now he has rewarded me with a benediction. On the next
high-festival his tablet shall be wreathed with the reddest of roses and
a thick bank of heliotrope, as an acknowledgment of my gratitude."
It was; and no one ever knew why. If it had been in "the season," the
inquiring tourists would have been rendered distracted by the
impossibility of finding out; but to the native Florentines attending
mass at the cathedral, to whom the Latin inscription, "I am he through
whom the lost Art of Painting was revived," remains a blank, it was only
a tribute to some "departed friend."
"And he is as much my friend as though he had not departed something
over five centuries ago," said Trafford; "of that I feel convinced."
"I wonder if he knows any better, now, how to paint an angel leaning
from the sky," replied Margaret.
      
"Have you any idea why Miss Harrison invented that enormous fiction
about you?" he said, as they drove homeward.
"Not the least. We must ask her."
They found her in her easy-chair, beginning a new stocking. "I thought
you were in Tadmor," she said, as Trafford came in.
"I started; but came back to ask a question. Why did you tell me that
this young lady was going to be married?"
"Well, isn't she?" said Miss Harrison, laughing. "Sit down, you two, and
confess your folly. Margaret has been ill all summer with absolute
pining--yes, you have, child, and it is a woman's place to be humble.
And you, Trafford, did not look especially jubilant, either, for a man
who has been immensely amused during the same space of time. I did what
I could for you by inventing a sort of neutral ground upon which you
could meet and speak. It is very neutral for the other man, you know,
when the girl is going to be married; he can speak to her then as well
as not! I was afraid last night that you were not going to take
advantage of my invention; but I see that it has succeeded (in some
mysterious way out in all this rain) better than I knew. It was, I
think," she concluded, as she commenced on a new needle, "a sort of
experiment of mine--a Florentine experiment."
Trafford burst into a tremendous laugh, in which, after a moment,
Margaret joined.
"I don't know what you two are laughing at," said Miss Harrison,
surveying them. "I should think you ought to be more sentimental, you
know."
"To confess all the truth, Aunt Ruth," said Trafford, going across and
sitting down beside her, "Margaret and I have tried one or two of those
experiments already!"
A WAITRESS
As the evening was delightful, their coffee was served in the garden.
Modesta brought out a low table and a tray; then, returning to the
kitchen, she came forth again with the coffee-pot, fresh from the fire,
and filled the two cups, one for Dennison, the other for his guest,
Edward Gray. The coffee was fragrant, very hot, very black. John
Dennison never took at night more than this one small cupful; but it was
necessary that the quality of the drops within should be of the purest,
and Peppino, the cook, knew that he must not fail. The dinner which had
preceded the coffee had been excellent.
"Well, Jack, you live well!" Gray had remarked, after he had spent two
days with his former school-fellow.
"Yes, good cooking has become a sine qua non with me," Dennison
answered. "I don't take much, but it must be just so; I can't put up
with even a trifling deficiency. I give Peppino very high wages for this
economical land; but, on my side, I require of him unfailingly his very
best skill. I am afraid," he added, with a quizzical smile, "that I
couldn't get through my day and cultivate lofty thoughts if I did not
feel certain that at the end of it there would be a capital little
dinner waiting on the table. Physical comfort has become enormously
important to me. Result: I'm corpulent!"
"Oh no," said Gray.
"Well on the way to it, then. Do you remember how lean I used to be?"
"You look in much better trim than you did when--"
"When I was young. You needn't hesitate about saying it; we're in the
same box in that respect. How old do we call ourselves now?"
"We're fifty-two," answered Gray. "But I to-day look fifty-eight or
nine, and you about forty. To me, Jack, it's marvellous--your youth."
"Yes, I'm plump. I no longer worry; I take life easily. But it's such an
immense change in every way that I've stopped watching it myself. Why, I
remember when I liked pictures that tell a story, good heavens! and
books with a moral, and iron-fronted blocks, and plenty of gaslight."
"Well, it's awfully tempting," said Gray, slowly, as he looked about
him.
"Plenty of gaslight?"
"No; this place--the whole thing."
They were sitting at one end of a flower-bordered walk which leads to a
terrace with a parapet; from here opens out a panorama of the velvety
hills of Tuscany, with a crowd of serried mountain-peaks rising behind
them; below, in the narrow valley of a winding stream, is the small
mediæval town of Tre Ponti, or Three Bridges. The garden retains a
distinctly monastic air, though its last monk took leave of it several
hundred years ago; here are no statues of goddesses and muses, so common
in Italy; instead there are two worn stone crosses, with illegible
Latin inscriptions at their bases. An arcade along one side is paved
with flag-stones, and has the air of a cloister; at its end is a fresco
representing a monk with his finger on his lips, as if inculcating
silence; the face is dim, all save the eyes, but these have a strange
vitality, and appear to follow the gazer with intelligence as he turns
away. There are two ancient sundials, and there is a relic which excites
curiosity--a flight of stone steps attached to a high boundary wall; the
steps go up for a distance of eight or nine feet, and then stop, leading
to nothing. On the north and west, where it stretches to the verge of
the hill, the garden is open, defended only by its parapet. Across its
south edge it is shut in by the irregular stone house called Casa
Colombina. On the east there is the boundary wall already mentioned, and
above this wall there rises outside, not fifteen yards away, a massive
square battlemented tower, one hundred and thirty feet high, named Torre
Colombina, or Tower of the Dove. This tower is now occupied only by
owls, and travellers suppose vaguely that it belongs in some way to the
little church of Santa Lucia, which nestles at its feet; they even fancy
that it is the campanile for Santa Lucia's bells. But the great stone
Tower of the Dove dates from the thirteenth century, and although Santa
Lucia cannot be called young, her two hundred and fifty years are
nothing to the greater antiquity of her ponderous, overshadowing
neighbor. Santa Lucia's bells, indeed, would be lost in the Tower of the
Dove. The saint has but three, each twelve inches in length, and the
miniature peal is suspended in a belfry about as large as a pigeon-house
which perches on the roof of her own small temple--a yellow sanctuary
adorned with a flat pointed façade which looks (it is a characteristic
of many church façades in Italy) as if it would come up and off if
pulled strongly at the top, like the front of a box or the slide of a
lantern.
Edward Gray's compliment had drawn from Dennison a disparaging "Oh, it's
all dilapidated, forlorn--"
"Spare your adjectives," responded the other man. "They're pure
hypocrisy. You needn't pretend you don't like it!"
"Of course I don't pretend. Haven't I lived here for nearly twenty years
because I do like it? That tells the story."
"Though my occupation at home is the making of boiler-plate," Gray
continued, pursuing the current of his own thoughts, "and though I
couldn't and wouldn't live here as you do, giving up your own country
(the greatest country in the world), yet don't imagine, Jack, that I
can't take it in!"
He had risen while speaking. Now he went down to the parapet and stood
looking at the view. Each mountain-peak was bathed in the light of
sunset; all was softly fair--the ineffable loveliness of Italy. He came
back. "It's probable that I take it in more than you do," he went on.
"Oh yes, of course; new-comers always think so. They think that we don't
comprehend either the country or the people because we take them calmly.
They believe that they themselves show far more discrimination in only
coming now and then. For in that way they preserve their power of
appreciating; they don't grow dull-eyed and stupid as we do."
"Exactly. That's just what I think," answered Gray. "What do you
suppose those stairs were for?" he added, as he sat down again beside
the table and lighted a cigarette.
"Probably they led to a small out-door pulpit which has fallen down. The
whole top of this hill was covered by a monastery--a fortified place, I
believe, with four towers. Only one of the towers remains, and nothing
above ground of all the other buildings but that piece of high wall; I
dare say there are plenty of substructures and vaults below. But though
the monastery has gone, this old garden of the monks remains very much
as it was, I fancy."
Modesta now came to take the tray. She was accompanied by a cat and a
dog. The dog was a small dachshund, black, with long silky ears and very
crooked paws. The cat, a sinuous yellow matron, appeared to believe that
she was the favorite, for she rubbed herself against her mistress's
ankles caressingly. As Modesta, with murmured "excuses," lifted the
tray, four kittens rushed from the house, gambolling and tumbling over
each other; they all made their way to her feet, round which they curled
themselves so that she walked in a tangle of cats. She returned towards
the house with her tray, laughing, and careful not to step on them. The
dog waited a moment with dignity. "Here, Hannibal! Here!" said Dennison.
But the dachshund paid no attention to him; he trotted back to the house
as fast as his short legs could carry him.
"He is supposed to be my property. But he spends his life in the
kitchen," commented Dennison.
"That girl of yours has a passion for animals; one might rather call it
compassion, perhaps, for I have even seen her petting that
preternaturally ill-tempered and hideous donkey who turns your
water-wheel," remarked Gray. "It seems to extend in all directions, for
she runs out to help the old milkman up the hill with his cans, and she
gives tidbits to that idiot boy who haunts the main road."
"That isn't half. She feeds regularly two children who live a little
below here, on the way down to the valley. Partly she robs me to do it,
after the easy Italian fashion; but she also robs herself--I have had
proof of that. She almost always has some forlorn object, varying
anywhere from a lame chicken to a blind man, stowed away in a corner of
the court or the kitchen, where she can see to and comfort it. And every
Friday, when the regular beggars of Tre Ponti--the authorized
humbugs--make the round of the villas and poderes on this side of the
valley, invariably she has saved something for each one of them."
"She is extraordinarily handsome. With her full throat, her large, soft
eyes, and that classic head and hair, she looks like a Madonna of one of
the old painters. I have never seen a more kindly and beautiful smile."
"It's well enough. But the great thing is that she is perfect as a
servant. What she has to do is done without a fault."
"And she is so placid and sweet-tempered, too, as well as skilful," Gray
