leagues. Tremouille was getting in his sly work with the 
vacillating King, you see. The King stopped at St.-Mar- 
coul and prayed three days. Precious time lost — for us ; 
precious time gained for Bedford. He would know how 
to use it. 
We could not go on without the King ; that would be 
to leave him In the conspirators' camp. Joan argued, rea- 
soned, implored ; and at last we got under way again. 
Joan's prediction was verified. It was not a campaign, 
it was only another holiday excursion. English strong- 
holds lined our route ; they surrendered without a blow ; 
we garrisoned them with Frenchmen and passed on. Bed- 
ford was on the march against us with his new army by 
this time, and on the 25th of July the hostile forces faced 
each other and made preparation for battle ; but Bedford's 
good judgment prevailed, and he turned and retreated 
toward Paris. Now was our chance. Our men were in 
great spirits. 
Will you believe it ? Our poor stick of a King allowed 
his worthless advisers to persuade him to start back for 
Glen, whence we had set out when we first marched for 
Rheims and the Coronation ! And we actually did start 
back. The fifteen-day truce had just been concluded with 
the Duke of Burgundy, and we would go and tarry at Gien 
until he should deliver Paris to us without a fight. 
We marched to Bray ; then the King changed his mind 
once more, and with it his face toward Paris. Joan dic- 
tated a letter to the citizens of Rheims to encourage them 
to keep heart in spite of the truce, and promising to stand 
by them. She furnished them the news herself that the 
King had made this truce ; and in speaking of it she was 
her usual frank self. She said she was not satisfied with 
it, and didn't know whether she would keep it or not ; that 
If she kept it, it would be solely out of tenderness for the 
King's honour. All French children know those famous 
words. How naive they are ! ' De cette treve qui a 
faite, je ne suis pas contente, et je ne sais si je la tiendrai. 
Si je la tiens, ce sera seulement pour garder I'honneur du 
roi.' But in any case, she said, she would not allow the 
blood royal to be abused, and would keep the army in good 
order and ready for work at the end of the truce. 
Poor child, to have to fight England, Burgundy, and a 
French conspiracy all at the same time — it was too bad. 
She was a match for the others, but a conspiracy — ah, 
nobody is a match for that, when the victim that is to be 
injured is weak and willing. It grieved her, these troubled 
days, to be so hindered and delayed and baffled, and at 
times she was sad and the tears lay near the surface. Once, 
talking with her good old faithful friend and servant the 
Bastard of Orleans, she said — 
' Ah, if it might but please God to let me put oif this 
steel raiment and go back to my father and my mother, and 
tend my sheep again with my sister and my brothers, who 
would be so glad to see me ! ' 
By the 12th of August we were camped near Damp- 
martin. Later we had a brush with Bedford's rear-guard, 
and had hopes of a big battle on the morrow, but Bedford 
and all his force got away in the night and went on toward 
Paris. 
Charles sent heralds and received the submission of 
Beauvais. The Bishop Pierre Cauchon, that faithful friend 
and slave of the English, was not able to prevent it, though 
he did his best. He was obscure then, but his name was 
to travel round the globe presently, and live for ever in the 
curses of France ! Bear with me now, while I spit in fancy 
upon his grave. 
Compiegne surrendered, and hauled down the English 
flag. On the 14th we camped two leagues from Senlis. 
Bedford turned and approached, and took up a strong posi- 
tion. We went against him, but all our efforts to beguile 
him out from his intrenchments failed, though he had pro- 
mised us a duel in the open field. Night shut down. Let 
him look out for the morning ! But in the morning he was 
gone again. 
We entered Compiegne the i8th of August, turning out 
the English garrison and hoisting our own flag. 
On the 23rd Joan gave command to move upon Paris. 
The King and the clique were not satisfied with this, and 
retired sulking to Senlis, which had just surrendered. 
Within a few days many strong places submitted — Creil, 
Pont-Saint-Maxence, Choisy, Gournay-sur-Aronde, Remy, 
La Neufville-en-Hez, Moguay, Chantilly, Saintines. The 
English power was tumbling, crash after crash ! And still 
the King sulked and disapproved, and was afraid of our 
movement against the capital. 
On the 26th of August, 1429, Joan camped at Saint- 
Denis ; in effect, under the walls of Paris. 
And still the King hung back and was afraid. If we 
could but have had him there to back us with his author- 
ity ! Bedford had lost heart and decided to waive resist- 
ance and go and concentrate his strength in the best and 
loyalest province remaining to him — Normandy. Ah, if 
we could only have persuaded the King to come and coun- 
tenance us with his presence and approval at this supreme 
moment ! 
CHAPTER XL 
Courier after courier was despatched to the King, and he 
promised to come, but didn't. The Duke d'Alengon went 
to him and got his promise again, which he broke again. 
Nine days were lost thus ; then he came, arriving at St.- 
Denis Septemb er 7th . 
Meantime the enemy had begun to take heart : the 
spiritless conduct of the King could have no other result. 
Preparations had now been made to defend the city. Joan's 
chances had been diminished, but she and her generals 
considered them plenty good enough yet. Joan ordered 
the attack for eight o'clock next morning, and at that hour 
it began. 
Joan placed her artillery and began to pound a strong 
work which protected the gate St.-Honor. When it was 
sufficiently crippled the assault was sounded at noon, and 
it was carried by storm. Then we moved forward to storm 
the gate itself, and hurled ourselves against it again and 
again, Joan in the lead with her standard at her side, the 
smoke enveloping us in choking clouds, and the missiles 
flying over us and through us as thick as hail. 
In the midst of our last assault, which would have 
carried the gate sure and given us Paris, and in effect 
France, Joan was struck down by a crossbow bolt, and 
our men fell back instantly and almost in a panic — for what 
were they without her ? She was the army, herself. 
Although disabled, she refused to retire, and beg-ged 
that a new assault be made, saying it must win ; and add- 
ing, with the battle-light rising in her eyes, ' I will take 
Paris now or die ! ' She had to be carried away by force, 
and this was done by Gancourt and the Duke d'Alenon. 
But her spirits were at the very top notch, now. She 
was brimming with enthusiasm. She said she would be 
carried before the gate in the morning, and in half an hour 
Paris would be ours without any question. She could 
have kept her word. About this there is no doubt. But 
she forgot one factor — the King, shadow of that substance 
named La Tremouille. The King forbade the attempt ! 
You see, a new Embassy had just come from the Duke 
of Burgundy, and another sham private trade of some sort 
was on foot. 
You would know, without my telling you, that Joan's 
heart was nearly broken. Because of the pain of her wound 
and the pain at her heart she slept little that night. 
Several times the watchers heard muffled sobs from the 
dark room where she lay at St. -Denis, and many times the 
grieving words ' It could have been taken ! — it could have 
been taken ! ' which were the only ones she said. 
She dragged herself out of bed a day later with a new 
hope. D'Alen9on had thrown a bridge across the Seine 
near St. -Denis. Might she not cross by that and assault 
Paris at another point ? But the King got wind of it and 
broke the bridge down ! And more — he declared the 
campaign ended ! And more still — he had made a new 
truce and a long one, in which he had agreed to leave Paris 
unthreatened and unmolested, and go back to the Loire 
whence he had come ! 
Joan of Arc, who had never been defeated by the 
enemy, was defeated by her own King. She had said once 
that all she feared for her cause was treachery. It had 
struck its first blow now. She hung up her white armour 
in the royal basilica of St.-Denis, and went and asked the 
King to relieve her of her functions and let her go home. 
As usual, she was wise. Grand combinations, far-reaching 
great military moves were at an end, now ; for the future, 
when the truce should end, the war would be merely a war 
of random and idle skirmishes, apparently ; work suitable 
for subalterns, and not requiring the supervision of a sub- 
lime military genius. But the King would not let her go. 
The truce did not embrace all France ; there were French 
strongholds to be watched and preserved ; he would need 
her. Really, you see, Tremouille wanted to keep her 
where he could balk and hinder her. 
Now came her Voices again. They said, ' Remain at 
St.-Denis: There was no explanation. They did not say 
why. That was the voice of God ; it took precedence of 
the command of the King ; Joan resolved to stay. But 
that filled La Tremouille with dread. She was. too 
tremendous a force to be left to herself ; she would surely 
defeat all his plans. He beguiled the King to use com- 
pulsion. Joan had to submit— because she was wounded 
and helpless. In the Great Trial she said she was carried 
away against her will; and that if she had not been 
wounded it could not have been accomplished. Ah, she 
had a spirit, that slender girl ! a spirit to brave all earthly 
powers and defy them. We shall never know why the 
Voices ordered her to stay. We only know this : that if 
she could have obeyed, the history of France would not be 
as it now stands written in the books. Yes, well we know 
that. 
On the 13th of September the army, sad and spiritless, 
turned its face' toward the Loire, and marched— without 
music! Yes, one noted that detail. It was a funeral 
march ; that is what it was. A long, dreary funeral 
march, with never a shout or a cheer ; friends looking on 
in tears, all the way, enemies laughing. We reached Gien 
at last — that place whence we had set out on our splendid 
march toward Rheims less than three months before, with 
flags flying, bands playing, the victory-flush of Patay glow- 
ing in our faces, and the massed multitudes shouting and 
praising and giving us God-speed. There was a dull rain 
falling now, the day was dark, the heavens mourned, the 
spectators were few, we had no welcome but the welcome 
of silence, and pity, and tears. 
Then the King disbanded that noble army of heroes ; 
it furled its flags, it stored its arms : the disgrace of France 
was complete. La Tremouille wore the victor's crown ; 
Joan of Arc, the unconquerable, was conquered. 
CHAPTER XLI 
Yes, it was as I have said : Joan had Paris and France in 
her grip, and the Hundred Years' War under her heel, and 
the King made her open her fist and take away her foot. 
Now followed about eight months of drifting about 
with the King and his council, and his gay and showy and 
dancing and flirting and hawking and frolicking and serenading 
and dissipating Court — drifting from town to town 
and from castle to castle — a life which was pleasant to us of 
the personal staff, but not to Joan. However, she only 
saw it, she didn't live it. The King did his sincerest best 
to make her happy, and showed a most kind and constant 
anxiety in this matter. All others had to go loaded with 
the chains of an exacting Court etiquette, but she was free, 
she was privileged. So that she paid her duty to the King 
once a day and passed the pleasant word, nothing further 
was required of her. Naturally, then, she made herself a 
hermit, and grieved the weary days through in her own 
apartments, with her thoughts and devotions for company, 
and the planning of now for ever unreallsable military 
combinations for entertainment. In fancy she moved 
bodies of men from this and that and the other point, so 
calculating" the distances to be covered, the time required 
for each body, and the nature of the country to be traversed, 
as to have them appear in sight of each other on a given 
day or at a given hour and concentrate for battle. It was 
her only game, her only relief from her burden of sorrow 
and inaction. She played it hour after hour, as others play 
chess ; and lost herself in it, and so got repose for her 
mind and healing for her heart. 
She never complained, of course. It was not her way. 
She was the sort that endure in silence. But — she was a 
caged eagle just the same, and pined for the free air and 
the alpine heights and the fierce joys of the storm. 
France was full of rovers — disbanded soldiers ready 
for anything that might turn up. Several times, at 
intervals, when Joan's dull captivity grew too heavy to 
bear, she was allowed to gather a troop of cavalry and 
make a health-restoring dash against the enemy. These 
things were like a bath to her spirits. 
It was like old times, there at Saint-Pierre-le-Moutier, 
to see her lead assault after assault, be driven back again 
and again, but always rally and charge anew, all in a blaze 
of eagerness and delight ; till at last the tempest of missiles 
rained so intolerably thick that old D'Aulon, who was 
wounded, sounded the retreat (for the King had charged 
him on his head to let no harm come to Joan) ; and away 
everybody rushed after him — as he supposed ; but when 
he turned and looked, there were we of the staff still 
hammering away ; wherefore he rode back and urged her 
to come, saying she was mad to stay there with only a 
dozen men. Her eye danced merrily, and she turned upon 
him, crying out — 
' A dozen men ! name of God, I have fifty thousand, 
and will never budge till this place is taken ! Sound the 
charge ! ' 
Which he did, and over the walls we went, and the 
fortress was ours. Old D'Aulon thought her mind was 
wandering ; but all she meant was that she felt the might 
of fifty thousand men surging in her heart. It was a 
fanciful expression ; but, to my thinking, truer word was 
never said. 
Then there was the affair near Lagny, where we 
charged the intrenched Burgundians through the open 
field four times, the last time victoriously ; the best prize 
of it Franquet d'Arras, the freebooter and pitiless scourge 
of the region round about. 
Now and then other such affairs ; and at last, away - 
toward the end of May, 1430, we were in the neighbour- 
hood of Compiegne, and Joan resolved to go to the help 
of that place, which was being besieged by the Duke of 
Burgundy. 
I had been wounded lately, and was not able to ride 
without help ; but the good Dwarf took me on behind him, 
and I held on to him and was safe enough. We started 
at midnight, in a sullen downpour of warm rain, and went 
slowly and softly and in dead silence, for we had to slip 
through the enemy's lines. We were challeng-ed only 
once ; we made no answer, but held our breath and crept 
steadily and stealthily along, and got through without 
any accident. About three or half-past we reached 
Compiegne, just as the grey dawn was breaking in the 
east. 
Joan set to work at once, and concerted a plan with 
Guillaume de Flavy, captain of the city — a plan for a 
sortie toward evening against the enemy, who was posted 
in three bodies on the other side of the Oise, in the level 
plain. From our side one of the city gates communicated 
with a bridge. The end of this bridge was defended on 
the other side of the river by one of those fortresses called 
a boulevard ; and this boulevard also commanded a 
raised road, which stretched from its front across the 
plain to the village of Marguy. A force of Burgundians 
occupied Marguy ; another was camped at Clairoix, a 
couple of miles adove the raised road ; and a body of 
English was holding Venette, a mile and a half below it. 
A kind of bow-and-arrow arrangement, you see : the 
causeway the arrow, the boulevard at the feather-end of 
it, Marguy at the barb, Venette at one end of the bow, 
Clairoix at the other. 
Joan's plan was to %o straight per causeway against 
Marguy, carry it by assault, then turn swiftly upon 
Clairoix, up to the right, and capture that camp in the 
same way, then face to the rear and be ready for heavy 
work, for the Duke of Burgundy lay behind Clairoix with 
a reserve. Flavy's lieutenant, with archers and the artillery 
of the boulevard, was to keep the English troops from 
coming up from below and seizing the causeway and 
cutting off Joan's retreat in case she should have to make 
one. Also, a fleet of covered boats was to be stationed 
near the boulevard as an additional help in case a retreat 
should become necessary. 
It was the 24t h nf May . At four in the afternoon Joan 
moved out at the head of six hundred cavalry — on her last 
march in this life. 
It breaks my heart. I had got myself helped up on to 
the walls, and from there I saw much that happened ; the 
rest was told me long afterwards by our two knights and 
other eye-witnesses. Joan crossed the bridge, and soon 
left the boulevard behind her and went skimming away 
over the raised road with her horsemen clattering at her 
heels. She had on a brilliant silver-gilt cape over her 
armour, and I could see it flap and flare and rise and fall 
like a little patch of white flame. 
It was a bright day, and one could see far and wide 
over that plain. Soon we saw the English force advancing 
swiftly and in handsome order, the sunlight flashing from 
its arms. 
Joan crashed into the Burgundians at Marguy and was 
repulsed. Then we saw the other Burgundians moving 
down from Clairoix. Joan rallied her men and charged 
again, and was again rolled back. Two assaults occupy 
a good deal of time —and time was precious here. The 
English were approaching the road, now, from Venette, 
but the boulevard opened fire on them and they were 
checked. Joan heartened her men with inspiring words 
and led them to the charge again in great style. This 
time she carried Marguy with a hurrah. Then she turned 
at once to the right and plunged into the plain and struck 
the Clairoix force, which was just arriving ; then there was 
heavy work, and plenty of it, the two armies hurling each 
other backward turn about and about, and victory inclin- 
ing first to the one, then to the other. Now all of a sudden 
there was a panic on our side. Some say one thing caused 
it, some another. Some say the cannonade made our front 
ranks think retreat was being cut off by the English, some 
say the rear ranks got the idea that Joan was killed. 
Anyway our men broke, and went flying in a wild rout for 
the causeway. Joan tried to rally them and face them 
around, crying to them that victory was sure, but it did 
no good, they divided and swept by her like a wave. Old 
D'Aulon begged her to retreat while there was yet a 
chance for safety, but she refused ; so he seized her horse's 
bridle and bore her along with the wreck and ruin in spite 
of herself. And so along the causeway they came swarm- 
ing, that wild confusion of frenzied men and horses — and 
the artillery had to stop firing, of course ; consequently 
the English and Burgundians closed in in safety, the former 
in front, the latter behind their prey. Clear to the boule- 
vard the French were washed in this enveloping inunda- 
tion ; and there, cornered in an angle formed by the flank 
of the boulevard and the slope of the causeway, they 
bravely fought a hopeless fight, and sank down one by 
one. 
Flavy, watching from the city wall, ordered the gate 
to be closed and the drawbridge raised. This shut Joan 
out. 
The little personal guard around her thinned swiftly. 
Both of our good knights went down disabled ; Joan's two 
brothers fell wounded ; then Noel Rainguesson — all 
wounded while loyally sheltering Joan from blows aimed at 
her. When only the Dwarf and the Paladin were left, they 
would not give up, but stood their ground stoutly, a pair 
of steel towers streaked and splashed with blood ; and 
where the axe of the one fell, and the sword of the other, 
an enemy gasped and died. And so fighting, and loyal to 
their duty to the last, good simple souls, they came to 
their honourable end. Peace to their memories ! they were 
very dear to me. 
Then there was a cheer and a rush, and Joan, still 
defiant, still laying about her with her sword, was seized 
by her cape and dragged from her horse. She was borne 
away a prisoner to the Duke of Burgundy's camp, and after 
her followed the victorious army roaring its joy. 
The awful news started instantly on its round ; from lip 
to lip it flew ; and wherever it came it struck the people as 
with a sort of paralysis ; and they murmured over and 
over again, as if they were talking to themselves, or in 
their sleep, ' The Maid of Orleans taken ! . . . Joan of 
Arc a prisoner ! . . . the Saviour of France lost to us ! ' — 
and would keep saying that over, as if they couldn't 
understand how it could be, or how God could permit it, 
poor creatures ! 
You know what a city is like when it is hung from eaves 
to pavement with rustling black ? Then you know what 
Tours was like, and some other cities. But can any man 
tell you what the mourning in the hearts of the peasantry 
of France was like ? No, nobody can tell you that ; and, 
poor dumb things, they could not have told you them- 
selves ; but it was there — indeed yes. Why, it was the 
spirit of a whole nation hung with crape ! 
The 24th of May. We will draw down the curtain, 
now, upon the most strange, and pathetic, and wonderful 
military drama that has been played upon the stage of the 
world. Joan of Arc will march no more. 
CHAPTER I 
I CANNOT bear to dwell at great length upon the shameful 
history of the summer and winter following the capture. 
For a while I was not much troubled, for I was expecting 
every day to hear that Joan had been put to ransom, and 
that the King — no, not the King, but grateful France — had 
come eagerly forward to pay it. By the laws of war she 
could not be denied the privilege of ransom. She was not 
a rebel ; she was a legitimately constituted soldier, head of 
the armies of France by her King's appointment, and guilty 
of no crime known to military law ; therefore she could not 
be detained upon any pretext, if ransom were proffered. 
But day after day dragged by and no ransom was 
offered ! It seems incredible, but it is true. Was that 
reptile Tremouille busy at the King's ear ? All we know 
is, that the King was silent, and made no offer and no 
effort in behalf of this poor girl who had done so much 
for him. 
But unhappily there was alacrity enough in another 
quarter. The news of the capture reached Paris the day 
after it happened, and the glad English and Burgundians 
deafened the world all the day and all the night with the 
clamour of their joy-bells and the thankful thunder of their 
artillery ; and the next day the Vicar General of the 
Inquisition sent a message to the Duke of Burgundy requiring 
the delivery of the prisoner Into the hands of the Church to 
be tried as an idolater. 
The English had seen their opportunity, and it was the 
English power that was really acting, not the Church. 
The Church was being used as a blind, a disguise ; and for 
a forcible reason : the Church was not only able to take the 
life of Joan of Arc, but to blight her influence and the valour- 
breeding inspiration of her name, whereas the English 
power could but kill her body ; that would not diminish or 
destroy the influence of her name ; it would magnify it and 
make it permanent. Joan of Arc was the only power in 
France that the English did not despise, the only power in 
France that they considered formidable. If the Church 
could be brought to take her life, or to proclaim her an 
idolater, a heretic, a witch, sent from Satan, not from 
heaven, it was believed that the English supremacy could 
be at once reinstated. 
The Duke of Burgundy listened — but waited. He could 
not doubt that the French King or the French people 
would come forward presently and pay a higher price than 
the English. He kept Joan a close prisoner in a strong 
fortress, and continued to wait, week after week. He was 
a French Prince, and was at heart ashamed to sell her to 
the English. Yet with all his waiting no off'er came to him 
from the French side. 
One day Joan played a cunning trick on her jailer, and 
not only slipped out of her prison, but locked him up in it. 
But as she fled away she was seen by a sentinel, and was 
caught and brought back. 
Then she was sent to Beaurevoir, a stronger castle. 
This was early in August, and she had been in captivity 
more than two months, now. Here she was shut up in 
the top of a tower which was sixty feet high. She ate her 
heart there for another long stretch — about three months 
and a half. And she was aware, all these weary five 
months of captivity, that the English, under cover of the 
Church, were dickering for her as one would dicker for a 
horse or a slave, and that France was silent, the King 
silent, all her friends the same. Yes, it was pitiful. 
And yet when she heard at last that Compigne was 
being closely besieged and likely to be captured, and that 
the enemy had declared that no inhabitant of it should 
escape massacre, not even children of seven years of age, 
she was in a fever at once to fly to our rescue. So she 
tore her bed-clothes to strips and tied them together and 
descended this frail rope in the night, and it broke and she 
fell and was badly bruised, and remained three days insensible,
meantime neither eating nor drinking. 
And now came relief to us, led by the Count of Vendome, 
and Compiegne was saved and the siege raised. 
This was a disaster to the Duke of Burgundy. He had to 
have money, now. It was a good time for a new bid to be 
made for Joan of Arc. The English at once sent a French 
Bishop — that for ever infamous Pierre Cauchon of Beauvais. 
He was partly promised the Archbishopric of Rouen, 
which was vacant, if he should succeed. He claimed the 
right to preside over Joan's ecclesiastical trial because the 
battle-ground where she was taken was within his diocese. 
By the military usage of the time the ransom of a royal 
Prince was 10,000 livres of gold, which is 61,125 francs — a 
fixed sum, you see. It must be accepted, when off"ered ; it 
could not be refused. 
Cauchon brought the offer of this very sum from the 
English — a royal Prince's ransom for the poor little peasant 
girl of Domremy. It shows in a striking way the English 
idea of her formidable importance. It was accepted. For 
that sum Joan of Arc the Saviour of France was sold ; sold 
to her enemies ; to the enemies of her country ; enemies 
who had lashed and thrashed and thumped and trounced 
France for a century and made holiday sport of it ; enemies 
who had forgotten, years and years ago, what a French- 
man's face was like, so used were they to seeing nothing 
but his back ; enemies whom she had whipped, whom she 
had cowed, whom she had taught to respect French valour. 
new-born in her nation by the breath of her spirit ; enemies 
who hungered for her life as being the only puissance able 
to stand between English triumph and French degradation. 
Sold to a French priest by a French Prince, with the French 
King and the French nation standing thankless by and 
saying nothing. 
And she — what did she say ? Nothing. Not a reproach 
passed her lips. She was too great for that — she was Joan 
of Arc ; and when that is said, all is said. 
As a soldier, her record was spotless. She could not be 
called to account for anything under that head. A subter- 
fuge must be found, and, as we have seen, was found. She 
must be tried by priests for crimes against religion. If none 
could be discovered, some must be invented. Let the mis- 
creant Cauchon alone to contrive those. 
Rouen was chosen as the scene of the trial. It was in 
the heart of the English power ; its population had been 
under English dominion so many generations that they 
were hardly French now, save in language. The place was 
strongly garrisoned. Joan was taken there near the end 
of December 1430, and flung into a dungeon. Yes, and 
clothed in chains, that free spirit ! 
Still France made no move. How do I account for this ? 
I think there is only one way. You will remember that 
whenever Joan was not at the front, the French held back 
and ventured nothing ; that whenever she led. they swept 
ever}-thing before them, so long as they could see her white 
armour or her banner ; that ever}- time she fell wounded 
or was reported killed — as at Compiegne — they broke in 
panic and fled like sheep. I argue from this that they had 
undergone no real transformation as yet ; that at bottom 
they were still under the spell of a timorousness born of 
generations of unsuccess, and a lack of confidence in each 
other and in their leaders born of old and bitter experience 
in the way of treacheries of all sorts — for their kings had 
been treacherous to their great vassals and to their generals, 
and these in turn were treacherous to the head of the state 
and to each other. The soldiery found that they could 
depend utterly on Joan, and upon her alone. With her 
gone, everything was gone. She was the sun that melted 
the frozen torrents and set them boiling ; with that sun 
removed, they froze again, and the army and all France 
became what they had been before, mere dead corpses — 
that and nothing more ; incapable of thought, hope, ambi- 
tion or motion. 
CHAPTER II 
My wound gave me a great deal of trouble clear into the 
first part of October ; then the fresher weather renewed 
my life and strength. All this time there were reports 
drifting about that the King was going to ransom Joan. 
I believed these, for I was young and had not yet found 
out the littleness and meanness of our poor human race 
which brags about itself so much, and thinks it is better 
and higher than the other animals. 
In October I was well enough to go out with two 
sorties, and in the second one, on the 23rd, I was wounded 
again. My luck had turned, you see. On the night of the 
25th the besiegers decamped, and in the disorder and con- 
fusion one of their prisoners escaped and got safe into 
Compiegne, and hobbled into my room as pallid and 
I pathetic an object as you would wish to see. 
' What ? Alive ? Noel Rainguesson ! ' 
It was indeed he. It was a most joyful meeting, that 
m will easily know ; and also as sad as it was joyful, 
'We could not speak Joan's name. One's voice would have 
roken down. We knew who was meant when she was 
mtioned ; we could say ' she' and ' her,' but we could 
lot speak the name. 
We talked of the personal staff. Old D'Aulon, wounded 
id a prisoner, was still with Joan and serving her, by 
permission of the Duke of Burgundy. Joan was being 
treated with the respect due to her rank and to her 
character as a prisoner of war taken in honourable conflict. 
And this was continued — as we learned later — until she 
fell Into the hands of that bastard of Satan, Pierre Cauchon, 
Bishop of Beauvals. 
Noel was full of noble and affectionate praises and 
appreciations of our old boastful big Standard-bearer, 
now gone silent for ever, his real and Imaginary battles 
all fought, his work done, his life honourably closed and 
completed. 
' And think of his luck ! ' burst out Noel, with his eyes 
full of tears. ' Always the pet child of luck ! See how It 
followed him and stayed by him, from his first step all 
through. In the field or out of it ; always a splendid figure 
In the public eye, courted and envied everywhere ; always 
having a chance to do fine things and always doing them ; 
In the beginning called the Paladin in joke, and called it 
afterwards in earnest because he magnificently made the 
title good ; and at last — supremest luck of all — died in the 
field ! died with his harness on ; died faithful to his charge, 
the Standard in his hand ; died — oh, think of it — with the 
approving eye of Joan of Arc upon him ! He drained the 
cup of glory to the last drop, and went jubilant to his peace, 
blessedly spared all part in the disaster which was to 
follow. What luck, what luck ! And we ? What was 
our sin that we are still here, we who have also earned our 
place with the happy dead ? ' 
And presently he said : 
' They tore the sacred Standard from his dead hand and 
carried it away, their most precious prize, after its captured 
owner. But they haven't It now. A month ago we put 
our lives upon the risk — our two good knights, my fellow- 
prisoners, and I — and stole it, and got it smuggled by 
trusty hands to Orleans, and there it is now, safe for all 
time in the Treasury.' 
I was glad and grateful to learn that. I have seen it 
often since, when I have gone to Orleans on the 8th of May, 
to be the petted old guest of the city and hold the first 
place of honour at the banquets and in the processions — I 
mean since Joan's brothers passed from this life. It will 
still be there, sacredly guarded by French love, a thousand 
years from now — yes, as long as any shred of it hangs to- 
gether.'
Two or three weeks after this talk came the tremendous news
like a thunder-clap, and we were aghast — Joan 
of Arc sold to the English ! 
Not for a moment had we ever dreamed of such a thing. 
We were young, you see, and did not know the human 
race, as I have said before. We had been so proud of our 
country, so sure of her nobleness, her magnanimity, her 
gratitude. We had expected little of the King, but of 
France we had expected everything. Everybody knew 
that in various towns patriot priests had been marching in 
procession urging the people to sacrifice money, property, 
everything, and buy the freedom of their heaven-sent 
deliverer. That the money would be raised we had not 
thought of doubting. 
But it was all over now, all over. It was a bitter time 
for us. The heavens seemed hung with black ; all cheer 
went out from our hearts. Was this comrade here at my 
bedside really Noel Rainguesson, that light-hearted creature 
whose whole life was but one long joke, and who used up 
more breath in laughter than in keeping his body alive ? 
' It remained there three hundred and sixty years, and then was de- 
stroyed in a public bonfire, together with two swords, a plumed cap, several 
suits of state apparel, and other relics of the Maid, by a mob, n the time 
of the Revolution. Nothing which the hand of Joan of Arc is known to 
have touched now remains in existence except a few preciously guarded 
military and state papers which she signed, her pen being guided by a 
clerk or her secretary Louis de Conte. A boulder exists from which she 
is known to have mounted her horse when she was once setting out upon 
a campaign. Up to a quarter of a century ago there was a single hair 
from her head still in existence. It was drawn through the wax of a seal 
attached to the parchment of a state document. It was surreptitiously 
snipped out, seal and all, by some vandal relic-hunter, and carried off. 
Doubtless it still exists, but only the thief knows where. — Translator . 
No, no ; that Noel I was to see no more. This one's 
heart was broken. He moved grieving about, and 
absently, like one in a dream ; the stream of his laughter 
was dried at its source. 
Well, that was best. It was my own mood. We were 
company for each other. He nursed me patiently through 
the dull long weeks, and at last, in January, I was strong 
enough to go about again. Then he said : 
' Shall we go now ? ' 
' Yes.' 
There was no need to explain. Our hearts were in 
Rouen, we would carry our bodies there. All that we 
cared for in this life was shut up in that fortress. We 
could not help her, but it would be some solace to us to be 
near her, to breathe the air that she breathed, and look 
daily upon the stone walls that hid her. What if we should 
be made prisoners there ? Well, we could but do our best, 
and let luck and fate decide what should happen. 
And so we started. We could not realise the change 
which had come upon the country. We seemed able to 
choose our own route and go wherever we pleased, un- 
challenged and unmolested. When Joan of Arc was in 
the field, there was a sort of panic of fear everywhere ; but 
now that she was out of the way, fear had vanished. No- 
body was troubled about you or afraid of you, nobody was 
curious about you or your business, everybody was indif- 
ferent. 
We presently saw that we could take to the Seine and 
not weary ourselves out with land travel. So we did it, 
and were carried in a boat to within a league of Rouen. 
Then we got ashore ; not on the hilly side but on the 
other, where it is as level as a floor. Nobody could enter 
or leave the city without explaining himself. It was 
because they feared attempts at a rescue of Joan. 
We had no trouble. We stopped in the plain with a 
family of peasants and stayed a week, helping them with 
their work for board and lodging, and making friends of 
them. We got clothes like theirs, and wore them. When 
we had worked our way through their reserves and gotten 
their confidence, we found that they secretly harboured 
French hearts in their bodies. Then we came out frankly 
and told them everything, and found them ready to do 
anything they could to help us. Our plan was soon made, 
and was quite simple. It was to help them drive a flock 
of sheep to the market of the city. One morning early we 
made the venture in a melancholy drizzle of rain, and 
passed through the frowning gates unmolested. Our 
friends had friends living over a humble wine-shop in a 
quaint tall building situated in one of the narrow lanes 
that run down from the cathedral to the river, and with 
these they bestowed us ; and the next day they smuggled 
our own proper clothing and other belongings to us. The 
family that lodged us — the Pierrons — were French in 
sympathy, and we needed to have no secrets from them. 
CHAPTER III 
It was necessary for me to have some way to gain bread 
for Noel and myself; and when the Pierrons found that I 
knew how to write, they applied to their confessor in my 
behalf, and he got a place for me with a good priest named 
Manchon, who was to be the chief recorder in the Great 
Trial of Joan of Arc now approaching. It was a strange 
position for me — clerk to the recorder — and dangerous if 
my sympathies and late employment should be found out. 
But there was not much danger. Manchon was at bottom 
friendly to Joan and would not betray me ; and my name 
would not, for I had discarded my surname and retained 
only my given one, like a person of low degree. 
I attended Manchon constantly straight along, out of 
January and into February, and was often in the citadel 
with him — in the very fortress where Joan was imprisoned, 
though not in the dungeon where she was confined, and 
so did not see her, of course. 
Manchon told me everything that had been happening 
before my coming. Ever since the purchase of Joan, 
Cauchon had been busy packing his jury for the destruction 
of the Maid — weeks and weeks he had spent in this bad 
industry. The University of Paris had sent him a number 
of learned and able and trusty ecclesiastics of the stripe he 
wanted ; and he had scraped together a clergyman of like 
stripe and great fame here and there and yonder, until he 
was able to construct a formidable court numbering half a 
hundred distinguished names. French names they were, 
but their interests and sympathies were English. 
A great officer of the Inquisition was also sent from 
Paris, for the accused must be tried by the forms of the 
Inquisition ; but this was a brave and righteous man, and 
he said squarely that this court had no power to try the 
case, wherefore he refused to act ; and the same honest 
talk was uttered by two or three others. 
The Inquisitor was right. The case as here resurrected 
against Joan had already been tried long ago at Poitiers, 
and decided in her favour. Yes, and by a higher tribunal 
than this one, for at the head of it was an Archbishop — he 
of Rheims — Cauchon's own metropolitan. So here, you 
see, a lower court was impudently preparing to re-try and 
re-decide a cause which had already been decided by its 
superior, a court of higher authority. Imagine it ! No, 
the case could not properly be tried again. Cauchon could 
not properly preside in this new court, for more than one 
reason : Rouen was not in his diocese ; Joan had not been 
arrested in her domicile, which was still Domremy ; and 
finally this proposed judge was the prisoner's outspoken 
enemy, and therefore he was incompetent to try her. Yet 
all these large difficulties were gotten rid of. The terri- 
torial Chapter of Rouen finally granted territorial letters to 
Cauchon — though only after a struggle and under com- 
pulsion. Force was also applied to the Inquisitor, and he 
was obliged to submit. 
So, then, the little English King, by his representative, 
formally delivered Joan into the hands of the court, but 
with this reservation : if the court failed to condemn her he 
was to have her back again ! 
Ah, dear, what chance was there for that forsaken and 
friendless child ? Friendless indeed — it is the right word. 
For she was in a black dungeon, with half a dozen brutal 
common soldiers keeping guard night and day in the room 
where her cage was — for she was in a cage ; an iron cage, 
and chained to her bed by neck and hands and feet. Never 
a person near her whom she had ever seen before ; never 
a woman at all. Yes, this was indeed friendlessness. 
Now it was a vassal of Jean de Luxembourg who cap- 
tured Joan at Compigne, and it was Jean who sold her to 
the Duke of Burgundy. Yet this very De Luxembourg 
was shameless enough to go and show his face to Joan in 
her cage. He came with two English earls, Warwick and 
Stafford. He was a poor reptile. He told her he would 
get her set free if she would promise not to fight the 
English any more. She had been in that cage a long time 
now, but not long enough to break her spirit. She re- 
torted scornfully — 
' Name of God, you but mock me. I know that you 
have neither the power nor the will to do it.' 
He insisted. Then the pride and dignity of the soldier 
rose in Joan, and she lifted her chained hands and let them 
fall with a clash, saying — 
' See these ! They know more than you, and can 
prophesy better. I know that the English are going to 
kill me, for they think that when I am dead they can get 
the Kingdom of France. It is not so. Though there were 
a hundred thousand of them they would never get it.' 
This defiance infuriated Stafford, and he — now think 01 
it — he a free, strong man, she a chained and helpless girl 
— he drew his dagger and flung himself at her to stab her. 
But Warwick seized him and held him back. Warwick 
was wise. Take her life in that way ? Send her to 
Heaven stainless and undisgraced ? It would make her 
