nevertheless hung back a little, dropping her eyes on the gravel--"my
justification was all the past. My justification was the cruelty--" But
at this, with a short, sharp gesture, she checked herself. "It's too
good of me to talk--now." She produced these sentences with a cold
patience, as if addressing Fleda in the girl's virtual and actual
character of Owen's representative. Our young lady crept to and fro
before the bench, combating the sense that it was occupied by a judge,
looking at her boot-toes, reminding herself in doing so of Mona, and
lightly crunching the pebbles as she walked. She moved about because she
was afraid, putting off from moment to moment the exercise of the
courage she had been sure she possessed. That courage would all come to
her if she could only be equally sure that what she should be called
upon to do for Owen would be to suffer. She had wondered, while Mrs.
Gereth spoke, how that lady would describe her justification. She had
described it as if to be irreproachably fair, give her adversary the
benefit of every doubt, and then dismiss the question forever. "Of
course," Mrs. Gereth went on, "if we didn't succeed in showing him at
Poynton the ground we took, it's simply that he shuts his eyes. What I
supposed was that you would have given him your opinion that if I was
the woman so signally to assert myself, I'm also the woman to rest upon
it imperturbably enough."
Fleda stopped in front of her hostess. "I gave him my opinion that
you're very logical, very obstinate, and very proud."
"Quite right, my dear: I'm a rank bigot--about that sort of thing!" and
Mrs. Gereth jerked her head at the contents of the house. "I've never
denied it. I'd kidnap--to save them, to convert them--the children of
heretics. When I know I'm right I go to the stake. Oh, he may burn me
alive!" she cried with a happy face. "Did he abuse me?" she then
demanded.
Fleda had remained there, gathering in her purpose. "How little you know
him!"
Mrs. Gereth stared, then broke into a laugh that her companion had not
expected. "Ah, my dear, certainly not so well as you!" The girl, at
this, turned away again--she felt she looked too conscious; and she was
aware that, during a pause, Mrs. Gereth's eyes watched her as she went.
She faced about afresh to meet them, but what she met was a question
that reinforced them. "Why had you a 'delicacy' as to speaking of Mona?"
She stopped again before the bench, and an inspiration came to her. "I
should think you would know," she said with proper dignity.
Blankness was for a moment on Mrs. Gereth's brow; then light broke--she
visibly remembered the scene in the breakfast-room after Mona's night at
Poynton. "Because I contrasted you--told him you were the one?" Her
eyes looked deep. "You were--you are still!"
Fleda gave a bold dramatic laugh. "Thank you, my love--with all the best
things at Ricks!"
Mrs. Gereth considered, trying to penetrate, as it seemed; but at last
she brought out roundly: "For you, you know, I'd send them back!"
The girl's heart gave a tremendous bound; the right way dawned upon her
in a flash. Obscurity indeed the next moment engulfed this course, but
for a few thrilled seconds she had understood. To send the things back
"for her" meant of course to send them back if there were even a dim
chance that she might become mistress of them. Fleda's palpitation was
not allayed as she asked herself what portent Mrs. Gereth had suddenly
perceived of such a chance: that perception could come only from a
sudden suspicion of her secret. This suspicion, in turn, was a tolerably
straight consequence of that implied view of the propriety of surrender
from which, she was well aware, she could say nothing to dissociate
herself. What she first felt was that if she wished to rescue the spoils
she wished also to rescue her secret. So she looked as innocent as she
could and said as quickly as possible: "For me? Why in the world for
me?"
"Because you're so awfully keen."
"Am I? Do I strike you so? You know I hate him," Fleda went on.
She had the sense for a while of Mrs. Gereth's regarding her with the
detachment of some stern, clever stranger. "Then what's the matter with
you? Why do you want me to give in?"
Fleda hesitated; she felt herself reddening. "I've only said your son
wants it. I haven't said I do."
"Then say it and have done with it!"
This was more peremptory than any word her friend, though often speaking
in her presence with much point, had ever yet directly addressed to her.
It affected her like the crack of a whip, but she confined herself, with
an effort, to taking it as a reminder that she must keep her head. "I
know he has his engagement to carry out."
"His engagement to marry? Why, it's just that engagement we loathe!"
"Why should I loathe it?" Fleda asked with a strained smile. Then,
before Mrs. Gereth could reply, she pursued: "I'm thinking of his
general undertaking--to give her the house as she originally saw it."
"To give her the house!" Mrs. Gereth brought up the words from the depth
of the unspeakable. The effort was like the moan of an autumn wind; it
was in the power of such an image to make her turn pale.
"I'm thinking," Fleda continued, "of the simple question of his keeping
faith on an important clause of his contract: it doesn't matter whether
it's with a stupid girl or with a monster of cleverness. I'm thinking of
his honor and his good name."
"The honor and good name of a man you hate?"
"Certainly," the girl resolutely answered. "I don't see why you should
talk as if one had a petty mind. You don't think so. It's not on that
assumption you've ever dealt with me. I can do your son justice, as he
put his case to me."
"Ah, then he did put his case to you!" Mrs. Gereth exclaimed, with an
accent of triumph. "You seemed to speak just now as if really nothing of
any consequence had passed between you."
"Something always passes when one has a little imagination," our young
lady declared.
"I take it you don't mean that Owen has any!" Mrs. Gereth cried with her
large laugh.
Fleda was silent a moment. "No, I don't mean that Owen has any," she
returned at last.
"Why is it you hate him so?" her hostess abruptly inquired.
"Should I love him for all he has made you suffer?"
Mrs. Gereth slowly rose at this and, coming across the walk, took her
young friend in her arms and kissed her. She then passed into one of
Fleda's an arm perversely and imperiously sociable. "Let us move a
little," she said, holding her close and giving a slight shiver. They
strolled along the terrace, and she brought out another question. "He
was eloquent, then, poor dear--he poured forth the story of his
wrongs?"
Fleda smiled down at her companion, who, cloaked and perceptibly bowed,
leaned on her heavily and gave her an odd, unwonted sense of age and
cunning. She took refuge in an evasion. "He couldn't tell me anything
that I didn't know pretty well already."
"It's very true that you know everything. No, dear, you haven't a petty
mind; you've a lovely imagination and you're the nicest creature in the
world. If you were inane, like most girls--like every one, in fact--I
would have insulted you, I would have outraged you, and then you would
have fled from me in terror. No, now that I think of it," Mrs. Gereth
went on, "you wouldn't have fled from me; nothing, on the contrary,
would have made you budge. You would have cuddled into your warm corner,
but you would have been wounded and weeping and martyrized, and you
would have taken every opportunity to tell people I'm a brute--as indeed
I should have been!" They went to and fro, and she would not allow
Fleda, who laughed and protested, to attenuate with any light civility
this spirited picture. She praised her cleverness and her patience; then
she said it was getting cold and dark and they must go in to tea. She
delayed quitting the place, however, and reverted instead to Owen's
ultimatum, about which she asked another question or two; in particular
whether it had struck Fleda that he really believed she would comply
with such a summons.
"I think he really believes that if I try hard enough I can make you:"
after uttering which words our young lady stopped short and emulated the
embrace she had received a few moments before.
"And you've promised to try: I see. You didn't tell me that, either,"
Mrs. Gereth added as they went on. "But you're rascal enough for
anything!" While Fleda was occupied in thinking in what terms she could
explain why she had indeed been rascal enough for the reticence thus
denounced, her companion broke out with an inquiry somewhat irrelevant
and even in form somewhat profane. "Why the devil, at any rate, doesn't
it come off?"
Fleda hesitated. "You mean their marriage?"
"Of course I mean their marriage!" Fleda hesitated again. "I haven't the
least idea."
"You didn't ask him?"
"Oh, how in the world can you fancy?" She spoke in a shocked tone.
"Fancy your putting a question so indelicate? I should have put it--I
mean in your place; but I'm quite coarse, thank God!" Fleda felt
privately that she herself was coarse, or at any rate would presently
have to be; and Mrs. Gereth, with a purpose that struck the girl as
increasing, continued: "What, then, was the day to be? Wasn't it just
one of these?"
"I'm sure I don't remember."
It was part of the great rupture and an effect of Mrs. Gereth's
character that up to this moment she had been completely and haughtily
indifferent to that detail. Now, however, she had a visible reason for
being clear about it. She bethought herself and she broke out--"Isn't
the day past?" Then, stopping short, she added: "Upon my word, they must
have put it off!" As Fleda made no answer to this she sharply went on:
"Have they put it off?"
"I haven't the least idea," said the girl.
Her hostess was looking at her hard again. "Didn't he tell you--didn't
he say anything about it?"
Fleda, meanwhile, had had time to make her reflections, which were
moreover the continued throb of those that had occupied the interval
between Owen's departure and his mother's return. If she should now
repeat his words, this wouldn't at all play the game of her definite
vow; it would only play the game of her little gagged and blinded
desire. She could calculate well enough the effect of telling Mrs.
Gereth how she had had it from Owen's troubled lips that Mona was only
waiting for the restitution and would do nothing without it. The thing
was to obtain the restitution without imparting that knowledge. The only
way, also, not to impart it was not to tell any truth at all about it;
and the only way to meet this last condition was to reply to her
companion, as she presently did: "He told me nothing whatever: he didn't
touch on the subject."
"Not in any way?"
"Not in any way."
Mrs. Gereth watched Fleda and considered. "You haven't any idea if they
are waiting for the things?"
"How should I have? I'm not in their counsels."
"I dare say they are--or that Mona is." Mrs. Gereth reflected again; she
had a bright idea. "If I don't give in, I'll be hanged if she'll not
break off."
"She'll never, never break off!" said Fleda.
"Are you sure?"
"I can't be sure, but it's my belief."
"Derived from him?"
The girl hung fire a few seconds. "Derived from him."
Mrs. Gereth gave her a long last look, then turned abruptly away. "It's
an awful bore you didn't really get it out of him! Well, come to tea,"
she added rather dryly, passing straight into the house.
XI
The sense of her adversary's dryness, which was ominous of something she
couldn't read, made Fleda, before complying, linger a little on the
terrace; she felt the need moreover of taking breath after such a flight
into the cold air of denial. When at last she rejoined Mrs. Gereth she
found her erect before the drawing-room fire. Their tea had been set out
in the same quarter, and the mistress of the house, for whom the
preparation of it was in general a high and undelegated function, was in
an attitude to which the hissing urn made no appeal. This omission, for
Fleda, was such a further sign of something to come that, to disguise
her apprehension, she immediately and without an apology took the duty
in hand; only, however, to be promptly reminded that she was performing
it confusedly and not counting the journeys of the little silver shovel
she emptied into the pot. "Not five, my dear--the usual three," said
her hostess, with the same dryness; watching her then in silence while
she clumsily corrected her mistake. The tea took some minutes to draw,
and Mrs. Gereth availed herself of them suddenly to exclaim: "You
haven't yet told me, you know, how it is you propose to 'make' me!"
"Give everything back?" Fleda looked into the pot again and uttered her
question with a briskness that she felt to be a little overdone. "Why,
by putting the question well before you; by being so eloquent that I
shall persuade you, shall act upon you; by making you sorry for having
gone so far," she said boldly; "by simply and earnestly asking it of
you, in short; and by reminding you at the same time that it's the first
thing I ever have so asked. Oh, you've done things for me--endless and
beautiful things," she exclaimed; "but you've done them all from your
own generous impulse. I've never so much as hinted to you to lend me a
postage-stamp."
"Give me a cup of tea," said Mrs. Gereth. A moment later, taking the
cup, she replied: "No, you've never asked me for a postage-stamp."
"That gives me a pull!" Fleda returned, smiling.
"Puts you in the situation of expecting that I shall do this thing just
simply to oblige you?"
The girl hesitated. "You said a while ago that for me you would do
it."
"For you, but not for your eloquence. Do you understand what I mean by
the difference?" Mrs. Gereth asked as she stood stirring her tea.
Fleda, to postpone answering, looked round, while she drank it, at the
beautiful room. "I don't in the least like, you know, your having taken
so much. It was a great shock to me, on my arrival here, to find you had
done so."
"Give me some more tea," said Mrs. Gereth; and there was a moment's
silence as Fleda poured out another cup. "If you were shocked, my dear,
I'm bound to say you concealed your shock."
"I know I did. I was afraid to show it."
Mrs. Gereth drank off her second cup. "And you're not afraid now?"
"No, I'm not afraid now."
"What has made the difference?"
"I've pulled myself together." Fleda paused; then she added: "And I've
seen Mr. Owen."
"You've seen Mr. Owen"--Mrs. Gereth concurred. She put down her cup and
sank into a chair, in which she leaned back, resting her head and gazing
at her young friend. "Yes, I did tell you a while ago that for you I'd
do it. But you haven't told me yet what you'll do in return."
Fleda thought an instant. "Anything in the wide world you may require."
"Oh, 'anything' is nothing at all! That's too easily said." Mrs. Gereth,
reclining more completely, closed her eyes with an air of disgust, an
air indeed of inviting slumber.
Fleda looked at her quiet face, which the appearance of slumber always
made particularly handsome; she noted how much the ordeal of the last
few weeks had added to its indications of age. "Well then, try me with
something. What is it you demand?"
At this, opening her eyes, Mrs. Gereth sprang straight up. "Get him away
from her!"
Fleda marveled: her companion had in an instant become young again.
"Away from Mona? How in the world--?"
"By not looking like a fool!" cried Mrs. Gereth very sharply. She kissed
her, however, on the spot, to make up for this roughness, and summarily
took off her hat, which, on coming into the house, our young lady had
not removed. She applied a friendly touch to the girl's hair and gave a
businesslike pull to her jacket. "I say don't look like an idiot,
because you happen not to be one, not the least bit. I'm idiotic; I've
been so, I've just discovered, ever since our first days together. I've
been a precious donkey; but that's another affair."
Fleda, as if she humbly assented, went through no form of controverting
this; she simply stood passive to her companion's sudden refreshment of
her appearance. "How can I get him away from her?" she presently
demanded.
"By letting yourself go."
"By letting myself go?" She spoke mechanically, still more like an
idiot, and felt as if her face flamed out the insincerity of her
question. It was vividly back again, the vision of the real way to act
upon Mrs. Gereth. This lady's movements were now rapid; she turned off
from her as quickly as she had seized her, and Fleda sat down to steady
herself for full responsibility.
Her hostess, without taking up her ejaculation, gave a violent poke at
the fire and then faced her again. "You've done two things, then,
to-day--haven't you?--that you've never done before. One has been asking
me the service, or favor, or concession--whatever you call it--that you
just mentioned; the other has been telling me--certainly too for the
first time--an immense little fib."
"An immense little fib?" Fleda felt weak; she was glad of the support of
her seat.
"An immense big one, then!" said Mrs. Gereth irritatedly. "You don't in
the least 'hate' Owen, my darling. You care for him very much. In fact,
my own, you're in love with him--there! Don't tell me any more lies!"
cried Mrs. Gereth with a voice and a face in the presence of which Fleda
recognized that there was nothing for her but to hold herself and take
them. When once the truth was out, it was out, and she could see more
and more every instant that it would be the only way. She accepted
therefore what had to come; she leaned back her head and closed her eyes
as her companion had done just before. She would have covered her face
with her hands but for the still greater shame. "Oh, you're a wonder, a
wonder," said Mrs. Gereth; "you're magnificent, and I was right, as soon
as I saw you, to pick you out and trust you!" Fleda closed her eyes
tighter at this last word, but her friend kept it up. "I never dreamed
of it till a while ago, when, after he had come and gone, we were face
to face. Then something stuck out of you; it strongly impressed me, and
I didn't know at first quite what to make of it. It was that you had
just been with him and that you were not natural. Not natural to me,"
she added with a smile. "I pricked up my ears, and all that this might
mean dawned upon me when you said you had asked nothing about Mona. It
put me on the scent, but I didn't show you, did I? I felt it was in
you, deep down, and that I must draw it out. Well, I have drawn it,
and it's a blessing. Yesterday, when you shed tears at breakfast, I was
awfully puzzled. What has been the matter with you all the while? Why,
Fleda, it isn't a crime, don't you know that?" cried the delighted
woman. "When I was a girl I was always in love, and not always with such
nice people as Owen. I didn't behave as well as you; compared with you I
think I must have been horrid. But if you're proud and reserved, it's
your own affair; I'm proud too, though I'm not reserved--that's what
spoils it. I'm stupid, above all--that's what I am; so dense that I
really blush for it. However, no one but you could have deceived me. If
I trusted you, moreover, it was exactly to be cleverer than myself. You
must be so now more than ever!" Suddenly Fleda felt her hands grasped:
Mrs. Gereth had plumped down at her feet and was leaning on her knees.
"Save him--save him: you can!" she passionately pleaded. "How could
you not like him, when he's such a dear? He is a dear, darling;
there's no harm in my own boy! You can do what you will with him--you
know you can! What else does he give us all this time for? Get him away
from her; it's as if he besought you to, poor wretch! Don't abandon him
to such a fate, and I'll never abandon you. Think of him with that
creature, that future! If you'll take him I'll give up everything.
There, it's a solemn promise, the most sacred of my life! Get the better
of her, and he shall have every stick I removed. Give me your word, and
I'll accept it. I'll write for the packers to-night!"
Fleda, before this, had fallen forward on her companion's neck, and the
two women, clinging together, had got up while the younger wailed on the
other's bosom. "You smooth it down because you see more in it than there
can ever be; but after my hideous double game how will you be able to
believe in me again?"
"I see in it simply what must be, if you've a single spark of pity.
Where on earth was the double game, when you've behaved like such a
saint? You've been beautiful, you've been exquisite, and all our trouble
is over."
Fleda, drying her eyes, shook her head ever so sadly. "No, Mrs. Gereth,
it isn't over. I can't do what you ask--I can't meet your condition."
Mrs. Gereth stared; the cloud gathered in her face again. "Why, in the
name of goodness, when you adore him? I know what you see in him," she
declared in another tone. "You're right!"
Fleda gave a faint, stubborn smile. "He cares for her too much."
"Then why doesn't he marry her? He's giving you an extraordinary
chance."
"He doesn't dream I've ever thought of him," said Fleda. "Why should he,
if you didn't?"
"It wasn't with me you were in love, my duck." Then Mrs. Gereth added:
"I'll go and tell him."
"If you do any such thing, you shall never see me again,--absolutely,
literally never!"
Mrs. Gereth looked hard at her young friend, showing she saw she must
believe her. "Then you're perverse, you're wicked. Will you swear he
doesn't know?"
"Of course he doesn't know!" cried Fleda indignantly.
Her interlocutress was silent a little. "And that he has no feeling on
his side?"
"For me?" Fleda stared. "Before he has even married her?"
Mrs. Gereth gave a sharp laugh at this. "He ought at least to appreciate
your wit. Oh, my dear, you are a treasure! Doesn't he appreciate
anything? Has he given you absolutely no symptom--not looked a look, not
breathed a sigh?"
"The case," said Fleda coldly, "is as I've had the honor to state it."
"Then he's as big a donkey as his mother! But you know you must account
for their delay," Mrs. Gereth remarked.
"Why must I?" Fleda asked after a moment.
"Because you were closeted with him here so long. You can't pretend at
present, you know, not to have any art."
The girl hesitated an instant; she was conscious that she must choose
between two risks. She had had a secret and the secret was gone. Owen
had one, which was still unbruised, and the greater risk now was that
his mother should lay her formidable hand upon it. All Fleda's
tenderness for him moved her to protect it; so she faced the smaller
peril. "Their delay," she brought herself to reply, "may perhaps be
Mona's doing. I mean because he has lost her the things."
Mrs. Gereth jumped at this. "So that she'll break altogether if I keep
them?"
Fleda winced. "I've told you what I believe about that. She'll make
scenes and conditions; she'll worry him. But she'll hold him fast;
she'll never give him up."
Mrs. Gereth turned it over. "Well, I'll keep them, to try her," she
finally pronounced; at which Fleda felt quite sick, as if she had given
everything and got nothing.
XII
"I must in common decency let him know that I've talked of the matter
with you," she said to her hostess that evening. "What answer do you
wish me to write to him?"
"Write to him that you must see him again," said Mrs. Gereth.
Fleda looked very blank. "What on earth am I to see him for?"
"For anything you like."
The girl would have been struck with the levity of this had she not
already, in an hour, felt the extent of the change suddenly wrought in
her commerce with her friend--wrought above all, to that friend's view,
in her relation to the great issue. The effect of what had followed
Owen's visit was to make that relation the very key of the crisis.
Pressed upon her, goodness knew, the crisis had been, but it now seemed
to put forth big, encircling arms--arms that squeezed till they hurt and
she must cry out. It was as if everything at Ricks had been poured into
a common receptacle, a public ferment of emotion and zeal, out of which
it was ladled up to be tasted and talked about; everything at least but
the one little treasure of knowledge that she kept back. She ought to
have liked this, she reflected, because it meant sympathy, meant a
closer union with the source of so much in her life that had been
beautiful and renovating; but there were fine instincts in her that
stood off. She had had--and it was not merely at this time--to recognize
that there were things for which Mrs. Gereth's flair was not so happy
as for bargains and "marks." It wouldn't be happy now as to the best
action on the knowledge she had just gained; yet as from this moment
they were still more intimately together, so a person deeply in her debt
would simply have to stand and meet what was to come. There were ways in
which she could sharply incommode such a person, and not only with the
best conscience in the world, but with a sort of brutality of good
intentions. One of the straightest of these strokes, Fleda saw, would be
the dance of delight over the mystery Mrs. Gereth had laid bare--the
loud, lawful, tactless joy of the explorer leaping upon the strand. Like
any other lucky discoverer, she would take possession of the fortunate
island. She was nothing if not practical: almost the only thing she took
account of in her young friend's soft secret was the excellent use she
could make of it--a use so much to her taste that she refused to feel a
hindrance in the quality of the material. Fleda put into Mrs. Gereth's
answer to her question a good deal more meaning than it would have
occurred to her a few hours before that she was prepared to put, but she
had on the spot a foreboding that even so broad a hint would live to be
bettered.
"Do you suggest that I shall propose to him to come down here again?"
she presently inquired.
"Dear, no; say that you'll go up to town and meet him." It was
bettered, the broad hint; and Fleda felt this to be still more the case
when, returning to the subject before they went to bed, her companion
said: "I make him over to you wholly, you know--to do what you please
with. Deal with him in your own clever way--I ask no questions. All I
ask is that you succeed."
"That's charming," Fleda replied, "but it doesn't tell me a bit, you'll
be so good as to consider, in what terms to write to him. It's not an
answer from you to the message I was to give you."
"The answer to his message is perfectly distinct: he shall have
everything in the place the minute he'll say he'll marry you."
"You really pretend," Fleda asked, "to think me capable of transmitting
him that news?"
"What else can I really pretend when you threaten so to cast me off if I
speak the word myself?"
"Oh, if you speak the word!" the girl murmured very gravely, but happy
at least to know that in this direction Mrs. Gereth confessed herself
warned and helpless. Then she added: "How can I go on living with you on
a footing of which I so deeply disapprove? Thinking as I do that you've
despoiled him far more than is just or merciful--for if I expected you
to take something, I didn't in the least expect you to take
everything--how can I stay here without a sense that I'm backing you up
in your cruelty and participating in your ill-gotten gains?" Fleda was
determined that if she had the chill of her exposed and investigated
state she would also have the convenience of it, and that if Mrs. Gereth
popped in and out of the chamber of her soul she would at least return
the freedom. "I shall quite hate, you know, in a day or two, every
object that surrounds you--become blind to all the beauty and rarity
that I formerly delighted in. Don't think me harsh; there's no use in my
not being frank now. If I leave you, everything's at an end."
Mrs. Gereth, however, was imperturbable: Fleda had to recognize that her
advantage had become too real. "It's too beautiful, the way you care for
him; it's music in my ears. Nothing else but such a passion could make
you say such things; that's the way I should have been too, my dear. Why
didn't you tell me sooner? I'd have gone right in for you; I never would
have moved a candlestick. Don't stay with me if it torments you; don't,
if you suffer, be where you see the old rubbish. Go up to town--go back
for a little to your father's. It need be only for a little; two or
three weeks will see us through. Your father will take you and be glad,
if you only will make him understand what it's a question of--of your
getting yourself off his hands forever. I'll make him understand, you
know, if you feel shy. I'd take you up myself, I'd go with you, to spare
your being bored; we'd put up at an hotel and we might amuse ourselves a
bit. We haven't had much pleasure since we met, have we? But of course
that wouldn't suit our book. I should be a bugaboo to Owen--I should be
fatally in the way. Your chance is there--your chance is to be alone;
for God's sake, use it to the right end. If you're in want of money I've
a little I can give you. But I ask no questions--not a question as small
as your shoe!"
She asked no questions, but she took the most extraordinary things for
granted. Fleda felt this still more at the end of a couple of days. On
the second of these our young lady wrote to Owen; her emotion had to a
certain degree cleared itself--there was something she could say
briefly. If she had given everything to Mrs. Gereth and as yet got
nothing, so she had on the other hand quickly reacted--it took but a
night--against the discouragement of her first check. Her desire to
serve him was too passionate, the sense that he counted upon her too
sweet: these things caught her up again and gave her a new patience and
a new subtlety. It shouldn't really be for nothing that she had given so
much; deep within her burned again the resolve to get something back. So
what she wrote to Owen was simply that she had had a great scene with
his mother, but that he must be patient and give her time. It was
difficult, as they both had expected, but she was working her hardest
for him. She had made an impression--she would do everything to follow
it up. Meanwhile he must keep intensely quiet and take no other steps;
he must only trust her and pray for her and believe in her perfect
loyalty. She made no allusion whatever to Mona's attitude, nor to his
not being, as regarded that young lady, master of the situation; but she
said in a postscript, in reference to his mother, "Of course she wonders
a good deal why your marriage doesn't take place." After the letter had
gone she regretted having used the word "loyalty;" there were two or
three milder terms which she might as well have employed. The answer she
immediately received from Owen was a little note of which she met all
the deficiencies by describing it to herself as pathetically simple, but
which, to prove that Mrs. Gereth might ask as many questions as she
liked, she at once made his mother read. He had no art with his pen, he
had not even a good hand, and his letter, a short profession of friendly
confidence, consisted of but a few familiar and colorless words of
acknowledgment and assent. The gist of it was that he would certainly,
since Miss Vetch recommended it, not hurry mamma too much. He would not
for the present cause her to be approached by any one else, but he would
nevertheless continue to hope that she would see she must come round.
"Of course, you know," he added, "she can't keep me waiting
indefinitely. Please give her my love and tell her that. If it can be
done peaceably I know you're just the one to do it."
Fleda had awaited his rejoinder in deep suspense; such was her
imagination of the possibility of his having, as she tacitly phrased it,
let himself go on paper that when it arrived she was at first almost
afraid to open it. There was indeed a distinct danger, for if he should
take it into his head to write her love-letters the whole chance of
aiding him would drop: she would have to return them, she would have to
decline all further communication with him: it would be quite the end of
the business. This imagination of Fleda's was a faculty that easily
embraced all the heights and depths and extremities of things; that made
a single mouthful, in particular, of any tragic or desperate necessity.
She was perhaps at first just a trifle disappointed not to find in the
note in question a syllable that strayed from the text; but the next
moment she had risen to a point of view from which it presented itself
as a production almost inspired in its simplicity. It was simple even
for Owen, and she wondered what had given him the cue to be more so than
usual. Then she saw how natures that are right just do the things that
are right. He wasn't clever--his manner of writing showed it; but the
cleverest man in England couldn't have had more the instinct that, under
the circumstances, was the supremely happy one, the instinct of giving
her something that would do beautifully to be shown to Mrs. Gereth. This
was a kind of divination, for naturally he couldn't know the line Mrs.
Gereth was taking. It was furthermore explained--and that was the most
touching part of all--by his wish that she herself should notice how
awfully well he was behaving. His very bareness called her attention to
his virtue; and these were the exact fruits of her beautiful and
terrible admonition. He was cleaving to Mona; he was doing his duty; he
was making tremendously sure he should be without reproach.
If Fleda handed this communication to her friend as a triumphant gage of
the innocence of the young man's heart, her elation lived but a moment
after Mrs. Gereth had pounced upon the tell-tale spot in it. "Why in the
world, then," that lady cried, "does he still not breathe a breath about
the day, the day, the day?" She repeated the word with a crescendo of
superior acuteness; she proclaimed that nothing could be more marked
than its absence--an absence that simply spoke volumes. What did it
prove in fine but that she was producing the effect she had toiled
for--that she had settled or was rapidly settling Mona?
Such a challenge Fleda was obliged in some manner to take up. "You may
be settling Mona," she returned with a smile, "but I can hardly regard
it as sufficient evidence that you're settling Mona's lover."
"Why not, with such a studied omission on his part to gloss over in any
manner the painful tension existing between them--the painful tension
that, under providence, I've been the means of bringing about? He gives
you by his silence clear notice that his marriage is practically off."
"He speaks to me of the only thing that concerns me. He gives me clear
notice that he abates not one jot of his demand."
"Well, then, let him take the only way to get it satisfied."
Fleda had no need to ask again what such a way might be, nor was her
support removed by the fine assurance with which Mrs. Gereth could make
her argument wait upon her wish. These days, which dragged their length
into a strange, uncomfortable fortnight, had already borne more
testimony to that element than all the other time the two women had
passed together. Our young lady had been at first far from measuring the
whole of a feature that Owen himself would probably have described as
her companion's "cheek." She lived now in a kind of bath of boldness,
felt as if a fierce light poured in upon her from windows opened wide;
and the singular part of the ordeal was that she couldn't protest
against it fully without incurring, even to her own mind, some reproach
of ingratitude, some charge of smallness. If Mrs. Gereth's apparent
determination to hustle her into Owen's arms was accompanied with an air
of holding her dignity rather cheap, this was after all only as a
consequence of her being held in respect to some other attributes rather
dear. It was a new version of the old story of being kicked upstairs.
The wonderful woman was the same woman who, in the summer, at Poynton,
had been so puzzled to conceive why a good-natured girl shouldn't have
contributed more to the personal rout of the Brigstocks--shouldn't have
been grateful even for the handsome puff of Fleda Vetch. Only her
passion was keener now and her scruple more absent; the fight made a
demand upon her, and her pugnacity had become one with her constant
habit of using such weapons as she could pick up. She had no imagination
about anybody's life save on the side she bumped against. Fleda was
quite aware that she would have otherwise been a rare creature; but a
rare creature was originally just what she had struck her as being. Mrs.
Gereth had really no perception of anybody's nature--had only one
question about persons: were they clever or stupid? To be clever meant
to know the marks. Fleda knew them by direct inspiration, and a warm
recognition of this had been her friend's tribute to her character. The
girl had hours, now, of sombre wishing that she might never see anything
good again: that kind of experience was evidently not an infallible
source of peace. She would be more at peace in some vulgar little place
that should owe its cachet to Tottenham Court Road. There were nice
strong horrors in West Kensington; it was as if they beckoned her and
wooed her back to them. She had a relaxed recollection of Waterbath; and
of her reasons for staying on at Ricks the force was rapidly ebbing. One
of these was her pledge to Owen--her vow to press his mother close; the
other was the fact that of the two discomforts, that of being prodded by
Mrs. Gereth and that of appearing to run after somebody else, the former
remained for a while the more endurable.
As the days passed, however, it became plainer to Fleda that her only
chance of success would be in lending herself to this low appearance.
Then, moreover, at last, her nerves settling the question, the choice
was simply imposed by the violence done to her taste--to whatever was
left of that high principle, at least, after the free and reckless
meeting, for months, of great drafts and appeals. It was all very well
to try to evade discussion: Owen Gereth was looking to her for a
struggle, and it wasn't a bit of a struggle to be disgusted and dumb.
She was on too strange a footing--that of having presented an ultimatum
and having had it torn up in her face. In such a case as that the envoy
always departed; he never sat gaping and dawdling before the city. Mrs.
Gereth, every morning, looked publicly into "The Morning Post," the only
newspaper she received; and every morning she treated the blankness of
that journal as fresh evidence that everything was "off." What did the
Post exist for but to tell you your children were wretchedly
married?--so that if such a source of misery was dry, what could you do
but infer that for once you had miraculously escaped? She almost taunted
Fleda with supineness in not getting something out of somebody--in the
same breath indeed in which she drenched her with a kind of appreciation
more onerous to the girl than blame. Mrs. Gereth herself had of course
washed her hands of the matter; but Fleda knew people who knew Mona and
would be sure to be in her confidence--inconceivable people who admired
her and had the privilege of Waterbath. What was the use therefore of
being the most natural and the easiest of letter-writers, if no sort of
side-light--in some pretext for correspondence--was, by a brilliant
creature, to be got out of such barbarians? Fleda was not only a
brilliant creature, but she heard herself commended in these days for
new and strange attractions; she figured suddenly, in the queer
conversations of Ricks, as a distinguished, almost as a dangerous
beauty. That retouching of her hair and dress in which her friend had
impulsively indulged on a first glimpse of her secret was by implication
very frequently repeated. She had the sense not only of being advertised
and offered, but of being counseled and enlightened in ways that she
scarcely understood--arts obscure even to a poor girl who had had, in
good society and motherless poverty, to look straight at realities and
fill out blanks.
These arts, when Mrs. Gereth's spirits were high, were handled with a
brave and cynical humor with which Fleda's fancy could keep no step:
they left our young lady wondering what on earth her companion wanted
her to do. "I want you to cut in!"--that was Mrs. Gereth's familiar and
comprehensive phrase for the course she prescribed. She challenged again
and again Fleda's picture, as she called it (though the sketch was too
slight to deserve the name), of the indifference to which a prior
attachment had committed the proprietor of Poynton. "Do you mean to say
that, Mona or no Mona, he could see you that way, day after day, and not
have the ordinary feelings of a man?" This was the sort of interrogation
to which Fleda was fitfully and irrelevantly treated. She had grown
almost used to the refrain. "Do you mean to say that when, the other
day, one had quite made you over to him, the great gawk, and he was, on
this very spot, utterly alone with you--?" The poor girl at this point
never left any doubt of what she meant to say, but Mrs. Gereth could be
trusted to break out in another place and at another time. At last Fleda
wrote to her father that he must take her in for a while; and when, to
her companion's delight, she returned to London, that lady went with her
to the station and wafted her on her way. "The Morning Post" had been
delivered as they left the house, and Mrs. Gereth had brought it with
her for the traveler, who never spent a penny on a newspaper. On the
platform, however, when this young person was ticketed, labeled, and
seated, she opened it at the window of the carriage, exclaiming as
usual, after looking into it a moment: "Nothing--nothing--nothing: don't
tell me!" Every day that there was nothing was a nail in the coffin of
the marriage. An instant later the train was off, but, moving quickly
beside it, while Fleda leaned inscrutably forth, Mrs. Gereth grasped her
friend's hand and looked up with wonderful eyes. "Only let yourself go,
darling--only let yourself go!"
XIII
That she desired to ask no questions Mrs. Gereth conscientiously proved
by closing her lips tight after Fleda had gone to London. No letter from
Ricks arrived at West Kensington, and Fleda, with nothing to communicate
that could be to the taste of either party, forbore to open a
correspondence. If her heart had been less heavy she might have been
amused to perceive how much rope this reticence of Ricks seemed to
signify to her that she could take. She had at all events no good news
for her friend save in the sense that her silence was not bad news. She
was not yet in a position to write that she had "cut in;" but neither,
on the other hand, had she gathered material for announcing that Mona
was undisseverable from her prey. She had made no use of the pen so
glorified by Mrs. Gereth to wake up the echoes of Waterbath; she had
sedulously abstained from inquiring what in any quarter, far or near,
was said or suggested or supposed. She only spent a matutinal penny on
"The Morning Post;" she only saw, on each occasion, that that inspired
sheet had as little to say about the imminence as about the abandonment
of certain nuptials. It was at the same time obvious that Mrs. Gereth
triumphed on these occasions much more than she trembled, and that with
a few such triumphs repeated she would cease to tremble at all. What was
most manifest, however, was that she had had a rare preconception of the
circumstances that would have ministered, had Fleda been disposed, to
the girl's cutting in. It was brought home to Fleda that these
circumstances would have particularly favored intervention; she was
quickly forced to do them a secret justice. One of the effects of her
intimacy with Mrs. Gereth was that she had quite lost all sense of
intimacy with any one else. The lady of Ricks had made a desert around
her, possessing and absorbing her so utterly that other partakers had
fallen away. Hadn't she been admonished, months before, that people
considered they had lost her and were reconciled on the whole to the
privation? Her present position in the great unconscious town defined
itself as obscure: she regarded it at any rate with eyes suspicious of
that lesson. She neither wrote notes nor received them; she indulged in
no reminders nor knocked at any doors; she wandered vaguely in the
western wilderness or cultivated shy forms of that "household art" for
which she had had a respect before tasting the bitter tree of knowledge.
Her only plan was to be as quiet as a mouse, and when she failed in the
attempt to lose herself in the flat suburb she felt like a lonely fly
crawling over a dusty chart.
How had Mrs. Gereth known in advance that if she had chosen to be "vile"
(that was what Fleda called it) everything would happen to help
her?--especially the way her poor father, after breakfast, doddered off
to his club, showing seventy when he was really fifty-seven, and leaving
her richly alone for the day. He came back about midnight, looking at
her very hard and not risking long words--only making her feel by
inimitable touches that the presence of his family compelled him to
alter all his hours. She had in their common sitting-room the company of
the objects he was fond of saying that he had collected--objects, shabby
and battered, of a sort that appealed little to his daughter: old
brandy-flasks and match-boxes, old calendars and hand-books, intermixed
with an assortment of pen-wipers and ash-trays, a harvest he had
gathered in from penny bazaars. He was blandly unconscious of that side
of Fleda's nature which had endeared her to Mrs. Gereth, and she had
often heard him wish to goodness there was something striking she cared
for. Why didn't she try collecting something?--it didn't matter what.
She would find it gave an interest to life, and there was no end of
little curiosities one could easily pick up. He was conscious of having
a taste for fine things which his children had unfortunately not
inherited. This indicated the limits of their acquaintance with
him--limits which, as Fleda was now sharply aware, could only leave him
to wonder what the mischief she was there for. As she herself echoed
this question to the letter she was not in a position to clear up the
mystery. She couldn't have given a name to her errand in town or
explained it save by saying that she had had to get away from Ricks. It
was intensely provisional, but what was to come next? Nothing could come
next but a deeper anxiety. She had neither a home nor an
outlook--nothing in all the wide world but a feeling of suspense.
Of course she had her duty--her duty to Owen--a definite undertaking,
reaffirmed, after his visit to Ricks, under her hand and seal; but there
was no sense of possession attached to that; there was only a horrible
sense of privation. She had quite moved from under Mrs. Gereth's wide
wing; and now that she was really among the pen-wipers and ash-trays she
was swept, at the thought of all the beauty she had forsworn, by short,
wild gusts of despair. If her friend should really keep the spoils she
would never return to her. If that friend should on the other hand part
with them, what on earth would there be to return to? The chill struck
deep as Fleda thought of the mistress of Ricks reduced, in vulgar
parlance, to what she had on her back: there was nothing to which she
could compare such an image but her idea of Marie Antoinette in the
Conciergerie, or perhaps the vision of some tropical bird, the creature
of hot, dense forests, dropped on a frozen moor to pick up a living. The
mind's eye could see Mrs. Gereth, indeed, only in her thick, colored
air; it took all the light of her treasures to make her concrete and
distinct. She loomed for a moment, in any mere house, gaunt and
unnatural; then she vanished as if she had suddenly sunk into a
quicksand. Fleda lost herself in the rich fancy of how, if she were
mistress of Poynton, a whole province, as an abode, should be assigned
there to the august queen-mother. She would have returned from her
campaign with her baggage-train and her loot, and the palace would unbar
its shutters and the morning flash back from its halls. In the event of
a surrender the poor woman would never again be able to begin to
collect: she was now too old and too moneyless, and times were altered
and good things impossibly dear. A surrender, furthermore, to any
daughter-in-law save an oddity like Mona needn't at all be an abdication
in fact; any other fairly nice girl whom Owen should have taken it into
his head to marry would have been positively glad to have, for the
museum, a custodian who was a walking catalogue and who understood
beyond any one in England the hygiene and temperament of rare pieces. A
fairly nice girl would somehow be away a good deal and would at such
times count it a blessing to feel Mrs. Gereth at her post.
Fleda had fully recognized, the first days, that, quite apart from any
question of letting Owen know where she was, it would be a charity to
give him some sign: it would be weak, it would be ugly, to be diverted
from that kindness by the fact that Mrs. Gereth had attached a tinkling
bell to it. A frank relation with him was only superficially
discredited: she ought for his own sake to send him a word of cheer. So
she repeatedly reasoned, but she as repeatedly delayed performance: if
her general plan had been to be as still as a mouse, an interview like
the interview at Ricks would be an odd contribution to that ideal.
Therefore with a confused preference of practice to theory she let the
days go by; she felt that nothing was so imperative as the gain of
precious time. She shouldn't be able to stay with her father forever,
but she might now reap the benefit of having married her sister.
Maggie's union had been built up round a small spare room. Concealed in
this apartment she might try to paint again, and abetted by the grateful
Maggie--for Maggie at least was grateful--she might try to dispose of
her work. She had not indeed struggled with a brush since her visit to
Waterbath, where the sight of the family splotches had put her immensely
on her guard. Poynton moreover had been an impossible place for
producing; no active art could flourish there but a Buddhistic
contemplation. It had stripped its mistress clean of all feeble
accomplishments; her hands were imbrued neither with ink nor with
water-color. Close to Fleda's present abode was the little shop of a man
who mounted and framed pictures and desolately dealt in artists'
materials. She sometimes paused before it to look at a couple of shy
experiments for which its dull window constituted publicity, small
studies placed there for sale and full of warning to a young lady
without fortune and without talent. Some such young lady had brought
them forth in sorrow; some such young lady, to see if they had been
snapped up, had passed and repassed as helplessly as she herself was
doing. They never had been, they never would be, snapped up; yet they
were quite above the actual attainment of some other young ladies. It
was a matter of discipline with Fleda to take an occasional lesson from
them; besides which, when she now quitted the house, she had to look for
reasons after she was out. The only place to find them was in the
shop-windows. They made her feel like a servant-girl taking her
"afternoon," but that didn't signify: perhaps some day she would
resemble such a person still more closely. This continued a fortnight,
at the end of which the feeling was suddenly dissipated. She had stopped
