the house, was heated seven times hotter than 
endurance. Sometimes I got over an open 
register in a lower room, and wrote in the faint 
puffs of damp air that played with my misery. 
Sometimes I sat in the cellar itself ; but it was 
rather dark, and one cherished a consciousness 
of mice. In the orchard or the grove, one's 
brains fricasseed quickly ; in fact, all out-of- 
doors was a scene of bottomless torment worthy 
of a theology older and severer than Andover s. 
I am told that the Andover climate has 
improved of late years. 
When the last chapter of the last book was 
done, it occurred to me to wonder whether I 
might ever be able to afford to get for a week 
or two where the thermometer went below 
ninety degrees in summer. But this was a wild 
and baseless dream, whose irrationality I quickly 
recognized. For such books as those into which 
I had been coining a year of my young strength 
and heart, I received the sum of one hundred 
dollars apiece. The " Gypsy " publisher was 
more munificent. He offered one hundred and 
fifty ; a price which I accepted with incredible 
gratitude. 
I mention these figures distinctly, with the 
cold-blooded view of dimming the rosy dreams 
of those young ladies and gentlemen with whom, 
if I may judge by their letters, our country 
seems to be brimming over. 
"Will you read my poem?" "Won't you 
criticise my manuscript?" "I would like to 
forward my novel for your perusal." "I have 
sent you the copy of a rejected article of mine, 
on which I venture to ask " etc., etc. " I 
have been told that all I need is influence." 
" My friends think my book shows genius ; but 
I have no influence." "Will it trouble you too 
much to get this published for me ? " 
"Your influence" and so on, and so on, 
run the piteous appeals which every successful 
author receives from the great unknown world 
of discouraged and perplexed young people who 
are mistaking the stir of youth or vanity, or the 
ennui of idleness, or the sting of poverty, for 
the solemn throes of power. 
 
What can one do for them, whom no one but 
themselves can help ? What can one say to 
them, when anything one says is sure to give 
pain or dishearten courage ? 
Write, if you must ; not otherwise. Do not 
write, if you can earn a fair living at teaching 
or dressmaking, at electricity or hod-carrying. 
Make shoes, weed cabbages, survey land, keep 
house, make ice-cream, sell cake, climb a tele 
phone pole. Nay, be a lightning-rod peddler 
or a book agent, before you set your heart upon 
it that you shall write for a living. Do any 
thing honest, but do not write, unless God calls 
you, and publishers want you, and people read 
you, and editors claim you. Respect the mar 
ket laws. Lean on nobody. Trust the com 
mon sense of an experienced publisher to know 
whether your manuscript is worth something 
or nothing. Do not depend on influence. Ed 
itors do not care a drop of ink for influence. 
What they want is good material, and the 
fresher it is, the better. An editor will pass 
by an old writer any day for an unknown and 
gifted new one, with power to say a good thing 
in a fresh way. Make your calling and elec 
tion sure. Do not flirt with your pen. Emer 
son's phrase was, "toiling terribly." Nothing 
less will hint at the grinding drudgery of a life 
spent in living "by your brains." 
 
Inspiration is all very well ; but " genius is 
the infinite capacity for taking pains." 
Living ? It is more likely to be dying by 
your pen ; despairing by your pen ; burying 
hope and heart and youth and courage in your 
ink-stand. 
Unless you are prepared to work like a slave 
at his galley, for the toss-up chance of a free 
dom which may be denied him when his work 
is done, do not write. There are some pleasant 
things about this way of spending a lifetime, 
but there are no easy ones. 
There are privileges in it, but there are 
heart-ache, mortification, discouragement, and 
an eternal doubt. 
Had one not better have made bread or 
picture-frames, run a motor, or invented a 
bicycle tire ? 
Time alone perhaps one might say, eternity 
can answer. 
THE town of Lawrence was three miles and 
a half from Andover. Up to the year 1860 we 
had considered Lawrence chiefly in the light of 
a place to drive to. To the girlish resources 
which could, in those days, only include a trip 
to Boston at the call of some fate too vast to 
be expected more than two or three times a 
year, Lawrence offered consolations in the shape 
of dry goods and restaurant ice-cream, and a 
slow, delicious drive in the family carryall 
through sand flats and pine woods, and past 
the largest bed of the sweetest violets that ever 
dared the blasts of a New England spring. To 
the pages of the gazetteer Lawrence would 
have been known as a manufacturing town of 
importance. Upon the map of our young fancy 
the great mills were sketched in lightly ; we 
looked up from the restaurant ice-cream to see 
the "hands" pour out for dinner, a dark and 
restless, but a patient throng ; used, in those 
days, to standing eleven hours and a quarter 
women and girls at their looms, six days of 
the week, and making no audible complaints ; 
for socialism had not reached Lawrence, and 
anarchy was content to bray in distant parts of 
the geography at which the factory people had 
not arrived when they left school. 
Sometimes we counted the great mills as we 
drove up Essex Street having come over the 
bridge by the roaring dam that tamed the proud 
Merrimac to spinning cotton Pacific, Atlantic, 
Washington, Pemberton ; but this was an idle, 
aesthetic pleasure. We did not think about the 
mill - people ; they seemed as far from us as 
the coal-miners of a vague West, or the down- 
gatherers on the crags of shores whose names 
we did not think it worth while to remember. 
One January evening we were forced to think 
about the mills with curdling horror, which no 
one living in that locality when the tragedy 
happened will forget. 
At five o clock, the Pemberton Mills, all 
hands being at the time on duty, without a 
warning of the catastrophe sank to the ground. 
At the erection of the factory a pillar with a 
defective core had passed careless inspectors. 
In technical language, the core had "floated" 
an eighth of an inch from its position. The 
weak spot in the too thin wall of the pillar had 
bided its time, and yielded. The roof, the walls, 
 
the machinery fell upon seven hundred and fifty 
living men and women, and buried them. Most 
of these were rescued ; but eighty-eight were 
killed. As the night came on, those watchers 
on Andover Hill who could not join the rescuing 
parties saw a strange and fearful light at 
the north. 
Where we were used to watching the beauti 
ful belt of the lighted mills blaze, a zone of 
laughing fire from east to west, upon the horizon 
bar, a red and awful glare went up. 
The mill had taken fire. A lantern, overturned 
in the hands of a man who was groping to save 
an imprisoned life, had flashed to the cotton, or 
the wool, or the oil with which the ruins were 
saturated. One of the historic conflagrations 
of New England resulted. 
With blanching cheeks we listened to the 
whispers that told us how the mill-girls, caught 
in the ruins beyond hope of escape, began to 
sing. They were used to singing, poor things, 
at their looms, ] mill-girls always are, and 
their young souls took courage from the familiar 
sound of one another's voices. They sang the 
hymns and songs which they had learned in 
the schools and churches. No classical strains, 
no "music for music's sake," ascended from 
that furnace ; no ditty of love or frolic ; but the 
plain, religious outcries of the people : 
" Heaven is my home," " Jesus, lover of my soul," 
and " Shall we gather at the river ? " Voice 
after voice dropped. The fire raced on. A 
few brave girls sang still, 
" Shall we gather at the river, . . . 
There to walk and worship ever ? " 
But the startled Merrimac rolled by, red as 
blood beneath the glare of the burning mills, 
and it was left to the fire and the river to finish 
the chorus. 
At the time this tragedy occurred, I felt 
my share of its horror, like other people ; but 
no more than that. My brother, being of the 
privileged sex, was sent over to see the scene ; 
but I was not allowed to go. 
Years after, I cannot say just how many, the 
half -effaced negative came back to form under 
the chemical of some new perception of the 
significance of human tragedy. 
It occurred to me to use the event as the 
basis of a story. To this end I set forth to 
study the subject. I had heard nothing in 
those days about "material," and conscience in 
the use of it, and little enough about art. We 
did not talk about realism then. Of critical 
phraseology I knew nothing ; and of critical 
standards only what I had observed by reading 
the best fiction. Poor novels and stories I did 
not read. I do not remember being forbidden 
them ; but, by that parental art finer than 
denial, they were absent from my convenience. 
It needed no instruction in the canons of art, 
however, to teach me that to do a good thing, 
one must work hard for it. So I gave the best 
part of a month to the study of the Pemberton 
Mill tragedy, driving to Lawrence, and 
investigating every possible avenue of information left 
at that too long remove of time which might 
give the data. I visited the rebuilt mills, and 
studied the machinery. I consulted engineers 
and officials and physicians, newspaper men, 
and persons who had been in the mill at the 
time of its fall. I scoured the files of old local 
papers, and from these I took certain portions 
of names, actually involved in the catastro 
phe ; though of course fictitiously used. When 
there was nothing left for me to learn upon the 
subject, I came home and wrote a little story 
called " The Tenth of January," and sent it to 
"The Atlantic Monthly," where it appeared in 
due time. 
This story is of more interest to its author 
than it can possibly be now to any reader, be 
cause it distinctly marked for me the first 
recognition which I received from literary 
people. 
Whittier the poet wrote me his first letter, 
after having read this story. It was soon 
followed by a kind note from Colonel Thomas 
Wentworth Higginson. Both these distin 
guished men said the pleasant thing which goes 
so far towards keeping the courage of young 
writers above sinking point, and which, to a 
self -distrustful nature, may be little less than a 
life-preserver. Both have done similar kindness 
to many other beginners in our calling; but 
none of these can have been more grateful for 
it, or more glad to say so, across this long 
width of time, than* the writer of " The Tenth 
of January." 
It was a defective enough little story, crude 
and young ; I never glance at it without long 
ing to write it over ; but I cannot read it, to 
this day, without that physical distress which 
exceptional tragedy must produce in any 
sensitive organization ; nor can I ever trust my 
self to hear it read by professional elocutionists. 
I attribute the success of the story entirely to 
the historic and unusual character of the 
catastrophe on whose movement it was built. 
Of journalism, strictly speaking, I did no 
thing. But I often wrote for weekly denominational 
papers, to which I contributed those 
strictly secular articles so popular with the
religious public. My main impression of them 
now is a pleasant sense of sitting out in the 
apple-trees in the wonderful Andover Junes, 
 
and "noticing" new books with which Boston 
publishers kept me supplied ; for whatever 
reason, the weeklies gave me all I could do at 
this sort of thing. In its course I formed some 
pleasant acquaintances ; among others that of 
Jean Ingelow. I have never seen this poet, 
whom I honor now as much as I admired then ; 
but charming little notes, and books of her own, 
with her autograph, reached me from time to 
time for years. I remember when " The Gates 
Ajar" appeared, that she frankly called it 
"Your most strange book." 
This brings me to say : I have been so often 
and so urgently asked to publish some account 
of the history of this book, that perhaps I need 
crave no pardon of whatever readers these 
papers may command, for giving more of our 
space to the subject than it would otherwise 
occur to one to do to a book so long behind the 
day. 
Of what we know as literary ambition, I believe 
myself to have been as destitute at that 
time as any girl who ever put pen to paper. I 
was absorbed in thought and feeling as far 
removed from the usual class of emotions or mo 
tives which move men and women to write, as 
Wachusett was from the June lilies burning 
beside the moonlit cross in my father's garden. 
Literary ambition is a good thing to possess ; 
and I do not at all suggest that I was superior 
to it, but simply apart from it. Of its pangs 
and ecstasies I knew little, and thought less. 
I have been asked, possibly a thousand times, 
whether I looked upon that little book as in any 
sense the result of inspiration, whether what is 
called spiritualistic, or of any other sort. I have 
always promptly said " No " to this question. 
Yet sometimes I wonder if that convenient 
monosyllable in deed and truth covers the whole 
case. 
When I remember just how the book came 
to be, perceive the consequences of its being, 
and recall the complete unconsciousness of the 
young author as to their probable nature, there 
are moments when I am fain to answer the 
question by asking another : " What do we 
mean by inspiration ? " 
That book grew so naturally, it was so inevitable,
it was so unpremeditated, it came so 
plainly from that something not one's self which 
makes for uses in which one's self is extinguished,
that there are times when it seems to 
me as if I had no more to do with the writing 
of it than the bough through which the wind 
cries, or the wave by means of which the tide 
rises. 
The angel said unto me "Write!" and I 
wrote. 
 
It is impossible to remember how or when 
the idea of the book first visited me. Its
publication bears the date of 1869, but I am told 
that the exact time was in 1868 ; since
publishers sometimes give to an Autumn book the 
date of the coming year. My impressions are 
that it may have been towards the close of 
1864 that the work began ; for there was work 
in it, more than its imperfect and youthful 
character might lead one ignorant of the art of 
book-making to suppose. 
It was not until 1863 that I left school, being 
then just about at my nineteenth birthday. It 
is probable that the magazine stories and Sun 
day-school books and hack work occupied from 
one to two years without interruption ; but I 
have no more temperament for dates in my own 
affairs than I have for those of history. At the 
most, I could not have been far from twenty 
when the book was written ; possibly approach 
ing twenty-one. 
At that time, it will be remembered, our 
country was dark with sorrowing women. The 
regiments came home, but the mourners went 
about the streets. 
The Grand Review passed through Washing 
ton ; four hundred thousand ghosts of murdered 
men kept invisible march to the drum-beats, 
and lifted to the stained and tattered flags the 
proud and unreturned gaze of the dead who 
have died in their glory. 
Our gayest scenes were black with crape. 
The drawn faces of bereaved wife, mother, 
sister, and widowed girl showed piteously every 
where. Gray-haired parents knelt at the grave 
of the boy whose enviable fortune it was to be 
brought home in time to die in his mother's 
room. Towards the nameless mounds of Arlington, 
of Gettysburg, and the rest, the yearn 
ing of desolated homes went out in those waves 
of anguish which seem to choke the very air 
that the happier and more fortunate must 
breathe. 
Is there not an actual, occult force in the 
existence of a general grief ? It swells to a tide 
whose invisible flow covers all the little
resistance of common, human joyousness. It is like 
a material miasma. The gayest man breathes 
it, if he breathe at all ; and the most superficial 
cannot escape it. 
Into that great world of woe my little book 
stole forth, trembling. So far as I can remem 
ber having had any "object " at all in its 
creation, I wished to say something that would 
comfort some few I did not think at all about 
comforting many, not daring to suppose that 
incredible privilege possible of the women 
whose misery crowded the land. The smoke 
 
of their torment ascended, and the sky was 
blackened by it. I do not think I thought so 
much about the suffering of men the fathers, 
the brothers, the sons bereft ; but the wo 
men, the helpless, outnumbering, unconsulted 
women ; they whom war trampled down, with 
out a choice or protest ; the patient, limited, 
domestic women, who thought little, but loved 
much, and, loving, had lost all, to them I 
would have spoken. 
For it came to seem to me, as I pondered 
these things in my own heart, that even the 
best and kindest forms of our prevailing beliefs 
had nothing to say to an afflicted woman that 
could help her much. Creeds and commenta 
ries and sermons were made by men. What 
tenderest of men knows how to comfort his 
own daughter when her heart is broken ? What 
can the doctrines do for the desolated by death ? 
They were chains of rusty iron, eating into raw 
hearts. The prayer of the preacher was not 
much better ; it sounded like the language of 
an unknown race to a despairing girl. Listen 
to the hymn. It falls like icicles on snow. Or, 
if it happen to be one of the old genuine out 
cries of the church, sprung from real human 
anguish or hope, it maddens the listener, and 
she flees from it, too sore a thing to bear the 
touch of holy music. 
At this time, be it said, I had no interest at 
all in any especial movement for the peculiar 
needs of women as a class. I was reared in 
circles which did not concern themselves with 
those whom we should probably have called 
agitators. I was taught the old ideas of woman 
hood, in the old way, and had not to any 
important extent begun to resent them. 
Perhaps I am wrong here. Individually, I 
may have begun to recoil from them, but only 
in a purely selfish, personal way, beyond which 
I had evolved neither theory nor conscience, 
much less the smallest tendency towards
sympathy with any public movement of the question. 
In the course of two or three years spent in 
exceptional solitude, I had read a good deal in 
the direction of my ruling thoughts and feeling, 
and came to the writing of my little book, not 
ignorant of what had been written for and by 
the mourning. The results of this reading, of 
course, went into the book, and seemed to me 
at the time by far the most useful part of it. 
How the book grew, who can say ? More of 
nature than of purpose, surely. It moved like 
a tear or a sigh or a prayer. In a sense I 
scarcely knew that I wrote it. Yet it signified 
labor and time, crude and young as it looks to 
me now ; and often as I have wondered, from 
 
my soul, why it has known the history that it 
has, I have at least a certain respect for it, my 
self, in that it did not represent shiftlessness or 
sloth, but steady and conscientious toil. There 
was not a page in it which had not been sub 
jected to such study as the writer then knew 
how to offer to her manuscripts. 
Every sentence had received the best atten 
tion which it was in the power of my 
inexperience and youth to give. I wrote and rewrote. 
The book was revised so many times that I 
could have said it by heart. The process of 
forming and writing "The Gates Ajar" lasted, 
I think, nearly two years. 
I had no study or place to myself in those 
days ; only the little room whose one window 
looked upon the garden cross, and which it was 
not expected would be warmed in winter. 
The room contained no chimney, and, until I 
was sixteen, no fire for any purpose. At that 
time, it being supposed that some delicacy of 
the lungs had threatened serious results, my 
father, who always moved the sods beneath 
him and the skies above him to care for a sick 
child, had managed to insert a little stove into 
the room, to soften its chill when needed. But 
I did not have consumption, only life ; and one 
was not expected to burn wood all day for 
private convenience in our furnace-heated house. 
Was there not the great dining-room where the 
children studied ? 
It was not so long since I, too, had learned 
my lessons off the dining-room table, or in the 
corner by the register, that it should occur to 
any member of the family that these opportu 
nities for privacy could not answer my needs. 
Equally, it did not occur to me to ask for any 
abnormal luxuries. I therefore made the best 
of my conditions, though I do remember sorely 
longing for quiet. 
This, at that time, in that house, it was
impossible for me to compass. There was a grow 
ing family of noisy boys, four of them, of 
whom I was the only sister, as I was the old 
est child. When the baby did not cry (I have 
always maintained that the baby cried pretty 
steadily both day and night, but this is a point 
upon which their mother and I have affection 
ately agreed to differ), the boys were shouting 
about the grounds, chasing each other through 
the large house, up and down the cellar stairs, 
and through the wide halls, a whirlwind of 
vigor and fun. They were merry, healthy boys, 
and everything was done to keep them so. I 
sometimes doubt if there are any happier
children growing anywhere than the boys and girls 
of Andover used to be. I was very fond of 
the boys, and cherished no objection to their 
 
privileges in the house. But when one went 
down, on a cold day, to the register, to write 
one's chapter on the nature of amusements in 
the life to come, and found the dining-room 
neatly laid out in the form of a church congre 
gation, to which a certain proportion of brothers 
were enthusiastically performing the duties of 
an active pastor and parish, the environment 
was a definite check to inspiration. 
I wonder if all Andover boys played at 
preaching? It certainly was the one sport in our 
house which never satiated. 
Coming in one day, I remember, struggling 
with certain hopeless purposes of my own, for 
an afternoon's work, I found the dining-room 
chairs all nicely set in the order of pews ; a 
table, ornamented with Bible and hymn-books, 
confronted them ; behind it, on a cricket, 
towered the bigger brother, loudly holding forth. 
The little brother represented the audience 
it was usually the little one who was forced to 
play this duller role and, with open mouth, 
and with wriggling feet turned in on the rounds 
of the chair, absorbed as much exhortation as 
he could suffer. 
"My text, brethren," said the little minister, 
" is, * Suffer the little children to come unto 
me. " Pausing here to make a fit and full 
impression he solemnly proceeded : 
"My subject is, God ; Joseph ; and Moses in 
the bulrushes ! " 
Discouraged by the alarming breadth of the 
little preacher's topic, I fled upstairs again. 
There an inspiration did, indeed, strike me ; for 
I remembered an old fur cape, ox pelisse, of my 
mother s, out of fashion, but the warmer for 
that ; and straightway I got me into it, and 
curled up, with my papers, on the chilly bed in 
the cold room, and went to work. 
It seems to me that a good part of "The 
Gates Ajar " was written in that old fur cape. 
Often I stole up into the attic, or into some 
unfrequented closet, to escape the noise of the 
house while at work. I remember, too, writing 
sometimes in the barn, on the haymow. 
The book extended over a wide domestic to 
pography. 
I hasten to say that no person was to blame 
for inconveniences of whose existence I had 
never complained. Doubtless something would 
have been done to relieve them had I asked for 
it ; or if the idea that my work could ever be 
of any consequence had occurred to any of us. 
Why should it ? The girl who is never " do 
mestic " is trial enough at her best. She can 
not cook ; she will not sew. She washes dishes 
Mondays and Tuesdays under protest, while 
the nurse and parlor maid are called off from 
 
their natural avocations, and dusts the drawing- 
room with resentful obedience. She sits cutting 
out underclothes in the March vacations, 
when all the schools are closed, and when the 
heavy wagons from the distant farming region 
stick in the bottomless Andover mud in front 
of the professor's house. The big front door 
is opened, and the dismal, creaking sounds 
come in. 
The kind and conscientious new mother, to 
whom I owe many other gentle lessons more 
valuable than this, teaches how necessary to a 
lady's education is a neat needle. 
The girl does not deny this elemental fact ; 
but her eyes wander away to the cold sky above 
the Andover mud, with passionate entreaty. 
To this day I cannot hear the thick chu-chunk ! 
of heavy wheels on March mud without a sud 
den mechanical echo of that wild, young outcry : 
" Must I cut out underclothes forever ? Must 
I go on tucking the broken end of the thread 
into the nick in the spool ? Is this LIFE ? " 
I am more than conscious that I could not 
have been an easy girl to "bring up," and am 
sure that for whatever little difficulties beset 
the earlier time of my ventures as a writer, no 
person was in any fault. They were doubtless 
good for me, in their way. We all know that 
some of the greatest of brain-workers have 
selected the poorest and barest of spots in which 
to study. Luxury and bric-a-brac come to easy 
natures or in easy years. The energy that very 
early learns to conquer difficulty is always worth 
its price. 
I used, later, to hear in Boston the story of 
the gentleman who once took a friend to see 
the room of his son at Harvard College. The 
friend was a man of plain life, but of rich men 
tal achievement. He glanced at the Persian 
rugs and costly draperies of the boy's quarters 
in silence. 
"Well," cried the fond father, "don't you 
think my son has a pretty room ? " 
"Sir," said the visitor, with gentle candor, 
"you'll never raise a scholar on that carpet." 
Out of my discomforts, which were small 
enough, grew one thing for which I have all 
my life been grateful the formation of fixed 
habits of work. 
I have seldom waited for inspiration before 
setting about a task to be done. Life is too 
short for that. Broken health has too often 
interrupted a regimen of study which ought to 
have been more continuous ; but, so far as I 
may venture to offer an opinion from personal 
experience, I should say that the writers who 
would be wise to play hide and seek with their 
own moods are few. 
 
According to my custom, I said nothing (so 
far as I can remember) to any person about 
the book. 
It cannot be said that I had any hope of 
success with it ; or that, in my most irrational 
dreams, anything like the consequences of its 
publication ever occurred to my fancy. But I 
did distinctly understand that I had set forth 
upon a venture totally dissimilar to the safe 
and respectable careers of my dozen Sunday- 
school books. 
I am sometimes asked why it was that, hav 
ing such a rare critic at first hand as my father, 
I did not more often submit my manuscripts 
to his judgment. It would be difficult to say 
precisely why. The professor of rhetoric was 
a very busy man ; and at that time the illness 
which condemned him to thirty years of invalid 
suffering was beginning to make itself manifest. 
I can remember more often throwing down my 
pen to fly out and beg the children to be quiet 
in the garden while the sleepless man struggled 
for a few moments rest in the daytime, or 
stealing on tiptoe to his locked door, at any 
hour of the night, to listen for signs of sudden 
illness or need of help ; these things come back 
more easily than the desire to burden him with 
what I wrote. 
Yet perhaps that abnormal pride, whose 
existence I have admitted, had quite as much to 
do with this restraint. 
When a thing was published, then quickly to 
him with it ! His sympathy and interest were 
unfailing, and his criticism only too gentle ; 
though it could be a sword of flame when he 
chose to smite. 
Unknown to himself, I had dedicated "The 
Gates Ajar " to him. In this dedication there 
was a slip in good English, or, at least, in such 
English as the professor wrote and spoke. I 
had used the word " nears " as a verb, instead 
of its proper synonym, " approaches." He read 
the dedication quietly, thanked me tenderly for 
it, and said nothing. It was left for me to find 
out my blunder for myself, as I did, in due 
time. He had not the heart to tell me of it 
then. Nor did he insinuate his consciousness 
that the dedication might seem to involve him 
as it did in certain citadels of stupidity in 
the views of the book. 
The story was sent to its publishers, Messrs. 
Ticknor and Fields, and leisurely awaited their 
verdict. As I had written somewhat for their 
magazines, " The Atlantic " and " Our Young 
Folks," I did not come quite as a stranger. 
Still, the fate of the book hung upon a delicate 
scale. It was two years from the time the story 
went to its publishers before it appeared between 
 
covers. How much of this period the author 
was kept in suspense I cannot remember ; but, 
I think, some time. I have the impression that 
the disposal of the book, so far as that firm 
went, wavered for a while upon the decision 
of one man, whose wife shared the reading of 
the manuscript. "Take it," she said at last, 
decidedly ; and the fiat went forth. The lady 
afterwards became a personal friend, and I 
hope I may not forfeit the treasure of her 
affection by this late and public recognition of the 
pleasant part she bore in the fortunes of my 
life. 
The book was accepted, and still this piece 
of good luck did not make my head spin. I 
had lived among book-makers too much to
expect the miracle. I went soberly back to my 
hack work, and on with my Sunday - school 
books. 
One autumn day the customary package of 
gift copies of the new book made its way to 
Andover Hill ; but I opened it without elation, 
the experience being so far from my first of its 
kind. The usual note of thanks was returned 
to the publishers, and quiet fell again. 
Unconscious of either hope or fear, I kept on about 
my business, and the new book was the last 
thing on earth with which I concerned myself. 
One morning, not many weeks after its 
publication, I received a letter from Mr. James T. 
Fields. He, who was the quickest of men to 
do a kindness, and surest to give to young 
writers the encouraging word for which they 
had not hope enough to listen, had hurried him 
self to break to me the news. 
" Your book is moving grandly," so he wrote. 
" It has already reached a sale of four thousand 
copies. We take pleasure in sending you " 
He enclosed a check for six hundred dollars, 
the largest sum on which I had ever set my 
startled eyes. It would not, by my contract, 
have been due me for six months or more to 
come. 
The little act was like him, and like the 
courteous and generous house on whose list I 
have worked for thirty years. 
As was said in the last chapter, " The Gates 
Ajar" was written without hope or expectation 
of any especial success, and, when the happy 
storm broke, in truth, I was the most aston 
ished girl in North America. From the day 
when Mr. Fields thoughtful note reached the 
Andover post-office, that miracle such as we 
read of, often in fiction, and sometimes in 
literary history, touched the young writer's life ; 
and it began over again, as a new form of or 
ganization. 
As I look back upon them, the next few 
years seem to have been a series of amazing 
phantasmagoria. Indeed, at the time, they 
were scarcely more substantial. A phantom 
among phantoms, I was borne along. 
Incredulous of the facts and dubious of my own iden 
tity, I whirled through readjustments of scene, 
of society, of purposes, of hopes, and now, at 
last, of ambitions ; and always of hard work 
and plenty of it. Really, I think the gospel of 
work then, as always, and to all of us, was 
salvation from a good deal of nonsense incident 
to the situation. 
I have been told that the American circulation
of the book, which has remained below 
one hundred thousand, was outrun by that in 
Great Britain. Translations, of course, were 
manifold. The French, the German, the Dutch, 
the Italian have been conscientiously sent to 
the author; some others, I think, have not. 
More applications to republish my books have 
reached me from Germany than from any other 
country. For awhile, with the tenderness of 
a novice in such experience, I kept all these 
foreign curiosities on my book-shelves ; but the 
throes of several New England " movings " 
have scattered their ashes. 
Not long ago, I came across a tiny pamphlet, 
in which I used to feel more honest pride than 
in any edition of "The Gates Ajar" which it 
has ever been my fortune to handle. It is a 
sickly yellow thing, covered with a coarse de 
sign of some kind, in which the wings of a par 
ticularly sprawly angel predominate. The print 
is abhorrent, and the paper such as any respect 
able publisher would prepare to be condemned 
for in this world and in that to come. In fact, 
the entire book was thus given out by one of 
the most enterprising of English pirates as an 
advertisement for a patent medicine. I have 
never traced the chemical history of the drug ; 
but it has pleased my fancy to suppose it to be 
the one in which Mrs. Holt, the mother of
Felix, dealt so largely ; and whose sale Felix put 
forth his mighty conscience to suppress. 
Of course, owing to the state of our copy 
right laws at that time, all this foreign 
publication was piratical ; and most of it brought no 
visible consequence to the author, beyond that 
cold tribute to personal vanity on which our 
unlucky race is expected to feed. I should 
make one exception. The house of Sampson 
Low and Company honorably offered me at a 
very early date a certain recognition of their 
editions. Other reputable English houses since, 
in the case of succeeding books, have passed 
contracts of a gentlemanly nature, with the 
disproportionately grateful author; who was, 
of course, entirely at their mercy. When an 
American writer compares the sturdy figures 
of the foreign circulation with the attenuated 
numerals of such visible returns as reach him, 
he is more puzzled in his mind than surfeited 
in his purse. But the relation of foreign
publishers to " home talent " is an ancient and 
honorable conundrum, which it is not for this 
