prehension so much as antiquarian re- 
search, for I immediately perceived that 
this could be no other than the identical 
' parcel-gilt goblet ' on which FalstafF 
made his loving but faithless vow to 
Dame Quickly, and which would, of 
course, be treasured up with care among 
the regalia of her domains, as a testi- 
mony of that solemn contract." 
There the search rested, so far as 
Irving was concerned, and he genially 
remarks, at the close of his paper, that 
he leaves all this as a rich mine to be 
worked out by future commentators. 
" Nor do I despair,' he adds, " of seeing 
the tobacco-box and the ' parcel-gilt gob- 
let ' which I have thus brought to light, 
the subject of future engravings, and 
almost as fruitful of voluminous disser- 
tations and disputes as the shield of 
Achilles or the far-famed Portland Vase." 
The story of his pilgrimage has, in 
the mind imbued with romance, a pecu- 
liar charm. For my own part, I have 
never for an instant doubted that the 
goblet which he identified, with the 
precision of genius, was actually Mrs. 
Quickly's, and that goblet I had long 
resolved to seek, should fortune take me 
to England. 
"Came a day'' (speaking elliptically 
after the fashion of Aurora Leigh), 
when, on the top of an omnibus, with 
a faithful gossip, I crossed the Styx of 
Holborn and Cheapside to that land still 
peopled by illustrious ghosts, still decked 
in brave raiment of names that dazzle 
the eye and stir the blood. Though 
ancient landmarks have been efEaced by 
hurrying feet, intent on that meat which 
is less than life, Eastcheap is to-day en- 
 
chanted ground, and its tavern a Mecca 
of the mind. The very names in the 
neighborhood are redolent of good cheer. 
Bread Street, Fish Street Hill, and Pud- 
ding Lane each stands pointing a sad 
finger to the merry past when, as Lyd- 
gate the rhyming monk relates, it was a 
city of cooks' shops. Lydgate's period 
was that of Henrys IV. and V., and his 
London Lackpenny has the ring of good 
and olden cheer. 
'' Then I hyed me into Est-Chepe ; 
One cryes rybbs of bef e, and many a pye ; 
Pewter pottes they clattered on a heape ; 
There was harpe, pype and mynstrelsye." 
High revelry was held in Eastcheap in 
the time of Henry IV., but, according to 
Stow, that most delightful of antiquaries, 
who in the face of manifold discourage- 
ments added riches untold to the treas- 
ury of English history, no taverns then 
existed. No man interfered with an- 
other's specialty. "The Cooks dressed 
Meat and sold no Wine; and the Tav- 
emer sold Wine and dressed no Meat 
for Sale.'' 
"This Eastcheap," continues he, "is 
now a Flesh-Market of Butchers, there 
dwelling on both sides of the Street ; it 
 
had sometime also Cooks mixed amongst 
the Butchers, and such other as sold 
Victuals ready dressed of all sorts. For 
of old time, when Friends did meet, and 
were disposed to be merry, they went 
not to dine and sup in Taverns (for they 
dressed not Meats to be sold), but to the 
Cooks, where they called for Meat what 
they liked, which they always found 
ready dressed, and at a reasonable rate." 
Eastcheap in fact was very near the 
river, that great highway of London, 
upon which fish, flesh, and wine were 
brought to the bank's side. Of that 
strip of land immediately south, and be- 
tween Eastcheap and the river, a twelfth- 
century folio has suggestive mention, 
thus quoted by Stow : — 
" In London, upon the River side, be- 
tween the Wine in Ships, and the Wine 
to be sold in Taverns, is a common 
Cookery or Cooks Row; where daily, 
for the Season of the Year, Men might 
have Meat, roast, sod, or fryed ; Fish, 
Flesh, Fowls, fit for Rich and Poor. 
" If any come suddenly to any Citizen 
from afar, weary, and not willing to tarry 
till the Meat be bought and dressed; 
while the Servant bringeth Water for 
IS 
his Master's Hands, and fetcheth Bread, 
he shall have immediately (from the 
River side) all Viands whatsoever he de- 
sireth. What Multitude soever, either 
of Soldiers or Strangers, do come to the 
City; whatsoever Hour, Day or Night, 
according to their Pleasures, may refresh 
themselves. And they which delight in 
Delicateness, may be satisfied with as 
delicate Dishes there, as may be found 
elsewhere. And this Cooks Row is very 
necessary to the City : And according to 
Plato and Gorgias, Next to Physick, is 
the Office of Cooks, as Part of a City." 
It was in Eastcheap, moreover, that 
Prince Hal's two brothers fell out with 
the watch, an episode which may have 
served as the germ in Shakespeare's 
brain whence blossomed such a robust 
tree of mirth. Near by stood Prince 
Hal's own mansion of Cold Harbour, the 
cellars enriched with his father's gift, 
" twenty casks and one pipe of red wine 
of Gascoigne, free of duty." What other 
part of London could Falstaflf possibly 
have chosen for his haunts ? Even in 
the old play of Henry Fifth which pre- 
ceded Shakespeare's, the Prince declares, 
" You know the old tavern in Eastcheap ! 
there is good wine/' Thus is this rois- 
tering region so famous in contemporary 
eulogy that it needs no bush of modem 
criticism. 
The lover of Shakespeare and of his 
Falstaff is conscious of an excited de- 
light in threading these murky streets 
of "the City," — worshipful, almost, of 
the very ground whereon he treads. He 
will stand lost in dreaming while traffic 
surges past, and smells are ancient and 
fishlike, mindful of memory alone. If, 
happily, the ideal is more real to him 
than solid earth, he will sweep aside the 
orderly rubbish of a modern day, and 
by force of fancy reconstruct that house 
where "hours were cups of sack, and 
minutes capons." Let Falstaff rise, tav- 
ern reckoning in pocket, and counterfeit 
a moment's life, as "gunpowder Percy" 
should have done to fright him. Then 
shall we see, entering beneath the tav- 
ern's tusked sign, " a goodly portly man, 
'faith, and a corpulent ; of a cheerful 
look, a pleasing eye, and a most noble 
carriage." Here stood the chair which 
made his state, when he dared person- 
ate his sovereign ; this cushion was his 
crown, and here behind the arras did he 
 
snore. Here was discussed that merry 
jest at Gadshill, and this is the room 
where, in the telling, FalstafFs adver- 
saries were so marvelously multiplied. 
Here must he have heard the chimes at 
midnight, and here was his heart struck 
cold with pathetic reminder of his end. 
Remembrance throngs upon us, until we 
are fain to cry : — 
" Banish plump Jack and banish all the world ! " 
Last and most lustrous memory of all, 
William Shakespeare, who saw the house 
almost daily, on his way to Blackfriars 
playhouse, must often have sought its 
hospitable door for his cup of sack and 
his merry jest with mine host. 
When Lessing confessed that for him 
the search after truth was to be pre- 
ferred to the goddess herself, he proved 
the depth of his true wisdom. Happy is 
he who takes a roundabout way to Ely- 
sium, and so is pleasantly entertained 
upon the road ! There is no comparison 
for blessedness between his lot and that 
of the victim of accurate charts and in- 
fallible time-tables. Had Ulysses formed 
one of a " personally conducted " expe- 
dition, a bankrupt world might well have 
 
bemoaned its loss; for who by search- 
ing can find in Cook's circular mention 
of the Lotophagi, "who for their only 
nourishment eat flowers," the Cyclops, 
Nausicaa, or Circe ? Yet the Wily One 
came upon them because he sacrificed 
not on the altar of accurate and abom- 
inable science. If the two Americans 
who sought Eastcheap one golden day 
had devoted an hour's study to their 
problem in the British Museum, they 
would have wandered less widely in pur- 
suit of their desire; nay, would have 
concluded that there was nothing left to 
attain, and thus confined themselves to 
the region of narrow experience reserved 
for those who let "'I dare not' wait 
upon ' I would.' " With the simplicity 
of ignorance, we expected, though the 
tavern had been swept away, to lay a 
finger upon the link forged by Irving 
with the past ; to look upon the Mason's 
Arms, custodian of box and goblet, and 
to visit Saint Michael's Church, forever 
memorable from having held its vestry 
meetings under the sign of the Boar's 
Head. 
King William's Monument was easily 
found, and near by lay Crooked Lane, 
 
"so called of the crooked windings 
thereof/' though, as we speedily realized, 
its generous curve had been cut short at 
the call of traffic. A moment's inves- 
tigation made it also evident that Saint 
Michael's Chiurch had in that lamenta- 
ble doing been swept away. Even after 
that certainty had settled cold upon the 
heart, we walked up and down the dingy 
street, staring beseechingly about, as if 
perchance, church, tower and all might 
magically rise. An appeal to policemen 
and dusty looking idlers who played the 
role of oldest inhabitant bore no consol- 
ing fruit. Saint Michael's Church was 
gone ; one and another declared that 
it had not been there in his day ; and 
when we querulously disputed the wis- 
dom of its removal, we were urged to 
consider the fair proportions of those 
newer streets — bom to crowd it out of 
being. 
" But be not daunted," at length whis- 
pered Hope: "the Mason's Arms may 
still have such store of compensation 
as it offered Irving in his quest ! " 
Therefore we turned our steps in the 
direction of Miles Lane. There might 
the heart be warmed by the descendants 
 
of Master Edward Honeyball, Irving's 
kindly host, or even Master Honeyball 
himself, his century brimmed over and 
his race still unfinished. Narrow and 
dingy is the way. Bales of goods are 
hoisted over the head of the timorous 
traveler, who, if he be prudent, takes 
to the middle of the street, there to 
be jostled by unsavory fish-venders and 
bearers of burdens. Such hardships of 
progress are of little moment, however, 
to one inspired by the hope that he may 
presently come upon Dame Honeyball, 
hospitably alert in the doorway, over- 
coming the scruples of the hesitant trav- 
eler, and persuading him that her wine 
needs no bush. May he not catch a 
glimpse of the serving-maid with trim 
ankles, or even a savory whiff of that 
mutton which was a-roasting so many 
years ago i Vain delusion of the too 
alert fancy! The Mason's Arms lives 
no longer, save upon Irving's rescuing 
page. Covering its former ground 
stands a glaringly modem and common- 
place "public," whither business men, 
boys, and cabbies were that day tend- 
ing for a pot of beer, to emerge brush- 
ing the foam from appreciative lips. 
Yet though that beery seclusion might 
be reserved for the tippling male, not for 
such reason would woman, wrapped in 
the armor of an idea, refrain from pene- 
trating therein. 
The traveler in England soon learns 
that here, as in the economy of nature, 
nothing is lost, and that axiom will com- 
fort him on many a discouraging quest. 
Anything which Saint Michael's Church 
had once possessed must still be church 
property, and would imdoubtedly be kept 
in this parish, or in a neighboring one. 
Therefore, in whatever comer of secrecy 
and darkness its forgotten treasures lay 
hidden, they might surely be unearthed 
by the persistent seeker. Such reason- 
able premises being assumed, what more 
likely spot could there be for eliciting 
fact or wildfire gossip than the common 
meeting-ground of a tavern ? 
The white-aproned "drawer" would 
fain have told us all we sought, so said 
his s)rmpathetic manner, but he could 
only suggest the beadle as a probable 
fountain of Eastcheap lore. And where 
was the beadle to be found ? He was 
in, not five minutes ago, to take his pint 
of beer, and he might come round again 
in an hour. (O bibulous beadle, is this 
thine hourly custom ?) It all depended 
upon what he had to do. Some days 
there were a good many burials. No 
beadle, however, was forthcoming, even 
after long lingering, and an ascent to 
his room, over three flights of breakneck 
stairs ; and choosing at random a church 
near by which might divulge hidden 
information, we went to Saint Margaret 
Pattens, named for the patten-makers 
who long ago flourished there, and rich 
in a store of old-time memories. The 
white-haired rector was finishing his 
daily service to empty benches; for, 
though traffic surges about this and its 
sister churches in the heart of the City, 
it is rare indeed that man or woman 
enters one of them to seek the bread of 
life. They have their religiously pre- 
served carvings, their precious organs, 
their careful service; they go quietly 
beating on, like a jeweled timepiece in 
the clothes of a beggar, and afar off, 
but ominous, sounds the howl of " Dis- 
establishment ! " 
This gentleman was not the rector 
of Saint Margaret Pattens, protested an 
inner voice, when finally he was ready to 
 
speak with the strangers. He was Trol- 
lope's gentle " Warden." 
" Have you given up that old and lov- 
ing habit of fingering your imaginary 
violoncello?" one refrained with diffi- 
culty from asking. " Has Archdeacon 
Grantly frowned it down, and is he at 
this moment waiting for you at home, 
to broach some scheme of advancement 
in which your cleanly soul will not con- 
cur.?" The Warden held, as it hap- 
pily proved, the key to difficulty the 
first. Saint Michael's parish had, he said 
at once, been merged in Saint Magnus's, 
and doubtless took all its property with 
it. But if we were interested in the 
Boar's Head, should we not also like to 
see an entry in Saint Margaret's vestry 
accounts, of the sixteenth century, prov- 
ing that it found the tavern a comforta- 
ble neighbor ? From an old oaken chest 
he drew a volume, its leather covers worn 
rough by time, its pages yellowed and 
stained by years, if not from use. 
He it was who suggested that the 
parcel-gilt goblet was not a sacramental 
cup, but rather one used by the vestry 
in its business meetings, which had also 
a convivial character. Such cups were 
known as " masers," and might be either 
of metal or of wood, carved, and orna- 
mented with silver and gold. An allu- 
sion of the sixteenth century to another 
vessel describes it as "a great cuppe, 
brode and deepe, such as great masers 
were wont to be." These vessels, true 
loving-cups, were highly valued by the 
fortunate owners, whether individuals or 
corporations. The Warden would not 
hear of thanks. Old customs were his 
delight, he protested, and of all the 
phantasms of this changing world they 
best rewarded pursuit. He had even 
revived in his own church the ancient 
ceremony of " beating the bounds." The 
children of the parish marched out in 
due form and beat with wands the 
parish boundaries ; but so changed had 
the region become since the days when 
such geography lessons were of ordi- 
nary occurence, and building had not 
smothered God's earth, that one child 
had to be let down from a window into 
a closed court, to touch with his wand 
a separating point. But O times and 
 
manners ! that ye have changed is patent 
in the fact that whereas such occasions 
served of old as pretext for reveling, 
to-day but one friendly baker regaled 
the beaters with buns and lemonade. 
Where are the cakes and ale whereon 
they feasted once from door to door? 
Gone, with bear-baitings, new plays on 
Bankside, mouth-filling oaths, and good 
Queen Bess. 
With that day and the farewell cour- 
tesies of the gentle Warden ended our 
quest. It even hung fire over the sum- 
mer, for an appeal by letter to the 
" fair parish church of Saint Magnus " 
elicited the fact that it was undergoing 
repair, and was therefore in no condition 
for visitors. Thus it happened that it 
was only a few days before sailing for 
America that we entered the little ves- 
try, and caught at once from the window 
a sight more to be desired than the free- 
dom of the city in a box of gold. There, 
hemmed in by walls, lies a small patch 
of green, its one ornament the Purbeck 
stone once in Saint Michael's churchyard 
to tell the virtues of Robert Preston, 
and now sojourning with Saint Magnus, 
still to rehearse his fame. 
" Bacchus, to give the toping world surprise. 
Produced one sober son, and here he ties. 
Though reared among full hogsheads, he def/d 
The charms of wine, and every one beside. 
O reader, if to justice thou'rt inclined, 
Keep honest Preston daily in thy mind. 
He drew good wine, took care to fill his pots, 
Had sundry virtues that excused his faults. 
You that on Bacchus have the like dependence^ 
Pray copy Bob in measure and attendance." 
Truly, it is good to touch with rever- 
ent finger each link of a golden past : to 
renew our fondness for the motherland 
by thumbing over the pages of her story ! 
The rector of Saint Magnus dallied with 
our impatience, and profEered many a 
fillip to the appetite before he would 
produce the nightingales' tongues and 
ortolans of the feast. We must see his 
church, redolent of memories ancient and 
wonderful, and the tablet to Miles Cov- 
erdale, wherein the godly and learned 
do much delight. We must even try 
his organ. But at length returned to 
the vestry room, there appeared a sex- 
ton, penetrated to the soul with the im- 
portance of every detail connected with 
the Establishment; and in his hands 
he bore two boxes, one of wood, and 
the other the identical tobacco-box of 
Irving's quest, — the same, yet different 
in the fresh glory of paint probably 
applied in 1861, for, as the inscription 
relates, it was then repaired anew. Now 
be it understood that there had been 
throughout little talk of the goblet, but 
much of this box from which the church- 
wardens once filled their innocent pipes. 
It was impossible to refer honestly to 
the former treasure in any way except 
as a memento of Mrs. Quicldy ; and 
would even the daring scion of an ag- 
gressive land approach a reverend in- 
cumbent of the English Church with a 
mention of that amiable but never con- 
ventional woman, painful antithesis to the 
British matron.? Perish the thought! 
Rather wait, hoping that box and goblet 
had drifted down the stream of years 
still together, and that the same incom- 
ing wave would sweep them to the trav- 
elers' feet. With a slow seriousness 
befitting the occasion the wooden box 
was opened, and there, in a green baize 
seclusion, lay the goblet of our dreams. 
The moment had come, and triumph- 
antly it crowned endeavor. No one who 
has seen that cup can doubt for a mo- 
ment that it certainly is the one illu- 
minated by the sea-coal fire that day 
 
when Falstaf swore his perishable oath. 
It is of a goodly shape, with a standard 
and a generous bowl. It is lined with 
gold, "parcel-gilt," and the silver exte- 
rior is decorated with fanciful little fig- 
ures in outline, shaped somewhat like 
Prince Rupert drops. About the foot 
runs the inscription, Ex dono Francisci 
Wythers Artnigeri, 
There is an actual possibility con- 
nected with this relic which is hardly to 
be considered without excitement. The 
cup, we are told, was in the first part of 
this century "very ' antyke.' " What is 
more probable than that William Shake- 
speare, in his social evenings at the tav- 
ern where it was kept, was a welcome 
guest of Saint Michael's vestry, what 
time the cup went round and beards 
wagged all } The parcel-gilt goblet was 
ever held in high esteem, whenever it 
was first received, and it is easy to be- 
lieve it formed a part of the church 
property before 1597, the earliest date 
to be assigned King Henry IV. That 
possibility once assumed, the mind runs 
riot in conjecture, and almost loses its 
balance in a mad chase after the thistle- 
down of circumstantial proof. Who was 
 
Sir Francis Wythers? When was he 
christened, married, or where did he die ? 
A list of tombstones and tablets from 
Saint Michael's contains not his name. 
Its register of christenings, marriages, 
and burials, beginning in 1538, holds no 
reference to him. Did he belong to 
some other parish, which keeps in hid- 
ing the record of his life, waiting for a 
lucky finder, that prince whose lot it is 
to succeed after the many fail, or did he 
go to the wars with FalstaflF, to receive 
burial "unhousel'd, disappointed, un- 
anel'd".? — for it is difficult to avoid a 
strange mingling of the poetical and 
real in such a quest. Was he one of the 
Lancashire Withers, a family adorned 
by George Wither, the poet, and of 
whose founder mention is made in the 
reign of Edward II. ? " What 's become 
of Waring.?" is no more crucial prob- 
lem, no blinder scent, than that con- 
nected with this elusive donor of a cup. 
The ingenious mind will suggest that 
there may be some mention of goblet 
or giver in Saint Michael's audit books. 
Even so small a matter as paying for 
the inscription, if that were not done 
until after the presentation, would surely 
 
be mentioned. Vain hope ! The earli- 
est parochial book is dated 1617, and 
has nothing to say on the subject. It 
does, however, contain two references 
to the Boar's Head, which are of some 
interest, like every trifle touching that 
wonder-breeding spot. 
I, for one, am determined to assume 
that the cup has met the eye of Shake- 
speare, and was even touched by his 
good right hand. I shall never allow 
the true delight of literary pilgrimage 
to be spoiled by too close adherence to 
possible fact. In the ideal suppositions 
of life lie its paramount charms. He 
is a happy man, gifted with the truest 
wisdom, who sees in every thorn-tree at 
Glastonbury a scion of the olden one, 
who can bare his head in memory of 
King Arthur at each of the several 
places claiming the crown of Camelot, 
and people the land with brave men and 
fair women who, as the learned tell us, 
were never more than "such stuff as 
dreams are made on." 
Shakespeare dearly loved to harness 
every-day events to the car of poesy ; to 
fit a cart-horse out with wings, and bid 
him godspeed in playing Pegasus. When 
 
Titania describes a strange confusion of 
the seasons, and the resulting evils to 
man and beast, there can be no doubt 
that the poet had in mind the year 1594, 
when "the spring was very unkind, by 
means of the abundance of rain that fell. 
Our July hath been like to a Febru- 
ary ; our June even as an April : so that 
the air must needs be infected." That 
immortal speech of Bottom, wherein he 
entreats the ladies not to tremble, since 
he is no lion, but "a man as other men 
are," has its prototype in an incident, 
probably of Shakespeare's own time, 
which is recorded in a collection enti- 
tled Merry Passages and Jests : — 
"There was a spectacle presented to 
Queen Elizabeth upon the water, and 
among others Harry Goldingham was 
to represent Arion upon the Dolphin's 
backe ; but finding his voice to be verye 
hoarse and unpleasant when he came to 
perform it, he tears off his disguise, and 
swears he was none of Arion, not he, 
but even honest Harry Goldingham." 
Face-painting, Mary Queen of Scots 
and her siren arts, the dancing horse 
(a justly celebrated wonder of, the poet's 
time), a fool's leap into a custard to 
 
excite the popular mirth, the " little 
eyases " of Saint Paul's Cathedral, who 
became stage favorites, to be strongly 
and somewhat jealously censured by 
legitimate players, — dozens of contem- 
porary allusions illustrate his royal and 
prodigal way of sweeping up the dust 
from the path of every-day life and using 
it for ornament of his pageants. 
The "parcel-gilt goblet at the Boar's 
Head," — a careless mention, fit only to 
cause a passing smile on such lips as 
had merrily touched its brim, but to us, 
cold under the long shadows of too late 
a day, pregnant with wondrous meaning. 
For to have looked upon what Shake- 
speare saw, though it be but the infi- 
nitely removed descendants of the daisies 
that bloomed at Stratford three centu- 
ries ago, to have held what his hand 
once touched, is to have found one vivi- 
fying crumb left from that high feast 
when every man 
" put his whole wit in a jest, 
And resolved to live a fool the rest 
Of his dull life." 
 
The first significant point of our 
Warwickshire pilgrimage was Coventry 
(I refrain with some difficulty from 
the qualif)dng "three-spired," since the 
guide-books have made it all their own), 
and here an ancient dame, little guess- 
ing that graver matters occupied my 
thoughts, insisted on stopping us in the 
street, and pointing out the head of 
Peeping Tom. " Go to, thou 'rt naught ! " 
I could have said, for my mind was busy 
painting itself a picture of Falstaff's 
scarecrow army, as it marched hereby 
to the battlefield where the immortd 
Jack vicariously slew Hotspur, after 
fighting that "long hour by Shrewsbury 
clock." Once begin to imagine that 
tattered and straggling host, and you 
will perforce dismiss the Lady Godiva, 
though with a reverent mind, and con- 
sider not architecture, albeit three or 
thirty spires insistently call : — an army 
of such as "were never soldiers, but 
discarded, unjust serving-men, younger 
 
sons to younger brothers, revolted tap- 
sters, and ostlers tradefallen; the can- 
kers of a calm world, and a long peace ; 
... a hundred and fifty tattered prodi- 
gals, lately come from swine-keeping, 
from eating draff and husks." More- 
over, an army which needed not the 
outfit of shirts, since, like Autolycus of 
blessed memory, it could "find linen 
enough on every hedge." But not 
always may you stay to hobnob with 
fat Jack; a wandering life has many 
secondary joys in fee, and presently, in 
sober and practical fashion, we engaged 
a carriage to take us to the salient 
spots of George Eliot's Warwickshire 
sojourn. Now for my own part, I do 
so heartily agree with her relatives and 
friends in their distaste for the prying 
tourist who would fain make his way 
into their gardens and bedrooms — nay, 
into their very linen-chests, in search 
of the table-cloths woven by Mrs. Tulli- 
ver herself "and bleached so beautiful," 
and marked "so as nobody ever saw 
such marking," — that it would take a 
strong temptation to draw me into such 
forbidden ways. (The temptation came, 
in good time, let me whisper, and I 
 
succumbed to it, and was glad!) But 
it is an ever-growing delight to me to 
look on the same tract of earth and 
the very outline of tree and roof which 
once fed the gaze of heroes. Think of 
the country about Stratford and its 
influence on the mind of Master Will 
Shakespeare, reputed poacher, and lover 
of Anne Hathaway, — the fruitful earth 
and ever responsive leafage, the hedges, 
lavish of bloom, the still-flowing streams, 
great sky-spaces and far horizon; must 
they not so have nourished and calmed 
that great spirit that it could thereafter 
express itself from a state of serene 
healthfulness only to be attained in fit- 
ful moods by one suffocated in mining 
damps and glooms, or depressed by the 
gray wastes of Lincolnshire? And so, 
in tracing the steps of this woman- 
genius, it was enough to look at the 
outside of the Coventry School where 
she was a shy and earnest student, or 
at Rosehill, happy scene of her friend- 
ship with the Brays, without in the 
least desiring entrance, and then to 
drive on to Griff House, where almost 
a quarter -century of her youth was 
passed. 
 
During the progress of the road from 
Coventry to Nuneaton, Warwickshire 
displays a thoughtful and sober face. 
The earth is harder and more unyield- 
ing than at flowery Stratford No 
longer does it smile unreservedly. Coal 
dust has here and there begrimed it; 
and at intervals a bare and ugly chimney 
points upward a sooty finger in derisive 
challenge to the "whip of the skies." 
At a glance, one reads here the earth- 
doom and history, — the tale of unre- 
mitting toil. In sweet farming regions 
man may be baptized in his own sweat 
and made drunk by his own tears, but 
the gracious and deceitful earth only 
smiles the more, and makes his home an 
outer paradise, so that the thoughtless 
onlooker is glad for him, and fancies 
the poetic content of days spent in his 
picturesque (and mildewed) thatched cot- 
tage. But here the harder phases of 
living make themselves rudely apparent, 
and who can doubt that George Eliot 
read from them her first gospel of the 
trouble of life ? 
Now, John, our driver that day, a 
most serious man who talked as if he 
might have been an intimate acquaint- 
 
ance of the Great Lexicographer, was 
impressed with a wholesome fear of Mr. 
Isaac Evans, George Eliot's brother. 
According to him, this gentleman had 
suffered much from the settling of 
tourists upon his roof-tree, very like 
the plagues of ancient Egypt ; and we 
could imagine that he had threatened 
our conscientious John with dire ven- 
geance, should he ever bring such har- 
pies that way again. "All hail to thee 
for a sensible man, O brother of the 
great ! " we ejaculated mentally. " Not 
for worlds would we invade thy peace ! " 
"You can walk inside the grounds," 
said John, drawing up before Griff 
House. "He won't mind that. But 
please, miss, don't go into the house ! " 
Go into the house, like a monster 
made out of Paul Pry and Peeping Tom ! 
Though American, we were not of that 
mould, and it was only after repeated 
urgings from the box that we alighted, 
and like cats in a cream-rich pantry, 
took a few cautious steps into the trim 
door-yard in front of the comfortable 
brick house. And there temptation laid 
for our feet its first cobweb snare. A 
woman, a very decent serving-woman, 
 
came walking down the path, and to 
her we weakly apologized for our pres- 
ence, adding that we were from over-sea, 
and that we could not resist looking upon 
the spot where George Eliot was bom. 
"She wasn't bom here," said this 
sympathetic and kindly soul, "she was 
bom at Arbury Farm, though she did 
live here for many years." 
This was a blow. We had wasted our 
emotions, we had wept and applauded 
in the wrong place, and after a further 
exchange of civilities we returned to the 
carriage and taxed John with having 
made a mistake. (For, to our shame 
be it confessed, Baedeker had that day 
been left behind, and memory proved 
but a yielding staff.) And thereupon 
he waxed so emphatic, declaring that 
everybody knew Griff House to be the 
birthplace of Mary Ann Evans, and. 
moreover, he looked so like a local 
oracle, destined to develop into an Old- 
est Inhabitant, that we knew not what 
