Dennis faltered. "Is there any more?" 
" Tony cries on the housetops that he did it ! " 
Dennis sank once more on his sofa. "He 
cries ?" 
" To cover Jean." 
Dennis took it in. "But if she is covered?" 
" Then to shield Miss Armiger." 
Poor Dennis gazed aghast. "Who meanwhile 
charges him ? " He was on his feet again ; again 
he moved to the open window and stood there 
while the Doctor, in silence, waited. Presently 
he turned round. "May I see him?" 
The Doctor, as if he had expected this, was 
already at the door. " God bless you ! " And he 
flashed out. 
Dennis, left alone, stood rigid in the middle of 
the room, plunged apparently in a stupor of emo 
tion ; then, as if shaken out of it by a return of 
conscious suffering, he passed in a couple of strides 
to the door of the library. Here, however, with 
his hand on the knob, another impulse stayed him 
kept him irresolute, listening, drawing his breath 
in pain. Suddenly he turned away Tony Bream 
had come in. 
XXXI 
" IF in this miserable hour I've asked you for a 
moment of your time," Dennis immediately said, 
" I beg you to believe it's only to let you know 
that anything in the world I can do for you " 
Tony raised a hand that mutely discouraged as 
well as thanked him, but he completely delivered 
himself : " I'm ready, whatever it is, to do on the 
spot." 
With his handsome face smitten, his red eyes 
contracted, his thick hair disordered, and his black 
garments awry, Tony had the handled, hustled 
look of a man just dragged through some riot or 
some rescue and only released to take breath. 
Like Rose, for Vidal, he was deeply disfigured, 
but with a change more passive and tragic. His 
bloodshot eyes fixed his interlocutor's. "I'm 
afraid there's nothing anyone can do for me. 
My disaster's overwhelming; but I must meet it 
myself." 
There was courtesy in his voice ; but there was 
something hard and dry in the way he stood there, 
something so opposed to his usual fine overflow 
that for a minute Dennis could only show by pity 
ing silence the full sense of his wretchedness. He 
was in the presence of a passionate perversity 
an attitude in which the whole man had already 
petrified. " Will it perhaps help you to think of 
something," he presently said, " if I tell you that 
your disaster is almost as much mine as yours, and 
that what's of aid to one of us may perhaps there 
fore be of aid to the other?" 
" It's very good of you," Tony replied, " to be 
willing to take upon you the smallest corner of 
so big a burden. Don't do that don't do that, 
Mr. Vidal," he repeated with a heavy headshake. 
" Don't come near such a thing ; don't touch it ; 
don't know it ! " He straightened himself as if 
with a long, suppressed shudder ; and then, with 
a sharper and more sombre vehemence, " Stand 
from under it ! " he exclaimed. Dennis, in deeper 
compassion, looked at him with an intensity that 
might have suggested submission, and Tony fol 
lowed up what he apparently took for an advan 
tage. " You came here for an hour, for your own 
reasons, for your relief : you came in all kindness 
 
and trust. You've encountered an unutterable 
horror and you've only one thing to do." 
" Be so good as to name it," said Dennis. 
"Turn your back on it for ever go your way 
this minute. I've come to you simply to say 
that." 
" Leave you, in other words 
" By the very first train that will take you." 
Dennis appeared to turn this over; then he 
spoke with a face that showed what he thought of 
it. " It has been my unfortunate fate in coming to 
this place so wrapped, as one might suppose, in 
comfort and peace to intrude a second time on 
obscure, unhappy things, on suffering and danger 
and death. I should have been glad, God knows, 
not to renew the adventure, but one's destiny kicks 
one before it, and I seem myself not the least part 
of the misery I speak of. You must accept that 
as my excuse for not taking your advice. I must 
stay at least till you understand me." On this he 
waited a moment; then abruptly, impatiently, 
" For God's sake, Mr. Bream, believe in me and 
meet me ! " he broke out. 
"'Meet' you?" 
"Make use of the hand I hold out to you." 
Tony had remained just within the closed door, 
as if to guard against its moving from the other 
side. At this, with a faint flush in his dead 
vacancy, he came a few steps further. But there 
was something still locked in his conscious, al 
tered eyes and coldly absent from the tone in 
which he said: "You've come, I think, from 
China?" 
"I've come, Mr. Bream, from China." 
"And it's open to you to go back?" 
Dennis frowned. "I can do as I wish."  
"And yet you're not off like a shot?" 
"My movements and my inclinations are my 
own affair. You won't accept my aid ? " 
Tony gave his sombre stare. " You ask me, as 
you call it, to meet you. Excuse me if on my 
side I ask you on what definite ground " 
Dennis took him straight up. " On the definite 
ground on which Dr. Ramage is good enough to 
do so. I'm afraid there's no better ground than 
my honour." 
Tony's stare was long and deep; then he put 
out his hand, and while Dennis held it, " I under 
stand you," he said. " Good-bye." 
Dennis kept hold of him. " ' Good-bye ' ? " 
Tony had a supreme hesitation. " She's 
safe." 
 
Dennis had a shorter one. " Do you speak of 
Miss Martle?" 
"Not of Miss Martle." 
" Then I can. She's safe." 
"Thank you," said Tony. He drew away his 
hand. 
" As for the person you speak of, if you say 
it " And Dennis paused. 
"She's safe," Tony repeated. 
"That's all I ask of you. The Doctor will 
do the rest." 
"I know what the Doctor will do." Tony 
was silent a moment. "What will you do?" 
Dennis faltered, but at last he spoke. " Every 
thing but marry her." 
A flare of admiration rose and fell in Tony's 
eyes. " You're beyond me ! " 
"I don't in the least know where I am, save 
that I'm in a black, bloody nightmare. It's not 
I, it's not she, it's not you, it's not anyone. I 
shall wake up at last, I suppose, but mean 
while " 
" There's plenty more to come ? Oh, as much 
as you like ! " Tony excitedly declared. 
" For me, but not for you. For you the worst's 
over," his companion boldly observed. 
"Over? with all my life made hideous?" 
There was a certain sturdiness in Vidal's mo 
mentary silence. " You think so now ! " 
Then he added more gently : " I grant you it's 
hideous enough." 
Tony stood there in the agony of the actual; 
the tears welled into his hot eyes. "She butch 
ered she tortured my child. And she did it 
to incriminate Jean." 
He brought it all back to Dennis, who exclaimed 
with simple solemnity : " The dear little girl 
the sweet, kind little girl ! " With a sudden 
impulse that in the midst of this tenderness 
seemed almost savage, he laid on Tony's shoul 
der a hard, conscientious hand. " She forced 
her in. She held her down. She left her." 
The men turned paler as they looked at each 
other. " I'm infamous I'm infamous," said Tony. 
There was a long pause that was like a strange 
assent from Dennis, who at last, however, brought 
out in a different tone : " It was her passion." 
" It was her passion." 
" She loves you ! " Dennis went on with 
a drop, before the real, of all vain terms. 
" She loves me ! " Tony's face reflected the 
mere monstrous fact. "It has made what it has 
made her awful act and my silence. My silence 
is a part of the crime and the cruelty I shall 
live to be a horror to myself. But I see it, none 
the less, as I see it, and I shall keep the word 
I gave her in the first madness of my fear. It 
came to me. There it is." 
" I know what came to you," Dennis said. 
Tony wondered. " Then you've seen her ? " 
Dennis hesitated. " I know it from the 
Doctor." 
"I see " Tony thought a moment. "She, 
I imagine " 
" Will keep it to herself ? Leave that to me ! " 
Dennis put out his hand again. "Good-bye." 
" You take her away ? " 
" To-night." 
Tony kept his hand. "Will her flight help 
Ramage ? " 
" Everything falls in. Three hours ago I came 
for her." 
"So it will seem prearranged?" 
"For the event she announced to you. Our 
happy union ! " said Dennis Vidal. 
He reached the door to the hall, where Tony 
checked him. " There's nothing, then, I shall 
do for you ? " 
"It's done. We've helped each other." 
What was deepest in Tony stirred again. "I 
mean when your trouble has passed." 
" It will never pass. Think of that when 
you're happy yourself." 
Tony's grey face stared. "How shall I ever 
be ?" 
The door, as he spoke, opened from the room 
to which Mrs. Beever had returned, and Jean 
Martle appeared to them. Dennis retreated. 
" Ask her ! " he said from the threshold. 
XXXII 
RUSHING to Tony, she wailed under her breath : 
" I must speak to you I must speak to you ! 
But how can you ever look at me? how can 
you ever forgive me?" In an instant he had 
met her; in a flash the gulf was bridged: his 
arms had opened wide to her and she had 
thrown herself into them. They had only to be 
face to face to let themselves go; he making no 
answer but to press her close against him, she 
pouring out her tears upon him as if the contact 
quickened the source. He held her, she yielded, 
with a passion no bliss could have given them ; 
they stood locked together in their misery with 
no sound and no motion but her sobs. Breast 
to breast and cheek to cheek, they felt simply 
that they had ceased to be apart. Their long 
embrace was the extinction of all limits, all ques 
tions swept away in a flood which tossed them 
over the years and in which nothing remained 
erect but the sense and the need of each other. 
These things had now the beauty of all the ten 
derness that they had never spoken and that, for 
some time, even as they clung there, was too 
strange and too deep for speech. But what was 
extraordinary was that, as Jean, disengaged her 
self, there was neither wonder nor fear between 
them ; nothing but a recognition, in which every 
thing swam, and, on the girl's part, the still 
higher tide of the remorse that harried her and 
that, to see him, had made her break away from 
the others. "They tell me I'm ill, I'm insane," 
she went on " they want to shut me up, to 
give me things : they tell me to lie down, to try 
to sleep. But it's all, to me, so dreadfully as if 
it were I who had done it, that when they ad 
mitted to me that you were here I felt that if 
I didn't see you it would make me as crazy as 
they say. It's to have seen her go to have 
seen her go: that's what I can't bear it's too 
horrible ! " She continued to sob ; she stood 
there before him, swayed to and fro in her grief. 
She stirred up his own, and that added to her 
pain ; for a minute, in their separate sorrow, they 
moved asunder like creatures too stricken to com 
municate. But they were quickly face to face 
 
again, more intimate, with more understood, 
though with the air, on either side and in the 
very freedom of their action, of a clear vision of 
the effect of their precipitated union the in 
stinct of not again touching it with unconse- 
crated hands. Tony had no idle words, no easy 
consolations ; she only made him see more vividly 
what had happened, and they hung over it to 
gether while she accused and reviled herself. " I 
let her go I let her go ; that's what's so terrible, 
so hideous. I might have got her have kept 
her ; I might have screamed, I might have rushed 
for help. But how could I know or dream ? How 
could the worst of my fears ? " She broke off, 
she shuddered and dropped; she sat and sobbed 
while he came and went. " I see her little face as 
she left me she looked at me as if she knew. She 
wondered and dreaded she knew she knew! 
It was the last little look I was to have from 
her, and I didn't even answer it with a kiss. 
She sat there where I could seize her, but I 
never raised a hand. I was close, I was there 
she must have called for me in her terror. I 
didn't listen I didn't come I only gave her 
up to be murdered! And now I shall be pun 
ished for ever : I shall see her in those arms 
in those arms ! " Jean flung herself down and 
hid her face; her smothered, wild lament filled 
the room. 
Tony stopped before her, seeing everything 
she brought up, but only the more helpless in 
his pity. "It was the only little minute in all 
the years that you had been forced to fail her. 
She was always more yours than mine." 
Jean could only look out through her storm- 
beaten window. "It was just because she was 
yours that she was mine. It was because she 
was yours from the first hour that I !" She 
broke down again ; she tried to hold herself ; 
she got up. " What could I do, you see ? To 
you I couldn't be kind." She was as frank in 
her young, pure woe as a bride might have been 
in her joy. 
Tony looked as if he were retracing the saddest 
thing on earth. " I don't see how you could 
have been kinder." 
She wondered with her blinded eyes. " That 
wasn't what I thought I was it couldn't be, 
ever, ever. Didn't I try not to think of you? 
But the child was a beautiful part of you the 
child I could take and keep. I could take her 
altogether, without thinking or remembering. It 
 
was the only thing I could do for you, and you 
let me, always, and she did. So I thought it 
would go on, for wasn't it happiness enough? 
But all the horrible things I didn't know them 
till to-day. There they were so near to us ; 
and there they closed over her, and oh ! " She 
turned away in a fresh convulsion, inarticulate 
and distracted. 
They wandered in silence, as if it made them 
more companions ; but at last Tony said : " She 
was a little radiant, perfect thing. Even if she 
had not been mine you would have loved her." 
Then he went on, as if feeling his way through 
his thickest darkness : " If she had not been 
mine she wouldn't be lying there as I've seen 
her. Yet I'm glad she was mine ! " he said. 
"She lies there because I loved her and be 
cause I so recklessly showed it. That's why it's 
I who killed her ! " broke passionately from Jean. 
He said nothing till he quietly and gently 
said : " It was I who killed her." 
She roamed to and fro, slowly controlling her 
self, taking this at first for a mere torment like 
her own. "We seem beautifully eager for the 
guilt ! " 
"It doesn't matter what anyone else seems. 
I must tell you all now. I've taken the act 
on myself." 
She had stopped short, bewildered. " How 
have you taken it?" 
"To meet whatever may come." 
She turned as white as ashes. "You mean 
you've accused yourself?" 
"Anyone may accuse me. Whom is it more 
natural to accuse ? What had she to gain ? My 
own motive is flagrant. There it is," said Tony. 
Jean withered beneath this new stroke. "You'll 
say you did it?" 
"I'll say I did it." 
Her face grew old with terror. "You'll lie? 
You'll perjure yourself?" 
"I'll say I did it for you" 
She suddenly turned crimson. "Then what 
do you think J'll say?" 
Tony coldly considered. " Whatever you say 
will tell against me." 
"Against you?" 
"If the crime was committed for you." 
" ' For ' me ? " she echoed again. 
" To enable us to marry." 
" Marry ! we? " Jean looked at it in blighted 
horror. 
 
"It won't be of any consequence that we 
sha'n't, that we can't : it will only stand out clear 
that we can" His sombre ingenuity halted, but 
he achieved his demonstration. " So I shall save 
whom I wish to save." 
Jean gave a fiercer wail. " You wish to save 
hert" 
" I don't wish to give her up. You can't con 
ceive it?" 
"I?" The girl looked about her for a nega 
tion not too vile. " I wish to hunt her to death ! 
I wish to burn her alive ! " All her emotion had 
changed to stupefaction ; the flame in her eyes had 
dried them. "You mean she's not to suffer?" 
"You want her to suffer all?" 
She was ablaze with the light of justice. 
"How can anything be enough? I could tear 
her limb from limb. That's what she tried to 
do to me ! " 
Tony lucidly concurred. " Yes what she 
tried to do to you." 
But she had already flashed round. " And yet 
you condone the atrocity ? " 
Tony thought a moment. " Her doom will be 
to live." 
"But how will such a fiend be suffered to 
live when she went to it before my eyes ? " 
Jean stared at the mountain of evidence ; then 
eagerly : " And Mr. Vidal her very lover, 
who'll swear what he knows what he saw ! " 
Tony stubbornly shook his head. " Oh, Mr. 
Vidal ! " 
" To make me," Jean cried, " seem the mon 
ster " 
He looked at her so strangely that she stopped. 
" She made it for the moment possible " 
She caught him up. "To suspect me ?" 
" I was mad and you weren't there." With a 
muffled moan she sank down again; she covered her 
face with her hands. " I tell you all I tell you 
all," he said. " He knows nothing he saw noth 
ing he'll swear nothing. He's taking her away." 
Jean started as if he had struck her. " She's 
here ? " 
Tony wondered. "You didn't know it?" 
" She came back ? " -the girl panted. 
"You thought she had fled?" 
Jean hung there like a poised hawk. " Where 
is she ? " 
Tony gave her, with a grave gesture, a long, 
absolute look before which, gradually, her pas 
sion fell. "She has gone. Let her go." 
 
She was silent a little. " But others : how 
will they ?" 
" There are no others." After a moment he 
added : " She would have died for me." 
The girl's pale wrath gave a flare. "So you 
want to die for her?" 
" I sha'n't die. But I shall remember." Then, 
as she watched him : " I must tell you all," he 
said once more. "I knew it I always knew it. 
And I made her come." 
" You were kind to her as you're always 
kind." 
" No ; I was more than that. And I should 
have been less." His face showed a rift in the 
blackness. " I remember." 
She followed him in pain and at a distance. 
" You mean you liked it ? " 
"I liked it while I was safe. Then I grew 
afraid." 
"Afraid of what?" 
"Afraid of everything. You don't know 
but we're abysses. At least I'm one ! " he 
groaned. He seemed to sound this depth. 
"There are other things. They go back so 
far." 
" Don't tell me all," said Jean. She had evi- 
dently enough to turn over. " What will become 
of her?" she asked. 
" God knows. She goes forth." 
"And Mr. Vidal with her?" 
"Mr. Vidal with her." 
Jean gazed at the tragic picture. " Because 
he still loves her?" 
"Yes," said Tony Bream. 
"Then what will he do?" 
" Put the globe between them. Think of her 
torture," Tony added. 
Jean looked as if she tried. "Do you mean 
that ? " 
He meant another matter. " To have only 
made us free." 
Jean protested with all her woe. "It's her 
triumph that our freedom is horrible ! " 
Tony hesitated; then his eyes distinguished in 
the outer dusk Paul Bream, who had appeared at 
the long window which, in the mild air, stood open 
to the terrace. " It's horrible," he gravely replied. 
Jean had not seen Paul ; she only heard Tony's 
answer. It touched again the source of tears; 
she broke again into choking sobs. So, blindly, 
slowly, while the two men watched her, she 
passed from the room by the door at which she 
had entered. 
XXXIII 
" YOU'RE looking for me ? " Tony quickly- 
asked. 
Paul, blinking in the lamplight, showed the 
dismal desert of his face. " I saw you through 
the open window, and I thought I would let 
you know " 
"That someone wants me?" Tony was all 
ready. 
" She hasn't asked for you ; but I think that 
if you could do it " 
"I can do anything," said Tony. "But of 
whom do you speak ? " 
" Of one of your servants poor Mrs. Gorham." 
" Effie's nurse ? she has come over ? " 
"She's in the garden," Paul explained. "I've 
been floundering about I came upon her." 
Tony wondered. "But what is she doing?" 
"Crying very hard without a sound." 
" And without coming in ? " 
"Out of discretion." 
Tony thought a moment. " You mean because 
Jean and the Doctor ?" 
"Have taken complete charge. She bows to 
that, but she sits there on a bench " 
" Weeping and wailing ? " Tony asked. " Dear 
thing, I'll speak to her." 
He was about to leave the room in the sum 
mary manner permitted by the long window 
when Paul checked him with a quiet reminder. 
"Hadn't you better have your hat?" 
Tony looked about him he had not brought 
it in. "Why? if it's a warm night?" 
Paul approached him, laying on him as if to 
stay him a heavy but friendly hand. "You never 
go out without it. Don't be too unusual." 
" I see what you mean I'll get it." And he 
made for the door to the hall. 
But Paul had not done with him. " It's much 
better you should see her it's unnatural you 
shouldn't. But do you mind my just thinking 
for you the least bit asking you for instance 
what it's your idea to say to her?" 
Tony had the air of accepting this solicitude ; 
but he met the inquiry with characteristic can 
dour. "I think I've no idea but to talk with 
her of Effie." 
Paul visibly wondered. "As dangerously ill? 
That's all she knows." 
Tony considered an instant. "Yes, then as 
dangerously ill. Whatever she's prepared for." 
" But what are you prepared for ? You're not 
afraid - ?" Paul hesitated. 
"Afraid of what?" 
" Of suspicions importunities ; her making 
some noise." 
Tony signified a negative. "I don't think," 
he said very gravely, "that I'm afraid of poor 
Gorham." 
Paul looked as if he felt that his warning 
half failed. "Everyone else is. She's tremen 
dously devoted." 
" Yes that's what I mean." 
Paul sounded him a moment. " You mean to 
The irony was so indulgent and all irony, 
on this young man's part, was so rare that 
Tony was to be excused for not perceiving it. 
" She'll do anything. We're the best of friends." 
" Then get your hat," said Paul. 
"It's much the best thing. Thank you for 
telling me." Even in a tragic hour there was 
so much in Tony of the ingenuous that, with 
his habit of good-nature and his hand on the 
door, he lingered for the comfort of his friend. 
" She'll be a resource a fund of memory. We 
can always talk." 
" Oh, you're safe ! " Paul went on. 
It had now all come to Tony. " I see my way 
with her." 
" So do I ! " said Paul. 
Tony fairly brightened through his gloom. 
" I'll keep her on ! " And he went by the 
front. 
Left alone, Paul closed the door on him, hold 
ing it a minute and lost evidently in reflections of 
which he was the subject. He exhaled a long 
sigh that was burdened with many things ; then, 
as he moved away, his eyes attached themselves, 
as if in sympathy with a vague impulse, to the 
door of the library. He stood a moment irreso 
lute ; after which, deeply restless, he went to take 
up the hat that, on coming in, he had laid on one 
of the tables. He was in the act of doing this 
when the door of the library opened and Rose 
Armiger stood before him. She had, since their 
last meeting, changed her dress, and, arrayed for a 
journey, wore a bonnet and a long, dark mantle. 
For some time after she appeared no word came 
 
from either ; but at last she said : " Can you endure 
for a minute the sight of me?" 
" I was hesitating I thought of going to you," 
Paul replied. " I knew you were there." 
At this she came into the room. " I knew you 
were here. You passed the window." 
" I've passed and repassed this hour." 
" I've known that too, but this time I heard you 
stop. I've no light there," she went on, "but the 
window, on this side, is open. I could tell that 
you had come in." 
Paul hesitated. " You ran a danger of not 
rinding me alone." 
"I took my chance of course I knew. I've 
been in dread, but, in spite of it, I've seen nobody. 
I've been up to my room and come down; the 
coast was clear." 
"You've not then seen Mr. Vidal?" 
"Oh yes him. But he's nobody." Then, as 
if conscious of the strange sound of this : " No 
body, I mean, to fear." 
Paul was silent a moment. "What in the 
world is it you fear ? " 
" In the sense of the awful things you know ? 
Here on the spot nothing. About those things 
I'm quite quiet. There may be plenty to come ; 
but what I'm afraid of now is my safety. There's 
something in that !" She broke down ; there 
was more in it than she could say. 
" Are you so sure of your safety ? " 
" You see how sure. It's in your face," said 
Rose. " And your face for what it says is 
terrible." 
Whatever it said remained there as Paul looked 
at her. " Is it as terrible as yours ? " he asked. 
"Oh, mine mine must be hideous; unutter 
ably hideous for ever ! Yours is beautiful. Every 
thing, everyone here is beautiful." 
" I don't understand you," said Paul. 
"How should you? It isn't to ask you to do 
that that I've come to you." 
He waited in his woful wonder. "For what 
have you come ? " 
" You can endure it, then, the sight of me ? " 
" Haven't I told you that I thought of going to 
you?" 
" Yes but you didn't go," said Rose. " You 
came and went like a sentinel, and if it was to 
watch me " 
Paul interrupted her. "It wasn't to watch 
you." 
"Then what was it for?" 
 
"It was to keep myself quiet," said Paul. 
"But you're anything but quiet." 
" Yes," he dismally conceded ; " I'm anything 
but quiet." 
" There's something, then, that may help you : 
it's one of two things for which I've come to you. 
And there's no one but you to care. You may 
care a very little: it may give you a grain of 
comfort. Let your comfort be that I've failed." 
Paul, after a long look at her, turned away 
with a vague, dumb gesture, and it was a part 
of his sore trouble that, in his wasted strength, 
he had no outlet for emotion, no channel even 
for pain. She took in for a moment his clumsy, 
massive misery. " No you loathe my pres 
ence," she said. 
He stood awhile in silence with his back to 
her, as if, within him, some violence were strug 
gling up ; then with an effort, almost with a gasp, 
he turned round, his open watch in his hand. 
" I saw Mr. Vidal " was all he brought out. 
"And he told you too he would come back 
for me?" 
" He said there was something he had to do, 
but that you would meanwhile get ready. He 
would return immediately with a carriage." 
"That's why I've waited," Rose replied. "I'm 
ready enough. But he won't come." 
" He'll come," said Paul. " But it's more than 
time." 
She drearily shook her head. " Not after get 
ting off not back to the horror and the shame. 
He thought so ; no doubt he has tried. But it's 
beyond him." 
"Then what are you waiting for?" 
She hesitated. " Nothing now. Thank you." 
She looked about her. " How shall I go ? " 
Paul went to the window; for a moment he 
listened. " I thought I heard wheels." 
She gave ear; but once more she shook her 
head. " There are no wheels, but I can go that 
way." 
He turned back again, heavy and uncertain ; 
he stood wavering and wondering in her path. 
" What will become of you ? " he asked. 
"How do I know and what do I care?" 
" What will become of you ? what will become 
of you?" he went on as if he had not heard 
her. 
"You pity me too much," she answered after 
an instant. " I've failed, but I did what I could. 
It was all that I saw it was all that was left 
 
me. It took hold of me, it possessed me : it was 
the last gleam of a chance." 
Paul flushed like a sick man under a new 
wave of despair. " A chance for what ? " 
"To make him hate her. You'll say my cal 
culation was grotesque my stupidity as ignoble 
as my crime. All I can answer is that I might, 
none the less, have succeeded. People have 
in worse conditions. But I don't defend myself 
I'm face to face with my mistake. I'm face 
to face with it for ever and that's how I wish 
you to see me. Look at me well ! " 
" I would have done anything for you ! " He 
broke out as if all talk with her were vain. 
She considered this ; her dreadful face was 
lighted by the response it kindled. "Would 
you do anything now?" Paul answered noth 
ing ; he seemed lost in the vision of what was 
carrying her through. " I saw it as I saw it," 
she continued : " there it was and there it is. 
There it is there it is," she repeated in a tone 
sharp, for a flash, with all the excitement she 
contrived to keep under. "It has nothing to do 
now with any part of me any other possibility 
even of what may be worst in me. It's a storm 
that's past, it's a debt that's paid. I may liter- 
ally be better." At the expression this brought 
into his face she interrupted herself. " You 
don't understand a word I say ! " 
He was following her as she showed she 
could see only in the light of his own emo 
tion ; not in that of any feeling that she herself 
could present. " Why didn't you speak to me 
why didn't you tell me what you were think 
ing? There was nothing you couldn't have told 
me, nothing that wouldn't have brought me 
nearer. If I had known your abasement " 
" What would you have done ? " Rose de 
manded. 
" I would have saved you." 
" What would you have done ? " she pressed. 
" Everything." 
She was silent while he went to the window. 
" Yes, I've lost you I've lost you," she said at 
last. " And you were the thing I might have had. 
He told me that, and I knew it." 
" ' He ' told you ? " Paul had faced round. 
" He tried to put me off on you. That was 
what finished me. Of course they'll marry," she 
abruptly continued. 
"Oh, yes, they'll marry." 
" But not soon, do you suppose ? " 
 
"Not soon. But sooner than they think." 
Rose looked surprised. " Do you already know 
what they think?" 
" Yes that it will never be." 
" Never ? " 
" Coming about so horribly. But some day 
it will be." 
" It will be," said Rose. " And I shall have 
done it for him. That's more," she said, " than 
even you would have done for we." 
Strange tears had found their way between 
Paul's close lids. " You're too horrible," he 
breathed ; " you're too horrible." 
" Oh, I talk only to you : it's all for you. Re 
member, please, that I shall never speak again. 
You see," she went on, " that he daren't come." 
Paul looked afresh at his watch. " I'll go with 
you." 
Rose hesitated. "How far?" 
" I'll go with you," he simply repeated. 
She looked at him hard ; in her eyes too there 
were tears. " My safety my safety ! " she mur 
mured. 
Paul went round for his hat, which, on his 
entrance, he had put down. " I'll go with you," 
he said once more. 
Still, however, she hesitated. " Won't he need 
you?" 
"Tony? for what?" 
" For help." 
It took Paul a moment to understand. "He 
wants none." 
" You mean he has nothing to fear ? " 
" From any suspicion ? Nothing." 
"That's his advantage," said Rose. "People 
like him too much." 
"People like him too much," Paul replied. 
Then he exclaimed: "Mr. Vidal!" to which, 
as she looked, Rose responded with a low, deep 
moan. 
Dennis had appeared at the window ; he gave 
signal in a short, sharp gesture and remained 
standing in the dusk of the terrace. Paul put 
down his hat ; he turned away to leave his com 
panion free. She approached him while Dennis 
waited ; she lingered desperately, she wavered, as 
if with a last word to speak. As he only stood 
rigid, however, she faltered, choking her impulse 
and giving her word the form of a look. The look 
held her a moment, held her so long that Dennis 
spoke sternly from the darkness : " Come I " At 
this, for as long a space, she fixed her eyes on him ; 
then, while the two men stood motionless, she 
decided and reached the window. He put out a 
hand and seized her, and they passed quickly into 
the night. Paul, left alone, again sounded a long 
sigh ; this time it was the deep breath of a man 
who has seen a great danger averted. It had 
scarcely died away before Tony Bream returned. 
He came in from the hall as eagerly as he had 
gone out, and, finding Paul, gave him his news : 
"Well I took her home." 
Paul required a minute to carry his thoughts 
back to Gorham. " Oh, she went quietly ? " 
" Like a bleating lamb. She's too glad to stay 
on." 
Paul turned this over ; but as if his confidence 
now had solid ground he asked no question. 
" Ah, you're all right ! " he simply said. 
Tony arrived at the door through which Jean 
