A quantity of ice was obtained at the town; and Pitts carefully packed
the rest of the fish, which were still hard and in nice condition. The
captain desired to present a couple of them to Rajah Brooke, and some of
the others to officers who had been very kind to them, and had assisted
them in many ways. In the early morning they bade a grateful adieu to
the agent, and departed on the trip to Kuching.
The tide was going out, and they made a quick passage to the sea. On
their arrival there they found a stiff south-west wind blowing, and the
bay covered with white-caps. They had not tried the Blanchita in
anything like a heavy sea, though the rajah had declared that she was a
very able and weatherly sea-boat. Captain Scott was very glad of the
opportunity to test her behavior in rough weather. He went to the helm
himself as the boat came out of the Sadong. The very first wave that
broke on her bow scattered the spray from stem to stern.
[Illustration: THE BOAT ROSE GRACEFULLY ON THE BILLOWS.
Page 132.]
Scott ordered the men to batten down the curtains on the weather side.
But the boat rose gracefully on the billows, and did not scoop up any
water in doing so. Boxes, barrels, and other movable articles were
secured, and the captain was delighted with the working of the boat.
"I don't want any better sea-boat than the Blanchita," said he with
great enthusiasm. "I doubt if we get it any rougher than this on the
voyage to Cambodia Point."
"Unless we run into a typhoon," said Morris, who was observing the
conduct of the boat with quite as much interest as his superior officer.
"We won't run into a typhoon," replied the captain.
"How can you help yourself? As sailors we must take things as they
come."
"If navigators have a thousand miles or more of ocean ahead of them,
they must face the music. But among these islands, if the weather looks
typhoony, we can get under a lee, or make a harbor in some bay. But
don't try to cross the bridge till we get to it, Morris."
"Sail, ho!" shouted Clingman.
It was a steamer about as far off as she could be made out. The two
craft were approaching each other, and the steamer from the west went
into the Sarawak ahead of the Blanchita. She was a small vessel,
apparently of not more than three hundred tons. It soon became evident
that she was not a fast sailer, for the Blanchita held her own with her
all the way up the river to Kuching.
CHAPTER XV
ON THE VOYAGE TO POINT CAMBODIA
The Blanchita moored as usual in front of the town, while the steamer
anchored in the river. She proved to be the Delhi, from Calcutta; and it
was ascertained when the party went on shore later, that she was to sail
for Saigon the next day. The first care of the cabin party was to send
the fish to Rajah Brooke and two officers whose acquaintance they had
made.
Pitts overhauled the ice-chest, and found them in excellent condition;
and Achang was appointed to be the bearer of them, with the compliments
of the Americans, to the gentlemen who were to receive them. Two native
porters were to carry them; and the party knew that the fish were a
rarity in the town, and they were in season for the dinner of that day.
The four went on shore together just as a party from the Delhi landed
with a boat. The captain of the steamer hailed them in the street in
front of the government house, and asked if they belonged to the
steam-launch which had just come up the river. He was curious to know
something more about the explorers, and Captain Scott told him what they
had been doing in the island. He was invited on board of the Blanchita,
and was much interested in the young men.
They showed him over the boat; and he was greatly pleased with the
craft, and with the excellent accommodations for sleeping, eating, and
making the voyagers generally comfortable. They came to the ice-chest,
in which two of the choice fish still remained; and Scott presented one
of them to their guest.
"We intend to sail for Point Cambodia to-morrow to rejoin our ship,"
said the captain of the Blanchita, after the fish had been sent on
board.
"In this little tub of yours?" asked the commander of the Delhi with a
smile of incredulity.
"Is this part of the China Sea subject to violent seas?"
"Not at just this season of the year. With the south-west monsoons smart
squalls come up sometimes, but they are not very bad. I don't think you
will find it any rougher than we had it outside the river to-day on your
passage to the Point," replied Captain Rayburn, who stated then that he
had seen the Guardian-Mother when she was at Calcutta.
"You are bound to Saigon, I think you said."
"To Saigon, but a portion of my cargo goes to Kampot. If I found a
sailing-vessel here that was going up the Gulf of Siam, I was ordered to
reship my freight for Kampot in her; if not, I was to take it there in
the Delhi. I find no such vessel here."
"Then you will make your course direct for Point Cambodia, Captain
Rayburn?" said Scott.
"Precisely so; and if you can keep up with my steamer, we need not part
company on the voyage."
"I think we can keep up with you," replied the captain of the Blanchita
with a smile.
The party went on shore again, and arrangements were made for taking in
a supply of coal early the next morning. Everything on board of the
yacht had been stowed very carefully on the passage from Simujan, in
order to make all the room possible for coal; but the boat could carry a
supply for four days, and Scott was not at all afraid that he should
come short of this needed article. Pitts purchased all the provisions
and stores needed for the voyage.
After dinner the four paid their respects to the rajah, and visited the
two officers whose acquaintance they had made. They were heartily
thanked for the welcome gift of the fish, which the officers declared
were a great luxury; and Governor Brooke said that he should make a trip
to the lake where they were caught, in the government steam-yacht. These
gentlemen thought the young men were rather venturesome to undertake the
voyage before them in so small a craft; but the best wishes of all of
them went with the party.
At daylight in the morning the coaling was begun; the provisions and
stores were all looked over, and all deficiencies were supplied. By nine
o'clock everything was in readiness for sailing. Captain Rayburn sent
word that the Delhi would sail at ten o'clock, and afterwards went on
board of the Blanchita.
"You seem to be well supplied with coal," said he, as he looked about
him.
"I think we have a five-days' supply on board," replied Scott. "As I
figure it up, we shall make the run to the Point inside of three days."
"The Delhi's time is sixty-three hours," added her commander. "If your
coal should come short, I can help you out; but I think you won't need
it."
"Thank you, Captain Rayburn; that kind offer removes the only doubt I
have in regard to the voyage," replied Captain Scott.
"The Delhi, as you have seen for yourself, is not a fast steamer; but
the only fear I have is that you will not be able to keep up with her,"
added Captain Rayburn. "I am obliged to sail in the interest of my
owners, and I must make the best time I can. The south-west monsoons
prevail at this season; and by carrying sail I may add half a knot, or
perhaps a knot, to her speed. I should be sorry to run away from you,
but I must do my duty."
"Certainly; that is understood. If you run away from me, I shall still
wish you bon voyage. But suppose I should run away from you?"
suggested Scott, laughing.
"You will be quite welcome to do so. The Delhi is an old steamer, and
not up to modern-built ones; but with a breeze I have made nine knots in
her."
"I shall try to keep up with you, for I should be very sorry to have to
part company with so pleasant a captain as you are."
"Thank you, Captain Scott; and if we part company on the voyage, I hope
we shall meet again. I am liable to be detained some time in Saigon; for
mine is a tramp steamer, and I have to look up a cargo for some port,"
said Captain Rayburn, as he shook hands with the four, and went into his
boat alongside.
The first thing Scott did was to look up the mast and sail of the
Blanchita. It had not been covered up with coal, as he had feared; for
Clingman had suspended it inboard under the rail. The sail had been
stowed away in the bow of the boat, and it was brought out and
overhauled. It was nearly new, and needed no repairs. It was a
lug-foresail, with a gaff, but no boom. It was stepped just abaft the
galley, and the sail could be set in two or three minutes when it was
required.
The statement of the captain of the Delhi that he could gain a knot or
less in a good breeze had stimulated Scott to be ready for such an
emergency. The wind would be on the port quarter during the whole
voyage, and the sail would certainly add something to the speed of the
yacht. In the crowd that collected at the government storehouse were the
rajah and most of the officers of the place. The handshaking was all
done over again, and pleasant wishes were extended to the "Big Four" as
the Blanchita cast off her fasts.
The Delhi was already under way, and going at full speed down the river.
Clingman was at the wheel, and Scott went aft to the engine-room, as it
was called, though there was no such room, and the word applied simply
to the locality; and the same was true of the galley. The boat had been
delayed a little while the party were making and receiving the parting
salutations of their friends, and the Delhi had a lead of nearly half a
mile.
"Give her a spurt, Felipe," said the captain. "I want to know if that
craft has the ability to run away from us."
The engineer threw more coal into the furnace; and in a few minutes he
"let her out," as the captain called it. It was very soon perceived that
the yacht was gaining on the old steamer, and Scott became
correspondingly happy. She was farther down in the water than usual on
account of the extra quantity of coal in her bunkers, and all along her
sides, to trim her properly.
"I don't believe the Delhi will run away from us, Louis," said the
captain as the millionaire joined him, curious to know what he was
doing. "She isn't loaded for her best sailing, but she is doing
first-rate for her present trim."
"This is smooth water, Captain; what will she do when we get out to
sea?" asked Louis.
"We had a chance to try her yesterday in more than half a gale, and she
behaved like a lady on a dancing-floor."
"But she was not loaded down with coal then as she is now."
"The extra weight will not disturb her; on the contrary, I think it will
make her steadier."
"I talked with the rajah on board, who has used her for over a year, and
has made a trip to Rangoon in her. He said she was usually run at eight
knots an hour; but on his return voyage, when he was in a hurry, she
made nine knots for twelve hours together," Louis explained.
"That is all I want of her; but I shall not drive her up to that unless
the Delhi is likely to run away from us; and not then till after I have
added the sail to our power of locomotion. We are coming up with her
now, and probably Captain Rayburn's fears that his steamer may run away
from us are beginning to abate," said the captain, rubbing his hands in
his delight at the performance of the Blanchita.
Rather for the occupation it gave him, Scott took the wheel himself,
directing Clingman to call the men, and remove the stanchions and
connecting-rods on the starboard side of the boat from the galley to the
length of the mast aft, so that the sail might not be obstructed when it
was set.
Then, while the Blanchita was still making her nine knots, he ran her
alongside the Delhi on the port side, keeping at a safe distance from
her. Then he called to Felipe to reduce the speed to eight knots. He had
gained nearly half a mile in going half-way down the river to the sea;
and this fully satisfied him.
"Bully for you, Captain!" shouted Captain Rayburn from the quarter-deck
of his steamer.
"I won't run away from you!" returned Scott, as the noise of escaping
steam when the engineer reduced the speed must have reached his ears.
"Wait till we get out to sea!" called the captain of the Delhi.
"All right."
The two craft kept abreast of each other till they had passed the
mountain at the mouth of the river. The captain laid the course
north-west half-west; and this was to be the course for half the
distance to Point Cambodia, as he remarked to Louis, who was at his side
observing the progress of the yacht.
"How do you spell that word, Captain Scott?" asked Louis.
"Just as I spelled it when I went to school, and it is so put down on my
chart; but I noticed in Black's "Atlas" that it was spelled Camboja
instead of Cambodia," replied Scott. "I am a sailor, and I stick to the
chart."
"I see that Captain Rayburn has laid his course; how does it agree with
yours, Captain?" inquired Louis, when they were a mile off the mountain.
"I should say that it was identically the same. I will hail him."
"North-west half-west," was the answer returned by the captain of the
Delhi.
"I make it the same," replied Scott.
The cabin party were summoned to dinner at this time, and Clingman was
called to the wheel.
"What's the bill of fare to-day?" asked Scott as he took his seat at the
table.
"Baked fish and roast venison," replied Pitts, "with plum-duff."
"Very good," returned the captain. "We don't get so much breeze off here
as we did yesterday, Louis."
"It does not look at all rough off at sea," added the captain. "But when
we get Cape Datu on the beam, we may feel it more."
The Delhi had not yet set her foresail, for she was schooner-rigged, and
there was not wind enough to help her much; all the rest of the day the
two craft kept abreast of each other, as they had in coming down the
river. After supper the watches were arranged for the night. The
captain, with Clingman and Lane, had the first, or starboard watch,
while Morris, the mate, had the port watch, with Wales and Clinch.
Louis and Felix were appointed second engineers, as the seamen on board
relieved them from duty as deck-hands; and the three in that department
were to keep four-hour watches, like the officers and seamen. Achang
wanted something to do; and he was given the berth of second mate, and
as such he served in charge of the captain's watch.
CHAPTER XVI
AN EXCITING RACE IN THE CHINA SEA
Everything worked as smoothly on board of the Blanchita as though she
had been in commission for years, for there was not a green hand in the
cabin or forecastle. The experience obtained by the "Four" in the Maud
had made them proficients in the duties of their present positions.
Louis and Felix were not trained engineers or machinists; though they
were familiar with the machine, which was of very simple construction.
Both of them were competent to run the engine, and had served their
watches in the Maud. If there was any trouble, the chief engineer was
close at hand.
From eight to twelve it was the captain's watch. Achang, who had been
the master of a vessel, had been regularly installed as second mate, and
was in charge of this watch; though Scott remained on deck all the time,
for he was anxious to observe the movements of the Delhi. Clingman and
Lane had their two-hour tricks at the wheel, and there was no hard work
for anybody.
The breeze was good, though not heavy from the south-west; but the Delhi
had not yet set a sail. The Blanchita passed Cape Datu at ten in the
evening, and the second mate made a note of it on the log-slate. Both
craft were still making their eight knots, and remained abreast of each
other. The wind increased slightly in force, but the conditions were
about the same all night. At twelve the watch was changed, and Morris
came on duty, with Louis in the engine-room. The captain turned in at
this time.
At three in the morning the yacht was off the island of Sirhassen, of
which a note was made on the log-slate. Morris had studied the chart
enough to enable him to recognize the island, distant as it was, at six
bells, or three o'clock in the morning. Of course he could not identify
it by its looks, never having seen it before; but the captain had given
him the distances between the islands on the course. Sirhassen was forty
sea miles from Cape Datu, or five hours as the yacht was running; and
when land was reported on the beam, bearing about west, he knew what it
was. The chart gave the island as one of considerable size compared with
the multitude of small ones in that locality; and this indication
afforded him a further clew to the identification.
At eight bells, or four o'clock, the morning watch came on duty, with
Achang as its officer. Captain Scott did not turn out when the second
mate was called, with Felix to take his place at the engine, and it was
six o'clock when he made his appearance. Except when there is only one
mate, as in small vessels, the captain keeps no watch; but he is liable
to be called at any hour of the night in case of a squall or other
peril. His responsibility may induce him to spend the entire night on
deck.
When he came out of the cabin, his first care was to observe the signs
which indicate the coming weather. Then he went to the wheel, and read
the entries made on the log-slate. The sea was about the same as it had
been when he left the deck. He had looked at the barometer before he
left the cabin. There were no signs of bad weather in any direction.
"What do you think of the weather, Mr. Achang?" he asked of the officer
of the deck.
"It will be fine, Captain," replied the second mate. "I have come all
the way from Banjermassin to Calcutta with the weather just like this
always; but I think we have more wind when the sun come up."
"We can stand more than we have now," added Scott.
"Some of the young gentlemen fear to go to sea in open boat like this
yacht; but the dhows and the proas have not much decks," said the
Bornean.
"Then you think we shall have weather like this all the way to Point
Cambodia?"
"May blow a little more hard some time."
The sun was coming up in the east, and in the course of half an hour
Achang's prophecy of more wind was realized. It freshened rapidly for a
short time; but it did not come in flaws or squalls, and was a steady
breeze. A table had been set up in the fore cabin; and at half-past
seven, or seven bells, which is the usual hour for breakfast at sea,
the meal was served to the watch below.
"Land on the port bow, sir!" reported Clingman, who was the lookout man,
just before eight bells.
"That is Subi," said Achang, looking at the paper Morris had given him
when the watch was changed.
"That's right, Mr. Achang," added the captain. "I see the Delhi is
setting her foresail, and that means wind enough to add something to her
eight knots an hour."
Lane at the wheel struck eight bells a few minutes later; and the
officer and engineer of the port watch came promptly on deck from the
cabin, as did the seamen from the fore cabin. Breakfast had been served
at both ends of the yacht to the watch below, so that they were in
readiness to come on duty at the striking of the bell. Breakfast was
ready for those who came off watch as soon as they were relieved.
Pitts had his hands more than full in supplying the two tables, but he
was assisted by the idlers about the boat. The seamen were served as on
board of the Guardian-Mother, where they had a table and a regular meal.
On ordinary sea-going vessels the men get their "grub" at the galley in
tins, or kids, and eat it seated on the deck, or where they choose.
Captain Scott had graciously ordained, as there was nothing to be done
outside of the working of the yacht, that "watch and watch" should be
the rule on board; which means that the hands shall have all their time
to themselves when not on watch, though they were to respond when all
hands were called.
"The Delhi means to run away from us, I suppose, for she has put on all
sail," said Louis as he came on deck when he had finished his breakfast.
"But I don't believe she will do it," replied the captain. "We have a
sail; but I am waiting to see what she can do under her present
conditions, and I have told Felipe to hurry her up a little, just enough
to keep up with our consort."
"She is gaining on us a little," added Louis.
"I see she is; but the engineer has thrown another shovelful of coal
into the furnace, and I wish to see the effect it will produce. He has
opened his valve a little, but he has not steam enough yet."
But it was soon evident to all who understood the matter that the
Blanchita was gaining on her consort. It was plain, too, that Captain
Rayburn had noticed the fact, for his crew were setting the
gaff-topsails on the fore and main masts. Something of the enthusiasm of
a race was aroused on board. Felipe had worked up his machine to the
nine-knot gauge; and in spite of the added sail on the Delhi, the boat
was overhauling her.
"I think that Captain Rayburn must be recalling his talk to us at
Sarawak about running away from us," said Louis. "What is he doing now,
Captain Scott?"
"He appears to be hoisting a yard on his foremast," replied Scott.
"What is that for?"
"If you watch the steamer for a little while longer, you will see him
shake out a fore squaresail, and that will be the sharpest move he has
made yet. Morris, have the mast stepped, and set the sail," continued
the captain.
Clinch was at the wheel; and Clingman was called upon to do the work,
with the assistance of the other two hands. The great squaresail of the
Delhi had been shaken out, and it was drawing for all it was worth. The
effect was simply to prevent the Blanchita from passing her, as she
would have done in a few minutes more. The enthusiasm of a race was
fully developed on board the yacht, among the seamen as well as the
cabin party. Clingman and the others had worked very lively, and in a
few minutes the sail was set. The captain gave the orders for trimming
it; and as soon as the sheet was made fast the yacht heeled over till
her rail was nearly down to the water.
"Our sail is a big one," said Scott, who saw it spread out for the first
time; "and if we desire to run away from the Delhi, I am satisfied that
we could do it."
The boat dashed the spray at her bow, and proved to be very wet in the
fore cabin. The captain ordered the curtains to be hauled down to keep
the water out, and the forward part of the craft was then as dry as it
had been on the river.
Scott was not quite satisfied with the steering under the altered
conditions, and he went to the wheel himself. He was a very skilful
boatman in a sailing-craft, as had been fully proved by his bringing his
yacht, the Seahound, from New York through the Bahama Islands. The
seaman was inclined to follow the compass too closely, while Scott
regarded the effect of the sail.
"We are gaining on the Delhi," said Louis, as he seated himself near the
captain.
"Of course we are; I knew she would do it with the sail in this wind,"
replied Scott. "The Blanchita is a light craft, and skims over the water
like a racer."
"But it is a little too much sail for her," suggested Louis. "She is
taking in a bucket of water over her lee rail once in a while."
"Try the pump, Lane," added the captain. "I don't believe she has
shipped more than a teaspoonful or two."
"We are pretty well down in the water," added Louis.
"Clingman, let off about six inches of the sheet," continued Scott; and
the order was promptly obeyed. "I think you are getting a little
nervous, my dear fellow," he added to Louis.
"Perhaps I am; I should not like to see the yacht heel over and take in
a couple of hogsheads of water, for she is loaded so heavily with coal
that she would go to the bottom."
"But I should not let her ship such a sea as that. The wind is quite
steady, with no heavy flaws, and the boat is under perfect control. I
should like it better to sail the Blanchita with less cargo in her, but
she is doing splendidly."
"But a flaw might come, even if we have had none to-day; what could you
do in that case?" asked Louis.
"Clingman, stand by the sheet!" called the captain.
The seaman was seated on a box not more than three feet from the cleat
at which the sheet was made fast. He took his place within reach of it.
"Now she heels over again!" exclaimed Louis, as the water came quite up
to the rail, though she took none in.
"Cast off the sheet, Clingman!" called the captain; and the order was
obeyed in an instant.
The boat flew up to an even keel almost as though she had been hoisted
up by some giant power.
"That is how I should keep her from shipping a big sea," said Scott, as
he looked at his companion with a smile on his brown face.
"I give it up, Captain Scott. Of course you know what you are about
every time, and I won't say a word again about the boat. But suppose you
were not looking when the flaw came?"
"It is not necessary to be looking; for a skipper steers more by the
feeling of the boat than by sight. Make fast the sheet, Clingman."
The Blanchita went ahead again; and by this time she was abreast of the
Delhi, and gaining upon her. Captain Rayburn was on his quarter-deck.
"Don't run away from me, and I won't run away from you!" he shouted.
But he had hardly spoken before a noise like the distant report of a
cannon was heard on board of the yacht.
"He has split his fore squaresail; and if his game was not up before, it
is now," said Captain Scott. "The sail was old and rotten, and I don't
believe he would have attempted to carry it except on an occasion like
the present."
"He was a little too pronounced when he expressed his fears that the
Blanchita would not be able to keep up with him, and I fancy he is sorry
he said anything about it by this time," added Louis.
The split sail could not be repaired at once; and if it could it was not
strong enough to be of any use in the fresh breeze. The crew took it in
at once, the yard being lowered to enable them to do so. The captain of
the yacht ordered the engineer to reduce his speed to the ordinary rate,
though the sail was not furled. Between the steam and the wind the
Blanchita ran ahead of the Delhi. The sheet was slacked off as far as it
could be without permitting the sail to shake, and the two craft kept
well together the rest of the day, passing Great Natuna Island at four
in the afternoon.
The captain took the sun at noon, and worked up the position of the
boat. The run from the mouth of the Sarawak at that time was two hundred
and four sea miles.
CHAPTER XVII
THE END OF THE VOYAGE TO BANGKOK
The routine of daily duty on board of the Blanchita has been given; and
after the race in the China Sea had proved that she could run away from
the Delhi, there was no further excitement on the voyage. On the
contrary, it was rather monotonous, and there were no incidents worthy
of record. After passing Great Natuna on the afternoon of the second day
from the mouth of the Sarawak, no land was seen again till the island of
Pulo Obi, about twenty miles south-west of Point Cambodia, was seen on
the third day; and the Point on the mainland was passed a little later.
At noon on this day the two vessels were forty-four miles up the Gulf of
Siam. The prophecies of Captain Rayburn and Achang in regard to the
weather proved to be correct. The monsoon blew steadily all the way, and
the yacht carried her sail. Not even a squall disturbed the serenity of
the voyage, and everything went on as during the first and second days.
The "Four" would have been glad to explore the Great Natuna Island, and
determine whether or not it was inhabited; for they could obtain no
information in regard to it from any of the books they had brought from
the ship, and they forgot to inquire about it at Kuching.
At noon on the third day, in the Gulf, the captain of the Delhi hailed
the yacht, and came on board of her.
"I shall have to bear more to the eastward now, Captain Scott, and we
shall soon part company," said the commander of the Delhi. "We had quite
a lively race on our second day out, and you beat me handsomely. I had
no idea that your yacht could sail so fast. I was afraid you could not
keep up with me; but I found that you could run away from me, as you
suggested before we sailed."
"I did not know myself what speed the Blanchita could make, though I was
informed that she had gone nine knots for twelve hours together,"
replied Scott.
"I am very glad that I met you, and I hope I shall see you again. You
have a very agreeable party, and I should think you might enjoy
yourselves."
"I think we are likely to meet again at Saigon. The Guardian-Mother will
be there, and I hope you will come on board of her," replied Captain
Scott, as they shook hands at parting, and the visitor returned to the
Delhi.
The Blanchita started her screw again; and the captain gave out
north-west as the course for the mouth of the Menan River, on which
Bangkok is situated.
"Where do you expect to find the Guardian-Mother, Captain Scott?" asked
Louis.
"At Bangkok," replied the captain, as he took his memorandum-book from
his pocket. "Captain Ringgold gave me his time for leaving there, and
also of sailing from Saigon."
"When was he to leave the capital of Siam?"
"On the first tide Monday morning. This is Saturday, a little after
noon," replied Scott. "We have three hundred and twenty-five miles to
make. The monsoon is about as fresh here as it has been all the voyage;
and we have used up about half of our coal, so that we are considerably
lighter than when we left Kuching, and with the sail we can easily log
nine knots an hour. We shall go into the Menan River before sundown
to-morrow, and it will take two or three hours to go up to the city. We
shall be alongside the ship some time in the evening; and that is just
the time I should like to be there."
"We shall give our friends a tremendous surprise," added Louis.
"That is so; for while your anxious mamma is worrying for fear you have
been chewed up by an orang-outang, and Flix's grandma is dreaming that
he has been swallowed whole by a big boa-constrictor, we shall drop in
on them while they are singing gospel hymns in the music-room."
"I shall be sorry to disappoint grandma; but if she insists upon
dreaming such nonsense, it is not my fault," added Felix. "She ought to
know by this time that snakes don't swallow me till they get a bullet
through their heads."
"I don't think my mother has been greatly worried about me, for she has
learned that I am able to take care of myself," said Louis.
"But the mothers will hug their boys as soon as they get hold of them."
"I wish the hugging might be confined to the mothers, for it is
perfectly proper for them to do that thing; but when it comes to a
grandma who hasn't a drop of Irish blood in her veins, I beg to be
excused, and, what is more, I won't stand it," protested Felix, making a
very comical face.
"But you can't help yourself, Flix," laughed the captain.
"You see if I don't!" replied the Milesian, shaking his head as though
his plan to avoid the endearing reception had already been formed.
"We shall see what we shall see," added the captain. "It seems to me
that the breeze is stronger here than it was out at sea."
"There is a hot country to the east of us, and perhaps the wind is
hurrying up to fill a partial vacuum there," suggested Louis.
"You are a philosopher, my darling Louis, and that must be the reason,"
added Felix.
The Blanchita seemed to be flying through the water, for her speed had
sensibly increased since she came into the Gulf. There were several
large islands along the coast of Cambodia; but the course was fifty
miles outside of the mainland, which could not be seen.
"Why do you keep so far from the shore, Captain Scott?" asked Louis; for
all the party would have been glad to observe the shore.
"Because we all wish to get to Bangkok to-morrow evening. What is the
shortest way between two points, Louis?"
"A straight line, of course."
"That's the reason we keep her so far from the land. A north-west course
from a point outside of Obi Island to Cape Liant takes the yacht on the
course we are running now."
"That explains it all," replied Louis.
The watches were regularly kept, and the captain was satisfied that the
Blanchita was making over nine knots an hour. There was no excitement of
any kind on board, and the rest of the day was without anything worthy
of note. The Delhi had gone in behind an island, and in a few hours she
was no longer to be seen. And so it was all day Sunday. Cape Liant was
passed about one o'clock. A river pilot was taken about five o'clock. He
could not speak English, but Achang spoke to him in Malay.
"Ask him if the Guardian-Mother is in the river, Achang," said the
captain.
The pilot could not make out the name, and the interpreter described the
ship so that he understood him at last. The face of the Siamese lighted
up when he got the idea, and it was seen by the four that the ship was
there. Achang informed them that the Guardian-Mother was anchored in the
river.
The river was full of boats, and on many of them houses were built. The
people were new to the Americans, though they were not very different to
the ordinary observer from the Burmese and other natives they had seen.
Before the yacht was half-way up to the city, it was too dark to see
anything distinctly, and the party were more interested in the expected
surprise of their friends on board the ship than anything else.
When the yacht was within a short distance of the ship, the pilot
pointed her out. The singing in the music-room could be distinctly
heard, and everything was working precisely as Scott had said it would.
At the gangway the barge of the Blanche was made fast; and it was
evident that General Noury and his wife were on board, and perhaps
Captain Sharp and his lady. The boat was worked very carefully and
noiselessly up to the platform of the gangway, where several sailors
were seated.
"The Blanchita!" exclaimed Quartermaster Bangs, as he recognized the
craft. "Captain Scott! I will inform the captain that you are
alongside."
"Don't do anything of the kind, Bangs!" replied Scott. "Don't say a
word, and don't make any noise, any of you. We want to drop in on the
party without any notice."
The quartermaster was a very intelligent fellow, and he took in the
situation at a glance. The "Big Four" stepped lightly on the platform,
and Felix had taken pains to be the last one to mount the gangway. Scott
led the way, and halted at the door of the music-room. He waited there
till the hymn they were singing was finished, and then threw open the
door, and marched in. He took off his cap, and bowed as gracefully as a
dancing-master to the assembly.
Louis and Morris followed him, and imitated the example he had given
them; but Felix had disappeared, and they did not know what had become
of him. The musical party seemed to be so utterly confounded at the
sudden and unexpected appearance of the hunters from Borneo that they
seemed to be struck dumb with amazement.
"Louis, my son!" Mrs. Belgrave screamed as she rushed upon her boy, and
folded him in her arms, kissing him as though he had come back to her
from a tomb or a grave beneath the ocean.
"Morris!" cried Mrs. Woolridge, as she imitated the example of Mrs.
Belgrave.
"My brother!" exclaimed Miss Blanche, as she divided the neck and arms
of the returned hunter with her mother.
"This is somewhat unexpected, Captain Scott," said Captain Ringgold, as
he came forward, and took the hand of the captain of the Blanchita, who
alone of the trio was not in the arms of a mother.
"I should say that it might be, Captain," replied Scott as coolly as
though the meeting was nothing unusual.
"But how under the sun did you get here, Scott?" demanded the commander,
scrutinizing the expression of the third officer,--which was his rank on
board of the ship,--to ascertain if there were any signs of a calamity
there.
"We came by water, Captain," answered the young officer, with a cheerful
smile, which indicated anything but a disaster.
"Of course you did, inasmuch as there is no other way to get here. In
what steamer did you come? for I believe there is no regular line from
Sarawak to Bangkok," added Captain Ringgold.
"We came by the steamer Blanchita."
"I don't understand it at all," said the commander with a perplexed look
on his face. "Do you mean that you made the voyage in the steam-yacht,
Mr. Scott?" and there was a decided expression of incredulity on his
face.
"That is exactly what I mean to assert; and if you have any doubts about
the truth of what I say, I appeal to Louis and Morris to substantiate my
assertion."
"If you really say so, I do not doubt the truth of what you declare. It
looks like a foolhardy risk, but boys will be boys. I will not detain
you now; for others wish to welcome you back, and I know they are all
glad to see you, unexpected as your return is."
[Illustration: "BUT WHERE IS FELIX?" DEMANDED MRS. BLOSSOM.
Page 161.]
As soon as his mother released him from the bondage of her loving arms,
Louis hastened to Miss Blanche, and she grasped his hand as he
approached. No loving expressions passed between them, but what they
might have said that could be classed under this head was seen on their
telltale faces.
"But where is Felix?" demanded Mrs. Blossom, who had been looking for
him since Scott came into the room. "Where is he, Mr. Scott?"
"I am sorry to say that he was swallowed by a big boa-constrictor one
hundred and sixty feet long, and twelve feet in circumference," replied
the captain of the Blanchita, as seriously as though there had been such
a monster snake in existence.
The poor lady was impervious to a joke; she screamed once, and then
dropped in a sitting posture on a divan. Nearly all the rest of the
party laughed heartily. At this point the head of Felix dropped down a
foot through the skylight over the centre of the room. He had made his
way to the upper deck, and stationed himself where he could see and hear
all that passed in the apartment.
"Good-mahrnin' to ye's all this foine avenin'!" he shouted. "Don't ye's
make a row, Aunty. The schnake was a bit troubled wid indigestion of the
brain, and, faix! I was too much for him! Loike the sodjers surrounded
by the inimy, Oi cut me way out, and here Oi am."
"I don't believe you were swallowed by a snake," protested Mrs.
Blossom.
"Don't you believe that Jonah swallowed the whale, Aunty?" demanded
Felix.
"Of course I believe that because it is in the Bible. If you had told me
that you had swallowed the snake, I might have believed that," added the
good lady.
At this point General Noury came forward, and grasped the hand of Scott,
passing from him to Louis and Morris, and then doing the same with
Felix, who had dropped down from his perch at the skylight. As soon as
Mrs. Blossom saw him on the floor, she rushed towards him with outspread
arms; but the Milesian warded off the assault, and took her right hand.
"Don't hug me, Aunty, for the snake swallowed me clothes and all, and
you may get some of the poison on you," said he.
For some time longer there was a general handshaking, and Louis was
kissed by the Princess Zuleima.
CHAPTER XVIII
LOUIS'S DOUBLE-DINNER ARGUMENT
After the welcome of the Bornean hunters had spent itself in kissing and
handshaking, the question came up as to why the "Big Four" had abandoned
their explorations after one week in the island instead of three, the
time arranged for them to remain there; and they had fixed the time
themselves.
"I thought three weeks was a rather long time for you to be in the
island," said Captain Ringgold after the question had been opened for
discussion.
"We fixed the time before we knew anything about the island," replied
Louis. "But I want to say, in order to counteract the impression which
appears to prevail in this company, that our trip was not a failure; for
we had a fine time, and enjoyed our trips on the rivers."
"If you had a good time, why did you cut it short by two-thirds of the
period allotted to the excursions?" asked Uncle Moses.
"We went up the Sarawak, the Sadong, and the Simujan, up the last to the
mountains, passing through Lake Padang, and we have shot an
orang-outang, and might have killed more of them, to say nothing of
other game," replied Louis, whom Scott had requested to do the talking.
"We visited three Dyak villages, sailed the Blanchita through a forest,
and killed a good many crocodiles."
"You seem to have had sport enough," added Uncle Moses. "Why did you
give it up in the cream of the thing?"
"I believe you like a good dinner, Uncle Moses; such a dinner as you
always have on board of the Guardian-Mother," continued Louis, who was
evidently pluming himself to make a point.
"I do like a good dinner, and enjoy one very much," replied the worthy
trustee of the young millionaire. "But I doubt if I am any more devoted
to such a banquet as we get every day than my beloved friend, Brother
Adipose Tissue, and all the rest of the voyagers all over the world."
"I plead guilty to the charge of Brother Avoirdupois; and I acknowledge
myself to be a worshipper at the shrine of Mr. Melancthon Sage, and I
invoke a blessing upon the head of Monsieur Odervie, the chief cook. Our
life on the ocean wave is a constant promotive of the appetite. If the
proof of the pudding is not in the eating of the bag, it is in the
eating of the dinners; and I think we pay an abundant tribute to the
talent of Mr. Sage, the prince of stewards, in the quantity of the
well-cooked food he causes to be placed before us."
"We get through dinner about seven o'clock. I see that the accomplished
chief steward is standing at the door," continued Louis. "Now, Mr.
Sage, would it be possible and convenient for you to have another
dinner on the table, say at eight o'clock, an hour after the first feast
had been finished?"
"Quite possible, and even convenient; the only persons to complain of
such an arrangement would be the cooks and stewards," replied Mr. Sage.
"Captain Ringgold, might I so far presume upon any influence I may have
with you as the owner of the Guardian-Mother to request you to order a
second dinner to be served at eight in the evening, beginning, say, with
to-morrow evening?" asked the young millionaire, looking as serious as
though he was about to preach a sermon, though the party were generally
laughing.
"As I have always told you, I take my orders from the owner; and if you
desire such a dinner, I shall certainly give Mr. Sage an order to that
effect," replied the commander.
"But who is to eat the dinner after it is provided, an hour after the
passengers have gorged themselves at the table?" demanded Dr. Hawkes.
"Is this a conspiracy to make more work for the surgeon?"
"Not at all," protested Louis. "It is to give the gentlemen who question
so closely an opportunity to have an abundance of a good thing."
"But we could not eat the dinner," said Uncle Moses. "We are not hogs."
"Oh, you are not!" chuckled the owner.
"But what has all this to do with hunting and exploring in Borneo?"
inquired Mr. Woolridge.
"Well, sir, after we had taken a full dinner in Borneo, Uncle Moses and
the commander ask us why we did not eat another dinner immediately on
the top of it, as I observe that they are not disposed to do on board of
the ship," returned Louis.
Some of the party had penetrated to the conclusion of Louis's argument,
but most of them did not see the point of his illustration till he made
his last remark; then Mr. Woolridge began to clap his hands, and the
whole company applauded vigorously.
"I suppose the interpretation of the whole matter is, that the hunters
in Borneo were gorged with hunting," said Captain Ringgold; "and that
when they stipulated for three weeks of the sport, they overdid the
matter."
"That was precisely the situation, Mr. Commander; and if you had been
with us on the waters of Padang Lake, you could not have defined it
better," replied Louis.
"But it is almost incredible that a quartet of such Nimrods should have
become disgusted with their favorite sport in a single week," added
Captain Ringgold.
"We are not hogs, as Uncle Moses gently suggested, and we could not eat
a second dinner on top of the first so soon. If we had gone to Borneo a
second time, after a reasonable interval, I am confident we should have
enjoyed a second week of hunting, even along the muddy rivers and
inundated jungles," Louis explained.
"In other words, you bit off a bigger mouthful than you could swallow,"
said the commander with a hearty laugh; for he had predicted that three
weeks of hunting at one time was too much. "But we understand the
situation now up to the time of the departure of the Nimrods from their
happy hunting-ground. It was a rather daring enterprise to make a voyage
of nine hundred miles in an open boat; and I should like to ask who was
the originator of the idea."
"If there is any blame for this trip, we were all in the same boat, and
we share the responsibility," answered Louis. "Captain Achang Bakir was
with us; and he has sailed in all the seas of the Archipelago in an open
boat, and we had his advice. Then we sailed all the way to the entrance
of the Gulf of Siam in company with the steamer Delhi, whose captain
agreed to stand by us, and to supply us with coal if we came short."
"That puts a new face on the matter."
"It was in the head waters of the Simujan that the plan was discussed,
and Captain Scott was the originator of the idea," continued Louis. "I
was in favor of it first because it would save the Guardian-Mother the
voyage from Saigon back to Kuching, about a thousand miles."
"Where is Kuching?" asked Dr. Hawkes.
"It is the native name for Sarawak."
"I am heartily glad you have come to us, Louis, for the reason you have
given," added the commander.
"How did the steam-yacht work, Mr. Belgrave?" asked the rajah.
"Exceedingly well, sir; nothing could have done any better; but Mr.
Scott can answer you better than I can, sir."
The third officer of the ship, late captain of the Blanchita, described
the working of the yacht, and gave her liberal praise. He related in
what manner she had beaten the Delhi in the race, and that he had
carried sail all the way nearly from the start. He gave the party the
routine of the boat,--how they had taken their meals, and how they had
slept on board.
"But I think it is time for us to return to the Blanche," interposed
Captain Sharp, as the clock struck eleven.
"I must make an announcement before you go," said Captain Ringgold. "We
shall not be able to sail for Saigon to-morrow morning, as arranged
before. We have to clean the Blanchita in the morning, and she has to be
put on the upper deck of the Blanche. As the Nimrods have come to
Bangkok, I wish to give them a day on shore to see the temples, and call
on the king if they are so disposed. We will sail on Tuesday morning on
the early tide."
"But we have not had any account of the adventures of the Nimrods in
Borneo," suggested Uncle Moses.
"We shall do so at eight o'clock in the morning; and you will all
assemble for the purpose at that time. The lecture on Siam and Cambodia
has been postponed till all hands could hear it; and if General Noury
is ready, that shall follow the adventures," replied the captain.
"I will be here at the time stated, for we all desire to know what the
Nimrods have been doing," replied the general, as the party from the
Blanche retired from the music-room.
The rest of the company went to their staterooms, while the commander
gave his orders for the work of the morning. All hands were called at
daylight; and the young adventurers shook hands with the officers they
found on deck, and spoke a pleasant word to the seamen on duty. The
latter were hoisting the coal, provisions, and stores of the Blanchita
on board of the ship; and by breakfast-time the yacht was as clean as a
Dutch chamber.
At the appointed time the company, including the party from the Blanche,
were seated in the arm-chairs of Conference Hall; and Louis went through
his narrative of the adventures of the Nimrods in Borneo. During the
morning, Achang had placed the stuffed orang-outang on a shelf the
carpenter had erected at the head of the platform, with the proboscis
