news.
"Well, my dear! Mamma and I were calling there, and while I was
talking to Miss B., I heard Mrs. B. tell my mother this awful thing.
You know Mr. B.'s sister is a trained nurse (I never did believe in
trained nurses!) and when he was taken so ill they sent for her to
come and take care of him. She got along tolerably well until a few
days ago when the doctor prescribed quinine for Mr. B. By mistake, she
gave him ten grains of morphine."
"What!"
"Yes, my dear, she did! It seems like an immense quantity, but, as I
wanted to be accurate (I always say that accuracy is a Christian
duty), I asked Miss B. how many grains her father took, and she said
'Ten!' Well! the poor victim slept thirty hours, and they were so
frightened that they sent for the doctor. He said that, fortunately,
no harm was done, but that it was an unpardonable piece of
carelessness. They discharged the nurse forthwith. She ought to have
been arrested and punished,--not turned loose upon a confiding
community."
"Yet you say she is his own sister?"
"Yes, indeed! and the family have always been perfectly devoted to
her! But they have sent her to the right-about now. It is too bad! A
family row is such an unfortunate thing. They may be thankful not to
have a murder-case to deal with!"
Strangely enough, I was en route for the house of my friend, Mrs.
B., and as the car, at this juncture, crossed the street on which she
lived, I motioned to the conductor to ring the bell, and alighted
before hearing more of that remarkable tale. Being acquainted with the
whole matter as it actually occurred, I was amused and indignant, as
well as curious, to learn how this girl had received the wretchedly
garbled version of an affair, the facts of which were these:
When Mr. B. was suddenly prostrated by an alarming attack of
pneumonia, his sister, a noble woman who had taken up as her life-work
the duties of a trained nurse in a Boston hospital, was telegraphed
for. As she had a serious case in charge, it was impossible to obey
the summons, and a New York nurse was engaged. Mr. B.'s physician had,
early in his illness, prepared some powders, each containing a minute
portion of morphine, and several had been administered to the patient.
Of late, he had taken five grains of quinine each morning. A few days
before the above mentioned harangue, the doctor ordered the nurse to
double the usual dose of quinine. She, carelessly, or misunderstanding
the directions, gave two of the morphine powders. The dose was not
large enough to cause more serious injury than throwing the patient
into a long and heavy sleep, and frightening his family. The doctor,
who had engaged the nurse, discharged her, as Mr. B. was so far
improved as to need only such care as his wife and daughter could
give him.
My curiosity prompted me to inquire of Mrs. B. and Miss B., without
divulging my motive, the particulars of the call they had received
from the horse-car orator. I learned that Mrs. B. had told the girl's
mother the facts of the case while the two daughters were talking
together. Miss B. said that they, now and then, overheard a few words
of the conversation between the older women, and that her companion
had made several inquiries concerning it. Among others was the query:
"How many grains of the medicine does your father take every day?"
Miss B., supposing she referred to the quinine, answered:
"Five, generally; but on the day of which mamma speaks, ten grains
were prescribed."
And from this scanty amount of rapidly acquired information had grown
the story to which I had been an amazed listener.
"Behold how great a matter a little fire kindleth!"
Yet this girl did not intend to lie. She gleaned scraps of a
conversation, and allowed a vivid imagination to supply the portions
she did not hear. Add to this the love of producing a sensation, which
is an inherent trait of many characters, and behold potent reasons for
seven-tenths of the cases of exaggeration which come to our notice,
romances constructed upon the "impressionist-picture" plan--a thing of
splash and glare and abnormal perspective that vitiates the taste for
symmetry and right coloring.
We all like to be the first to tell a story, and are anxious to relate
it so well that our listeners shall be entertained. That a tale loses
nothing in the telling is an established fact, especially if the
narrator thereof observes a lack of interest on the part of his
listeners. Then the temptation to arouse them to attention becomes
almost irresistible and unconsciously one accepts the maxim at which
we all sneer,--that it is folly to let the truth spoil a good story.
Every day we have occasion to hold our heads, reeling to aching with
conflicting accounts of some one incident, and repeat the question
asked almost nineteen hundred years ago:
"What is truth?"
We hear much of people who are "too frank." These destroyers of the
peace of mind of friend and foe alike pride themselves on the fact
that they are "nothing if not candid," and "always say just what they
think." Be it understood, this is not truthfulness. The utterance of
unnecessary and unkind criticism, however honest, is impertinence,
amounting to insolence.
When your "frank friend(?)" tells you that your gown does not fit,
that you dress your hair in such an unbecoming manner, that your
management of your household is not what it should be, she takes an
unwarrantable liberty. If traced back, the source of these remarks
would be found in a large percentage of instances, in a disagreeable
temper, captious humors, and a spirit that is anything but Christian.
One may be entirely truthful without bestowing gratuitous advice and
admonition.
People differ widely in their notions of veracity, and few would
endorse the technical definition with which this talk begins. Is it
because there is so much intentional falsehood, so much that is not in
"exact accordance with that which is, has been, or shall be," or that
standards of veracity vary with individual disposition, and what may
be classified as social climatic influences? Is it true that in morals
there is no stated, infallible and eternal gauge--"the measure of a
man--that is, of an angel?"
If a lie is something told "with the intention to deceive," as says
the catechism, a nineteenth century Diogenes would have need to search
in a crowd with an electric light in quest of a perfectly truthful
man.
For our comfort and hope be it recorded that there are men and women
who are uniformly veracious, and still courteous, who would not
descend to falsehood or subterfuge, yet who are never guilty of the
rudeness of making untactful speeches.
Were there more of such exceptions to the rule of inconsiderate,
exaggerated and recklessly mendacious talk that wounds ear and heart,
the "society lie" would be no more, and this flimsy excuse for
falsehood would be voted an article too tenuous and threadbare for
use.
Good people, so-called Christians, seldom appreciate what immense
responsibility is theirs in setting the example of telling the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the truth. Said an amiable woman to me
a few days ago:
"Mrs. Smith, who is a strict Sabbatarian, asked me yesterday if I had
ever been to a Sunday reception or tea. Now, while I do not generally
approve of them, I do, once in a great while, attend one. But, rather
than shock her by acknowledging the offence I lied out of it. It is
the only course left for the well-bred in such circumstances."
An hour later I saw her punish her child for denying that she had
committed some piece of mischief of which she was guilty. The mother's
excuse to herself probably was that the child told a lie, she, a
"society fib." Perhaps the smaller sinner had no reputation for
breeding to maintain.
The love for drink is not more surely transmitted from father to son
than is the habit of lying. Once begun in a family, it rears itself,
like a hooded snake, all along the line in generation after generation
and appears to be an ineradicable evil. It spreads, too, as specks in
a garnered fruit. We are startled by seeing it in children by the time
they can lisp a lie, and we note in them, with a sickening at heart,
the father's or grandfather's tendency to secretiveness or deceit, or
the mother's penchant for false excuses. We can scarcely bequeath a
greater sorrow to our offspring than to curse them before their birth
with this hereditary taint, which is, perhaps, one of the hardest of
all evils to correct. It may take the form of exaggerated speech, of
courteous or cowardly prevarication, or of downright falsehood, but,
in whatever guise, it is a curse to the owner thereof as well as to
his family. If you are so unfortunate as to have any symptom of it in
your blood, watch your boy or girl from infancy, and try, by all the
arts in your power, fighting against nature itself, even, to prevent
what is bred in the bone from coming out in the flesh.
We children of a larger growth can do much toward the correction of
this blemish in others as in ourselves by close guard over our own
speeches and assertions.
There are no sharper, more intolerant critics than the little ones,
and if they inherit the tendency to insincerity the only way in which
you can avert the much-to-be dreaded sin is by being absolutely
truthful yourself. Cultivate veracity as a virtue, as a grace, as a
vital necessity for the integrity of the soul. Prune excrescences in
the shape of loose statements; if you err in telling a wonderful
story, let it be in cutting down rather than in magnifying. A couple
of ciphers less are better than one too many. It is to be feared that
for many of us this would be a hard, although a wholesome task. The
trail of the serpent is over us all. We yield heedlessly to the
temptation to break promises, and to the habit of giving false reasons
to our children, little thinking that their grave, innocent eyes may
read our souls more clearly than those of older persons who are not so
easily deceived by our tongues. When your child, although a mere baby
in years, once discovers in you exaggeration or untruthfulness, he
remembers it always, and you, from that moment, lose one of the most
precious joys and sacred opportunities of your life--that of inspiring
his entire confidence and trust, and of leading the tiny feet in the
seldom-trodden path of Perfect Truth.
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE GOSPEL OF CONVENTIONALITIES.
Young people are proverbially intolerant, so I listened patiently, a
few days since, to the outburst of an impetuous girl-friend.
"Oh," she exclaimed, "we are all such shams!"
"Shams?" I repeated, interrogatively.
"Yes, just that, shams through and through! We, you and I are no
exceptions to the universal rule of, to quote Mark Twain, 'pretending
to be what we ain't.' We are polite and civil when we feel ugly and
cross; while in company we assume a pleasant expression although
inwardly we may be raging. All our appurtenances are make-believes. We
wear our handsome clothes to church and concert, fancying that mankind
may be deceived into the notion that we always look like that. Food
cooked in iron and tin vessels is served in French china and cut
glass. When children sit down to table as ravenously hungry as small
animals, their natural instincts are curbed, and they are compelled to
eat slowly and 'properly.' You see it everywhere and in everything.
The whole plan of modern society, with its manners and usages, is a
system of shams!"
In contradistinction to this unsparing denunciation, I place Harriet
Beecher Stowe's idea of this "system of shams." In "My Wife and I" she
says:
"You see we don't propose to warm our house with a wood fire, but only
to adorn it. It is an altar-fire that we will kindle every evening,
just to light up our room, and show it to advantage. And that is what
I call woman's genius. To make life beautiful; to keep down and out of
sight the hard, dry, prosaic side--and keep up the poetry--that is my
idea of our 'mission.' I think woman ought to be what Hawthorne calls
'The Artist of the Beautiful.'"
Mrs. Stowe is in the right. In this commonplace, fearfully real world,
what would we do without the blessed Gospel of Conventionalities? In
almost every family there is one member, frequently the father of the
household, who, like my young friend, has no patience with
"make-believes" and eyes all innovations with stern disapproval and
distrust. It is pitiful to witness the harmless deceits practiced by
mothers and daughters, the wiles many and varied, by which they strive
to introduce some much-to-be-desired point of table etiquette to which
"Papa is opposed." Sometimes his protest takes the form of a
good-natured laugh and shrug accompanied by the time-battered
observation that "you can't teach an old dog new tricks." More
frequently overtures of this kind are repulsed by the gruff excuse:
"My father and mother never had any of these new-fangled notions and
they got on all right. What was good enough for them is good enough
for me!"
And so paterfamilias continues to take his coffee with, instead of at
the end of, his dinner, eats his vegetables out of little sauce plates
with a spoon, insists that meat, potatoes and salad shall all be
placed upon the table at once, and, if the father and mother than whom
he does not care to rise higher were, in spite of their excellence, of
the lower class, he carries his food to his mouth on the blade of his
knife, and noisily sips tea from his saucer. Evidently he does not
believe in shams, those little conventionalities, nearly all of which
have some excellent cause for existence, although we do not always
pause to examine into their raison d'etre. They may be founded upon
hygienic principles, or on the idea of the greatest good to the
greatest number. Many seemingly slight breaches of etiquette, if
practiced by everyone, would create a state of affairs which even the
most ardent hater of les convenances would deplore. If, for
instance, all men were so entirely a law unto themselves that they
despised the rule which commands a man to resign his chair to a lady,
what would become of us poor women? In crowded rooms we would have the
pleasure of standing still or walking around the masculine members of
the company, who would sit at ease. Were the unmannerly habit of
turning the leaves of a book with the moist thumb or finger indulged
in by all readers, the probabilities are that numberless diseases
would thus be transmitted from one person to another.
It argues an enormous amount of self-conceit in man or woman when he
or she calmly refuses to conform to rules of etiquette. In plain
language, we are none of us in ourselves pur et simple so agreeable
as to be tolerable without the refinement and polish of manners upon
which every "artist of the beautiful" should insist in her own house.
Too many mothers and housekeepers think that "anything will do for
home people." It is our duty to keep ourselves and our children "up"
in "the thing" in table and parlor manners, dress and the etiquette of
visiting, letter-writing, etc. Even among well-born people there are
certain small tokens of good breeding which are too often neglected.
One of these is what a college boy recently described in my hearing as
the "bread-and-butter letter." At my inquiring look he explained that
it was "the note of thanks a fellow writes to his hostess after
having made a visit at her house--don't you know?"
This note should be written as soon as possible after the guest
returns to her home, even if she has been entertained for only a
night. In it she informs her hostess of her safe arrival, and thanks
her for her kind hospitality. A few lines are all that is necessary.
It seems incredible that in decent society anyone should be so little
acquainted with the requirements of the drawing-room as to enter a
lady's parlor, and stop to speak to another person before first
seeking his hostess and paying her his respects. And yet I have seen
men come into a room and stop to chat first with one, then with
another friend, before addressing the entertainer. If, while searching
for the lady of the house in a parlor full of people, a man is
addressed by some acquaintance, he should merely make an apology and
pass on until he has found his hostess. After that he is free to talk
with whom he pleases.
It is to be hoped that when a man commits the rudeness of passing into
a room before a lady instead of giving her the precedence, it is from
forgetfulness. Certainly I have frequently been the amazed witness of
this proceeding. Forgetfulness, too, may be the cause of a man's
tilting back his chair until it sways backward and forward, meantime
burying his hands in the depths of his trousers pockets. But such
thoughtlessness is, in itself, discourtesy. No man or woman has a
right to be absorbed in his or her affairs to the extent of forgetting
what is due to other people.
The tricks of manner and speech contracted by a boy or young man
should be noticed and corrected by mother or sister before they become
confirmed habits. Such are touching a lady on arm or shoulder to
attract her attention, inquiring "What say?" or "Is that so?" to
indicate surprise, glancing at the addresses on letters given him to
mail, and consulting his watch in company. It would be difficult to
find a better rule for courtesy with which to impress a boy or girl
than the advice written by William Wirt to his daughter:
"The way to make yourself pleasing to others is to show that you care
for them. The world is like the miller at Mansfield 'who cared for
nobody, no, not he, because nobody cared for him.' And the whole world
will serve you so if you give it the same cause. Let all, therefore,
see that you do care for them, by showing what Sterne so happily calls
'the small sweet, courtesies of life,' in which there is no parade,
whose voice is to still, to ease; and which manifest themselves by
tender and affectionate looks, and little kind acts of attention,
giving others the preference in every little enjoyment at the table,
walking, sitting or standing."
There is one gross breach of good breeding which can hardly be due to
inattention. There is a homely proverb to the effect that one "should
wash her dirty linen at home," and it is to the violation of this
advice that I refer. Discussing home matters, complaining of the
actions of members of your family, or confiding their faults or
shortcomings to an outsider, even though she be your dearest friend,
is as great an act of discourtesy as it is contrary to all the
instincts of family love and loyalty. Your father may be a hypocrite,
your mother a fool of the Mrs. Nickleby stamp, your brother a
dissipated wretch, and your sister a professional shop-lifter, while
your husband combines the worst characteristics of the entire
family--but as long as you pretend to be on speaking terms with them,
stand up for them against all the rest of the world; and if matters
have come to such a pass that you have severed all connection with
them, let a proper pride for yourself and consideration for the person
to whom you are talking deter you from acknowledging their faults.
These persons are members of your family--that should be enough to
keep you forever silent as to their peccadilloes or sins. But, if you
do not feel this, for politeness' sake refrain from making your
listener supremely uncomfortable by your complaints. No true lady will
so far forget her innate ladyhood as to be guilty of this rudeness.
To fulfill what Mrs. Stowe calls our "mission," we women must insist
on the observance of the conventionalities at home. Husbands are
sometimes, even when "taken young," too obstinate to change; although,
to their credit be it said, if approached in the right way they will
generally try to correct tricks of speech or manner. But with our
children there should be no peradventure. Upon us is laid the
responsibility of making them what we choose, of developing them into
gentlemen, or neglecting them until they become boors. It is never too
early to begin. First impressions are lasting ones, and the child who,
from the beginning, is trained to observe the "small, sweet
courtesies," not only when in company, but in the nursery and with the
members of his own family, will never forget them. We often observe
"that man does as well as he can, but he is not the gentleman born."
That should, of itself, be a lesson to us mothers, to teach our
children, not only by precept but by example, to keep alive the
"altar-fire" of conventionality, and thus to make life warm,
beautiful, poetic. After all, may not what the impulsive girl whom I
quoted at the beginning of this talk termed the "sham" of life, be the
real, though hidden side? We read that "the things which are seen are
temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal."
CHAPTER XXVII.
FAMILIAR OR INTIMATE?
"What makes the difference between those two carriages?" I asked a
wagon builder, while examining two light vehicles of the same general
build and design. One cost twice as much as the other, and looked as
if it were worth four times as much.
"Some of it is in the material, but more in the finishing," was the
response. "This is of pretty fair wood, but simply planed and painted,
while this"--pointing to the more costly equipage--"is as hard as a
rock, and has been rubbed smooth, then polished until the surface is
as fine as silk. Then it is flowed all over with the best varnish,
left to dry ten days, and over-flowed again. That makes all the
difference in the look of wagons. Two of them may be built just alike,
and one will look like a grocer's errand-cart, while the other is a
regulation gentleman's turnout. It is all the effect of polish and
finish."
Involuntarily my mind reverted to Mr. Turveydrop and his modest
assurance that "we do our best to polish, polish, polish."
The carriage builder struck the right chord when he affirmed that
"finish made all the difference," and it applies as truly to flesh and
blood as to insensate wood. Only the wood has sometimes the advantage
of taking more kindly to improvement than do human free agents.
The rough places on which the effects of polish have not showed are
too numerous for me to touch upon more than a few of them in this
talk. We will acknowledge that the paint and varnish are not all that
is necessary. The wood must be hard and prepared for the flowing
process, if the wagon is to stand the scrutiny of critical eyes. Too
often the paint is laid on thickly--perhaps too thickly--over
indifferent material, and the first shock or scratch makes it scale
and flake off.
As the test of the genuineness of the polish must be its durability,
so intimacy is the standard by which we may judge of the finish of the
so-called well-bred man or woman. If the refinement be ingrain, the
familiarity which inevitably breeds contempt will never intrude
itself.
To come down to everyday particulars: One of the unwarrantable
familiarities is to enter a friend's house without ringing her
door-bell,--unless you have been especially requested to do so. No
ground of intimacy on which you and your friend may stand justifies
this liberty. The housekeepers are few and far between who, in their
inmost souls, will not resent this invasion of their domain. It argues
an enormous amount of self-conceit on your part when you fancy that
you are considered so entirely one of the family that your unannounced
presence will never prove an unwelcome intrusion.
In country places neighbors contract the habit of "running in" to see
one another. Were the truth known, many a housekeeper, deep in
pie-making and bread-kneading, would gladly give her handsomest loaf
for two minutes in which to smooth her rumpled hair and change her
soiled apron.
It is only in books that the heroine always looks so charming, no
matter in what labor she may be engaged, that she would be glad to
receive any acquaintance. Of course our housewife's husband may see
her when she is baking, and our domestic moralist would argue that
what is good enough for him is good enough for callers. Perhaps it
does not occur to her that the husband has so often found his wife
dressed "neatly and sweetly" that the cooking costume will not make
upon him the disagreeable impression it might produce upon a caller
who sees her hostess once in this guise where the husband has hundreds
of opportunities of beholding her in company clothes.
It may be remarked in this connection that the persons who are guilty
of lapses like that of entering your front door unannounced are of the
same class as those who enter your bed-chamber or sanctum without
knocking. This is a rudeness which nothing warrants. There are times
when we wish to be alone in our own rooms, and when we want to feel
that we are safe from sudden interruption during the processes of
bathing and dressing, even if the door of our apartment is not locked.
One's own room should be so completely her own that her nearest and
dearest will not feel at liberty to enter without permission. Of
course it is frequently the case that two persons, sisters, or husband
and wife, or mother and daughter, occupy the same chamber. When this
is the case, it is theirs wholly and completely, and they are right
to insist that other members of the household shall knock before
entering.
Another evidence of lack of finish is offering gratuitous advice. If
your opinion is asked, it is kind and right that you should give it;
but a safe rule to go by is that unless your advice is requested it is
not wanted. It is one of the strangest problems in human nature that
one should of her own accord implicate herself in other people's
affairs and take upon herself onerous responsibility by giving her
unsolicited opinion in matters which do not concern her. It is a
disagreeable task, and a very thankless one. Viewed from this
standpoint, I am hardly surprised at the price demanded by lawyers for
their advice. Perhaps the secret of their high fees may be that they
decline to give a judgment unless asked for it. Our "own familiar
friends" might learn a lesson from them.
It is a pity that any well-bred intimate should so far forget herself
as to correct another person's child in the presence of the little
one's father or mother. That this is frequently done will be certified
to by hundreds of mothers who have been made irate by such untimely
aids to their discipline. Johnny's mother tells him to stop making
that noise, and her visitor adds severely, "Now, Johnny, do not make
that noise any more!" Susie is saucy to her mamma, and her mamma's
friend reprovingly remarks to the little girl that she is pained and
surprised to hear her speak so naughtily to her dear mamma. Children
resent this, and are far more keen and observant of these matters
than their elders think.
Little four-year-old and his mamma were spending the day at
grandpapa's last week. The family was seated on the veranda when the
small man announced his intention to his mamma of going out upon the
grass to pick wild flowers. Before the mother could reply, the
grandfather stated his objection:
"No, child, the grass is too wet. I am afraid you will get your feet
damp."
Four-year-old was equal to the occasion, as Young America generally
is.
"Thank you, grandpa," was the calm response, "but my mamma is here.
She can manage me."
Undoubtedly he was extremely impertinent; but did not the interference
of the grandparent justify the rebuke?
Every one, even the lower classes, those who are considered
under-bred, know that it is an atrocious impertinence to make
inquiries of one's best friend as to the state of his finances. But
like questions in the form of "feelers" are of such frequent
occurrence that a reminder of this kind is scarcely out of place.
There are few persons who deliberately ask you the amount of your
income, but how often does one hear the queries:
"How much did you pay for that horse of yours?" "Was that gown very
expensive?" "Have you a mortgage on that place?" "How much is the
mortgage?" "What rent do you pay?" "How much does your table cost you
per week?" etc., etc., until the unfortunate being at whom this
battery of inquiries is aimed feels tempted to forget his "polish"
and "finish," and retort as did the sobbing street boy when questioned
by the elderly philanthropic woman as to the cause of his tears:
"None of your blamed business."
The etiquette of the table is supposed to be so thoroughly rooted and
grounded into our children from infancy, and is, as a rule, so well
understood by all ladies and gentlemen, that the visitor though a
fool, could scarcely err therein. But this is not the case. At my own
board, a man of the world, accustomed to excellent society, told me
that he saw no mustard on the table, and as he always liked it with
his meat he would trouble me to order some; while another man, a
brilliant scholar, asked at a dinner party, "Will you tell your butler
to bring me a glass of milk?" With these men the sandpaper of parental
admonition or the flowing varnish of early association had evidently
been neglected.
Intimacy, and even tender friendship may, and do, exist between men
and women who are bound to one another by no family tie. Familiarity
can never decently enter into such a relationship. If you, as a
refined woman, have a man friend who slaps you on the back, squeezes
your arm to attract your attention, holds your hand longer than
friendship ought to dictate, and, without your permission, calls you
in public or in private by your first name, you need not hesitate to
drop him from your list of intimates. He is neither a gentleman nor
does he respect you as you deserve. He may be, in his way, an
estimable man, but it is not in your way, and he belongs to the rank
of very ordinary acquaintanceship.
If a man asks you to call him by his first name, and your friendship
with him justifies it, do not hesitate to do so; but if he is the
"finished" article, he will not imagine that this concession on your
part gives him the right to drop unbidden the "Miss" or "Mrs." from
your name.
A true gentleman does not speak of a lady, even his betrothed, to
strangers without what boys call "the handle" to her name. Nor should
a woman mention men by their last names only. When a young or elderly
woman speaks of "Smith," "Brown" or "Jones," you may make up your mind
that the last coat of varnish was neglected when she was "finished."
Always be cautious in making advances toward familiarity. Be certain
that your friendship is desired before going more than halfway. Not
long ago I heard a woman say gravely of an uncongenial acquaintance
whose friendship had been forced upon her:
"She is certainly my familiar friend. We can never be intimate."
CHAPTER XXVIII.
OUR STOMACHS.
In the best grades of society it is not now considered a sign of
refinement to be "delicate." When our grandmothers, and even our
mothers, were girls, robust health was esteemed almost a vulgarity.
Now, the woman who is pale and "delicate" is not an interesting
invalid, but sometimes an absolute bore. There are exceptions to this
rule of pride in indelicate health,--notably among the lower
classes. These people having neglected and set at defiance all
hygienic rules, feel that a mark of special distinction is set upon
them by their diseases. In fact, they "enjoy poor health," and take
all occasions to discourse to the willing or disgusted listener upon
their "symptoms," "disorders," their "nerves," and "Complaints." The
final word should be spelt with a huge C, so important a place does
it occupy in their estimation. The three D's which should be rigidly
excluded from polite conversation--Domestics, Dress and Diseases--form
the staple of their conversation. And the greatest of these is
Diseases.
A farmer's daughter, whose rosy cheeks and plump figure elicited from
me a gratulatory comment upon her robust appearance, indignantly
informed me that she was "by no means strong, and had been doctorin'
off and on for a year past for the malaria."
"Do you eat and sleep tolerably well?"
"Oh, yes," with the plaintive whine peculiar to the would-be invalid.
"I sleep dreadful heavy. I take a nap each day for a couple of hours.
And I must have a pound of beefsteak or mutton-chops for dinner. The
fever makes me that hungry! You see it devours all that I eat, and
the strength of the food goes to that."
Had any one pointed out to the deluded girl the folly of her theory,
and explained that the fever patient becomes almost crazed from the
restlessness that will not allow him to sleep, and that he loathes the
very thought of food with a disgust that makes the daintiest dishes
prepared by loving hands as gritty cinders between his teeth, she
would have smiled patronizing superiority, and explained at length
that her complaint was a peculiar one,--no common, everyday illness.
With this class, stomach disorders and their attendant sufferings,
such as giddiness, shortness of breath and pain in the side, are
always attributed to cardiac irregularity. There may be a lack of
appetite and dull or acute pain following eating, and the fetid breath
arising from a disordered condition of the stomach; but they resent
the notion that their "heart disease" is dyspepsia, and would, in all
probability, discharge the physician who recommended pepsin and
judicious diet.
Perhaps the most discouraging feature of this class of persons is that
they are ignorant and obstinate in this ignorance. The opinion of all
the medical fraternity in the country would, in the farmer's
daughter's estimation, be unworthy of consideration compared with the
advice or suggestion advanced by one of her own kind. The practitioner
among the unlearned has fearful odds to contend with in trying to
bring an ignorant patient under his regimen. One word from sister,
cousin or aunt, and the invalid will cast aside the physician's
remedies, and take quarts of some patent medicine.
If you should question your laundress or cook, or your farmer's wife,
you would be appalled to discover what peculiar notions she has of
her physical make-up. It would be interesting and astounding to allow
one of these people to draw a chart of her interior machinery, as she
supposes it to be. It would bear as little resemblance to the reality
as did the charts of the ancients who antedated Tycho Brahe,
Pythagoras, and Copernicus, to the celestial charts of the nineteenth
century. One would note especially the prominence given to certain
organs. The stomach is almost, if not entirely, ignored. It is a
matter for speculation why this valuable factor of the human system
should be regarded with some disfavor by the ignorant. They joyfully
admit the existence of the heart, brain and kidneys, and even the
liver, and discourse with zestful unction on their own peculiar and
special diseases of these organs; but suggest not to them that the
stomach is out of sorts. This is not, in their estimation, a romantic
Complaint. Their specialty is Nerves. To hear the frequency with which
they attribute to these all uncomfortable sensations, one would
imagine that the victims were made by a special pattern, like the
tongue, of ends of nerves, all super-sensitive. The Nerves are a
mysterious portion of their being, to whose account everything is
laid, from extreme irritability and vexation, to nausea and
rheumatism. "My nerves are that sensitive!" is a universal
complaint.
It is difficult for the average mind to grasp the reason why the
stomach, man's best friend and worst enemy, should be made of no
account, and repudiated with such indignant resentment. Surely the
giddiness occasioned by a tendency of blood to the head is no more
romantic than the dizziness induced by gaseous fermentation of matter
in the stomach. The digestive organs should and do receive vast
consideration from the medical profession. How often do we hear it
said of some man lying at the point of death that as long as his
digestive functions are duly performed there is hope; and how often,
after the crisis is past, do we learn from the jubilant doctor that
the patient's stomach was his salvation! "If that had failed,
nothing could have saved him."
Let me recommend, as the pre-eminent duty of the sensible reader, care
of the stomach and the alimentary apparatus. By care I do not mean
dosing. With too many people the science of hygiene is confined in
their imagination and practice to remedial measures. Of the weightier
matters of precaution they reck nothing. Once in so often they "take a
course of physic." This is done not so much because it is needed, as
on principle, and because they have somewhere heard that it is a good
thing to do. So, although all the digestive functions may be
performing their part in a perfectly proper and regular manner, they
must be weakened and irritated by draughts which do more harm than
good.
Old proverbs are often the truest, and this may be affirmed of the
adage that "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure." Do not,
if by care you can prevent it, allow your stomach to become
disordered; but if, in spite of care, it is irritated, soothe instead
of punishing it. Manage it as you sometimes control a fretful
child,--by letting it severely alone. A few hours' fasting is an
excellent remedy, and may continue until a feeling of faintness warns
you that nature needs your assistance. Then eat slowly a little
light food, such as milk-toast or very hot beef-tea. Quiet and diet
work more wonders than quarts of medicine.
If your digestive organs are susceptible to disorder, be reasonably
careful about what you eat, even though you consider yourself quite
well. What a stomach has once done in the line of misbehavior, a
stomach may do again. If a pitcher has in it a tiny flaw, it may crack
when filled with boiling liquid. If you know of some article of food
which disagrees with you, let it alone. If you are inclined to
dyspepsia, eschew hot breads, pastry, fried or greasy food, nuts and
many sweets. Avoid becoming dependent upon any medicine to ward off
indigestion, if by care in your diet you can accomplish the same
purpose. Many dyspeptics take an inordinate amount of bicarbonate of
soda, an excellent corrective to acidity of the stomach when partaken
of occasionally, and in small portions. In some cases, large and
frequent doses have produced a cancerous condition of the coating of
the stomach, which has resulted in death. It sounds ridiculous to
speak of dependence upon soda-mint and pepsin tablets degenerating
into an incurable habit, but there are some people to whom they are as
necessary after each meal as were snuff and quids of tobacco to the
old people seventy years ago.
Nature has provided a wonderful system of drains for carrying away the
effete matter of the body. The effect caused by the neglect of these
is akin to that produced by the choking of the waste-pipes in a house.
If they become stopped, you send in haste for a plumber, that he may
correct the trouble before it causes illness. If this state of affairs
is allowed to continue in the human body, the system takes up the
poison which slowly but surely does its work.
Next to the special organs designed for this plan of sewerage, the
skin takes the most active part in disposing of impurities in the
blood. The tiny pores are so many little doors through which the
mischief may pass harmlessly away. But these pores must be kept open,
and the only way to accomplish this end is by the free use of soap and
warm water. This is such a homely remedy that it is sometimes sneered
at and often overlooked. Certain portions of the body, such as the
face and hands, are frequently washed, while other parts which are
covered by the clothing are neglected. The entire body, especially in
the creases where perspiration accumulates, should be sponged once a
day, if one perspires freely. While sponging is excellent, a plunge
bath should be frequently indulged in, as it opens the pores and
thoroughly cleanses the entire surface.
Another desideratum is exercise, regular and abundant. Housework and
walking are all that a woman needs, although she may find great
pleasure as well as benefit from horseback riding, rowing and tennis.
But let her not allow herself to tax her strength to the point of
over-weariness. The amount of sleep needed by a woman is a mooted
point, but unless she is what slangy boys term "constitutionally
tired," she should sleep enough at night to ensure her against
drowsiness in the daytime. For the elderly and feeble, an occasional
nap after the noonday meal, especially during the warm weather, will
prove most refreshing.
Try to bear in mind that you are not the only one concerned in your
health. Higginson, in speaking of the duty of girls to observe all
hygienic laws, tells us that, "unless our girls are healthy, the
country is not safe. The fate of institutions may hang on the precise
temperament which our next president shall have inherited from his
mother."
CHAPTER XXIX.
CHEERFULNESS AS A CHRISTIAN DUTY.
Near me stands an anniversary present from a dear friend. It is a
large "loving cup," and is just now full of my favorite
nasturtiums--glowing as if they held in concentrated form all the
sunshine which has brought them to their glory of orange, crimson,
gold and scarlet. The ware of which the cup is made is a rich
brownish-yellow in color, and between each of the three handles is a
dainty design in white-and-cream, surrounded by an appropriate motto.
The one turned toward me at present forms the text of my present talk
and will, I hope, prove a happy hint to some of my readers:
   "Be always as happy as ever you can,
   For no one delights in a sorrowful man."
The rhyming couplet has set me to thinking, long and seriously, upon
the duty of cheerfulness, a duty which we owe not only to our
fellow-men, but to ourselves. It is such an uncomfortable thing to be
miserable that I marvel that any sensible human being ever gives way
to the inclination to look on the dark side of life.
In writing this article, I wish to state in the beginning that the
women to whom it is addressed are not those over whom bereavement has
cast dark shadows. For genuine grief and affliction I have vast and
unbounded sympathy. For imaginary woes I have none. There is a certain
class of sentimentalists to whom it is positive joy to be made to
weep, and the longer they can pump up the tears the more content they
are. These are people who have never known a heart-sorrow. They revel
in books that end in death, and they listen to the details of a
dying-bed scene with ghoulish interest. Had genuine bereavement ever
been theirs, they would find only harrowing pain in such things.
Shallow brooks always gurgle most loudly in passing over the stones
underlying them. The great and mighty river flows silently and calmly
above the large boulders hidden far below the surface.
The women of this sentimental class are those that read and write
verses upon "tiny graves," "dainty coffins," and "baby shrouds."
The other day a friend shuddered audibly over the poem, admired by
many, entitled--"The Little White Hearse."
"Just listen," she exclaimed, "to this last verse! After describing
the grief of the mother whose baby has just ridden to what she calls
'its long, lasting sleep,' she further harrows up the feelings by
winding up with:--
"'I know not her name, but her sorrow I know--
  While I paused on that crossing I lived it once more.
And back to my heart surged that river of woe
That but in the heart of a mother can flow--
  For the little white hearse has been, too, at my door.'
"How could she write it? How could she bring herself to put that down
in black and white with the memory of the baby she has lost, in her
mind?"
"My dear," quietly answered a deep-natured, practical woman,--"either
the author of that poem is incapable of such suffering as some
mothers endure, or the little white hearse has never stopped at her
door. If it had, she could not have written the poem."
She who "talks out" her pain is not the one who is killed by it. A
peculiarity of hopeless cases of cancer is that the sufferer therefrom
has a dread of mentioning the horror that is eating away her life.
Since, then, imaginary woe is a species of self-indulgence, let us
stamp that healthful person who gives way to it as either grossly
selfish or foolishly affected. Illness is the only excuse for such
weakness, and even then will-power may do much toward chasing away the
blue devils.
Some people find it harder than others to be uniformly cheerful. While
one man is, as the saying is, "born happy," another inherits a
tendency to look upon the sombre aspect of every matter presented to
him. To the latter, the price of cheerfulness is eternal vigilance
lest he lapse into morbidness. But after a while habit becomes second
nature. I do not advocate the idea of taking life as a huge joke. The
man or woman who does this, throws the care and responsibility that
should be his or hers upon some other shoulders. My plea is for the
brave and bright courage that makes labor light. When we work, let us
work cheerfully; when we play, let us play with our whole hearts. In
this simple rule lies the secret of the youth that endures long after
the hair is white and the Delectable Mountains are in sight.
There is no habit of more fungus-like growth than that of melancholy,
yet many good people give way to it. Some Christians go through this
life as if it were indeed a vale of tears, and they, having been put
in it without their consent were determined to make the worst of a bad
bargain, and to be as wretched as opportunity would allow. How much
better to consider this very good world as a garden, whose beauty
depends largely upon our individual exertions to make it fair. We may
cultivate and enjoy the flowers, or let them become so overrun with
underbrush that the blossoms are smothered and hidden under the dank
growth of the evil-smelling and common weeds.
Said a clergyman to one of his depressed and downcast parishioners:
"My friend, your religion does not seem to agree with you."
Only a few chapters back I quoted from the Apostle of
Cheerfulness--Dr. Holmes--that most quotable of men. But he expresses
what I would say so much more clearly than I can, that once more I
refer my readers to him. I do not apologize for doing so. This last
one of the noble company of America's great writers, who have passed
away during the last ten years, cannot be read too much or loved too
dearly. Let us see, what he, as Autocrat of the Breakfast Table, has
to say on this subject.
"Oh, indeed, no! I am not ashamed to make you laugh occasionally. I
think I could read you something which I have in my desk which would
probably make you smile. Perhaps I will read it one of these days if
you are patient with me when I am sentimental and reflective; not just
now. The ludicrous has its place in the universe; it is not a human
invention, but one of the divine ideas, illustrated in the practical
jokes of kittens and monkeys long before Aristophanes or Shakespeare.
How curious it is that we always consider solemnity and the absence of
all gay surprises and encounter of wits as essential to the idea of
the future life of those whom we thus deprive of half their faculties,
and then call blessed. There are not a few who, even in this life,
seem to be preparing themselves for that smileless eternity to which
they look forward by banishing all gayety from their hearts and all
joyousness from their countenances. I meet one such in the street not
infrequently--a person of intelligence and education, but who gives me
(and all that he passes), such a rayless and chilling look of
recognition--something as if he were one of Heaven's assessors, come
down to 'doom' every acquaintance he met--that, I have sometimes begun
to sneeze on the spot, and gone home with a violent cold dating from
that instant. I don't doubt he would cut his kitten's tail off if he
caught her playing with it. Please tell me who taught her to play with
it?"
It is one of the unexplained mysteries of human nature that people
receive their griefs as direct from the hand of God, but not their
joys. Why does not a kind Father mean for us to profit by the one as
much as by the other? And since into nearly every life falls more
sunshine than shadow, why leave the sunny places and go out of our way
to sit and mope in the darkest, dreariest shade we can find? I believe
in the Gospel of Cheerfulness. It is your duty and mine to get every
drop of cream off of our own especial pan of milk. And if we do have
to drink skim milk, shall we throw away the cream on that account? If
it were not to be used it would not be there. God does not make things
to have them wasted.
All of us have our worries--some small, some great--and the strength
and depth of our characters are proved by the way in which we meet the
trials. Cheerfulness is God's own messenger to lighten our burdens
and to make our times of joy even more bright and beautiful. Have you
noticed how, as soon as you can laugh over a vexation, the sting of it
is gone? And the best of it all is that you cannot be happy yourself
without casting a little light, even though it be but reflected
sunshine, into some other life.
William Dunbar, in 1479, said:
"Be merry, man, and take not sair to mind
  The wavering of this wretched world of sorrow:
To God be humble, to thy friend be kind,
  And with thy neighbor gladly lend and borrow;
  His chance to-night, it may be thine to-morrow!
Be blyth in heart for any aventure,
  How oft with wise men it has been said aforow,
Without gladness availes no treasure."
CHAPTER XXX.
THE FAMILY INVALID.
One of the most anomalous of the inconsistencies peculiar to human
nature is that we who are flesh, and consequently liable to all the
ills to which flesh is heir, should know so little about the manner in
which to check or, at least, alleviate these miseries. In the average
household the proper care of the sick is an unknown art, or one so
