watch for another chance. 
Westover forgot him in the fidget he fell into, try- 
ing this and that effect, with his head slanted one way, 
and then slanted the other, his hand held up to shut 
out the mountain below the granite mass of Lion's 
Head, and then changed to cut ofi the sky above ; and 
then both hands lifted in parallel to confine the pict- 
ure. He made some tentative scrawls on his canvas 
in charcoal, and he wasted so much time that the light 
on the mountain-side began to take the rich tone of 
the afternoon deepening to evening. A soft flush stole 
into it ; the sun dipped behind the top south of the 
mountain, and Lion's Head stood out against the in- 
tense clearness of the west, which began to be flushed 
with exquisite suggestions of violet and crimson. 
" Good Lord ! " said Westover ; and he flew at his 
colors and began to paint. He had got his canvas 
into such a state that he alone could have found it 
 
 
much more intelligible than his palette, when he heard 
the boy saying, over his shoulder, " I don't think that 
looks very much like it." He had last been aware of 
the boy sitting at the grassy edge of the lane, tossing 
small bits of earth and pebble across to his dog, which 
sat at the other edge, and snapped at them. Then he 
lost consciousness of him. He answered, dreamily, 
while he found a tint he was trying for with his brush, 
" Perhaps you don't know." He was so sure of his 
effect that the popular censp.re speaking in the boy's 
opinion only made him happier in it. 
" I know what I see," said the boy. 
" I doubt it," said Westover, and then he lost con- 
sciousness of him again. He was rapt deep and far 
into the joy of his work, and had no thought but for 
that, and for the dim question whether it would be 
such another day to-morrow, with that light again on 
Lion's Head, when he was at last sensible of a noise 
that he felt he must have been hearing some time 
without noting it. It was a lamentable sound of 
screaming, as of some one in mortal terror, mixed 
with wild entreaties. " Oh, don't, Jeff ! Oh, don't, 
don't, don't ! Oh, please ! Oh, do let us be ! Oh, 
Jeff, don't ! " 
Westover looked round bewildered, and not able, 
amid the clamor of the echoes, to make out where the 
cries came from. Then, down at the point where the 
lane joined the road to the southward, and the road 
lost itself in the shadow of a woodland, he saw the 
boy leaping back and forth across the track, with his 
dog beside him ; he was shouting and his dog barking 
 
furiously; those screams and entreaties came from 
within the shadow. Westover phmged down the lane 
headlong, with a speed that gathered at each bound, 
and that almost flung him on his face when he reached 
the level where the boy and the dog were dancing 
back and forth across the road. Then he saw, crouch- 
ing in the edge of the wood, a little girl, who was 
uttering the appeals he had heard, and clinging to 
her, with a face of frantic terror, a child of five or six 
years ; his cries had grown hoarse, and had a hard, 
mechanical action as they followed one another. They 
were really in no danger, for the boy held his dog 
tight by his collar, and was merely delighting himself 
with their terror. The painter hurled himself upon 
him, and with a quick grip upon his collar, gave him 
half a dozen flat-handed blows wherever he could plant 
them, and then flung him reeling away. 
" You infernal little ruffian ! " he roared at him ; and 
the sound of his voice was enough for the dog; he 
began to scale the hill-side towards the house without 
a moment's stay. 
The children still crouched together, and Westover 
could hardly make them understand that they were in 
his keeping when he bent over them, and bade them 
not be frightened. The little girl set about wiping 
the child's eyes on her apron in a motherly fashion ; 
her own were dry enough, and Westover fancied there 
was more of fury than of fright in her face. She 
seemed lost to any sense of his presence, and kept on 
talking fiercely to herself, while she put the little boy 
in order, like an indignant woman. "Great, mean, 
 
Ugly thing! I'll tell the teacher on him, that's what 
I will, as soon as ever school begins. I'll see if he 
can come round with that dog of his scaring folks ! 
I wouldn't 'a' been a bit afraid if it hadn't 'a' been for 
Franky. Don't cry any more, Franky ! Don't you 
sec they're gone ? I presume he thinks it smart to 
scare a little boy and a girl. If I was a boy, once, I'd 
sliow him." 
She made no sign of gratitude to Westover : as far 
as any recognition from her was concerned, his inter- 
vention was something as impersonal as if it had been 
a thunder-bolt falling upon her enemies from the sky. 
" Where do you live ? " he asked. " I'll go home 
with you, if you'll tell me where you live." 
She looked up at him in a daze, and Westover heard 
the Durgin boy saying, " She lives right there in that 
little wood-colored house at the other end of the lane. 
There ain't no eall to go home with her." 
Westover turned, and saw the boy kneeling at the 
edge of a clump of bushes, where he must have struck ; 
he was rubbing with a tuft of grass at the dirt ground 
into the knees of his trousers. 
The little girl turned hawkishly upon him. " Not 
for anything you can do, Jeff Durgin ! " 
The boy did not answer. 
" There ! " she said, giving a final pull and twitch 
to the dress of her brother, and taking him by the 
hand tenderly. " Now, come right along, Franky." 
" Let me have your other hand," said Westover, and 
with the little boy between them they set o£E towards 
the point where the lane Joined the road on the north- 
ward. They had to pass the bushes where JefE Dur- 
gin was crouching, and the little girl turned and made 
a face at him. " Oh, oh ! I don't think I should have 
done that ! " said Westover. 
" I don't care ! " said the little girl. But she said, 
in explanation and partial excuse : "He tries to scare 
all the girls. I'll let him know' t he can't scare Twe." 
Westover looked up towards the Durgin house with 
a return of interest in the canvas he had left in the 
lane on the easel. Nothing had happened to it. At 
the door of the barn he saw the farmer and his eldest 
son, slanting forward and staring down the hill at the 
point he had come from. Mrs. Durgin was looting 
out from the shelter of the porch, and she turned and 
went in with Jeff's dog at her skirts when Westover 
came in sight with the children. 
V. 
Westover bad his tea with the family, but nothing 
was said or done to show that any of them resented 
or even knew of what had happened to the boy from 
him. JefE himself seemed to have no grudge. He 
went out with Westover, when the meal was ended, 
and sat on the steps of the porch with him, watching 
the painter watch the light darken on the lonely 
heights and in the lonely depths around. Westover 
smoked a pipe, and the fire gleamed and smouldered 
in it regularly with his breathing ; the boy, on a lower 
step, pulled at the long ears of his dog, and gazed up 
at bim. 
They were both silent till the painter asked, " What 
do you do here, when you're not trying to scare little 
children to death ? " 
The boy hung bis head, and said, with the effect of 
excusing a long arrears of uselessness, " I'm goin' to 
school as soon as it commences." 
" There's one branch of your education that I should 
like to undertake, if I ever saw you at a thing like 
that again. Don't you feel ashamed of yourself ? " 
 
The boy pulled so hard at the dog's ear that the 
dog gave a faint yelp of protest. 
" They might 'a' seen that I had him by the collar. 
I wa'n't a-goin' to let go." 
" Well, the next time I have you by the collar, 
won't let go, either," said the painter; but he felt an 
inadequacy in his threat, and he imagined a superflu- 
ity, and he made some haste to ask, " Who are they ? " 
" Whitwell is their name. They live in that little 
house where you took them. Their father's got a piece 
of land on Lion's Head that he's clearin' oflE for the 
timber. Their mother's dead, and Cynthy keeps house. 
She's always makin' up names and faces," added the 
boy. " She thinks herself awful smart. That Franky's 
a perfect cry-baby." 
" Well, upon my word ! You are a little ruflBan," 
said Westover, and he knocked the ashes out of his 
pipe. " The next time you meet that poor little creat- 
ure, you tell her that I think you're about the shabbi- 
est chap I know, and that I hope the teacher will 
begin where I left ofE with you, and not leave black- 
guard enough in you to — " 
He stopped for want of a fitting figure, and the boy 
said, " I guess the teacher won't touch me." 
Westover rose, and the boy flung his dog away from 
him with his foot. " Want I should show you where 
to sleep ? " 
"Yes," said Westover, and the boy hulked in be- 
fore him, vanishing into the dark of the interior, and 
presently appeared with a lighted hand-lamp. He led 
the way up-stairs to a front room looking down upon 
 
the porch roof, and over towards Lion's Head, which 
Westover could see dimly outlined against the night 
sky, when he lifted the edge of the paper shade and 
peered out. 
The room was neat, with greater comfort in its ap- 
pointments than he hoped for. He tried the bed, 
and found it hard, but of straw, and not the feathers 
he had dreaded ; while the boy looked into the water- 
pitcher, to see if it was full, and then went out without 
any form of good-night. 
Westover would have expected to wash in a tin 
basin at the back door, and wipe on the family towel, 
but all the means of toilet, such as they were, he 
found at hand here, and a surprise which he had felt 
at a certain touch in the cooking renewed itself at the 
intelligent arrangements for his comfort. A secondary 
quilt was laid across the foot of his bed ; his window- 
shade was pulled down, and though the window was 
shut, and the air stuffy within, there was a sense of 
cleanliness in everything which was not at variance 
with the closeness. 
The bed felt fresh when he got into it, and the 
sweet breath of the mountains came in so cold through 
the sash he had lifted that he was glad to pull the 
secondary quilt up over him. He heard the clock tick 
in some room below ; from another quarter came the 
muffled sound of coughing ; but otherwise the world 
was intensely still, and he slept deep and long. 
VI. 
The men folks had finished their breakfast and gone 
to their farm-work hours before Westover came down 
to his breakfast, but the boy seemed to be of as much 
early leisure as himself, and was lounging on the 
threshold of the back door, with his dog in waiting 
upon him. He gave the effect of yesterday's cleanli- 
ness freshened up with more recent soap and water. 
At the moment Westover caught sight of him, he 
heard his mother calling to him from the kitchen, 
"Well, now, come in and get your breakfast, JefE," 
and the boy called to Westover, in turn, "I'll tell 
her you're here," as he rose and came in-doors. " I 
guess she's got your breakfast for you." 
Mrs. Durgin brought the breakfast almost as soon 
as Westover had found his way to the table, and she 
lingered as if for some expression of his opinion upon 
it. The biscuit and the butter were very good, and 
he said so ; the eggs were fresh, and the hash from 
yesterday's corned beef could not have been better, 
and he praised them ; but he was silent about the 
coffee. 
" It a'n't very good," she suggested. 
 
" Why, I'm used to making my own coffee ; I lived 
so long in a country where it's nearly the whole of 
breakfast that I got into the habit of it, and I always 
carry my little machine with me ; but I don't like to 
bring it out, unless — " 
"Unless you can't, stand the other folks's," said 
the woman, with a humorous gleam. " Well, you 
needn't mind me. I want you should have good cof- 
fee, and I guess I a'n't too old to learn, if you want 
to show me. Our folks don't care for it much ; they 
like tea ; and I kind of got out of the way of it. But 
at home we had to have it." She explained, to his 
inquiring glance. " My father kept the tavern on the 
old road to St. Albans, on the other side of Lion's 
Head. That's where I always lived, till I married 
here." 
"Oh," said Westover, and he felt that she had 
proudly wished to account for a quality which she 
hoped he had noticed in her cooking. He thought 
she might be going to tell him something more of her- 
self, but she only said, " Well, any time you want to 
show me your way of makin' coffee," and went out of 
the room. 
That evening, which was the close of another flaw- 
less day, he sat again watching the light outside, when 
he saw her come into the hallway with a large shade- 
lamp in her hand. She stopped at the door of a room 
he had not seen yet, and looked out at him to ask, 
"Won't you come in and set in the parlor, if you 
want to « " 
He found her there when he came in, and her two 
 
sons with Ler ; the younger was sleepily putting away 
some school-books, and the elder seemed to have been 
helping him with his lessons. 
" He's got to begin school next week," she said to 
Westover; and at the preparations the other now 
began to make with a piece of paper and a planehette 
which he had on the table before him, she asked, in 
the half-mocking, half-deprecating way which seemed 
characteristic of her, " You believe any in that ? " 
" I don't know that I've ever seen it work," said 
the painter. 
"Well, sometimes it wonH work," she returned, 
altogether mockingly now, and sat holding her shapely 
hands, which were neither so large nor so rough as 
they might have been, across her middle, and watch- 
ing her son while the machine pushed about under his 
palm, and he bent his wan eyes upon one of the 
oval-framed photographs on the wall, as if rapt in a 
supernal vision. The boy stared drowsily at the plan- 
ehette, jerking this way and that, and making abrupt 
starts and stops. At last the young man lifted his 
palm from it, and put it aside to study the hieroglyph- 
ics it had left on the paper. 
" What's it say ? " asked his mother. 
The young man whispered, " I can't seem to make 
out very clear. I guess I got to take a little time to it," 
he added, leaning back wearily in his chair. " Ever 
seen much of the manifestations ? " he gasped at West- 
over. 
" Never any, before," said the painter, with a leni- 
ency for the invalid which he did not feel for his belief. 
 
The young man tried for his voice, and found 
enough of it to say : " There's a trance medium over 
at the Huddle. Her control says' t I can develop into 
a writin' medium." He seemed to refer the fact as a 
sort of question to Westover, vpho could think of 
nothing to say but that it must be very interesting to 
feel that one had such a power. 
" I guess he don't know he's got it yet," his mother 
interposed." " And planchette don't seem to know 
either." 
" We ha'n't given it a fair trial yet," said the young 
man, impartially, almost impassively. 
" Wouldn't you like to see it do some of your sums, 
Jeff ? " said the mother to the drowsy boy, blinking in 
a corner. " You better go to bed." 
The elder brother rose. " I guess I'll go too." 
The father had not joined their circle in the parlor, 
now breaking up by common consent. 
Mrs. Durgin took up her lamp again, and looked 
round on the appointments of the room, as if she 
wished Westover to note them too : the drab wall- 
paper, the stiff chairs, the long, hard sofa in hair- 
cloth, the high bureau of mahogany veneer. 
" You can come in here and set, or lay down, when- 
ever you feel like it," she said. " W-e use it more 
than folks generally, I presume ; we got in the habit, 
havin' it open for funerals." 
VII. 
Four or five days of perfect weatlier followed one 
another, and Westover worked hard at his picture in 
the late afternoon light he had chosen for it. In the 
morning he tramped through the woods and climbed 
the hUls with Jeff Durgin, who seemed never to do 
anything about the farm, and had a leisure unbroken 
by anything except a rare call from his mother to help 
her in the house. He built the kitchen fire, and got 
the wood for it ; he picked the belated pease and the 
early beans in the garden, and shelled them ; on the 
Monday when the school opened he did a share of the 
family wash, which seemed to have been begun before 
daylight, and Westover saw him hanging out the 
clothes before he started off with his books. He suf- 
fered no apparent loss of self-respect in these employ- 
ments, and while he still had his days free he put 
himself at Westover's disposal with an effect of unim- 
paired equality. He had expected evidently that 
Westover would want to fish or shoot, or at least join 
him in the hunt for woodchucks, which he still carried 
on with abated zeal for lack of his company when the 
 
painter sat down to sketch certain bits that struck him. 
When he found that Westover cared for nothing in 
the way of sport, as people commonly understand it, 
he did not openly contemn him. He helped him get 
the flowers he studied, and he learned to know true 
mushrooms from him, though he did not follow his 
teaching in eating the toadstools, as his mother called 
them, when they brought them home to be cooked. 
If it could not be said that he shared the affection 
which began to grow up in Westover from their com- 
panionship, there could be no doubt of the interest he 
took in him, though it often seemed the same critical 
curiosity which appeared in the eye of his dog when 
it dwelt upon the painter. Fox had divined in his 
way that Westover was not only not to be molested, 
but was to be respectfully tolerated, yet no gleam of 
kindness ever lighted up his face at sight of the paint- 
er ; he never wagged his tail in recognition of him ; he 
simply recognized him, and no more, and he remained 
passive under Westover's advances, which he had the 
effect of covertly referring to Jeff, when the boy was 
by, for his approval or disapproval ; when he was not 
by, the dog's manner implied a reservation of opinion 
until the facts could be submitted to his master. 
On the Saturday morning which was the last they 
were to have together, the three comrades had strayed 
from the vague wood road along one of the unexpected 
levels on the mountain slopes, and had come to a 
standstill in a place which the boy pretended not to 
know his way out of. Westover doubted him, for he 
had found that JefE liked to give himself credit for 
 
woodcraft by discovering an escape from the depths 
of trackless wildernesses. 
"I guess you know where we are," he suggested. 
" No, honestly," said the boy ; but he grinned, and 
AVestover still doubted him. 
" Hark ! What's that ? " he said, hushing further 
speech from him with a motion of his hand.- It was 
the sound of an axe. 
" Oh, I know where we are ! " said Jeff. " It's that 
Canuck chopping in Whitwell's clearing. Come 
along ! " 
He led the way briskly down the mountain-side 
now, stopping from time to time, and verifying his 
course by the sound of the axe. This came and went, 
and by-and-by it ceased altogether, and Jeff crept for- 
ward with a real or feigned uncertainty. Suddenly 
he stopped. A voice called, " Heigh, there ! " and 
the boy turned and fled, crashing through the under- 
brush at a tangent, with his dog at his heels. 
Westover looked after them, and then came for- 
ward. A lank figure of a man at the foot of a poplar, 
which he had begun to fell, stood waiting him, one 
hand on his axe-helve and the other on his hip. There 
was the scent of freshly smitten bark and sap-wood in 
the air; the ground was paved with broad, clean chips. 
" Good-morning," said Westover. 
" How are you ? " returned the other, without moving 
or making any sign of welcome for a moment. But 
then he lifted his axe, and struck it into the carf on 
the tree, and came to meet Westover. 
As he advanced he held out his hand. " Oh, 
 
you're the one that stopped that fellow that day when 
he was tryin' to scare my children. Well, I thought 
I should run across you, some time." He shook hands 
with Westover, in token of the gratitude which did 
not express itself in words. " How are you ? Treat 
you pretty well up at the Durgins ' ? I guess so. The 
old woman knows how to cook, anyway. Jackson's 
about the best o' the lot above ground, though I don't 
know as I know very much against the old man, either. 
But that boy, I declare I 'most feel like takin' the 
top of his head off when he gets at his tricks. Set 
down." 
Whitwell, as Westover divined the man to be, took 
a seat himself on a high stump, which suited his 
length of leg, and courteously waved Westover to a 
place on the log in front of him. A long ragged beard 
of brown, with lines of gray in it, hung from his chin, 
and mounted well up on his thin cheeks toward his 
friendly eyes. His mustache lay sunken on his lip, 
which had fallen in with the loss of his upper teeth. 
From the lower jaw a few incisors showed at this slant 
and that as he talked. 
" Well, well ! " he said, with the air of wishing the 
talk to go on, but without having anything immedi- 
ately to offer himself. 
Westover said, " Thank you," as he dropped on the 
-log, and Whitwell added, relentingly, " I don't suppose 
a fellow's so much to blame, if he's got the devil in 
him, as what the devil is." 
He referred the point with a twinkle of his eyes to 
Westover, who said: "It's always a question, of 
 
course, whether it's the devil. It may be original sin 
with the fellow himself." 
"Well, that's something so," said Whitwell, with 
pleasure in the distinction rather than assent. '' But 
I guess it ain't original sin in the boy. Got it from 
his gran'father pootty straight, I should say, and may- 
be the old man had it second-hand. Ha'd to say just 
where so much cussedness gits statted." 
" His father's father ? " asked Westover, willing to 
humor Whitwell's evident wish to philosophize the 
Durgins' history. 
" Mother's. He kept the old tavern stand on the 
west side of Lion's Head, on the St. Albans Eoad, and 
I guess he kept a pootty good house in the old times 
when the stages stopped with him. Ever noticed how 
a man on the mean side in politics always knows how 
to keep a hotel ? Well, it's something curious. If 
there was ever a mean side to any question, old Mason 
was on it. My folks used to live around there, and I 
can remember when I was a boy hangin' around the 
bar-room nights hearin' him argue that colored folks 
had no souls ; and along about the time the fugitive 
slave law was passed, the folks pootty near run him 
out o' town for puttin' the United States Marshal on 
the scent of a fellow that was breakin' for Canada. 
Well, it was just so when the war come. It was known 
for a fact that he was in with them Secesh devils up 
over the line that was plannin' a raid into Vermont in 
'63. He'd got pootty low down by that time ; railroads 
took o£E all the travel ; tavern 'd got to be a regular 
doggery ; old man always drank some, I guess. That 
 
was a good while after his girl Ijad married Durgin. 
He was dead against it, and it broke him up consid'a- 
ble when she would have him. Well, cue night, the 
old stand burnt up and him in it, and neither of 'em 
insured ! " 
Whitwell laughed with a pleasure in his satire which 
gave the monuments in his lower jaw a rather sinister 
action. But as if he felt a rebuke in Westover's 
silence, he added : " There ain't anything against Mis' 
Durgin. She's done her part, and she's had more 
than her share of hard knocks. If she was tough, to 
sta't with, she's had blows enough to meller her. But 
that's the way I account for the boy. I s'pose I'd 
oughtn't to feel the way I do about him, but he's such 
a pest to the whole neighborhood that he'd have the 
most pop'la' fune'l — Well, I guess I've said enough. 
I'm much obliged to you, though, Mr. — " 
" Westover," the painter suggested. " But the boy 
isn't so bad, all the time." 
" Couldn't be ! " said Whitwell, with a cackle of 
humorous enjoyment. " He has his spells of bein' 
decent, and he's pootty smart, too. But when the 
other spell ketches him, it's like as if the devil got a 
hold of him, as I said in the first place. I lost my 
wife, here, two-three years along back, and that little 
girl you see him tormentin', she's a regular little moth- 
er to her brother ; and whenever Jeff Durgin sees her 
with him, seems as if the Old Scratch got into him. 
Well, I'm glad I didn't come across him, that day. 
How you gittin' along with Lion's Head ? Sets quiet 
enough for you ! " Whitwell rose from the stump, and 
brushed the clinging chips from his thighs. " Folks 
trouble you any, lookin' on ? " 
" Not yet," said Westover. 
" Well, there ain't a great many to," said Whitvvell, 
going back to his axe. " I should like to see you 
workin' some day. Do' know as I ever saw an attist 
at it." 
" I should like to have you," said Westover. " Any 
time." 
" All right." Whitwell pulled his axe out of the 
carf, and struck it in again with a force that made a 
wide, square chip leap out. He looked over his shoul- 
der at Westover, who was moving away. " Say ! Stop 
in, some time you're passin'. I live in that wood-col- 
ored house at the foot of the Durgins' lane." 
VIII. 
In a little sunken place, behind a rock, some rods 
away, Westover found Jefi lurking with his dog, both 
silent and motionless. " Hello ! " he said, inquiringhr. 
" Come back to show you the way," said the boy. 
" Thought you couldn't find it alone." 
" Oh ! why didn't you say you'd wait ? " The boy 
grinned. " I shouldn't think a fellow like you would 
want to be afraid of any man, even for the fun of scar- 
ing a little girl." JefE stopped grinning, and looked 
interested, as if this was a view of the case that had 
not occurred to him. " But perhaps you like to be 
afraid." 
" I don't know as I do," said the boy, and West- 
over left him to the question a great part of the way 
home. He did not express any regret, or promise any 
reparation. But a few days after that, when he had 
begun to convoy parties of children up to see West- 
over at work, in the late afternoon, on their way home 
from school, and to show the painter off to them as a 
sort of family property, he once brought the young 
Whitwells. He seemed on perfect terms with them 
now, and when the crowd of larger children hindered 
 
the little boy's view of the picture, Jeff, in his quality 
of host, lifted him under his arms and held him up so 
that he could look as long as he liked. 
The girl seemed ashamed of the good understand- 
ing, before Westover. JeflE offered to make a place 
for her among the other children who had looked long 
enough, but she pulled the front of her bonnet across 
her face and said that she did not want to look, and 
caught her brother by the hand and ran away with 
him. Westover thought this charming somehow ; he 
liked the intense shyness which the child's intense 
passion had hidden from him before. 
Jeff acted as host to the neighbors who came to 
inspect the picture, and they all came, within a circuit 
of several miles around, and gave him their opinions 
freely, or scantily, according to their several tempera- 
ments. They were mainly favorable, though there was 
some frank criticism, too, spoken over the painter's 
shoulder as openly as if he were not by. There was 
no question but of likeness ; all finer facts were far 
from them ; they wished to see how good a portrait 
Westover had made, and some of them consoled him 
with the suggestion that the likeness would come out 
more when the picture got dry. 
Whitwell when he came attempted a larger view of 
the artist's work, but apparently more out of kindness 
for him than admiration of the picture. He said he 
presumed you could not always get a thing like that 
just right, the first time, and that you had to keep 
trying till you did get it ; but it paid in the end. Jeff 
had stolen down from the house with his dog, drawn 
 
by the fascination which one we have injured always 
has for us; when Whitwell suddenly turned upon him, 
and asked, jocularly, " What do you think, JeS ? " the 
boy could only kick his dog, and drive it home, as a 
means of hiding his feelings. 
He brought the teacher to see the picture, the last 
Friday before the painter went away. She was a cold- 
looking, austere girl, pretty enough, with eyes that 
wandered away from the young man, although JefE 
used all his arts to make her feel at home in his pres- 
ence. She pretended to have merely stopped on her 
way up to see Mrs. Diirgin, and she did not venture 
any comment on the painting; but when Westover 
asked something about her school, she answered him 
promptly enough, as to the number and ages and sexes 
of the school-children. He ventured so far toward a 
joke with her as to ask if she had much trouble with 
such a tough subject as JeS, and she said he could be 
good enough when he had a mind. If he could get 
over his teasing, she said, with the air of reading him 
a lecture, she would not have anything to complain of ; 
and Jefi looked ashamed, but rather of the praise than 
the blame. His humiliation seemed complete when 
she said, finally, " He's a good scholar." 
On the Tuesday following, Westover meant to go. 
It was the end of his third week, and it had brought 
him into September. The weather since he had begun 
to paint Lion's Head was perfect for his work; but 
with the long drought it had grown very warm. Many 
trees now had flamed into crimson on the hill slopes ; 
the yellowing corn in the fields gave out a thin, dry 
 
sound as the delicate wind stirred the blades ; but 
only the sounds and sights were autumnal. The heat 
was oppressive at mid-day, and at night the cold had 
lost its edge. There was no dew, and Mrs. Durgin 
sat out with Weslover on the porch while he smoked 
a final pipe there. She had come to join him for 
some fixed purpose apparently, and she called to her 
boy, " You go to bed, JefE," as if she wished to be 
alone with Westover; the men folks were already in 
bed ; he could hear them cough, now and then. 
" Mr. Westover," the woman began, even as she 
swept her skirts forward before she sat down, " I want 
to ask you whether you would let that picture of yours 
go on part board ? I'll give you back just as much 
as you say of this money." 
He looked round and saw that she had in the hand 
dropped in her lap the bills he had given her after 
supper. 
" Why, I couldn't, very well, Mrs. Durgin," he 
began. 
" I presume you'll think I'm foolish," she pursued. 
" But I do want that picture ; I don't know when I've 
ever wanted a thing more. It's just like Lion's Head, 
the way I've seen it, day in and day out, every summer 
since I come here thirty-five years ago ; it's beautiful ! " 
"Mrs. Durgin," said Westover, "you gratify me 
more than I can tell you. I wish — I wish I could let 
you have the picture. I — I don't know what to say — " 
" Why dmi't you let me have it then ? If we ever 
had to go away from here — if anything happened to 
us — it's the one thing I should want to keep and take 
 
with me. There ! That's the way I feel about it. I 
can't explain ; but I do wish you'd let me have it." 
Some emotion which did not utter itself in the 
desire she expressed made her voice shake in the 
words. She held out the bank-notes to him, and they 
rustled with the tremor of her hand. 
" Mrs. Durgin, I suppose I shall have to be frank 
with you, and you mustn't feel hurt. I have to live by 
my work, and I have to get as much as I can for it — " 
" That's what I say. I don't want to beat you down 
on it. I'll give you whatever you think is right. It's 
my money, and my husband feels just as I do about 
it," she urged. 
" You don't quite understand," he said gently. " I 
expect to have an exhibition of my pictures in Boston 
this fall, and I hope to get two or three hundred dol- 
lars for Lion's Head." 
" I've been a proper fool ! " cried the woman, and 
she drew in a long breath. 
" Oh, don't mind," he begged. " It's all right. . I've 
never had any offer for a picture that I'd rather take 
than yours. I know the thing can't be altogether bad 
after what you've said. And I'll tell you what ! I'll 
have it photographed when I get to Boston, and I'll 
send you a photograph of it." 
" How much will that be ? " Mrs. Durgin asked, as 
if taught caution by her offer for the painting. 
" Nothing. And if you'll accept it, and hang it up 
here somewhere, I shall be very glad.'- 
" Thank you," said Mrs. Durgin, and the meekness, 
the wounded pride, he fancied in her, touched him. 
 
He did not know at first how to break the silence 
which she let follow upon her words. At last he said : 
" You spoke, just now, about taking it with you. Of 
course you don't think of leaving Lion's Head ! " 
She did not answer for so long a time that he 
thought she had not perhaps heard him, or heeded 
what he said, but she answered, finally : " We did think 
of it. The day you come we had about made up our 
minds to leave.*' 
" Oh ! " 
" But I've been thinkin' of something since you've 
been here that I don't know but you'll say is about as 
wild as wantin' to buy a three-hundred-dollar picture 
with a week's board." She gave a short self-scornful 
laugh ; but it was a laugh, and it relieved the tension. 
" It may not be worth any more," he said, glad of 
the relief. 
" Oh, I guess it is," she rejoined, and then she 
waited for him to prompt her. 
" Well ? " 
" Well, it's this ; and I wanted to ask you, anyway. 
You think there'd be any chance of my gettin' sum- 
mer folks to come here and board, if I was to put an 
advertisement in a Boston paper ? I know it's a lone- 
some place, and there ain't what you may call attrac- 
tions. But the folks from the hotels, sometimes, when 
they ride over in a stage to see the view, praise up the 
scenery, and I guess it is sightly. I know that well 
enough; and I ain't afraid but what I can do for 
boarders as well as some, if not better. What do you 
think?" 
 
" I think that's a capital idea, Mrs. Durgin." 
" It's that, or go," she said. " There ain't a livin' 
for us on the farm any more, and we got to do some- 
thin'. If there was anything else I could do ! But 
I've thought it out, and thought it out, and I guess 
there ain't anything I can do but take boarders — if I 
can get them." 
" I should think you'd find it rather pleasant on 
some accounts. Your boarders would be company for 
you," said Westover. 
" We're comjiany enough for ourselves," said Mrs. 
Durgin. " I ain't ever been lonesome here, from the 
first minute. I guess I had company enough when I 
was a girl to last me — the sort that hotel folks are. I 
presume Mr. Whitwell spoke to you about my father ? " 
"Yes; he did, Mrs. Durgin." 
" I don't presume he said anything that wa'n't true. 
It's all right. But I know how my mother used to 
slave, and how I used to slave myself ; and I always 
said I'd rather do anything than wait on boarders ; 
and now I guess I got to come to it. The sight of 
summer folks makes me sick ! I guess I could 'a' had 
'em long ago, if I'd wanted to. There ! I've said 
enough." She rose, with a sudden lift of her power- 
ful frame, and stood a moment as if expecting West- 
over to say something. 
He said, " Well, when you've made your mind up, 
send your advertisement to me, and I'll attend to it 
for you." 
" And you won't forget about the picture ? " 
" No. I won't forget that." ♦ 
 
The next morning he made ready for an early start, 
and in his preparations he had the zealous and even 
affectionate help of Jeff Durgin. The boy seemed to 
wish him to carry away the best impression of him, or 
at least to make him forget all that had been sinister 
or unpleasant in his behavior. They had been good 
comrades since the first evil day ; they had become 
good friends even ; and Westover was touched by the 
boy's devotion at parting. He helped the painter get 
his pack together in good shape, and he took pride in 
strapping it on Westover's shoulders, adjusting and 
readjusting it with care, and fastening it so that all 
should be safe and snug. He lingered about at the 
risk of being late for school, as if to see the last 
of the painter, and he waved his hat to him when 
Westover looked back at the house from half down 
the lane. Then he vanished, and Westover went 
slowly on till he reached that corner of the orchard 
where the slanting gravestones of the family burial- 
ground showed above the low wall. There, suddenly, 
a storm burst upon him. The air rained apples, that 
struck him on the head, the back, the side, and pelted 
in violent succession on his knapsack and canvases, 
camp-stool and easel. He seemed assailed by four or 
five skilful marksmen, whose missiles all told. 
When he could lift his face to look round, he heard 
a shrill, accusing voice, " Oh, Jeff Durgin ! " and he 
saw another storm of apples fly through the air tow- 
ard the little Whitwell girl, who dodged and ran along 
the road below, and escaped in the direction of the 
school-house. Then the boy's face showed itself over 
 
the top of one of the gravestones, all agrin with joy. 
He waited and watched Westover keep slowly on, as 
if nothing had happened, and presently he let some 
apples fall from his hands, and walked slowly back to 
the house, with his dog at his heels. 
When Westover reached the level of the road, and 
the shelter of the woods near Whitwell's house, he 
unstrapped his load to see how much harm had been 
done to his picture. He found it unhurt, and before 
he had got the burden back again, he saw JefE Durgin 
leaping along the road toward the school-house, whirl- 
ing his satchel of books about his head, and shouting 
gayly to the girl, now hidden by the bushes at the 
other end of the lane, " Cynthy ! Oh, Cynthy ! Wait 
for me ! I want to tell you something." 
IX. 
Westover received next spring the copy for an 
advertisement from Mrs. Durgin, which she asked to 
have him put in some paper for her. She said that 
her son Jackson had written it out, and Westover 
found it so well written that he had scarcely to change 
the wording. It offered the best of farm-board, with 
plenty of milk and eggs, berries and fruit, for five 
dollars a week at Lion's Head Farm, and it claimed for 
the farm the merit of the finest view of the celebrated 
Lion's Head Mountain. It was signed, as her letter 
