such a splendid turnout it looked like a pageant.
They came up East Broadway. The street lamps were just being lighted.
They turned up Columbia Street and Avenue D, and stopped when they came
to Houston Street. A man on the corner was selling hot waffles as fast
as half a dozen men could bake them, and a colored woman had a stand of
hot coffee that scented up the air with its fragrance.
They had to walk up home, but Steve carried Hanny over all the
crossings. It was a regular carnival. The children decided snow in New
York was ever so much more fun than snow in the country.
But after a few days they settled to it as a regular thing, though the
sleighs were flying about in their tireless fashion, making the air
musical with bells. And Christmas was coming.
It really was Christmas then. Not to have hung up your stocking would
have been an insult to the sweetest, merriest, wisest, tenderest little
man in the world. There were some fireplaces left for him to come down,
and he was on hand promptly.
And such appetizing smells as lurked in every corner of the house! Fruit
cake, crullers and doughnuts, and mince pies! Everybody was busy from
morning till night. When Hanny went to the kitchen some one said, "Run
up-stairs, child, you'll be in the way here," and Margaret would hustle
something in her apron and say, "Run down-stairs, Hanny dear," until it
seemed as if there was no place for her.
The Dean children were busy, too. But Nora Whitney didn't seem to have
anything to do but nurse dear Old Gray and read fairy stories. Delia
told them Ophelia was to be married Christmas morning, and "they were
going over to his folks in Jersey to spend a week."
"But it won't make a bit of difference," Delia announced. "Frank has a
steady beau now and they'll take the parlor. And then, I suppose, it'll
be my turn. I shall just hate to be grown up and have long skirts on and
do up my hair, and be so fussy about everything. When I think of that I
wish I was a boy."
The little girl wondered if Margaret would get married next Christmas.
Her gowns were quite long now, and she did have a grown-up air. It
seemed years since last Christmas. So many things had happened.
The cousins were to come down from Tarrytown and make a visit, and Aunt
Patience and Aunt Nancy were to come up from Henry Street for the
Christmas dinner. If they only could bring the cat!
"Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas!" some one shouted while it was still
dark. Hanny woke out of a sound sleep. "Merry Christmas," said Margaret
with a kiss.
"Oh dear, I shan't get ahead of anybody," she sighed. "Do you think I
could get up, Peggy?"
"I must light a candle," Margaret said.
"Come down and see what's in your stocking, Han!" shouted Jim.
Margaret sprang out of bed and put on the little girl's warm woollen
wrapper and let her go down. She ran eagerly to her mother's room, and
her father made believe asleep that she might wake him up. She wanted
to wish some one Merry Christmas the first of all.
Two wax candles were burning in the back room and the fire was
crackling. There were stockings and stockings, and hers were such little
mites that some one had hung a white bag on the brass nail that held the
feather-duster, and marked it "For Hanny." And a box lay in a chair.
There was a cruller man with eyes, nose, and mouth. There were candies
galore, the clarified ones, red and yellow, idealized animals of all
kinds. There was an elegant silver paper cornucopia tied with blue
ribbons. There was a box of beautiful pop-corn that had turned itself
inside out. Ribbon for her hair, a paint-box, a case of Faber pencils,
handkerchiefs, a lovely new pink merino dress, a muff that purported to
be ermine, a pair of beautiful blue knit slippers tied with ribbons.
These didn't come from Santa Claus, for they had on a card--"With best
love and a Merry Christmas, from Dolly." That was Dolly Beekman. Hanny
laid them up against her face and kissed them, they were so soft and
beautiful.
She drew a long breath before she opened the box. Of course it couldn't
be a real live kitty. John and Steve were coming in at the door.
"Merry Christmas!" she shouted with the boys They were not so very far
ahead of her.
Steve caught her under the arms and held her almost up to the ceiling,
it seemed. She was so little and light.
"Ten kisses before you can come down."
She paid the ten kisses, and would have given twice the number.
"I'm trying to guess what is in the box." She looked perplexed and a
crease came between her eyes.
"It's a chrononhontontholagosphorus!"
"A--what?" Her face was a study.
The boys shouted with laughter.
"Yes, Joe sent it. Santa Claus had given his all out, and Joe had to
skirmish around sharp to get one."
"Is it alive?" she asked timidly, her eyes growing larger with something
that was almost fright.
"Oh, Steve!" said Margaret, in an upbraiding tone. "Boys, you're enough
to frighten one."
Steve untied the string and took off the cover. Hanny had tight hold of
her sister's hand. Steve lifted some tissue paper and tilted up the box.
There lay a lovely wax doll with golden hair, a smiling mouth that just
betrayed some little teeth, eyes that would open and shut. She was
dressed in light-blue silk and beautiful lace. Though her mother had
said she was too big to have a doll, Joe knew better.
She was almost speechless with joy. Then she knelt down beside it and
took one pretty hand.
"Oh," she said, "I wish you could know how glad I am to have you!
There's only one thing that could make me any gladder, that would be to
have you alive!" Steve winked his eyes hard. Her delight was pathetic.
Then she had to see the boys' Christmas. Benny Frank had a new suit of
clothes, Jim had a pair of boots, which was every boy's ambition then,
and an overcoat. And lots of books, pencils, gloves, and the candy it
would not have been Christmas without.
Mr. Underhill poked up the fire and took the little girl on his knee.
Mrs. Underhill put out the candles, for it was daylight, and then went
down to help get breakfast. Cousin Fannie and Roseann, as Mrs. Eustis
was always called, came in and had to express their opinion of
everything. Then breakfast was ready.
John went down in the sleigh for Aunt Patience and Aunt Nancy Archer.
They were not own sisters but sisters-in-law and each had a comfortable
income. It did not take very much to make people comfortable then. They
owned their house and rented some rooms.
Hanny had to go in and see Josie and Tudie Dean's Christmas and bring
them in to inspect hers. Then Dele and Nora Whitney were her next
callers. Nora had a silk dress and a gold ring with a prettily set
turquoise.
"The marriage was at ten," began Dele, "and it was just nothing at all.
I wouldn't be married in such a doleful way. She just had on a brown
silk dress with lots of lace, and white gloves, and the minister came
and it was all over in ten minutes. There was wedding-cake and wine.
I've brought you in some to dream on. Nora and I are going down to
Auntie's in Beach Street where there's to be a regular party and a
Christmas tree and lots of fun. After 'Phelia comes back she's going to
have a wedding-party and wear her real wedding-dress."
Nora thought the doll beautiful. Hanny just lifted it out of the box and
put it back. It seemed almost too sacred to touch.
Jim went out presently to get some Christmas cake. The grocers and
bakers treated the children of their customers to what was properly New
Year's cake, and the boys thought it no end of fun to go around and wish
Merry Christmas.
The dinner was at two. Doctor Joseph came in to dine and to be
congratulated by the cousins. The little girl's gratitude and delight
was very sweet to him. He put up the piano stool and she played her
pretty little exercises for him. Then about four he and Steve went down
to the Beekmans, where there was a dancing party in the evening.
The elders sat and talked, to Benny Frank's great delight. The "old
times" seemed so wonderful to the children. Aunt Patience was the elder
of the two ladies, just turned seventy now, and had lived in New York
all her life. She had seen Washington when he was the first President of
the United States, and lived in Cherry Street with Mrs. Washington and
the two Custis children. Afterward they had removed to the Macomb House.
Everything had been so simple then, people going to bed by nine o'clock
unless on very special occasions. To go to the old theatre on John
Street was considered the height of fashionable amusement. You saw the
Secretaries and their families, and the best people in the city.
But what amused the children most was the Tea Water Pump.
"You see," said Aunt Patience, "we had nice cisterns that caught
rainwater for family use, and we think now our old cistern-water is
enough better than the Croton for washing. There were a good many wells
but some were brackish and poor, and people were saying then they were
not fit to use. The Tea Water pump was on the corner of Chatham and
Pearl, and particular people bought it at a penny a gallon. It was
carried around in carts, and you subscribed regularly. My, how choice
we were of it!"
"There's a pump down here at the junction that's just splendid!" said
Jim, "I used to go for water last summer, it was so good and cold."
"We miss our nice spring at home," said Mrs. Underhill, with a sigh.
"And what else?" subjoined Ben.
"Oh, the milk did not go round in wagons. There were not half so many
people to supply. We kept a cow and sold to our neighbors. The milkmen
had what was called a yoke over their shoulders, with a tin can at each
end. They used to cry, 'Milk ho! ye-o!' The garbage man rang his bell
and you brought out your pail. A few huckster men were beginning to go
round, but Hudson Market was the place to buy fresh vegetables that came
in every morning. And, oh, there were the chimney-sweeps!"
"We had our chimney swept here," said Jim. "The man had a long jointed
handle and a wiry brush at the end."
"But then there were little negro boys who climbed up and down and
sometimes scraped them as they went. But several were smothered or stuck
fast in London and it was considered cruel and dangerous. You'd hear the
boys in the morning with their 'Sweep ho!' and you wouldn't believe how
many variations they could make to it."
"Poor little boys!" said Hanny. "Didn't they get awful black and sooty?"
The boys laughed. "They were black to begin with," said Jim. "All they
had to do was to shake themselves."
"And how do you suppose Santa Claus keeps so clean?" asked the little
girl, nothing daunted.
That was a poser. No one could quite tell.
"We used to burn out our chimney," announced Aunt Patience.
"Burn it out?"
"Yes. We'd take a rather lowering day, or start in just as it was
beginning to rain. We'd put a heap of straw in the fireplace and kindle
it, and the soot would soon catch. Then some one would go up on the roof
to see if the sparks caught anywhere. We never let it get very dirty.
But presently they passed a law that no one should do it on account of
the danger. But sometimes chimneys caught fire by accident," and Aunt
Patience laughed.
"Why, it was like the wolf in little Red Riding Hood," declared Hanny.
Then they all talked of the old roads and streets and the Collect which
was a great marshy pond, and the canal through Lispenard's meadows over
to the North River, where present Canal Street runs. In the Collect
proper there was a beautiful clear lake where people went fishing. A
great hill stood on Broadway, and had to be cut down more than twenty
feet.
Father Underhill recalled his first visit to the city when he was
nineteen, and going skating with some cousins. And now it was all graded
and finished streets, houses, and stores.
But Aunt Patience said it was time to go home, and they planned for the
Morgan cousins to come and spend the day. They were to bring the little
girl with them.
They had a light supper and then John escorted the ladies home. Benny
Frank wanted his father to tell some more incidents of the old times.
The little girl was tired and sleepy and ready to go to bed, but she had
one wish saved up for next Christmas already--a set of dishes.
CHAPTER XI
THE LITTLE GIRL IN POLITICS
A whole week of holidays! Jim and Benny Frank had their mother almost
wild, and Martha said "she would be dead in another week. If Christmas
came twice a year there would be no money nor no people left. They would
be all worn out."
It was splendid winter weather. Sunny and just warm enough to thaw and
settle the snow during the day and freeze it up again at night. Then
there came another small fall of snow to whiten up the streets and make
the air gayer than ever with bells.
The Morgan cousins had to go down and call on Miss Dolly Beekman, and
were very favorably impressed with her. The little girl went with them
to Cherry Street and had "just a beautiful time with the kitty," she
told her mother. Her blue woollen frock was full of white cat-hairs as a
memento. She went to tea with the little Dean girls, she spent an
afternoon with Nora, and had the little girls in to visit her. Margaret
played on the piano and they had a charming dance, beside playing "Hot
butter blue beans," which was no end of fun.
On New Year's Day everybody had "calls." Margaret was hardly considered
a young lady, but Miss Cynthia came to help entertain. It was really
very pleasant. A number of family relatives called in, some of whom they
had not seen since they came to the city. They were all rather
middle-aged, though Joe brought in his chum, a very handsome young man
who had graduated with his class but was two years older. Margaret was
quite abashed by Doctor Hoffman's attention to her, and his saying he
should take her good wishes as a happy omen for his New Year. Indeed,
she was very glad to have Miss Cynthia come to the rescue in her airy
fashion.
Late in the afternoon the Odells drove down. The little girls went
up-stairs to see the Christmas things and the lovely doll for whom no
name had been good enough. John had a fire in his room and it was nice
and warm, so he told them they might go up there. They played "mother"
and "visiting," and wound up with a splendid game of "Puss in the
Corner." There were only four pussies and they could have but three
corners, but it was no end of fun dodging about, and if they did squeal,
the folks down in the parlor hardly heard them.
Saturday was Saturday everywhere. It was "Ladies' day" too. But people
had to clear up their houses and begin a new week, a new year, as well,
for it was 1844.
The little girl wondered what made the years. Mrs. Craven explained that
the recurrence of the four seasons governed them, and some rather
learned reasons the child could not understand. But she said:
"It seems to me the year ought to begin in spring and not the middle of
the winter."
Ophelia came home, she was Mrs. Davis now, and they had a grand party
with music and dancing and a supper, and Nora wore her pretty new silk
frock. Then Mrs. Davis went down-town to be near her husband's business,
and started housekeeping in three rooms.
The next great event on the block was a children's party. They were
children then until they were at least sixteen. Miss Lily Ludlow and her
sister had ten dollars sent to each of them as a Christmas gift. Chris
went out straightway and bought a new coat. Lily's was new the winter
before. There were a great many things she needed, but most of all she
wanted a party. She had been to two already.
"What a silly idea!" said her father.
But Lily kept tight hold of her idea and her money, and the last of
January, with Chris' help, she brought it about. They took the bedstead
out of the back parlor and changed the furniture around. And though her
mother called it foolishness, she baked some tiny biscuits and made a
batch of crullers and boiled a ham. Lily bought fancy cakes, mottoes,
candies, and nuts, and a few oranges which were very expensive.
The Underhill boys were invited, of course. Benny said "he didn't
believe he would go. He shouldn't know what to do at a party."
"Why, follow your nose," laughed Jim. "Do just as the rest do. Don't be
a gump!"
"And I hate to be fooling round girls."
"You don't seem to mind Dele Whitney. You're just cracked about her."
I don't know how the boys of that day managed without the useful and
pithy word "mashed."
"It's no such thing, Jim Underhill! She's always down-stairs with her
mother. I go in to see Mr. Theodore;" yet Ben's face was scarlet.
"You know you like her," teasingly.
"I do like her. And it's awful mean not to ask her when she's in the
same crowd and lives on the block. But she doesn't care. She wouldn't
go."
"Sour grapes." Jim made a derisive face.
"You shut up about it."
"Don't get wrathy, Benjamin Franklin."
When his mother said "Benny Frank," he thought it the best name in the
whole world. Perhaps part was due to his mother's tone. And Ben was a
splendid boy's name. But his schoolmates did torment him. They asked him
if he had finished his roll, and if he had any to give away. They
pestered him about flying his kite, and inquired what he said to the
King of France when he went abroad--if it was "parley vous de donkey."
If there is anything the average school-boy can turn into ridicule he
does it. When Jim wanted to be exasperating he gave him his whole name.
And then Ben wished he had been called plain John, even if there had
been two in the family.
But the day of the party Jim coaxed him, and Jim could be irresistible.
Then Margaret said: "Oh, yes, I think I would go." She fixed up both of
the boys, and scented their handkerchiefs with her "triple extract," and
hoped they would have a nice time, insisting that one needn't be afraid
of girls.
Of course they did, especially Jim. He was in for all the fun and
frolic, and the kissing didn't worry him a bit when the "forfeits" were
announced. He didn't mind how deep he "stood in the well," nor how high
the tree was from which they "picked cherries." Ben could rise to an
emergency if he was not praying for it every moment.
Chris was a great card. She could not help wishing that she knew enough
young people in her social round to ask to a party. There were enough
young ladies, but a "hen party" wasn't much fun. She made herself very
agreeable to the Underhill boys, and wished in the sweetest of tones
"that she did know their sister Margaret."
There were a good many imperfect lessons the next day, but the party was
the great topic. Hosts of girls were "mad."
"I couldn't ask everybody. The house wouldn't hold them," declared Lily.
But she took great comfort in thinking she had "paid out" several girls
against whom she had a little grudge. And the "left-outs" declared they
wouldn't have gone anyhow. It must be admitted that the party did
advance Lily socially.
The family had hardly recovered from this spasm of gayety when Stephen
insisted that Margaret should go to a Valentine's ball at the Astor
House, to be given to the ladies by a club of bachelors. He was going to
take Dolly. Mrs. Bond would be there, and Dolly came up to coax her
prospective mother-in-law. "Margaret had not gone into any society and
was only a school-girl, altogether too young to have her head filled
with such nonsense," with many more reasons and conjunctions. Dolly was
so sweet and persuasive, and said the simplest white gown would do,
young girls really didn't dress much. Then Margaret would have it ready
for her graduation. They would be sure to send her home early and take
the best of care of her.
Joe said: "Why, of course she must go. It wasn't like being among
strangers with Dolly and her people." So the boys and Dolly carried the
day. All the while Margaret's heart beat with an unaccustomed throb. She
did not really know whether she wanted to go or not.
St. Valentine's Day was held in high repute then. You sent your best
girl the prettiest valentine your purse could afford, and she laid it
away in lavender to show to her children. Bashful young fellows often
asked the momentous question in that manner. There were some lovely
ones, with original verses written in, for there were young bards in
those days who struggled over birthday and valentine verses, and who
would have scorned second-hand protestations.
Though Margaret didn't get any valentines the little girl received three
that were extremely pretty. She asked Steve if he didn't send one.
"Oh, dear," he answered, as if he were amazed at the question, "I had to
spend all my money buying Dolly one." And Joe pretended to be so
surprised. He had spent his money for Margaret's sash and gloves and
bunch of flowers. Even John would not own up to the soft impeachment
and declared, "Your lovers sent them."
"But I haven't any lovers," said the little girl, in all innocence.
She used to read them to her mother, and ask her which she thought came
from Steve, which from Joe and John. It was quite funny, though, that
Nora Whitney had one exactly like one of hers. And even Mr. Theodore
declared he didn't send them.
Margaret looked like an angel, the little girl thought. Her white
cashmere frock was simply made, with a lace frill about the neck and at
the edge of the short sleeves. Her broad blue satin sash was elegant.
Miss Cynthia came and plaited her beautiful hair in a marvellous
openwork sort of braid, and she had two white roses and a silver arrow
in it. Her slippers were white kid, her gloves had just a cream tint,
and Miss Cynthia brought her own opera cloak, which was light brocaded
silk, wadded and edged with swans-down.
Joe looked just splendid, the little girl decided. If she could only
have seen Dolly!
The Beekman coach was sent up for Margaret, who kissed her little sister
and went off like Cinderella!
"Oh, do you suppose she will meet the king's son?" asked Hanny, all
excitement.
"Oh, child, what nonsense!" exclaimed her mother.
It wasn't the king's son; but young Doctor Hoffman was there, and
Margaret danced several times with him. They talked so much about Joe
that Margaret felt very friendly with him.
After that the world ran on in snow, in sunshine, and in rain. The days
grew longer. March was rough and blowy. Mother Underhill had to go up in
the country for a week, for Grandfather Van Kortlandt died. He had been
out of health and paralyzed for a year or two. Aunt Katrina had been
staying there, and they would go on in the old house until spring. She
was grandmother's sister. Of course no one could feel very sorry about
poor old Uncle Nickie, as he was called. He had always been rather
queer, and was no comfort to himself, for he had lost his mind, but
everybody admitted that grandmother had done her duty, and the Van
Kortlandt children, grown men and women, thanked her for all her good
care.
Oh, what fun the children had on the first of April! What rags were
pinned to people--what shrieks of "My cat's got a long tail!" And there
on the sidewalk would lay a tempting half-dollar with a string out of
sight, and when the pedestrian stooped to pick it up--presto! how it
would vanish. When one enterprising wight put his foot on it and picked
it up triumphantly the boys called out:
"April fool! That's an awful sell, mister! It's a bad half-dollar."
They watched and saw him bite it and throw it down. Then they went after
it and had their fun over and over again. Stephen had given the
half-dollar to Jim with strict injunctions not to attempt to pass it or
he'd get a "hiding," which no one ever did in the Underhill family. Mrs.
Underhill declared "'Milyer was as easy as an old shoe, and she didn't
see what had kept the children from going to ruin." Joe always insisted
"it was pure native goodness."
Then they called out to the carters and other wagoners: "Oh, mister,
say! Your wheel's goin' round!" And sometimes without understanding the
driver would look and hear the shout.
They had another trick they played out in the Bowery. Boys had a
reprehensible trick of "cutting behind," as the stages had two steps at
the back, and the boys used to spring on them and steal rides. It was
such a sight of fun to dodge the whip and spring off at the right
moment. Sometimes a cross-grained passenger who had been a very good boy
in his youth would tell.
On this day they didn't steal the ride. They called out with great
apparent honesty: "Cuttin' behind, driver--two boys!"
Then the driver would slash his whip furiously, and even the passers-by
would enjoy the joke. Of course you could only play that once on each
driver.
Altogether it was a day of days. You were fooled, of course; no one was
smart enough to keep quite clear. But almost everybody was good-natured
about it. Martha found some eggs that had been "blown," and a potato
filled with ashes, and there were inventions that would have done credit
to the "pixies."
The little girl would not go out to play in the afternoon, and she
didn't even run when Jim said, "Nora wanted her for something special."
But she really had no conscience about fooling her father several times.
He pretended to be so surprised, and said, "Oh, you little witch!" It
was a day on which you had need to keep your wits about you.
Then with the long days and the sunshine came so many things. Little
girls skipped rope and rolled hoops, their guiding-sticks tied with a
bright ribbon. The boys had iron hoops and an iron guider, and they made
a musical jingle as they went along. There were kites too, but you
didn't catch Benny Frank flying one. And marbles and ball. In the
afternoon the streets seemed alive with children. But what would those
people have said to the five-story tenement-houses with their motley
crew! Then Ludlow and Allen and many another street wore such a clean
and quaint aspect, and the ladies sat at their parlor windows in the
afternoon sewing and watching their little ones.
"Ring-a-round-a-rosy" began again. And dear me, there were so many
signs! You must not step on a crack in the flagging or something
dreadful would happen to you. And you mustn't pick up a pin with the
point toward you or you would surely be disappointed. If the head was
toward you, you could pick it up and make a wish which would be sure to
come to pass. You must cut your finger-nails Monday morning before
breakfast and you would get a present before the week was out. And if
you walked straight to school that morning you were likely to have good
lessons, but if you loitered or stopped to play or were late, bad luck
would follow you all the week. And the little girls used to say:
    "Lesson, lesson, come to me,
    Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, three,
    Thursday, Friday, then you may
    Have a rest on Saturday,"
So you see a little girl's life was quite a weighty matter.
That summer political excitement ran high. Indeed, it had begun in the
winter. A new party had nominated Mr. James Harper for mayor, and in
the spring he had been elected. Mr. Theodore used to pause and discuss
men and measures now that it was getting warm enough to sit out on the
stoop and read your paper. Country habits were not altogether tabooed.
But what impressed his honor the mayor most strongly on the little
girl's mind was something Aunt Nancy Archer, who was now an earnest
Methodist, said when she was up to tea one evening.
"I did look to see Brother Harper set up a little. It's only natural,
you know, and I can't quite believe in perfection. But there he was in
class-meeting, not a mite changed, just as friendly and earnest as ever,
not a bit lifted up because he had been called to the highest position
in the city."
"There's no doubt but he will make a good mayor," rejoined Mr.
Underhill. "He's a good, honest man. And all the brothers are capable
men, men who are able to pull together. I'm not sure but we'll have to
go outside of party lines a little. It ought to broaden a man to be in a
big city."
The little girl slipped her hand in Aunt Nancy's.
"Is he your school-teacher?" she ventured timidly.
"School-teacher? Why, no, child!" in surprise.
"You said class----"
"You'll have to be careful, Aunt Nancy. That little girl has an
inquiring mind," laughed her father.
"Yes. It's a church class. I belong to the same church as Brother
Harper. We're old-fashioned Methodists. We go to this class to tell our
religious experiences. You are not old enough to understand that. But we
talk over our troubles and trials, and tell of our blessings too, I
hope, and then Brother Harper has a good word for us. He comforts us
when we are down at the foot of the hill, and he gives us a word of
warning if he thinks we are climbing heights we're not quite fitted for.
He makes a comforting prayer."
"I should like to see him," said the little girl.
"Well, get your father to bring you down to church some Sunday. Do,
Vermilye."
"Any time she likes," said her father.
They talked on, but Hanny went off into a little dreamland of her own.
She was not quite clear what a mayor's duty was, only he was a great
man. And her idea of his not being set up, as Aunt Nancy had phrased it,
was that there was a great handsome chair, something like a throne, that
had been arranged for him, and he had come in and taken a common seat.
She was to have a good deal of hero-worship later on, and be roused and
stirred by Carlyle, but there was never anything finer than the
admiration kindled in her heart just then.
After Aunt Nancy went away she crept into her father's lap.
"Aren't you glad Mr. Harper's our mayor?" she asked. "Did everybody vote
for him? Do girls--big girls--and women vote?"
"No, dear. Men over twenty-one are the only persons entitled to vote.
Steve and Joe and I voted. And it's too bad, but John can't put in his
vote for President this fall."
"The mayor governs the city, and the governor, the State. What does the
President do?"
Her father explained the most important duties to her, and that a
President was elected every four years. That was the highest office in
the country.
"And who is going to be our President?" She was getting to be a party
woman already.
"Well, it looks as if Henry Clay would. We shall all work for him."
If it only wouldn't come bedtime so soon!
The little girl studied and played with a will. She could skip rope like
a little fairy, but it had been quite a task to drive her hoop straight.
She was unconsciously inclined to make "the line of beauty." I don't
know that it was always graceful, either.
Some new people moved in the block. Just opposite there was a tall thin
woman who swept and dusted and scrubbed until Steve said "he was afraid
there wouldn't be enough dirt left to bury her with." She wore faded
morning-gowns and ragged checked aprons, and had her head tied up with
something like a turban, only it was grayish and not pretty. She did not
always get dressed up by afternoon. Oh, how desperately clean she was!
Even her sidewalk had a shiny look, and as for her door brasses, they
outdid the sun.
She had one boy, about twelve perhaps. And his name was John Robert
Charles Reed. He was fair, well dressed, and so immaculately clean that
Jim said he'd give a dollar, if he could ever get so much money
together, just to roll him in the dirt. His mother always gave him his
full name. He went to a select school, but when he was starting away in
the morning his mother would call two or three times to know if he had
all of his books, if he had a clean handkerchief, and if he was sure his
shoes were tied, and his clothes brushed.
And one day a curious sort of carriage went by, a chair on wheels, and a
man was pushing it while a lady walked beside it. In the chair was a
most beautiful girl or child, fair as a lily, with long light curls and
the whitest of hands. Hanny watched in amazement, and then went in to
tell her mother. "She looks awful pale and sick," said Hanny.
Josie Dean found out presently who she was. She had come to one of the
houses that had the pretty gardens in front. She had been very ill, and
she couldn't walk a step. And her name was Daisy Jasper.
Such a beautiful name, and not to be able to run and play! Oh, how
pitiful it was!
The little girl had her new spring and summer clothes made. They were
very nice, but somehow she did not feel as proud of them as she had last
summer. Her father took her to Aunt Nancy's church one Sunday. It was
very large and plain and full of people. Aunt Nancy sat pretty well up,
but they found her. There seemed a good many old men and women, Hanny
thought, but the young people were up in the galleries. She thought the
singing was splendid, it really went up with a shout. People sang in
earnest then.
When they came out everybody shook hands so cordially. Aunt Nancy waited
a little while and then beckoned a tall, kindly looking man, who was
about as old as her father, though there was something quite different
about him. He shook hands with Sister Archer, and she introduced him. He
said he was very glad to see Mr. Underhill among them, and smiled down
at the little girl as he took her small hand. She came home quite
delighted that she had shaken hands with the mayor. Then one day Steve
took her and Ben down to Cliff Street, through the wonderful
printing-house, small in comparison to what it is to-day. They met the
mayor again and had a nice chat.
The next great thing to Hanny was Margaret's graduation. She had been
studying very hard to pass this year, for she was past eighteen, and she
was very successful. Even Joe found time to go down. She wore her pretty
white dress, but she had a white sash, and her bodice had been turned in
round the neck to make it low, as girls wore them then. Hanny thought
her the prettiest girl there. She had an exquisite basket of flowers
sent her, beside some lovely bouquets. Annette Beekman graduated too,
and all the Beekman family were out in force.
There were some very pretty closing exercises in the little girl's
school, and at Houston Street Jim was one of the orators of the day, and
distinguished himself in "Marco Bozzaris," one of the great poems of
that period.
After that people went hither and thither, and when schools opened and
business started up the Presidential campaign was in full blast. There
was Clay and Frelinghuysen, Polk and Dallas, and at the last moment the
Nationals, a new party, had put up candidates, which was considered bad
for the Whigs. Still they shouted and sang with great gusto:
    "Hurrah, hurrah, the country's risin'
    For Harry Clay and Frelinghuysen!"
The Democrats, Loco-Focos, as they were often called in derision, were
very sure of their victory. So were the Whigs. The other party did not
really expect success. There were parades of some kind nearly every
night. Even the boys turned out and marched up and down with fife and
drum. There was no end of spirited campaign songs, and rhymes of every
degree. The Loco Foco Club at school used to sing:
    "Oh, poor old Harry Clay!
    Oh, poor old Harry Clay!
      You never can be President
    For Polk stands in the way."
Nora Whitney used to rock in the big chair with kitty in her arms, and
this was her version:
    "Oh, poor old pussy gray!
    Oh, poor old pussy gray!
      You never can be President
    For Polk stands in the way."
This didn't tease the little girl nearly so much, for she knew no matter
how sweet and lovely and good a cat might be, it could only aspire to
that honor in catland. She did so hate to hear Mr. Clay called old and
poor when he was neither. To her he was brave Harry of the West, the
hero of battle-fields.
Jim had a rather hard time as well. He thought, with a boy's loyalty,
his people must be right. But there was Lily, who, with all her
people, was a rabid Democrat. He quite made up his mind he wouldn't keep
in with her, but the two girls he liked next best had Democratic
affiliations also.
Then the Whigs had a grand procession. Perhaps it would have been the
part of wisdom to wait until the victory was assured, but the leaders
thought it best to arouse enthusiasm to the highest pitch.
Stephen had joined with some friends and hired a window down Broadway.
The little girl thought it a very magnificent display. Such bands of
strikingly dressed men marching to inspiriting music, their torches
flaring about in vivid rays, such carriage loads, such wagons
representing different industries, and there was the grand Ship of
State, drawn by white horses, four abreast, and gayly attired, in which
Henry Clay was to sail successfully into the White House. After that
imposing display the little girl had no fear at all. Jim was very
toploftical to Miss Lily for several days.
Then came the fatal day. There were no telegraphs to flash the news all
over the country before midnight. A small one connected Baltimore and
Washington, but long distance was considered chimerical.
So they had to wait and wait. Fortunes varied. At last reliable accounts
came, and Polk had stood in the way, or perhaps Mr. Binney, the third
candidate, had taken too many votes. Anyhow, the day was lost to brave
Harry of the West.
The little girl was bitterly disappointed. She would have liked all the
family to tie a black crape around their arms, as Joe had once when he
went to a great doctor's funeral. Dele teased her a good deal, and Nora
sang:
    "Hurrah, old pussy gray!
    Hurrah, old pussy gray!
      We've got the President and all,
    And Polk has won the day."
Then the Democrats had their grand procession. The houses were
illuminated, the streets were full of shouting children. Even the boys
had a small brigade that marched up and down the street. And oh, grief,
Jim marched with them!
"I wouldn't be such a turn-coat!" declared the little girl angrily. "I'm
ashamed of you, James Underhill. I shall always feel as if you wasn't my
brother any more."
"Sho!" returned Jim. "Half the boys turning out have Whig fathers! There
wouldn't have been enough for any sort of procession without us. And
they promised to cry quits if we would turn out. It don't mean anything
but fun!"
She took her trouble to her father. "You are sorry we have been beaten?"
she said excitedly.
"Yes, pussy, very sorry. I still think we shall be sorry that Clay isn't
President."
"I'm sorry all the time. And when he was so good and splendid, why
didn't they put him in?"
"Well, a great many people think Mr. Polk just as splendid."
"Oh, the Democrats!" she commented disdainfully.
"More than half the votes of the country went against our Harry of the
West. One side always has to be beaten. It's hard not to belong to the
winning side. But we won four years ago, and we did a big lot of
crowing, I remember. We shouted ourselves hoarse over the announcement
that:
    'Tippecanoe and Tyler too!
    Were bound to rule the country through.'
We drove our enemies out of sight and erected Log Cabins on their ruins.
We had a grand, good time. And then our brave and loyal Tippecanoe died,
and some of us have been rather disappointed in Mr. Tyler. We will all
hope for the best. There are a good many excellent men on both sides. I
guess the country will come out all right."
There really were tears in her eyes.
"You see, my little girl, we must make up our minds to occasional
defeat, especially when we go into politics," and there was the shrewd
laughing twinkle in his eye. "It is supposed to be better for the
country to have the parties about evenly divided. They stand more on
their good behavior. And we will hope for better luck next time."
"But you couldn't turn round and be a Democrat, could you?" she asked,
with a sad entreaty.
"No, dear," he replied gravely.
"I'm glad we have Mayor Harper left. Can the new President put him out?"
"No, my dear."
They kissed each other in half-sorrowful consolation. But alas! next
year even Mayor Harper had to go out.
CHAPTER XII
A REAL PARTY
The little girl would have felt a great deal better if Lily Ludlow had
not been on the other side. Lily was growing into a very pretty girl.
They were wearing pantalets shorter now, and she noticed that Lily wore
hers very short. Then aprons were made without bibs or shoulder bands,
and had ruffles on the bottom. They were beginning to go farther around,
almost like another skirt. Lily had two white ones. She walked up and
down the block with a very grand air. Then Miss Chrissy met Margaret at
the house of a mutual acquaintance, and invited her very cordially to
call on her, and Margaret did the same. Miss Chrissy lost no time, but
came card-case in hand, and made herself very agreeable.
"Would you like to go down and call on Jim's girl?" Margaret asked
smilingly. Ben always called her that.
"No," replied Hanny, with much dignity. "I don't like her. She called me
'queer' the first time she saw me, and I shouldn't think of calling
Nora queer, no matter how she looked. If Jim wants her he may have her,
but I do hope they won't live in New York."
The temper was so unusual and so funny that Margaret let it go without a
word.
Everything came back to its normal state. Mr. Theodore and her father
and Steve remained the same good friends. The party transparencies and
emblems were taken down. It seemed to her that people had not been as
deeply disappointed as they ought to be. She was very loyal and faithful
in her attachments, and no doubt you think quite obstinate in her
dislikes.
But something else happened that aroused her interest. Indeed, there
were things happening all the time. Miss Jane Underhill, up at Harlem,
was dead and buried, and Margaret had taken a great interest in Miss
Lois. Cousins had been going and coming. Mrs. Retty Finch had a little
son, and Aunt Crete had come down and spent a week with her
sister-in-law. But this distanced them all--Steve and Dolly Beekman were
going to be married! The Beekmans had been staying up in the country
house. All the girls had been married there.
There were to be five bridesmaids. Annette and Margaret were among them.
Joe was to be best man and stand with Miss Annette. Doctor Hoffman was
to stand with Margaret. There was a Gessner cousin, a Vandam cousin,
and Dolly's dear friend, Miss Stuyvesant. All the bridesmaids were to be
gowned in white India mull, and Dolly was to have a white brocaded silk,
and a long veil that her grandmother had worn. Hosts and hosts of
friends were invited. The house would be big enough to take them all in.
Miss Cynthia made the little girl a lovely dress. First she took her
pink merino for a slip. Then there were lace puffs divided by insertion,
a short baby waist, short sleeves, pink satin bows on her shoulders,
with the long ends floating almost like wings, and a narrow pink ribbon
around her waist with a great cluster of bows and ends. She was to have
her hair curled all around, and to stand and hold Dolly's bouquet while
she was being married. I suppose now we would call her a maid of honor.
No one could say that Mr. Peter Beekman had ever given a mean wedding.
He liked Stephen very much, and Dolly could almost have wheedled the
moon out of him if she had tried. He teased Annette by telling her she
would have to be an old maid, and stay home to take care of her father
and mother.
Grandmother Van Kortlandt came down. She laid off her mourning and wore
her black velvet gown with its English crown point lace. Grandmother
Underhill came too, but she wore black silk with her pretty fine lace
fichu that she had been married in herself. Uncle David, and Aunt
Eunice, who wore a gray satin that had been made for her eldest son's
wedding. There were Underhill cousins by the score, some Bounetts from
New Rochelle, some Vermilyeas, for no one really worth while was to be
slighted.
The day had been very fine and sunny. That was a sign the bride would be
merry and happy and pleasant to live with. And when the evening fell the
great lawn was all alight with Chinese lanterns that a second cousin in
the tea trade had sent Dolly. All the front of the big old house was
illuminated. It was square, with a great cupola on top of the second
story, and that was in a blaze of light as well.
The Underhills all went up early. Steve was very proud of his mother,
who had a pretty changeable silk, lilac and gray, and Joe had given her
a collar and cuffs of Honiton lace, to wear at his wedding, he said.
They went in to see the bride when she was dressed. Of course she was
beautiful, a pretty girl couldn't look otherwise in her wedding gear.
Her veil was put on with orange blossoms and buds, and delicately
scented. There was a wreath of the same over one shoulder and across her
bosom. Her hair was done in a marvellous fashion, and looked like a
golden crown.
How the carriages rolled around and the silks rustled up and down the
stairs. There were gay voices and soft laughs, and presently word was
sent that the Reverend Dr. De Witt had arrived. Then the immediate
family went down. Dolly stooped and kissed Hanny and told her she must
not feel a mite afraid. The young men filed out. Stephen took Dolly,
just putting her white-gloved hand on his arm as if it was the most
precious thing in the world. Joe, smiling and really much handsomer than
Stephen, though you couldn't persuade Dolly to any such heresy; then
Doctor Hoffman and the others. They seemed to float down the broad
stairs. The rooms were very large, but oh, how full they were! The
procession walked through the back parlor; Stephen and Dolly and the
little girl went straight up to Dr. De Witt, who stood there in his gown
and bands, a sweet, reverential old man. The bridesmaids and groomsmen
made a half-circle around. There was some soft beautiful music, then a
silence. Dr. De Witt began. Dorothea Beekman and Stephen Decatur
Underhill promised each other and all the world, to love and cherish,
and live together according to God's holy ordinance all their lives.
The little girl held the flowers and listened attentively. She had an
idea there must be a great deal more to it and was almost disappointed,
for she could not understand that it included all one's life. Dr. De
Witt bent over and kissed the bride with solemn reverence. Then Stephen
kissed his wife. There was a great deal of kissing afterward, for the
new husband kissed the bridesmaids, and the groomsmen had a right to
kiss the bride. The mothers had their turn next, and afterward all was
laughing confusion.
In the midst of this Philip Hoffman leaned over Margaret.
"I believe you kiss the bridesmaid, too," he said, in a serious fashion,
and touched her soft red lips with his. Margaret's face was scarlet, and
her breath seemed taken away.
They made a pretty semicircle afterward, and all the guests came up with
good wishes. There were so many elegantly dressed people that the little
girl was half dazed. I forgot to tell you that she wore her string of
gold beads, and they always had a wedding flavor after that.
Presently the procession re-formed and went out to the dining-room,
where the table ought to have groaned, if tables ever do. There were
some immaculate black waiters who handed one thing after another. The
bride cut the cake of both kinds--pound cake like gold, and fruit cake
rich enough to give you indigestion. And this wasn't the regular supper.
The bride had to grace the head of every table. What merry quips and
jests there were! People were really gay and happy in those days. No one
thought of being bored, they had better manners and kindlier hearts, and
enjoyment was a duty as well as pleasure. The musicians were playing
softly in the hall. By and by the elder people, who had a long drive to
take and who had passed their dancing days long ago, began to say
good-by to the bridal couple. In the upper hall a table was piled with
white boxes tied with narrow white ribbon, containing a bit of the
bride's cake, and a maid stood there handing them to the guests. You put
some under your pillow and dreamed on it. If the dream was delightful
you might look for it to come true. If it was disagreeable you felt sure
you didn't believe in such nonsense.
Then the dancing commenced. There were three large rooms devoted to
this. Several of the old men went up-stairs to Mr. Beekman's special
room to have a smoke and a good game of cards. But oh, how merry they
were down-stairs! They danced with the utmost zest because they really
liked to.
The little girl danced, too. Steve took her out first, and she went
through a quadrille very prettily. Then it was Joe, and after that
Doctor Hoffman begged her mother to let her dance just once with him,
and though she was a little afraid, she enjoyed it very much. Dolly
introduced her to ever so many people, and said she was her little
sister.
"Am I really?" said Hanny, a little confused.
"Why, yes," laughingly. "And one reason why I wanted to marry Stephen
was because he had so many brothers. Now they are all mine, five of
them."
The little girl studied a moment. "It's queer," she said with a smile,
"but I have one more than you. And are you going to have Margaret, too?"
