extremely proud and overbearing, who 
scoff and laugh at foreigners, and no one 
dare oppose them lest the street boys 
and apprentices collect together in im- 
mense crowds and strike to right and left 
unmercifully without regard to persons. 
 
There prevailed an insatiable curios- 
ity for seeing strange sights and hearing 
strange adventures, with an eager de- 
sire for visiting foreign countries, which 
Shakespeare and all the play -writers 
satirize. Conversation turned upon the 
wonderful discoveries of travellers, whose 
voyages to the New World occupied 
much of the public attention. The ex- 
aggeration which from love of impor- 
tance inflated the narratives, the poets 
also take note of. There was also a 
universal taste for hazard in money as 
well as in travel, for putting it out on 
risks at exorbitant interest, and the 
habit of gaming reached prodigious ex- 
cess. The passion for sudden wealth 
was fired by the success of the sea- 
rovers, news of which inflamed the im- 
agination. Samuel Kiechel, a merchant 
of Ulrri, who was in London in 1585, 
records that, " news arrived of a Spanish 
•  
ship captured by Drake, in which it was 
said there were two millions of un- 
coined gold and silver in ingots, fifty 
thousand crowns in coined reals, seven 
thousand hides, four chests of pearls, 
each containing two bushels, and some 
sacks of cochineal — the whole valued 
at twenty-five barrels of gold ; it was 
said to be one year and a half's tribute 
from Peru." 
The passion for travel was at such a 
height that those who were unable to 
accomplish distant journeys, but had 
only crossed over into France and Italy, 
gave themselves great airs on their re- 
turn. " Farewell, monsieur traveller," 
says Shakespeare ; " look, you lisp, and 
wear strange suits ; disable all the ben- 
efits of your own country ; be out of 
love with your nativity, and almost 
chide God for making you that counte- 
nance you are, or I will scarce think 
 
you have swam in a gondola." The 
Londoners dearly loved gossip, and in- 
dulged in exaggeration of speech and 
high-flown compliment. One gallant 
says to another : " O, signior, the star 
that governs my life is contentment; 
give me leave to interre myself in your 
arms." " Not so, sir, it is too unworthy 
an enclosure to contain such precious- 
ness ! 
Dancing was the daily occupation 
rather than the amusement at court and 
elsewhere, and the names of dances ex- 
ceeded the list of the virtues — such as 
the French brawl, the pavon, the meas- 
ure, the canary, and many under the 
general titles of corantees, jigs, galliards, 
and fancies. At the dinner and ball given 
by James I. to Juan Fernandez de Ve- 
lasco, Constable of Castile, in 1604, fifty 
ladies of honor, very elegantly dressed 
and extremely beautiful, danced with 
 
the noblemen- and gentlemen. Prince 
Henry danced a galliard with a lady, 
" with much sprightliness and modesty, 
cutting several capers in the course of 
the dance "; the Earl of Southampton 
led out the queen, and with three other 
couples danced a brando, and so on, the 
Spanish visitors looking on. When Eliz- 
abeth was old and had a wrinkled face 
and black teeth, she was one day dis- 
covered practising the dance step alone, 
to the sound of a fiddle, determined to 
keep up to the last the limberness and 
agility necessary to impress foreign am- 
bassadors with he_r grace and youth. 
There was one custom, however, -that 
may have made dancing a labor of love : 
it was considered ill -manners for the 
gentleman not to kiss his partner. In- 
deed, in all households, and in all ranks 
of society the guest was expected to 
salute thus all the ladies — a custom 
k 
 
which the grave Erasmus, who was in 
England in the reign of Henry VIII., 
found not disagreeable. 
Magnificence of display went hand in 
hand with a taste for cruel and barbarous 
amusements. At this same dinner to 
the Constable of Castile, the two buffets 
of the king and queen in the audience- 
chamber, where the banquet was held, 
were loaded with plate of exquisite work- 
manship, rich vessels of gold, agate, and 
other precious stones. The constable 
drank to the king the health of the 
queen from the lid of a cup of agate of 
extraordinary beauty and richness, set 
with diamonds and rubies, praying his 
majesty would condescend to drink the 
toast from the cup, which he did ac- 
cordingly, and then the constable di- 
rected that the cup should remain in 
his majesty's buffet. The constable 
also drank to the queen the health of 
the king from a very beautiful dragon- 
shaped cup of crystal garnished with 
gold, drinking from the cover, and the 
queen, standing up, gave the pledge 
from the cup itself, and then the consta- 
ble ordered that the cup should remain 
in the queen's buffet. The banquet 
lasted three hours, when the cloth was 
removed, the table was placed upon the 
ground — that is, removed from the dais 
— and their majesties, standing upon it, 
washed their hands in basins, as did the 
others. After the dinner was the ball, 
and that ended, they took their places 
at the windows of a room that looked 
out upon a square, where a platform 
was raised and a vast crowd was assem- 
bled to see the king's bears fight with 
greyhounds. This afforded great amuse- 
ment. Presently a bull, tied to the end 
of a rope, was fiercely baited by dogs. 
After this tumblers danced upon a rope 
 
and performed feats of agility on horse- 
back. The constable and his attendants 
were lighted home by half an hundred 
halberdiers with torches, and, after the 
fatigues of the day, supped in private. 
We are not surprised to read that 
on Monday, the 30th, the constable 
awoke with a slight attack of lum- 
bago. 
Like Elizabeth, all her subjects were 
fond of the savage pastime of bear and 
bull baiting. It cannot be denied that 
this people had a taste for blood, took 
delight in brutal encounters, and drew 
the sword and swung the cudgel with 
great promptitude ; nor were they fas- 
tidious in the matter of public execu- 
tions. Kiechel says that when the crim- 
inal was driven in the cart under the 
gallows, and left hanging by the neck 
as the cart moved from under him, his 
friends and acquaintances pulled at his 
 
legs in order that he might be strangled 
the sooner. 
When Shakespeare was managing his 
theatres and writing his plays London 
was full of foreigners, settled in the city, 
who no doubt formed part of his au- 
dience, for they thought that English 
players had attained great perfection. 
In 162 1 there were as many as ten thou- 
sand strangers in London, engaged in 
one hundred and twenty- one different 
trades. The poet need not go far from 
Blackfriars to pick up scraps of Ger- 
man and folk-lore, for the Hanse mer- 
chants were located in great numbers 
in the neighborhood of the steel-yard 
in Lower Thames Street. 
Foreigners as well as contempora- 
ry chronicles and the printed diatribes 
against luxury bear witness to the. pro- 
fusion in all ranks, of society and the 
variety and richness in apparel. There 
 
was a rage for the display of fine 
clothes. Elizabeth left hanging in her 
wardrobe above three thousand dresses 
when she was called to take that un- 
seemly voyage down the stream, on 
which the clown's brogan jostles the 
queen's slipper. The plays of Shake- 
speare, Jonson, Beaumont, and Fletcher, 
and of all the dramatists, are a perfect 
commentary on the fashions of the day, 
but a knowledge of the fashions is nec- 
essary to a perfect enjoyment of the 
plays. We see the fine lady in a gown 
of velvet (the foreigners thought it odd 
that velvet should be worn in the street), 
or cloth of gold and silver tissue, her hair 
eccentrically dressed, and perhaps dyed, 
a great hat with waving feathers, some- 
times a painted face, maybe a mask or a 
muffler hiding all the features except 
the eyes, with a muff, silk stockings, 
high -heeled shoes, imitated from the 
 
" chopine " of Venice, perfumed brace- 
lets, necklaces, and gloves — " gloves 
sweet as damask roses" — a pocket- 
handkerchief wrought in gold and sil- 
ver, a small looking-glass pendent at the 
girdle, and a love-lock hanging wantonly 
over the shoulder, artificial flowers at 
the corsage, and a mincing step. " These 
fashionable women, when they are dis- 
appointed, dissolve into tears, weep with 
one eye, laugh with the other, or, like 
children, laugh and cry they can both 
together, and as much pity is to be 
taken of a woman weeping as of a 
goose going barefoot," says old Burton. 
The men had even greater fondness 
for finery. Paul Hentzner, the Bran- 
denburg jurist, in 1598, saw, at the Fair 
of St. Bartholomew, the lord mayor, 
attended by twelve gorgeous aldermen, 
walk in a neighboring field, dressed in 
a scarlet gown, and about his neck a 
 
golden chain, to which hung a Golden 
Fleece. Men wore the hair long and flow- 
ing, with high hats and plumes of feath- 
ers, and carried muffs like the women; 
gallants sported gloves on their hats as 
tokens of ladies' favors, jewels and roses 
in the ears, a long love-lock under the 
left ear, and gems in a ribbon round the 
neck. This tall hat was called a " cap- 
atain." Vincentio, in the "Taming of 
the Shrew," exclaims : " O fine villain ! 
A silken doublet ! A velvet hose ! A 
scarlet cloak ! And a capatain hat !" 
There was no limit to the caprice and 
extravagance. Hose and breeches of 
silk, velvet, or other rich stuff, and 
fringed garters wrought of gold or sil- 
ver, worth five pounds apiece, are some 
of the items noted. Burton says, " 'Tis 
ordinary for a gallant to put a thousand 
oaks and an hundred oxen into a suit of 
apparel, to wear a whole manor on his 
 
back." Even serving -men and tailors 
wore jewels in their shoes. 
We should note also the magnificence 
in the furnishing of houses, the arras, 
tapestries, cloth of gold and silver, silk 
hangings of many colors, the splendid 
plate on the tables and sideboards. 
Even in the houses of the middle class- 
es the furniture was rich and comforta- 
ble, and there was an air of amenity in 
the chambers and parlors strewn with 
sweet herbs and daily decked with pret- 
ty nosegays and fragrant flowers. Lights 
were placed on antique candelabras, or, 
wanting these at suppers, there were liv- 
ing candle-holders. "Give me a torch," 
says Romeo ; " I'll be a candle-holder, 
and look on." Knowledge of the de- 
tails of luxury of an English home of the 
sixteenth century will make exceedingly 
vivid hosts of allusions in Shakespeare. 
Servants were numerous in great 
 
households, a large retinue being a mark 
of gentility, and hospitality was un- 
bounded. During the lord mayor's 
term in London he kept open house, 
and every day any stranger or foreigner 
could dine at his table, if he could find 
an empty seat. Dinner, served at eleven 
in the early years of James, attained a 
degree of epicureanism rivalling dinners 
of the present day, although the guests 
ate with their fingers or their knives, 
forks not coming in till 1611. There 
was mighty eating and swigging at the 
banquets, and carousing was carried to 
an extravagant height, if we may judge 
by the account of an orgy at the king's 
palace in 1606, for the delectation of the 
King and Queen of Denmark, when the 
company and even their majesties aban- 
doned discretion and sobriety, and " the 
ladies are seen to roll about in intoxica- 
tion." 
 
The manners of the male population 
of the period, says Nathan Drake, seem 
to have been compounded from the 
characters of the two sovereigns. Like 
Elizabeth, they are brave, magnanimous, 
and prudent ; and sometimes, like James, 
they are credulous, curious, and dissi- 
pated. The credulity and superstition 
of the age, and its belief in the su- 
pernatural, and the sumptuousness of 
masques and pageants at the court and 
in the city, of which we read so much in 
the old chronicles, are abundantly re- 
flected in the pages of Jonson, Shake- 
speare, and other writers. 
The town was full of coffee-houses 
and pleasure -gardens, but, curiously 
enough, the favorite place of public 
parading was the middle aisle of St. 
Paul's Cathedral— " Paul's Walk," as it 
was called — which was daily frequented 
by nobles, gentry, perfumed gallants, 
 
and ladies, from ten to twelve and three 
to six o'clock, to talk on business, pol- 
itics, or pleasure. Hither came, to ac- 
quire the fashions, make assignations, 
arrange for the night's gaming, or shun 
the bailiff, the gallant, the gamester, the 
ladies whose dresses were better than 
their manners, the stale knight, the 
captain out of service. Here Falstaff 
purchased Bardolph. " I bought him," 
says the knight, " at Paul's." The tai- 
lors went there to get the fashions of 
dress, as the gallants did to display 
them, one suit before dinner and an- 
other after. What a study was this 
varied, mixed, flaunting life, this dance 
of pleasure and license before the very 
altar of the church, for the writers of 
satire, comedy, and tragedy ! 
But it is not alone town life and court 
life and the society of the fine folk that 
is reflected in the English drama and 
 
literature of the seventeenth century, 
and here is another wide difference be- 
tween it and the French literature of 
the same period ; rural England and the 
popular life of the country had quite as 
much to do in giving tone and color to 
the writings of the time. It is necessary 
to know rural England to enter into the 
spirit of this literature, and to appreciate 
how thoroughly it took hold of life in 
every phase. Shakespeare knew it well. 
He drew from life the country gentle- 
man, the squire, the parson, the pedantic 
school-master who was regarded as half 
conjurer, the yeoman or farmer, the 
dairy maids, the sweet English girls, the 
country louts, shepherds, boors, and 
fools. How he loved a fool ! He had 
talked with all these persons, and knew 
their speech and humors. He had tak- 
en part in the country festivals — May 
Day, Plough Monday, the Sheep Shear- 
 
ing, the Morris Dances and Maud Ma- 
rian/ the Harvest Home and Twelfth 
Night. The rustic merry-makings, the 
feasts in great halls, the games on the 
greensward, the love of wonders and of 
marvellous tales, the regard for portents, 
the naive superstitions of the time pass 
before us in his pages. Drake, in his 
" Shakespeare and his Times," gives a 
graphic and indeed charming picture of 
the rural life of this century, drawn 
from Harrison and other sources. 
In his spacious hall, floored with 
stones and lighted by large transom 
windows, hung with coats of mail and 
helmets, and all military accoutrements, 
long a prey to rust, the country squire, 
seated at a raised table at one end, held 
a baronial state and dispensed prodigal 
hospitality. The long table was divided 
into upper and lower messes by a huge 
salt-cellar, and the consequence of the 
 
guests was marked by their seats above 
or below the salt. The distinction ex- 
tended to the fare, for wine frequently 
circulated only above the salt, and be- 
low it the food was of coarser quality. 
The literature of the time is full of al- 
lusions to this distinction. But the lux- 
ury of the table and good cooking were 
well understood in the time of Elizabeth 
and James. There was massive eating 
done in those days, when the guests 
dined at eleven, rose from the banquet 
to go to evening prayers, and returned 
to a supper at five or six, which was 
often as substantial as the dinner. Ger- 
vase Markham in his " English House- 
wife," after treating of the ordering of 
great feasts gives directions for " a more 
humble feast of an ordinary proportion." 
This " humble feast," he says, should 
consist for the first course of " sixteen 
full dishes, that is, dishes of meat that 
 
are of substance, and not empty, or for 
shew — as thus, for example: first, a 
shield of brawn with mustard ; second- 
ly, a boyl'd capon ; thirdly, a boyl'd 
piece of beef ; fourthly, a chine of beef 
rosted ; fifthly, a neat's tongue rosted ; 
sixthly, a pig rosted ; seventhly, chewets 
bak'd ; eighthly, a goose rosted; ninthly, 
a swan rosted ; tenthly, a turkey rosted ; 
the eleventh, a haunch of venison rosted ; 
the twelfth, a pasty of venison ; the thir- 
teenth, a kid with a pudding in the bel- 
ly; the fourteenth, an olive-pye; the fif- 
teenth, a couple of capons ; the six- 
teenth, a custard or dowsets. Now to 
these full dishes may be added sallets, 
fricases, quelque choses, and devised 
paste, as many dishes more as will make 
no less than two and thirty dishes, which 
is as much as can conveniently stand 
on one table, and in one mess ; and 
after this manner you may proportion 
 
both your second and third course, 
holding fullness on one half the dishes, 
and shew in the other, which will be 
both frugal in the splendor, content- 
ment to the guest, and much pleasure 
and delight to the beholders." After 
this frugal repast it needed an interval 
of prayers before supper. 
The country squire was a long-lived 
but not always an intellectual animal. 
He kept hawks of all kinds, and all sorts 
of hounds that ran buck, fox, hare, otter, 
and badger. His great hall was com- 
monly strewn with marrow-bones, and 
full of hawks'-perches, of hounds, span- 
iels, and terriers. His oyster-table stood 
at one end of the room, and oysters he 
ate at dinner and supper. At the upper 
end of the room stood a small table 
with a double desk, one side of which 
held a church Bible, the other Fox's 
" Book of Martyrs." He drank a glass 
l 
 
or two of wine at his meals, put syrup 
of gilly-flower in his sack, and always 
had a tun-glass of small beer standing 
by him, which he often stirred about 
with rosemary. After dinner, with a 
glass of ale by his side he improved his 
mind by listening to the reading of a 
choice passage out of the " Book of 
Martyrs." This is a portrait of one 
Henry Hastings, of Dorsetshire, in Gil- 
pin's " Forest Scenery." He lived to be 
a hundred, and never lost his sight 
nor used spectacles. He got on horse- 
back without help, and rode to the 
death of the stag till he was past four- 
score. 
The plain country fellow, ploughman, 
or clown, is several pegs lower, and de- 
scribed by Bishop Earle as one that 
manures his ground well, but lets him- 
self lie fallow and untilled. His hand 
guides the plough, and the plough his 
 
thoughts. His mind is not much dis- 
turbed by objects, but he can fix a half- 
hour's contemplation on a good fat 
cow. His habitation is under a poor 
thatched roof, distinguished from his 
barn only by loop-holes that let out the 
smoke. Dinner is serious work, for he 
sweats at it as much as at his labor, 
and he is a terrible fastener on a piece 
of beef. His religion is a part of his 
copyhold, which he takes from his land- 
lord and refers it wholly to his dis- 
cretion, but he is a good Christian in 
his way, that is, he comes to church in 
his best clothes, where he is capable 
only of two prayers — for rain and fair 
weather. 
The country clergymen, at least those 
of the lower orders, or readers, were dis- 
tinguished in Shakespeare's time by the 
appellation " Sir," as Sir Hugh, in the 
" Merry Wives," Sir Topas, in " Twelfth 
 
Night," Sir Oliver, in " As You Like 
It." The distinction is marked between 
priesthood and knighthood when Vista 
says, " I am one that would rather go 
with Sir Priest than Sir Knight." The 
clergy were not models of conduct in 
the days of Elizabeth, but their position 
excites little wonder when we read that 
they were often paid less than the cook 
and the minstrel. 
There was great fondness in cottage 
and hall for merry tales of errant knights, 
lovers, lords, ladies, dwarfs, friars, thieves, 
witches, goblins, for old stories told by 
the fireside, with a toast of ale on the 
hearth, as in Milton's allusion 
" — to the nut-brown ale, 
With stories told of many a feat." 
A designation of winter in " Love's 
Labour 's Lost " is 
' When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl." 
 
To " turne a crab " is to roast a wild 
apple in the fire in order to throw it 
hissing hot into a bowl of nut-brown 
ale, into which had been put a toast 
with some spice and sugar. Puck de- 
scribes one of his wanton pranks : 
" And sometimes I lurk in a gossip's bowl, 
In very likeness of a roasted crab, 
And when she drinks against her lips I 
bob." 
I love no roast, says John Still, in 
" Gammer Gurton's Needle," 
" I love no rost, but a nut-browne toste, 
And a crab layde in the fyre ; 
A lytle bread shall do me stead, 
Much bread I not desire." 
In the bibulous days of Shakespeare, 
the peg tankard, a species of wassail or 
wish-health bowl, was still in use. Introduced to restrain intemperance, it 
became a cause of it, as every drinker 
 
was obliged to drink down to the peg. 
We get our expression of taking a man 
"a peg lower," or taking him ''down a 
peg," from this custom. 
In these details I am not attempting 
any complete picture of the rural life at 
this time, but rather indicating by illus- 
trations the sort of study which illu- 
minates its literature. We find, indeed, 
if we go below the surface of man- 
ners, sober, discreet, and sweet domestic 
life, and an appreciation of the virtues. 
Of the English housewife, says Gervase 
Markham, was not only expected sanc- 
tity and holiness of life, but " great 
modesty and temperance, as well out- 
wardly as inwardly. She must be of 
chaste thoughts, stout courage, patient, 
untired, watchful, diligent, witty, pleas- 
ant, constant in friendship, full of good 
neighborhood, wise in discourse, but not 
frequent therein, sharp and quick of 
 
speech, but not bitter or talkative, secret 
in her affairs, comportable in her coun- 
sels, and generally skillful in the worthy 
knowledges which do belong to her 
vocation." This was the mistress of 
the hospitable house of the country 
knight, whose chief traits were loyalty 
to church and state, a love of festivity, 
and an ardent attachment to field sports. 
His well-educated daughter is charm- 
ingly described in an exquisite poem by 
Drayton : 
" He had, as antique stories tell, 
A daughter cleaped Dawsabel, 
A maiden fair and free ; 
And for she was her father's heir, 
Full well she ycond the leir 
Of mickle courtesy. 
" The silk well couth she twist and twine, 
And make the fine march-pine, 
And with the needle work : 
 
And she couth help the priest to say 
His matins on a holy day, 
And sing a psalm in Kirk. 
"She wore a frock of frolic green 
Might well become a maiden queen, 
Which seemly was to see ; 
A hood to that so neat and fine, 
In color like the columbine, 
Ywrought full featously. 
" Her features all as fresh above 
As is the grass that grows by Dove, 
And lythe as lass of Kent. 
Her skin as soft as Lemster wool, 
As white as snow on Peakish Hull, 
Or swan that swims in Trent. 
"This maiden in a morn betime 
Went forth when May was in the prime 
To get sweet setywall, 
The honey-suckle, the harlock, 
The lily, and the lady-smock, 
To deck her summer hall." 
How late such a simple and pretty 
 
picture could have been drawn to life 
is uncertain, but by the middle of the 
seventeenth century the luxury of the 
town had penetrated the country, even 
into Scotland. The dress of a rich farm- 
er's wife is thus described by Dunbar. 
She had "a robe of fine scarlet, with 
a white hood, a gay purse and gingling 
keys pendant at her side from a silken 
belt of silver tissue ; on each finger she 
wore two rings, and round her waist 
was bound a sash of grass-green silk, 
richly embroidered with silver." 
Shakespeare was the mirror of his 
time in things small as well as great. 
How far he drew his characters from 
personal acquaintances has often been 
discussed. The clowns, tinkers, shep- 
herds, tapsters," and such folk, he prob- 
ably knew by name. In the Duke of 
Manchester's " Court and Society from 
Elizabeth to Anne "is a curious sug- 
 
gestion about Hamlet. Reading some 
letters from Robert, Earl of Essex, to 
Lady Rich, his sister, the handsome, 
fascinating, and disreputable Penelope 
Devereaux, he notes, in their humorous 
melancholy and discontent with mankind, something in tone and even language which suggests the weak and 
fantastic side of Hamlet's mind, and 
asks if the poet may not have conceived 
his character of Hamlet from Essex, 
and of Horatio from Southampton, his 
friend and patron. And he goes on to 
note some singular coincidences. Essex 
was supposed by many to have a good 
title to the throne. In person he had 
his father's beauty and was all that 
Shakespeare has described the Prince 
of Denmark. His mother had been 
tempted from her duty while her noble 
and generous husband was alive, and 
this husband was supposed to have 
 
been poisoned by her and her para- 
mour. After the father's murder the 
seducer had married the guilty mother. 
The father had not perished without 
expressing suspicion of foul play against 
himself, yet sending his forgiveness to 
his faithless wife. There are many other 
agreements in the facts of the case and 
the incidents of the play. The relation 
of Claudius to Hamlet is the same as 
that of Leicester to Essex : under pretence of fatherly friendship he was suspicious of his motives, jealous of his 
actions ; kept him much in the country 
and at college ; let him see little of his 
mother, and clouded his prospects in 
the world by an appearance of benig- 
nant favor. Gertrude's relations with 
her son Hamlet, were much like those of 
Lettice with Robert Devereaux. Again, 
it is suggested, in his moodiness, in his 
college learning, in his love for the the- 
 
atre and the players, in his desire for 
the fiery action for which his nature was 
most unfit, there are many kinds of 
hints calling up an image of the Danish 
Prince. 
This suggestion is interesting in the 
view that we find in the characters of 
the Elizabethan drama not types and 
qualities, but individuals strongly pro- 
jected, with all their idiosyncrasies and 
contradictions. These dramas touch our 
sympathies at all points, and are repre- 
sentative of human life to-day, because 
they reflected the human life of their 
time. This is supremely true of Shake- 
speare, and almost equally true of Jonson 
and many of the other stars of that 
marvellous epoch. In England as well 
as in France, as we have said, it was the 
period of the classic revival ; but in 
England the energetic reality of the 
time was strong enough to break the 
classic fetters, and to use classic learn- 
ing-for modern purposes. The English 
dramatists, like the French, used classic 
histories and characters. But two things 
are to be noted in their use of them. 
First, that the characters and the play 
of mind and passion in them are thor- 
oughly English and of the modern time. 
And second, and this seems at first a 
paradox, they are truer to the classic 
spirit than the characters in the contem- 
porary French drama. This results from 
the fact that they are truer to the 
substance of things, to universal human 
nature, while the French seem to be in 
great part an imitation, having root 
neither in the soil of France nor Atti- 
ca. M. Guizot confesses that France, 
in order to adopt the ancient models, 
was compelled to limit its field in some 
sort to one corner of human existence. 
He goes on to say that the present 
" demands of the drama pleasures and 
emotions that can no longer be supplied 
by the inanimate representation of a 
world that has ceased to exist. The 
classic system had its origin in the life 
of the time ; that time has passed away; 
its image subsists in brilliant colors in its 
works, but can no more be reproduced." 
Our own literary monuments must rest 
on other ground. " This ground is not 
the ground of Corneille or Racine, nor is it 
that of Shakespeare ; it is our own ; but 
Shakespeare's system, as it appears to me, 
may furnish the plans according to which 
genius ought now to work. This sys- 
tem alone includes all those social condi- 
tions and those general and diverse feel- 
ings, the simultaneous conjuncture and 
activity of which constitute for us at 
the present day the spectacle of human 
things." 
That is certainly all that any one can 
 
claim for Shakespeare and his fellow- 
dramatists. They cannot be models in 
form any more than Sophocles and Eu- 
ripides ; but they are to be followed 
in making the drama, or any literature, 
expressive of its own time, while it is 
faithful to the emotions and feeling of 
universal human nature. And herein, 
it seems to me, lies the broad distinction 
between most of the English and French 
literature of the latter part of the sixteenth and the beginning of the seventeenth centuries. Perhaps I may be 
indulged in another observation on this 
topic, touching a later time. Notwith- 
standing the prevalent notion that the 
French poets are the sympathetic heirs 
of classic culture, it appears to me that 
they are not so imbued with the true 
classic spirit, art, and mythology as some 
of our English poets, notably Keats and 
Shelley. 
 
Ben Jonson was a man of extensive 
and exact classical erudition ; he was a 
solid scholar in the Greek and Roman 
literatures, in the works of the philoso- 
phers, poets, and historians. He was 
also a man of uncommon attainments 
in all the literary knowledge of his time. 
In some of his tragedies his classic 
learning was thought to be ostenta- 
tiously displayed, but this was not true 
of his comedy, and on the whole he was 
too strong to be swamped in pseudo- 
classicism. For his experience of men 
and of life was deep and varied. Before 
he became a public actor and dramatist, 
and served the court and fashionable 
society with his entertaining, if pedantic, 
masques, he had been student, trades- 
man, and soldier ; he had travelled in 
Flanders and seen Paris, and wandered 
on foot through the length of England. 
London he knew as well as a man 
