
So upstairs they had music and recitations. 
Every young man of any elocutionary ability felt 
himself empowered to recite " The Raven," that 
much admired and sharply discussed poem by the 
Poet Poe, whose melancholy end still created 
much interest. Critical spirit ran high. One 

 

party could see only a morbid faculty heightened 
by opium and intoxicants; others found the spirit 
of true and fine genius in many of his efforts, and 
believed the circumstances of his life had been 
against him. 

Ben was reading one evening in Doctor Joe's 
cosy library, enjoying the most capacious arm- 
chair, and improvising a foot-rest out of one not 
quite so luxurious. The Doctor had been mak- 
ing out bills, and feeling quite encouraged, per- 
haps lighter-hearted than he would when he had 
waited a year for the payment of some of them. 

"Joe," began his brother, abruptly, "what do 
you suppose makes mother so bitter about Delia 
Whitney?" 

"Bitter?' repeated Joe, in the tone of inde- 
cision people often use when a proposition or 
question takes them by surprise. 

"Yes. We all used to be so nice and jolly 
together, and Delia likes us all so much. Hanny 
has such good times down there, with the old lady 
who sings such pretty old-fashioned songs, if her 
voice is rather cracked and tremulous ; and Nora 
is bright and entertaining. But the other day 
mother wouldn't let her go ; and she was dreadfully 
disappointed ; and mother is not as cordial to 
Delia as she used to be. Dele spoke of it." 

Ben looked straight at his brother, out of the 
frankest of eyes. It was Joe who changed colour. 

' I hate things to go crosswise. And when 
something keeps you just a little ruffled up all 
the time " 



Ben drew his brows. Was he really uncon- 
scious of the trouble? 

: You go there a good deal, you know. Some 
of the men are not quite the company a young 
fellow should choose, mother thinks." 

That was begging the main issue, of course. 

" I don't see much of the older men. They 're 
mostly smoking downstairs, and I don't care a 
bit for that. But their talk is often worth listen- 
ing to. People who just keep in one little round 
have no idea how rich the world is growing intel- 
lectually, scientifically; and on what broad lines 
it is being laid." 

"It is not the men altogether. Ben, you don't 
go anywhere else. Perhaps it would be wisdom 
to enlarge your acquaintance among girls, young 
ladies," and Joe gave a short laugh that betrayed 
the effort. 

"I don't care a penny for girls in general," 
said Ben, with elderly gravity. 'Delia some- 
times asks them in; and we seldom have as good 
a time. She 's a host in herself; and I 've always 
liked her." 

" You haven't had a very wide experience. 
And you are too young to make up your mind 
about anything. " 

Ben started up suddenly and flushed. What a 
fine, strong, solid face he had ! It wasn't the face 
of one turned about with every wind of doctrine ; 
it was not as handsome as Jim's bid fair to be, but 
it had hardly a weak or selfish line in it. Ben had 
always been such a good, generous, steady boy. 

 



'You don't mean," he began with a little 
gasp, "Joe, you can't think that mother that 
any one would object if the time came for me to 

- to marry Delia? ' 

: You are too young to think of such things, 
Ben," said his brother, gently. 

"Why I 've been thinking of it ever since 
Mr. Theodore came home. We were talking one 
time about going to Europe - 

" Are you really engaged, Ben ? ' 

The young fellow laughed and blushed. 

'Well I suppose not exactly," he answered 
slowly. "We 've never come to that boshy stuff 
you find now and then in stories. But we know 
all about each other's plans; and we like so many 
of the same things; and we always feel so com- 
fortable together, not a bit as if we were trigged 
up in Sunday clothes. I don't think she 's the 
most beautiful girl in the world ; but she has 
lovely eyes, and I 've never seen a handsome girl I 
have liked as well. Steve chose his own wife, and 
so did John. Cleanthe 's a splendid housekeeper; 
but she doesn't have time to read a newspaper. 
Dolly's well informed, and has something fresh 
to talk about. But it seems to me Margaret is 
always caring about society and etiquette, and 
who is in our set, and a hundred things that 
bore me. Phil has all his life been used 
to style, so Margaret's just the one for him. 
And why shouldn't I have just the one for 
me?" 

Joe laughed heartily then. 



" I 'd wait a year or two," he answered drily. 
" You are not out of your time ; and it is an unwise 
thing to take the reponsibilities of life too early. 
Delia may fancy some one else." 

" Oh, no, she won't," replied Ben, confidently. 
" We just suit. I can't explain it to you, Joe ; but 
it is one of the things that seem to come about 
without any talking. Are some things ordained? 
I should be awful sorry to have mother object to 
it; but I know Dolly would stand by us when the 
time came." 

" Well - - don't hurry ; and, Ben, take the little 
comments patiently. If mother was convinced 
that it was for your happiness, she would consent. 
We all know there are unwise marriages, unhappy 
ones, as well." 

" Oh, we 're not in any hurry ! You see, Delia 
is really needed at home. The old aunt is awfully 
fond of her. And she 's so interested in her stories. 
We have such fun planning them out; and she 
does some capital little sketches." 

Joe nodded in a friendly manner, as if he did not 
altogether disapprove. But there was a belief that 
literary women could not make good wives. People 
quoted Lady Bulwer and Lady Byron ; and yet 
right in the city were women of literary proclivi- 
ties living happily with their husbands. 

And Joe had found careless, fretful, indifferent 
wives and poor housekeepers among women who 
could not even have written a coherent account- 
book. Come to think, he liked Delia a good deal 
himself. And if she wasn't such a great worker, 

she did have the art of making a cheerful, attractive 
home, and putting everybody at ease. 

The new woman and cooking-schools were in 
the far future. Every mother, if she knew enough, 
trained her daughter to make a good wife, to buy 
properly, to cook appetisingly if not always hygi- 
enically, to make her husband's shirts, and do the 
general family sewing, to keep her house orderly, 
to fight moths and mice, and to give company teas 
with the best china and the finest tablecloth. 

To be sure there was a little seething of unrest. 
Mrs. Bloomer had put forth a new costume that 
shocked the feminine world, though they were 
complaining of the weight of heavy skirts and 
the various devices for distending them. Lucretia 
Mott and some other really fine women were advo- 
cating the wider education of the sex. Women 



were being brought to the fore as teachers in 
schools, and higher institutions were being dis- 
cussed. There was a Mrs. Bishop who had 
preached ; there were women who lectured on 
various subjects. 

The sewing-machine was making its way ; and 
the argument in its favour was that it would save a 
woman's strength and give her more leisure. But 
employment of any kind out of the house was 
considered derogatory unless one had no father 
or brother to supply her needs. 

Still, the old simple life was going out of date. 
There was more style ; and some leaders of opinion 
professed to be shocked at the extravagance of 
the day. There was .a sudden influx of people up- 



town. There were new stores and offices. One 
wondered where all the people came from. But 
New York had taken rapid strides in her merchant- 
marine. The fastest vessels in the China trade 
went out of her ports. The time to both Califor- 
nia and China was shortened by the flying clippers. 
The gold of that wonderful land of Ophir was the 
magic ring that one had only to rub, if he could get 
hold of it, and work wonders. 

But the little girl went on her quiet way. They 
were finding friends in the new neighbourhood ; yet 
Daisy Jasper could not be superseded. Every 
letter was carefully treasured ; and, oh, how many 
things she found to say in return. 

They kept up the intimacy with the Deans, 
though Josephine seemed almost a young woman. 
Mr. Reed enjoyed the pleasant home wonderfully. 
Charles spent much of his leisure over music, of 
which he was passionately fond. He and Jim 
were not so intimate. Jim was going with a 
gayer lot of young fellows, while Charles was 
seriously considering his life-plans. 



 



CHAPTER XIV 

AMONG GREAT THINGS 

WERE people more enthusiastic in old New 
York than they are at the end of the century? 
We have done so much, we have had so many 
wonderful happenings since then. To be sure, 
Dickens had been over and made, people thought, 
a somewhat caustic return for the hospitable wel- 
come ; Harriet Martineau had made a tour, and 
gone home rather favourably impressed ; and the 
winter before the intellectual circle - - and it was 
getting to be quite notable - - had honoured the 
Swedish novelist, Frederica Bremer, and been 
really charmed by her unaffected sweetness. If 
they were not quite ready to take up her theories 
for the advancement of women, they fell to read- 
ing the delightful " Neighbours ' and " Home." 
And now there was to be another visitant, " The 
Swedish Nightingale." 

For Mr. Barnum was still the prince of enter- 
tainers. Theatres waxed and waned, and new stars 
came to the front who had still their laurels to win ; 
people strove for cards to the Steven's Terrace, 
just back of Columbia College on Park Place. 
Bleecker Street was not out of date, though Mrs. 
Hamilton Fish had gone up to Stuyvesant Square, 



and was gathering about her a political clique. 
There were card-parties and dances; there were 
Christy's Minstrels and the Hutchinson family; 
and some of the more intellectual circles had con- 
versaziones where the best talent displayed itself. 
Still, Barnum could not be crowded out. No 
sarcasm withered him ; and his variety was infinite. 
It was a safe place for mothers to go and take their 
children. The men had formed several ambitious 
clubs, and were beginning to entertain themselves. 

Jenny Lind had already captivated Europe. 
Mr. Barnum judiciously brought interest up to 
fever heat. After the bargain was made known, 
and the young singer had taken her passage with 
her suite, a musical rage pervaded the very city. 
The streets leading to the wharf were thronged by 
crowds in the wildest enthusiasm. Triumphal 
arches were built across Canal Street, and as she 
came down the gang-plank of the steamer, shouts 
rent the very air. 

The young traveller and poet, Bayard Taylor, 
had captured the prize offered for the finest ode to 
be sung at her first concert. Two hundred dollars 
seemed a large price at that time, as Tennyson 
had not been offered a thousand for a poem. So 
great was the inquiry for tickets, that they were 
sold at auction a few days previous. And Mr. 
Genin, a Broadway hatter, signalised himself by 
making the highest bid for a ticket,- -two hundred 

o o 

and twenty-five dollars. Over one thousand tick- 
ets were sold on the first day. 

The concert was to be at Castle Garden. At 

 

five, the doors were opened, and people began to 
throng in, though each seat had been secured to 
its proper owner ; and by eight, the audience was in 
a perfect transport of expectation. It was said to 
be the largest audience assembled to listen to her. 
And when she was led on the stage by her mana- 
ger, the enthusiasm was beyond description. It 
seemed to divine beforehand that the fair-haired 
Swedish songstress would meet all expectations ; 
and she passed beyond it. 

Ben had been caught by the enthusiasm, and 
squandered his savings on a ticket. He and Jim 
had been in the crowd around the hotel, that first 
night when the New York musical society had sere- 
naded her, and she had bowed from the old stone 
balcony to the admiring crowds. 

" There isn't any word to express it," declared 
Ben, at the breakfast-table the next morning. 
" J e > y u must hear her, and Hanny - - all of you. 
Never mind the cost." 

" Ben, you have lost your senses," said his mother, 
with a touch of her old sharpness. " As if we were 
all millionaires ! And I have heard people sing 
before." 

" Not anything like that. You can't imagine 
such melody. And the enthusiasm of the crowd 
is worth something ! ' 

The little girl looked up wistfully. She was 
beginning to understand the value of money. 

" Yes," returned Joe ; " Hanny must hear her. 
I wouldn't have her miss it for anything. But the 
tickets won't be so high after a little." 



They dropped to regular prices, but that was 
high for the times ; and the rush continued una- 
bated. New York broke out in a Jenny Lind 
furore. There were gloves, and hats, and shawls, 
and gowns, beautiful little tables, and consoles, and 
furniture of all sorts that bore her name. The 
bakers made Jenny Lind cake. What a time there 
was ! Enthusiastic adorers took her carriage from 
its shafts, and dragged it from Castle Garden to 
the hotel. Was New York old in those days? 
Rather, it was the glowing, fervid impetuosity of 
early youth. 

And the serenade, when Broadway was jammed 
for blocks, and lighted by torches in the street, and 
illuminations in the houses and stores. There was 
a wonderful cornetist, Koenig, who could have won 
another Eurydice from the shades with his playing. 
Out on the balcony he stood and moved the crowd 
with his melody. Then she came out beside him, 
and, in the hush, a thousand times more apprecia- 
tive than the wildest applause, the magnificent 
voice sang to its large, free audience, ' Home, 
Sweet Home," as no one will ever hear it sung 
again. That alone would be fame enough for any 
writer of song ! 

The furore did not abate. But they must all 
go, - - Stephen and Dolly, Margaret and her hus- 
band, Joe and the little girl, and her father. 

" It is nonsense for an old fellow like me," he 
declared, half humourously. 

" But I shall like it so much better, and then we 
can talk it over afterward. That 's half the pleasure." 

 

She looked so wistful out of her soft eyes, and 
patted his hand with her caressing little fingers, 
of course he couldn't say No. 

It was so much harder to persuade Mrs. Under- 
hill. " It certainly 'Zi'tis wicked to spend so much 
money just to hear one woman sing. She had 
heard the ' Messiah.' with Madame Anna Bishop in 
it ; and she never again expected to hear anything 
so beautiful this side of heaven ." 

They carried the day, however, in spite of her 
objections. Castle Garden looked like fairy-land, 
with its brilliant lights, its hundred ushers in white 
gloves and rosettes, their wands tipped with rib- 
bon as if for some grand ball. The quiet was awe- 
inspiring. One did not even want to whisper to 
his neighbour, but just sit in fascinated silence and 
wonder what it would be like. 

Then Jenny Lind was led on the stage, and the 
entire audience rose with one vast, deafening cheer, 
a magnificent one, as hearty as on her first night. 
It seemed as if they would never stop. There was 
a cloud of waving handkerchiefs, shaking out fra- 
grance in the air. 

A simple Swedish maiden in her gown of soft, 
white silk, with no blaze of diamonds, and just one 
rose low down in her banded hair, only her 
gracious sweetness and simplicity, a thousand times 
finer and more effective than flashing beauty. She 


has heard the applause many a time before, in 
audiences of crowned heads ; and this from the 
multitude is just as sweet. 

When all is listening, attentive silence, she be- 



gins "Casta Diva." " Hark to the voice," and every 
one listens with such intensity that the magnifi- 
cent sound swells out and fills the farthest space. 
There is no striving for effect. A woman singing 
with a God-given voice, in simple thanks for its 
ownership, not a queen bidding for admiration. 
Had any voice ever made such glorious melody, or 
so stirred human souls? 

The applause has in it an immensity of appre- 
ciation, as if it could never get itself wholly ex- 
pressed. 

Then another favourite, which everybody sang at 
for years afterward : " I dreamt I dwelt in mar- 
ble halls." In some of the sorrows of her woman- 
hood, the little girl was to recall the sweet refrain 

" That you loved me still the same." 

Then " Comin' thro' the Rye," with a lilt and 
dainty deliciousness that one never can forget. 
But " Home, Sweet Home," moves to tears and 
enthusiasm. Surely, no voice ever put such 
pathos, such marvellous sweetness, into it ! 

And sometimes now, when the little girl looks 
over to the other country, one of the many joys 
she thinks will be hearing such blessed voices 
as Jenny Lind's and Parepa Rosa's. You could 
not shake her faith in immortality and all these 
precious joys to come. 

She was quite a heroine at school for many days 
to come. People did not think it worth while to 
spend so much money on children at that time. 

Margaret and her mother had compromised 

 

on the school question, or rather Margaret had 
yielded. 

Hanny would graduate at the end of the year. 
Margaret preferred a stylish boarding-school after 
that. The Hoffmans were quite in the swim of 
that period. The Doctor's connections, and Mar- 
garet's beauty, made them welcome in circles that 
were beginning to grow a little exclusive, and de- 
mand grandfathers for vouchers. There was a little 
talk, even then, about nouvcanx riches ; but, after 
all, no one seemed to absolutely despise wealth. 

Margaret was really very ambitious for the 
younger members of the family. Jim, with his 

^ o J J 

good looks and the brightness that was akin to 
wit, was her favourite. Then he took naturally to 
elegance. 

Dolly was very happy and jolly with her hus- 
band and children. They lived in a very pleasant 
manner ; and society courted Dolly as well. Ste- 
phen was prospering wonderfully, and had a fine 
standing among business-men. 

Hanny was extravagantly fond of the children. 
Stevie called her Auntie Xan, now; but Annie 
said simply Nan. [Margaret had adopted it as 
well. Hannah was rather awkward and old-fash- 
ioned. Even Ben sometimes warbled, 

" Nannie, wilt thou gang wi' me ? " 
She had another ^reat and unexoected treat a 


few weeks later. She had gone on Friday to make 
a real visit at Dolly's, and go from there to school 
on Monday morning. And, fortunately for her, she 



had taken her best Sunday frock, which she was 
wearing a good deal lest she might outgrow it. 

And who should drop in but Delia Whitney. 
Whether Dolly suspected all was not clear sailing 
for the young people, no one could have told from 
her friendly manner. She had taken quite a liking 
to Delia, and was much interested in her success. 

They talked over the Jenny Lind concert. Delia 
had attended two. She was going about quite a 
good deal among literary people. 

" And to-morrow night, The. and I are going to 
take Ben to the Osgoods. Oh, Hanny, that 's the 
author of the little song you sing: 

" ' I love you, I adore you ; but 
I 'm talking in my sleep.' 



And she 's just lovely." 

" Oh," cried Hanny, " I should like to see her, 
truly. You know I told you about seeing her in 
the carriage when she went up to Mr. Poe's." 

"Well, can't you go? The. has a standing in- 
vitation to bring friends. Why, Nora has gone ! 
She sang up there one evening, and did wonder- 
fully well. Her teacher thinks in a year or two 
she can try concerts ; only it isn't best to strain her 
voice now. And you may see some famous people, 
and some yet to be famous, myself among them." 

" Oh, I don't care about the others," said Hanny, 
nai'vely. " And if you are quite sure- -Dolly, 
ought I to go? ' 

" Why not? " answered Dolly. " It 's fortunate 
that you brought your best frock ; though we 

 

could have sent for it. Why, yes, if you would 
like to." 

Hanny drew a long breath. Twice of late her 
mother had found excuses when she had asked to 
go down to Beach Street. She, too, had a vague 
feeling there was something in the air; but her 
simple nature was not suspicious. And it wasn't 
like going to the Whitney's. She couldn't do 
such a thing without asking permission. 

Delia finished her call, kissed the babies and 
Hanny, and said they would all be up at eight, 
sharp. 

" I 'll have Hanny in apple-pie order," answered 
Dolly, with her bright smile. 

Stephen was delightful in his family ; and he 
had the same odd little look in his eye as her 
father, suggestive of fun. He was teaching her to 
play checkers ; and, although Dolly helped some- 
times, she found it hard work to beat him. Dolly 
sat by embroidering. 

The next morning they drove down-town and 
did some shopping, and called on Annette, who 
made them stay to luncheon. Mrs. Beekman was 
quite poorly now, and had grown very, very stout. 
She said, " she had lost all her ambition. It was 
a great thing to be young, and have all your life 
before you." 

It was so delightful ; and Dolly was sure they 
wouldn't have many more such Indian summery 
days, so they went over to Washington Parade- 
ground, where the style promenaded on Saturday 
afternoon. Hanny wore her best dress and a 



pretty cloth cape trimmed with a little edge of fur. 
They took Stevie, who was delighted of course, and 
who ran about, very proud of his new jacket and 
trousers. 

Many of the promenaders nodded to young Mrs. 
Stephen Underbill. Belles and beaux went by ; 
prettily dressed children; stylish little boys, who 
carried canes, and had long tassels drooping over 
one side of their caps. Hanny enjoyed it all very 
much. 

Then after supper, Dolly put a fine lace tucker 
over the edging at the neck of her frock, and found 
a blue sash, and curled her hair so as to make it 
all wavy at the edge of her forehead ; and there 
was a very sweet, attractive girl, if she wasn't a 
beauty. 

Mr. Theodore Whitney seemed very much 
amused and pleased, and politely inquired if he 
might be Miss Underbill's escort. Delia looked 
unusually nice in her new brown silk and some 
beautiful old lace Aunt Clem had given her. 

People did not wait until ten o'clock for " func- 
tions " to begin ; neither did they give them that 
uneuphonious name. Hanny had read and heard 
a good deal since her first visit to genius in the 
plain, poor, little cottage ; and this certainly had 
more of the true aspect one connects with poesy. 
The two rooms were daintily furnished ; pictures 
everywhere. Mr. Osgood was a painter, and his 
portraits were quite celebrated. The curtains fell 
with a graceful sweep. The light brocade of the 
chairs threw out glistcny shades ; the little tables 

 

set about held books and engravings, and great 
portfolios leaned against the wall. There was a 
case of choicely-bound books, and an open piano. 
Flowers were in vases on brackets, and low, quaint 
china bowls. It was like a lovely picture to the 
little girl; but she felt afraid of the people talking 
so earnestly, and wondered if they were all poets 
and authors. 

The party greeted their hostess, and Hanny was 
introduced. Was it the glamour of the summer and 
the blue gown that had made Mrs. Osgood so 
lovely sitting there in the carriage? Now she 
was thin, and her hair was banded down in the 
fashion of the clay ; then it had been flying in ring- 
lets. Her gown was black silk, and that made her 
look rather grave; but when she smiled, all the 
old sweetness was there. Hanny knew her then. 

Delia took charge of Hanny, and seated her by a 
table with a book of choice engravings. Ben had 
found some one he knew, and Mr. Whitney had 
gone to talk to General Morris. A tall young 
lady came over and began complimenting Miss 
Whitney on her story in Godey's, and Delia flushed 
up with pleasure. Then she begged to introduce 
her to a friend. She wrote verses only, and her 
friend had composed music for them. 

Hanny kept watching her hostess. She knew 
some of the guests, from having had them pointed 
out to her in the street. There was Mr. Greeley, 
thin of face and careless of attire in those early 
days. In the street he could always be told by a 
shaggy light coat that he wore. 



A very sweet-looking elderly lady came up 
presently and spoke to Delia, who was in full flow 
of eager talk with the young musical composer. 

" Isn't that your sister, or your niece, the one 
who sang here some time ago? I saw her come 
in with Mr. Whitney." 

" Oh, no," returned Delia. " But she is a very 
dear friend, Mr. Underbill's sister." 

"Mr. Stephen Underbill ?" 

" Yes, she is his sister; but it is Mr. Ben Under- 
bill who is here." 

" I know Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Underbill very 
well. She was a Beekman. And Dr. Hoffman's 
wife belongs to the family." 

Delia turned and introduced Mrs. Kirtland. 

She had such an attractive face, framed in with 
rows of snowy puffs, quite gone out of date, but 
becoming to her nevertheless. 

o 

" I feel that I almost know you," she said sweetly, 
"though I half mistook you for Miss Whitney ; but 
she is dark, and you are fair, so I ought not to have 
made the blunder. I know your brother Stephen 
and his wife." 

" Oh ! ' Hanny gave it a glad little sound, and 
smiled, as she put out her small hand. 

Mrs. Kirtland took the unoccupied seat. 

" I suppose you have hardly begun life, you 
look so young. But no doubt you are a genius of 
some sort. Mrs. Osgood is so extraordinarily good 
to young geniuses." 

" No, I haven't any genius," and Hanny flushed, 
as she gave a beguiling smile that lighted up her 

 

face. " And though there are a good many of us, 
we have not even a family genius." 

" That depends upon whether you restrict 
the word to painting a picture or writing a 
poem or a story. Mr. Stephen Underhill is 
very highly spoken of as one of the promising 
young business-men. And is it your brother 
who was in the office of old Dr. Fitch, and in 
the hospital?" 

" Yes, ma'am," returned Hanny, with a glow of 
pleasure. Young people were still expected to say 
"Yes, sir," and "Yes, ma'am," to their elders, out 
of respect. 

"That does very well for one family, though the 
Whitneys seem to have a good share. Miss Delia 
is quite a success, I hear. And we always find Mr. 
Whitney very entertaining. Have you known them 
long?" 

" Oh, for years, seven almost. And we used to 
be neighbours." 

"A friendship is said to be certain when you 
have held it seven years. Have you met Mrs. 
Osgood before? ' 

" No, ma 'am ; but I saw her quite a long while 
ago at Fordham." 

" At Fordham ! Then you must have known 
the poet Edgar Allan Poe." 

" A little," returned Hanny, timidly. 

" There 's such a romance to his life at that 
place, - - his lovely young wife dying, and the 
devotion of Mrs. Cleram. Oh, tell me about 
your episode ! ' 



Hanny told the story, very simply, charmingly 
as well. 

" Oh," exclaimed Mrs. Kirtland, " Frances must 
hear that ! ' Then she glanced around. Mrs. 
Osgood was no longer receiving guests, but min- 
ling with the company. Some one was going to 
the piano ; and everybody listened to an exquisite 
voice singing a beautiful Italian melody. When that 
was finished, a young man who was to be famous in 
after years read a sweet, simple poem that touched 
every one's heart. Then the talk began in little 
groups again. 

Mrs. Kirtland signalled to her hostess, who came 
over to them. 
