she took such an interest in my studies, she never spoke of that, though
I know it was her heart's desire. All the time I seem to have had a
leaning towards it. It is a grand life, when one's heart and soul are in
it; and I am sure now mine would be. I should feel as if I was keeping
near to her, and doing something for her happiness. And if you would not
feel disappointed--"
"My boy, I should be gratified," said his father, warmly. "I should not
have tried to influence your choice; but I do think, in certain ways,
you are especially fitted for this profession. I can trust you never to
bring discredit on so sacred a calling; and I think you are alive to
the true responsibility of it. Yes; it is what she would like, if she
were here."
Jim declared he had felt sure of this decision all the last year. They
all decided Charles Reed would make a fine conscientious clergyman.
CHAPTER XVII
A GLAD SURPRISE
Doctor Joe stood at the doorway of the Institute. It was still in
Madison Street, though it was to go up-town and be transformed into a
college. The girls came trooping out,--they were really girls then, and
had a deliciously girlish air.
"Oh, Joe!" cried Hanny, glancing up rather in amaze. What had happened?
He bowed gravely to some of her compeers. They thought Jim splendid; but
they stood a little in awe of grave Doctor Joe.
"I have come for you to go and make a call," he said. "Let me take your
books."
She glanced up the street.
"Oh, this isn't in style," he began laughingly. "I have neither coach
nor four."
"Then we will have a nice walk. Where? Down at the Battery?"
She had such a sweet, eager face, and she was so easily pleased.
"We will go over to Broadway, first," he replied. "Then--well, wherever
you like."
So they chatted as they walked along, across City Hall Square, where the
fountain was still playing on sunny days.
The Astor House was yet in its glory. She wondered a little, as they
walked up the stone steps, through the hall, and then up the thickly
padded stairs, and into the spacious parlour.
A lady, dressed in black, was standing by the window, and turned
smilingly. Hanny was bewildered by a familiar likeness. Then a young
girl sprang up from the sofa; and Hanny caught a glint of golden curls,
as she was clasped in the outstretched arms.
"Oh, Hanny!"
"Oh, Daisy!"
That was all they said for a moment or two. They cried a little, as
people often do, out of pure gladness, and just hugged each other
tighter.
"I was so afraid I never should see you again. Papa laughed. You know he
has crossed the ocean so many times. If I hadn't been coming home, I
suppose I shouldn't have been worried. But it seemed such a long, long
while, and I was just crazy to see you, to get home. I don't believe I
shall ever really want to go abroad again."
Hanny raised her head from Daisy Jasper's shoulder. Oh, what a tall girl
she was! Her complexion was like pearl and blush roses; her hair was a
wonderful gold; and her eyes, somehow, suggested the starry heaven at
night. Hanny felt strangely abashed.
Then Mrs. Jasper claimed a greeting. Hanny knew that a year ago they had
lost Aunt Ellen, with an attack of fever. Mrs. Jasper looked rather
pale, but she had not changed.
"Why, you haven't grown a bit!" cried Daisy. "And look at me! You'll
have to go to German baths, and all that, to get a good start. What a
pity you did not go with us! I've had such a longing for girls. You
don't get acquainted with them on the continent. They are always in the
school-room. And I am just hungry, all the way through, for some one
young and enthusiastic, and foolish and merry things to laugh at."
"But--I didn't know you were coming--"
"No, dear Doctor Joe kept the secret well. We did hope to be in on
Saturday."
"Then you knew?" and she looked half reproachfully at her brother.
He laughed. He had only done Daisy's bidding.
"Now, if you want to keep Hanny to dinner, I'll come down this evening.
I have a few calls to make," he announced presently.
"Indeed we do. You have so many folks, you might give me Hanny," and
Daisy glanced at Doctor Joe with a bright, arch smile.
"If you took Hanny, you would have to take father and me, sure. The
others might squeeze along without her; but I am afraid they would get
thin on it."
Then the Doctor nodded and went his way.
"Now that you have Hanny, I will go and unpack one of the trunks," said
Mrs. Jasper.
Hanny and Daisy went down in the corner of the long apartment, and took
possession of a tête-à-tête.
"Oh, you are so changed!" cried the little girl "And so--so beautiful!"
"And so well! That's the loveliest thing. I can take long walks and
dance, think of that! I am only a little lame. Just the merest crook in
my back, and one leg a tiny bit shorter, but a thick sole makes it all
right. And I've grown like a weed, while you are a tiny bit of something
very choice,--a dainty little white rose. And I am so glad to have you
again. Oh, don't let anything ever come between us! Let us be friends
all our lives long. I have brought you a beautiful ring to bind
friendship."
"Oh," sighed Hanny, in delight.
"And there have been so many changes! Oh, who do you think we met in
London? Not Whittington and his cat, but Nora Whitney without her cat.
And poor Pussy Gray is dead, and Nora is a tall young lady with a
splendid voice, and will make a famous singer, I suppose. And Delia is
getting to be famous too, I hear. It is odd, but she doesn't suggest a
genius to my mind. I think you often are disappointed in geniuses. We
saw some while abroad, and they did not come up to my expectations, or
else one expects too much. Still there are some lovely faces."
"But she is just delightful! Only she keeps so busy, we do not see much
of her."
"And poor little Tudie! How sad it was! I can sympathise with her sister
now, for being an only child."
Then Hanny said Charlie had entered a theological seminary; and Daisy
agreed being a clergyman would prove just the calling for him, he was so
earnest and conscientious. Hanny had written everything, she thought;
but Daisy was so eager to hear it all over again.
Mr. Jasper came in. He had been back and forth, and kept up the habit of
calling on the Underhills, so nothing about Hanny surprised him.
The little girl felt rather startled when she went into the large
dining-room. At this period, there were people who spent the whole
season at the Astor House, though there were some newer hotels that were
very attractive. It was like a grand party, Hanny thought. The ladies
were so prettily attired, so bright and chatty.
When they went back to the parlour, that looked like a party, too. Hanny
felt very plain in her school-dress. There were a number of Mr. Jasper's
business friends, that he brought up to introduce to his wife and the
two girls. But they were so busy talking, that they hardly noticed any
one else.
Doctor Joe returned, armed with an invitation from Mrs. Underhill, for
Mrs. Jasper and Daisy, to come up and make them a visit; and Mrs. Jasper
said she should be glad to go somewhere, and find an old-fashioned
American home-feeling. Daisy could hardly let Hanny go. Doctor Joe
proposed that he should come for Daisy the next day, for she could not
be of any special service to her mother until some plans were decided
upon. That was a splendid thought.
They kissed and kissed, as if they were never to see each other again.
Hanny's eyes were lustrous, and her cheeks pink with excitement. And
there was so much to tell her mother.
"You must go to bed," declared Doctor Joe. "It is after ten."
"But, oh, my lessons! I have not looked at them."
"Never mind lessons now. You can get up early in the morning."
She was very tired, she had talked so much and listened so intently. And
in five minutes she was asleep, in spite of the unlearned lessons.
She studied every moment the next morning, and all the way down in the
stage, and managed to get through. She was a very good scholar
ordinarily, and ambitious to have perfect recitations. But she kept
counting the hours, for she could hardly believe Daisy Jasper was really
at home.
Joe brought her up to the house when he had finished his round of calls.
He handed her out quite as if she was a stylish young lady, though she
was not in long gowns. But Joe was curiously proud of her, as being one
of his first cases.
Everybody gave her a cordial welcome. Jim was at once her most devoted.
Mrs. Underhill soon concluded foreign ways had not spoiled her; and
grandmother said she was a pretty-behaved, intelligent girl. But, oh,
the things she had seen, and done! She could talk French and German; she
had taken painting-lessons from real artists, and had some pretty
studies for Hanny, in a box not yet unpacked. She had brought the
friendship ring, which was two tiny hands clasped over a sapphire with
diamond sparks around it. Hanny's eyes shone with delight; she was
getting quite a collection in the way of gifts.
Daisy seemed to bring a fascinating atmosphere. She was not forward,
indeed there was often a pretty air of deprecation; but she had seen a
good deal of society without being actually in it, and, since her aunt's
death, had been her mother's companion. Her different lessons had mostly
been given at home, except those in oil-painting; and there was no air
of schools about her. She was so ready to be entertaining, so fresh, and
yet with a charming simplicity.
"I am so glad for Hanny to have such a friend," her mother said to the
Doctor. "She hasn't seemed to take any one to her heart since we have
been up here; and it does make her seem a bit old-fashioned to be so
much with elderly people."
"Yes. They seem to suit exactly."
Jim took them over to the Deans' one evening. Oh, what a merry talk they
had about old times, for it did seem quite old to them. They recalled
the day in summer, when the "caravan" went down Broadway to the store
where Charles had been employed one vacation, and dear old First Street.
Biddy Brady, who had danced for them, had run away and married a young
Irishman. Old Mrs. McGiven still sold candies and cakes, and
slate-pencils, and, oh, Washington pie that was almost as great a
necessity to childhood then, as chewing-gum is now.
Mr. Jasper brought up the pictures when he escorted his wife. There were
two pretty bits of landscape on the shore of Lake Geneva, and the other
a Holland scene, with a stretch of canal and a queer house that looked
as if it might topple over some day, if the foundation was washed out.
"But they never do," explained Daisy. "It's all so curious, and most of
it so clean! And, oh, the windmills, and the queer costumes that have
not changed in a century!"
Beside that there was a water-colour, a study of the most elegant
tulips, painted from a real bed.
Hanny was wild with delight. They hung the pictures in her room, though
Doctor Joe declared they ought to go in his study. He pretended to feel
very badly that Daisy had not done anything for him.
"I will wait until I can paint something really worthy," she replied
with a bright flush. "I owe you so much, that I ought to give you the
very best. I mean to go on with my lessons. I love the work, and if I
have any talent, it certainly is that."
"But you used to draw figures, faces," said Hanny, "and they were so
real."
"In the summer I took lessons in miniature painting on ivory. I must
confess that is my ambition; but it will take years to attain to
perfection. I suppose now I ought to go to studying solid branches," and
she laughed lightly. "I've begun wrong end first, with the
accomplishments. But I had to talk German, for mamma wouldn't bother.
And as she had not forgotten all her French, she went at that with me,
and so I am a tolerable scholar. But I dare say Hanny could twist me all
up with mathematics. I only know enough to count change. Still, I am
quite an expert in foreign money. And, Hanny, were my sentences
fearfully and wonderfully constructed, and did I slip up often on
spelling?"
"I am quite sure you did not," protested Hanny.
"I do suppose she ought to go to a good school," said Mrs. Jasper.
"I am afraid I should not like school now. I could no longer be the
heroine. And how could I descend to an ordinary station in life? Oh, Dr.
Underhill, can't you interpose on the score of my still delicate
health."
She had such a pretty colour in her cheeks, and her eyes shone with
merriment.
"Doctor, you really must begin to be severe with her. She has her own
way quite too much."
But it was a very charming way, they all thought. She roused Hanny to an
unwonted brightness. Even grandmother laid claim to her, for she was
delighted with her piquant description of places and people. She had
heard Jenny Lind, and several other noted singers; but it seemed to her
that the ovation to the Swedish Nightingale in New York must have been
magnificent.
Jim claimed her when he was indoors; and they had many a merry bout. It
hardly seemed possible that the few years could have wrought such a
change in her. Ben took glowing accounts to Delia; and although she felt
hurt and sore over the coolness of the Underhills, she did not abate one
jot of her love for Ben.
She had been very busy arranging Nora's wardrobe, and now most of the
care of the house devolved upon her. Mrs. Whitney would read for hours
to Aunt Patty; often the old lady went soundly asleep. To be sure,
matters were not attended to with the niceness of Mrs. Underhill; but
Barbara was a treasure with her German neatness, and Bridget kept her
kitchen at sixes and sevens. Mr. Theodore brought home one guest or
three, with the same indifference; and if Ben's mother could have seen
the cheerful manner in which Delia hurried about and arranged the table
on short notice, she must have modified her opinion a little. Theodore
was quite negligent about money-matters as well. Sometimes he was very
lavish; then he would declare he was "dead broke," and she must do the
best she could. Three or four of his friends would be in about ten, and
couldn't she fix up a bit of something?
Sometimes she ran a little in debt; but when the good times came, she
was only too eager to get matters straight. And she was so bright and
gay with it all, and made Ben's visits so pleasant, that he sometimes
forgot there was any trouble.
She had said decisively that they could not marry yet awhile; and Ben
had accepted her fiat. But they did begin to plan for the journey
abroad, and had a good deal of entertainment counting the cost, and
considering where they would go.
"I should so like to see Daisy Jasper," she said.
"I will ask her to come down," answered Ben.
But Dolly invited them both up one Saturday, when Hanny and Daisy were
to be there to tea. And Daisy told Delia about meeting Nora, and how
happy she was in her new prospects.
She had been a little homesick, she wrote to Delia, but only for a few
hours at a time. Madame Clavier was as careful as any mother could be,
fussy, she thought sometimes; but no doubt it was for her good.
Daisy was very attractive to the children until Delia came, when they
deserted their new friend for stories. Delia had not lost her girlish
gift.
The Jaspers were a month making up their minds what to do, and then
decided to board until spring at least. Joe found them a very pleasant
place in their neighbourhood, to Hanny's delight. She was so glad to get
her dear friend back again, sweet and unchanged; not but what she had
found several charming girls at school, and some of them were just wild
to see that lovely Miss Jasper, so her circle was widening all the time.
Margaret thought she ought to wear long dresses. Girls not quite grown
up wore them to their gaiter-tops. Crisp, elegant button-boots had not
come in, like a good many other excellent things. And Hanny was
undeniably petite. Stretch up her very utmost, she hardly measured five
feet. Women had not, by taking thought, added an inch to their stature
by high heels. There were one or two "lifts" put in between the soles,
called spring-heels; but the hats helped out a little.
"I haven't grown an inch this year," she declared ruefully. "And I am
afraid I never will be any taller. It's queer, when all the rest of you
are large."
"You are just right," said her father. "You will be my little girl all
your life long."
Doctor Joe comforted her with the asseveration that he liked little
women, "honest and true;" and Daisy also insisted she was just right.
"For you see how admirably your head goes down on my shoulder; and if we
were the same size, we should be bumping heads. Queen Victoria is only
five feet, and she is very queenly."
"But I am not queenly."
"No, but you could be, if you set about it."
She had some frocks to wear out that could not be let down; and her
mother settled the question according to that for the present.
There was another thing that gave her a vague suspicion of being grown
up, and that was cards.
The "quality" used visiting-cards; but it would have been considered
underbred and pretentious to sow them around in the modern manner. They
were kept for state occasions. Of course Dolly and Margaret had them;
and Hanny thought Joseph B. Underhill, M. D., looked extremely elegant.
Jim had some written ones in exquisite penmanship. He had not given up
society because one girl had proved false and deceitful. He made a
point of bowing distantly to Mrs. Williamson, and flushed even now at
the thought of having been such a ninny!
Daisy Jasper's name was on her mother's cards. But you couldn't persuade
Mrs. Underhill into any such nonsense. She declared if Joe brought her
home any, she would put them in the fire. One day, however, he dropped a
small white box into Hanny's lap, as she sat in his easy-chair, studying
her lessons. It was too small for confectionery; it might be--she had
coveted a pair of bracelets.
So she looked up with an inquiring smile.
"Open it, and see if they suit."
She was sure then it was bracelets.
There was white tissue-paper and something stiff. She tumbled the
contents out in her lap. A few cards fell the plain side up. She turned
one over. In very delicate script she saw--
"Miss Nan Underhill."
"Oh!" with a cry of delight. They called her Nan altogether at
Stephen's, and the school-girls wrote her name in that manner. She often
used it in writing notes. It looked so very attractive now.
"Oh, you lovely Joe!"
"They are nice to use with your girl-friends. There are a great many
little society regulations that show refinement and good breeding, and I
want you to observe them. When you get to be a middle-aged woman, Hannah
Ann will look solid and dignified. I consulted Daisy and Mrs. Jasper,
and both approved."
"Just a thousand thanks," and she threw up her arms to bring his face
down within kissing reach.
The long skirt was settled by a rather peculiar circumstance.
We were beginning to have real literary aspirations, and some writers
who attracted attention abroad. Miss Bremer had found a great many
things to like in us; and Jenny Lind had been enthusiastic. Some
Englishmen of note had been over and found we were not a nation of
savages or red men, and that the best and highest in English literature
was not unknown to us. Several of our writers had been abroad; and there
was growing up a spirit of cordiality.
Then Thackeray was coming over to lecture on The English Humourists.
Nearly everybody went to reading him. Some because it was, as we should
say now, a "fad;" others because they wanted to appear conversant with
his works; and a few because they had learned to understand and to love
the wonderful touches of the master-pen. Boston received him with open
arms. Then he was to visit the principal cities.
Ben and Delia were tremendously interested; and most of their talk was
spiced with bits and quotations, and the telling scenes from his novels.
Delia was beginning to have a good deal of discrimination and judgment.
Sometimes, in moments of discouragement, she admitted to Ben that she
was afraid she really hadn't any genius. Her novel had been recast ever
so many times, and still languished.
Ben brought up tickets for Mr. Thackeray's second lecture. He had gone
to the first one, and meant to hear them all. Joe must take Hanny, who
would always regret it if she didn't hear him. He had seen Mr. Jasper;
and they were all going the same evening.
Joe had meant to hear him. He was fond of hearing and seeing notable
people, and kept his mind freshened up with all that was going on in the
great world.
Hanny was delighted, of course, though the fact of listening with Daisy
beside her added a great deal. They had an enthusiastic, rather
school-girlish friendship. Daisy's mind was, of course, the more
experienced. But with youthful fervor they were training themselves into
perfect accord, en rapport, so they could look at each other and
understand.
There was a really fine audience. And when the large, burly,
broad-chested Englishman stepped on the platform, he had a cordial and
enthusiastic welcome.
This evening he was at his best. His manner was clear and engaging; he
moved his audience to tears and smiles. There was satire and tenderness
and the marvellous insight that made him absolutely personify the
writers he touched upon. The audience was charmed.
Hanny could not decide upon him. She was being won against her will,
rather her preconceived notions; and yet her first feelings about him
would return to disturb her. Mr. and Mrs. Jasper were delighted beyond
expression; Joe was deeply interested, though he confessed he did not
know Thackeray as he ought. He had read only one or two of the novels
and the "Yellowplush Papers."
"I am going to read 'Vanity Fair' over again," said Hanny, when they
reached home. "I didn't like it, really and truly."
"You are hardly old enough to enjoy such things," returned Joe. "Even I
have not made up my mind, and I know I would not have liked them at
seventeen. We believe in heroes and great deeds then, and the
possibilities of life look grander to us than they do afterward. I
suppose it is right that we should want to be pleased then."
Hanny felt that she wanted to be pleased with a story, or else very
sorry for the misfortunes that no human power could seem to avert. But
when mean and shallow and selfish people caused their own trials, were
they worthy of sympathy?
They talked at school with the wide diversity of crude, girlish
opinions. The papers were full of him as well.
Ben was one of his enthusiastic admirers. And now they planned to give a
banquet,--printers and newspaper-men,--and Mr. Thackeray was to be the
guest of the occasion; there was to be a dinner, with some of the bright
literary lights, music, and dancing,--a really grand affair. Theodore
Whitney was on the committee; and Ben had a lesser position. They meant
to make it the affair of the season. Joe must surely take tickets. It
was such a shame Dolly couldn't go; and, of course, Steve wouldn't.
John and Cleanthe were not interested in such things; and, after
thinking it over, Mrs. Hoffman declined.
"I shall have to look up a girl," said Joe. "Hanny, you have never been
to a ball. Would you like to go?"
"Oh, I think a ball would be splendid! If Daisy could go, or Dolly."
"Yes, Daisy's mother or Dolly would have to go."
That gave him an idea, and he went down to see Mrs. Jasper.
"Why, I really think I would like to go myself," she said. "We do not
consider Daisy quite a grown-up lady. I should like to keep her just a
young girl for a long while; but, perhaps, that will not be possible."
"Hanny is a very young girl," returned Joe. "And I do not think father
could stand it to have her grown up. But she keeps so small, I don't
just know how we should get mother coaxed around. Both girls would enjoy
it immensely."
"Oh, she would trust her with Mr. Jasper and me, if we were to take
Daisy. Dear me--one festivity doesn't really signify. And yet--" she
blushed and smiled with a certain girlishness. "They may be dangerous; I
went to a Christmas ball when I was sixteen, and met Mr. Jasper. I was
out on a holiday,--a mere school-girl."
"I don't believe Hanny or Daisy will find any one to fall in love
with," said Joe, seriously; "they are so in love with each other."
"Oh, yes. They are planning to live together. There must be a
settlement; for both will have to bring their respective families."
Joe was a good deal amused at that.
CHAPTER XVIII
THE LITTLE GIRL GROWN UP
Mrs. Underhill said "No." It was not to be thought of for a moment.
Hanny in short frocks!
"It would have to be made long in the skirt, I suppose," returned Joe,
gravely.
"Long! What are you talking about!"
"She would enjoy seeing the dancing. And when she was an old lady, and
Thackeray dead, she could tell her children she was at a banquet with
the great novelist."
"What nonsense you do talk, Joe."
Doctor Joe laughed, gave his mother a squeeze and a kiss that brought
the bright colour to her cheek, and then went off to comfort two rich
old patients who had nothing the matter with them, except the
infirmities of age. They thought there was no one like Dr. Underhill.
Perhaps his mother thought so, too. She was taking a good deal of
comfort with him in these days, when she had cast Ben a little out of
her good graces. She had a hope that Ben's sturdy common sense would
convince him after a while that Delia would make a poor, improvident
wife. And there was a chance that, while Ben was waiting to get ready,
some one might capture Delia. She sincerely hoped it would be some one
well-to-do and deserving, and who could afford servants and a generous
household expenditure. Ben would get over it in time.
And much as she enjoyed Joe, she wanted him to marry and have a home and
family of his very own. But was any one good enough for such a sweet,
generous, noble soul!
Of course Hanny couldn't go; that was a foregone conclusion. But then
the Jaspers were going, and it wasn't like taking a young girl out in
society. Just one night would not matter. Daisy had been to several
grown-up festivities abroad, where they were ever so much more strenuous
about girls. There would be so many people, they would pass in the
throng unnoticed; and it was not like a public ball.
It was a little odd, but Miss Cynthia settled it finally. Her verdict
seemed to settle a good many things. She did not "dress-make" very
steadily now; but there were some folks who thought they couldn't have a
wedding, or a large party, without Miss Cynthia's advice and assistance.
She came to spend the day. Grandmother Van Kortlandt enjoyed her very
much, as she could not visit a great deal herself. Cynthia always had
the latest news about all the relatives. She gossiped in a bright social
fashion, with no especial ill-nature, or sharp criticism, indeed her
sharpnesses were amusing for the bit of real fun in them.
"Why, of course she ought to go," declared Miss Cynthia. "I'd like to
see the great man myself, and shake hands with him, though I am not over
fond of the English; and I do hope and pray he won't go home and make
fun of us. As for the dancing, and all that, Peggy Underhill, you went
to lots of frolics before you were as old as Hanny, and had young men
beauing you round. I don't see but you have made a good and capable wife
and mother; and it didn't hurt you a bit."
"But I was not going to school."
"It wasn't the fashion then. And now women are in Oberlin College,
studying the same things as the men; and they fall in love and get
married just as they always did. The ball, or whatever you call it,
won't hurt Hanny a bit. There will be the Jaspers, and Joe, and Ben, and
I'm sure that's enough to take care of one little girl."
"She has nothing to wear; she is still in short frocks. And the idea of
buying a ball-dress, that she won't want until next winter!"
"Now see here. Let's look over the old things. There's her blue silk,
outgrown of course. They ruffle everything now, and it will be wide
enough for that. And I can just cover the waist, and ruffle the skirt
with white tarleton. It is nearly two yards wide, and makes lovely
trimming. There's no use saving it up for Stephen's children."
They all laughed at that.
"And, Aunt Marg'ret," to grandmother, "why didn't you keep your little
girl shut up in a band-box, while all the other girls were having good
times and getting lovers? She might have been a queer, particular,
fidgety old maid, instead of having a nice family for us to quarrel
over."
"I will buy her a new dress," said grandmother.
"She doesn't want anything but a few yards of tarleton. She won't be
likely to get into the papers. She and Miss Daisy will sit and look on,
and just whisper to each other, and feel afraid to say their souls are
their own; but they'll enjoy the pretty dressing and the dancing, and
they will see how the thing is done when it comes their turn in good
earnest."
So Mrs. Underhill had to give in. Grandmother slipped five dollars in
Miss Cynthia's hand, as she was going away.
"If that falls short, I'll give you some more. And you just buy that
tarleton."
Hanny wasn't quite sure, and never said a word at school until the very
day. But she and Daisy had a thrill of delight talking it over. Miss
Cynthia came armed with the tarleton. The skirt was let down; but girls'
long dresses were not sweeping length in those days. Then it was covered
with narrow ruffles that suggested drifting clouds over an azure sky.
The bodice was not outgrown, after all. It was covered with the
tarleton, and had a fall of beautiful old lace around the shoulders, a
pretty frill at the neck, and short sleeves. Joe bought her white
gloves, and she had a blue sash.
Miss Cynthia came in to dress her; but the little girl had a quivering
fear that something had happened to her maid, for it was full eight
o'clock. She put her back hair in a French twist, much worn then, with
two big rings right on the top of her head that looked like a crown. Her
front hair she curled over an iron, and then combed it out; and it was a
mass of fluffy waves, gathered in bandeaux just above her ears. She had
her mother's beautiful pearl earrings, that had come from France with
the old French grandmother, and a handsome mother-of-pearl-topped comb
in her hair.
They put on the ball-dress. "Now look at yourself," said Miss Cynthia,
"and get used to it before I let in the folks."
Hanny stood before her mother's tall mirror. Oh, this was Miss Nan
Underhill, and she had never seen her before. There was a mystery about
her,--a sudden sense of a strange, beautiful, unseen world, a new
country she was going into, an old world left behind, an intangible
recreation that no words could explain, but that touched her with a
kind of exalted sacredness, as if a new life was unfolding all about
her. She hardly dared stir or breathe.
"For a girl with no special beauty, I think you look very well. But,
land sakes! You'll see no end of handsome girls; Margaret and Jim
carried off the beauty of this family."
Miss Cynthia's voice recalled her from the vision of coming womanhood,
that she was to live over again on her wedding night, with its holy
blessedness enshrining her within her bridal veil.
Her father's eyes shone with a softness that looked like tears. Her
mother viewed her all over with a critical air.
"I must say, Cynthia, you've done wonderfully. The dress looks very
nice. And now, Hanny, I do hope you won't be forward or silly. Mind
everything Mrs. Jasper says, and don't you and Daisy giggle. Be careful
and don't lose Margaret's handkerchief. I don't just know as you ought
to carry that."
Joe said she was lovely; and Jim really was very complimentary. He did
wish that he was going. But Jim counted the cost of everything now, for
he was trying to get out of debt.
The coach came up from the Jaspers' and Hanny was put inside. Joe
insisted on sharing the box with the driver.
When Daisy took off her wrap in the dressing-room, she had on a pale
pink silk. Part of her curls were tied up in a bunch on top of her head,
and fastened with a silver arrow and two roses. She would always wear it
in ringlets, or at least until she was so old she wouldn't mind about
her shoulders being not quite straight.
The affair was a banquet primarily. To be sure they gathered in the
Assembly room; and there was Ben, and Delia, who looked very nice and
bright in maize colour and brown.
"Oh, Hanny, you are as lovely as a picture," she whispered
enthusiastically. "But you are a little mite; there is no denying it.
I was so afraid you couldn't come, that something would happen at the
last moment. Miss Cynthia is capital."
Hanny coloured and almost sighed. She might as well give up hoping to be
tall, and accept the fact.
They went into the banquet-room, where there were two long tables. They
passed around to where a circle of men stood, some of them very fine
looking indeed. The advancing group were presented to the great
novelist, and in future years Hanny was to treasure the cordial smile
and pressure of the hand. But he was to come again when the world had
learned to pay him a finer and more discriminating admiration.
His end of the table was literary. The Jasper party were opposite, at
the other one. What brightness and wit spiced the party, they could
gather from the genial laughter. There were toasts and responses that
scintillated with gaiety and touched the border of pathos.
It was long, and of course the younger people who came for the ball were
not compelled to stay. The novelist was to leave at the close of the
dinner. And presently most of the company found their way to the dancing
room, where the band was discoursing enchanting music, and where every
one enjoyed the promenade.
But when the quadrille sets were formed and in motion, Hanny was
enraptured. Ben and Delia were among them. Delia certainly had a
frivolous side to her nature for a genius. She was very fond of fun and
pleasure and dancing, and had no lack of partners all the evening.
Some there were who danced like a fairy dream; others who made blunders
and gave the wrong hand, and betrayed various awkwardnesses. Doctor Joe
found several lady friends, and danced two or three times, then
proposed that Hanny should try, which he was sure "would inspire Daisy
into making the attempt," he said with a persuasive smile.
Hanny was very much afraid out on the large space. But Delia was in the
same set, and her bright merry eyes were full of encouragement. It was
not alarming. Indeed, in five minutes, the music had put a "spirit in
her feet," and she felt quite at home.
Then a friend of Ben's came to ask her; and Doctor Joe sat down to
persuade Daisy. While abroad, she had taken what we should now term a
series of physical culture lessons to strengthen and develop her limbs,
and to learn how to overcome her misfortune in every possible manner.
Indeed, it was hardly noticeable now, and she had outgrown the
sensitiveness of her childhood.
"Oh, mamma, do you think I could?"
"Of course she can," declared Doctor Joe. "I can't have you playing wall
flower altogether at your first ball. And if you drop down in surprise,
or faint away, I will carry you to the dressing-room at once."
He was so tender and full of nonsense, yet so much in earnest, that she
rose reluctantly. But like Hanny, with the eager joy of youth, she soon
forgot everything except the pure pleasure, and the delight of
gratifying dear Doctor Joe, who was so strong and gentle that she could
not even feel a bit nervous.
As for Hanny, she was really enchanted. The room full of people,
smiling and happy, the changing figures, the light airy dresses, the
shimmer of silks, the cloudlets of lace, the soft flying curls, for so
many people wore ringlets still, the happy smiling faces, and the throb
of the music was intoxicating. It was a strange, delightful world that
she had gone into with her first long gown and her hair done up.
She came back, flushed and excited, her pretty eyes shining, her red
lips all in a quiver.
"Now you must sit down and rest," said Mrs. Jasper. "And if you are very
obedient, you may get up in that Spanish dance. I think that quite
delightful and bewildering."
A lady sat on the other side of Mrs. Jasper, and resumed the incident
she was describing. Mr. Jasper came up with a young man.
"Here is an old friend!" he exclaimed. "Where is Daisy?"
"Somewhere with the Doctor. Oh, what a surprise!" and she took the young
man's hand.
"I wasn't sure I could get here; and it would have been very ungrateful
to Mr. Jasper, when he sent me a ticket. I wanted to see Miss Daisy
again. But I have just come on a flying business tour, and must start
to-morrow for Philadelphia. Still, I may have a little leisure when I
return. What a gay scene."
Hanny sat fanning herself, and feeling that her cheeks were scarlet. If
it only wouldn't culminate in her nose! Then Mr. Jasper turned and
introduced his young friend. Hanny moved a little, so he could sit
between her and Mrs. Jasper,--a very attractive young man, a Mr.
Andersen.
"Miss Underhill," he repeated, as Mr. Jasper turned away, "I've been
speculating on a Miss Underhill for five minutes. I wonder if you will
consider it impertinent; but perhaps you never speculate upon people,
and then it might be reprehensible. Just as I entered the room, there
was a merry group talking, and a sort of 'nut brown mayde,' all in brown
and yellow with bright hair and laughing eyes said, 'Miss Nan
Underhill.' Of course I was too well bred, and in too great a hurry to
listen to any more, or I might have found out about her. I had just an
instant interior gleam of what she must be like with that English name.
And I wonder if the fates have directed my steps to her?"
Mr. Andersen was not the tall, stern, gloomy hero of romance; he was
medium in height and figure, with a frank, eager sort of face, dark
hair, and eyes she thought black then, but afterwards came to know that
they were of the deep blue of a midnight sky in winter. He had such a
smiling mouth, and his voice had a curious, lingering cadence that
suggests that one may have heard it in a previous state.
Hanny caught the spirit of the half badinage, and the laughing light in
his face.
"I think I ought to know the ideal before I confess identity," she
replied.
"Can't I change the ideal? Or repent my vague, wild fancy?"
"Oh, was it wild? Then I must insist upon it. Miss Nan Underhill, an
English girl; of course she was tall, this vision of your imagination?"
Hanny was quite sure her face grew redder. And this ideal girl was
beautiful. Oh, dear!
"Yes, tall; a daughter of the gods, or the old Norse Vikings before they
were Anglicised, with fair hair. And you have the fair hair."
"But I am not tall! I am sorry to have you disappointed."
"I am not disappointed. What does a vagrant fancy amount to? I consider
myself fortunate in meeting Miss Underhill. Why, suppose I had gone
rambling about and missed you altogether? Have you known the Jaspers
long?"
"Oh, years and years. Before they went abroad."
"What a beautiful girl Daisy is! I am glad she is here enjoying herself.
Oh, isn't it the regulation thing to speak of the hero of the feast? Of
course when you heard he was coming to lecture you began to read his
novels--if you had not before."
"I had not read them before. There are a great many books I have not
read. But I tried at 'Vanity Fair;' and I am afraid I don't like it."
"I do not believe you will now. I can't imagine real young people liking
them. But when one has grown older and had sorrow and suffering and
experience, there are so many touches that go to one's heart. And
'Vanity Fair' is a novel without a hero. Still I always feel sorry for
poor Major Dobbins. I wonder if Amelia would have liked him better if
his name had been something else? Could you fall in love with such a
name?"
They both laughed. She raised her eyes. How exquisitely fair and sweet
and dainty she was! The soft hair had shining lights; and her eyes had a
twilight look that suggested a pellucid lake, with evening shades
blowing over it.
"A little more of something would have made him a hero, and spoiled the
book."
"But I don't like Amelia, nor Becky; and the Crawleys are horrid. And
Thackeray seems holding up everybody and laughing at them. I like to
believe in people."
"I am glad there is a time when we can believe in them: it is the
radiant time of youth. What did that little smile hide, and half betray?
Confess!"
"Are you so very old?"
The charming gravity was irresistible.
"Seven and twenty, and I am beginning to worship Thackeray. At seven and
thirty, he will be one of my passions, I know. Now and then I come to a
sentence that goes to my heart. No, do not read him yet awhile, unless
it is some of the little things. There is 'Dr. Birch and his Young
Friends;' and if you want to be amused you must read his continuation of
'Ivanhoe.' But then you will have neither heroines nor heroes left. And
if you and Miss Daisy want to laugh beyond measure, get the 'Rose and
the Ring,' that he wrote for his two little girls."
"Oh," said Hanny, "are they at home, in England?"
"Yes, with an aunt."
"Haven't they any mother?"
"They have no mother," he said gravely.
Years later, the novelist was to be one of the little girl's heroes,
when she knew all the bravery of his life, and why his little girls were
without a mother.
Joe and Daisy returned, and there was a pleasant rencontre; then Delia
and Ben came up, and they had a merry chat and a promenade.
"I wonder," as the musicians began tuning again, "if you are engaged for
all the dances. Could I be allowed one?"
He took up her card.
"I have been dancing so much already; but Mrs. Jasper said I might try
the Spanish dance."
"Oh, then try it with me! I am not too old to dance, if I have come to
adoring Thackeray. And I am to go away soon."
"To go away--where?" And she glanced up with an interest that gave him a
quick sense of pleasure.
"To Hamburg first; then to find some relations."
"In Germany? But you are not a German?" in surprise.
"I ought to be a Dane, if one's birth counts for anything; and if one's
ancestors count, then an old Dutch Knickerbocker," he returned, with a
soft, amused laugh. "But I believe I cannot boast of any English
descent, such as the son of a hundred earls. That doesn't sound as
poetic as the daughter of a hundred earls."
"Who was not one to be desired," interposed the young girl.
"Ah, you read Tennyson then? It is odd, but a good many of us begin on
poetry. I like it very much myself."
A touch of thought settled between Hanny's brows.
"Are you wondering about my mixed lineage? Part of it came from the old
Dutch governor, Jacob Leisler. My grandfather went to Germany, and ran
away with a lady of high degree, and brought her back to America, where
my father was born, and lived all his young life, until his marriage.
Then business took him abroad, and I was born; and my mother died at
Copenhagen. My father is connected with the importing house of Strang,
Zahner, & Co., of which Mr. Jasper is a member. He is married again, to
a very sweet, amiable German woman. Oh, here we are to take our places!"
Hanny hesitated an instant. She longed to have Mrs. Jasper's
approbation.
"We have been looking for you," said Ben. "Let us begin in the one set.
Here is Daisy and Joe."
Then it would be all right. She glanced up and smiled with cordial
assent.
The old-fashioned Spanish dance was a great favourite at that time, when
germans were unknown. Its graceful turns and windings, its stately
balances, until the dancers seemed all one long elegant chain, that
moved to the perfect time of the music, was indeed fascinating. People
danced then. Youth never dreamed of being bored, and walking languidly.
Every movement was delicate and refined.
Was she really in some enchanted country? When Mr. Andersen was
compelled to leave her, he glanced over or past his partner with an
expression so near a smile that Hanny's pulses quickened. When he came
back, the light touch of his hand gave her a little thrill that was
quite delicious. Now and then they had a bit of conversation.
Once he said, in his charming fashion, that was admiration rather than
criticism:--
"Why, you are very petite!"
"Yes; I am not the tall, slim English girl."
"I am very glad. We dance so well together; I wish I were not going away
so soon. And you can't guess--you will think it strange,--to American
ideas it is; but when I go back I have to hunt up a descendant of this
grandmother of high degree who has been making matrimonial overtures to
my father on my behalf."
"Oh, that is like a story! And what will you do?"
"I will think about it, and answer you when you return to me."
He gave her to the next partner, with a graceful inclination of the
head.
There were numberless evolutions before he could take her again. She
glanced up out of sweet, questioning eyes.
"I've been considering," he resumed, as if they had not parted. "You
see, it is this way. My father is very, very fond of me, though there
are other children. Then I have my mother's fortune, which he has been
very watchful of. He is a splendid, upright, honourable man. Now, if
your father asked such a thing of you,--what I mean is, if he asked you
to see some one and learn how well you could like her or him--"
She was off again. Oh, what a sweet little fairy she was! What poet
wrote about twinkling feet? Hers certainly twinkled in their daintiness.
He had not considered her prettiness at first; now it seemed as if she
was exquisitely fair, with that soft pink in her cheeks.
"Yes. Do you not believe you would go to please him, and see? And you
might not like her, and she might not like you. But sometimes people do
take sudden fancies. What do you think, looking at it out of an American
girl's eyes?"
"I should go for my father's sake."
There was such a delicate gravity in her clear eyes as she raised them a
little.
"Thank you," he returned softly. "What an odd thing to talk of in the
midst of our dancing! When you are older, you will find people making a
confidante of you very often, you seem so serious and truthful."
They were coming down to the end of the winding chain; Mr. and Mrs.
Jasper stood there. One more figure, and the cornet and horns and
violins gave three long breaths of melody and stopped.
"My dear children," said Mrs. Jasper, as she stretched out her hand.
"Daisy, you will be in bed all day to-morrow! Your mother will never
trust me with you again, Hanny; I didn't think it would be so long."
"But it was so delightful, mamma." Daisy was in a tumult of pleasure.
"We must go at once. Mr. Jasper will be back by the time we have found
our wraps. Doctor, I can't thank you for making such a patient martyr of
yourself, only you are always so good. Hanny, have you had a nice time?"
"It has been splendid," with a long, long breath, and shining lights in
her eyes.
Delia went to the dressing-room with them.
"I'm going to have two more dances," she said. "It is the first real
ball I've been to in a long while. I'm so glad you came. Ben says he
never imagined you were so pretty. Think of that, from one's own
brother! And Daisy did not shine you down, either."
Hanny kissed her with a sort of rapture. She couldn't understand; she
seemed to be walking on the azure clouds instead of solid earth.
Mr. Andersen went to the carriage with them, and said he should surely
call when he returned from Philadelphia.
Daisy leaned her head down on her mother's shoulder. She was more tired
than she would admit. Hanny's eyes were like stars, and her brain was
still filled with wonderful melodies and light airy figures trooping to
the ravishing sounds, the shimmering light and sparkle. Doctor Joe just
carried her up the steps, and opened the door with his latch-key. But
Mrs. Underhill had heard them, and she came downstairs, wrapped in a
shawl.
"Oh, Joe, how could you keep her out so late! Do you know it's almost
three o'clock?"
Then the mother folded her to her heart. It seemed as if she had been
snatched from some great danger; and now that she had her safe and
