idea she could sit down of an afternoon when the 
housework was done up and draw a little picture 
just as she would put on a patch or darn a stock- 



 

ing. Only it would be a hundred times more 
profitable, and he knew she had not spent all her 
money. 

Bernard Ward looked across the church at her 
that Sunday morning. He was singing in the 
choir, and he taught classics and higher branches at 
the academy. The small, spirited face had hardly 
changed, but it seemed to him the figure had taken 
on an indescribable dignity and grace. To think 
of her having made her mark, any mark in fact. 
A girl with courage and purpose ! And he was 
here just the same as four years ago. No, not 
quite. He had been learning all the time. But 
what was it all worth, if he spent his life here ? 
And three years ago his dream was to marry 
Thirza and do just this. 



CHAPTER IV 

A NEW FRIEND 

HELEN OTIS found, after a few days, that a 
whole summer on a farm would be rather dull. 
She must have a piano and some entertainment 
beside these mild drives. She was very fond of 
horseback riding. 

" Neither of my horses are fit for a lady's riding," 
said Roy, " but I can get you one, and I'll inquire 
about the piano. I think we will have to go to 
Oxford for that. There's an organ factory ; we 
might take it for our next drive." 

" Thank you," she returned, pleased by his 
interest. His commonplace manner was very 
satisfactory. 

Her harmonious elegance touched Royal Palmer 
in a curious way. Bessie had a kittenish graceful 
ness that had attracted him wonderfully at first. 
He was so little used to seeing any young women 
around, and it was very pleasant. Her cool, clear 
voice lingered in his mind long after she had 
spoken. It was a trained voice with a natural 
depth and sweetness. She had a gliding, fasci- 


nating motion as she went about the house. He 
liked to see her come down-stairs. She never 
bustled or seemed to hurry, never ran against 
chairs or tables, never disarranged small belongings. 

Roy Palmer had expected to be married some 
day. He was quite in demand whenever there 
were any festivities going >n ; but somehow either 
the right girl had not appeared or he was slow in 
deciding. Aunt Hannah made him very comfort 
able, and the girls in general were afraid of her 
sharp eyes. Then, too, he had been intensely 
interested in farming experiments, and secretly 
considered the possibility of a Western ranch. He 
was about a good deal with the men and took a 
warm interest in politics. 

Roy drove the ladies over to Oxford and found 
that the Stents, a family in town, who were going 
abroad, would be very glad to rent their piano, as 
they had discussed the feasibility of storing it. 

" But I shall only want it three months," ex 
plained Miss Otis. 

" I will take it for the rest of the year," said 
Palmer. " Bessie plays and has been sighing for 
a piano. I shall enjoy it next winter." 

They came across to the mountain road on the 
return journey. It had been used for cutting and 
burning timber, and there was the beginning of a 
quarry. It wound around the highest peak, then 



 

descended in rather a tortuous course. Now it 
was used mostly for a show ride. Tourists and 
summer boarders enjoyed it, and picnic parties 
found delightful nooks. In one little opening a 
half-demented old fellow had built a stone hut, and 
lived here for years, leaving behind a rather pictur 
esque spot. 

A girl sat there in the shade, her wide-brimmed 
straw hat and a small straw satchel lying on a 
shelf of rock near by. She glanced up, then 
smiled. 

" It's Thirza Rolfe," exclaimed Palmer. " Oh, 
Miss Otis, you will like to know her. I'll bring 
her in a moment," and he sprang out. 

Thirza had recognized the companions of her 
journey to Westhorpe. She came rather reluc 
tantly. She knew more about the fine gradations 
of society than Roy Palmer. 

" Oh," said Miss Otis, " are you sketching ? 
What an imaginative spot! Have you found 
any mountain fays? And I do believe you were 
on the train when we came up a week ago 
Saturday." 

" Yes," Thirza assented, pleased at the remem 
brance. 

" Should you mind if we stopped a little while? " 

to her aunt. " I have been quite anxious to 

scale this mountain peak, but I thought one would 



 

have to climb by sheer force of will and physical 
strength." 

" It is not so very hard. Like some other climbs 
in life, you ascend by degrees." 

" But you are not all alone in this wild spot ? " 
asked Miss Brooke, in amazement. 

"There is nothing to fear," and Thirza smiled. 
"Unless a " she was going to say a stray snake, 
when she bethought herself that she might alarm 
these city people, so she put " squirrel " in its 
place. " I used to come here, years ago ; but I 
have been away. It has not changed at all;" to 
Roy Palmer. 

" What a magnificent view ! " Miss Otis glanced 
down the town seemed to be in a little thread of 
valley. The river wound in and out with glints of 
silver, the villages around nestled lovingly amid 
the bits of woods that had not yet fallen a prey to 
mercenary hands, or the march of improvement. 
Afar off there was another mountain range, then 
long fields of waving grass and grain, and the blue 
green of the corn in contrast with the vivid yellow 
green of later planting. The sky was a marvel 
lous blue. Yesterday's shower had made every 
thing glisten with the richness of early summer. 

The clumps of rhododendrons further down, 
like an army with their crowded bud spikes, shone 
with a metallic lustre. 



 

" It is simply glorious," she continued, as no 
one made any comment. " Look at those undu 
lating hills, and the meadows whose purple waves 
are blown about by the wind. And this great 
ledge of rock ! Think of the storms it has with 
stood, of the suns that have risen and set over 
it, of the glory and beauty and terror it has wit 
nessed. It dwarfs us into insignificance." 

She stopped suddenly and flushed. She had a 
feeling that she had been needlessly enthusiastic ; 
but she caught the gleam of Miss Rolfe's soft 
dark eyes, and the light in her face like an answer 
ing smile. 

" I don't know why it should lead us to hold our 
lives in light esteem," Thirza answered gravely. 
" If it pleased God to make us of different mate 
rial, to endow us with souls to appreciate even his 
grandest works, emotions of pain and pleasure and 
hope, ambition to grasp and penetrate the great 
mysteries about us, is not that a higher destiny 
than to exist for centuries as a rock, even a hun 
dred years as a tree ? " 

" Yes, I think you are right. Yet I can never 
get over the feeling of awe at these mute witnesses 
that outlast us, that have seen civilization rise and 
perish as in Egypt. But I wonder if we are dis 
turbing you ? " 

" Oh, no," said Thirza, with a frank smile. " I 



 

shall have plenty of time during the summer. In 
fact, I think I was dreaming rather than working. 
The splash of the water had so many different 
notes. I should like to set it to music." 

" Where is it ? I hear the trickle." 

"Just around the other side." Thirza looked at 
her, then at Palmer, and then at the grave lady 
still in the carriage. "There is a wilder view, 
beyond, if you are not afraid of a little scramble," 
with a faint laugh. 

" Oh, no ; auntie, will you mind " 

" I will stay with Miss Brooke," Palmer said. 
" Don't be too venturesome, Thirza." 

" Oh, we won't go down." 

Miss Otis followed her guide through a rather 
tangled way that was not really a path, as it would 
be later in the summer, when pleasure parties 
trampled over it. All the spring wildness clung 
about it, and the virginal sweetness, so different 
from the rich, deep, riper fragrances of summer. 
They passed a clump of firmly rooted scrubby 
cedars and hemlocks to a rounding sort of ledge, 
too rocky for much verdure. Through a fissure 
came a stream of water that wound here and there, 
making tiny waterfalls, then resting in a little basin 
that formed a pool and flowing over the rock below 
in a pretty cascade until it met the river that made 
a bend here. 



 

" Don't go too far," cautioned Thirza, reaching 
out her hand as if to stay Miss Otis. 

" What an enchanting picture ! " Then she 
studied her companion. " I should think this 
would be much more striking for sketching," she 
said, with a touch of questioning wonder in her 
face. "You were sketching?" 

" Not for gratification merely. I had a book of 
poems to illustrate, and there were two or three 
views I had been carrying in my mind. Perhaps 
I shall take another down under the cascade 
there," pointing with a pencil she still held in her 
hand. 

There was some well-bred curiosity in the face 
of Helen Otis. 

" I am not rich enough to follow vagrant fancy, 
and perhaps have not the genius to score any brill 
iant success," explained Thirza Rolfe ; "but I love 
my work, and, in this instance, pleasure and neces 
sity go hand in hand." 

" Still, you must be an artist ? " 

"We train artistic tendencies nowadays;" and 
Thirza smiled. " On the principle, I fancy, that 
nothing must be wasted. When I learned some 
three years ago that I had this talent, and that 
careers were open to women, at least enough of a 
career to enable a woman to earn her living and 
make a home for herself, I chose mine. The train- 



 

ing gave me courage and an understanding of my 
own possibilities, and the home is in view, also." 

She wanted to define her position at the outset. 
She settled, that day in the train, that these people 
were not among the toilers nor the spinners. She 
was too proud to be merely tolerated as a rather 
better specimen of country girl, to be taken up or 
dropped, as the other chose. 

"A home by yourself?" Miss Otis returned. 

" Not exactly by myself." Thirza colored a 
little. " I am not as fond of ' private pensive life ' 
as the old collier of Croyden. No, a woman's 
home. Three of us, all workers. We are off on 
vacations now, but September will call us home." 

" Will you allow me to be interested ? " Helen 
held out her hand cordially. " If I might ask with 
out too much curiosity if I might hope it would 
be in New York." 

" It will be. I have been two years in an art 
school, learning to make the best of the talents I 
possess." 

" I am so glad to meet you. I shall be in the 
city, though I was abroad all last year. And, now 
I should like to see a good deal of you. Do you 
know Miss Gage ? " 

"Oh, yes. We are old friends; and I have been 
coming over " 

" Do come soon. I was beginning to feel a little 



 

lonely. Neither of my aunts are equal to tramps 
through 'field and fell,' and not knowing any 
one oh, I hope you can devote a little time to 
me or allow me to devote some to you. And 
I am so interested in your experiment. Are you 
going to call yourselves girl bachelors ? " 

Thirza laughed. " That is supposed to be a 
rather pretty sop thrown to single women. Still 
I do not see why women cannot be respected in 
remaining single as well as men. Not that I am 
going to disparage the wedded estate." 

A little touch of something went over Helen's 
face as she thought of her father. 

"Oh," she cried abruptly, " I am staying beyond 
reason, and some one is calling you." 

"Roy Mr. Palmer. You see we have known 
each other long enough to be familiar with Chris 
tian names; coming! " she called in a loud tone. 

"Yes auntie is worried, no doubt. But we 
must come here often unless I should disturb 
you. I sketch a little as a school accomplishment, 
and most people do it abroad." 

They turned and threaded their way back. 

"You see they are safe, Miss Brooke;" and 
Royal Palmer smiled down at the girls. 

"We did not go very far. We stopped and 
talked. What splendid views ! I am sorry to 
leave them. I have not really seen anything." 



l 

" But we must go," said Miss Brooke, gently. 
" It is almost noon." And we ought to see those 
people " 

" The Stents ? Yes. We will drive past there." 

Palmer helped in Miss Otis. She was persuad 
ing Miss Rolfe to set a time for her visit. 

" Come over to supper," said Palmer. " Aunt 
Hannah has been looking for you. I'll tell her." 

" Well," acquiesced Thirza. 

She had been hesitating on account of this very 
boarder, but she should be glad to meet her again. 

She went back to her work. The ladies found 
the piano very satisfactory. " And we would be 
glad to have it in so safe a place," declared Mrs. 
Stent, with beaming approval. " It is a pity you 
don't play, Mr. Palmer." 

Roy flushed at that, and unconsciously glanced 
at his hands. But Ward could come out and 
spend the long winter evenings with him, and it 
would please Bessie. 

Thirza went back to her work. That made her 
late at dinner, and Clara was the soul of regularity. 

" You needn't have minded. I am not very wild 
for hot dinners on a summer day. And when I do 
stay, don't try to keep anything boiling or baking, 
but just give me a cold bite." 

" But the pudding is spoiled ; that is never good 
cold." 



 

" Never mind about it." 

" But we haven't had one since you came home, 
and you used to be so fond of them. Perhaps 
it's the thing not to care what you eat or how it 
is cooked. Good housekeeping is at a discount 
among you modern women. I declare, I shall 
pity your husbands, if you mean to have any." 

Thirza made no comment. Clara prided her 
self on being one of the best housekeepers in town. 

She was very glad to start out to the Palmers'. 
It was a rather long walk, but a good part of it 
was shady. Her mother thought it a pity to put 
on her good silk to go trapesing through the dust. 
It was a pretty gray summer silk, sprinkled all 
over with purple violets, and the full fall of lace 
about the neck softened it to a quaint becoming- 
ness, and enhanced the refinement of her small, 
spirited face that suggested twilight. 

Aunt Hannah was very glad to see her. She 
visited her for awhile, and heard about Bessie's 
coming, in which there was no choice, and Aunt 
Hannah's trouble to know what to do with her. 

Bessie herself was up-stairs altering over her 
last summer's white gowns. Then there was the 
neighborhood news, what the churches were doing, 
why she was over-persuaded to take in the Brookes, 
and how much she liked them. Afterward Aunt 
Hannah went out on the shady porch to present 



 

her friend, as if she was proud of the responsi 
bility. Roy came attired in his light summer suit 
and certainly looked well. Miss Esther was in 
the hammock with some pillows, looking very frail 
and delicate. 

They didn't really have any visit, Helen felt, 
until in the evening, when Aunt Margaret went up 
stairs with Aunt Esther. Roy sat on the lower 
step listening to the talk that somehow stirred him 
a good deal. How ambitious Thirza Rolfe was ! 
There was something in her independence that 
gave him a little pang. What did all these women 
mean to do who were hurrying into business and 
proud to earn their own living ? And he knew 
some one who would worship the girl, who would 
never love any one else with that reverent tender 
ness, perhaps never love any one at all. What a 
delightful home these two people might make. 
He sighed a little. Homes were getting old-fash 
ioned, women were thinking of so many outside 
things. How glibly these two girls talked them 
over ! How much they knew about the world ! 
The evolution of womankind, the full, noble intel 
lectual existence, the great army of thinkers, of 
earnest workers these were some of the sentences 
he caught. Thirza knew several women doctors, 
and they were doing such good work. These were 
the lives worth living. 



 

At nine Thirza said she must go. She had 
hardly been home an hour to-day. To-morrow she 
was to go to her brother's to spend two days. 
After that they would see each other frequently. 
They would make a little studio up on Craig's 
rock, where nothing could interrupt them. " Oh, 
yes," Thirza said, "it would be quite safe. Tramps 
would not trouble to climb the rock." 

Roy went out to harness the horse. Bessie stood 
by the back gate. She wiped her eyes with her 
handkerchief. 

" What Bess crying ? " He stopped and 
looked at her with sudden attention. 

" Why can't I cry when I am so wretched ? Oh, 
I wish I had never come here! If I had some 
money I should take a train to-morrow and never 
see this hateful Westhorpe again ! " and now she 
sobbed. 

" Bessie ! Why, I thought you were getting to 
be very much at home with us all." 

" I shouldn't be at home with Aunt Hannah if I 
lived here a hundred years ! I just hate her ! I 
didn't come here to be a servant ! " 

"Why, Bessie, you are not " He paused 
abruptly. 

"What am I then?" She raised her face, and 
he could see the tears by the light of the moon 
shining through a space between some trees. 



<> 

" Yes what else am I ? And, yet, a servant 
has her wages to spend as she likes. I don't have 
a penny. I can't even ask a friend, or go out, 
without a fuss. You were kind to me when I 
first came, but now you hardly ever speak to me. 
And I've been considered as good as Miss Otis or 
any one else. I've never been put down in this 
fashion, as if I were some green emigrant girl glad 
of any kind of shelter. But I won't stay " 

" Bessie, Bessie, no one treats you like a ser 
vant." 

" Does any one ever take me out ? Would it 
have hurt any one if I had sat there on the front 
porch to-night ? But Aunt Hannah wouldn't let 
me go. They didn't want me ! I don't want her, 
but I have to endure her ! She's so afraid Miss 
Otis will look at me or give me a civil word. It is 
not my fault that I am any relation to her ! " and 
Bessie stamped her foot. " If I don't run away I 
shall go to the river some night and drown myself." 

" Bessie Bessie, what can I do for you ? " 
He took both hands in his. They were small and 
soft, he had remarked that. Her lips and chin 
quivered with emotion, and she glanced up in his 
face piteously. 

" Why couldn't you give me a little drive to-night 
when you take Miss Rolfe home, unless " there 
was a subtle question in her whole face. 



 

" Unless what ? " 

" Well unless you're sweet on her and want 
her to yourself. But, even then, I wouldn't mind. 
It's so lovely. And I've worked all day long. 
I'm tired and sick. Oh, I wish I was dead ! " 

" Miss Rolfe is only a friend. I am not sweet 
on her in the sense you mean," and he flushed. 
" You poor little child, I think you have been 
through a dull time of late. And if you like to go 
with me " 

" Like ! Why, even a walk this lovely night 
would have been delightful. But I couldn't go 
alone. Oh, if you would take me ! " Her face was 
alight with joy, then it gloomed over. "Aunt 
Hannah wouldn't let you," she added sorrowfully. 

He laughed at that. " Yes," he returned, " I'll 
take you. You do deserve a bit of pleasure now 
and then. And, Bessie, you have a way of mak 
ing the house everything so much prettier! 
Aunt Hannah has spoken of that." 

" I didn't know that I could do anything she 
could approve of. But, Roy, I've always been as 
much of a lady as that Miss Otis. And if poor 
papa hadn't lost everything " 

"There, don't cry, child. You shall go." He 
was wiping her tears awkwardly. How like a rose- 
leaf her cheeks were. " And now I must harness 
up-" 





" I'll run up-stairs. Call me down and say you 
are going to take me, because if you ask her to 
let me go, she won't. Oh, I have so wanted a little 
drive any little pleasure ! " 

She had not had much in the way of pleasure, 
it was true. Aunt Hannah was rather sharp. It 
must be a great change for her. He would con 
vince Aunt Hannah that she needed some recrea 
tion ; all young things did. Of course, after the 
boarders were gone 

Roy drove around by the front porch. The 
girls were still talking, but Thirza was standing up 
with both hands on the railing. They had such 
a strong look, though they were not large. Thirza's 
face had a curious kind of resolution as well, not 
like a man's, but he smiled just there. Did all 
men have resolute faces ? 

"I thought I'd take Bessie with us, Thirza 
do you mind ? " he said, when a pause enabled 
him to speak. " There's hardly a chance for her 
to get out." 

"Why, it would be very nice. Yes, certainly." 

"Bessie!" he called up the stairway, "don't 
you want a little drive as Miss Rolfe goes 
home ? " 

" Oh, thank you a hundred times ! " was the joy 
ous reply. " Can I really go ? " 

Aunt Hannah came out in the hall. 



 

" It's time she went to bed, Roy. She has to be 
up early in the morning. She had better not go." 

But Bessie came flying down, her face alight 
with eagerness. Thirza was saying good-bye, and 
there really was no chance for further objections, 
since Miss Rolfe took it as a matter of course. 

Thirza was really glad to see a little more of 
Bessie. The girl made the most of her past during 
the drive, and she did it very well, too. 

Thirza felt the position here was rather anoma 
lous. What an eager, childish little thing, and how 
pretty in the moonlight with her fluffy yellow hair, 
and shining eyes ! 

They said -good-bye to Miss Rolfe. Bessie 
changed her seat and came over front. She nestled 
a little, not boldly, but in an entreating fashion. 
Royal Palmer would have been very much sur 
prised if he could have known that Bessie had 
been standing by the fence for a full quarter of 
an hour, rehearsing this scene and what she must 
do to bring it about. She was a born actress. 
Last winter she had been in some little plays and 
rendered them excellently. 

But Palmer was feeling rather grave about her. 
He admired these other women with their fine, 
strong personality. Some unknown depth in him 
had been touched, awakened. 

" Bessie," he began, " can't you make yourself 



 

content till autumn ? When the folks have gone 
away you see Aunt Hannah couldn't spare 
you now. And I'll do what I can to make it 
pleasanter." 

" Oh, thank you," tremulously, her pretty hand 
stealing out. 

He hurried up the pony. Aunt Hannah sat on 
the front porch waiting for them, and Bessie simply 
said " it was delightful," as she went straight along. 



CHAPTER V 

THE EVOLUTION OF WOMAN 

WERE women born housekeepers, Thirza Rolfe 
wondered, and if they were not, would training 
make them nearer perfect in the art ? For wasn't 
it a genius, after all ? Clara was a housekeeper 
and nothing else. There was no breadth and out 
look toward real homemaking; no lovely living, 
with time to enjoy friends ; no freshness in the 
talks. She had no time to read. She didn't see 
how any one could serve two masters her favorite 
condemnatory adage. When she had " real com 
pany," the house was stirred up a day or two before 
hand ; the children slapped frequently, when no 
severer punishment was meted out, to make them 
" keep out of things," which they never did. She 
was so engrossed with the meal that she had no 
time for her guests, and if she had some new cake 
or dessert and the visitors praised it, that stamped 
it as a success. The next day they went back to 
coarse common dishes that the children could not 
break, unbleached table-cloths that would not be 
tray the tea and coffee stains, steel knives and 



forks that made an immense deal of scouring for 
Aunt Abby, and the littered-up dining-room that 
always seemed hot and stuffy with so much bustling 
about and loud talking. It had been largely so in 
her mother's time, she remembered. It was al 
ways such a delight for her in her girlhood to go 
out to a few of the neighbors, where the daily liv 
ing was a breath of divine order and pleasantness, 
where everything was in readiness for a friend, and 
you felt as if you made no extra trouble. 

But if it was uncomfortable at Clara's, oh, 
what was it at the old home ? Laura Albert was 
one of eight or nine children trained to work in 
a helter-skelter fashion, one waiting for another, 
or being in the other's way and doing half of a 
thing with some one to take up the other half. 
Seth had run the farm before his father died. It 
was the old homestead, and there had always been 
a Rolfe in it. 

Seth's mother was capable and stirring. Seth's 
wife seemed to have begun life behindhand. The 
meals were always late. Yesterday's work lapped 
over in to-day's. It often rained on Laura's wash 
day, it was her luck, though now and then she 
changed her day. The ironing always hung 
around. Friday was considered sweeping day, 
but somehow the sweeping fell into fearful ar 
rears. The house was merely brushed up. Half 



 

her canned fruit spoiled, she seldom had any luck 
with cake, and the bread was heavy or sour, and 
the biscuit hard. 

Laura's three thousand dollars had been used in 
re-furnishing with a modern parlor suite and 
rather garish Brussels carpet, in painting and re 
pairing a little, and in partly paying off the 
shares. The place had been deeded to her in 
return. Her children there were only two now 
were often ailing. Their fall clothes were never 
ready when cold weather came, and the result 
was numerous illnesses. Then in early summer 
they sweltered and grew cross and nervous in 
winter gear. 

The little girls were pale spindling things. 
Laura had not yet gotten over the loss of her 
boy, and cried when she talked of him. She was 
very fond of rehearsing her troubles and she mag 
nified them, of course. 

After the first day of it Thirza thought if she 
had never before believed in the higher training 
for women, she did now. To know the best 
method of attaining results, to save your time and 
strength and spirits and temper, was in itself a 
liberal education. The old idea that every woman 
was a born housekeeper, or if not born so, 
the magical ceremony of marriage transformed 
her, was a terrible mistake. And Thirza was het- 



 

erodox enough to ask herself what right Laura 
Albert had to take a man's life and home in her 
keeping, with no thorough training for either. 
Seth, who had a little tendency to follow in his 
father's footsteps, without his father's intellectual 
