"You must not guess my thoughts," she answered.  "It is not kind."
"I did not mean to.  I am sorry."
"Oh--you could not help it, of course.  I was so foolish to-day."
The blush deepened, and she said nothing more.  The colonel returned to
his own secret trouble, and on Sylvia’s other side Miss Wimpole was
silently planning a charitable institution of unusual severity, while
she peeled an orange with the most scrupulous neatness and precision.
                               CHAPTER X
Sylvia went to her own room after dinner, still wondering what had
happened to her on her birthday.  There is an age at which most of us
unexpectedly come across the truth about ourselves, and sometimes about
others, and it generally happens that in our recollection the change
turns upon one day, or even one hour.
The shock is sudden and unexpected.  Floating down a quick smooth stream
in a boat, a man is aware of motion, as he watches the bank without
realizing the strength of the flowing water; but when the skiff is
suddenly checked by any obstacle in midstream, the whole force of the
river rushes upon it, and past it, and perhaps over it, in an instant.
Something of the same sort happens now and then in our lives. The great
illusion of childhood carries us along at a speed of which we have no
idea, in the little boat which is the immediate and undeniable reality
of near surroundings, the child’s cradle afloat upon a fiction which is
wide and deep and strong, and sometimes we are grown men and women
before our small craft strikes upon a shoal of truth, with a dash that
throws us from the thwart, and frightens the bravest of us.  There we
stick fast upon the rough fact for a while, and the flood that was so
smooth and pleasant rushes past us, foaming and seething and breaking
against the boat’s side and threatening to tear her to pieces.  And if
the tide is ebbing at the river’s mouth, we may be left high and dry
upon the sharp reality for a long time; but if not, the high water will
presently float us, and off we shall spin again, smoothly and safely, on
the bosom of the sweet untrue.
Such accidents happen more than once to most people, and almost every
one resents them bitterly.  Even in daily living, few men can bear to be
roughly roused from sleep.  Much more is the waking rude from year-long
dreams of fancy.
Sylvia sat at her table and stared at the lamp, as if it were her own
heart which she could look into, and watch, and study, and criticise.
For most of all, she was in a humour to find fault with it, as having
played her false when she least expected that it could deceive her.  She
had built on it, as it dictated; she had trusted it, as it suggested;
she had lived, and loved to live, for its sake; and now it had betrayed
her. It had not been in earnest, all the time, but had somehow made her
think that she herself was all earnestness.  It was a false and silly
little heart, and she hated it, as she looked at it in the lamp, and she
wished that it would frizzle and burn like the poor moth that had gone
too near the hot glass while she had been downstairs.
It was positively laughing at her, now, and she set her small mouth
angrily.  To think that she should ever have fancied herself in love
with a man who might have been her grandfather! And it wickedly showed
her the colonel as he would be in another ten years, a picture founded
upon the tired look she had just seen in his face. She was ashamed of
herself, and furious against herself for being ashamed, and she suddenly
wished that she were dead, because that would give people a real reason
for being sorry for her. It would be very pathetic to die so young!  If
she did, her heart could not laugh at her.
She thought about it for a while, and among other reflexions she
suddenly found herself wondering whether young Knox, the officer on her
father’s ship, would be very sorry.  He had written her a letter from
Japan which she had not answered.  Indeed, she was not sure that she had
read every word of it, for it had only come this morning.  Life had been
too short for reading letters on that day.  But there it was, on the
table.  She had the evening before her, and though it was a long letter,
it could not take more than a quarter of an hour to go through it.  She
put out her hand to take it and then looked at the lamp again.
A lean, brown young face was suddenly there, and bright eyes that looked
straight at her, without anything vastly superior in them, but full of
something she liked and understood and instantly longed for.  Her heart
was not laughing at her any more, for she had forgotten all about it,
which is generally the best thing one can do in such cases.
Even the expression of her face changed and softened as she laid her
hand upon the letter. For Wimpole’s sake, as she had made herself think
a few hours earlier, she would gladly have doubled her age, and the
forced longing for equality of years between herself and her ideal had
fleetingly expressed itself in her face by shadows, where there could
not yet be lines. But as the illusion sank down into the storehouse of
all impossibilities and all mistakes, the light of early youth fell full
and unscreened upon her face again, and she revived unconsciously, as
day-flowers do at sunrise, when the night-flowers fold their leaves.
It was surely no thought of love which made the change; or if that were
its cause, it was but love’s fore-lightening in a waking dream.  Much
rather it must have been the consciousness of living roused by the
thought of youth.  For youth is the elixir of life, and the touch of old
age is a blight on youth, when youth is longing to be old; but youth
that is willingly young has power to give the old a breath of itself
again, before the very end.  In their children men live again, and in
their children’s children they remember the loveliness of childhood.
From a very far country, across half a world of land and water, the
letter had come to Sylvia on her birthday, as Harmon’s had come to
Helen.  There is something strange and terrible, if we realize it, in
man’s power to harm or help by written words from any distance. The
little bit of paper leaves our hand with its wishing-carpet in the shape
of a postage stamp, and swiftly singles out the one man or woman, in two
thousand millions, for whom it is meant, going straight to its mark with
an aim far more unerring than steel or ball.  A man may much more
probably miss his enemy with a pistol at ten paces, than with a letter
at ten thousand miles.  If the fabled inhabitant of Mars could examine
our world under an imaginary glass, as we study a drop of water under a
microscope, he would surely be profoundly interested in the movements of
the letter-bacillus, as he might call it.  He might question whether it
is generated spontaneously, or is the result of an act of will, more or
less aggressive, but he would marvel at the rapidity of its motion and
at the strength of its action upon the human animal through the eye.  It
would be very inexplicable to him; least of all could he understand the
instant impulse of man to tear off the shell of the bacillus as soon as
it reaches him, for he would no doubt notice that in a vast number of
cases the sight of it produces discontent and pain, and he might even
find a few instances in which death followed almost immediately.  In
others the bacteria produce amazingly exhilarating results, such as
laughter and the undignified antics of joy, and even sudden improvements
in the animal’s health and appearance.  He would especially notice that
these bacilli are almost perpetually in motion, from the time they leave
one human being until they fasten themselves upon another, and that in
parts of the world where they are not found at all, or only
sporadically, the animals behave in a very different way, are healthier,
and are less exposed to the fatal results of their own inventions.  If
the inhabitant of Mars were given to jumping at conclusions, he would
certainly announce to his fellow-beings that he had discovered in Earth
the germ of a disease called by Terrenes ’Civilization.’  And perhaps
that is just what the letter is.
Young Knox wrote to Sylvia because he was in love with her, which is the
best of all reasons for writing when love is right, and the worst
imaginable when it is wrong.  He was so much in love that as soon as she
was out of his sight his first impulse was to set down on paper all
sorts of things which had very little sense in them, but made up for a
famine of wisdom by a corresponding plenty of feeling.  There is
something almost pathetic in the humbleness of a young man’s strength
before the object of his first true love.  It is the abasement of the
real before the ideal; but if the ideal fails, the real takes vengeance
of the man for having trodden it under.
Young women rarely understand their power; older ones too often overrate
what they have. The girl who first breathes the air of the outer world
and first sees in a man’s eyes that he loves her, knows that he is
stronger, better taught, more experienced than she is, and compares
herself with him by a measure which he rates as nothing.  Man is much
more real to woman, when both are very young, than woman is to man; and
being real he represents to her a sort of material force.  But to him
she is an imaginary being, strong with a mystic influence from which he
cannot escape when he has come within the pentagram of the spell.  It is
bad for a man if she comes to know her strength before he has learned
his weakness.  Then she riots in it, recklessly, for a time, until she
has hurt him.  She says, ’Do this,’ and he does it, like the Centurion’s
servant; or ’Say this,’ and he says it, be the words wise or foolish,
and she reckons his wisdom to herself and his folly to him, frankly, and
without the least doubt of her own perfection, for a while, rejoicing
senselessly in driving him.  But by and by, as in a clock, the
mainspring feels the gentle regulation of the swaying balance, and the
balance takes its motion from the spring, till both together move in
perfect time, while each without the other would be but a useless bit of
machinery. Sylvia did not know all that, and if she had, she would
perhaps not have reasoned about it much.  She did not understand why
young Knox wrote that he would live for her, die for her, and, if
necessary, convulse the solar system for her exclusive pleasure and
benefit.  It seemed a great deal to promise under the circumstances, and
her moderate maiden vanity could not make her appear, in her own eyes,
as an adequate cause of such serious disturbance in the order of things;
yet it was not displeasing to be magnified into a possible source of
astronomical miracles, though the idea was slightly ridiculous and she
was glad that she had it entirely to herself and beyond carping
criticism.
She was not in the least in love with the man who wrote to her, and she
had not been in love with him when they had parted.  That very morning,
when she had received the letter, she had been a little inclined to
smile at the writer’s persistence, and had laid the letter aside, half
read, in no great hurry to finish it.  But since then, her life had
changed.  She had gone aground on the shoal of truth and she was already
longing for the waters of illusion to rise and float her away.
So she let the breezy memories come back to her, and they brought her a
sweet forewarning of her growing life.  All at once, she knew that she
had never met any one so young who had pleased her so much, any one with
such clear eyes and manly ways, frank smile and honest voice, as the
young officer who had hated this hollow world with such grave conviction
because Sylvia Strahan could not go home in her father’s ship.  She read
on, and felt an unexpected thrill of pleasure when the words told her
what she had already known; namely, that the squadron would be far on
its way to San Francisco by the time the letter reached her, that Knox
was to come to the capital with her father, and that she was quite
certain to meet him there before very long.  She was unconscious of
looking round at her things just then and wishing that they were already
packed for the homeward journey.
She wrote to him before she went to bed.  It was a duty of civility to
answer him, though she felt herself under no obligation to reply to his
numerous questions.  On the contrary, she said nothing at all about
them, but she gave him her impressions of Lucerne and told him that Aunt
Rachel had taken cold, but was now quite well, a piece of information
which, though satisfactory in its way, was not calculated to affect her
correspondent’s happiness in any marked degree.  ’It would be nice to
see each other again,’ she said at the end, with which mild sentiment
she signed herself ’sincerely’ his.
The only odd thing about it all was that when the letter was finished
she had not the slightest idea where to send it, a fact which had not
crossed her mind when she had unscrewed her travelling inkstand, but
which sufficiently proved that she had acted under an impulse of some
sort.  She said to herself that it did not matter, but she was
disappointed, and the smile faded from her face for a little while.
When she was asleep it came back in the dark and lingered on her lips
all night, waning and waxing with her maiden dreams.
Her eighteenth birthday had been a good day in her life, after all.
There are few indeed who fall asleep happily when the first illusion has
gone down into darkness with the evening sun.
                               CHAPTER XI
Helen Harmon went out alone to mail her letter.  She would not have done
such a thing in any great city of Europe, but there is a sense of safety
in the dull, impersonal atmosphere of Lucerne, and it was a relief to
her to be out in the open air alone; it would be a still greater relief
to have dropped the letter into the mysterious slit which is the first
stage on the road to everywhere.
No one ever thinks of the straight little cut, with its metal cover, as
being at all tragical. And yet it is as tragic as the jaws of death, in
its way.  Many a man and woman has stood before it with a letter and
hesitated; and every one has, at some time or other, felt the sharp
twist at the heart, which is the wrench of the irrevocable, when the
envelope has just slipped away into darkness.  The words cannot be
unwritten any more, after that, nor burned, nor taken back.  A telegram
may contradict them, or explain them, or ask pardon for them, but the
message will inevitably be read, and do its work of peace or war, of
challenge or forgiveness, of cruelty, or kindness, or indifference.
Helen did not mean to hesitate, for she hastened towards the moment of
looking back upon a deed now hard to do.  It was not far to the post
office, either, and the thing could soon be done.  Yet in her brain
there was a surging of uncertainties and a whirling of purposes, in the
midst of which she clung hard to her determination, though it should
cost ever so dear to carry it out.  She had not half thought of all the
consequences yet, nor of all it must mean to her to be separated from
her son.  The results of her action sprang up now, like sudden dangers,
and tried to frighten her from her purpose, tried to gain time against
her to show themselves, tried to terrify her back to inaction and doubt.
Something asked her roughly whence she had got the conviction that she
was doing right at all.  Another something, more subtle, whispered that
she was sacrificing Archie for the sake of her own morbid conscience,
and making herself a martyr’s crown, not of her own sufferings only, but
of her son’s loss in losing her.  It told her that the letter she held
in her hand was a mistake, but not irrevocable until it should have
slipped into the dark entrance of the road to everywhere.
She had still a dozen steps to make before reaching the big white
building that stands across the corner of the street, and she was
hurrying on, lest she should not reach the door in time.  Then she
almost ran against Colonel Wimpole, walking slowly along the pavement
where there was a half shadow.  Both stopped short, and looked at each
other in surprise.  He saw the letter in her hand, and guessed that she
had written to her husband.
"I was only going to the post office," she said, half apologetically,
for she thought that he must wonder why she had come out alone at such
an hour.
"Will you let me walk with you?" he asked.
"Yes."
He made a step forwards, as though expecting her to turn back from her
errand and go with him.
"Not that way," she said.  "I must go to the post office first."
"No.  Please don’t."  He placed himself in her way.
"I must."
She spoke emphatically and stood still, facing him, while their eyes met
again, and neither spoke again for a few seconds.
"You are ruining your life," he said, after the pause.  "When that
letter is gone, you will never be able to get it back."
"I know.  I shall not wish to."
"You will."  His lips set themselves rather firmly as he opposed her,
but her face darkened.
"Is this a trial of strength between us?" she asked.
"Yes.  I mean to keep you from going back to Henry Harmon."
"I have made up my mind," Helen answered.
"So have I," said Wimpole.
"How can you hinder me?  You cannot prevent me from sending this letter,
nor from going to him if I choose.  And I have chosen to go. That ends
it."
"You are mistaken.  You are reckoning without me, and I will make it
impossible."
"You?  How?  Even if I send this letter?"
"Yes.  Come and walk a little, and we can talk.  If you insist upon it,
drop your letter into the box.  But it will only complicate matters, for
you shall not go back to Harmon."
Again she looked at him.  He had never spoken in this way, during all
the years of their acknowledged friendship and unspoken love.  She felt
that she resented his words and manner, but at the same time that she
loved him better and admired him more.  He was stronger and more
dominant than she had guessed.
"You have no right to say such things to me," she answered.  "But I will
walk with you for a few minutes.  Of course you can hinder me from
sending my letter now.  I can take it to the post office by and by."
"You cannot suppose that I mean to prevent you by force," said Wimpole,
and he stood aside to let her pass if she would.
"You said that it was a trial of strength," she answered.
She hesitated one moment, and then turned and began to walk with him.
They crossed the street to the side by which the river runs, away from
the hotels and the houses.  It was darker there and more quiet, and they
felt more alone. It would seem easier, too, to talk in the open air,
with the sound of the rushing water in their ears.  He was the first to
speak then.
"I want to explain," he said quietly.
"Yes."  She waited for him to go on.
"I suppose that there are times in life when it is better to throw over
one’s own scruples, if one has any," he began.  "I have never done
anything to be very proud of, perhaps, but I never did anything to be
ashamed of either. Perhaps I shall be ashamed of what I am going to say
now.  I don’t care.  I would rather commit a crime than let you wreck
your whole existence, but I hope you will not make me do that."
They had stopped in their walk, and were leaning against the railing
that runs along the bank.
"You are talking rather desperately," said Helen, in a low voice.
"It is rather a desperate case," Wimpole answered.  "I talk as well as I
can, and there are things which I must tell you, whatever you think of
me; things I never meant to say, but which have made up most of my life.
I never meant to tell you."
"What?"
"That I love you.  That is the chief thing."
The words did not sound at all like a lover’s speech, as he spoke them.
He had drawn himself up and stood quite straight, holding the rail with
his hands.  He spoke coolly, with a sort of military precision, as
though he were facing an enemy’s fire.  There was not exactly an effort
in his voice, but the tone showed that he was doing a hard thing at that
moment.  Then he was silent, and Helen said nothing for a long time.
She was leaning over the rail, trying to see the running water in the
dark.
"Thank you," she said at last, very simply, and there was another pause.
"I did not expect you to say that," he answered presently.
"Why not?  We are not children, you and I. Besides--I knew it."
"Not from me!"  Wimpole turned almost sharply upon her.
"No.  Not from you.  You wrote Henry a letter, many years ago.  Do you
remember?  I had to read everything when he went to the asylum, so I
read that, too.  He had kept it all those years."
"I am sorry.  I never meant you to know. But it does not matter now,
since I have told you myself."
He spoke coldly again, almost indifferently, looking straight before him
into the night.
"It matters a great deal," said Helen, almost to herself, and he did not
hear her.
She kept her head bent down, though he could not have seen her face
clearly if she had looked up at him.  Her letter burned her, and she
hated herself, and loved him.  She despised herself, because in the
midst of the greatest sacrifice of her life, she had felt the breath of
far delight in words that cost him so much.  Yet she would have suffered
much, even in her good pride, rather than have had them unspoken, for
she had unknowingly waited for them half a lifetime.  Being a good
woman, she was too much a woman to speak one word in return, beyond the
simple thanks that sounded so strangely to him, for women exaggerate
both good and evil as no man can.
"I know, I know!" he said, suddenly continuing.  "You are married, and I
should not speak.  I believe in those things as much as you do, though I
am a man, and most men would laugh at me for being so scrupulous. You
ought never to have known, and I meant that you never should.  But then,
you are married to Harmon still, because you choose to be, and because
you will not be free.  Does not that make a difference?"
"No, not that.  That makes no difference."  She raised her head a
little.
"But it does now," answered Wimpole.  "It is because I do love you, just
as I do, with all my heart, that I mean to keep you from him, whether it
is right or wrong.  Don’t you see that right and wrong only matter to
one’s own miserable self?  I shall not care what becomes of my soul if I
can keep you from all that unhappiness--from that real danger.  It does
not matter what becomes of me afterwards--even if I were to go straight
to New York and kill Harmon and be hanged for the murder, it would not
matter, so long as you were free and safe."
The man had fought in honourable battles, and had killed, and knew what
it meant.
"Is that what you intend to do?" asked Helen, and her voice shook.
"It would mean a great deal, if I had to do it," he answered quietly
enough.  "It would show that I loved you very much.  For I have been an
honourable man all my life, and have never done anything to be ashamed
of.  I should be killing a good deal, besides Henry Harmon, but I would
give it to make you happy, Helen. I am in earnest."
"You could not make me happy in that way."
"No.  I suppose not.  I shall find some other way.  In the first place,
I shall see Harmon and talk to him--"
"How?  When?"  Helen turned up her face in surprise.
"If you send what you have written, I shall leave to-night," said the
colonel.  "I shall reach New York as soon as your letter and see Harmon
before he reads it, and tell him what I think."
"You will not do that?"  She did not know whether she was frightened, or
not, by the idea.
"I will," he answered.  "I will not stay here tamely and let you wreck
your life.  If you mail your letter, I shall take the midnight train to
Paris.  I told you that I was in earnest."
Helen was silent, for she saw a new difficulty and more trouble before
her, as though the last few hours had not brought her enough.
"I think," said Wimpole, "that I could persuade Harmon not to accept
your generosity."
"I am not doing anything generous.  You are making it hard for me to do
what is right. You are almost threatening to do something violent, to
hinder me."
"No.  I know perfectly well that I should never do anything of that
sort, and I think you know it, too.  To treat Harmon as he deserves
would certainly make a scandal which must reflect upon you."
"Please remember that he is still my husband--"
"Yes," interrupted Wimpole, bitterly, "and that is his only title to
consideration."
Helen was on the point of rebuking him, but reflected that what he said
was probably true.
"Please respect it, then, if you think so," she said quietly.  "You say
that you care for me--no, I won’t put it so--you do care for me. You
love me, and I know you do.  Let us be perfectly honest with each other.
As long as you help me do right, it is not wrong to love me as you do,
though I am another man’s wife. But as soon as you stand between me and
my husband, it is wrong--wicked!  It is wicked, no matter what he may
have been to me.  That has nothing to do with it.  It is coming between
man and wife--"
"Oh--really--that is going too far!"  Wimpole raised his head a little
higher, and seemed to breathe the night air angrily through his
nostrils.
"No," answered Helen, persistently, for she was arguing against her
heart, if not against her head, "it is not going at all too far.  Such
things should be taken for granted, or at least they should be left to
the man and wife in question to decide.  No one has any right to
interfere, and no one shall.  If I can forgive, you can have nothing to
resent; for the mere fact of your liking me very much does not give you
any sort of right to direct my life, does it? I am glad that you are so
fond of me, for I trust you and respect you in every way, and even now I
know that you are interfering only because you care for me.  But you
have not the right to interfere, not the slightest, and although you may
be able to, yet if I beg you not to, it will not be honourable of you to
come between us."
Colonel Wimpole moved a little impatiently.
"I will take my honour into my own hands," he said.
"But not mine," answered Helen.
They looked at each other in the gloom, as they leaned upon the railing.
"Yours shall be quite safe," said the colonel slowly.  "But if you will
drop that letter into the river, you will make things easier in every
way."
"I should write it over again.  Besides, I have telegraphed to him
already."
"What?  Cabled?"
"Yes.  You see that you can do nothing to hinder me.  He has my message
already.  The matter is decided."
She bent her head again, looking down into the rushing water as though
tired of arguing.
"You are a saint," said the colonel.  "I could not have done that."
"Perhaps I could not, if I had waited," answered Helen, in a voice so
low that he could hardly hear the words.  "But it is done now," she
added, still lower, so that he could not hear at all.
Wimpole had been a man of quick decisions so long as he had been a
soldier, but since then he had cultivated the luxury of thinking slowly.
He began to go over the situation, trying to see what he could do, not
losing courage yet, but understanding how very hard it would be to keep
Helen from sacrificing herself.
And she peered down at the black river, that rushed past with a cruel
sound, as though it were tearing away the time of freedom, second by
second.  It was done, now, as she had said. She knew herself too well to
believe that even if she should toss the letter into the stream, she
would not write another in just such words. But the regret was deep, and
thrilled with a secret, aching pulse of its own, all through her, and
she thought of what life might have been, if she had not made the great
mistake, and of what it still might be if she did not go back to her
husband.  The man who stood beside her loved her, and was ready to give
everything, perhaps even to his honour, to save her from unhappiness.
And she loved him, too, next to honour.  In the tranquil life she was
leading, there could be a great friendship between them, such as few
people can even dream of.  She knew him, and she knew herself, and she
believed it possible, for once in the history of man and woman.  In a
measure, it might subsist, even after she had gone back to Harmon, but
not in the same degree, for between the two men there would be herself.
Wimpole would perhaps refuse altogether to enter Harmon’s door or to
touch Harmon’s hand.  And then, in her over-scrupulousness, during the
time she was to spend with Archie, she knew that she should hesitate to
receive freely a man who would not be on speaking terms with the husband
whom she had taken back, no matter how she felt towards Wimpole.
Besides, he had told her that he loved her, and that made a difference,
too.  So long as the word had never been spoken, there had been the
reasonable doubt to shield her conscience.  His old love might, after
all, have turned to friendship, which is like the soft, warm ashes of
wood when the fire is quite burned out.  But he had spoken at last, and
there was no more doubt, and his quiet words had stirred her own heart.
He had begun by telling her that he had many things to say; but, after
all, the one and only thing he had said which he had never said before
was that he loved her.
It was enough, and too much, and it made everything harder for her.  We
speak of struggles with ourselves.  It would really be far more true to
talk of battles between our two selves, or even sometimes between our
threefold natures,--our good, our bad, and our indifferent
personalities.
To Helen, the woman who loved Richard Wimpole was not the woman who
meant to go back to Henry Harmon; and neither, perhaps, was quite the
same individual as the mother of poor Archie.  The three were at strife
with one another, though they were one being in suffering.  For it is
true that we may be happy in part, and in part be indifferent; but no
real pain of the soul leaves room for any happiness at all, or
indifference, while it lasts. So soon as we can be happy again, even for
a moment, the reality of the pain is over, though the memory of it may
come back now and then in cruel little day-dreams, after years.
Happiness is composite; pain is simple.  It may take a hundred things to
make a man happy, but it never needs more than one to make him suffer.
Happiness is, in part, elementary of the body; but pain is only of the
soul, and its strength is in its singleness.  Bodily suffering is the
opposite of bodily pleasure; but true pain has no true opposite, nor
reversed counterpart, of one unmixed composition, and the dignity of a
great agony is higher than all the glories of joy.
"Promise me that you will not do anything to hinder me," said Helen at
last.
"I cannot."  There was no hesitation in the answer.
"But if I ask you," she said; "if I beg you, if I entreat you--"
"It is of no use, Helen.  I should do my best to keep you away from
Harmon, even if I were sure that you would never speak to me nor see me
again.  I have said almost all I can, and so have you.  You are half a
saint, or altogether one, or you could not do what you are doing. But I
am not.  I am only a man.  I don’t like to talk about myself much, but I
would not have you think that I care a straw for my own happiness
compared with yours.  I would rather know that you were never to see
Harmon again than--"  He stopped short.
"Than what?" asked Helen, after a pause.
He did not answer at once, but stood upright again beside her, grasping
the rail.
"No matter, if you do not understand," he said at last.  "Can I give you
any proof that it is not for myself, because I love you, that I want to
keep you from Harmon?  Shall I promise you that when I have succeeded I
will not see you again as long as I live?"
"Oh, no!  No!"  The cry was sudden, low, and heartfelt.
Wimpole squeezed the cold railing a little harder in his hands, but did
not move.
"Is there any proof at all that I could give you?  Try and think."
"Why should I need proof?" asked Helen. "I believe you, as I always
have."
"Well, then--" he began, but she interrupted him.
"That does not change matters," she continued. "You are right merely
because you are perfectly disinterested for yourself, and altogether
interested for me alone.  I am not the only person to be considered."
"I think you are.  And if any one else has any right to consideration,
it is Archie."
"I know," Helen answered, "and you hurt me again when you say it.  But
besides all of us, there is Henry."
"And what right has he?" asked Wimpole, almost fiercely.  "What right
has he to any sort of consideration from you, or from any one?  If you
had a brother, he would have wrung Harmon’s neck long ago!  I wish I had
the right!"
"I never heard you say anything brutal before," said Helen.
"I never had such good cause," retorted Wimpole, a little more quietly.
"Put yourself in my position.  I have loved you all my life,--God knows
I have loved you honestly, too,--and held my tongue.  And Harmon has
spent his life in ruining yours in every way,--in ways I know and in
ways I don’t know, but can more than half guess.  He neglected you, he
was unfaithful to you, he insulted you, and at last he struck you.  I
have found that out to-day, and that blow must have nearly killed you.
I know about those things.  Do you expect me to have any consideration
for the brute who has half killed the woman I love?  Do you expect me to
keep my hands off the man whose hands have struck you and wounded you?
By the Lord, Helen, you are expecting too much of human nature!  Or too
little--I don’t know which!"
He had controlled his temper long, keeping down the white heat of it in
his heart, but he could not be calm forever.  The fighting instinct was
not lost yet, and must have its way.
"He did not know what he was doing," said Helen, shrinking a little.
"You have a right to say that," answered the colonel, "if you can be
forgiving enough.  But only a coward could say it for you, and only a
coward would stand by and see you go back to your husband.  I am not a
coward, and I won’t. Since you have cabled to him, I shall leave to
night, whether you send that letter or not. Can’t you understand?"
"But what can you do?  What can you say to him?  How can you influence
him?  Even if I admit that I have no power to keep you from going to
him, what can you do when you see him?"
"I can think of that on the way," said Wimpole.  "There will be more
than enough time. I don’t know what I shall say or do yet.  It does not
matter, for I have made up my mind."
"Will nothing induce you to stay here?" asked Helen, desperately.
"Nothing," answered Wimpole, and his lips shut upon the word.
"Then I will go, too," answered Helen.
"You!"  Wimpole had not thought of such a possibility, and he started.
"Yes.  My mind is made up, too.  If you go, I go.  I shall get there as
soon as you, and I will prevent you from seeing him at all.  If you
force me to it, I will defend him from you. I will tell the doctors that
you will drive him mad again, and they will help me to protect him.  You
cannot get there before me, you know, for we shall cross in the same
steamer, and land at the same moment."
"What a woman you are!"  Wimpole bent his head, as he spoke the words,
leaning against the railing.  "But I might have known it," he added; "I
might have known you would do that.  It is like you."
Helen felt a bitter sort of triumph over herself, in having destroyed
the last chance of his interference.
"In any case," she said, "I should go at once.  It could be a matter of
only a few days at the utmost.  Why should I wait, since I have made up
my mind?"
"Why indeed?"  The colonel’s voice was sad.  "I suppose the martyrs were
glad when the waiting was over, and their turn came to be torn to
pieces."
He felt that he was annihilated, and he suffered keenly in his defeat,
for he had been determined to save her at all risks.  She was making
even risk impossible.  If she went straight to her husband and took him
back, and protected him, as she called it, what could any one do?  It
was a hopeless case.  Wimpole’s anger against Harmon slowly subsided,
and above it rose his pity for the woman who was giving all the life she
still had left for the sake of her marriage vow, who was ready, and
almost eager, to go back to a state full of horror in the past, and of
danger in the future, because she had once solemnly promised to be Henry
Harmon’s wife, and could not find in all the cruel years a reason for
taking back her word.  He bowed his head, and he knew that there was
something higher in her than he had ever dreamt in his own honourable
life, for it was something that clung to its belief, against all
suggestion or claim of justice for itself.
It was not only pity.  A despair for her crept nearer and grew upon him
every moment. Though he had seen her rarely, he had felt nearer to her
since Harmon had been mad, and now he was to be further from her than
ever before.  He would probably not go so far as she feared, and would
be willing to enter her husband’s house for her sake, and in the hope of
being useful to her.  But he could never be so near to her again as he
was now, and his last chance of protecting her had vanished before her
unchangeable resolution.  He would almost rather have known that she was
going to her death, than see her return to Harmon.  He made one more
attempt to influence her.  He did it roughly, but his voice shook a
little.
"It seems to me," he said, "that if I were a woman, I should be too
proud to go back to a man who had struck me."
Helen moved and stood upright, trying to look into his face clearly in
the dimness as she spoke.
"Then you think I am not proud?"
He could see her white features and dark eyes, and he guessed her
expression.
"You are not proud for yourself," he answered rather stubbornly.  "If
you were, you could not do this."
She turned from him again, and looked down at the black water.
"I am prouder than you think," she said. "That does not make it easier."
"In one way, yes.  When you have determined to do a thing, you are
ashamed to change your mind, no matter what your decision may cost
yourself and others."
"Yes, when I am right.  At least, I hope I should be ashamed to break
down now."
"I wish you would!"
It was a helpless exclamation, and Wimpole knew it, for he was at the
end of all argument and hope, and his despair for her rose in his eyes
in the dark.  He could neither do nor say anything more, and presently
when he had left her at the door of her hotel, she would do what she
meant to do, to the letter.  For the second time on that day he wished
that he had acted, instead of speaking, and that he had set out on his
journey without warning her.  But in the first place he had believed
that she would take more time to consider her action; and again, he had
a vague sense that it would not have been loyal and fair to oppose her
intention without warning her.  And now she had utterly defeated him,
and upheld her will against him, in spite of all he could do.  He loved
her the better for her strength, but he despaired the more.  He felt
that he was going to say good-bye to her, as though she were about to
die.
He put out his hand to take hers, and she met it readily.  In her haste
to come out with her letter she had not even taken the time to put on
gloves, and her warm, firm fingers closed upon his thin hand as though
they were the stronger.
"I must go," she said.  "It is very late."
"Is it?"
"Yes.  I want to thank you, for wishing to help me--and for everything.
I know that you would do anything for me, and I like to feel that you
would.  But there is nothing to be done.  Henry will answer my cable,
and then I shall go to him."
"It is as though you were dying, and I were saying good-bye to you,
Helen."
"That would be easier," she answered, "for you and me."
She pressed his hand with a frank, unaffected pressure, and then
withdrew her own.  He sighed as he turned from the dark water to cross
the quiet street with her.  The people who had been walking about had
gone home suddenly, as they do in provincial places, and the electric
light glared and blinked upon the deserted, macadamized road.  There was
something unwontedly desolate, even the air, for the sky was cloudy, and
a damp wind came up from the lake.
Without a word the two walked to the post office, and as Wimpole saw the
irrevocable message dropped into the slit, his heart almost stopped
beating.  A faint smile that was cruelly sad to see crossed Helen’s
white face; a reflexion of the bitter victory she had won over herself
against such great odds.
                              CHAPTER XII
The two walked slowly and silently along the pavement to the hotel, the
damp wind following them in fitful gusts and chilling them as they went.
They had no words, for they had said all to each other; each knew that
the other was suffering, and both knew that their lives had led them
into a path of sadness from which they could not turn back.  They walked
wearily and unwillingly, side by side, and the way seemed long, and yet
too short, as it shortened before them.
At the lighted porch of the hotel they paused, reluctant to part.
"May I see you to-morrow?" asked Wimpole, in a dull voice.
"Yes, I must see you before I go," Helen answered.
In the light of the lamps he saw how pale she was, and how very tired,
and she looked at him and knew from his face how he was suffering for
her.  They joined hands and forgot to part them when their eyes had met.
But they had nothing to say, and they had only to bid each other a good
night which meant good-bye to both, though they should meet ever so
often again.
The porter of the hotel stood in the doorway a few steps above them and
watched them with a sort of stolid interest.  The lamplight gleamed upon
his gilt buttons, and the reflexion of them made Helen aware of his
presence.  Then he went into the entrance, and there was nobody else
about.  Voices came with broken laughter from the small garden adjacent
to the hotel, where there was a café, and far away, at the end of the
entrance hall, the clerk pored over his books.
Still Wimpole held Helen’s hand.
"It is very hard," he said.
"It is harder than you know," she answered.
For she loved him, though he did not know it, and she felt as well as he
did that she was losing him.  But because she was Harmon’s wife and
meant to stand by her husband, she would not call it love in her heart,
though she knew her own secret.  She would hardly let herself think that
it was much harder for her than for Wimpole, though she knew it.
Temptation is not sin.  She had killed her temptations that day, and in
their death had almost killed herself.
The sacrifice was perfect and whole-hearted, brave as true faith, and
final as death itself.
"Good night," said Wimpole, and his voice broke.
Helen still had strength to speak.
"Neither you nor I shall ever regret this," she answered, but she looked
long at him, as though she were not to see him again.
He pressed her hand hard and dropped it. Once more she looked at him and
then turned slowly and left him standing there.
The porter of the hotel was facing her on the steps.  Neither she nor
Wimpole had noticed that he had come back and was waiting for them to
part.  He held a telegram in his hand, and Helen started slightly as she
saw it, for she knew that it must be Harmon’s answer to her word of
forgiveness.
"Already!" she exclaimed faintly, as she took it.
She turned back to Wimpole, and met his eyes again, for he had not
moved.
"It is Henry’s answer," she said.
She opened the envelope, standing with her back to the light and to the
porter.  Wimpole breathed hard, and watched her face, and knew that
nothing was to be spared to either of them on that day.  As she read the
words, he thought she swayed a little on her feet, and her eyes opened
very wide, and her lips were white. Wimpole watched them and saw how
strangely they moved, as if she were trying to speak and could not.  He
set his teeth, for he believed that even the short message had in it
some fresh insult or injury for her.
She reeled visibly, and steadied herself against one of the pillars of
the porch, but she was able to hold out the thin scrap of paper to
Wimpole as he moved forwards to catch her.  He read it.  It was a cable
notice through the telegraph office from Brest.
"Your message number 731 Henry Harmon New York not delivered owing to
death of the person addressed."
Wimpole read the words twice before their meaning stunned him.  When he
knew where he was, his eyes were still on the paper, and he was grasping
Helen’s wrist, while she stood stark and straight against the pillar of
the porch.  She lifted her free hand and passed it slowly across her
forehead, opening and shutting her eyes as if waking.  The porter stared
at her from the steps.
"Come," said Wimpole.  "Let us go out again.  We can’t stay here."
Helen looked at him, only half comprehending. Even in the uncertain
light he could see the colour returning to her face, and he felt it in
his own.  Then her senses came back all at once with her own clear
judgment and decision, and the longing to be alone, which he could not
understand, as he tried to draw her away with him.
"No, no!" she cried, resisting.  "Let me go, please let me go!  Please!"
He had already dropped her wrist.
"Come to-morrow," she added quickly.
And all her lost youth was in her as she lightly turned and went from
him up the steps. Again he stood still, following her with his eyes, but
an age had passed, with Harmon’s life, between that time and this.
He understood better, when he himself was alone, walking far on, through
the damp wind, by the shore of the lake, past the big railway station,
just then in one of its fits of silence, past the wooden piers built out
into the lake for the steamers, and out beyond, not counting his steps,
nor seeing things, with bent head, and one hand catching nervously at
the breast of his coat.
He understood Helen, for he also had need of being alone to face the
tremendous contrast of the hour and to digest in secret the huge joy he
was ashamed to show to himself, because it was for the death of a man
whose existence had darkened his own.  Because Harmon was suddenly dead,
the sleeping hope of twenty years had waked with deep life and strength.
Time and age were rolled away like a mist before the morning breeze, the
world was young again, and the rose of yesterday was once more the
lovely flower of to-day.
Yet he was too brave a man, and too good, to let himself rejoice cruelly
in Harmon’s death, any more than he would have gloried, in his younger
days, over an enemy fallen in fight. But it was hard to struggle against
this instinct, deep rooted and strong in humanity ages before Achilles
dragged Hector round the walls of Troy.  Christianity has made it mean
to insult the dead and their memory.  For what we call honour comes to
us from chivalry and knighthood, which grew out of Christian doings when
men believed; and though non-Christian people have their standards of
right and wrong, they have not our sort of honour, nor anything like it,
and cannot in the least understand it.
But Wimpole was made happy by Harmon’s death, and he himself could not
deny it.  That was another matter, and one over which he had no control.
His satisfaction was in the main disinterested, being on Helen’s behalf;
for though he hoped, he was very far from believing that she would marry
him, now that she was a widow.  He had not even guessed that she had
loved him long.  It was chiefly because his whole nature had been
suffering so sincerely for her sake during the long hours since he had
read the paragraph in the paper, that he was now so immensely happy.  He
tried to call up again the last conversation in the dark, by the river;
but though the words both he and she had spoken came back in broken
echoes, they seemed to have no meaning, and he could not explain to
himself how he could possibly have stood there, wrenching at the cold
iron rail to steady his nerves, less than half an hour ago.  It was
incredible.  He felt like a man who has been in the delirium of a fever,
in which he has talked foolishly and struck out wildly at his friends,
and who cannot believe such things of himself when he is recovering,
though he dimly remembers them, with a sort of half-amused shame for his
weakness.
Wimpole did not know how long he wandered by the lake in the windy
darkness, before he felt that he had control of speech and action again
and found himself near the bridge, going towards his hotel.  It was less
than half an hour, perhaps, but ever afterwards, when he thought of it,
he seemed to have walked up and down all night, a hundred times past the
railway station, a hundred times along the row of steamboat piers,
struggling with the impression that he had no right to be perfectly
happy, and fighting off the instinct to rejoice in Harmon’s death.
But Helen had fled to her own room and had locked the door upon the
world.  To her, as to Wimpole, it would have seemed horrible to be
frankly glad that her husband was dead.  But she had no such instinct.
She had been dazed beyond common sense and speech by the sudden relief
from the strain she had borne so strongly and bravely.  She had been
dazzled by the light of freedom as a man let out of a dark prison after
half a lifetime of captivity.  She had been half stunned by the instant
release of all the springs of her nature, long forced back upon
themselves by the sheer strength of her conscience.  And yet she was
sorry for the dead man.
Far away in her past youth she remembered his handsome face, his bright
eyes, his strong vitality, his pleasant voice, and the low ringing tone
of it that had touched her and brought her to the ruin of her marriage,
and she remembered that for a time she had half loved him and believed
love whole.  She is a hard and cruel woman who has not a little pitiful
tenderness left for a dead past,--though it be buried under a hideous
