"I'll put on some cologne. I'll give you an extra five dollars, too, for
standing by your mother."
"All right, mother," said Thorne, in a more cheerful tone. "That's the
way to talk. Give it to me now."
Jasper did not see either of them again that evening. He called on a
friend, and, entering the house at ten o'clock, went directly to his own
room.
CHAPTER XII.
A SCHEME OF VENGEANCE.
Mrs. Kent had never cared for Jasper. Since the marriage she had
disliked him. Now that he had struck down Nicholas in her presence, she
positively hated him. She did not stop to consider that he was provoked
to it, and only acted in self-defense. She thirsted for revenge--more,
indeed, than Nicholas, who, bully as he was, having been fairly worsted,
was disposed to accept his defeat philosophically. If he could annoy or
thwart Jasper he would have been glad to do it, but he did not desire to
injure him physically.
Not so Mrs. Kent.
Her darling had been assaulted and defeated in her presence. She did not
again wish to put him against Jasper lest he should be again defeated,
but she wished Jasper, her detested step-son, to drink the same cup of
humiliation which had been forced upon Nicholas.
So she sat pondering how to accomplish the object she had in view. She
could not herself beat Jasper, though, had he been younger and smaller,
she would certainly have attempted it. She must do it by deputy.
Under the circumstances she thought of Tom Forbes, a strong and stalwart
hired man, who had been for some months working on the place. Probably
he would not like the task, but she would threaten to discharge him if
he refused to obey her commands, and this, she thought, would bring him
around.
"I wonder where Jasper is?" said Nicholas, about eight o'clock, as he
sat opposite the little table where his mother was sewing.
"Gone out, I suppose," said Mrs. Kent.
"He found the house too hot to hold him," suggested Thorne.
"He certainly will if he conducts himself in the future as he has
already done. He makes a mistake if he thinks I will tolerate such
conduct."
"It's because you're a woman," said her son. "Boys of his age don't make
much account of women."
"Do you speak for yourself as well as for him?" asked Mrs. Kent,
sharply.
"Of course not," said Nicholas, whose interest it was to keep on good
terms with his mother. "Of course not; besides, you are my mother."
"You are much more of a gentleman than Jasper is," said his mother,
appeased.
"I hope so," said Nicholas.
"As for him, I consider him a young ruffian."
"So he is," said Thorne, who was ready to assent to anything that his
mother might say.
"And yet his father thought him a paragon!" continued Mrs. Kent, her lip
curling. "It is strange how parents can be deceived!"
Unconsciously she illustrated the truth of this remark in her own
person. She considered Nicholas handsome, spirited, and amiable--indeed,
as an unusually fascinating and attractive boy. To others he was big,
overgrown, malicious, and stupid. But then mothers are apt to look
through different spectacles from the rest of the world.
"I guess Jasper'll want to change his guardian," said Thorne, laughing.
"You and he won't hitch horses very well."
"Don't use such a common expression, Nicholas. I want you to grow up a
well-bred gentleman."
"Oh, well, I mean to. But I say, if his father liked him so much, what
made him appoint you to take care of him?"
"He didn't know how I felt toward Jasper. I humored his fancies, and
treated him better than I felt toward him."
"Then you wanted to be his guardian?"
"Yes, I wanted to pay off old scores," said Mrs. Kent, again compressing
her lips with unpleasant firmness.
"What made you dislike him?" asked her son, with curiosity.
"He was opposed to my marriage. He would have stopped it if he could,
but there I got the better of him. When he found that he was too late he
treated me with coldness. He never liked me."
"By Jove! I don't think he's had much reason," said Nicholas, laughing
boisterously.
"He'll regret not having treated me with more attention. I can thwart
all his plans and make his life very uncomfortable."
"I'll trust you to do that, mother. You've got spunk enough."
"Don't say 'spunk,' Nicholas."
"What shall I say, then?"
"Resolution--firmness."
"It's all the same."
"There is a choice in words. Remember, my dear boy, I want you to be a
refined and cultivated gentleman."
"Well, I can be, now you're rich. But I say, mother, what are you going
to do? You ain't going to stick down in this dull place all your life,
are you?"
"No, Nicholas. In the summer we'll go travelling."
"Good!" exclaimed Nicholas, with satisfaction. "Where will we go?"
"How would you like to go to Niagara Falls?"
"Bully!"
"Or to Saratoga?"
"I don't know much about that."
"It is a fashionable place."
"Can a fellow have fun there?"
"Of course he can."
"Then I'd like to go. But I say, are you going to take Jasper, too?"
"No," said Mrs. Kent, decidedly. "I certainly shall not give him so much
pleasure."
"I don't know. I might like it better if I had a fellow of my own age to
go around with."
"You will find plenty of companions more agreeable than Jasper."
"All right, mother. I suppose you know best."
"You can trust me to provide for your happiness, Nicholas. It is all I
live for."
The next morning Mrs. Kent arose early, and summoned the hired man, Tom
Forbes.
"Tom," said she, "have you a good whip?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"And a strong arm?"
"Middlin', ma'am," answered the wondering hired man.
"I want you to be in the kitchen, provided with your whip, when
breakfast is over."
"What for?" asked Tom, in surprise.
"Never mind now. I shall inform you at the time."
"All right, ma'am."
Twenty minutes later, Jasper, unaware of his step-mother's benevolent
intentions, took his seat at the breakfast-table.
CHAPTER XIII.
MRS. KENT IS FOILED.
Breakfast was a quiet meal. Mrs. Kent preserved a frigid silence toward
Jasper, interrupted only by necessary questions. Nicholas, who
understood that there was a row in prospect, occasionally smiled as he
looked across the table at Jasper, but he, too, was silent.
When breakfast was over, and the three arose from the table, Mrs. Kent
said, in a cold voice:
"Jasper Kent, I have something to say to you."
"Very well," said Jasper, taking a seat and looking expectant.
"Yesterday you conducted yourself in a most improper manner."
"Please explain," said Jasper, quietly.
"You ought not to require any explanation. You made an assault upon
Nicholas."
"I beg pardon, Mrs. Kent, but he made an assault upon me."
"You knocked him down."
"Not until he attacked me."
"He did so by my direction."
"Did you expect me to make no resistance?" asked Jasper.
"You had insulted me, and it was his duty, as my son, to resent it."
"I don't think you have any right to say that I insulted you, and you
would not have any reason to complain of me if you would treat me with
ordinary justice and politeness."
"You are insulting me now," said Mrs. Kent, angrily.
"I am telling the truth. I am sorry that it is the truth. I would prefer
to live on good terms with you."
"And have your own way!" said his step-mother, sarcastically. "I
understand you, but I will have you know that I am mistress in this
house. Are you ready to apologize for having attacked Nicholas?"
"I did not wish to do it, especially as he didn't attack me of his own
accord, but if he should do so again I should act in the same manner."
"Insolent!" exclaimed his step-mother, reddening.
"You have peculiar ideas of insolence," said Jasper, quietly. "I believe
in defending myself, but I shouldn't like to harm Nicholas."
"You have undertaken to rebel against my authority," said Mrs. Kent,
"but you don't understand me. I am not to be bullied or overcome by a
boy."
"You are in no danger of either from me, madam."
"I shall take care not to give you the power. Nicholas, call Tom."
Jasper looked at his step-mother in amazement. What had Tom Forbes to do
with their colloquy.
Nicholas opened the door of the adjoining room, the kitchen, and
summoned the hired man.
Ignorant of why he was wanted, for Mrs. Kent had not informed him, he
came into the room, and looked about with a perplexed expression.
He was a tall, strong-looking fellow, country-bred, of about twenty-five
or six.
"Where is your whip, Tom?" demanded Mrs. Kent.
"My whip?" repeated Tom.
"Yes; didn't I tell you I wanted you to have it?"
"Yes, ma'am; it's in the kitchen."
"Bring it."
Tom went into the kitchen, and returned bringing the whip.
"What am I to do with it?" he asked.
"I will tell you in a moment. Jasper Kent," said his step-mother,
turning to him, "you have rebelled against my just authority, you have
insulted me in my own house, you have made a brutal attack upon my son
in my presence, and now I am going to have you punished. Tom, I order
you to give Jasper half a dozen lashes with your whip."
It is hard to tell which looked the more surprised at this brutal
command, Jasper or the hired man. They looked at each other in
amazement, but Tom did not stir.
"Did you hear me?" asked Mrs. Kent, sharply, impatient of the delay.
"Yes, ma'am, I heard you," answered Tom, slowly.
"Why don't you obey, then?" she continued, in the same tone.
"Because," said Tom, with manly independence, "I didn't hire out to do
anything of the kind."
"Do you refuse?"
"Yes, I do. You may do your own dirty work."
"It seems you are not only disobedient, but insolent," said Mrs. Kent,
angrily.
"You must be crazy, ma'am!" said the hired man, bluntly.
"No more of this. I discharge you from my employment."
"What! for not flogging Master Jasper?"
"For not obeying me."
"I'll follow your directions, ma'am, so far as they are in the line of
duty, but I won't do that."
"I discharge you."
"As to that, ma'am, if I go, I'll let everybody in the village know why
you sent me away."
For this Mrs. Kent was not altogether prepared. She knew that it was not
prudent to defy public opinion. Perhaps she had already gone too far.
She put a great constraint upon herself, and said:
"Go back to your work. I will speak of this matter hereafter."
Tom withdrew at once, glad of the opportunity. Thus far Mrs. Kent had
been foiled, and she knew it. She could scarcely conceal her
mortification.
Jasper, who had been passive thus far, now spoke. He felt outraged and
disgusted by his step-mother's brutal purpose, though it had failed.
"Mrs. Kent," he said with quiet resolution, "after the scene of this
morning I cannot remain in the same house with you. My father has not
been dead a week, yet you have treated me in a manner which, though I
never liked you, I could not have thought possible. You are left my
guardian. I do not wish to remain another day in this house. Have I your
permission to return to school?"
"No," said his step-mother.
"Why not?"
"Because you wish it. I do not mean to let you have your own way."
"I am willing to go to another school, if you insist upon it."
"You will go to no school. You will stay here."
"In this house?"
"Yes."
"With the opinion which you have of me, Mrs. Kent, I should hardly think
this would be very agreeable to you."
"It will not. I hate the sight of you!" said his step-mother, with
energy.
"I am sorry for that, but I am not surprised. From the way you have
treated me, I should think so. Won't it be better for as both to be
separated?"
"It will gratify your wishes, and therefore I order you to remain here."
"That we may have more such scenes as yesterday and to-day?"
"No; I am determined to break your rebellious will, and teach you to
obey me implicitly."
"I have only to ask if you have fully made up your mind," said Jasper,
quietly, but with suppressed excitement.
"I mean precisely what I say."
"Then, madam, I shall have to leave this house and go out into the
world. I shall find more kindness among strangers than here."
"I have heard boys talk like this before," said Mrs. Kent, with
contemptuous incredulity.
"Boys sometimes mean what they say," retorted Jasper.
He took his hat and left the room without another word.
"I say, mother," said Nicholas, "suppose he don't come back?"
"There's no fear of that," said Mrs. Kent, coldly.
"But I say, mother, he's pretty plucky, Jasper is."
"He won't run away from me as long as I have charge of his property, you
may be sure of that. He'll be coming back and apologizing pretty soon."
"Suppose he doesn't?"
"Then it'll be his own fault."
"You may as well let him go back to school, mother. He'll be out of our
way, and we can enjoy ourselves."
"I am not going to gratify him so far. He has defied me and insulted me,
and he must take the consequences," said Mrs. Kent, with a compression
of her thin lips.
On the whole, Jasper's prospects could not be said to be very
flattering.
CHAPTER XIV.
MEDIATION.
When Jasper left the house he bent his steps to the dwelling of a friend
of his father, Otis Miller, a man of considerable property and good
position. He found Mr. Miller at home.
"I am glad to see you, Jasper," said he, cordially.
"Thank you, sir."
"You have met with a great loss," said Mr. Miller, attributing Jasper's
serious expression to his father's death.
"Yes, sir; I am only just beginning to understand how much."
"A father's place cannot be supplied."
"No, sir; but this is not the extent of my trouble."
"Can I do anything to help you?"
"Yes, sir. I am very much in need of advice."
"I shall be glad to give you the best I can, Jasper. I was your father's
friend, and I shall be glad to be yours also."
"Thank you, sir. My troubles are connected with my step-mother, who
treats me like an enemy."
"Can this be so?" asked Mr. Miller, in surprise.
"I will tell you all, and then ask your advice."
"Do so."
Jasper told the story briefly and without excitement. It was only in his
step-mother's presence that he felt disturbed.
"I have met your step-mother, but I know very little of her," said Mr.
Miller. "She never impressed me very favorably, but I never dreamed that
she would act in such an unreasonable manner. Perhaps even now matters
are not as bad as you think. Sometimes people say things in anger which
they repent of in their cooler moments."
"I don't think it is the case with Mrs. Kent."
"It is unfortunate, since she is your guardian."
"I wish you were my guardian, Mr. Miller."
"For your sake, Jasper, I wish I were. I don't think we should quarrel."
"I know we should not."
"You wish to know what to do?"
"Yes."
"You are quite sure you cannot stay at home?"
"I should be subject to constant persecution from Mrs. Kent."
"You think she would not allow you to go back to school?"
"She has refused to do so."
"There is one thing she cannot do, and that is, keep your portion of the
estate from you when you become of age."
"No, I suppose not."
"You will then be rich."
"But the money won't do me any good now, will it?"
"In this way it will. Suppose I agree to pay your expenses at
school--that is to say, advancing the money, to be repaid when you
obtain yours?"
"That would be very kind, Mr. Miller; but I shouldn't like to subject
you to that risk."
"You mean that a minor's promise would be invalid? Well, Jasper, I have
too much confidence in you to have any doubt of your integrity."
"Thank you, Mr. Miller; but suppose I should die before attaining my
majority?"
"Then I should probably lose the money."
"That is what I thought of. I should not like to have you run the risk."
"But I am willing to do so. However, it may be as well to ascertain
definitely your step-mother's intentions first. I will call upon her in
your interest and find out."
"Thank you, sir. I should like to have you do so, as I don't want to act
too hastily."
"I will go at once. Will you remain here till I return?"
"Yes, sir."
When Mrs. Kent was told that Mr. Miller had called to see her she went
down to meet him, not surmising his errand.
"Mrs. Kent," said he, after the ordinary greetings were over, "I have
called with reference to your relations to your late husband's son,
Jasper."
"Did he ask you to come?" demanded Mrs. Kent, frowning.
"No; but he came to ask my advice as to what he ought to do. I am sorry
to hear that you are unfriendly."
"He has treated me with intolerable insolence," said Mrs. Kent, hotly.
"That surprises me. It is wholly contrary to his reputation with those
who have known him from his infancy," said Mr. Miller, quietly.
"Then you don't know him as he is."
"He tells me you have accorded your own son superior privileges."
"My son treats me with respect."
"Probably you treat him differently from Jasper."
"I have reasons to."
"You will admit that it is aggravating to see a stranger--an intruder, I
may say--preferred to him in his own home?"
"Who calls my son an intruder?" asked Mrs. Kent, hastily.
"Let us call him a stranger, then. Was Mr. Kent aware that you had a
son?"
"I decline to answer your question," answered Mrs. Kent, with asperity.
"To pass on, then. Have you refused Jasper permission to return to the
school at which his father placed him?"
"I have."
"May I ask why?"
"I don't know that I am responsible to you."
"Mrs. Kent," said Mr. Miller, gravely, "I was the friend of your late
husband. I am the friend of his son, Jasper. As the friend of both, I
ask you your reason."
"I will answer you, though I do not acknowledge your right to ask. I
refuse to let Jasper go back to school, because I wish to punish him for
his insolence and disobedience."
"It cannot be any satisfaction to you to have him at home, I should
think."
"It is not. I have no reason to like his society."
"Then it appears that you punish yourself in keeping him here."
"Yes."
"Do you think, Mrs. Kent, that you have any right to deprive him of the
opportunity to obtain an education?"
"He can attend school in this village," said Mrs. Kent.
"You know as well as I that there is neither a classical nor a high
school here. He would be compelled to give up the course of study upon
which he has commenced."
"That is his own fault," returned Mrs. Kent, doggedly.
"This, then, is your unalterable determination?"
"For the present, yes. If Jasper repents his ill-conduct, and makes up
his mind to yield me that implicit obedience which is my due, I may
hereafter consent to return him to school. But he must turn over a new
leaf."
"Madam," said Mr. Miller, disgusted at the woman's manner, "do you
consider that you are carrying out his father's wishes in reference to
his son?"
"That is a question for me to decide," said Mrs. Kent, coldly. "I have
undertaken the responsibility, and I have no fears about carrying out
his wishes. I must trust my own judgment, not that of others."
"Madam," said Mr. Miller, after a pause, "there is one other question
which I should like to put to you."
"Very well, sir."
"This guardianship imposed upon you is a certain amount of care. Are you
willing to relinquish it to another?"
"To you, perhaps?" suggested Mrs. Kent, with a sneer.
"I should be willing to undertake it for Jasper's sake."
"I have no doubt you would, and I presume Jasper would be very glad to
have you do so."
"I think he would, though he didn't authorize me to speak to you about
it," said Mr. Miller.
"Then, sir, I refuse in the most emphatic terms. I shall not relinquish
the power which his father's will gives me over him. He shall yet repent
his insolence."
"I regret your animosity, Mrs. Kent," said Mr. Miller, with dignity,
rising as he spoke. "I was inclined to think that Jasper had exaggerated
his account of the difficulties. I see now that he was correct. I have
only, in wishing you good-morning, to predict that you will yet regret
the manner in which you have treated your step-son."
"I will take my chance of that," said Mrs. Kent. "You may report to
Jasper that my only terms are unconditional submission."
"I will do so, madam; but you know, as well as I, what his answer will
be. His nature is too manly to submit to tyranny, even from his
step-mother."
"You are not over-polite, sir," said Mrs. Kent, angrily.
"I am truthful, madam," was the grave reply.
CHAPTER XV.
GOOD-BYE.
"Without exception, Jasper," said Mr. Miller, on his return, "I consider
your step-mother the most disagreeble woman I ever met."
Jasper could not help smiling at the look of disgust upon the features
of his father's friend.
"Then, sir, I infer that you did not succeed in your mission," he said.
"Succeed? No. She will offer no terms except unconditional submission on
your part."
"That I won't agree to." said Jasper, promptly.
"I don't blame you--not a particle," said Mr. Miller.
"So much is settled, then," said Jasper. "Now the question comes
up--what am I to do?"
"How old are you?"
"Nearly sixteen."
"Then five years must elapse before you come into possession of your
property?"
"Yes, sir."
"And for that length of time you are to be under the guardianship of
Mrs. Kent?"
"Yes, sir."
"It is unfortunate," said the old gentleman, shrugging his shoulders. "I
took the liberty to suggest to your step-mother that if the cares of a
guardian should prove burdensome to her I would assume them."
"What did she say?"
"She replied in a sarcastic manner, and avowed her determination to
remain your guardian."
"What would you advise me to do, then, Mr. Miller?"
"Before answering, Jasper, I will tell you a secret."
Jasper looked curious.
"Your father left in my hands a paper to be opened two years after his
death. It undoubtedly relates to you."
"What do you think it is?"
"It may relate to the guardianship, but that is only conjecture."
"Does my step-mother know of this?"
"Neither she nor anyone else, save you and myself."
"It will do us no good at present?"
"No; but it influences my advice. Go to school for the next two years. I
will advance the money to pay your bills. If at the end of that time the
paper is what I hope it is, you will then be able to pay me, and for the
balance of your minority I can become your guardian."
"I wish you might, Mr. Miller; but I don't think, under the
circumstances, I want to go back to school."
"What do you wish to do, Jasper?"
"I am young, and I would like to see something of the world. I would
like to imagine myself a poor boy, as I really am just now, and see if I
cannot make my own way."
"I hardly know what to say to that, Jasper. I am afraid you do not
appreciate the difficulties in your way."
"To battle against them will make me strong."
"Suppose you get in a tight place?"
"Then I will write to you for help."
"That's better. On this condition I will make no further opposition to
your wishes. But have you any money?"
"Ten dollars."
"Rather a small sum to begin the world with."
"Yes, sir. If you are willing to lend me fifty more I think I can get
along till I can earn some."
"Willingly. Where do you propose to go?"
"To the West. My father has a cousin, a lady, married, and living in a
small town on the banks of the Mississippi. I have never been to the
West. I should like to go out there and see if I can't find some
employment in that neighborhood."
"I suppose I must not object, but your plan appears to me rather
quixotic."
"You might not have thought so at my age, Mr. Miller."
"No; we look upon such things differently as we grow older. When do you
want to start?"
"To-morrow."
"Stay at my house till then."
"Thank you, sir. I will go home this afternoon and get my carpet-bag and
a few underclothes, and then I shall be ready to start to-morrow
morning."
Jasper did as proposed. He would gladly have dispensed with this call at
the house which had once been a home to him, but was so no longer; but
it was necessary to make it.
He caught sight of Tom Forbes near the house.
"Tom," he called out, "do you know if Mrs. Kent is at home?"
"No, Master Jasper, she went out riding, and her cub went with her."
"I am afraid you're not respectful, Tom," said Jasper, laughing.
"He don't deserve respect. He puts on as many airs as a prince. I
warrant he was poor enough before his mother took him home. What do you
think he said to me?"
"What was it?"
"'Look here, Tom, you harness the horse right up, do you hear? Don't
stand dawdling there, for I and mother are going out to ride.'"
"That sounds like Nicholas."
"You may be sure he ain't used to prosperity, or he wouldn't put on so
many airs!"
"Well, Tom, I'm glad Mrs. Kent is out. I don't want to meet her, nor
Nicholas, either."
"You'll see 'em at supper, won't you?"
"No; I shall not be here to supper."
"When are you coming back?"
"Not at all."
"You don't mean that, Master Jasper?"
"Yes, I do."
"Are you going to school?"
"No; I'm going out West."
"Out West?" exclaimed Tom Forbes, stopping work in surprise.
"Yes, Tom, I'm going out there to seek my fortune."
"But there ain't any need of that, Master Jasper. Didn't your father
leave you a fortune?"
"I'm not to have it till I'm twenty-one, and till then my step-mother is
my guardian. Now, I put it to you, Tom, can I stay at home to be treated
as you saw me treated this morning?"
"No, you can't, that's a fact. Master Jasper, I wish you'd take me with
you as your servant."
"As to that, Tom, I am in no position to have a servant; I've got to
work for my own living."
"And she here living on the fat of the land!" exclaimed Tom,
indignantly. "It's an outrageous shame!"
"Strong language, Tom," said Jasper, smiling. "Mind my amiable
step-mother doesn't hear you."
"I don't care if she does."
"Thank you for your offer, Tom, but I must go alone. Perhaps I shall
prosper out there. I hope so, at any rate."
"Have you got any money, Master Jasper? I've got a few dollars laid by.
If they'll do you any good you're welcome to take 'em. I shan't need
'em."
"Thank you, Tom," said Jasper, cordially grasping his toil-embrowned
hand, "but I am well provided for. Mr. Miller, my father's friend, is
mine, too. He has lent me some money, and will lend me more if I need
it."
"I'm glad of that. You'll always find friends."
Half an hour later, as Jasper was going up the street, with his
carpet-bag in one hand, he saw the open carriage approaching in which
Mrs. Kent and Nicholas were seated. He would liked to have escaped
observation, but there was no chance.
"Why, there's Jasper!" said Nicholas, "and he's got a carpet-bag in his
hand."
"Stop the carriage!" said Mrs. Kent, peremptorily.
Nicholas, who was driving, obeyed.
"Have you been to the house?" asked the step-mother.
"Yes," said Jasper.
"What does that carpet-bag mean?"
"It means that I am going away."
"Where? As your guardian, I demand to know!"
"As my guardian, will you provide for my expenses?"
"No."
"Then I don't feel called upon to tell you."
"You will repent this insubordination," said Mrs. Kent, angrily. "You
will yet return home in rags."
"Never!" answered Jasper, with emphasis. "Good-afternoon, Mrs. Kent."
"Drive on, Nicholas!" said Mrs. Kent, angrily. "How I hate that boy!"
she ejaculated.
"It strikes me, mother, you've got the best of it," said Nicholas.
"You've got his property, and as to his company, we can do without
that."
CHAPTER XVI.
AN UNPLEASANT ADVENTURE.
A week later Jasper was one of the passengers on a train bound for St.
Louis, and already within sixty miles of that flourishing city. He had
stopped over at Niagara and Cincinnati--a day or so at each place. He
gratified his desire to see the great cataract, and felt repaid for
doing so, though the two stops trenched formidably upon his small
capital. Indeed, at the moment when he is introduced anew to the
reader's notice he had but ten dollars remaining of the sum with which
he started. He was, however, provided, besides, with a through ticket to
St. Louis.
He had been sitting alone, when a stranger entering the car seated
himself in the vacant seat.
Looking up, Jasper noticed that he was a tall man, shabbily dressed,
with thin, sallow face and a swelling in the left cheek, probably
produced by a quid of tobacco.
"Good-mornin', colonel," said the stranger, sociably.
"Good-morning, sir," said Jasper, smiling. "I haven't the honor of being
a colonel."
"Haven't you, cap'n? Well, that ain't of no account. It'll come in time.
Where are you travelling?"
"To St. Louis."
"Ever been there afore?"
"No; this will be my first visit."
"You don't say! Where may you be from?"
"From New York State," answered Jasper, amused.
The stranger drew from his pocket a package of chewing tobacco and
passed it politely to Jasper.
"Help yourself, colonel," he said hospitably.
"No, thank you; I don't chew."
"Shoo, you don't say so! High time you began, then."
"I don't think I shall ever form the habit of chewing."
"Yes, you will, colonel; everybody does. Travellin' on business?"
"Well, not exactly," said Jasper, hesitatingly. "That is, I am looking
for a chance to go into business."
"Got any capital?" interjected the stranger, carelessly, squirting a
yellow stream upon the floor of the car.
"Oh, I don't expect to go into business for myself at present," said
Jasper, amused at the thought.
"No?" said the other, reflectively. "If you had five thousand dollars I
might take you into partnership."
"What is your business?" asked Jasper, with curiosity.
"Cotton," said the stranger. "I'm a cotton broker. I do a large
business."
"You don't look like it," thought Jasper, looking at his shabby costume.
"You don't want a clerk, do you?" asked our hero.
"Well, no, colonel. There ain't any vacancy now in my establishment. May
be soon."
Had Jasper felt favorably impressed with his companion he would have
inquired where in the city his place of business might be, but it did
not strike him that he should care to be in his employ.
He accordingly pulled out a copy of a popular magazine which he had
bought the day before, and began to read. The stranger bought a paper of
the train-boy, and engaged in a similar way. Fifteen minutes passed in
this way. At the end of that time the stranger rose leisurely, and with
a brief "Mornin', colonel," passed out of the car. Whether he got into
the next one or got out at the station which they were approaching
Jasper could not distinguish, nor did he feel specially interested in
the matter.
The time soon came when he felt his interest increased.
A few miles further on the conductor entered the car.
It was one of his usual rounds to look at tickets.
When he came up to Jasper, he said:
"Be lively now. Let me see your ticket."
"Isn't it in my hat?" asked Jasper, taking it off.
"No; did you put it there?"
"I thought I did," said our hero, surprised. "It was there when you last
passed round."
"Look in your pockets."
Jasper felt in all of them, but the missing ticket could not be found.
"It may have fallen on the floor," he said, and rising he looked under
the seat.
But in vain.
"Did you have any ticket?" asked the conductor, suspiciously.
"Certainly. You have looked at it yourself several times."
"You are mistaken; I got on at the last station."
"I have come all the way from Cincinnati," said Jasper, uncomfortably.
"I couldn't have come so far without a ticket. What shall I do?"
"You'll have to pay from the last station to St. Louis."
This was not very agreeable in the state of Jasper's finances.
"How much is it?" he asked.
"Two dollars."
Jasper felt for his pocket-book, when a new surprise awaited him. A look
of consternation swept over his countenance.
His pocket-book was gone.
"Don't keep me waiting," said the conductor, impatiently.
"My pocket-book is gone!" exclaimed our hero, gazing in blank dismay at
the expectant official.
"What?"
"I can't find my pocket-book."
"Look here, young man," said the conductor, roughly, "that's too thin."
"It's true!" said Jasper.
"It won't go down, young man. I've seen such customers as you before.
You're a beat!"
"A what?"
"A beat--a dead-beat, if you prefer it. Off you go at the next station!"
Jasper was greatly alarmed at the unexpected turn affairs had taken.
"Let me go to St. Louis, and I'll get money to pay you."
"It's no use," said the conductor, inexorably. "My orders are strict. If
you can't pay, you can't ride."
"But my pocket was picked," said Jasper, new light flashing upon him.
"There was a stranger who sat beside me a while ago. He must have taken
my ticket and money, too."
"Of course there was," said the conductor, with sarcasm. "That's the way
it usually happens. I'm used to such games, young man. It won't do you
any good. Out you go!"
"Let me go through the cars and see if I can't find the man that robbed
me. I'd know him in a minute."
"Well," said the conductor, relenting slightly, "be quick about it."
Jasper waited for no more. He rose from his seat and, carpet-bag in
hand, passed into the next car.
It proved to be the smoking car.
Groups of men were playing cards, and, as Jasper judged, were playing
for money. Among them, to his great joy, he recognized his shabby
companion, the cotton broker of St. Louis. The latter was playing with
three other men, black-bearded, and loud both in their dress and speech.
Without a moment's hesitation Jasper advanced and touched his late
companion on the shoulder.
The latter looked up, and without a sign of recognition said:
"What's wanted, sir?"
For the first time it struck Jasper that his errand was rather an
awkward one. How could he ask this man if he had taken his property?
"I beg your pardon, sir," said he, "but did you see anything of my
ticket and money?"
"What do you mean, stranger?"
"You were sitting by me a little while ago, in the rear car."
"I don't remember it."
"And I thought you might have seen my pocket-book and ticket."
"Well, I didn't," said the other, fiercely. "What made you think I did?"
"I can't find them."
"I don't know anything about them. General, it's your deal."
He turned abruptly away from Jasper, and the boy slowly withdrew to a
little distance, sorely puzzled. On the one hand, he felt convinced that
this man had abstracted his ticket and money. On the other, he doubted
whether it would be safe to charge him with it.
While he was hesitating, the cars began to go more slowly.
The conductor entered the car.
"Have you found your ticket?" he asked.
"No."
"Then leave the train at this next stopping-place."
Jasper had no chance to remonstrate. Obeying necessity, he stepped upon
the platform, and the train swept on.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE DESERTED HOUSE.
To be without money is far from pleasant under any circumstances, but to
be penniless a thousand miles from home, in the midst of strangers, is
far worse. Jasper found himself in this position so unexpectedly that as
he stood beside the little depot with his carpet-bag in his hand he felt
utterly bewildered.
He looked around him.
Not a house was in sight. Why the railroad company should have
established a depot there he could not understand. Probably there must
be some village not far away.
No other passenger had got out with Jasper. There was no other person in
sight but the station-master, a tall, sallow-faced man, in a slouched
hat, who eyed our hero curiously.
Jasper approached him.
"What place is this?" he asked.
"Don't you know?" questioned the man.
"No."
"What made you stop here, then?"
Jasper hesitated. There seemed no use in taking this man into his
confidence.
"I am going to take a look at the village. I suppose there is a
village?"
"Well," drawled the man, "there's some houses back."
"What's the name of the place?"
"Croyden."
"How far back is the village?"
"A matter of two miles."
"Is it easy to find the way?"
"There's the road."
The station-master pointed out a road leading through woods.
"Thank you," said Jasper.
"You don't happen to have any 'baccy with you?" asked the
station-master.
"No, I am sorry to say."
"I thought maybe you might. I'm most out."
Jasper took the road indicated by his informant and pressed on.
When he had walked half a mile along the lonely road he stopped suddenly
and asked himself:
"What are my plans? What use is there in going to Croyden?"
It was a hard question to answer.
Still, he must go somewhere. He could not go to St. Louis without money,
and there was a bare possibility that he might find something to do in
Croyden. If he could earn a few dollars he could go on, and once in a
large city there would be hope of permanent employment.
How different would have been his situation if he had not lost his
money, and how unfortunate it was that he should have been set down at
this dismal place!
He kept on, meeting no one.
Finally he came to a place where the road divided into two forks or
branches, one leading to the right, the other to the left.
"Which shall I take?" he asked himself.
There seemed no choice so far as he could see. Neither was very
promising, nor was there any sign-post to inform him of what he wished
to know.
"I wish somebody would come along," thought Jasper.
But nobody did.
Forced to decide, he decided in favor of the left-hand road, and walked
on.
After a while he began to suspect that he had made a wrong decision. The
road became little more than a lane, and seemed unfrequented. But just
as he was going to turn back he espied at some distance from the road a
rude dwelling, which, from its weather-beaten appearance, seemed never
to have been painted.
"I can find out something there, at any rate," thought Jasper, and he
bent his steps toward it.
Brief time brought him in front of the house. It was certainly a
quiet-looking place.
"It must be dismal to live here," thought Jasper.
He knocked with his fist at the door. On account of the smallness of the
house the knock certainly must have been heard, but there was no
response.
"The people must be deaf," thought Jasper.
He knocked again, this time considerably louder, and waited for some one
to answer his summons.
He waited in vain.
"It must be a deserted house," thought our hero. "I have a great mind to
explore it--that is, if I can get in."
He tried the door, and, a little to his surprise, it yielded to his
touch. The door being in the centre of the house, there was a room on
each side. The door to the left; opened into a room which was quite bare
of furniture. On the other side, however, was a room containing a table
and three chairs. On the table was a dirty clay-pipe and a box of
tobacco, and there was a dead odor of tobacco-smoke lingering in the
closely-shut room.
"That looks as if there were somebody living here," thought Jasper.
"Halloo!" he shouted, raising his voice.
He felt that it would be better to make his presence known, as otherwise
he might be suspected of entering the house with burglarious designs,
though it would have puzzled a burglar to find anything worth
purloining.
"There can't be anybody in the house or I should have been heard,"
thought our hero. "However, I'll call again."
This time there was a faint sound that came to his ears. It seemed like
the voice of a child.
"Where did that come from?" Jasper considered.
And he waited to hear if it would be repeated.
It was repeated, and now he could make out that it came from above.
"I'll go up," he decided.
He climbed the rude staircase, and pushed open the door of the room
above the one in which he had been standing a moment before. He gazed in
wonder at the spectacle before him.
A boy, five years of age, who in spite of his frightened expression
possessed great personal beauty, was lying on a bed in one corner of the
room. He looked at Jasper in uncertainty at first, then with confidence,
and said:
"Did you come for me?"
"Do you live here?" asked Jasper, in surprise, for this boy was not at
all like the children usually to be found in such houses as this.
His complexion was of dazzling whiteness, his hair was a bright
chestnut, and his clothing was such as wealthy parents can afford to
give to their children.
"Do you live here?" repeated Jasper.
