at such a period, the great differences of the 
human condition could press upon her more 
than ever; a circumstance drawing fresh 
force, in truth, from the very fact of the 
chance that at last, for a change, did squarely 
meet her the chance to be off, for a bit, 
almost as far as anybody. They took their 
turns in the cage as they took them both in 
the shop and at Chalk Farm, and she had 
known these two months that time was to 
be allowed in September no less than 
eleven days for her personal, private holi 
day. Much of her recent intercourse with 
Mr. Mudge had consisted of the hopes and 
fears, expressed mainly by himself, involved 
in the question of their getting the same 
dates a question that, in proportion as the 
delight seemed assured, spread into a sea of 
speculation over the choice of where and 
how. All through July, on the Sunday 
evenings and at such other odd times as he 
could seize, he had flooded their talk with 
wild waves of calculation. It was prac 
tically settled that, with her mother, some- 
where on the south coast (a phrase of 
which she liked the sound) they should put 
in their allowance together ; but she already 
felt the prospect quite weary and worn with 
the way he went round and round on it. It 
had become his sole topic, the theme alike 
of his most solemn prudences and most 
placid jests, to which every opening led for 
return and revision and in which every little 
flower of a foretaste was pulled up as soon as 
planted. He had announced at the earliest 
day characterizing the whole business, from 
that moment, as their plans, under which 
name he handled it as a syndicate handles a 
Chinese, or other, Loan he had promptly 
declared that the question must be thor 
oughly studied, and he produced, on the 
whole subject, from day to day, an amount 
of information that excited her wonder and 
even, not a little, as she frankly let him 
know, her disdain. When she thought of 
the danger in which another pair of lovers 
rapturously lived, she inquired of him anew 
why he could leave nothing to chance. 
Then she got for answer that this profundity 
was just his pride, and he pitted Ramsgate 
against Bournemouth and even Boulogne 
against Jersey for he had great ideas with 
all the mastery of detail that was some day, 
professionally, to carry him far. 
The longer the time since she had seen 
Captain Everard, the more she was booked, 
as she called it, to pass Park Chambers ; and 
this was the sole amusement that, in the 
lingering August days and the long, sad 
twilights, it was left her to cultivate. She 
had long since learned to know it for a 
feeble one, though its feebleness was per 
haps scarce the reason for her saying to 
herself each evening as her time for de 
parture approached: No, no not to-night. 
She never failed of that silent remark, any 
more than she failed of feeling, in some 
deeper place than she had even yet fully 
sounded, that one 's remarks were as weak as 
straws and that, however one might indulge 
in them at eight o clock, one 's fate infallibly 
declared itself in absolute indifference to 
them at about eight-fifteen. Remarks were 
remarks, and very well for that; but fate 
was fate, and this young lady 's was to pass 
Park Chambers every night in the working 
week. Out of the immensity of her knowl 
edge of the life of the world there bloomed 
on these occasions a specific remembrance 
that it was regarded in that region, in 
August and September, as rather pleasant 
just to be caught for something or other in 
passing through town. Somebody was 
always passing and somebody might catch 
somebody else. It was in full cognisance of 
this subtle law that she adhered to the most 
ridiculous circuit she could have made to get 
home. One warm, dull, featureless Friday, 
when an accident had made her start from 
Cocker 's a little later than usual, she became 
aware that something of which the infinite 
possibilities had for so long peopled her 
dreams was at last prodigiously upon her, 
though the perfection in which the condi 
tions happened to present it was almost 
rich enough to be but the positive creation 
of a dream. She saw, straight before her, 
like a vista painted in a picture, the empty 
street and the lamps that burned pale in the 
dusk not yet established. It was into the 
convenience of this quiet twilight that a 
gentleman on the doorstep of the Chambers 
gazed with a vagueness that our young 
lady 's little figure violently trembled, in the 
approach, with the measure of its power to 
dissipate. Everything indeed grew in a 
flash terrific and distinct; her old uncertain 
ties fell away from her, and, since she was 
so familiar with fate, she felt as if the very 
nail that fixed it were driven in by the hard 
look with which, for a moment, Captain 
Everard awaited her. 
The vestibule was open behind him and 
the porter as absent as on the day she had 
peeped in; he had just come out was in 
town, in a tweed suit and a pot hat, but 
between two journeys duly bored over his 
evening and at a loss what to do with it. 
Then it was that she was glad she had never 
met him in that way before: she reaped 
io6   
with such ecstacy the benefit of his not being 
able to think she passed often. She jumped 
in two seconds to the determination that he 
should even suppose it to be the first time 
and the queerest chance : this was while she 
still wondered if he would identify or notice 
her. His original attention had not, she 
instinctively knew, been for the young 
woman at Cocker s; it had only been for 
any young woman who might advance with 
an air of not upholding ugliness. Ah, but 
then, and just as she had reached the door, 
came his second observation, a long, light 
reach with which, visibly and quite 
amusedly, he recalled and placed her. They 
were on different sides, but the street, nar 
row and still, had only made more of a stage 
for the small momentary drama. It was not 
over, besides, it was far from over, even on 
his sending across the way, with the pleas- 
antest laugh she had ever heard, a little lift 
of his hat and an Oh, good-evening! It 
was still less over on their meeting, the 
next minute, though rather indirectly and 
awkwardly, in the middle of the road a 
situation to which three or four steps of her 
own had unmistakably contributed and 
then passing not again to the side on which 
she had arrived, but back toward the portal 
of Park Chambers. 
I didn't know you at first. Are you 
taking a walk? 
Oh, I don't take walks at night! I'm 
going home after my work. 
Oh! 
That was practically what they had mean 
while smiled out, and his exclamation, to 
which, for a minute, he appeared to have 
nothing to add, left them face to face and in 
just such an attitude as, for his part, he 
might have worn had he been wondering if 
he could properly ask her to come in. Dur 
ing this interval, in fact, she really felt his 
question to be just How properly ? It 
was simply a question of the degree of 
properness. 
XV 
She never knew afterwards quite what she 
had done to settle it, and at the time she 
only knew that they presently moved, with 
vagueness, but with continuity, away from 
the picture of the lighted vestibule and the 
quiet stairs and well up the street together. 
This also must have been in the absence of 
a definite permission, of anything vulgarly 
articulate, for that matter, on the part of 
either ; and it was to be, later on, a thing of 
remembrance and reflection for her that the 
limit of what, just here, for a longish min 
ute, passed between them was his taking in 
her thoroughly successful deprecation, 
though conveyed without pride or sound or 
touch, of the idea that she might be, out of 
the cage, the very shopgirl at large that she 
hugged the theory she was not. Yes, it was 
strange, she afterwards thought, that so 
much could have come and gone and yet not 
no   
troubled the air either with impertinence 
or with resentment, with any of the horrid 
notes of that kind of acquaintance. He 
had taken no liberty, as she would have 
called it ; and, through not having to betray 
the sense of one, she herself had, still more 
charmingly, taken none. Yet on the spot, 
nevertheless, she could speculate as to what 
it meant that, if his relation with Lady 
Bradeen continued to be what her mind had 
built it up to, he should feel free to proceed 
in any private direction. This was one of 
the questions he was to leave her to deal 
with the question whether people of his 
sort still asked girls up to their rooms when 
they were so awfully in love with other 
women. Could people of his sort do that with 
out what people of her sort would call being 
false to their love ? She had already a vision 
of how the true answer was that people of 
her sort didn' t, in such cases, matter didn' t 
count as infidelity, counted only as some 
thing else: she might have been curious, 
since it came to that, to see exactly what. 
Strolling together slowly in their summer 
twilight and their empty corner of Mayfair, 
they found themselves emerge at last 
opposite to one of the smaller gates of the 
Park; upon which, without any particular 
word about it they were talking so of other 
things they crossed the street and went in 
and sat down on a bench. She had gathered 
by this time one magnificent hope about 
him the hope that he would say nothing 
vulgar. She knew what she meant by that ; 
she meant something quite apart from any 
matter of his being false. Their bench 
was not far within; it was near the Park 
Lane paling and the patchy lamplight and 
the rumbling cabs and busses. A strange 
emotion had come to her, and she felt 
indeed excitement within excitement ; above 
all a conscious joy in testing him with 
chances he didn' t take. She had an intense 
desire he should know the type she really 
was without her doing anything so low as 
tell him, and he had surely begun to know 
it from the moment he didn' t seize the 
opportunities into which a common man 
would promptly have blundered. These 
were on the mere surface, and their relation 
was behind and below them. She had 
questioned so little on the way what they 
were doing that as soon as they were seated 
she took straight hold of it. Her hours, her 
confinement, the many conditions of service 
in the post-office, had with a glance at his 
own postal resources and alternatives 
formed, up to this stage, the subject of their 
talk. Well, here we are, and it may be 
right enough; but this isn' t the least, you 
know, where I was going. 
You were going home? 
Yes, and I was already rather late. I 
was going to my supper. 
You haven't had it? 
No, indeed! 
Then you haven't eaten ? 
He looked, of a sudden, so extravagantly 
concerned that she laughed out. All day? 
Yes, we do feed once. But that was long 
ago. So I must presently say good-bye. 
Oh, deary me. r he exclaimed, with an 
intonation so droll and yet a touch so light 
and a distress so marked a confession of 
helplessness for such a case, in short, so 
unrelieved that she felt sure, on the spot, 
she had made the great difference plain. 
He looked at her with the kindest eyes and 
still without saying what she had known he 
wouldn t. She had known he wouldn't say 
Then sup with me  but the proof of it made 
her feel as if she had feasted. 
I'm not a bit hungry, she went on. 
Ah, you must be, awfully! he made 
answer, but settling himself on the bench as 
if, after all, that needn't interfere with his 
spending his evening. I've always quite 
wanted the chance to thank you for the 
trouble you so often take for me. 
Yes, I know, she replied; uttering the 
words with a sense of the situation far 
deeper than any pretence of not fitting his 
allusion. She immediately saw that he was 
surprised and even a little puzzled at her 
frank assent; but, for herself, the trouble 
H4 IN T HE CAGE 
she had taken could only, in these fleeting 
minutes they would probably never come 
back be all there like a little hoard of gold 
in her lap. Certainly he might look at it, 
handle it, take up the pieces. Yet if he 
understood anything he must understand all. 
I consider you've already immensely 
thanked me. The horror was back upon 
her of having seemed to hang about for some 
reward. It 's awfully odd that you should 
have been there just the one time ! 
The one time you've passed my place? 
Yes; you can fancy I haven't many min 
utes to waste. There was a place to-night I 
had to stop at. 
I see, I see" he knew already so much 
about her work. It must bean awful grind 
for a lady. 
It is; but I don't think I groan over it any 
more than my companions and you've seen 
they're not ladies! She mildly jested, but 
with an intention. One gets used to 
things, and there are employments I should 
have hated much more. She had the finest 
conception of the beauty of not, at least, 
boring him. To whine, to count up her 
wrongs, was what a barmaid or a shopgirl 
would do, and it was quite enough to sit 
there like one of these. 
If you had had another employment, he 
remarked after a moment, we might never 
have become acquainted. 
It 's highly probable and certainly not 
in the same way. Then, still with her heap 
of gold in her lap and something of the pride 
of it in her manner of holding her head, she 
continued not to move she only smiled at 
him. The evening had thickened now ; the 
scattered lamps were red; the Park, all 
before them, was full of obscure and ambig 
uous life ; there were other couples on other 
benches, whom it was impossible not to see, 
yet at whom it was impossible to look. But 
I've walked so much out of my way with you 
only just to show you that that with this 
she paused ; it was not, after all, so easy to 
express that anything you may have 
thought is perfectly true. 
u6   
4 Oh, I've thought a tremendous lot! her 
companion laughed. Do you mind my 
smoking? 
Why should I? You always smoke there. 
At your place? Oh, yes, but here it 's 
different. 
No, she said, as he lighted a cigarette, 
that 's just what it isn' t. It 's quite the same. 
Well, then, that 's because "there" it 's so 
wonderful! 
Then you're conscious of how wonderful 
it is? she returned. 
He jerked his handsome head in literal 
protest at a doubt. Why, that 's exactly 
what I mean by my gratitude for all your 
trouble. It has been just as if you took a 
particular interest. She only looked at him 
in answer to this, in such sudden, immediate 
embarrassment, as she was quite aware, 
that, while she remained silent, he showed 
he was at a loss to interpret her expression. 
You have haven't you? taken a particular 
interest? 
Oh, a particular interest! she quavered 
out, feeling the whole thing her immediate 
embarrassment get terribly the better of 
her, and wishing, with a sudden scare, all 
the more to keep her emotion down. She 
maintained her fixed smile a moment and 
turned her eyes over the peopled darkness, 
unconfused now, because there was some 
thing much more confusing. This, with a 
fatal great rush, was simply the fact that 
they were thus together. They were near, 
near, and all that she had imagined of that 
had only become more true, more dreadful 
and overwhelming. She stared straight 
away in silence till she felt that she looked 
like an idiot; then, to say something, to say 
nothing, she attempted a sound which ended 
in a flood of tears, 
XVI 
Her tears helped her really to dissimulate, 
for she had instantly, in so public a situa 
tion, to recover herself. They had come 
and gone in half a minute, and she imme 
diately explained them. It 's only because 
I'm tired. It 's that it 's that! Then she 
added a trifle incoherently: I shall never 
see you again. 
Ah, but why not? The mere tone in 
which her companion asked this satisfied 
her once for all as to the amount of imagi 
nation for which she could count on him. It 
was naturally not large: it had exhausted 
itself in having arrived at what he had 
already touched upon the sense of an 
intention in her poor zeal at Cocker's. But 
any deficiency of this kind was no fault in 
him ; he wasn' t obliged to have an inferior 
cleverness to have second-rate resources 
and virtues. It had been as if he almost 
really believed she had simply cried for 
fatigue, and he had accordingly put in some 
kind, confused plea You ought really to 
take something: won't you have something 
or other somezvhere? to which she had 
made no response but a headshake of a 
sharpness that settled it. Why shan't we 
all the more keep meeting? 
I mean meeting this way only this way. 
At my place there that I've nothing to do 
with, and I hope of course you ll turn up, 
with your correspondence, when it suits 
you. Whether I stay or not, I mean ; for I 
shall probably not stay. 
You're going somewhere else? he put it 
with positive anxiety. 
Yes; ever so far away to the other end 
of London. There are all sorts of reasons 
I can't tell you; and it 's practically settled. 
It 's better for me, much; and I've only 
kept on at Cocker 's for you. 
For me? 
Making out in the dusk that he fairly 
blushed, she now measured how far he had 
been from knowing too much. Too much, 
she called it at present ; and that was easy, 
since it proved so abundantly enough for 
her that he should simply be where he was. 
As we shall never talk this way but to-night 
never, never again! here it all is; I ll say 
it; I don't care what you think; it doesn' t 
matter ; I only want to help you. Besides, 
you're kind you're kind. I've been think 
ing, then, of leaving for ever so long. But 
you've come so often at times and you've 
had so much to do, and it has been so pleas 
ant and interesting, that I've remained, I've 
kept putting off any change. More than 
once, when I had nearly decided, you've 
turned up again and I've thought, "Oh, no!" 
That 's the simple fact! She had by this 
time got her confusion down so completely 
that she could laugh. This is what I meant 
when I said to you just now that I "knew." 
I've known perfectly that you knew I took 
trouble for you; and that knowledge has 
been for me, and I seemed to see it was for 
you, as if there were something I don't 
know what to call it! between us. I mean 
something unusual and good something not 
a bit horrid or vulgar. 
She had by this time, she could see, pro 
duced a great effect upon him; but she 
would have spoken the truth to herself if she 
had at the same moment declared that she 
didn' t in the least care: all the more that 
the effect must be one of extreme perplexity. 
What, in it all, was visibly clear for him, 
none the less, was that he was tremendously 
glad he had met her. She held him, and he 
was astonished at the force of it; he was 
intent, immensely considerate. His elbow 
was on the back of the seat, and his head, 
with the pot-hat pushed quite back, in a 
boyish way, so that she really saw almost for 
the first time his forehead and hair, rested 
on the hand into which he had crumpled his 
gloves. Yes, he assented, it 's not a bit 
horrid or vulgar. 
She just hung fire a moment; then she 
brought out the whole truth. I'd do any 
thing for you. I'd do anything for you. 
Never in her life had she known anything so 
high and fine as this, just letting him have 
it and bravely and magnificently leaving it. 
Didn't the place, the associations and cir 
cumstances, perfectly make it sound what it 
was not ; and wasn' t that exactly the beauty? 
So she bravely and magnificently left it, 
and little by little she felt him take it up, 
take it down, as if they had been on a satin 
sofa in a boudoir. She had never seen a 
boudoir, but there had been lots of boudoirs 
in the telegrams. What she had said, at all 
events, sank into him, so that after a minute 
he simply made a movement that had the 
result of placing his hand on her own 
presently indeed that of her feeling her 
self firmly enough grasped. There was no 
pressure she need return, there was none 
she need decline; she just sat admirably 
still, satisfied, for the time, with the sur 
prise and bewilderment of the impression 
she made on him. His agitation was even 
greater, on the whole, than she had at 
first allowed for. I say, you know, you 
mustn't think of leaving! he at last broke 
out. 
Of leaving Cocker's, you mean? 
Yes, you must stay on there, whatever 
happens, and help a fellow. 
She was silent a little, partly because it 
was so strange and exquisite to feel him 
watch her as if it really mattered to him 
and he were almost in suspense. Then you 
have quite recognised what I've tried to 
do? she asked. 
Why, wasn' t that exactly what I dashed 
over from my door just now to thank you for? 
Yes; so you said. 
And don't you believe it? 
She looked down a moment at his hand, 
which continued to cover her own ; where 
upon he presently drew it back, rather rest 
lessly folding his arms. Without answering 
his question she went on: Have you ever 
spoken of me? 
Spoken of you? 
Of my being there of my knowing, and 
that sort of thing. 
Oh, never to a human creature! he 
eagerly declared. 
She had a small drop at this, which was 
expressed in another pause ; after which she 
returned to what he had just asked her. 
Oh, yes, I quite believe you like it my 
always being there and our taking things up 
so familiarly and successfully : if not exactly 
where we left them, she laughed, almost 
always, at least, in an interesting place! 
He was about to say something in reply to 
this, but her friendly gaiety was quicker. 
You want a great many things in life, a 
great many comforts and helps and luxuries 
you want everything as pleasant as pos 
sible. Therefore, so far as it 's in the power 
of any particular person to contribute to all 
that She had turned her face to him 
smiling, just thinking. 
Oh, see here! But he was highly 
amused. Well, what then? he inquired, 
as if to humour her. 
Why, the particular person must never 
fail. We must manage it for you somehow. 
  
He threw back his head, laughing out; 
he was really exhilarated. Oh, yes, some 
how! 
Well, I think we each do don't we? in 
one little way and another and according to 
our limited lights. I'm pleased, at any 
rate, for myself, that you are; for I assure 
you I've done my best. 
You do better than any one! He had 
struck a match for another cigarette, and 
the flame lighted an instant his responsive, 
finished face, magnifying into a pleasant 
grimace the kindness with which he paid her 
this tribute. You're awfully clever, you 
know; cleverer, cleverer, cleverer ! 
He had appeared on the point of making 
some tremendous statement ; then suddenly, 
puffing his cigarette and shifting almost 
with violence on his seat, let it altogether 
fall. 
XVII 
In spite of this drop, if not just by reason 
of it, she felt as if Lady Bradeen, all but 
named out, had popped straight up ; and she 
practically betrayed her consciousness by 
waiting a little before she rejoined: Clev 
erer than who? 
Well, if I wasn' t afraid you'd think I 
swagger, I should say than anybody! If 
you leave your place there, where shall you 
go? he more gravely demanded. 
Oh, too far for you ever to find me! 
I'd find you anywhere. 
The tone of this was so still more serious 
that she had but her one acknowledgment. 
I'd do anything for you I'd do anything 
for you, she repeated. She had already, 
she felt, said it all; so what did anything 
more, anything less, matter? That was the 
very reason indeed why she could, with a 
lighter note, ease him generously of any 
awkwardness produced by solemnity, either 
his own or hers. Of course it must be nice 
for you to be able to think there are people 
all about who feel in such a way. 
In immediate appreciation of this, how 
ever, he only smoked without looking at her. 
But you don't want to give up your present 
work? he at last inquired. I mean you 
will stay in the post-office? 
Oh, yes; I think I've a genius for that. 
Rather ! No one can touch you. With 
this he turned more to her again. But you 
can get, with a move, greater advantages? 
I can get, in the suburbs, cheaper lodg 
ings. I will live with my mother. We need 
some space; and there 's a particular place 
that has other inducements. 
He just hesitated. Where is it? 
Oh, quite out of your way. You'd never 
have time. 
But I tell you I'd go anywhere. Don't 
you believe it? 
Yes, for once or twice. But you'd soon 
see it wouldn't do for you. 
He smoked and considered; seemed to 
stretch himself a little and, with his legs out, 
surrender himself comfortably. Well, well, 
well I believe everything you say. I take 
it from you anything you like in the most 
extraordinary way. It struck her certainly 
and almost without bitterness that the 
way in which she was already, as if she had 
been an old friend, arranging for him and 
preparing the only magnificence she could 
muster, was quite the most extraordinary. 
Don t, don't go! he presently went on. I 
shall miss you too horribly ! 
So that you just put it to me as a definite 
request? oh, how she tried to divest this 
of all sound of the hardness of bargaining! 
That ought to have been easy enough, for 
what was she arranging to get? Before he 
could answer she had continued: To be 
perfectly fair, I should tell you I recognise 
at Cocker 's certain strong attractions. All 
you people come. I like all the horrors. 
The horrors? 
Those you all you know the set I mean, 
your set show me with as good a conscience 
as if I had no more feeling than a letter 
box. 
He looked quite excited at the way she 
put it. Oh, they don't know! 
Don't know I'm not stupid? No, how 
should they? 
Yes, how should they? said the Captain 
sympathetically. But isn' t "horrors" 
rather strong? 
What you do is rather strong! the girl 
promptly returned. 
What I do? 
Your extravagance, your selfishness, your 
immorality, your crimes, she pursued, with 
out heeding his expression. 
I say! her companion showed the 
queerest stare. 
I like them, as I tell you I revel in 
them. But we needn't go into that, she 
quietly went on; for all I get out of it is the 
harmless pleasure of knowing. I know, I 
know, I know! she breathed it ever so 
gently. 
Yes; that 's what has been between us, 
he answered much more simply. 
She could enjoy his simplicity in silence, 
and for a moment she did so. If I do stay 
because you want it and I'm rather capable 
of that there are two or three things I 
think you ought to remember. One is, you 
know, that I'm there sometimes for days and 
weeks together without your ever coming. 
Oh, I ll come everyday! he exclaimed. 
She was on the point, at this, of imitating 
with her hand his movement of shortly 
before; but she checked herself, and there 
was no want of effect in the tranquillising 
way in which she said: How can you? 
How can you? 1 He had, too manifestly, 
only to look at it there, in the vulgarly ani 
mated gloom, to see that he couldn t; and at 
this point, by the mere action of his silence, 
everything they had so definitely not named, 
the whole presence round which they had 
been circling became a part of their refer 
ence, settled solidly between them. It was 
as if then, for a minute, they sat and saw it 
i 3 2   
all in each other 's eyes, saw so much that 
there was no need of a transition for sound 
ing it at last. Your danger, your danger 
! Her voice indeed trembled with it, and 
she could only, for the moment, again leave 
it so. 
During this moment he leaned back on 
the bench, meeting her in silence and with 
a face that grew more strange. It grew so 
strange that, after a further instant, she 
got straight up. She stood there as if their 
talk were now over, and he just sat and 
watched her. It was as if now owing to 
the third person they had brought in they 
must be more careful ; so that the most he 
could finally say was: That 's where it is! 
That 's where it is! the girl as guardedly 
replied. He sat still, and she added: I 
won't abandon you. Good-bye. 
Good-bye? he appealed, but without 
moving. 
I don't quite see my way, but I won't 
abandon you, she repeated. There. Good 
bye. 
It brought him with a jerk to his feet, 
tossing away his cigarette. His poor face 
was flushed. See here see here! 
No, I won t; but I must leave you now, 
she went on as if not hearing him. 
See here see here! He tried, from the 
bench, to take her hand again. 
But that definitely settled it for her : this 
would, after all, be as bad as his asking her 
to supper. You mustn't come with me 
no, no! 
He sank back, quite blank, as if she had 
pushed him. I mayn't see you home? 
No, no; let me go. He looked almost as 
if she had struck him, but she didn' t care; 
and the manner in which she spoke it was 
literally as if she were angry had the force 
of a command. Stay where you are ! 
See here see here! he nevertheless 
pleaded. 
I won't abandon you! she cried once 
more this time quite with passion; on 
which she got away from him as fast as she 
could and left him staring after her. 
XVIII 
Mr. Mudge had lately been so occupied 
with their famous plans that he had 
neglected, for a while, the question of her 
transfer; but down at Bournemouth, which 
had found itself selected as the field of their 
recreation by a process consisting, it seemed, 
exclusively of innumerable pages of the 
neatest arithmetic in a very greasy, but most 
orderly little pocket-book, the distracting 
possible melted away the fleeting irremedi 
able ruled the scene. The plans, hour by 
hour, were simply superseded, and it was 
much of a rest to the girl, as she sat on the 
pier and overlooked the sea and the com 
pany, to see them evaporate in rosy fumes 
and to feel that from moment to moment 
there was less left to cipher about. The 
week proved blissfully fine, and her mother, 
at their lodgings partly to her embarrass 
ment and partly to her relief struck up 
with the landlady an alliance that left the 
younger couple a great deal of freedom. 
This relative took her pleasure of a week at 
Bournemouth in a stuffy back-kitchen and 
endless talks; to that degree even that Mr. 
Mudge himself habitually inclined indeed 
to a scrutiny of all mysteries and to seeing, 
as he sometimes admitted, too much in 
things made remarks on it as he sat on the 
cliff with his betrothed, or on the decks of 
steamers that conveyed them, close-packed 
items in terrific totals of enjoyment, to the 
Isle of Wight and the Dorset coast. 
He had a lodging in another house, where 
he had speedily learned the importance of 
keeping his eyes open, and he made no 
secret of his suspecting that sinister mutual 
connivances might spring, under the roof of 
his companions, from unnatural sociabilities. 
At the same time he fully recognised that, 
as a source of anxiety, not to say of expense, 
his future mother-in-law would have 
weighted them more in accompanying their 
steps than in giving her hostess, in the 
interest of the tendency they considered 
that they never mentioned, equivalent 
pledges as to the tea-caddy and the jam-pot. 
These were the questions these indeed the 
familiar commodities that he had now to 
put into the scales ; and his betrothed had, 
in consequence, during her holiday, the odd, 
and yet pleasant and almost languid, sense 
of an anticlimax. She had become con 
scious of an extraordinary collapse, a sur 
render to stillness and to retrospect. She 
cared neither to walk nor to sail; it was 
enough for her to sit on benches and wonder 
at the sea and taste the air and not be at 
Cocker 's and not see the counter-clerk. 
She still seemed to wait for something 
something in the key of the immense discus 
sions that had mapped out their little week 
of idleness on the scale of a world-atlas. 
Something came at last, but without perhaps 
appearing quite adequately to crown the 
monument. 
Preparation and precaution were, however, 
the natural flowers of Mr. Mudge 's mind, 
and in proportion as these things declined 
in one quarter they inevitably bloomed else 
where. He could always, at the worst, have 
