When, a few hours later, Bolton approached Ben and asked: "Have you
spoken to Major Grafton about me?" Ben coldly answered, "Yes, sir."
"Did he remember me?" questioned Bolton.
"Yes, sir."
"I thought he would. Are we likely to see him on deck soon?"
"No, sir, I think not."
Ben spoke so coldly that Bolton regarded him with a puzzled look.
He could not help seeing that the boy did not care to continue the
conversation, and, with a bow of farewell, joined another passenger
in a promenade.
"I should like to have asked him a little more about the boy I am
succeeding," thought Ben; but he respected the major's wishes, and
kept aloof from Bolton for the remainder of the voyage.
                           CHAPTER XVII.
                     THE BEAUFORTS IN TROUBLE.
There was an anxious look on Rose Beaufort's pleasant face. She and
her young brother were the only bread-winners in the family, and
work as hard as they might it was very difficult to make both ends
meet. But for one item they could have managed with strict economy,
but that item--the rent--was a formidable one. They hired their
humble apartment of a Mrs. Flanagan, who leased the whole floor, and
agreed to pay two dollars a week. This woman was a coarse, selfish
person, whose heart was as hard and unfeeling as her face and
manners were unprepossessing.
One Monday morning, about two months after Ben's departure for
Europe, the landlady knocked at the door of the two sisters.
"It's Mrs. Flanagan," said Rose, with a troubled look, recognizing
her knock. "She has come for her rent, and I have but fifty cents
toward it."
"Perhaps she will wait," suggested Adeline; but her voice was not
hopeful.
"Come in!" said Rose.
"You were mighty long tellin' me to come in," grumbled the landlady,
as she entered the humble room, with a hostile look.
"I am sorry if I kept you waiting," said Rose, gently.
"I thought maybe you didn't want to see me," said Mrs. Flanagan. "I
won't stay long to trouble ye."
"Stay as long as you like," said Rose in a conciliatory manner.
"I didn't come for any palaver--I haven't the time. I suppose you
know what I came for. You haven't forgot it's Monday mornin'?" said
the landlady, in an aggressive tone.
"I didn't forget it, Mrs. Flanagan, but I am afraid I shall have to
disappoint you this morning."
"Do you mane to say you haven't got my rint ready?" demanded Mrs.
Flanagan, her red face becoming still more inflamed with anger.
"Indeed, Mrs. Flanagan, it isn't my fault," pleaded Rose. "I've got
fifty cents toward it, and if--"
"Fifty cints! What's fifty cints?" exclaimed the landlady, angrily.
"Can I pay my rint wid fifty cints? It's a shame--that it is--for
you to chate a poor hard-workin' woman, and a widder besides."
"My sister never cheats anybody," said Adeline, indignantly.
"Hoity-toity! So it's you that are spakin', is it?" said Mrs.
Flanagan, with her arms akimbo. "You can talk, anyway, if you can't
work. All you do is to sit here all day long, while your sister is
wearin' out her fingers wid the needle."
It was a cruel blow to the poor girl, who needed no reminder of what
she often thought about with bitter regret and mortification. She
did not retort angrily, but, turning sadly to her sister, said:
"I am afraid it's true, Rose; I am only a burden and an expense to
you. I do nothing to help you."
Now it was Rose's turn to be angry.
"Are you not ashamed, Mrs. Flanagan, to twit my poor sister with
what is her misfortune, not her fault?" she exclaimed, with flushed
face and sparkling eyes. "She would gladly work, if she could."
"It's ashamed I'm to be, am I?" retorted Mrs. Flanagan, viciously.
"I pay my bills, anyhow, and it's ashamed I'd be if I didn't. I
don't want no more talk from the like of you. It's money I want."
"Here are fifty cents, and I will try to get you the rest to-day,"
said Rose, sadly.
"Them that wear gold rings can pay their rint, if they want to," was
Mrs. Flanagan's parting shot, as she slammed the door behind her.
Rose looked at the plain gold ring on her finger. It had been her
mother's ring, and for that she valued it above its intrinsic value.
"I can't part with this," she murmured, with moistened eyes. "Yet,
is it right to keep it when we owe money?"
"Don't part with mother's ring, whatever you do, Rose," said her
sister, hastily.
"But have we a right to keep it?" asked Rose, doubtfully.
"Yes, a thousand times, yes! That woman can wait for her money. We
cannot part with this legacy of our dying mother."
"But she may put us out into the street," said Rose, shuddering.
"Is there nothing else by which we can raise money?" said Adeline,
realizing their situation.
"Money is due me for two vests. As a general thing, Walton & Co.
don't pay me till I hand in half a dozen, but perhaps they would
make an exception in this case."
"That would be but seventy cents. It would not make up what we owe
Mrs. Flanagan."
"It might induce her to wait for the rest," said Rose. "If you don't
mind staying alone a little while, Addie, I will wrap them up and
carry them to the store."
"Go, if you like, Rose. I always miss you, but I cannot expect to
keep you here with me all the time."
Rose wrapped up the two completed vests, and putting on her hat,
kissed her sister and went down stairs.
It was not far to the great store, which we have already entered
with Ben.
Entering, Rose walked to the back part of the store and took the
elevator to the second floor, where she found the superintendent of
the work-room.
She made known her request.
"Quite out of the question, miss," said the superintendent, sharply.
He was a hard-featured man, who was a good man of business, but was
not open to sentimental consideration.
"Didn't you know our rules?" he asked.
"Yes, sir; but this was a case of necessity."
"I beg your pardon, miss, it is a matter of business. When you have
finished the batch we will pay you, and not till then."
"But, sir, I need the money very much."
"That is your affair, not ours. Probably you have friends and can
borrow money, if you need it sooner than we are ready to pay it to
you."
"I don't know where to find them," thought Rose, but she did not
say this.
The superintendent had already turned away, as if to intimate that
he had no more time to give her. Rose walked to the elevator slowly
and sadly, and descended to the main store.
"What shall I do?" she thought. "Mrs. Flanagan will turn us out, and
then poor Addie will suffer."
As she stepped out into the street the thought of the ring came
back to her. It was dear to her as a cherished legacy from a mother
early lost and deeply mourned, yet it had a money value which would
relieve their pressing necessities for a week at least.
"I don't think mother would wish me to keep it under the
circumstances," she thought. "Addie will scold me, but it appears
to be the only thing that remains for me to do. Heaven knows that I
don't wish to part with it."
The proper place to go would have been to a pawnbroker's shop,
but Rose did not know of one. She had never had dealings with any.
As she passed a jewelry store it occurred to her that perhaps they
would buy it inside, and she entered.
"In what way can I serve you, miss?" asked a young man behind the
counter.
"I--I wish to dispose of a ring," said Rose, hurriedly. "Can you
tell me the value of it?" and she slipped the ring from her finger
and offered it to the salesman.
"We don't buy second-hand jewelry," said the clerk, rudely. "We sell
rings here; don't buy them."
"Then would you be kind enough to lend me two dollars on it
till--till next week?" entreated Rose. "It must be worth much more
than that."
"It doesn't matter how much it is worth," said the clerk. "We ain't
in that line of business. You don't suppose we keep a pawnbroker's
shop, do you?" and he laughed contemptuously, glancing at a tall
lady who stood beside Rose and had listened attentively to the
conversation, as if inviting her to enjoy the joke with him.
"Then perhaps you will direct me to a pawnbroker's," said Rose, ill
at ease.
"Oh, you can go find one on the Bowery," said the clerk,
carelessly. "Now, madam," turning to the tall lady, "what can I show
you?"
His tone was much more respectful than the one he employed in
speaking to Rose, for the lady, though far from beautiful, and no
longer young, was handsomely-dressed, and had the appearance of
being wealthy.
"You can't show me anything to-day, young man," said Miss Jane
Wilmot, for it was she. "I wish to speak to this young lady. My
dear, come out of the store with me. I wish to ask you a few
questions."
The clerk arched his brows in surprise and disappointment as his
hoped-for customer walked away without purchasing anything, followed
by Rose.
                          CHAPTER XVIII.
              MRS. FLANAGAN IS DRIVEN FROM THE FIELD.
Miss Jane Wilmot had never been pretty, even when, twenty years
before, she could lay claim to being a young lady; and her manners
were decided; but a kind smile lighted up her face as she said to
Rose:
"My child, you seem to be in trouble."
"Yes, indeed, madam," said Rose, "I am in great trouble."
"Don't think me inquisitive," said Miss Wilmot, "if I inquire into
your trouble. I infer that you are in need of money."
"Yes, madam, I am very much in need of money, or I would not think
of selling my mother's ring."
"Your mother--is she living?"
"No; she has been dead for five years."
"You are not alone in the world?"
"No, thank Heaven! I don't know how I could bear to feel myself
alone. I have a sick sister and a little brother."
"And does the whole burden of their support fall on you?" asked Miss
Wilmot, in a tone of sympathy.
"Not quite. My little brother Harry earns two dollars a week as a
cash-boy."
"That is not much help."
"It is nearly as much as I earn myself. There is not much to be
earned at making vests at thirty-five cents each."
"Thirty-five!" repeated Miss Wilmot, indignantly. "Who pays you such
a wretched price?"
"Walton & Co."
"No wonder they prosper, if they pay so little for having their work
done. How many vests can you make in a week?"
"One vest a day is about as much as I can make, but I have made
seven in a week."
"And you consider that a good week's work?" asked Miss Wilmot.
"Yes, but I cannot average that."
"That makes--let me see--two dollars and forty-five cents. You
don't mean to say, child, that your united incomes amount to only
four dollars and forty-five cents?"
"It generally amounts to less, for I cannot average seven vests a
week."
"Well, well, what are we coming to?" ejaculated Miss Wilmot,
pityingly. "You don't look, child, as if you had always been so
miserably poor."
"I have not. My grandfather was rich, but he took offense at
mother's marriage to father and he left all his property to my
cousin."
"The old wretch! Excuse me, child, I forgot that he was your
grandfather. So you were wholly left out of the will?"
"If my cousin should die, the whole property would come to us."
"He should have left the property between you. But I fancy you think
I am a curious old woman, with my questions."
"I don't think you an old woman at all, madam."
Miss Wilmot smiled. Though she was a spinster of over forty she was
not wholly without appreciation of a compliment, and the reply of
Rose pleased her.
"At any rate, I am old enough to be your mother, my dear," she said.
"But that is neither here nor there. How much did you expect to get
for that ring?"
"I hoped that I might get three dollars," said Rose, hesitatingly.
"I owe Mrs. Flanagan--she is my landlady--a dollar and a half, and I
could pay that and have a little fund left to fall back upon."
"A little fund--a dollar and a half!" said Miss Wilmot, pityingly.
"I suppose I would not get so much at a pawnbroker's?" continued
Rose.
"My child, I am not a pawnbroker, but I think it will be better for
me to lend you something on the ring."
"If you only would, madam! I feel timid about going to a pawnshop."
"Where they would offer some ridiculous trifle for it, no doubt.
Here, child, give me the ring."
Rose drew it from her finger and handed it to Miss Wilmot.
The latter drew a purse from her pocket and slipped the ring into
it.
"It is too small for me to wear," she said. "It will be safe in my
purse."
She drew out two five-dollar bills and handed them to Rose.
"Ten dollars!" exclaimed Rose, in surprise.
"I don't do business on the regular terms," said Miss Wilmot,
smiling. "I am sure the ring is worth more than ten dollars to you.
Some day you may be able to redeem it."
"I am afraid not, madam; but this money seems like a small fortune
to me."
"You don't know what future luck is in store for you. I will keep
the ring for you. You should know who has it. I am Miss Jane Wilmot,
of 300 Madison avenue. I am called a strong-minded woman; I hope
that won't prejudice you against me."
"It would be hard for me to become prejudiced against you after your
liberality, Miss Wilmot. I wish there were more strong-minded woman
like you."
"Now for your name, my child."
"I am Rose Beaufort; my sister's name is Adeline, and my little
brother, twelve years old, is Harry."
"I have a great mind to go home with you, if you won't consider it
an intrusion," said Miss Wilmot.
"Far from it, Miss Wilmot--that is, if you won't mind our humble
quarters."
"If you can endure them week after week, I can get along for half an
hour," said the spinster. "Lead the way, my dear. Is it far? If so,
we will take a horse-car."
"It is less than half a mile, I should think," said Rose.
"Then we will walk."
They soon reached the poor tenement-house.
"You see it is a poor place," said Rose, apologetically.
"Poor enough!" said Miss Wilmot, plainly.
"You may not care to come up."
"There is nothing delicate about me, my child. Go on, I will follow."
Rose entered the poor room in advance of her visitor.
"Home again, Rose?" said Adeline, whose head was turned away from
the door, and who therefore did not see Miss Wilmot.
"Yes, Addie."
"Did you get any money? Did they pay you for the vests?"
"No; but I met a good friend, who has come home with me. Miss
Wilmot, this is my sister, Addie."
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, my dear," said the spinster,
and her face, plain as it was, looked positively attractive from
very kindness.
"You look good!" said Addie, whose instincts were rapid. "I am sure
you are a friend."
"I will be," said Miss Wilmot, emphatically.
The weakness of the younger sister appealed to her even more
strongly than the beauty of the elder.
Just then a knock was heard at the door. Mrs. Flanagan had heard
the step of Rose upon the stairs, and had come up to see if she had
brought money for the rent.
"It is my landlady, Mrs. Flanagan," said Rose.
"I want to see what sort of a woman she is. Ask for delay, and let
me go into this inner room," said Miss Wilmot, rapidly.
When Mrs. Flanagan entered the room there was no sign of a visitor.
"Well," said the landlady, entering upon her business at once, "have
you got my money for me?"
But for Miss Wilmot's admonition, Rose would have produced the money
without delay, but she thought it necessary to follow the directions
of her new friend.
"They would not pay me for the two vests I had made," she said. "I
must wait till all are finished."
"Just what I expected," said the landlady, placing her arms akimbo.
"I saw how it would turn out. You needn't think I am going to be put
off like this. Pay me my rent, or out you go, bag and baggage!"
"Would you turn my poor sister into the street, Mrs. Flanagan?"
"I am not going to keep you here for nothing, you may rely upon
that."
"Won't you wait till next week?"
"When another week's rent will be due? No, I won't, and I hope that
you understand it."
"Then you ought to be ashamed of yourself, woman!" said a strong,
decided voice, and Miss Wilmot strode out of the bedroom.
Mrs. Flanagan stared at her with mingled surprise and indignation.
"I am no more a woman than you are," she retorted.
"That's true enough," rejoined Miss Wilmot, "nor half as much.
There's nothing womanly about you."
"Do you think I can let my rooms for nothing?" said the landlady,
sullenly. She saw that Miss Wilmot was richly dressed, and she had a
respect for such evidence of wealth.
"How much do the young ladies owe you?"
"A dollar and a half."
"What is the rent of these rooms?"
"Two dollars a week."
"Then, three dollars and a half will pay to the end of the present
week?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Here is the money. They will move out at the end of the week."
"I shall be glad to have them stay," said the landlady, now anxious
to retain them.
"I shall find them a better home. Good-morning."
Mrs. Flanagan went down stairs feeling that she was worsted in the
contest. She was a bold woman, but she was rather afraid of Miss
Wilmot.
"Now, my dears," said the spinster, "let us talk business."
                           CHAPTER XIX.
                        BRIGHTER PROSPECTS.
"You must know, my dear," said Miss Wilmot, "that I am a rich
woman, and own considerable more than my share of worldly goods.
Among other items of property, I own a French flat house on West
Twenty-fifth street. It isn't one of the costly flats, but is
intended for people with moderate incomes. I learned yesterday that
one of the flats was just vacated. The family occupying it is about
to move to the West, and desired me, as a matter of convenience to
them, to purchase their furniture, and let it furnished. I intended
to decline, but now I shall accept, having found a tenant that suits
me."
"Who is it?" asked Rose, not quite understanding her own connection
with the matter.
"Her name is Rose Beaufort," said Miss Wilmot, smiling.
"But, Miss Wilmot, I am afraid it will be beyond my means. What rent
shall you ask?"
"I don't think thirty dollars a month will be too much, considering
that there are five well-furnished rooms. There is even a piano."
"Thirty dollars a month!" exclaimed Rose, in dismay. "Why, that will
be more than all of us together can earn. Mrs. Flanagan only asks us
two dollars a week, and that we've hardly been able to meet."
"I think that can be made easy for you," said the spinster. "I shall
let you pay in work."
"But I couldn't do enough to pay the rent alone."
"Not at making vests at thirty-five cents apiece, I admit. My
work will be better paid for. I shall want some writing done,
account-books straightened, and--by the way, do you play on the
piano?"
"Oh, yes, madam."
"Well?"
"I believe I have a taste for it."
"Do you consider yourself competent to teach the piano?"
"Yes, I think so."
"Why, then, did you not seek pupils, instead of trying to make a
living by sewing?"
"So I did, but I had no one to recommend me, and I could not afford
to advertise."
"Do you also play, my dear?" asked Miss Wilmot, turning to Adeline.
"But very little," answered the young girl, humbly.
"Addie draws and paints," said Rose. "I have no talent for either."
"Why, that is well. I may be able to obtain pupils for her, too.
However, we can wait and see."
"Miss Wilmot," said Rose, gratefully, "you came to us like a good
angel. I was almost despairing when I met you. Now, I am full of
courage."
"Never despair!" said Miss Wilmot, kindly. "The sun is often behind
the clouds. But I must be going. You will hear from me in a day or
two."
The good spinster rose as she spoke, and going out of the humble
room, descended the dirty staircase, leaving behind her joy where
she had found sorrow.
"It seems almost too good to be true, Rose," said Addie.
"So it does, Addie."
"A nice furnished flat and a piano! I shall not believe it until I
see it."
"We can rely upon whatever Miss Wilmot promises. Has she not paid
our rent, and given us ten dollars besides?"
"How glad Harry will be when he hears it!"
"Yes, poor boy. It hasn't been a very pleasant home for him. Do you
know, Addie, I feel inclined to be extravagant?"
"In what way, Rose?"
"I am going to order a nice dinner from a restaurant--roast turkey
and vegetables; and I will make some coffee, and we will have
everything ready by the time Harry arrives."
"But it will cost a great deal, Rose," said Adeline, in alarm.
"Never mind, for once. This ought to be a Thanksgiving Day for
us. Let us celebrate it as such. Besides," added Rose, the frugal
instinct coming in, "if I order two plates it will be enough for
three of us. I know of a restaurant where we can get all I want for,
say, seventy-five cents. We won't mind about money to-night."
"It will seem good to have a nice dinner once more," said Adeline,
thoughtfully. "It is a long time since we had anything but the
plainest food."
Rose postponed her feast until six o'clock, the hour when Harry
usually got home. There was a restaurant near by, where she gave the
order, directing it to be sent in at ten minutes to six.
Mrs. Flanagan was considerably surprised when a colored waiter made
his appearance at her door with a large covered dish.
"Who is this for? Haven't you made a mistake?" she asked.
"No, ma'am. It's for a young lady--Miss Beaufort. Doesn't she live
here?"
"Yes. What have you got there?" asked the landlady, curiously.
"Roast turkey."
"Bless my soul!" thought Mrs. Flanagan. "She must have come into a
fortune. It's all right!" and she directed the waiter to the room of
the Beauforts.
When Harry arrived the little table was set out with its usual
neatness, and on it there was a display such as made him start back
with surprise.
"Where did all this come from?" he asked, bewildered.
"Explanations postponed till after supper," said Rose. "Sit down and
we will begin."
"All right; I've no objection," said Harry. "Yes, Rose, you may give
me some of the dressing. I say, ain't it good, though? I wish we
could live like this every day."
A great fuss to make over a very ordinary dinner, some of my young
readers may think; but let them put themselves in the place of this
family, and judge whether they would not hail with joy such a meal
after a long course of the most frugal fare.
They were in the midst of their enjoyment when a knock was heard at
the door--a subdued knock, not like the authoritative knock of their
landlady. So there was general surprise when Mrs. Flanagan opened
the door. The fact was she could not repress the impulse to gratify
her curiosity, which had been excited by the remarkably lavish
dinner of her tenants.
"So I've caught you at dinner," she remarked, apologetically. "You
must excuse me; it didn't occur to me that I might be intruding."
"It's of no consequence, Mrs. Flanagan," said Rose, not sorry,
perhaps, that her old enemy should witness such an indication of
prosperity. "I would invite you to dinner, but I am afraid there is
no more of the turkey left."
"Roast turkey, upon my word! Well, here's luxury!" said Mrs.
Flanagan. "I've had my supper, so I could not accept if you did
invite me."
"We don't have turkey every day, Mrs. Flanagan," said Adeline. "We
thought we would have it to-day by way of variety."
"They must have come into some money," thought Mrs. Flanagan.
"Perhaps that old lady was their aunt."
"I'm sure I'm glad you're doin' so well," she said. "I hope you'll
stay with me, in spite of all that's past and gone. You see I am
that worried sometimes to get money to pay my rent that I may speak
kind of cross like, but I don't mean anything--as is well-known to
you."
"Didn't you mean anything this morning when you were going to put
us out of the house because I could not pay the whole of the rent?"
asked Rose.
"I didn't mean it. They were only hasty words," said the landlady,
stoutly. "I hope you'll stay with me, for it wouldn't look natural
to see anybody else goin' in and comin' out of these rooms."
"I cannot tell yet what we may do," said Rose. "I am glad you didn't
mean what you said this morning," she added, quietly, "for it made
us feel very sober. I thought you meant to put us into the street."
"I'm sure I'm very sorry. I was cross, and I didn't know what I
said. Well, I must be goin' down and gettin' Mike's supper, for he
always comes home late."
"It's the way of the world, Rose," said Adeline, as the landlady
disappeared.
"What does it all mean?" asked Harry, puzzled. "What has made that
old cat so good-natured all at once?"
"Roast turkey," answered Rose, dryly. "She thinks we are prospering,
and will be good tenants."
"You are going to stay, ain't you?"
Then the new prospects of the family were explained to Harry, who
was much exhilarated by the account.
"Can't I give lessons in something?" he asked.
"You might give lessons in whistling," said Addie, who didn't
enjoy her brother's performance in that line; "but I hope you won't
receive pupils at home."
                            CHAPTER XX.
                           THE NEW HOME.
Two days later Rose Beaufort received another call from Miss Jane
Wilmot.
"My dear," said the spinster, "your new rooms are ready for you, and
you can move in at once."
"Our rent is paid here till Saturday," suggested Rose.
"Give your landlady the benefit of the balance of the week. Is this
furniture all yours?"
"Such as it is."
"You won't want it. Any articles that you do not value you had
better send to an auction store to sell. The flat is already well
furnished."
"A tenant on the floor below has offered to buy the furniture," said
Rose.
"Does he make you a fair offer?"
"He offers thirty-five dollars."
"A low price, but it will save you trouble to accept it. When that
matter is arranged I will send my carriage, and take you and your
sister right over to your new home."
Without dwelling upon details, it is sufficient to say that before
sunset the two sisters found themselves installed in a pretty
and cosey home in a much better part of the city. There was a
parlor, fronting on the street, a kitchen, and there were three
sleeping-rooms, so that each of the little family could have one.
The parlor contained a piano, a bookcase, well filled--this had
not belonged to the recent tenants, but was supplied, without the
knowledge of Rose, by Miss Wilmot.
Adeline uttered a cry of delight as she went from room to room.
"It is delightful!" she said.
"Here is an easy-chair for you," said Miss Wilmot. "It will be more
comfortable than a rocking-chair, even."
This, too, had been added by the thoughtful spinster.
"Now open the piano and let me hear you play," said Miss Wilmot.
While Rose was playing, her benevolent friend nodded approvingly
more than once.
"You'll do," she said. "I confess I had some doubts about your
qualifications as a teacher, but I can see that you are a brilliant
performer."
"If I can obtain pupils, I hope to suit," said Rose, modestly.
"I have some in view. An acquaintance of mine, Mrs. Tilton, of West
Forty-second street, is in want of a music-teacher for her two
girls. I will send you there, with a note, to-morrow. But first I
must give you a hint. How much were you intending to charge for a
lesson?"
"I had not thought," said Rose, hesitating. "How would fifty cents
do?"
"Fifty cents!" repeated Miss Wilmot, with a rising inflection. "If
you undervalue yourself to that extent, no one will think you know
how to teach. You must charge two dollars per lesson."
"But will anybody pay me so much?" asked Rose, amazed. "To one who
has only been earning thirty-five cents a day at vest-making, fifty
cents an hour seems very large pay."
"My dear child, be guided by me. I know the world, and the world
will set very much the same value upon you that you set on yourself.
Ask Mrs. Tilton two dollars an hour."
"But if she objects to pay it?"
"Say that you are sorry that you cannot make any arrangements."
"I am afraid I can't keep a straight face when I ask such a price,
Miss Wilmot."
"Oh, yes, you will! Don't feel nervous. If you lose the pupils,
I will see that you don't suffer by it. By the way, put on your
best dress, for it is desirable that you make a favorable first
impression."
"I will follow your advice, Miss Wilmot," said Rose.
"You can't do better."
The next day Rose rang the bell at the door of a fine brown-stone
house on West Forty-second street.
"Is Mrs. Tilton at home?" she asked.
"Yes, miss. Who shall I say wishes to see her?"
"The music-teacher."
Rose was shown into the drawing-room, and presently Mrs. Tilton
entered. She was a tall, blonde lady of fashionable appearance,
thoroughly worldly, and influenced by externals to a large extent.
"I believe Miss Wilmot has written you in reference to the subject
of my call," said Rose.
"Yes, Miss Beaufort. You are a music-teacher?"
Rose bowed.
"My two little girls have made a beginning, but have only taken two
quarters each. I wish them to have every advantage."
Rose bowed again.
"Of course, any one recommended by Miss Wilmot can hardly fail to be
competent. May I ask, Miss Beaufort, where you live?"
"At the Wilmot Flats, in West Twenty-fifth street."
"Then you are a tenant of Miss Wilmot?"
"Yes, madam. My brother and sister and myself live together."
"Of course you have a piano at home?"
"Yes, madam," answered Rose, glad to answer the question in the
affirmative.
"I asked because it might at times be more convenient--when we were
preparing for company, for instance--to send your pupils to you."
"Just as may suit you, madam."
"Now, as to your terms, Miss Beaufort?"
"I charge two dollars per lesson," answered Rose, as boldly as she
could.
"Isn't that high?" asked Mrs. Tilton. "Most lady teachers do not
charge as much."
"I am quite aware of that," said Rose.
"I think some charge only a dollar per lesson."
"I presume you are right," said Rose; but, obedient to Miss Wilmot's
suggestions, she didn't offer to reduce her own price. "I hope to
make my services worth the amount I ask."
"Then you won't accept a less price?"
"I should prefer not to do so."
Mrs. Tilton was not a generous woman. She was disposed to haggle
about prices, and had Rose applied to her for work as a seamstress
she would have driven a hard bargain with her, but, as the friend
and protégé of Miss Jane Wilmot, a lady of the highest social
consideration, she did not venture to follow her own economical
inclinations. In fact, Mrs. Tilton was not of an old family. Her
husband had recently become rich, and though she aspired to be
fashionable, there were circles to which she could not obtain
admission. She plumed herself on her acquaintance with Miss Wilmot,
and would not, on any account, have had Rose report to that lady
that she had been unwilling to pay her price. Two dollars an hour
seemed high, but she knew very well that she must buy social
recognition, and that she valued above money.
"Very well," she said, after a pause; "I will pay your price. Can
you give me Tuesday and Friday afternoons from three to five?"
"Yes, madam."
"Then we will commence next Tuesday, if you please. By the way, my
neighbor, Mrs. Green, also desires to secure instruction for her
daughter, and I promised to ask you to call."
"I will do so now if the lady is likely to be in," said Rose, gladly.
"I think you will find her in, now. You may hand her my card."
Mrs. Green lived but three doors away. She was at home, and engaged
her, without any demur as to price, to give her daughter two hours a
week, Monday and Thursday afternoons being selected.
As Rose walked home she could hardly credit her good fortune. Six
lessons a week at two dollars apiece would amount to twelve dollars,
and leave her plenty of time to herself. Twelve dollars! and till
now her weekly income, laboring all day, had been less than three
dollars.
"Addie," she said, after recounting her success to her sister, "do
you know I feel quite like a young lady of fortune? I am almost
afraid that it is all a dream, and that I shall wake up some day and
find myself back again at Mrs. Flanagan's."
"Let us enjoy it as long as it lasts, Rose," said Adeline. "I wish
I could help. I don't like to have the whole family leaning on you."
Adeline had her wish. Three days later Miss Wilmot came in with two
little girls.
"They want to take lessons in drawing," she said. "They have a
taste, but their father is a mechanic, and they have been unable to
gratify it. Now, I have been thinking that I will let you pay the
rent by instructing them, and leave your sister her whole time to
teach music."
"I should like nothing better," said Adeline, brightening up.
"Then they will begin at once."
Adeline was fond of children, and found instruction in her favorite
accomplishment no task, but a positive pleasure.
"I shall not be a burden upon you, Rose, any longer," she said,
cheerfully.
"I should think not. If you pay the rent, it will be no light help.
I shall insist on contributing my share, and will pay you fifteen
dollars a month to make matters even."
Adeline protested, but Rose was firm. Her invalid sister's spirits
were raised, and life was no longer monotonous, now that she felt
herself of some use in the world.
"Do you know, Rose," she said, "I don't think I should be happier
if our share of grandfather's money had come to us, as we once
anticipated."
                           CHAPTER XXI.
                 THE COLLAPSE OF AN ELDERLY DUDE.
The remarkable change that had taken place in the fortunes of Rose
Beaufort interfered seriously with the plans of a person who has
thus far only been incidentally mentioned--the superintendent of the
work department of Nicholas Walton's large clothing store.
Hugh Parkinson was a man no longer young. If not forty, he looked
that age. Moreover, his natural attractions, which were very scanty,
had not been increased by the passage of time. His hair, which was
of a reddish tinge, was carefully combed up from the side to cover
the rather extensive vacancy for which time and irregular hours
were responsible; but to look young was a problem which he had not
been able to compass. He did what he could, in the way of dress,
to make up for the ravages of time. He always got his clothes made
by a fashionable Broadway tailor, and in the street he looked like
an elderly "dude," and thus far more ridiculous than the younger
specimens of this class.
Perhaps it is well for our self-conceit that we do not see ourselves
as others see us. Hugh Parkinson, when he surveyed himself in the
mirror, decided that he was handsome and stylish-looking. He felt
that it was time he married. His salary was a liberal one--fifty
dollars per week--and he had a snug sum in various savings banks,
representing the savings of the last ten years.
"I'm a good catch!" he said to himself, complacently; "I've a right
to expect considerable in a wife. Egad! I must be getting married
while I am still a young man."
He had been a young man for a good many years, and so entitled to
call himself such.
Hugh Parkinson was fastidious, however, and he had never met the
one he wanted to marry till he saw Rose Beaufort. Rose was about
half his age, and her fresh beauty touched the heart--such as he
had--of the old young man.
"She has no fortune, but what does that matter?" he said to himself,
magnanimously. "I have enough for both. When she goes with me to the
theatre she will excite the admiration of all, and all the young men
in society will envy me. Egad! I must marry her."
Rose, however, had as yet shown no signs of admiring Mr. Parkinson.
Indeed, the superintendent had good reason to doubt whether she even
esteemed him. He saw, however, that she was poor. Marriage with him
would bring her comfort, and even a moderate degree of luxury; upon
this he depended for a favorable issue to his suit. As to her being
poor, that was evident enough. To be sure, she was well dressed,
but no one who is in good circumstances takes vests to make at
thirty-five cents apiece. Besides, he knew where she lived, for the
vest-makers were obliged to leave their addresses with their names;
and he had passed through Bleecker street, and seen for himself the
shabby tenement-house in which Rose lived.
"I wish she might become poorer still," said Mr. Parkinson to
himself; "then I would have a chance to step in as her good angel
and relieve her from suffering. She couldn't help being drawn to me."
When Rose called and desired pay for the two vests which she had
completed, Mr. Parkinson was pleased; it showed that she was
becoming harder pressed by poverty.
"Daniells," he said to the examining clerk, "when Miss Beaufort
calls with her package of vests I want you to object to the quality
of her work."
"But, Mr. Parkinson, her work is always well done," objected
Daniells.
"Oh, well, you can always find faults. Just say that she must see me
before you feel authorized to pay her."
"What's your game, Mr. Parkinson?" asked Daniells.
Mr. Parkinson winked significantly.
"The fact is, Daniells," he said, "I want an opportunity to
ingratiate myself with the fair Rose. I will take her part, pay her
the money as a favor, and--you comprehend?"
"Yes, I see. The fact is, Rose is pretty, and if I were not a
married man I would try to obtain a smile from her myself."
"Just do as I tell you, there's a good fellow, and you won't lose by
it."
When Rose had obtained by good fortune the powerful friendship
of the rich Miss Wilmot, she, of course, decided to give up
vest-making. She had some time left, but she felt that it would be
necessary for her to keep up her practice at home, if she aspired
to become a successful piano-teacher. However, she would finish the
vests she had in hand, and let those be the last.
When the vests were finished she took them round to Mr. Walton's
establishment.
The vigilant Daniells did not fail to note her appearance, and
prepared to serve the interests of his superior in the way which had
been arranged between them.
"So you've finished the vests?" he said, carelessly. "Let me look at
them."
Rose regarded this as a mere formality, knowing that they had been
well made, and never before having had her work objected to.
What was her surprise, therefore, when Daniells went over them one
by one, frowning and shaking his head, disapprovingly.
"Really," he said, "these vests are hardly satisfactory."
"What is amiss with them?" asked Rose, in genuine surprise.
"I can't go into particulars," said Daniells, who would have found
it hard to do so, by the way; "I can only say that they are not as
well made as we expect."
"They are as well made as usual," said Rose, flushing indignantly.
"I cannot understand why you object to them, when all the work I've
done before has passed without objection."
"All I can say, Miss Beaufort, is that I do not feel authorized to
pay you for them. Mr. Parkinson, however, is my superior. You can
refer the matter to him."
"I should like to do so, sir," said Rose, with cold dignity.
"I will accompany you."
The two passed on to the superintendent's desk, and Daniells
explained the matter to his superior.
"I will look over the work myself," said Parkinson. "You may go
back, Mr. Daniells. I will settle the matter."
Rose stood quiet, while the superintendent examined the vests.
"Really, Miss Beaufort," said Hugh, with his fascinating smile, "I
think Mr. Daniells has done you injustice. To my eye, the vests are
very neatly made."
"Thank you, sir," said Rose, gratefully. "I am sure they are as well
made as any I have brought here."
"The fact is," said Parkinson, confidentially, "Daniells is rather
fussy--I might say cranky--I have had more than once to reverse his
decision. You shall certainly be paid promptly, as usual."
"Thank you, sir."
Rose had never admired the superintendent, but he seemed to her
now a just and agreeable man. The money was not now of so much
importance to her, but she strongly objected to being unjustly
treated, and being deprived of the money which she had fairly earned.
Mr. Parkinson himself paid over to Rose the money due for the six
vests.
"Miss Beaufort," he said, "I hope you won't think we men of business
are all hard and disposed to take advantage of the poor. Now, in
your case, I assure you that I feel very kindly toward you."
"Thank you, sir," said Rose, considerably surprised.
Mr. Parkinson's vanity led him to think that she was regarding him
with a look of interest, but he misinterpreted her. She looked upon
him as old enough to be her father, and not a suspicion had ever
entered her mind that he thought of her as a possible wife.
"If you will permit me," said the superintendent, "I am about to go
out to lunch, and will communicate to you a plan I have for your
advantage. It will be better not to take any new work now."
"I did not intend to," said Rose.
Mr. Parkinson looked a little surprised.
They passed through the store together, and out into Broadway. Rose
waited for Mr. Parkinson to say what he appeared to have in his mind.
"I think, Miss Beaufort," he said, as they emerged into the street,
"you could do better than make vests at thirty-five cents each."
"I think so, too," answered Rose. "I wonder what he means?" she
thought.
"Such a beautiful girl as you are----"
"Sir!" exclaimed Rose, haughtily.
"No offense, my dear. Quite the contrary, I assure you. I have had
my eye upon you for some time, and I admire you exceedingly. You are
poor, but I shall overlook that. My dear girl, I am very well off,
as you may suppose, and I offer to make you Mrs. Parkinson."
"Good-evening, sir," said Rose, coldly. "I don't wish to continue
the conversation."
"Don't be foolish, my dear girl. It is a fine chance for a poor
vest-maker to marry a man in my position."
Rose did not deign to answer, but tried to escape. He attempted to
seize her by the arm, when his hat was violently knocked over his
eyes, and he came near measuring his length on the sidewalk.
                           CHAPTER XXII.
                      THE ROMANCE OF A ROSE.
Mr. Parkinson adjusted his hat, and darted a glance of indignation
at a fine-looking young man who had come to the rescue of Rose
Beaufort.
"This is an outrage, sir," he said, angrily.
Clinton Randall paid no attention to the discomfited Parkinson, but
asked Rose:
"Has this man annoyed you?"
"He forced his attentions upon me," answered Rose.
"If he has insulted you, I will take care that he is punished."
"Don't meddle with what is none of your business," said Parkinson,
