come? Don’t you think we ought to write?”--there was nothing
like that inquiry, we found by experience, for carrying off an
awkwardness. “He” of course was their uncle in Harley Street;
and we lived in much profusion of theory that he might at any moment
arrive to mingle in our circle. It was impossible to have given less
encouragement than he had done to such a doctrine, but if we had not
had the doctrine to fall back upon we should have deprived each other
of some of our finest exhibitions. He never wrote to them--that may
have been selfish, but it was a part of the flattery of his trust of
me; for the way in which a man pays his highest tribute to a woman
is apt to be but by the more festal celebration of one of the sacred
laws of his comfort; and I held that I carried out the spirit of the
pledge given not to appeal to him when I let my charges understand that
their own letters were but charming literary exercises. They were too
beautiful to be posted; I kept them myself; I have them all to this
hour. This was a rule indeed which only added to the satiric effect
of my being plied with the supposition that he might at any moment be
among us. It was exactly as if my charges knew how almost more awkward
than anything else that might be for me. There appears to me, moreover,
as I look back, no note in all this more extraordinary than the mere
fact that, in spite of my tension and of their triumph, I never lost
patience with them. Adorable they must in truth have been, I now
reflect, that I didn’t in these days hate them! Would exasperation,
however, if relief had longer been postponed, finally have betrayed
me? It little matters, for relief arrived. I call it relief, though it
was only the relief that a snap brings to a strain or the burst of a
thunderstorm to a day of suffocation. It was at least change, and it
came with a rush.


XIV

Walking to church a certain Sunday morning, I had little Miles at my
side and his sister, in advance of us and at Mrs. Grose’s, well in
sight. It was a crisp, clear day, the first of its order for some
time; the night had brought a touch of frost, and the autumn air,
bright and sharp, made the church-bells almost gay. It was an odd
accident of thought that I should have happened at such a moment to
be particularly and very gratefully struck with the obedience of my
little charges. Why did they never resent my inexorable, my perpetual
society? Something or other had brought nearer home to me that I had
all but pinned the boy to my shawl and that, in the way our companions
were marshalled before me, I might have appeared to provide against
some danger of rebellion. I was like a gaoler with an eye to possible
surprises and escapes. But all this belonged--I mean their magnificent
little surrender--just to the special array of the facts that were most
abysmal. Turned out for Sunday by his uncle’s tailor, who had had
a free hand and a notion of pretty waistcoats and of his grand little
air, Miles’s whole title to independence, the rights of his sex and
situation, were so stamped upon him that if he had suddenly struck
for freedom I should have had nothing to say. I was by the strangest
of chances wondering how I should meet him when the revolution
unmistakeably occurred. I call it a revolution because I now see how,
with the word he spoke, the curtain rose on the last act of my dreadful
drama and the catastrophe was precipitated. “Look here, my dear, you
know,” he charmingly said, “when in the world, please, am I going
back to school?”

Transcribed here the speech sounds harmless enough, particularly
as uttered in the sweet, high, casual pipe with which, at all
interlocutors, but above all at his eternal governess, he threw off
intonations as if he were tossing roses. There was something in them
that always made one “catch” and I caught, at any rate, now so
effectually that I stopped as short as if one of the trees of the
park had fallen across the road. There was something new, on the spot,
between us, and he was perfectly aware that I recognised it, though,
to enable me to do so, he had no need to look a whit less candid and
charming than usual. I could feel in him how he already, from my
at first finding nothing to reply, perceived the advantage he had
gained. I was so slow to find anything that he had plenty of time,
after a minute, to continue with his suggestive but inconclusive
smile: “You know, my dear, that for a fellow to be with a lady
always----!” His “my dear” was constantly on his lips for me,
and nothing could have expressed more the exact shade of the sentiment
with which I desired to inspire my pupils than its fond familiarity. It
was so respectfully easy.

But, oh, how I felt that at present I must pick my own phrases! I
remember that, to gain time, I tried to laugh, and I seemed to see
in the beautiful face with which he watched me how ugly and queer I
looked. “And always with the same lady?” I returned.

He neither blenched nor winked. The whole thing was virtually out
between us. “Ah, of course, she’s a jolly, ‘perfect’ lady; but,
after all, I’m a fellow, don’t you see? that’s--well, getting
on.”

I lingered there with him an instant ever so kindly. “Yes, you’re
getting on.” Oh, but I felt helpless!

I have kept to this day the heartbreaking little idea of how he seemed
to know that and to play with it. “And you can’t say I’ve not
been awfully good, can you?”

I laid my hand on his shoulder, for, though I felt how much better it
would have been to walk on, I was not yet quite able. “No, I can’t
say that, Miles.”

“Except just that one night, you know----!”

“That one night?” I couldn’t look as straight as he.

“Why, when I went down--went out of the house.”

“Oh, yes. But I forget what you did it for.”

“You forget?”--he spoke with the sweet extravagance of childish
reproach. “Why, it was to show you I could!”

“Oh, yes, you could.”

“And I can again.”

I felt that I might, perhaps, after all, succeed in keeping my wits
about me. “Certainly. But you won’t.”

“No, not that again. It was nothing.”

“It was nothing,” I said. “But we must go on.”

He resumed our walk with me, passing his hand into my arm. “Then when
am I going back?”

I wore, in turning it over, my most responsible air. “Were you very
happy at school?”

He just considered. “Oh, I’m happy enough anywhere!”

“Well, then,” I quavered, “if you’re just as happy here----!”

“Ah, but that isn’t everything! Of course you know a lot----”

“But you hint that you know almost as much?” I risked as he paused.

“Not half I want to!” Miles honestly professed. “But it isn’t
so much that.”

“What is it, then?”

“Well--I want to see more life.”

“I see; I see.” We had arrived within sight of the church and of
various persons, including several of the household of Bly, on their
way to it and clustered about the door to see us go in. I quickened
our step; I wanted to get there before the question between us opened
up much further; I reflected hungrily that, for more than an hour, he
would have to be silent; and I thought with envy of the comparative
dusk of the pew and of the almost spiritual help of the hassock on
which I might bend my knees. I seemed literally to be running a race
with some confusion to which he was about to reduce me, but I felt that
he had got in first when, before we had even entered the churchyard,
he threw out--

“I want my own sort!”

It literally made me bound forward. “There are not many of your own
sort, Miles!” I laughed. “Unless perhaps dear little Flora!”

“You really compare me to a baby girl?”

This found me singularly weak. “Don’t you, then, love our sweet
Flora?”

“If I didn’t--and you too; if I didn’t----!” he repeated as
if retreating for a jump, yet leaving his thought so unfinished that,
after we had come into the gate, another stop, which he imposed on me
by the pressure of his arm, had become inevitable. Mrs. Grose and Flora
had passed into the church, the other worshippers had followed, and we
were, for the minute, alone among the old, thick graves. We had paused,
on the path from the gate, by a low, oblong, tablelike tomb.

“Yes, if you didn’t----?”

He looked, while I waited, about at the graves. “Well, you know
what!” But he didn’t move, and he presently produced something
that made me drop straight down on the stone slab, as if suddenly to
rest. “Does my uncle think what you think?”

I markedly rested. “How do you know what I think?”

“Ah, well, of course I don’t; for it strikes me you never tell
me. But I mean does he know?”

“Know what, Miles?”

“Why, the way I’m going on.”

I perceived quickly enough that I could make, to this inquiry,
no answer that would not involve something of a sacrifice of my
employer. Yet it appeared to me that we were all, at Bly, sufficiently
sacrificed to make that venial. “I don’t think your uncle much
cares.”

Miles, on this, stood looking at me. “Then don’t you think he can
be made to?”

“In what way?”

“Why, by his coming down.”

“But who’ll get him to come down?”

“I will!” the boy said with extraordinary brightness and
emphasis. He gave me another look charged with that expression and then
marched off alone into church.


XV

The business was practically settled from the moment I never followed
him. It was a pitiful surrender to agitation, but my being aware
of this had somehow no power to restore me. I only sat there on my
tomb and read into what my little friend had said to me the fulness
of its meaning; by the time I had grasped the whole of which I had
also embraced, for absence, the pretext that I was ashamed to offer my
pupils and the rest of the congregation such an example of delay. What
I said to myself above all was that Miles had got something out of
me and that the proof of it, for him, would be just this awkward
collapse. He had got out of me that there was something I was much
afraid of and that he should probably be able to make use of my fear
to gain, for his own purpose, more freedom. My fear was of having to
deal with the intolerable question of the grounds of his dismissal from
school, for that was really but the question of the horrors gathered
behind. That his uncle should arrive to treat with me of these things
was a solution that, strictly speaking, I ought now to have desired to
bring on; but I could so little face the ugliness and the pain of it
that I simply procrastinated and lived from hand to mouth. The boy, to
my deep discomposure, was immensely in the right, was in a position to
say to me: “Either you clear up with my guardian the mystery of this
interruption of my studies, or you cease to expect me to lead with you
a life that’s so unnatural for a boy.” What was so unnatural for
the particular boy I was concerned with was this sudden revelation of a
consciousness and a plan.

That was what really overcame me, what prevented my going in. I
walked round the church, hesitating, hovering; I reflected that I had
already, with him, hurt myself beyond repair. Therefore I could patch
up nothing, and it was too extreme an effort to squeeze beside him into
the pew: he would be so much more sure than ever to pass his arm into
mine and make me sit there for an hour in close, silent contact with
his commentary on our talk. For the first minute since his arrival I
wanted to get away from him. As I paused beneath the high east window
and listened to the sounds of worship, I was taken with an impulse
that might master me, I felt, completely should I give it the least
encouragement. I might easily put an end to my predicament by getting
away altogether. Here was my chance; there was no one to stop me; I
could give the whole thing up--turn my back and retreat. It was only a
question of hurrying again, for a few preparations, to the house which
the attendance at church of so many of the servants would practically
have left unoccupied. No one, in short, could blame me if I should just
drive desperately off. What was it to get away if I got away only till
dinner? That would be in a couple of hours, at the end of which--I had
the acute prevision--my little pupils would play at innocent wonder
about my non-appearance in their train.

“What did you do, you naughty, bad thing? Why in the world, to
worry us so--and take our thoughts off too, don’t you know?--did you
desert us at the very door?” I couldn’t meet such questions nor,
as they asked them, their false little lovely eyes; yet it was all so
exactly what I should have to meet that, as the prospect grew sharp to
me, I at last let myself go.

I got, so far as the immediate moment was concerned, away; I came
straight out of the churchyard and, thinking hard, retraced my steps
through the park. It seemed to me that by the time I reached the
house I had made up my mind I would fly. The Sunday stillness both
of the approaches and of the interior, in which I met no one, fairly
excited me with a sense of opportunity. Were I to get off quickly,
this way, I should get off without a scene, without a word. My
quickness would have to be remarkable, however, and the question of a
conveyance was the great one to settle. Tormented, in the hall, with
difficulties and obstacles, I remember sinking down at the foot of
the staircase--suddenly collapsing there on the lowest step and then,
with a revulsion, recalling that it was exactly where more than a month
before, in the darkness of night and just so bowed with evil things,
I had seen the spectre of the most horrible of women. At this I was
able to straighten myself; I went the rest of the way up; I made, in
my bewilderment, for the schoolroom, where there were objects belonging
to me that I should have to take. But I opened the door to find again,
in a flash, my eyes unsealed. In the presence of what I saw I reeled
straight back upon my resistance.

Seated at my own table in clear noonday light I saw a person whom,
without my previous experience, I should have taken at the first
blush for some housemaid who might have stayed at home to look
after the place and who, availing herself of rare relief from
observation and of the schoolroom table and my pens, ink, and paper,
had applied herself to the considerable effort of a letter to her
sweetheart. There was an effort in the way that, while her arms rested
on the table, her hands with evident weariness supported her head;
but at the moment I took this in I had already become aware that,
in spite of my entrance, her attitude strangely persisted. Then it
was--with the very act of its announcing itself--that her identity
flared up in a change of posture. She rose, not as if she had heard
me, but with an indescribable grand melancholy of indifference and
detachment, and, within a dozen feet of me, stood there as my vile
predecessor. Dishonoured and tragic, she was all before me; but even as
I fixed and, for memory, secured it, the awful image passed away. Dark
as midnight in her black dress, her haggard beauty and her unutterable
woe, she had looked at me long enough to appear to say that her right
to sit at my table was as good as mine to sit at hers. While these
instants lasted indeed I had the extraordinary chill of a feeling that
it was I who was the intruder. It was as a wild protest against it
that, actually addressing her--“You terrible, miserable woman!”--I
heard myself break into a sound that, by the open door, rang through
the long passage and the empty house. She looked at me as if she heard
me, but I had recovered myself and cleared the air. There was nothing
in the room the next minute but the sunshine and a sense that I must
stay.


XVI

I had so perfectly expected that the return of my pupils would be
marked by a demonstration that I was freshly upset at having to
take into account that they were dumb about my absence. Instead of
gaily denouncing and caressing me, they made no allusion to my having
failed them, and I was left, for the time, on perceiving that she too
said nothing, to study Mrs. Grose’s odd face. I did this to such
purpose that I made sure they had in some way bribed her to silence;
a silence that, however, I would engage to break down on the first
private opportunity. This opportunity came before tea: I secured five
minutes with her in the housekeeper’s room, where, in the twilight,
amid a smell of lately-baked bread, but with the place all swept and
garnished, I found her sitting in pained placidity before the fire. So
I see her still, so I see her best: facing the flame from her straight
chair in the dusky, shining room, a large clean image of the “put
away”--of drawers closed and locked and rest without a remedy.

“Oh, yes, they asked me to say nothing; and to please them--so long
as they were there--of course I promised. But what had happened to
you?”

“I only went with you for the walk,” I said. “I had then to come
back to meet a friend.”

She showed her surprise. “A friend--you?”

“Oh, yes, I have a couple!” I laughed. “But did the children give
you a reason?”

“For not alluding to your leaving us? Yes; they said you would like
it better. Do you like it better?”

My face had made her rueful. “No, I like it worse!” But after an
instant I added: “Did they say why I should like it better?”

“No; Master Miles only said, ‘We must do nothing but what she
likes!’”

“I wish indeed he would! And what did Flora say?”

“Miss Flora was too sweet. She said, ‘Oh, of course, of
course!’--and I said the same.”

I thought a moment. “You were too sweet too--I can hear you all. But
none the less, between Miles and me, it’s now all out.”

“All out?” My companion stared. “But what, Miss?”

“Everything. It doesn’t matter. I’ve made up my mind. I came
home, my dear,” I went on, “for a talk with Miss Jessel.”

I had by this time formed the habit of having Mrs. Grose literally
well in hand in advance of my sounding that note; so that even now,
as she bravely blinked under the signal of my word, I could keep her
comparatively firm. “A talk! Do you mean she spoke?”

“It came to that. I found her, on my return, in the schoolroom.”

“And what did she say?” I can hear the good woman still, and the
candour of her stupefaction.

“That she suffers the torments----!”

It was this, of a truth, that made her, as she filled out my picture,
gape. “Do you mean,” she faltered, “--of the lost?”

“Of the lost. Of the damned. And that’s why, to share them----” I
faltered myself with the horror of it.

But my companion, with less imagination, kept me up. “To share
them----?”

“She wants Flora.” Mrs. Grose might, as I gave it to her, fairly
have fallen away from me had I not been prepared. I still held her
there, to show I was. “As I’ve told you, however, it doesn’t
matter.”

“Because you’ve made up your mind? But to what?”

“To everything.”

“And what do you call ‘everything’?”

“Why, sending for their uncle.”

“Oh, Miss, in pity do,” my friend broke out.

“Ah, but I will, I will! I see it’s the only way. What’s
‘out,’ as I told you, with Miles is that if he thinks I’m
afraid to--and has ideas of what he gains by that--he shall see
he’s mistaken. Yes, yes; his uncle shall have it here from me on
the spot (and before the boy himself if necessary) that if I’m to be
reproached with having done nothing again about more school----”

“Yes, Miss----” my companion pressed me.

“Well, there’s that awful reason.”

There were now clearly so many of these for my poor colleague that she
was excusable for being vague. “But--a--which?”

“Why, the letter from his old place.”

“You’ll show it to the master?”

“I ought to have done so on the instant.”

“Oh, no!” said Mrs. Grose with decision.

“I’ll put it before him,” I went on inexorably, “that I can’t
undertake to work the question on behalf of a child who has been
expelled----”

“For we’ve never in the least known what!” Mrs. Grose declared.

“For wickedness. For what else--when he’s so clever and
beautiful and perfect? Is he stupid? Is he untidy? Is he infirm? Is
he ill-natured? He’s exquisite--so it can be only that; and that
would open up the whole thing. After all,” I said, “it’s their
uncle’s fault. If he left here such people----!”

“He didn’t really in the least know them. The fault’s mine.”
She had turned quite pale.

“Well, you shan’t suffer,” I answered.

“The children shan’t!” she emphatically returned.

I was silent awhile; we looked at each other. “Then what am I to tell
him?”

“You needn’t tell him anything. I’ll tell him.”

I measured this. “Do you mean you’ll write----?” Remembering she
couldn’t, I caught myself up. “How do you communicate?”

“I tell the bailiff. He writes.”

“And should you like him to write our story?”

My question had a sarcastic force that I had not fully intended, and
it made her, after a moment, inconsequently break down. The tears were
again in her eyes. “Ah, Miss, you write!”

“Well--tonight,” I at last answered; and on this we separated.


XVII

I went so far, in the evening, as to make a beginning. The weather
had changed back, a great wind was abroad, and beneath the lamp, in
my room, with Flora at peace beside me, I sat for a long time before
a blank sheet of paper and listened to the lash of the rain and the
batter of the gusts. Finally I went out, taking a candle; I crossed the
passage and listened a minute at Miles’s door. What, under my endless
obsession, I had been impelled to listen for was some betrayal of his
not being at rest, and I presently caught one, but not in the form I
had expected. His voice tinkled out. “I say, you there--come in.”
It was a gaiety in the gloom!

I went in with my light and found him, in bed, very wide awake, but
very much at his ease. “Well, what are you up to?” he asked with
a grace of sociability in which it occurred to me that Mrs. Grose, had
she been present, might have looked in vain for proof that anything was
“out.”

I stood over him with my candle. “How did you know I was there?”

“Why, of course I heard you. Did you fancy you made no noise?
You’re like a troop of cavalry!” he beautifully laughed.

“Then you weren’t asleep?”

“Not much! I lie awake and think.”

I had put my candle, designedly, a short way off, and then, as he
held out his friendly old hand to me, had sat down on the edge of his
bed. “What is it,” I asked, “that you think of?”

“What in the world, my dear, but you?”

“Ah, the pride I take in your appreciation doesn’t insist on
that! I had so far rather you slept.”

“Well, I think also, you know, of this queer business of ours.”

I marked the coolness of his firm little hand. “Of what queer
business, Miles?”

“Why, the way you bring me up. And all the rest!”

I fairly held my breath a minute, and even from my glimmering taper
there was light enough to show how he smiled up at me from his
pillow. “What do you mean by all the rest?”

“Oh, you know, you know!”

I could say nothing for a minute, though I felt, as I held his hand
and our eyes continued to meet, that my silence had all the air of
admitting his charge and that nothing in the whole world of reality was
perhaps at that moment so fabulous as our actual relation. “Certainly
you shall go back to school,” I said, “if it be that that troubles
you. But not to the old place--we must find another, a better. How
could I know it did trouble you, this question, when you never told
me so, never spoke of it at all?” His clear, listening face, framed
in its smooth whiteness, made him for the minute as appealing as some
wistful patient in a children’s hospital; and I would have given, as
the resemblance came to me, all I possessed on earth really to be the
nurse or the sister of charity who might have helped to cure him. Well,
even as it was, I perhaps might help! “Do you know you’ve never
said a word to me about your school--I mean the old one; never
mentioned it in any way?”

He seemed to wonder; he smiled with the same loveliness. But he clearly
gained time; he waited, he called for guidance. “Haven’t I?” It
wasn’t for me to help him--it was for the thing I had met!

Something in his tone and the expression of his face, as I got this
from him, set my heart aching with such a pang as it had never yet
known; so unutterably touching was it to see his little brain puzzled
and his little resources taxed to play, under the spell laid on him,
a part of innocence and consistency. “No, never--from the hour you
came back. You’ve never mentioned to me one of your masters, one of
your comrades, nor the least little thing that ever happened to you at
school. Never, little Miles--no, never--have you given me an inkling of
anything that may have happened there. Therefore you can fancy how
much I’m in the dark. Until you came out, that way, this morning,
you had, since the first hour I saw you, scarce even made a reference
to anything in your previous life. You seemed so perfectly to accept
the present.” It was extraordinary how my absolute conviction of his
secret precocity (or whatever I might call the poison of an influence
that I dared but half to phrase) made him, in spite of the faint breath
of his inward trouble, appear as accessible as an older person--imposed
him almost as an intellectual equal. “I thought you wanted to go on
as you are.”

It struck me that at this he just faintly coloured. He gave, at any
rate, like a convalescent slightly fatigued, a languid shake of his
head. “I don’t--I don’t. I want to get away.”

“You’re tired of Bly?”

“Oh, no, I like Bly.”

“Well, then----?”

“Oh, you know what a boy wants!”

I felt that I didn’t know so well as Miles, and I took temporary
refuge. “You want to go to your uncle?”

Again, at this, with his sweet ironic face, he made a movement on the
pillow. “Ah, you can’t get off with that!”

I was silent a little, and it was I, now, I think, who changed
colour. “My dear, I don’t want to get off!”

“You can’t, even if you do. You can’t, you can’t!”--he lay
beautifully staring. “My uncle must come down, and you must
completely settle things.”

“If we do,” I returned with some spirit, “you may be sure it will
be to take you quite away.”

“Well, don’t you understand that that’s exactly what I’m
working for? You’ll have to tell him--about the way you’ve let it
all drop: you’ll have to tell him a tremendous lot!”

The exultation with which he uttered this helped me somehow, for the
instant, to meet him rather more. “And how much will you, Miles,
have to tell him? There are things he’ll ask you!”

He turned it over. “Very likely. But what things?”

“The things you’ve never told me. To make up his mind what to do
with you. He can’t send you back----”

“Oh, I don’t want to go back!” he broke in. “I want a new
field.”

He said it with admirable serenity, with positive unimpeachable
gaiety; and doubtless it was that very note that most evoked for me the
poignancy, the unnatural childish tragedy, of his probable reappearance
at the end of three months with all this bravado and still more
dishonour. It overwhelmed me now that I should never be able to bear
that, and it made me let myself go. I threw myself upon him and in the
tenderness of my pity I embraced him. “Dear little Miles, dear little
Miles----!”

My face was close to his, and he let me kiss him, simply taking it with
indulgent good-humour. “Well, old lady?”

“Is there nothing--nothing at all that you want to tell me?”

He turned off a little, facing round toward the wall and holding up
his hand to look at as one had seen sick children look. “I’ve told
you--I told you this morning.”

Oh, I was sorry for him! “That you just want me not to worry you?”

He looked round at me now, as if in recognition of my understanding
him; then ever so gently, “To let me alone,” he replied.

There was even a singular little dignity in it, something that made
me release him, yet, when I had slowly risen, linger beside him. God
knows I never wished to harass him, but I felt that merely, at this,
to turn my back on him was to abandon or, to put it more truly, to lose
him. “I’ve just begun a letter to your uncle,” I said.

“Well, then, finish it!”

I waited a minute. “What happened before?”

He gazed up at me again. “Before what?”

“Before you came back. And before you went away.”

For some time he was silent, but he continued to meet my eyes. “What
happened?”

It made me, the sound of the words, in which it seemed to me that
I caught for the very first time a small faint quaver of consenting
consciousness--it made me drop on my knees beside the bed and seize
once more the chance of possessing him. “Dear little Miles, dear
little Miles, if you knew how I want to help you! It’s only that,
it’s nothing but that, and I’d rather die than give you a pain
or do you a wrong--I’d rather die than hurt a hair of you. Dear
little Miles”--oh, I brought it out now even if I should go too
far--“I just want you to help me to save you!” But I knew in a
moment after this that I had gone too far. The answer to my appeal was
instantaneous, but it came in the form of an extraordinary blast and
chill, a gust of frozen air and a shake of the room as great as if,
in the wild wind, the casement had crashed in. The boy gave a loud,
high shriek, which, lost in the rest of the shock of sound, might have
seemed, indistinctly, though I was so close to him, a note either of
jubilation or of terror. I jumped to my feet again and was conscious of
darkness. So for a moment we remained, while I stared about me and saw
that the drawn curtains were unstirred and the window tight. “Why,
the candle’s out!” I then cried.

“It was I who blew it, dear!” said Miles.


XVIII

The next day, after lessons, Mrs. Grose found a moment to say to me
quietly: “Have you written, Miss?”

“Yes--I’ve written.” But I didn’t add--for the hour--that
my letter, sealed and directed, was still in my pocket. There would
be time enough to send it before the messenger should go to the
village. Meanwhile there had been, on the part of my pupils, no more
brilliant, more exemplary morning. It was exactly as if they had both
had at heart to gloss over any recent little friction. They performed
the dizziest feats of arithmetic, soaring quite out of my feeble
range, and perpetrated, in higher spirits than ever, geographical and
historical jokes. It was conspicuous of course in Miles in particular
that he appeared to wish to show how easily he could let me down. This
child, to my memory, really lives in a setting of beauty and misery
that no words can translate; there was a distinction all his own in
every impulse he revealed; never was a small natural creature, to the
uninitiated eye all frankness and freedom, a more ingenious, a more
extraordinary little gentleman. I had perpetually to guard against
the wonder of contemplation into which my initiated view betrayed me;
to check the irrelevant gaze and discouraged sigh in which I constantly
both attacked and renounced the enigma of what such a little gentleman
could have done that deserved a penalty. Say that, by the dark prodigy
I knew, the imagination of all evil had been opened up to him:
all the justice within me ached for the proof that it could ever have
flowered into an act.

He had never, at any rate, been such a little gentleman as when, after
our early dinner on this dreadful day, he came round to me and asked if
I shouldn’t like him, for half an hour, to play to me. David playing
to Saul could never have shown a finer sense of the occasion. It was
literally a charming exhibition of tact, of magnanimity, and quite
tantamount to his saying outright: “The true knights we love to read
about never push an advantage too far. I know what you mean now: you
mean that--to be let alone yourself and not followed up--you’ll cease
to worry and spy upon me, won’t keep me so close to you, will let me
go and come. Well, I ‘come,’ you see--but I don’t go! There’ll
be plenty of time for that. I do really delight in your society,
and I only want to show you that I contended for a principle.” It
may be imagined whether I resisted this appeal or failed to accompany
him again, hand in hand, to the schoolroom. He sat down at the old
piano and played as he had never played, and if there are those who
think he had better have been kicking a football I can only say that
I wholly agree with them. For at the end of a time that under his
influence I had quite ceased to measure I started up with a strange
sense of having literally slept at my post. It was after luncheon,
and by the schoolroom fire, and yet I hadn’t really, in the least,
slept: I had only done something much worse--I had forgotten. Where,
all this time, was Flora? When I put the question to Miles he played on
a minute before answering, and then could only say: “Why, my dear,
how do I know?”--breaking moreover into a happy laugh which,
immediately after, as if it were a vocal accompaniment, he prolonged
into incoherent, extravagant song.

I went straight to my room, but his sister was not there; then, before
going downstairs, I looked into several others. As she was nowhere
about she would surely be with Mrs. Grose, whom, in the comfort of
that theory, I accordingly proceeded in quest of. I found her where I
had found her the evening before, but she met my quick challenge with
blank, scared ignorance. She had only supposed that, after the repast,
I had carried off both the children; as to which she was quite in her
right, for it was the very first time I had allowed the little girl
out of my sight without some special provision. Of course now indeed
she might be with the maids, so that the immediate thing was to look
for her without an air of alarm. This we promptly arranged between us;
but when, ten minutes later and in pursuance of our arrangement, we met
in the hall, it was only to report on either side that after guarded
inquiries we had altogether failed to trace her. For a minute there,
apart from observation, we exchanged mute alarms, and I could feel with
what high interest my friend returned me all those I had from the first
given her.

“She’ll be above,” she presently said--“in one of the rooms you
haven’t searched.”

“No; she’s at a distance.” I had made up my mind. “She has gone
out.”

Mrs. Grose stared. “Without a hat?”

I naturally also looked volumes. “Isn’t that woman always without
one?”

“She’s with her?”

“She’s with her!” I declared. “We must find them.”

My hand was on my friend’s arm, but she failed for the moment,
confronted with such an account of the matter, to respond to my
pressure. She communed, on the contrary, on the spot, with her
uneasiness. “And where’s Master Miles?”

“Oh, he’s with Quint. They’re in the schoolroom.”

“Lord, Miss!” My view, I was myself aware--and therefore I suppose
my tone--had never yet reached so calm an assurance.

“The trick’s played,” I went on; “they’ve successfully worked
their plan. He found the most divine little way to keep me quiet while
she went off.”

“‘Divine’?” Mrs. Grose bewilderedly echoed.

“Infernal, then!” I almost cheerfully rejoined. “He has provided
for himself as well. But come!”

She had helplessly gloomed at the upper regions. “You leave
him----?”

“So long with Quint? Yes--I don’t mind that now.”

She always ended, at these moments, by getting possession of my hand,
and in this manner she could at present still stay me. But after
gasping an instant at my sudden resignation, “Because of your
letter?” she eagerly brought out.

I quickly, by way of answer, felt for my letter, drew it forth,
held it up, and then, freeing myself, went and laid it on the great
hall-table. “Luke will take it,” I said as I came back. I reached
the house-door and opened it; I was already on the steps.

My companion still demurred: the storm of the night and the early
morning had dropped, but the afternoon was damp and grey. I came down
to the drive while she stood in the doorway. “You go with nothing
on?”

“What do I care when the child has nothing? I can’t wait to
dress,” I cried, “and if you must do so, I leave you. Try
meanwhile, yourself, upstairs.”

“With them?” Oh, on this, the poor woman promptly joined me!


XIX

We went straight to the lake, as it was called at Bly, and I dare say
rightly called, though I reflect that it may in fact have been a sheet
of water less remarkable than it appeared to my untravelled eyes. My
acquaintance with sheets of water was small, and the pool of Bly, at
all events on the few occasions of my consenting, under the protection
of my pupils, to affront its surface in the old flat-bottomed boat
moored there for our use, had impressed me both with its extent and
its agitation. The usual place of embarkation was half a mile from
the house, but I had an intimate conviction that, wherever Flora
