 
they left not a grain of rice nor a shred on 
a bone. But half-satisfied, although very 
comfortable, they made up their minds to 
dress. On the chair was a complete out 
fit, suitable for a young don. Roldan 
concluded it had been thoughtfully placed 
at his disposal that he might not appear 
in the sala of Casa Carillo garbed like a 
coyote. How he hated the memory of 
that ugly and infested garment. 
" I, too, have a silk jacket and breeches 
by my bed," said Adan, " and a lace shirt 
and silk stockings, and shoes with buckles. 
There must be those of our age in the 
Casa Carillo, my friend. Bueno ! I go to 
make a caballero of myself. Hasta luego." 
He opened the door and peered out, 
then ran hastily down the corridor to his 
room. Who knew but there might be girls 
at the Casa Carillo? Horrible thought! 
The boys met a half hour later on the 
corridor, still weak, but magnificent to 
look upon. Roldan's head was very high, 
despite his protesting knees : he felt him 
self again. 
" It is the hour of siesta," he said. " Let 
 
us lie in these hammocks and wait. Ay ! 
but it is warm, and the sky is blue, and 
the sun looks like the copper lamp of my 
mother the one that came from Boston. 
Who even an Indian would live in 
the mountains when the valleys are so big 
and warm ? " 
They extended themselves in two ham 
mocks swung across the corridor and 
watched the many doors on the several 
sides of the court. All were closed, and 
the forest had hardly been more quiet than 
the Casa Carillo in its hour of siesta. 
Through the arch of the gateway they 
could see the green of fields, a corner of a 
vineyard, and rolling hills. On either side 
of the entrance was a large magnolia-tree 
with broad shining leaves and bunches of 
cream-white fragrance. The oranges were 
 
very yellow, the palms very stately, the 
red tiles on the sloping roofs above the 
white walls looked very fresh and red. 
There was colour and beauty everywhere ; 
and the boys were quite at peace, and con 
tent to be so. Their appetite for 
adventure was dulled for the moment. 
XIV 
ADO OR on the opposite corridor 
opened and a youth came forth. 
He jerked his head diffidently at the 
guests and took the longest way round 
instead of crossing the court ; but when he 
reached the boys, who were risen and 
awaiting him, he wore a dignified air of 
welcome, as befitted a young gentleman 
of his race. 
" Welcome to Casa Carillo, senors," he 
said gravely. " The house is yours. Burn 
it if you will. I, myself, Rafael Carillo, am 
your slave." 
To which Roldan replied : " We are at 
your feet, for you and yours have rescued 
us from death and given us food and cloth 
ing when we most needed it. Our lives 
are yours to do with as you wish." 
" Then would we keep you here always, 
Don Roldan and Don Adan. All guests 
 
are welcome at Casa Carillo, but doubly 
those that need it." 
Then, formalities over, as boys are 
pretty much alike the world round, Rafael 
was soon pouring forth eager questions, 
and our heroes were reliving the events of 
the past weeks. Arm in arm they strolled 
out into the wide beautiful valley, green 
with sprouting winter, the distant moun 
tains of terrible memory quivering under 
a dark blue mist. 
"Hist!" said Rafael, suddenly. "Do 
you know what day this is ? " 
" Day ? " The adventurers had lost all 
count of time. 
" It is the day before Christmas, my 
friends." 
" No ! Madre de dios ! " Roldan and 
Adan stood still. For a moment they felt 
homesick. They saw the reproachful faces 
of their parents and brothers and sisters, to 
say npthing of visions of unclaimed pres 
ents. But Rafael gave them no time for 
regrets. He was the only child at home, 
and delighted with his new companions. 
" To-morrow many people will come, " 
 
he said. " I have ten married sisters and 
brothers. They all come from their 
ranchos, and many more. It will be very 
gay, my friends." 
" Good," said Rolclan, dismissing regret. 
" We will enjoy." 
" And after Christmas is gone I know 
of something else," said Rafael, myste 
riously. He glanced about. They stood 
in the midst of a great vineyard, each en 
gaged upon a large purple bunch. " Come," 
said Rafael, with an air of mystery. " Not 
here. Some one may hide beneath the 
vines." 
It was extremely unlikely, but the ad 
venturers liked the suggestion and followed 
their host breathlessly into the open field. 
" One day in the summer," whispered 
Rafael, his eyes rolling about, " I went with 
four vaqueros with a present of venison to 
Father Osuna. He was not at the Mis 
sion, and a brother told us that he walked 
among the hills. I thought I would go to 
meet him and receive his blessing. For a 
time I saw no one, and I thought, Ca- 
ramba! but the padre has long legs this 
 
hot weather! Just then he stood before 
me. He had walked out of the side of the 
hill through a hole no wider than himself. 
He sweated like a bull after collar, and his 
cassock was gathered in his two hands, 
leaving his bare shanks no more sacred 
than an Indian's. He did not look like a 
priest at all, and I forgot to kneel to him, 
but stared with my mouth open. And 
what do you think he did, my friends ? 
He turned white like the hand of a doiia 
in her teens and and dropped his cas 
sock. And " 
"Well? well?" 
"What do you think rolled to the 
ground, my friends? Chunks of yellow 
stuff that glittered, and a shower of spark 
ling yellow sand beautiful as sunshine 
on the floor. I gave a cry and ran to pick 
it up. I had never seen anything so beau 
tiful, I never had wanted anything so 
much. I felt that I would die for it in 
that moment, my friends. But that priest, 
what do you think he did? He gave a 
yell of rage, as if he could tear me in 
pieces, and flung himself all over that 
sunshine of earth. My gold ! he cried. 
 Mine ! mine ! You shall not take it from 
me! If it is yours it is not mine, my 
father," I said, feeling ashamed, though 
I still wanted it; I will help you to pick 
it up. He got up then, his face very red 
again, and I could see that he was trying 
to put on his dignity as fast as he had put 
down his cassock he looked better with 
both in place. My son, he said, * the day 
is warm and I am very tired, and, I fear, a 
little ill. These rocks are nothing. They 
please my eye, and I pick them up some 
times as I walk among the hills. Leave 
them there. I do not want them. We 
will return to the Mission. If you do 
not want them, then may I have them ? I 
asked the blood flew all over my body, 
my friends. He scowled as if I had asked 
him for the candles on the altar. No, 
he said, you cannot. Then he put his 
big hand on my shoulder he could twist 
your neck in a minute with those hands 
Listen to me, my son, he said, very soft, 
and looking so kind now, you can't think. 
"There is poison in those stones, pretty as 
 
they are, deadly poison. It has murdered 
millions of souls and hundreds of bodies. 
Therefore I will not let you touch it 
only a priest can touch it without ruining 
his soul. Therefore I forbid you I for 
bid you he shouted this over me, to 
tell any one of what you have seen to-day. 
Neither your father nor your mother no 
one. Do you understand ? I said Yes, 
but I did not promise, and he was excited 
and did not notice. Then he dragged me 
away, and I looked about for other rocks 
that glittered. But there were none not 
anywhere. And then I knew that they 
had come out of the hill ; but I said noth 
ing, and when we got back to the Mission 
and had had dinner and he was himself 
again and would have spoken alone with 
me, I ran and got on my horse, and all the 
brothers stood on the corridor to see me 
go. He came up to me and blessed me, 
and whispered : 'Tell no one, my son. If 
you do and he gave me a look that made 
my hair crackle at the roots. And to this 
clay I have told no one. Did I tell my 
parents the priest would know in six 
 
hours. No boy has stayed here that I 
like. But now " 
" We will go to the hill and see for our 
selves," said Roldan, promptly, and Aclan 
gasped with horror and delight. 
" Ay, I knew you would. I am brave, 
but I dared not go myself that padre is 
too big. I wake up in the night and see 
his hands pawing in the air. But three of 
us we need fear no one." 
" We will go as soon as the guests are 
gone. I have heard of this gold. In 
Europe I have an uncle who has trav 
elled and has told me many things 
bueno, in Europe, they make it into 
money and give it for things in big houses 
they call shops. Even here, in Monterey, 
and perhaps the other towns, they have a 
little it comes from Mexico. My uncle 
said that one reason we were so happy was 
because we had so little money none at 
all, we might say. That we got what we 
wanted out of the earth, or by trading with 
one another or with the skippers from Bos 
ton, who are glad to give us what we need 
from other lands in return for our hides 
 
and tallow. So, if we find this gold 
perhaps we had better say nothing about 
it; but to find it that will be a great, a 
grand adventure." 
" We'll tell if we find it," said Adan, 
philosophically. 
The boys concocted a plan of campaign 
to their satisfaction, then went home to 
supper. Don Tiburcio and his wife, Dona 
Martina, were already seated at the table 
in the big bare room. The grandee was a 
huge man with a soft profile, and cheeks as 
large and cream-hued as one of the mag 
nolias hanging in the patio. He had an 
expression of indolent good-nature above 
his straight mouth, and long hands that 
looked lean and hard when they closed 
suddenly. He was a man of much influence 
in the politics of his country. His 
small-clothes were of dark green cloth with 
large silver buttons, the lace on his linen 
was fine and abundant. Dona Martina 
wore a gown of stiff flowered silk and a 
profusion of topaz ornaments. As the 
boys entered and bowed respectfully, Don 
Tiburcio eyed them keenly, but shook 
them cordially bv the hand. 
 
" So you are the son of Mateo Casta- 
nada," he said to Roldan. " It is evident 
enough, although you have something in 
the face that he has not. Otherwise I 
should not have done him to death in 
more than one political battle. Well, my 
sons, you are very welcome, and the longer 
you stay with us the better. The officers 
passed here some days ago Rafael hid 
in the garret for the two days I feasted 
them, and they do not know that I have a 
son so young. Well, you are in good 
time to help my son enjoy his Christmas." 
There was an abundant supper of meat 
with hot pepper-sauce, tomatoes and eggs 
baked together, and many dulces. The 
boys wondered if dried meat and coarse 
cakes were part of an adventurous dream. 
The next morning chocolate was brought 
to the boys at half-past five, after which 
they dressed, and mounting the mustangs 
awaiting their pleasure in the courtyard, 
went off for a morning canter. At Rol- 
dan's suggestion they reconnoitred the 
hills behind the Mission and got the bear 
ings definitely shaped in their minds; the 
 
great raid was to be at night. They 
returned to a big breakfast at nine o'clock, 
then rode out again to meet the expected 
guests. It was but a few moments before 
they saw several cavalcades approaching 
from as many different directions. The 
young men and women, in silken clothes 
of every hue, were on horses caparisoned 
with velvet, carved leather, and silver; in 
many instances a girl had proud posses 
sion of the saddle, while her swain bestrode 
the anquera behind, his arm supporting 
her waist. Roldan wondered if anything 
would ever induce him to sacrifice his dig 
nity like that. (It may be remarked here, 
as this history has only to do with the 
famous Californian's boyhood, that the 
day came when he could bow the knee to 
the fair sex with as graceful an ardour as 
did he not employ his sterner moments 
making laws and enforcing them.) The 
older folk travelled in carretas, the conveyance of the country, a springless wagon 
set on wheels cut from the solid thicknes 
of the tree. It was driven by garians, sitting astride the mustangs and singing 
 
lustily. The interior was lined with satin 
and padded, but was probably uncomfort 
able enough. Everybody looked smiling 
and happy, and a number of lads left their 
respective parties and cantered over to 
Rafael and his guests. A few moments 
later they all galloped at the top speed of 
their much-enduring mustangs to a great 
clump of oaks, where they dismounted 
and listened with breathless interest to 
the adventures of Roldan and Adan. All 
had been drafted, and must leave for bar 
racks with the new year. They complimented the adventurers in a curious 
mixture of stately Spanish and eager 
youthfulness, and their admiration was so 
apparent that our heroes would have 
doubled the dangers of the past on the 
spot. 
When they returned home to dinner the 
great space before the house was filled 
with shining horses pawing the ground 
under their heavy saddles. The court 
and corridors were an animated scene, 
overflowing with dons and donas in brilliant array. When dinner was over and 
 
the grown-up guests and young girls were 
lingering over the Christmas dulces, all 
the boys slipped away and went out to the 
huge kitchen, where countless Indian servants were busy or resting. They de 
manded four dozen eggs and help to blow 
them at once. The maids hastened to do 
the bidding of the little dons, and in less 
than a quarter of an hour the eggs were 
free of their natural contents, and all were 
busy refilling them with flour, or cologne, 
or scraps of gold and silver paper. Then 
the boys stuffed the fronts of their shirts, 
their sleeves, and their pockets with the 
eggs, and hid themselves among the palms 
of the court. Presently the guests came 
forth and scattered about the corridor, 
smiling and chatting in the soft subdued 
spanish way. Suddenly twelve eggs, 
thrown with supple wrist and aimed with 
unfailing dexterity, flew tli rough the air 
and crashed softly on the backs of caba- 
lleros curls and donas braids, flour pow 
dering, gold and silver paper glittering on 
the dense blackness of those California!! 
tresses, cologne shooting down dignified 
 
spines. There was a chorus of shrieks, 
and then, as every head whisked about, and 
as a blow did not count unless it struck 
at the back, the boys ran up to the corridors,
dodged under vengeful arms and 
continued the battle. Finally they were 
chased out into the open, and the guests 
having been provided with the remaining 
eggs by Dona Martina, the battle waged 
fierce and hot until, exhausted, the guests 
retired for siesta. 
But siesta was brief that day. In less 
than an hour's time all had reappeared 
and were mounting for the race. 
XV 
THE race took place in a field a mile 
from the house, on a straight track. 
Four vaqueros in black velvet small 
clothes trimmed with silver, spotless linen, 
and stiff glazed black sombreros, walked 
up and down, leading the impatient mus 
tangs. Two of these horses were a beau 
tiful bronze-gold in colour, with silver 
manes and tails, a breed peculiar to the 
Californias; one was black, the other as 
white as crystal. The family and guests 
of Casa Carillo sat on their horses, in their 
carretas, or stood just outside the fence 
surrounding the field. At one end were 
the several hundred Indians employed by 
Don Tiburcio, and several hundred more 
from the Mission. Father Osuna had 
also joined the party from the Casa, and 
Roldaa who had seen hundreds of horse 
races and was built on a more complex 
plan than his contemporaries, got as close 
to the priest as he dared and gave him his 
undivided attention. Padre Osuna was a 
man of unusual height and heaviness of 
build. His black eves were set close to 
his fine Roman nose. The mouth was so 
tightly compressed that its original curves 
were quite destroyed, and the intellectual 
development of the brow was very marked. 
His hands exerted a peculiar fascination 
over Roldan. They were of huge size, 
even for so big a man, lean and knotted, 
with square-tipped fingers. The skin on 
them was fine and brown : it looked as 
- jft as a woman's. He used them a good 
deal when talking, and not ungracefully; 
but they seemed to claw and grasp the 
air, to be independent of the arms hidden 
in the voluminous sleeves of the smart 
brown cassock. Other people watched 
those hands too they seemed to poss 
a magnetism of their own ; and everv one 
showed this priest great deference : he was 
one of the most successful disciplinarians 
in the Department of California, a bril 
liant speaker, an able adviser in matters 
of state, and a man of many social graces. 
" More agreeable to meet in the sala of 
the Mission than in a cave at midnight
thought Roldan. "Still " His scent for 
danger, particularly if it involved a match 
ing of wits, was very keen. 
The word was given. The race began. 
The dons shouted, the lovely faces between 
the bright folds of the rebosos flushed ex 
pectantly. From the black mass of Indians 
opposite came a mighty gurgle, which grad 
ually broke into a roar, 
" The black ! Fifty hides on the black ! " 
"The little bronze! She is a length 
ahead! Maclre cle dios! Six doubloons 
of Mexico on the little bronze ! " 
The priest pushed his way to the 
speaker, a wealthy ranchero who had been 
more than once to Mexico. 
" The white against the bronze, senor," 
he said. " Twenty otter skins to the six 
doubloons of Mexico." 
" Done, your reverence. I am honoured 
that you bet with me. But the white 
have you thought well, my father? " 
"She breathes well, and her legs are 
very clean." 
 
" True, my father, but look at the 
muscles of the little bronze. How they 
swell ! And the fire in the nostrils ! " 
" True, Don Jaime ; and if she wins, the 
skins are yours." 
As the horses darted down the track 
almost neck to neck, the excitement 
routed Spanish dignity. The dons stood 
up in their saddles, shouting and betting 
furiously. The women clapped their white 
idle hands, and cheered, and bet but 
with less recklessness : a small jewel or a 
second-best mantilla. As they could not 
remember what they had bet when the 
excitement was over, these debts were never 
paid ; but it pleased them mightily to 
make their little wagers. The men were 
betting ranchitas, horses, cattle, and, finally, 
their jewels and saddles and serapes. For 
each horse represented a different district 
of the Department, and there was much 
rivalry. 
The priest did not shout, and he made 
no more bets, but his eyes never left those 
figures speeding like arrows from the bow, 
the riders motionless as if but the effigies
of men strapped to the creatures of 
fire beneath. Sometimes the black gained, 
then the little bronze; once the white 
dashed a full three yards beyond his
fellows, and Roldan saw the great hands of 
the priest, which had been clinched against 
his shoulders, open spasmodically, then 
close harder than ever as the white quickly 
dropped back again. 
It was a very close race. The excite 
ment grew tense and painful. Even Rol 
dan felt it finally, and forgot the priest. 
The big bronze had quite dropped out 
of it and was lagging homeward, hardly 
greeted by a hiss. The others were almost 
neck and neck, the little bronze slightly in 
the lead. "She wins," thought Roldan, 
"No! No! The black! the black! Ay, 
no, the bronze! but no! no! Ay! Ay! 
Ay!" A roar went up that ended in a 
shriek. The black had won. 
Roldan looked at the priest. His skin 
was livid, his nostrils twitching. But his 
mouth and eyes told nothing. 
The crowd rode home, still excited, 
gay, cheerful. Their losses mattered not. 
 
Were not their acres numbered by the 
hundred thousand ? Did they not have 
more horses and cattle than they would 
ever count ? In those days of pleasure 
and plenty, of luxury and unconsidered 
generosity, a rancho, a caponara the less, 
meant a loss neither to be felt nor 
remembered. 
After the bountiful supper the guests 
loitered for a time in the courtyard, then 
the sala was cleared and the dance began. 
Several of the girls danced alone, while 
the caballeros clapped and shouted. Then 
all waltzed or took part in their only square 
dance, the contradanza. They kept it up 
until morning. Needless to say, our 
heroes went to bed at an early hour. 
They were up the next morning with 
the dawn, and in company with Rafael and 
the other guests of their own age, went for 
their canter. This time they avoided the 
hills behind the Mission, as they had no 
wish to share their secret, and a chance 
word might divulge all. They rode toward 
the hills at the head of the valley. Roldan 
was still the hero of the hour, and Rafael, 
 
although the most generous of boys, 
resented it a little. He was not without 
ambitions of his own, and determined to 
seize the first opportunity to remind his 
companions that the son of Don Tiburcio 
Carillo, the greatest ranchero of that
section of the Californias, had not the habit 
to occupy the humble position of tag- 
behind even to so brilliant and adventur 
ous a guest as Rolclan Castaiiada. 
He soon found his opportunity. 
As they reached the first hill they saw a 
bull feeding on its summit. " Aha ! " cried 
the young don of the Rancho Encarna- 
cion. " Now I will make for you a little 
morning entertainment, my friends. Col- 
iar! coliar!" 
"No! no! "cried the boys. "The hill 
is too steep. It is like the side of a 
house. You will break your neck, my 
friend." 
Roldan said : " It is dangerous, but it 
could be done." 
" I can do it," said Rafael, proudly, 
"and I shall." 
The other boys, good sportsmen as they 
 
all were, shouted, " No ! no ! " again ; but 
Rafael laughed gaily, and forced his horse 
up the almost perpendicular declivity, l
eisurely unwinding his lariat from the high 
pommel of his saddle, and tossing it into 
big snake-like loops, which he gathered 
one by one into his hand, the last about 
his thumb. The bull fed on unsuspecting, 
for the early green of winter was very de 
licious after eight months of unrelenting 
sunshine. When Rafael reached the summit
he rode back for some distance, then 
came at the bull full charge, yelling like 
a demon. The bull, terrified and indig 
nant, gave a mighty snort and leaped over 
the brow of the hill. It was much like 
descending the slightly inclined side of a 
cliff, but he kept his footing. The boys 
held their breath as Rafael rode straight 
over the brow in the wake of the bull. 
With one hand he held the bridle in a 
tight grip, in the other he held aloft the 
coils of the lariat. It looked like a huge 
snake, and quivered as if aware that it was 
about to spring. There was no cheering; 
the boys were too much alarmed. A mis- 
 
step and there would be a hideous heap 
at the foot of the hill. 
The little mustang appeared scarcely to 
touch the uneven surface of the descent. 
He looked as if galloping in air, and 
tossed his head fiercely as though to shake 
the rising sun out of his eyes. The bull 
seemed continually gathering himself for 
a great leap, his clumsy bulk heaving from 
side to side. But a quarter of the distance 
had been traversed when the great curves 
of the lasso sprang forward, and, amidst a 
hoarse murmur from the boys, caught the 
bull below the horns. But that was all. 
The bull would not down ! There would 
be no coliar! He merely ran on the 
brute! the beast! jerking his horns 
defiantly, putting down his head, nearly 
dragging Rafael from the saddle. But 
no ! but no ! Rafael has risen in his saddle, 
he has forced his mustang the harder, he 
is almost level with the bull he has 
passed ! He gives a great jerk, dragging 
the bull to his knees, then another, and 
the bull is on his side and rolling over and 
over down the hill, Rafael following fast, 
 
slackening his lariat. The boys now cheer 
wildly, although danger is not over yes, 
in another moment it is, and Rafael, smiling
complacently, is at the foot of the hill, 
disengaging the humbled bull. 
" Bravo ! " said a voice from behind the 
horses. All turned with a start. It was 
the priest. " Coliar was never better 
done," he added graciously; and Rafael 
felt that the day was his. 
The priest had ridden up unnoted in 
the tense excitement of the last few mo 
ments. He sat a big powerful horse, and 
his bearing was as military as that of the 
two great generals of the Californias, 
Castro and Vallejo. 
As the boys, congratulations and modest 
acknowledgement over, were making for 
home and breakfast, the priest pressed his 
horse close to Roldan's. " I interested 
you much at the race yesterday, Don 
Roldan," he said, with a good-humoured 
smile. "Why was that?" 
Roldan was not often embarrassed, but 
he was so taken aback at the abrupt sally 
he forgot to be flattered-that the priest had 
 
evidently thought it worth while to inquire 
his name ; and stammered : " I well, you 
see, my father, you are not like other 
priests." Which was not undiplomatic. 
The priest smiled, this time with a faint 
flush of unmistakable pleasure. " You are 
right, my son, I am not as other priests in 
this wilderness. Would to Heaven I were, 
or " 
" Or that you were in Spain ? " Roldan 
could not resist saying, then caught his 
breath at his temerity. 
The priest turned about and faced him 
squarely. " Yes," he said deliberately, 
" and that I were a cardinal of Rome. 
Such words I have never uttered to mortal 
before; but if I am not as other men, neither 
are you as other lads. Some day you will 
be a Castro or an Alvarado; it is written 
in your face. Perhaps something more, 
for changes may come and your oppor 
tunities be greater. But I I am no 
longer young ; there is no hope in 
California for me." 
" Why do you not return to Spain ? " 
" I have written. They will not answer. 
 
In my youth I was wild. They forced 
me to come here. I had no money. I 
was obliged to obey. I have christianised 
a few hundred worthless savages who were 
better off in their barbarism, and I have 
made myself a power among a few thou 
sand men of whom the outer world, the 
great world, knows nothing. My Mission 
is the most prosperous in the Californias 
and I " he set and ground his teeth. 
Roldan thought of the gold. "When 
I am governor of the Californias, my 
father," he said, " I shall send you back to 
Spain, for then I shall have great
influence and much o^old." 
At the last word the priest's eyes flamed 
with so fierce a light that Roldan shrank 
back repelled, feeling himself in the pres 
ence of a passion of which he had no 
knowledge. But the priest controlled him 
self at once. " Thank you, my son," he 
said with a brilliant smile. " And I do 
not ask you to guard as your own what I 
have said. It is a part of the power of 
such natures as yours that you know what 
to repeat and what to leave unsaid." Then 
as they approached the house he suddenly 
took Roldan's slender elegant hand in one 
of his mighty paws, shook it heartily, and 
flinging his bridle to a vaquero, sprang 
lightly to the ground and entered the 
courtyard, leaving our hero in a condition 
of flattered bewilderment. 
XVI 
THAT day there was to be a grand 
rodeo, or " round-up : " the branding 
of cattle ; not only of the stock belonging 
to Don Tiburcio, but of many of his neigh 
bours, which would be driven over to his 
rancho for the operation. This was one 
of the great occasions of the year. Im 
mediately after breakfast the neighbours 
began to arrive, magnificently mounted, 
sparkling with gold and silver lace, their 
wives and daughters each surrounded by 
her cavalcade. About ten the gorgeous 
company, led by the host, started for an 
immense corral about three miles from 
the house. The boys were well to the 
front, and established themselves on the 
wall of the corral. The rest of the party 
remained on their horses, but mounted the 
little slopes. The green winter landscape 
 
had suddenly become a blaze of colour, 
and never was there a more animated 
scene. Over all hung a light haze. The 
distant mountains, which could be seen 
from the outer valley, were almost invisible.
The priest, a huge brown figure, on 
his big brown horse, stood on the very 
apex of the highest knoll. 
Presently, from various directions rose 
a low deep murmur, then a rumble of 
growing volume as of an approaching 
earthquake. Men and women grasped 
their bridles with firmer fingers, and 
pressed still nearer to the crests of the 
many mounds. Then over the hills on 
every side came a mass of tossing horns 
and sleek shining bodies, separated here 
and there by a shouting vaquero, whose 
black and silver seemed pierced at every 
point by those white curving horns. The 
cattle, several thousand in number, trotted 
over the hills and toward the corral swiftly, 
but in good order, held well in check by 
the careful vaqueros. There was no cheer 
ing, for excitement was to be avoided. 
The cattle would stand any amount of the 
 
shouting they were used to, but little from 
unaccustomed throats. 
In the corral, at its farther end, stood, 
by an oven, a tall muscular Indian, the 
most famous brander in that part of the 
country. He was stripped to the waist, 
and as the first steer was driven through 
the narrow gate, he plucked a red-hot 
iron from the coals. The beast, kicking 
and bellowing, was flung to the ground 
by a dexterous twist of his tail, two more 
Indians held him in position, and the 
branding was accomplished. 
Almost before he was up another was 
prostrate ; and they followed each other in 
such rapid succession that the wonder 
was some were not branded twice. As 
fast as each brute received his mark he 
was driven out of another gate and over 
the hills, lest his ill-nature should be the 
cause of wild disorder. 
The vaqueros handled their dangerous 
charges with admirable skill, keeping those 
to be branded in groups of a hundred or 
more at some distance from the corral, 
riding round them constantly with peremptory 
shouts. Other vaqueros, belong 
ing to the same herd, segregated the 
animals immediately required and drove 
them in a straight line for the corral. 
There was not a moment of pause. The 
vaqueros, the brander, and his assistants 
seemed impervious to fatigue ; the cattle, 
shifting uneasily in their bands, leaped 
eagerly from the lines at the first signal 
from the vaquero bearing down on them 
like a fury from the corral. On the far 
side, otherwise deserted, the sore indig 
nant beasts scampered as fast as their legs 
could carry them whithersoever their 
vaquero chose to drive. 
After two hours or more, the atmos 
phere was charged with a certain breath 
less excitement, as was natural enough. 
The constant cyclonic rush of vaqueros 
and cattle, the angry bellowings, the in 
