escapes it.  Do you remember that poem of Thompson’s—the City of
Dreadful Night man—where he describes the end of the world?”
“No, I never read it.”
“Well, merely, he says when the conflagration began the little flames
looked like crocuses breaking through the sod.  If it ever happened I
fancy it would be quite as simple as that.  But perhaps you don’t like
gloomy poetry?”
“Yes, yes, I do.  It’s the only kind that I care about.”
“Then you hate funny poetry?”
“I think it’s disgusting.  Papa is always cutting it out of the papers
and wanting to send it to me, and we have the greatest times!”
“I suppose,” said Kendricks, “it expresses some moods, though.”
“Oh yes; it expresses some moods; and sometimes it makes me laugh in
spite of myself, and ashamed of anything serious.”
“That’s always the effect of a farce with me.”
“But then I’m ashamed of being ashamed afterward,” said the girl.  “I
suppose you go to the theatre a great deal in New York.”
“It’s a school of life,” said Kendricks.  “I mean the audience.”
“I would like to go to the opera once.  I am going to make papa take me
in the winter.”  She laughed with a gay sense of power, and he said—
“You seem to be great friends with your father.”
“Yes, we’re always together.  I always went everywhere with him; this is
the first time I’ve been away without him.  But I thought I’d come with
Mrs. Deering and see what Saratoga was like; I had never been here.”
“And is it like what you thought?”
“No.  The first week we didn’t do anything.  Then we got acquainted with
Mr. and Mrs. March, and I began to really see something.  But I supposed
it was all balls and gaiety.”
“We must get up a few if you’re so fond of them,” Kendricks playfully
suggested.
“Oh, I don’t know as I am.  I never went much at home.  Papa didn’t care
to have me.”
“Ah, do you think it was right for him to keep you all to himself?”  The
girl did not answer, and they had both halted so abruptly that I almost
ran into them.  “I don’t quite make out where we are.”  Kendricks seemed
to be peering about.  I plunged across the street lest he should ask me.
I heard him add, “Oh yes; I know now,” and then they pressed forward.
We were quite near our hotel, but I thought it best to walk round the
square and let them arrive first.  On the way I amused myself thinking
how different the girl had shown herself to him from what she had ever
shown herself to my wife or me.  She had really, this plain-minded
goddess, a vein of poetic feeling, some inner beauty of soul answering to
the outer beauty of body.  She had a romantic attachment to her father,
and this shed a sort of light on both of them, though I knew that it was
not always a revelation of character.
XIII
WHEN I reached the hotel I found Miss Gage at the door, and Kendricks
coming out of the office toward her.
“Oh, here he is!” she called to him at sight of me.
“Where in the world have you been?” he demanded.  “I had just found out
from the clerk that you hadn’t come in yet, and I was going back for you
with a searchlight.”
“Oh, I wasn’t so badly lost as all that,” I returned.  “I missed you in
the crowd at the door, but I knew you’d get home somehow, and so I came
on without you.  But my aged steps are not so quick as yours.”
The words, mechanically uttered, suggested something, and I thought that
if they were in for weirdness I would give them as much weirdness as they
could ask for.  “When you get along toward fifty you’ll find that the
foot you’ve still got out of the grave doesn’t work so lively as it used.
Besides, I was interested in the night effect.  It’s so gloriously dark;
and I had a fine sense of isolation as I came along, as if I were
altogether out of my epoch and my environment.  I felt as if the earth
was a sort of Flying Dutchman, and I was the only passenger.  It was
about the weirdest sensation I ever had.  It reminded me, I don’t know
how, exactly of the feeling I had when I was young, and I saw the sunset
one evening through the woods after a sleet-storm.”
They stared at each other as I went on, and I could see Kendricks’s fine
eyes kindle with an imaginative appreciation of the literary quality of
the coincidence.  But when I added, “Did you ever read a poem about the
end of the world by that City of Dreadful Night man?” Miss Gage
impulsively caught me by the coat lapel and shook me.
“Ah, it was you all the time!  I knew there was somebody following us,
and I might have known who it was!”
We all gave way in a gale of laughter, and sat down on the verandah and
had our joke out in full recognition of the fact.  When Kendricks rose to
go at last, I said, “We won’t say anything about this little incident to
Mrs. March, hey?”  And then they laughed again as if it were the finest
wit in the world, and Miss Gage bade me a joyful good-night at the head
of the stairs as she went off to her room and I to mine.
I found Mrs. March waiting up with a book; and as soon as I shut myself
in with her she said, awfully, “What were you laughing so about?”
“Laughing?  Did you hear me laughing?”
“The whole house heard you, I’m afraid.  You certainly ought to have
known better, Basil.  It was very inconsiderate of you.”  And as I saw
she was going on with more of that sort of thing, to divert her thoughts
from my crime I told her the whole story.  It had quite the effect I
intended up to a certain point.  She even smiled a little, as much as a
woman could be expected to smile who was not originally in the joke.
“And they had got to comparing weird experiences?” she asked.
“Yes; the staleness of the thing almost made me sick.  Do you remember
when we first compared our weird experiences?  But I suppose they will go
on doing it to the end of time, and it will have as great a charm for the
last man and woman as it had for Adam and Eve when they compared their
weird experiences.”
“And was that what you were laughing at?”
“We were laughing at the wonderful case of telepathy I put up on them.”
Mrs. March faced her open book down on the table before her, and looked
at me with profound solemnity.  “Well, then, I can tell you, my dear, it
is no laughing matter.  If they have got to the weird it is very serious;
and her talking to him about her family, and his wanting to know about
her father, that’s serious too—far more serious than either of them can
understand.  I don’t like it, Basil; we have got a terrible affair on our
hands.”
“Terrible?”
“Yes, terrible.  As long as he was interested in her simply from a
literary point of view, though I didn’t like that either, I could put up
with it; but now that he’s got to telling her about himself, and
exchanging weird experiences with her, it’s another thing altogether.
Oh, I never wanted Kendricks brought into the affair at all.”
“Come now, Isabel!  Stick to the facts, please.”
“No matter!  It was you that discovered the girl, and then something had
to be done.  I was perfectly shocked when you told me that Mr. Kendricks
was in town, because I saw at once that he would have to be got in for
it; and now we have to think what we shall do.”
“Couldn’t we think better in the morning?”
“No; we must think at once.  I shall not sleep to-night anyhow.  My peace
is gone.  I shall have to watch them every instant.”
“Beginning at this instant.  Why not wait till you can see them?”
“Oh, you can’t joke it away, my dear.  If I find they are really
interested in each other I shall have to speak.  I am responsible.”
“The young lady,” I said, more to gain time than anything else, “seems
quite capable of taking care of herself.”
“That makes it all the worse.  Do you think I care for her only?  It’s
Kendricks too that I care for.  I don’t know that I care for her at all.”
“Oh, then I think we may fairly leave Kendricks to his own devices; and
I’m not alarmed for Miss Gage either, though I do care for her a great
deal.”
“I don’t understand how you can be so heartless about it, Basil,” said
Mrs. March, plaintively.  “She is a young girl, and she has never seen
anything of the world, and of course if he keeps on paying her attention
in this way she can’t help thinking that he is interested in her.  Men
never can see such things as women do.  They think that, until a man has
actually asked a girl to marry him, he hasn’t done anything to warrant
her in supposing that he is in love with her, or that she has any right
to be in love with him.”
“That is true; we can’t imagine that she would be so indelicate.”
“I see that you’re determined to tease, my dear,” said Mrs. March, and
she took up her book with an air of offence and dismissal.  “If you won’t
talk seriously, I hope you will think seriously, and try to realise what
we’ve got in for.  Such a girl couldn’t imagine that we had simply got
Mr. Kendricks to go about with her from a romantic wish to make her have
a good time, and that he was doing it to oblige us, and wasn’t at all
interested in her.”
“It does look a little preposterous, even to the outsider,” I admitted.
“I am glad you are beginning to see it in that light, my dear, and if you
can think of anything to do by morning I shall be humbly thankful.  I
don’t expect to.”
“Perhaps I shall dream of something,” I said more lightly than I felt.
“How would it do for you to have a little talk with her—a little motherly
talk—and hint round, and warn her not to let her feelings run away with
her in Kendricks’s direction?”  Mrs. March faced her book down in her
lap, and listened as if there might be some reason in the nonsense I was
talking.  “You might say that he was a society man, and was in great
request, and then intimate that there was a prior attachment, or that he
was the kind of man who would never marry, but was really cold-hearted
with all his sweetness, and merely had a passion for studying character.”
“Do you think that would do, Basil?” she asked.
“Well, I thought perhaps you might think so.”
“I’m afraid it wouldn’t,” she sighed.
“All that we can do now is to watch them, and act promptly, if we see
that they are really in love, either of them.”
“I don’t believe,” I said, “that I should know that they were in love
even if I saw it.  I have forgotten the outward signs, if I ever knew
them.  Should he give her flowers?  He’s done it from the start; he’s
brought her boxes of Huyler candy, and lent her books; but I dare say
he’s been merely complying with our wishes in doing it.  I doubt if
lovers sigh nowadays.  I didn’t sigh myself, even in my time; and I don’t
believe any passion could make Kendricks neglect his dress.  He keeps his
eyes on her all the time, but that may be merely an effort to divine her
character.  I don’t believe I should know, indeed I don’t.”
“I shall,” said Mrs. March.
XIV
WE were to go the next day to the races, and I woke with more anxiety
about the weather than about the lovers, or potential lovers.  But after
realising that the day was beautiful, on that large scale of loveliness
which seems characteristic of the summer days at Saratoga, where they
have them almost the size of the summer days I knew when I was a boy, I
was sensible of a secondary worry in my mind, which presently related
itself to Kendricks and Miss Gage.  It was a haze of trouble merely,
however, such as burns off, like a morning fog, when the sun gets higher,
and it was chiefly on my wife’s account.
I suppose that the great difference between her conscience and one
originating outside of New England (if any conscience can originate
outside of New England) is that it cannot leave the moral government of
the universe in the hands of divine Providence.  I was willing to leave
so many things which I could not control to the Deity, who probably could
that she accused me of fatalism, and I was held to be little better than
one of the wicked because I would not forecast the effects of what I did
in the lives of others.  I insisted that others were also probably in the
hands of the somma sapienza e il primo amore, and that I was so little
aware of the influence of other lives upon my own, even where there had
been a direct and strenuous effort to affect me, that I could not readily
believe others had swerved from the line of their destiny because of me.
Especially I protested that I could not hold myself guilty of misfortunes
I had not intended, even though my faulty conduct had caused them.  As to
this business of Kendricks and Miss Gage, I denied in the dispute I now
began tacitly to hold with Mrs. March’s conscience that my conduct had
been faulty.  I said that there was no earthly harm in my having been
interested by the girl’s forlornness when I first saw her; that I did not
do wrong to interest Mrs. March in her; that she did not sin in going
shopping with Miss Gage and Mrs. Deering; that we had not sinned, either
of us, in rejoicing that Kendricks had come to Saratoga, or in letting
Mrs. Deering go home to her sick husband and leave Miss Gage on our
hands; that we were not wicked in permitting the young fellow to help us
make her have a good time.  In this colloquy I did all the reasoning, and
Mrs. March’s conscience was completely silenced; but it rose triumphant
in my miserable soul when I met Miss Gage at breakfast, looking radiantly
happy, and disposed to fellowship me in an unusual confidence because, as
I clearly perceived, of our last night’s adventure.  I said to myself
bitterly that happiness did not become her style, and I hoped that she
would get away with her confounded rapture before Mrs. March came down.
I resolved not to tell Mrs. March if it fell out so, but at the same
time, as a sort of atonement, I decided to begin keeping the sharpest
kind of watch upon Miss Gage for the outward signs and tokens of love.
She said, “When you began to talk that way last night, Mr. March, it
almost took my breath, and if you hadn’t gone so far, and mentioned about
the sunset through the sleety trees, I never should have suspected you.”
“Ah, that’s the trouble with men, Miss Gage.”  And when I said “men” I
fancied she flushed a little.  “We never know when to stop; we always
overdo it; if it were not for that we should be as perfect as women.
Perhaps you’ll give me another chance, though.”
“No; we shall be on our guard after this.”  She corrected herself and
said, “I shall always be looking out for you now,” and she certainly
showed herself conscious in the bridling glance that met my keen gaze.
“Good heavens!” I thought.  “Has it really gone so far?” and more than
ever I resolved not to tell Mrs. March.
I went out to engage a carriage to take us to the races, and to agree
with the driver that he should wait for us at a certain corner some
blocks distant from our hotel, where we were to walk and find him.  We
always did this, because there were a number of clergymen in our house,
and Mrs. March could not make it seem right to start for the races direct
from the door, though she held that it was perfectly right for us to go.
For the same reason she made the driver stop short of our destination on
our return, and walked home the rest of the way.  Almost the first time
we practised this deception I was met at the door by the sweetest and
dearest of these old divines, who said, “Have you ever seen the races
here?  I’m told the spectacle is something very fine,” and I was obliged
to own that I had once had a glimpse of them.  But it was in vain that I
pleaded this fact with Mrs. March; she insisted that the appearance of
not going to the races was something that we owed the cloth, and no
connivance on their part could dispense us from it.
As I now went looking up and down the street for the driver who was
usually on the watch for me about eleven o’clock on a fair day of the
races, I turned over in my mind the several accidents which are employed
in novels to bring young people to a realising sense of their feelings
toward each other, and wondered which of them I might most safely invoke.
I was not anxious to have Kendricks and Miss Gage lovers; it would be
altogether simpler for us if they were not; but if they were, the sooner
they knew it and we knew it the better.  I thought of a carriage
accident, in which he should seize her and leap with her from the flying
vehicle, while the horses plunged madly on, but I did not know what in
this case would become of Mrs. March and me.  Besides, I could think of
nothing that would frighten our driver’s horses, and I dismissed the
fleeting notion of getting any others because Mrs. March liked their
being so safe, and she had, besides, interested herself particularly in
the driver, who had a family and counted upon our custom.  The poor
fellow came in sight presently, and smilingly made the usual arrangement
with me, and an hour later he delivered us all sound in wind and limb at
the racecourse.
I watched in vain for signs of uncommon tenderness in the two young
people.  If anything they were rather stiff and distant with each other,
and I asked myself whether this might not be from an access of
consciousness.  Kendricks was particularly devoted to Mrs. March, who, in
the airy detachment with which she responded to his attentions, gave me
the impression that she had absolutely dismissed her suspicions of the
night before, or else had heartlessly abandoned the affair to me
altogether.  If she had really done this, then I saw no way out of it for
me but by an accident which should reveal them to each other.  Perhaps
some one might insult Miss Gage—some ruffian—and Kendricks might strike
the fellow; but this seemed too squalid.  There might be a terrible jam,
and he interpose his person between her and the danger of her being
crushed to death; or the floor of the grand stand might give way, and
everybody be precipitated into the space beneath, and he fight his way,
with her senseless form on his arm, over the bodies of the mangled and
dying.  Any of these things would have availed in a novel, and something
of the kind would have happened, too.  But, to tell the truth, nothing
whatever happened, and if it had not been for that anxiety on my mind I
should have thought it much pleasanter so.
Even as it was I felt a measure of the hilarity which commonly fills me
at a running race, and I began to lose in the charm of the gay scene the
sense of my responsibility, and little by little to abate the vigilance
apparently left all to me.  The day was beautiful; the long heat had
burned itself out, and there was a clear sparkle in the sunshine, which
seemed blown across the wide space within the loop of the track by the
delicate breeze.  A vague, remote smell of horses haunted the air, with
now and then a breath of the pines from the grove shutting the
race-ground from the highway.  We got excellent places, as one always
may, the grand stand is so vast, and the young people disposed themselves
on the bench in front of us, but so near that we were not tempted to talk
them over.  The newsboys came round with papers, and the boys who sold
programmes of the races; from the bar below there appeared from time to
time shining negroes in white linen jackets, with trays bearing tall
glasses of lemonade, and straws tilted in the glasses.  Bookmakers from
the pool-rooms took the bets of the ladies, who formed by far the greater
part of the spectators on the grand stand, and contributed, with their
summer hats and gowns, to the gaiety of the ensemble.  They were of all
types, city and country both, and of the Southern dark as well as the
Northern fair complexion, with so thick a sprinkling of South Americans
that the Spanish gutturals made themselves almost as much heard as the
Yankee nasals.  Among them moved two nuns of some mendicant order,
receiving charity from the fair gamblers, who gave for luck without
distinction of race or religion.
I leaned forward and called Kendricks’s attention to the nuns, and to the
admirable literary quality of the whole situation.  He was talking to
Miss Gage, and he said as impatiently as he ever suffered himself to
speak, “Yes, yes; tremendously picturesque.”
“You ought to get something out of it, my dear fellow.  Don’t you feel
copy in it?”
“Oh, splendid, of course; but it’s your ground, Mr. March.  I shouldn’t
feel it right to do anything with Saratoga after you had discovered it,”
and he turned eagerly again to Miss Gage.
My wife put her hand on my sleeve and frowned, and I had so far lost
myself in my appreciation of the scene that I was going to ask her what
the matter was, when a general sensation about me made me look at the
track, where the horses for the first race had already appeared, with
their jockeys in vivid silk jackets of various dyes.  They began to form
for the start with the usual tricks and feints, till I became very
indignant with them, though I had no bets pending, and did not care in
the least which horse won.  What I wanted was to see the race, the
flight, and all this miserable manoeuvring was retarding it.  Now and
then a jockey rode his horse far off on the track and came back between
the false starts; now and then one kept stubbornly behind the rest and
would not start with them.  How their several schemes and ambitions were
finally reconciled I never could tell, but at last the starter’s flag
swept down and they were really off.  Everybody could have seen perfectly
well as they sat, but everybody rose and watched the swift swoop of the
horses, bunched together in the distance, and scarcely distinguishable by
the colours of their riders.  The supreme moment came for me when they
were exactly opposite the grand stand, full half a mile away—the moment
that I remembered from year to year as one of exquisite illusion—for then
the horses seemed to lift from the earth as with wings, and to skim over
the track like a covey of low-flying birds.  The finish was tame to this.
Mrs. March and I had our wonted difference of opinion as to which horse
had won, and we were rather uncommonly controversial because we had both
decided upon the same horse, as we found, only she was talking of the
jockey’s colours, and I was talking of the horse’s.  We appealed to
Kendricks, who said that another horse altogether had won the race, and
this compromise pacified us.
We were all on foot, and he suggested, “We could see better, couldn’t we,
if we went farther down in front?”  And Mrs. March answered—
“No, we prefer to stay here; but you two can go.”  And when they had
promptly availed themselves of her leave, she said to me, “This is
killing me dead, Basil, and if it keeps up much longer I don’t believe I
can live through it.  I don’t care now, and I believe I shall throw them
together all I can from this out.  The quicker they decide whether
they’re in love or not the better.  I have some rights too.”
Her whirling words expressed the feeling in my own mind.  I had the same
sense of being trifled with by these young people, who would not behave
so conclusively toward each other as to justify our interference on the
ground that they were in love, nor yet treat each other so indifferently
as to relieve us of the strain of apprehension.  I had lost all faith in
accident by this time, and I was quite willing to leave them to their own
devices; I was so desperate that I said I hoped they would get lost from
us, as they had from me the night before, and never come back, but just
keep on wandering round for ever.  All sorts of vengeful thoughts went
through my mind as I saw them leaning toward each other to say something,
and then drawing apart to laugh in what seemed an indefinite comradery
instead of an irrepressible passion.  Did they think we were going to let
this sort of thing go on?  What did they suppose our nerves were made of?
Had they no mercy, no consideration?  It was quite like the selfishness
of youth to wish to continue in that fool’s paradise, but they would find
out that middle age had its rights too.  I felt capable of asking them
bluntly what they meant by it.  But when they docilely rejoined us at the
end of the races, hurrying up with some joke about not letting me get
lost this time, and Miss Gage put herself at my wife’s side and Kendricks
dropped into step with me, all I had been thinking seemed absurd.  They
were just two young people who were enjoying a holiday-time together, and
we were in no wise culpable concerning them.
I suggested this to Mrs. March when we got home, and, in the need of some
relief from the tension she had been in, she was fain to accept the
theory provisionally, though I knew that her later rejection of it would
be all the more violent for this respite.
XV
THERE was to be a hop at the Grand Union that night, and I had got
tickets for it in virtue of my relation to Every Other Week.  I must
say the clerk who gave them me was very civil about it; he said they were
really only for the hotel guests, but he was glad to give them to
outsiders who applied with proper credentials; and he even offered me
more tickets than I asked for.
Miss Gage was getting a dress for the hop, and it was to be finished that
day.  I think women really like the scare of thinking their dresses will
not be done for a given occasion, and so arrange to have them at the last
moment.  Mrs. March went with the girl early in the afternoon to have it
tried on for the last time, and they came home reporting that it was a
poem.  My wife confided to me that it was not half done—merely begun, in
fact—and would never be finished in time in the world.  She also assured
Miss Gage that she need not be the least uneasy; that there was not an
hour’s work on the dress; and that the dress-maker’s reputation was at
stake, and she would not dare to fail her.  I knew she was perfectly
sincere in both these declarations, which were, indeed, merely the
expression of two mental attitudes, and had no relation to the facts.
She added to me that she was completely worn out with anxiety and worry,
and I must not think of her going to the hop.  I would have to do the
chaperoning for her, and she did hope that I would not forget what I was
sent for, or get talking with somebody, and leave Miss Gage altogether to
Kendricks.  She said that quite likely there might be friends or
acquaintances of his at the hop—such a large affair—whom he would want to
show some attention, and I must take charge of Miss Gage myself, and try
to find her other partners.  She drilled me in the duties of my position
until I believed that I was letter-perfect, and then she said that she
supposed I would commit some terrible blunder that would ruin everything.
I thought that this was very likely, too, but I would not admit it.
The dress came home at nine o’clock, and operated a happy diversion from
my imaginable shortcomings; for it appeared from Mrs. March’s asides to
me that it was a perfect horror in the set, and that everybody could see
that it had been simply slung together at the last moment, and she
would never, as long as the world stood, go to that woman for anything
again.
I must say I could not myself see anything wrong about the dress.  I
thought it exquisite in tint and texture; a delicate, pale-greenish film
that clung and floated, and set off the girl’s beauty as the leafage of a
flower heightens the loveliness of a flower.  I did not dare to say this
in the face of Mrs. March’s private despair, and I was silent while the
girl submitted to be twirled about for my inspection like a statue on a
revolving pedestal.  Kendricks, however, had no such restrictions upon
him, and I could see him start with delight in the splendid vision before
he spoke.
“Isn’t it a poem?” demanded Mrs. March.  “Isn’t it a perfect lyric?”
“Why should you have allowed her to be transported altogether into the
ideal?  Wasn’t she far enough from us before?” he asked; and I found
myself wishing that he would be either less or more articulate.  He ought
to have been mute with passion, or else he ought to have been frankly
voluble about the girl’s gown, and gone on about it longer.  But he
simply left the matter there, and though I kept him carefully under my
eye, I could not see that he was concealing any further emotion.  She, on
her part, neither blushed nor frowned at his compliment; she did nothing
by look or gesture to provoke more praise; she took it very much as the
beautiful evening might, so undeniably fine, so perfect in its way.
She and the evening were equally fitted for the event to which they
seemed equally dedicated.  The dancing was to be out of doors on a vast
planking, or platform, set up in the heart of that bosky court which the
hotel incloses.  Around this platform drooped the slim, tall Saratogan
trees, and over it hung the Saratogan sky, of a nocturnal blue very rare
in our latitude, with the stars faint in its depths, and by and by a
white moon that permitted itself a modest competition with the electric
lights effulgent everywhere.  There was a great crowd of people in the
portico, the vestibule, and the inner piazzas, and on the lawn around the
platform, where “the trodden weed” sent up the sweet scent of bruised
grass in the cool night air.  My foolish old heart bounded with a pulse
of youth at the thought of all the gay and tender possibilities of such a
scene.
But the young people under my care seemed in no haste to mingle in it.
We oldsters are always fancying youth impatient, but there is no time of
life which has so much patience.  It behaves as if it had eternity before
it—an eternity of youth—instead of a few days and years, and then the
frosty poll.  We who are young no longer think we would do so and so if
we were young, as women think they would do so and so if they were men;
but if we were really young again, we should not do at all what we think.
We should not hurry to experience our emotions; we should not press
forward to discharge our duties or repair our mistakes; we should not
seize the occasion to make a friend or reconcile an enemy; we should let
weeks and months go by in the realisation of a passion, and trust all
sorts of contingencies and accidents to help us out with its confession.
The thoughts of youth are very long, and its conclusions are deliberate
and delayed, and often withheld altogether.  It is age which is
tremulously eager in these matters, and cannot wait with the fine
patience of nature in her growing moods.
As soon, even, as I was in the hotel I was impatient to press through to
the place where the dancing was, and where I already heard the band
playing.  I knew very well that when we got there I should have to sit
down somewhere on the edge of the platform with the other frumps and
fogies, and begin taking cold in my dress-coat, and want to doze off
without being able to, while my young people were waltzing together, or
else promenading up and down ignoring me, or recognising me by the offer
of a fan, and the question whether I was not simply melting; I have seen
how the poor chaperon fares at such times.  But they, secure of their
fun, were by no means desirous to have it over, or even to have it begin.
They dawdled through the thronged hotel office, where other irresponsible
pairs were coming and going under the admiring eyes of the hotel
loungers, and they wandered up and down the waste parlours, and sat on
tête-à-têtes just to try them, apparently; and Miss Gage verified in
the mirrors the beauty which was reflected in all eyes.  They amused
themselves with the extent of the richly-carpeted and upholstered
desolation around them, where only a few lonely and aging women lurked
about on sofas and ottomans; and they fell to playing with their
compassion for the plebeian spectators at the long verandah windows
trying to penetrate with their forbidden eyes to the hop going on in the
court far beyond the intermediary desert of the parlours.
When they signified at last that they were ready for me to lead them on
to the dance, I would so much rather have gone to bed that there are no
words for the comparison.  Then, when we got to the place, which I should
never have been able to reach in the world if it had not been for the
young energy and inspiration of Kendricks, and they had put me in a
certain seat with Miss Gage’s wraps beside me where they could find me,
they went off and danced for hours and hours.  For hours and hours?  For
ages and ages! while I withered away amid mouldering mothers, and saw my
charges through the dreadful half-dreams of such a state whirling in the
waltz, hopping in the polka, sliding in the galop, and then endlessly
walking up and down between the dances, and eating and drinking the chill
refreshments that it made my teeth chatter to think of.  I suppose they
decently came to me from time to time, though they seemed to be always
dancing, for I could afterward remember Miss Gage taking a wrap from me
now and then, and quickly coming back to shed it upon my lap again.  I
got so chilled that if they had not been unmistakably women’s wraps I
should have bundled them all about my shoulders, which I could almost
hear creak with rheumatism.  I must have fallen into a sort of drowse at
last; for I was having a dispute with some sort of authority, which
turned out to be Mrs. March, and upbraiding her with the fact that there
were no women’s wraps which would also do for a man, when the young
people stood arm in arm before me, and Miss Gage said that she was tired
to death now, and they were going.
But it appeared that they were only going as far as the parlours for the
present; for when they re-entered the hotel, they turned into them, and
sat down there quite as if that had been the understanding.  When I
arrived with the wraps, I was reminded of something, and I said, “Have
you two been dancing together the whole evening?”
They looked at each other as if for the first time they now realised the
fact, and Kendricks said, “Why, of course we have!  We didn’t know
anybody.”
“Very well, then,” I said; “you have got me into a scrape.”
“Oh, poor Mr. March!” cried the girl.  “How have we done it?”
“Why, Mrs. March said that Mr. Kendricks would be sure to know numbers of
people, and I must get you other partners, for it wouldn’t do for you to
dance the whole evening together.”
She threw herself back in the chair she had taken, and laughed as if this
were the best joke in the world.
He said hardily, “You see it has done.”
“And if it wouldn’t do,” she gasped, “why didn’t you bring me the other
partners?”
“Because I didn’t know any,” I said; and this seemed to amuse them both
so much that I was afraid they would never get their breath.
She looked by and by at her dancing-card, and as soon as she could wipe
the tears from her eyes she said, “No; there is no other name there”; and
this seemed even a better joke than the other from the way they joined in
laughing at it.
“Well, now,” I said, when they were quiet again, “this won’t do, my young
friends.  It’s all very well for you, and you seem to like it; but I am
responsible for your having passed a proper evening under my chaperonage,
and something has got to be done to prove it.”  They saw the
reasonableness of this, and they immediately became sober.  “Kendricks,”
I asked, “can’t you think of something?”
No, he said, he couldn’t; and then he began to laugh again.
I applied to her in the same terms; but she only answered, “Oh, don’t ask
me,” and she went off laughing too.
“Very well, then,” I said; “I shall have to do something desperate, and I
shall expect you both to bear me out in it, and I don’t want any
miserable subterfuges when it comes to the point with Mrs. March.  Will
you let me have your dancing-card Miss Gage?”  She detached it, and
handed it to me.  “It’s very fortunate that Mr. Kendricks wrote his name
for the first dance only, and didn’t go on and fill it up.”
“Why, we didn’t think it was worth while!” she innocently explained.
“And that’s what makes it so perfectly providential, as Mrs. March says.
Now then,” I went on, as I wrote in the name of a rising young
politician, who happened just then to have been announced as arriving in
Saratoga to join some other leaders in arranging the slate of his party
for the convention to meet a month later, “we will begin with a good
American.”
I handed the card to Kendricks.  “Do you happen to remember the name of
the young French nobleman who danced the third dance with Miss Gage?”
“No,” he said; “but I think I could invent it.”  And he dashed down an
extremely probable marquis, while Miss Gage clapped her hands for joy.
“Oh, how glorious! how splendid!”
I asked, “Will you ever give me away the longest day you live?”
“Never,” she promised; and I added the name of a South American doctor,
one of those doctors who seem to be always becoming the presidents of
their republics, and ordering all their patients of opposite politics to
be shot in the plaza.
Kendricks entered a younger son of an English duke, and I contributed the
hyphenated surname of a New York swell, and between us we soon had all
the dances on Miss Gage’s card taken by the most distinguished people.
We really studied probability in the forgery, and we were proud of the
air of reality it wore in the carefully differenced handwritings, with
national traits nicely accented in each.
XVI
THE fun of it all was that Mrs. March was not deceived for an instant.
“Oh, nonsense!” she said, when she glanced at our pretty deception, which
we presented with perhaps too perfect seriousness.  “Then you danced only
the first dance?”
“No, no!” Miss Gage protested.  “I danced every dance as long as I
stayed.”  She laughed with her handkerchief to her mouth and her eyes
shining above.
“Yes; I can testify to that, Mrs. March,” said Kendricks, and he laughed
wildly, too.  I must say their laughter throughout was far beyond the
mirthfulness of the facts.  They both protested that they had had the
best time in the world, and the gayest time; that I had been a mirror of
chaperons, and followed them round with my eyes wherever they went like a
family portrait; and that they were the most exemplary young couple at
the hop in their behaviour.  Mrs. March asked them all about it, and she
joined in their fun with a hilarity which I knew from long experience
boded me no good.
When Kendricks had gone away, and Miss Gage had left us for the night
with an embrace, whose fondness I wondered at, from Mrs. March, an awful
silence fell upon us in the deserted parlour where she had waited up.
I knew that when she broke the silence she would begin with, “Well, my
dear!” and this was what she did.  She added, “I hope you’re convinced
now!”
I did not even pretend not to understand.  “You mean that they are in
love?  I suppose that their we-ing and us-ing so much would indicate
something of the kind.”
“It isn’t that alone; everything indicates it.  She would hardly let go
of him with her eyes.  I wish,” sighed Mrs. March, and she let her head
droop upon her hand a moment, “I could be as sure of him as I am of her.”
“Wouldn’t that double the difficulty?” I ventured to suggest, though till
she spoke I had not doubted that it was the case.
“I should make you speak to him if I were sure of him; but as it is I
shall speak to her, and the sooner the better.”
“To-night?” I quaked.
“No; I shall let the poor thing have her sleep to-night.  But the first
thing in the morning I shall speak, and I want you to send her up to me
as soon as she’s had her breakfast.  Tell her I’m not well, and shall not
be down; I shall not close my eyes the whole night.  And now,” she added,
“I want you to tell me everything that happened this evening.  Don’t omit
a word, or a look, or a motion.  I wish to proceed intelligently.”
I hope I was accurate in the history of the hop which I gave Mrs. March;
I am sure I was full.  I think my account may be justly described as
having a creative truthfulness, if no other merit.  I had really no wish
to conceal anything except the fact that I had not, in my utter
helplessness, even tried to get Miss Gage any other partners.  But in the
larger interest of the present situation, Mrs. March seemed to have lost
the sense of my dereliction in this respect.  She merely asked, “And it
was after you went back to the parlour, just before you came home, that
you wrote those names on her card?”
“Kendricks wrote half of them,” I said.
“I dare say.  Well, it was very amusing, and if the circumstances were
different, I could have entered into the spirit of it too.  But you see
yourself, Basil, that we can’t let this affair go any further without
dealing frankly with her.  You can’t speak to her, and I must.  Don’t
you see?”
I said that I saw, but I had suddenly a wild wish that it were
practicable for me to speak to Miss Gage.  I should have liked to have a
peep into a girl’s heart at just such a moment, when it must be quivering
with the unconfessed sense of love, and the confident hope of being
loved, but while as yet nothing was assured, nothing was ascertained.  If
it would not have been shocking, if it would not have been sacrilegious,
it would have been infinitely interesting, and from an æsthetic point of
view infinitely important.  I thought that I should have been willing to
undergo all the embarrassment of such an inquiry for the sake of its
precious results, if it had been at all possible; but I acquiesced that
it would not be possible.  I felt that I was getting off pretty lightly
not to have it brought home to me again that I was the cause of all this
trouble, and that if it had not been for me there would have been, as far
as Mrs. March was concerned, no Miss Gage, and no love-affair of hers to
deal with.  I debated in my mind a moment whether I had better urge her
to let me speak to Kendricks after all; but I forbore, and in the morning
I waited about in much perturbation, after I had sent Miss Gage to her,
until I could know the result of their interview.  When I saw the girl
come away from her room, which she did rather trippingly, I went to her,
and found her by no means the wreck I had expected the ordeal to leave
her.
“Did you meet Miss Gage?” she asked.
“Yes,” I returned, with tremulous expectation.
“Well, don’t you think she looks perfectly divine in that gown?  It’s one
of Mme. Cody’s, and we got it for thirty dollars.  It would have been
fifty in New York, and it was, here, earlier in the season.  I shall
always come here for some of my things; as soon as the season’s a little
past they simply fling them away.  Well, my dear!”
“Well, what?”
“I didn’t speak to her after all.”
“You didn’t!  Don’t you think she’s in love with him, then?”
“Dead.”
“Well?”
“Well, I couldn’t somehow seem to approach the subject as I had expected
to.  She was so happy, and so good, and so perfectly obedient, that I
couldn’t get anything to take hold of.  You see, I didn’t know but she
might be a little rebellious, or resentful of my interference; but in the
little gingerly attempts I did make she was so submissive, don’t you
understand?  And she was very modest about Mr. Kendricks’ attentions, and
so self-depreciatory that, well—”
“Look here, Isabel,” I broke in, “this is pretty shameless of you.  You
pretend to be in the greatest kind of fidge about this girl; and you make
me lie awake all night thinking what you’re going to say to her; and now
you as much as tell me you were so fascinated with the modest way she was
in love that you couldn’t say anything to her against being in love on
our hands in any sort of way.  Do you call this business?”
“Well, I don’t care if I did encourage her—”
“Oh, you even encouraged her!”
“I didn’t encourage her.  I merely praised Mr. Kendricks, and said how
much you thought of him as a writer.”
“Oh! then you gave the subject a literary cast.  I see!  Do you think
Miss Gage was able to follow you?”
“That doesn’t matter.”
“And what do you propose to do now?”
“I propose to do nothing.  I think that I have done all my duty requires,
and that now I can leave the whole affair to you.  It was your affair in
the beginning.  I don’t see why I should worry myself about it.”
“It seems to me that this is a very strange position for a lady to take
who was not going to close an eye last night in view of a situation which
has not changed in the least, except for the worse.  Don’t you think you
are rather culpably light-hearted all of a sudden?”
“I am light-hearted, but if there is any culpability it is yours, Basil.”
I reflected, but I failed to find any novelty in the fact.  “Very well,
then; what do you propose that I should do?”
“I leave that entirely to your own conscience.”
“And if my conscience has no suggestion to make?”
“That’s your affair.”
I reflected again, and then I said, more than anything to make her
uncomfortable, I’m afraid: “I feel perfectly easy in my conscience,
personally, but I have a social duty in the matter, and I hope I shall
perform it with more fidelity and courage than you have shown.  I shall
speak to Kendricks.”
She said: “That is just what you ought to do.  I’m quite surprised.”
After this touch of irony she added earnestly, “And I do hope, my dear,
you will use judgment in speaking to him, and tact.  You mustn’t go at it
bluntly.  Remember that Mr. Kendricks is not at all to blame.  He began
to show her attention to oblige us, and if she has fallen in love with
him it is our fault.”
“I shall handle him without gloves,” I said.  “I shall tell him he had
better go away.”
I was joking, but she said seriously, “Yes; he must go away.  And I don’t
envy you having to tell him.  I suppose you will bungle it, of course.”
“Well, then, you must advise me,” I said; and we really began to consider
the question.  We could hardly exaggerate the difficulty and delicacy of
the duty before me.  We recognised that before I made any explicit demand
of him I must first ascertain the nature of the whole ground and then be
governed by the facts.  It would be simple enough if I had merely to say
that we thought the girl’s affections were becoming engaged, and then
appeal to his eager generosity, his delicate magnanimity; but there were
possible complications on his side which must be regarded.  I was to
ascertain, we concluded, the exact nature of the situation before I
ventured to say anything openly.  I was to make my approaches by a series
of ambushes before I unmasked my purpose, and perhaps I must not unmask
it at all.  As I set off on my mission, which must begin with finding
Kendricks at his hotel, Mrs. March said she pitied me.  She called me
back to ask whether I thought I had really better do anything.  Then, as
I showed signs of weakening, she drove me from her with, “Yes, yes!  You
must!  You must!”
XVII
IT was still so early that I had my doubts whether I should find
Kendricks up after the last night’s revelry, but he met me half-way
between our hotel and his.  He said he was coming to see how Mrs. March
was bearing Miss Gage’s immense success at the ball; but perhaps this was
not his sole motive.  He asked frankly how the young lady was, and
whether I thought Mrs. March would consider a lunch at a restaurant by
the lake a good notion.  When I said I had very little doubt she would,
and proposed taking a turn in the park before I went back with him, he
looked at his watch and laughed, and said he supposed it was rather
early yet, and came very willingly with me.
We had the pretty place almost to ourselves at that hour.  There were a
half-dozen or so nursemaids, pushing their perambulators about, or
standing the vehicles across the walk in front of the benches where they
sat, in the simple belief of all people who have to do with babies that
the rest of the world may be fitly discommoded in their behalf.  But they
did not actively molest us, and they scarcely circumscribed our choice of
seats.  We were by no means driven to the little kiosk in the lake for
them, and I should rather say that we were fatefully led there, so apt
were the associations of the place to my purpose.  Nothing could have
been more natural than that I should say, as we sat down there, “This was
where I first saw Miss Gage with her friends”; and it was by a perfectly
natural transition that I should go on to speak, in a semi-humorous
strain, of the responsibility which Mrs. March and myself had incurred by
letting our sympathy for her run away with us.  I said I supposed that if
we had not been willing from the first to try to realise for her some of
the expectations we imagined she had in coming to Saratoga, she never
would have fallen to our charge; that people really brought a great many
more things upon themselves than they were willing to own; and that fate
was perhaps more the fulfilment of our tacit ambitions than our overt
acts.  This bit of philosophy, which I confess I thought fine, did not
seem to impress Kendricks.  He merely said that it must be great fun to
have the chance of baffling the malice of circumstance in a case like
that, and I perceived that he felt nothing complex in the situation.  In
fact, I doubt whether youth perceives anything complex in life.  To the
young, life is a very plain case.  To be sure, they are much more alarmed
than their elders at getting tangled up in its web at times, but that is
because they have not had our experience in getting untangled, and think
they are never going to get out alive.  When they do, they think that it
is the only tangle they are ever going to be in, and do not know that
they are simply going on from one to another as long as there is enough
of them left to be caught in a mesh.  To Kendricks we Marches were simply
two amiable people, who had fancied doing a pleasant thing for a
beautiful girl that accident had thrown it in our power to befriend, and
were by no means the trembling arbiters of her destiny we felt ourselves
to be.  The difference between his objective sense and my subjective
sense was the difference between his twenty-seven years and my fifty-two,
and while this remained I saw that it would be useless to try to get on
common ground with him, or to give him our point of view.  If I were to
speak to him at all, it must be with authority, with the right of one who
stood in the place of the girl’s parents, and had her happiness at heart.
That is, it was something like that; but my words say it too bluntly.  I
found myself beginning, “I have rather had a notion that her father might
come on, and take the enterprise off our hands,” though, to tell the
truth, I had never imagined such a thing, which came into my head at that
moment through an association with the thought of parents.
“Have you any idea what sort of man he is?” asked Kendricks.
“Oh, some little local magnate, president of the village and president of
the village bank; I fancy the chief figure in the place, but probably as
ignorant of our world as a Cherokee.”
“Well, I don’t know,” said the young fellow.  “Do you think that follows
because he doesn’t live in it?”  I could see that he did not quite like
what I had said.  “I suppose ours is rather a small world.”
“The smallest of all worlds,” I answered.  “And in the eyes of Papa Gage,
if they could once be focused upon it, our world would shrivel to an
atom.”
“Do you think,” he asked, with a manifest anxiety, “that it would in
hers?”
“No; she is not the American people, and her father is, as I fancy him.
I make out from the vague hints that Brother Deering (as Fulkerson would
call him) dropped when he talked about him that Papa Gage is a shrewd,
practical, home-keeping business man, with an eye single to the main
chance, lavish, but not generous, Philistine to the backbone, blindly
devoted to his daughter, and contemptuous of all the myriad mysteries of
civilisation that he doesn’t understand.  I don’t know why I should be
authorised to imagine him personally long and lank, with possibly a
tobacco habit of some sort.  His natural history, upon no better
authority, is that of a hard-headed farmer, who found out that farming
could never be more than a livelihood, and came into the village, and
began to lend money, and get gain, till he was in a position to help
found the De Witt Point National Bank, and then, by weight of his moneyed
solidity, imposed himself upon the free and independent voters of the
village—a majority of them under mortgage to him—and became its
president.  It isn’t a pleasant type, but it’s ideally American.”
