“Tell them how poor I am, Paul, and ask them if they won’t help me.
It would be nothing to rich folks to send an old man ten dollars, or
twenty, and would do me a sight of good.”
“You must be crazy to ask me such a thing,” answered Paul, sternly.
“Have you no shame, or do you think I have none, to beg money of
strangers?”
“But I am so poor, Paul,” whined the miser.
“I am tired of hearing of that, Jerry,” said the boy, with an
expression of disgust on his face. “It was bad enough when I believed
you to be really poor, but now that I know you to have plenty of money,
and are very likely rich, it makes me sick to hear you tell such
falsehoods.”
“Is this the way you talk to a poor old man who has brought you up?”
whined old Jerry.
Paul was in no wise moved by this appeal. He knew too well the extent
of his obligations to the old miser.
“I have always paid my way, Jerry,” he said, coldly. “Even when I was
only six years old, I earned all I cost you. If you think I am any
expense to you, I am willing to leave you any time.”
“No, no, Paul,” said old Jerry in alarm. “I can’t spare you. I am
getting old, and I don’t want to be left alone.”
“Then don’t ask me to do what I am ashamed of, Jerry.”
Paul arrived at the party about twenty minutes after eight. He did not
care to be among the first in attendance. He was shown upstairs to the
gentlemen’s reception room, and, having adjusted his toilet, went
downstairs. Jennie and her mother stood at one end of the drawing room.
Paul made his way towards her, and, following the example of other
guests, shook hands, and offered congratulations, for it was Jennie’s
birthday.
“I am glad to see you, Paul,” said Jennie, with a smile, and her mother
echoed the welcome.
Turning away, Paul met the eyes of Mark Sterling, bent upon him with a
satirical look.
“Good evening,” said Paul, politely.
“So you’re on hand!” said Mark, not over courteously.
“As you see,” answered Paul, coolly. “That is a fine costume of yours.”
Mark sustained the character of a young Highland chieftain, his dress
being quite costly.
“Yes,” he answered, his vanity gratified, even by a compliment from a
telegraph boy. “You’ve got a new suit, haven’t you?”
“Yes.”
“It is a pity you went to such an expense. No one is likely to take
much notice of a telegraph boy.”
“O, I shall use it on duty,” answered Paul. “You are very considerate
for me.”
“Paul, let me introduce you to Miss Grace De Vere,” said Mrs.
Cunningham.
Paul bowed politely to a pretty brunette of fourteen, dressed as a
flower girl.
“Shall we promenade?” asked Paul, observing that many of the guests
were walking in couples.
“Yes, if you like. I suppose it is very appropriate for a telegraph boy
and a flower girl to walk together,” said Grace, laughing. “What a very
natural telegraph boy you make! Where did you get the uniform? Did you
borrow it of a real telegraph boy?”
“No,” answered Paul, “I had it made expressly for me.”
“I suppose that is better. I hired my suit of a costumer.”
As Paul and Grace were promenading, they met Mark escorting a
pale, sallow girl with a long nose, but very expensively dressed
as a maid of honor. Mark turned up his nose, but looked rather
envious, nevertheless, for Grace De Vere was not only pretty, but
of high family. He said something to his companion, and both stared
impertinently at Paul.
“Do you know Mark Sterling?” asked Grace.
“Only a little.”
“I don’t like him at all. He is awfully disagreeable. He looks as if he
didn’t like you.”
“I don’t think he does. Can you tell me the name of the young lady with
him?”
“It is Irene Braddon. Do you admire her?”
“I prefer my present partner,” said Paul.
“Thank you; you are very gallant. Still, it isn’t much of a compliment.
Irene belongs to a rich family, but she is disagreeable, and few like
her.”
“Is Mark an admirer of hers?”
“He likes to be seen with her because she is of a rich and prominent
family. But he likes his cousin, Jennie Cunningham, best. He is jealous
of every boy who pays her any attention. But I want to ask you a
question. Why have I never met you before at any parties? I am sure I
should have remembered you.”
“This is the first party I ever attended.”
“Indeed! How can that be?”
“Because I am really what I represent, a telegraph boy.”
Paul watched the face of his young companion closely, fearing that this
revelation would cut him off from her favor.
“You don’t mean to say that you are the telegraph boy that frightened
away the burglar?” inquired Grace, eagerly.
“I believe I am.”
“Why, you are quite a hero!” exclaimed Grace, enthusiastically.
“O, no,” answered Paul, modestly. “It didn’t take much courage.”
Grace asked Paul a great many questions, and did not seem at all
shocked to learn that she was escorted by a common telegraph boy.
“Come, Grace,” said Jennie, after a while, “we can’t have you two
monopolize each other. My cousin, Mark, solicits the honor of escorting
you. Paul, if you are a very good boy, you may walk with me.”
“Did you know, Miss Grace,” said Mark, “that you were walking with a
real telegraph boy?”
“Yes, he told me so.”
“I am surprised that my Cousin Jennie should have invited him here.”
“I am not at all. I think him the handsomest boy at the party.”
“There is no accounting for taste,” rejoined Mark, very much disgusted
at this laudation of a boy he despised.
“He is so agreeable, too,” added Grace, with malicious pleasure at her
companion’s discomfiture.
“He has plenty of cheek!” said Mark. “He tries to make himself very
conspicuous. It would be better taste to stand quietly in a corner.”
Later in the evening, Paul became more conspicuous, and Mark became
still more disgusted with him.
CHAPTER XXII. THE YOUNG MINSTRELS.
About half past nine Jennie beckoned Paul to come into the back parlor,
which was comparatively deserted.
“I am going to ask a favor of you,” she said.
“I shall be glad to do anything you wish,” said Paul, earnestly.
“I am preparing a surprise for the company--something not down in the
programme. I ask you to help me because you can sing.”
Paul blushed.
“I don’t call it singing,” he said, modestly.
“I am sure you have a very nice voice, Paul. Now I will tell you what I
want. You and I are to dress as Italian street singers--I have a harp
on which I can play a little. We will come in as soon as we are ready
and surprise the company.”
“Will it be necessary to sing in Italian?” asked Paul, with a smile. “I
have forgotten all mine.”
“You know as much as I do. We will sing some of the popular ballads.
Here is a list which I have written down. Do you know them?”
Paul looked over the list and selected three which he felt able to sing.
“Very well,” said Jennie, with satisfaction. “You will find your suit
ready in your dressing room. I have spoken to one of the boys--Arthur
Constable--to go up and assist you. Now, will you be ready in fifteen
minutes?”
“Yes,” answered Paul, confidently.
“I wonder what Jennie and the telegraph boy are talking about so
earnestly!” thought Mark, with a scowl, for he had just noticed their
conversation. “I never suspected that Jennie had such low tastes.”
An unpleasant frown gathered on Mark’s face, which he made no attempt
to conceal. He was getting to dislike Paul more and more.
Next the two whose intimacy had provoked his discontent left the room,
and his anger increased.
Presently, however, Mr. Cunningham entered the room and said, with a
smile:
“Young people, I have engaged the services of two Italian minstrels,
who will try to entertain you for a short time.”
Instantly there was a hush of expectation, for the announcement was
understood literally.
The door was thrown open, and Paul and Jennie entered. Paul wore a suit
of black velvet, and a hat also of velvet, in which it must be admitted
he looked very handsome. Jennie was attired also in a characteristic
national costume, and carried in her hand a harp.
As they entered together most of the company agreed that they made a
very attractive picture.
They advanced, hand in hand, till they reached a position at the head
of the room. Then Jennie struck her harp, and the two began to sing a
favorite melody, their voices according remarkably well.
There was a sound of applause at the end of the first song. Paul bowed,
and, taking his hat from his head, gravely made the round of the
guests. Pennies were dropped by such as had them.
When Paul reached Mark he was tempted to pass him by, for he saw the
scornful smile upon his face, but he did not care to make a scene, and
held out his cap to him as well as the rest.
Mark dropped in a penny.
“That’s for the monkey,” he said, in a significant tone. “Keep it
yourself.”
“Thank you,” said Paul, with unruffled good humor, for he felt that he
could afford to be good natured. “Your liberality is unexpected.”
Mark bit his lips, foolishly taking offense at this good natured retort.
Another song was vociferously called for and given. Then a third was
demanded, and the two minstrels retired amid a volley of plaudits.
“That was perfectly charming,” said Grace De Vere, enthusiastically.
“What a nice looking boy that Paul Parton is! He looked perfectly
lovely in his velvet suit.”
The boy to whom this was addressed was Mark Sterling, and it may well
be believed that it was far from pleasing him.
“Are you falling in love with him?” he asked, with a sneer.
“I do believe I am!” answered Grace. “Don’t tell him, though!”
“I am not likely to. The fellow is conceited enough already.”
“Now, Mark, you are too bad. To me he seems remarkably modest.”
“He ought to have more sense than to push himself forward so, being
only a telegraph boy.”
“I don’t care what he is; he is very nice and very good looking.”
“I suppose you admire his singing, too?”
“Yes, he has a sweet voice.”
“That’s a matter of opinion.”
“I do believe you’re jealous of him, Mark. You don’t like it because
Jennie didn’t ask you to take the part.”
This was really true, for Mark fancied himself a singer, though his
voice was thin and shrill. Had he taken Paul’s part the effect would
have been ludicrous, but, of course, he had no idea of this.
It so happened that he knew the three songs which had been sung, and
he was very much annoyed to have been passed over in what was the
pronounced success of the evening, and to see a mere telegraph boy
selected instead of him.
“Jealous of a telegraph boy!” repeated Mark, with a scornful
inflection. “I am not sunk quite so low as that.”
About eleven o’clock the party broke up. Being a juvenile party, it
was not kept up as late as if it had been attended by older persons.
Paul took his leave with the rest, feeling that he had enjoyed himself
uncommonly well.
“I must thank you for a pleasant evening, Miss Jennie,” he said, as he
said adieu to his youthful hostess.
“You did your part towards making it so, Paul.”
“Thank you for the opportunity.”
“Don’t forget to come soon to see us,” said Jennie, giving her hand to
Paul.
Paul bowed his thanks, and left the house with three or four others in
his company. Among them was Mark Sterling.
“Where do you live?” asked Mark, abruptly.
“Down town,” answered Paul, shortly. He felt reluctant to say that he
lived in Ludlow Street, although he conjectured rightly that Mark would
have no idea where it was situated.
“I thought, perhaps, you might live on Fifth Avenue.”
“Not at present; that may come later.”
Mark laughed disdainfully.
“When you give a party, I hope you will do us all the honor to send an
invitation.”
“Would you accept?”
“Yes, I think I would.”
“I will bear it in mind. Now, let me bid you all good night.”
Mark was disappointed to find that not one of his companions would
join in his sarcasms against the telegraph boy. All thought him very
agreeable and very handsome, and Mark was at last obliged to give up
his attack, and lapse into sullenness.
Paul walked to Sixth Avenue, though that was not the most direct
route homewards, and in place of taking a car, walked slowly down the
avenue. It was a pleasant night, and he felt broad awake, and by no
means fatigued. It seemed to him pleasanter to walk part of the way
at least. As he walked he fell into serious thought. He had left an
elegant house, crowded with a gay and fashionable company, and he
was going--where? To a miserable tenement house, in which he shared
a poor and ill furnished room with a squalid and miserly old man, in
appearance not above a tramp. Certainly the contrast was a startling
one. As he dwelt upon it, Paul felt more and more disgusted with his
home and surroundings.
“Why can’t I live in a refined house, among refined people?” he asked
himself. “I feel much more at home with them than with old Jerry. Must
I always live a beggar?”
Paul’s mental answer was an emphatic “No!” He was young and hopeful.
The world was before him. He was poor, but other poor boys had raised
themselves from poverty as great, and he felt that there was an equal
chance for him.
His reflections were interrupted by the sight of a tall young man,
not far in advance, whose unsteady gait showed that he was under the
influence of liquor.
CHAPTER XXIII. THE PICKPOCKET.
Such a sight as this is by no means uncommon in a large city, and of
course Paul had witnessed it many times. But for one circumstance, he
would have given the young man a passing glance, and gone on. But he
observed that the young man was followed. The person following was
also a young man, rather flashily attired, and, as Paul thought, of
suspicious appearance. It seemed to him clear that he had designs upon
the first young man, whose condition was likely to make him an easy
prey to an unscrupulous acquaintance.
“Where have I seen that man before?” thought Paul.
He was puzzled for a moment, and then he remembered that he had strayed
one day into a court room, and seen him as a prisoner at the bar,
charged with picking a pocket.
“That’s what he’s after now,” thought Paul. “I will prevent him if I
can.”
The telegraph boy moderated his pace, so as not to attract the
attention of the man in the rear, but kept a close watch over him.
Finally the pickpocket came to a sudden resolution, and quickening his
pace came up with the man he was following.
“Excuse me, my friend,” he said, smoothly, “but I see you are in need
of assistance. Won’t you take my arm? I’ll take you home, if you wish.”
“You’re very good,” said the stranger. “I’ve been drinking more than is
good for me, I’m afraid.”
“We all do that sometimes,” said his new acquaintance. “I’ve been there
myself. Where are you staying?”
“At the Albemarle Hotel. Am I going the right way? I’ve got turned
round, I think.”
“Yes, you are on the right track. I live close by your hotel myself, so
I can go along with you just as well as not.”
“Thanks; you are really very kind.”
“O, don’t mention it.”
The other made no objection to the pickpocket passing his arm through
his, and the two walked on together.
“He means to rob him,” thought Paul. “What can I do to prevent it?”
He didn’t quite like to make an accusation, though he remembered
the thief’s face perfectly, till he had some ground for warning the
intended victim. It might be that the pickpocket was merely taking the
part of the good Samaritan, though it was by no means probable.
The two men became sociable, and Paul was near enough to hear fragments
of the conversation. He gathered that the stranger was from St.
Louis--that he was visiting New York on a business errand, representing
a firm, of which his father was the head.
The pickpocket, who had been waiting only till he could gain the
stranger’s confidence, now felt that it was time to be carrying out his
plans. With dexterous fingers he managed to explore the pocket of his
companion, and Paul caught sight, quick as he was, of his appropriation
of his victim’s wallet.
“I shall have to leave you here,” said he, abruptly, having no further
motive for continuing the companionship. “Good night!”
“Good night!” said the stranger. “Sorry to lose your company!”
Paul was excited, as he might well be, for he saw that on him alone
depended the frustration of the thief’s plans.
“Stop thief!” he exclaimed, in a loud voice.
The thief looked startled, and turning into Thirty Seventh Street ran
towards Fifth Avenue.
Paul followed in close pursuit.
“Drop that wallet, or it will be worse for you!” exclaimed the
undaunted boy.
Had the night been dark, the thief would have taken the chances, and
retained his booty. But he was sure to attract attention, and might any
minute run into the arms of a policeman. The risk was too great.
“There, curse you!” he muttered, throwing down the wallet. “Now stop
following me!”
Paul picked up the pocketbook, and ceased the pursuit. He had
accomplished all he intended, and was willing to let the thief go free,
now that he had restored his plunder.
He retraced his steps to Sixth Avenue, where he found the stranger
waiting for him.
“Here is your pocketbook,” he said. “You have had a narrow escape.”
“By Jove! I should think I had,” answered the young man. “How much
money do you think there is in that wallet?”
“Is it a large sum?” asked Paul, his curiosity aroused.
“Fifteen hundred dollars--perhaps a little more. You’re a brave boy.
But for you I should have lost it.”
“I am very glad to have been of such service,” said Paul. “If the thief
only knew what a purse he had lost he would feel like murdering me.”
“What made you suspect him? You must have sharp eyes.”
“I believe I have,” answered Paul, “but I was watching him closely as I
walked behind. I knew him to be a pickpocket.”
“How was that?” asked the young man.
“I once saw him in the court room at the Tombs, being tried for theft.
I have not seen him since, but I recognized him at once. I saw him join
you, and I suspected his motive at once.”
“You saw my condition?”
“Yes, I saw that you were not yourself.”
“I had been making a fool of myself by drinking too much. I hope you
don’t drink?”
“No, sir, never.”
“You are wise. Will you walk with me to my hotel?”
“Yes, sir, where are you staying?”
“At the Albemarle. Do you know where it is?”
“O, yes,” answered Paul, smiling. He felt that he would hardly have
been fit for a telegraph boy if he had not known the location of a
hotel so well known.
“I have been spending the evening with a few friends who live in an
apartment house near the park. The punch was remarkably good, and I
drank more than was good for me. I suppose you wonder why I didn’t ride
home, instead of walking?”
“It would have been safer, at any rate.”
“I had a headache and thought I might walk it off. At any rate,
I should feel better for being in the open air. But I found some
difficulty in steering straight, as I dare say you noticed.”
“Yes, sir, I observed it.”
“Then this fellow came along. He offered to accompany me home, and I
never suspected that he was a thief. I am afraid you will think me
rather green.”
“O, no; the man’s appearance might easily deceive you.”
“It did not deceive you.”
“No, for I had seen him before. But will you pardon me for saying that
you were imprudent in carrying around so large a sum of money at this
late hour?”
“You are quite right. I was a fool, and I am willing to admit it.”
It was not long before Paul and his new friend reached the hotel, which
is in the block above the Fifth Avenue.
“Come upstairs with me,” said the young man.
“If you wish it,” answered Paul.
“I do; I have some business with you, but I won’t keep you long.”
Paul followed his new acquaintance into a handsomely furnished chamber
on the third floor. He involuntarily thought of the poor tenement house
room in which he and old Jerry made their home, and he wondered whether
it would ever be his fortune to be as well lodged as the traveler from
Missouri.
“Why not?” asked Paul, hopefully.
“Sit down,” said the stranger, pointing to a chair. “I won’t keep you
long.”
CHAPTER XXIV. A ROOM AT THE ALBEMARLE HOTEL.
The stranger was tall and well formed. He had certainly showed moral
weakness in yielding to the fascinations of drink, but he looked like a
smart man of business.
“Wait a minute,” he said, “and I will talk to you.”
He went to a stationary washtub, and bathed his head freely.
“There,” he said, after he had rubbed his face vigorously with a towel.
“I feel fifty per cent better. There is nothing like cold water after
all.”
“Inside as well as outside,” added Paul, with a smile.
“That’s where you are right, my boy. Evidently your head is level. You
say you are a telegraph boy?”
“Yes sir.”
“How do you like it?”
“Fairly well--for the present.”
“You wouldn’t like to follow it permanently, eh?”
“No, sir; by the time I got to be fifty or sixty, I might like to
change to something else.”
“You might be able to retire on a fortune.”
“It would be a very small one, judging from my weekly pay.”
“I think myself, unless you are wedded to the business, you might pass
your time more profitably. What do you think you would like?”
“To enter some business house where I could rise step by step as I
deserved it,” answered Paul, with animation.
“You have the right idea. Now let me tell you why I inquire. In the
fall my father will establish a branch house here, with myself at the
head of it. I don’t mind telling you that if I had lost the money I
have with me, it is doubtful whether he would have trusted me so far.
Now, thanks to your prompt assistance, I have been spared the natural
result of my folly, and my father will never know the risk I have run.
So you see that you have rendered me an important service.”
“I am sincerely glad of it, sir.”
“I mean that you shall be, and on your account. If I establish myself
here, I shall want a young assistant on whose intelligence and fidelity
I can rely. Do you know any such person?”
“I hope you mean me,” said Paul eagerly. “It is just the opening I have
been looking for, for a long time.”
“I do mean you. Have you a father or mother?”
“No, sir; unhappily not.”
“Have you no one belonging to you, then?” asked the young man with a
look of sympathy.
“No, sir, I can’t say that I have. I live with an old man who is not
related to me. It is better than being alone.”
“Doesn’t he rely upon you to contribute to his support?”
“He does, but he need not. He is a miser and has money deposited in the
Bowery Savings Bank, and elsewhere, I expect. I think he has enough to
carry him through to the end of his life.”
“If he is a miser you probably don’t live very luxuriously.”
“We live in a poor room in an east side tenement house, sir,” answered
Paul.
“You are not contented with that, I take it.”
“No, sir; when I compare it with the place where I spent this evening,
it makes me mortified and ashamed.”
“You were at a party, you said?”
“Yes, sir, in a fine brown stone mansion up town.”
“Isn’t it a little unusual for a telegraph boy living in a tenement
house to be invited to a fashionable party?”
“Yes, sir, but these are very kind friends of mine, who overlook my
poor social position, and notice me as much as if I lived in a house as
good as their own.”
“I think they must be uncommon people, but I approve them for all that.
‘A man’s a man for a’ that,’ as Robert Burns says in his poem. That is,
it makes no difference whether he is rich or poor, whether he lives in
a palace or a hovel, if there is good stuff in him, he deserves honor.”
“I would like to see the whole poem,” said Paul. “I think Burns is
right.”
“So do I, but I must not forget that it is late, and I am keeping you
from your bed. I have not told you my name yet.”
“No, sir.”
“It is Eliot Wade. The firm name is William O. Wade & Co., of St Louis.
We have a wholesale clothing house, and propose to establish a similar
one in New York. Now, when this arrangement is effected, how can I
communicate with you?”
“If you will write to Paul Parton, A. D. T., No. ---- Broadway, I shall
receive the letter. If I leave the telegraph service before, I will
tell them where to send any letter which is received.”
“And in case both fail, you will be sure to learn our place from the
advertising columns of the newspapers. In that case, call and inquire
for me.”
“Thank you, sir. I will be sure to do so.”
“You will be likely to find it to your advantage.”
Paul, concluding that there was nothing more to be said, rose to go.
“Good night, Mr. Wade,” he said. “I consider myself lucky in having met
you.”
“I can return the compliment. But I have not yet got through with you.”
“I beg your pardon,” said Paul, resuming his seat.
“You don’t suppose I would send you away without an immediate
acknowledgment of the service you have done me tonight?”
“The future employment which you promised me I consider a very valuable
acknowledgment.”
“That will, I hope, prove so, but there is nothing like a bird in the
hand.”
As Eliot Wade spoke, he produced the wallet which had been saved to him
by the intrepidity and presence of mind of Paul, and drew therefrom a
bank note, which he tendered to Number 91.
“Accept that with my thanks added,” he said.
Paul looked at the bill and his face expressed the amazement he felt.
It was a hundred dollar bill!
“You don’t mean to give me so much as this, Mr. Wade,” he ejaculated.
“Why not?” asked the young man, with a smile.
“It is a good deal too much.”
“On the other hand, it is about fifty dollars too little. Ten per
cent on the sum saved would be one hundred and fifty dollars, and it
is worth that. However, I will reserve that for a future occasion.
Consider me fifty dollars in your debt.”
“You are very liberal,” said Paul earnestly, “and I heartily thank
you. You can imagine that a hundred dollars is a large sum to a poor
telegraph boy.”
“Now,” said the young man, smiling, “let me give you a piece of advice,
suggested by my own experience. Don’t drop into any drinking saloon on
your way home, or you may fall into the hands of a sharper, as I did.”
“I will remember your caution, sir,” said Paul, smiling.
“It may be safer for you to ride home, as the hour is late.”
“I will do so, sir. Good night and thank you.”
“It seems to me that you are born under a lucky star, No. 91,” said
Paul to himself. “In a single evening I have received a sum of money
equal to half a year’s wages. If old Jerry only knew it, I should not
dare to fall asleep in the same room with him.”
He took the green car whose terminus was the Grand Street Ferry, and in
less than half an hour he reached the door of his humble lodging.
He went upstairs and entered the bed chamber--which contrasted so
strongly with the handsomely furnished hotel room which he had just
left. He expected to find old Jerry fast asleep, but he was mistaken.
The old man was lying on his poor bed in a cramped position, his eyes
open, moaning piteously.
“What is the matter, Jerry?” he asked, approaching the bed.
“I am sick, Paul,” said the old man. “I--I am feeling very miserable!
Do you think I am going to die?”
CHAPTER XXV. OLD JERRY’S WEALTH.
Old Jerry certainly did look weak and miserable. His face seemed
thinner and paler than usual; his thin gray hair looked quite
disordered, and there were dark rings around his eyes.
“You look sick,” answered Paul, pityingly.
“Do you think I am going to die?” asked the old man, tremulously.
“Oh, no, not yet awhile,” answered Paul, in a cheering voice. “But you
must have a doctor.”
“No, no; I can’t afford it,” said Jerry, in alarm. “Doctors charge so
much. They--they seem to think a man is made of money.”
“Would you rather die,” Paul exclaimed, impatiently, “than pay for a
doctor’s attendance? What good will your money do you if you die?”
“You--you might ask the druggist for some medicine to help me. That
would be much cheaper.”
“That won’t do you; you need a doctor. If you don’t have one, you may
die before morning.”
Jerry was thoroughly frightened now. He made no further resistance, and
Paul summoned a doctor having an office on Grand Street.
When he saw Jerry, and felt his pulse, he looked grave.
“I think he is going to have a low fever,” he said.
“Is it catching?” asked Mrs. Hogan, nervously, for Paul had waked her
up, and asked her to come in.
The doctor smiled.
“O, no,” he said. “Don’t be alarmed. Pardon me for asking,” he said,
turning to Paul, “but does your grandfather--I suppose he is your
grandfather--eat regularly and sufficiently?”
“I am afraid not, sir.”
“He has lowered his system, I should judge, by lack of nourishing food,
and at present his vitality is very low.”
“I can easily believe it, doctor,” said Paul. “I will speak to you on
the subject later. Do you think he is going to have a fever?”
“Yes, a low fever, as I said--the revenge of outraged nature for a
violation of her rules.”
“Am I going to die?” asked Jerry, his parchment skin assuming a
greenish hue. “I--I want to live; I am not ready to die.”
“That depends on whether you follow my rules.”
“I will if--if you don’t make me spend too much money; I am
poor--miserably poor.”
“I will see that your rules are followed, doctor,” said Paul,
finding it hard to hide the disgust he felt at this characteristic
manifestation of the old man’s miserly disposition.
“I see you are a sensible boy,” said the doctor, approvingly. “Perhaps
I had better speak to you privately.”
“Very well, doctor. As we have no other room, will you step into the
entry?”
The doctor followed Paul out.
“Before you give your instructions,” said the telegraph boy, “I want
to say that Jerry--he is not my grandfather--is a miser, and has
deliberately deprived himself of the necessaries of life.”
“Has he money?”
“He has enough, I am sure, to pay what is needful, but it will be hard
to get him to spend it.”
“He must have nourishing food, and stimulating medicines, or he cannot
recover. His life is at stake.”
“Will he need a nurse?”
“I suppose you can’t attend to him?”
“No; I prefer to attend to my regular business, and hire some one.”
“Then do so, for the old man will require some weeks, at least, to
recover from the low point to which he has brought himself.”
“I think I can get Mrs. Hogan to take care of him. You may give her
your directions.”
First, however, Paul made the proposal to the good woman. “I’ll see
that you are paid,” he said. “If I can’t get the money out of Jerry, I
will pay it myself.”
“But, Paul, dear, I wouldn’t want to take the little you have. You’ve
no more than enough for yourself.”
“I will show you something, Mrs. Hogan, if you won’t let Jerry know.”
“Shure I won’t.”
Paul produced the hundred dollar bill, and filled the soul of Mrs.
Hogan with amazement.
“Where did you get it?” she asked, in wonder.
“It was given me by a gentleman whom I saved from being robbed of a
good deal more,” he answered. “You see, Mrs. Hogan, I am not so poor as
you suppose. I will pay you seven dollars a week, if that will satisfy
you, for your care of Jerry, but I will try to get him to repay me the
money, for his life depends on what we are able to do for him.”
The doctor, upon Mrs. Hogan’s acceptance of the office of nurse, gave
her instructions. To begin with, though late, he directed that some
tea and oatmeal should be prepared and administered to his patient to
reinforce his failing strength.
It was nearly one o’clock when Paul threw himself down on the lounge
with his clothes on, and fell into a sound sleep.
Old Jerry did not immediately improve. His strength was so far reduced
that it required time to rebuild his enfeebled constitution. Mrs. Hogan
proved a good nurse. Indeed, in her younger days she had acted in that
capacity, and was not ignorant of the duties.
When Paul came home the next evening, he found the nurse waiting to
speak to him.
“The doctor says Jerry must be undressed, and not lay with his clothes
on,” she said, “but old Jerry is so obstinate that he won’t agree to
it.”
“Jerry, you will feel a great deal better to take off your clothes,”
said Paul, in a tone of expostulation.
“No, no!” objected Jerry, in a terrified tone.
“And why not?” asked Mrs. Hogan. “Shure, the doctor knows what’s best
for you.”
But Jerry obstinately refused.
“It’s a quare frake the old man has, not to be undressed like a good
Christian,” observed Mrs. Hogan.
“I think I know his objection,” said Paul. “We won’t trouble him just
now.”
The next day at noon Paul called at the house, having a few minutes to
spare. Mrs. Hogan met him with a smile of triumph.
“We’ve took off his clothes,” she said, “and I’ve put a night gown on
him, and he’s lying as peaceful as can be.”
“Didn’t he refuse?” asked Paul, in surprise.
“No, and a good reason why. He was out of his head, and so I asked Mr.
McQuade, downstairs, to come up and help me. And niver a word the old
man spoke, but seemed dazed like.”
“Where are his clothes?” inquired Paul, eagerly.
“Shure there they are!” said the nurse, pointing to a pile of wretched
garments on a chair near the bedside.
“I’ll stay here ten minutes, Mrs. Hogan,” said Paul, “and give you a
chance to go to your room.”
“Thank you, Paul. I’ll go and make a bit of tay for the old man.”
Paul locked the door after her, and eagerly took up the shabby old suit
which had been worn for years by old Jerry. He instituted a careful
search, and found himself richly rewarded. In one pocket he found a
bank book on the Bowery Savings Bank. His eyes opened with amazement
when he found nearly three thousand dollars set down to the old man’s
credit. There was another book, marked the Union Dime Savings Bank, a
bank in the upper part of the city. On this book deposits were entered
to the amount of eight hundred and ninety dollars. Feeling something
stiff behind the lining of the coat, Paul hastily ripped it open, and
found a certificate of one hundred shares of Erie, then selling at
forty eight dollars per share. This appeared to be all, except a few
dollars in money.
“It is my duty to take care of them,” reflected Paul. “Mrs. Hogan is no
doubt honest, but others might enter the chamber who would not scruple
to rob the old man. I will take care of them, and deposit them in a
safe place.”
He made a hasty calculation, and found that the two savings bank
books contained deposits amounting to three thousand eight hundred
dollars. The value of the Erie stock he afterwards ascertained to be
four thousand eight hundred, making in all eight thousand six hundred
dollars.
“How strange that a man with so much money should be willing to live
so miserably!” he thought. “Probably he has shortened his life by this
means.”
At this point Mrs. Hogan reentered the room.
Paul had replaced the clothes on the chair, and she did not observe
that they had been touched.
“Is there anything you want, Mrs. Hogan?” asked Paul. “If so, I can
leave some money with you.”
“I might, maybe, need to send Mike out to the druggist.”
“Here’s a dollar, then.”
“Shure, Paul, you’re very kind to the old craythur, though he’s no kin
to you.”
“Oh, I expect to be paid back some time.”
“I’m sure you will. We’ll try to keep life in the craythur, though it’s
little he enjoys it.”
“Perhaps he enjoys it as much in his way as you or I.”
“Shure it’s little I’d enjoy if I lived like him.”
“I agree with you, Mrs. Hogan. But I must be going.”
About three o’clock there was a knock at Mrs. Hogan’s door. A woman of
thirty presented herself.
“Shure, and it’s I that am glad to see you, Mrs. Barclay,” said the
hospitable widow. “I haven’t set eyes on you since you went over to
live in Jersey City.”
“No, I don’t often get over here. Today I had to bring clothes to a
customer, and thought I’d come and see you.”
The visitor was Ellen Barclay, whom a strange chance--or was it
Providence?--had brought unwittingly to the poor home of her husband’s
father.
CHAPTER XXVI. ELLEN BARCLAY’S DISCOVERY.
Mrs. Barclay had only experienced a feeling of relief when her husband
failed to return to her. She had grown accustomed to taking care of
herself and the children without him, and his presence seemed likely
only to impose upon her an additional burden. Though she earned her
living in a humble way, she was fairly educated, and could sew neatly,
but a brief trial with the needle satisfied her that it would be
quite impossible to obtain the comforts of life for three persons in
that way. So she had mastered her pride, and entered the lists as a
laundress.
“And how are the children, Mrs. Barclay?” asked Mrs. Hogan.
“They are both well, thank God.”
“And do you never hear anything of their father?”
Mrs. Barclay’s face clouded.
“Yes,” she answered, “he came home a few days since, but only stayed
one day.”
“Didn’t he bring you any money then?”
“No; he borrowed some from me.”
“It’s a shame, so it is, in a great, strapping man like him to leave
you to work for the poor children.”
Mrs. Hogan had never seen Mr. Barclay, or she would have recognized him
in the man whom she helped drive away from his father’s room, and was
utterly ignorant of the relationship between him and the old man whom
she was nursing.
“I don’t know but it’s wrong,” said Ellen, “but I believe I should be
happy if I thought he would never come again. He has only brought me
trouble, and I dread his influence upon the children; we are better off
without him. But how are you getting along yourself, Mrs. Hogan?”
“I’ve no cause to complain,” answered the Irish widow. “I’m well, and
Mike and I pick up a living. Just now I’m taking care of a sick man in
the room across the entry. It’s an ould man--a kind of miser he is, I
surmise--and his name is the same as your own, Mrs. Barclay.”
The name of Barclay is not an uncommon one, but this statement seemed
to produce a strong impression on Mrs. Hogan’s visitor.
“An old man named Barclay?” she repeated.
“Yes.”
“How old, should you think?”
“I don’t know, but he’s all dried up, and wrinkled. He may be siventy.”
“May I see him?” asked the visitor, eagerly.
“Shure you may go in with me when I give him his medicine.”
Ellen Barclay followed Mrs. Hogan into the opposite room, and looked
with strange interest at the wan, emaciated old man stretched out on
the bed.
“I’ve brought your medicine for you, Jerry,” said Mrs. Hogan,
soothingly.
“Jerry!” exclaimed the younger woman. “Is his name Jerry?”
“Shure it is; and what thin?”
“My husband’s father was named Jeremiah. This may be he.”
“Have you niver seen him?” asked Mrs. Hogan, in surprise.
“Never; I did not know he was living till my husband’s recent visit.
Then he spoke of his father’s being a miser, and his expecting to get
some money from him.”
“Well, well; if I ever heard the like! As like as not old Jerry is your
father in law. I’ll soon see.”
“Jerry, do you want to see your own son?” she asked, bending over, and
addressing her patient.
An expression of alarm overspread the old man’s face.
“Don’t let him come in! Keep him away!” he exclaimed.
“Are you afraid of your own son, thin?” asked the nurse.
“He is a bad man; he tried to rob me,” said the old man, looking about
him fearfully.
“I do believe it’s that man I threw the bilin’ water on!” exclaimed
Mrs. Hogan, in surprise. “What’s your husband’s appearance, Mrs.
Barclay?”
“He is tall and thick set, and his hair is inclined to be red.”
“Has he a scar on his right cheek?”
“Yes.”
“That’s the same man I drove away last week, wid the bilin’ water. He
was trying to hurt old Jerry, wasn’t he, Jerry?”
“Yes, yes,” muttered the old man. “He’s a bad man, and he wanted to
take away all my money, and I’m so poor.”
“Is he so poor?” asked Mrs. Barclay.
“No, it’s only his fancy. He’s what you call a miser; that’s what Paul
says.”
“Where is Paul? Paul is a good boy!” murmured Jerry, half unconscious,
but his attention arrested by the familiar name.
“Yes, he is a good boy,” repeated Mrs. Hogan. “It’s he that engaged me
to take care of Jerry, when he was took sick, and he tould me he’d see
that I was paid.”
“How long has this boy been with him? I remember now Mr. Barclay
mentioned a telegraph boy. He didn’t seem to like him. I should like
to see the boy; perhaps he could tell me something of the old man, and
help me to decide whether he is really my husband’s father. On what day
did James call here?”
Mrs. Hogan told her.
“It was the day after he left me. You say he got no money?”
“No; but he would if I hadn’t come in.”
“It is strange he has not been here since.”
“No, it isn’t, Mrs. Barclay; he was took in by a policeman, and I
expect he’s on the Island.”
Ellen Barclay breathed a sigh of relief. Had her husband been the man
he should have been, such news would have brought sorrow and distress.
Now she regarded it as an augury of peace. While he was in confinement
he would not be able to molest her.
“When can I see this boy, Paul?” she asked.
“Paul is generally at home some part of the evening, though he’s liable
to come in at odd times.”
“I will try to come over tomorrow evening, if you think he will be at
home.”
“It would be a good thing for you if the ould man has money, as Paul
thinks,” said Mrs. Hogan, in a low voice.
“Not if my husband were free,” said Ellen Barclay.
“Thrue for you! He came near murderin’ the ould man. But there’s a dale
of virtue in hot water,” added Mrs. Hogan, with a laugh. “He made a
mistake when he tackled Bridget Hogan, I can tell him that, now.”
“I shall have to go now, Mrs. Hogan. I left the children alone.”
“Not without a cup of tay. I’m just goin’ to make some for the ould
man, and you’re welcome to a cup.”
“Thank you, Mrs. Hogan. I know of old that your tea is good.”
“It is that same, if I say so myself.”
“One thing I can’t understand,” said Ellen Barclay, thoughtfully. “You
say the telegraph boy pays you for taking care of this old man?”
“Yes, he does.”
“But where does he get the money? Telegraph boys are not usually paid a
big salary.”
“That’s thrue; but Paul is such a favorite he gets many presents. He’s
an honest boy, and it’s my hope my boy Mike will grow up just loike
him.”
“I will see him for myself tomorrow evening. If Jerry, as you call
him, is really my father in law, I ought to know it. He seems a very
different man from my husband. I can’t see any resemblance between
them.”
“That’s not strange, neither. Pat Hogan’s father was a little, dried up
shrimp of a man like ould Jerry here, and Pat was five tin, or tin feet
five, in his stockings I disremember which.”
“I think it must be five feet ten,” said Ellen Barclay, with a smile.
“No doubt you’re right, ma’am. But just come round tomorrow evenin’ and
see Paul, and then, maybe, you’ll find out all you want to know.”
CHAPTER XXVII. JERRY DISCOVERS HIS LOSS.
It was not until late in the afternoon that Jerry regained sufficient
command of his faculties to observe that his clothes had been removed.
He uttered a cry of alarm which brought Mrs. Hogan into the room.
She found the old man struggling to rise in bed, but without success,
so great was his weakness.
“Don’t try to get up, Jerry!” she said, soothingly. “Lie still, there’s
a good man!”
“Bring me my clothes!” gasped Jerry.
“And what for do you want your clothes?” asked Mrs. Hogan, supposing
that he wished to dress. “Shure the doctor said you must have them
taken off. It would be better for you.”
“Bring them to me--quick!” gasped the old man once more.
