looked at Sylvester's companion curiously.
"A young friend of mine, Rachel," said the young man. "Get ready a
little supper for us, will you? Some tea, cold meat and toast."
"All right, Mr. Frank."
They went into a pleasant sitting-room, where Rupert was invited to sit
down.
"That was an old family servant," exclaimed Sylvester. "If you hadn't
been with me she would have taken me to task, for she saw I had been
drinking."
CHAPTER III.
IN A TIGHT PLACE.
Presently Rachel announced tea. Sylvester had bathed his face, and thus
removed some of the indications of his conviviality.
The house was handsomely furnished. The room in which the tea table was
spread was particularly cozy and comfortable, and when he took his seat
at the table, Rupert could not help wishing that his mother could be
with him.
"What are you thinking about, Rupert?" asked Frank Sylvester, who
noticed his expression.
Rupert hesitated.
"Come, tell me. I am your friend."
"I couldn't help thinking of the very different supper my mother will
have."
"To be sure. You are a good boy for thinking of her. Where do you live?"
"At 117 Elizabeth Street."
Frank Sylvester took out a note book and jotted down the address.
Rachel Clark waited upon the table. Sylvester saw that her curiosity was
excited about Rupert, and he decided to gratify it.
"I suppose you are wondering where I met my new friend, Rachel?" he
said.
"Yes, sir."
"He met me. I had been drinking too much, and I am afraid I should have
got into trouble if he had not taken charge of me."
Rachel beamed upon Rupert.
"He was very kind," she said, "but oh, Mr. Frank----"
"I know just what you are going to say, Rachel," said Sylvester,
good-humoredly. "I am going to have Rupert come and see me often, and he
will help keep me straight. And by the way, Rachel, his mother is poor,
and I want you to put up some cold meat and other nice things in a
basket. I will send them to her."
"I shall be very glad to do so, Mr. Frank."
"You will stand high in Rachel's good graces, Rupert," said Sylvester,
as she left the room. "She thinks everything of me, and evidently
believes I am safe in your company. Suppose I make you my guardian?"
"I am afraid you wouldn't look up to me with the proper respect, Mr.
Sylvester."
"Then for respect we will substitute attachment. Now tell me a little
about yourself. How does it happen that you are out of a place?"
"It's the dull times, Mr. Sylvester. I was in the employ of Tenney &
Rhodes."
"I know the firm."
"And they would have retained me if business had been good, but I was
laid off on Saturday."
"What wages did they pay you?"
"Five dollars a week."
"And you lived on that?"
"We tried to."
"While I have had and wasted large sums of money. If I were in business
I would give you a place. As it is, I will see if any of my friends want
a clerk."
When supper was over, Rupert said he must go.
"Won't you stay the evening?" asked his new friend. "At least wait a
few minutes. Rachel is putting up a basket for you."
The servant presently appeared with a basket neatly covered with a
napkin.
"Perhaps I had better send it by an expressman, Rupert."
"Oh, no, sir. I shall be glad to carry it myself. It will be very
acceptable at home."
As Rupert lifted it, Sylvester took from his pocket the purse from which
Rupert had paid the car fare and handed it to him.
"Accept it," he said, "in return for your friendly services."
"You are paying me too liberally, Mr. Sylvester."
"Let me judge of that."
In the street Rupert did not wait to examine the purse. It was growing
late, and he was in haste to get home. He feared that his mother might
feel anxious about him, and he made his way as quickly as possible to
the nearest Elevated station.
The train was only partly full, and Rupert found a seat near the door.
He placed the basket on the floor in front of him.
Next to him sat a young woman rather showily dressed. Rupert casually
took out the purse which had just been given him with the intention of
examining the contents, but it occurred to him that he might find a more
suitable place than an Elevated car, and he put it back again. His
actions had, however, been noticed by the girl at his side.
At Fiftieth Street she rose to leave the car, but had not quite reached
the door when she put her hand into her pocket and uttered a cry.
"I have been robbed," she exclaimed.
"Of what have you been robbed?" asked the guard.
"Of a purse."
"Where were you sitting?"
"Just here."
"Do you suspect anyone of taking your purse?"
"Yes, this boy took it. I am almost sure of it."
As she spoke she pointed to Rupert, who flushed with indignation.
"It is false," he said.
"If you don't believe me," said the girl, "search him. I am sure he has
the purse in his pocket."
"What kind of a purse was it?" asked a quiet-looking man, sitting on the
opposite side.
"It was a morocco purse," and the girl described the purse Rupert had in
his pocket.
"Young man we will have to search you," said the guard. "If you have a
purse in your pocket, produce it."
Rupert did so mechanically.
"There!" said the girl, triumphantly. "Didn't I tell you? Give it to me
and I won't say anything more about it."
"I can't do that," said Rupert, sturdily, "for it belongs to me."
"What barefaced depravity!" groaned a severe-looking old lady opposite.
"And so young, too."
"You're right, ma'am. It's shocking," said the girl. "I didn't think
he'd go to do it, but you can't tell from appearances."
"Young man, you'd better give up the purse," said the guard, who was
quite deceived by the young woman's assurance.
"No, sir!" said Rupert, pale but resolute. "The purse is mine, and I
will keep it."
"Did you ever hear the like!" said the girl. "You'd better call an
officer. I did mean to get off here, but I'll stay till I get my purse."
"Stop a minute," said the quiet-looking man opposite. "How much money
was there in the purse you say the boy took from you?"
"I can't rightly say," repeated the girl, hesitating.
"You can give some idea."
"Well, there was a little over two dollars in silver change."
"My boy," said the new actor in the scene, "will you trust me with the
purse while I ascertain whether this young woman is correct."
"Yes, sir," answered Rupert, who felt confidence in the good will of his
new acquaintance.
The lawyer, for he was one, opened the purse, and his eye lighted up, as
he looked inside.
"Did you say there was as much as five dollars in the purse?" he asked.
"No, sir, there wasn't as much as that," answered the girl, positively.
The lawyer nodded as if a suspicion were verified.
"Then the purse isn't yours," he said.
"There may have been more," said the girl, finding she had made a
mistake. "Yes, I remember now there was, for my sister paid me back some
money she was owing me."
"That won't do," said the lawyer, quietly. "The purse isn't yours."
"If it isn't hers," said the old lady sharply, "how did she happen to
describe it so exactly?" and she looked round triumphantly.
"I could have described it just as accurately," returned the lawyer.
"You're smart!" said the severe-looking old lady, with a sneer.
"Not at all. Soon after the boy got in the car he took out the purse, so
that anyone could see it. The person who charges him with taking it from
her saw it in his hands, and scrutinized it closely. I understand now
the object she had in doing so."
"It's a shame," said the girl, with a last desperate effort at
imposition. "It's a shame that a poor girl should be robbed, and a
gentleman like you," she added spitefully, "should try to protect the
thief."
"So I say," put in the old lady, frowning severely at Rupert. "I don't
know who you are, young woman, but I advise you to call an officer and
have the young scamp arrested."
Rupert felt uneasy, for he knew that in an arrest like this he might not
be able to clear himself.
"Why don't you ask the boy how much money there is in the purse?"
continued the old lady.
"Well thought of. My boy, can you tell me what the purse contains?"
Rupert colored. He saw at once that he was in a tight place. He wished
now that he had examined the purse when he left the house in Harlem.
"No," he answered. "I do not know."
"Didn't I tell you?" cried the old lady, venomously.
Even the lawyer looked surprised.
"How is it that you can't tell, if the purse is yours?" he asked.
"Because, sir, it was given me this evening by a gentleman in Harlem,
and I have not yet had time to examine it."
"Your story may be true," said the lawyer, "but it does not seem
probable."
"Oho!" the old lady said, "the boy owns up that he is a thief. If he
didn't get it from this young woman he stole it from a man in Harlem."
Rupert glanced from one to the other, and he realized that things looked
dark for him.
CHAPTER IV.
A FALSE REPORT.
"What was the name of the gentleman in Harlem from whom you say you
obtained the purse?" asked the lawyer.
"Mr. Frank Sylvester," answered Rupert, promptly.
The lawyer looked interested.
"I know Mr. Sylvester," he said. "I live on the same street."
"He gave me this basket of provisions also," added Rupert.
"Why did he give you the purse?"
"Because I met him down town feeling ill, and at his request went home
with him."
"The boy is all right," said the lawyer, looking satisfied. "Here is the
purse. It is undoubtedly yours."
"And where do I come in?" asked the young woman. "Is that boy going off
with my money?"
Just then they reached the next station, and among those who boarded
the train was a policeman. The girl evidently recognized him, for she
turned away to escape attention.
Before the officer had a chance to speak to her the old lady broke in
with:
"Policeman, there's a poor girl been robbed of her purse by that boy,
and that gentleman there is protecting him."
The policeman laughed.
"So, Kate, you have had your purse stolen, have you?" he asked.
The girl looked embarrassed.
"I may be mistaken," she admitted.
"I am afraid you have been up to one of your tricks."
"Do you know the girl?" asked the lawyer.
"I have arrested her more than once for playing a confidence game. It is
only three weeks since I had her up before the Jefferson Market Police
Court."
"Well, I declare!" exclaimed the old lady, astounded.
The girl sprang from her seat when the next station was reached, and
hastily left the car.
"My boy," said the lawyer, "I must ask your pardon for doubting you
even for a moment. This good lady, too, ought to apologize to you."
The old lady sniffed contemptuously.
"I never apologize to boys," she said.
"Then, madam, take care you don't do them injustice," said the lawyer
gravely.
"I am old enough to manage my own affairs," cried the old lady, with
asperity.
"You are certainly old enough, but----"
"Don't you speak to me again, sir."
The lawyer smiled, and crossing the car sat down at Rupert's side.
"My boy," he said, "you came near getting into a scrape because you did
not know how much the purse contained. Suppose you count the money now."
Rupert took out the purse and followed this friendly advice. To his
gratification and surprise he found a ten-dollar gold piece and two
dollars and a half in silver.
His face expressed the joy he felt.
"That is a godsend," he said. "Do you think Mr. Sylvester knew about the
gold?"
"I have no doubt of it. He is a very kind-hearted and generous man. You
may keep the money without hesitation."
The time soon came when Rupert was to leave the Elevated train. He
hurried home with joyful heart, feeling that he was carrying good news.
When he entered the little room he found his mother again in an attitude
of despondency.
"What is the matter, mother?" he asked.
"I don't know what we shall do, Rupert," she said. "I went round to Mr.
Jacob Grubb's clothing store this afternoon for more work, and he said
business was so dull he would not have any more work for a month."
"Then you can take a vacation, mother," said Rupert, lightly.
"But how shall we live in that case, Rupert? You are out of work."
"Mother, don't worry. I have made more to-day than in any week when I
had regular work. First, here is a basketful of provisions," and he
removed the cover from the basket, displaying the contents. "Have you
had supper yet?"
"No."
"Then suppose you make some tea, and we will have a nice supper."
"You didn't buy those provisions, Rupert?"
"No, they were given me by a new friend. But that isn't all. What do you
say to this?" and he emptied the purse on the table.
"Truly you have been fortunate," said Mrs. Rollins, with new
cheerfulness. "It has come in good time, too, for our rent will fall due
on Saturday."
"Then, mother, you had better take this money, and take care of it till
it is wanted."
Just as Mrs. Rollins was placing the purse in a bureau drawer Mrs.
Marlow, who lived on the floor below, opened the door and entered the
room without knocking.
"Excuse my comin' in without knockin'," she said. "I didn't think."
Mrs. Marlow was in the habit of moving about in a noiseless, stealthy
way, and was not a favorite with Rupert or his mother. They felt that
there was something suspicious and underhanded about her.
"What can I do for you, Mrs. Marlow?" asked Mrs. Rollins, civilly.
"I'm all out of matches. Can you give me a few?"
"Certainly."
Mrs. Marlow took the matches, but did not go. She sank into a chair and
grew social.
"And how is the times affectin' you, Mrs. Rollins?" she asked.
"Rupert is out of employment. All he has to depend upon are odd jobs."
Mrs. Marlow darted a curious glance at the bureau drawer in which her
neighbor had deposited the purse.
"It don't make so much difference as long as a body has got money to
fall back upon," she said.
"That is not my condition."
"I'm sorry for it. I surmised you might have money ahead. You're better
off than I am, for I have no boy to work for me."
"If I am better off than anybody," said Mrs. Rollins, with a faint
smile, "I suppose I ought not to complain."
"My! What a nice lot of provisions!" exclaimed Mrs. Marlow, espying for
the first time the open basket. "Sure, you buy things by the quantity."
"That was a present to Rupert from a rich gentleman whose acquaintance
he made."
"It's a nice thing to have rich friends. Rupert, would you mind tellin'
the gentleman that you know a poor widder that would be thankful for his
kind assistance?"
"I don't feel well enough acquainted with Mr. Sylvester for that," said
Rupert, annoyed.
"Sure his name is Sylvester, is it? And where does he live?"
"In Harlem."
"And what's the street and number?"
"I should prefer not to tell you."
"Ah, it's selfish you are. You want to keep him to yourself."
"I don't expect to see him again."
"Then why do you mind tellin' me where he lives?"
"I don't want to annoy him."
Mrs. Marlow turned her attention to his mother.
"Would you mind givin' me a small bit of meat for my supper, you've got
so much?" she said.
Her request was complied with, and she at length left the room.
"What a disagreeable woman!" exclaimed Rupert. "She was prying about all
the time she was here."
"Yes. I don't enjoy her company much, but I can't order her out of the
room."
They had a nice supper, which Mrs. Rollins and Grace enjoyed. Rupert sat
down at the table, but confined himself to a cup of tea, having already
supped at Mr. Sylvester's.
The next day he resumed his hunt for a place, knowing well that his good
luck of the day previous would not take the place of regular employment.
But in dull times searching for a place is discouraging work.
He was indeed offered a position in a drug store up town at three
dollars a week, but there were two objections to accepting it. The small
pay would not more than half defray the expenses of their little
household, and, besides, the hours would be very long.
Resolving to leave no means untried, Rupert decided to remain out till
five o'clock. Perhaps something might turn up for him at the last
moment. He was walking in front of the Metropolitan Hotel when a boy
hailed him in evident surprise.
"Are you all right?" he asked.
"Why shouldn't I be all right, George?" asked Rupert, in great surprise.
"I thought you had broken your leg."
"Who told you such nonsense?"
"There was a slip of paper brought to your mother early this afternoon,
saying that you had been run over by a horse car, and had been carried
into a drug store near Thirtieth Street."
Rupert was amazed.
"Who brought the paper?"
"A messenger boy."
"And I suppose my mother was very much frightened?"
"She went out directly, and took the car up to Thirtieth Street."
"What can it mean?"
"I don't know," said George Parker, shaking his head. "I am glad it
isn't true."
"If anybody played this trick on purpose, I'd like to give him a good
shaking."
"You'd better go home and let your mother know you are all right."
"I will."
CHAPTER V.
MRS. MARLOW'S SCHEME.
Mrs. Marlow was of a covetous disposition, and not overburdened with
principle. When she saw Mrs. Rollins drop a purse into her bureau
drawer, she immediately began to consider how she could manage to
appropriate it. It was necessary to get into the room when the widow was
out, but unfortunately for her plans, Mrs. Rollins seldom left her
daughter.
"Why can't she go out and get a bit of amusement like other folks?" she
muttered.
Presently Mrs. Marlow had a bright idea. If the widow could suspect that
some accident had happened to Rupert her absence could be secured.
She made her way to a district messenger office, and wrote a message
announcing that Rupert had been run over and had his leg broken.
Then she went home and waited for the success of her stratagem.
Opening her door, she soon saw the young messenger ascend the stairs.
"Where does Mrs. Rollins live?" he asked.
"On the next floor," she answered, smiling with satisfaction.
Soon--almost immediately--Mrs. Rollins came down stairs in a terrible
state of anxiety. She scarcely noticed Mrs. Marlow, who was watching her
through the open door of her room, but hurried on her sad errand.
"Now's my chance!" thought Mrs. Marlow. "I hope the brat's asleep."
She crept softly up stairs and stealthily opened the door of her
neighbor's room without knocking. Once in the room, she looked
cautiously toward the bed. Grace had her face turned toward the wall and
was in a light slumber.
"Heaven be praised!" thought Mrs. Marlow.
She walked on tiptoe to the bureau and opened the upper drawer. There
was the purse! Mrs. Rollins had gone out in such a hurry that she had
not thought to take it.
Mrs. Marlow took it hurriedly and dropped it into her capacious pocket.
Before she could leave the room Grace woke, and turning her head saw
her.
"What's the matter, Mrs. Marlow? Why are you here?" she asked, in a
startled voice.
"Drat the child!" muttered Mrs. Marlow, under her breath. Then aloud, "I
thought you was asleep, my dear, and I didn't want to disturb you."
"But why are you here? Where is my mother?"
"She went out in a hurry like as if she had heard bad news. I saw her go
out, and thought you might want something. So I came up, but I didn't
want to disturb you."
Grace was surprised. It was not like Mrs. Marlow to be so thoughtful and
considerate.
"No," she said, "I don't want anything--except my mother."
"She won't be gone long, my dear."
"Did she say anything to you when she went out?"
"No; but I saw a telegraph boy come upstairs with a message like, and
she went out directly afterwards."
"I wish I knew what she went out for."
"You'll know soon. I must hurry back now, for my kettle will be bilin'."
Once in her own room Mrs. Marlow opened the purse, after she had locked
the door. Her delight at discovering the gold piece was great.
"And it's a gold piece you've got, Mrs. Rollins!" she exclaimed. "Sure
you're in luck, Maggie Marlow, for once in your life. It's ten dollars,
as sure as you live. And I might be passin' it off for a quarter. I'll
have to get it changed quick."
Mrs. Rollins had taken a dollar in silver, but there was a dollar and a
half left besides the gold piece.
After she got into her own room it occurred to her that she might have
hunted up the basket of provisions and helped herself from what was
left.
"But it don't matter," she reflected. "With all this money I can buy
what I like."
She put on her bonnet and shawl, and going down stairs went to the
nearest grocery store.
"What can I do for you, Mrs. Marlow?" asked the grocer.
"You may give me a pound of tea, a pound of butter, a pound of sugar and
a loaf of bread," answered Mrs. Marlow, volubly.
"Are you sure you've got money enough to pay for them?" asked the
grocer, doubtfully.
"Yes, and more, too."
Upon this assurance the articles were put up, and Mrs. Marlow passed
over the gold eagle.
"A ten-dollar gold piece!" exclaimed the grocer, in surprise. "And where
did you get so much money? Have you come into a fortune?"
"Sure it was given me by a cousin of my husband--he's a rich man, and
lives uptown. It isn't often he thinks of me, but he opened his heart
this time."
This explanation seemed plausible, and the grocer gave Mrs. Marlow her
change--about nine dollars.
"I'm glad you are so lucky," he remarked. "I shall be glad to have you
come again--as long as the money lasts," he added, with a laugh.
"Sure I made a good excuse. He'll never mistrust," said Mrs. Marlow to
herself, as she went back to her room. "Now, Mrs. Rollins, you may come
back as soon as you like."
Mrs. Rollins was away three hours. She visited the locality mentioned in
the note she had received, but could hear nothing of a boy being run
over by the cars and having his leg broken. She went into a drug store,
but neither the druggist nor his clerks had heard of any such accident.
"Where can they have taken my boy?" she moaned. "If I could only find
him, and have him brought home!"
There seemed to be absolutely no clew. After a while she bethought her
of the sick girl she had left behind.
"If Grace wakes up she won't know what has become of me, and will feel
frightened. I ought to have told her, or left word with Mrs. Marlow."
Weary and disheartened, she went home and toiled up the stairs to her
own room.
"Where have you been, mother?" asked Grace, anxiously, "and what did you
go out for?"
Mrs. Rollins sank into a chair, and could not answer at first for very
weariness.
"What message did the telegraph boy bring you, mother?"
"What do you know about the telegraph boy, Grace? Were you awake when I
went out?"
"No, mother. Mrs. Marlow told me."
"She told you about a telegraph boy calling on me?"
"Yes. I waked up and saw her in the room. She said you had gone out, and
she thought the telegraph boy had brought you bad news."
"So he did, Grace," said the widow, and she burst into tears.
"What is it, mother? Anything about Rupert?"
"Yes. Your poor brother has been run over by the cars and got his leg
broken."
"Did you see him? Where is he?" asked Grace, anxiously.
"No. I couldn't find him. I went to where the note mentioned, but could
not hear anything about him."
"Perhaps he was taken to some hospital."
"Yes, I didn't think of that. I am sure he will send me a message as
soon as he gets a chance. I wish I knew where he is."
Mrs. Marlow was aware that the widow had returned, but hesitated about
going upstairs. She was afraid some questions might be asked that would
involve her in trouble. Besides, Mrs. Rollins might discover the loss of
the purse, and the evidence of Grace might expose her to suspicion.
"Drat the child? I wish she hadn't waked up. Then I could deny that I
had been in the room at all."
But Mrs. Rollins did not have occasion to go to the bureau. She was
absorbed in thoughts of Rupert. She did not know what course to take to
get further knowledge of him. It seemed hard, but she could think of
nothing except to wait for some message from him.
All at once she heard a familiar step on the stairs.
"It sounds like Rupert," said Grace, half-rising from the bed in her
eagerness.
Mrs. Rollins rose and hurried to the door. She reached it just as Rupert
opened it and dashed into the room.
"Oh, Rupert!" exclaimed the mother, joyfully. "Then your leg isn't
broken?"
"I should say not. I should like to settle with the one that told you
so. Tell me all about it, mother."
"So it was a telegraph boy who brought the message?" he said,
thoughtfully, after the explanation.
"Yes."
"Let me see the message."
Rupert examined it, but the handwriting was not one that he was familiar
with.
"Give it to me, mother. I'll find out the office it came from, and
perhaps in that way I can get some light on the mystery."
"I don't see what object anyone could have in playing such a cruel trick
on me," said the widow. "Thank heaven, it isn't true."
Rupert took the note and went to the nearest messenger office.
"Was any messenger boy sent from here this afternoon to Elizabeth
Street?"
The superintendent looked over the books.
"Yes," he answered.
"Can you tell who left the message?"
"It was a stout woman, of medium height."
"What did she wear?"
"She had on a faded shawl. I don't remember what kind of a hat she
wore."
But a light had already dawned on Rupert.
"It was Mrs. Marlow!" he said to himself.
CHAPTER VI.
RUPERT AS A DETECTIVE.
The next question that suggested itself to Rupert was, "What object
could Mrs. Marlow have in sending off his mother on a wild goose chase?"
The answer occurred immediately. "The purse."
He hurried home, and fairly ran up stairs.
"Mother," he cried, entering out of breath, "where did you put the purse
I gave you?"
"In the bureau drawer."
"Will you look and see if it is there now?"
Wondering at his earnestness, Mrs. Rollins opened the bureau drawer.
"It is gone!" she said, with a startled look.
"I think I know where it has gone," said Rupert, his suspicions now
become certainties.
"Where?"
"Mrs. Marlow can probably tell you."
"Do you mean that she has taken it, Rupert?" said his mother.
"I have found out that Mrs. Marlow sent the messenger giving you the
false report of my accident. You can guess her motive."
"It hardly seems credible."
"I think there can be no doubt of it."
"What shall we do?"
"I will try to get some further evidence. You remember that Grace woke
up and saw her in the room."
"You did not see her go near the bureau, Grace?" asked Mrs. Rollins.
"No, she was just leaving the room when I woke up."
"Wait here a minute, mother."
Rupert darted down stairs and made his way to the grocery store which he
judged Mrs. Marlow would be likely to visit.
"What can I do for you, Rupert?" asked the grocer, pleasantly.
"Has Mrs. Marlow been here to-day?"
"Yes," laughed the grocer. "The old lady seems to be in funds. What do
you think, Rupert? She changed a ten-dollar gold piece here."
"I thought so," said Rupert. "That gold piece was stolen from my
mother."
"You don't tell me so!" ejaculated the grocer, opening wide his eyes in
astonishment.
"It's a fact. How did she account for having so much money?"
"She said it was given her by a cousin of her late husband--a very rich
man."
"That was a fiction of Mrs. Marlow's."
"It's too bad, Rupert. What do you want me to do? I can't give you the
gold piece, for I gave Mrs. Marlow the change, about nine dollars. I
can't afford to lose so much."
"You can help me to get back that money. When I call upon you, you can
testify that she paid it to you."
"So I will, Rupert. I didn't think the woman was such a mean thief."
Five minutes later Rupert knocked at Mrs. Marlow's door.
The widow opened it herself, and when she saw her visitor she suspected
his errand, but she was resolved to deny all knowledge of the money.
"How do you do, Rupert?" she said. "I thought you had met with an
accident?"
"Did you? How came you to think so?" asked Rupert, looking her full in
the face.
"The boy told me--the telegraph boy."
"Did he? That is strange. The note he brought my mother was sealed."
"Then he must have opened it. You can't trust them boys."
"How are you getting along, Mrs. Marlow? I see you have been buying some
groceries," for the packages were on the table.
"Yes. I got a few things that I needed," said the widow, uneasily. "Then
you didn't have your leg broken, after all?"
"If I did, it's well again. By the way, Mrs. Marlow, when my mother was
out a purse was taken from the room."
"You don't tell me!" said Mrs. Marlow, flushing. "Them thieves is so
bold. I must look and see if I haven't had something taken."
"I believe you came into the room while mother was gone."
"So I did," answered Mrs. Marlow, with engaging frankness. "I went in to
see if your dear sister wanted anything done."
"You found her asleep?"
"She waked up just as I entered the room. She was only having a cat nap.
I told her why your mother had gone out, she seemed so alarmed like."
"And then you went to the table drawer and took out the purse."
"It was in the bureau drawer----"
Here Mrs. Marlow stopped short, feeling that she had betrayed herself.
"You are right. You have good reason to know. You went to the bureau
drawer and took out the purse."
"It's a lie, whoever says it," exclaimed the widow. "You're in good
business, Rupert Rollins, to be comin' round accusin' a poor woman of
stealin'--me that's as honest as the babe unborn."
"It may be so, Mrs. Marlow, but where did you get the gold piece you
paid to Mr. Graves?"
"Sure, where did he hear that?" thought the widow, quite taken aback.
"Where did you get it?" demanded Rupert, sternly.
"Sure I got it from a cousin of my late husband, who sent it to me
yesterday."
"Where does he live?"
"On Lexington Avenue."
"What is his name?"
"John Sheehan," answered Mrs. Marlow, after a pause.
"At what number does he live?"
"I don't just remember," answered the widow, warily.
"You can tell between what streets he lives."
"I think it's somewhere between Thirtieth and Fortieth Streets, but my
memory isn't good."
"There is no need of making up any more stories, Mrs. Marlow. The purse
contained eleven dollars and a half, including the gold piece. You spent
a dollar at the grocery store. I want the balance."
"Sure you're very cruel to a poor widow, Rupert Rollins," said Mrs.
Marlow, bursting into tears, which she could command when occasion
required. "I never was called a thafe before."
As she spoke she drew out her handkerchief, but, unfortunately, there
was something entangled with it, and the purse was twitched out and fell
on the floor.
Rupert sprang forward and secured it, though Mrs. Marlow tried to put
her foot on it.
"This is the purse that was taken from mother," said Rupert. "How came
it in your pocket?"
"I don't know," faltered the widow. "I can't account for it."
"I can. Hereafter, Mrs. Marlow, if you ever enter our room again I will
send for a policeman."
"It's my own purse!" asserted Mrs. Marlow, deciding to brazen it out.
For answer Rupert opened it, and showed written inside the name "Frank
Sylvester."
"Do you see that, Mrs. Marlow? That is the name of the gentleman who
gave me the purse."
"Why didn't I say that was my cousin's name?" thought Mrs. Marlow, but
it was too late.
Rupert counted the contents of the purse, and found them intact, except
the dollar which Mrs. Marlow had spent.
"I won't say anything about the money you spent," he said, "though I
might claim the groceries. Good afternoon, and try to lead a better
life."
Mrs. Marlow sank into a rocking-chair, and began to cry dismally. Her
plans had miscarried for a certainty, and she felt angry with herself.
"Why didn't I put the purse in my trunk?" she asked herself. "Then he
wouldn't have found out. Sure I cheated myself."
Rupert went upstairs with a light heart.
"Well, did you hear anything of the purse?" asked his mother.
For answer he held it up.
"Where did you get it?"
"It came from Mrs. Marlow's pocket."
"What a wicked woman!" exclaimed Grace. "She must have taken it when I
was asleep."
"Did she give it up willingly? I thought she would have denied it."
"So she did, mother, but your son is a detective. I'll tell you how I
managed it," and he told the story.
"There's only a dollar gone," he said in conclusion. "Don't leave it in
the bureau drawer again, though I don't think Mrs. Marlow will trouble
you with another call."
A day or two later the rent came due, and eight dollars had to be taken
from the scanty fund, which left the family again very near destitution.
Rupert did not relax his efforts to secure a place, but when business is
dull the difficulty of securing a position is much increased. He became
anxious, and the prospect seemed very dark.
"I must do something," he said to himself, "if it's only selling papers.
That will be better than blacking boots, though that is an honest
business."
To make matters worse, his mother was unable to procure vests to make
from any of the readymade clothing establishments.
"We've got all the hands we need," was the invariable answer to her
applications.
They tried to economize more closely, but there was small chance for
that. They had not eaten meat for three days, and remained contented
with bread and tea, leaving out sugar, for they felt that this was a
superfluity in their circumstances. It was emphatically a dull time, and
there seemed no chance to earn anything.
"Rupert," said his mother, drawing a ring from her finger, "take this
ring and pawn it. There seems no other way."
"Isn't it your wedding ring, mother?"
"Yes, Rupert, but I cannot afford to keep it while we are so poor."
Rupert took the ring, and bent his steps towards Simpson's, for he felt
that there he would be likely to meet fair treatment.
CHAPTER VII.
A LUCKY MEETING.
It saddened Rupert to think his mother's wedding ring must be
sacrificed, but when they were actually in need of food sentiment must
not be considered. After that, when they had no longer anything to pawn
except articles of clothing, Rupert shuddered to think what might lay
before them.
He entered Simpson's with a slow step. A woman was ahead of him and he
waited for his turn.
"Well," said an attendant, courteously, "what can I do for you?"
"What will you give me on this ring?"
"What do you want on it?"
"Two dollars," answered Rupert.
"No doubt it is worth that, but we have so many rings in stock that we
are not anxious to receive more. We will give you a dollar and a
quarter."
Rupert hesitated, when to his surprise some one tapped him on the
shoulder.
"What brings you here, Rupert?" were the words that reached his ear.
He turned round in surprise.
"Mr. Sylvester!" he exclaimed.
"I see you have not forgotten me. What brings you here?"
"Sad necessity, Mr. Sylvester. But--I didn't expect to find you here.
Surely you----"
"No, I have not come here to pawn anything," said the young man,
smiling. "On the contrary, I want to redeem a watch for an old
schoolmate who was obliged to pawn it. He has a wife and child and was
thrown out of employment four weeks since. Fortunately I ran across him,
and have got him a place."
"I will wait till you have attended to your business."
Soon a gold watch was placed in Mr. Sylvester's hands, and he paid the
pawnbroker twenty dollars and sixty cents. It had been pledged not quite
a month for twenty dollars. The sixty cents represented the three per
cent. a month interest allowed by the laws regulating pawn shops.
"Now, young man," said the attendant, "do you want the dollar and a
quarter I offered you on your ring?"
"Yes," answered Rupert.
"No," interposed Frank Sylvester, quietly. "What ring is this, Rupert?"
"My mother's wedding ring."
"And you are actually reduced to pawning it?"
"Yes, Mr. Sylvester, I can't get anything to do, and we are out of
money."
"You have a mother and sister, I think you told me?"
"Yes, sir."
"I think we can do better than pawn the ring. Where do you live?"
"In Elizabeth Street."
"Does your mother prefer the city to the country?"
"No, sir; but she has no choice."
"Suppose I obtain for her a position as housekeeper in the family of an
elderly gentleman in Rutherford, about ten miles out on the Erie
Railroad, would she accept?"
"She would be glad to do so but for Grace. She could not be separated
from her."
"There would be no occasion. My uncle lives alone in a large house, and
a child would make the house pleasanter."
"Some gentlemen don't like children."
"That is not the case with Uncle Ben. But let us go out. You have no
further business here. We will go into the Astor House reading room and
have a chat."
Rupert followed his friend to the Astor House and they ascended to the
reading room on the second floor. Taking adjoining armchairs, Mr.
Sylvester drew from his pocket the following letter which he showed to
Rupert. It ran thus:
     "My housekeeper is about to leave me, to join her married daughter
     in Wisconsin. I must supply her place, but I know of no one in
     Rutherford who would suit me. Can't you find me some one--a
     pleasant, ladylike person, who would make my house homelike and
     attractive? I think you know my tastes. Please give this matter
     your early attention.
     BENJAMIN STRATHMORE."
"Now," continued Mr. Sylvester, "I was quite at a loss whom to
recommend, but I think your mother would suit Uncle Ben."
"Suppose you call and make her acquaintance, Mr. Sylvester. Then you can
tell better. That is, if you don't object to visiting our poor home."
"My dear Rupert, I shall be delighted to meet your mother. One thing I
am sure of in advance, she is a lady."
"She is, Mr. Sylvester," said Rupert, warmly.
Mrs. Rollins was a good deal surprised when Rupert entered the room,
followed by a handsomely-dressed young man, and she rose from her seat
in some trepidation.
"Mother," said Rupert, "this is Mr. Sylvester, who was kind enough to
give us the money and provisions I brought home the other day."
"I am glad to meet so kind a friend," said the widow, with simple
dignity. "Ask him to take a seat."
"I came to make you a business proposal," began Mr. Sylvester, who was
already favorably impressed with Rupert's mother. "Your son thinks you
might be willing to accept the position of housekeeper in my uncle's
family, in Rutherford."
Mrs. Rollins instinctively looked towards Grace.
"I see what you are thinking of," interposed her caller. "There will be
no difficulty about taking your daughter with you."
"Then I shall be glad to accept. And Rupert----"
"Rupert, I am sure, will prefer to remain in the city. I will find him a
place. Till then he can stay with me."
Rupert brightened up at this suggestion. He had no desire to go to the
country, but would like nothing more than a place in some city
establishment.
"How soon could you arrange to go, Mrs. Rollins?"
"Next Monday."
"That will answer. I will apprise my uncle. Now as to the compensation."
"If I have Grace with me I shall hardly feel justified in asking
compensation."
"My uncle would not think of making any account of the little girl's
board. I think he paid your predecessor twenty-five dollars a month.
Will that be satisfactory?"
"It is very liberal, sir."
"You will allow me to offer you a month's salary in advance. I can
settle it with Uncle Ben."
This relieved Mrs. Rollins from a great embarrassment, as she needed to
replenish her wardrobe to some extent.
"I will go out with you on Monday, and take Rupert with me, as he will
wish to see how his mother and sister are situated."
"How kind you are, Mr. Sylvester!" said Rupert, gratefully.
"Don't give me too much credit, Rupert. You have helped me out of an
embarrassment. I expected to have a long hunt for a housekeeper. Thanks
to your mother I have escaped all that."
"You don't know how much it means to us, Mr. Sylvester."
"Well, perhaps, I have some idea. It seems a good arrangement for all of
us. Well, good morning. Oh, by the way, you meet me at the Astor House
to-morrow morning at eleven o'clock."
"Yes, sir, with pleasure."
Mrs. Marlow was a very observing woman. She always kept her door ajar,
and saw every one who went upstairs. Her curiosity was considerably
excited when she saw Rupert's companion.
"My stars!" she said to herself. "What a fine-looking young man! He
looks like a real gentleman--I wonder does he know them Rollinses."
Mrs. Marlow would liked to have listened at the door and heard the
conversation between her neighbors and the distinguished-looking
visitor. But this was not practicable. However, as Mr. Sylvester came
down stairs she ventured out and intercepted him.
"Sure, you've been callin' on my friend, Mrs. Rollins," she said.
"Is she a friend of yours?" asked Sylvester, looking at her curiously.
"Indeed she is, and she's a fine lady. But she's been very unfortunate.
I would like to have helped her, but I am poor myself, and----"
"Won't you accept this?" said Sylvester, offering her a dollar as the
easiest way of getting rid of her.
"Thank you, sir," said Mrs. Marlow, with a profound courtesy. "It's easy
to see you're a kindhearted man."
"What a curious woman! I should hardly think Mrs. Rollins would have
made choice of her as a friend!" soliloquized the young man as he pushed
on to the street.
"I wonder what his name is and where he lives," speculated Mrs. Marlow.
"He must be the young man that gave the Rollinses the purse and the
basket of provisions. If I knew where he lived I'd go and see him
often."
There is very little doubt that Mrs. Marlow would have kept her word,
but unfortunately she had no clew to the residence of her new
acquaintance.
When Rupert came downstairs, she put herself in his way.
