surprise. Keep that in your mind and you can 
make a popular newspaper. Only," continued 
Mr. Erad, reflectively, "you've got to hit a lot 
of different tastes. 
"You'd laugh," this artist in emotions went 
on, after a little pause, " at some of my assign- 
ments. There was a run awhile ago on elope- 
ments, and my assignment was to have one every 
Monday morning. The girl must always be lovely 
and refined and moving in the best society ; elope- 
ment with the coachman preferred, varied with 
a teacher in a Sunday-school. Invented? Not 
always. It was surprising how many you could 
find ready made, if you were on the watch. I got 
into the habit of locating them in. the interior of 
Pennsylvania as the safest place, though Jersey 
seemed equally probable to the public. Did I 
never get caught? That made it all the more 
lively and interesting. Denials, affidavits, elab- 
orate explanations, two sides to any question ; if 
it was too hot, I could change the name and 
 
shift the scene to a still more obscure town. Or 
it could be laid to the zeal of a local reporter, 
who could give the most ingenious reasons for 
his story. Once I worked one of those imaginary- 
reporters up into such prominence for his clever 
astuteness that my boss was taken in, and asked 
me to send for him and give him a show on the 
paper. 
" Oh yes, we have to keep up the domestic 
side. A paper will not go unless the women like 
it. One of the assignments I liked was ' Sayings 
of Our Little Ones.' This was for every Tuesday 
morning. Not more than half a column. These 
always got copied by the country press solid. It 
is really surprising how many bright things you 
can make children of five and six years say, if 
you give your mind to it. The boss said that I 
overdid it sometimes and made them too bright 
instead of 'just cunning.' 
'"Psychological Study of Children' had a 
great run. This is the age of science. Same with 
animals, astronomy — anything. If the public 
wants science, the papers will give it science. 
"After all, the best hold for a lasting sensation 
is an attack upon some charity or public institu- 
tion ; show up the abuses, and get all the senti- 
mentalists on your side. The paper gets sym- 
pathy for its fearlessness in serving tlje public 
interests. It is always easy to find plenty of 
 
testimony from ill-used convicts and grumbling 
pensioners." 
Undoubtedly Olin Brad was a clever fellow, 
uncommonly well read in the surface literatures 
of foreign origin, and had a keen interest in what 
he called the metaphysics of his own time. He 
had many good qualities. Among them friend- 
liness towards men and women struggling like 
himself to get up the ladder, and he laid aside 
all jealousy when he advised Philip to try his 
hand at some practical work on the Spectrum. 
What puzzled Philip was that this fabricator of 
"stories" for the newspaper should call him- 
self a " realist." The " story," it need hardly be 
explained, is newspaper slang for any incident, 
true or invented, that is worked up for dramatic 
effect. To state the plain facts as thej'^ occurred, 
or might have occurred, and as they could act- 
ually be seen by a competent observer, would not 
make a story. The writer must put in color, and 
idealize the scene and the people engaged in it, 
he must invent dramatic circumstances and posi- 
tions and language, so as to produce a " picture." 
And this picture, embroidered on a commonplace 
incident, has got the name of " news." The 
thread of fact in this glittering web the reader 
must pick out by his own wits, assisted by his 
memory of what things usually are. And the 
public likes these stories much better than the 
 
unadorned report of facts. It is accustomed to 
this view of life, so much so that it fancies it 
never knew what war was, or what a battle was, 
until the novelists began to report them. 
Mr. Brad was in the story stage of his evolu- 
tion as a writer. His light facility in it had its 
attraction for Philip, but down deep in his nat- 
ure he felt — and the impression was deepened 
by watching the career of several bright young 
men and women on the press — that indulgence in 
it would result in such intellectual dishonesty as 
to destroy the power of producing fiction that 
should be true to life. He was so impressed by 
the ability and manifold accomplishments of Mr. 
Brad that he thought it a pity for him to travel 
that road, and one day he asked him why he did 
not go in for literature. 
" Literature !" exclaimed Mr. Brad, with some 
irritation ; " I starved on literature for a year. 
"Who does live on it, till he gets beyond the 
necessity of depending on it ? There is a lot of 
humbug talked about it. You can't do anything 
till you get your name up. Some day I will 
make a hit, and everybody will ask, " Who is 
this daring, clever Olin Brad V Then I can get 
readers for anything I choose to write. Look at 
Champ Lawson. He can't write correct English, 
he never will, he uses picturesque words in a con- 
nection that makes you doubt if he knows what 
 
they mean. But he did a dare-devil thing pict- 
uresquely, and now the publishers are at his 
feet. When I met him the other day he affected 
to be bored with so much attention, and wished 
he had stuck to the livery-stable. He began at 
seventeen by reporting a runaway from the point 
of view of the hostler." 
" Well," said Philip, " isn't it quite in the line 
of the new movement that we should have an 
introspective hostler, who perhaps obeys Sir Phillip Sidney's advice, ' Look into your heart and 
write ' ? I chanced the other night in a company 
of the unconventional and illuminated, the ' post- 
er' set in literature and art, wild -eyed and 
ansemic young women and intensely languid, nil 
admirari young men, the most advanced prod- 
ucts of the studios and of journalism. It was a 
very interesting conclave. Its declared motto 
was, ' We don't read, we write.' And the mem- 
bers were on a constant strain to say something 
brilliant, epigrammatic, original. The person 
who produced the most outre sentiment was 
called ' strong.' The women especially liked no 
writing that was not 'strong.' The strongest 
man in the company, and adored by the women, 
was the poet-artist Courci Cleves, who always 
seems to have walked straight out of a fashion- 
plate, much deferred to in this set, which affects 
to defer to nothing, and a thing of beauty in the 
 
theatre lobbies. Mr. Cleves gained much ap- 
plause for his well-considered wish that all that 
has been written in the world, all books and 
libraries, could be destroyed, so as to give a 
chance to the new men and the fresh ideas of 
the new era." 
" My dear sir," said Brad, who did not like 
this caricature of his friends, " you don't make 
any allowance for the eccentricities of genius." 
" You would hit it nearer if you said I didn't 
make allowance for the eccentricities without 
genius," retorted Philip. 
"Well," replied Mr. Brad, taking his leave, 
" you don't understand your world. You go 
your own way and see where you will come 
out." 
And when Philip reflected on it, he wondered 
if it were not rash to offend those who had the 
public ear, and did up the personals and minor 
criticisms for the current prints. He was evi- 
dently out of view. No magazine paper of his 
had gained the slightest notice from these sub- 
limated beings, who discovered a new genius 
every month. 
A few nights after this conversation Mr. Brad 
was in uncommon spirits at dinner. 
" Anything special turned up ?" asked Phihp. 
" Oh, nothing much. Pve thrown away the 
chance of the biggest kind of a novel of Ameri- 
 
can life. Only it wouldn't keep. Ton look in the 
Spectrum to-morrow morning. You'll see some- 
thing interesting." 
"Is it a — ?" and Philip's incredulous expres- 
sion supplied the word. 
"No, not a bit. And the public is going to be 
deceived this time, sure, expecting a fake. Tou 
know Mavick ?" 
" I've heard of him — the operator, a million- 
aire." 
" A good many times. Used to be minister or 
consul or something at Eome. A great swell. 
It's about his daughter, Evelyn, a stunning girl 
about sixteen or seventeen — not out yet." 
" I hope it's no scandal." 
"No, no, she's all right. It's the way she's 
brought up — shows what we've come to. They 
say she's the biggest heiress in America and a 
raving beauty, the only child. She has been 
brought up like the Kohinoor, never out of 
somebody's sight. She has never been alone one 
minute since she was born. Had three nurses, 
and it was the business of one of them, in turn, 
to keep an eye on her. Just think of that. 
Never was out of the sight of somebody in her 
life. Has two maids now — always one in the 
room, night and day." 
"What for?" 
'^Why, the parents are afraid she'll be kid- 
 
napped, and held for a big ransom. No, I never 
saw her, but I've got the thing down to a dot. 
"Wouldn't I like to interview her, though, get her 
story, how the world looks to her. Under sur- 
veillance for sixteen years! The "Prisoner of 
Chillon " is nothing to it for romance." 
" Just the facts are enough, I should say." 
" Yes, facts make a good basis, sometimes. 
I've got 'em all in, but of course I've worked the 
thing up for all it is worth. You'll see. I kept 
it one day to try and get a photograph. We've 
got the house and Mavick, but the girl's can't be 
found, and it isn't safe to wait. We are going 
to blow it out to-morrow morning." 
CHAPTER VI 
The Mavick mansion was on Fifth Avenue in 
the neighborhood of Central Park. It was one 
of the buildings in the city that strangers were 
always taken to see. In fact, this was a palace — 
not one kind of a palace, but all kinds of a palace. 
The clever and ambitious architect of the house 
had grouped all the styles of architecture he 
had ever seen, or of which he had seen pictures. 
Here was not an architectural conception, like a 
sonnet or a well-constructed novel, but if all the 
work could have been spread out in line, in all 
its variety, there would have been produced a 
panorama. The sight of the mansion always 
caused wonder and generally ignorant admiration. 
Its vastness and splendor were felt to be some- 
how typical of the New World and of the cosmo- 
politan city. 
The cost, in the eyes of the spectators, -was a 
great part of its merits. No doubt this was a 
fabulous sum. " You can form a little idea of it," 
said a gentleman to his country friend, " when 
I tell you that that little bit there, that little 
 
corner of carving and decoration, cost two hun- 
dred thousand dollars! I had this from the 
architect himself." 
"My!" 
The interior was as fully representative of 
wealth and of the ambition to put under one 
roof all the notable effects of all the palaces 
in the world. But it had, what most palaces 
have not, all the requisites for luxurious living. 
The variety of styles in the rooms was bewil- 
dering. Artists of distinction, both foreign and 
native, had vied with each other in the decora- 
tion of the rooms given over to the display of 
their genius. All paganism and all Christianity, 
history, myth, and the beauties of nature were 
spread upon the walls and ceilings. Kare woods, 
rare marbles, splendid textures, the product of 
ancient handiwork and modern looms, added a 
certain dignity to the more airy creations of the 
artists. Many of the rooms were named from 
the nations whose styles of decoration and fur- 
nishing were imitated in them, but others had 
the simple designation of the gold-room, the sil- 
ver-room, the lapis -lazuli -room, and so on. It 
was not only the show-rooms, the halls, passages, 
stairways, and galleries (both of pictures and of 
curios) that were thus enriched, but the boudoirs, 
retiring-rooms, and more private apartments as 
well. It was not simply a house of luxury, but 
 
of all the comfort that modern invention can 
furnish. It was said that the money lavished 
upon one or two of the noble apartments would 
have built a State-house (though not at Albany), 
and that the fireplace in the great hall cost as 
much as an imitation mediaeval church. These 
^were the things talked about, and yet the por- 
tions of this noble edifice, rich as they were, 
habitually occupied by the family had another 
character — the attractions and conveniences of 
what we call a home. Mrs. Mavick used to say 
that in her apartments she found refuge in a 
sublimated domesticity. Mavick's own quarters 
— not the study off the library where he re- 
ceived visitors whom it was necessary to impress 
— had an executive appearance, and were, in the 
necessary appliances, more like the interior bu- 
reau of a board of trade. In fact, the witty 
brokers who were admitted to its mysteries 
called it the bucket-shop. 
Mr. Brad's article on "A Prisoned Million- 
aire" more than equalled Philip's expectations. 
JSTo such " story " had appeared in the city press 
in a long time. It was what was called, in the 
language of the period, a work of art — that is, 
a sensation, heightened by all the words of color 
in the language, applied not only to material 
things, but to states and qualities of mind, such 
as " purple emotions " and " scarlet intrepidity." 
 
It was also exceedingly complimentary. Mavick 
himself was one of the powers and pillars of 
American society, and the girl was an exquisite 
exhibition of woodland bloom in the first flush 
of spring-time. As he read it over, Philip thought 
what a fine advertisement it is to every impe- 
cunious noble in Europe ! 
That morning, before going to his office, Philip 
strolled up Fifth Avenue to look at that now 
doubly famous mansion. Many others, it ap- 
peared, were moved by the same curiosity. There 
was already a crowd assembled. A couple of 
policemen, on special duty, patrolled the side- 
walk in front in order to keep a passage open, 
and perhaps to prevent a too impudent inspec- 
tion. Opposite the house, on the sidewalk and 
on door-steps, was a motley throng, largely made 
up of toughs and roughs from the East Side, 
good-natured spectators who merely wanted to 
see this splendid prison, and a moving line of 
gentlemen and ladies who simply happened to 
be passing that way at this time. The curb- 
stone was lined with a score of reporters of the 
city journals, each with his note -book. Every 
window and entrance was eagerly watched. It 
was hoped that one of the family might be 
seen, or that some servant might appear who 
could be interviewed. Upon the windows, sup- 
posed by the reporters to be those from which 
 
the heiress looked, a strict watch was kept. 
The number, form, and location of these win- 
dows were accurately noted, the stuff of the cur- 
tains described in the phrase of the upholsterer, 
and much good language was devoted to the 
view from these windows. The shrewdest of 
the reporters had already sought information 
as to the interior from the flower dealers, from 
upholsterers, from artists who had been employed 
in the decorations, and had even assailed, in the 
name of the rights of the public whom they 
represented, the architects of the building ; but 
their chief reliance was upon the waiters fur- 
nished by the leading caterers on occasions of 
special receptions and great dinners, and milli- 
ners and dress-makers, who had penetrated the 
more domestic apartments. By reason of this 
extraordinary article in the newspaper, the pub- 
lic had acquired the right to know all about the 
private life of the Mavick family. 
This right was not acknowledged by Mr. Ma- 
vick and his family. Of course the object of the 
excitement was wholly ignorant of the cause of 
it, as no daily newspaper was ever seen by her 
that had not been carefully inspected by the 
trusted and intelligent governess. The crowd 
in front of the mansion was accounted for by 
the statement that a picture of it had appeared 
in one of the low journals, and. there was natu- 
 
rally a curiosity to see it. And Evelyn was told 
that this was one of the penalties a man paid 
for being popular. 
Mrs. Mavick, who seldom lost her head, was 
thoroughly frightened and upset, and it was a 
rare occasion that could upset the equanimity 
of the late widow, Mrs. Carmen Henderson. 
She gave way to her passion and demanded 
that the offending editor should be pursued with 
the utmost rigor of the law. Mr. Mavick was not 
less annoyed and angry, but he smiled when 
his wife talked of pursuing the press with the 
utmost rigor of the law, and said that he would 
give the matter prompt attention. That day he 
had an interview with the editor of the Daily 
Spectrum, which was satisfactory to both par- 
ties. The editor would have said that Mavick 
behaved like a gentleman. The result of the 
interview appeared in the newspaper of the fol- 
lowing morning. Mr. Mavick had requested that 
the offending reporter should be cautioned ; he 
was too wise to have further attention called 
to the matter by demanding his dismissal. Ac- 
cordingly the reporter was severely reprimanded, 
and then promoted. 
The editorial, which was written by Mr. Olin 
Brad, and was in his best Macaulay style, began 
somewhat humorously by alluding to the cu- 
rious interest of the public in ancient history, 
 
citing Mr. Froude and Mr. Carlyle, and the le- 
gend of Casper Hauser. It was true, gradually 
approaching the case in point, that uncommon 
precautions had been, talien. in the early years 
of the American heiress, and it was the romance 
of the situation that had been laid before the 
readers of the Spectrum. But there had been 
really no danger in our chivalrous, free Ameri- 
can society, and all these precautions were long 
a thing of the past (which was not true). In 
short, with elaboration and great skill, and some 
humor, the exaggerations of the former article 
were minimized, and put in an airy and unsub- 
stantial light. And then this friend of the peo- 
ple, this exposer of abuses and champion of 
virtue, turned and justly scored the sensational 
press for prying into the present life of one of 
the first families in the country. Incidentally, 
it was mentioned that the ladies of the family 
had before this incident bespoken their passage 
for their annual visit to Europe, and that this 
affair had not disturbed their arrangements 
(which also was not true). This casual announce- 
ment was intended to draw away attention from 
the Fifth Avenue house, and to notify the roughs 
that it would be useless to lay any plans. 
The country press, which had far and wide 
printed the interesting story, softened it in ac- 
cordance with the later development. Possibly 
 
no intelligent person was deceived, but in the es- 
timation of the mass of the people the Sjpectnmx 
increased its reputation for enterprise and smart- 
ness and gave also an impression of its fairness. 
The manager told Mr. Brad that the increased 
sales of- the two days permitted the establish- 
ment to give him a vacation of two weeks on 
full pay, and during these weeks the manager 
himself set up a neat and modest brougham. 
All of which events, only partially understood, 
Mr. Philip Burnett revolved in his mind, and 
wondered if what was called success was worth 
the price paid for it. 
CHAPTER VII 
The name of Thomas Mavick has lost the 
prominence and significance it had at the time 
the events recorded in this history were taking 
place. It seems incredible that the public should 
so soon have lost interest in him. His position 
in the country was most conspicuous. No name 
was more frequently in the newspapers. No other 
person not in official life was so often interviewed. 
The reporters instinctively turned to him for in- 
formation in matters financial, concerning deals, 
and commercial, which were so commonly con- 
nected with political, enterprises. No loan was 
negotiated without consulting him, no operation 
was considered safe without knowing how he 
was affected towards it, and to ascertain what 
Mavick was doing or thinking was a constant 
anxiety in the Street. Of course the opinion of 
a man so powerful was very important in poli- 
tics, and any church or sect would be glad to 
have his support. The fact that he and his 
family worshipped regularly at St. Agnes's was 
a guarantee of the stability of that church, and 
 
incidentally marked the success of the Christian 
religion in the metropohs. 
But the condition of the presence in the pub- 
lic mind of the name of a great operator and 
accumulator of money who is merely that is 
either that he go on accumulating, so that the 
magnitude of his wealth has few if any rivals, 
or that his name become synonomous with some 
gigantic cleverness, if not rascality, so that it is 
used as an adjective after he and his wealth 
have disappeared from the public view. It is 
different with the reputation of an equally great 
financier who has used his abilitj'- for the ser- 
vice of his country. There is no Valhalla for 
the mere accumulators of money. They are fort- 
unate if their names are forgotten, and not re- 
membered as illustrations of colossal selfishness. 
Mavick may have been the ideal of many a 
self-made man, but he did not make his fortune 
— he married it. And it was suspected that the 
circumstances attending that marriage put him 
in complete control of it. He came into pos- 
session, however, with cultivated shrewdness and 
tact and large knowledge of the world, the world 
of diplomacy as well as of business. And under 
his manipulation the vast fortune so acquired 
was reported to have been doubled. It was at 
any rate almost fabulous in the public estimation. 
"When the charming widow of the late John 
 
Henderson, then sojourning in Eome, placed her 
attractive self and her still more attractive fort- 
une in the hands of Mr. Thomas Mavick, United 
States Minister to the Court of Italy, she at- 
tained a position in the social world which was 
in accord with her ambition, and Mavick acquired 
the means of making the mission, in point of 
comparison with the missions of the other pow- 
ers at the Italian capital, a credit to the Great 
Kepublic. The matcli was therefore a brilliant 
one, and had a sort of national importance. 
Those who knew Mrs. Mavick in the remote 
past, when she was the fascinating and not defi- 
nitely placed Carmen Eschelle, and who also 
knew Mr. Mavick when he was the confidential 
agent of John Henderson, knew that their union 
was a convenient and material alliance, in which 
the desire of each party to enjoy in freedom 
all the pleasures of the world could be gratified 
while retaining the social consideration of the 
world. Both had always been circumspect. And 
it may be added, for the information of stran- 
gers, that they thoroughly knew each other, and 
were participants in a knowledge that put each 
at disadvantage, so that their wedded life was 
a permanent truce. This bond of union was not 
ideal, and not the best for the creation of indi- 
vidual character, but it avoided an exhibition 
of those public antagonisms which so grieve and 
 
disturb the even flow of the current of society, 
and give occasion to so much witty comment 
on the institution of marriage itself. 
When, some two years after Mr. Mavick re- 
linquished the mission to Italy to another states- 
man who had done some service to the opposite 
party, an heiress was born to the house of Ma- 
vick, her appearance in the world occasioned 
some disappointment to those who had caused 
it. Mavick naturally wished a son to inherit 
his name and enlarge the gold foundation upon 
which its perpetuity must rest ; and Mrs. Mavick 
as naturally shrank from a responsibility that 
promised to curtail freedom of action in the life 
she loved. Carmen — it was an old saying of 
the danglers in the time of Henderson — was a 
domestic woman except in her own home. 
However, it is one of the privileges of wealth 
to hghten the cares and duties of maternity, 
and the enlarged household was arranged upon 
a basis that did not interfere with the life of 
fashion and the charitable engagements of the 
mother. Indeed, this adaptable woman soon 
found that she had become an object of more 
than usual interest, by her latest exploit, in the 
circles in which she moved, and her softened 
manner and edifying conversation showed that 
she appreciated her position. Even the McTav- 
ishes, who were inclined to be sceptical, said that 
 
Carmen was delightful in her new role. This 
showed that the information Mrs. Mavick got 
from the women who took care of her baby 
was of a kind to touch the hearts of mothers 
and spinsters. 
Moreover, the child was very pretty, and early 
had winning ways. The nurse, before the baby 
was a year old, discovered in her the cleverness 
of the father and the grace and fascination of 
the mother. And it must be said that, if she 
did not excite passionate affection at first, she en- 
listed paternal and maternal pride in her career. 
It dawned upon both parents that a daughter 
might give less cause for anxiety than a son, 
and that in an heiress there were possibilities 
of an alliance that would give great social dis- 
tinction. Considering, therefore, all that she rep- 
resented, and the settled conviction of Mrs. Ma- 
vick that she would be the sole inheritor of the 
fortune, her safety and education became objects 
of the greatest anxiety and precaution. 
It happened that about the time Evelyn was 
christened there was a sort of epidemic of steal- 
ing children, and of attempts to rob tombs of 
occupants who had died rich or distinguished, in 
the expectation of a ransom. The newspapers 
often chronicled mysterious disappearances ; par- 
ents whose names were conspicuous suffered great 
anxiety, and extraordinary precautions were taken 
 
in regard to the tombs of public men. And this 
was the reason'that the heiress of the house of 
Mavick became the object of a watchful vigilance 
that was probably never before exercised in a re- 
public, and that could only be paralleled in the 
case of a sole heir-apparent of royalty. 
These circumstances resulted in an interference 
with the laws of nature which it must be con- 
fessed destroyed one of the most interesting stud- 
ies in heredity that was ever offered to an histo- 
rian of social life. What sort of a child had we a 
right to expect from Thomas Mavick, diplomatist 
and operator, successor to the rights and wrongs 
of Kodney Henderson, and Carmen Mavick, with 
the past of Carmen Eschelle and Mrs. Hender- 
son ? Those who adhered to the strictest appli- 
cation of heredity, in considering the natural 
development of Evelyn Mavick, sought refuge 
in the physiological problem of the influence of 
Eodney Henderson, and declared that something 
of his Ifew England sturdiness and fundamental 
veracity had been imparted to the inheritor of 
his great fortune. 
But the visible interference took the form of 
Ann McDonald, a Scotch spinster, to whom was 
intrusted the care of Evelyn as soon as she was 
christened. It was merely a piece of good fort- 
une that brought a person of the qualifications 
of Ann McDonald into the family, for it is not 
 
to be supposed that Mrs. Mavick had given any 
thought to the truth that the important educa- 
tion of a child begins in its cradle, or that in 
selecting a care-taker and companion who should 
later on be a goyerness she was consulting her 
own desire of freedom from the duties of a mother. 
It was enough for her that the applicant for the 
position had the highest recommendations, that 
she was prepossessing in appearance, and it was 
soon perceived that the guardian was truth- 
ful, faithful, vigilant, and of an affectionate dis- 
position and an innate refinement. 
Ann McDonald was the only daughter of a 
clergyman of the Scotch Church, and brought 
up in the literary atmosphere common in the 
most cultivated Edinburgh homes. She had been 
accurately educated, and always with the knowl- 
edge that her education might be her capital in 
life. After the death of her mother, when she 
was nineteen, she had been her father's house- 
keeper, and when in her twenty-fourth year her 
father rehnquished his life and his salary, she 
decided, under the advice of influential friends, 
to try her fortune in America. And she never 
doubted that it was a providential guidance that 
brought her into intimate relations with the in- 
fant heiress. It seemed probable that a woman 
so attractive and so solidly accomplished would 
not very long remain a governess, but in fact her 
 
career was chosen from the moment she became 
interested in the development of the mind and 
character of the child intrusted to her care. It is 
difficult to see how our modern life would go on 
as well as it does if there were not in our homes 
a good many such faithful souls. It sometimes 
seems, in this shifting world, that about the best 
any of us can do is to prepare some one else for 
doing something well. 
Miss McDonald had a pretty comprehensive 
knowledge of English literature and history, and, 
better perhaps than mere knowledge, a discrim- 
inating and cultivated taste. If her rehgious 
education had twisted her view of the fine arts, 
she had nevertheless a natural sympathy for 
the beautiful, and she would not have been a 
Scotchwoman if she had not had a love for the 
romances of her native land and at heart a " bal- 
lad " sentiment for the cavaliers. If Evelyn had 
been educated by her in Edinbui'gh, she might 
have been in sentiment a young Jacobite. She 
had through translations a sufficient knowledge 
of the classics to give her the necessary literary 
background, and her study of Latin had led her 
into the more useful acquisition of French. If 
she had been free to indulge her own taste, she 
would have gone far in natural history, as was 
evident from her rnastery of botany and her 
interest in birds. 
 
She inspired so much confidence by her good 
sense, clear-headedness, and discretion, that al- 
most from the first Evelyn was confided to her 
sole care, with only the direction that the baby 
was never for an instant, night or day, to be 
left out of the sight of a trusty attendant. The 
nurse was absolutely under her orders, she se- 
lected the two maids, and no person except the 
parents and the governess could admit visitors 
to the nursery. This perfect organization was 
maintained for many years, and though it came 
to be relaxed in details, it was literally true that 
the heiress was never alone, and never out of the 
sight of some trusted person responsible for her 
safety. But whatever the changes or relaxation, 
in holidays, amusements, travel, or education, the 
person who formed her mind was the one who 
had taught her to obey, to put words together 
into language, and to speak the truth, from in- 
fancy. 
It is not necessary to consider Ann McDon- 
ald as a paragon. She was simply an intelli- 
gent, disciplined woman, with a strong sense of 
duty. If she had married and gone about the 
ordinary duties of life at the age of twenty-four, 
she would probably have been in no marked way 
distinguished among women. Her own develop- 
ment was largely due to the responsibility that 
was put upon her in the training of another 
 
person. In this sense it was true that she had 
learned as much as she had imparted. And 
in nothing was this more evident than in the 
range of her literary taste and judgment. "What- 
ever risks, whatever latitude she might have been 
disposed to take with regard to her own mind, 
she would not take as to the mind of another, 
and as a consequence her own standards rose to 
meet the situation. That is to say, in a consci- 
entious selection of only the best for Evelyn, 
she became more fastidious as to the food for 
her own mind. Or, to put it in still another 
way, in regard to character and culture gener- 
ally, the growth of Miss McDonald could be 
measured by that of Evelyn. 
When, from the time Evelyn was seven years 
old, it became necessary in her education to call 
in special tutors in the languages and in mathe- 
matics, and in certain arts that are generally 
called accomplishments, Miss McDonald was al- 
ways present when the lessons were given, so 
that she maintained her ascendency and her in- 
fluence in the girl's mind. It was this insepa- 
rable companionship, at least in all affairs of the 
mind, that gave to this educational experiment 
an exceptional interest to students of psychology. 
Nothing could be more interesting than to 
come into contact Avith a mind that from in- 
fancy onward had dwelt only upon what is 
 
noblest in literature, and from which had been 
excluded all that is enervating and degrading. 
A remarkable illustration of this is the familiar 
case of Helen Keller, whose acquisitions, by rea- 
son of her blindness and deafness, were limited 
to what was selected for her, and that mainly by 
one person, and she was therefore for a long time 
shielded from a knowledge of the evil side of 
life. Yet all vital literature is so close to life, 
and so full of its passion and peril, that it sup- 
plies all the necessary aliment for the growth of 
a sound, discriminating mind ; and that knowledge 
of the world, as knowledge of evil is euphuisti- 
cally called, can be safely left out of a good edu- 
cation. This may be admitted without going 
into the discussion whether good principles and 
standards in literature and morals are a sufficient 
equipment for the perils of life. 
This experiment, of course, was limited in Eve- 
lyn's case. She came in contact with a great 
deal of life. Her little world was fairly repre- 
sentative, for it contained her father, her mother, 
her governess, the maids and the servants, and 
occasional visitors, whom she saw freely as she 
grew older. The interesting fact was that she 
was obliged to judge this world according to the 
standards of literature, morals, and manners that 
had been implanted in her mainly by the influence 
of one person. 
 
The important part of this experiment of par- 
tial exclusion, in which she was never alone — an 
experiment undertaken solely for her safety and 
not for her training — was seen in her when she 
became conscious of its abnormal character, and 
perceived that she was always under surveillance. 
It might have made her exceedingly morbid, 
aside from its effect of paralyzing her self-con- 
fidence and power of initiation, had it not been 
for the exceptionally strong and cheerful nature 
of her companion. A position more hateful, even 
to a person not specially socially inclined, cannot 
be imagined than that of always being watched, 
and never having any assured privacy. And un- 
der such a tutelage and dependence, how in any 
event could she be able to take care of herself ? 
"What weapons had this heiress of a great fort- 
une with which to defend herself? What sort 
of a girl had this treatment during seventeen 
years produced ? 
CHAPTER VIII 
To the private apartment of Mr. Mavick, in the 
evening of the second eventful day, where, over 
his after - dinner cigar, he was amusing himself 
with a French novel, enters, after a little warn- 
ing tap, the mistress of the house, for, what was 
a rare occurrence, a little family chat. 
" So you didn't horsewhip and you didn't pros- 
ecute. You preferred to wriggle out !" 
" Yes," said Mavick, too much pleased with 
the result to be belligerent, " I let the newspaper 
do the wriggling." 
" Oh, my dear, I can trust you for that. Have 
you any idea how it got hold of the details ?" 
" No ; you don't think McDonald — " 
" McDonald ! I'd as soon suspect myself. So 
would you." 
" "Well, everybody knew it already, for that 
matter. I only wonder that some newspaper 
didn't get on to it before. What did Evelyn 
say ?" 
" Nothing more than what you heard at din- 
ner. She thought it amusing that there should 
 
