A LUNCHEON PARTY. 
" I THOUGHT I would come," exclaimed a bright, 
 merry voice. "If you don't want me I can 
lunch with the old people." 
Nora Mallory glanced laughingly at the four girls 
crowded on the window-seat. 
" O, we do want you," declared Violet Osborne, spring- 
ing up and seizing both hands. " Old people indeed ! 
You had better not say that to Aunt Millicent." 
" Who is a grandmother ! " 
"You shouldn't have been so old yourself, Cousin 
Nora," said Pearl Amory, mischievously. "For after all 
you are our compeer. You should have been just out of 
school. And here you have a husband and two babies, 
and you are a real girl after all." 
"Have I the secret of perennial youth? But as 
mamma was the oldest of the cousins, so I was the oldest 
of the second generation of cousins. Come and scold 
Mr. Mallory. Why I shouldn't have thought of marry- 
ing if he had not put the fascinating notion into my head, 
and had father Mallory to aid and abet him. Well, must 
I cross to the other side of the hall ? I hear some dis- 
creet women in solemn conclave." 
" No, you must not. Come and talk to us. We are 
going to have a grand time together. Ruth will be here. 
I am sorry Kitty Saxton decided not to come — at the 
 
very last moment. O, do you remember Gertrude 
Maurice?" 
"Indeed I do. She was the spice at Robin's Point, 
and we had every variety of sugar, didn't we, and every- 
thing nice ! " 
"The luncheon, if you please, is given in honor of Miss 
Maurice, who is quite a traveled young lady. And just 
think that she and Bertie absolutely ran races and played 
tag last summer ! I am so curious to see her again. You 
know she dropped out suddenly. Perhaps she thought 
we didn't care about any one so far grown up while we 
were still in our green and salad days — schoolgirls. But 
the only distinction we are to make between ourselves 
and the elders is that we have one end of the table. We 
will put you on the between line." 
"Thank you. I remember having a girls' luncheon 
here when my school days were ended. Papa was de- 
lightful." 
"We were so disappointed that he had to go away," 
exclaimed Violet. "And then we resolved there should 
not be any masculines. There were only two and one 
was uncertain. But Uncle Con begged — didn't he, 
Princess ? and we ruled him out by a strong-minded vote. 
It was real fun. He even offered to take us to the the- 
atre, which he declared was buying a ticket to the feast." 
" You were hard-hearted." 
" It was not that we loved Cgesar less — O ! " And the 
girls started with eager looks toward the hall, as the bell 
was pulled imperatively. 
It was simply a messenger with a note for Mrs. Dray- 
ton, who read it and passed it over to Mrs. Osborne. 
"O, can't they come — when the feast is set?" asked 
Violet, in mock despair. 
The answer was another ring and the guests themselves ; 
Mrs. Townsend, dignified and attractive at the first 
glance, and a tall, stylish young lady they could hardly 
recognize until she smiled, and then they crowded about 
her. 
"It is delightful to see you all again," Miss Maurice 
said, " and to have you remember me so cordially. Was 
it only last summer we had such a grand time? And 
now you have all graduated and can make your demand 
on the world. I hope it will treat you as well as it has 
treated me, for if you remember, I was not expecting 
much of it, and you all are entitled to a good deal." 
They were all going up the wide stairway, while Mrs. 
Townsend stopped in the reception-room and sent her 
hat and gloves away by the maid. Quite a bodyguard, 
and the smiles went to the newcomer's heart. 
" You do look like Gertie Maurice with your hat off," 
began Pearl. "But you are not so thin, and you have 
so much dignity, I am half afraid of you." 
" I've had to be dignified," and she laughed. " And 
how odd that you should all be in the city, or that we 
should have come just at this time. I have had a splen- 
did year ! Ray has changed more than any of you. Ray 
has grown prettier and taller. And, Ruth, have they 
taken you into the charmed circle? " 
" The loveliest of all things has happened to me," said 
Ruth, with an eager light in her eyes. 
"And to have some unexpectedly nice thing happen 
to you is as good as a fortune ! I used to wish for a for- 
tune, you know, but now I am well content. But I do 
believe I owe some one an apology — it must be Princess. 
I went off in a rather ungrateful manner, although at 
parting I tried to tell you how much I was indebted to 
you all for a rare and delightful summer. And, girls, I 
want to say that I learned many things in an unconscious 
way then that have been of great benefit to me. I was 
so taken by surprise at Mrs. Townsend's offer; then there 
were so many things to do, and going out into a new 
world and being very much engrossed with my duties, I 
let the time slip by ; and then I thought you might cease 
to be interested in me. But now, with this heartfelt 
welcome, I seem convicted of neglect. There, you will 
think I have learned to make speeches." 
Princess glanced up and their eyes met. If there had 
been any little feeling, it was all over, the cordial look 
said. 
They put Miss Maurice at the end of the table and the 
girls on each side. Mrs. Kenneth had the other end, 
and the hostess, Mrs. Drayton, and Mrs. Osborne, were 
in the middle, opposite each other. The other ladies, 
Mrs. Beaumanoir and Mrs. Amory, had gone home, but 
Princess and the girls were to remain until some cousins 
returned from abroad, who were expected about a week 
later. All these incidents had paved the way for a meet- 
ing of the school friends. 
The ladies talked of the happenings in the greater 
world ; the girls still had the atmosphere of school about 
them, but it was a gay and changeful atmosphere. 
Gertie asked what had happened the last year, and if 
there were some brilliant girls left to do honor to Mrs. St. 
John another summer ? 
"lam afraid we never considered that point," rejoined 
Violet. " Was it very selfish of us? " 
" I suppose you couldn't leave your geniuses behind if 
you had wanted to." 
"I am under the impression that no one really wanted 
to. But as they are a part of yourself, and not any school 
quality, you have the best right to them." 
"After all," said Ruth Ensign, gently, "I feel sorry 
for Mrs. St. John. I never thought of it before, but she 
must get wonderfully interested in girls, and love them as 
well. And then they go out of her life and a new set 
comes in. The work is all to be done over again. I 
don't believe I should like to have a girls' school. I 
want to go right on with people." 
" Yet the variety is entertaining. And Mrs. St. John 
is very proud of the success of some of her girls. You 
go out of your own homes by marriage, if not by busi- 
ness." 
" But your mothers still have a right to you," said Nora 
Mallory, glancing up at hers. " Like Ruth, I should not 
want to be the head of a girls' school. I have not enough 
philanthropy." 
" That is where we mean to broaden out the next gen- 
eration," said Mrs. Townsend. "The greatest good to 
the greatest number." 
"O Mrs. Townsend, can't we get married if some 
nice young man asks us?" inquired Pearl, with such a 
wistful expression and beseeching tone that everybody 
laughed. 
' ' I suppose you will marry whether or no. A happy 
marriage, a sensible marriage is the best thing for any 
woman. But I am very glad that we have passed the 
era when marriage was a test of respectability, and that 
a single life can be made admirable and honorable." 
" It's funny to think there is a man somewhere in the 
world coming to marry you," said Violet, in a low tone 
to Ray, who sat beside her. " I wonder who of us will 
be married first ? ' ' 
"Pearl," was the whispered answer. For it seemed 
to Ray that no one could resist Pearl's beauty. 
"That is not my guess," returned Violet, with a glance 
wandering down toward Ruth. For it seemed the most 
natural conclusion that Mrs. Kenneth's half adoption 
should prefigure relationship. 
Miss Maurice was telling some laughable experiences 
that quenched the flickering light of coming husbands. 
Mrs. Townsend was really proud of her protegee, who 
saw the amusing side of life without being satiric. There 
was an indescribable charm about her the girls felt, and 
they were really glad she had come back to them almost 
in a schoolgirl fashion. 
They were lingering over the fruit when there was a 
confusion of voices in the hall, masculine voices, and 
Mrs. Drayton excused herself. 
" O Aunt Millicent ! " exclaimed a chorus. 
Princess sprang up, and the next instant a tall young 
fellow had her in his arms. Was it really her brother 
Sherburne, whom they had not seen for two years ! 
" Yes, we have had a little luncheon, but we could not 
wait for style, and fellows after a sea voyage are always 
ravenous. Can't we come out " 
That was Leonard Beaumanoir's voice. Whether any 
one said they could or could not, they all marched out ; 
Sherburne Beaumanoir, with his arm around Princess, 
and the two Baltimore cousins, Ned and Len Beaumanoir. 
Such a greeting, and such a mingling of voices that it 
was almost a whirlwind of sound with the exclamations 
of surprise and the short, gay laughs. 
" We were not going to look for you until next week," 
began Mrs. Drayton. 
" We found by taking another line that we could come 
three days sooner. And we supposed everybody would 
be up here or at Aunt Lyndell's. When a chap hasn't 
seen his own folks for two years " 
"Hear the ingratitude," exclaimed Leonard. "Ned 
went out a year ago, and I last winter." 
"O fellows don't count beside mothers and sisters," 
began Sherburne. 
"And cousins and aunts " 
" Let me take you around and introduce you to every- 
body," said Mrs. Drayton. "Then we will have some 
fresh fruit and some more plates. There is a cordial and 
inspiriting charm in sitting around a table." 
" I wonder if I shall spoil it if I take leave. I really 
have an engagement." 
Mrs. Townsend glanced up at the clock. Mrs. Dray- 
ton begged her to remain. 
" I am truly sorry, for I should like a talk with these 
young travelers. I have tried not to have any engage- 
ments to interfere with the vacation both Miss Maurice 
and I have earned by our steady application to business, 
but this came unexpectedly after I had accepted your 
invitation, and is important. No, Gertrude," with a 
graceful wave of her hand, "I am going to leave you 
with these young people, and I hope you will prove so 
attractive to them that you may induce them to come in 
a party to the St. James the very first evening they can 
be spared. I don't see why you mothers may not be 
generous and divide your pleasures with us lone women." 
The young men looked at her as she stood in all the 
vigor of handsome middle life, and then at the young 
girl who had risen and bowing smilingly, sat down again. 
Sherburne, with his arms still around his sister, half 
impelled her toward Gertrude. 
"Miss Maurice," he began, "I feel as if we had 
known each other ages. It began in the fossiliferous 
period of the coast of Maine. There was a learned pro- 
fessor and a young lad, and the latter wrote such glowing 
letters, in which everything was considerably mixed, but 
thanks to evolution we come out right at last, and are 
transformed into human beings in that most charming 
period of life, youth. May we shake hands and be 
friends, though if Bertram were here no doubt I should 
be relegated at once to the rear." 
Gertrud« smiled and held out her hand. 
" You will have to look to your laurels, Ned," said his 
brother Leonard, teasingly. "Just think of Sher dis- 
coursing learnedly on fossils, and Miss Maurice, I should 
object to being placed back in the ages." 
"Ages are periods shorter or longer. And if you had 
counted the days, and been disappointed last summer 
when your respected father decisively refused to let you 
take a homeward trip and join the merry crew who dis- 
ported themselves on an enchanted island, it might seem 
the longer period to you." 
The butler had been rearranging the chairs. Sher- 
burne dropped into the one next Miss Maurice. Violet 
moved and gave her seat to Princess and went to the 
other side of the table with Leonard Beaumanoir, intro- 
ducing him to Ruth. Pearl beckoned Cousin Ned to 
her side and placed him next Mrs. Mallory. 
"O Cousin Nora," he exclaimed, "do you remember 
when we used to dispute as to who had the best right to 
Grandpapa Beaumanoir ? And I can recall your lovely 
wedding, and how pretty the little maids of honor looked 
scattering their flowers in your path. Somehow, I think 
we two boys have not had quite our share of the cousins. 
Now that I am going to spend the coming year in the 
city I hope you won't bar me out." 
" But we are not all going to remain here," said Pearl. 
" O, I almost wish we were." 
Edward glanced around his end of the table. 
"It is so long since I have seen you all. Of course I 
know you live in Washington, Pearl " 
"And Ray is going to Washington. Uncle Archie 
has a position there, and Aunt Julia is to live with them. 
Aunt Jue is such a sweet old lady, she seems almost as 
old as grandmamma. Uncle Stanwood's death was a 
great blow to her, although she bore it so bravely." 
" I am afraid I haven't been very cousinly," said the 
soft, gentlemanly voice. " I have been so fond of books 
and study, and there were only two boys of us. And I 
think — don't laugh at me, Cousin Pearl" — glancing up 
entreatingly, "but I've always been a little afraid of 
girls." 
Pearl did laugh with a soft deliciousness that was like 
music. 
"And you dropped down on a regular girls' party! 
We are standing on the dividing line — ' Where the brook 
and river meet.' None of us are full-fledged young 
ladies. We come in the category of ' sweet girl gradu- 
ates,' except the one talking so earnestly to Cousin 
Sherburne. She was in the last year's nest." 
Edward looked sharply down to the end of the table. 
He was quite near-sighted, but he did not always wear 
glasses. He was still rather thin, and the little touches 
of precision set so well upon him that they were no detri- 
ment. He was not as handsome as Sherburne, though 
he had a rather fine scholarly face, somewhat too grave 
for a young fellow. 
"And where in the list of cousins does she come 
in?" 
"She isn't in the list at all; but I think she 'would 
be missed,' " laughingly quoting the Mikado. " She and 
the girl next to Violet, Ruth Ensign, were our school- 
mates last year. And Princess, who is always thinking up 
lovely things — or else it was Uncle Con — O, you must 
know Uncle Con Murray. He is the most splendid 
bachelor uncle you can imagine, and is so fond of girls. 
Like Wordsworth, ' In his capacious heart he loves them 
all.' And Princess invited some girls to summer with us. 
Miss Maurice had graduated, Ruth and another girl 
were in our class. And as there was no enchanted island 
for this summer, Aunt Millicent took pity on us and gave 
us a luncheon. Miss Ensign is going to live in New 
York. Mrs. Kenneth has in a fashion adopted her. 
That is Mrs. Kenneth at the end of the table." 
" What a lovely face she has." 
"And she is just as lovely within as without. She is 
truly a King's daughter. We had a delightful week 
with her in Boston last summer before we went to the 
island." 
"I do think a lot of girls have wonderfully good 
times," said Edward. "And you never knew a more 
disappointed fellow than Sherburne because he could not 
come home for vacation. Uncle Len seems so easy-go- 
ing, as if you could coax anything out of him, but you 
can't." 
" He is a judge," said Pearl, with mock dignity. 
"And Bertram wrote Sher such tantalizing letters. 
Why the boy would make a good newspaper corre- 
spondent. And I found Sher quite in the dumps. He 
gave me the letters to read, and that is how I came to 
know you all better than ever before. But Bert's bright 
particular seemed to be Miss Maurice. Has some one 
adopted her ? ' ' 
"Why yes, in a way. She is Mrs. Townsend's secre- 
tary, and has been as far as California with her. Mrs. 
Townsend is a kind of educational woman, believes in 
kindergartens and colleges and the improvement of the 
feminine race generally, and is charming. O, you 
needn't look so doubtful. Some time we are all going to 
vote." 
" Do you really want to? " An expression of distaste 
passed over his face. 
Pearl laughed gaily. What a musical sound it was, 
and oh, what a dazzle of loveliness swept over every 
feature. 
"Well — how many more are going to Washington? 
I think I am booked for a position in New York, and 
if I am left all alone ' ' 
" Poor boy," patronizingly. " There will be Uncle and 
Aunt Carew, but their flock are not grown up. And 
here will be Aunt Millicent, and Uncle Drayton is 
splendid, and Cousin Nora and Mr. Mallory, and Mrs. 
Kenneth and the professor " 
" Bertram's second love. A dangerous rival for Miss 
Maurice in the young man's affections," said Cousin 
Ned with a smile. 
" He is so nice," declared Pearl. " I am coming to the 
end of my adjectives, there are so many people. And 
Miss Ensign who is sweet — is that admissible? and 
whether there is one left to apply to Miss Maurice — well, 
piquant will do. There, haven't I described every- 
body?" 
" I am obliged to you." 
They were certainly having a gay time at Miss 
Maurice's end of the table. Sherburne had been peeling 
oranges in a most elaborate fashion for Miss Maurice and 
Princess, and cracking nuts, the filberts being of the hard 
shell variety. Sherburne declared they must have sum- 
mered and wintered a good many times. 
"But they are very sweet," replied Gertrude. 
Sherburne detailed his last summer's disappointment 
graphically, and how his feelings were harrowed up by 
Bertram's description of everybody and the fun. " And 
I thought you must be quite a little girl," turning to 
Gertie. 
A quick color flashed up in her face. "I was," she 
answered with a gay smile, "I climbed rocks, I built 
bridges with heaps of stones, I think I even made sand 
pies, I ran races and played tag. It was the last expir- 
ing gleam of girlhood. Since then I have been staid, 
discreet, business-y. But you see it was a girl's summer. 
There were no young men. The mothers tabooed them 
utterly." 
" Didn't they surprise you as we have to-day? " 
"There was one who crept into the Eden — do you re- 
member, Princess? Ward Garrison, Miss Hildreth's 
cousin." 
"And did you all fight over him? O, what was one 
young man among so many girls ? " 
" No, we didn't fight. We didn't even pull straws. 
We went off and spent a few days at the Naumekeag 
clubhouse where there were plenty of men and few 
women, and danced and had a good time. We went on 
a yachting excursion around Mount Desert. You 
wouldn't believe the coves and bays and headlands could 
be stretched out to afford so much entertainment. It 
was a golden summer and Princess planned it all. I can 
never forget it." 
" You must make out a list of the choice places and I 
will go up and weep over them." 
" Why should you weep ? " 
" Because I was not there. Because so much sweet- 
ness and delight and enjoyment has fallen out of my life. 
It can never be made up to me." 
" That sounds like Uncle Con," said Princess. "And 
isn't it funny that we wouldn't let him come to-day, be- 
cause it was a girls' party " 
"And we stormed the Eden. Dear Uncle Con, I 
want to see him, and such hosts of people ! I'd like to 
be divided and subdivided for several hours or have an 
astral body — five or six of them, and the real body should 
stay here. You cruel Princess ! Were you afraid Uncle 
Con had not wit and wisdom enough to go round, or that 
so many girls would quench him utterly? You know 
Miss Maurice, Princess has a mortgage on Uncle Con. 
If he should ever fall in love he would have to come to 
her in the most abject humility and say meekly — 
' Please' m may I ask this girl to marry me ? ' " 
Princess was scarlet. Her eyes met those of Gertrude 
and some subtle message flashed from both, and then both 
laughed to break the spell. 
Aunt Millicent had risen and gave her arm to Mrs. 
Kenneth. The procession stood in the hall, dispersing 
to library and drawing-room, when another visitor was 
ushered in. Mr. Constantine Murray came face to face 
with Sherburne Beaumanoir, who had Princess on one 
side and Gertrude on the other. 
" Upon my word ! ' Women were deceivers ever,' 
Shakespeare slightly amended. What magic brought 
these young men across the seas, when you all insisted 
this was to be a girls' party, and that I, no longer young 
and dangerous to budding femininity, was not even al- 
lowed entrance. And a crowd of young men ! " 
He was shaking hands heartily with the travelers, and 
Aunt Milly was explaining, but he insisted that it was a 
a deep laid scheme to defraud him and quoted — " 'Twas 
ever thus from childhood's hour." But in a moment he 
really seemed to be the hero of the occasion. 
"And I have come with a magnificent barouche and 
pair to tempt some of you to a Central Park drive. I 
thought by this time you must begin to weary of unal- 
loyed sweetness." 
" O yes," began Aunt Milly, " I will order up our big 
carriage, and we might send around to the livery for 
another, and end with an out-of-doors party. There is a 
little cloudiness that will temper the heat, and a grateful 
breeze from the south. We will have a really festive day. ' ' 
The girls were enthusiastic. Mrs. Kenneth said Ruth 
should join them. 
Gertie came over to Mrs. Drayton. 
"I am sorry to ask you to excuse me," she began in 
an entreating tone. "I have some important letters to 
answer, and there was to be a caller at five. I am not 
sure Mrs. Townsend will be in, and she has already in- 
structed me what to do in the case. I must thank you 
for this delightful reunion with the girls. I feel very 
much honored that you should all remember me so cor- 
dially. I have spent many happy hours recalling the 
joys of last summer, and one of the reasons that drew 
me to Mrs. Townsend was the fact that she had met you 
all. We often talked about you. I am sorry to give up 
the added pleasure, but I feel that I ought. I learned 
some useful lessons last summer, for which I wish to 
thank all you mothers. And I hope nothing will ever 
happen to impair the friendship with any of you." 
Millicent could read the depth of feeling in her tone. 
" I am so sorry," she answered ; " but we shall count 
on you on some other occasion. Mrs. Townsend intends 
to remain in the city for some time. Just now we shall 
crowd in all that is possible, for no doubt Princess will 
return with her brother. I am glad you have enjoyed 
yourself. ' ' 
There was a general protest against Gertrude's defec- 
tion, though Mr. Murray was silent. 
"I wonder if I can't meet you somewhere?" asked 
Sherburne. " For I must see Aunt Lyndell if it is not 
for more than ten minutes. I assured her a month ago 
that my very first call would be upon her, and here I 
have been pleasuring " 
They all felt there was an especial duty in this, al- 
though it could have been put off until evening. But he 
insisted he would not stay long, and would surely rejoin 
them at the park at any convenient point. 
" And I hope you will bear Mrs. Townsend's invitation 
in mind before the general dispersion," exclaimed Ger- 
trude. " I will beg her to set her time to-morrow, and 
if it does not suit we will rearrange it." 
They all acquiesced enthusiastically. 
Miss Maurice uttered her good-bye with a touch of 
regret. Then they discussed where Sherburne should 
meet them an hour hence, and he nodded a jaunty adieu. 
Gertrude Maurice was walking slowly along. She 
might have given an hour perhaps, but it would have 
been harder to leave in the midst of the enjoyable drive. 
No, this was best. How queer it seemed to take up the 
old life just as if there had been no break. And Mr. 
Murray — 
She had come to know that he and Mrs. Townsend 
were friends. But then that lady knew so many news- 
paper men, and literary and philanthropic people of all 
sorts. 
There was a hurried step behind her. Something im- 
pelled her to turn, and she smiled before she realized that 
she should have looked dignified, and then it was too 
late. 
" I thought I should catch up with you if you did have 
the start. But no invidious comparisons are meant. So 
if you don't object to a companion " 
They had reached the corner, where she halted. 
"You go in that direction to Doctor Carew's," she 
announced, with a little nod. 
"I am going to accompany you to the St. James first, 
wherever that may be. I have almost forgotten New York. 
So I depend on your tender mercies to pilot me. Then 
I shall find my way back to Doctor Carew's, and take 
some car afterward that will bear me swiftly to Central 
Park. Have I not given a concise account of my pur- 
pose ? " 
"But if I said " 
"You will say nothing disagreeable," he interrupted. 
"We shall walk along as amicably as lambs in a clover 
field, after they have feasted. It was so odd to meet you 
the first thing, when I had heard so much about you." 
"A big boy's enthusiasm over some one older than 
himself, who forgets for the nonce how old she really is. 
I liked Bertram very much. I wish we had come soon 
enough to see him again." 
" I suppose it was foolish to care so much about a 
boy's letters. But I was awfully disappointed about not 
coming home. You see father was not so enthusiastic 
about my going to Germany, so I suppose he thought it 
would be a good discipline for me to stay until my time 
was up." 
"And was it? " 
There was a mischievous suggestion in her tone. 
" I suppose it was. Good things are not always pleas- 
ant. Yet I don't see why they should not have been 
made pleasant, for then it would be easier to be good. 
The friction helps to wear out life." 
" Is that German collegiate reasoning ? " 
"It is my reasoning, fresh from Germany." 
Both laughed a little. 
" However, it has helped me to make up my mind. I 
am afraid I shall disappoint father a little. And he is 
such a comfortable father, too. Do you know, Miss Mau- 
rice, that is one of the most fascinating words in the lan- 
guage?" 
« What— comfortable ? " 
" Yes. Think of all it expresses." 
"At peace with all men. Surrounded by numerous 
satisfactions. Happy in your inmost soul." 
"Excellent. You could write a dictionary." 
"And my genius is expended mostly on accounts, and 
keeping the run of engagements present and to come for 
Mrs. Townsend. And here we are at the St. James. May 
I wish you a pleasant call, and a pleasant drive afterward, 
and I may as well go on and say a pleasant life " 
"Do not wish so far. Save something for the next 
time we meet. Adieu," and he bowed. 
CHAPTER IV. 
IN THE RETROSPECT. 
THE St. James was more of a private hotel than 
the apartment house. One could be quite as secluded 
and home-like as one chose. Mrs. Townsend had gath- 
ered up some of her choice belongings that had been 
stored, and the sitting-room looked quite as if some one 
lived there and was not merely waiting to move on. Miss 
Maurice thought of young Beaumanoir's word. It was 
comfortable. What an odd idea for a boyish fellow with 
very limited experience ! 
She was going over the pile of letters when the caller 
was announced. A young woman — three or four years 
older than herself, who was trying to find a place in the 
world where she could help along its essential advance- 
ment, and reach the front ranks herself. She had given 
readings, she had lectured a little, but she was eager for 
higher work. Mrs. Townsend, with all her experience, 
might see an opening or suggest some course — 
Gertrude listened attentively, and made a few notes, 
took the name and address and explained that Mrs. 
Townsend had but recently returned to the city, and 
found so much to do, had to meet so many people, and 
had very little leisure. She would lay the case before 
her, but there was not much doing in the summer, and 
if there was any opening for autumn, Mrs. Townsend 
would do what she could for her. 
Gertrude felt sorry for the tired-looking, unprepossess- 
 
ing girl. To be a success one did need attractiveness, or 
a high order of genius that made itself felt at once. She 
was really thankful she had no wild ambitions for herself, 
and was satisfied with the work that had come to her. 
And what a splendid year it had been — not all rose color 
or heart' s-ease, but she had grown used to the thorny side 
and the little pricks. 
She had adapted herself to her round of duties with 
no great friction, for she had a good deal of common 
sense. How the two older Maurice girls had acquired 
so much, unless some far back ancestor had dowered 
them with it, was a mystery. There were so many at- 
tractive qualities in Mrs. Townsend that Gertrude cheer- 
fully overlooked the occasional fractiousness, for there 
were various incidents to try one's temper. Gertrude 
wondered sometimes why a woman of independent means 
and fine social qualities could not content herself to take 
the best out of life, and let the old world go its own gait. 
Clearly Gertrude Maurice was not a philanthropist. 
There was the delight of wonderful cities, of charming 
and cultivated people, of insufferably ill-bred people, 
who thought money was everything, and were compla- 
cently ignorant ; lectures, concerts, readings, an occa- 
sional theatre, luncheons, suppers, and sometimes an in- 
formal dinner. True, a few people snubbed her with a 
superior air, as if they must make a distinction between 
the lady and the secretary. But on the whole it had 
been a grand time, and the woman and the girl had 
fallen into friendly, as well as excellent business relations. 
There had been one trying week, when Mrs. Town- 
send was absolutely laid aside with influenza, and had to 
forego several choice pleasures. The nurse was a rather 
rigid, consequential person, and even Gertrude was glad 
to have her go and fill the place herself, through the days 
of convalescence. She gave the room a different aspect, 
the chairs no longer looked as if placed for funeral guests. 
The palm stood on the window-ledge, there were bowls 
of flowers about, the rugs slipped off in piles on the floor 
and no one snatched them up. There was a graceful 
touch of disorder, a little reading, a little talk, a choice 
friend admitted. 
"Gertrude," Mrs. Townsend said one day, "you are 
a most comfortable person to have about. You are not 
continually doing useless things and arguing about what 
is best. I can throw my wrap down and you don't rush 
across the room to pick it up. I can wrinkle up my pillow 
and you don't come with a teasing pat that drives me 
distracted. Yet all the little things get done, one hardly 
knows how, just at the right time. And when I am cross 
and flurried you don't get out the thermometer " 
" But I am not a regular nurse," returned Gertrude, 
smilingly. 
" You are good enough nurse for me, only of course 
there were other things for you to do, and I could not 
have taken so much of your time and strength. But you 
have the art. And you are comfortable. That is better 
than being wise and trained." 
"Thank you," Gertrude smiled again. 
"I wonder whether you will be married? The bar- 
gain was that you were to have no lovers this year. It 
was rather selfish." 
"No; it was just right," returned Gertrude, with a 
flush. "It was a business bargain, and I wanted the 
business." 
" Fortunately girls do not marry as young as they did. 
I remember an old great-uncle of mine who had married 
three wives, always quoting — ' Old age is honorable, but 
old maids are abominable. ' Well, as I said, he had saved 
three women from the direful fate. I think now a girl 
has generally a very good time from twenty on to half 
a dozen or so years. She gets some sensible ideas if 
there is any sense to her. So, my advice is to wait until 
you have a good opportunity, and I want to say" — Mrs. 
Townsend gave a rather amused laugh, more at her in- 
ward thought than her words, — " that I withdraw my re- 
strictions. A good marriage is the best destiny for a 
woman, and a home and children are, or ought to be, her 
safeguards, her hostages to the world, much better than 
a little fame or a reputation soon forgotten. I should 
like to have had some of my own. So you see I have no 
objections to a sensible marriage, if I do sometimes berate 
silly, sentimental girls and women who sigh for careers, 
but are all unfitted for them. On the other hand — we 
have gone along very amicably, and you may consider 
your position permanent for as long as you like. Next 
winter I shall have my headquarters in New York. And 
during the summer you may have a vacation or two, as 
seems best. Is that satisfactory ? I like to have matters 
settled." 
" I should be unreasonable if it were not," Gertrude 
replied, frankly. "And I am — yes, gratified with your 
good opinion of me," a warm flush mounting to her brow. 
"I shall endeavor to keep it." 
Mrs. Townsend nodded, as if to signify that all had 
been said on both sides. She was not a woman to keep 
going over the old ground like Mrs. Maurice. And 
this had been such a rest to the girl. It was the outcome 
of broad living. 
She had a quiet evening before her. She did not care 
to read or sew, so she ensconced herself in an easy-chair, 
and gave way to a peculiar feeling of satisfaction. She 
was not afraid of the world nor the future, at least for 
some time to come. The position had many agreeable 
sides, and when one proved unpleasant she had only to 
turn the mental kaleidoscope around, and there was a 
new phase. She had never liked to dwell on irritating 
or annoying subjects. And this characteristic had led 
her to put aside the little jar between her and her school 
friend, Princess Beaumanoir. There was nothing she 
could explain by letter. If they thought it wiser to drop 
her, that was all right, too. 
Perhaps, with a young girl's romance, she had hoped 
fate would bring about some reminder from Mr. Murray. 
It had not. And as she saw more of the world, she 
learned that a man's interest did not always presage a 
warmer feeling, and that a sudden touch of sympathy 
might be as easily forgotten. She knew he was in New 
York ; now and then his name was mentioned in some 
literary connection. Mrs. Townsend spoke of him just as 
she did of others who had come under her notice ; Ger- 
trude could have forgotten him in the way we set aside 
our friends when their connection with us is ended. 
He had come to call on Mrs. Townsend among her 
earliest visitors. Whether he was surprised to see her in 
this capacity she could not quite tell. It was a very en- 
joyable call, though he had not said much to her. Mrs. 
Drayton and Mrs. Mallory had followed, and then had 
come the luncheon, at which she was the guest of honor. 
O, how she had enjoyed it ! And the gay, chatty girls, 
the agreeable elders, the young men dropping in, the 
amusing walk with Sherburne Beaumanoir ! How odd 
that he should have become interested in her through 
Bertram's letters. How the old summer came back — 
was it only a year ago ? 
Perhaps the most gratifying happiness of all was the 
ready graciousness of Princess that seemed to take back 
look and word that had rankled at parting and left a 
little trail. But she was not likely to marry Mr. Murray. 
Perhaps Princess rested serenely in that assurance. Yes, 
that was it. What would she think — O, of course Sher- 
burne's sudden fancy had no more foundation than 
Bertram's boyish preference of last summer. He was so 
young. 
She startled herself by laughing aloud, a soft note of 
merriment. She was only twenty, he would be twenty- 
one in the autumn. What made her seem so much older 
than this group of cousins ? Not experience altogether, 
though poor people did get a great deal more worldly 
wisdom in their youth, with all the pinches and make- 
shifts. 
She was still sitting there when Mrs. Townsend came 
in, who inquired if the close of the luncheon had been 
satisfactory. 
" What a pity you had to come home for that poor 
girl, for whom I can do nothing. How few of them 
realize that it takes a great deal of training and 
genius to come up to the front rank — and time as well. 
A little genius is a very perplexing and dangerous thing. 
I am glad every day you have not struck that trouble- 
some reef. And yet you could fill the role as well as 
dozens of other young women." 
"To be with you is a liberal education," quoted Ger- 
trude. 
" Thank you ; that really is a compliment. And now 
that you are so near, I suppose you are thinking and 
longing for home. I accepted an invitation for a month, 
to-night, partly travel, partly visiting with some very dear 
friends. The journey begins next week. So you can 
have a month at home if you like, and then I think it will 
be Chautauqua. You will enjoy that, I know, and I 
shall need you." 
"Your plans are always pleasures," responded Ger- 
trude, with brightening eyes. 
" Now we must go to bed for our beauty sleep. You 
must not grow old, and I cannot afford to." 
She bethought herself the next morning of the invita- 
tion to the young people, and learned that the Beau- 
manoirs were to start on Saturday. They asked if Ger- 
trude might not join in two or three of their pleasures. 
Indeed every hour was crowded full, and they could 
hardly get in all the delights that awaited them. 
Professor Kenneth and Mr. Edward Beaumanoir found 
so many things to talk about that they really talked them- 
selves into friendship, and planned some pursuits for the 
ensuing winter, when Ned should be in the city. He 
was very much attracted to Mrs. Kenneth and Ruth, in- 
deed, he declared to Princess he had never known how 
really delightful girls were. 
" I think we have not been very social," he admitted. 
" You know mother was an invalid for a good many 
years, and she thought my college vacations ought to be 
spent with her. Len was always going off with boys. 
Then there was my year of teaching and last year abroad. 
I can't tell you how I enjoyed Sherburne. He is such a 
thorough boy with gleams of manhood shining through. 
And I think it will be a grand thing for him to study 
under Doctor Carew's guidance. I feel as if we two 
boys had missed a good deal in the way of relationship." 
"You can have it all now. You can begin over 
again," said Princess, with interest, her soft eyes shining 
with earnest friendliness. 
The elder Beaumanoir men had drifted apart as the 
nearest relatives will at times. Mrs. Edward had de- 
veloped into a fussy, nervous mother, and then into a 
fussy, nervous invalid. How Mrs. Judge — she always 
called Mrs. Leonard that after her husband had his ap- 
pointment, quite proud, if a trifle resentful, of the family 
dignity, — how she could go away in the summer with a 
houseful of children, how she could spend weeks in the 
winter at Washington and leave the children at home, 
passed Mrs. Edward's comprehension. Her husband 
confined himself more and more to business, Leonard the 
younger son found home and his mother's complaints 
tiresome, and was full of engagements. And so it hap- 
pened that scholarly Ned, who was gentle and sympa- 
thetic, soothed her weary days until she dropped gently 
out of life. 
Her husband was really shocked. When his brothers 
