"Look, father!" cried Edgar in excitement. "Mark Mason is riding in that
cab."
"So he is!" echoed Mr. Talbot in surprise.
Catching their glance, Mark smiled and bowed. He could understand their
amazement, and he enjoyed it.
Mechanically Mr. Talbot returned the salutation, but Edgar closed his
lips very firmly and refused to take any notice of his cousin.
"I don't understand it," he said to his father, when the cab had passed.
"Doesn't it cost a good deal to ride in a cab in New York?"
"Yes. I never rode in one but once, and then I had to pay two dollars."
"And yet Mark Mason, who is little more than a beggar, can afford to
ride! And last evening he was at the theater in company with a
fashionable young lady. Telegraph boys must get higher pay than he
said."
"Perhaps, Edgar," suggested his father with an attempt at humor, "you
would like to become a telegraph boy yourself."
"I'd scorn to go into such a low business."
"Well, I won't urge you to do so."
Meanwhile Mark continued on his way in the cab. As he passed City Hall
Park Tom Trotter, who had just finished shining a gentleman's boots,
chanced to look towards Broadway. As he saw his friend Mark leaning back
in the cab, his eyes opened wide.
"Well, I'll be jiggered!" he exclaimed. "How's that for puttin' on
style? Fust thing you know Mark Mason will have his name down wid de
Four Hundred!"
It did not occur to Mark to look at the paper given him by Mr. Rockwell
till he got out of the cab.
This was what he read:
       *       *       *       *       *
MR. NICHOLS: Give this boy ten dollars.
LUTHER ROCKWELL.
       *       *       *       *       *
His eyes flashed with delight.
"This is a lucky day!" he exclaimed. "It's worth while running the risk
of being blown up when you're so well paid for it."
Nichols, the chief clerk, at once complied with his employer's
directions.
"You're a brave boy, 79," he said. "If it hadn't been for you, we'd all
have been blown higher than a kite. How did you leave Mr. Rockwell?"
"He seems pretty well upset," answered Mark.
"No wonder; he's an old man. I don't mind saying I was upset myself, and
I am less than half his age. You were the only one of us that kept his
wits about him."
"Somehow I didn't think of danger," said Mark. "I was considering how I
could get the better of the crank."
"You took a great risk. If the valise had fallen, we'd have all gone up,
and he pointed significantly overhead. I am glad Mr. Rockwell has given
you something. If he had given you a hundred dollars, or a thousand, it
wouldn't have been too much."
"He told me to call at the office next week."
"Don't forget to do it. It will be to your interest."
CHAPTER VI.
"THE EVENING GLOBE."
WHILE Mark was passing through these exciting scenes Mrs. Mason went
about her daily duties at home, anxiously considering how the rent was
to be paid on the following day. Mark had not told her of his gift from
Maud Gilbert, intending it as a surprise.
As she was washing the breakfast dishes, there was a little tap at the
door. To her surprise, the visitor turned out to be Mrs. Mack, of the
floor above, to whom Mark had applied for a loan without success. As
Mrs. Mack seldom left her room, Mrs. Mason regarded her with surprise.
"Come in and sit down, Mrs. Mack," she said kindly.
She had no regard for the old woman, but felt that she deserved some
consideration on account of her great age.
Mrs. Mack hobbled in and seated herself in a rocking-chair.
"I hope you are well," said Mrs. Mason.
"Tollable, tollable," answered the old woman, glancing curiously about
the room, as if making an inventory of what it contained.
"Can't I give you a cup of tea? At your age it will be strengthening."
"I'm not so very old," said the old woman querulously. "I'm only
seventy-seven, and my mother lived to be eighty-seven."
"I hope you will live as long as you wish to. But, Mrs. Mack, you must
make yourself comfortable. Old people live longer if they live in
comfort. Will you have the tea?"
"I don't mind," answered Mrs. Mack, brightening up at the prospect of
this unwonted luxury.
She did not allow herself tea every day, on account of its cost. There
are many foolish people in the world, but among the most foolish are
those who deny themselves ordinary comforts in order to save money for
their heirs.
The tea was prepared, and the old woman drank it with evident enjoyment.
"Your boy came up yesterday to borrow three dollars," she began then,
coming to business.
"Yes, he told me so."
"He said he'd pay me Saturday night."
"Yes, he gets two weeks' pay then."
"I--I was afraid he might not pay me back, and I can't afford to lose so
much money. I'm a poor old woman."
"Mark would have paid you back. He always pays his debts."
"Yes; I think he is a good boy. If I thought he would pay me back, I--I
think I would lend him the money. He offered to pay me interest."
"Yes; he would pay you for the favor."
"If--if he will pay me four dollars on Saturday night I will lend him
what he wants."
"What!" ejaculated Mrs. Mason. "Do you propose to ask him a dollar for
the use of three dollars for two or three days?"
"It's--it's a great risk!" mumbled Mrs. Mack.
"There is no risk at all. To ask such interest as that would be sheer
robbery. We are poor and we can't afford to pay it."
"I am a poor old woman."
"You are not poor at all. You are worth thousands of dollars."
"Who said so?" demanded Mrs. Mack in alarm.
"Everybody knows it."
"It's--it's a mistake, a great mistake. I--I can't earn anything. I'm
too old to work. I don't want to die in a poorhouse."
"You would live a great deal better in a poorhouse than you live by
yourself. I decline your offer, Mrs. Mack. I would rather pawn my
wedding ring, as I proposed to Mark. That would only cost me nine cents
in place of the dollar that you demand."
The old woman looked disappointed. She had thought of the matter all
night with an avaricious longing for the interest that she expected to
get out of Mark, and she had no thought that her offer would be
declined.
"Never mind about business, Mrs. Mack!" said Mrs. Mason more kindly, as
she reflected that the old woman could not change her nature. "Won't you
have another cup of tea, and I can give you some toast, too, if you
think you would like it."
An expression of pleasure appeared on the old woman's face.
"If--it's handy," she said. "I don't always make tea, for it is too much
trouble."
It is safe to say that Mrs. Mack thoroughly enjoyed her call, though she
did not effect the loan she desired to make. When she rose to go, Mrs.
Mason invited her to call again.
"I always have tea, or I can make it in five minutes," she said.
"Thank you kindly, ma'am; I will come," she said, "if it isn't putting
you to too much trouble."
"Mother," said Edith, after the visitor had hobbled up-stairs, "I
wouldn't give tea to that stingy old woman."
"My dear child, she is old, and though she is not poor, she thinks she
is, which is almost as bad. If I can brighten her cheerless life in any
way, I am glad to do so."
About one o'clock a knock was heard at the door. Mrs. Mason answered it
in person, and to her surprise found in the caller a brisk-looking young
man, with an intelligent face. He had a note-book in his hand.
"Is this Mrs. Mason?" he inquired.
"Yes, sir."
"Your son is a telegraph boy?"
"Yes."
"No. 79?"
"Yes, sir. Has anything happened to him?" she asked in quick alarm.
"I bring no bad news," answered the young man with a smile. "Have you a
photograph or even a tintype of your son, recently taken?"
"I have a tintype taken last summer at Coney Island."
"That will do. Will you lend it to me till to-morrow?"
"But what can you possibly want with Mark's picture?" asked the mother,
feeling quite bewildered.
"I represent the Daily Globe, Mrs. Mason. His picture is to appear in
the evening edition."
"But why should you publish Mark's picture?"
"Because he has distinguished himself by a heroic action. I can't stop
to give you particulars, for I ought to be at the office now, but I will
refer you to the paper."
With the tintype in his hand the reporter hurried to the office of the
journal he represented, leaving Mrs. Mason in a state of wondering
perplexity.
Within an incredibly short time hundreds of newsboys were running
through the streets crying "Extry! Extra! A dynamite crank at the office
of Luther Rockwell, the great banker!"
Mark Mason was returning from a trip to Brooklyn, when a newsboy thrust
the paper in his face.
"Here, Johnny, give me that paper!" he said.
The boy peered curiously at him.
"Ain't you Mark Mason?" he asked.
"Yes; how did you know me?"
"Your picture is in the paper."
Mark opened the paper in natural excitement, and being a modest boy,
blushed as he saw his picture staring at him from the front page,
labeled underneath "The Heroic Telegraph Boy." He read the account,
which was quite correctly written, with a mixture of emotions, among
which gratification predominated.
"But where did they get my picture?" he asked himself.
There was also a picture of the dynamite crank, which was also tolerably
accurate.
"I must take this home to mother," said Mark, folding up the paper.
"Won't she be surprised!"
About the same time Solon Talbot and Edgar were in the Grand Central
Depot on Forty-Second Street. Their visit was over, and Mr. Talbot had
purchased the return tickets.
"You may buy a couple of evening papers, Edgar," said his father.
One of them selected was the Evening Globe.
Edgar uttered an exclamation as he opened it.
"What's the matter, Edgar?" asked his father.
"Just look at this! Here's Mark Mason's picture in the paper!"
"What nonsense you talk!" said Solon Talbot.
"No, I don't. Here is the picture, and here is his name!" said Edgar
triumphantly.
Solon Talbot read the account in silence.
"I see," said another Syracuse man coming up, "you are reading the
account of the daring attempt to blow up banker Rockwell's office!"
"Yes," answered Solon.
"That was a brave telegraph boy who seized the bag of dynamite."
"Very true!" said Solon, unable to resist the temptation to shine by the
help of the nephew whom he had hitherto despised. "That boy is my own
nephew!"
"You don't say so!"
"Yes; his mother is the sister of my wife."
"But how does he happen to be a telegraph boy?"
"A whim of his. He is a very independent boy, and he insisted on
entering the messenger service."
"Be that as it may, you have reason to be proud of him."
Edgar said nothing, but he wished that just for this once he could
change places with his poor cousin.
"I'd have done the same if I'd had the chance," he said to himself.
CHAPTER VII.
THE GREAT MR. BUNSBY.
"So you have become quite a hero, Mark," said his mother smiling, as
Mark entered the house at half-past six.
"Have you heard of it then, mother?" asked the messenger boy.
"Yes, a little bird came and told me."
"I suppose you saw the Evening Globe."
"Yes, I sent Edith out to buy a copy."
"But how did you know it contained anything about me?"
"Because a reporter came to me for your picture."
"That explains it. I couldn't understand how they got that."
"It makes me shudder, Mark, when I think of the risk you ran. How did
you dare to go near that terrible man?"
"I knew something must be done or we should all lose our lives. No one
seemed to think what to do except myself."
"You ought to have been handsomely paid. The least Mr. Rockwell could do
was to give you five dollars."
"He gave me ten, and told me to call at the office next week."
"Then," said his mother relieved, "we shall be able to pay the rent."
"That was provided for already. The young lady I escorted to the theater
last evening gave me three dollars over the regular charges for my
services."
"Why didn't you tell me before, Mark?"
"I ought to have done so, but I wanted it to be an agreeable surprise.
So you see I have thirteen dollars on hand."
"It is a blessed relief. Oh, I mustn't forget to tell you that Mrs. Mack
came in this morning to offer to lend me three dollars."
"What! has the old woman become kind-hearted all at once?"
"As to that, I think there is very little kindness in offering three
dollars at thirty-three per cent. interest for three days. She was
willing to lend three dollars; but demanded four dollars in return."
"It is lucky we shall not have to pay such enormous interest. Now,
mother, what have you got for supper?"
"Some tea and toast, Mark."
"We must have something better. I will go out and buy a sirloin steak,
and some potatoes. We will have a good supper for once."
At the entrance to the street Mark found Tom Trotter.
Tom's honest face lighted up with pleasure.
"I see you've got into de papers, Mark," he said.
"Yes, Tom."
"I wouldn't believe it when Jim Sheehan told me, but I went and bought
de Evening Globe, and there you was!"
"I hope you'll get into the papers some time, Tom."
"There ain't no chance for me, 'cept I rob a bank. Where you goin',
Mark?"
"To buy some steak for supper. Have you eaten supper yet?"
"No."
"Then come along with me, and I'll invite you to join us."
"I don't look fit, Mark."
"Never mind about your clothes, Tom. We don't generally put on dress
suits. A little soap and water will make you all right."
"What'll your mudder say?"
"That any friend of mine is welcome."
So Tom allowed himself to be persuaded, and had no reason to complain
of his reception. The steak emitted appetizing odors as it was being
broiled, and when at length supper was ready no one enjoyed it more than
Tom.
"How do you think my mother can cook, Tom?" asked Mark.
"She beats Beefsteak John all hollow. I just wish she'd open a eaten'
house."
"I'll think about it, Tom," said Mrs. Mason smiling. "Would you be one
of my regular customers?"
"I would if I had money enough."
It is hard to say which enjoyed the supper most. The day before Mrs.
Mason had been anxious and apprehensive, but to-day, with a surplus fund
of thirteen dollars, she felt in high spirits.
This may seem a small sum to many of our readers, but to the frugal
little household it meant nearly two weeks' comfort.
The table was cleared, and Mark and Tom sat down to a game of checkers.
They had just finished the first game when steps were heard on the
stairs, and directly there was a knock at the door.
"Go to the door, Mark," said his mother.
Mark opened the door and found himself in the presence of a stout man,
rather showily dressed, and wearing a white hat.
"Is this Mark Mason?" asked the visitor.
"Yes, sir."
The visitor took out a copy of the Evening Globe, and compared Mark
with the picture.
"Yes, I see you are," he proceeded. "You are the telegraph boy that
disarmed the dynamite crank in Mr. Rockwell's office."
"Yes, sir."
"Allow me to say, young man, I wouldn't have been in your shoes at that
moment for ten thousand dollars."
"I wouldn't want to go through it again myself," smiled Mark.
All the while he was wondering why the stout man should have taken the
trouble to come and see him.
"Perhaps you'll know me when I tell you that I'm Bunsby," said the stout
visitor drawing himself up and inflating his chest with an air of
importance.
"Of Bunsby's Dime Museum?" asked Mark.
"Exactly! You've hit it the first time. Most people have heard of me,"
he added complacently.
"Oh yes, sir, I've heard of you often. So have you, Tom?"
"Yes," answered Tom, fixing his eyes on Mr. Bunsby with awe-struck
deference, "I've been to de museum often."
"Mr. Bunsby," said Mark gravely, "this is my particular friend, Tom
Trotter."
"Glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Trotter," said Mr. Bunsby, offering
his hand.
Tom took it shyly, and felt that it was indeed a proud moment for him.
To be called Mr. Trotter by the great Bunsby, and to have his hand
shaken into the bargain, put him on a pinnacle of greatness which he had
never hoped to reach.
"Won't you walk in, Mr. Bunsby? This is my mother, Mrs. Mason, and this
is my sister Edith."
"Glad to meet you, ladies both! I congratulate you, Mrs. Mason, on
having so distinguished a son."
"He is a good boy, Mr. Bunsby, whether he is distinguished or not."
"I have no doubt of it. In fact I am sure of it. You already know that I
keep a dime museum, where, if I do say it myself, may be found an
unrivaled collection of curiosities gathered from the four quarters of
the globe, and where may be witnessed the most refined and recherché
entertainments, which delight daily the élite of New York and the
surrounding cities."
"Yes, sir," assented Mrs. Mason, rather puzzled to guess what all this
had to do with her.
"I have come here to offer your son an engagement of four weeks at
twenty-five dollars a week, and the privilege of selling his
photographs, with all the profits it may bring."
"But what am I to do?" asked Mark.
"Merely to sit on the platform with the other curiosities."
"But I am not a curiosity."
"I beg your pardon, my dear boy, but everybody will want to see the
heroic boy who foiled a dynamite fiend and saved the life of a banker."
Somehow this proposal was very repugnant to Mark.
"Thank you, Mr. Bunsby," he said, "but I should not like to earn money
in that way."
"I might say thirty dollars a week," continued Mr. Bunsby. "Come, let us
strike up a bargain."
"It isn't the money. Twenty-five dollars a week is more than I could
earn in any other way, but I shouldn't like to have people staring at
me."
"My dear boy, you are not practical."
"I quite agree with Mark," said Mrs. Mason. "I would not wish him to
become a public spectacle."
CHAPTER VIII.
A SCENE IN MRS. MACK'S ROOM.
FIFTEEN minutes before a stout, ill-dressed man of perhaps forty years
of age knocked at the door of Mrs. Mack's room.
"Come in!" called the old lady in quavering accents.
The visitor opened the door and entered.
"Who are you?" asked the old lady in alarm.
"Don't you know me, Aunt Jane?" replied the intruder. "I'm Jack Minton,
your nephew."
"I don't want to see you--go away!" cried Mrs. Mack.
"That's a pretty way to receive your own sister's son, whom you haven't
seen for five years."
"I haven't seen you because you've been in jail," retorted his aunt in a
shrill voice.
"Yes, I was took for another man," said Jack. "He stole and laid it off
on to me."
"I don't care how it was, but I don't want to see you. Go away!"
"Look here, Aunt Jane, you're treating me awful mean. I'm your own
orphan nephew, and you ought to make much of me."
"An orphan--yes. You hurried your poor mother to the grave by your bad
conduct," said Mrs. Mack with some emotion. "You won't find me so soft
as she was."
"Soft? No, you're as hard as flint, but all the same you're my aunt, and
you're rich, while I haven't a dollar to bless myself with."
"Rich! Me rich!" repeated the old lady shrilly. "You see how I live.
Does it look as if I was rich?"
"Oh, you can't humbug me that way. You could live better if you wanted
to."
"I'm poor--miserably poor!" returned the old woman.
"I'd like to be as poor as you are!" said Jack Minton grimly. "You're a
miser, that's all there is about it. You half starve yourself and live
without fire, when you might be comfortable, and all to save money.
You're a fool! Do you know where all your money will go when you're
dead?"
"There won't be any left."
"Won't there? I'll take the risk of that, for I shall be your heir.
It'll all go to me!" said Jack, chuckling.
"Go away! Go away!" cried the terrified old woman wildly.
"I want to have a little talk with you first, aunt," said Jack, drawing
the only other chair in the room in front of Mrs. Mack and sitting down
on it. "You're my only relation, and we ought to have an understanding.
Why, you can't live more than a year or two--at your age."
"What do you mean?" said Mrs Mack angrily. "I'm good for ten years. I'm
only seventy-seven."
"You're living on borrowed time, Aunt Jane, you know that yourself.
You've lived seven years beyond the regular term, and you can't live
much longer."
"Go away! Go away!" said the terrified old woman, really alarmed at her
nephew's prediction. "I don't want to have anything to do with you."
"Don't forget that I'm your heir."
"I can leave my money as I please--not that I've got much to leave."
"You mean you'll make a will? Well, go ahead and do it. There was a man
I know made a will and he died the next day."
This shot struck home, for the old woman really had a superstitious
dread of making a will.
"You're a terrible man!" she moaned. "You scare me."
"Come, aunt, be reasonable. You can leave part of your money away from
me if you like, but I want you to help me now. I'm hard up. Do you see
this nickel?" and he drew one from his vest pocket.
"Yes."
"Well, it's all the money I've got. Why, I haven't eaten anything
to-day, and I have no money to pay for a bed."
"I--I haven't any supper for you."
"I don't want any here. I wouldn't care to board with you, Aunt Jane.
Why, I should soon become a bag of bones like yourself. I don't believe
you've got five cents' worth of provisions in the room."
"There's half a loaf of bread in the closet."
"Let me take a look at it."
He strode to the closet and opened the door. On a shelf he saw half a
loaf of bread, dry and stale. He took it in his hand, laughing.
"Why, that bread is three days' old," he said. "Where's your butter?"
"I--I don't eat butter. It's too high!"
"And you don't care to live high!" said Jack, laughing at his own joke.
"I don't care to rob you of this bread, Aunt Jane. It's too rich for my
blood. Don't you ever eat anything else?"
"Sometimes," she answered, hesitating.
"I'd rather take my supper at the cheapest restaurant on the Bowery.
What I want is money."
Mrs. Mack uttered a little cry of alarm.
"Oh, don't go into a fit, aunt! I only want a little, just to get along
till I can find work. Give me twenty-five dollars, and I won't come near
you again for a month. I swear it."
"Twenty-five dollars!" ejaculated Mrs. Mack in dismay. "Do you think I
am made of money?"
"I don't take you for an Astor or a Vanderbilt, Aunt Jane, but you've
got a tidy lot of money somewhere--that I am sure of. I shouldn't
wonder if you had five thousand dollars. Now where do you keep it?"
"Have you taken leave of your senses?" asked the old woman sharply. "No,
I haven't, but it looks to me as if you had. But I can't waste my time
here all night. I'm your only relative, and it's your duty to help me.
Will you let me have twenty-five dollars or not?"
"No, I won't," answered Mrs. Mack angrily.
"Then I'll take the liberty of helping myself if I can find where you
keep your hoards."
Jack Minton jumped up from his chair and went at once to a cheap bureau,
which, however, was probably the most valuable article in the room, and
pulling out the top drawer, began to rummage about among the contents.
Then it was that Mrs. Mack uttered the piercing shriek referred to at
the end of the last chapter, and her nephew, tramping across the floor,
seized her roughly by the shoulder.
"What do you mean by this noise, you old fool?" he demanded roughly.
"Help! Murder! Thieves!" screamed the old woman.
Then the door opened, and Mark Mason burst into the room, followed by
Tom Trotter.
"What's the matter, Mrs. Mack?" asked Mark.
"This man is going to rob me," answered the old woman. "Oh, save me!"
"It's a lie!" said Jack Minton. "Just ask this woman who I am. She
knows."
"Who is he, Mrs. Mack?"
"It is my nephew, Jack Minton. He----"
"Do you hear that? I'm her nephew, come in to make her a call after a
long time."
"What are you doing to her?" demanded Mark suspiciously.
"Trying to stop her infernal racket. You'd think I was murdering her by
the way she goes on."
"What made you scream, Mrs. Mack?"
"Because he--he was going to rob me."
"How is that?" demanded Mark sternly.
"None of your business, kid! You ain't no call to interfere between me
and my aunt."
"I have if she asks me to."
"He was at my bureau drawers. He told me I must give him twenty-five
dollars."
"Supposing I did? It's the least you can do for your own nephew that
hasn't a cent to bless himself with."
"Oh, take him away, Mark! He'll rob me first and murder me afterwards,
and I'm his mother's only sister."
"You see she admits it. She's rolling in money----"
"Oh!" exclaimed Mrs. Mack, throwing up her hands. "You know I'm poor,
Mark Mason."
"No, I don't, Mrs. Mack. I think you've got all the money you need, but
you have a right to keep it if you want to. Mr. Minton, you had better
leave the room. Your aunt is evidently afraid of you, and, old as she
is, your staying here may make her sick."
"It ain't much use living, the way she is. Aunt Jane, I ask you again
will you lend me twenty-five dollars?"
"No, no!"
"Will you lend me five dollars?"
"No."
"Are you going to turn your own nephew out into the street without a
cent to buy food or pay for a bed?"
He glowered at his aunt so fiercely as he said this that Mark was afraid
he might strangle her.
"Mrs. Mack," he said, "you had better give him something if he is in so
much need. Since he is really your nephew, you might give him a dollar
on condition that he won't trouble you again."
After long persuasion the old woman was induced to do this, though she
declared that it would leave her destitute, and send her to the
poor-house.
"Now, Mr. Minton," said Mark, "I advise you not to come here again, or I
may have to call in a policeman."
"I've a great mind to throw you down-stairs," growled Jack.
"You'd have to throw me too!" put in Tom Trotter.
"I'd do it with pleasure."
Jack left the room and steered his way to the nearest saloon, while Mark
and Tom returned to the room beneath.
CHAPTER IX.
AN ADVENTURE IN A FIFTH AVENUE STAGE.
MARK did not fail to call at Mr. Rockwell's office during the following
week.
Nichols, the clerk, who had already shown a friendly interest in him,
received him kindly.
"Mr. Rockwell is still confined at his house," he said. "The affair of
last week was a great shock to him, and, not being a strong man, he is
quite prostrated."
"I am sorry to hear it," said Mark in a tone of sympathy, "but I am not
surprised. That is what I read in the papers. Still, as I was asked to
call at the office, I have done so."
"I am glad to see you. I hope you are getting along well."
"Oh yes, fairly well."
"How do you like being a telegraph messenger?"
"It will do very well for a boy, but it leads to nothing. I wish I could
get into some position where I would be promoted."
"That will come after a while, if you show yourself faithful and
reliable."
The next day Mark had a surprise. Walking past the Metropolitan Hotel,
not far from Houston Street, he saw a boy just leaving the hotel whose
face and figure were familiar.
"Edgar Talbot!" he exclaimed in surprise.
"Oh, it's you, is it?" said Edgar, turning at the call.
"Yes; how do you happen to visit New York again so soon?"
"We are going to move to New York," answered Edgar. "Father feels that
Syracuse is too small a place for a man of his business ability," he
added in a consequential tone.
"Are you going to live at the hotel?"
"No. We shall live in a nice flat up town, near the Park."
This was news indeed. Mark felt no interest in any of the family except
in Mrs. Talbot, his mother's sister, who alone of all displayed a
friendly regard for her poor relatives.
"Mother will be glad to hear of it," he said.
"Why?"
"Because your mother is her only sister, and she will like to call on
her."
"Look here!" said Edgar. "I hope you don't expect to be on visiting
terms at our house."
"Why not? You are my own cousin, aren't you?"
"Yes, I suppose so," answered Edgar, making the admission grudgingly,
"but of course there is a great difference in our social positions."
"You mean that you are rich and we are poor?"
"Yes, that's about the size of it."
"I don't care a particle about seeing you, but my mother will be glad to
see her sister."
"Oh, well! Mother can call at your--tenement house, now and then, but it
would be better that none of you should call on us."
"Why?"
"Because we wouldn't like to let the servants know that we have such
poor relations."
"Do you say this on your own account, or did your father tell you this?"
said Mark indignantly.
"I know that is the way he feels."
"I don't believe Aunt Mary feels so."
Just then a boy approached whom Edgar seemed to know.
"Good morning," he said hurriedly. "I have an engagement."
Mark felt that he was dismissed, and kept on his way. He hardly knew
whether to be glad or sorry that his uncle's family was coming to New
York. He did not care for Edgar's companionship, nor did he expect to
get any of it, but he knew that his mother would like to meet her sister
occasionally.
About the middle of the afternoon he found himself riding in a Fifth
Avenue stage. The stage was tolerably full. Directly opposite Mark sat
an old lady richly dressed, whose means were evidently large. Next to
her sat a flashily dressed young man, on whose bosom glittered what
might be a valuable diamond stud, conspicuous for its size. He had a
diamond ring on his finger, and might easily be mistaken for a banker's
son.
All at once Mark noticed some suspicious movements which led him to
think that the young man might be quite different from what he appeared.
A moment later he saw the young man's hand dive into the old lady's side
pocket. Directly afterwards he rose and pulled the strap for the stage
to stop. Mark realized that a robbery had taken place. He rose and
placed himself between the young man and the door.
"Madam," he said to the old lady, "I think you have been robbed. Feel in
your pockets and see."
The old lady, startled, followed Mark's advice.
"My pocketbook is gone!" she said nervously.
"Out of the way, boy!" cried the young man. "I have to get out here."
"Not yet," answered Mark firmly. "Give back the lady's pocketbook."
"Why, you insolent young rascal! What do you mean?"
"I mean just what I say."
"You have insulted me, and I will horsewhip you!" exclaimed the rogue in
assumed virtuous indignation.
He seized Mark by the shoulder and was about to thrust him forcibly
aside, when a stout, thick-set man rose and ranged himself by Mark's
side.
"Young man," he said, "give back the pocketbook as the boy tells you."
"I have no pocketbook."
As he spoke he dexterously dropped it to the floor of the stage.
"Here's your pocketbook, ma'am," said a nurse girl, picking it up.
"Thank you!" responded the old lady, relieved.
"What did I tell you?" exclaimed the dude triumphantly. "Boy, you're too
fresh! I am a young man of high family. It is most ridiculous to charge
me with stealing."
"I saw you with your hand in the lady's pocket," said Mark calmly.
"It's a lie! But I ought not to be surprised. I know you now. You were
sent to the Island last summer for stealing. I remember seeing you on
trial at Jefferson Market police court."
Suspicious glances were directed at Mark, for most people are inclined
to believe evil of their neighbors--but the stout man only laughed.
"That is too thin, my friend!" he said. "Of course your motive in
bringing a charge against this boy is plain.
"Let me out, sir!" stormed the crook.
"Madam, do you wish to bring a charge against this man?"
"No, let him go. I've got my pocketbook back, and that's all I want."
The stout man turned aside, and the adventurer sprang out of the stage
and dashed down Thirty-Ninth Street in the direction of Third Avenue.
"I'm very much obliged to you, boy," said the old lady. "Did you really
see that young man take my pocketbook?"
"I saw him with his hand in your pocket."
"I'm so sorry. He seemed so nicely dressed, too. I thought he belonged
to a rich family."
The stout man laughed.
"My dear madam," he said, "the young men connected with our best
families don't dress as flashily as your late companion. He is probably
a professional pickpocket. Did you have much money with you?"
"Over a hundred dollars. I was going down town to pay a bill."
"Then you ought to be much obliged to this boy for detecting the thief."
"I am," said the old lady earnestly. "Here, take this," she continued,
and she drew a five-dollar bill from her pocketbook.
Mark hung back.
"No, thank you!" he said. "I don't want any pay for that."
"Give me your name and address, then."
Mark had a business card in his pocket, and wrote his name and address
upon it.
"Give me your name and address too," said the gentleman who had proved
so valuable an ally. "I may need your services some time."
"I don't think I have another card, sir."
"Then take one of mine."
Mark glanced at the card offered him.
      HENRY SWAN.
    Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry.
      No. 185½ Broadway.
"Were that young man's diamonds bought at your store," asked Mark,
smiling.
"They were only paste. They might deceive a novice, but I saw through
them at once. But I must bid you good morning. I have to make a call at
the Fifth Avenue Hotel."
A few blocks farther on the old lady got out.
Mark assisted her to the street.
"You're a very polite boy," she said. "You've done me a great favor. You
had better take the five dollars I offered you."
"No, thank you, madam. I will wait till I have a chance to do you
another service."
He did not resume his seat in the stage, having an errand on Eighteenth
Street. As he was passing Lord & Taylor's store, he heard his name
called.
Turning in some surprise he saw Maud Gilbert, the young lady he had
escorted to Daly's Theater, leaving the store.
"How do you do, Mark?" she said, extending her hand with a smile.
"Very well, thank you, Miss Gilbert."
"Didn't I see your picture in the Evening Globe a short time since?"
"Yes, I believe so," answered Mark, blushing.
"In connection with Mr. Rockwell, the banker?"
"Yes."
"You have become quite a hero. I concluded it was you and I felt quite
proud to think I knew you. Did I tell you that I had a brother about
your age?"
"No, Miss Gilbert."
"I have, and he is home on a vacation from Exeter Academy. If you have
no engagement on Thursday evening call and I will introduce you."
"I shall be delighted to do so Miss----"
"Maud," suggested the young lady smiling.
"Miss Maud. Thank you for the invitation. I will come."
CHAPTER X.
AN IMPORTANT COMMISSION.
"No. 79!" called the superintendent.
Mark Mason came forward to receive his commission. He had been sitting
on a bench with several other telegraph boys, awaiting a call.
"Do you know Henry Swan, jeweler?" asked the superintendent, referring
to a paper in his hand.
"Yes, sir; that is, I met him lately in a Fifth Avenue stage."
"He has sent for a telegraph boy, No. 79 preferred."
Mark smiled with pleasure.
"I am glad he remembers me," he said.
"You may go there at once."
Mark put on his cap and went to the jeweler's store. As he entered, Mr.
Swan, who was crossing from one side of the store to the other,
recognized him.
"You see I haven't forgotten you," he said.
"I am glad of that, sir."
"The boy in my employ has sent word that he is sick. It is necessary
for me to supply his place. In my business fidelity and sharpness are
requisite. I knew that you possess these traits, and as I don't want to
experiment with a new boy of whom I know nothing, I sent for you."
"I will try to meet your wishes, sir."
"To begin with, have you another suit? I don't want you to wear the
uniform of a telegraph boy while you are in my employ."
"Yes, sir. Shall I go home and get it?"
"On the whole, no. I will give you an order on a clothier in Fulton
Street for a new suit."
"You are very kind, Mr. Swan," said Mark in astonishment. "I have done
nothing to deserve such kindness."
"Not yet," answered the jeweler pleasantly; "but perhaps you may soon.
Take this note to Knight Brothers, and you will have no trouble."
This was the note.
       *       *       *       *       *
"KNIGHT BROTHERS, FULTON STREET:
"Fit out this boy with a nice suit and send the bill to me.
"HENRY SWAN."
       *       *       *       *       *
Mark lost no time in visiting the clothiers.
"What can I do for you, young man?" asked the salesman.
"This note will explain," said Mark.
The salesman opened and read it.
"It will be all right," he said. "Mr. Swan gets his clothes here, but he
has them made to order. Do you want one made to order or ready made?"
"Ready made. I want to put it on to-day."
"Come up-stairs then."
In twenty minutes Mark left the store attired in a nice eighteen dollar
suit. He would have selected a cheaper one, but the salesman overruled
him.
"Mr. Swan never buys a cheap suit or inferior article," he said. "In the
letter he wishes you to have a nice suit, and we must follow
directions."
"I don't want to abuse his generosity."
"You won't. He is a very liberal man. He is teacher of a class of five
poor boys in a mission Sunday-school. Last Christmas he sent them all in
here for new suits."
"If that is the case," said Mark, "I shall feel easier."
When he reappeared at the jeweler's Mr. Swan regarded him with critical
approval.
"You have made a good selection," he said.
"I hope I didn't go too high for the suit, Mr. Swan. I wanted to order a
cheaper one, but the salesman wouldn't let me."
"The salesman was right," said the jeweler smiling. "I am satisfied.
And now to your work. I have a request from a lady up town to send her a
couple of diamond rings to select from. She professed to be on her way
from Brooklyn and to be in haste. She is, she says, staying at the house
of a friend at No. 282 West Forty-Seventh between Seventh and Eighth
Avenues. She is to go away to-morrow and would like to make choice of a
ring to-day."
Mark was rather surprised to hear this full account from the jeweler. As
he was only to take the part of an errand boy he didn't see the
necessity for it. He was soon enlightened.
"Now," proceeded the jeweler, "I am of the opinion that this lady is a
clever swindler. I believe she wants to get hold of the rings, and carry
them off without paying for them."
"Then you won't send them to her, I suppose."
"I would not if I were absolutely sure that she is a fraud, but this I
don't know. She may be a bona fide customer, and if so I should like
to sell her a ring."
"How can you find out, sir?"
"I hope to do so with your help."
CHAPTER XI.
MR. HAMILTON SCHUYLER IS ASTONISHED.
THE jeweler took from his case two diamond rings. They were large,
brilliant, and showy.
"How do you like the appearance of these rings?" he asked.
"They are beautiful!" exclaimed Mark admiringly.
"Don't you think the lady would admire them?"
"I should think so, sir."
"What should you think they are worth?"
"A hundred dollars apiece," guessed Mark.
"If the diamonds were genuine, one would be worth three hundred and
fifty dollars and the other four hundred."
"Are they not genuine?" asked Mark in surprise.
"Paste, my boy, paste. The gold, however, is real. Instead of being
worth the sum mentioned, one is worth perhaps three dollars and a half,
the other four dollars."
"But I shouldn't think it would be worth your while to keep false
diamond rings."
"Nor would it if all persons were honest. I never sell them. I only sell
genuine jewelry. I will let you understand the use I mean to make of
them. These two rings I mean to have you carry to Mrs. Montgomery on
Forty-Seventh Street."
"But suppose she takes them for genuine?"
"Then I will make them so. In other words, I will take out the paste
diamonds and replace them with real stones. If on the other hand any
fraud is intended it won't benefit her much."
"Very well, sir. I think I understand."
"You must to a certain extent exercise your own discretion. I judged
from the observations I made the other afternoon that you are a boy who
possesses that important quality."
"Thank you for the compliment."
"I will tell you what made me suspect the woman of whom I have spoken.
First, the name. She calls herself Mrs. Philip Montgomery. It sounds
like a fictitious name. Again, she is a stout, rather common-looking
woman, with a florid complexion and larger features. Now Montgomery is
an aristocratic name. Again, she says she is from Buffalo. Swindlers
generally hail from some distant city. Then again, it is rather
suspicious that she should be in such haste.
"The purchase is an important one, and the amount to be paid--she
herself fixed the approximate value--is considerable. You would think
she would wish to inspect my stock carefully before making a selection.
Instead of this she only asked to have two rings sent up to her of the
value of three or four hundred dollars, and she would make choice of one
of them."
"It does look rather suspicious, sir."
Mr. Swan gave Mark some further directions, and the latter started up
town on the Eighth Avenue horse cars, which he took on the lower side of
the Astor House.
"This is new business to me," thought Mark. "I feel an interest to see
this Mrs. Montgomery. If she is planning to entrap me, she won't make as
much as she anticipates."
Mark had the rings, each in a little morocco case, carefully laid away
in the inside pocket of his coat.
When they reached Canal Street, to Mark's surprise, his cousin Edgar
entered the car. He did not recognize Mark at first, the latter no
longer wearing the messenger's uniform.
"How do you do, Cousin Edgar?" said Mark.
Edgar turned sharply around.
"Oh, it's you, is it?" he said. "Please don't call me cousin."
"I am just as much ashamed of the relationship as you are," responded
