I waylaid the man and tumbler in the back porch.
"Are they dead, sure enough?" I whispered.
"Dead as a door-nail, little mistis."
"Give 'em to me, please! I'll bury them."
He complied, good-naturedly. I poured the contents of the glass into the
vault, and strewed fine dry sand over them an inch deep. Then I fitted
on the flat stone, and said nothing to anybody of my new branch of
industry.
I was tired of being called "an old-fashioned child!" My mother's oft
and resigned ejaculation--"What next, I wonder!" was to my ears a
covert reproach for not being "steady" and "a comfort," like Mary 'Liza.
Even my less critical father's shout of laughter at any unusual freak or
experiment abraded my moral cuticle sometimes. At home the colored
children would have entered heartily into my mortuary enterprise,--yes!
and kept my counsel. The reticence of the serf exceeds in dumb
doggedness that of a misunderstood child. But I did not play with Uncle
Carter's little negroes. Every Southern child comprehended the
distinction between "home-folks" and other people's servants.
Not that I was ever lonely. What I called "things" were an unfailing
resource to me. An ant-hill was entertainment for a whole forenoon; I
watched bees and their hives by the hour; my vault kept me busy and
happy all day. If Cousin Molly Belle suspected what I was about, she
asked no questions, and refrained from spying upon me. When dressed
clean in the afternoon, for the second time since breakfast,--the
manufacture of mud-pies, puddings, and cakes, and the baking of several
batches in the sun, having engrossed the morning,--I took The Fairchild
Family out into the summer-house and reread, for the tenth time, the
account of the opening of the family vault.
Why, I reasoned within myself, should innocent dumb creatures be thrown
away like dead leaves, when they have stopped living? It would be kind
in me, or in anybody, to bury them in vaults, and to write Bible verses
and all that on their tombstones. I would dig another vault to-morrow
and look around for things to put into it,--and still another the next
day. I had, in imagination, honeycombed the space under the benches with
catacombs, and my book was clean forgotten, before I saw a movement in
the sandy flooring, close to the edge of the flat stone sealing the
mouth of the vault. I leaned forward to inspect it more nearly. The
stone had been undermined at one side, and a hole left there, through
which a line of flies, gray with dust, was feebly crawling into the
sunshine. There seemed to be a thousand of them, all dusty, but some
more active than others. As soon as they were quite clear of the hole,
they dispersed in various directions, some alighting upon twigs and
blades of grass, some flying up to the benches, where they sat cleaning
their bodies and wings with their feet and mouths.
I worked my hands into the hole and raised the stone. A cloud of
resurrected flies arose in my astonished face. The vault was quick with
them. The dry sand, warmed by the sun, that I had sifted over them, had
acted as a hot blanket upon the chilled body of a dying man. When I got
rid of the swarm I examined the vault. Both of the terrapins were
missing. The sapping and mining was their work. Through the tunnel thus
excavated they had regained their liberty, and released a mighty host of
fellow-captives.
"The rest of you are dead, anyhow!" said I, aloud, intensely chagrined
at the cheat practised upon my benevolent nature, and I shoved the stone
back over the violated vault.
A shadow fell upon the white sand. Looking up, I saw a young gentleman
in the door of the summer-house, smiling down at me. At the first glance
I took him for my cousin Burwell, who was at home on his vacation. A
second undeceived me. I scrambled to my feet and stared hard at the
stranger who stood with his hands behind him, still smiling, but not
saying a word. He was nattily dressed in a blue cloth coat and trousers,
and a white waistcoat. A white satin stock of the latest style encircled
a slender neck; he wore shiny boots, a leghorn hat was set jauntily
above a crop of black curls. I was never shy, having been accustomed
from my birth to meeting strangers and to "entertaining company" when
called upon to do so. Yet I was strangely embarrassed by the merry eyes
fixed silently upon me.
"How do you do, sir!" I said, dropping a little courtesy, as well-bred
children still did in that part of the civilized world.
Still without speaking, the stranger drew nearer and stooped to kiss me.
This was going several steps too far. I clapped one hand over my mouth
and pushed him away with the other.
"Cousin Molly Belle! oh, Cousin Molly Belle!" I screamed between my
fingers.
She was the only member of the family at home, my uncle, aunt, and their
two sons having gone on an all-day visit to a plantation some miles
away.
"Why, Namesake! don't you know me?"
Her voice answered in my very ear, her arm held me as I ceased
struggling.
I laughed like a mad thing in the excess of my relief and surprise, and
when she sat down, I climbed to her knee for a good look at her
disguise.
"Cousin Burwell's clothes!" I said analytically. "And his hat. But your
hair is black."
She lifted the hat to show that she had on a black wig.
"It belonged to poor Grandpapa when he was young. He had a fever and his
head was shaved. I found it in a box on the top shelf of mother's
closet, and tried it on just for fun. I liked myself so well in the
glass that I thought I'd see how I would have looked if Burwell had been
the girl, and I the boy. I know now that I ought to have been. I mean to
be--just for fun--until they all come home. I'm in exactly the humor to
do something outrageous. I'm tired to death of everyday doings and
everyday people, and my everyday self. You and I are going to have a
real spree, a glorious frolic, and nobody else is to know a single
thing about it. Flora" (her maid) "helped me on with this rig. She is as
close as wax, and you never tell tales,--Oh, yes! I know--" as I opened
my mouth eagerly--"you would have your tongue pulled out by the roots
before you would get me into trouble. And there would be all sorts of
trouble if I were found out."
She tied my sunbonnet, made of the same pink gingham as my frock, under
my chin, and we set forward gleefully upon our spree. To begin with, we
jumped over the yard palings, so that we should not have to pass in
sight of the house and kitchen, in order to get into the lane leading to
the public road. We called it "a lane." Now it would be an avenue, or
drive. The finest Lombardy poplars in Powhatan County bordered it; sheep
mint, pennyroyal, sweetbrier, and wild thyme grew up close to the
wheel-track and gave out a goodly smell as we brushed by and trod upon
them. I was in a high gale of spirits, and prattled as fast as my
tongue could run, flattered beyond expression by the choice of myself as
an accomplice in the frolic.
"It's a pity you can't change places with Cousin Burwell!" I
regretted. "You'd be a heap handsomer gentleman than he is. And it must
be just fine not to have to hold up your frocks when you want to run
fast, and to climb trees and jump fences. Would it be sure-enough
wrong--I don't mean not lady-like--but would it be sinful for you to
dress that way all the time?"
"People seem to think so, Namesake. They think so so much that it is
against the law for a woman to wear a man's clothes, or for a man to
wear a woman's. Though why any man with a grain of sense in his head
should ever want to put on skirts, I can't see. If I were to meet a
magistrate while I have on these--things,"--flicking her trousers with
a switch she had cut from a hickory sapling,--"he would have a right to
put me in jail."
"Oh, Cousin Molly Belle!" squeezing her hand hard. "S'pose we should!"
"I'm Cousin Burwell until we get home. No 's'pose,' you little goosie!
If we did, we'd take to the woods, and outrun him. Or, we'd climb a
tree."
We were in the highroad, striding the ruts and skipping over stones like
two boys on the way home from school. There was pleasanter walking in
bridle-paths and wood-roads branching off from the thoroughfare every
few rods. I think the madcap chose the rutty and mud-holey route because
there was, at least, a chance that we might have to plunge into the
bushes to hide, or to brave the scrutiny of strangers and acquaintances.
The sauce of danger made the escapade the more attractive.
Half a mile from home a creek, shallow, but broad, crossed the road. We
could not pass over dry-shod and had to go up the bank into the low
grounds to find a long log laid from side to side of a narrower part of
the stream. My companion hoisted me upon her back and ran along the
uncertain bridge as fleetly as a squirrel.
"How far are we going?" I asked, as she set me down.
"Around by Tom's Hill, and then cut across the field home. It's more
than a mile. Can you walk so far?"
"I walked two miles at a time, once!" I boasted.
"You are a brave little lightwood knot!"
She was "fey"--exaltée--in the state of lighthearted-and
lightheadedness for which sober, literal, decorous English has no
synonym. As we went, she danced and sang, and laughed out joyously at
everything and at nothing, and talked the most fascinating nonsense--all
in the rôle of "Cousin Burwell." She could imitate him to perfection;
her strut and swagger and slang threw me into paroxysms of delight. We
picked huckleberries, and dived into the woods to feast upon wild plums
that had ten drops of syrupy juice between tough skins and flinty
stones encased in the pulp of bitterness, and gathered handfuls of wild
flowers because their beauty tempted sight and touch, and with no
intention of taking them home with us. Two of Pan's dryads turned loose
for a holiday could not have sported more irrationally.
We met neither man nor beast until we had climbed Tom's Hill, a stony
eminence from the top of which, as the neighbors were proud of saying,
one could see six dwelling-houses, each with its group of outbuildings,
representing six fine plantations. A saddle-horse was tied to a
persimmon tree a hundred yards or so down the other side. He whinnied at
sight of us, and Cousin Molly Belle ran up to him.
"Well done, Snap! old fellow! clothes don't make any difference to
you--do they?"
It was Mr. Frank Morton's riding horse, and the fence by which he stood
bounded an extensive tobacco field belonging to Mr. Frank Morton's
brother. About the middle of the field was a tobacco barn, and by
climbing upon the top rail of the fence so as to overlook a row of
sassafras saplings, I could see a group of men about the door. Their
backs were toward us, and if they had looked our way they could not have
seen us, when I got down.
Cousin Molly Belle's eyes were two dancing stars. She clapped her hands
in riotous glee. Without a word she untied the bridle from the tree,
vaulted into the saddle, drew me up in front of her, and before I could
put a question we were pacing briskly down the hill. At the bottom we
struck into a cross-road leading to Uncle Carter's plantation. Cousin
Molly Belle was laughing too heartily to speak distinctly, and I joined
in with all my heart, with a very imperfect appreciation of the extent
of the practical joke. Mr. Frank Morton would not have to walk home. He
had only to go to his brother's house when he missed Snap and borrow a
horse, and Snap would be sent back safely to him in good time.
"What d'you s'pose he'll say when he comes to the fence and Snap isn't
there?" queried I, at length.
"Oh, don't I wish I were hiding somewhere near enough to hear and see
him!" another and yet more infectious outburst. "That would be the best
part of the joke. I'm going to turn Snap loose when we get to our outer
gate, and hit him a crack with my switch and start him toward home.
He'll not tell tales out of school--will you, old boy?" slapping his
neck affectionately. "Mr. Frank Morton will never guess why the horse
thief let such a fine animal get away from him, when once he had got
him. I can hear him now, telling me the story, and I'll look as grave as
a dozen judges, and wonder as hard as he does--and--Hark!"
We were, perhaps, half a mile from the place where we had found Snap,
but, as I have said, Tom's Hill was a stony ledge, running like a sharp
backbone between fertile fields, and we heard from afar off the
clattering hoofs of a horse pressed to his utmost speed.
[Illustration]
Chapter VIII
My First Lie, and What Came of It.
[Illustration]
"He is after us!" exclaimed Cousin Molly Belle, and brought down her
switch stingingly upon Snap's flanks.
Tightening her arm about me, she urged him from canter to gallop, from a
gallop to a run. The trees swept by us like lightning; the wind tore the
breath from our lungs, but I had no thought of fear. My cousin was a
fearless rider, and the perfectly broken hunter under us flew as
steadily and as straight as a blue martin. Against the back of my head
Cousin Molly Belle's heart was pounding like an unbalanced trip-hammer.
I wondered if it were possible that she was frightened, and twisted my
face around to get a glimpse of hers. It was as white as a sheet, and
her teeth were set hard upon her lower lip. Within a stone's throw of
Uncle Carter's outer gate she brought the horse down to a walk, then to
a full stop, and slipped to the ground. Her face was so pale and rigid
as she set me upon my feet that I began to tremble.
"Are you scared?" I faltered.
"Scared to death, child! Hush!"
She turned Snap's head in the direction from which we had come, and
struck him smartly with her switch, in letting go of the bridle.
"Go home, sir! Go!"
He galloped off, stirrups and mane flying, and she drew a deep, agitated
breath.
"If ever I get into such a scrape again!"
She bent low and listened; the scared look settled again upon her face.
Through the stillness of the summer afternoon, we heard a sharp "Whoa!"
faint but clear, when, as we judged, Snap neared our pursuer. The pause
of a second ensued, and the hoofs, doubled in number and resonance,
sounded nearer and nearer, thundering over the soft ground, clicking
against the stones, like a charge of cavalry. Cousin Molly Belle was so
white that a few freckles, never seen through her usually brilliant
complexion, made a line of sallow dots across her cheek bones and the
bridge of her nose. Clutching me more roughly than she had ever touched
me before, she thrust me well into the heart of a tall cedar whose
lowest boughs grew out horizontally and swept the earth.
"Don't move or speak!" she whispered fiercely and forced her way to the
hole of the tree.
I heard the grating of the bark under her feet, and felt the branches
shake, then grow quiet. She was well up the tree, and hidden by the
bushy foliage. The tumultuous beat of the charging hoofs echoed more and
more loudly. The rider would be upon us in another minute. Escape
through the gate and down the avenue to the house was out of the
question. We would have been in sight from the road for several hundred
yards, and a few seconds would be lost in opening the gate.
On my part, the adventure was, thus far, pure fun, and the excitement
delicious. I giggled in my sleeve in the anticipation of hearing the
furious hoofs sweep past and lose themselves in the distance on the
false scent. I had not had time to speculate as to why my companion was
"scared to death."
The clatter was abreast of, and behind me in the road when the
imperative "Whoa!" again arrested it. I knew the voice now. A man leaped
to the ground; hasty footsteps struck across the turf edging the
highway; dry sticks cracked, my bushy covert was jarred, and Mr. Frank
Morton stood before me, parting the branches to get a good look at me.
My pink gingham had betrayed me.
"Molly Burwell! what are you doing here?"
As if prompted by a telepathic despatch from the fugitive overhead, I
began to pick the bluish white berries studding the twigs and to cram
them into my mouth.
"Picking cedar-berries!" I retorted coolly, cocking a saucy eye at him.
"Who came with you?"
I stood on tiptoe to tug at a fat cedar-ball, glossy, brown, and deeply
pitted.
"Oh, Mr. Frank! won't you please cut it off for me?"
He whipped out his knife and severed the twig.
"Did you come all the way from the house alone?"
I had never, within my memory, told a deliberate lie. My cheeks burned
like fire; my eyes dropped guiltily. My tongue did not trip or tangle.
"Yes, sir."
There was a dread silence. My ears rang, my heart was sinking slowly and
sickeningly into my heels. I had bethought myself just as he put the
question, that Cousin Molly Belle might be put in jail if he found out
that she had been with me, and had on her brother's clothes. As a
well-tutored child in a Presbyterian family, I knew what becomes of
liars when they leave off living and lying together. My teeth ceased to
chatter and met with a snap. The loyal heart rallied to the help of the
guilty tongue. I raised my eyes in sullen defiance.
"It isn't so dreadful far! I came all by my loney-toney self!"
My friend laughed.
"My dear little girl, there is no great harm in that. Only, I wouldn't
run away again if I were you. Your aunt might be uneasy if she missed
you."
"She isn't at home," I answered incautiously. "She 'n' Uncle Carter 'n'
Cousin Burwell 'n' Cousin Dick have gone to Mr. Cunningham's."
"Ah!" The ejaculation was not regretful. "Isn't Miss Molly Belle at
home? You would be sorry to make her anxious, I know."
The cedar-branches thrilled slightly, as at the flight of a startled
bird. Mr. Frank did not notice it, but the movement nerved me. I spoke
hastily, walking away from the tree toward the gate.
"Oh, yes, she's at home! I reckon she must have been taking a nap when
I came away. I'm going right back now."
I had never dreamed that lying was such an easy performance.
"I'll take you home. Wait a minute!"
Snap was grazing on the roadside. Another saddle-horse stood by with
drooping head, his bridle hanging loosely in the bend of Mr. Frank's
arm. I was lifted to Snap's back; my escort walked beside me through the
gate, and along the lane, one hand on me, and leading the second horse.
"I suppose you are wondering what I am doing with two horses," he said
lightly. "It is a very funny story. I'll tell you and Miss Molly Belle
when we get to the house. It will make you both laugh."
He had given me Snap's bridle to hold, as if I were riding all by
myself. He thought it would please me. In other circumstances I should
have been glad and proud to be so mounted, and by him. But from my lofty
seat I could see over his head across the field of corn which lay to the
left of the road. Something or somebody was running between the close
rows in a straight line from the plantation gate to the house. Running
like a deer, or a greyhound--or Cousin Molly Belle. She must get home
and up to her room before we got there.
"Oh, Mr. Frank!" I cried. "I have dropped my cedar-ball!" And when he
had picked it up, "Won't you please make Snap walk very slow? I am
afraid I might fall off."
"What has got into you to-day, little Duchess?" He had a dozen pet names
for me, and my heart smote me sore at sight of his kind, honest face.
"It isn't like you to be afraid of horses,--and you and Snap are old
friends. You will never be such a rider as Miss Molly Belle if you learn
to be nervous."
Not another sound fell from my lips until I was put down gently at the
front gate of my uncle's house, and Flora bustled out, cross lines in
her forehead and cross tones in her voice.
"I do declar', Miss Molly--(How-you-do, Mars' Frank?) I do declar', Miss
Molly, you're enough to drive anybody crazy with you' wild tomboy ways.
Me 'n' Miss Molly Belle, we've been jes' raisin' the plantation fo' you,
and hyar you come home a-riding Mars' Frank Mo'ton's horse, gran' as you
please, and nobody knowin' whar you been ever sence dinner-time. Miss
Molly Belle 'll be mighty obleeged to you for fotchin' of her home,
Mars' Frank. She'll be down pretty soon for to tell you so herself. Walk
into the parlor, please, sir. Jim, you take Mr. Mo'ton's horses to
the stable. And Miss Molly, you jes' stay thar 'n' ent'tain Mr. Mo'ton
like a little lady tell you' cousin comes down sta'rs."
[Illustration: THE END OF THE PRANK.
"I was put down at my uncle's house, and Flora bustled out."]
I obeyed with docility that must have surprised the autocrat. Meek and
miserable, I preceded the guest to the parlor, although every minute
spent under his unsuspecting eyes was a danger and a pain. I made no
attempt to "entertain him." Seated upon a high chair, my feet swinging
dolefully six inches above the floor, I fingered the wretched
cedar-ball, redolent of rosin through much bruising, my pink sunbonnet
hanging from the knotted strings to the small of my back, and with
difficulty refrained from crying. I had never been wretched just in that
way before. Two imperative duties had met plump and face to face, with a
shock that jarred all preconceived principles of belief and action out
of plumb. Cousin Molly Belle had trusted me to keep her secret, and I
saw no way of doing it except to lie outright and repeatedly. The sin
lashed my conscience until I could have located in my corporeal frame
the exact whereabouts of the uncomfortable possession. So absorbed was I
by individual upbraidings that Flora's barefaced fabrication of the
search her young mistress and she had had for the runaway passed
unrebuked by so much as a look. It was no comfort to me to hear another
person lie even more glibly than myself. Flora was an ignorant colored
person, I, a baptized white child of the covenant who could read the
Bible for herself.
Mr. Morton tried to make me talk by well-concerted questions. Children
are best approached through the interrogative mood. It offers just so
many nails set in a sure place upon which to hang conversation. He was a
handsome, well-set-up young fellow, and, if somewhat graver by nature
and habit than most of Cousin Molly Belle's beaux, suited my taste best
of them all. Yesterday I should have been tickled clean out of the
proprieties by the chance of talking to him all by myself for twenty
minutes, sitting up in Aunt Eliza's parlor, just like grown folks.
The twenty minutes were like one hundred in sloth and weight before the
tap of high heels on the oaken stairs and the swish of skirts against
the banisters advised us who was coming.
She walked into the room with her head high and chin level; her eyes
shone and her coloring was superb. She had never been more beautiful,
and never so dignified. Her admirer felt both of these facts, and was
moved to mute inquiry into the cause of the singular mood. His glowing
eyes questioned hers while she shook hands with him and then sat down,
and held out her hand silently to me, without a smile. I went as
straight to her as a wounded bird to shelter, dropped upon a stool
beside her and rested my cheek against her knee, my hand in a grasp that
was close and loving, and--or so I fancied--monitory. My heart retorted
upon writhing conscience that she was worth sinning for. I added,
dogged and desperate, that I would do it again, if she needed to have it
done.
"Flora says that you have been very uneasy about this little lady," said
Mr. Frank, the dumb questioning still in his eyes, while he led the talk
into safer paths. "And that you have been hunting for her all over the
plantation."
"Flora said what was not true. I knew where she was, and did not look
for her at all or anywhere."
The metallic quality in her voice did not belong to it, and her
articulation was carefully clear, not at all like the gliding vowels and
consonantal elisions that help make musical the speech of the Southern
girl.
Mr. Frank looked puzzled. Had I not been present, he would have got at
the answer to the enigma. I felt this, but my hand was still in Cousin
Molly's, and I comprehended that she willed me to stay where I was.
"I have had an adventure, if she has not," resumed Mr. Frank, merrily.
"You may have seen me arrive with two saddle-horses? I was on my way
here, riding Snap. As I passed John's upper tobacco-field, I saw him at
the barn. So I tied Snap to a tree and went to speak to John. While we
were talking a negro ran up, all out of breath, to say that a man and a
woman had stolen my horse. The negro was too far off to recognize the
fellow, but he saw him untie Snap, mount him, help a little woman in a
red dress to get up behind him, and then ride away at a rattling pace.
Fortunately, John's riding-horse was standing at the barn door. I was in
the saddle before the story was done, put him at the nearest fence, and
was after the thieves. I must have gained upon them--Wildfire can outrun
any other horse in the county, and I did not spare him--for the rascals
left their booty and got away with whole skins. I met Snap just this
side of Willis's Creek, going home like the sensible creature he is. He
had been ridden hard, and there were welts on his sides where he had
been whipped, but I got him back safe. It was a risky thing--their
stealing him. Everybody about here knows the star in his forehead and
his white hind foot. The first white man that met the thieves would have
taken them up. I have no doubt that they belonged to a gang of gypsies
that are roaming through this neighborhood. A wagon-load of them passed
our house yesterday and camped last night at the Crossroads. I saw them
there last night as I went home from Court. On my way back this evening
I'll give them a call and let them understand that this is an unhealthy
country for that sort of gentry. Horse-thieves and grapevines are found
conveniently near to one another, sometimes."
In the horror of the hearing, I must have cried out but for the warning
squeeze that made my finger-joints slip upon each other and the bones
ache. The muscles of my face stiffened until I felt it losing all
resemblance to Molly Burwell. I was sure that it looked like a gray old
woman's, and instinctively turned it into the folds of my cousin's
skirt. Suppose Mr. Frank had called upon the gypsies before coming here!
If he had not come to us at all to-day--what would have happened? Would
he have had the innocent strangers hanged upon the convenient grapevine?
Could he be prevented from doing this now unless the truth were told
him? That, of course, was not to be thought of. Better have the gypsy
gang driven out of the county and a man and a woman strung up, than let
Cousin Molly Belle go to jail for wearing men's clothes. She would die
sooner than confess to any man, least of all to this one, that she had
worn--pantaloons!--and ridden Snap as people who wear the things
always ride.
How little I knew her was to be proved.
She let go my fingers all at once, pressed her palms together hard, and
sat up very straight, settling her eyes upon Mr. Frank's. When she
spoke, the metallic ring was that of a taut piano-string.
"You will please not go near the gypsies. I stole your horse. Just for
fun, you know. And wretched fun it was. I saw him standing there, and
the temptation to play a trick upon you was too much for me. I meant to
let him go and send him back when I got to our gate. I did it sooner
than I expected, because I heard you coming and knew in a minute that
you must be on Wildfire, and that Snap stood no chance of keeping ahead
of him."
The listener's face was a study. He stood up and stared down at her, at
first in incredulous stupefaction, then, frowningly.
"You--took--my--horse! You were that 'little woman,' then? Who was the
man?"
"There was no man. The negro did not see straight, or he told you a lie.
Molly was with me, and, as you see, her frock is pink. We were out
walking. We both got on the horse. It was a silly, silly prank, and all
my fault."
The frown disappeared; the perplexity remained. He glanced at me, and
my eyes fell. I so wanted Mr. Frank Morton to think well of me!
"But Molly said--" he began.
She took him up quickly.
"I know what Molly said. I was close by and heard every word. She was
trying to shield me. I told her that I could be put in jail if anybody
knew what I had done. I tempted the poor, loyal, loving little soul to
tell the first falsehood that ever soiled her tongue. It was a wicked--a
vile--a mean thing in me! I loathe myself when I think of it. Oh,
Namesake!"--encircling me suddenly with her arm--"we will ask God
together to forgive us. I am the sinner--not you!"
I was wetting her sleeve with tears, shed more for her distress than for
my sin.
Mr. Frank Morton made a step toward her.
"I don't comprehend you yet--quite. You could not have imagined that you
could ever go to jail if you had stolen every horse in my stable--and
everything else I have? Don't give another thought to the matter. It was
a harmless bit of fun that hurt nobody. As to Molly's fibbing--I was the
tempter. What was the child to do? I think all the more of her for
standing between you and possible trouble."
"I tempted Molly to tell her first lie!" She waived aside the hand he
would have laid upon my head. "I shall recollect that as long as I live.
I deserve to suffer for it. And I mean to punish myself by telling you
the whole truth."
In the energy of her resolve, she, too, arose to her feet. A sort of
ague went from her head to her feet. For an instant there was not a sign
of color in her cheeks, then, a great billow of blushes beat her face
down upon her hands. If I had not been clinging to her skirt I could
hardly have got the meaning of the muffled words. Her lover had to bend
his head to catch them.
"I had on a suit of Burwell's clothes!"
She threw up her head so abruptly that her face almost touched his
before he could start back.
"Now"--she flung out passionately--"you will despise me! And you ought
to!"
Her rush toward the door was intercepted by his quicker action. He
seized both of her hands and would not let her pass.
"On the contrary, I never respected you before as I do this moment. You
shall believe this, Molly Belle!"
Not a symptom of a "Miss"! And he the most punctilious of men in
everything pertaining to polite address and chivalric reverence for
women! His eyes had strange flashes in them when he turned to me. He was
grave, but with a gravity that overlaid smiles. His voice was very
gentle:--
"Molly, run away to play--there's a dear child!"
As I obeyed, I saw that he had not let go of Cousin Molly Belle's
hands.
[Illustration]
Chapter IX
My Pets
[Illustration]
Like my games, my stockings, and my frocks, they were home-made. We had
no caged birds. Our yards and woods thrilled with bird-song all day long
for eight months of the year, and mocking-birds filled June and July
nights with music sweeter and more varied than the storied strain of the
nightingale. I had never seen a canary, and knew nothing of him except
as I had read of one in what I called a "pair of verses" to which I took
a fancy. I used to sing them to a tune of my own making when
grown-uppers were not listening:--
   "Mary had a little bird,
     Feathers bright and yellow,
   Slender legs--upon my word
     He was a pretty fellow.
   "Sweetest songs he often sung
     Which much delighted Mary,
   And often where his cage was hung
     She stood to hear Canary."
I classed Mary 'Liza with the grown-uppers. She loved cats, adopting two
when they were blind kittens, and bringing them up in just such staid
habits as made her incomparable among children. At six months of age
they would doze at her feet on the rug while she studied, or ciphered,
or read aloud, or stitched upon those everlasting chemises. When she
took a walk for exercise (she never ran, or hopped, or skipped) they
trotted demurely in the path, beside or behind her, indifferent to
butterflies and grasshoppers, and as intent upon Behavior as their
mistress. They were always fat and sleek, and ate civilized
victuals,--bread, milk, and cooked meats cut into decent, miminy-piminy
mouthfuls. Not one of them was ever known to commit the vulgarity of
catching a mouse. Mary 'Liza considered it cruel, and eating raw flesh
"a dirty habit." She, the cats, and Dorinda composed a Happy Family in
which--barring the Rozillah episode--no accidents ever happened.
From earliest childhood my love for living creatures as companions and
pets was a passion that wrought much anguish to me, and more casualties
in the dumb animal kingdom than would be credited, were I to set down
the full tale of my bantlings, and the fate of each. At a tender age, I
sturdily refused to "call mine" the downiest darlings of the
poultry-yard. There would be a few weeks of having, and loving, and
fattening, and then the axe and the bloody log at the woodpile, and the
stormy tears of bereavement. It mattered not to Aunt 'Ritta that my
foster-children had names to which they answered, that they would feed
from my hand, and hop on my shoulder, and run quacking, or squawking,
or piping, or chirping, at my heels across the yard, and follow me to
the field like dogs. When the day and the hour--always unexpected to
me--came, I "called and they answered not again," until, taught by
bitter experience, I "struck" petting tame and edible living things,
once and finally.
The miniature menagerie I then set up on my own account, and, as I shall
show, to the detriment of everything entered upon the rolls, was stocked
principally by the services of my colored contingent.
Among the first inmates--they all became patients in the long, or short
run--were two striped ground squirrels (chipmunks) who were caught in a
box with a falling door, and presented to me by Barratier. He lent me
the box to keep them in. I fed and watered them warily and successfully
for a couple of days by lifting the door an inch, having previously
rapped upon it to scare the prisoners to the other end, then slipping in
the dish of water and the nuts, sugar, or fruit that were the day's
rations. Supposing that kindness and comfortable quarters had tamed them
into appreciation of my services and intentions, I raised the door two
inches higher on the third day, and took a good look at the beauties
huddled trembling in their safe corner. Their bright eyes were alluring,
their quiescence was encouraging. I spoke to them in dulcet accents, and
advanced a friendly hand. They met it more than half-way, one leaping
upon my bare arm, running up to my shoulder, and, with one bound over my
head, regaining his lost freedom. I caught his less active brother by
the tail as he was sneaking under the door, and held him tight. In a
quarter-jiffy he whisked his little body around and dug his teeth into
my finger, and, as I still held on to his tail, incontinently shed the
skin of the same, leaving it in my grasp. The last I ever saw of him was
the flaunt of a gory, ghastly pennant, as the bearer vanished under a
heap of stones. I flung the bloody casing from me with abhorrence. Now I
can hope that another grew upon the denuded bones. Then I hoped it
would not. The insult was gross.
The immediate successor of the ingrates was a mouse bestowed upon me by
one of the stable hands. I named the waif "Caspar Hauser" forthwith,
being fresh from the perusal of the history of that engaging fraud, and
inducted him into a spare rat-trap set about closely with wires. A
horsehair sparrow's nest was lined with raw cotton and put in one
corner, a toy saucer of water in the other, and in the third a toy plate
filled with cracked hickory nuts, interspersed with bits of sugar. Then
I sat down upon the floor beside him, and began the business of taming
him by getting him used to seeing me, cultivating his acquaintance by
poking my finger between the bars, talking and singing to him, and
endeavoring, by other ingenious devices, to make him feel at home. He
scampered around the confines of his domicile, as in a treadmill, all
the time I was thus employed, and could not be induced to touch his
food.
Mary 'Liza and I had outgrown the trundle-bed, and had a room to
ourselves upstairs. Into this I surreptitiously conveyed the improvised
cage that night and hid it under the bed. When my bedfellow had fallen
asleep, I got up softly, lighted a candle, and took a peep at my pet. He
had gone regularly to bed after disposing of some of the nuts and
scattering the remnants in every direction, and now lay curled up in the
cotton-wool in the prettiest, most homelike way imaginable, fast asleep.
I hung over him, entranced. He was tamed! Before long he would be
following me all over the house, playing hide-and-seek in corners,
sitting upon his hind legs beside my plate at table, and nibbling such
tidbits as I might give him. One particularly bright picture of our
common future was of taking him to church, smuggling him into the pocket
of my Sunday frock, and after settling myself comfortably upon my knees
before a corner seat during the "long prayer," taking Caspar Hauser out
and letting him play on the bench. What a boon his society would
be--what a relief his antics while Mr. Lee droned through innumerable
"We pray Thees!"
After I went back to bed I pursued these and other enchanting visions
into dreamland. The next day I took Caspar Hauser into the garden for
air and sunshine. His liveliness was something inconceivable by the
human imagination. He chased himself frantically around the cage,
regardless of my tender exhortations, until I began to fear that taming
was a more tedious process than I had supposed. I set the cage upon the
grass where the sun was hottest, withdrawing myself into the shade as
less in need of light and warmth, and read a volume of Berquin's
Children's Friend in full sight of Caspar Hauser. Whenever I turned a
page I would stick my finger between the wires and chirrup encouragingly
to the captive, all with a single eye to getting him used to me. His
speed and staying powers were equally extraordinary, but I was cheered,
when the forenoon was spent and I picked up the cage to take him in, by
observing that he ran more deliberately and with occasional pauses. By
the time I got him upstairs he lay down for a nap. He was still
slumbering at my supper-time, and had not got his nap out when I went to
bed, nor yet when breakfast was eaten and lessons said, next morning.
I had made up my mind by now that he was sick, and carried him into the
garden once more. I had read that wild creatures physic themselves if
allowed to seek such plants as instinct tells them are specifics for
their ailments. Lifting Caspar Hauser from his woolly bed, I stroked him
and called him by name. He was so tame by now that he did not struggle
upon my palm. Only the rise and fall of his furry sides showed that he
was alive. He was limp and helpless, and to me very lovable. I laid him
upon a strip of turf hot with the sunshine that had steeped it for five
hours. He had a liberal choice of healing herbs. Parsley, sage, mint,
tansy, peppergrass, catnip, and sweet marjoram, rue and bergamot and
balsam, flourished within a hundred lengths of his small body. While I
watched him he stretched himself as a baby at awakening, and began to
crawl weakly toward the tansy bed. To save him needless exertion I
pulled a handful of the yellow heads and offered them to his inquisitive
nose. Mam' Chloe had given me tansy tea for a bad cold last winter. It
tasted nasty, but I got well. Instinct had "indicated" tansy to Caspar
Hauser. He refused the panacea dumbly, and made, still feebly, for the
parsley patch. I let him go a yard or more, when, fearing lest he might
lose himself in the maze of luxuriant herbage, I dragged him tenderly
back by the tail to the hot turf.
He had grown so tame that he never moved again.
The funeral took place that afternoon. We buried him next to Musidora. I
had had enough of vaults, regarding them, with reason, as uncertain
places of sepulture for the presumably defunct. I had never heard, or
read, of cremation. I had had the misfortune to break my slate a few
days before, and the biggest fragment made a nice tombstone for Caspar
Hauser. With a nail and with infinite toil I produced a suitable
epitaph.
               HERE LIES
             HIS AFLICTED
       MISS M. BURWELL'S
         FATHEFULL LIT
       TLE FREND AN
     D TAME PLA
   YFELOW AND
     SUFFERER
       C. H.
There was not room for the whole name, but, as I told my fellow-mourners
when I read the inscription to them, since we all knew it, the omission
was of no consequence. I could have wished that the slate had broken
straight, so that the inscription would have gone in better. However,
one cannot control circumstance when it takes the shape of a fracture.
Within twenty-four hours after Caspar Hauser's decease he was succeeded
by Bay. His name in its entirety, was Baffin's Bay. The alliterative
unctuousness of the title pleased me, as Mary 'Liza pronounced it
smoothly in her geography lesson, the day on which Hamilcar, the
carriage driver, drove over a young "old hare" in the road, and knocked
one of the poor thing's eyes out. It was taken up for dead, but
presently began to kick, and the ownership reverted to me. It lived a
week, and for hours at a time was so nearly comfortable as to eat
sparingly of milk, lettuce, cabbage, and clover, with which I supplied
it lavishly twice a day. I likewise treated the wounded eye with
balsam-capeiva and balm of Gilead ointment, sovereign appliances for the
bruises and cut fingers of that generation. A lemon box, with slats
nailed across the front by faithful Barratier, was the hospital in which
I laid Bay up for repairs. Him, too, I carried daily into the garden,
for change of air. He condescended to approve of the parsley patch,
limping through it as gracefully as the long tape tied to his right hind
leg would allow.
When, upon the third day of his residence in civilized quarters, he had
a convulsion in the very middle of the parsley patch, I thought it a
playful antic, and was amused and gratified thereat. The second time
this happened, James, the gardener, chanced to witness the performance
and informed me, brutally, that "that old hyar had throwed a fit, and
was boun' to die 'fore long.
"That 'ar lick on de side o' de hade done de bizness fur him, sure. De
brain am injerred. Mighty easy thing fur to injer a Molly Cottontail's
brain. He ain't got much, an' hit lies close to de top o' de hade."
For forty-eight hours before Bay died, the spasms were distressingly
frequent, but I would not have him killed. James might be wrong. Good
nursing and plenty of fresh air might bring my patient around. For fear
my parents might insist that he should be put out of his misery, I
removed the hospital to the playhouse, and gave him the range of the
place, forbidding the colored children to tell what was going on. His
agonies were nearly over when, in the distraction of anxiety, I took
Cousin Frank Morton into confidence. He had ridden over with a message
from Cousin Molly Belle.
(Have I mentioned that they had been married for six months?)
The message was to the effect that I must spend the day and night with
her. My mother gave ready consent.
"Molly has been too pale for several days, and has little or no
appetite," she said, looking affectionately at me. "The change will do
her good, and there is no other place where she enjoys a visit more than
at your house. Molly! can't you thank Cousin Frank for taking the
trouble to come for you?"
Strained by conflicting emotions, I fidgeted awkwardly about Cousin
Frank's chair, pinching the hem of my apron into folds, and shifting
from one foot to the other.
"I want to go dreadfully!" I got out at length, almost ready to cry.
"But--Cousin Frank--wouldn't you like to look at Bay? He's an old hare
that I am taming."
While speaking, I started for the door, and he came after me. My mother
exclaimed, provoked, yet laughing, that I was "getting more ridiculous
every day," but I knew my man, and did not stop.
Bay was throwing a particularly hard fit when we got to him. His cries
had something humanlike in them that pierced ears and heart.
"My dear child!" uttered the shocked visitor. "How long has this been
going on?"
Upon hearing that the poor thing had never seemed really well from the
day he was hurt, and had been "going on like this for four days,
hand-running," he was quite angry--for him.
"I wonder that your mother let you keep him when he was in this state,"
he said seriously; and, seeing the tears I could not drive back, he sat
down on my chair and drew me up to him. "It would be better to kill the
poor creature, at once, dear. He can never be better."
I begged him not to tell my mother about Bay's sickness. I had become
very fond of him, and he was so sweet and patient--and tame,--and I just
couldn't bear to have him killed. Whether he would have granted my
petition or not was not to be tested. While I was speaking, Bay uttered
a shrill scream, leaped up high in the air, and fell over on his back,
dead.
We hurried on the funeral that I might go home with Cousin Frank that
evening. I pulled up the tombstone from the head of Caspar Hauser's
grave and made an epitaph on the other side for Bay. There might not be
another slate broken in the family for months. At the present rate of
mortality among my pensioners, it behooved me to be economical. I had
not time to indite such an elaborate testimonial to the worth of the
deceased as graced Caspar Hauser's last resting-place. Yet I thought
the tribute not amiss, and the drop into poetry elated me and
electrified my audience. The lines were engraved perpendicularly upon
the slate to give the rhyme effective room:--
   "Alas! and Alack A DAY!
   Poor Litle BAFFINS BAY!"
My visit lasted three days instead of one and a half. I brought back
with me something worthy of the pride that swelled my happy heart to
aching. One of Cousin Frank's men had taken two young hares alive, and
given them to his mistress a week ago, and she and Cousin Frank had
arranged a pleasant surprise for me. Before I had been in the house an
hour I was taken to the dining room to see the dear little things
already housed in a cage, made by the plantation carpenter. None of your
lemon-box makeshifts, but a strong case in the shape of a cottage, of
planed wood, painted white on the outside. There were two rooms in it
with a round door in the dividing wall. One was half full of soft,
sweet-smelling hay for Darby and Joan to sleep upon. Their names were
ready-made, too. The other room was a parlor where they were to eat and
to live in the daytime. Broad leather straps by which the box could be
carried were made to look like chimneys.
The whole family collected to admire my treasures when I got home, and
Mary 'Liza was so much interested in Darby and Joan that she brought up
her cats, Cinderella and Preciosa, to be introduced and make friends
with "their new cousins"--so she said. Cinderella was black-and-white,
Preciosa yellow-and-white, very large, and with long fur as soft and
fine as raw silk. Mary 'Liza put them down close to the cottage.
"You must be very good and never hurt either of the beautiful hares--you
hear?" she said, and we all looked on to see what they would do.
Bless your soul! they walked once around the cottage in a lazy,
indifferent, supercilious way, hardly glancing at their "new cousins,"
then Preciosa yawned, tiptoed back to her place on the rug, doubled her
toes in under her, and half closed her "greenery-yallery" eyes in real,
or simulated slumber. Cinderella purred about her mistress until she
seated herself again to work upon her seventh chemise, then jumped up
into her lap and composed herself to slumber.
After that, I had no fear that the well-fed, pampered creatures would
molest my pets. Everybody sympathized in my good fortune. The weather
was intensely warm, and Uncle Ike's own august hands rigged up a shelf
against the garden fence, making what I called a "situation" for my
cottage. Not even Argus could get at them there, had he been evilly
disposed, and he had excellent principles for a puppy. Darby and Joan
nibbled lettuce and cabbage from my fingers inside of three days, and if
they were in the bedroom when I approached their dwelling, would bustle
out to see if it were milk, or greens, or, maybe, clover blossoms that I
had for them.
The happy, happy days went by, and I announced to my father one evening
as we sat at supper that I really "began to believe the curse was lifted
from my pets."
"The curse! Mary Hobson Burwell! what a word!" cried my mother.
My father held up his hand.
"One moment, if you please, mother! Explain yourself, Molly!"
"I mean," answered I, bravely, "that it used to seem as if a wicked
fairy had cursed a curse upon anything I took a fancy to. Like the girl
in the song, and her tree and flower, and dear gazelle, you know. But
Darby and Joan make me hope--"
The words were blasted upon my tongue by a terrible scream.
[Illustration]
Chapter X
Circumstantial Evidence
[Illustration]
The garden gate was close to the dining-room windows, and the windows
were not high above the ground. I rushed for the nearest. The moon was
bright, and I was in time to see three cats jump down from the shelf on
which the cottage was "situated," and dart away in as many different
directions. One ran close along the wall of the house, and I recognized
Preciosa. Hurling myself over the window-sill, I was the first of our
startled party to reach the scene of the tragedy.
The attack had been made from the three exposed sides of the cottage,
