"lean make tea beautifully," she said from behind 
her table.  '  Mother showed me how this morning." 
"This morning?" — and Mitchy, who, before the fire 
and still erect, had declined to be laid low, greeted the 
simple remark with uproarious mirth. "Dear young 
lady, you're the most delicious family !" 
" She showed me at breakfast about the little things 
to do. She thought I might have to make it here and 
told me to offer," the girl went on. "I haven't yet done 
it this way at home — I usually have my tea upstairs. 
They bring it up in a cup, all made and very weak, with 
a piece of bread-and-butter in the saucer. That's be- 
cause I'm so young. Tishy never lets me touch hers, 
either ; so we had to make up for lost time. That's what 
mother said" — she followed up her story, and her young 
distinctness had clearly something to do with a certain 
pale concentration in Mr. Longdon's face. "Mother 
isn't ill, but she told me already yesterday she wouldn't 
come. She said it's really all for me. I'm sure I hope 
it is !" — with which there flickered in her eyes, dimly 
but perhaps all the more prettily, the first intimation 
they had given of the light of laughter. " She told me 
you would understand, Mr. Van — from something you've 
  
said to her. It's for my seeing Mr. Longdon without — 
she thinks— her spoiling it." 
''Oh, my dear child, 'spoiling it !" Vanderbank pro- 
tested as he took a cup of tea from her to carry to their 
friend. " When did your mother ever spoil anything ? I 
told her Mr. Longdon wanted to see you, but I didn't 
say anything of his not yearning also for the rest of the 
family." 
A sound of protest rather formless escaped from the 
gentleman named, but Nanda continued to carry out her 
duty. " She told me to ask why he hadn't been again to 
see her. Mr. Mitcliy, sugar ? — isn't that the way to say 
it ? Three lumps ? You're like me, only that I more 
often take five." Mitchy had dashed forward for his 
tea ; she gave it to him ; then she added, with her 
eyes on Mr. Longdon's, which she had had no difficul- 
ty in catching : " She told me to ask you all sorts of 
things." 
The old man had got up to take his cup from Vander- 
bank, whose hand, however, dealt with him on the ques- 
tion of sitting down again. Mr. Longdon, resisting, kept 
erect with a low gasp that his host only was near enough 
to catch. This suddenly appeared to confirm an impres- 
sion gathered by Vanderbank in their contact, a strange 
sense that his visitor was so agitated as to be trembling 
in every limb. It brought to his lips a kind of ejacula- 
tion — ''I say !" But even as he spoke, Mr. Longdon's 
face, still white, but with a smile that was not all pain, 
seemed to supplicate him not to notice ; and he was not 
a man to require more than this to achieve a divination 
as deep as it was rapid. "Why, we've all been scattered 
for Easter, haven't we ?" he asked of Nanda. '  Mr. 
Longdon has been at home, your mother and father 
have been paying visits, I myself have been out of Lon- 
don, Mitchy has been to Paris, and you — oh yes, I know 
where you've been." 
 
''Ah, we all know that — there has been such a row 
made about it !" Mitchy said. 
'' Yes, I've heard of the feeling there is," Nanda re- 
plied. ''It's supposed to be awful, my knowing Tishy 
— quite too awful." 
Mr. Longdon, with Vanderbank's covert aid, had be- 
gun to appear to have pulled himself together, dropping 
back upon his sofa and giving some attention to his tea. 
It might have been with the notion of showing himself 
at ease that he turned, on this, a benevolent smile to the 
girl. "But what, my dear, is the objection — ?" 
She looked gravely from him to Vanderbank and to 
Mitchy and then back again from one of these to the 
other. " Do you think I ought to say ?" 
They both laughed, and they both just appeared un- 
certain, but Vanderbank spoke first. "I don't imagine, 
Nanda, that you really know." 
"Ko— as a family, you're perfection!" Mitchy broke 
out. Before the fire again, with his cup, he addressed 
his hilarity to Mr. Longdon. "I told you a tremendous 
lot, didn't I ? But I didn't tell you about that." 
The old man maintained, yet with a certain vague- 
ness, the attitude of amiable inquiry. " About the — a — 
family ?" 
" Well," Mitchy smiled, " about its ramifications. This 
young lady has a tremendous friendship — and, in short, 
it's all very complicated." 
"My dear Nanda," said Vanderbank, "it's all very 
simple. Don't believe a word of anything of the sort." 
He had spoken as with the intention of a large, light 
optimism ; but there was clearly something in the girl 
that would always make for lucidity. "Do you mean 
about Carrie Donner ? I doiiH believe it, and at any 
rate I don't think it's any one's business. I shouldn't 
have a very high opinion of a person who would give up 
a friend." She stopped short, with the sense apparent- 
  
ly that she was saying more than she meant, though, 
strangely, as if it had been an effect of her type and of 
her voice, there was neither pertness nor passion in the 
profession she had just made. Curiously wanting as she 
seemed both in timidity and in levity, she was to a cer- 
tainty not self-conscious — she was extraordinarily simple. 
Mr. Longdon looked at her now with an evident surrender 
to his extreme interest, and it might well have perplexed 
him to see her at once so downright and yet of so fresh 
and sweet a tenderness of youth. 
"That's right, that's right, my dear young lady: 
never, never give up a friend for anything any one says I" 
It was Mitchy who rang out with this lively wisdom, the 
action of which on Mr. Longdon — unless indeed it was 
the action of something else — was to make that person- 
age, in a manner that held the others watching him in 
slight suspense, suddenly spring to his feet again, put 
down his teacup carefully on a table near him and then, 
without a word, as if no one had been present, quietly 
wander away and disappear through the door left open 
on Vanderbank's entrance. It opened into a second, a 
smaller sitting-room, into which the eyes of his com- 
panions followed him. 
"What's the matter ?" Nanda asked. "Has he been 
taken- ill?" 
" He is ' rum,' my dear Van," Mitchy said ; " but you're 
right — of a charm, a distinction I In short just the sort 
of thing we want." 
"The sort of thing we  ' want' — I dare say!" Vander- 
bank laughed. " But it's not the sort of thing that's to 
be had for the asking — it's a sort we shall be mighty 
lucky if we can get !" 
Mitchy turned with amusement to Nanda. "Van has 
invented him, and, with the natural greed of the inventor, 
won't let us have him cheap. Well," he went on, "I'll 
pay my share of the expense." 
 
" The difficulty is tliat he's so much too good for us' 
Vanderbank explained. 
''Ungrateful wretch/' his friend cried, ''that's just 
what I've been telling him that you are ! Let the return 
you make not be to deprive me — !" 
"Mr. Van's not at all too good for me, if you mean 
that/' Nanda broke in. She had finished her tea-making 
and leaned back in her chair with her hands folded on 
the edge of the tray. 
Vanderbank only smiled at her in silence, but Mitchy 
took it up. " There's nobody too good for you, of course ; 
only you're not quite, don't you know ? in our set. 
You're in Mrs. Grendon's. I know what you're going to 
say — that she hasn't got any sot, that she's just a loose 
little white flower dropped on the indifferent bosom of 
the world. But you're the small sprig of tender green 
that, added to her, makes her immediately ' compose '. " 
Nanda looked at him with her cold kindness. " What 
nonsense you do talk !" 
" Your tone's sweet to me," he returned, "as showing 
that you don't think me, either, too good for you. No 
one, remember, will take that for your excuse when the 
world some day sees me annihilated by your having put 
an end to our so harmless relations." 
The girl appeared to lose herself a moment in the abys- 
mal humanity over which his fairly fascinating ugliness 
played like the whirl of an eddy. " Martyr !" she gently 
exclaimed. But there was no smile with it. She turned 
to Vanderbank, who, during the previous minute, had 
moved toward the neighboring room, then, hesitating, 
taking counsel of discretion, had come back a little ner- 
vously. "What is the matter ?" 
" What do you want to get out of him, you wretch ?" 
Mitchy went on as their host for an instant produced no 
answer. 
Vanderbank, whose handsome face had a fine thought 
  
in it, looked a trifle absently from one of them to the 
other ; but it was to Nanda he spoke.  '' Do you like him, 
]S"anda?" 
She showed surprise at the question.   How can I 
know so soon ?" 
 ' He knows already.'' 
Mitchy, with his eyes on her, became radiant to inter- 
pret. '  He knows that he's pierced to the heart !" 
"The matter with him, as you call it,'' Vanderbank 
brought out, "is one of the most beautiful things I've ever 
seen." He looked at her as with a hope that she would 
understand it. "Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful !" 
"Precisely," Mitchy continued, "the victim done for 
by one glance of the goddess !" 
Nanda, motionless in her chair, fixed her other friend 
with clear curiosity. " 'Beautiful'? Why beautiful ?" 
Vanderbank, about to speak, checked himself. "I 
won't spoil it. Have it from Mm !" — and, returning to 
the old man, he this time went out. 
Mitchy and Nanda looked at each other. "But isn't 
it rather awful ?" Mitchy demanded. 
She got up without answering ; she slowly came away 
from the table. "I think I do know if I like him." 
"Well you may," Mitchy exclaimed, "after his put- 
ting before you probably, on the whole, the greatest of 
your triumphs." 
"And I also know, I think, Mr. Mitchy, that I like 
you." She spoke without attention to this hyperbole. 
"In spite of my ineffectual attempts to be brilliant ? 
That's a joy," he went on, "if it's not drawn out by the 
mere clumsiness of my flattery." She had turned away 
from him, kindly enough, as if time for his talk in the 
air were always to be allowed him ; she took in vaguely 
Vanderbank's books and prints. "Why didn't your 
mother come ?" Mitchy then inquired. 
At this she again looked at him. "Do you mention 
 
her as a way of alluding to something you guess she must 
have told me ?'' 
" That Fve always supposed I make your flesh creep ? 
Yes," Mitchy admitted ; '' I see that she must have said 
to you :   Be nice to him, to show him it isn t quite so bad 
as that !' So you are nice — so you always will be nice. 
But I adore you, all the same, without illusions." 
Let them look, and tell me meanwhile if Mrs. 
Donner gave yon my message." 
'' Oh yes, she told me some hnmbng." 
"The hnmbng then was in the tone my perfectly sin- 
cere speech took from herself. She gives things, I recog- 
nize, rather that sonnd. It's her weakness," he con- 
tinned, "and perhaps even, one may say, her danger. 
All the more reason yon shonld help her, as I believe 
you're supposed to be doing, aren't you ? I hope you 
feel that you are," he earnestly added. 
He had spoken this time gravely enough, and with 
magnificent gravity Nan da replied. " I have helped her. 
Tishy is sure I have. That's what Tishy wants me for. 
She says that to be with some nice girl is really the best 
thing for her." 
Poor Mitchy's face, hereupon, would have been inter- 
esting, would have been distinctly touching, to other 
eyes; but Nanda's were not heedful of it. "Oh," he re- 
turned after an instant and without profane mirth, "that 
seems to me the best thing for any one." 
Vanderbank, however, might have caught his expres- 
sion, for Vanderbank now reappeared, smiling on the 
pair as if struck by their intimacy. "How you are 
keeping it up!" Then to Nanda, persuasively: "Do 
you mind going to him in there ? I want him so re- 
ally to see you. It's quite, you know, what he came 
for." 
Nanda seemed to wonder. " What will he do to me '  
Anything dreadful ?" 
" He'll tell you what I meant just now." 
"Oh," said Nanda, "if he's a person who can tell me 
sometimes what you mean — !" With which she went 
quickly off. 
"And can't /hear?" Mitchy asked of his host while 
they looked after her. 
"Yes, but only from me." Vanderbank had pushed 
 
him to a seat again, and was casting about for cigarettes. 
" Be quiet and smoke, and Fll tell you/' 
Mitchy, on the sofa, received, with meditation, a light. 
 ' Will she understand ? She has everything in the world 
but one," he added. '' But that's half." 
Vanderbank, before him, lighted for himself.  '' What 
is it ?"
'' A sense of humor." 
 ' Oh yes, she's serious." 
Mitchy smoked a little. '  She's tragic." 
His friend, at the fire, watched a moment the empty 
portion of the other room, then walked across to give the 
door a light push that all but closed it. "It's rather 
odd," he remarked as he came back — " that's quite what 
I just said to him. But he won't treat her to comedy." 
XII 
" Is it the shock of the resemblance to her grand- 
mother ?" Vanderbank had asked of Mr. Longdon on re- 
joining him in his retreat. The old man, with his back 
turned, was gazing out of the window, and when, in 
answer, he showed his face, there were tears in his eyes. 
His answer, in fact, was just these tears, the significance 
of which Vanderbank immediately recognized. " It's 
still greater then than you gathered from her photograph." 
 ' It's the most extraordinary thing in the world. I'm 
too absurd to be so upset" — Mr. Longdon smiled through 
his tears — "but if you had known Lady Julia you would 
understand. It's she again, as I first knew her, to the 
life ; and not only in feature, in stature, in color, in move- 
ment, but in every bodily mark and sign, in every look 
of the eyes, above all — oh, to a degree ! — in the sound, in 
the charm, of the voice." He spoke low and confiden- 
tially, but with an intensity that now relieved him— he 
was restless in his emotion. He moved about, in his ex- 
citement, gently, as if with a sacred awe — as if, but a 
few steps away, he had been in the very presence. '  She's, 
all Lady Julia. There isn't a touch of her mother. It's 
unique — an absolute revival. I see nothing of her father, 
either — I see nothing of any one else. Isn't it thought 
wonderful by every one?" he went on. "AVhy didn't 
you tell me ?" 
'' To have prepared you a little ?" — Vanderbank felt 
almost guilty. ''I see — I should have liked to make 
more of it ; though," he added, smiling, " I might so, 
by putting you on your guard, have caused myself to lose 
what, if you'll allow me to say so, strikes me as one of 
the most touching tributes I've ever seen rendered to a 
woman. In fact, however, how could I know ? I never 
saw Lady Julia, and you had, in advance, all the evi- 
dence that I could have : the portrait — pretty bad, in the 
taste of the time, I admit — and the three or four pho- 
tographs that, with it, you must have noticed at Mrs. 
Brook's. These things must have compared themselves, 
for you, with my photograph, in there, of the grand- 
daughter. The similarity, of course, we had all observed, 
but it has taken your wonderful memory and your ad- 
mirable vision to put into it all the detail." 
Mr. Longdon thought a moment, giving a dab with his 
pocket-handkerchief.  ''Very true — you're quite right. 
It's far beyond any identity in the pictures. But why 
did you tell me," he added more sharply, " that she isn't 
beautiful ?" 
" You've deprived me," Vanderbank laughed, "of the 
power of expressing civilly any surprise at your finding 
her so. But I said to you, please remember, nothing 
that qualified a jot my sense of the curious character of 
her face. I have always positively found in it a recall of 
the type of the period you must be thinking of. It isn't 
a bit modern. It's a face of Sir Thomas Lawrence — " 
 
" It's a face of Gainsborough !" Mr. Longdon returned 
with spirit. " Lady Julia herself harked back.'' 
Vanderbank, clearly, was equally touched and amused. 
''Let us say at once that it's a face of Eaphael." 
His old friend's hand was instantly on his arm.  ' That's 
exactly what I often said to myself of Lady Julia's." 
" The forehead's a little too high," said Vanderbank. 
''Bat it's just that excess, that, with the exquisite eyes 
and the particular disposition, round it, of the fair hair, 
makes the individual grace, makes the beauty of the re- 
minder." 
Keleased by Lady Julia's lover, the young man, in turn, 
grasped him as an encouragement to confidence. " It's 
a face that should have the long side-ringlets of 1830. 
It should have the rest of the personal arrangement, the 
pelisse, the shape of bonnet, the sprigged muslin dress 
and the cross-laced sandals. It should have arrived in a 
pea-green 'tilbury,' and it should be a reader of Mrs. 
Eadcliffe. And all this to complete the Eaphael !" 
Mr. Longdon, who, relieved by expression, had began 
to recover himself, looked hard a moment at his compan- 
ion. " How you've observed her I" 
Vanderbank met it without confusion. "Whom haven't 
I observed ? Do you like her ?" he then rather oddly 
and abruptly asked. 
The old man broke away again. "How can I tell — 
with such disparities ?" 
" The manner must be different," Vanderbank sug- 
gested. "And the things she says." 
His visitor was before him again. "I don't know 
what to make of them. They don't go with the rest 
of her. Lady Julia," said Mr. Longdon, "was rather 
shy." 
On this too his host could meet him. " She must have 
been. And Nanda — yes, certainly — doesn't give that im- 
pression." 
  
" On the contrary. But Lady Julia was gay V he add- 
ed, with an eagerness that made Vanderbank smile. 
   I can also see that. Nanda doesn't joke. And yet," 
Vanderbank continued with his exemplary candor, ' we 
mustn't speak of her, must we ? as if she were bold and 
grim." 
Mr. Longdon fixed him. ''Do you think she's sad ?" 
They had preserved their dropped tone and might, 
with their heads together, have been conferring as the 
party "ouf in some game with the couple in the other 
room. ''Yes. Sad." But Vanderbank broke off. "I'll 
send her to you." Thus it was he had come back to 
her. 
Nanda, on joining Mr. Longdon, went straight to the 
point. " He says it's so beautiful — what you feel on see- 
ing me : if that is what he meant." The old man said 
nothing again, at first ; he only smiled at her, but less 
strangely now, and then appeared to look about him for 
some place where she could sit near him. There was a 
sofa in this room too, on which, observing it, she quickly 
sank down, so that they were presently together, placed 
a little sideways and face to face. She had shown per- 
haps that she supposed him to have wished to take her 
hand, but he forbore to touch her, only letting her feel 
all the kindness of his eyes and their long, backward vis- 
ion. These things she evidently felt soon enough ; she 
went on before he had spoken. " I know how well you 
knew my grandmother. Mother has told me — and I'm 
so glad. She told me to say to you that she wants you 
to tell me." Just a shade, at this, might, over the old 
man's face, have appeared to drop ; but who was there 
to detect whether the girl observed it ? It didn't pre- 
vent, at any rate, her completing her statement. " That's 
why, to-day, she wished me to come alone. She wished 
yon to have me, she said, all to yourself." 
No, decidedly, she was not shy : that mute reflection 
 
was in the air an instant. "That, no doubt, is the best 
way. I thank her very much. I called, after having had 
the honor of dining — I called, I think, three times," he 
went on, with a sudden displacement of the question ; 
''but I had the misfortune each time to miss her." 
She kept looking at him with her crude young clear- 
ness. " I didn't know about that. Mother thinks she's 
more at home than almost any one. She does it on pur- 
pose : she knows what it is,'' Nanda pursued, with her 
perfect gravity, ''for people to be disappointed of find- 
ing her." 
" Oh, I shall find her yet," said Mr. Longdon. " And 
then I hope I shall also find you." 
She appeared simply to consider the possibility and, 
after an instant, to think well of it. "I dare say you 
will now, for now I shall be down." 
Her companion just blinked. "In the drawing-room, 
you mean — always ?" 
It was quite what she meant. " Always. I shall see 
ail the people who come. It will be a great thing for me. 
I want to hear all the talk. Mr. Mitchett says I ought to 
— that it helps to form the young mind. I hoped, for 
that reason," she went on, with the directness that made 
her honesty almost violent — "I hoped there would be 
more people here to-day." 
"I'm very glad there are not!" — the old man rang 
equally clear. "Mr. Vanderbank kindly arranged the 
matter for me just this way. I met him at dinner, at 
your mother's, three weeks ago, and he brought me home 
here that night, when, as knowing you so differently, we 
took the liberty of talking you all over. It had the 
effect, naturally, of making me want to begin with you 
afresh — only that seemed difficult too without further 
help. This he good-naturedly offered me ; he said " — 
and Mr. Longdon recovered his spirits to repeat it — 
" ' Hang it, I'll have them here for you !' " 
I see — lie knew we would come/' Then she caught ' 
herself up. '' But we haven't come, have we ?" i 
'' Oh, it's all right — it's all right. To me the occasion's 
brilliant and the affluence great. I've had such talk 
with those young men — " 
 'I see" — she was again prompt, but beyond any young 
person he had ever met she might have struck him as 
literal. " You're not used to such talk. Neither am I. 
It's rather wonderful, isn't it ? They're thought awfully 
clever, Mr. Van and Mr. Mitchy. Do you like them ?" 
she pushed on. 
Mr. Longdon, who, as compared with her, might have 
struck a spectator as infernally subtle, took an instant to 
think. " I've never met Mr. Mitchett before." 
'•Well, he always thinks one doesn't like liim," Nanda 
explained. ''But one does. One ought to," she added. 
Her companion had another pause. "He likes yoic.'  
Oh, Mr. Longdon needn't have hesitated ! "I know 
he does. He has told mother. He has told lots of peo- 
ple." 
" He has told even you," Mr. Longdon smiled. 
" Yes — but that isn't the same. I don't think he's a 
bit dreadful," she pursued. Still, there was a greater in- 
terest. " Do you like Mr. Van ?" 
This time her interlocutor indeed hung fire. "How 
can I tell ? He dazzles me." 
" But don't you like that ?" Then before he could 
really say : " You're afraid he may be false ?" 
At this he fairly laughed. "You go to the point !" 
She Just colored, to have amused him so, but he quickly 
went on : "I think one has a little natural nervousness 
at being carried off one's feet. I'm afraid I've always 
liked too much to see where I'm going." 
" And you don't, with him ?" She spoke with her 
curious hard interest. " I understand. But I think I 
like to be dazzled." 
 
" Oh, you've got time — you can come round again ; 
you've a margin for accidents, for disappointments and 
recoveries ; you can take one thing with another. But 
Fve only my last little scrap." 
 '' And you want to make no mistakes — I see." 
" Well — I'm too easily upset." 
''Ah, so am I," said Nanda.   I assure you that, in 
spite of what you say, I want to make no mistakes either. 
Fve seen a great many — though you mightn't think it," 
she persisted; "I really know what they may be. Do 
you like me?" she brought forth. But even on this she 
spared him too ; a look appeared to have been enough 
for her.  '  How can you say, of course, already ? — if you 
can't say for Mr. Van. I mean as you've seen him so 
much. When he asked me just now if I liked yoic, I 
told him it was too soon. But it isn't, now ; you see it 
goes fast. I do like you." She gave him no time to ac- 
knowledge this tribute, but, as if it were a matter of 
course, tried him quickly with something else. " Can 
you say if you like mother ?" 
He could meet it pretty well now.  '' There are im- 
mense reasons why I should." 
"Yes — I know about them, as I mentioned: mother 
has told me. ' But what she had to put to him kept up 
his surprise.  '' Have reasons anything to do with it ? I 
don't believe you like her !" she exclaimed.  'She doesn't 
think so," she added. 
The old man's face, at last, partly bewildered, partly 
reassured, showed even more something finer still in the 
effect she produced. " Into what mysteries you plunge !" 
" Oh, we do ; that's what every one says of us. We 
discuss everything and every one — we're always discuss- 
ing each other. I think we must be rather celebrated for 
it, and it's a kind of trick — isn't it? — that's catching. 
But don't you think it's the most interesting sort of 
talk ? Mother says we haven't any prejudices. Yoii 
  
have, probably, quantities — and beantiful ones : so per- 
haps I oughtn't to tell you. But you'll find out for your- 
self." 
 ' Yes — I'm rather slow ; but I generally end by finding 
out. And I've got, thank Heaven," said Mr. Longdon, 
"quite prejudices enough." 
" Then I hope you'll tell me some of them," Nanda re- 
plied in a tone evidently marking how much he pleased 
her. 
"Ah, you must do as / do — you must find out for 
yourself. Your resemblance to your grandmother is 
quite prodigious," he immediately added. 
" That's what I wish you'd tell me about — your recol- 
lection of her and your wonderful feeling about her. 
Mother has told me things, but that I should have some- 
thing straight from you is exactly what she also wants. 
My grandmother must have been awfully nice," the girl 
rambled on, " and I somehow don't see myself at all as 
the same sort of person." 
" Oh, I don't say you're in the least the same sort : all 
I allude to," Mr. Longdon returned, " is the miracle of 
the physical heredity. Nothing could be less like her 
than your manner and your talk." 
Nanda looked at him with all her honesty. " They're 
not so good, you must think." 
He hung fire an instant, but was as honest as she. 
'' You're separated from her by a gulf — and not only of 
time. Personally, you see, you breathe a different air." 
She thought — she quite took it in. " Of course. And 
you breathe the same — the same old one, I mean, as my 
grandmother." 
" The same old one," Mr. Longdon smiled, " as much 
as possible. Some day I'll tell you more of what you 
desire. I can't go into it now." 
"Because I've upset you so?" Nanda frankly asked. 
"That's one of the reasons." 
 
"I think I can see another too," she observed after a 
moment.  'You re not sure how much I shall under- 
stand. But I shall understand," she went on, "more, 
perhaps, than you think. In fact," she said earnestly, 
 '' I  jromse to understand. Fve some imagination. Had 
my grandmother?" she asked. Her actual sequences 
were not rapid, but she had already anticipated him. 
'Tve thought of that before, because I put the same 
question to mother." 
"And what did your mother say ?" 
"   Imagination — dear mamma ? Not a grain !  " 
The old man showed a faint Hush. "Your mother 
then has a supply that makes up for it." 
The girl fixed him, on this, with a deeper attention. 
"You don't like her having said that." 
His color came stronger, though a slightly strained 
smile did what it could to diffuse coohiess. "I don't 
care a single scrap, my dear, in respect to the friend I'm 
speaking of, for any judgment but my own." 
"Not even for her daughter's ?" 
"Not even for her daughter's." Mr. Longdon had 
not spoken loud, but he rang as clear as a bell. 
Nanda, for admiration of it, broke almost for the first 
time into the semblance of a smile. " You feel as if my 
grandmother were quite your property!" 
"Oh, quite." 
" I say — that's splendid !" 
"I'm glad you like it," he answered kindly. 
The very kindness pulled her up. " Excuse my speak- 
ing so, but I'm sure you know what I mean. You mustn't 
think," she eagerly continued, " that mother won't also 
want to hear you." 
" On the subject of Lady Julia ?" He gently, but very 
effectively, shook his head. " Your mother shall never 
hear me." 
Nanda appeared to wonder at it an instant, and it 
  
made her completely grave again.   It will be all for 
mer 
'   Whatever there may be of it, my dear' 
'  Oh, I shall get it all out of you," she returned with- 
out hesitation. Her mixture of free familiarity and of 
the vividness of evocation of something, whatever it was, 
sharply opposed — the little worry of this contradiction, 
not altogether unpleasant, continued to fill his conscious- 
ness more discernibly than anything else. It was really 
reflected in his quick brown eyes that she alternately 
drew him on and warned him oif, but also that what 
they were beginning more and more to make out was 
an emotion of her own trembling there beneath her 
tension. His glimpse of it widened — his glimpse of it 
fairly triumphed when, suddenly, after this last decla- 
ration, she threw off with quite the same accent, but 
quite another effect: "I'm glad to be like any one the 
thought of whom makes you so good ! You are good," 
she continued; "I see already how I shall feel it." 
She stared at him with tears, the sight of which brought 
his own straight back, so that thus, for a moment, they 
sat there together. 
" My dear child V he at last simply murmured. But 
he laid his hand on her now, and her own immediately 
met it. 
"You'll get used to me," she said with the same 
gentleness that the response of her touch had tried to 
express ; " and I shall be so careful with you that — 
well, you'll see !" She broke short off with a quaver, 
and the next instant she turned — there was some one 
at the door. Vanderbank, still not quite at his ease, 
had come back to smile upon them. Detaching herself 
from Mr. Longdon, she got straight up to meet him. 
"You were right, Mr. Van. It's beautiful, beautiful, 
beautiful !" 
XIII 
Harold Brooken'ham, whom Mr. Cashmore, ushered 
in and announced, had found in the act of helping him- 
self to a cup of tea at the table apparently just prepared 
— Harold Brookenham arrived at the point with a dash 
so direct as to leave the visitor an option between but 
two suppositions : that of a desperate plunge, to have his 
shame soon over, or that of the acquired habit of such 
appeals, which had taught him the easiest way. There 
was no great sharpness in the face of Mr. Cashmore, who 
was, somehow, massive without majesty ; yet he might 
not have been proof against the suspicion that his young 
friend's embarrassment was an easy precaution, a con- 
scious corrective to the danger of audacity. It would 
not have been impossible to divine that if Harold shut 
his eyes and jumped, it was mainly for the appearance 
of doing so. Experience was to be taken as showing that 
one might get a five-pound note as one got a light for a 
cigarette ; but one had to check the friendly impulse to 
ask for it in the same way. Mr. Cashmore had in fact 
looked surprised, yet not, on the whole, so surprised as 
the young man seemed to have expected of him. There 
was almost a quiet grace in the combination of prompti- 
tude and diffidence with which Harold took over the 
responsibility of all proprietorship of the crisp morsel of 
  
paper that lie slipped with slow firmness into the pocket 
of his waistcoat, rubbing it gently, in its passage, against 
the delicately bnfl-colored duck of which that garment 
was composed.  '' So quite too awfully kind of you that 
I really don t know what to say" — there was a marked 
recall, in the manner of this speech, of the sweetness of 
his mother's droop and the tenderness of her wail. It 
was as if he had been moved for the moment to moralize, 
but the eyes he raised to his benefactor had the oddest 
effect of marking that personage himself as the source of 
the lesson. 
Mr. Cashmore, who would have been very red-headed 
if he had not been very bald, showed a single eye-glass 
and a long upper lip ; he was large and jaunty, with little 
petulant movements and intense ejaculations that were 
not in the line of his type. " You may say anything you 
like if you don't say you'll repay it. That's always non- 
sense — I hate it." 
Harold remained sad, but showed himself really supe- 
rior. ' Then I won't say it." Pensively, a minute, he 
appeared to figure the words, in their absurdity, on the 
lips of some young man not, like himself, tactful. ' I 
know just what you mean." 
 ' But I think, you know, that you ought to tell your 
father," Mr. Cashmore said. 
" Tell him I've borrowed of you ?" 
Mr. Cashmore good-humoredly demurred. " It would 
serve me right — it's so shocking my having listened to 
you. Tell him, certainly," he went on after an instant. 
" But what I mean is that if you're in such straits you 
should speak to him like a man." 
Harold smiled at the innocence of a friend who could 
suppose him not to have exhausted that resource. " I'm 
always speaking to him like a man, and that's just what 
puts him so awfully out. He denies to my face that I 
am one. One would suppose, to hear him, not only that 
To a small objectionable child, but that I'm scarcely even 
liiiman. He cloesn t conceive me as with any wants." 
"Oh!' Mr. Cashmore laughed, "you've all — you young- 
sters — as many wants, I know, as an advertisement page 
of the Tunes." 
Harold showed an admiration. " That's awfully good. 
If you think you ought to speak of it," he continued, "do 
it rather to mamma." He noted the hour. "I'll go, if 
you'll excuse me, to give you the chance." 
The visitor referred to his own watch. "It's jonv 
mother herself who gives the chances — the chances yoio 
take." 
Harold looked kind and simple. "She has come in, I 
know. She'll be with you in a moment." 
He was half-way to the door, but Mr. Cashmore, though 
so easy, had not done with him. " I suppose you mean 
that if it's only your mother who's told, you may depend 
on her to shield you." 
Harold turned this over as if it were a questionable 
sovereign, but on second thoughts he wonderfully smiled. 
" Do you think that after you've let me have it you can 
tell ? You could, of- course, if you hadn't." He appeared 
to work it out for Mr. Oashmore's benefit. " But I don't 
mind," he added, "your telling mamma." 
"Don't mind, you mean, really, its annoying her so 
awfully ?" 
The invitation to repent thrown off in this could only 
strike the young man as absurd — it was so previous to 
any enjoyment. Harold liked things in their proper 
order ; but, at the same time, his evolutions were quick. 
"I dare say I am selfish, but what I was thinking was 
that the terrific wigging, don't you know ? — well, I'd take 
it from her. She knows about one's life — about our hav- 
ing to go on, by no fault of our own, as our parents start 
us. She knows all about wants — no one has more than 
  
Mr. Oashmore stared, but there was amusement in it 
too. '' So she'll say it's all right ?" 
  Oh no ; she'll let me have it hot. But she'll recog- 
nize that, at such a pass, more must be done for a fellow, 
and that may lead to something — indirectly, don't you 
see ? for she won't tell my father, she'll only, in her own 
way, work on him — that will put me on a better footing, 
and for which, therefore, at bottom, I shall have to thank 
you. " 
The eye assisted by Mr. Cashmore's glass had fixed, 
during this address, with a discernible growth of some- 
thing like alarm, the subject of his beneficence. The 
thread of their relations somehow lost itself in this subtler 
twist, and he fell back on mere stature, position and prop- 
erty, things always convenient in the presence of crook- 
edness.   I shall say nothing to your mother, but I 
think I shall be rather glad that you're not a son of 
mine." 
Harold wondered at this new element in their talk. 
"Do your sons never — ?" 
" Borrow money of their mother's visitors ?" Mr. 
Cashmore had taken him up, eager, evidently, quite to 
satisfy him; but the question was caught on the wing 
by Mrs. Brookenham herself, who had opened the door 
as her friend spoke and who quickly advanced with an 
echo of it. 
" Lady Fanny's visitors ?" — and, though her eyes rather 
avoided than met his own, she seemed to cover her lady- 
ship's husband with a vague but practised sympathy. 
'' What on earth are you saying to Harold about them ?" 
Thus it was that at the end of a few minutes Mr. 
Cashmore, on the sofa face to face with her, found his 
consciousness quite purged of its actual sense of his 
weakness and a new turn given to the idea of what, in 
one's very drawing-room, might go on behind one's back. 
Harold had quickly vanished— had been tacitly disposed 
 
of, and Mrs. Brook's caller had moved, even in the short 
space of time, so far in quite another direction as to have 
drawn from her the little cold question: '' Presents'? 
You don't mean money?" 
He clearly felt the importance of expressing at least 
by his silence and his eye-glass what he meant. " Her 
extravagance is beyond everything, and though there 
:ire bills enough, God knows, that do come in to me, I 
don't see how she pulls through unless there are others 
that go elsewhere." 
Mrs. Brookenham had given him his tea — her own 
she had placed on a small table near her, and she could 
now respond freely to the impulse felt, on this, of set- 
tling herself to something of real interest. Except to 
Harold she was incapable of reproach, though there were 
shades, of course, in her resignation, and her daughter's 
report of her to Mr. Longdon as conscious of an ab- 
sence of prejudice would have been justified, for a spec- 
tator, by the particular feeling that Mr. Cashmere's 
speech caused her to disclose. What did this feeling 
wonderfully appear unless strangely irrelevant ? "  I've 
no patience when I hear you talk as if you weren't hor- 
ribly rich." 
He looked at her an instant as if with the fancy that 
she might have derived that impression from Harold. 
" What has that to do with it ? Does a rich man enjoy 
any more than a poor his wife's making a fool of him ?" 
Her eyes opened wider : it was one of her very few 
ways of betraying amusement. There was little indeed 
to be amused at here except his choice of the particular 
invidious name. ''' You know I don't believe a word you 
say." 
Mr. Oashmore drank his tea, then rose to carry the cup 
somewhere and put it down, declining, with a motion, 
any assistance. When he was on the sofa again he re- 
sumed their intimate talk. " I like tremendously to be 
  
with you, but yon mustn't think Tve come here to let 
yoa say to me such dreadful things as that." He was an 
odd compound, Mr. Oashmore, and the air of personal 
good health, the untarnished bloom whicli sometimes 
lent a monstrous serenity to his mention of the barely 
mentionable, was on occasion balanced or matched by his 
playful application of extravagant terms to matters of 
much less moment. ' You know what I come to you 
for, Mrs. Brook : I won't come any more if you're going 
to be horrid and impossible." 
 ' You come to me, I suppose, because — for my deep 
misfortune, I assure you — I've a kind of vision of things, 
