Gazell. In my opinion, this extreme irritability demands an operation
for appendicitis.
FIRST NURSE (listening, laughs; addresses SECOND NURSE). Now, if one
could only apply that! Take a cross man,--any cross man,--say a brother,
or a husband, or even a doctor, and if he carried it too far, just call
on Dr. Carver. Why, it would revolutionize society. And he is so expert!
He doesn’t mind it any more than carving a goo--oose. Yes, sir! I’m
coming. (Demurely obedient; hurries to DR. GAZELL.)
(SECOND NURSE moves to the rear of the ward to a patient behind a
screen.)
(DR. THORNE advances slowly; stands in the middle of the ward,
unnoticed.)
PATIENT NO. 21 (louder). I say, when a man’s dead is the time to speak
for him. And I’ll stand up for my dear dead doctor as long as I live.
VOICE FROM ANOTHER COT. And so would I,--and longer, if I got the
chance.
ANOTHER VOICE. He doesn’t need anybody to stand up for him. His deeds do
follow him. And he rests from his labors.
(DR. THORNE smiles bitterly; stands with his face towards the speaker.
He knots his hands in front of him, and thus advances with a motion so
slow as to be almost stealthy.)
VOICE FROM ANOTHER COT. He wouldn’t care so much for that. It’s Bible.
He was not a religious man. But he was as kind to me! (Weeps.)
OTHER VOICES. And to me! Oh, yes, and to me,--as kind!
PATIENT IN THE WHEELED CHAIR. I couldn’t move in my bed when I came
here. I’d been so three years. Look what he’s done for me. (Sobs.)
DR. THORNE (in a low tone). Miss Jessie? Don’t cry so. You’ll make
yourself worse. Go back to bed, Jessie, and--see. I’ll tell you a
secret. Don’t tell the others just yet. I wasn’t killed, Jessie. That
was a newspaper canard. I’m a live man yet. See! Look up, Jessie. Look
at me,--can’t you? (Pleads.) Won’t you, Jessie?
PATIENT IN THE WHEELED CHAIR (stares past him at DR. GAZELL and DR.
CARVER). And to think of the likes of them,--in his place! What ever’ll
become of this hospital without him?
DR. THORNE (with trembling lip). You don’t hear me, do you, Jessie?
Well--well. I must have met with some cerebral shock affecting the
organs of speech. It is a clear case of aphasia. I can’t make myself
understood. It--it’s hard. Jessie? (Louder.) I can’t see things go
wrong with you,--no matter how it is with me. You’ve been in that
chair long enough for to-day. (Imperiously.) Jessie, go back to bed!
Stop crying about me, and go back to your bed.
(JESSIE wavers; shades her eyes with her hands; stares about her;
slowly turns her wheeled chair and moves away.)
       [Exit JESSIE.
DR. THORNE (moves more naturally and rapidly; stands by the cot of No.
21; speaks). Good-morning, Mrs. True. I meant to have seen you last
night. I was--unavoidably detained. I hope you’re not worse this
morning?
PATIENT (with tears). I’ve cried half the night.
DR. THORNE. That’s a pity. But you won’t cry any more. I’ll take care of
you now.
PATIENT (looks up wearily; turns her face on her pillow and sobs).
DR. THORNE. Clearly aphasia. She does not understand a word I say. Dr.
Gazell! Gazell! Dr. Carver?
(The two physicians murmur together.)
DR. THORNE. Gazell? What’s that? The knife? For Mrs. True? Excuse me,
but I cannot permit it.
DR. CARVER. It would be such a pretty little operation. The students are
getting restless for something. I told them--
DR. GAZELL. It is well-defined appendicitis.
DR. THORNE. Well-defined appendi--fiddlesticks! It is nothing but
pleurisy. I tell you, Gazell, I will not have it!
DR. GAZELL (looks around uncomfortably; speaks with hesitation). Of
course, Thorne would not have agreed with us.
DR. THORNE (grips DR. GAZELL by the arm). I tell you it would be
butchery, Gazell! What are you thinking of? Gazell!
DR. GAZELL. But he was a very opinionated man,--everybody knew that.
(DR. THORNE drops DR. GAZELL’S arm and walks away with a gesture of
distress.)
SECOND NURSE (to FIRST NURSE; moves out from behind the screen).
Very invigorating day!
FIRST NURSE (to SECOND NURSE). Father Sullivan’s late with the
Sacrament. I hope Norah, yonder, won’t get ahead of him. She’s ’most
gone. (Approaching the cot of the patient behind the screen.)
SECOND NURSE (moves away). Yes. She’s been unconscious half an hour.
Enter PRIEST. (He advances to offer Extreme Unction to the dying
patient.)
FIRST NURSE. Lovely morning, Father.
DR. THORNE (standing in the middle of the ward). They used to call my
name when I came in. “Oh, there’s the doctor!” “The doctor’s come!” It
ran from cot to cot--like light. And everybody used to smile. Seems to
me some of them blessed me. Now--
(Sobs from the ward.)
DR. THORNE (tremulously). My patients! Isn’t there one of you who
knows me? Doesn’t anybody hear me? Don’t cry so! All the symptoms
will be worse for it.
THE DYING PATIENT. Doctor? Doctor?
DR. THORNE. That sounds like Norah.
PRIEST (recites behind the screen at NORAH’S bedside the prayer for
the passing soul). “Proficiscere, anima Christiana, de hoc mundo, in
nomine Dei Patris omnipotentis, qui te creavit; in nomine Jesu Christi
Filii Dei vivi, qui pro te passus est; in nomine Spiritus Sancti”--
DR. THORNE (softly). Thank you, Father. (Stands silently with bowed
head.)
Reënter the patient in the wheeled chair.
JESSIE (happily). I’ve had such a lovely dream! I thought Dr. Thorne
was here--in this ward. Oh! (With disappointment.)
DR. THORNE. Jessie!
JESSIE (sadly). It was such a lovely dream! (Droops and turns away.)
(DR. THORNE walks apart; stands drearily, with downcast eyes.)
Enter MRS. FAYTH. (She looks pale and
agitated, but quite happy. She is
dressed as before, for the street, but
her head is bare; is wrapped from
head to foot in her long, pale, dove-colored
opera cape. She goes straight
to DR. THORNE, and touches him upon
the arm; speaks softly.)
MRS. FAYTH. Doctor?
DR. THORNE (starts). Oh! Mary Fayth! You? (He grasps her hand with
pathetic eagerness.) Oh, I never was so glad! You are the first
person--the only one--nobody else seemed to know me. I might have known
you would. Where’s Helen? Isn’t she with you? And you weren’t hurt at
all, were you? I have been--anxious about you. Those cowardly papers
said--I tried to get right over and see you. And, after all, you’re not
hurt. I thank-- (Looks around confusedly.) Ah, what shall I thank?
PRIEST. Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
(DR. THORNE listens with troubled interest, like a child learning a
hard lesson.)
MRS. FAYTH (smiling). I can only stay a minute. I must get back to my
poor Fred.
DR. THORNE. Don’t leave me.
MRS. FAYTH. Oh, poor doctor! Don’t you see? The carriage overturned. I
was badly hurt. I only died an hour ago.
DR. THORNE (gasps, and stares at MRS. FAYTH. He tries to speak, but
can only articulate). You died an hour ago? And I? And I?
MRS. FAYTH (still smiling, with her sweet, mysterious smile). Don’t
take it so hard, doctor. I came to ex-plain it to you. Why, it’s the
most beautiful thing in the world! (Glides away slowly, but smiling to
the last.)
DR. THORNE (throws up his arms in anguish). I am dead! My God! I am a
dead man!
(His face falls into his hands, his whole body collapses slowly, he
drops.)
END OF SCENE I.
SCENE II.
It is night on a street in the West End of the city.
At the right stands a church, dimly lighted for a choir
to practice. An anthem on the organ can be heard.
At the left appears Dr. Thorne’s house, viewed from
the outside. It has high stone steps, and lights are
in the window. One window on the ground floor has
the curtain raised. The interior of the library can be
seen through the window,--glimpses of the books, the
pictures, the table, the lamp with the white lace shade.
The room is empty. Into it--
Enter MRS. THORNE. (She is dressed in
deep black. Her face is drawn with
grief. Her hands are clasped in front
of her. She paces the room drearily.
She is alone. She seats herself by the
table; tries to read; lays the book
down, and rises; paces the room.)
       [Exit MRS. THORNE.
Enter DR. THORNE at the far end of the
street near the church. (He is dressed
as before. He is still pale. His manner
has increased in agitation, but a
new resolution gives more firmness to
his wasted countenance. He speaks,
meditatively.)
DR. THORNE. After all, there is another life. I really did not think
it. (Stops and passes his hand over his eyes; muses.) God knows--if
there is a God--how it is with me. If I have never done anything, or
been anything, or felt anything that was fit to last, I have loved one
woman, and her only--and thought high thoughts for her, and felt great
emotions for her, and I could forget myself for her sake--and I would
have had joy to suffer for her, and I’ve been a better man for love of
her. And I have loved her,--oh, I have so loved her that ten thousand
deaths could not murder that living love! (Falters.) And I spoke to
her--I said to her--like any low and brutal fellow, any common
wife-tormentor--I went from her dear presence to this. (Brokenly.)
... And here there is neither speech nor language. Neither earth nor
heaven, nor my love ... nor my shame ... can give my famished eyes the
sight of her dear face,--nor my sealed lips the power to say, Forgive!
(The organ can be heard from the church.)
DR. THORNE (without noticing the anthem). I will not bear it. No--no.
I will not! I will go to her! (Starts to rush up the street, whose
familiar precincts he seems for the first time to recognize.) Why,
there is my own house! She can’t be two rods away. I wonder if a dead
man can get into his own home? Helen? (His feet lag heavily; he moves
like one who is wading in water. He makes the motions of one who
withstands a strong blast or an invisible force. He is beaten back.
Suddenly he raves.) You are playing with me! You torture a miserable
man. Who and what are you? Show me what I have to fight, and let me
wrestle for my liberty! Though I am a ghost, let me wrestle like a man!
Let me to my wife! Give way and let me seek her! (Slowly recedes, as if
beaten back; bows his head. The man sobs.)
CHOIR FROM THE CHURCH (chant).
    “God is a Spirit.
     God is a Spirit.
     And they that worship Him”--
(Choir breaks off. The organ sounds on.)
(DR. THORNE seems to listen, but with a kind of anger. He slowly
recedes, as if pushed back.)
       [Exit DR. THORNE.
Enter the Veiled Woman. (She stands
mutely and wretchedly. Watches the
house. Wrings her hands, but makes
no sound.)
Enter MRS. THORNE. (Within the house;
can be seen plainly from the street
through the window. She advances
and draws the shade still higher;
stands close to the window, pressing
her hands against the sides of her
eyes; looks out.)
(The Veiled Woman shrinks at the sight of MRS. THORNE.)
       [Exit the Woman.
Reënter DR. THORNE at the other end of the street. (He speaks
shrewdly.) It is nearer at this end. And perhaps, if I didn’t have to
get by that church-- (Hurries up opposite the house. Suddenly he sees
her.) Oh, there’s Helen! God! It is my wife. I--see--my--wife.
(Brokenly.) Dear Helen! (Pushes toward the house. At the foot of his
own steps he falters and falls, still as if beaten back. He struggles as
a man would struggle for his life. The veins stand out on his face and
on his clinched hands. He cries out.) I’m coming, Helen! It is only I,
my girl. Don’t be frightened, dear! I wonder would she be afraid of me?
Perhaps it would shock her. Live people and dead people don’t seem to
understand each other. But I’ll risk it. Helen would go alone and lie
down alive in a grave at midnight, and never look over her shoulder--if
she thought she could see me. I know Helen. I’ll try again. (He
pushes and urges his way onward. But the invisible Power restrains him,
as before. He stretches his arms towards the lighted window.) Here I
am, Helen! I can’t get any farther, somehow.... Come and open the door
for me, my girl,--the way you used to do. Won’t you, Helen? With the boy
in your arms? Perhaps if you opened the door,--I could get in. I ...
(After a silence.) I won’t stay very long. I won’t trouble you any,
Helen. I know I don’t belong there any more. I won’t intrude.
(Wistfully.) Helen! I was cruel to you. I have been ashamed of myself.
I thought if I could get in long enough to say-- (Reflects.) Mary
Fayth went back to see Fred. Nothing prevented her--
(MRS. THORNE throws open the window. Leans out and looks about.)
(MAGGIE is seen moving about the lighted room.)
(People in the street pass.)
(MRS. THORNE hastily shuts the window.)
DR. THORNE (piteously). Helen!
(The organ sounds from the church.)
DR. THORNE (turns suddenly, as if turning on an antagonist). What art
Thou that dost withstand me? I am a dead and helpless man. What
wouldst Thou with me? Where gainest Thou thy force upon me? Art Thou
verily that ancient Myth that men were wont to call Almighty God? (He
lifts his face to the sky; holds up his hands as if he held up a
question or an argument.)
CHOIR FROM THE CHURCH:--
    “God is a Spirit.
     God is a Spirit.
     They that worship Him
     Must worship Him in Spirit”--
MAGGIE (opens the door. The lighted hall is seen behind). There’s
nobody here, Mrs. Thorne.
(MRS. THORNE, wearing a slight, white shawl which falls from her as she
moves, comes to the open door; motions MAGGIE away.)
       [Exit MAGGIE.
MRS. THORNE (softly). Esmerald? He might be out there in the dark. Who
knows what spirits do? Esmerald? Would God that I had died for you! Oh,
my dear!
DR. THORNE. Helen!
MRS. THORNE. If he were there he would answer me if it cost him his
living soul.
DR. THORNE. Helen, I answer you, for I am a living soul. Helen! (He
struggles mightily; crawls up the steps, reaches with the tips of his
fingers the fringe of her white shawl, which has fallen down the steps,
and lies there unnoticed.) Helen, look down! Down. (He clutches the
white fringe to his lips. He kisses it wildly.)
(MRS. THORNE lifts her face to the sky.)
DR. THORNE. I can’t get any higher,--not any nearer, dear.
MRS. THORNE. There is no one here. (Weeping.) There is nothing here.
(She shuts the door slowly and reluctantly; remembers the shawl, which
she draws in with her.)
(DR. THORNE clings to the shawl in vain. Moaning, he kisses the
doorsteps of his own home where the garment had touched them.)
END OF SCENE II.
SCENE III.
A narrow defile or pass between high mountains.
The light is dim. The pass winds irregularly, and is
often rough, but is always upwards. The scenery is
unearthly. No sign of life is to be seen. A distant
storm can be heard.
Enter DR. THORNE (slowly, holding a
staff; he is robed in purple, a flowing
garment, not unlike a talith or a toga.
His face, still pale, is heavily lined;
but more with anxiety than with resentment;
its expression is somewhat
softer. He speaks).
DR. THORNE. I wonder what is to be done with me next? I see no
particular reason for climbing these mountains. There seems to be
nothing for a dead man to do but to obey orders. Well (candidly), I’ve
given my share of them in my time. I suppose it’s fair enough to turn
about and take a few--now. (He smiles. After a pause, climbing
slowly.) I must say I can’t call this an attractive country--so far.
Its main features are not genial.
(The storm increases; there is thunder and cloud.)
DR. THORNE (looking about). It seems to be in the cyclonic belt.
There’s a storm of some sort,--I should say two of them fighting up in
these hills. Hear them close and clinch! Like a man’s two natures;
civil war all the time. And no truce! (Muses.) It’s not a social
region, certainly. I don’t know that I recall, really, ever being in a
place that was so desolate. There isn’t so much as a wild animal, nor a
bird flying over. It reminds me of--what was it? I can’t recall the
words. It seems to me my mother taught them to me when I was a little
lad. But they have quite gone. Beautiful literature in that old Book!
It’s a good while since I’ve dipped into it. I’ve had too much to do.
What was it?
    “Though I walk--When I walk”--
(He breaks off; climbs stoutly. The storm darkens down. For the first
time DR. THORNE’S face expresses something like alarm. He looks about
like a man who would call for help, but is too proud to do so. He
speaks.)
This is really growing serious. I wish I could remember those words. Now
I think of it, we were on our knees. A most unnatural posture! My
mother was a sweet saint,--rest her pure spirit! (It lightens as he
says this.)
VOICES FROM BEYOND (softly chanting).
    “And when I’m lost in deep despair
       Be thou with me....
     Until life’s daylight ended be,
     Be thou with me, with me.”
DR. THORNE (lifts his head to listen). There’s a good musical taste in
this country, at all events. That’s something. What were those words?
Ah, I have it.
    “Though I walk through the Valley of the Shadow
              Thou shalt be with me.”
It went in some such way. (Repeats perplexedly.)
    “Thou shalt be with me?”
(Sadly.) A beautiful superstition.
(The storm comes on heavily, with darkness and lightning. Through the
gloom his solitary form can be seen manfully climbing. He exhibits no
panic, but his evident bewilderment grows upon him. He mutters.)
The desolation of desolations! I shall be glad when I get out of it.
What solitude! Of all the people I have known--dead or living--there is
not one to stay by me.
VOICES FROM BEYOND.
    “Be Thou near him!”
Enter, on the pass above him, a young
girl repeating prayers on a rosary.
She is a plain, unattractive girl, folded
in a dull gray gown that wraps her
loosely. Her face is earnest and devout.
DR. THORNE. Why, Norah!
NORAH (looking back). Oh, it is the Doctor.
DR. THORNE. I can’t overtake you, Norah.
NORAH. And I’ve only died the day.
DR. THORNE. But you’ve got the start of me, Norah. You are higher up. I
am glad to see you, Norah (eagerly). But I can’t reach you.
NORAH (holds down her hand). Come up, Doctor! Come up! I’ll help you,
Doctor.
DR. THORNE (gratefully). Thank you, Norah.
NORAH. It’s to Purrgatory I’d be goin’. But you’re the herretic, Doctor.
Which way do you be goin’?
DR. THORNE (shakes his head). I don’t know, Norah. You are wiser than
I am--in this foreign place.
NORAH (holds down her hand). The dear Doctor! Ye were that kind to me,
Doctor,--at the hospital, and forninst the house where I was worrkin’.
It’s niver a cint I had to pay yez for yer thruble. If I’d been a pretty
lady with a purrse of gold, ye never could have put yerself about more
than ye did for the likes of me. It’s not meself that would have died
the day if you’d been there. Doctor? Would yez mind, if I
should--bless you, Doctor? There’s kindness onto kindness, and mercy
goin’ after mercy that ye did me, all hidin’ in a poor girrl’s heart to
rise and meet you here. I was sick an’ ye did visit me.
DR. THORNE (melting). When did I ever show you all that kindness,
Norah? I don’t remember--
NORAH. And I don’t forget. Take my hand, now, Doctor, do. It must be
lonesome down below there by yersel’. (Touches her rosary. Her lips
move in prayer.)
DR. THORNE (climbing on, grasps NORAH’S hand). Thank you, Norah
(gently).
(There is a lull in the storm. It grows lighter.)
(DR. THORNE and the Irish girl climb on together silently.)
(It brightens at the brow of the mountain. Dim outlines of figures are
faintly seen at the summit. They waver, and melt away.)
DR. THORNE (gradually loosening his hold of NORAH’S hand, speaks, but
not to NORAH, bitterly). Now stop a moment. Where will all this end?
Rebelling, I obey; and obeying, I rebel. I am become what we used to
call a spirit. And this is what it means! Better might one become a
molecule, for those at least express the Laws of the Universe, and do
not suffer. I don’t incline to go any higher. (Drops back.) Every step
is taking me further away from my wife.
NORAH (anxiously). Doctor? Doctor! (She climbs on, but looks back,
beckoning.)
DR. THORNE (pays no attention to NORAH. Retraces his steps down the
narrow path). Come what may, I will not go any further from Helen.
I’ll perish first, in this unearthly place. (He continues to descend;
stands lost in thought. The storm darkens round him, but lightens beyond
him. At the summit dim outlines can be seen again. These brighten
faintly.)
(NORAH reaches her arms towards them; climbs on.)
DR. THORNE. It was something to be in the same world with Helen.
(Muses.) Oh, hot in my anger I went from her. And cold, indeed, did I
return. (Still descending.) I will go back. I will get as near the old
system of things as I can. I will not put another span of space between
myself and Helen. Poor, poor girl!
(DR. THORNE, doggedly descending, does not look up.)
(White-robed forms at the summit brighten. Arms are stretched downwards
through a mist. Hands beckon. One of them reaches down and clasps
NORAH’S hand; draws her up.)
NORAH (looking back). Doctor!
(NORAH vanishes.)
(The pass grows dark. Figures at the summit dim.)
(Enter, from a darkness in the mountains,
the Woman in flame-color. Her ashen
mantle is now thrown back, but still
clings to her. She stands mournfully
regarding DR. THORNE. She does not
address him, but slowly extends her
arms.)
(DR. THORNE does not observe the Woman. She does not obtrude herself
upon his attention.)
[Exit the Woman into the darkness
whence she came.
DR. THORNE (with frowning face descends; he murmurs). And a few days
ago I was troubled because I had lost a few thousand dollars in Santa
Ma.... I saved up money! (Scornfully.) I would accumulate a
fortune. Oh, the whole of it, ten hundred thousand-fold the whole of
it, for one hour in a dead man’s desolated home! (Pushes downwards,
suddenly and silently.)
Enter AZRAEL, ANGEL OF DEATH. (The
pass blackens. The mountain summit
is wrapped in darkness.)
(AZRAEL stands tall and resplendent. He is a white-robed figure, winged
and powerful. The light falls only upon AZRAEL and upon the man. It
can be seen that this gleam comes from a sword held in the hand of the
Angel. Without a word he lifts the flaming sword, and with it bars the
narrow pass from side to side.)
DR. THORNE (in a ringing voice). Azrael!
(AZRAEL does not reply.)
DR. THORNE (under his breath). Azrael, Angel of Death! (Falls back.)
(The two figures confront each other in silence. DR. THORNE
desperately flings himself towards the Angel. Without a touch he is
beaten back. AZRAEL stands immovable. His face grows solemn with
pity. DR. THORNE retreats; advances again; raises his staff, and
strikes it upon the Angel’s sword. The staff flames up, burns, and drops
to ashes on the ground.)
(DR. THORNE recedes a few steps; shades his eyes with his hands;
regards the Angel blindly; wavers, turns. Slowly, with bent figure, he
weakly reascends the mountain; stumbles and falls; regains his footing;
climbs on alone, and now without his staff; does not look back.)
(AZRAEL stands immovable, with drawn sword.)
VOICES FROM BEYOND (sing so softly that they seem rather to be
breathing than singing):--
    “The night is dark, and I am far from home,
           Lead Thou me on ...
     O’er moor and fen, o’er crag and torrent, till
           The night is gone,
     And with the morn those angel faces smile,
     Which I have loved long since, and lost a while.”
(As they sing the summit mellows slowly. No figures appear. At the brow
of the mountain a single gleam of light pierces the gloom. It brightens
rather than broadens. It has the color of dawn.)
(AZRAEL fades away, the sword vanishing last.)
(DR. THORNE climbs up, with eyes lifted towards the light on the
summit, which strikes his face and figure.)
AS THE VOICES SING:--
    “And with the morn those angel faces smile,
     Which I have loved long since, and lost a while.”
END OF ACT II.
ACT III.
SCENE I.
Paradise: A beautiful country. Trees, flowers,
shrubs, vines of great luxuriance abound. Brilliant
birds of unfamiliar plumage can be heard singing in
the boughs. They dip, blazing, through the air. The
grass is bright, and like short fur in effect. The
sheen of water, like the surface of a lake or sea, glimmers
beyond. Sails of faint, fair tints, move and
melt upon the sea. At a distance, upon a hill, are
outlines of graceful architecture. A narrow brook
can be seen, with strange shells upon its little banks.
There are no highways visible. Foot-worn walks and
paths, trodden through the grass, intersperse the
landscape. The grass, however, springs afresh beneath
the foot, and is not crushed or sear. Annunciation
lilies and scarlet passion-flowers grow in the
foreground. Bluebells, in clusters, spring beyond.
Roses are many. Flowers unknown to the botanies
of earth are frequent; and among those to which we
are used, it will be noticed that the blossoms of the
tropics and of the North countries flourish side by
side. The whole impression is one of delight and
beauty. The sky has a misty softness, and the atmosphere
is capable of taking on (and takes on) sudden
and subtle changes of effect. It is now seen to be
early morning, and all the tints of the landscape are
tender and fresh.
The scene is populous with bright beings. These
are seen to differ from the people of this planet chiefly
in their joyousness of manner, and in a certain high
expression, of which it might be said, in a word, that
the absence of low motive, and the presence of a sense
of ease and security, are the predominant features.
These beings wear flowing robes of various tints--dove,
rose, blue, corn, violet, silver, gold, and pearl.
Here and there one appears garbed in the color of the
pale leaf, and, in moving among the foliage, seems
to have sprung from it. Many spirits are clothed in
shining white. Happy conversation and gentle laughter
can be heard.
Enter Two Children. These play in the
brook, and gather the shells. They are
robed in short, childish garments--a
little frock, a little dress, both white,
and each clasped by a small, golden
cross.
FIRST CHILD (a boy, four or five years old). I never saw such pretty
shells in that other place we lived. They took me to the seaside
summers, but there weren’t any there that began to be so pretty.
SECOND CHILD (a girl). I never played with any shells before. We
lived in a street. It was dark and dirty. I never saw the sea till I
came here.
FIRST CHILD. I never saw you in that other place, did I?
SECOND CHILD. No. You wouldn’t have played with me there.
FIRST CHILD. I like you here--don’t I?
SECOND CHILD. And I like you. I like you best of anybody I’ve seen in
this pretty country.
FIRST CHILD. Do you like roses? Or don’t you care for anything but
shells?
SECOND CHILD (adoringly). I like roses, if you like roses.
(They leave the brook, and gather roses, pelting each other with them,
and laughing merrily.)
(FIRST CHILD tosses a rose over the brook.)
(SECOND CHILD picks a bluebell, and puts it to her lips.)
FIRST CHILD. No. They’re not to eat. They’re to listen to. See! I’ll
ring mine. Hark! (He rings the bluebell. It gives out a musical
tintinnabulation.) Now, you hark again. I never heard a bluebell ring
in that other place, did you?
SECOND CHILD. I never saw one on our street.... Oh, mine rings,
too!... Say! Are these angels? I never saw an angel either, in our
street.
(The Children wander away and mingle with the groups of spirits. They
ring the bluebells as they go. The tintinnabulation is drowned in
orchestral music, which can be heard from a distance. The theme is from
Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony. Certain of the spirits listen attentively,
and move towards the music. Certain others continue to talk happily, and
stir among the trees.)
Enter DR. THORNE. (Walks slowly and
alone. He is robed still in purple,
with a tunic of white showing at the
throat. He looks pallid and harassed.
He stands for a time apart,
keenly observant of the scene and of
the people, then sinks in thought. He
speaks.)
DR. THORNE. Children here, too?
(He looks wistfully at the two children, who are playing together at a
distance from him. He picks up the rose which the little boy had tossed
over the brook; puts it to his face; speaks.)
DR. THORNE. What a perfume the flowers have in this country! This seems
to be a rose, yet it is not a rose. You might call it the soul of a
rose. Exquisite, whatever it is. Some one has dropped this one. There is
personality clinging to it. Curious! It is as though I clasped a little
hand when I touch it.
(He sighs; walks to and fro thoughtfully; does not throw away the rose,
but cherishes it. Groups of spirits pass and repass. Some of them smile
at him kindly, but he does not return the smile. No one addresses
him.)
DR. THORNE. I have done my share of traveling in my day, but I must say
I never was in a land that seems to me so foreign as this. Nothing looks
natural. I seem to have no acquaintances. Apparently nobody knows me. I
have no introductions. I am afraid I have got here without letters of
credit. (Breaks off.) That was a mistake. I never did such an ignorant
thing before. I must say it is an attractive country, too. Everything
shows a high degree of civilization, and the beauty of the place is
unsurpassed. But it does not appeal to me. (He shakes his head.) ... I
am too homesick.... If Helen were here, I could enjoy it.
(He strolls about without aim or interest. Happy spirits pass and
repass.)
Enter a man-spirit of impressive and
commanding appearance. His costume
bears a certain vague resemblance
to the dress of a gentleman and scholar
of the Court of Charles I. of England.
A cloak of the tint of the dead
oak-leaf is clasped across his breast
by a golden cross. He regards DR.
THORNE with a piercing but kindly
look. He speaks with a fine and
courtly manner, dating from a bygone
age.
THE MAN-SPIRIT. I read thee for a stranger here.
DR. THORNE (bitterly). A stranger in a strange place am I, indeed. You
are the first inhabitant of this country who has troubled himself to
speak to me. Thank you for your politeness, sir.
THE MAN-SPIRIT. I was commanded. These (waving his hand toward the
groups of spirits) were not.
DR. THORNE. You look like a person more fitted to give commands than to
receive them. I fail to understand that word--commanded. I am--at
least, I was--a sovereign citizen of America. I was not born or trained
a subject.
THE MAN-SPIRIT (smiling). And I was subject of an English
sovereign--in fact, an officer of the royal court.
DR. THORNE (without smiling). And this nation? Is it an autocratic
monarchy you have here? What is your political system?
THE MAN-SPIRIT. It is a simple one--a pure theocracy.
DR. THORNE (indifferently). Oh, theocracy? That is a system into which
I have never studied. I have been a busy man. I was a
physician-- (Abruptly.) Would you favor me with your name?
THE MAN-SPIRIT. I was a healer of the sick in my time. My name
was-- (Whispers his name.)
DR. THORNE (starts with pleased surprise). The great Harvey? And
you discovered the circulation of the blood? How wonderful! Why, I
thought you had been mould and clover these two hundred and fifty
years! It never occurred to me that you were alive.... What an
extraordinary fact!
HARVEY (turns away wearily). I did not think to find your education so
limited. I understood you to be a man of superior powers.
DR. THORNE (humbly). Don’t leave me, Doctor Harvey! I am the most
unhappy man in this most happy country.
HARVEY (slowly). Then you did not bring with you the materials of
happiness. What had you? What were your possessions in the life
yonder?
DR. THORNE (solemnly, but still bitterly). Love, happiness, home,
health, prosperity, fame, wealth, ambition. None of them did I bring
with me. I have lost them all upon the way.
HARVEY. Was there by chance nothing else?
DR. THORNE. Nothing more, unless you count a little incidental
usefulness.
HARVEY. Plainly, you are not in a normal condition.
DR. THORNE (hastily). I am perfectly well.
HARVEY. You are sick of soul. You are not in health of spirit. You are
out of harmony with your atmosphere. Do you wish me to take the case?
DR. THORNE. Take the case, Doctor Harvey. Cure me of my nostalgia. Show
me how to become a citizen of this foreign land.
HARVEY. You know what it means to be a patient.
DR. THORNE (grimly). I can think of no worse fate; but I’ll make the
best of it.
HARVEY (smiling kindly). I will undertake the case. At evening inquire
your way to my dwelling. (Moves away; returns; hesitates; lingers;
speaks impulsively.) Concerning the latest attainments in science on
the planet Earth--they have the keenest interest for me. You have so
many advantages--facilities that we never had. (He sighs wistfully.) I
am told that your therapeutics are really wonderful. And the advances in
surgery? Did you find them as beautiful as they are said to be?
Enter a newly arrived woman-spirit. She
is still pale, but has a happy expression.
She recognizes DR. THORNE;
cries eagerly.
WOMAN-SPIRIT. Doctor! Doctor Thorne!
HARVEY. Here comes some of your incidental usefulness. That is a good
symptom. (He moves away, still smiling.)
       [Exit HARVEY.
DR. THORNE. Why, Mrs. True! (Grasps her hand joyfully.) You are the
first person I have seen--the first one I knew! But (reflecting) what
has happened to you? How did you get here?
MRS. TRUE. I died yesterday.... I knew I should see you, Doctor.
(Calmly.) I counted on that.
DR. THORNE (starting back). Did they--you don’t mean to say they
really operated on you? You were convalescent!
MRS. TRUE (laughing outright). Yes, in a week after you were killed.
Dr. Carver vivisected guinea-pigs all that week to keep in practice. I
died under the knife.... I wish you’d seen their faces!
DR. THORNE (eagerly). What did they find--anything to justify the
butchery?
MRS. TRUE. Of course not. Didn’t you say there wasn’t?
DR. THORNE (gratefully). You always were a loyal patient--better than
I deserved.
MRS. TRUE. You always were a kind doctor--better than I deserved.
DR. THORNE. And they slaughtered you in my hospital!
MRS. TRUE (hurrying on). Have you seen my husband? Do you know where
my mother is? I lost a baby twenty years ago. I want to see the little
thing. And oh? when can I see--?
(She breaks off, with a devout expression, and moves away; joins the
upper group of spirits. Two of these can be seen to meet and embrace
her, and lead her on.)
       [Vanish MRS. TRUE.
Enter JERRY, the loafer, hurriedly and
stumbling. His robe is of dull blue,
something in the fashion of a smock-frock,
or butcher’s blouse.
JERRY (staring about him stupidly, and with a kind of social
embarrassment, as if he had been suddenly introduced into a
drawing-room). Div-niver a cint in me pocket, and me hoofin’ it in this
quaer counthree. (Scratches his head, and mutters unintelligibly.) ...
I wondher where the ... sinsible saints I’m at.
DR. THORNE (steps forward; speaks). Why, Jerry! How are you, Jerry?
(Holds out his hand heartily.)
JERRY (staring). Sinsible saints, and silly sinners! Doctor Thorne?...
Why, I thought you was dead. Hilloa, Doctor! (Grasps the doctor’s hand,
and shakes it violently. Then meditatively.) Ye took a t’orn out av me
eye onct, and div-niver a cint did ye charrge for ’t.
DR. THORNE. What are you doing here, Jerry? How did you get here?
JERRY. I was knocked down by a blame bicycle underneat’ a murdherin’
trolley car. Nixt I know I don’t know nothin’, an’ now, behold me, I’m
let loose loafin’ in this quaer counthree.
DR. THORNE. Not drunk, were you, Jerry?
JERRY (shaking his head gravely). I shwore off, Doctor. I shwore off
t’ree years ago. Me little gurrl she give me no repose till I shwore
off.... She died jist av the hospittle, did me little gurrl.... Say,
Doctor, do ye know what’s the thramp laws in this counthree?
       Enter NORAH hastily.
NORAH. Doctor--Doctor Thorne? Have you seen--oh, there he is! There’s me
father! Why, Father, Father dear! (Caresses JERRY affectionately.)
JERRY. Och! wisha, wisha! Norah, me darlint! (Returns her caresses
tenderly.) What luck for the likes of us arrivin’ emigrants thegither
in this agra-able counthree!
NORAH (puts her arm in his). Come yonder wid me, Father. (Draws him
away.)
JERRY (looks back over his shoulder at DR. THORNE). Is it to
confession we do be goin’, Norah?--the wan av us arrivin’ be way of a
murdherin’ doctor, and the wan be way av a murdherin’ trolley! I’m
thinkin’, sir, it’s niver a cint to choose bechune.
       [Exeunt JERRY and NORAH.
DR. THORNE (watches their departure drearily; turns, and walks feebly
towards the brook; speaks). Now I think of it, I have not tasted food
or drink since I have been in this place. I believe I am downright
faint.
(Drinks water from the brook in the palm of his hand; sinks beneath the
low boughs of a tree on thick moss. His head falls upon his arm. From a
distance, and from a height, slowly moving downwards, over the beautiful
landscape, robed in cream white, and unseen by DR. THORNE,
       Enter MRS. FAYTH.
As she approaches, it can be seen that her robe also is clasped across
the breast by a little golden cross.)
SPIRITS BEYOND (softly chant the Te Deum).
    “We praise Thee, O God: we acknowledge Thee to be
       the Lord”--
(Midway of the landscape, and playing merrily,)
       Enter the Two Children.
FIRST CHILD (running to MRS. FAYTH). Oh, here I am! (He clasps her
hand; clings to her affectionately.)
MRS. FAYTH (to Second Child). Run yonder and play, Maidie.
(Second Child obeys prettily, and joins the spirits above. MRS. FAYTH
and the First Child move slowly to the front of the landscape.)
THE CHILD. See that poor man under the tree! I think he’s a hungry
man--don’t you?
(He breaks away from MRS. FAYTH, and runs to DR. THORNE; examines
the exhausted man attentively, bending forward with his hands on his
little knees. MRS. FAYTH advances slowly, with her mysterious smile;
she does not speak.)
THE CHILD (touches DR. THORNE timidly; after a silence speaks,
ceremoniously). Would you like a peach, or do you like plums instead?
I’ll pick you one.
DR. THORNE (arousing). Who spoke to me? Oh, it is a child. (Sinks
back feebly.)
(The Child gathers some fruit from the trees, and brings water from the
brook in the cup of an annunciation lily, which holds the liquid
perfectly; offers the food and drink to the exhausted man. MRS. FAYTH,
still unseen by DR. THORNE, stands quite near, nodding and smiling
at The Child. The Child looks to her for encouragement and
direction.)
DR. THORNE (reviving). Thank you, my little man. (Leans on his elbow,
and gazes steadfastly at The Child; rises to a sitting posture.)
THE CHILD (creeps nearer to DR. THORNE, and, after a moment’s
hesitation, throws his little length full on the moss at the man’s feet,
and scrutinizes him seriously, putting his chin into his hand as he does
so; speaks sympathetically). Do you feel better now?
DR. THORNE. Much better. You’re a thoughtful little fellow.
THE CHILD. Our breakfasts grow all cooked here. This is a nice country.
DR. THORNE (still gazing steadfastly at The Child). Where is your
mother, my lad?
THE CHILD. I don’t know. I lost her on the way, somewhere.
DR. THORNE. And your father? What has become of your father?
THE CHILD. Oh, he’s dead. He got dead before I came here.
MRS. FAYTH (moves within DR. THORNE’S range of vision; speaks
quietly). Good-morning, Doctor. (Smiles brightly.)
DR. THORNE (springs to his feet; cries out). Mary Fayth! I thought you
had forgotten me! I have--needed you.
(The Child rises; leans up against DR. THORNE’S knee confidingly.)
MRS. FAYTH. I have often needed you, Doctor. And you never failed me
once.
DR. THORNE (impetuously). I thought you would have come before. I
looked for you--
MRS. FAYTH. As I have often looked for you. But I was not commanded to
meet you--till this very minute.
DR. THORNE. Commanded? Commanded? There is that singular phrase again.
Have you seen Helen? (Quickly.)
MRS. FAYTH (shakes her head). Not yet.
DR. THORNE. Have you seen your husband? Did they let you go to
Fred?
MRS. FAYTH (contentedly). Oh, many times.
THE CHILD (interrupting). He doesn’t kiss me! (Puts up his lips in a
grieved, babyish fashion.)
MRS. FAYTH (very quietly). Doctor, don’t hurt that child’s feelings.
He’s yours.
DR. THORNE (gasping). I don’t understand you!
MRS. FAYTH. I have had the care of him since he came here. He’s kept me
busy, I can tell you. I am to give him over to you now.... See how he’s
grown! No wonder you didn’t know him.
DR. THORNE (in great agitation). Did Laddie die?
MRS. FAYTH (solemnly). Yes, Laddie died.
DR. THORNE. Did something really ail him that night--that most miserable
night?... Oh, poor Helen! Poor, poor Helen! (His face falls into his
hands. His frame shakes with soundless, tearless sobs.)
LADDIE (creeps into his lap; lays his head on his father’s neck).
Hilloa, Papa! (Pats his father on the cheek.)
[Exit MRS. FAYTH silently, with emotion.
DR. THORNE (raises his head, showing his stormy face. Clasps the child,
hesitatingly at first, then passionately; holds him off at arm’s length;
scans him closely; draws him back; kisses his little hands, then his
face; clasps him again). My little son! Papa’s little boy! My son! My
little son! (Smiles naturally for the first time since he died; then
with sudden recollection, he cries out.) Oh, what will your poor mother
do without you?
LADDIE. You homesick, Papa?
DR. THORNE. My little son! (Caresses the child with a touching
timidity, broken by bursts of wild affection. The child responds warmly,
laughing for joy.)
       END OF SCENE I.
SCENE II.
