we wouldn't speak to each other and done little spiteful tricks that
girls always do, and--and gotten over it, and know all about each
other."
"I don't believe you were ever very spiteful. That takes a small
nature."
She looked furtively from under her long lashes, as if considering.
"Well--Patty and I quarrel. You must know that I haven't the most
amiable temper in the world when I am roused."
"Yes." She could be very tormenting.
"And I like to have my own way. Papa generally gives in. And sometimes
I feel self-condemned that mamma is so good to me."
"Then you have a conscience?"
"I don't believe my own mother would have been so easy. And there's
grandmamma----"
"Who would have led you to find out your mind in short order," he
commented quickly.
"Her mind, you mean. And if she had resolved that I shouldn't marry
you, you would have been sent to the right-about at once. And that
reminds me--Lieutenant Ralston is coming down next week. But I suppose
you are not afraid of him, since his heart is--oh, can you tell where
it is? Sometimes I think he still cares for Marian, and then he is so
bitter and sharp. She won't ever marry Mr. Greaves now."
She looked so eager and earnest, as if this was the main question of
her life. He turned away with a pang at his heart. Was she anything but
a volatile, teasing girl, with no deep feelings?
"You shan't! I say you shan't! Annis belongs to me. You shan't take her
away. We're going to row round the pond----"
Louis laughed with a soft sound of triumph.
"But you promised to ride with me, didn't you, Annis? And I don't see
how Annis belongs to you especially. You're too old for that boyish
foolishness. Why, you couldn't marry her in years and years, and then
she'd be an old woman, queer and cross. Hillo!" in a surprised tone.
They faced Mr. Carrington and Jaqueline.
"Oh, Louis, why do you tease the children so?" exclaimed Jaqueline in
disapprobation.
"I'm not teasing you, Annis, am I? We were to go for a ride, and her
pony is all ready, when Charles flew into a passion."
"I told you Scipio was getting the boat ready----"
"But I didn't think you meant to-day. You said it leaked and had to be
repaired, and this morning----"
She glanced up at Louis entreatingly.
"This morning I told her we would go down to the creek and see the
great flock of ducks Julius has been raising. Annis belongs as much to
me as to you. She belongs to us all. And how do you know but that I'll
marry her myself? I'm very fond of Annis. And I'm grown up. In a few
years I may be a judge, or be sent abroad to smooth out some quarrel or
make a treaty, while you will be in school studying your Cicero. Annis
will be a big girl, old enough to marry. And you like me, don't you,
Annis?"
He had his arm around the child. He had been very sweet to her of
late, partly to tease Varina, and partly because she interested him
curiously. She said such quaint things; she could seem to understand
almost everything. And when he declaimed a fine Latin poem with vigor
and loftiness, her eyes would follow him, her face would glow and
change with emotion and appreciation. Then he had been teaching her
some pretty songs.
"I like you both," she returned in a tender, entreating voice, as if
begging each one to be content with the regard. Yet she made no motion
to leave him, and both slim hands were clasped around the young man's
arm.
"But you must like me the best," and now he put his arm about
her, drawing her closer to his side. "It's this way. First your
mother--always; then father, who is very fond of you, little Annis;
then me, then Jaqueline, and you see Charles stands way down at the
bottom of the line. Of course you can't love him quite so much; it
wouldn't be fair to the rest of us."
Annis looked perplexed with the reasoning. She glanced at Charles, then
hid her face in the elder brother's coat. He made a rush at her, but
Louis caught him and held him off at arm's length.
"You're a mean--mean skunk, that's what you are!" The boy's face was
scarlet with passion, and his voice choked. "She won't love you best,
will you, Annis? For he likes all the girls, the big ladies, and I
don't care for anyone but just you."
"Louis, do stop! You ought to be ashamed. Charles----"
But Louis let go of his little brother's arm, who ran a few steps with
the impetus and then tumbled over. Louis caught the little girl in both
arms,--she was slim and light,--and ran swiftly with her. Jaqueline
picked up Charles, who was crying now in a passion of anger, exclaiming
between the sobs:
"I just hate him, I do! He shan't take away Annis. She belongs to me."
"Charles, don't be so foolish. You can't have Annis every hour in the
day, and if you go on this way she'll just hate you. Why, I am ashamed
of you! And here is Mr. Carrington."
"I don't care. I made Scip mend the boat, 'n' he said Dixon would be
awful mad and maybe have him flogged. Where's father? I'll go and tell
him how it was, and Scip may tear the old boat to pieces, but he shan't
be flogged. Louis thinks he's great shakes because he's older and
bigger----"
"But he will be married before you and Annis are grown up, so don't
worry. He loves to tease you. Now go and find father."
"He is taking love early and hard," said Mr. Carrington.
"It's such ridiculous nonsense! Mamma doesn't like it a bit, but father
thinks it a good joke. It makes Charles appear silly. But he will go
away to school and have new interests. And in a few years Annis won't
want to be claimed in that masterful fashion."
They walked along silently. Mr. Mason sat out under a great tree,
smoking his pipe and listening to Charles.
"Let them finish their confidence. I'll take the hammock, and you may
read to me." She did not want to discuss love any more just now.
Annis was borne triumphantly to her pony. Louis placed her in the
saddle.
"You do love me, little Annis, do you not?" and he kissed her tenderly.
He had a very sweet way that you could not gainsay when it was turned
upon you, and a child certainly could not resist. "Now we will have a
nice gallop, and then a rest down by the creek where it is shady, ever
so much nicer than the sunny pond and the old boat. You know I asked
you first."
"I didn't think Charles meant this very afternoon," she said
regretfully. "And I'm so sorry he----"
"Never mind about a boy's temper. Look at that fire bird--isn't he
gorgeous? There's where the lightning struck that great pine tree the
other night and split it in two."
"Oh, poor tree! Do you suppose it hurt very much! And the half stands
up as if nothing could ever make it afraid. There are the branches all
withering on the ground. Were you very much frightened? It kills people
sometimes, doesn't it?"
"Very seldom. And a great many things kill them. Accidents and falls,
and sickness, so the few struck by lightning are hardly to be taken
into account."
"Oh, look at the great field of corn! It is like a sea."
The tassels had turned yellow, and the wind stirred them, making golden
waves.
"What do you know about the sea?"
"Why, when we went down the Potomac. You were not home."
"I've been down there though, and out on the ocean."
"Would you be afraid to go to England?"
"Not of the ocean, but I might be of the privateers. And I should not
want to be caught and impressed, and made to fight. But I mustn't fill
my little lady-love with frightful subjects."
The child's cheek warmed with a dainty color. Could anyone be a
lady-love to two persons? That was what Charles called her.
Squirrels were scurrying here and there. The goldenrod was nodding on
tall stalks, and some asters starred the wayside. Afar was a broad
stretch of tobacco fields in their peculiar deep-green luxuriance.
Birds were calling to each other, insects were droning, the monotony
broken by a shrill chirr as a grasshopper leaped up from the path or a
locust predicted a hot to-morrow from his leafy covert. They crossed
broad sunny patches that looked like a dried-up sea, they lingered
under fragrant pines and great oaks and maples that shaded the road,
and Annis laughed at her companion's comments and the merry stories
he told. She had been used to standing somewhat in awe of him, but
this summer he had quite overcome her shyness. Sometimes she did get
a little tired of the knowledge Charles poured into her ears. Latin
orations had not much charm for her, in their unknown tongue, and only
the inflections of the boy's musical voice rendered them tolerable. She
liked the deeds of heroes rather than what they said, and their loves
rather than their fighting or their harangues.
At home Charles had thrown himself on the half-dried turf and given way
to another burst of passion such as seldom moved him. That Louis should
take Annis away from him, his chosen friend and companion, and that she
should go without a protest! Was she really liking Louis, who was grown
up and who could have his pick of the pretty young women always coming
to the house. Why should he want Annis?
It was the boy's first experience with a rival, and as he had never
dreamed of such an untoward event, he could not understand the pain. It
was like a storm that had been threatening in the southeast while the
west was still clear, and now had suddenly blown up and enveloped the
whole sky. Though he was not much given to tears, or anger, for that
matter, the tempest surged over him now, and as it was furious it was
the shorter lived.
Presently a laugh stung him, and he raised his head, but he knew the
sound of the voice.
"Do go away, Varina!" he exclaimed sharply.
"Can't I walk where I like? When you get a house and a plantation of
your own, you may order me off. Or you may even set the dogs on me."
"Don't be so silly, so hateful." He was shocked at her last remark, and
sprang up, brushing off the twigs and bits of dried grass.
"It is you who are silly, making a dunce of yourself over Annis. Of
course she cares for you when there is no one else by. That's just
the way with girls. Look at Jaqueline. When Mr. Tayloe or Mr. Bedford
are here she's sweet to them, then comes the lieutenant and she sends
the others to the right-about-face, then he goes and it's all Mr.
Carrington. When he is gone she will take up with Mr. Bedford. I like
him. He's so funny and sings such splendid songs."
Charles was standing up very straight. Indeed, he seemed to stretch out
his slim figure, and the gravity of his face had scarcely a boyish line
in it.
"Do you mean that Jaqueline doesn't care for any of them? Patty said
she was as good as engaged to Mr. Carrington, and that we could have a
nicer wedding than Dolly Floyd's."
Varina shrugged her shoulders. There was always an eerie flavor about
the child's strictures. "She cares for them all when they are here. Oh,
gracious! Suppose they should all come together!" and she laughed. "But
she'd rather take them one by one, and have a good time. That's the way
I mean to do. You have more good times."
"Annis isn't a bit like you!" the boy flung out hotly. He could not
understand; it had not come time for analysis or fine gradations; he
only suffered, without the power of reasoning.
"Annis is a girl; and girls are all alike. And there's Mr. Carrington
alone. I wonder if Jacky's been cross to him. I shall go and walk with
him."
She ran down the little side path. Mr. Carrington had started with the
intention of finding Charles and comforting him, for it had been with
him as Varina surmised, but the talk between them had arrested him. Was
it true that a girl found pleasure in variety rather than constancy?
He was amused at Varina's wisdom, and yet it had in it a savor of sad
truth. Annis' little winsome face as Louis caught her came back to him.
"The Sabine women learned to love their husbands," he mused, when
Varina called to him. He had to exercise some ingenuity to parry
the child's curiosity, since he was by far too gentlemanly to take
advantage of it.
Charles was a little sullen that evening, and took no notice of the
timid little olive branch Annis held out. Presently, warm as the night
was, he went off to his books.
"Louis, you tease him too much," said his father.
"It's high time someone took him in hand. He is getting to be a regular
little prig! You ought to send him away to school."
"He doesn't seem quite the boy for that. We'll see as he gets older.
But I won't have any quarreling about Annis. Annis belongs to me, don't
you, little girl? And we'll marry off all the rest of them, and you and
I and mother will live together the remainder of our lives," kissing
her with tenderness.
When they all went away--and she loved them all--how lonesome it would
be!
CHAPTER XII.
A TALK OF WEDDINGS.
"You must decide and answer me, Jaqueline. You know I love you. The
marriage would be pleasing to both sides of the family. My holiday is
over, and I must rejoin my chief. I want the matter settled. If you
are not convinced that you can love me, I shall take it as a sign that
there is very little hope for me--none at all, in fact--and go my way."
There was something rather stern in the tone, and the pretty girl's
humor protested. She liked the tender wooing, the graceful compliments,
the sort of uncertainty when she could salve her conscience by saying
she was not really engaged and feel compelled to hold herself aloof
from certain attentions. For whatever coquetries a Virginia girl might
indulge in, an engagement was sacred.
"I do wonder if you really love me?" She longed to temporize. There
was always something happening, and now there was to be a week's party
at Annapolis and a ball and several sailing excursions. Business would
interfere with his going. If she could keep free until after that!
He looked at her steadily. "If you doubt it after my year of devotion,
I hardly know how to convince you. Words will not do it. You must
believe it."
"For it would be a sad thing for either of us to make a mistake," she
returned plaintively.
"You asked for three months to consider. And yet you admitted that you
cared for me even then. If your love has not increased any in that time
it certainly argues ill for me. And now it must be a plain answer, yes
or no. It is foolish to trifle this way. Which is it, Jaqueline?"
He took both her hands in his and impelled her to meet his eyes. Her
face was scarlet, her eyes drooped, her expression was so beseeching
that it almost conquered him as it had times before. But he was going
away with Mr. Monroe, and it would be a month before he saw her again.
"Yes or no!"
"You are cruel." Her eyes filled with tears. She felt his hands
tremble, strong as they were.
"Then it must be no, if you cannot say yes. Jaqueline, I am more than
sorry. You are the first girl that ever roused in me the sweet desire
to have her for my very own. I may never find another to whom I can
give the same regard. But I want no unwilling bride."
He dropped the hands reluctantly. He half turned, as if that was final.
"Roger----"
She so often evaded his name. What an entrancing sound it had! And it
softened him.
"You are so masterful," and her voice had a little break in it. "I am
afraid I could not be a meek, silly wife with no mind of her own, but
a mocking-bird echo of her husband's. When I feel quite sure I love
you----"
"Is there any such blessed moment?" He took her in his arms. "I have
sometimes felt in my inmost soul there was, and this certainly pays
for hours of doubt. I do not care to have you meek; and silly women I
abhor. I only want this one point settled. After that you will find me
devoted to your slightest whims."
"Then I suppose I must----" with a fascinating reluctance.
"There is no compulsion. You either give me your sweet, fresh girl's
soul to bloom in the garden of manhood's unalterable love, freely and
rejoicingly, or I go my solitary way."
"Do not go. I could not spare you. Are you quite sure you will not
prove a tyrant?"
For answer he kissed her, then held her in a gentle yet strong embrace.
"And you love me?"
"Oh, how hard you are to satisfy!"
"Still, you will say it?"
"I love you. Will that satisfy your lordship? Now if I were a princess
you could not be so hard to satisfy. A nod would answer."
"You are my princess. Now let us go and find your father. I am afraid
he has had a rather low opinion of my powers of persuasion."
They were under the great plane tree. Annis was taking a lesson in
hemstitching at her mother's knee.
"We have come for your blessing," began the happy lover.
"Which I give gladly. I could not have chosen better for Jaqueline if I
had gone half over the world, or at least a son-in-law more acceptable
to myself. If I wish you as much happiness as I have had, your cup will
be full."
Mrs. Mason rose and kissed the girl with fervent affection. "We all
like him so," she whispered to Jaqueline. "Your father will be as happy
as your lover."
"Come and give us joy, little Annis. I hope Charles won't protest at
your having a new brother."
"But he likes you so," answered the child simply. "And you never tease
him."
"Charles must learn not to be such a ninny," declared his father.
The supper was almost a betrothal feast. For a wonder, there were no
guests. But before bedtime every slave on the plantation knew it, and
great was the rejoicing. And the next morning numerous little gifts
were brought for Jaqueline's acceptance. And now Roger hated to go
away. How could he be content with this one brief sup of happiness?
"We must go up to the Pineries," Mr. Mason said. "Your grandmother
would feel hurt if she were not informed at once. And--are you going
next week?"
"Oh, of course. I even asked Mr. Carrington. Was not that dutiful?"
Her father laughed. "Jaqueline, you need a strong hand. You have had
your way too much."
"I don't know why everyone thinks I ought to be ruled like a baby," she
pouted.
"Jack, you are going to have one of the best husbands. Remember that."
It was not until afternoon that they started, and were to remain all
night. As there was room for one more, Annis went with them. It hardly
seemed like the same place, Jaqueline thought, and she decided she
liked grandpapa much better than Uncle Brandon. He insisted upon the
relationship having the right name, and was quite as great a stickler
for attention as his father had been; but where Mr. Floyd's was really
a fine old-fashioned dignity, Brandon's seemed more pretentious.
His wife was one of the ordinary women of that day, whose duty under
all circumstances was to her husband. Master Archie put on many
consequential airs.
"I am glad you are going to do so well," said grandmother. "The
Carringtons are a good family, and their father left a nice property,
which must be very valuable. I must look among my treasures and see
what I can spare for you. Dolly had my rubies--they were her choice;
and my pearls were for Marian. That was a sad and sore disappointment
to us all. There seems very little hope of amendment in the case."
Jaqueline and Marian walked up and down in the fragrant twilight.
"You don't mean that you still consider yourself engaged?" queried the
young girl in surprise.
"But nothing has been said, and I don't know what can be said now. You
see, papa made his will quite a long while ago, and when there was the
talk about Lieutenant Ralston he said if I encouraged him--if I married
against his wishes--he would not leave me anything, and everybody
should know it was because I had been a disobedient, ungrateful child.
Think of having it read out before all the relatives! And you know
he did not alter the will. He gave Jane less because he had given her
part of her portion on her wedding day. Jane had it very easy, I think,
considering that Mr. Jettson had no fortune to speak of except those
Washington marshes. But Jane's had a nice time and plenty of friends.
Only, you see, now I feel bound by the will. Papa trusted me. He had
a feeling that Mr. Greaves might recover--he was so strong, and had
always been well. But we never talked it over, for no one really was
thinking of papa's death."
"Do you know, Marian, I consider you a very foolish
girl--superstitious, as well? No one can expect you to marry Mr.
Greaves," said Jaqueline emphatically.
"Of course not now. But if he should have his mind a little while and
give me up, I should feel quite free, you know."
"And you mean to wait for that?" indignantly.
"I am not waiting. Papa has been dead such a little while that it
would be indecent to traverse his wishes at once. And Mr. Greaves
loved me, he really did; you need not look so incredulous! Not like--a
younger man, perhaps," making a little halt. "He planned so many things
for my pleasure. We were to go to England. He and papa agreed so well
on politics."
"And you are an American girl! Please don't forget that grandmother's
father was at the surrender of Cornwallis, and we are all proud of
it! He is your ancestor, too. And the Masons were all on the side of
liberty and a country for ourselves."
"I think women are not much concerned in politics," she replied
evasively. "But it is pleasanter to have all your people of one
belief. It does seem as if the Church should have something to do with
the government. I don't understand it, but it appears Christian and
proper."
"After all, it is the people who make the country, and the Church too.
And it ought to be what the people want, the majority of them."
Jaqueline's tone carried a penetrating conviction, yet Marian
steeled her heart against it. The people certainly were an aggregate
of individuals; and if everyone insisted upon having his own way,
anarchy must ensue. But she could not reason on the subject, even in
Jaqueline's girlish fashion. Argument was reprehensible in women.
"Then you just mean to wait!" There was an accent of disappointment in
Jaqueline's tone.
"There is nothing else to do. I certainly must respect papa's wishes."
"You've changed so, Marian."
"Remember, Jaqueline, I am years older than you," she replied with
dignity. "And now I have to be mother's companion. She misses father
very much. I'm glad to have you happy, and everyone is pleased with
your engagement. It is a very excellent one."
"The excellence wouldn't go very far if it did not please me," returned
the younger girl. "My happiness and pleasure are a personal affair, not
simply the satisfaction of others."
"I hope you will be very happy," reiterated Marian. "Dolly is. Mother
thinks her letters are quite frivolous; they are all about dinners and
visits and parties. She doesn't go to the very gay ones, but she writes
about them. Charleston must be quite as fashionable as Washington,
to judge from the gowns and entertainments. But Dolly is not keeping
house, though she has her rooms and her maid."
Then the two girls lapsed into silence as they walked up and down.
Jaqueline was thinking that next week Lieutenant Ralston would be her
cavalier, and she had ardently wished to reawaken hope in his breast,
in the place of the disesteem in which he held Marian--indeed, nearly
all women; though he occasionally said: "I can't imagine you or Mrs.
Jettson doing such a thing!" That was really flattering. Of course she
should tell him of her engagement, and they would still be friends.
Louis was to be of the party, and they started off in high spirits.
"Jaqueline ought to sober down a little," said her father. "And there
is no need of a long engagement. The Carringtons will be anxious for
the marriage--well," laughingly, "more anxious than we. But I think
most men are pleased when their daughters marry well. And we have
four."
"We need not think of the younger ones for several years," Mrs. Mason
said with a smile.
"Varina ought to go to school somewhere, or to Aunt Catharine. Patty
improved wonderfully. And Charles----"
"I think Charles is doing very well. Louis admits that he studies
beyond his years. And he seems to me not over-robust. I would certainly
wait another year."
Jaqueline begged her brother to say nothing about the engagement. It
was so recent, and she would not be married in some time.
"You'll be flirting with everybody."
"Oh, don't grudge me a week's pleasure! After that I will be as staid
as any grandmother."
"Carrington isn't the fellow to stand much nonsense when the rights are
all on his side. I advise you to be careful."
"Why, I am going to be, even now. Of course Mr. Ralston is different
from the others. We have been friends so long."
Ralston was safe enough, Louis thought. And one couldn't quite blame
Jaqueline. She did not flirt openly like Betty Fairfax; and now Betty
was devotion itself to her lover, and she was to be married in the
early autumn. In fact, Louis had not felt satisfied to be so entirely
crowded out when he had been one of Betty's favorites.
Girls were queer, he mused. Then he threw himself into the round of
pleasures, which in those days were really made for enjoyment. No
one thought of being bored. The world was fresh and young, and had
not been traversed by theories and sciences and experiences of tired
generations. Everyone felt he or she had a right to at least one
draught of the nectar of youth.
Lieutenant Ralston had come with the hope that Jaqueline would bring
him some message to light the future. Of course if Marian had been
married that would have been the end of all things. He had too fine
a sense of honor to covet another man's wife. But it seemed as if
Providence had intervened. Mr. Floyd was dead and Mr. Greaves out of
the lists by a stroke of fate. And since Marian was free, he was at
liberty to give his fancy unlimited play once more.
Jaqueline was indignant that Marian had not gladly grasped her liberty,
but still hugged the chain of another's selecting. Perhaps her feelings
colored her words, although she strove to be fair and make allowance
for the superstitious reverence in which the girl seemed to hold her
father. Or was it really fear?
"I thought I had not hoped any, but circumstances coming out this way
seemed an interposition in my behalf," admitted Mr. Ralston. "And I
found it very easy to go back to that delightful experience. Even now
that you have a lover, Miss Jaqueline, I think you hardly understand
how a man loves and how willing he is to pick up the faintest shred of
hope and dream that it may blossom anew, or rather that the bud, having
been crushed by another's ruthlessness, has still in it strength enough
to unfold in fragrance when nursed carefully by the man who thinks
no other bloom could ever be so sweet. Perhaps I was a fool for this
second dream. I tried to shut it out, but it stole in unawares. She
hasn't been worth it all, nor any of it, I see that plainly now."
"Poor Marian!" The love moved the girl with infinite pity for the woman
who had lost it and was trying to feed on husks.
"No, don't pity her; she isn't worth it," and his tone was bitterly
resentful. "I could have overlooked the weakness that made her yield to
her tyrannical father; but now when she could be free, when she knows
there awaits her the sacred welcome of love, it is plain that she does
not care. Perhaps she is still counting on a fortune coming to her as
if by a miracle, for she has no great deal of her own."
"No, no; it is not that," protestingly.
"It looks mightily like it."
"Marian has a queer conscience. You don't know----" Did she really know
Marian herself?
"Well, we will dismiss her now. Perhaps she has a high order of
constancy that will keep her faithful to someone who is helpless and
cannot appreciate it. She may be a too superior person for me. That is
the end of it. I shall never mention her again. You have been very good
to find so many excuses for her, and to keep alive my regard. But I
cannot afford to lose your friendship. Carrington won't grudge me that,
I know."
Jaqueline smiled. She was rather proud that he asked her friendship.
There were belles who were eager to gain his attention. Jaqueline
resolved to keep the best of her friend to herself, and smiled a little
at the curiously obedient manner in which he returned to her when she
had sent him to dance with someone. She liked the pretty ordering about
of her admirers, the sense of power at once fascinating and dangerous.
"I shall try to get off for a few days and pay you a visit," Ralston
said. "Louis will be going back to college, and next year we shall have
him in Washington. And you will be up often this winter? Mrs. Jettson
seems deserted by both of her sisters. She is so fond of young people."
"Oh, yes; I shall be up a good deal."
"And the visit?" tentatively.
"We shall be delighted to see you. You will have an admiring audience
from father down."
"Thank you. You can never know what a comfort you have been to me. And
these few days have quite restored me to myself. Have I been a very
foolish, love-stricken swain?"
"Oh, I do not think you have been foolish at all! I was afraid you
would grow hard and cynical, and I don't like people who are classing
everybody in the same category and looking on the worst side."
She was very young, but she had a charm that touched his heart. Did
he half envy Roger Carrington? But, then, he would be madly jealous
of anyone who lavished her smiles in that fashion. One or two choice
friends might be admissible. He was safe, for he would never be so
easily caught again by any woman. Friendship was all he desired, and
in the years to come she would resemble Mrs. Jettson, no doubt, who
was very proud of her husband, and fond of him too. He liked women who
were proud of their husbands. For wifely devotion had not gone out of
fashion.
There was a gay and busy autumn for Jaqueline. Betty Fairfax had a
great wedding that befitted the old mansion where she had reigned
a queen for more years than usually fell to the lot of a handsome
Virginian girl. She had seen two younger sisters married and made much
merriment over it, and now she was going to be the wife of the newly
elected Governor of one of the more southern States. Consequently there
was a grand time all through the county, and there were six bridesmaids
to wait upon my lady, one of them being Jaqueline.
So there was a week to be spent with Betty, Miss Elizabeth Fairfax, as
she was called now.
"And what a shame your cousin's affairs should have come to naught!"
Betty declared. "To give up a fine young soldier, and then to have her
second lover come to grief. It is a case of the two stools, and one
coming to the floor. If I had not heard of your engagement, Jaqueline,
I should have asked him to stand with you. If I had known him better I
should have invited him, anyhow. There are several guests coming from
Washington."
"If I had only known you cared!" cried Jaqueline.
"You see, I want to make as brave a show as possible," and Betty
laughed. "I desire to let my liege-lord see that I have been accustomed
to the best, and a good deal of it, so he won't consider me an
ignoramus when he is inaugurated Governor later on."
"Then let us have Mr. Ralston!" Jaqueline's eyes were alight with
eagerness and amusement. "I will write to Mr. Carrington, and you shall
inclose an invitation. I'll send a few lines too, so that he can see it
is really meant."
"That's quite delightful of you. Maybe he will find some balm to mend
his broken heart among the pretty girls."
"He is not heartbroken now, although he took it very hard at first.
Grandpapa was bitterly opposed to it, you know. And Marian is in
mourning and goes nowhere, because grandmamma thinks she ought not to
be left alone."
"But Mr. Greaves will never recover. Doctor Leets said so."
"Oh, no! No one expects it, I think."
"Well, I suppose the devotion to a lost cause looks very pretty and
constant. Only she will not be a widow, more's the pity, for widows
soon pick up husbands. Now about the invitation."
It was so prettily worded that Lieutenant Ralston accepted it at the
first reading; and the two journeyed together to the grand festivity.
Old people and young attended, in fashions of various kinds, from
the Continental to more modern date. The Governor of Virginia honored
Betty's nuptials, and several of the Washington grandees. The Gazette
had a brilliant account of it, and it was the boast of the county for
many a year afterward.
The next morning the newly wedded pair started in a coach drawn by six
white horses, ornamented with wedding favors. And there was, as usual,
much merry-making afterwards, as there was still one daughter to lead
in the gayety.
"And when are you coming up to Georgetown?" Carrington asked of his
sweetheart.
"Oh, there is another wedding on the carpet! And then a birthday ball
at the Lees'. Then Patty is to have a birthday celebration. She thinks
thus far all the festivities have been for me, and this time the
invitations are to go out in her name."
"And then Christmas, I suppose," in a rather disappointed tone. "To get
my share of you I shall have to marry you, Jaqueline. Come, think about
that. When is it to be?"
"In a year. That will give me time to fulfill my engagements and get
ready."
"A year!" in dismay.
"You ought not grudge me that when you think of the years and years we
shall have to live together."
"Shall have to!" he re-echoed.
"That I believe is customary when one is married," she said with
teasing archness. "Unless one happens to have the Emperor of the French
for a brother."
"Wifehood is a woman's highest prerogative----"
"Not to be entered into hastily or unadvisedly," she interrupted with
a mischievous smile.
She was a pretty, fascinating torment! His mother had said: "One
wedding follows another among the bridesmaids. I hope you will come
home with your day set."
"I am going to learn to cook and to keep house this winter," she began
gravely. "And it takes a long time to make wedding clothes."
"Nonsense! There are cooks enough in the world. As for housekeeping,
that is a woman's birthright. And at first you know we need not keep
house. You will be in Washington with me, and then we can go over
home--for I shall hardly let you out of my sight. Yes, let it be soon
after Christmas."
"I can't be hurried in that fashion," she returned petulantly. "And I
should get tired of you if you were such a jailer as never to let me
out of your sight."
"You do not love me as I love you!"
"But you know I told you I was not quite sure I loved you enough. Love
grows with some people, and with some it comes in a moment of time.
Would you not rather have it grow year after year, and get richer and
truer----"
Her voice fell to an exquisite softness, and touched him deeply.
"There can be only one truth to love," he said solemnly. Then he took
her in his arms and pressed a kiss upon her forehead in a reverent
manner.
"I must go away and leave you here," he said presently. "I am always
leaving you to some scene of gayety."
"But you take the two most tempting young men, the lieutenant and Dr.
Collaston. Why, he will add quite a grace and interest to Washington.
And the goodly company will be scattered, leaving behind the old
people, who are always talking of their young days. I promised Betty
I would stay a whole week with her sister. There--I think they are
calling you."
"Carriage ready, sah. Jes' time to meet de stage," said the black
servant, who still wore his wedding favor proudly.
Were most girls reluctant to marry? Roger Carrington wondered. Miss
Fairfax had gone away joyfully.
CHAPTER XIII.
LOVERS AND LOVERS.
Jaqueline found herself very much engrossed.
There was another young lady to attract visitors, and Patricia soon
became a favorite. She was vivacious and ready to take her part in any
amusement, could dance like a fairy, and sing like a bird.
"You'll have to look to your laurels, Miss Jaqueline," said old Mr.
Manners, their next neighbor. "Patty will carry off all the lovers in
no time. I hope you have made sure of yours."
Jaqueline blushed and tossed her head.
"He would marry me to-morrow," she returned. "I'm in no haste to be
married."
At the next wedding she had another attendant, the brother of the
bride. Roger was too busy to come for the mere pleasure. When the
birthday ball was at the Lees' Mr. Monroe had sent him to Philadelphia
on some important business. So Lieutenant Ralston was cavalier for both
girls; and certainly Patty was one of the belles of the evening, and
could have danced with two partners every time.
After that came Patty's birthday, and a grand affair it was. Mrs.
Jettson ran down to look on and help a little, as she said, but not
to take an active part. Ralston begged that Dr. Collaston might be
invited. He had graduated from the Philadelphia school, but was a
Marylander by birth; and, having a private fortune, had decided to
spend the winter in Washington. A bright, fine-looking young fellow who
played the flute delightfully and sang all the songs of the day, and,
what was of still more importance to social life, could dance with zest
and elegance.
Jaqueline was in some degree the hostess, and distributed her favors
impartially, so Roger had very little of her. Varina and Annis felt as
if they were in fairyland, and were entranced with delight.
Mrs. Jettson insisted that after Christmas she should have her turn
with the girls.
"There are to be some famous visitors, I hear, and Washington is
getting to be quite a notable place. Not quite St. James; but Mrs.
Madison is our queen, and it is like a little court, as Philadelphia
used to be in Mrs. Washington's time. The debates will be worth
hearing, or rather seeing, for the famous speakers who will take part.
Dolly writes about Mr. Calhoun, and there is a Mr. Henry Clay, who is
very eloquent. I can't give regular parties, but you girls can go out,
and Patty must attend a levee and be presented to Mrs. Madison."
Patricia was very much elated.
"Why, it will be something like the English stories,"--there were a few
novels even then that girls were allowed to read,--"going up to London
or to Bath with a trunk full of finery. I don't suppose you ever will
take us to London, papa?"
"I'm getting too old. You will have to get a husband to take you to
London."
"'Where the streets were so wide and the lanes were so narrow?'" sang
Patty. "But I won't have a wheelbarrow. I'll have a coach, or nothing."
"I wish you were not going away," Annis sighed. "It's so bright and
merry when you are here, and so many ladies come in their pretty
frocks, and they laugh and talk. I can hear you upstairs when I am in
my bed. And the fiddles sound so gay, and then I know you are dancing.
Oh, I wish Christmas and birthdays could come oftener!"
"The birthdays might do for little people who are anxious to grow old
fast," said Jaqueline, patting the child's shoulder. "But the rest
of us wouldn't want two or three in a year. And it won't be very long
before you'll be going to Washington to see the queen, pussy cat."
"But I want you, not the queen. It will be so lonesome when you are
gone!"
"You are a little sweet!" Jaqueline bent over and kissed her. "I hope
you'll stay just sweet, nothing else. Everybody will love you."
"I'm afraid I don't want quite everybody," she returned in a hesitating
tone.
"Yes, one can even have too much of love," laughed the elder sister.
She thought she sometimes had too much of it. She was proud of Roger
Carrington, and she was quite sure she did not care for anyone else
in the way of wishing that some other person stood in his place. Why,
then, was she not ready to step into his life and make it glad with a
supreme touch of happiness?
Annis glanced up wistfully to the beautiful face bent over her, which
was more engrossed with its own perplexities than considering her
little sister. Then suddenly she laughed, a low musical sound with much
amusement in it, and Annis smiled too.
"You are having love troubles early, Annis dear," she said gayly.
Charles' penchant increased rather than diminished, and Annis found
it somewhat exacting and troublesome. When there were other young
visitors Varina appropriated them, much to Charles' satisfaction, and
he invariably turned the cold shoulder to other little girls.
"But Charles is going to school presently, and he will get interested
in boys and plans for the future, so you may stand a chance of being
forgotten; how will you like that?"
"Why, I shall have mamma always. Jaqueline," hesitatingly, "does anyone
love you too much? Is it Mr. Ralston? And doesn't he love Marian any
more?"
"My dear, when Marian was engaged Mr. Ralston gave her up, which was
right and honorable. Little girls can't understand all about such
matters."
"I like Mr. Ralston very much," Annis remarked gravely. "Varina thinks
Patty will marry him."
"What nonsense! Varina is quite too ready with her tongue. Come, don't
you want a little ride with me before I go to town?"
The child was delighted, and ran off for her hat and coat.
Her father had suggested a little caution in regard to Mr. Ralston.
They were simply friends. He had never uttered a word that could be
wrongly construed. She had a kind of safe feeling with him. Was there
any real danger? But he was Roger's friend as well?
There were already some invitations awaiting the two girls when
they arrived at Mrs. Jettson's. Patricia was much elated with her
first levee. Certainly there was a group of distinguished women
entertaining--Mrs. Cutts and Mrs. Lucy Washington, now a charming young
widow; Mrs Gallatin, and the still handsome Mrs. Monroe, who had been
an acknowledged New York beauty; and among the men the very agreeable
young Washington Irving, who was to leave a lasting mark on American
literature.
"But you feel almost afraid of the wisdom and genius and power," said
Patricia to Dr. Collaston. "Now, there is Mr. Clay, with his sharp
eyes under the overhanging eyebrows that look as if they might dart
out at you and somehow set you in a blaze. I am to go hear one of
his speeches, my brother insists. And my cousin Dolly is wild about
Mr. Calhoun. Don't you think they might both have been made handsomer
without any great detriment to the world? And Mrs. Calhoun is charming.
She knew some of the Floyds and heard about Dolly's marriage."
"Patrick Henry wasn't a handsome man, if accounts are reliable. Genius
and good looks do not always go together," and Collaston smiled.
"There is Mr. Irving. He talks delightfully. And it is a pleasure to
look at him."
"Call no man happy until he is dead. I mean it is not safe to predict
how much fame one will win until----"
"Until he has won it. But it is a kind of cruel thing to wait until
you are dead, when you can't know anything about it. I mean to take my
delight as I go along. But, then, women are not expected to be addicted
to longing for fame."
"Still they may be famous for beauty. I think there have been a number
of famous women. Queen Elizabeth----"
"Don't instance the Empress Catherine nor Catherine de Medicis. If you
do, I shall never forgive you. Nor Joan of Arc--I can't remember any
more."
"Nor the Pilgrim mothers! They deserved a good deal of credit to set
up housekeeping on bleak Plymouth Rock. Why doesn't someone talk about
them! Housekeeping is a womanly grace or virtue or acquirement--which
do you call it?"
"I suppose it is an acquirement when you work hard to obtain it, a
grace when it comes natural. Do you imagine they kindled the fire on
the rocks and boiled the kettle as we do when we go off in the woods
for a day's pleasure?"
"They wouldn't let you do it now. Plymouth Rock has become----"
"The palladium of liberty! Isn't that rather choice and fit and
elegant? It is a pity that I can't take the credit of inventing it.
And what a shame we haven't a few rocks about here! I have a dreadful
feeling that the Capital may sink down in the slough some day and
disappear. Every street ends in a marsh."
"You see, this is rightly called the New World--it is not finished yet."
"Dr. Collaston, we can't allow you to monopolize the beauties of
the evening. Here are some guests anxious to meet Miss Mason," and
thereupon Patricia was turned slightly around to face a group of young
people.
But it was not all gayety or compliments, though men were gallant
enough then, and ready with florid encomiums. There was the dreaded
topic of war, which was touched upon with bated breath; there were
muttered anathemas concerning the impressment of sailors; there were
fears of France and a misgiving that we were not strong enough to cope
with England while our resources were still slender. And already there
were undercurrents forming for the Presidential election more than six
months hence.
But the younger people chatted nonsense, laughed at trifles, and made
engagements for pleasure as well as for life; or the more coquettish
ones teased their lovers with vain pretenses. Mrs. Van Ness entertained
with ease and brilliance, and was as fond of gathering the younger
people about her as those more serious companies where the responsible
party men met and in a veiled way touched upon the graver questions.
At Mrs. Gallatin's one met the more intellectual or scientific people.
There was a feeling in the air that the country ought to consider an
advancement in literature. Boston was already pluming herself upon a
certain intellectual standing. There were Harvard and a Law Club, and
a kind of literary center that had issued a magazine, and there were
several papers. New York had some poets, and there had been a few
novels written. But what could anyone say about such a new country?
There were no famous ruins, though there were battlefields that were to
be historic ground when men could look at them from a distance. Many a
brave story lurked in the fastnesses of Virginia, and old James River
held a romance in almost every curve of its banks.
But people were busy about the currency and the debts, and the laws
the young nation must have for her safety, and the respect she must
demand from other nations. For this is one of the things nations give
grudgingly; perhaps individuals do it, as well. Even now Mr. Adams'
administration was criticised, and Mr. Benjamin Franklin was accused
of spending his time flirting with French women, who were great
flatterers, all the world knew. And some people were still berating the
Jefferson policy, and sneered at little Jemmy Madison. Washington had
not really taken hold of the hearts of the people. Gouverneur Morris
had said wittily that "it only lacked cellars and houses and decently
paved streets and a steady population, and that it was a fine city for
future residences."
Georgetown was more settled and prosperous, and there was much going
back and forth, if coaches did now and then get stuck in the mud; and
young gentlemen not infrequently adopted the Philadelphia custom of
drawing on long leggings when they went on horseback to keep their
handsome stockings and their velvet smallclothes from being injured.
The South was well represented in these early days. Newspaper letters
found their way to other cities, with enthusiastic descriptions of the
principal beauties, their charms and fascinations. Mrs. Madison and her
two sisters perhaps set the pace for delightful hospitality, and that
still more engaging and agreeable quality of giving guests a pleasant
time and a lasting remembrance to take away with them.
But it was not all pleasure. There were housewifely duties; and more
than one visitor saw the first lady of the land in her morning gown of
gray stuff and a big white apron, for servants were not always equal
to the state dinners. There were some charities too, when the younger
people met to sew, and gossip about new fashions and new admirers.
And the first real work of benevolence was undertaken about that time
