homeless, unspeakably wretched. Cannot you feel for 
them?" 
" Oh, yes ! yes ! " Betty's quick sympathy sent the 
tears to her eyes, and he looked at her with deepening admiration, a fact the tears did not prevent her 
from grasping. " And are we going to war in order 
to release them?" 
" Ah ! I do not know. There is a war feeling growing in the country ; there is no doubt of that. But 
how high it will grow no one can tell. The leading 
men in Congress are indifferent, and won't even listen 
to recognizing the Cubans as belligerents. North 
will not discuss the subject, and I doubt not is talking 
over the latest play with Lady Mary at the present 
moment." 
"And you? Do you want war ?" 
"I do!" His manner gave sudden rein to its 
inherent nervousness, and his voice rang out for a 
 
moment as if he were angrily haranguing the Senate. 
" Of course I want it. Every human instinct I have 
compels me to want it, and I cannot understand the 
apathy and conservatism which prevents our being at 
war at the present moment. We have posed as the 
champions of liberty long enough ; it is time we did 
something." 
" Ah, this is the youthful enthusiasm of the Senate," 
thought Betty. " And I have been accustomed to 
think of forty-five as quite elderly. I feel a mere 
infant and shall not call myself an old maid till I 'm 
fifty." She smiled approvingly into the Senator's 
illuminated face, and he plunged at once into details, 
including the entire history of Spanish colonial misrule. The history was told in head-lines, so to speak, 
but it was graphic and convincing. Betty nodded 
encouragingly and asked an occasional intelligent 
question. She knew the history of Spain as thoroughly 
as he did, but she would not have told him so for the 
world. It is only the woman with a certain masculine 
fibre in her brain who ever really understands men, 
and when these women have coquetry also, they convince the sex born to admire that they are even more 
feminine than their weaker sisters. When Senator 
Burleigh finished, Betty thanked him so graciously and 
earnestly, with such lively pleasure in her limpid hazel 
eyes, that he raised his glass impulsively and touched it 
to hers. 
"You must have a salon" he exclaimed. "We 
need one in Washington, and it would do us incalcu- 
lable good. Only you could accomplish it : you not 
only have beauty and brains and tact ? but you 
are so apart that you can pick and choose without fear 
 
of giving offence. And you are not blasce of the subject like Congressmen's wives, nor has the wild rush 
and wear and tear of official society chopped up your 
individuality into a hundred little bits. It would be 
brutal to mention politics to a woman in political life, 
and consequently we feel as if no one takes any interest 
in us unless she has an axe to grind. But you are 
what we all have been waiting for I feel sure of that ! 
Let it be understood that no mere politician, no man 
who bought his legislature or is under suspicion in 
regard to any Trust, can enter your doors. Of course 
you will have to study the whole question thoroughly ; 
and mind, I am to be your instructor-in-chief." 
Betty laughed and thanked him, wondering how 
well he understood her. He looked like a man who 
would waste no time on the study of woman's subtleties : he knew what he wanted, and recognized the 
desired qualities at once, but by a strong masculine 
instinct, not by analysis. 
A few moments later the women went into the 
drawing-room, and the conversation for the next half- 
hour was a languid babble of politics, dress, New 
York, the lady of the White House, and the play. 
Betty thought the women very nice, but less interesting 
than the men, possibly because they were women. They 
certainly looked more intelligent than the average one 
sat with during the trying half-hour after dinner ; but 
their conversation was fragmentary, and they oddly 
suggested having left their personality at home and 
taken their shell out to dinner. Betty also was in- 
terested to observe that their composite expression 
was a curious mingling of fatigue, unselfishness, and 
peremptoriness. 
 
"What does it mean?" she asked of Lady Mary, 
with whom she stood apart for a moment. 
" Oh, they are worked to death, paying calls, entertaining, receiving people on all sorts of business, 
and helping their husbands in various ways. They 
have no time to be selfish, rich or poor, and they 
have acquired the art of disposing of bores and detrimentals in short order. Even their own sort they pass 
on much in the fashion of royalty. How do you like 
Senator Burleigh?" 
" I never learned so much in two hours in my life. 
My head feels like a beehive." 
" I never saw him quite so devoted." 
" I thought you were occupied with Senator North." 
" I was, but my eyes and ears understand each other. 
He wants to meet you after dinner. He knows all 
about you." 
" He has been pointed out to me, but in those 
days when I was only interested in possible partners 
for the German. I do not recall him." 
" That is he, the second one." 
The men were entering the drawing-room. Betty 
was relieved that the political beard was not on Senator North. He wore only a very short moustache on 
his ugly powerful face. 
He stood for a few moments talking to his host, and 
Betty, to whom the political beard was immediately 
presented, gave him an occasional glance of exploration while her companion was assuring her, with neither 
a twang nor an accent, that he had long looked forward 
to the pleasure of meeting the famous Miss Betty 
Madison. Senator Shattuc was in his late fifties, but 
it was evident that the cares of Congress had not 
 
smothered his appreciation of a pretty woman. He 
had a strong face and an infantile complexion, and his 
beard sparkled with care. Senator Ward, who was 
presented a few moments later, told her that he had 
envied Burleigh throughout the long dinner. Betty 
decided that the senatorial manner certainly was 
agreeable. 
The two men fell into conversation with one another, 
and Betty turned her attention to Senator North. He 
was standing alone for the moment, glancing about the 
room. His attitude was one of absolute repose ; he 
did not look as if he ever had hurried or wasted his 
energies or lost his self-control in his life. His face 
was impenetrable ; his eyes, black and piercing, were 
wholly without that limpidity which reveals depths and 
changes of expression ; his mouth was somewhat contemptuous, and betrayed neither tenderness nor humor. 
If possible, he stood even more squarely on his feet 
than the other men. He had the powerful thick-set 
figure which invariably harbors strong passions. 
" I don't know whether I like him or not," thought 
Betty. " I think I don't but perhaps I do. He 
might be made of New England rock, and he looks as 
if the earth could swallow him before he 'd yield an 
inch. But I can feel his magnetism over here. Why 
have all these men so much magnetism? Is that, too, 
senatorial?" 
Senator North caught her eye at the moment, and 
turned at once to Lady Mary. A moment later he 
had been presented to Betty and they stood alone. 
" I once mended your hoop for you, when you were 
a little girl, just in front of your house ; but I am afraid 
you have forgotten it." 
 
"Oh, I think I do remember it. Yes T do." 
She evoked the incident out of the mists of childish 
memories. "Was it you? I am afraid I' was looking 
harder at the hoop than at its mender. But I recall 
I thought how kind you were." 
And then he inquired for her mother, and spoke 
pleasantly of his own and his wife's acquaintance with 
Mrs. Madison at Bar Harbor. Betty wondered afterward why she had thought his face repellent. His 
eyes defied investigation, but his mouth relaxed into a 
smile that was very kind, and his voice had almost a 
caress in it. But at the moment she was too eager to 
hear him express himself to receive a strong personal 
impression, and while she was casting about in her 
mind for a leader, she was obliged to give him her 
hand. 
"Good-night," she said with a little pout, "I am 
so sorry." 
" So am I," he said, smiling, and shaking her hand. 
" Good-night. I shall look forward to meeting you 
again soon." 
" Miss Madison, may I see you to your carriage ? " 
asked Senator Burleigh. "I have tried to get near 
you ever since dinner," he said discontentedly, as they 
walked down the hall, " and now you are going. But 
you will come to the Senate to-morrow? Come right 
up to the door of the Senators' Gallery at precisely 
three o'clock and I will meet you there." 
A few moments later, Betty paused on her way to 
her own room and opened her mother's door softly. 
" Molly," she whispered. 
" Well? " asked a severe voice. 
" I went in to dinner with the son of one of papa's 
 
old Chamberlin companions, and he was simply charming. So were all the others, and I never met a man who 
could shake hands as well as Senator North. I had a 
heavenly time." 
Mrs. Madison groaned and turned her face to the 
wall. 
" And there wasn't.a toothpick, and I didn't.hear a 
twang." 
" Kindly allow me to go to sleep." 
VI 
As soon as Betty awoke the next morning, she turned 
her mind to the events of the night before. Unlike 
most occasions eagerly anticipated, it had contained no 
disappointment; she had, indeed, been pleasurably 
surprised, for despite her strong common-sense the 
dark picture of corruption and objectionable toilet 
accessories had made its impression upon her. She 
foresaw much amusement in witnessing the unwilling 
surrender of her mother to even Senator Shattuc, him 
of the political beard. As for Senator Burleigh, she 
would yield to his magnetism and power of compelling 
interest in himself, while pronouncing his manners too 
abrupt and his personality too " Western." And if he 
admired intelligently the old lace which she always 
wore at her throat and wrists and on her pretty head, 
she would confess that there might be exceptions even 
to political rules. 
But somewhat to Betty's surprise it was not of 
Senator Burleigh that she thought most, although she 
 
had talked with him for two hours and pronounced 
him charming. She had talked with Senator North 
for exactly six minutes, but she saw his face more distinctly than Burleigh's and retained his voice in her 
ear. He had not paid her a compliment, but his 
manner had expressed that she interested him and 
that he thought her worth meeting. For the first time 
in her life Betty felt flattered by the admiration of a 
man ; and she had held her own with more than one 
of distinction on the other side. Even royalty had 
not fluttered her, but she conceived an eager desire 
to make this man think well of her. It irritated her 
to remember that she could have made no mental 
impression on him whatever. She became uncheerful, 
and reflected that the subtle flattery in his manner 
was probably a mere habit ; Lady Mary had intimated 
that he liked women and had loved several. Well, 
she cared nothing about that ; he was thirty years 
older than herself and married ; but she admired him 
and wished for his good opinion and to hear him talk. 
Doubtless they soon would meet again, and if they 
were left in conversation for a decent length of time 
she would ask him to call. She cast about in her 
mind for a subterfuge which would justify a note, but 
she could think of none, and was too worldly-wise to 
evoke a smile from the depths of a man's conceit. 
Her mother refused to bid her good-by when, 
accompanied by her maid, she started for the Capitol 
at twenty minutes to three. A few moments later she 
found herself admiring for the first time the big stately 
building on the hill at the end of Pennsylvania Avenue. 
She always had thought Washington a beautiful city, with 
its wide quiet avenues set thick with trees, its graceful 
 
parks, each with a statue of some man gratefully remembered by the Republic, but she had given little 
heed to its public buildings and their significance. As 
she approached the great white Capitol, she experi- 
enced a sudden thrill of that historical sense which, 
after its awakening, dominates so actively the large 
intelligence. The Capitol symbolized the greatness 
of the young nation ; all the famous American statesmen after the first group had moved and made their 
reputations within its walls. All laws affecting the 
nation came out of it, and the Judges of the Supreme 
Court sat there. And of its kind there was none other 
in the civilized world, had been but one other since 
the world began. 
The historic building shed an added lustre upon 
Senator Burleigh; but it was of Senator North that 
she thought most as she half rose in the Victoria and 
scanned the long sweep. The cleverest of women 
cannot class with anything like precision the man who 
has stamped himself into her imagination. Betty 
knew that there were six men in the Senate who 
ranked as equals ; their quiet epoch gave them little 
chance to discover latent genius other than for constructive legislation; nevertheless she arbitrarily conceived the Capitol to-day as the great setting for one man only ; and the building and the man became one 
in her imagination henceforth. The truth was that 
Betty, being greatly endowed for loving and finding 
that all men fell short of her high standard, was forced 
to seek companionship in an ideal. She had had 
several loves in history, but had come to the conclusion some years since that dead men were unsatisfactory. Since then she had fancied mightily one or two 
 
public men on the other side, whom she had never 
met ; but in time they had bored or disappointed her. 
But here was a conspicuous figure in her own country, 
appealing to her through the powerful medium of 
patriotic pride ; a man so much alive that he might 
at any moment hold the destinies of the United States 
in his hands, and who, owing to his years and impene- 
trable dignity, was not to be considered from the 
ordinary view-point of woman. She would coquet with 
Senator Burleigh ; it was on the cards that she would 
love him, for he was brilliant, ambitious, and honorable ; but Senator North was exalted to the vacant 
pedestal reserved for ideals, and Betty settled herself comfortably to his worship ; not guessing that he 
would be under her memory's dust-heap in ten days 
if Senator Burleigh captured her heart. 
The coachman was directed by a policeman to the 
covered portico of the Senate wing. Betty had a bare 
glimpse of corridors apparently interminable, before 
another policeman put her into the elevator and told 
her to get off when the boy said " Gallery." 
Senator Burleigh was waiting for her, and she 
thought him even manlier and more imposing in his 
gray tweed than in evening dress. He shook her 
hand heartily, and assured her in his abrupt dictatorial 
way that it gave him the greatest pleasure to meet 
her again. 
" I 'm sorry I haven't.time to take you all over the 
building," he said, " but I have two Committee meetings this afternoon. You must come down some 
morning." 
His manner was very businesslike, and he seemed 
a trifle absent as he paused a moment and called her 
 
attention to the daub illustrating the Electoral Commission; but this, Betty assumed, was the senatorial 
manner by day. In a moment he led her to one of 
the doors in the wall that encloses the Senate Gallery. 
"You see this lady," he said peremptorily to the 
doorkeeper, who rose hastily from his chair. " She 
is always to be admitted to this gallery. Take a good 
look at her." 
" Yes, sir ; member of your family, I presume ? " 
" You can assume that she is my sister. Only see 
that you admit her." 
" The rules are very strict in regard to this gallery," 
he added, as he closed the door behind them. " It 
is only for the families of the Senators, but you will 
like it better than the reserved gallery. Send for me if 
there should be trouble at any time about admittance." 
" I usually get where I wish ! I sha'n't trouble 
you." 
" Don't you ever think twice about troubling me," 
he said. " Let us go down to the front row." 
The galleries surrounding the great Chamber were 
almost dark under the flat roof, but the space below 
was full of light. It looked very sumptuous with its 
ninety desks and easy-chairs, and a big fire beyond an 
open door ; and very legislative with its president elevated above the Senators and the row of clerks beneath him. There were perhaps thirty Senators in the 
room, and they were talking in groups or couples, 
reading newspapers, or writing letters. One Senator 
was making a speech. 
" I don't think they are very polite," said Betty. 
" Why don't they listen ? He seems to be in earnest 
and speaks very nicely." 
 
" Oh, he is talking to his constituents, not to the 
Senate although he would be quite pleased if it 
would listen to him. He does not amount to much. 
We listen to each other when it is worth while ; but 
this is a Club, Miss Madison, the most delightful Club 
in the United States. Just beyond are the cloak- 
rooms, where we can lounge before the fire and smoke, 
or lie down and go to sleep. The hard work is in the 
Committee rooms, and it is hard enough to justify all 
the pleasure we can get out of the other side of the 
life. Now, I'll tell you who these are and something 
about them." 
He pointed out one after the other in his quick 
businesslike way, rattling off biographical details; but 
Betty, feeling that she was getting but a mass of 
impressions with many heads, interrupted him. 
" I don't see Senator North," she said. " I thought 
he was going to speak." 
" He will, later. He is in his Committee room now, 
but he'll go down as soon as a page takes him word 
that the clerk is about to read the bill whose Committee amendments he is sure to object to. Now I 
must go. I shall give myself the pleasure of calling 
a week from Sunday. You must come often, and 
always come here. And let me give you two pieces 
of advice : never bow to any Senator from up here, and 
never go to the Marble Room and send in a card. 
Then you can come every day without attracting attention. Good-bye." 
Betty thanked him, and he departed. For the next 
hour she found the proceedings very dull. The unregarded Senator finished his speech and retired behind 
a newspaper. Other members clapped their hands, 
 
and the pages scampered down the gangways and 
carried back documents to the clerk below the Vice- 
President's chair, while their senders made a few remarks meaningless to Betty. Two or three delivered 
brief speeches which were equally unintelligible to one 
not acquainted with current legislation. During one 
of them a man of imposing appearance entered and was 
apparently congratulated by almost every one in the 
room, the Senators leaving their seats and coming to 
the middle aisle, where he stood, to shake him by the 
hand. Betty felt sorry for Le"ontine, who was on the 
verge of tears, but determined to .remain until Senator 
North appeared if she did not leave until it should be 
time to dress for dinner. 
He entered finally and went straight to his desk. 
He looked preoccupied, and began writing at once. 
In a few moments the clerk commenced to read 
from a document, and Senator North laid aside his 
pen and listened attentively. So did several other 
Senators. It was a very long document, and Betty, 
who could not understand one word in ten as delivered 
by the clerk's rumbling monotonous voice, was desperately bored, and was glad her Senators had the 
solace of the cloak-rooms. Several did in fact retire 
to them, but when the clerk sat down and Senator 
North rose, they returned ; and Betty felt a personal 
pride in the fact that they were about to listen to the 
Senator whom herself had elected to honor. 
She had to lean forward and strain her ears to hear 
him. It was evident that he did not recognize the 
existence of the gallery, for he did not raise his voice 
from beginning to end ; and yet it was of that strong 
rich quality that might have carried far. But it 
 
neither " rang out like a clarion," nor " thundered imprecation." Neither did he utter an impassioned 
phrase nor waste a word, but he denounced the bill 
as a party measure, exposed its weak points, riddled 
it with sarcasm, and piled up damaging evidence of 
partisan zeal. " This is an honorable body," he concluded, " and few measures go out of it that are open 
to serious criticism by the self-constituted guardians of 
legislative virtue, but if this bill goes through the 
Senate we shall invite from the thinking people of the 
country the same sort of criticism which we now 
receive from the ignorant. If the high standard of 
this body is to be maintained, it must be by sound and 
conservative legislation, not by grovelling to future 
legislatures." 
Having administered this final slap, he sat down and 
began writing again, apparently paying no attention 
to the Chairman of the bill, who defended his measure 
with eloquence and vigor. It was a good speech, but 
it contained more words than the one that had provoked it and fewer points. Senator North replied 
briefly that the only chance for the bill was for its 
father to refrain from calling attention to its weak 
points, then went into the Republican cloak-room, 
presumably to smoke a cigar. Betty, whose head 
ached, went home. 
VII 
THAT evening, as Betty was rummaging through a cup- 
board in the library looking for a seal, she came upon 
a box of Cuban cigars. They could have been her 
 
father's only and of his special importation : he had 
smoked the choicest tobacco that Havana had been 
able to furnish. 
She knew that many men would prize that box of 
cigars, carefully packed in lead and ripened by time, 
and she suddenly determined to send it to Senator 
North. She felt that it would be an acute pleasure 
to give him something, and as for the cigars they were 
too good for any one else. She took the box to her 
room and wrapped it up carefully and badly; but 
when she came to the note which must accompany it, 
she paused before the difficulties which mechanically 
presented themselves. Senator North might naturally 
feel surprise to receive a present from a young woman 
with whom he had talked exactly six minutes. If she 
wrote playfully, offering a small tribute at the shrine of 
statesmanship, he might wonder if she worked slippers 
for handsome young clergymen and burned candles 
before the photograph of a popular tenor. She might 
send them anonymously, but that would not give her 
the least satisfaction. Finally, she reluctantly decided 
to wait until she met him again and could lead the 
conversation up to cigars. " Perhaps he will see me 
in the gallery to-morrow," she thought. 
But although he sat in his comfortable revolving- 
chair for two hours the next afternoon, he never lifted 
his eyes to the gallery. She heard several brief and 
excellent speeches, but went home dissatisfied. On 
the day after her return from New York, whither she 
went to perform the duty of bridesmaid, she had a 
similar experience, twice varied. Senator Burleigh 
made a short speech in a voice that was truly magnificent, and following up Senator North's attack 
 
on the bill unpopular on the Republican side of the 
Chamber. He was answered by " Blunderbuss " Pepper, the new Senator who had turned every aristocrat out of office in his aristocratic Southern State 
and filled the vacancies with men of his own humble origin. He was a burly untidy-looking man, and 
frequently as uncouth in speech, a demagogue and 
excitable. But the Senate, now that three years in that 
body had toned him down, conceded his ability and 
took his abuse with the utmost good-nature. Betty 
recalled his biography as sketched by Senator Burleigh, 
and noted that almost every Senator wheeled about with 
an expression of lively interest, as his reiterated " Mr. 
President, Mr. President," secured him the floor. 
They were not disappointed, nor was Betty. In a few 
moments he was roaring like a mad bull and hurling invective upon the entire Republican party, which " would 
deprive the South of legitimate representation if it 
could." He was witty and scored many points, provoking more than one laugh from both sides of the 
Chamber; and when he finished with a parting yell 
of imprecation, his audience returned to their correspondence and conversation with an indulgent smile. 
Betty wondered what he had been like before the 
Senate had " toned him down." 
That night she addressed the cigars to Jack Emory 
and sent them off at once. " I do believe I came very 
close to making a fool of myself," she thought. " What 
on earth made me want to give those cigars to Senator 
North? to give him anything? What a little ninny 
he would have thought me ! " She puzzled long over 
this deflection from her usual imperious course with 
men, but concluding that women having so many 
 
silly twists in their brains it was useless to try to 
understand them all, dismissed the matter from her 
mind. 
VIII 
"How many politicians are coming this afternoon?" 
asked Mrs. Madison, at the Sunday midday dinner. 
Her voice indicated that all protest had not gone out 
of her. 
" Senator Burleigh and Mr. Montgomery and 
Lady Mary. Not a formidable array." 
" They are exactly two too many. I have written 
and asked Sally Carter to come over and chaperon you 
in case I do not feel equal to the ordeal at the last 
moment. I am surprised that she takes your course 
so quietly, but on the whole am relieved ; you need 
some one respectable to keep you in countenance." 
" This house reeks with respectability ; no one would 
ever notice the absence of a chaperon. Sally is not 
only quiescent, but sympathetic. She knows that I 
have got to the end of teas and charities, and she 
believes in people choosing their own lives. She 
says she would join a travelling circus if her proclivities 
happened to point that way." 
Mrs. Madison shuddered. "I do not pretend to 
understand the present generation, and the more I 
hear of it the less I wish to. As for Sally I love her, 
but I should detest her if I didn't. for she is the 
worst form of snob : she is so rich and so well born 
that she thinks she can dress like a servant-girl and 
affect the manners of a barmaid." 
 
" Molly ! So you were haunting ' pubs ' when I 
supposed you were yawning at home? I hope you 
did not tell the barmaids your real name." 
" Well, I suppose I should not criticise people that 
I know nothing about," said Mrs. Madison, coloring 
and serious. She changed the subject hastily. " Jack, 
I hope you will stay this afternoon. It would be the 
greatest comfort to have you in the house." 
" I will stay, certainly," said Emory. He had taken 
his Sunday dinner at the old house in I Street for 
almost a quarter of a century. To-day he had been 
unusually silent, and had contracted his brows nervously every time Betty looked at him. She understood perfectly, and amused herself by turning round 
upon him several times with abrupt significance. 
However, she spared him until they had taken Mrs. 
Madison to the parlor and gone to the library, where 
he might smoke his after-dinner cigar. He sat down 
in front of a window, and the sunlight poured over him, 
glistening his handsome head and illuminating his skin. 
Betty supposed that some women might fall quite desperately in love with him; and in addition to his 
beauty he was a noble and high-minded gentleman, 
whose narrowness was due to the secluded life he chose 
to lead. 
" Now ! " she exclaimed, " come out with it ! 
You've had eleven days, and one can learn a good 
deal in that time." 
He bit sharply at the end of his cigar, but answered 
without hesitation. 
" It is almost impossible to learn anything in Washington to the detriment of the Senate. There seems 
to be a sort of esprit de corps in the entire city. They 
look politely horrified if you suggest that a Senator 
of the United States, honoring Washington with the 
society of his wives and daughters, is anything that he 
should not be. I was obliged to go to New York and 
Boston to get the information I wanted, and even now 
it is far from complete. I don't believe it is possible 
to arrive at anything like accurate knowledge on the 
subject." 
" Well, what did you get ? Washington is a well- 
ordered community with a high moral tone it is 
said to have fewer scandals than any city in the country and there is no sordid commercial atmosphere 
to lower it. It is the great city of leisure in everything 
but legislation and paying calls ; so it seems to me that 
it would be the last place to fondle in its bosom ninety 
distinguished scoundrels. But go on. What did you 
learn in Boston and New York? " 
" That a little of everything is represented in the 
Senate, that is about what it amounts to. There are 
unquestionably men there who bought their seats from 
legislatures, and there are men who are agents for trusts, 
syndicates, and railroad corporations, as well as three 
party bosses " 
" Ninety Senators leave a large margin for a number 
of loose fish. What I want to know is, how do the big 
men stand North, Maxwell, Ward, March and 
fifteen or twenty others, all the men who are the 
Chairmen of the big Committees? The New England 
men seem to have charge of everything of importance 
in the House and of a good deal in the Senate." 
" Some of the Southern and Northwestern and 
most of the New England States seem to have honest 
enough legislatures," said Emory, unwillingly. " But 
 
that leaves plenty of others. Only a few of the West- 
ern States are above suspicion, and as for New York, 
Pennsylvania, and Delaware, they would not waste time 
defending themselves ; and as no Senators are better 
than the people that elect them " 
" Oh, yes, they are sometimes look at the Senator 
from Delaware. I too have been asking questions for 
eleven days. It all comes to this : there are millionaireism and corrupting influences in the Senate, but 
that element is in the minority, and the greater number 
of leading or able Senators are above suspicion. And 
they seem to have things pretty much all their own 
way. They could not if the majority in the Senate 
were scoundrels. No corrupt body was ever led by 
its irreproachable exceptions " 
" In another ten years there will be no exceptions. 
All that are making a desperate stand for honesty 
to-day will be overwhelmed by the unprincipled 
element " 
" Or have forced it to reform. The good in human 
nature predominates ; we are a healthy infant, and do 
not know the meaning of the word ' decadent ; ' and 
we are extraordinarily clever. Senator Burleigh says 
that you can always bank on the American people 
going right in the end. They may not bother for a 
long time, but when they do wake up they make things 
hum." 
" Senator Burleigh evidently has all the easy-going 
optimism of this country. But, Betty, I am no more 
reconciled than I was before to your having anything 
to do with these people. Politics have a bad name, 
whatever the truth of the matter. I think myself our 
sensational press is largely to blame " 
 
" There is nothing so interesting as the pursuit of 
truth," said Betty, lightly. " Reconcile yourself to the 
sight of me in pursuit of it " 
" Ah, here you are ! " exclaimed a staccato voice. 
Sally Carter entered the room, kissed Betty, shook 
hands heartily with Emory, and threw herself into a 
chair. Her fortune equalled Betty's, but it was her 
pleasure to wear frocks so old and so dowdy that her 
friends wondered where they had come from originally. 
She had been a handsome girl, and her blue eyes were 
still full of fire, her fair hair abundant, but her face 
was sallow and lined from many attacks of malarial 
fever. Her manner was breezy and full of energy, and 
she was not only popular but a very important person 
indeed. She lived alone with her father in the old 
house in K Street and entertained rarely, but she had 
strawberry leaves on her coronet, and it was currently 
reported that when she arrived in England, clad in a 
rusty black serge and battered turban, which she 
certainly slept in at intervals during the day, she 
was met in state by the entire ducal family including a prolific connection whose ancestor had 
founded the great house of Carter in the British colonies of North America. What their private opinion 
was of this representative of the American dukedom 
was never quite clear to the Washington mind, but to 
know Sally Carter in her own city meant complete 
social recognition, and not to know her an indifferent 
success. 
" Senator North tells me that he met you the other day 
and would like to meet you again," she said to Betty, 
who lifted her head with attention. " I dropped in on 
my way here for a little call on Mrs. North, poor dear ! 
 
There 's a real invalid for you something the matter 
with her spine is liable to paralysis any minute. It 
must be so cheerful to sit round and anticipate that. 
Why on earth do women let their nerves run away with 
them, in the first place ? Nerves in this country are a 
mixture of climate, selfishness, and stupidity. I could 
be as nervous as a witch, but I won't. I walk miles 
every day and don't think about myself. Well ! I told 
Mr. North all about the bold course of the young lady 
weary of frivolities, and he seemed much interested, 
paid you some compliment or other, I've forgotten 
what. He said he would look out for you in the Senate 
gallery, and go up and speak to you " 
Emory rose with an exclamation of disgust. " I 
hope you told him to do nothing of the kind." 
" On the contrary, I told him not to forget, for as 
Betty would sail her little yacht on the political sea, I 
wanted her to be recognized by the men-of-war, not 
by the trading-ships and pirates." 
Emory threw away his cigar. " I think I will go in 
and see my aunt," he said. "All this is most distasteful to me." 
He left the room, followed by Betty's mocking laugh. 
But Miss Carter said with a sigh, 
" He can't expect us all to live up to his ideals. It is 
better not to have any, like my practical self. But I 'm 
afraid he sits out there in his damp old library and 
dreams of a world in which all the men are Sir Gala- 
hads and all the women Madame Rolands. He is an 
ideal himself, if he only knew it ; I've always been 
half in love with him. Well, Betty, how do you like 
your new toy ? After all, what is even a Senate but a 
toy for a pretty woman? That is really your attitude, 
 
only you don't know it. Life is serious only for women 
with babies and bills. As for charities, they were 
specially invented to give old maids like myself an occupation in life. What what should I have done 
without charities when Society palled?" 
"Why did you never marry, Sally?" asked Betty, 
abruptly. The question never had occurred to her 
before, but as she asked it her eyes involuntarily moved 
to the empty chair before the window. 
"What on earth should I do with a husband?" 
asked Miss Carter, lightly. " I only love men when 
they are in bronze in the public parks. Poor dear old 
General Lathom proposed to me four times, and the 
only time I felt like accepting him was when I saw his 
statue unveiled. I couldn't.put a man on a pedestal 
to save my life, but when my grateful country does it 
I 'm all humble adoration. Could you idealize a live 
thing in striped trousers and a frock coat? " 
" Woolen is hopeless," said Betty, with an attempt at 
playfulness. " We must do the best we can with the 
inner man." 
" How on earth do you know what a man is like on 
the inside? Idealize is the right word, though. 
Women make a god out of what they cannot understand in a man. If he has a bad temper, they think of 
him as a ' dominant personality.' If he is unfaithful to 
his wife, he is romantic in the eyes of a woman who has 
given no man a chance to be unfaithful to her. If he 
comes to your dinner with an attack of dyspepsia, you 
compare him sentimentally with the brutes that eat. 
You haven't.married yet, I notice, and you are on the 
corner of twenty- seven." 
" American men don't give you a chance to 
 
idealize them," said Betty, plaintively. " They tell you 
all about themselves at once. And although English- 
men have more mystery and provoke your curiosity, 
they don't understand women and don't want to ; the 
women can do the adapting. I never could stand 
that ; and as I can't endure foreigners I 'm afraid I 
shall die an old maid. That 's the reason I 've gone 
into politics " 
The butler announced that Senator Burleigh was in 
the parlor. 
"What of his inner man?" asked Sally. 
" I never have given it two thoughts. But his outer 
is all that could be desired." 
" He would look well in bronze. I understand that 
his State thinks a lot of him : as you know, I read the 
Post and Star through every day to papa. I have to 
know something of politics." 
They found Senator Burleigh talking to Mrs. Madison, apparently oblivious of her frigid attempt at tolerance and of Emory's sullen silence. Sally Carter's 
eyes flashed with amusement, and she shook the Senator 
warmly by the hand. 
" Such a very great pleasure ! " she announced in her 
staccato tones. "Now the only time I really allow 
myself pride is when I meet the statesmen of my 
country. I am sure that is the way you feel, dear 
Cousin Molly is it not? We are such oysters, the 
few of us who always have lived here, that a whiff from 
the political world puts new life into us." 
Emory left the room. Burleigh looked surprised 
but gratified, and assured her that it was the greatest 
possible pleasure as well as an honor to meet Miss 
Carter. He appeared to have left his businesslike 
 
manner on Capitol Hill, and he was even less abrupt 
than on the night of the dinner. Only his exuberant 
vitality seemed out of place in that dark old room, and 
it was an effort for him to keep his sonorous voice in 
check. 
" Mrs. Madison says she takes no interest in politics," 
he added, " and fears to be a wet blanket on the conversation. I have been assuring her that on one day 
of the week politics are non-existent so far as I am 
concerned." 
Mrs. Madison, who had been staring at Sally Carter, 
replied with an evident attempt to be agreeable, " Of 
course I always find it interesting to hear people talk 
about what they understand best." 
" Politics are what I should like to understand least. 
Since I have come to the Senate I have endeavored 
to forget all I ever knew about them. I rely upon my 
friends to keep me in office while I am making a desperate attempt to become a fair-minded legislator." 
He spoke lightly. Betty could not determine 
whether he was posing or telling the simple truth to 
people who would be glad to take him at his word. 
There was a twinkle of amusement in his eye ; but he 
looked too impatient for even the milder sort of 
hypocrisy. 
Mrs. Madison thawed visibly. " You younger men 
should try to restore the old ideals," she said. 
"Ah, madam," he replied, "if you only knew what 
the censors said about the old ideals when they were 
alive ! If Time will be as kind to us, we can swallow 
our own dose with a reasonable amount of philosophy. 
John Quincy Adams arraigned the politics of his day 
in the bitterest phrases he could create; but to-day 
 
we are asked to remember the glorious past and hide 
our heads." 
The Montgomerys entered the room. Randolph, 
who was as tall as Senator Burleigh and very slender, 
looked so distinguished that Mrs. Madison immediately 
decided to remember only that his family was as 
old as her own. He had lost none of the repose he 
had found during his three years' residence in Europe, 
but the effort to keep it in the House had made his 
handsome face thin and touched his mouth with 
cynicism. His hair was still black, and there were 
no lines about his cool gray eyes. 
"Blessed day of rest!" exclaimed his wife. "I 
got up just one hour ago. Do you know, Miss 
Madison, I paid twenty-six calls on Thursday, eighteen 
on Friday and twelve on Saturday? Never marry into 
political life." 
Senator Burleigh, who had been talking to Miss 
Carter, turned round quickly. " Some women are so 
manifestly made for it," he said, " that it would be 
folly for them to attempt to escape their fate." 
IX 
A MONTH passed. Betty received with Lady Mary on 
Tuesdays, and under that popular young matron's wing 
called on a number of women prominent in the official 
life of the dying Administration, whom she received on 
Fridays. They were very polite, and returned her calls 
promptly; but they did not always remember her 
name, and her personality and position impressed but 
 
a few of these women, overwhelmed with social duties, 
visiting constituents, and people-with-letters. Most 
of them paid from fifteen to twenty calls on six days 
