welcome to the money, though there was a considerable sum."
"I would find the will for you if I could," said Dodger, earnestly.
"You are positive you didn't give it to Bolton?"
"Positive, sir. I haven't seen Tim since that night."
"You may be speaking the truth, or you may not. I will talk with you
again to-morrow," and Curtis arose from his chair.
"You don't mean to keep me here?" said Dodger, in alarm.
"I shall be obliged to do so."
"I won't stay!" exclaimed Dodger, in excitement, and he ran to the
door, meaning to get out; but Curtis drew a pistol from his pocket and
aimed it at the boy.
"Understand me, boy," he said, "I am in earnest, and I am not to be
trifled with."
Dodger drew back, and Curtis opened the door and went out, bolting it
after him.
Chapter XIX.
An Attempt To Escape.
While Dodger had no discomfort to complain of, it occurred to him that
Florence would be alarmed by his long absence, for now it seemed
certain that he would have to remain overnight.
If only he could escape he would take care not to fall into such a
trap again.
He went to the window and looked out, but the distance to the ground
was so great--for the room was on the third floor--that he did not
dare to imperil his life by attempting a descent.
If there had been a rope at hand he would not have felt afraid to make
the attempt.
He examined the bed to see if it rested upon cords, but there were
slats instead.
As has already been said, there were no houses near by.
That part of the city had not been much settled, and it was as
solitary as it is in the outskirts of a country village.
If he could only reveal his position to some person outside, so as to
insure interference, he might yet obtain his freedom.
With this thought he tore a blank leaf from one of the books in the
room, and hastily penciled the following lines:
    "I am kept a prisoner in this house. I was induced to come
    here by a trick. Please get some one to join you, and come
    and demand my release."
Some weeks before Dodger could not have written so creditable a note,
but he had greatly improved since he had been under the influence and
instruction of Florence.
Dodger now posted himself at the window and waited anxiously for some
one to pass, so that he might attract his attention and throw down the
paper.
He had to wait for fifteen minutes. Then he saw approaching a young
man, not far from twenty-one, who looked like a young mechanic,
returning from his daily work.
Now was Dodger's opportunity. He put his head out of the window and
called out:
"Hello, there!"
The young man looked and saw him at the window.
"What do you want?" he asked.
"Catch this paper, and read what there is on it." He threw down the
leaf, which, after fluttering in the gentle evening breeze, found its
way to the ground and was picked up.
After reading it, the young man looked up and said: "I'll go around to
the door and inquire."
He was as good as his word. He went to the outer door and rang the
bell.
Julius came to the door.
"What's wanted, boss?" he said.
"You've got a boy locked up in a room."
"Who told you, boss?"
"He threw down a paper to me, telling me he was kept a prisoner."
"What did he say?" asked Julius.
The young man read the note aloud.
"What have to say to that, you black imp?" he demanded, sternly.
The ready wit of Julius served him in this emergency.
"Dat boy is crazy as a loon, boss!" he answered, readily. "We have to
keep him shut up for fear he'll kill some of us."
"You don't say!" ejaculated the young mechanic. "He don't look like
it."
"No, he don't; dat's a fact, boss. Fact is, dat boy is the artfullest
lunytick you ever seed. He tried to kill his mother last week."
"Is that true?"
"Dat's so, boss. And all de while he looks as innocent as a baby. If I
was to let him out he'd kill somebody, sure."
"I never would have believed it," said the young man.
"If you want to take the risk, boss, you might go up and see him. I
believe he's got a carvin'-knife about him, but I don't dare to go up
and get it away. It would be as much as this niggah's life is worth."
"No," answered the young man, hastily. "I don't want to see him. I
never did like crazy folks. I'm sorry I gave you the trouble to come
to the door."
"Oh, no trouble, boss."
"I guess I've fixed dat boy!" chuckled Julius. "Ho, ho! he can't get
ahead of old Julius! Crazy as a loon, ho, ho!"
Dodger waited anxiously for the young man to get through his
interview. He hoped that he would force his way up to the third floor,
draw the bolt, and release him from his imprisonment.
He kept watch at the window, and when the young man reappeared, he
looked at him eagerly. "Did you ask them to let me out?" he shouted.
The other looked up at him with an odd expression of suspicion and
repulsion.
"You're better off where you are," he said, rather impatiently.
"But they have locked me up here."
"And reason enough, too!"
"What makes you say that?"
"Because you're crazy as a loon."
"Did the black man say that?" inquired Dodger, indignantly.
"Yes, he did--said you tried to kill your mother, and had a
carving-knife hidden in the room."
"It's a lie--an outrageous lie!" exclaimed Dodger, his eyes flashing.
"Don't go into one of your tantrums," said the man, rather alarmed;
"it won't do any good."
"But I want you to understand that I am no more crazy than you are."
"Sho? I know better. Where's your carving-knife?"
"I haven't got any; I never had any. That negro has been telling you
lies. Just go to the door again, and insist on seeing me."
"I wouldn't dast to. You'd stab me," said the man, fearfully.
"Listen to me!" said Dodger, getting out of patience. "I'm not crazy.
I'm a newsboy and baggage-smasher. An old man got me to bring his
valise here, and then locked me up. Won't you go around to the
station-house and send a policeman here?"
"I'll see about it," said the young man, who did not believe a word
that Dodger had said to him.
"He won't do it!" said Dodger to himself, in a tone of discouragement.
"That miserable nigger has made him believe I am a lunatic. I'll have
him up, anyway."
Forthwith he began to pound and kick so forcibly, that Julius came
upstairs on a run, half inclined to believe that Dodger had really
become insane.
"What do you want, boy?" he inquired from outside the door.
"I want you to unbolt the door and let me out."
"I couldn't do it, nohow," said Julius. "It would be as much as my
place is worth."
"I will give you a dollar--five dollars--if you will only let me out.
The man who brought me here is a bad man, who is trying to cheat his
cousin--a young lady--out of a fortune."
"Don't know nothin' 'bout that," said Julius.
"He has no right to keep me here."
"Don't know nothin' 'bout that, either. I'm actin' accordin' to
orders."
"Look here," said Dodger, bethinking himself of what had just
happened. "Did you tell that young man who called here just now that I
was crazy?"
Julius burst into a loud guffaw.
"I expect I did," he laughed. "Said you'd got a long carvin'-knife hid
in de room."
"What made you lie so?" demanded Dodger, sternly.
"Couldn't get rid of him no other way. Oh, how scared he looked when I
told him you tried to kill your mother."
And the negro burst into another hearty laugh which exasperated Dodger
exceedingly.
"How long is Mr. Waring going to keep me here? Did he tell you?"
Dodger asked, after a pause.
"No; he didn't say."
"When is he coming here again?"
"Said he'd come to-morrow most likely."
"Will you bring me a light?"
"Couldn't do it. You'd set the house on fire."
It seemed useless to prolong the conversation.
Dodger threw himself on the bed at an early hour, but he did not
undress, thinking there might possibly be a chance to escape during
the night.
But the morning came and found him still a prisoner, but not in the
solitary dwelling.
Chapter XX.
A Midnight Ride.
Curtis Waring had entrapped Dodger for a double purpose.
It was not merely that he thought it possible the boy had the will, or
knew where it was. He had begun to think of the boy's presence in New
York as dangerous to his plans.
John Linden might at any time learn that the son, for whose appearance
he had grieved so bitterly, was still living in the person of this
street boy. Then there would be an end of his hopes of inheriting the
estate.
Only a few months more and the danger would be over, for he felt
convinced that his uncle's tenure of life would be brief. The one
essential thing, then, seemed to be to get Dodger out of the city.
The first step had already been taken; what the next was will soon
appear.
Scarcely had Dodger failed in his attempt to obtain outside assistance
when an unaccountable drowsiness overcame him, considerably to his
surprise.
"I don't know what's come to me," he said to himself. "It can't be
more than seven or eight o'clock, and yet I feel so sleepy I can
hardly keep my eyes open. I haven't worked any harder than usual
to-day, and I can't understand it."
Dodger had reason to be surprised, for he didn't usually retire till
eleven o'clock.
In a city like New York, where many of the streets are tolerably well
filled even at midnight, people get in the way of sitting up much
later than in the country, and Dodger was no exception to this rule.
Yet here he was ready to drop off to sleep before eight o'clock. To
him it was a mystery, for he did not know that the cup of tea which he
had drunk at supper had been drugged by direction of Curtis Waring,
with an ulterior purpose, which will soon appear.
"I may as well lie down, as there is nothing else to do," thought
Dodger. "There isn't much fun sitting in the dark. If I can sleep, so
much the better."
Five minutes had scarcely passed after his head struck the pillow,
when our hero was fast asleep.
At eleven o'clock a hack stopped in front of the house, and Curtis
Waring descended from it.
"Stay here," he said to the driver. "There will be another passenger.
If you are detained I will make it right when I come to pay you."
"All right, sir," said the hackman. "I don't care how long it is if I
am paid for my time."
Curtis opened the door with a pass-key, and found Julius dozing in a
chair in the hall.
"Wake up, you sleepy-head," he said. "Has anything happened since I
left here?"
"Yes, sir; the boy tried to get away."
"Did he? I don't see how he could do that. You kept the door bolted,
didn't you?"
"Yes, sir; but he throwed a piece of paper out'n de window, sayin' he
was kep' a prisoner here. A young man picked it up, and came to de
house to ax about it."
Curtis looked alarmed.
"What did you say?" he inquired, apprehensively.
"Told him de boy was crazy as a loon--dat he tried to kill his mother
las' week, and had a carvin'-knife hid in his room."
"Good, Julius! I didn't give you credit for such a fertile
imagination.
"What's dat, massa?" asked Julius, looking puzzled.
"I didn't know you were such a skillful liar."
"Yah! yah!" laughed Julius, quite comprehending this compliment. "I
reckon I can twis' de trufe pretty well, Massa Curtis!"
"You have done well, Julius," said Curtis, approvingly. "Here's a
dollar!"
The negro was quite effusive in his gratitude.
"What did the young man say?"
"He looked scared. I tol' him he could go up and see de boy if he
wasn't afeared of the carvin'-knife, but he said he guessed he
wouldn't--he didn't like crazy folks."
Curtis laughed heartily.
"So it all ended as it should. Did the boy make any more trouble?"
"Yes; he pounded and kicked till I had to go up and see what was the
matter. I didn't give him no satisfaction, and I guess he went to
bed."
"He ought to be in a deep sleep by this time. I will go up and see. Go
up with me, Julius, for I may have to ask you to help me bring him
down."
Though Julius was naturally a coward, he felt quite brave when he had
company, and he at once went upstairs with Curtis Waring.
Curtis drew the bolt, and, entering the chamber, his glance fell upon
Dodger, fast asleep on the bed.
"I am glad the boy did not undress," he said. "It will save me a great
deal of trouble. Now, Julius, you can take his feet and I will lift
his head, and we will take him downstairs."
"S'pos'n he wakes up, Massa Curtis?"
"He won't wake up. I took care the sleeping potion should be strong
enough to produce profound slumber for eighteen hours."
"Seems as if he was dead," said Julius, nervously.
"Tush, you fool! He's no more dead than you or I."
The hackman looked curious when the two men appeared with their
sleeping burden, and Curtis felt that some explanation was required.
"The boy has a very painful disease," he said, "and the doctor gave
him a sleeping draught. He is going abroad for his health, and, under
the circumstances, I think it best not to wake him up. Drive slowly
and carefully to Pier No. --, as I don't want the boy aroused if it
can be helped."
"All right, sir."
"Julius, you may lock the door and come with me. I shall need your
help to get him on board the ship."
"All right, Massa Curtis."
"And, mind you, don't go to sleep in the carriage, you black rascal!"
added Curtis, as he saw that the negro found it hard to keep his eyes
open.
"All right, massa, I'll keep awake. How am I to get home?"
"I will instruct the hackman to take you home."
"Yah, yah; I'll be ridin' like a gentleman!"
The journey was successfully accomplished, but it took an hour, for,
according to directions, the hackman did not force his pace, but drove
slowly, till he reached the North River pier indicated.
At the pier was a large, stanch vessel--the Columbia--bound for San
Francisco, around Cape Horn.
All was dark, but the second officer was pacing the deck.
Curtis Waring hailed him.
"What time do you get off?"
"Early to-morrow morning."
"So the captain told me. I have brought you a passenger."
"The captain told me about him."
"Is his stateroom ready?"
"Yes, sir. You are rather late."
"True; and the boy is asleep, as you will see. He is going to make the
voyage for his health, and, as he has been suffering some pain, I
thought I would not wake him up. Who will direct me to his stateroom?"
The mate summoned the steward, and Dodger, still unconscious, was
brought on board and quietly transferred to the bunk that had been
prepared for him.
It was a critical moment for poor Dodger, but he was quite unconscious
of it.
"What is the boy's name?" asked the mate.
"Arthur Grant. The captain has it on his list. Is he on board?"
"Yes; but he is asleep."
"I do not need to see him. I have transacted all necessary business
with him--and paid the passage money. Julius, bring the valise."
Julius did so.
"This contains the boy's clothing. Take it to the stateroom, Julius."
"All right, Massa Curtis."
"What is your usual time between New York and San Francisco?" asked
Curtis, addressing the mate.
"From four to six months. Four months is very short, six months very
long. We ought to get there in five months, or perhaps a little
sooner, with average weather."
"Very well. I believe there is no more to be said. Good-night!"
"Good-night, sir."
"So he is well out of the way for five months!" soliloquized Curtis.
"In five months much may happen. Before that time I hope to be in
possession of my uncle's property. Then I can snap my fingers at
fate."
Chapter XXI.
A Seasick Passenger.
The good ship Columbia had got fifty miles under way before Dodger
opened his eyes.
He looked about him languidly at first, but this feeling was succeeded
by the wildest amazement, as his eyes took in his unusual
surroundings.
He had gone to sleep on a bed--he found himself on awakening in a
ship's bunk.
He half arose in his birth, but the motion of the vessel and a slight
feeling of dizziness compelled him to resume a recumbent position.
"I must be dreaming," thought Dodger. "It's very queer. I am dreaming
I am at sea. I suppose that explains it."
He listened and heard the swish of the waters as they beat against the
sides of the vessel.
He noted the pitching of the ship, and there was an unsteady feeling
in his head, such as those who have gone to sea will readily recall.
Dodger became more and more bewildered.
"If it's a dream, it's the most real dream I ever had," he said to
himself.
"This seems like a ship's cabin," he continued, looking about him. "I
think if I got up I should be seasick. I wonder if people ever get
seasick in dreams?"
There was another pitch, and Dodger instinctively clung to the edge of
his berth, to save himself from being thrown out.
"Let me see," he said, trying to collect his scattered recollection.
"I went to sleep in a house uptown--a house to which Curtis Waring
lured me, and then made me a prisoner. The house was somewhere near
One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street. Now it seems as if I was on board
a ship. How could I get here? I wish somebody would come in that I
could ask."
As no one came in, Dodger got out of the berth, and tried to stand on
the cabin floor.
But before he knew it he was staggering like one intoxicated, and his
head began to feel bad, partly, no doubt, on account of the sleeping
potion which he had unconsciously taken.
At this moment the steward entered the cabin. "Hello, young man! Have
you got up?" he asked.
"Where am I?" asked Dodger, looking at him with a dazed expression.
"Where are you? You're on the good ship Columbia, to be sure?"
"Are we out to sea?"
"Of course you are."
"How far from land?"
"Well, about fifty miles, more or less, I should judge."
"How long have I been here?"
"It seems to me you have a poor memory. You came on board last
evening."
"I suppose Curtis Waring brought me," said Dodger, beginning to get
his bearings.
"There was a gentleman came with you--so the mate told me. I don't
know his name."
"Where is the ship bound?"
"To San Francisco, around Cape Horn. I supposed you knew that."
"I never heard of the ship Columbia before, and I never had any idea
of making a sea voyage."
The steward looked surprised.
"I suppose your guardian arranged about that. Didn't he tell you?"
"I have no guardian."
"Well, you'll have to ask Capt. Barnes about that. I know nothing,
except that you are a passenger, and that your fare has been paid."
"My fare paid to San Francisco?" asked Dodger, more and more at sea,
both mentally and physically.
"Yes; we don't take any deadheads on the Columbia."
"Can you tell me what time it is?"
"About twelve o'clock. Do you feel hungry?"
"N--not very," returned Dodger, as a ghastly expression came over his
face, and he tumbled back into his berth, looking very pale.
The steward smiled.
"I see how it is," he said; "you are getting initiated."
"What's that?" muttered Dodger, feebly.
"You're going to be seasick. You'll hardly be able to appear at the
dinner table."
"It makes me sick to think of eating," said Dodger, feebly.
As he sank back into his berth, all thoughts of his unexpected
position gave way to an overpowering feeling of seasickness.
He had never been tried in this way before, and he found the sensation
far from agreeable.
"If only the vessel would stop pitching," he groaned. "Oh, how happy I
should be if I were on dry land."
But the vessel wouldn't stop--even for a minute.
The motion, on the other hand, seemed to increase, as was natural, for
they were getting farther and farther from land and were exposed to
the more violent winds that swept the open ocean.
There is something about seasickness that swallows up and draws away
all minor cares and anxieties, and Dodger was too much affected to
consider how or why it was that he so unexpectedly found himself a
passenger to California.
"Lie flat on your back," said the steward. "You will feel better if
you do."
"How long is it going to last?" groaned Dodger, feeling quite
miserable.
"Oh, you'll feel better to-morrow. I'll bring you some porridge
presently. You can get that clown, and it is better to have something
on your stomach."
He was right. The next day Dodger felt considerably better, and
ventured to go upon deck. He looked about him in surprise.
There had been a storm, and the waves were white with foam.
As far as the eye could see there was a tumult and an uproar.
The ship was tossed about like a cockle shell. But the sailors went
about their work unruffled. It was no new sight for them.
Though his head did not feel exactly right, the strong wind entered
Dodger's lungs, and he felt exhilarated. His eyes brightened, and he
began to share in the excitement of the scene.
Pacing the deck was a stout, bronzed seaman, whose dress made it clear
even to the inexperienced eyes of Dodger that he was the captain.
"Good-morning, Master Grant," he said, pleasantly. "Are you getting
your sea legs on?"
The name was unfamiliar to Dodger, but he could see that the remark
was addressed to him.
"Yes, sir," he answered.
"Ever been to sea before?"
"No, sir."
"You'll get used to it. Bless me, you'll stand it like an old sailor
before we get to 'Frisco."
"Is it a long voyage, captain?" asked Dodger.
"Five months, probably. We may get there a little sooner. It depends
on the winds and weather."
"Five months," said Dodger to himself, in a tone of dismay.
The captain laughed.
"It'll be a grand experience for a lad like you, Arthur!" said the
captain, encouragingly.
Arthur! So his name was Arthur! He had just been called Master Grant,
so Arthur Grant was his name on board ship.
Dodger was rather glad to have a name provided, for he had only been
known as Dodger heretofore, and this name would excite surprise. He
had recently felt the need of a name, and didn't see why this wouldn't
answer his purpose as well as any other.
"I must write it down so as not to forget it," he resolved. "It would
seem queer if I forgot my own name."
"I shouldn't enjoy it much if I were going to be seasick all the
time," he answered.
"Oh, a strong, healthy boy like you will soon be all right. You don't
look like an invalid."
"I never was sick in my life."
"But your guardian told me he was sending you on a sea voyage for your
health."
"Did Mr. Waring say that?"
"Yes; didn't you know the object of your sea trip?" asked Capt.
Barnes, in surprise.
"No."
"There may be some tendency to disease in your system--some hereditary
tendency," said the captain, after a pause.
"Were your parents healthy?"
"They--died young," answered Dodger, hesitatingly.
"That accounts for your guardian's anxiety. However, you look strong
enough, in all conscience; and if you're not healthy, you will be
before the voyage ends."
"I don't know what I am to do for clothes," said Dodger, as a new
source of perplexity presented itself. "I can't get along with one
shirt and collar for five months."
"You will find plenty of clothes in your valise. Hasn't it been given
you?"
"No, sir."
"You may ask the steward for it. You didn't think your guardian would
send you on a five-months' voyage without a change of clothing, did
you?"
And the captain laughed heartily.
"I don't know Mr. Waring very well," said Dodger, awkwardly.
As he went downstairs to inquire about his valise, this question
haunted him:
"Why did Curtis Waring send him on a sea voyage?"
Chapter XXII.
The Other Passenger.
Dodger sought the steward, and asked for his valise.
"Isn't it in your stateroom?" asked that functionary.
"I haven't seen it."
"I remember now. It was put with the luggage of the other passenger. I
will show it to you."
He took Dodger to a part of the ship where freight was stored, and
pointed to a sizable valise with a card attached to it on which was
inscribed the name: "Arthur Grant."
"This must be yours," he said.
"Yes, I suppose so," answered Dodger, glad to have found out the new
name which had been given him, otherwise he would have supposed the
valise belonged to some other person.
He took the valise to his stateroom, and, finding a key tied to the
handles, he opened it at once.
It proved to contain a very fair supply of underclothing, socks,
handkerchiefs, etc., with a tooth brush, a hair brush and comb, and a
sponge. Never in his life had Dodger been so well supplied with
clothing before. There were four white shirts, two tennis shirts, half
a dozen handkerchiefs and the same number of socks, with three changes
of underclothing.
"I begin to feel like a gentleman," said Dodger to himself,
complacently.
That was not all. At the bottom of the valise was an envelope, sealed,
on which was inscribed the name: "Dodger."
"That is for me, at any rate," thought our hero. "I suppose it is from
Curtis Waring."
He opened the envelope, and found inclosed twenty-five dollars in
bills, with a few lines written on a half-sheet of paper. These Dodger
read, with interest and curiosity. They were as follows:
    "Dodger:--The money inclosed is for you. When you reach
    California you will find it of use. I have sent you out there
    because you will find in a new country a better chance to
    rise than in the city of New York. I advise you to stay there
    and grow up with the country. In New York you were under the
    influence of a bad man, from whom it is best that you should
    be permanently separated. I know something of the early
    history of Tim Bolton. He was detected in a crime, and fled
    to escape the consequences. You are not his son, but his
    nephew. Your mother was his sister, but quite superior to
    himself. Your right name is Arthur Grant, and it will be well
    for you to assume it hereafter. I have entered you in the
    list of passengers under that name.
    "I thought you had taken the will from my uncle's desk, but I
    am inclined to think you had nothing to do with it. If you
    know where it is, or whether Bolton has it, I expect you to
    notify me in return for the money I have expended in your
    behalf. In that case you can write to me, No. -- Madison
    Avenue.
                                                 "Curtis Waring."
Dodger read the letter over twice, and it puzzled him.
"He seems from the letter to take an interest in me," he soliloquized.
"At any rate, he has given me money and clothes, and paid my passage
to California. What for, I wonder? I don't believe it is to get me
away from the bad influence of Tim. There must be some other reason."
There was another part of the letter with which Dodger did not agree.
Curtis asserted positively that he was the nephew of Tim Bolton, while
he was positive that there was no relationship between them.
In that case Curtis must have been an early acquaintance of Tim's. At
any rate, he seemed to know about his past life.
Dodger now comprehended his present situation fully. He was a
passenger on the ship Columbia, and there was no chance of leaving
it. He had ascertainel on inquiry that the vessel would not put in
anywhere, but would make the long voyage direct. It would be over four
months, at any rate, before he could communicate with Florence, and in
the meantime, she and Mrs. O'Keefe, whom he recognized as a good
friend, would conclude that he was dead.
It was very provoking to think that he could not even telegraph, as
that would relieve all anxiety, and he felt sure that Florence was
enough his friend to feel anxious about him.
He had just closed up his valise, when a young man of dark complexion
and of an attractive, intellectual expression, entered the cabin.
He nodded pleasantly to Dodger, and said:
"I suppose this is Arthur Grant?"
"Yes, sir," answered Dodger, for he had decided to adopt the name.
"We ought to become close friends, for we are, I believe, the only
passengers."
"Then you are a passenger, too?" said Dodger, deciding, after a brief
scrutiny, that he should like his new acquaintance.
"Yes. My name is Randolph Leslie. I have been, for the last five
years, a reporter on leading New York daily papers, and worked so
closely that my health has become somewhat affected. My doctor
recommended a sea voyage, and I have arranged for a pretty long one."
"What papers have you worked for?"
"Oh, all the leading ones--Tribune, World, Herald, and Sun--
sometimes one, and sometimes another. Your reason for taking this trip
can hardly be the same as mine. You don't look as if your health
required you to travel."
"No," answered Dodger, smiling; "but I understand that the gentleman
who engaged my passage said I was going to sea for my health."
"If I were as robust as you, I shouldn't give much thought to my
health. Do you intend to remain in California?"
"I don't know what I do intend," replied Dodger. "I didn't know I was
going to California at all until I woke up in my stateroom."
The young man looked surprised.
"Didn't you know the destination of the vessel when you came on
board?" he asked.
"I was brought aboard in my sleep."
"This is curious. It looks to me as if you had a story to tell.
"Of course, I don't want to be curious, but if there is anyway in
which I can help you, by advice, or in any other way, I am quite ready
to do so."
Dodger paused, but only briefly. This young man looked friendly, and
might help him to penetrate the mystery which at present baffled him.
At any rate, his experience qualified him to give friendly advice, and
of this Dodger felt that he stood in need.
"I ought to tell you, to begin with," he said, "that I am a poor boy,
and made my living as best I could, by carrying baggage, selling
papers, etc."
"I don't think any the worse of you for that. Did you live at the
lodging houses?"
"No; until lately I lived with a man who keeps a saloon on the Bowery,
and tended bar for him."
"What was his name? As a reporter I know the Bowery pretty well."
"Tim Bolton."
"Tim Bolton? I know his place well. I think I must have seen you
there. Your face looked familiar to me as soon as I set eyes on you."
"Very likely. A good many people came into Tim's. I couldn't pretend
to remember them all."
"Was Tim a relative of yours?"
"I don't believe he was. I always thought that he got hold of me when
I was a kid. I don't remember the time when I wasn't with him."
"I suppose you have always lived in New York?"
"No; I lived for several years in Australia. Tim was in the same
business there. I came on with him a year or more since."
"Do you think you ever lived in New York before?"
"Yes; Tim has told me that I was born in New York."
"I understand that you have left Tim now?"
"Yes."
"Why, may I ask?"
"Because I didn't like the business he was in. But I liked it better
than the one he wanted me to go into."
"What was that?"
"Burglary."
The young reporter started in surprise.
"Well," he said, "this is a new tack for Tim. However, I never looked
upon him as a man who would shrink from any violation of the laws,
except murder. I don't think he would do that."
"No; Tim isn't quite so bad. He isn't the worst man alive, though he
is a rather hard customer. It was his wanting me to enter a house on
Madison Avenue and open a desk that led to me going on this trip."
"Tell me about it, if you don't mind."
Thus invited, Dodger told his story to Randolph Leslie, keeping
nothing back.
He finished by showing him the letter he had found in the valise.
Chapter XXIII.
Through The Golden Gate.
"Well, this is certainly a remarkable letter," said the reporter, as
he handed it back to Dodger. "I am at a loss to understand the
interest which this man appears to feel in you."
"I look upon him as my enemy," said Dodger. "But an enemy doesn't
spend so much money upon another as he has."
"Unless he has object in it," amended Leslie, shrewdly. "Do you know
of any connection this man has with you?"
"No; I never heard of him until I entered his house," and Dodger
flushed as he thought that his entrance into the mansion on Madison
Avenue had been as a burglar.
"It seems to me that he knows more about you than you do about him. It
also seems to me that he is anxious to get you out of New York, the
farther the better."
"But what harm could I do him in New York?" asked Dodger, puzzled.
"That is the question which I cannot answer. You say he was
instrumental in getting his Cousin Florence out of the house?"
"Yes; he wanted to marry her."
"And she would not consent?"
"No; I think she hates him."
"How old is she?"
"Seventeen."
"And he?"
"He looks about thirty-five."
"The difference in years isn't great enough to constitute an obstacle,
provided she loved him. I am thirty years old."
"I am sure Florence would prefer you to Curtis Waring."
"Don't flatter me. I am vain enough already. The time may come when I
may ask your good offices with Miss Linden. What I was about to ask
was: Is Miss Linden also entitled to a share in her uncle's estate?"
"She is just as nearly related to him as Mr. Waring."
"Then I can understand his wishing to get rid of her. I don't know why
he should want to send you to a distance. I suppose there can't be any
relationship?"
"Is it likely that I--a poor street boy--should be related to a rich
man like Mr. Linden?"
"It doesn't seem likely, I admit," said Leslie, musingly. "Well, I
suppose," he continued, after a pause, "there is no use in speculating
about the matter now. The important point is, what are we to do with
ourselves during the four or five months we must spend on shipboard?"
"I don't know what I can do," said Dodger. "I can't sell papers, and I
can't smash baggage."
"And there appears to be no need of your doing either, as you are
provided with board and lodging till we reach shore."
"That seems strange to me, for I've always had to hustle for a
living."
"I was about to make a proposal to you. But first let me ask you about
your education. I suppose you are not an accomplished scholar?"
"I'm about as ignorant as they make 'em," answered Dodger, drolly.
"Tim was afraid to send me to college, for fear I'd get to know too
much for my business."
"Tending bar does not require an acquaintance with Latin and Greek.
Would you like to know more?"
"I wish I did. Florence was teaching me nights when I was in New York.
Now I've got to give up all that."
"Not necessarily. Listen to me, Arthur. Before I came to New York to
go into journalism, I taught school for two years; and I believe I may
say that I was tolerably successful. Suppose I take you as a scholar?"
"I should like it very much, Mr. Leslie, but I'm afraid I haven't got
money enough to pay you."
"That is true. You will need all the money you have when you land in
California. Twenty-five dollars won't go far--still you have all the
money that is necessary, for I do not intend to charge you anything."
"You are very kind to me, Mr. Leslie, considerin' you don't know me,"
said Dodger, gratefully.
"On the contrary, I think I know you very well. But about the kindness
--my motives are somewhat mixed. I should like to do you a service,
but I should also like to find employment for myself that will make
the days less monotonous. I have a collection of books in my trunk,
enough for our needs, and if you will agree we will commence our
studies to-morrow."
"I should like it very much. I'd like to show Florence, when I see
her, that I have improved. Till I saw her I didn't care much, but when
I talk with her I feel awfully ignorant."
"In four months a great deal can be accomplished. I don't know how
quick you are to learn. After we have had one or two lessons I can
judge better."
Two days later Mr. Leslie pronounced his opinion, and a favorable one.
"You have not exaggerated your ignorance," he said to Dodger. "You
have a great deal to learn, but on the other hand you are quick, have
a retentive memory, and are very anxious to learn. I shall make
something of you."
"I learn faster with you than with Florence," said Dodger.
"Probably she would succeed better with girls, but I hold that a male
teacher is better for boys. How long are you willing to study every
day?"
"As long as you think best."
"Then we will say from two to three hours. I think you have talent for
arithmetic. I don't expect to make you fit for a bookkeeper, but I
hope to make you equal to most office boys by the time we reach San
Francisco. What do you intend to do in California?"
"I don't know. I should like to go back to New York, but I shall not
have money enough."
"No; twenty-five dollars would go but a little way toward the passage.
Evidently Mr. Waring did not intend to have you return, or he would
have provided you with more."
"That is just why I should like to go back. I am afraid he will do
some harm to Florence."
"And you would like to be on hand to protect her?"
"Yes."
Randolph Leslie smiled.
"You seem to take a great deal of interest in Florence, if I may make
as free with her name as you do."
"Yes; I do, Mr. Leslie."
"If you were only a little older I might suspect the nature of that
interest."
"I am older than she is."
"In years, yes. But a young lady of seventeen, brought up as she has
been, is older by years than a boy of eighteen. I don't think you need
apprehend any harm to Miss Linden, except that Mr. Waring may cheat
her out of her rightful share of the inheritance. Is her uncle in good
health?"
"No, sir; he is a very feeble man."
"Is he an old man?"
"Not so very old. I don't believe he is over sixty."
Really Mr. Linden was but fifty-four, but, being a confirmed invalid,
he looked older.
"Should you say that he was likely to live very long?"
"No," answered Dodger. "He looks as if you could knock him over with a
feather. Besides, I've heard Florence say that she was afraid her
uncle could not live long."
"Probably Curtis Waring is counting upon this. If he can keep Florence
and her uncle apart for a few months, Mr. Linden will die, and he will
inherit the whole estate. What is this will he speaks of in the letter
you showed me?"
"I don't know, sir."
"Whatever the provisions are, it is evident that he thinks it
important to get it into his possession. If favorable to him, he will
keep it carefully. If unfavorable, I think a man like him would not
hesitate to suppress it."
"No doubt you are right, sir. I don't know much about wills," said
Dodger.
"No; I suppose not. You never made any, I suppose," remarked the
reporter, with a smile.
"I never had nothing to leave," said Dodger.
"Anything would be a better expression. As your tutor I feel it
incumbent upon me to correct your grammar."
"I wish you would, Mr. Leslie. What do you mean to do when you get to
San Francisco?"
"I shall seek employment on one of the San Farncisco daily papers. Six
months or a year so spent will restore my health, and enable me to
live without drawing upon my moderate savings."
"I expect I shall have to work, too, to get money to take me back to
New York."
And now we must ask the reader to imagine four months and one week
passed.
There had been favorable weather on the whole, and the voyage was
unusually short.
Dodger and the reporter stood on deck, and with eager interest watched
the passage through the Golden Gate. A little later and the queen city
of the Pacific came in sight, crowning the hill on which a part of the
city is built, with the vast Palace Hotel a conspicuous object in the
foreground.
Chapter XXIV.
Florence In Suspense.
We must now return to New York to Dodger's old home.
When he did not return at the usual hour, neither Florence nor Mrs.
O'Keefe was particularly disturbed.
It was thought that he had gone on some errand of unusual length, and
would return an hour or two late.
Eight o'clock came, the hour at which the boy was accustomed to repair
to Florence's room to study, and still he didn't make his appearance.
"Dodger's late this evening, Mrs. O'Keefe," said Florence, going up to
the room of her landlady.
"Shure he is. It's likely he's gone to Brooklyn or up to Harlem, wid a
bundle. He'll be comin' in soon."
"I hope he will be well paid for the errand, since it keeps him so
long."
"I hope so, too, Florence, for he's a good boy, is Dodger. Did I tell
you how he served the rapscallion that tried to stale my apples the
other day?"
"No; I would like to hear it."
"A big, black-bearded man came along, and asked me for an apple.
"'You can have one for two pennies,' says I.
"'But I haven't got them,' says he.
"'Then you must go widout it,' says I.
"'We'll see about that,' says he.
"And what do you think?--the fellow picked out one of my biggest
apples, and was walkin' away! That made me mad.
"'Come back, you thafe of the worruld!' says I.
"'Silence, you old hag!' says he.
"Actilly he called me an old hag! I wanted to go after him, but there
was two hoodlums hangin' round, and I knew they'd carry off some of my
apples, when, just as I was at my wits' end, Dodger came round the
corner.
"'Dodger,' I screamed, 'go after that man! He's taken one of my
apples, widout lave or license!'
"Upon that, Dodger, brave as a lion, walked up to the man, and, says
