"Oh, there's nothing more. He is simply rector of St. Michael's at
Gormanville; and there is not the slightest proof that any young lady
had a hand in getting him there."
"As if I cared in the least whether she had! I suppose you will allow
that she had something to do with getting engaged to him, and that is
the great matter."
"Yes, I must allow that, if we are to suppose that young ladies have
anything to do with young men getting engaged to them; it doesn't seem
exactly delicate. But the novel phase of this great matter is the
position of the young lady's mother in regard to it. From what I could
make out she consents to the engagement of her daughter, but she don't
and won't consent to her marriage." My wife glared at me with so little
speculation in her eyes that I felt obliged to disclaim all
responsibility for the fact I had reported. "Thou canst not say I did
it. They did it, and Miss Bentley, if any one, is to blame. It seems,
from what Glendenning says, that the young lady and he wrote to each
other while she was abroad, and that they became engaged by letter. Then
the affair was broken off because of her mother's opposition; but since
they have met at Gormanville, the engagement has been renewed. So much
they've managed against the old lady's will, but apparently on condition
that they won't get married till she says."
"Nonsense! How could she stop them?"
"She couldn't, I dare say, by any of the old romantic methods of a
convent or disinheritance; but she is an invalid; she wants to keep her
daughter with her, and she avails with the girl's conscience by being
simply dependent and obstructive. The young people have carried their
engagement through, and now such hope as they have is fixed upon her
finally yielding in the matter of their marriage, though Glendenning was
obliged to confess that there was no sign of her doing so. They
agree--Miss Bentley and he--that they cannot get married as they got
engaged, in spite of her mother--it would be unclerical if it wouldn't
be unfilial--and they simply have to bide their time."
My wife asked abruptly, "How many chambers are there in the Conwell
place?"
I said, and then she asked, "Is there a windmill or a force-pump?" I
answered proudly that in Gormanville there was town water, but that if
this should give out there were both a windmill and a force-pump on the
Conwell place.
"It is very complete," she sighed, as if this had removed all hope from
her, and she added, "I suppose we had better take it."
V.
We certainly did not take it for the sake of being near the Bentleys,
neither of whom had given us particular reason to desire their further
acquaintance, though the young lady had agreeably modified herself when
apart from her mother. In fact, we went to Gormanville because it was an
exceptional chance to get a beautiful place for a very little money,
where we could go early and stay late. But no sooner had we acted from
this quite personal, not to say selfish, motive than we were rewarded
with the sweetest overtures of neighborliness by the Bentleys. They
waited, of course, till we were settled in our house before they came to
call upon Mrs. March, but they had been preceded by several hospitable
offerings from their garden, their dairy, and their hen-house, which
were very welcome in the days of our first uncertainty as to
trades-people. We analyzed this hospitality as an effect of that sort of
nature in Mrs. Bentley which can equally assert its superiority by
blessing or banning. Evidently, since chance had again thrown us in her
way, she would not go out of it to be offensive, but would continue in
it, and make the best of us.
No doubt Glendenning had talked us into the Bentleys; and this my wife
said she hated most of all; for we should have to live up to the notion
of us imparted by a young man from the impressions of the moment when he
saw us purple in the light of his dawning love. In justice to
Glendenning, however, I must say that he did nothing, by a show of his
own assiduities, to urge us upon the Bentleys after we came to
Gormanville. If we had not felt so sure of him, we might have thought he
was keeping his regard for us a little too modestly in the background.
He made us one cool little call, the evening of our arrival, in which he
had the effect of anxiety to get away as soon as possible; and after
that we saw him no more until he came with Miss Bentley and her mother a
week later. His forbearance was all the more remarkable because his
church and his rectory were just across the street from the Conwell
place, at the corner of another street, where we could see their wooden
gothic in the cold shadow of the maples with which the green in front of
them was planted.
During all that time Glendenning's personal elevation remained invisible
to us, and we began to wonder if he were not that most lamentable of
fellow-creatures, a clerical snob. I am not sure still that he might not
have been so in some degree, there was such a mixture of joy that was
almost abject in his genuine affection for us when Mrs. Bentley openly
approved us on her first visit. I dare say he would not have quite
abandoned us in any case; but he must have felt responsible for us, and
it must have been such a load off him when she took that turn with us.
She called in the afternoon, and the young people dropped in again the
same evening, and took the trouble to win back our simple hearts. That
is, Miss Bentley showed herself again as frank and sweet as she had been
on the boat when she joined my wife after dinner and left her mother in
her state-room. Glendenning was again the Glendenning of our first
meeting, and something more. He fearlessly led the way to intimacies of
feeling with an expansion uncommon even in an accepted lover, and we
made our conclusions that however subject he might be to his
indefinitely future mother-in-law, he would not be at all so to his
wife, if she could help it. He took the lead, but because she gave it
him; and she displayed an aptness for conjugal submissiveness which
almost amounted to genius. Whenever she spoke to either of us, it was
with one eye on him to see if he liked what she was saying. It was so
perfect that I doubted if it could last; but my wife said a girl like
that could keep it up till she dropped. I have never been sure that she
liked us as well as he did; I think it was part of her intense loyalty
to seem to like us a great deal more.
She was deeply in love, and nothing but her ladylike breeding kept her
from being openly fond. I figured her in a sort of impassioned
incandescence, such as only a pure and perhaps cold nature could burn
into; and I amused myself a little with the sense of Glendenning's
apparent inadequacy. Sweet he was, and admirably gentle and fine; he had
an unfailing good sense, and a very ready wisdom, as I grew more and
more to perceive. But he was an inch or so shorter than Miss Bentley,
and in his sunny blondness, with his golden red beard and hair, and his
pinkish complexion, he wanted still more the effect of an emotional
equality with her. He was very handsome, with features excellently
regular; his smile was celestially beautiful; innocent gay lights danced
in his blue eyes, through lashes and under brows that were a lighter
blond than his beard and hair.
VI.
The next morning, which was of a Saturday, when I did not go to town, he
came over to us again from the shadow of his sombre maples, and fell
simply and naturally into talk about his engagement. He was much fuller
in my wife's presence than he had been with me alone, and told us the
hopes he had of Mrs. Bentley's yielding within a reasonable time. He
seemed to gather encouragement from the sort of perspective he got the
affair into by putting it before us, and finding her dissent to her
daughter's marriage so ridiculous in our eyes after her consent to her
engagement that a woman of her great good sense evidently could not
persist in it.
"There is no personal objection to myself," he said, with a modest
satisfaction. "In fact, I think she really likes me, and only dislikes
my engagement to Edith. But she knows that Edith is incapable of
marrying against her mother's will, or I of wishing her to do so; though
there is nothing else to prevent us."
My wife allowed herself to say, "Isn't it rather cruel of her?"
"Why, no, not altogether; or not so much so as it might be in different
circumstances. I make every allowance for her. In the first place, she
is a great sufferer."
"Yes, I know," my wife relented.
"She suffers terribly from asthma. I don't suppose she has lain down in
bed for ten years. She sleeps in an easy-chair, and she's never quite
free from her trouble; when there's a paroxysm of the disease, her
anguish is frightful. I've never seen it, of course, but I have heard
it; you hear it all through the house. Edith has the constant care of
her. Her mother has to be perpetually moved and shifted in her chair,
and Edith does this for her; she will let no one else come near her;
Edith must look to the ventilation, and burn the pastilles which help
her to breathe. She depends upon her every instant." He had grown very
solemn in voice and face, and he now said, "When I think of what she
endures, it seems to me that it is I who am cruel even to dream of
taking her daughter from her."
"Yes," my wife assented.
"But there is really no present question of that We are very happy as it
is. We can wait, and wait willingly till Mrs. Bentley wishes us to wait
no longer; or--"
He stopped, and we were both aware of something in his mind which he put
from him. He became a little pale, and sat looking very grave. Then he
rose. "I don't know whether to say how welcome you would be at St.
Michael's to-morrow, for you may not be--"
"We are Unitarians, too," said Mrs. March. "But we are coming to hear
you."
"I am glad you are coming to church," said Glendenning, putting away
the personal tribute implied with a gentle dignity that became him.
VII.
We waited a discreet time before returning the call of the Bentley
ladies, but not so long as to seem conscious. In fact, we had been
softened towards Mrs. Bentley by what Glendenning told us of her
suffering, and we were disposed to forgive a great deal of patronage and
superiority to her asthma; they were not part of the disease, but still
they were somehow to be considered with reference to it in her case.
We were admitted by the maid, who came running down the hall stairway,
with a preoccupied air, to the open door where we stood waiting. There
were two great syringa-bushes on each hand close to the portal, which
were in full flower, and which flung their sweetness through the doorway
and the windows; but when we found ourselves in the dim old-fashioned
parlor, we were aware of this odor meeting and mixing with another which
descended from the floor above--the smell of some medicated pastille.
There was a sound of anxious steps overhead, and a hurried closing of
doors, with the mechanical sound of labored breathing.
"We have come at a bad time," I suggested.
"Yes, why did they let us in?" cried my wife in an anguish of
compassion and vexation. She repeated her question to Miss Bentley, who
came down almost immediately, looking pale, indeed, but steady, and
making a brave show of welcome.
"My mother would have wished it," she said, "and she sent me as soon as
she knew who it was. You mustn't be distressed," she entreated, with a
pathetic smile. "It's really a kind of relief to her; anything is that
takes her mind off herself for a moment. She will be so sorry to miss
you, and you must come again as soon as you can."
"Oh, we will, we will!" cried my wife, in nothing less than a passion of
meekness; and Miss Bentley went on to comfort her.
"It's dreadful, of course, but it isn't as bad as it sounds, and it
isn't nearly so bad as it looks. She is used to it, and there is a great
deal in that. Oh, don't go!" she begged, at a movement Mrs. March made
to rise. "The doctor is with her just now, and I'm not needed. It will
be kind if you'll stay; it's a relief to be out of the room with a good
excuse!" She even laughed a little as she said this; she went on to lead
the talk away from what was so intensely in our minds, and presently I
heard her and my wife speaking of other things. The power to do this is
from some heroic quality in women's minds that we do not credit them
with; we think it their volatility, and I dare say I thought myself much
better, or at least more serious in my make, because I could not follow
them, and did not lose one of those hoarse gasps of the sufferer
overhead. Occasionally there came a stifling cry that made me jump,
inwardly if not outwardly, but those women had their drama to play, and
they played it to the end.
Miss Bentley came hospitably to the door with us, and waited there till
she thought we could not see her turn and run swiftly up-stairs.
"Why did you stay, my dear?" I groaned. "I felt as if I were
personally smothering Mrs. Bentley every moment we were there."
"I had to do it. She wished it, and, as she said, it was a relief to
have us there, though she was wishing us at the ends of the earth all
the time. But what a ghastly life!"
"Yes; and can you wonder that the poor woman doesn't want to give her
up, to lose the help and comfort she gets from her? It's a wicked thing
for that girl to think of marrying."
"What are you talking about, Basil? It's a wicked thing for her not to
think of it! She is wearing her life out, tearing it out, and she
isn't doing her mother a bit of good. Her mother would be just as well,
and better, with a good strong nurse, who could lift her this way and
that, and change her about, without feeling her heart-strings wrung at
every gasp, as that poor child must. Oh, I wish Glendenning was man
enough to make her run off with him, and get married, in spite of
everything. But, of course, that's impossible--for a clergyman! And her
sacrifice began so long ago that it's become part of her life, and
she'll simply have to keep on."
VIII.
When her attack passed off, Mrs. Bentley sent and begged my wife to come
again and see her. She went without me, while I was in town, but she was
so circumstantial in her report of her visit, when I came home, that I
never felt quite sure I had not been present. What most interested us
both was the extreme independence which the mother and daughter showed
beyond a certain point, and the daughter's great frankness in expressing
her difference of feeling. We had already had some hint of this, the
first day we met her, and we were not surprised at it now, my wife at
first hand, or I at second hand. Mrs. Bentley opened the way for her
daughter by saying that the worst of sickness was that it made one such
an affliction to others. She lived in an atmosphere of devotion, she
said, but her suffering left her so little of life that she could not
help clinging selfishly to everything that remained.
My wife perceived that this was meant for Miss Bentley, though it was
spoken to herself; and Miss Bentley seemed to take the same view of the
fact. She said: "We needn't use any circumlocution with Mrs. March,
mother. She knows just how the affair stands. You can say whatever you
wish, though I don't know why you should wish to say anything. You have
made your own terms with us, and we are keeping them to the letter. What
more can you ask? Do you want me to break with Mr. Glendenning? I will
do that too, if you ask it. You have got everything but that, and you
can have that at any time. But Arthur and I are perfectly satisfied as
it is, and we can wait as long as you wish us to wait."
Her mother said: "I'm not allowed to forget that for a single hour," and
Miss Bentley said, "I never remind you of it unless you make me, mother.
You may be thinking of it all the time, but it isn't because of anything
I say."
"Or that you do?" asked Mrs. Bentley; and her daughter answered, "I
can't help existing, of course."
My wife broke off from the account she was giving me of her visit: "You
can imagine how pleasant all this was for me, Basil, and how anxious I
was to prolong my call!"
"Well," I returned, "there were compensations. It was extremely
interesting; it was life. You can't deny that, my dear."
"It was more like death. Several times I was on the point of going, but
you know when there's been a painful scene you feel so sorry for the
people who've made it that you can't bear to leave them to themselves. I
did get up to go, once, in mere self-defence, but they both urged me to
stay, and I couldn't help staying till they could talk of other things.
But now tell me what you think of it all. Which should your feeling be
with the most? That is what I want to get at before I tell you mine."
"Which side was I on when we talked about them last?"
"Oh, when did we talk about them last? We are always talking about
them! I am getting no good of the summer at all. I shall go home in the
fall more jaded and worn out than when I came. To think that we should
have this beautiful place, where we could be so happy and comfortable,
if it were not for having this abnormal situation under our nose and
eyes all the time!"
"Abnormal? I don't call it abnormal," I began, and I was sensible of my
wife's thoughts leaving her own injuries for my point of view so swiftly
that I could almost hear them whir.
"Not abnormal!" she gasped.
"No; only too natural. Isn't it perfectly natural for an invalid like
that to want to keep her daughter with her; and isn't it perfectly
natural for a daughter, with a New England sense of duty, to yield to
her wish? You might say that she could get married and live at home, and
then she and Glendenning could both devote themselves--"
"No, no," my wife broke in, "that wouldn't do. Marriage is marriage; and
it puts the husband and wife with each other first; when it doesn't,
it's a miserable mockery."
"Even when there's a sick mother in the case?"
"A thousand sick mothers wouldn't alter the case. And that's what they
all three instinctively know, and they're doing the only thing they can
do."
"Then I don't see what we're complaining of."
"Complaining of? We're complaining of its being all wrong and--romantic.
Her mother has asked more than she had any right to ask, and Miss
Bentley has tried to do more than she can perform, and that has made
them hate each other."
"Should you say hate, quite?"
"It must come to that, if Mrs. Bentley lives."
"Then let us hope she--"
"My dear!" cried Mrs. March, warningly.
"Oh, come, now!" I retorted. "Do you mean to say that you haven't
thought how very much it would simplify the situation if--"
"Of course I have! And that is the wicked part of it. It's that that is
wearing me out. It's perfectly hideous!"
"Well, fortunately we're not actively concerned in the affair, and we
needn't take any measures in regard to it. We are mere spectators, and
as I see it the situation is not only inevitable for Mrs. Bentley, but
it has a sort of heroic propriety for Miss Bentley."
"And Glendenning?"
"Oh, Glendenning isn't provided for in my scheme."
"Then I can tell you that your scheme, Basil, is worse than worthless."
"I didn't brag of it, my dear," I said, meekly enough. "I'm sorry for
him, but I can't help him. He must provide for himself out of his
religion."
IX.
It was, indeed, a trying summer for our emotions, torn as we were
between our pity for Mrs. Bentley and our compassion for her daughter.
We had no repose, except when we centred our sympathies upon
Glendenning, whom we could yearn over in tender regret without doing any
one else wrong, or even criticising another. He was our great stay in
that respect, and though a mere external witness might have thought that
he had the easiest part, we who knew his gentle and affectionate nature
could not but feel for him. We never concealed from ourselves certain
foibles of his; I have hinted at one, and we should have liked it better
if he had not been so sensible of the honor, from a worldly point, of
being engaged to Miss Bentley. But this was a very innocent vanity, and
he would have been willing to suffer for her mother and for herself, if
she had let him. I have tried to insinuate how she would not let him,
but freed him as much as possible from the stress of the situation, and
assumed for him a mastery, a primacy, which he would never have assumed
for himself. We thought this very pretty of her, and in fact she was
capable of pretty things. What was hard and arrogant in her, and she was
not without something of the kind at times, was like her mother; but
even she, poor soul, had her good points, as I have attempted to
suggest. We used to dwell upon them, when our talk with Glendenning grew
confidential, as it was apt to do; for it seemed to console him to
realize that her daughter and he were making their sacrifice to a not
wholly unamiable person.
He confided equally in my wife and myself, but there were times when I
think he rather preferred the counsel of a man friend. Once when we had
gone a walk into the country, which around Gormanville is of the
pathetic Mid-Massachusetts loveliness and poverty, we sat down in a
hillside orchard to rest, and he began abruptly to talk of his affair.
Sometimes, he said, he felt that it was all an error, and he could not
rid himself of the fear that an error persisted in was a wrong, and
therefore a species of sin.
"That is very interesting," I said. "I wonder if there is anything in
it? At first blush it looks so logical; but is it? Or are you simply
getting morbid? What is the error? What is your error?"
"You know," he said, with a gentle refusal of my willingness to make
light of his trouble. "It is surely an error to allow a woman to give
her word when she can promise nothing more, and to let her hold herself
to it."
I could have told him that I did not think the error in this case was
altogether or mainly his, or the persistence in it; for it had seemed to
me from the beginning that the love between him and Miss Bentley was
fully as much her affair as his, and that quite within the bounds of
maidenly modesty she showed herself as passionately true to their
plighted troth. But of course this would not do, and I had to be content
with the ironical suggestion that he might try offering to release Miss
Bentley.
"Don't laugh at me," he implored, and I confess his tone would have
taken from me any heart to do so.
"My dear fellow," I said, "I see your point. But don't you think you are
quite needlessly adding to your affliction by pressing it? You two are
in the position which isn't at all uncommon with engaged people, of
having to wait upon exterior circumstances before you get married.
Suppose you were prevented by poverty, as often happens? It would be a
hardship as it is now; but in that case would your engagement be any
less an error than it is now? I don't think it would, and I don't
believe you think so either."
"In that case we should not be opposing our wills to the will of some
one else, who has a better claim to her daughter's allegiance than I
have. It seems to me that our error was in letting her mother consent to
our engagement if she would not or could not consent to our marriage.
When it came to that we ought both to have had the strength to say that
then there should be no engagement. It was my place to do that. I could
have prevented the error which I can't undo."
"I don't see how it could have been easier to prevent than to undo your
error. I don't admit it's an error, but I call it so because you do.
After all, an engagement is nothing but an open confession between two
people that they are in love with each other and wish to marry. There
need be no sort of pledge or promise to make the engagement binding, if
there is love. It's the love that binds."
"Yes."
"It bound you from your first acknowledgment of it, and unless you could
deny your love now, or hereafter, it must always bind you. If you own
that you still love each other, you are still engaged, no matter how
much you release each other. Could you think of loving her and marrying
some one else? Could she love you and marry another? There isn't any
error, unless you've mistaken your feeling for each other. If you have,
I should decidedly say you couldn't break your engagement too soon. In
fact, there wouldn't be any real engagement to break."
"Of course you are right," said Glendenning, but not so strenuously as
he might.
I had a feeling that he had not put forward the main cause of his
unhappiness, though he had given a true cause; that he had made some
lesser sense of wrong stand for a greater, as people often do in
confessing themselves; and I was not surprised when he presently added:
"It is not merely the fact that she is bound in that way, and that her
young life is passing in this sort of hopeless patience, but
that--that--I don't know how to put the ugly and wicked thing into
words, but I assure you that sometimes when I think--when I'm aware that
I know--Ah, I can't say it!"
"I fancy I understand what you mean, my dear boy," I said, and in the
right of my ten years' seniority I put my hand caressingly on his
shoulder, "and you are no more guilty than I am in knowing that if Mrs.
Bentley were not in the way there would be no obstacle to your
happiness."
"But such a cognition is of hell," he cried, and he let his face fall
into his hands and sobbed heartrendingly.
"Yes," I said, "such a cognition is of hell; you are quite right. So are
all evil concepts and knowledges; but so long as they are merely things
of our intelligence, they are no part of us, and we are not guilty of
them."
"No; I trust not, I trust not," he returned, and I let him sob his
trouble out before I spoke again; and then I began with a laugh of
unfeigned gayety. Something that my wife had hinted in one of our talks
about the lovers freakishly presented itself to my mind, and I said,
"There is a way, and a very practical way, to put an end to the anomaly
you feel in an engagement which doesn't imply a marriage."
"And what is that?" he asked, not very hopefully; but he dried his eyes
and calmed himself.
"Well, speaking after the manner of men, you might run off with Miss
Bentley."
All the blood in his body flushed into his face. "Don't!" he gasped, and
I divined that what I had said must have been in his thoughts before,
and I laughed again. "It wouldn't do," he added, piteously. "The
scandal--I am a clergyman, and my parish--"
I perceived that no moral scruple presented itself to him; when it came
to the point, he was simply and naturally a lover, like any other man;
and I persisted: "It would only be a seven days' wonder. I never heard
of a clergyman's running away to be married; but they must have
sometimes done it. Come, I don't believe you'd have to plead hard with
Miss Bentley, and Mrs. March and I will aid and abet you to the limit of
our small ability. I'm sure that if I wrap up warm against the night
air, she will let me go and help you hold the rope-ladder taut."
X.
It was not very reverent to his cloth, or his recent tragical mood, but
Glendenning was not offended; he laughed with a sheepish pleasure, and
that evening he came with Miss Bentley to call upon us. The visit passed
without unusual confidences until they rose to go, when she said
abruptly to me: "I feel that we both owe you a great deal, Mr. March.
Arthur has been telling me of your talk this afternoon, and I think that
what you said was all so wise and true! I don't mean," she added, "your
suggestion about putting an end to the anomaly!" and she and Glendenning
both laughed.
My wife said, "That was very wicked, and I have scolded him for thinking
of such a thing." She had, indeed, forgotten that she had put it in my
head, and made me wholly responsible for it.
"Then you must scold me too a little, Mrs. March," said the girl, "for
I've sometimes wondered if I couldn't work Arthur up to the point of
making me run away with him," which was a joke that wonderfully amused
us all.
I said, "I shouldn't think it would be so difficult;" and she retorted:
"Oh, you've no idea how obdurate clergymen are;" and then she went on,
seriously, to thank me for talking Glendenning out of his morbid mood.
With the frankness sometimes characteristic of her she said that if he
had released her, it would have made no difference--she should still
have felt herself bound to him; and until he should tell her that he no
longer cared for her, she should feel that he was bound to her. I saw no
great originality in this reproduction of my own ideas. But when Miss
Bentley added that she believed her mother herself would be shocked and
disappointed if they were to give each other up, I was aware of being in
the presence of a curious psychological fact. I so wholly lost myself in
the inquiry it invited that I let the talk flow on round me unheeded
while I questioned whether Mrs. Bentley did not derive a satisfaction
from her own and her daughter's mutual opposition which she could never
have enjoyed from their perfect agreement. She had made a certain
concession in consenting to the engagement, and this justified her to
herself in refusing her consent to the marriage, while the ingratitude
of the young people in not being content with what she had done formed a
grievance of constant avail with a lady of her temperament. From what
Miss Bentley let fall, half seriously, half jokingly, as well as what I
observed, I divined a not unnatural effect of the strained relations
between her and her mother. She concentrated whatever resentment she
felt upon Miss Bentley, insomuch that it seemed as though she might
altogether have withdrawn her opposition if it had been a question
merely of Glendenning's marriage. So far from disliking him, she was
rather fond of him, and she had no apparent objection to him except as
her daughter's husband. It had not always been so; at first she had an
active rancor against him; but this had gradually yielded to his
invincible goodness and sweetness.
"Who could hold out against him?" his betrothed demanded, fondly, when
these facts had been more or less expressed to us; and it was not the
first time that her love had seemed more explicit than his. He smiled
round upon her, pressing the hand she put in his arm; for she asked this
when they stood on our threshold ready to go, and then he glanced at us
with eyes that fell bashfully from ours.
"Oh, of course it will come right in time," said my wife when they were
gone, and I agreed that they need only have patience. We had all talked
ourselves into a cheerful frame concerning the affair; we had seen it in
its amusing aspects, and laughed about it; and that seemed almost in
itself to dispose of Mrs. Bentley's opposition. My wife and I decided
that this could not long continue; that by-and-by she would become tired
of it, and this would happen all the sooner if the lovers submitted
absolutely, and did nothing to remind her of their submission.
XI.
The Conwells came home from Europe the next summer, and we did not go
again to Gormanville. But from time to time we heard of the Bentleys,
and we heard to our great amaze that there was no change in the
situation, as concerned Miss Bentley and Glendenning. I think that later
it would have surprised us if we had learned that there was a change.
Their lives all seemed to have adjusted themselves to the conditions,
and we who were mere spectators came at last to feel nothing abnormal in
them.
Now and then we saw Glendenning, and now and then Miss Bentley came to
call upon Mrs. March, when she was in town. Her mother had given up her
Boston house, and they lived the whole year round at Gormanville, where
the air was good for Mrs. Bentley without her apparently being the
better for it; again, we heard in a roundabout way that their
circumstances were not so fortunate as they had been, and that they had
given up their Boston house partly from motives of economy.
There was no reason why our intimacy with the lovers' affairs should
continue, and it did not. Miss Bentley made mention of Glendenning, when
my wife saw her, with what Mrs. March decided to be an abiding fealty,
but without offer of confidence; and Glendenning, when we happened to
meet at rare intervals, did not invite me to more than formal inquiry
concerning the well-being of Mrs. Bentley and her daughter.
He was undoubtedly getting older, and he looked it. He was one of those
gentle natures which put on fat, not from self-indulgence, but from want
of resisting force, and the clerical waistcoat that buttoned black to
his throat swayed decidedly beyond a straight line at his waist. His
red-gold hair was getting thin, and though he wore it cut close all
round, it showed thinner on the crown than on the temples, and his pale
eyebrows were waning. He had a settled patience of look which would have
been a sadness, if there had not been mixed with it an air of resolute
cheerfulness. I am not sure that this kept it from being sad, either.
Miss Bentley, on her part, was no longer the young girl she was when we
met on the Corinthian. She must then have been about twenty, and she
was now twenty-six, but she looked thirty. Dark people show their age
early, and she showed hers in cheeks that grew thinner if not paler, and
in a purple shadow under her fine eyes. The parting of her black hair
was wider than it once was, and she wore it smooth in apparent disdain
of those arts of fluffing and fringing which give an air of vivacity, if
not of youth. I should say she had always been a serious girl, and now
she showed the effect of a life that could not have been gay for any
one.
The lovers promised themselves, as we knew, that Mrs. Bentley would
relent, and abandon what was more like a whimsical caprice than a
settled wish. But as time wore on, and she gave no sign of changing, I
have wondered whether some change did not come upon them, which affected
them towards each other without affecting their constancy. I fancied
their youthful passion taking on the sad color of patience, and
contenting itself more and more with such friendly companionship as
their fate afforded; it became, without marriage, that affectionate
comradery which wedded love passes into with the lapse of as many years
as they had been plighted. "What," I once suggested to my wife, in a
very darkling mood--"what if they should gradually grow apart, and end
in rejoicing that they had never been allowed to join their lives?
Wouldn't that be rather Hawthornesque?"
"It wouldn't be true," said Mrs. March, "and I don't see why you should
put such a notion upon Hawthorne. If you can't be more cheerful about
it, Basil, I wish you wouldn't talk of the affair at all."
"Oh, I'm quite willing to be cheerful about it, my dear," I returned;
"and, if you like, we will fancy Mrs. Bentley coming round and ardently
wishing their marriage, and their gayly protesting that after having
given the matter a great deal of thought they had decided it would be
better not to marry, but to live on separately for their own sake, just
as they have been doing for hers so long. Wouldn't that be cheerful?"
Mrs. March said that if I wished to tease it was because I had no ideas
on the subject, and she would advise me to drop it. I did so, for the
better part of the evening, but I could not relinquish it altogether.
"Do you think," I asked, finally, "that any sort of character will stand
the test of such a prolonged engagement?"
"Why not? Very indifferent characters stand the test of marriage, and
that's indefinitely prolonged."
"Yes, but it's not indefinite itself. Marriage is something very
distinct and permanent; but such an engagement as this has no sort of
future. It is a mere motionless present, without the inspiration of a
common life, and with no hope of release from durance except through a
chance that it will be sorrow instead of joy. I should think they would
go to pieces under the strain."
"But as you see they don't, perhaps the strain isn't so great after
all."
"Ah," I confessed, "there is that wonderful adaptation of the human soul
to any circumstances. It's the one thing that makes me respect our
fallen nature. Fallen? It seems to me that we ought to call it our risen
nature; it has steadily mounted with the responsibility that Adam took
for it--or Eve."
"I don't see," said my wife, pursuing her momentary advantage, "why they
should not be getting as much pleasure or happiness out of life as most
married people. Engagements are supposed to be very joyous, though I
think they're rather exciting and restless times, as a general thing. If
they've settled down to being merely engaged, I've no doubt they've
decided to make the best of being merely engaged as long as her mother
lives."
"There is that view of it," I assented.
XII.
By the following autumn Glendenning had completed the seventh year of
his engagement to Miss Bentley, and I reminded my wife that this seemed
to be the scriptural length of a betrothal, as typified in the service
which Jacob rendered for Rachel. "But he had a prospective
father-in-law to deal with," I added, "and Glendenning a mother-in-law.
That may make a difference."
Mrs. March did not join me in the humorous view of the affair which I
took. She asked me if I had heard anything from Glendenning lately; if
that were the reason why I mentioned him.
"No," I said; "but I have some office business that will take me to
Gormanville to-morrow, and I did not know but you might like to go too,
and look the ground over, and see how much we have been suffering for
them unnecessarily." The fact was that we had now scarcely spoken of
Glendenning or the Bentleys for six months, and our minds were far too
full of our own affairs to be given more than very superficially to
theirs at any time. "We could both go as well as not," I suggested, "and
you could call upon the Bentleys while I looked after the company's
business."
"Thank you, Basil, I think I will let you go alone," said my wife. "But
try to find out how it is with them. Don't be so terribly
straightforward, and let it look as if that was what you came for. Don't
make the slightest advance towards their confidence. But do let them
open up if they will."
"My dear, you may depend upon my asking no leading questions whatever,
and I shall behave with far more discretion than if you were with me.
The danger is that I shall behave with too much, for I find that my
interest in their affair is very much faded. There is every probability
that unless Glendenning speaks of his engagement it won't be spoken of
at all."
This was putting it rather with the indifference of the past six months
than with the feeling of the present moment. Since I had known that I
was going to Gormanville, the interest I denied had renewed itself
pretty vividly for me, and I was intending not only to get everything
out of Glendenning that I decently could, but to give him as much good
advice as he would bear. I was going to urge him to move upon the
obstructive Mrs. Bentley with all his persuasive force, and I had
formulated some arguments for him which I thought he might use with
success. I did not tell my wife that this was my purpose, but all the
same I cherished it, and I gathered energy for the enforcement of my
views for Glendenning's happiness from the very dejection I was cast
into by the outward effect of the Gormanville streets. They were all in
a funeral blaze of their shade trees, which were mostly maples, but were
here and there a stretch of elms meeting in arches almost consciously
Gothic over the roadway; the maples were crimson and gold, and the elms
the pale yellow that they affect in the fall. A silence hung under their
sad splendors which I found deepen when I got into what the inhabitants
called the residential part. About the business centre there was some
stir, and here in the transaction of my affairs I was in the thick of it
for a while. Everybody remembered me in a pleasant way, and I had to
stop and pass the time of day, as they would have said, with a good many
whom I could not remember at once. It seemed to me that the maples in
front of St. Michael's rectory were rather more depressingly gaudy than
elsewhere in Gormanville; but I believe they were only thicker. I found
Glendenning in his study, and he was so far from being cast down by
their blazon that I thought him decidedly cheerfuller than when I saw
him last. He met me with what for him was ardor; and as he had asked me
most cordially about my family, I thought it fit to inquire how the
ladies at the Bentley place were.
"Why, very well, very well indeed," he answered, brightly. "It's very
odd, but Edith and I were talking about you all only last night, and
wishing we could see you again. Edith is most uncommonly well. During
the summer Mrs. Bentley had some rather severer attacks than usual, and
the care and anxiety told upon Edith, but since the cooler weather has
come she has picked up wonderfully." He did not say that Mrs. Bentley
had shared this gain, and I imagined that he had a reluctance to confess
she had not. He went on, "You're going to stay and spend the night with
me, aren't you?"
"No," I said; "I'm obliged to be off by the four-o'clock train. But if I
may be allowed to name the hospitality I could accept, I should say
luncheon."
"Good!" cried Glendenning, gayly. "Let us go and have it at the
Bentleys'."
"Far be it from me to say where you shall lunch me," I returned. "The
question isn't where, but when and how, with me."
He got his hat and stick, and as we started out of his door he began:
"You'll be a little surprised at the informality, perhaps, but I'm glad
you take it so easily. It makes it easier for me to explain that I'm
almost domesticated at the Bentley homestead; I come and go very much as
if it were my own house."
"My dear fellow," I said, "I'm not surprised at anything in your
relation to the Bentley homestead, and I won't vex you with any glad
inferences."
"Why," he returned, a little bashfully, "there's no explicit change. The
affair is just where it has been all along. But with the gradual decline
in Mrs. Bentley--I'm afraid you'll notice it--she seems rather to want
me about, and at times I'm able to be of use to Edith, and so--"
He stopped, and I said, "Exactly."
He went on: "Of course it's rather anomalous, and I oughtn't to let you
get the impression that she has actually conceded anything. But she
shows herself much more--er, shall I say?--affectionate, and I can't
help hoping there may be a change in her mood which will declare itself
in an attitude more favorable to--"
I said again, "Exactly," and Glendenning resumed:
"In spite of Edith's not having been quite so well as usual--she's
wonderfully well now--it's been a very happy summer with us, on account
of this change. It seems to have come about in a very natural way with
Mrs. Bentley, and out of a growing regard which I can't specifically
account for, as far as anything I've done is concerned."
"I think I could account for it," said I. "She must be a stonier-hearted
old lady than I imagine if she hasn't felt your goodness, all along,
Glendenning."
"Why, you're very kind," said the gentle creature. "You tempt me to
repeat what she said, at the only time she expressed a wish to have me
oftener with them: 'You've been very patient with a contrary old woman.
But I sha'n't make you wait much longer.'"
"Well, I think that was very encouraging, my dear fellow."
"Do you?" he asked, wistfully. "I thought so too, at first, but when I
told Edith she could not take that view of it. She said that she did not
believe her mother had changed her mind at all, and that she only meant
she was growing older."
"But, at any rate," I argued, "it was pleasant to have her make an open
recognition of your patience."
"Yes, that was pleasant," he said, cheerfully again, "And it was the
beginning of the kind of relation that I have held ever since to her
household. I am afraid I am there a good half of my time, and I believe
I dine there oftener than I do at home. I am quite on the footing of a
son, with her."
"There are some of the unregenerate, Glendenning," I made bold to say,
"who think it is your own fault that you weren't on the footing of a
son-in-law with her long ago. If you'll excuse my saying so, you have
been, if anything, too patient. It would have been far better for all if
you had taken the bit in your teeth six or seven years back--"
He drew a deep breath. "It wouldn't have done; it wouldn't have done!
Edith herself would never have consented to it."
"Did you ever ask her?"
"No," he said, innocently. "How could I?"
"And of course she could never ask you," I laughed. "My opinion is
that you have lost a great deal of time unnecessarily. I haven't the
least doubt that if you had brought a little pressure to bear with Mrs.
Bentley herself, it would have sufficed."
He looked at me with a kind of dismay, as if my words had carried
conviction, or had roused a conviction long dormant in his heart. "It
wouldn't have done," he gasped.
"It isn't too late to try, yet," I suggested.
"Yes, it's too late. We must wait now." He hastened to add, "Until she
yields entirely of herself."
He gave me a guilty glance when he drew near the Bentley place and we
saw a buggy standing at the gate. "The doctor!" he said, and he hurried
me up the walk to the door.
The door stood open and we heard the doctor saying to some one within:
"No, no, nothing organic at all, I assure you. One of the commonest
functional disturbances."
Miss Bentley appeared at the threshold with him, and she and Glendenning
had time to exchange a glance of anxiety and of smiling reassurance,
before she put out her hand in greeting to me, a very glad and cordial
greeting, apparently. The doctor and I shook hands, and he got himself
away with what I afterwards remembered as undue quickness, and left us
to Miss Bentley.
Glendenning was quite right about her looking better. She looked even
gay, and there was a vivid color in her checks such as I had not seen
there for many years; her lips were red, her eyes brilliant. Her face
was still perhaps as thin as ever, but it was indescribably younger.
I cannot say that there were the materials of a merrymaking amongst us,
exactly, and yet I remember that luncheon as rather a gay one, with some
laughing. I had not been till now in discovering that Miss Bentley had a
certain gift of humor, so shy and proud, if I may so express it, that it
would not show itself except upon long acquaintance, and I distinctly
perceived now that this enabled her to make light of a burden that might
otherwise have been intolerable. It qualified her to treat with
cheerfulness the grimness of her mother, which had certainly not grown
less since I saw her last, and to turn into something like a joke her
valetudinarian austerities of sentiment and opinion. She made a pleasant
mock of the amenities which passed between her mother and Glendenning,
whose gingerliness in the acceptance of the old lady's condescension
would, I confess, have been notably comical without this gloss. It was
perfectly evident that Mrs. Bentley's favor was bestowed with a mental
reservation, and conditioned upon his forming no expectations from it,
and poor Glendenning's eagerness to show that he took it upon these
terms was amusing as well as touching. I do not know how to express that
Miss Bentley contrived to eliminate herself from the affair, or to have
the effect of doing that, and to abandon it to them. I can only say that
she left them to be civil to each other, and that, except when she
recurred to them in playful sarcasm from time to time, she devoted
herself to me.
Evidently, Mrs. Bentley was very much worse than she had been; her
breathing was painfully labored. But if her daughter had any anxiety
about her condition, she concealed it most effectually from us. I
decided that she had perhaps been asking the doctor as to certain
symptoms that had alarmed her, and it was in the rebound from her
anxiety that her spirits had risen to the height I saw. Glendenning
seized the moment of her absence after luncheon, when she helped her
mother up to her room, to impart to me that this was his conclusion too.
He said that he had not seen her so cheerful for a long time, and when I
praised her in every way he basked in my appreciation of her as if it
had all been flattery for himself. She came back directly, and then I
had a chance to see what she might have been under happier stars. She
could not, at any moment, help showing herself an intellectual and
cultivated woman, but her opportunities to show herself a woman of rare
social gifts had been scanted by circumstances and perhaps by
conscience. It seemed to me that even in devoting herself to her mother
as she had always done she need not have enslaved herself, and that it
was in this excess her inherited puritanism came out. She might
sometimes openly rebel against her mother's domination, as my wife and I
had now and again seen her do; but inwardly she was almost passionately
submissive. Here I thought that Glendenning, if he had been a different
sort of man, might have been useful to her; he might have encouraged her
in a little wholesome selfishness, and enabled her to withhold sacrifice
where it was needless. But I am not sure; perhaps he would have made her
more unhappy, if he had attempted this; perhaps he was the only sort of
man whom, in her sense of his own utter unselfishness, she could have
given her heart to in perfect peace. She now talked brilliantly and
joyously to me, but all the time her eye sought his for his approval and
sympathy; he, for his part, was content to listen in a sort of beatific
pride in her which he did not, in his simple-hearted fondness, make any
effort to mask.
When we came away he made himself amends for his silence by a long hymn
in worship of her, and I listened with all the acquiescence possible. He
asked me questions--whether I had noticed this thing or that about her,
or remembered what she had said upon one point or another, and led up to
compliments of her which I was glad to pay. In the long ordeal they had
undergone they had at least kept all the freshness of their love.
XIII.
Glendenning and I went back to the rectory, and sat down in his study,
or rather he made me draw a chair to the open door, and sat down himself
on a step below the threshold. The day was one of autumnal warmth; the
haze of Indian summer blued the still air, and the wind that now and
then stirred the stiff panoply of the trees was lullingly soft. This
