at both ends a grating-door led to the corridors without. 
What to do for furniture perplexed Barbette. Where 
were there any shops or stores ? 
‘‘Madame Lavalette will be very glad to tell us. 
There is another thing, Barbe ” 
Angelique’s face went such a vivid scarlet that Barbe 
lifted both hands in amaze. 
“What is wrong, ma chere?” 
“Nothing is wrong, but we must set some things right 
in the very beginning,” exclaimed the young girl, with 
a touch of embarrassment. Then she came and put her 
arms about Barbe's neck. “You have been such a good 
friend to us, like a mother, Barbe.” 
“A mother indeed to the little one. But then I was 
like an elder sister to Sylvie de Chatillly, and when she 
became madame, sweet young thing, and her husband a 
good deal at the wars ” 
Barbe paused and wiped away a tear. 
“Yes. If you had been of her kin you could not have 
been more tender. And did you hear, Barbe, what a 
man was saying to M. Lavalette, that all titles were 
abolished in Paris and everybody was plain Citizen 
So-or-so ?” 
“Ah, the wickedness ! But what can you expect when 
they put a king to death? It is well the poor Marquise 
did not live to see the day. But what of all this, 
Mam’selle ?” 
She raised the sweet, flushed face and glanced into the 
brown eyes that had golden lights in them. 
“Perhaps I cannot explain this to you easily, Barbe, but 
you see we are two young girls and must have a pro- 
tectress. There must be a head to the house,, a Madame 
who can receive and order things for us and decide 
where we are to go and to take us out ” 
“Oh, poor things ! Yes, I see. And you have no 
relative ” interrupted Barbe, in a pained, sympathetic 
tone, studying the girl with tender pity. 
“You must be the relative, the aunt, the Madame. 
You will take charge of everything, so why should you 
not have the credit, the position? And we will all pay 
you the respect. I was talking to Gervaise and he agrees 
with me. It must be settled before any servants 
come. And Jaques is to be steward and manager. 
You see you are both fairly well educated. You read 
Latin. You know the French authors so well.” 
“Yes, I used to read to mv dear Madame Svlvie. And 
the Marquise enjoyed it. She said it quite weakened 
many of the pains.” 
“Well, then, you are to be a connection, a distant 
relative. It happens in many families that some are 
richer than others. But for you we should not have 
anything, and perhaps have been thrust into a convent. 
Who else would have thought to quilt diamonds and gold 
pieces in an old skirt? They would have taken the new 
and no doubt roused suspicion. And to say that I was 
a sick little child and bundle me up so that no one could 
tell! Oh, Barbe, we owe you everything!” 
They both cried sympathetically with their arms 
around each other. So many evils might have happened, 
and here they were all safe. 
“So you see, Barbe, this is the best thing to do. You 
shall be Madame Champe, as I introduced you that day 
to Madame Lavalette. And we shall call you Aunt, 
ma tante, they say here,” laughing lightly. ‘‘And you 
must always hold yourself up like a real lady, Barbe — 
you have always been with ladies and never in the place 
of a servant.” 
“As you like, rna chere” the woman answered, meekly. 
She felt like a mother to the girls. 
“There comes Gervaise. Oh, Gervaise, it is all ar- 
ranged. I have been explaining to Barbe, and now she 
understands. It will not take long for us to get settled 
in new ways. Ahd now we must see about a hundred 
things. It will be so delightful to feel at ease in a real 
home once more. If you were not going away ” 
She was very fond of Gervaise in a sisterly fashion. 
“Oh, I shall wait until we are in smooth running 
order. Indeed, I could wish I had no need to go at all. 
I like this queer, beautiful place. Everything seems so 
alive, so full of stirring romance.” 
“Yes, you must find Hugh,” she said, gravely. 
“I will do my best to trace him up. It is such a big 
country, Angel. Louisiana goes up north thousands of 
miles, and stretches out to the westward farther than man 
has travelled. Oh, how could any king give up such a 
grand domain ! And the heroes !• Pere Antoine was 
telling me about the man who discovered the mighty 
river here. And they have all been glorious Frenchmen ! 
All America should have been New France.” 
How bright and brave he looked in his enthusiasm. 
Madame Lavalette was very kind about the furnish- 
ing, though it was M’sieu who knew the best places and 
was the real bargain-maker. “Not too much for our 
purse,” Madame Champe said. “We must learn to have 
a closer garment — that is not quite it, I think,” smiling. 
“To cut one’s garment according to the cloth,” and 
Madame Lavalette showed her pretty pearly teeth in her 
laugh. “But you are so much better off than many of 
the refugees that you must indeed give thanks.” 
“As we do with our whole hearts.” 
Gervaise took a tour about with M. Lavalette. In a 
most unpromising second-hand place they found some fine 
old articles that required only a little furbishing up. 
There was not much needed in those days. Father 
Antoine begged they would buy of his simple house some 
chairs and settees made of a reedy grass the Indians had 
taught them how to weave. The money obtained in this 
manner was spent on the Indian missions. For many a 
brave, self-denying priest had come to the New World 
with only one object: to convert and civilize the heathen 
Indians. And as a travesty astute money-making men 
were pouring in and smuggling in Africans, with their 
fetich worship, their charms and incantations. 
Many people hired slaves, especially those who ex- 
pected to remain only a limited period. So to the new 
home came Marti, a tall, stout, well-ebonized woman with 
a magnificent turban over her woolly locks, great hoop 
earrings in her ears, and a jolly, laughing face; a most 
excellent cook; and a tall slim girl many shades lighter, 
who answered to the name of Viny. And then real 
living began. 
Society, too, for Angelique. Madame Lavalette came 
over with an invitation. 
“Thou must certainly accept, pretty one,” she said to 
the young girl. “Thou and thy cousin. Madame 
Henriade saw him pass with my husband and she is, 
oh, so interested ! And she has all the best society about 
her — a most charming woman, with lovers always at her 
feet, but true to her one love who perished at sea. It is 
thought she believes he may come back some day. It 
is a pretty little evening-dance. She is fond of young 
people, and is, what you call, irreproachable ; so no young 
girl can be scandalized who goes to Rue Royale. Claire 
is a great favorite. And Madame’s verdict admits any- 
where.’' 
“But ” began Barbe, rather nonplussed. “We 
have been here such a little while. And she has no 
attire. Oh, the closets and trunks full at Brienne !” 
“That is not needful, Madame. A simple white gown 
— Claire has several, and one could be fitted over easily. 
Indeed, there is one of last summer laid away. Claire 
grew stouter, which is not necessary in youth,” laughing 
gayly. “Mam’selle Angelique is so slim. Ah, yes, go she 
must, my good Madame Champe. I will chaperon them 
all. And your young man. My husband says it is a pity 
for him not to know people. He is so attractive.” 
“I will see what they think.” Both were out rambling 
now. The world they had gotten into was so exquisitely 
new and beautiful they could hardly stay indoors an hour. 
“Ah, but you must think for them, dear Madame. 
They cannot know; and it will not do for Mam’selle to 
grow up like a wild Indian girl of the forest. She is too 
pretty. And she must marry. Men are not so eager 
here about the dot. They are more generous, as you 
will find. They make fortunes for themselves. Though 
our girls will not be wanting in that respect. But the 
girl’s market is best when she is young and lovely.” 
Barbe had never had time to think of Angelique’s 
marrying. Events had so crowded upon one another. 
“And to settle this, you must come over and sup with 
us, all of you, and the little one. My husband bids it. 
Then you can see the frock. Do not be offended, Madame. 
M’sieu is so charmed with all of you and the young man. 
Ah, if there had been one son for him ! But the Blessed 
Virgin knew best, I suppose, when she made them all to 
be daughters and mothers like herself. Yes, you will 
come. Let it be to-morrow evening, then.” 
'‘What are we to to?” Barbe exclaimed, when the 
young people returned with loads of flowers. “Surely 
we cannot all go to supper. And we have so little to wear. 
How can I be right always as a great lady ?” 
“But you have been with ladies all your life, dear 
Barbe,” exclaimed the girl, while a soft and generous 
light illumined her eyes and lines of tender pride made 
her face bloom with the resolution of coming woman- 
hood. “Gervaise, did you not remark that, kind as Mere 
Milhet was, and always ready to think of you, she lacked 
the delicate breeding of Barbe. And you know the 
Marquise made an equal of you, and kept your place 
above that of the servants. You have your black silk 
gown that survived storms and pirates, and I can furbish 
up a pretty lace cap. And, Gervaise, would it not be 
lovely to go to a dance and see beautiful people ?” 
Her sweet face was all aglow and her eyes sparkling as 
she turned them to the youth. 
“Oh, and that Madame in the Rue Royale is exquisite. 
We were passing, M’sieu Lavalette and I, two days ago, 
I think, when she leaned over the balcony and nodded. 
It is a nice house and a good neighborhood. And she 
was like some beautiful picture, framed in by the lattice- 
work and vines. Oh, yes, let us go, by all means.” He 
was so eager to see a little of the bright world that had 
thrown out suggestions of enjoyment. 
“She will take you there. It is going to sup ” 
Gervaise laughed merrily. “After training so elegant an 
example as Sylvie, you need not be afraid. And, Barbe, 
there are shops down in the town where you can buy 
goods ” 
“I shall wear my blue frock, faded as it is, for it would 
not be worth while to bother to-morrow and tire our- 
selves all out. And Mere Milhet’s Lucie sews beautifully 
— you know the good mere said she might come to assist 
us. But just now we will not fret. Oh, yes, we will 
go to the supper and please Madame Lavalette, who has 
been so kind. Gervaise, do you suppose we have for- 
gotten how to dance?” She glanced up mirthfully and 
held out both hands. He caught them and they went 
whirling round as if their feet barely touched the floor. 
They were young and happy. Why should they not 
forget the old things in this gay, glad New World? 
There had been sorrows for Barbe, but she still had her 
kind husband and these children, if they were not of her 
blood. 
Sylvie was delighted to go to supper, though she would 
not see Zenobie. She was at the convent preparing for 
confirmation. She had been taken suddenly ill at 
Easter when the bishop came, to her great sorrow indeed, 
since that was a grand ceremony. And now there was 
to be a much quieter one in the chapel of the Ursulines. 
Two young girls who had come from the hospital and 
barely escaped with their lives were very anxious to be 
received in the Church. So Pere Moras had found a 
considerable class. 
Madame Champe looked quite the refined lady in her 
black silk that had been sponged and ironed by Viny. 
With some bits of black velvet and lace, Angelique’s deft 
fingers had given it touches of style, and her cap would 
have done credit to a modiste. The young girl’s frock 
was decidedly shabby, but Sylvie looked like a little 
angel in her fresh, white frock. Gervaise had gone down 
in the town and bought her. a soft silken sash of pale blue. 
“You must pardon me, Madame,” Angelique said, 
sweetly, '‘but the time was so short that I could not 
provide myself with proper apparel to do credit to your 
kind invitation. We are not settled yet, and have hardly 
thought of clothes or competent needlewomen.’’ 
“Thou charming girl !” Madame Lavalette bent over 
and kissed her on both cheeks. “Thou wilt need little 
else than thy sweet face and fascinating manner to give 
thee a welcome here. Truly, I should have been filled 
with regret and had less esteem for thee if thy frock 
had kept thee away.” 
Out on the greensward a dozen or two rollicking negro 
children were cutting up all sorts of antics, to the great 
delight of Felicite. She beckoned Sylvie, who was soon 
laughing merrily. 
“M’sieu Lavalette had quite a plantation. Like some 
of the early settlers, he had tried his hand at indigo and 
myrtle-wax, but neither had been a success. By great 
good-fortune he had been able to turn some of his 
property into building-lots and erect houses that brought 
him in some income. Rice and corn, cotton and tobacco, 
had proved the agriculturist’s only staples. But now 
attention had been turned to the sugar-cane. It was 
true, also, that the slave-holders were beginning to care 
more for the negro progeny, and pickaninnies were made 
welcome with the thought of their future use and value. 
Here were acres of sugar-cane in which M’sieu took 
great pride. 
“Ah, you should see the plantations up above,” he said, 
enthusiastically, when Gervaise spoke of its waving 
beauty. “Miles and miles of it, and it is our own genius 
that has made it a success. We are all very proud of 
M’sieu de Bore !” 
“Ah, yes. That is the sugar manufacturer. I should 
like to visit him.” 
'‘That you shall. It was a great risk, but he came 
out on top, as the Americans say. Ah, what an excite- 
ment it was and everybody went wild ! You must know 
they had tried a great many times. But there was so 
much syrup, such heavy, poor sugar, not fit for market- 
ing. And when indigo had failed and everybody was in 
despair — we have had so many reverses — and planters 
were now convinced the cane would make little else than 
syrup and that vile taffia. But M. de Bore had some 
new ideas or the saints had sent him a vision. Every- 
body said he would ruin himself. Well, the cane grew 
magnificently and was cut; and then came the grinding 
and boiling. There was a great crowd, for you see it 
was a matter of prosperity or ruin for many — prosperity 
for the whole country around if it succeeded. Ah, you 
can imagine how they stood and watched and doubted, 
and prayed to the saints. And then suddenly the cry 
went out, Tt granulates ! it granulates !’ All around every- 
body took up the word and ran hither and thither like 
wild men. At first they could hardly believe it ; but 
when they saw the sugar, and the process went on with- 
out a break, the bells rang, and the devout hastened to 
churches and fell on their knees to give thanks. For 
M. de Bore not only saved himself, but the whole country. 
And it was no Spanish genius, for he was a French noble 
by birth, and had been in the King’s household troops as 
a young man.” 
“And where is he now?” asked Gervaise, all eagerness. 
“Why, he, too, is a hero.” 
“Oh, that was only such a little while ago ; in the ’95. 
And he has gone on making a fortune for himself and 
others.” 
“And were you there ? I should like to 'have been,” 
cried the youth, with enthusiasm. 
'I was not there the first evening. But hundreds went 
out afterward. Each man wanted to see for himself. 
And you can hardly imagine the battery of huge 
caldrons, the great seething sea of yellow juice being 
swung from kettle to kettle, and the old mousqiietaire, 
who had passed his half-century then, testing the thick- 
ening juice until he saw the shining drops crystallize into 
grains. And it was a greater triumph because his wife’s 
father had been nearly ruined, years before, trying to 
make sugar.” 
"‘That seems to me as grand a triumph as winning a 
battle,” said Angelique, her face flushed with listening 
interest and her eyes alight with emotion. 
“Ah, Mam’selle, we sometimes dream of winning the 
other battle as well,” and the Creole’s eyes were fired 
with the spirit Spain had not been able to quench in all 
these years of dominion. “But, when they grind again 
I will take you to see. There are other sugar mills 
now.” 
“But I want to see this one and M. de Bore,” 
Angelique exclaimed, with enthusiasm. 
Barbe had been deeply interested as well. There was 
a charm about the spacious house and its really hand- 
some furnishing that spoke of old France: the imposing 
w'oman who sat at the head of the table, the pretty 
daughter beside Angelique, who did not suffer any by 
comparison if her gown was faded ; the well-trained ser- 
vants, who moved about with easy grace ; the china and 
quaint silver, the great jars of flowers standing every- 
where, and the vines shaking off fragrance in the dewy 
air. 
Occasionally Angelique glanced at Barbette, who sat 
grave and composed and allowed herself to be waited 
upon with quiet self-possession. 'Indeed, she had felt at 
home at once amid this luxury that she had hardly ex- 
pected in the barbarous New World. 
When they had adjourned to the veranda, Gervaise 
seated himself beside the elder man and could have 
listened all night to the romances. The ladies began to 
talk of the coming event in the Rue Royale. 
‘Tt would be very funny to go in a borrowed gown, 
Madame,” laughed Angelique. “Would I have the fate 
of the little German girl who sat in the chimney corner 
until her fairy godmother came and transformed her, 
and who turned into her own old clothes again ?” 
“It would not be borrowed, ma chore. If you will 
accept it as a little gift. There will be enough saved up 
for Zenobie; and as for Felice, it will be a long while 
before she will need such things.” 
“Ah, Zenobie ! Am I never to see Zenobie ?” asked 
Sylvie, plaintively. 
“Dear child. Are you so anxious? But Zenobie is a 
big girl. Ah, Madame, how soon they outgrow the 
sweet childhood! I am glad Felice is no older. Yes, 
you shall see Zenobie before long. And now, Madame, 
let us talk of these young people. Mam’selle Angelique, 
you will like Madame Henriade so much. And since 
you are likely to remain for some time, it is well to know 
some of the best people at once. I am glad to have 
you accept so cordially what is proffered in the same 
spirit. I hope you and Claire will be friends. She has 
companions, but none so near.” 
Then they went to the sitting-room that was kept 
altogether for the feminine part — a sewing-room, we 
should call it. There was a table of unfinished garments, 
embroideries, and everything piled up in a light, airy 
fashion. Marie, a graceful mulatto, measured the dress 
to the young girl. 
“It will be just long enough.” 
“Not too long for dancing.” 
“Mam’selle Claire has grown since last summer,” and 
she smiled. “It will be just right, only too large in the 
shoulders.” She surveyed Angelique’s figure with ad- 
miration. “If I could have Mam’selle a little while to- 
morrow ” 
“Yes, in the morning I will send ” 
“Or we could walk over, Madame,” answered 
Angelique quickly. “Gervaise and I walk about so 
much. The country is so lovely. Brienne seems tame 
beside it. True, the forests were beautiful and grand, 
but there is such a wealth of everything here. Do you 
ever have any winter, Madame?” with a charming, in- 
credulous smile. 
“Oh, yes. In my remembrance there has been ice and 
snow and nearly everything killed ; but it soon grows 
again. It is a lovely country. And sometimes you must 
see M’sieu’s gran'mere. She is almost a hundred, and 
came over from France with the King’s maids. And 
almost at once she met M’sieu Lavalette. He was a tall, 
fine-looking man and in the service of M. de la Mothe 
Cadillac. They were just making the town then. And 
they had marvellous adventures. You must know at that 
period they were all searching for gold, and making dis- 
coveries everywhere. Ah, it was a grand but perilous 
time ! And from a little settlement of a few hundred the 
town has grown to this. But we want once more to be 
under the Fleur-de-Lys of France. It will come,” nod- 
ding confidently. “They have made many laws, they 
have tried to make us all Spanish, they have even sent 
their priests ; but our good Father Dagobert was a match 
for them. Ah, he was so good. All the Indians loved 
him.” 
“But you are all Catholics,” said Madame Champe. 
“Ah, but there is so much difference,” with pride- 
ful energy. “Did we have auto-da- fes in our beloved 
France, and that terrible Inquisition? There was a new 
king in Spain, Charles IV., and Miro was then governor. 
The Capuchin prelate. Father Sedella, announced to the 
governor that he had been appointed Commissary of the 
Inquisition. Everybody who heard was wild with terror, 
especially when he notified the governor that he might 
need some guards to assist him late at night, as he gained 
lists of disaffected persons. Why, then you know, no 
one was safe. You might be snatched from your bed 
and put on board a vessel and taken to Spain, and no one 
know a word about you.” 
Madame glanced around at her interested audience, but 
there was the triumph of a climax in her flashing eyes. 
“Did they dare take such a step as that?” demanded 
Gervaise. 
“Wait — you shall hear. There came one night a great 
knocking at the Father’s door. When he opened it he 
saw an officer and a company of Grenadiers. ‘My 
friends,’ he said, ‘thanks for your ready compliance, but 
to-night I have no need. My plans are not yet per- 
fected. Retire with the blessing of God.’ 
“ ‘We are not in need of the blessing of the Inquisi- 
tion,’ was the answer. ‘Dress yourself at once. We 
want you.’ 
“ ‘What ! will you dare lay your hands on an officer of 
the Inquisition?’ demanded Father Sedella. 
“ ‘We dare obey orders in the name of Christ and his 
holy Mother. Come at once,’ replied the officer. He 
could not refuse, or they would have carried him by force. 
So they conveyed him on board of a vessel, and the next 
day it set sail for Cadiz.” 
“But what did the King do when it arrived ?” 
“Don Antonio Valdes took despatches from the 
governor to the King to remind him of the pledge that 
had been given that new colonists should not be molested, 
provided there was no other recognized mode of public 
w'orship, and that it was his, the King’s, wish that emi- 
gration should be encouraged. The mere fact of an 
officer of the Inquisition being in the province would 
drive people at once to the shelter of the Americans, who 
were growing more powerful every day. And he also 
informed the King that Don Andreas Almonaster had 
laid the foundation of the new Cathedral that would be 
a glory to the province, and that the population was 
largely loyal Catholics.” 
“And is it really true that we — that no one besides your 
Church is allowed to worship publicly?” asked Madame 
Champe, with a protest in her voice. 
The hostess smiled with an expressive gesture. 
“There are many people coming and going all the time 
who are not Catholics, and you will find people of your 
own faith. They no doubt have their services. But the 
horrible Inquisition — no, we could not stand that ! We 
are not all Spanish yet,” with a doubtful, musical laugh. 
Claire and Angelique had made quite a friendship. 
There were various places of entertainment. There was 
a theatre; only young girls were not allowed to see all 
the plays. And there was walking along the levees and 
driving out to the lakes, where many had summer houses 
and plantations and boats, and went sailing where it was 
most delicious. And visiting parties — where they danced 
and played games. 
But Barbe gave the signal for their departure, after 
expressing much pleasure and gratitude for the friend- 
liness. 
Two slaves with lanterns were despatched to see them 
safely home. But there was such a magnificent moon 
that it was almost like day. 
‘T shall never want to go back to France/’ declared 
Angelique, with enthusiasm. 
CHAPTER VII. 
A TASTE OF SOCIETY. 
Sylvie begged to go over with them the next day. 
Yes, she would play with Felice, even if she was such a 
baby, and could not talk straight. 
‘T do wonder if we shall ever fall into such a patois?” 
laughed Angelique. ‘Tt is very soft and pretty. And 
then the slaves have another. What queer stories they 
can tell ; tragic ones, too. It recalls the old Roman times 
when they transported people and made slaves of many 
in their colonizing.” 
Claire took Gervaise out on the veranda by one of 
those invitations that need only a smile and a glance of 
the eye. They were within range, but far enough distant 
to talk and laugh in comparative freedom. Claire was 
charming with the little arts, the vivacity, and a certain 
quickness of repartee that quite dazzled him. Her con- 
vent education was of the most superficial order, but it 
made her very agreeable. 
Sylvie did not succeed so well with her companion. 
The little French girl had been so much with older people 
that she was not inclined to be indulgent to baby whims. 
'‘My doll that I left in France was ever so much larger 
and handsomer,” she said, boastfully, when Felice hugged 
her to her heart and would not let the visitor touch it. 
‘‘And I had so many playthings ! But I have grown a 
big girl and study a little every day.” 
“At the convent?” asked Felice. 
“No,” with dignity. “I shall never go to a convent. 
We do not believe in them.” 
Felice stared. To go to the convent was the ambition 
of every little girl’s life. 
“Then you will be a — a dunce — an imbecile.” 
“I shall not, either !” Sylvie’s face was very red. “I 
can read, and I am studying Latin and Spanish a little, 
and ” what else did she know? 
“But I can talk in Spanish. We were born so,” de- 
clared the little maid, triumphantly. 
Sylvie was nonplussed. “You can’t be born two kinds 
of people,” she said, confidently. 
“But we are — oh, ever so many; but not Americans,” 
shaking her head decisively. 
“I like the Americans. Captain Strong was so nice 
to us. And we were captured by pirates. I think they 
were Spanish. I don’t believe you ever saw a pirate ! 
They have fierce long beards and black hair and guns and 
cutlasses and great sharp knives ! Angel says it is a 
wonder we were not all killed. When I grow up to be 
a woman I shall be an American.” 
Now it was Felice’s turn to be extinguished. She 
could not strike Sylvie as she did the slave-children when 
she was vexed with them. She glared a moment, then 
sank down on the grass and cried — “howled” would be 
better. 
The nurse, who had been discussing love charms with 
an old negress who was slyly travelling round with them, 
ran forward. 
“Oh, mon Ange! mon Ange! What did they do to 
my beautiful ! my cherub !” 
“She fell down,” said Sylvie, in a scornful tone. 
“And she cries a great deal over a little thing. I cannot 
imagine what she would do if she was wrecked on a 
desert island.” 
Then Sylvie marched off with her dainty head held 
high up in the air while the nurse soon comforted her 
charge and trotted about with her on her shoulders, while 
the little hands were tighly grasped in the kinky wool. 
This was an unfailing solace to Felice. 
“I can’t endure that cross baby!” declared Sylvie, as 
they were walking home. “And I am not going to like 
Zenobie, either.” 
“But you have never seen Zenobie.” 
“I do not care. I do not want to see her. Do you 
like Mam’selle Claire?” 
“She is charming,” declared Gervaise. “I am to dance 
with her to-night.” 
“Gervaise !” Sylvie stopped short in the path, her face 
aglow with temper, her eyes with passionate lights. 
“Gervaise — you shall not dance with Mam’selle Claire. 
You shall not go to see her. You belong to me. You 
may dance with Angel all night long, but Claire, never, 
never !” 
“What a tragic little maid ! Am I your prisoner?” His 
eyes had dancing lights in them, and there were merry 
curves about his lips. Her temper amused him. 
“You are my — I am your little wife, Gervaise.” She 
stretched herself up to her utmost height. There was a 
strange dignity in every line of her slim figure and in 
each feature. 
“Sylvie, dear, listen.” Angelique put her arm about 
the child. “That was ” no, the child could not under- 
stand. How perplexing that ill-fated ceremony would 
prove — only — if Gervaise should come to care for her! 
Could it be undone? “Remember what Barbe said. You 
are such a little girl now and this is not to be talked about. 
When you are larger it will all come right. Meanwhile 
you must not take absurd dislikes. Felice is a spoiled 
baby, but they all love her, just as your mother would 
love you if she were alive. And if you mean to be a sweet, 
amiable woman you must not give way to tempers. I am 
afraid even Gervaise, who is so fond of you, could not 
love a bad-tempered, quarrelsome being. Could you, 
Gervaise?” 
The young fellow’s sweet nature asserted itself over 
his love of teasing. 
“She is not going to be bad-tempered, little darling 
as she is,” and he stooped and kissed her fondly. She 
was minded to draw away at first, but his smile was so 
winsome. 
“And see, Sylvie — I will dance with Angel ” 
“It is for Madame Henriade to find you partners. She 
will be your hostess. And it would be ill-bred to dance 
with one lady all the evening. Why, a man does not 
dance every time with his wife ; he would be laughed at !” 
Sylvie leaned her cheek down on Gervaise’s arm. She 
was relenting a little. Pere Lavalette was very delightful ; 
he had petted her, and Claire had brought her some de- 
licious little cakes. She would not want Gervaise laughed 
at before a whole room full of people. 
Viny had a great dish of fruit for them, and Barbe was 
full of interest about the frock. 
“It is very pretty,” replied Angel. “There is a fall of 
exquisite lace around the shoulders — fine Breton. And 
when I demurred, Madame said, laughingly, that the lace 
was only lent. Claire makes beautiful lace and she has 
promised to teach me. They are all so kind. And they 
will come down here for me.’’ 
Was Claire so kind? Did Angel mean to like her very 
much ? 
“The swing is put up properly,” said Viny. “It is so 
delicious and shady. Will you come? You can fly 
almost up to the tops of the trees like a bird.” 
.Sylvie ran away eagerly. 
Gervaise paced up and down the veranda. Claire’s 
bewitching tones sounded in his ears, and he could see 
her soft, alluring eyes. It was the first time any one out 
of his own circle had moved him to admiration. 
“Angel,” pausing suddenly before her as she was 
mastering a difficult stitch in embroidery. “Angel, that 
marriage may prove to be an awkward thing after all. 
I suppose the Perrier estates were in the mind of the 
Marquise. What children we all were then? And now 
there may be no Du Chatilly, nor Brienne, either. But 
if Sylvie should grow up thinking, believing ” 
“She will understand presently. Barbe and I have de- 
cided to let her talk as little as possible about it. There 
is nothing but waiting until she is older.” 
“Of course — if I can find Hugh — and then suppose he 
should repudiate the matter? It was only by the priest, 
and we are not of that faith. Angel, who kept the con- 
tract — the parchment we all signed?” 
Angelique looked up in surprise. “Why, I do not 
know. The priest rolled it up — I can see his long, thin 
fingers now,” and a shiver went over her. “Barbe must 
have it.” 
If Hugh should not be alive, and if Sylvie insisted — 
But he was quite free. There really was no question of 
honor or fidelity. 
Angel asked Barbe an hour or so later. 
“The parchment that we all signed ! And no one read 
it, either aloud or to himself. What a piece of work! 
I am quite sure the priest took it with him. But why 
he should want to It’s queer business and if Sieur 
Hugh comes to us it must be as he wills. A child’s 
fancy may change many times. Let us not worry. It 
is ill carrying loads to the top of the hill that are meant 
for the valley.” 
As for Angelique she looked simply ravishing in the 
white frock with the lace about her shoulders, and the 
broad sash that shortened the waist and gave an exquisite 
contour to the girlish bust. Viny, who was lady’s maid 
as well, had done her dark hair in a great coil on the top 
of her head and fastened a rose spray that drooped dowm 
on her shoulder. Sylvie was wild with delight, and 
danced about her with a child’s gayety. 
The house in the Rue Royale had all the windows 
aglow and sent golden gleams out through the veranda 
vines. In one comer were stationed the four violins 
that were discoursing sweet music even now. There 
were several rooms that could be thrown into one ; there 
was some grand faded furniture, and quaint old pictures 
in costumes of a hundred years agone. The floors were 
polished ; there was a wealth of flowers everywhere. 
Madame Henriade had been a widow for years. 
Married out of hand to a man she had only seen twice, 
she had, for seven years, been a docile wife. Since then 
she had revelled in her liberty, but it was not license. 
A little, brown, wrinkled elderly woman was her constant 
companion, and she had somehow wrested from society 
a certain right to entertain Americans as well as her com- 
patriots, the French, and the Spanish grandees beside the 
Creole gentlemen ; but she was careful not to clash. Every- 
body who came was suave and amiable under Madame’s 
laughing, languishing eyes, even if they quarrelled the 
next day in the street. To be invited was an honor no 
one thought of refusing. And having heard M. Lava- 
lette’s enthusiastic description of these refugees and the 
dangers they had passed, she must see the pretty girl and 
the attractive young man. 
Only two or three times in her young life had 
Angelique partaken of pleasures. Never quite like this. 
Even the elder women who had come with daughters and 
nieces were gay and vivacious, and had odd little stories 
to tell that were clean and wholesome and full of fun. 
For enjoyment was the watchword. Madame had the 
rare art of keeping her guests alive — of never allowing 
the interest to flag. Cards had more amusement here 
than elsewhere. But Madame never allowed gaming 
at these evenings. 
If Madame Lavalette was a delightful hostess, what 
word or commendation could do justice to Madame 
Henriade, the young fellow thought? There was some- 
thing magnetic in the touch of her hand. It was not 
lily-white — she was not fair herself — but of that soft hue 
which is not olive, but a kind of sun-brown, with the rich 
red blood shining through. The little hand was brown 
and dimpled, and had the softness of velvet. When she 
talked with it you could easily translate its meanings. 
“I am charmed to see you,’’ she said, with smiles in 
which you could feel the earnestness. “You have been 
quite a hero, in my mind.” 
“Indeed, I did nothing heroic,” he protested. “It was 
our good Dutch Captain who gave up all he had and 
beggared himself for our lives. And we just accepted.” 
“Then I should like to see him, too,” smiling. “It is 
not so many who escape those terrible pirates. One can 
hardly believe any good of them. And your pretty 
cousin — how could they let her escape ?” 
“Oh, that was the captain’s thought, as well. Yes, he 
and Madame Champe engineered it through most suc- 
cessfully. But we might have perished even then if a 
kindly American captain had not seen our signal of dis- 
tress. It seems an adventurous world, Madame. And I 
have a still further quest on my mind. The cousin, who 
is the head of the house, is somewhere here in America 
and I must go in search of him.” 
“Ah, that is like the lost needle in the hay, unless you 
know. Ought I to give you my best hope? You are 
over young ” 
He laughed lightly. “How many of the explorers and 
discoverers were quite as young! Oh, Madame, there 
are such wonderful tales told of them that it fires one’s 
blood. Are the heroic times gone? Are the heroes in 
the graves of De Bienville, and Du Salle and Tonti?” 
“You shall come and talk of them some day and tell 
me of your cousin. Now, I must find the prettiest girl 
for you to dance with, for you have a dancing mark in 
your shapely figure.” 
“That would be impossible, Madame, where all are 
so pretty,” and he smiled as he made an inclination of 
the head. “But I asked the favor of Mademoiselle 
Claire ” 
“Ah, I see !” nodding in a satisfied way. “Mam’selle 
Claire is an astute general ; she leads. Go your way, then, 
and come back to me. Now I must provide for your 
cousin, who is French to her finger-tips.” 
Angelique already had some bees buzzing about the 
fresh sweetness. How fascinating it all was ! Women 
in quaint and pretty gowns and soft laces; a sprinkling 
of officers, for though it was sometimes half suspected 
plots were hatched in the vine-clad corners and secrets 
leaked out, it could never be said that Madame evaded 
any courtesy due government officials. 
Ah, how delightful to dance with the fervor of youth ! 
Gervaise was thrilled with happiness in every pulse 
when Claire smiled upon him, which she did with such 
fascinating innocence. And when she danced with some 
one else he was plunged into momentary darkness and 
anguish. But then, here was another bewitching de- 
moiselle who talked her half-French with the sweetest 
Spanish accent, and mixed up both languages in a dis- 
tracting manner, while her soft dark eyes pleaded for in- 
dulgence. 
‘T must learn Spanish,” he announced, laughingly. 
“But you talk such exquisite French, M’sieu. We are 
always glad, for, see, it is to be the language of our be- 
loved province some day.” 
Gervaise shook his head. “There are all the French. 
And the Creoles — then the Americans ” 
“But they are English and ” she made a gesture of 
disdain. “They are pushing upstarts. Let them keep 
their side of the river. They cannot dance. They are 
boors !” 
The violins blew out some soft wailing notes on the 
perfumed air. The young girls went meekly back to 
mother and aunts with an air of having done their duty 
to their hostess. Ah, what beguiling demureness ! Then 
a preliminary flourish — another measure to thrill the 
pulses — and young men were beseeching again, young 
girls studying the faces of their chaperons, then floating 
off in waves of delight. 
The refreshments were of the simplest order. Small 
tables were brought out on the verandas, and the gay chat 
charmed the young fellow. There were girls besides 
Claire Lavalette he found. 
‘Was it very nice?” asked Sylvie of Angel the next 
morning. “Did you dance. And I hope Mam’selle 
Claire did not have any prettier frock than yours.” 
“It was beautiful — some thin pink stuff with black lace. 
And there were so many splendid frocks and fine ladies. 
Madame Henriade is enchanting, did you not think so, 
Gervaise?” 
“She is perfect, and so cordial. Barbe, we are asked to 
go and take a little dinner with her, quite by ourselves, 
and a walk. She is coming to pay you a call.” 
“Is she prettier than Madame ?” 
“She is quite different. Madame Lavalette is im- 
posing; Madame Henriade is a little smaller, quite slim, 
indeed, and very graceful. And her hands really talk ; 
she can express so much with them. She is not fair, and 
real French, not Creole. They talk in a such a queer 
fashion and get their sentences mixed. But Madame 
Henriade is perfect.” 
Sylvie sighed to think she was not grown-up. 
“And does Claire dance beautifully?” 
“Yes,” answered Gervaise. “But they all do. I hope 
some one will ask us soon again. And did you remark 
that tall thin young Creole that danced twice with you, 
Angel? He is related to the brave young De Noyan, 
who was in the uprising against the Spanish in ’69. 
And to think that he had just married the lovely 
daughter of Lanfreniere. They tell such a pathetic 
story about him. Friends had planned for his escape, 
and, while the Governor General would not listen to any 
word of pardon, it was said he would wink at the flight. 
