that in returning from California only a few days 
before the Amstel sailed, and getting a state-room 
which had been unexpectedly given up, they had 
some claim to a charitable interpretation of their 
behavior, but this plea could not have availed them 
with any connoisseur of women. Besides, it had 
been a matter of notoriety among such of Mr. Breck- 
on 's variegated congregation as knew one another 
that Mrs. Rasmith had set her heart on him, if 
Julia had not set her cap for him. In that pied 
flock, where every shade and dapple of doubt, from 
heterodox Jew to agnostic Christian, foregathered, 
as it had been said, in the misgiving of a blessed 
immortality, the devotion of Mrs. Rasmith to the 
minister had been almost a scandal. Nothing had 
saved the appearance from this character but Mr. 
Breckon 's open acceptance of her flatteries and 
 
hospitalities; this was so frank, and the behavior 
of Julia herself so judicious under the circum 
stances, that envy and virtue were, if not equally 
silenced, equally baffled. So far from pretending not 
to see her mother 's manoauvres, Julia invited public 
recognition of them; in the way of joking, which 
she kept within the limits of filial fondness, she 
made fun of her mother 's infatuation to Breckon 
himself, and warned him against the moment when 
her wiles might be too much for him. Before other 
people she did not hesitate to save him from her 
mother, so that even those who believed her in the 
conspiracy owned that no girl could have managed 
with more cleverness in a situation where not every 
one would have refused to be placed. In this situ 
ation Julia Rasmith had the service of a very clear 
head, and as was believed by some, a cool heart; 
if she and her mother had joint designs upon the 
minister, hers was the ambition, and her mother 's 
the affection that prompted them. She was a long, 
undulant girl, of a mixed blondness that left you 
in doubt, after you had left her, whether her hair 
or her complexion were not of one tint; but her 
features were good, and there could be no question 
of her captivating laugh, and her charming mouth, 
which she was always pulling down with demure 
irony. She was like her mother in her looks, but 
her indolent, drolling temperament must have been 
from her father, whose memory was lost in that 
antiquity which swallows up the record of so many 
widows husbands, and who could not have left 
 
her what was left of her mother 's money, for none 
of it had ever been his. It was still her mother s, 
and it was supposed to be the daughter 's chief 
attraction. There must, therefore, have been a good 
deal of it, for those who were harshest with the 
minister did not believe that a little money would 
attract him. Not that they really thought him 
mercenary; some of his people considered him gay 
to the verge of triviality, but there were none that 
accused him of insincerity. They would have liked 
a little more seriousness in him, especially when 
they had not much of their own, and would have 
had him make up in severity of behavior for what 
he lacked, and what they wished him to lack, in 
austerity of doctrine. 
The Amstel had lost so much time in the rough 
weather of her first days out that she could not 
make it up with her old-fashioned single screw. 
She was at best a ten -day boat, counting from 
Sandy Hook to Boulogne, and she had not been 
four days out when she promised to break her 
record for slowness. Three days later Miss Ras- 
mith said to Breckon, as he took the chair which 
her mother agilely abandoned to him beside her: 
" The head steward says it will be a twelve-day trip, 
and our bedroom steward thinks more. What ia 
the consensus of opinion in the smoking-room? 
Where are you going, mother? Are you planning 
to leave Mr. Breckon and me alone again? It isn 't 
necessary. We couldn 't get away from each other 
if we tried, and all we ask Well, I suppose age 
 
must be indulged in its little fancies," she called 
after Mrs. Kasmith. 
Breckon took up the question she had asked him. 
" The odds are so heavily in favor of a fifteen- 
days run that there are no takers." 
" Now you are joking again," she said. " I 
thought a sea-voyage might make you serious." 
" It has been tried before. Besides, it 's you that 
I want to be serious." 
"What about? Besides, I doubt it." 
" About Boyne." 
" Oh ! I thought you were going to say some one 
else." 
" No, I think that is very well settled." 
"You 'll never persuade my mother," said Miss 
Rasmith, with a low, comfortable laugh. 
" But if you are satisfied " 
" She will have to resign herself ? Well, perhaps. 
But why do you wish me to be serious about 
Boyne?" 
" I have no doubt he amuses you. But that doesn 't 
seem a very good reason why you should amuse 
yourself with him." 
"No? Why not?" 
"Well, because the poor boy is in earnest; and 
you 're not exactly contemporaries." 
" Why, how old is Boyne ?" she asked, with affect 
ed surprise. 
"About fifteen, I think," said Breckon, gravely. 
" And I 'm but a very few months past thirty. I 
don 't see the great disparity. But he is merely a 
 
brother to me an elder brother and he gives me 
the best kind of advice." 
" I dare say you need it, but all the same, I am 
afraid you are putting ideas into his head." 
" Well, if he began it ? If he put them in mine 
first?" 
She was evidently willing that he should go fur 
ther, and create the common ground between them 
that grows up when one gives a reproof and the 
other accepts it ; but Breckon, whether he thought 
that he had now done his duty, and need say no more, 
or because he was vexed with her, left the subject. 
" Mrs. Rasmith says you are going to Switzer 
land for the rest of the summer." 
"Yes, to Montreux. Are you going to spend it 
in Paris?" 
" I 'm going to Paris to see. I have had some 
thoughts of Etretat; I have cousins there." 
" I wish that I could go to the sea-side. But this 
happens to be one of the summers when nothing 
but mountains can save my mother 's life. Shall 
you get down to Rome before you go back?" 
" I don 't know. If I sail from Naples I shall 
probably pass through Rome." 
"You had better stop off. We shall be there in 
November, and they say Rome is worth seeing." 
She laughed demurely. " That is what Boyne un 
derstands. He 's promised to use his influence with 
his family to let him run down to see us there, if 
he can 't get them all to come. You might offer 
to personally conduct them." 
 
 
"Yes," said Breckon, with the effect of clo- 
ture. " Have you made many acquaintances on 
board?" 
"What! Two lone women? You haven 't intro 
duced us to any but the Kentons. But I dare say 
they are the best. The judge is a dear, and Mrs. 
Kenton is everything that is motherly and matronly. 
Boyne says she is very well informed, and knows all 
about the reigning families. If he decides to marry 
into them, she can be of great use in saving him 
from a mesalliance. I can 't say very much for 
Miss Lottie. Miss Lottie seems to me distinctly of 
the minx type. But that poor, pale girl is adorable. 
I wish she liked me." 
" What makes you think she doesn 't like you ?" 
Breckon asked. 
" What ? Women don 't require anything to con 
vince them that other women can 't bear them. They 
simply know it. I wonder what has happened to 
her?" 
"Why do you think anything has happened to 
her?" 
" Why ? Well, girls don 't have that air of melan 
choly absence for nothing. She is brooding upon 
something, you may be sure. But you have had 
so many more opportunities than I! Do you mean 
that you haven 't suspected a tragical past for 
her?" 
"I don 't know," said Breckon, a little restively, 
" that I have allowed myself to speculate about her 
past." 
 
" That is, you oughtn 't to have allowed yourself 
to do so. Well, there I agree with you. But a wom 
an may do so without impertinence, and I am sure 
that Miss Kenton has a story. I have watched 
her, and her face has told me everything but the 
story." 
Breckon would not say that some such revelation 
had been made to him, and in the absence of an 
answer from him Miss Rasmith asked, " Is she 
cultivated, too?" 
"Too?" 
"Like her mother." 
" Oh ! I should say she had read a good dsal. 
And she 's bookish, yes, in a simple-hearted kind of 
way." 
" She asks you if you have read the book of the 
year, and whether you don 't think the heroine is 
a beautiful character?" 
" Not quite so bad as that. But if you care to be 
serious about her " 
"Oh, I do!" 
"I doubt it. Then, I should say that she seems 
to have grown up in a place where the interests 
are so material that a girl who was disposed to be 
thoughtful would be thrown back upon reading for 
her society more than in more intellectual centres 
if there are such things. She has been so much 
with books that she does not feel odd in speaking 
of them as if they were the usual topics of con 
versation. It gives her a certain quaintness." 
 
"And that is what constitutes her charm?" 
"I didn 't know that we were speaking of her 
charm." 
" No, that is true. But I was thinking of it. 
She fascinates me. Are they going to get off at 
Boulogne?" 
" No, they are going on to Rotterdam." 
" To be sure ! Boyne told me. And are yon 
going on with them?" 
"I thought we talked of my going to Paris." 
Breckon looked round at her, and she made a 
gesture of deprecation. 
"Why, of course! How could I forget? But 
I 'm so much interested in Miss Kenton that I can 't 
think of anything else." 
"Not even of Miss Rasmith?" 
"Not even of Miss Rasmith. I know that she 
has a history, and that it 's a sad one." She paused 
in ironical hesitation. " You ve been so good as to 
caution me about her brother and I never can 
be grateful enough and that makes me almost free 
to suggest " 
She stopped again, and he asked, hardily, 
"What?" 
" Oh, nothing. It isn 't for me to remind my pas 
tor, my ghostly adviser " she pulled down her 
mouth and glanced at him demurely "and I will 
only offer the generalization that a girl is never 
so much in danger of having her heart broken 
as when she 's had it broken Oh, are you leaving 
me?" she cried, as Breckon rose from his chair. 
 
" Well, then, send Boyne to me." She broke into a 
laugh as he faltered. " Are you going to sit down 
again? That is right. And I won 't talk any more 
about Miss Kenton." 
"I don 't mind talking of her," said Breckon. 
"Perhaps it will even be well to do so if you 
are in earnest. Though it strikes me that you have 
rather renounced the right to criticise me." 
"Now, is that logical? It seems to me that in 
putting myself in the attitude of a final friend at 
the start, and refusing to be anything more, I 
have established my right to criticise you on the 
firmest basis. I can 't possibly be suspected of in 
terested motives. Besides, you ve just been criti 
cising me, if you want a woman 's reason." 
" Well, go on." 
" Why, I had finished. That 's the amusing part. 
I should have supposed that I could go on forever 
about Miss Kenton, but I have nothing to go upon. 
She has kept her secret very well, and so have 
the rest of them. You think I might have got it 
out of Boyne? Perhaps I might, but you know I 
have my little scruples. I don 't think it would 
be quite fair, or quite nice." 
" You are scrupulous. And I give you credit 
for having been more delicate than I ve been." 
"You don 't mean you ve been trying to find 
it out!" 
"Ah, now I 'm not sure about the superior deli 
cacy." 
" Oh, how good!" said Miss Rasmith. " What a 
 
pity you should be wasted in a calling that limits 
you so much." 
"You call it limiting? I didn 't know but I 
had gone too far." 
"Not at all! You know there 's nothing I like 
so much as those little digs." 
" I had forgotten. Then you won 't mind my say 
ing that this surveillance seems to me rather more 
than I have any right to from you." 
" How exquisitely you put it ! Who else could 
have told me to mind my own business so delight 
fully? Well, it isn 't my business. I acknowledge 
that, and I spoke only because I knew you would 
be sorry if you had gone too far. I remembered 
our promise to be friends." 
She threw a touch of real feeling into her tone, 
and he responded, " Yes, and I thank you for it, 
though it isn 't easy." 
She put out her hand to him, and, as he ques- 
tioningly took it, she pressed his with animation. 
" Of course it isn 't ! Or it wouldn 't be for any 
other man. But don 't you suppose I appre 
ciate that supreme courage of yours? There is 
nobody else nobody! who could stand up to an 
impertinence and turn it to praise by such humil 
ity." 
"Don 't go too far, or I shall be turning your 
praise to impertinence by my humility. You 're 
quite right, though, about the main matter. I 
needn 't suppose anything so preposterous as you 
suggest, to feel that people are best left alone 
 
to outlive their troubles, unless they are of the most 
obvious kind." 
" Now, if I thought I had done anything to stop 
you from offering that sort of helpfulness which 
makes you a blessing to everybody, I should never 
forgive myself." 
" Nothing so dire as that, I believe. But if you ve 
made me question the propriety of applying the 
blessing in all cases, you may have done a very 
good thing." 
Miss Easmith was silent and apparently serious. 
After a moment she said, "And I, for my part, 
promise to let poor little Boyne alone." 
Breckon laughed. "Don 't burlesque it! Besides, 
I haven 't promised anything." 
" That is very true," said Miss Rasmith, and she 
laughed, too. 
XVI 
IN one of those dramatic reveries which we all 
hold with ourselves when fortune has pressingly 
placed us, Ellen Kenton had imagined it possible 
for her to tell her story to the man who had so 
gently and truly tried to be her friend. It was 
mostly in the way of explaining to him how she 
was unworthy of his friendship that the story was 
told, and she fancied telling it without being scan 
dalized at violating the conventions that should 
have kept her from even dreaming of such a thing. 
It was all exalted to a plane where there was no 
question of fit or unfit in doing it, but only the 
occasion; and he would never hear of the unworthi- 
ness which she wished to ascribe to herself. Some 
times he mournfully left her when she persisted, 
left her forever, and sometimes he refused, and 're 
mained with her in a sublime kindness, a noble 
amity, lofty and serene, which did not seek to be 
come anything else. In this case she would break 
from her reveries with self-accusing cries, under 
her breath, of "Silly, silly! Oh, how disgusting!" 
And if at that moment Breckon were really coming 
up to sit by her, she would blush to her hair, and 
wish to run away, and failing the force for this, 
 
would sit cold and blank to his civilities, and have 
to be skilfully and gradually talked back to self- 
respect and self -tolerance. 
The recurrence of these reveries and their con 
sequence in her made it difficult for him to put 
in effect the promise he had given himself in Miss 
Rasmith 's presence. If Ellen had been eager to 
welcome his coming, it would have been very simple 
to keep away from her, but as she appeared anxious 
to escape him, and had to be entreated, as it were, 
to suffer his society, something better than his curi 
osity was piqued, though that was piqued, too. He 
believed that he saw her lapsing again into that 
morbid state from which he had seemed once able 
to save her, and he could not help trying again. 
He was the more bound to do so by the ironical 
observance of Miss Easmith, who had to be defied 
at first, and then propitiated; certainly, when she 
saw him apparently breaking faith with her, she 
had a right to some sort of explanation, but certain 
ly also she had no right to a blind and unreasoning 
submission from him. His embarrassment was 
heightened by her interest in Miss Kenton, whom, 
with an admirable show of now finding her safe 
from Breckon 's attractions, she was always wishing 
to study from his observation. What was she really 
like? The girl had a perfect fascination for her; 
she envied him his opportunities of knowing her, 
and his privileges of making that melancholy face 
light up with that heart-breaking smile, and of 
banishing that delicious shyness with which she 
 
always seemed to meet him. Miss Rasmith had 
noticed it; how could she help noticing it? 
Breckon wished to himself that she had been 
able to help noticing it, or were more capable of 
minding her own business than she showed herself, 
and his heart closed about Ellen with a tenderness 
that was dangerously indignant. At the same time 
he felt himself withheld by Miss Rasmith 's witness 
from being all to the girl that he wished to be, 
and that he now seemed to have been in those first 
days of storm, while Miss Rasmith and her mother 
were still keeping their cabin. He foresaw that it 
would end in Miss Rasmith 's sympathetic nature 
not being able to withhold itself from Ellen 's need 
of cheerful companionship, and he was surprised 
as little as he was pleased, one morning, when he 
came to take the chair beside her to find Miss Ras 
mith in it, talking and laughing to the girl, who 
perversely showed herself amused. Miss Rasmith 
made as if to offer him the seat, but he had to 
go away disappointed, after standing long enough 
before them to be aware that they were suspending 
some topic while he stayed. 
He naturally supposed the topic to be himself, 
but it was not so, or at least not directly so. It 
was only himself as related to the scolding he had 
given Miss Rasmith for trifling with the innocence 
of Boyne, which she wished Miss Kenton to under 
stand as the effect of a real affection for her brother. 
She loved all boys, and Boyne was simply the most 
delightful creature in the world. She went on to 
 
explain how delightful he was, and she showed such 
an appreciation of the infantile sweetness mingled 
with the mature severity of Boyne 's character that 
Ellen could not help being pleased and won. She 
told some little stories of Boyne that threw a light 
also on their home life in Tuskingum, and Miss 
Easmith declared herself perfectly fascinated, and 
wished that she could go and live in Tuskingum. 
She protested that she should not find it dull ; Boyne 
alone would be entertainment enough; and she fig 
ured a circumstance so idyllic from the hints she 
had gathered, that Ellen 's brow darkened in silent 
denial, and Miss Kasmith felt herself, as the chil 
dren say in the game, very hot in her proximity 
to the girl 's secret. She would have liked to know 
it, but whether she felt that she could know it when 
she liked enough, or whether she should not be 
so safe with Breckon in knowing it, she veered sud 
denly away, and said that she was so glad to have 
Boyne 's family know the peculiar nature of her de 
votion, which did not necessarily mean running 
away with him, though it might come to that. She 
supposed she was a little morbid about it from what 
Mr. Breckon had been saying; he had a conscience 
that would break the peace of a whole community, 
though he was the greatest possible favorite, not 
only with his own congregation, which simply wor 
shipped him, but with the best society, where he 
was in constant request. 
It was not her fault if she did not overdo these 
phases of his contemporary history, but perhaps it 
 
was all true about the number of girls who were 
ready and willing to marry him. It might even 
be true, though she had no direct authority for 
saying it, that he had made up his mind never to 
marry, and that was the reason why he felt himself 
so safe in being the nicest sort of friend. He was 
safe, Miss Rasmith philosophized, but whether other 
people were so safe was a different question. There 
were girls who were said to be dying for him; but 
of course those things were always said about a 
handsome young minister. She had frankly taken 
him on his own ground, from the beginning, and 
she believed that this was what he liked. At any 
rate, they had agreed that they were never to be 
anything but the best of friends, and they always 
had been. 
Mrs. Kenton came and shyly took the chair on 
Miss Rasmith 's other side, and Miss Rasmith said 
they had been talking about Mr. Breckon, and she 
repeated what she had been saying to Ellen. Mrs. 
Kenton assented more openly than Ellen could to 
her praises, but when she went away, and her daugh 
ter sat passive, without comment or apparent in 
terest, the mother drew a long, involuntary sigh. 
"Do you like her, Ellen?" 
" She tries to be pleasant, I think." 
" Do you think she really knows much about Mr. 
Breckon?" 
"Oh yes. Why not? She belongs to his church." 
" He doesn 't seem to me like a person who would 
have a parcel of girls tagging after him." 
 
" That is what they do in the East, Boyne says." 
" I wish she would let Boyne alone. She is mak 
ing a fool of the child. He 's round with her every 
moment. I think she ought to be ashamed, such an 
old thing!" 
Ellen chose to protest, or thought it fair to do 
so. " I don 't believe she is doing him any harm. 
She just lets him talk out, and everybody else 
checks him up so. It was nice of her to come 
and talk with me, when we had all been keeping 
away from her. Perhaps he sent her, though. She 
says they have always been such good friends be 
cause she wouldn 't be anything else from the be 
ginning." 
" I don 't see why she need have told you that." 
" Oh, it was just to show he was run after. I 
wonder if he thinks we are running after him? 
Momma, I am tired of him! I wish he wouldn 't 
speak to me any more." 
"Why! do you really dislike him, Ellen?" 
"No, not dislike him. But it tires me to have 
him trying to amuse me. Don 't you understand ?" 
Mrs. Kenton said yes, she understood, but she 
was clear only of the fact that Ellen seemed flushed 
and weak at that moment. She believed that it was 
Miss Kasmith and not Mr. Breckon who was to 
blame, but she said : " Well, you needn 't worry about 
it long. It will only be a day or two now till we 
get to Boulogne, and then he will leave us. Hadn 't 
you better go down now, and rest awhile in your 
berth? I will bring your things." 
 
Ellen rose, pulling her wraps from her skirts 
to give them to her mother. A voice from behind 
said between their meeting shoulders : " Oh, are 
you going down? I was just coming to beg Miss 
Kenton to take a little walk with me," and they 
looked round together and met Breckon 's smiling 
face. 
"I 'm afraid," Mrs. Kenton began, and then, like 
a well-trained American mother, she stopped and 
left the affair to her daughter. 
" Do you think you can get down with them, 
momma ?" the girl asked, and somehow her mother 's 
heart was lightened by her evasion, not to call it 
uncandor. It was at least not morbid, it was at 
least like other girls, and Mrs. Kenton imparted 
what comfort there was in it to the judge, when he 
asked where she had left Ellen. 
" Not that it 's any use," she sighed, when she 
had seen him share it with a certain shamefaced- 
ness. " That woman has got her grip on him, and 
she doesn 't mean to let go." 
Kenton understood Miss Rasmith by that woman ; 
but he would not allow himself to be so easily cast 
down. This was one of the things that provoked 
Mrs. Kenton with him; when he had once taken 
hope he would not abandon it without reason. " I 
don 't see any evidence of her having her grip on 
him. I ve noticed him, and he doesn 't seem atten 
tive to her. I should say he tried to avoid her. 
Pie certainly doesn 't avoid Ellen." 
"What are you thinking of, Rufus?" 
 
" What are you ? You know we d both be glad 
if he fancied her." 
"Well, suppose we would? I don 't deny it. He 
is one of the most agreeable gentlemen I ever saw; 
one of the kindest and nicest." 
"He 's more than that," said the judge. "I ve 
been sounding him on various points, and I don 't 
see where he 's wrong. Of course, I don 't know much 
about his religious persuasion, if it is one, but I 
think I 'm a pretty fair judge of character, and that 
young man has character. He isn 't a light person, 
though he likes joking and laughing, and he ap 
preciates Ellen." 
" Yes, so do we. And there 's about as much pros 
pect of his marrying her. Rufus, it 's pretty hard! 
She 's just in the mood to be taken with him, but 
she won 't let herself, because she knows it 's of no 
use. That Miss Rasmith has been telling her how 
much he is run after, and I could see that that 
settled it for Ellen as plainly as if she said so. 
More plainly, for there 's enough of the girl in her 
to make her say one thing when she means an 
other. She was just saying she was sick of him, and 
never wanted to speak to him again, when he 
came up and asked her to walk, and she went 
with him instantly. I knew what she meant. 
She wasn 't going to let him suppose that any 
thing Miss Rasmith had said was going to change 
her." 
"Well, then," said the judge, "I don 't see what 
you 're scared at." 
" I 'm not scared. But, oh, Rufus ! It can 't come 
to anything ! There isn 't time !" An hysterical hope 
trembled in her asseveration of despair that made 
him smile. 
" I guess if time 's all that 's wanted " 
" He is going to get off at Boulogne." 
" Well, we can get off there, too." 
" Rufus, if you dare to think of such a thing !" 
" I don t. But Europe isn 't so big but what he 
can find us again if he wants to." 
" Ah, if he wants to !" 
Ellen seemed to have let her mother take her 
languor below along with the shawls she had given 
her. Buttoned into a close jacket, and skirted short 
for the sea, she pushed against the breeze at Breck- 
on 's elbow with a vigor that made him look his 
surprise at her. Girl-like, she took it that something 
was wrong with her dress, and ran herself over with 
an uneasy eye. 
Then he explained : " I was just thinking how 
much you were like Miss Lottie if you 'll excuse 
my being so personal. And it never struck me be 
fore." 
" I didn 't suppose we looked alike," said Ellen. 
"No, certainly. I shouldn 't have taken you for 
sisters. And yet, just now, I felt that you were 
like her. You seem so much stronger this morning 
perhaps it 's that the voyage is doing you good. 
Shall you be sorry to have it end?" 
"Shall you? That 's the way Lottie would an- 
 
Breckon laughed. "Yes, it is. I shall be very 
sorry. I should be willing to have it rough again, 
if that would make it longer. I liked it 's being 
rough. We had it to ourselves." He had not 
thought how that sounded, but if it sounded par 
ticular, she did not notice it. 
She merely said, " I was surprised not to be sea 
sick, too." 
"And should you be willing to have it rough 
again?" 
" You wouldn 't see anything more of your friends, 
then." 
"Ah, yes; Miss Rasmith. She is a great talker. 
Did you find her interesting?" 
" She was very interesting." 
"Yes? What did she talk about?" 
Ellen realized the fact too late to withhold it. 
" Why, about you." 
" And was that what made her interesting ?" 
" Now, what would Lottie say to such a thing 
as that?" asked Ellen, gayly. 
" Something terribly cutting, I 'm afraid. But 
don 't you! From you I don 't want to believe I de 
serve it, no matter what Miss Rasmith said of 
me." 
" Oh, she didn 't say anything very bad. Unless 
you mind being a universal favorite." 
" Well, it makes a man out rather silly." 
" But you can 't help that." 
" Now you remind me of Miss Lottie again !" 
"But I didn 't mean that," said Ellen, blushing 
 
 
and laughing. " I hope you wouldn 't think I could 
be so pert." 
" I wouldn 't think anything that wasn 't to your 
praise," said Breckon, and a pause ensued, after 
which the words he added seemed tame and flat. 
" I suspect Miss Rasmith has been idealizing the 
situation. At any rate, I shouldn 't advise you to 
trust her report implicitly. I 'm at the head of a 
society, you know, ethical or sociological, or altru 
istic, whatever you choose to call it, which hasn 't 
any very definite object of worship, and yet meets 
every Sunday for a sort of worship; and I have 
to be in the pulpit. So you see ?" 
Ellen said, " I think I understand," with a temp 
tation to smile at the ruefulness of hi.s appeal. 
Breckon laughed for her. "That 's the mischief 
and the absurdity of it. But it isn 't so bad as it 
seems. They 're really most of them hard - headed 
people; and those that are not couldn 't make a 
fool of a man that nature hadn 't begun with. Still, 
I 'm not very well satisfied with my work among 
them that is, I 'm not satisfied with myself." He 
was talking soberly enough, and he did not find 
that she was listening too seriously. " I 'm going 
away to see whether I shall come back." He looked 
at her to make sure that she had taken his meaning, 
and seemed satisfied that she had. "I 'm not sure 
that Fm fit for any sort of ministry, and I may 
spend the winter in England trying to find out. 
I was at school in England, you know." 
Ellen confessed that she had not known that. 
 
"Yes; I suppose that 's what made me seem so 
Englishy the first day to Miss Lottie, as she called 
it. But I 'm straight enough American as far as 
parentage goes. Do you think you will be in 
England later ?" 
"I don 't know. If poppa gets too homesick we 
will go back in the fall." 
"Miss Kenton," said the young man, abruptly, 
" will you let me tell you how much I admire and 
revere your father?" 
Tears came into her eyes and her throat swelled. 
"But you don 't know," she begun; and then she 
stopped. 
" I have been wanting to submit something to his 
judgment; but I ve been afraid. I might seem to 
be fishing for his favor." 
"Poppa wouldn 't think anything that was un 
just," said Ellen, gravely. 
" Ah," Breckon laughed, " I suspect that I should 
rather have him unjust. I wish you d tell me what 
he would think." 
" But I don 't know what it is," she protested, with 
a reflected smile. 
" I was in hopes Miss Rasmith might have told 
you. Well, it is simply this, and you will see that 
I 'm not quite the universal favorite she 's been 
making you fancy me. There is a rift in my lute, 
a schism in my little society, which is so little that 
I could not have supposed there was enough of it 
to break in two. There are some who think their 
lecturer for that 's what I amount to ought to be 
 
an older, if not a graver man. They are in the 
minority, but they 're in the right, I 'm afraid; and 
that 's why I happen to be here telling you all this. 
It 's a question of whether I ought to go back to New 
York or stay in London, where there 's been a faint 
call for me." He saw the girl listening devoutly, 
with that nattered look which a serious girl cannot 
keep out of her face when a man confides a serious 
matter to her. " I might safely promise to be older, 
but could I keep my word if I promised to be 
graver? That 's the point. If I were a Calvinist 
I might hold fast by faith, and fight it out with 
that; or if I were a Catholic I could cast myself 
upon the strength of the Church, and triumph in 
spite of temperament. Then it wouldn 't matter 
whether I was grave or gay; it might be even bet 
ter if I were gay. But," he went on, in terms 
which, doubtless, were mot then for the first time 
formulated in his mind, "being merely the 
leader of a sort of forlorn hope in the Divine 
Goodness, perhaps I have no right to be so cheer 
ful." 
The note of a sad irony in his words appealed 
to such indignation for him in Ellen as she never 
felt for herself. But she only said, " I don 't believe 
poppa could take that in the wrong way if you told 
him." 
Breckon stared. " Yes, your father ! What would 
he say?" 
" I can 't tell you. But I 'm sure he would know 
what you meant." 
 
"And you," he pursued, "what should you 
say?" 
"I? I never thought about such a thing. You 
mustn 't ask me, if you 're serious; and if you 're 
not" 
" But I am ; I am deeply serious. I would like 
to know how the case strikes you. I shall be so 
grateful if you will tell me." 
" I 'm sorry I can t, Mr. Breckon. Why don 't you 
ask poppa?" 
" No, I see now I sha n 't be able. I feel too much, 
after telling you, as if I had been posing. The 
reality has gone out of it all. And I 'm ashamed." 
"You mustn 't be," she said, quietly; and she 
added, " I suppose it would be Me a kind of defeat 
if you didn 't go back ?" 
"I shouldn 't care for the appearance of defeat," 
he said, courageously. " The great question is, 
whether somebody else wouldn 't be of more use in 
my place." 
"Nobody could be," said she, in a sort of im 
passioned absence, and then coming to herself, " I 
mean, they wouldn 't think so, I don 't believe." 
" Then you advise " 
"No, no! I can t; I don t. I 'm not fit to have 
an opinion about such a thing; it would be crazy. 
But poppa " 
They were at the door of the gangway, and she 
slipped within and left him. His nerves tingled, 
and there was a glow in his breast. It was sweet 
to have surprised that praise from her, though he 
 
could not have said why he should value the praise 
of a girl of her open ignorance and inexperience 
in everything that would have qualified her to 
judge him. But he found himself valuing it su 
premely, and wonderingly wishing to be worthy of 
it. 
XVII 
ELLEN discovered her father with a book in a dis 
tant corner of the dining-saloon, which he preferred 
to the deck or the library for his reading, in such 
intervals as the stewards, laying and cleaning the 
tables, left him unmolested in it. She advanced 
precipitately upon him, and stood before him in 
an excitement which, though he lifted his dazed eyes 
to it from his page, he was not entirely aware of 
till afterwards. Then he realized that her cheeks 
were full of color, and her eyes of light, and that 
she panted as if she had been running when she 
spoke. 
"Poppa," she said, "there is something that Mr. 
Breckon wants to speak to you to ask you about. 
He has asked me, but I want you to see him, for I 
think he had better tell you himself." 
While he still stared at her she was as suddenly 
gone as she had come, and he remained with his 
book, which the meaning had as suddenly left. 
There was no meaning in her words, except as he 
put it into them, and after he had got it in he strug 
gled with it in a sort of perfunctory incredulity. 
It was not impossible; it chiefly seemed so because 
it seemed too good to be true; and the more he 
 
pondered it the more possible, if not probable, it 
became. He could not be safe with it till he had 
submitted it to his wife; and he went to her while 
he was sure of repeating Ellen 's words without vary 
