Just this perception it was, however, that had made him for the time
ugly to himself in his awkwardness. It was horrible, with this
creature, to be awkward; it was odious to be seeking excuses for the
relation that involved it. Any relation that involved it was by the
very fact as much discredited as a dish would be at dinner if one had
to take medicine as a sauce. What Kate would have said in one of the
young women's last talks was that--if Milly absolutely must have the
truth about it--Mr. Densher was staying because she had really seen no
way but to require it of him. If he stayed he didn't follow her--or
didn't appear to her aunt to be doing so; and when she kept him from
following her Mrs. Lowder couldn't pretend, in scenes, the renewal of
which at this time of day was painful, that she after all didn't snub
him as she might. She did nothing in fact but snub him--wouldn't that
have been part of the story?--only Aunt Maud's suspicions were of the
sort that had repeatedly to be dealt with. He had been, by the same
token, reasonable enough--as he now, for that matter, well might; he
had consented to oblige them, aunt and niece, by giving the plainest
sign possible that he could exist away from London. To exist away from
London was to exist away from Kate Croy--which was a gain, much
appreciated, to the latter's comfort. There was a minute, at this hour,
out of Densher's three, during which he knew the terror of Milly's
uttering some such allusion to their friend's explanation as he must
meet with words that wouldn't destroy it. To destroy it was to destroy
everything, to destroy probably Kate herself, to destroy in particular
by a breach of faith still uglier than anything else the beauty of
their own last passage. He had given her his word of honour that if she
would come to him he would act absolutely in her sense, and he had done
so with a full enough vision of what her sense implied. What it implied
for one thing was that to-night in the great saloon, noble in its
half-lighted beauty, and straight in the white face of his young
hostess, divine in her trust, or at any rate inscrutable in her
mercy--what it implied was that he should lie with his lips. The single
thing, of all things, that could save him from it would be Milly's
letting him off after having thus scared him. What made her mercy
inscrutable was that if she had already more than once saved him it was
yet apparently without knowing how nearly he was lost.
These were transcendent motions, not the less blest for being obscure;
whereby yet once more he was to feel the pressure lighten. He was kept
on his feet in short by the felicity of her not presenting him with
Kate's version as aversion to adopt. He couldn't stand up to lie--he
felt as if he should have to go down on his knees. As it was he just
sat there shaking a little for nervousness the leg he had crossed over
the other. She was sorry for his suffered snub, but he had nothing more
to subscribe to, to perjure himself about, than the three or four
inanities he had, on his own side, feebly prepared for the crisis. He
scrambled a little higher than the reference to money and clothes,
letters and directions from his manager; but he brought out the beauty
of the chance for him--there before him like a temptress painted by
Titian--to do a little quiet writing. He was vivid for a moment on the
difficulty of writing quietly in London; and he was precipitate, almost
explosive, on his idea, long cherished, of a book.
The explosion lighted her face. "You'll do your book here?"
"I hope to begin it."
"It's something you haven't begun?"
"Well, only just."
"And since you came?"
She was so full of interest that he shouldn't perhaps after all be too
easily let off. "I tried to think a few days ago that I had broken
ground."
Scarcely anything, it was indeed clear, could have let him in deeper.
"I'm afraid we've made an awful mess of your time."
"Of course you have. But what I'm hanging on for now is precisely to
repair that ravage."
"Then you mustn't mind me, you know."
"You'll see," he tried to say with ease, "how little I shall mind
anything."
"You'll want"--Milly had thrown herself into it--"the best part of your
days."
He thought a moment: he did what he could to wreathe it in smiles. "Oh
I shall make shift with the worst part. The best will be for you."
And he wished Kate could hear him. It didn't help him moreover that he
visibly, even pathetically, imaged to her by such touches his quest for
comfort against discipline. He was to bury Kate's so signal snub, and
also the hard law she had now laid on him, under a high intellectual
effort. This at least was his crucifixion--that Milly was so
interested. She was so interested that she presently asked him if he
found his rooms propitious, while he felt that in just decently
answering her he put on a brazen mask. He should need it quite
particularly were she to express again her imagination of coming to tea
with him--an extremity that he saw he was not to be spared. "We depend
on you, Susie and I, you know, not to forget we're coming"--the
extremity was but to face that remainder, yet it demanded all his tact.
Facing their visit itself--to that, no matter what he might have to do,
he would never consent, as we know, to be pushed; and this even though
it might be exactly such a demonstration as would figure for him at the
top of Kate's list of his proprieties. He could wonder freely enough,
deep within, if Kate's view of that especial propriety had not been
modified by a subsequent occurrence; but his deciding that it was quite
likely not to have been had no effect on his own preference for tact.
It pleased him to think of "tact" as his present prop in doubt; that
glossed his predicament over, for it was of application among the
sensitive and the kind. He wasn't inhuman, in fine, so long as it would
serve. It had to serve now, accordingly, to help him not to sweeten
Milly's hopes. He didn't want to be rude to them, but he still less
wanted them to flower again in the particular connexion; so that,
casting about him in his anxiety for a middle way to meet her, he put
his foot, with unhappy effect, just in the wrong place. "Will it be
safe for you to break into your custom of not leaving the house?"
"'Safe'--?" She had for twenty seconds an exquisite pale glare. Oh but
he didn't need it, by that time, to wince; he had winced for himself as
soon as he had made his mistake. He had done what, so unforgettably,
she had asked him in London not to do; he had touched, all alone with
her here, the supersensitive nerve of which she had warned him. He had
not, since the occasion in London, touched it again till now; but he
saw himself freshly warned that it was able to bear still less. So for
the moment he knew as little what to do as he had ever known it in his
life. He couldn't emphasise that he thought of her as dying, yet he
couldn't pretend he thought of her as indifferent to precautions.
Meanwhile too she had narrowed his choice. "You suppose me so awfully
bad?"
He turned, in his pain, within himself; but by the time the colour had
mounted to the roots of his hair he had found what he wanted. "I'll
believe whatever you tell me."
"Well then, I'm splendid."
"Oh I don't need you to tell me that."
"I mean I'm capable of life."
"I've never doubted it."
"I mean," she went on, "that I want so to live--!"
"Well?" he asked while she paused with the intensity of it.
"Well, that I know I can."
"Whatever you do?" He shrank from solemnity about it.
"Whatever I do. If I want to."
"If you want to do it?"
"If I want to live. I can," Milly repeated.
He had clumsily brought it on himself, but he hesitated with all the
pity of it. "Ah then that I believe."
"I will, I will," she declared; yet with the weight of it somehow
turned for him to mere light and sound.
He felt himself smiling through a mist. "You simply must!"
It brought her straight again to the fact. "Well then, if you say it,
why mayn't we pay you our visit?"
"Will it help you to live?"
"Every little helps," she laughed; "and it's very little for me, in
general, to stay at home. Only I shan't want to miss it--!"
"Yes?"--she had dropped again.
"Well, on the day you give us a chance."
It was amazing what so brief an exchange had at this point done with
him. His great scruple suddenly broke, giving way to something
inordinately strange, something of a nature to become clear to him only
when he had left her. "You can come," he said, "when you like."
What had taken place for him, however--the drop, almost with violence,
of everything but a sense of her own reality--apparently showed in his
face or his manner, and even so vividly that she could take it for
something else. "I see how you feel--that I'm an awful bore about it
and that, sooner than have any such upset, you'll go. So it's no
matter."
"No matter? Oh!"--he quite protested now.
"If it drives you away to escape us. We want you not to go."
It was beautiful how she spoke for Mrs. Stringham. Whatever it was, at
any rate, he shook his head. "I won't go."
"Then I won't go!" she brightly declared.
"You mean you won't come to me?"
"No--never now. It's over. But it's all right. I mean, apart from
that," she went on, "that I won't do anything I oughtn't or that I'm
not forced to."
"Oh who can ever force you?" he asked with his hand-to-mouth way, at
all times, of speaking for her encouragement. "You're the least
coercible of creatures."
"Because, you think, I'm so free?"
"The freest person probably now in the world. You've got everything."
"Well," she smiled, "call it so. I don't complain."
On which again, in spite of himself, it let him in. "No I know you
don't complain."
As soon as he had said it he had himself heard the pity in it. His
telling her she had "everything" was extravagant kind humour, whereas
his knowing so tenderly that she didn't complain was terrible kind
gravity. Milly felt, he could see, the difference; he might as well
have praised her outright for looking death in the face. This was the
way she just looked him again, and it was of no attenuation that she
took him up more gently than ever. "It isn't a merit--when one sees
one's way."
"To peace and plenty? Well, I dare say not."
"I mean to keeping what one has."
"Oh that's success. If what one has is good," Densher said at random,
"it's enough to try for."
"Well, it's my limit. I'm not trying for more." To which then she added
with a change: "And now about your book."
"My book--?" He had got in a moment so far from it.
"The one you're now to understand that nothing will induce either Susie
or me to run the risk of spoiling."
He cast about, but he made up his mind. "I'm not doing a book."
"Not what you said?" she asked in a wonder. "You're not writing?"
He already felt relieved. "I don't know, upon my honour, what I'm
doing."
It made her visibly grave; so that, disconcerted in another way, he was
afraid of what she would see in it. She saw in fact exactly what he
feared, but again his honour, as he called it, was saved even while she
didn't know she had threatened it. Taking his words for a betrayal of
the sense that he, on his side, might complain, what she clearly
wanted was to urge on him some such patience as he should be perhaps
able to arrive at with her indirect help. Still more clearly, however,
she wanted to be sure of how far she might venture; and he could see
her make out in a moment that she had a sort of test.
"Then if it's not for your book--?"
"What am I staying for?"
"I mean with your London work--with all you have to do. Isn't it rather
empty for you?"
"Empty for me?" He remembered how Kate had held that she might propose
marriage, and he wondered if this were the way she would naturally
begin it. It would leave him, such an incident, he already felt, at a
loss, and the note of his finest anxiety might have been in the
vagueness of his reply. "Oh well--!"
"I ask too many questions?" She settled it for herself before he could
protest. "You stay because you've got to."
He grasped at it. "I stay because I've got to." And he couldn't have
said when he had uttered it if it were loyal to Kate or disloyal. It
gave her, in a manner, away; it showed the tip of the ear of her plan.
Yet Milly took it, he perceived, but as a plain statement of his truth.
He was waiting for what Kate would have told her of--the permission
from Lancaster Gate to come any nearer. To remain friends with either
niece or aunt he mustn't stir without it. All this Densher read in the
girl's sense of the spirit of his reply; so that it made him feel he
was lying, and he had to think of something to correct that. What he
thought of was, in an instant, "Isn't it enough, whatever may be one's
other complications, to stay after all for you?"
"Oh you must judge."
He was by this time on his feet to take leave, and was also at last too
restless. The speech in question at least wasn't disloyal to Kate; that
was the very tone of their bargain. So was it, by being loyal, another
kind of lie, the lie of the uncandid profession of a motive. He was
staying so little "for" Milly that he was staying positively against
her. He didn't, none the less, know, and at last, thank goodness,
didn't care. The only thing he could say might make it either better or
worse. "Well then, so long as I don't go, you must think of me all as
judging!"
II
He didn't go home, on leaving her--he didn't want to; he walked
instead, through his narrow ways and his campi with gothic arches, to
a small and comparatively sequestered café where he had already more
than once found refreshment and comparative repose, together with
solutions that consisted mainly and pleasantly of further indecisions.
It was a literal fact that those awaiting him there to-night, while he
leaned back on his velvet bench with his head against a florid mirror
and his eyes not looking further than the fumes of his tobacco, might
have been regarded by him as a little less limp than usual. This wasn't
because, before getting to his feet again, there was a step he had seen
his way to; it was simply because the acceptance of his position took
sharper effect from his sense of what he had just had to deal with.
When half an hour before, at the palace, he had turned about to Milly
on the question of the impossibility so inwardly felt, turned about on
the spot and under her eyes, he had acted, by the sudden force of his
seeing much further, seeing how little, how not at all, impossibilities
mattered. It wasn't a case for pedantry; when people were at her pass
everything was allowed. And her pass was now, as by the sharp click of
a spring, just completely his own--to the extent, as he felt, of her
deep dependence on him. Anything he should do or shouldn't would have
close reference to her life, which was thus absolutely in his
hands--and ought never to have reference to anything else. It was on
the cards for him that he might kill her--that was the way he read the
cards as he sat in his customary corner. The fear in this thought made
him let everything go, kept him there actually, all motionless, for
three hours on end. He renewed his consumption and smoked more
cigarettes than he had ever done in the time. What had come out for him
had come out, with this first intensity, as a terror; so that action
itself, of any sort, the right as well as the wrong--if the difference
even survived--had heard in it a vivid "Hush!" the injunction to keep
from that moment intensely still. He thought in fact while his vigil
lasted of several different ways for his doing so, and the hour might
have served him as a lesson in going on tiptoe.
What he finally took home, when he ventured to leave the place, was the
perceived truth that he might on any other system go straight to
destruction. Destruction was represented for him by the idea of his
really bringing to a point, on Milly's side, anything whatever. Nothing
so "brought," he easily argued, but must be in one way or another a
catastrophe. He was mixed up in her fate, or her fate, if that should
be better, was mixed up in him, so that a single false motion might
either way snap the coil. They helped him, it was true, these
considerations, to a degree of eventual peace, for what they luminously
amounted to was that he was to do nothing, and that fell in after all
with the burden laid on him by Kate. He was only not to budge without
the girl's leave--not, oddly enough at the last, to move without it,
whether further or nearer, any more than without Kate's. It was to this
his wisdom reduced itself--to the need again simply to be kind. That
was the same as being still--as studying to create the minimum of
vibration. He felt himself as he smoked shut up to a room on the wall
of which something precious was too precariously hung. A false step
would bring it down, and it must hang as long as possible. He was aware
when he walked away again that even Fleet Street wouldn't at this
juncture successfully touch him. His manager might wire that he was
wanted, but he could easily be deaf to his manager. His money for the
idle life might be none too much; happily, however, Venice was cheap,
and it was moreover the queer fact that Milly in a manner supported
him. The greatest of his expenses really was to walk to the palace to
dinner. He didn't want, in short, to give that up, and he should
probably be able, he felt, to stay his breath and his hand. He should
be able to be still enough through everything.
He tried that for three weeks, with the sense after a little of not
having failed. There had to be a delicate art in it, for he wasn't
trying--quite the contrary--to be either distant or dull. That would
not have been being "nice," which in its own form was the real law.
That too might just have produced the vibration he desired to avert; so
that he best kept everything in place by not hesitating or fearing, as
it were, to let himself go--go in the direction, that is to say, of
staying. It depended on where he went; which was what he meant by
taking care. When one went on tiptoe one could turn off for retreat
without betraying the manoeuvre. Perfect tact--the necessity for which
he had from the first, as we know, happily recognised--was to keep all
intercourse in the key of the absolutely settled. It was settled thus
for instance that they were indissoluble good friends, and settled as
well that her being the American girl was, just in time and for the
relation they found themselves concerned in, a boon inappreciable. If,
at least, as the days went on, she was to fall short of her prerogative
of the great national, the great maidenly ease, if she didn't
diviningly and responsively desire and labour to record herself as
possessed of it, this wouldn't have been for want of Densher's keeping
her, with his idea, well up to it--wouldn't have been in fine for want
of his encouragement and reminder. He didn't perhaps in so many words
speak to her of the quantity itself as of the thing she was least to
intermit; but he talked of it, freely, in what he flattered himself was
an impersonal way, and this held it there before her--since he was
careful also to talk pleasantly. It was at once their idea, when all
was said, and the most marked of their conveniences. The type was so
elastic that it could be stretched to almost anything; and yet, not
stretched, it kept down, remained normal, remained properly within
bounds. And he had meanwhile, thank goodness, without being too much
disconcerted, the sense, for the girl's part of the business, of the
queerest conscious compliance, of her doing very much what he wanted,
even though without her quite seeing why. She fairly touched this once
in saying: "Oh yes, you like us to be as we are because it's a kind of
facilitation to you that we don't quite measure: I think one would have
to be English to measure it!"--and that too, strangely enough, without
prejudice to her good nature. She might have been conceived as
doing--that is of being--what he liked in order perhaps only to judge
where it would take them. They really as it went on saw each other at
the game; she knowing he tried to keep her in tune with his conception,
and he knowing she thus knew it. Add that he again knew she knew, and
yet that nothing was spoiled by it, and we get a fair impression of the
line they found most completely workable. The strangest fact of all for
us must be that the success he himself thus promoted was precisely what
figured to his gratitude as the something above and beyond him, above
and beyond Kate, that made for daily decency. There would scarce have
been felicity--certainly too little of the right lubricant--had not the
national character so invoked been, not less inscrutably than entirely,
in Milly's chords. It made up her unity and was the one thing he could
unlimitedly take for granted.
He did so then, daily, for twenty days, without deepened fear of the
undue vibration that was keeping him watchful. He knew in his
nervousness that he was living at best from day to day and from hand to
mouth; yet he had succeeded, he believed, in avoiding a mistake. All
women had alternatives, and Milly's would doubtless be shaky too; but
the national character was firm in her, whether as all of her,
practically, by this time, or but as a part; the national character
that, in a woman still so young, made of the air breathed a virtual
non-conductor. It wasn't till a certain occasion when the twenty days
had passed that, going to the palace at tea-time, he was met by the
information that the signorina padrona was not "receiving." The
announcement met him, in the court, on the lips of one of the
gondoliers, met him, he thought, with such a conscious eye as the
knowledge of his freedoms of access, hitherto conspicuously shown,
could scarce fail to beget. Densher had not been at Palazzo Leporelli
among the mere receivable, but had taken his place once for all among
the involved and included, so that on being so flagrantly braved he
recognised after a moment the propriety of a further appeal. Neither of
the two ladies, it appeared, received, and yet Pasquale was not
prepared to say that either was poco bene. He was yet not prepared to
say that either was anything, and he would have been blank, Densher
mentally noted, if the term could ever apply to members of a race in
whom vacancy was but a nest of darknesses--not a vain surface, but a
place of withdrawal in which something obscure, something always
ominous, indistinguishably lived. He felt afresh indeed at this hour
the force of the veto laid within the palace on any mention, any
cognition, of the liabilities of its mistress. The state of her health
was never confessed to there as a reason. How much it might deeply be
taken for one was another matter; of which he grew fully aware on
carrying his question further. This appeal was to his friend Eugenio,
whom he immediately sent for, with whom, for three rich minutes,
protected from the weather, he was confronted in the gallery that led
from the water-steps to the court, and whom he always called, in
meditation, his friend; seeing it was so elegantly presumable he would
have put an end to him if he could. That produced a relation which
required a name of its own, an intimacy of consciousness in truth for
each--an intimacy of eye, of ear, of general sensibility, of everything
but tongue. It had been, in other words, for the five weeks, far from
occult to our young man that Eugenio took a view of him not less finely
formal than essentially vulgar, but which at the same time he couldn't
himself raise an eyebrow to prevent. It was all in the air now again;
it was as much between them as ever while Eugenio waited on him in the
court.
The weather, from early morning, had turned to storm, the first
sea-storm of the autumn, and Densher had almost invidiously brought him
down the outer staircase--the massive ascent, the great feature of the
court, to Milly's piano nobile. This was to pay him--it was the one
chance--for all imputations; the imputation in particular that, clever,
tanto bello and not rich, the young man from London was--by the
obvious way--pressing Miss Theale's fortune hard. It was to pay him for
the further ineffable intimation that a gentleman must take the young
lady's most devoted servant (interested scarcely less in the high
attraction) for a strangely casual appendage if he counted in such a
connexion on impunity and prosperity. These interpretations were odious
to Densher for the simple reason that they might have been so true of
the attitude of an inferior man, and three things alone, accordingly,
had kept him from righting himself. One of these was that his critic
sought expression only in an impersonality, a positive inhumanity, of
politeness; the second was that refinements of expression in a friend's
servant were not a thing a visitor could take action on; and the third
was the fact that the particular attribution of motive did him after
all no wrong. It was his own fault if the vulgar view, the view that
might have been taken of an inferior man, happened so incorrigibly to
fit him. He apparently wasn't so different from inferior men as that
came to. If therefore, in fine, Eugenio figured to him as "my friend"
because he was conscious of his seeing so much of him, what he made him
see on the same lines in the course of their present interview was ever
so much more. Densher felt that he marked himself, no doubt, as
insisting, by dissatisfaction with the gondolier's answer, on the
pursuit taken for granted in him; and yet felt it only in the
augmented, the exalted distance that was by this time established
between them. Eugenio had of course reflected that a word to Miss
Theale from such a pair of lips would cost him his place; but he could
also bethink himself that, so long as the word never came--and it was,
on the basis he had arranged, impossible--he enjoyed the imagination of
mounting guard. He had never so mounted guard, Densher could see, as
during these minutes in the damp loggia where the storm-gusts were
strong; and there came in fact for our young man, as a result of his
presence, a sudden sharp sense that everything had turned to the
dismal. Something had happened--he didn't know what; and it wasn't
Eugenio who would tell him. What Eugenio told him was that he thought
the ladies--as if their liability had been equal--were a "leetle"
fatigued, just a "leetle leetle," and without any cause named for it.
It was one of the signs of what Densher felt in him that, by a
profundity, a true deviltry of resource, he always met the latter's
Italian with English and his English with Italian. He now, as usual,
slightly smiled at him in the process--but ever so slightly this time,
his manner also being attuned, our young man made out, to the thing,
whatever it was, that constituted the rupture of peace.
This manner, while they stood a long minute facing each other over all
they didn't say, played a part as well in the sudden jar to Densher's
protected state. It was a Venice all of evil that had broken out for
them alike, so that they were together in their anxiety, if they really
could have met on it; a Venice of cold lashing rain from a low black
sky, of wicked wind raging through narrow passes, of general arrest and
interruption, with the people engaged in all the water-life huddled,
stranded and wageless, bored and cynical, under archways and bridges.
Our young man's mute exchange with his friend contained meanwhile such
a depth of reference that, had the pressure been but slightly
prolonged, they might have reached a point at which they were equally
weak. Each had verily something in mind that would have made a hash of
mutual suspicion and in presence of which, as a possibility, they were
more united than disjoined. But it was to have been a moment for
Densher that nothing could ease off--not even the formal propriety with
which his interlocutor finally attended him to the portone and bowed
upon his retreat. Nothing had passed about his coming back, and the air
had made itself felt as a non-conductor of messages. Densher knew of
course, as he took his way again, that Eugenio's invitation to return
was not what he missed; yet he knew at the same time that what had
happened to him was part of his punishment. Out in the square beyond
the fondamenta that gave access to the land-gate of the palace, out
where the wind was higher, he fairly, with the thought of it, pulled
his umbrella closer down. It couldn't be, his consciousness, unseen
enough by others--the base predicament of having, by a concatenation,
just to take such things: such things as the fact that one very acute
person in the world, whom he couldn't dispose of as an interested
scoundrel, enjoyed an opinion of him that there was no attacking, no
disproving, no (what was worst of all) even noticing. One had come to a
queer pass when a servant's opinion so mattered. Eugenio's would have
mattered even if, as founded on a low vision of appearances, it had
been quite wrong. It was the more disagreeable accordingly that the
vision of appearances was quite right, and yet was scarcely less low.
Such as it was, at any rate, Densher shook it off with the more
impatience that he was independently restless. He had to walk in spite
of weather, and he took his course, through crooked ways, to the
Piazza, where he should have the shelter of the galleries. Here, in the
high arcade, half Venice was crowded close, while, on the Molo, at the
limit of the expanse, the old columns of the Saint Theodore and of the
Lion were the frame of a door wide open to the storm. It was odd for
him, as he moved, that it should have made such a difference--if the
difference wasn't only that the palace had for the first time failed of
a welcome. There was more, but it came from that; that gave the harsh
note and broke the spell. The wet and the cold were now to reckon with,
and it was to Densher precisely as if he had seen the obliteration, at
a stroke, of the margin on a faith in which they were all living. The
margin had been his name for it--for the thing that, though it had held
out, could bear no shock. The shock, in some form, had come, and he
wondered about it while, threading his way among loungers as vague as
himself, he dropped his eyes sightlessly on the rubbish in shops. There
were stretches of the gallery paved with squares of red marble, greasy
now with the salt spray; and the whole place, in its huge elegance, the
grace of its conception and the beauty of its detail, was more than
ever like a great drawing-room, the drawing-room of Europe, profaned
and bewildered by some reverse of fortune. He brushed shoulders with
brown men whose hats askew, and the loose sleeves of whose pendent
jackets, made them resemble melancholy maskers. The tables and chairs
that overflowed from the cafés were gathered, still with a pretence of
service, into the arcade, and here and there a spectacled German, with
his coat-collar up, partook publicly of food and philosophy. These were
impressions for Densher too, but he had made the whole circuit thrice
before he stopped short, in front of Florian's, with the force of his
sharpest. His eye had caught a face within the café--he had spotted an
acquaintance behind the glass. The person he had thus paused long
enough to look at twice was seated, well within range, at a small table
on which a tumbler, half-emptied and evidently neglected, still
remained; and though he had on his knee, as he leaned back, a copy of a
French newspaper--the heading of the Figaro was visible--he stared
straight before him at the little opposite rococo wall. Densher had him
for a minute in profile, had him for a time during which his identity
produced, however quickly, all the effect of establishing
connexions--connexions startling and direct; and then, as if it were
the one thing more needed, seized the look, determined by a turn of the
head, that might have been a prompt result of the sense of being
noticed. This wider view showed him all Lord Mark--Lord Mark as
encountered, several weeks before, the day of the first visit of each
to Palazzo Leporelli. For it had been all Lord Mark that was going out,
on that occasion, as he came in--he had felt it, in the hall, at the
time; and he was accordingly the less at a loss to recognise in a few
seconds, as renewed meeting brought it to the surface, the same
potential quantity.
It was a matter, the whole passage--it could only be--but of a few
seconds; for as he might neither stand there to stare nor on the other
hand make any advance from it, he had presently resumed his walk, this
time to another pace. It had been for all the world, during his pause,
as if he had caught his answer to the riddle of the day. Lord Mark had
simply faced him--as he had faced him, not placed by him, not at
first--as one of the damp shuffling crowd. Recognition, though hanging
fire, had then clearly come; yet no light of salutation had been struck
from these certainties. Acquaintance between them was scant enough for
neither to take it up. That neither had done so was not, however, what
now mattered, but that the gentleman at Florian's should be in the
place at all. He couldn't have been in it long; Densher, as inevitably
a haunter of the great meeting-ground, would in that case have seen him
before. He paid short visits; he was on the wing; the question for him
even as he sat there was of his train or of his boat. He had come back
for something--as a sequel to his earlier visit; and whatever he had
come back for it had had time to be done. He might have arrived but
last night or that morning; he had already made the difference. It was
a great thing for Densher to get this answer. He held it close, he
hugged it, quite leaned on it as he continued to circulate. It kept him
going and going--it made him no less restless. But it explained--and
that was much, for with explanations he might somehow deal. The vice in
the air, otherwise, was too much like the breath of fate. The weather
had changed, the rain was ugly, the wind wicked, the sea impossible,
because of Lord Mark. It was because of him, a fortiori, that the
palace was closed. Densher went round again twice; he found the visitor
each time as he had found him first. Once, that is, he was staring
before him; the next time he was looking over his Figaro, which he
had opened out. Densher didn't again stop, but left him apparently
unconscious of his passage--on another repetition of which Lord Mark
had disappeared. He had spent but the day; he would be off that night;
he had now gone to his hotel for arrangements. These things were as
plain to Densher as if he had had them in words. The obscure had
cleared for him--if cleared it was; there was something he didn't see,
the great thing; but he saw so round it and so close to it that this
was almost as good. He had been looking at a man who had done what he
had come for, and for whom, as done, it temporarily sufficed. The man
had come again to see Milly, and Milly had received him. His visit
would have taken place just before or just after luncheon, and it was
the reason why he himself had found her door shut.
He said to himself that evening, he still said even on the morrow, that
he only wanted a reason, and that with this perception of one he could
now mind, as he called it, his business. His business, he had settled,
as we know, was to keep thoroughly still; and he asked himself why it
should prevent this that he could feel, in connexion with the crisis,
so remarkably blameless. He gave the appearances before him all the
benefit of being critical, so that if blame were to accrue he shouldn't
feel he had dodged it. But it wasn't a bit he who, that day, had
touched her, and if she was upset it wasn't a bit his act. The ability
so to think about it amounted for Densher during several hours to a
kind of exhilaration. The exhilaration was heightened fairly, besides,
by the visible conditions--sharp, striking, ugly to him--of Lord Mark's
return. His constant view of it, for all the next hours, of which there
were many, was as a demonstration on the face of it sinister even to
his own actual ignorance. He didn't need, for seeing it as evil, seeing
it as, to a certainty, in a high degree "nasty," to know more about it
than he had so easily and so wonderfully picked up. You couldn't drop
on the poor girl that way without, by the fact, being brutal. Such a
visit was a descent, an invasion, an aggression, constituting precisely
one or other of the stupid shocks he himself had so decently sought to
spare her. Densher had indeed drifted by the next morning to the
reflexion--which he positively, with occasion, might have brought
straight out--that the only delicate and honourable way of treating a
person in such a state was to treat her as he, Merton Densher, did.
With time, actually--for the impression but deepened--this sense of the
contrast, to the advantage of Merton Densher, became a sense of relief,
and that in turn a sense of escape. It was for all the world--and he
drew a long breath on it--as if a special danger for him had passed.
Lord Mark had, without in the least intending such a service, got it
straight out of the way. It was he, the brute, who had stumbled into
just the wrong inspiration and who had therefore produced, for the very
person he had wished to hurt, an impunity that was comparative
innocence, that was almost like purification. The person he had wished
to hurt could only be the person so unaccountably hanging about. To
keep still meanwhile was, for this person, more comprehensively, to
keep it all up; and to keep it all up was, if that seemed on
consideration best, not, for the day or two, to go back to the palace.
The day or two passed--stretched to three days; and with the effect,
extraordinarily, that Densher felt himself in the course of them washed
but the more clean. Some sign would come if his return should have the
better effect; and he was at all events, in absence, without the
particular scruple. It wouldn't have been meant for him by either of
the women that he was to come back but to face Eugenio. That was
impossible--the being again denied; for it made him practically
answerable, and answerable was what he wasn't. There was no neglect
either in absence, inasmuch as, from the moment he didn't get in, the
one message he could send up would be some hope on the score of health.
Since accordingly that sort of expression was definitely forbidden him
he had only to wait--which he was actually helped to do by his feeling
with the lapse of each day more and more wound up to it. The days in
themselves were anything but sweet; the wind and the weather lasted,
the fireless cold hinted at worse; the broken charm of the world about
was broken into smaller pieces. He walked up and down his rooms and
listened to the wind--listened also to tinkles of bells and watched for
some servant of the palace. He might get a note, but the note never
came; there were hours when he stayed at home not to miss it. When he
wasn't at home he was in circulation again as he had been at the hour
of his seeing Lord Mark. He strolled about the Square with the herd of
refugees; he raked the approaches and the cafés on the chance the
brute, as he now regularly imaged him, might be still there. He could
only be there, he knew, to be received afresh; and that--one had but to
think of it--would be indeed stiff. He had gone, however--it was
proved; though Densher's care for the question either way only added to
what was most acrid in the taste of his present ordeal. It all came
round to what he was doing for Milly--spending days that neither relief
nor escape could purge of a smack of the abject. What was it but abject
for a man of his parts to be reduced to such pastimes? What was it but
sordid for him, shuffling about in the rain, to have to peep into shops
and to consider possible meetings? What was it but odious to find
himself wondering what, as between him and another man, a possible
meeting would produce? There recurred moments when in spite of
everything he felt no straighter than another man. And yet even on the
third day, when still nothing had come, he more than ever knew that he
wouldn't have budged for the world.
He thought of the two women, in their silence, at last--he at all
events thought of Milly--as probably, for her reasons, now intensely
wishing him to go. The cold breath of her reasons was, with everything
else, in the air; but he didn't care for them any more than for her
wish itself, and he would stay in spite of her, stay in spite of odium,
stay in spite perhaps of some final experience that would be, for the
pain of it, all but unbearable. That would be his one way, purified
though he was, to mark his virtue beyond any mistake. It would be
accepting the disagreeable, and the disagreeable would be a proof; a
proof of his not having stayed for the thing--the agreeable, as it
were--that Kate had named. The thing Kate had named was not to have
been the odium of staying in spite of hints. It was part of the odium
as actual too that Kate was, for her comfort, just now well aloof.
These were the first hours since her flight in which his sense of what
she had done for him on the eve of that event was to incur a
qualification. It was strange, it was perhaps base, to be thinking such
things so soon; but one of the intimations of his solitude was that she
had provided for herself. She was out of it all, by her act, as much as
he was in it; and this difference grew, positively, as his own
intensity increased. She had said in their last sharp snatch of
talk--sharp though thickly muffled, and with every word in it final and
deep, unlike even the deepest words they had ever yet spoken: "Letters?
Never--now. Think of it. Impossible." So that as he had sufficiently
caught her sense--into which he read, all the same, a strange
inconsequence--they had practically wrapped their understanding in the
breach of their correspondence. He had moreover, on losing her, done
justice to her law of silence; for there was doubtless a finer delicacy
in his not writing to her than in his writing as he must have written
had he spoken of themselves. That would have been a turbid strain, and
her idea had been to be noble; which, in a degree, was a manner. Only
it left her, for the pinch, comparatively at ease. And it left him,
in the conditions, peculiarly alone. He was alone, that is, till, on
the afternoon of his third day, in gathering dusk and renewed rain,
with his shabby rooms looking doubtless, in their confirmed dreariness,
for the mere eyes of others, at their worst, the grinning padrona threw
open the door and introduced Mrs. Stringham. That made at a bound a
difference, especially when he saw that his visitor was weighted. It
appeared part of her weight that she was in a wet waterproof, that she
allowed her umbrella to be taken from her by the good woman without
consciousness or care, and that her face, under her veil, richly rosy
with the driving wind, was--and the veil too--as splashed as if the
rain were her tears.
III
They came to it almost immediately; he was to wonder afterwards at the
fewness of their steps. "She has turned her face to the wall."
"You mean she's worse?"
The poor lady stood there as she had stopped; Densher had, in the
instant flare of his eagerness, his curiosity, all responsive at sight
of her, waved away, on the spot, the padrona, who had offered to
relieve her of her mackintosh. She looked vaguely about through her wet
veil, intensely alive now to the step she had taken and wishing it not
to have been in the dark, but clearly, as yet, seeing nothing. "I don't
know how she is--and it's why I've come to you."
"I'm glad enough you've come," he said, "and it's quite--you make me
feel--as if I had been wretchedly waiting for you."
She showed him again her blurred eyes--she had caught at his word.
"Have you been wretched?"
Now, however, on his lips, the word expired. It would have sounded for
him like a complaint, and before something he already made out in his
visitor he knew his own trouble as small. Hers, under her damp
draperies, which shamed his lack of a fire, was great, and he felt she
had brought it all with her. He answered that he had been patient and
above all that he had been still. "As still as a mouse--you'll have
seen it for yourself. Stiller, for three days together, than I've ever
been in my life. It has seemed to me the only thing."
This qualification of it as a policy or a remedy was straightway for
his friend, he saw, a light that her own light could answer. "It has
been best. I've wondered for you. But it has been best," she said again.
"Yet it has done no good?"
"I don't know. I've been afraid you were gone." Then as he gave a
headshake which, though slow, was deeply mature: "You won't go?"
"Is to 'go,'" he asked, "to be still?"
"Oh I mean if you'll stay for me."
"I'll do anything for you. Isn't it for you alone now I can?"
She thought of it, and he could see even more of the relief she was
taking from him. His presence, his face, his voice, the old rooms
themselves, so meagre yet so charged, where Kate had admirably been to
him--these things counted for her, now she had them, as the help she
had been wanting: so that she still only stood there taking them all
in. With it however popped up characteristically a throb of her
conscience. What she thus tasted was almost a personal joy. It told
Densher of the three days she on her side had spent. "Well, anything
you do for me--is for her too. Only, only--!"
"Only nothing now matters?"
She looked at him a minute as if he were the fact itself that he
expressed. "Then you know?"
"Is she dying?" he asked for all answer.
Mrs. Stringham waited--her face seemed to sound him. Then her own reply
was strange. "She hasn't so much as named you. We haven't spoken."
"Not for three days?"
"No more," she simply went on, "than if it were all over. Not even by
the faintest allusion."
"Oh," said Densher with more light, "you mean you haven't spoken about
me?"
"About what else? No more than if you were dead."
"Well," he answered after a moment, "I am dead."
"Then I am," said Susan Shepherd with a drop of her arms on her
waterproof.
It was a tone that, for the minute, imposed itself in its dry despair;
it represented, in the bleak place, which had no life of its own, none
but the life Kate had left--the sense of which, for that matter, by
mystic channels, might fairly be reaching the visitor--the very
impotence of their extinction. And Densher had nothing to oppose it
withal, nothing but again: "Is she dying?"
It made her, however, as if these were crudities, almost material
pangs, only say as before: "Then you know?"
"Yes," he at last returned, "I know. But the marvel to me is that you
do. I've no right in fact to imagine or to assume that you do."
"You may," said Susan Shepherd, "all the same. I know."
"Everything?"
Her eyes, through her veil, kept pressing him. "No--not everything.
That's why I've come."
"That I shall really tell you?" With which, as she hesitated and it
affected him, he brought out in a groan a doubting "Oh, oh!" It turned
him from her to the place itself, which was a part of what was in him,
was the abode, the worn shrine more than ever, of the fact in
possession, the fact, now a thick association, for which he had hired
it. That was not for telling, but Susan Shepherd was, none the less,
so decidedly wonderful that the sense of it might really have begun, by
an effect already operating, to be a part of her knowledge. He saw, and
it stirred him, that she hadn't come to judge him; had come rather, so
far as she might dare, to pity. This showed him her own
abasement--that, at any rate, of grief; and made him feel with a rush
of friendliness that he liked to be with her. The rush had quickened
when she met his groan with an attenuation.
"We shall at all events--if that's anything--be together."
It was his own good impulse in herself. "It's what I've ventured to
feel. It's much." She replied in effect, silently, that it was whatever
he liked; on which, so far as he had been afraid for anything, he knew
his fear had dropped. The comfort was huge, for it gave back to him
something precious, over which, in the effort of recovery, his own hand
had too imperfectly closed. Kate, he remembered, had said to him, with
her sole and single boldness--and also on grounds he hadn't then
measured--that Mrs. Stringham was a person who wouldn't, at a pinch,
in a stretch of confidence, wince. It was but another of the cases in
which Kate was always showing. "You don't think then very horridly of
me?"
And her answer was the more valuable that it came without nervous
effusion--quite as if she understood what he might conceivably have
believed. She turned over in fact what she thought, and that was what
helped him. "Oh you've been extraordinary!"
It made him aware the next moment of how they had been planted there.
She took off her cloak with his aid, though when she had also,
accepting a seat, removed her veil, he recognised in her personal
ravage that the words she had just uttered to him were the one flower
she had to throw. They were all her consolation for him, and the
consolation even still depended on the event. She sat with him at any
rate in the grey clearance, as sad as a winter dawn, made by their
meeting. The image she again evoked for him loomed in it but the
larger. "She has turned her face to the wall."
He saw with the last vividness, and it was as if, in their silences,
they were simply so leaving what he saw. "She doesn't speak at all? I
don't mean not of me."
"Of nothing--of no one." And she went on, Susan Shepherd, giving it out
as she had had to take it. "She doesn't want to die. Think of her
age. Think of her goodness. Think of her beauty. Think of all she is.
Think of all she has. She lies there stiffening herself and clinging
to it all. So I thank God--!" the poor lady wound up with a wan
inconsequence.
He wondered. "You thank God--?"
"That she's so quiet."
He continued to wonder. "Is she so quiet?"
"She's more than quiet. She's grim. It's what she has never been. So
you see--all these days. I can't tell you--but it's better so. It would
kill me if she were to tell me."
"To tell you?" He was still at a loss.
"How she feels. How she clings. How she doesn't want it."
"How she doesn't want to die? Of course she doesn't want it." He had a
long pause, and they might have been thinking together of what they
could even now do to prevent it. This, however, was not what he brought
out. Milly's "grimness" and the great hushed palace were present to
him; present with the little woman before him as she must have been
waiting there and listening. "Only, what harm have you done her?"
Mrs. Stringham looked about in her darkness. "I don't know. I come and
talk of her here with you."
It made him again hesitate. "Does she utterly hate me?"
"I don't know. How can I? No one ever will."
"She'll never tell?"
"She'll never tell."
Once more he thought. "She must be magnificent."
"She is magnificent."
