recollections of any other. Her life had begun in it, and had turned
upon it always, and after she had parted with it by an act of will, she
had retained the fullest remembrance of its details.
She left the place where she had paused near the entrance, and slowly
walked up the long court, by the dry excavated basins; she ascended the
low steps to the raised floor beyond, and stood still before the door of
her own room, the second on the left. She had meant to go in and look at
it quietly, but since she had taken refuge there when she ran away from
Lamberti, iron gates had been placed at the entrances of all the six
rooms, and they were locked. In hers a quantity of fragments of
sculptured marble and broken earthen vessels were laid side by side on
the floor, or were standing against the walls and in the corners.
She felt as if she had been shut out by an act of tyranny, just as when
she and her five companions had sadly left the House, obedient to the
Christian Emperor's decree, long ago. It had always been her room ever
since she had first dreamt. The beautiful narrow bronze bedstead used to
stand on the left, the carved oak wardrobe inlaid with ivory was on the
right, the marble table was just under the window, covered with objects
she needed for her toilet, exquisite things of chiselled silver and of
polished ivory. The chair, rounded at the back and with cushioned seat,
like Agrippina's, was near it. In winter, the large bronze brazier of
coals, changed twice daily, was always placed in the middle of the room.
The walls were wainscoted with Asian marble, and painted above that with
portraits in fresco of great and ancient Vestals who had been holier
than the rest, each in her snowy robes, with the white veil drawn up and
backwards over her head, and brought forward again over the shoulder,
and each holding some sacred vessel or instrument in her one uncovered
hand. There were stories about each which the Virgo Maxima used to read
to the younger ones from a great rolled manuscript, that was kept in an
ancient bronze box, or which she sometimes told in the moonlight on
summer nights when the maidens sat together in the court.
She closed her eyes, her forehead resting against the iron bars, and she
saw it all as it had been; she looked again and the desolation hurt her
and shocked her as when in a wilderness an explorer comes suddenly upon
the bleached bones of one who had gone before him and had been his
friend. She sighed and turned away.
The dream was better than the reality, in that and in many other ways.
She was overcome by the sense of utter failure, as she sat down on the
steps below the raised floor, lonely and forlorn.
It was all a comedy now, a miserable petty play to hide a great truth
from herself and others. She had begun her part already, writing her
wretched little notes to poor Guido. She knew that, ill as he was, the
words that seemed lies to her were ten times true to him, and that he
exaggerated every enquiry after his condition and each expression of
hope for his recovery into signs of loving solicitude, that he had
already forgiven what he thought her caprice, and was looking forward to
his marriage as more certain than ever, in spite of her message. It was
all a vile trick meant to save his feelings and help him to get well,
and she hated and despised it.
She was playing a part with Lamberti, too, and that was no better. She
had fallen low enough to love a man who did not care a straw for her,
and it needed all the energy of character she had left to keep him from
finding it out. Nothing could be more contemptible. If any one but he
had told her that she ought to go back to the appearance of an
engagement with Guido, she would have refused to do it. But Lamberti
dominated her; he had only to say, "Do this," and she did it, "Say
this," and she said it, whether it were true or not. She complained
bitterly in her heart that if he had bidden her lie to her mother, she
would have lied, because she had no will of her own when she was with
him.
And this was the end of her inspired visions, of her lofty ideals, of
her magnificent rules of life, of her studies of philosophy, her
meditations upon religion, and her dream of the last Vestal. She was
nothing but a weak girl, under the orders of a man she loved against her
will, and ready to do things she despised whenever he chose to give his
orders. He cared for no human being except his one friend. He was not to
be blamed for that, of course, but he was utterly indifferent to every
one else where his friend was concerned; every one must lie, or steal,
or do murder, if that could help Guido to get well. She was only one of
his instruments, and he probably had others. She was sure that half the
women in Rome loved Lamberto Lamberti without daring to say so. It was a
satisfaction to have heard from every one that he cared for none of
them. People spoke of him as a woman-hater, and one woman had said that
he had married a negress in Africa, and was the father of black savages
with red hair. That accounted for his going to Somali Land, she said,
and for his knowing so much about the habits of the people there.
Cecilia would have gladly killed the lady with a hat pin.
She was very unhappy, sitting alone on the steps after the sun had sunk
out of sight. The comedy was all to begin over again in an hour, for she
must go home and defend her conduct when her mother reproached her with
not acting fairly, and laughed at the idea that Guido was in danger of
his life. To-morrow she would have to write the daily note to him, she
would be obliged to compose affectionate phrases which would have come
quite naturally if she could have treated him merely as her best friend;
and he would translate affection to mean love, and another lie would
have been told. There was this, at least, about Guido, that he could not
order her about as Lamberti could. There was no authority in his eyes,
not even when he told her not to catch cold. Perhaps in all the time she
had known him, she had liked him best when he had been angry, at the
garden party, and had demanded to know her secret. But she would not
acknowledge that. If the situation had been reversed and Lamberti,
instead of Guido, had insisted on knowing what she meant to hide, she
could not have helped telling him. It was an abominable state of things,
but there was nothing to be done, and that was the worst part of it.
Lamberti knew Guido much better than she did, and if Lamberti told her
gravely that Guido might do something desperate if she broke with him,
she was obliged to believe it and to act accordingly. There might not be
one chance in a thousand, but the one-thousandth chance was just the one
that might have its turn. One might disregard it for oneself, but one
had no right to overlook it where another's life was concerned. At all
events she must wait till Guido was quite well again, for a man in a
fever really might do anything rash. Why did Lamberti not take away the
revolver that always lay ready in the drawer? It would be much safer,
though Guido probably had plenty of other weapons that would serve the
purpose. Guido was just the kind of pacific man who would have a whole
armoury of guns and pistols, as if he were always expecting to kill
something or somebody. She was sure that Lamberti, who had killed men
with his own hand, did not keep any sort of weapon in his room. If he
had a revolver of his own, it was probably carefully cleaned, greased,
wrapped up and put away with the things he used when he was sent on
expeditions. It was a thousand pities that Guido was not exactly like
Lamberti!
Cecilia rose at last, weary of thinking about it all, disgusted with her
own weakness, and decidedly ill-disposed towards her fellow-creatures.
The slightly flattened upper lip was compressed rather tightly against
the fuller lower one as she went back to find Petersen, and as she held
her head very high, her lids drooped somewhat scornfully over her eyes.
No one can ever be as supercilious as some people look when they are
angry with themselves and are thinking what miserable creatures they
really are.
It was late when Cecilia reached the Palazzo Massimo and went in on foot
under the dark carriageway after Petersen had paid the cab under the
watchful gaze of the big liveried porter. The Countess was already
dressing for dinner, and Cecilia went to her own room at once. The
consequence was that she did not know of her mother's invitation to
Lamberti, until she came into the drawing-room and saw the two together,
waiting for her.
"Did I forget to tell you that Signor Lamberti was coming to dinner?"
asked her mother.
"There was no particular reason why you should have told me," she
answered indifferently, as she held out her hand to Lamberti. "It is not
exactly a dinner party! How is he?" she asked, speaking to him.
"He is better this evening, thank you."
Why should he say "thank you," as if Guido were his brother or his
father? She resented it. Surely there was no need for continually
accentuating the fact that Guido was the only person living for whom he
had the slightest natural affection! This was perhaps exaggerated, but
she was glad of it, just then.
She, who would have given all for him, wished savagely that some woman
would make him fall in love and treat him with merciless barbarity.
                              CHAPTER XXIII
Cecilia felt that evening as if she could resist Lamberti's influence at
last, for she was out of humour with herself and with every one else.
When they had dined, and had said a multitude of uninteresting things
about Guido, for they were all under a certain constraint while the meal
lasted, they came back to the drawing-room. Lamberti had the inscrutable
look Cecilia had lately seen in his face, and which she took for the
outward sign of his indifference to anything that did not concern his
friend. When he spoke to her, he looked at her as if she were a chair or
a table, and when he was not speaking to her he did not look at her at
all.
In the drawing-room, she waited her opportunity until her mother had sat
down. The butler had set the little tray with the coffee and three cups
on a small three-legged table. On pretence that the latter was unsteady,
Cecilia carried the tray to another place at some distance from her
mother. Lamberti followed her to take the Countess's cup, and then came
back for his own. Cecilia spoke to him in a low voice while she was
putting in the sugar and pouring out the coffee, a duty which in many
parts of Italy and France is still assigned to the daughter of the
house, and recalls a time when servants did not know how to prepare the
beverage.
"Come and talk to me presently," she said. "I am sure you have more to
tell me about him."
"No," said Lamberti, not taking the trouble to lower his voice much,
"there is nothing more to tell. I do not think I have forgotten
anything."
He stirred his coffee slowly, but with evident reluctance to stay near
her. She would not have been a human woman if she had not been annoyed
by his cool manner, and a shade of displeasure passed over her face.
"I have something to say to you," she answered. "I thought you would
understand."
"That is different."
In his turn he showed a little annoyance. They went back together to the
Countess's side, carrying their cups. In due time the good lady went to
write letters, feeling that it was quite safe to leave her daughter with
Lamberti, who seemed to be as cold as ice, and not at all bent on making
himself agreeable. Besides, the Countess was tired of the situation, and
could hardly conceal the fact that she reproached Guido for not getting
well sooner, in order that she might speak to him herself.
There was silence for a time after she had gone into the next room,
while Cecilia and Lamberti sat side by side on the sofa she had left.
Neither seemed inclined to speak first, for both felt that some danger
was at hand, which could not be avoided, but which must be approached
with caution. She wished that he would say something, for she was not at
all sure what she meant to tell him; but he was silent, which was
natural enough, as she had asked for the interview.
She would have given anything to have seen him somewhere else, in new
surroundings, anywhere except in her own drawing-room, where every
familiar object oppressed her and reminded her of her mistakes and
illusions. She felt that she must say something, but the blood rose in
her brain and confused her. He saw her embarrassment, or guessed it.
"So far things have gone better than I expected," he said at last, "but
that only makes the end more doubtful."
She turned to him slowly and with an involuntary look of gratitude for
having broken the silence.
"I mean," he went on, "that since Guido is so ready to grasp at any
straw you throw him, it will be hard to make him understand you, when
things have gone a little further."
"Is that all you mean?" She asked the question almost sharply.
"Yes."
"You do not mean that you still wish I would marry him after--after what
I told you the other evening?"
The interrogation was in her voice, and that was hard, and demanded an
answer. Lamberti looked away, and did not reply at once, for he meant to
tell the exact truth, and was not quite sure where it lay. He felt, too,
that her manner had changed notably since they had last talked, and
though he had no intention of taking the upper hand, it was not in his
nature to submit to any dictation, even from the woman he loved.
"Answer me, please," said Cecilia, rather imperiously.
"Yes, I will. I wish it were possible for you to marry him, that is
all."
"And you know that it is not."
"I am almost sure that it is not."
"How cautious you are!"
"The matter is serious. But you said that you had something to say to
me. What is it?"
"I wanted to tell you that I am sick of all this deception, of writing
notes that are meant to deceive a man for whom I have the most sincere
friendship, of letting the whole world think that I will do what I would
not do, if I were to die for it."
He looked at her, then clasped his hands upon his knees and shook his
head.
"I must see him," she said, after a pause, "I must see him at once, and
you must help me. If I could only speak to him I could make him
understand, and he would be glad I had spoken, and we should always be
good friends. But I must see him alone, and talk to him. Make it
possible, for I know you can. I am not afraid of the consequences. Take
me to him. It is the only true and honest thing to do!"
Lamberti believed that this was true; he was a man of action and had no
respect for society's prejudices, when society was not present to
enforce its laws. It would have seemed incredible to Romans that an
Italian girl could think of doing what Cecilia proposed, and if it were
ever known, her reputation would be gravely damaged. But Cecilia was not
like other young girls; society should never know what she had done, and
she was quite right in saying that her plan was really the best and most
honourable.
"I can take you to him," Lamberti said. "I suppose you know what you are
risking."
"Nothing, if I go with you. You would not let me run any risk."
She did not raise her voice, she hardly changed her tone, but nothing
she had ever said had given him such a thrilling sensation of pleasure.
"Do you trust me as much as that?" he asked.
"Yes, as much as that."
She smiled, and looked down at her hand, and then glanced at him
quickly, and almost happily. If she had studied men for ten years she
could not have found word or look more certain to touch him and win him
to her way.
"Thank you," he said, rather curtly, for he was thinking of another
answer. "If I take you to Guido, what shall you say to him?"
She drew herself up against the back of the sofa, but the smile still
lingered on her lips.
"You must trust me, too," she answered. "Do you think I can compose set
speeches beforehand? When shall we go? How is it to be managed?"
"You often go out with your maid, do you not? What sort of woman is she?
A dragon?"
"No!" Cecilia laughed. "She is very respectable and nice, and thinks I
am perfection. But then, she is terribly near-sighted, and cannot wear
spectacles because they fall off her nose."
"Then she loses her way easily, I suppose?" said Lamberti, too much
intent on his plans to be amused at trifles.
"Yes. She is always losing her way."
"That might easily happen to her in the Palazzo Farnese. It is a huge
place, and you could manage to go up one way while she went up the
other. Besides, there is a lift at the back, not to mention the
servants' staircases, in which she might be hopelessly lost. Can you
trust her not to lose her head and make the porters search the palace
for you, if you are separated from her?"
"I am not sure. But she will stay wherever I tell her to wait for me.
That might be better. You see, my only excuse for going to the Palazzo
Farnese would be to see the ambassador's daughter, and she is in the
country."
"I think she must have come to town for a day or two, for I met her this
afternoon. That is a good reason for going to see her. At the door of
the embassy send your maid on an errand that will take an hour, and tell
her to wait for you in the cab at the gate. If the girl is at home you
need not stay ten minutes. Then you can see Guido during the rest of the
time. It will be long enough, and besides, the maid will wait."
"For ever, if I tell her to! But you, where shall you be?"
"You will meet me on the stairs as you come down from the embassy. Wear
something simple and dark that people have not seen you wear before, and
carry a black parasol and a guide-book. Have one of those brown veils
that tourists wear against the sun. Fold it up neatly and put it into
the pocket of the guide-book instead of the map, or pin it to the inside
of your parasol. You can put it on as soon as you have turned the corner
of the stairs, out of sight of the embassy door, for the footman will
not go in till you are as far as that. If you cannot put it on yourself,
I will do it for you."
"Do you know how to put on a woman's veil?" Cecilia asked, with a little
laugh.
"Of course! It is easy enough. I have often fastened my sister's for her
at picnics."
"What time shall I come?"
"A little before eleven. Guido cannot be ready before that."
"But he has a servant," said Cecilia, suddenly remembering the detail.
"What will he think?"
"He has two, but they shall both be out, and I shall have the key to his
door in my pocket. We will manage that."
"Shall you be sure to know just when I come?"
"I shall see you, but you will not see me till we meet on the landing."
"I knew you could manage it, if you only would."
"It is simple enough. There is not the slightest risk, if you will do
exactly what I have told you."
It seemed easy indeed, and Cecilia was almost happy at the thought that
she was soon to be freed from the intolerable situation into which she
allowed herself to be forced. She was very grateful, too, and beyond her
gratitude was the unspeakable satisfaction in the man she loved. Instead
of making difficulties, he smoothed them; instead of prating of what
society might think, he would help her to defy it, because he knew that
she was right.
"I should like to thank you," she said simply. "I do not know how."
He seemed to say something in answer, in a rather discontented way, but
so low that she could not catch the words.
"What did you say?" she asked unwisely.
"Nothing. I am glad to be of service to you. Say the right things to
Guido; for you are going to do rather an eccentric thing in order to say
them, and a mistake would be fatal."
He spoke almost roughly, but she was not offended. He had a right to be
rough, since he was ready to do whatever she asked of him; yet not
understanding him, while loving him, her instinct made her wish him
really to know how pleased she was. She put out her hand a little
timidly and touched his, as a much older woman might have done. To her
surprise, he grasped it instantly, and held it so tightly that he hurt
her for a moment. He dropped it then, pushing it from him as his hold
relaxed, almost throwing it off.
"What is the matter?" Cecilia asked, surprised.
But at that moment her mother entered the room from the boudoir.
                              CHAPTER XXIV
In agreeing to the dangerous scheme, Lamberti had yielded to an impulse
founded upon his intuitive knowledge of women, and not at all upon his
inborn love of anything in which there was risk. The danger was for
Cecilia, not for himself, in any case; and it was real, for, if it
should ever be known that she had gone to Guido's rooms, nothing but her
marriage with him would silence the gossips. Society cannot be blamed
for drawing a line somewhere, considering how very far back it sets the
limit.
Lamberti, without reasoning about it, knew that no woman ever does well
what she does not like doing. If he persisted in making Cecilia attempt
to break gradually with Guido, she would soon make mistakes and spoil
everything. That was his conviction. She felt, at present, that if she
could see Guido face to face, she could persuade him to give her up; and
the probability was that she would succeed, or else that she would be
moved by real pity for him and thus become genuinely ready to follow
Lamberti's original advice. The sensible course to follow was,
therefore, to help her in the direction she had chosen.
Early in the morning Lamberti was at his friend's bedside. Guido was
much better now, and there was no risk in taking him to his sitting
room. Lamberti suggested this before saying anything else, and the
doctor came soon afterwards and approved of it. By ten o'clock Guido was
comfortably installed in a long cane chair, amongst his engravings and
pictures, very pale and thin, but cheerful and expectant. As he had no
fever, and was quite calm, Lamberti told him frankly that Cecilia had
something to say to him which no one could say for her, and was coming
herself. He was amazed and delighted at first, and then was angry with
Lamberti for allowing her to come; but, as the latter explained in
detail how her visit was to be managed, his fears subsided, and he
looked at his watch with growing impatience. His man had been sitting up
with him at night since his illness had begun, and was easily persuaded
to go to bed for the day. The other servant, who cooked what Guido
needed, had prepared everything for the day, and had gone out. He always
came back a little after twelve o'clock. At twenty minutes to eleven
Lamberti took the key of the door and went to watch for Cecilia's
coming, and half an hour later he admitted her to the sitting room, shut
the door after her, and left the two together. He went and sat down in
the outer hall, in case any one should ring the bell, which had been
muffled with a bit of soft leather while Guido was ill.
Cecilia stood still a moment, after the door was closed; behind her, and
she lifted her veil to see her way, for there was not much light in the
room. As she caught sight of Guido, a frank smile lighted up her face
for an instant, and then died away in a look of genuine concern and
anxiety. She had not realised how much he could change in so short a
time, in not more than four or five days. She came forward quickly, took
his hand, and bent over him, looking into his face. His eyes widened
with pleasure and his thin fingers lifted hers to his lips.
"You have been very ill," she said, "very, very ill! I had no idea that
it was so bad as this!"
"I am better," he answered gently. "How good of you! How endlessly good
of you to come!"
"Nobody saw me," she said, by way of answer.
She smoothed the old pink damask cushion under his head, and
instinctively looked to see if he had all he needed within reach, before
she thought of sitting down in the chair Lamberti had placed ready for
her.
"Tell me," he said, in a low and somewhat anxious voice, "you did not
mean it? You were out of temper, or you were annoyed by something, or--I
do not know! Something happened that made you write, and you had sent
the letter before you knew what you were doing----"
He broke off, quite sure of her answer. He thought she turned pale,
though the light was not strong and brought the green colour of the
closed blinds into the room.
"Hush!" she exclaimed soothingly, and she sat down beside him, still
holding his hand. "I have come expressly to talk to you about it all,
because letters only make misunderstandings, and there must not be any
more misunderstandings between us two."
"No, never again!" He looked up with love in his hollow eyes, not
suspecting what she meant. "I have forgotten all that was in that
letter, and I wish to forget it. You never wrote that you did not love
me, nor that you loved another man. It is all gone, quite gone, and I
shall never remember it again."
Cecilia sighed and gazed into his face sadly. He looked so ill and weak
that she wondered how she could be cruel enough to tell him the truth,
though she had risked her good name to get a chance of speaking plainly.
It seemed like bringing a cup of cold water to the lips of a man dying
of thirst, only to take it away again untasted and leave him to his
fate. She pitied him with all her heart, but there was nothing in her
compassion that at all resembled love. It was the purest and most
friendly affection, of the sort that lasts a lifetime and can devote
itself in almost any sacrifice; but it was all quite clear and
comprehensible, without the smallest element of the inexplicable
attraction that is deaf, and dumb, and, above all, blind, and which
proceeds from the deep prime cause and mover of nature, and mates lions
in the wilderness and birds in the air, and men and women among their
fellows, two and two, from generation to generation.
"Guido," said Cecilia, after a long silence, "do you not think that two
people can be very, very fond of each other all their lives, and trust
each other, and like to be together as much as possible, without being
married?"
She spoke quietly and steadily, trying to make her voice sound more
gentle than ever before; but there was no possibility of mistaking her
meaning. His thin hand started and shook under her soothing touch, and
then drew itself away. The light went out of his eyes and the rings of
shadow round them grew visibly darker as he turned his head painfully on
the damask cushion.
"Is that what you have come to say?" he asked, in a groan.
Cecilia leaned back in her chair and folded her hands. She felt as if
she had killed an unresisting, loving creature, as a sacrifice for her
fault.
"God forgive me if I have done wrong," she said, speaking to herself. "I
only mean to do right."
Guido moved his head on his cushion again, as if suffering unbearable
pain, and a sort of harsh laugh answered her words.
"Your God will forgive you," he said bitterly, after a moment. "Man made
God in his own image, and God must needs obey his creator. When you
cannot forgive yourself, you set up an image and ask it to pardon you. I
do not wonder."
The cruel words hurt her in more ways than one, and she drew her breath
between her teeth as if she had struck unawares against something sharp
and was repressing a cry of pain. Then there was silence for a long
time.
"Why do you stay here?" Guido asked, in a low tone, not looking at her.
"You cannot have anything more to say. You have done what you came to
do. Let me be alone."
"Guido!"
She touched his shoulder gently as he lay turned from her, but he moved
and pushed her away.
"It cannot give you pleasure to see me suffer," he said. "Please go
away."
"How can I leave you like this?"
There was despair in her voice, and the sound of tears that would never
come to her eyes. He did not answer. She would not go away without
trying to appease him, and she made a strong effort to collect her
thoughts.
"You are angry with me, of course," she began. "You despise me for not
having known my own mind, but you cannot say anything that I have not
said to myself. I ought to have known long ago. All I can say in
self-defence now is that it is better to have told you the truth before
we were married than to have been obliged to confess it afterwards, or
else to have lied to you all my life if I could not find courage to
speak. It is better, is it not? Oh, say that it is better!"
"It would have been much better if neither of us had ever been born,"
Guido answered.
"I only ask you to say that you would rather be suffering now than have
had me tell you in a year that I was an unfaithful wife at heart. That
is all. Will you not say it? It is all I ask."
"Why should you ask anything of me, even that? The only kindness you can
show me now is to go away."
He would not look at her. His throat was parched, and he put out his
hand to take the tumbler from the little table on the other side of his
long chair. Instantly she rose and tried to help him, but he would not
let her.
"I am not so weak as that," he said coldly. "My hand is steady enough,
thank you."
She sighed and drew back. Perhaps it would be better to leave him, as he
wished that she should, but his words recalled Lamberti's warning; his
hand was steady, he said, and that meant that it was steady enough to
take the pistol from the drawer in the little table and use it. He
believed in nothing, in no future, in no retribution, in no God, and he
was ill, lonely, and in despair through her fault. His friend knew him,
and the danger was real. The conviction flashed through her brain that
if she left him alone he would probably kill himself, and she fancied
him lying there dead, on the red tiles. She fancied, too, Lamberti's
face, when he should come to tell her what had happened, for he would
surely come, and to the end of her life and his he would never forgive
her.
She stood still, wavering and unstrung by her thoughts, looking steadily
down at Guido's head.
"Since you will not go away," he said at last, "answer me one question.
Tell me the name of the man who has come between us."
Cecilia bit her lip and turned her face from the light.
"Then it is true," Guido said, after a silence. "There is a man whom you
really love, a man whom you would really marry and to whom you could
really be faithful."
"Yes. It is true. Everything I wrote you is true."
"Who is he?"
She was silent again.
"Do you hope that I shall ever forgive you for what you have done to
me?"
"Yes. I pray heaven that you may!"
"Leave heaven out of the question. You have turned my life into
something like what you call hell. Do I know the man you love?"
"Yes," Cecilia answered, after a moment's hesitation.
"Do I often meet him? Have I met him often since you have loved him?"
She said nothing, but stood still with bent head and clasped hands.
"Why do you not answer me?" he asked sternly.
"You must never know his name," she said, in a low voice.
"Have I no right to know who has ruined my life?"
"I have. Blame me. Visit it on me."
He laughed, not harshly now, but gently and sarcastically.
"You women are fond of offering yourselves as expiatory victims for your
own sins, for you know very well that we shall not hurt you! After all,
you cannot help yourself if you have fallen in love with some one else.
I suppose I ought to be sorry for you. I probably shall be, when I know
who he is!"
He laughed again, already despising the man she had preferred in his
stead. His words had cut her, but she said nothing, for she was in dread
lest the slightest word should betray the truth.
"You say that I know him," Guido continued, his cheeks beginning to
flush feverishly, "and you would not answer me when I asked you if I had
often met him since you have loved him. That means that I have, of
course. You were too honest to lie, and too much frightened to tell the
truth. I meet him often. Then he is one of a score of men whom I know
better than all the others. There are not many men whom I meet often. It
cannot be very hard to find out which of them it is."
Cecilia turned her face away, resting one hand on the back of the chair,
and a deep blush rose in her cheeks. But she spoke steadily.
"You can never find out," she said. "He does not love me. He does not
guess that I love him. But I will not answer any more questions, for you
must not know who he is."
"Why not? Do you think I shall quarrel with him and make him fight a
duel with me?"
"Perhaps."
"That is absurd," Guido answered quietly. "I do not value my life much,
I believe, but I have not the least inclination to risk it in such a
ridiculous way. The man has injured me without knowing it. You have
taken from me the one thing I treasured and you are keeping it for him;
but he does not want it, he does not even know that it is his, he is not
responsible for your caprices."
"Not caprice, Guido! Do not call it that!"
"I do. Forgive me for being frank. Say that I am ill, if you please, as
an excuse for me. I call such things by their right name, caprices. If
you are going to be subject to them all your life, you had better go
into a convent before you throw away your good name."
"I have not deserved that!"
She turned upon him now, with flashing eyes. He had raised himself upon
one elbow and was looking at her with cool contempt.
"You have deserved that and more," he answered, "and if you insist upon
staying here you must hear what I choose to say. I advised you to go
away, but you would not. I have no apology to make for telling you the
truth, but you are free to go. Lamberti is in the hall and will see you
to your carriage."
There was something royal in his anger and in his look now, which she
could not help respecting, in spite of his words. She had thought that
he would behave very differently; she had looked for some passionate
outburst, perhaps for some unmanly weakness, excusable since he was so
ill, and more in accordance with his outwardly gentle character. She had
thought that because he had made his friend speak to her for him he
lacked energy to speak for himself. But now that the moment had come, he
showed himself as manly and determined as ever Lamberti could be, and
she could not help respecting him for it. Doubtless Lamberti had always
known what was in his friend's nature, below the indolent surface.
Perhaps he was like his father, the old king. But Cecilia was proud,
too.
"If I have stayed too long," she said, facing him, "it was because I
came here at some risk to confess my fault, and hoped for your
forgiveness. I shall always hope for it, as long as we both live, but I
shall not ask for it again. I had thought that you would accept my
devoted friendship instead of what I cannot give you and never gave you,
though I believed that I did. But you will not take what I offer. We had
better part on that rather than risk being enemies. You have already
said one thing which you will regret and which I shall always remember.
Good-bye."
She held out her hand frankly, and he took it and kept it a moment,
while their eyes met, and he spoke more gently.
"I said too much. I am sorry. I shall forgive you when I do not love you
any more. Good-bye."
He let her hand fall and looked away.
"Thank you," she said.
She left his side and went towards the door, her head a little bent. As
she laid her hand upon the handle, and looked back at Guido once again,
it turned in her fingers and was drawn quickly away from them. She
started and turned her head to see who was there.
Lamberti stood before her, and immediately pushed her back into the room
and shut the door, visibly disturbed.
"This way!" he said quickly, in an undertone.
He led her swiftly to another door, which he opened for her and closed
as soon as she had passed.
"Wait for me there!" he said, as she went in.
"What is the matter?" asked Guido rather faintly, when he realised what
his friend had done.
"Her mother is in the hall," Lamberti said. "Do not be startled, she
knows nothing. She insists on seeing for herself how you are. She says
her daughter begged her to come."
"Tell her I am too ill to see her, please, and thank her very much. It
is all over, Lamberti, we have parted."
A dark flush rose in Lamberti's face.
"You must see the Countess," he said hurriedly. "I am sorry, but unless
she comes here, her daughter cannot get out without being seen. We
cannot leave her in your room. I will not do it, for your man may wake
up and go there. There is no time to be lost either!"
"Bring the Countess in," said Guido, with an effort, and moving uneasily
on his couch.
He felt that nothing was spared him. In the few seconds that elapsed, he
tried to decide what he should say to the Countess, and how he could
account for knowing that Cecilia had now definitely broken off the
engagement. Before he had come to any conclusion the Countess was
ushered in, rosy and smiling, but a little timid at finding herself in a
young bachelor's quarters.
Meanwhile, Cecilia was in Guido's bedroom. An older woman might have
suspected some ignoble treachery, but her perfect innocence protected
her from all fear. Lamberti would not have brought her there in such a
hurry unless there had been some absolute necessity for getting her out
of sight at once. Undoubtedly some visitor had come who could not be
turned away. Perhaps it was the doctor. Moreover, she was too much
disturbed by what had taken place to pay much attention to what was,
after all, a detail.
She looked about her and saw that there was another door by which
Lamberti would presently enter to let her out. There was the great bed
with the coverlet of old arras displaying the royal arms, and beside it
stood a small table of mahogany inlaid with brass. It had tall and
slender legs that ended below in little brass lions' paws, and it had a
single drawer.
Without hesitation she went and opened it. Lamberti had been right.
There was the revolver, a silver-mounted weapon with an ivory handle,
much more for ornament than use, but quite effective enough for the
purpose to which Guido might put it. Beside it lay a little pile of
notes in their envelopes, and she involuntarily recognised her own
handwriting. He had kept all she had written to him within his reach
while he had been ill, and the thought pained her. The revolver was a
very light one, made with only five chambers. She took it and examined
it when she had shut the drawer again, and she saw that it was fully
loaded. Old Fortiguerra had taught her to use firearms a little, and she
knew how to load and unload them. She slipped the cartridges out quickly
and tied them together in her handkerchief, and then dropped them into
her parasol and the revolver after them.
She went to the tall mirror in the door of the wardrobe and began to
arrange her veil, expecting Lamberti every moment. She had hardly
finished when he entered and beckoned to her. She caught up her parasol
by the middle so as to hold its contents safely, and in a few seconds
she was outside the front door of the apartment. Lamberti drew a breath
of relief.
"Take those!" she said quickly, producing the pistol and the cartridges.
"He must not have them."
Lamberti took the weapon and put it into his pocket, and held the
parasol, while she untied the handkerchief and gave him the contents.
Both began to go downstairs.
"I had better tell you who came," Lamberti said, as they went. "You will
be surprised. It was your mother."
"My mother!" Cecilia stopped short on the step she had reached. "I did
not think she meant to come!"
She went on, and Lamberti kept by her side.
"You can seem surprised when she tells you," he said. "You have
definitely broken your engagement, then? Guido had time to tell me so."
"Yes, I could not lie to him. It was very hard, but I am glad it is all
over, though he is very angry now."
They reached the last landing before the court without meeting any one,
and she paused again. He wondered what expression was on her face while
she spoke, for he could scarcely see the outline of her features through
the veil.
"Thank you again," she said. "We may not meet for a long time, for my
mother and I shall go away at once, and I suppose we shall not come back
next winter." She spoke rather bitterly now. "My reputation is damaged,
I fancy, because I have refused to marry a man I do not love!"
"I will take care of your reputation," Lamberti answered, as if he were
saying the most natural thing in the world.
"It is hardly your place to do that," Cecilia answered, much surprised.
"It may not be my right," Lamberti said, "as people consider those
things. But it is my place, as Guido's friend and yours, as the only man
alive who is devoted to you both."
"I am more grateful than I can tell you. But please let people say what
they like of me, and do not take my defence. You, of all the men I know,
must not."
"Why not I, of all men? I, of all men, will."
She was standing with her back to the wall on the landing, and he was
facing her now. His face looked a little more set and determined than
usual, and he was rather pale, and he stood sturdily still before her.
She could see his face through her veil, though he could hardly
distinguish hers. He felt for a moment as if he were talking to a sort
of lay figure that represented her and could not answer him.
"I, of all men, will take care that no one says a word against you," he
said, as she was silent.
"But why? Why you?"
"You have definitely given up all idea of marrying Guido? Absolutely?
For ever? You are sure, in your own conscience, that he has no sort of
claim on you left, and that he knows it?"
"Yes, yes! But----"
"Then," he said, not heeding her, "as you and I may not meet again for a
long time, and as it cannot do you the least harm to know it, and as you
will have no right to feel that I shall be lacking in respect to you, if
I say it, I am going to give myself the satisfaction of telling you
something I have taken great pains to hide since we first met."
"What is it?" asked Cecilia, nervously.
"It is a very simple matter, and one that will not interest you much."
He paused one moment, and fixed his eyes on the brown veil, where he
knew that hers were.
"I love you."
Cecilia started violently, and put out one hand against the wall behind
her.
"Do not be frightened, Contessina," he said gently. "Many men will say
that to you before you are old. But none of them will mean it more truly
than I. Shall we go? Your mother may not stay long with Guido."
He moved, expecting her to go on, but she leaned against the wall where
she stood, and she stared at his face through her veil. For an instant
she thought she was going to faint, for her heart stopped beating and
the blood left her head. She did not know whether it was happiness, or
surprise, or fear that paralysed her, when his simple words revealed the
vastness of the mistake in which she had lived, and the immensity of joy
she had missed by so little. She pressed her hand flat against the wall
beside her, sure that if she moved it she must fall.
"Have I offended you, Signorina?" Lamberti asked, and the low tones
shook a little.
She could not speak yet, but his voice seemed to steady her, and her
heart beat again. As if she were making a great effort her hand slowly
left the wall, and she stretched it out towards him, silently asking for
his. He did not understand, but he took it and held it quietly, coming a
little nearer to her.
"You have forgiven me," he said. "Thank you. You are kind. Good-bye."
But then her fingers closed on his with almost frantic pressure.
"No, no!" she cried. "Not yet! One moment more!"
Still he did not understand, but he felt the blood rising and singing in
his heart like the tide when it is almost high. A strange expectation
filled him, as of a great change in his whole being that must come in
the most fearful pain, or else in a happiness almost unbearable,
something swelling, bursting, overwhelming, and enormous beyond
imagination.
She did not know that she was drawing him nearer to her, she would have
blushed scarlet at the thought; he did not know that his feet moved,
that he was quite close to her, that she was clutching his hand and
pressing it upon her own heart. They did not see what they were doing.
They were standing together by a marble pillar in the Vestals' House.
They were out in the firmament beyond worlds, not seeing, not hearing,
not touching, but knowing and one in knowledge.
The veil touched his cheek and lightly pressed against it. It was the
Vestal's veil. He had felt it in dreams, between his face and hers. Then
the world broke into visible light, and he heard her whisper in his ear.
"That was my secret. You know it now."
A distant footfall echoed from far up the stone staircase. Once more as
she heard it she pressed his hand to her heart with all her might, and
he, with his left round her neck, drew her veiled face against his and
held it there an instant in simple pressure, not trying to kiss her.
Then those two separated and went down the remaining steps in silence,
side by side, and very demurely, as if nothing had happened. The
Countess's brougham was in the courtyard, and the porter, just going
into his lodge under the archway, touched his big-visored cap to
Lamberti and glanced at Cecilia carelessly as they went out. Petersen
was sitting in an open cab in the blazing sun, under a large white
parasol lined with green cotton, and her mistress was seated beside her
before she had time to rise. Cecilia had quickly turned up her veil over
the brim of her hat as soon as she had passed the porter's lodge, for he
knew her face and she did not wish him to see her go out with Lamberti.
"Thank you," she said in a matter-of-fact tone as Lamberti stood hat in
hand in the sun by the step of the cab. "Palazzo Massimo," she called
out to the coach-man.
She nodded to Lamberti indifferently, and the cab drove quickly away to
the right, rattling over the white paving-stones of the Piazza Farnese
in the direction of San Carlo a Catinari.
"Did you see your mother?" Petersen asked. "She stopped the carriage and
called me when she saw me, and she said she was going to ask after
Signor d'Este. I said you had gone up to the embassy."
"No," Cecilia answered, "I did not see her. We shall be at home before
she is."
She did not speak again on the way. Petersen was too near-sighted and
unsuspicious to see that she surreptitiously loosened the brown veil
from her hat, got it down beside her on the other side, and rolled it up
into a ball with one hand. Somehow, when she reached her own door, it
was inside the parasol, just where the revolver had been half an hour
earlier.
Lamberti put on his straw hat and glanced indifferently at the departing
cab as he turned away, quite sure that Cecilia would not look round. He
went back into the palace, feeling for a cigar in his outer breast
pocket. His hands felt numb with cold under the scorching sun, and he
knew that he was taking pains to look indifferent and to move as if
nothing extraordinary had happened to him; for in a few minutes he would
be face to face with Guido d'Este and the Countess Fortiguerra. He lit
his cigar under the archway, and blew a cloud of smoke before him as he
turned into the staircase; but on the first landing he stopped, just
where he had stood with Cecilia. He paused, his cigar between his teeth,
his legs a little apart as if he were on deck in a sea-way, and his
hands behind him. He looked curiously at the wall where she had leaned
against it, and he smoked vigorously. At last he took out a small pocket
knife and with the point of the blade scratched a little cross on the
hard surface, looked at it, touched it again and was satisfied, returned
the knife to his pocket, and went quietly upstairs. Most seafaring men
do absurdly sentimental things sometimes. Lamberti's expression had
neither softened nor changed while he was scratching the mark, and when
he went on his way he looked precisely as he did when he was going up
the steps of the Ministry to attend a meeting of the Commission. He had
good nerves, as he had told the specialist whom he had consulted in the
spring.
But he would have given much not to meet Guido for a day or two, though
he did not in the least mind meeting the Countess. Cecilia could keep a
secret as well as he himself, almost too well, and there was not the
slightest danger that her mother should guess the truth from the
behaviour of either of them, even when together. Nor would Guido guess
it for that matter; that was not what Lamberti was thinking of just
then.
He felt that chance, or fate, had made him the instrument of a sort of
betrayal for which he was not responsible, and as he had never been in
such a position in his life, even by accident, it was almost as bad at
first as if he had intentionally taken Cecilia from his friend. He had
always been instinctively sure that she would love him some day, but
when he had at last spoken he had really not had the least idea that she
