any house: roast beef and roast chicken; beefsteak and ham in
chafing-dishes with lamps burning under them to keep them hot; pound-cake
with frosting on, and pies and pickles, corn-bread and hot biscuit; jelly
that kept shaking in moulds; ice-cream and Spanish pudding; coffee and
tea, and I do not know what all.

When the children had eaten all they could hold, and made their uncle
laugh till he almost cried, to see them trying to eat everything, their
mother went ashore with them, and walked up the landing towards the hotel
where the carriage was left, so as to be with Frank and his little brother
as long as she could before they started home. She was about one of the
best mothers in the Boy's Town, and Frank hated to have her go away even
on a visit.

She kept giving him charges about all the things at home, and how he must
take good care of his little brothers, and see that the garden gate was
fastened so that the cows could not get in, and feed the chickens
regularly, and put the cat out every night, and not let the dog sleep
under his bed; and they were so busy talking and feeling sorry that they
got to the hotel before they knew it.

There, whom should they see but one of the Boy's Town merchants, who was
in the city on business, and who seemed as glad to meet them as if they
were his own relations. They were glad, too, for it made them feel as if
they had got back to the Boy's Town when he came up and spoke to Mrs.
Baker. They had started from home after a very early breakfast, and she
said it seemed as if they had been gone a year already. The merchant told
her that he had been looking everywhere for somebody he knew who was going
to the Boy's Town; and then he told Mrs. Baker that he had two thousand
dollars which he wanted to send home to his partner, and he asked her if
she could take it for him when she went back.

"Well, indeed, indeed, I'm thankful I'm not going, Mr. Bushell!" Mrs.
Baker said. "And I wouldn't have supposed I could be, I'm so homesick. I'm
going up the river on a visit to mother; but if I was going straight back,
I wouldn't take your two thousand dollars for the half of it. I would be
afraid of losing it, or getting robbed and murdered. I don't know what
wouldn't happen. I would be happy to oblige you, but indeed, indeed I
couldn't!"

The merchant said he was sorry, but if she was not going home he supposed
he would have to find some one who was. It was before the days of sending
money by express, or telegraphing it, and the merchant told her he was
afraid to trust the money in the mail. He asked her who was going to take
her carriage home, and she told him the name of the driver from the livery
stable in the Boy's Town, who had come to the city with them.

Mr. Bushell seemed dreadfully disappointed, but when she went on to say
how anxious she was that the driver should get Frank and his brother home
before dark, he brightened up all of a sudden, and he asked, "Is Frank
going back?" and he looked down into Frank's face and smiled, as most
people did when they looked into Frank's face, and he asked, "What's the
reason Frank couldn't take it?"

Mrs. Baker put her arm across Frank's breast and pulled him away, and
said, "Indeed, indeed, the child just sha'n't, and that's all about it!"

But Mr. Bushell took the boy by the arm and laughed. "Let's feel how deep
your pants' pocket is," he said; and he put his hand into the pocket of
Frank's nankeen trousers and felt; and then, before Mrs. Baker could stop
him, he drew a roll of bank-notes out of his own pocket and pushed it into
Frank's. "There, it's just a fit! Do you think you'd lose it?"

"No, he wouldn't lose it," said his mother, "and that's just it! He'd
worry about it every minute, and I would worry about him!"

She tried to make the merchant take the money back, but he kept joking;
and then he turned serious, and told her that the money had to be put in
the bank to pay a note, and he did not know any way to get it to his
partner if she would not let Frank take it; that he was at his wits' end.
He said he would as lief trust it with Frank as with any man he knew; that
nobody would think the boy had any money with him; and he fairly begged
her to let Frank take it for him.

He talked to her so much that she began to give way a little. She felt
proud of his being willing to trust Frank, and at last she consented. Mr.
Bushell explained that he wished his partner to have the money that
evening, and she had to agree to let Frank carry it to him as soon as he
got home.

The Boy's Town was built on two sides of a river. Mr. Bushell's store was
across the river from where the Bakers lived, and she said she did not
want the child to have to go through the bridge after dark. Perhaps it was
her anxiety about this that began the whole trouble; for when the driver
came with the carriage, she could not help asking him if he was sure to
get home before sundown. That made him drive faster than he might have
done, perhaps; at any rate, he set off at a quick trot after Mr. Bushell
had helped put the two boys in. Mrs. Baker gathered her little girls
together and went back to the boat with her heart in her mouth, as she
afterwards said.

The driver got out of the city without trouble, but when he came to the
smooth turnpike road, it seemed to Frank that the horses kept going faster
and faster, till they were fairly flying over the ground. The driver
pulled and pulled at the reins, and people began to hollo, "Look out where
you're going!" when they met them or passed them, and all at once Frank
began to think the horses were running away. He had not much chance to
think about it, though, he was so busy keeping his little brother from
bouncing off the seat and out of the carriage, and in feeling if Mr.
Bushell's money was safe; and he was not certain that they were running
away till he saw people stopping and staring, and then starting after the
carriage.

The horses tore along for two or three miles; they thundered through the
covered bridge on Mill's Creek, and passed the Four-Mile House. By the
time they reached the little village beyond it they had the turnpike to
themselves; every team coming and going drove into the gutter.

At the village a large, fat butcher, who was sitting tilted back in a
chair at the door of his shop, saw the carriage coming in a whirlwind of
dust, and he knew what the matter was. There was a horse standing at the
hitching rail, and the butcher just had time to untie him and jump into
the saddle when the runaways flew by. He took after them as fast as his
horse could go, and overhauled them at the end of the next bridge and
brought them to a stand.

It had really been nothing but a race against time. No one was hurt; the
horses were pretty badly blown, that was all; but the carriage was so much
shaken up that it had to be left at a wagon-shop, where it could not be
mended till morning. The two boys were taken back to Four-Mile House,
where they would have to pass the night.

Frank worried about his father, who would be expecting them home that
evening; but he was glad his mother did not know what had happened. He was
thankful enough when he felt his brother all over and found him safe and
sound, and then put his hand on his pocket and found that Mr. Bushell's
money was still there. He did not eat very much supper, and he went to bed
early, after he had put his brother in bed and seen him fall asleep almost
before he got through his prayers.

Frank was very tired, and pretty sore from the jouncing in the carriage;
but he was too worried to be sleepy. He began to think, What if some one
should get Mr. Bushell's money away from him in the night, while he was
asleep? And then he was glad that he did not feel like sleeping. He got up
and put on his clothes and sat down by the window, listening to his
brother's breathing and looking out into the dark at the heat-lightning
in the west. The day had been very hot and the night was close, without a
breath of wind. By-and-by all the noises about the house died away, and he
knew everybody had gone to bed. The lantern under the tavern porch threw a
dim light out into the road; some dogs barked away off. There was no other
sound, and the stillness was awful. He kept his hand on the pocket that
had the money in it.

After a while Frank began to feel very drowsy, and he thought he would lie
down again, but he promised himself he would not sleep, and he did not
undress; for if he took his pantaloons off, he did not know how he could
make sure every minute that the money was safe, unless he put it under his
pillow. He was afraid if he did that he might forget it in the morning,
and leave it when he got up.

He stretched himself on the bed beside his brother, and it seemed to him
that it was hardly a second before he heard a loud crash that shook the
whole house; and the room looked full of fire. Another crash came, and
then another, with a loud, stony kind of rolling noise that seemed to go
round the world. Then he knew that he had been asleep, and that this
dreadful noise was the swift coming of a thunder-storm.

It was the worst storm that was ever known in Mill Creek Valley, so the
people said afterwards, but as yet it was only beginning. The thunder was
deafening, and it never stopped a moment. The lightning hardly stopped,
either; it filled the room with a quivering blaze; at times, when it died
down, the night turned black as ink, and then a flash came that lit up the
fields outside, and showed every stick and stone as bright as the
brightest day.

Frank was dazed at first by the glare and the noise; then he jumped out of
bed, and tried for two things: whether the money was still safe in his
pocket, and whether his brother was alive. He never could tell which he
found out first; as soon as he knew, he felt a little bit better, but
still his cheerfulness was not anything to brag of.

If his brother was alive, it seemed to be more than any one else in the
house was besides himself. He could not hear a soul stirring, although in
that uproar there might have been a full-dress parade of the Butler Guards
in the tavern, firing off their guns, and he could not have heard them. He
looked out in the entry, but it was all dark there except when he let the
flashes of his room into it. He thought he would light his candle, for
company, and so that the lightning would not be so awfully bright. He
found his candlestick easily enough--he could have found a pin in that
glare--but there were no matches.

So he decided to get along without the candle. Every now and then he put
his hand in his pocket, or on the bulge outside, to make sure of the
money; and whenever a very bright flash came, he would listen for his
brother's breathing, to tell whether he had been struck by lightning or
not. But it kept thundering so that sometimes he could not hear. Then
Frank would shake him till the boy gave a sort of snort, and that proved
that he was still alive; or he would put his ear to his brother's breast,
and listen whether his heart was beating.

It always was, and by-and-by the rain began to fall. It fell in perfect
sheets, and the noise it made could be heard through the thunder. But
Frank had always heard that after it began to rain, a thunder-storm was
not so dangerous, and the air got fresher. Still, it blazed and bellowed
away, he could never tell how long, and it seemed to him that he must have
felt a thousand times for Mr. Bushell's money, and tried a thousand times
to find whether his brother had been struck by lightning or not. Once or
twice he thought he would call for help; but he did not think he could
make anybody hear, and he was too much ashamed to do it, anyway.

Between the times of feeling for the money and seeing whether his brother
was alive, he thought about his mother: how frightened she would be if she
knew what had happened to him and his brother, after they left her. And he
thought of his father: how troubled he must be at their not getting home.
It seemed to him that he must be to blame, somehow, but he could not
understand how, exactly; and he could not think of any way to help it.

He wondered if the storm was as bad on the river and in the Boy's Town,
and whether the lightning would strike the boat or the house; the house
had a lightning-rod, but the boat could not have one, of course. He felt
pretty safe about his father and the older-younger brother who had been
left at home with him; but he was not sure about his mother and sisters,
and he tried to imagine what people did on a steamboat in a thunder-storm.

After a long time had passed, and he thought it must be getting near
morning, he lay down again beside his brother, and fell into such a heavy
sleep that he did not wake till it was broad day, and the sun was making
as much blaze in the curtainless tavern-room as the lightning had made.
The storm was over, and everything was as peaceful as if there had never
been any such thing as a storm in the world. The first thing he did was to
make a grab for his pocket. The money was still there, and his brother
sleeping as soundly as ever.

After breakfast, the livery-stable man came with the carriage, which he
had got mended, and Frank started home with his brother once more. But
they had sixteen miles to go before they would reach the Boy's Town, and
the carriage had been so badly shattered, or else the driver was so much
afraid of the horses, that he would not let them go at more than a walk.
Frank was anxious to get home on his father's account; still he would
rather get home safe, and he did not try to hurry the driver, for fear
they might not get home at all.

It was four o'clock in the afternoon when they stopped at his father's
house. His older-younger brother, and the hired girl, whom his mother had
got to keep house while she was gone on her visit, came out and took his
little brother in; and the girl told Frank his father had just been there
to see whether he had got back. Then he knew that his father must have
been as anxious as he had been afraid he was. He did not wait to go
inside; he only kicked off the shoes he wore to the city and started off
for his father's office as fast as his bare feet could carry him.

He found his father at the door. He did not say very much, but Frank could
see by his face that he had been worrying; and afterwards he said that he
was just going round to the livery stable the next minute to get another
team, and go down towards the city to see what had become of them all.
Frank told him what had happened, and his father put his arms round him,
but still did not say much. He did not say anything at all about Mr.
Bushell's money or seem to think about it till Frank asked:

"I'd better take it right straight over to his store, hadn't I, father?"

His father said he reckoned he had, and Frank started away on the run
again. He wanted to get rid of that money so badly, for it was all he had
to worry about, after he had got rid of his brother, that he was out of
breath, almost, by the time he reached Mr. Bushell's store. But even then
he could not get rid of the money. Mr. Bushell had told him to give it to
his partner, but his partner had gone out into the country, and was not to
be back till after supper.

Frank did not know what to do. He did not dare to give it to any one else
in the store, and it seemed to him that the danger of having it got worse
every minute. He hung about a good while, and kept going in and out of the
store, but at last he thought the best thing would be to go home and ask
his father; and that was what he did.

By this time his father had gone home to supper, and he found him there
with his two younger brothers, feeling rather lonesome, with Frank's
mother and his sisters all away. But they cheered up together, and his
father said he had done right not to leave the money, and he would just
step over, after supper, and give it himself to Mr. Bushell's partner. He
took the roll of bills from Frank and put it into his own pocket, and went
on eating his supper, but when they were done he gave the bills back to
the boy.

"After all, Frank, I believe I'll let you take that money to Mr.
Bushell's partner. He trusted it to you, and you ought to have the glory;
you've had the care. Do you think you'll be afraid to come home through
the bridge after sunset?"

The bridge was one of those old-fashioned, wooden ones, roofed in and
sided up, and it stretched from shore to shore, like a tunnel, on its
piers. It was rather dim, even in the middle of the brightest day, and
none of the boys liked to be caught in it after sunset.

Frank said he did not believe he should be afraid, for it seemed to him
that if he had got through a runaway, and such a thunder-storm as that was
the night before, without harm, he could surely get through the bridge
safely. There was not likely to be anybody in it, at the worst, but Indian
Jim, or Solomon Whistler, the crazy man, and he believed he could run by
them if they offered to do anything to him. He meant to walk as slowly as
he could, until he reached the bridge, and then just streak through it.

That was what he did, and it was still quite light when he reached Mr.
Bushell's store. His partner was there, sure enough, this time, and Frank
gave him the money, and told him how he had been so long bringing it. The
merchant thanked him, and said he was rather young to be trusted with so
much money, but he reckoned Mr. Bushell knew what he was about.

"Did he count it when he gave it to you?" he asked.

"No, he didn't," said Frank.

"Did you?"

"I didn't have a chance. He put it right into my pocket, and I was afraid
to take it out."

Mr. Bushell's partner laughed, and Frank was going away, so as to get
through the bridge before it was any darker, but Mr. Bushell's partner
said, "Just hold on a minute, won't you, Frank, till I count this," and he
felt as if his heart had jumped into his throat.

What if he had lost some of the money? What if somebody had got it out of
his pocket, while he was so dead asleep, and taken part of it? What if Mr.
Bushell had made a mistake, and not given him as much as he thought he
had? He hardly breathed while Mr. Bushell's partner slowly counted the
bank-notes. It took him a long time, and he had to wet his finger a good
many times, and push the notes to keep them from sticking together. At
last he finished, and he looked at Frank over the top of his spectacles.
"Two thousand?" he asked.

"That's what Mr. Bushell said," answered the boy, and he could hardly get
the words out.

"Well, it's all here," said Mr. Bushell's partner, and he put the money in
his pocket, and Frank turned and went out of the store.

He felt light, light as cotton, and gladder than he almost ever was in his
life before. He was so glad that he forgot to be afraid in the bridge. The
fellows who were the most afraid always ran through the bridge, and those
who tried not to be afraid walked fast and whistled. Frank did not even
think to whistle.

His father was sitting out on the front porch when he reached home, and
he asked Frank if he had got rid of his money, and what Mr. Bushell's
partner had said. Frank told him all about it, and after a while his
father asked, "Well, Frank, do you like to have the care of money?"

"I don't believe I do, father."

"Which was the greater anxiety to you last night, Mr. Bushell's money, or
your brother?"

Frank had to think awhile. "Well, I suppose it was the money, father. You
see, it wasn't my own money."

"And if it had been your own money, you wouldn't have been anxious about
it? You wouldn't have cared if you had lost it, or somebody had stolen it
from you?"

Frank thought again, and then he said he did not believe he had thought
about that.

"Well, think about it now."

Frank tried to think, and at last he said. "I reckon I should have cared."

"And if it had been your own money, would you have been more anxious about
it than about your brother?"

This time Frank was more puzzled than ever; he really did not know what to
say.

His father said: "The trouble with money is, that people who have a great
deal of it seem to be more anxious about it than they are about their
brothers, and they think that the things it can buy are more precious than
the things which all the money in the world cannot buy." His father stood
up. "Better go to bed, Frank. You must be tired. There won't be any
thunder-storm to-night, and you haven't got a pocketful of money to keep
you awake."




XI

HOW JIM LEONARD PLANNED FOR PONY
BAKER TO RUN OFF ON A RAFT


Now we have got to go back to Pony Baker again. The summer went along till
it got to be September, and the fellows were beginning to talk about when
school would take up. It was almost too cold to go in swimming; that is,
the air made you shiver when you came out, and before you got your clothes
on; but if you stood in the water up to your chin, it seemed warmer than
it did on the hottest days of summer. Only now you did not want to go in
more than once a day, instead of four or five times. The fellows were
gathering chinquapin acorns most of the time, and some of them were
getting ready to make wagons to gather walnuts in. Once they went out to
the woods for pawpaws, and found about a bushel; they put them in
cornmeal to grow, but they were so green that they only got rotten. The
boys found an old shanty in the woods where the farmer made sugar in the
spring, and some of the big fellows said they were coming out to sleep in
it, the first night they got.

It was this that put Jim Leonard in mind of Pony's running off again. All
the way home he kept talking to Pony about it, and Pony said he was going
to do it yet, some time, but when Jim Leonard wanted him to tell the time,
he would only say, "You'll see," and wag his head.

Then Jim Leonard mocked him and dared him to tell, and asked him if he
would take a dare. After that he made up with him, and said if Pony would
run off he would run off, too; and that the way for them to do would be to
take the boards of that shanty in the woods and build a raft. They could
do it easily, because the boards were just leaned up against the
ridge-pole, and they could tie them together with pawpaw switches, they
were so tough, and then some night carry the raft to the river, after the
water got high in the fall, and float down on it to the city.

"Why, does the river go past the city?" Pony asked.

"Of course it does," said Jim Leonard, and he laughed at Pony. "It runs
into the Ohio there. Where's your geography?"

Pony was ashamed to say that he did not suppose that geography had
anything to do with the river at the Boy's Town, for it was not down on
the map, like Behring Straits and the Isthmus of Suez. But he saw that Jim
Leonard really knew something. He did not see the sense of carrying the
raft two miles through the woods when you could get plenty of drift-wood
on the river shore to make a raft of. But he did not like to say it for
fear Jim Leonard would think he was afraid to be in the woods after dark,
and after that he came under him more than ever. Most of the fellows just
made fun of Jim Leonard, because they said he was a brag, but Pony began
to believe everything he said when he found out that he knew where the
river went to; Pony had never even thought.

Jim was always talking about their plan of running off together, now; and
he said they must fix everything so that it would not fail this time. If
they could only get to the city once, they could go for cabin-boys on a
steamboat that was bound for New Orleans; and down the Mississippi they
could easily hide on some ship that was starting for the Spanish Main, and
then they would be all right. Jim knew about the Spanish Main from a book
of pirate stories that he had. He had a great many books and he was always
reading them. One was about Indians, and one was about pirates, and one
was about dreams and signs, and one was full of curious stories, and one
told about magic and how to do jugglers' tricks; the other was a
fortune-telling book. Jim Leonard had a paper from the city, with long
stories in, and he had read a novel once; he could not tell the boys
exactly what a novel was, but that was what it said on the back.

After Pony and he became such friends he told him everything that was in
his books, and once, when Pony went to his house, he showed him the books.
Pony was a little afraid of Jim Leonard's mother; she was a widow woman,
and took in washing; she lived in a little wood-colored house down by the
river-bank, and she smoked a pipe. She was a very good mother to Jim, and
let him do whatever he pleased--go in swimming as much as he wanted to,
stay out of school, or anything. He had to catch drift-wood for her to
burn when the river was high; once she came down to the river herself and
caught drift-wood with a long pole that had a nail in the end of it to
catch on with.

By the time school took up Pony and Jim Leonard were such great friends
that they asked the teacher if they might sit together, and they both had
the same desk. When Pony's mother heard that, it seemed as if she were
going to do something about it. She said to his father:

"I don't like Pony's going with Jim Leonard so much. He's had nobody else
with him for two weeks, and now he's sitting with him in school."

Pony's father said, "I don't believe Jim Leonard will hurt Pony. What
makes you like him, Pony?"

Pony said, "Oh, nothing," and his father laughed.

"It seems to be a case of pure affection. What do you talk about
together?"

"Oh, dreams, and magic, and pirates," said Pony.

His father laughed, but his mother said, "I know hell put mischief in the
child's head," and then Pony thought how Jim Leonard always wanted him to
run off, and he felt ashamed; but he did not think that running off was
mischief, or else all the boys would not be wanting to do it, and so he
did not say anything.

His father said, "I don't believe there's any harm in the fellow. He's a
queer chap."

"He's so low down," said Pony's mother.

"Well, he has a chance to rise, then," said Pony's father. "We may all be
hurrahing for him for President some day." Pony could not always tell
when his father was joking, but it seemed to him he must be joking now. "I
don't believe Pony will get any harm from sitting with him in school, at
any rate."

After that Pony's mother did not say anything, but he knew that she had
taken a spite to Jim Leonard, and when he brought him home with him after
school he did not bring him into the woodshed as he did with the other
boys, but took him out to the barn. That got them to playing in the barn
most of the time, and they used to stay in the hay-loft, where Jim Leonard
told Pony the stories out of his books. It was good and warm there, and
now the days were getting chilly towards evenings.

Once, when they were lying in the hay together, Jim Leonard said, all of a
sudden, "I've thought of the very thing, Pony Baker."

Pony asked, "What thing?"

"How to get ready for running off," said Jim Leonard, and at that Pony's
heart went down, but he did not like to show it, and Jim Leonard went on:
"We've got to provision the raft, you know, for maybe we'll catch on an
island and be a week getting to the city. We've got to float with the
current, anyway. Well, now, we can make a hole in the hay here and hide
the provisions till we're ready to go. I say we'd better begin hiding them
right away. Let's see if we can make a place. Get away, Trip."

He was speaking to Pony's dog, that always came out into the barn with him
and stayed below in the carriage-room, whining and yelping till they
helped him up the ladder into the loft. Then he always lay in one corner,
with his tongue out, and looking at them as if he knew what they were
saying. He got up when Jim Leonard bade him, and Jim pulled away the hay
until he got down to the loft floor.

"Yes, it's the very place. It's all solid, and we can put the things down
here and cover them up with hay and nobody will notice. Now, to-morrow you
bring out a piece of bread-and-butter with meat between, and I will, too,
and then we will see how it will do."

Pony brought his bread-and-butter the next day. Jim said he intended to
bring some hard-boiled eggs, but his mother kept looking, and he had no
chance.

"Let's see whether the butter's sweet, because if it ain't the provisions
will spoil before we can get off."

He took a bite, and he said, "My, that's nice!" and the first thing he
knew he ate the whole piece up. "Well, never mind," he said, "we can begin
to-morrow just as well."

The next day Jim Leonard brought a ham-bone, to cook greens with on the
raft. He said it would be first-rate; and Pony brought bread-and-butter,
with meat between. Then they hid them in the hay, and drove Trip away from
the place. The day after that, when they were busy talking, Trip dug the
provisions up, and, before they noticed, he ate up Pony's bread-and-butter
and was gnawing Jim Leonard's ham-bone. They cuffed his ears, but they
could not make him give it up, and Jim Leonard said:

"Well, let him have it. It's all spoilt now, anyway. But I'll tell you
what, Pony--we've got to do something with that dog. He's found out where
we keep our provisions, and now he'll always eat them. I don't know but
what we'll have to kill him."

"Oh no!" said Pony. "I couldn't kill Trip!"

"Well, I didn't mean kill him, exactly; but do something. I'll tell you
what--train him not to follow you to the barn when he sees you going."

Pony thought that would be a good plan, and he began the next day at noon.
Trip tried to follow him to the barn, and Pony kicked at him, and motioned
to stone him, and said: "Go home, sir! Home with you! Home, I say!" till
his mother came to the back door.

"Why, what in the world makes you so cross with poor Trip, Pony?" she
asked.

"I'll teach him not to tag me round everywhere," said Pony.

His mother said: "Why, I thought you liked to have him with you?"

"I'm tired of it," said Pony; but when he put his mother off that way he
felt badly, as if he had told her a lie, and he let Trip come with him
and began to train him again the next day.

It was pretty hard work, and Trip looked at him so mournfully when he
drove him back that he could hardly bear to do it; but Jim Leonard said it
was the only way, and he must keep it up. At last Trip got so that he
would not follow Pony to the barn. He would look at him when Pony started
and wag his tail wistfully, and half jump a little, and then when he saw
Pony frown he would let his tail drop and stay still, or walk off to the
woodshed and keep looking around at Pony to see if he were in earnest. It
made Pony's heart ache, for he was truly fond of Trip; but Jim Leonard
said it was the only way, and so Pony had to do it.

They provisioned themselves a good many times, but after they talked a
while they always got hungry, or Jim Leonard did, and then they dug up
their provisions and ate them. Once when he came to spend Saturday
afternoon with Pony he had great news to tell him. One of the boys had
really run off. He was a boy that Pony had never seen, though he had
heard of him. He lived at the other end of the town, below the bridge, and
almost at the Sycamore Grove. He had the name of being a wild fellow; his
father was a preacher, but he could not do anything with him.

Now, Jim Leonard said, Pony must run off right away, and not wait for the
river to rise, or anything. As soon as the river rose, Jim would follow
him on the raft; but Pony must start first, and he must take the pike for
the city, and sleep in fence corners. They must provision him, and not
eat any of the things before he started. He must not take a bundle or
anything, because if he did people would know he was running off, or
maybe they would think he was a runaway slave from Kentucky, he was so
dark-complexioned. At first Pony did not like it, because it seemed to him
that Jim Leonard was backing out; but Jim Leonard said that if two of them
started off at the same time, people would just know they were running
off, and the constable would take them up before they could get across
the corporation line. He said that very likely it would rain in less than
a week, and then he could start after Pony on the raft, and be at the Ohio
River almost as soon as Pony was.

He said, "Why, you ain't afraid, are you, Pony?" And Pony said he was not
afraid; for if there was anything that a Boy's Town boy hated, it was to
be afraid, and Pony hated it the worst of any, because he was sometimes
afraid that he was afraid.

They fixed it that Pony was to sleep the next Friday night in the barn,
and the next morning, before it was light, he was to fill his pockets with
the provisions and run off.

Every afternoon he took out a piece of bread-and-butter with meat between
and hid it in the hay, and Jim Leonard brought some eggs. He said he had
no chance to boil them without his mother seeing, but he asked Pony if he
did not know that raw eggs were first-rate, and when Pony said no, he
said, "Well, they are." They broke one of the eggs when they were hiding
them, and it ran over the bread-and-butter, but they wiped it off with
hay as well as they could, and Jim Leonard said maybe it would help to
keep it, anyway.



When he came round to Pony's house the next Friday afternoon from school
he asked him if he had heard the news, and when Pony said no, he said that
the fellow that ran off had been taken up in the city by the watchman. He
was crying on the street, and he said he had nowhere to sleep, and had not
had anything to eat since the night before.

Pony's heart seemed to be standing still. He had always supposed that as
soon as he ran off he should be free from all the things that hindered and
vexed him; and, although he expected to be sorry for his father and
mother, he expected to get along perfectly well without them. He had never
thought about where he should sleep at night after he got to the city, or
how he should get something to eat.

"Now, you see, Pony," said Jim Leonard, "what a good thing it was that I
thought about provisioning you before you started. What makes you look
so?"

Pony said, "I'm not looking!"

Jim Leonard said, "You're not afraid, are you, just because that fellow
got took up? You're not such a cowardy-calf as to want to back out now?"

The tears came into Pony's eyes.

"Cowardy-calf yourself, Jim Leonard! You've backed out long ago!"

"You'll see whether I've backed out," said Jim Leonard. "I'm coming round
to sleep in the barn with you to-night, and help you to get a good start
in the morning. And maybe I'll start myself to-morrow. I will if I can get
anybody to help me make the raft and bring it through the woods. Now let's
go up into the loft and see if the provisions are all safe."

They dug the provisions up out of the hay and Jim Leonard broke one of the
eggs against the wall. It had a small chicken in it, and he threw it away.
Another egg smelt so that they could hardly stand it.

"I don't believe these eggs are very good," said Jim Leonard. "I got them
out of a nest that the hen had left; mother said I might have them all."
He broke them one after another, and every one had a chicken in it, or
else it was bad. "Well, never mind," he said. "Let's see what the
bread-and-butter's like." He bit into a piece, but he did not swallow any.
"Tastes kind of musty; from the hay, I reckon; and the meat seems kind of
old. But they always give the sailors spoilt provisions, and this
bread-and-butter will do you first-rate, Pony. You'll be so hungry you can
eat anything. Say, you ain't afraid now, are you, Pony?"

"No, not now," said Pony, but he did not fire up this time as he did
before at the notion of his being afraid.

Jim Leonard said, "Because, maybe I can't get mother to let me come here
again. If she takes a notion, she won't. But I'm going to watch out, and
as soon as supper's over, and I've got the cow into the lot, and the
morning's wood in, I'm going to try to hook off. If I don't get here to
stay all night with you I'll be around bright and early in the morning, to
wake you and start you. It won't be light now much before six, anyway."




XII

HOW JIM LEONARD BACKED OUT, AND
PONY HAD TO GIVE IT UP


It all seemed very strange to Pony. First, Jim Leonard was going to run
off with him on a raft, and then he was going to have Pony go by land and
follow him on the raft; then suddenly he fixed it so that Pony was going
alone, and he was going to pass the last night with him in the barn; and
here, all at once, he was only coming, maybe, to see him off in the
morning. It made Pony feel very forlorn, but he did not like to say
anything for fear Jim Leonard would call him cowardy-calf.

It was near sunset, on a cool day in the beginning of October, and the
wind was stirring the dry blades in the corn-patch at the side of the
barn. They made a shivering sound, and it made Pony lonesomer and
lonesomer. He did not want to run off, but he did not see how he could
help it. Trip stood at the wood-house door, looking at him, but he did not
dare to come to Pony as long as he was near the barn. But when Pony
started towards the house Trip came running and jumping to him, and Pony
patted him and said, "Poor Trip, poor old Trip!" He did not know when he
should see such another dog as that.

The kitchen door was open, and a beautiful smell of frying supper was
coming out. Pretty soon his mother came to the open door, and stood
watching him patting Trip. "Well, have you made up with poor old Trip,
Pony? Why don't you come in, child? You look so cold, out there."

Pony did not say anything, but he came into the kitchen and sat in a
corner beyond the stove and watched his mother getting the supper. In the
dining-room his sisters were setting the table and his father was reading
by the lamp there. Pony would have given almost anything if something had
happened just to make him tell what he was going to do, so that he could
have been kept from doing it. He saw that his mother was watching him all
the time, and she said: "What makes you so quiet, child?"

Pony said, "Oh, nothing," and his mother asked, "Have you been falling out
with Jim Leonard?"

Pony said no, and then she said, "I almost wish you had, then. I don't
think he's a bad boy, but he's a crazy fool, and I wish you wouldn't go
with him so much. I don't like him."

All of a sudden Pony felt that he did not like Jim Leonard very much
himself. It seemed to him that Jim Leonard had not used him very well, but
he could not have told how.

After supper the great thing was how to get out to the barn without any
one's noticing. Pony went to the woodshed door two or three times to look
out. There were plenty of stars in the sky, but it seemed very dark, and
he knew that it would be as black as pitch in the barn, and he did not see
how he could ever dare to go out to it, much less into it. Every time he
came back from looking he brought an armload of wood into the kitchen so
that his mother would not notice.

The last time she said, "Why, you dear, good boy, what a lot of wood
you're bringing for your mother," for usually Pony had to be told two or
three times before he would get a single armload of wood.

When his mother praised him he was ashamed to look at her, and so he
looked round, and he saw the lantern hanging by the mantel-piece. When he
saw that lantern he almost wished that he had not seen it, for now he knew
that his last excuse was gone, and he would really have to run off. If it
had not been for the lantern he could have told Jim Leonard that he was
afraid to go out to the barn on account of ghosts, for anybody would be
afraid of ghosts; Jim Leonard said he was afraid of them himself. But now
Pony could easily get the lantern and take it out to the barn with him,
and if it was not dark the ghosts would not dare to touch you.

He tried to think back to the beginning of the time when he first intended
to run off, and find out if there was not some way of not doing it; but he
could not, and if Jim Leonard was to come to the barn the next morning to
help him start, and should not find him there, Pony did not know what he
would do. Jim Leonard would tell all the fellows, and Pony would never
hear the last of it. That was the way it seemed to him, but his mind felt
all fuzzy, and he could not think very clearly about it.

When his mother finished up her work in the kitchen he took the lantern
from the nail and slipped up the back stairs to his little room, and then,
after he heard his sisters going to bed and his father and mother talking
together quietly, he lit the lantern and stole out to the barn with it.
Nobody noticed him, and he got safely inside the barn. He used to like to
carry the lantern very much, because it made the shadows of his legs, when
he walked, go like scissors-blades, and that was fun; but that night it
did not cheer him up, and it seemed as if nothing could cheer him up
again. When Trip first saw him come out into the woodshed with the lantern
he jumped up and pawed Pony and licked the lantern, he was so glad, but
when Pony went towards the barn Trip stopped following him and went back
into the wood-house very sadly. Pony would have given almost anything to
have Trip come with him, only, as Jim Leonard said, Trip would whine or
bark, or something, and then Pony would be found out and kept from running
off.

The more he wanted to be kept from running off the more he knew he must
not try to be, and he let Trip go back when he would have so gladly helped
him up into the hay-loft and slept with him there. He would not have been
afraid with Trip, and now he found that he was dreadfully afraid. The
lantern-light was a charm against ghosts, but not against rats, and the
first thing Pony knew when he got into the barn a rat ran across his foot.
Trip would have kept the rats off. They seemed to just swarm in the loft
when Pony got up there, and after he hung the lantern on a nail and lay
down in the hay they did not mind him at all. They played all around, and
two of them got up on their hind legs once and fought, or else danced,
Pony could not tell which. He could not sleep, and after a while he felt
the tears coming and he began to cry, and he kept sobbing, and could not
stop himself.

When Pony's mother was ready to go to bed she said to Pony's father: "Did
Pony say good-night to you?" and when he said no, she said, "But he must
have gone to bed," and she ran up the stairs to see. She came down again
in about half a second and she said, "He doesn't seem to be there," and
she raced all through the house hunting for him. In the kitchen she saw
that the lantern was gone and then she said: "I might have known he was up
to some mischief, he was so quiet. This is some more of Jim Leonard's
work. Henry, I want you to go right out and look for Pony. It's half-past
nine."

Then Pony's father knew that it would be no use to talk and he started
out. But the whole street was quiet, and all the houses were dark as if
the people had gone to bed. He went up town and to all the places where
the big boys were apt to play at night, and he found Hen Billard and Archy
Hawkins, but neither of them had seen Pony since school. They were both
