Church taking charge of the child, since she was not in the hands of any
relative. But he had promised Pani she should not be separated from her,
indeed, no one had a better right to her, he felt.
M. Bellestre's family were strong Huguenots, and had been made to suffer
severely for their faith in Old France, and not a little in the new
country. He had not cordially loved the English, but he felt that the
larger liberty had been better for the settlement, and that education
was the foe to superstition and bigotry, as well as ignorance. While he
admitted to himself, and frankly to the town, the many excellencies of
the priest, it was the system, that held the people in bondage and
denied enlightenment, that he protested against. It was with great pain
that he had discovered his wife's gradual absorption, but knowing death
was at hand he could not deny her last request. But the child should
choose for herself, and, if under Pani's influence she should become a
Catholic, he would not demur. From time to time he had accounts from M.
Loisel, and he had been pleased with the desire of the child for
education. She should have that satisfaction.
And now spring was coming again. The sense of freedom and rejoicing
broke out anew in Jeanne, but she found herself restrained by some
curious power that was finer than mere propriety. She was growing older
and knowledge enlarged her thoughts and feelings, stirred a strange
something within her that was ambition, though she knew it not; she had
not grown accustomed to the names of qualities.
The master was taking great pride in her, and gave her the few
advantages within his reach. Detroit was being slowly remodeled, but it
was discouraging work, since the French settlers were satisfied with
their own ways, and looked with suspicion on improvements even in many
simple devices for farming.
With the fur season the town was in wild confusion and holiday jollity
prevailed. There were Indians with packs; and the old race of the
coureurs des bois, who were still picturesque with their red sashes
and jaunty habiliments. They were wild men of the woods, who had thrown
off the restraints of civilized life and who hunted as much for the
pleasure as the profit. They could live in a wigwam, they could join
Indian dances, they were brave, hardy, but in some instances savage as
the Indians themselves and quite as lawless. A century ago they had been
the pioneers of the fur hunters, with many a courageous explorer among
them. The newer organizations of the fur companies had curtailed their
power and their numbers had dwindled, but they kept up their wild
habits, and this was the carouse of the whole year.
It was a busy season. There was great chaffering, disputing, and not a
few fights, though guards were detailed along the river front to keep
the peace as far as was possible. Boats were being loaded for Montreal,
cargoes to be shipped down the Hudson and from thence abroad, with mink
and otter and beaver, beautiful fox furs, white wolf and occasionally a
white bear skin that dealers would quarrel about.
Then the stores of provisions to be sent back to the trappers and
hunters, the clothes and blankets and trinkets for the Indians, kept
shopkeepers busy day and night, and poured money into their coffers. New
men were going out,--to an adventurous young fellow this seemed the
great opportunity of his life.
Jeanne Angelot's fortune had been noised abroad somewhat, though she
paid little attention to it even in her thoughts. But she was a girl
with a dowry now, and she was not only growing tall but strangely pretty
as well. Her skin was fairer, her hair, which still fell in loose
curls, was kept in better order. Coif she would not wear, but sometimes
she tied a bright kerchief under her chin and looked bewitching.
French mothers of sons were never averse to a dowry, although men were
so in want of wives that few went begging for husbands. Women paused to
chat with Pani and make kindly inquiries about her charge. Even Madame
De Ber softened. She was opposed to Pierre's going north with the
hunters, but he was so eager and his father considered it a good thing.
And now he was a strapping big fellow, taller than his father, slowly
shaping up into manhood.
"Thou hast not been to visit Marie?" she said one day on meeting Jeanne
face to face. "She has spoken of it. Last year you were such a child,
but now you have quite grown and will be companionable. All the girls
have visited her. Her husband is most excellent."
"I have been busy with lessons," said Jeanne with some embarrassment.
Then, with a little pride--"Marie dropped me, and if I were not to be
welcome--"
"Chut! chut! Marie had to put on a little dignity. A child like you
should bear no malice."
"But--she sent me no invitation."
"Then I must chide her. And it will be pleasant down there in the
summer. Do you know that Pierre goes back with the hunters?"
"I have heard--yes."
"It is not my wish, but if he can make money in his youth so much the
better. And the others are growing up to fill his place. Good day to
thee, Jeanne."
That noon Madame De Ber said to her husband, "Jeanne Angelot improves
greatly. Perhaps the school will do her no harm. She is rather sharp
with her replies, but she always had a saucy tongue. A girl needs a
mother to correct her, and Pani spoils her."
"She will have quite a dowry, I have heard," remarked her husband.
Pierre flushed a little at this pleasant mention of her name. If Jeanne
only walked down in the town like some of the girls! If Rose might ask
her to go!
But Rose did not dare, and then there was Martin ready to waylay her.
Three were awkward when you liked best to have a young man to yourself.
How many times Pierre had watched her unseen, her lithe figure that
seemed always atilt even when wrapped in furs, and her starry eyes
gleaming out of her fur hood. Not even Rose could compare with her in
that curious daintiness, though Pierre would have been at loss to
describe it, since his vocabulary was limited, but he felt it in every
slow beating pulse. He had resolved to speak, but she never gave him the
opportunity. She flashed by him as if she had never known him.
But he must say good-by to her. There was Madelon Dace, who had
quarreled with her lover and gone to a dance with some one else and held
her head high, never looking to the right or the left, and then as
suddenly melted into sweetness and they would be married. Yet Madelon
had said to his sister Marie, "I will never speak to him, never!" What
had he done to offend Jeanne so deeply? Girls were not usually angered
at a man falling in love with them.
So Pierre's pack was made up. In the autumn they could send again. He
took tea the last time with Marie. The boats were all ready to start up
the Huron.
He went boldly to the little cottage and said courageously to Pani,
though his heart seemed to quake almost down to his feet, "I am going
away at noon. I have come to say good-by to Jeanne--and to you," put in
as an afterthought.
"What a great fellow you are, Pierre! I wish you good luck. Jeanne--"
Jeanne had almost forgotten her childish anger, and the love making was
silly, even in remembrance.
"Surely I wish thee good luck, Pierre," she said formally, with a smile
not too warm about her rosy lips. "And a fortunate hunting and trading."
"A safe return, Mam'selle, put that in," he pleaded.
"A safe return."
Then they shook hands and he went his way, thinking with great comfort
that she had not flouted him.
It was quite a great thing to see the boats go out. Sweethearts and
wives congregated on the wharves. Some few brave women went with their
husbands. Other ships were setting out for Montreal well loaded, and one
or two were carrying a gay lot of passengers.
After a few weeks, quiet returned, the streets were no longer crowded
and the noisy reveling was over for a while. The farmers were busy out
of doors, cattle were lowing, chanticleer rang out his call to work in
the early morn, and busy hens were caroling in cheerful if unmusical
voices. Trees budded into a beautiful haze and then sprang into leaf,
into bloom. The rough social hilarity was over for a while.
A few of the emigrant farmers laughed at the clumsy, wasteful French
methods and tried their own, which were laughed at in turn, but there
was little disputing.
Easter had fallen early and it had been cold, but Whitsuntide made
amends, and was, if anything, a greater festival. For a procession
formed at St. Anne's, young girls in gala attire, smart, middle-aged
women with new caps and kerchiefs, husbands and sons, and not a few
children, and marched out of the Pontiac gate, as it was called in
remembrance of the long siege. Forty years before Jacques Campeau had
built the first little outside chapel on his farm, which had a great
stretch of ground. The air was full of the fragrance of fruit blossoms
and hardly needed incense. Ah, how beautiful it was in a sort of
pastoral simplicity! And after saying mass, Father Frechette blessed and
prayed for fertile fields and good crops and generous hearts that tithes
might not be withheld, and the faithful rewarded. Then they went to the
Fulcher farm, where, in a chapel not much more than a shrine, the
service was again said with the people kneeling around in the grass. The
farmers and good housewives placed more faith in this than in the
methods of the newcomers with their American wisdom. But it was a
pleasing service. The procession changed about a little,--the young men
walking with the demoiselles and whispering in their listening ears.
Jeanne was with them. Madame De Ber was quite gracious, and Marie Beeson
singled her out. It had been a cold winter and a backward spring and
Marie had not gone anywhere. Tony was so exigent, and she laughed and
bridled. It was a very happy thing to be married and have some one care
for you. And soon she would give a tea drinking and she would send for
Jeanne, who must be sure to come.
But Jeanne had a strange, dreary feeling. She seemed between everything,
no longer a child and not a woman, not a part of the Church, not a part
of anything. She felt afraid of the future. Oh, what was her share of
the bright, beautiful world?
CHAPTER X.
BLOOMS OF THE MAY.
The spring came in with a quickening glory. A fortnight ago the snow was
everywhere, the skaters were still out on the streams, the young fellows
having rough snowballing matches, then suddenly one morning the white
blanket turned a faint, sickly, soft gray, and withered. The pallid
skies grew blue, the brown earth showed in patches, there were cheerful
sounds from the long-housed animals, rivulets were all afloat running in
haste to swell the streams, and from thence to the river and the lakes.
The tiny rings of fir and juniper brightened, the pine branches swelled
with great furry buds, bursting open into pale green tassels that moved
with every breath of wind. The hemlocks shot out feathery fronds, the
spruce spikes of bluish green, the maples shook around red blossoms and
then uncurled tiny leaves. The hickories budded in a strange, pale
yellow, but the oaks stood sturdy with some of the winter's brown leaves
clinging to them.
The long farms outside the stockade awoke to new vigor as well.
Everybody set to work, for the summer heats would soon be upon them, and
the season was short. There was a stir in the town proper, as well.
And now, at mid-May, when some of the crops were in, there was a day of
merrymaking, beginning with a procession and a blessing of the fields,
and then the fiddles were taken down, for the hard work lasting well
into the evening made both men and women tired enough to go to bed
early, when their morning began in the twilight.
The orchards were abloom and sweetened all the air. The evergreens sent
out a resinous, pungent fragrance, the grass was odorous with the night
dews. The maypole was raised anew, for generally the winter winds
blowing fiercely over from the great western lake demolished it, though
they always let it stand as long as it would, and in the autumn again
danced about it. It had been the old French symbol of welcome and good
wishes to their Seigneurs, as well as to the spring. And now it was a
legend of past things and a merrymaking.
The pole had bunches of flowers tied here and there, and long streamers
that it was fun to jerk from some one's hand and let the wind blow them
away. Girls and youths did this to rivals, with mischievous laughter.
The habitans were in their holiday garb, which had hardly changed for
two hundred years except when it was put by for winter furs, clean blue
tunics, scarlet caps and sashes, deerskin breeches trimmed with yellow
or brown fringe, sometimes both, leggings and moccasins with bead
embroidery and brightly dyed threads.
There were shopkeepers, too, there were boatmen and Indians, and some of
the quality with their wives in satin and lace and gay brocades.
Soldiers as well in their military gear, and officers in buff and blue
with cocked hats and pompons.
The French girls had put on their holiday attire and some had festooned
a light skirt over one of cloth and placed in it a bright bow. Gowns
that were family heirlooms, never seeing day except on some festive
occasion, strings of beads, belts studded with wampum shells,
high-heeled shoes with a great buckle or bow, but not as easy to dance
in as moccasins.
Two years had brought more changes to the individual, or rather the
younger part of the community, than to the town. A few new houses had
been built, many old ones repaired and enlarged a little. The streets
were still narrow and many of them winding about. The greatest signs of
life were at the river's edge. The newer American emigrant came for land
and secured it outside. Every week some of the better class English who
were not in the fur trade went to Quebec or Montreal to be under their
own rulers.
There was not an entire feeling of security. Since Pontiac there had
been no great Indian leader, but many subordinate chiefs who were very
sore over the treaties. There was an Indian prophet, twin brother to the
chief Tecumseh who afterward led his people to a bloody war, who used
his rude eloquence to unite the warring tribes in one nation by wild
visions he foresaw of their greatness.
Marauding tribes still harassed parties of travelers, but about Detroit
they were peaceable; and many joined in the festivities of a day like
this. While as farm laborers they were of little worth, they were often
useful at the wharves, and as boatmen.
Two years had brought a strange, new life to Jeanne, so imperceptibly
that she was now a puzzle to herself. The child had disappeared, the
growing girl she hardly knew. The wild feats that had once been the
admiration of the children pleased her no longer. The children had grown
as well. The boys tilled the fields with their fathers, worked in shops
or on the docks, or were employed about the Fort. Some few, smitten with
military ardor, were in training for future soldiers. The field for
girls had grown wider. Beside the household employments there were
spinning and sewing. The Indian women had made a coarse kind of lace
worked with beads that the French maidens improved upon and disposed of
to the better class. Or the more hoydenish ones delighted to work in the
fields with their brothers, enjoying the outdoor life.
For a year Jeanne had kept on with her master, though at spring a wild
impulse of liberty threatened to sweep her from her moorings.
"Why do I feel so?" she inquired almost fiercely of the master.
"Something stifles me! Then I wish I had been made a bird to fly up and
up until I had left the earth. Oh, what glorious thing is in the bird's
mind when he can look into the very heavens, soaring out of sight?"
"There is nothing in the bird's mind, except to find a mate, build a
nest and rear some young; to feed them until they can care for
themselves, and, though there is much romance about the mother bird,
they are always eager to get rid of their offspring. He sings because
God has given him a song, his language. But he has no thought of
heaven."
"Oh, he must have!" she cried passionately.
The master studied her.
"Art thou ready to die, to go out of the world, to be put into the dark
ground?"
"Oh, no! no!" Jeanne shuddered. "It is because I like to live, to
breathe the sweet air, to run over the grass, to linger about the woods
and hear all the voices. The pines have one tone, the hemlocks and
spruces another, and the soft swish of the larches is like the last
tender notes of some of the hymns I sing with the sisters occasionally.
And the sun is so glorious! He clasps the baby leaves in his unseen
hands and they grow, and he makes the blades of grass to dance for very
joy. I catch him in my hands, too; I steep my face in the floods of
golden light and all the air is full of stars. Oh, no, I would not,
could not die! I would like to live forever. Even Pani is in no haste to
die."
"Thou art a strange child, surely. I have read of some such in books.
And I wonder that the heaven of the nuns does not take more hold of
thee."
"But I do not like the black gowns, and the coifs so close over their
ears, and the little rooms in which one is buried alive. For it seems
like dying before one's time, like being half dead in a gay, glad world.
Did not God give it to us to enjoy?"
The master nodded. He wondered when she was in these strange moods. And
he noticed that the mad pranks grew less, that there were days when she
studied like a soul possessed, and paid little heed to those about her.
But when a foreign letter with a great waxen seal came to her one day
her delight knew no bounds. It was not a noisy joy, however.
"Let us go out under the oak," she said to Pani.
The children were playing about. Wenonah looked up from her work and
smiled.
"No, children," said Jeanne with a wave of the hand, "I cannot have you
now. You may come to-morrow. This afternoon is all mine."
It was a pleasant, grave, fatherly letter. M. St. Armand had found much
to do, and presently he would go to England. Laurent was at a school
where he should leave him for a year.
"Listen," said Jeanne when they were both seated on the short turf that
was half moss, "a grown man at school--is it not funny?" and she laughed
gayly.
"But there are young men sent to Quebec and Montreal, and to that
southern town, New York. And young women, too. But I hope thou wilt know
enough, Jeanne, without all this journeying."
Pani studied her with great perplexity.
"But he wants me to know many things--as if I were a rich girl! I know
my English quite well and can read in it. And, Pani, how wonderful that
a letter can talk as if one were beside you!"
She read it over and over. Some words she wondered at. The great city
with its handsome churches and gardens and walks and palaces, how
beautiful it must be! It was remarkable that she had no longing, envious
feeling. She was so full of delight there was no room.
They sat still a long while. She patted the thin, brown hand, then laid
her soft cheek on it or made a cradle of it for her chin.
"Pani," she said at length, "how splendid it would be to have M. St.
Armand for one's father! I have never cared for any girl's father, but
M. St. Armand would be gentle and kind. I think, too, he could smooth
away all the sort of cobweb things that haunt one's brain and the
thoughts you cannot make take any shape but go floating like drifts in
the sky, until you are lost in the clouds."
Pani looked over toward the river. Like the master, the child's strange
thoughts puzzled her, but she was afraid they were wrong. The master
wished that she could be translated to some wider living.
It took Jeanne several days to answer her letter, but every hour was one
of exultant joy. It gave her hardly less delight than the reception of
his. Then it was to be sent to New York by Monsieur Fleury, who had
dealings back and forth.
There had been a great wedding at the Fleury house. Madelon had married
a titled French gentleman and gone to Montreal.
"Oh!" cried Jeanne to Monsieur Fleury, "you will be very careful and not
let it get lost. I took so much pains with it. And when it gets to New
York--"
"A ship takes it to France. See, child, there is all this bundle to go,
and there are many valuable papers in it. Do not fear;" and he smiled.
"But what has M. St. Armand to say to you?"
"Oh, many things about what I should learn. I have already studied much
that he asked me to, and he will be very glad to hear that."
M. Fleury smiled indulgently, and Jeanne with a proud step went down the
paved walk bordered with flowers, a great innovation for that time. But
his wife voiced his thoughts when she said:--
"Do you not think it rather foolish that Monsieur St. Armand should
trouble his head about a child like that? No one knows to what sort of
people she has belonged. And she will marry some habitan who cares
little whether she can write a letter or not."
"She will have quite a dowry. She ought to marry well. A little learning
will not hurt her."
"M. Bellestre must have known more than he confessed," with suspicion in
her voice.
M. Fleury nodded assentingly.
Jeanne had been quite taken into Madame De Ber's good graces again. The
money had worked wonders with her, only she did not see the need of it
being spent upon an education. There was Pierre, who would be about the
right age, but would she want Pierre to have that kind of a wife?
Rose and Jeanne became very neighborly. Marie was a happy, commonplace
wife, who really adored her rough husband, and was always extolling
him. He had never learned to dance, but he was a swift skater, and could
row with anybody in a match. Then there was a little son, not at all to
Jeanne's liking, for he had a wide mouth and no nose to speak of.
"He is not as pretty as Aurel," she said.
"He will grow prettier," returned the proud grandmother, sharply.
That autumn the old schoolmaster did not come back. Some other schools
had been started. M. Loisel sounded his charge as to whether she would
not go to Montreal to school, but she decisively declined.
And now another spring had come, and Jeanne was a tall girl, but she
would not put up her hair nor wear a coif. Father Rameau had been sent
on a mission to St. Ignace. The new priest that came did not agree very
well with Father Gilbert. He wanted to establish some Ursulines on a
much stricter plan than the few sisters had been accustomed to, and
there were bickerings and strained feelings. Beside, the Protestants
were making some headway in the town.
"It is not to be wondered at," said the new priest to many of his flock.
"One could hardly tell what you are. There must be better regulations."
"But we pay our tithes regularly. And Father Rameau--"
"I am tired of Father Rameau!" said the priest angrily. "And the
fiddling and the dancing!"
"I do not like the quarreling," commented Jeanne. "And in the little
chapel they all agree. They worship God, and not the Saints or the
Virgin."
"But the Virgin was a woman and is tender to us, and will intercede for
us," interposed Pani.
Jeanne went to the English school that winter but the children were not
much to her mind.
And now it was May, and Jeanne suddenly decided that she was tired of
school.
"Pierre has come home!" almost shouted Rose to the two sitting in the
doorway. "And he is a big man with a heavy voice, and, would you
believe, he fairly lifted mother off her feet, and she tried to box his
ears, but could not, and we all laughed so. He will be at the Fête
to-morrow."
"Come, Pani," Jeanne said quite early, "we will hunt for some flowers.
Susette Mass said we were to bring as many as we could."
"But--there will be the procession and the blessings--"
"And you will like that. Then we can be first to put some flowers on the
shrines, maybe."
That won Pani. So together they went. At the edge of the wood wild
flowers had begun to bloom, and they gathered handfuls. Little maple
trees just coming up had four tiny red leaves that looked like a
blossom.
There under a great birch tree was a small wooden temple with a
weather-beaten cross on top, and on a shelf inside, raised a little from
the ground, stood a plaster cast of the Virgin. Jeanne sprinkled the
white blossoms of the wild strawberry all around. Pani knelt and said a
little prayer.
Susette Mass ran to meet them.
"Oh, how early you are!" she cried. "And how beautiful! Where did you
find so many flowers? Some must go to the chapel."
"There will be plenty to give to the chapel. There is another shrine
somewhere."
"And they say you are not a good Catholic!"
"I would like to be good. Sometimes I try," returned Jeanne, softly, and
her eyes looked like a saint's, Susette thought.
Pani led the way to the other shrine and while the child scattered
flowers and stood in silent reverence, Pani knelt and prayed. Then the
throng of gayly dressed girls and laughing young men were coming from
several quarters and the procession formed amid much chattering.
Afterward there were games of various sorts, tests of strength, running
and jumping, and the Indian game of ball, which was wilder and more
exciting than the French.
"Oh, here you are!" exclaimed Rose De Ber. On one side was Martin
Lavosse, a well-favored young fellow, and on the other a great giant, it
seemed to Jeanne. For a moment she felt afraid.
"Why, it isn't Jeanne Angelot?" Pierre caught both hands and almost
crushed them, and looked into the deep blue eyes with such eagerness
that the warm color flew to Jeanne's forehead. "Oh, how beautiful you
have grown!"
He bent down a little and uttered it in a whisper. Jeanne flushed and
then was angry at herself for the rising color.
Pierre was fascinated anew. More than once in the two years he had
smiled at his infatuation for the wild little girl who might be half
Indian so far as anyone knew. No, not half--but very likely a little.
What a temper she had, too! He had nearly forgotten all her charms. Of
course it had been a childish intimacy. He had driven her in his dog
sledge over the ice, he had watched her climb trees to his daring, they
had been out in his father's canoe when she would paddle and he was
almost afraid of tipping over. Really he had run risks of his life for
her foolishness. And his foolishness had been in begging her to promise
to marry him!
He had seen quite a good deal of the world since, and been treated as a
man. In his slow-thoughted fashion he saw her the same wild, willful,
obstinate little thing. Rose was a young lady, that was natural, but
Jeanne--
"They are going to dance. Hear the fiddles! It is one of the great
amusements up there," indicating the North with his head. "Only half the
time you dance with boys--young fellows;" and he gave a chuckling laugh.
"You see there is a scarcity of women. The Indian girls stand a good
chance. Only a good many of the men have left wives and children at
home."
"Did you like it?" Jeanne asked with interest.
Pierre shrugged his broad shoulders.
"At first I hated it. I would have run away, but if I had come back to
Detroit everybody would have laughed and my father would have beaten me.
Now he looks me over as if he knew I was worth something. Why, I am
taller than he! And I have learned a great deal about making money."
They were done tuning up the violins and all the air was soft with the
natural melody of birds and whispering winds. This was broken by a
stentorian shout, and men and maids fell into places. Pierre grasped
Jeanne's hand so tightly that she winced. With the other hand he caught
one of the streamers. There was a great scramble for them. And when, as
soon as the dancing was in earnest, a young fellow had to let his
streamer go in turning his partner, some one caught it and a merry shout
rang through the group.
"How stupid you are!" cried Rose to Martin. "Why did you not catch that
streamer? Now we are on the outside." She pouted her pretty lips. "Are
you bewitched with Pierre and Jeanne?"
"How beautifully she dances, and Pierre for a clumsy, big fellow is not
bad."
Hugh Pallent had caught a streamer and held out his hand to Rose.
"Well, amuse yourself with looking at them, Monsieur," returned Rose
pettishly. "As for me, I came to dance," and Pallent whisked her off.
Martin's eyes followed them, other eyes as well.
Pierre threw his streamer with a sleight of hand one would hardly have
looked for, and caught it again amid the cheers of his companions. Round
they went, only once losing their place in the whole circle. The violins
flew faster, the dancing grew almost furious, eyes sparkled and cheeks
bloomed.
"I am tired," Jeanne said, and lagging she half drew Pierre out of the
circle.
"Tired! I could dance forever with you."
"But you must not. See how the mothers are watching you for a chance,
and the girls will be proud enough to have you ask them."
"I am not going to;" shrugging his square shoulders.
"Oh, yes, you are!" with a pretty air of authority.
Jeanne saw envious eyes wandering in her direction. She did not know how
she outshone most of the girls, with an air that was so different from
the ordinary. Her white cotton gown had a strip of bright, curiously
worked embroidery above the hem and around the square neck that gave her
exquisite throat full play. The sleeves came to the elbow, and both
hands and arms were beautiful. Her skin was many shades fairer, her
cheeks like the heart of a rose, and her mouth dimpled in the corners.
Her lithe figure had none of the squareness of the ordinary habitan, and
every movement was grace itself.
"If you will not dance, let us walk, then. I have so much to say--"
"There will be all summer to say it in. And there is only one May dance.
Susette!"
Susette came with sparkling eyes.
"This young man is dance bewitched. See how he has changed. We can
hardly believe it is the Pierre we used to run races and climb trees
with in nutting time. And he knows how to dance;" laughing.
Pierre held out his hand, but there was a shade of reluctance in his
eyes.
"I thought you were never going to throw over that great giant," said
Martin Lavosse. "I suppose every girl will go crazy about him because he
has been up north and made some money. His father has planned to take
him into business. Jeanne, dance with me."
"No, not now. I am tired."
"I should think you would be, pulled around at that rate. Look, Susette
can hardly keep up, and her braids have tumbled."
"Did I look like that?" asked Jeanne with sudden disapprobation in her
tone.
"Oh, no, no! You were like--like the fairies and wood things old Mère
Michaud tells of. Your hair just floated around like a cloud full of
twilight--"
"No, the black ones when the thunderstorm is coming on," she returned
mischievously.
"It was beautiful and full of waves. And you are so straight and slim.
You just floated."
"And you watched me and lost your streamer twice. Rose did not like it."
He was a little jealous and a little vexed at Rose giving him the go by
in such a pointed manner. He would get even with her.
"Why did you go off so early? We all went up for you."
"I wanted to gather flowers for the shrines."
"But we could have gone, too."
"No, it would have been too late. It was such a pleasure to Pani. She
can't dance, you know."
"Let us walk around and see the tables."
They were being spread out on the green sward, planks raised a foot or
so, for every one would sit on the grass. Some of the Indian women had
booths, and were already selling birch and sassafras beer, pipes and
tobacco, and maple sugar. Little ones were running helter-skelter,
tumbling down and getting up without a whimper. Here a knot of men were
playing cards or dominoes. It was a pretty scene, and needed only
cavaliers and the glittering, stately stepping dames to make it a
picture of old France.
They were all tired and breathless with the dance presently, and threw
themselves around on the grass for a bit of rest. There was laughing and
chattering, and bright eyes full of mirth sent coquettish glances first
on this side, then on that. Susette had borne off her partner in triumph
to see her mother, and there were old neighbors welcoming and
complimenting Pierre De Ber.
"Pierre," said a stout fellow banteringly, "you have shown us your
improvement in dancing. As I remember you were a rather clumsy boy, too
big for your years. Now they are going to try feats of skill and
strength. After that we shall have some of the Indian women run a race.
Monsieur De Ber, we shall be glad to count you in, if you have the
daring to compete with the stay-at-homes."
"For shame, Hugh! What kind of an invitation is that? Pierre, you do not
look as if you had spent all your prowess in dancing;" glancing
admiringly at the big fellow.
"You will see. Give me a trial." Pierre was nettled at the first
speaker's tone. "I have not been up on the Mich for nothing. You fellows
think the river and Lake St. Clair half the world. You should see Lake
Michigan and Lake Superior."
"Yes, Pierre," spoke up another. "You used to be good on a jump. Come
and try to distance us stay-at-homes, if you haven't grown too heavy."
They were marking off a place for the jumping on a level, and at a short
distance hurdles of different heights had been put up.
Pierre had been the butt of several things in his boyish days, but,
though a heavy lad, often excelled in jumping. The chaffing stirred his
spirit. He would show what he could do. And Jeanne should see it. What
did he care for Susette's shining eyes!
Two or three supple young fellows, two older ones with a well-seasoned
appearance, stood on the mark. Pierre eyed it.
"No," he said, "it is not fair. I'm a sight heavier than those. And I
won't take the glory from them. But if you are all agreed I'll try the
other."
"Why, man, the other is a deal harder."
Pierre nodded indifferently.
The first started like a young athlete; a running jump and it fell
short. There was a great laugh of derision. But the second was more
successful and a shout went up. The next one leaped over the mark. Four
of them won.
Rose was piqued that Martin should sit all this while on the grass
chatting to Jeanne. She came around to them.
"Pierre is going to jump," she announced. "I'm sorry, but they badgered
him into it. They were really envious of his dancing."
Jeanne rose. "I do wonder where Pani is!" she said. "Shall we go
nearer?"
"Oh, Pani is with the Indian women over there at the booths. No, stay,
Jeanne," and Rose caught her hand. "Look! look! Why, they might almost
be birds. Isn't it grand? But--Pierre--"
She might have spared her anxiety. Pierre came over with a splendid
flying leap, clearing the bar better than his predecessor. A wild shout
went up and Pierre's hand was clasped and shaken with a hearty approval.
The girls crowded around him, and all was noisy jollity. Jeanne simply
glanced up and he caught her eye.
"I have pleased her this time," he thought.
The racing of the squaws, though some indeed were quite young girls, was
productive of much amusement. This was the only trial that had a prize
attached to it,--a beautiful blanket, for money was a scarce commodity.
A slim, young damsel won it.
"Jeanne," and Pierre bent over her, for, though she was taller than the
average, he was head and almost shoulders above her, "Jeanne, you could
have beaten them all."
She flushed. "I do not run races anymore," she returned with dignity.
He sighed. "That was a happy old time. How long ago it seems!
Jeanne--are you glad to see me? You are so--so grave. And all the time I
have been thinking of the child--I forgot you were to grow."
Some one blew a horn long and loud that sent echoes among the trees a
thousand times more beautiful than the sound itself. The tables, if they
could be called that, were spread, and in no time were surrounded by
merry, laughing, chatting groups, who brought with them the appetites of
the woods and wilds, hardly leaving crumbs for the birds.
After that there was dancing again and rambling around, and Pierre was
made much of by the mothers. It was a proud day for Madame De Ber, and
she glanced about among the girls to see whom of them she would choose
for a daughter-in-law. For now Pierre could have his pick of them all.
CHAPTER XI.
LOVE, LIKE THE ROSE, IS BRIERY.
Jeanne Angelot sat in the doorway in the moonlight silvering the street.
There were so many nooks and places in shadow that everything had a
weird, fantastic look. The small garrison were quiet, and many of them
asleep by nine o'clock. Early hours was the rule except in what were
called the great houses. But in this out of the way nook few pedestrians
ever passed in the evening.
"Child, are you not coming to bed? Why do you sit there? You said you
were tired."
Pani was crooning over a handful of fire. The May sunshine had not
penetrated all the houses, and her old blood had lost its heat.
"Yes, I was. What with the dancing and the walking about and all I was
very weary. I want to get rested. It is so quiet and lovely."
"You can rest in bed."
"I want to stay here a little while longer. Do not mind me, but go to
bed yourself."
The voice was tender, persuasive, but Pani did not stir. Now and then
she felt uncertain of the child.
"Was it not a happy day to you, ma fille?"
"Yes," with soft brevity.
Had it been happy? At different times during the past two years a
curious something, like a great wave, had swept over her, bearing her
away, yet slowly she seemed to float back. Only it was never quite the
same--the shores, the woods, the birds, the squirrels, the deer that
came and looked at her with unafraid eyes, impressed her with some new,
inexplicable emotion. What meaning was behind them?
But to-night she could not go back. She had passed the unknown boundary.
Her limited knowledge could not understand the unfolding, the budding of
womanhood, whose next change was blossoming. It had been a day of varied
emotions. If she could have run up the hillside with no curious eyes
upon her, sung with the birds, gathered great handfuls of daisies and
bell flowers, tumbled up the pink and yellow fungus that grew around the
tree roots, studied the bits of crisp moss that stood up like sentinels,
with their red caps, and if you trod on them bristled up again, or if
she could have climbed the trees and swung from branch to branch in the
wavering flecks of sunshine as she did only such a little while ago, all
would have been well. What was it restrained her? Was it the throng of
people? She had enjoyed startling them with a kind of bravado. That was
childhood. Ah, yes. Everybody grew up, and these wild antics no longer
pleased. Oh, could she not go back and have it all over again?
She had danced and laughed. Pierre had tried to keep her a good deal to
himself, but she had been elusive as a golden mote dancing up and down.
She seemed to understand what this sense of appropriating meant, and she
did not like it.
And then Martin Lavosse had been curious as well. Rose and he were not
betrothed, and Rose was like a gay humming bird, sipping pleasure and
then away. Madame De Ber had certainly grown less strict. But Martin was
still very young and poor, and Rose could do better with her pretty
face. Like a shrewd, experienced person she offered no opposition that
would be like a breeze to a smoldering flame. There was Edouard Loisel,
the notary's nephew, and even if he was one of the best fiddlers in
town, he had a head for business as well, and was a shrewd trader. M.
Loisel had no children of his own and only these two nephews, and if
Edouard fancied Rose before Martin was ready to speak--so the mother had
a blind eye for Rose's pretty coquetries in that direction; but Rose did
not like to have Martin quite so devoted to any other girl as he seemed
to be to Jeanne.
Jeanne had not liked it at all. She had been good friends and comrades
with the boys, but now they were grown and had curious ideas of holding
one's hand and looking into one's eyes that intensified the new feeling
penetrating every pulse. If only she might run away somewhere. If Pani
were not so old they would go to the other side of the mountain and
build a hut and live together there. She did not believe the Indians
would molest them. Anything to get away from this strange burthen
pressing down upon her that she knew not was womanhood, and be free once
more.
She rose presently and went in. Pani was a heap in the chimney corner,
she saw her by the long silver ray that fell across the floor.
"Pani! Pani!" she cried vehemently.
Her arms were around the neck and the face was lifted up, kissed with a
fervor she had never experienced before.
"My little one! my little one!" sighed the woman.
"Come, let us go to bed." There was an eagerness in the tone that
comforted the woman.
The next morning Detroit was at work betimes. There was no fashion of
loitering then; when the sun flung out his golden arrows that dispelled
the night, men and women were cheerfully astir.
"I must go and get some silk for Wenonah; she has some embroidery to
finish for the wife of one of the officers," exclaimed Jeanne. "And then
I will take it to her."
So if Pierre dropped in--
There were some stores down on St. Louis street where the imported goods
from Montreal and Quebec were kept. Laces and finery for the quality,
silks and brocades, hard as the times were. Jeanne tripped along gayly.
She would be happy this morning anyhow, as if she was putting off some
impending evil.
"Take care, child! Ah, it is Jeanne Angelot. Did I run over thee, or
thou over me?" laughing. "I have not on my glasses, but I ought to see a
tall slip of a girl like thee."
"Pardon, Monsieur. I was in haste and heedless."
"I have something for thee that will gladden thy heart--a letter. Let me
see--" beginning to search his pockets, and then taking out a great
leathern wallet. "No?" staring in surprise. "Then I must have left it on
my desk at home. Canst thou spend time to run up and get it?"
"Oh, gladly." The words had a ring of joy that touched the man's heart.
"It is well, Mam'selle, that it comes from the father, since it is
received with such delight."
She did not catch the double meaning. Indeed, Laurent was far from her
thoughts.
"Thank you a thousand times," with her radiant smile, and he carried the
bright face into his dingy warehouse.
She went on her way blithe as the gayest bird. A letter from M. St.
Armand! It had been so long that sometimes she was afraid he might be
dead, like M. Bellestre. The birds were singing. "A letter," they
caroled; "a letter, a l-e-t-t-e-r," dwelling on every sound with
enchanting tenderness.
The old Fleury house overlooked the military garden to the west, and the
river to the east. There had been an addition built to it, a wing that
placed the hall in the middle. It was wide, and the door at each end was
set open. At the back were glimpses of all kinds of greenery and the
fragrance of blossoming shrubs. A great enameled jar stood midway of the
hall and had in it a tall blooming rose kept through the winter indoors,
a Spanish rose growing wild in its own country. The floor was polished,
the fur rugs had been stowed away, and the curious Indian grass mats
exhaled a peculiar fragrance. A bird cage hung up high and its inmate
was warbling an exquisite melody. Jeanne stood quite still and a sense
of harmonious beauty penetrated her, gave her a vague impression of
having sometime been part and parcel of it.
"What is it?" demanded the Indian servant. There were very few negroes
in Detroit, and although there were no factories or mills, French girls
seldom hired out for domestics.
"Madame Fleury--Monsieur sent me for a letter lying on his desk," Jeanne
said in a half hesitating manner.
The servant stepped into the room to consult her mistress. Then she said
to Jeanne:--
"Walk in here, Mademoiselle."
The room was much more richly appointed than the hall, though the
polished floor was quite bare. A great high-backed settee with a carved
top was covered with some flowered stuff in which golden threads
shimmered; there was a tall escritoire going nearly up to the ceiling,
the bottom with drawers that had curious brass handles, rings spouting
out of a dragon's mouth. There were glass doors above and books and
strange ornaments and minerals on the shelves. On the high mantel, and
very few houses could boast them, stood brass candlesticks and vases of
colored glass that had come from Venice. There were some quaint
portraits, family heirlooms ranged round the wall, and chairs with
carved legs and stuffed backs and seats.
On a worktable lay a book and a piece of lace work over a cushion full
of pins. By it sat a young lady in musing mood.
She, too, said, "What is it?" but her voice had a soft, lingering
cadence.
Jeanne explained meeting M. Fleury and his message, but her manner was
shy and hesitating.
"Oh, then you are Jeanne Angelot, I suppose?" half assertion, half
inquiry.
"Yes, Mademoiselle," and she folded her hands.
"I think I remember you as a little child. You lived with an Indian
woman and were a"--no, she could not say "foundling" to this beautiful
girl, who might have been born to the purple, so fine was her figure,
her air, the very atmosphere surrounding her.
"I was given to her--Pani. My mother had died," she replied, simply.
"Yes--a letter. Let me see." She rose and went through a wide open
doorway. Jeanne's eyes followed her. The walls seemed full of arms and
hunting trophies and fishing tackle, and in the center of the room a
sort of table with drawers down one side.
"Yes, here. 'Mademoiselle Jeanne Angelot.'" She seemed to study the
writing. She was quite pretty, Jeanne thought, though rather pale, and
her silken gown looped up at the side with a great bow of ribbon, fell
at the back in a long train. Her movements were so soft and gliding that
the girl was half enchanted.
"You still live with--with the woman?"
"M. Bellestre gave her the house. It is small, but big enough for us
two. Yes, Mademoiselle. Thank you," as she placed the letter in Jeanne's
hand, and received in return an enchanting smile. With a courtesy she
left the room, and walked slowly down the path, trying to think. Some
girl, for there was gossip even in those days, had said that Mam'selle's
lover had proved false to her, and married some one else in one of the
southern cities. Jeanne felt sorry for her.
Lisa Fleury wondered why so much beauty had been given to a girl who
could make no use of it.
Jeanne hugged her letter to her heart. It had been so long, so long that
she felt afraid she would never hear again. She wanted to run every step
of the way, last summer she would have. She almost forgot Wenonah and
the silk, then laughed at herself, and outside of the palisades she did
run.
"You are so good," Wenonah said. "Look at this embroidery,--is it not
grand? And that I used to color threads where now I can use beautiful
silk. It shines like the sun. The white people have wonderful ways."
Jeanne laughed and opened her letter. She could wait no longer. Oh,
delightful news! She laughed again in sheer delight, soft, rippling
notes.
"What is it pleases thee so, Mam'selle?"
"It is my friend who comes back, the grand Monsieur with the beautiful
white beard, for whose sake I learned to write. I am glad I have learned
so many things. By another spring he will be here!"
Then Jeanne forgot the somber garment of womanhood that shadowed her
last night, and danced in the very gladness of her heart. Wenonah smiled
and then sighed. What if this man of so many years should want to marry
the child? Such things had been. And there was that fine young De Ber
just come home. But then, a year was a good while.
"I must go and tell Pani," and she was off like a bird.
Oh, what a glad day it was! The maypole and the dancing were as nothing
to it. After she had told over her news and they had partaken of a
simple meal, she dragged the Indian woman off to her favorite haunt in
the woods, where three great tree boles made a pretty shelter and where
Pani always fell asleep.
Bees were out buzzing, their curious accompaniment to their work. Or
were they scolding because flowers were not sweeter? Yellow butterflies
made a dazzle in the air, that was transparent to-day. The white birches
were scattering their last year's garments, and she gathered quite a
roll. Ah, what a wonderful thing it was to live and breathe this
fragrant air! It exhilarated her with joy as drinking wine might
another. The mighty spirit of nature penetrated every pulse.
