sharp intention of which he signally felt. He had not 
detached, he had more closely connected himself, and his 
eyes, as he considered, with some intensity, this circum- 
stance, met another pair which had just come within their 
range and which struck him as reflecting his sense of what 
he had done. He recognised them at the same moment 
as those of Httle Bilham, who had apparently drawn near 
on purpose to speak to him, and little Bilham was not, 
in the conditions, the person to whom his heart would be 
most closed. They were seated together a minute later 
at the angle of the room obliquely opposite the corner in 
which Gloriani was still engaged with Jeanne de Vionnet, 
to whom, at first, and in silence, their attention had been 
benevolently given. " I can't see for my life," Strether 
had then observed, " how a young fellow of any spirit — 
such a one as you, for instance — can be admitted to the 
sight of that young lady without being hard hit. Why 
don't you go in, little Bilham ? " He remembered the 
tone into which he had been betrayed on the garden- 
bench at the sculptor's reception, and this might make up 
for that by being much more the right sort of thing to say 
to a young man worthy of any advice at all. " There 
would be some reason." 
" Some reason for what ? " 
" Why, for hanging on here." 
" To offer my hand and fortune to Mile, de Vionnet ? " 
"Well," Strether asked, "to what lovelier apparition 
could you offer them ? She's the sweetest little thing I've 
ever seen." 
" She's certainly immense. I mean she's the real thing. 
I believe the pale pink petals are folded up there for some 
wondrous efflorescence in time — to open, that is, to some 
great golden sun. Fin unfortunately but a small farthing 
candle. What chance, in such a field, for a poor little 
artist-man ? " 
" Oh, you're good enough," Strether threw out. 
" Certainly, I'm good enough. We're good enough, I 
consider, nous autres, for anything. But she's too good. 
There's the difference. They wouldn't look at me." 
Strether, lounging on his divan and still charmed by 
the young girl, whose eyes had consciously strayed to him, 
he fancied, with a vague smile — Strether, enjoying the 
whole occasion as with dormant pulses at last awake and 
in spite of new material thrust upon him, thought over his 
companion's words. " Whom do you mean by ' they ' ? 
She and her mother?" 
" She and her mother. And she has a father too, who, 
whatever else he may be, can't, certainly, be indifferent to 
the possibilities she represents. Besides, there's Chad." 
Strether was silent a little. " Ah, but he doesn't care 
for her — not, I mean, it appears, after all, in the sense I'm 
speaking of. He's not in love with her." 
" No — but he's her best friend ; after her mother. He's 
very fond of her. He has his ideas about what can be 
done for her." 
" Well, it's very strange ! " Strether presently remarked I 
with a sighing sense of fulness. 
" Very strange indeed. That's just the beauty of it. 
Isn't it very much the kind of beauty you had in mind,"  
little Bilham went on, " when you were so wonderful and  
so inspiring to me the other day? Didn't you adjure me 
— in accents I shall never forget — to see, while I've a 
chance, everything I can ? — and really to see, for it must 
have been that only that you meant. Well, you did me 
no end of good, and I'm doing my best. I do make it out 
as a situation." 
" So do I ! " Strether went on after a moment. But he 
had the next minute an inconsequent question. " How 
comes Chad so mixed up, anyway ? " 
"Ah, ah, ah!" and little Bilham fell back on his 
cushions. 
It reminded our friend of Miss Barrace, and he felt 
again the brush of his sense of moving in a maze of mystic, 
closed allusions. Yet he kept hold of his thread. "Of 
course I understand really ; only the general transformation makes me occasionally gasp. Chad with such a voice 
in the settlement of the future of a little countess — no," 
he declared, " it takes more time ! You say, moreover," 
he resumed, " that we're inevitably, people like you and 
me, out of the running. The curious fact remains that 
Chad himself isn't. The situation doesn't make for it, but 
in a different one he could have her if he would." 
" Yes, but that's only because he's rich and because 
there's a possibility of his being richer. They won't think 
of anything but a great name or a great fortune." 
" Well," said Strether, " he'll have no great fortune on 
these lines. He must stir his stumps." 
" Is that," little Bilham inquired, " what you were saying 
to Mme. de Vionnet ? " 
" No — I don't say much to her. Of course, however," 
Strether continued, " he can make sacrifices if he likes." 
Little Bilham had a pause. " Oh, he's not keen for 
sacrifices ; or thinks, that is, possibly, that he has made 
enough." 
" Well, it is virtuous," his companion observed with 
decision. 
" That's exactly," the young man dropped after a 
moment, "what I mean." 
It kept Strether himself silent a little. " I've made it 
DUt for myself," he then went on ; " I've really, within the 
last half-hour, got hold of it. I understand it, in short, at 
last; which at first — when you originally spoke to me — 
I didn't. Nor when Chad originally spoke to me either." 
"Oh," said little Bilham, "I don't think that at that time 
 'ou believed me." 
" Yes — I did ; and I believed Chad too. It would have 
seen odious and unmannerly — as well as quite perverse — if 
I hadn't. What interest have you in deceiving me?" 
The young man hesitated. " What interest have I ?" 
" Yes. Chad might have. But you ? " 
" Ah, ah, ah ! " little Bilham exclaimed. 
It might, on repetition, as a mystification, have irritated 
iDur friend a little; but he knew, once more, as we have 
5een, where he was, and his being proof against everything 
 as only another attestation that he meant to stay there. 
' I couldn't, without my own impression, realise. She's a 
:remendously clever, brilliant, capable woman, and with an 
extraordinary charm on top of it all — the charm we surely, 
ill of us this evening, know what to think of. It isn't 
ivery clever, brilliant, capable woman that has it. In fact 
t's rare with any woman. So there you are," Strether 
Droceeded as if not for little Bilham's benefit alone. " I 
inderstand what a relation with such a woman — what such 
I high, fine friendship — may be. It can't be vulgar or 
;oarse, anyway — and that's the point." 
" Yes, that's the point," said little Bilham. " It can't be 
vulgar or coarse. And, bless us and save us, it is7it! It's . 
upon my word, the very finest thing I ever saw in my life, 
and the most distinguished." 
Strether, from beside him, and leaning back with him as 
he leaned, dropped on him a momentary look which filled 
a short interval and of which he took no notice. He only ; 
gazed before him with intent participation. " Of course 
what it has done for him," Strether, at all events, presently 
pursued, "of course what it has done for him — that is as to 
how it has so wonderfully worked — is not a thing I pretend 
to understand. I've to take it as I find it. There he is." !, 
" There he is ! " little Bilham echoed. " And it's really 
and truly she. I don't understand either, even with my 
longer and closer opportunity. But I'm like you," he  
added ; " I can admire and rejoice even when I'm a little  
in the dark. You see I've watched it for some three years,  
and especially for this last. He wasn't so bad before it as j
I seem to have made out that you think " 
"Oh, I don't think anything now!" Strether impatiently ;  
broke in : " that is but what I do think ! I mean that, 
originally, for her to have cared for him " 
" There must have been stuff in him. Oh yes, there was 
stuff indeed, and much more of it than ever showed, I 
dare say, at home. Still, you know," the young man in 
all fairness developed, " there was room for her, and that's 
where she came in. She saw her chance, and she took it. 
That's what strikes me as having been so fine. But of 
course he liked her first." 
" Naturally," said Strether. 
"I mean that they first met somehow and somewhere — I 
believe in some American house — and she, without in the 
least then intending it, made her impression. Then, with 
time and opportunity, he made his ; and after that she was 
as bad as he." 
Strether vaguely took it up. " As ' bad ' ? " 
"She began, that is, to care — to care very much. Alone, 
and in her horrid position, she found it, when once she had 
started, an interest. It was, it is, an interest ; and it did — 
it continues to do — a lot for herself as well. So she still 
cares. She cares in fact," said little Bilham thoughtfully, 
" more." 
Strether's theory that it was none of his business was 
somehow not damaged by the way he took it in. " More, 
you mean, than he?" On this his companion looked 
round at him, and now, for an instant, their eyes met. 
" More than he ? " he repeated. 
Little Bilham, for as long, hung fire. " Will you never 
tell anyone ? " 
Strether thought. " Whom should I tell ? " 
" Why, I supposed you reported regularly " 
"To people at home.-'" — Strether took him up. "Well, I 
won't tell them this." 
The young man at last looked away. " Then she does 
now care more than he." 
" Oh !" Strether oddly exclaimed. 
But his companion immediately met it. " Haven't you, 
after all, had your impression of it? That's how you've 
got hold of him." 
" Ah, but I haven't got hold of him ! " 
" Oh, I say ! " But it was all Ijttle Bilham said. 
"It's at any rate none of my business. I mean," Strether 
explained, " nothing else than getting hold of him is." It 
appeared, however, to strike him as his business to add : 
" The fact remains, nevertheless, that she has saved him." 
Little Bilham just waited. " I thought that was what 
you were to do." 
But Strether had his answer ready. " I'm speaking — in 
connection with her — of his manners and morals, his 
character and life. I'm speaking of him as a person to 
deal with and talk with and live with — speaking of him as 
a social animal." 
"And isn't it as a social animal that you also want him?" 
' "Certainly; so that it's as if she had saved xnfor us." 
"It strikes you accordingly then," the young man threw 
out, " as for you all to save her ? " 
"Oh, for us 'air !" Strether could but laugh at 
that. It brought him back, however, to the point he had 
really wished to make. " They've accepted their situation 
— hard as it is. They're not free — at least she's not ; but 
they take what's left to them. It's a friendship, of a 
beautiful sort, and that's what makes them so strong. 
They're straight, they feel, and they keep each other up, 
It's doubtless she, however, who, as you yourself have 
hinted, feels it most." 
Little Bilham appeared to wonder what he had hinted. 
" Feels most that they're straight ? " 
" Well, feels that she is, and the strength that comes 
from it. She keeps hhn up — she keeps the whole thing 
up. When people are able to, it's fine. She's wonderful, 
wonderful, as Miss Barrace says ; and he is, in his way, 
too; however, as a mere man, he may sometimes rebel and 
not feel that he finds his account in it. She has simply 
given him an immense moral lift, and what that can 
explain is prodigious. That's why I speak of it as a 
situation. It is one, if there ever was." And Strether, 
with his head back and his eyes on the ceiling, seemed to 
lose himself in the vision of it. 
His companion attended deeply. "You state it much 
better than I could." 
" Oh, you see, it doesn't concern you." 
Little Bilham considered. " I thought you said just now 
that it doesn't concern you either." 
"Well, it doesn't a bit, as Mme. de Vionnet's affair. 
But, as we were saying just now, what did I come out for 
but to save him ? " 
" Yes — to remove him." 
" To save him by removal ; to win him over to himself 
thinking it best he shall take up business — thinking he 
must immediately do, therefore, what is necessary to that 
end." 
" Well," said little Bilham after a moment, " you have 
won him over. He does think it best. He has within a 
day or two again said to me as much." 
"And that," Strether asked, " is why you consider that 
he cares less than she ? " 
" Cares less for her than she for him ? Yes, that's one 
of the reasons. But other things too have given me the 
impression. A man, don't you think ? " little Bilham 
presently pursued, "can't, in such conditions, care so much 
as a woman. It takes different conditions to make him, 
and then perhaps he cares more. Chad," he wound up, 
" has his possible future before him." 
" Are you speaking of his business future ? " 
" No — on the contrary ; of the other, the future of what 
you so justly call their situation. M. de Vionnet may live 
forever." 
" So that they can't marry ? " 
The young man just hesitated. "Not being able to 
marry is all they've with any confidence to look forward 
to. A woman— a particular woman — may stand that 
strain ; but can a man ? " 
Strether's answer was as prompt as if he had already, 
for himself, worked it out.  ' Not without a very high 
ideal of conduct. But that's just what we're attributing 
to Chad. And how, for that matter," he mused, " does his 
going to America diminish the particular strain ? Wouldn't 
it seem rather to add to it ? " 
" Out of sight, out of mind ! " his companion laughed. 
Then more bravely : " Wouldn't distance lessen the 
torment   " But before Strether could reply, " The thing 
is, you see, Chad ought to marry ! " he exclaimed. 
Strether, for a little, appeared to think of it. "If you 
talk of torments, you don't diminish mine ! " he then broke 
out. The next moment he was on his feet with a question. 
" He ought to marry whom ? " 
Little Bilham rose more slowly. " Well, someone he 
can— some thoroughly nice girl." 
Strether's eyes, as they stood together, turned again to 
Jeanne. " Do you mean her ? " 
His friend made a sudden strange face. "After being in 
love with her mother ? No." 
" But isn't it exactly your idea that he isn't in love with 
her mother ? " 
His friend once more had a pause. " Well, he isn't, at 
any rate, with Jeanne." 
" I dare say not. How can he be with any other 
woman ? " 
"Oh, that I admit. But being in love isn't, you know, 
here" — little Bilham spoke in friendly reminder — " thought 
necessary, in strictness, for marriage." 
" And what torment — to call a torment— can there ever 
possibly be with a woman like that?" As if from the 
interest of his own question, Strether had gone on with- 
out hearing. " Is it for her to have turned a man out so 
wonderfully, too, only for somebody else ? " He appeared 
to make a point of this, and little Bilham looked at him 
now. " When it's for each other that people give things 
up they don't miss them." Then he threw off as with an 
extravagance of which he was conscious : " Let them face 
the future together ! " 
" You mean that, after all, he shouldn't go back ? " 
" I mean that if he gives her up ! " 
" Yes ? " 
"Well, he ought to be ashamed of himself." But Strether 
spoke with a sound that might have passed for a laugh. 
PART SEVENTH 
XVI 
It was not the first time he had sat solitary in the 
 great dim church — still less was it the first of his giving 
himself up, so far as conditions permitted, to its beneficent 
action on his nerves. He had been to Notre Dame with 
VVaymarsh, he had been there with Miss Gostrey, he had 
been there with Chad Newsome, and had found the place, 
even in company, such a refuge from the obsession of his 
problem that, with renewed pressure from that source, he 
had not unnaturally recurred to a remedy that seemed so, 
for the moment, to meet the case. He was conscious 
enough that it was only for the moment, but good moments 
— if he could call them good — still had their value for a man 
who, by this time, struck himself as living almost disgrace- 
fully from hand to mouth. Having so well learnt the way, 
he had lately made the pilgrimage more than once by 
himself — had quite stolen off, taking an unnoticed chance 
and feeling no need of speaking of the adventure when 
restored to his friends. 
His great friend, for that matter, was still absent, as well 
as remarkably silent ; even at the end of three weeks Miss 
Gostrey had not come back. She wrote to him from 
Mentone, admitting that he must judge her grossly inconsequent — perhaps, in fact, for the time, odiously faithless ; 
but asking for patience, for a deferred sentence, throwing 
herself, in short, on his generosity. For her too, she could 
assure him, life was complicated — more complicated than 
he could have guessed ; she had moreover made certain of 
him — certain of not wholly missing him on her return — 
before her disappearance. If furthermore she didn't 
burden him with letters it was frankly because of her 
sense of the other great commerce he had to carry on. 
He himself, at the end of a fortnight, had written twice, 
to show how his generosity could be trusted ; but he 
reminded himself in each case of Mrs. Newsome's 
epistolary manner at the times when Mrs. Newsome kept 
off delicate ground. He sank his problem, he talked of 
Waymarsh and Miss Barrace, of little Bilham and the set 
over the river, with whom he had again had tea, and he 
was easy, for convenience, about Chad and Mme. de 
Vionnet and Jeanne. He admitted that he continued to 
see them, he was, decidedly, so confirmed a haunter of 
Chad's premises, and that young man's practical intimacy 
with them was so undeniably great ; but he had his 
reason for not attempting to render for Miss Gostrey's 
benefit the impression of these last days. That would be 
to tell her too much about himself — it being at present just 
from himself that he was trying to escape. 
This small struggle sprang not a little, in its way, from 
the same impulse that had now carried him across to Notre 
Dame ; the impulse to let things be, to give them time to 
justify themselves, or at least to pass. He was aware of 
having no errand in such a place but the desire not to be, 
for the hour, in certain other places ; a sense of safety, of 
simplification, which, each time he yielded to it, he amused 
himself by thinking of as a private concession to cowardice. 
The great church had no altar for his worship, no direct 
voice for his soul ; but it was none the less soothing even 
to sanctity ; for he could feel while there what he couldn't 
elsewhere, that he was a plain tired man taking the holiday 
he had earned. He was tired, but he wasn't plain — that 
was the pity and the trouble of it ; he was able, however, 
to drop his problem at the door very much as if it had 
been the copper piece that he deposited, on the threshold, 
in the receptacle of the inveterate blind beggar. He trod 
the long, dim nave, sat in the splendid choir, paused 
before the clustered chapels of the east end, and the 
mighty monument laid upon him its spell. He might 
have been a student under the charm of a museum — 
which was exactly what, in a foreign town, in the afternoon 
of life, he would have liked to be free to be. This form of 
sacrifice, at any rate, did, for the occasion, as well as 
another ; it made him quite sufficiently understand how, 
within the precinct, for the real refugee, the things of the 
world could fall into abeyance. That was the cowardice, 
probably — to dodge them, to beg the question, not to deal 
with it in the hard outer light ; but his own oblivions were 
too brief, too vain, to hurt anyone but himself, and he had 
a vague and fanciful kindness for certain persons whom he 
met, figures of mystery and anxiety, and whom, with 
observation for his pastime, he ranked as those who were 
fleeing from justice. Justice was outside, in the hard light, 
and injustice too ; but one was as absent as the other from 
the air of the long aisles and the brightness of the many 
altars. 
Thus it was, at all events, that one morning, some dozen 
days after the dinner in the Boulevard Malesherbes at 
which Mme, de Vionnet had been present with her 
daughter, he was called upon to play his part in an en- 
counter that deeply stirred his imagination. /_ He had the 
habit, in these contemplations, of watching a fellow- 
visitant, here and there, from a respectable distance, 
remarking some note of behaviour, of penitence, of pros- 
tration, of the absolved, relieved state ; this was the 
manner in which his vague tenderness took its course, the 
degree of demonstration to which, naturally, it had to 
confine itself. It had not, indeed, so felt its responsibility 
as when, on this occasion, he suddenly measured the 
suggestive effect of a lady whose supreme stillness, in the 
shade of one of the chapels, he had two or three times 
noticed as he made, and made once more, his slow circuit. 
She was not prostrate — not in any degree bowed, but she 
was strangely fixed, and her prolonged immobility showed 
her, while he passed and paused, as wholly given up to the 
need, whatever it was, that had brought her there. She 
only sat and gazed before her, as he himself often sat ; but 
she had placed herself, as he never did, within the focus of 
the shrine, and she had lost herself, he could easily see, as 
he would only have liked to do. She was not a wander- 
ing alien, keeping back more than she gave, but one of the 
familiar, the intimate, the fortunate, for whom these deal- 
ings had a method and a meaning. She reminded our 
friend — since it was the way of nine-tenths of his current 
impressions to act as recalls of things imagined — of some 
fine, firm, concentrated heroine of an old story, something 
he had heard, read, something that, had he had a hand for 
drama, he might himself have written, renewing her 
courage, renewing her clearness, in splendidly protected 
meditation. Her back, as she sat, was turned to him, but 
his impression absolutely required that she should be 
young and interesting, and she carried her head, moreover, 
even in the sacred shade, with a discernible faith in herself, 
a kind of implied conviction of consistency, security, 
impunity.   But what had such a woman come for if she 
hadn't come to pray ? Strether's reading of such matters 
was, it must be owned, confused; but he wondered if her 
attitude were some congruous fruit of absolution, of 
" indulgence." He knew but dimly what indulgence, in 
such a place, might mean ; yet he had, as with a soft sweep, 
a vision of how it might indeed add to the zest of active 
rites. All this was a good deal to have been denoted by a 
mere lurking figure who was nothing to him ; but, the last 
thing before leaving the church, he had the surprise of a 
still deeper quickening. 
  He had dropped upon a seat half-way down the nave 
and, again in the museum mood, was trying with head 
thrown back and eyes aloft to reconstitute a past, to 
reduce it in fact to the convenient terms of Victor Hugo, 
whom, a few days before, giving the rein for once in a way 
to the joy of life, he had purchased in seventy bound 
volumes, a miracle of cheapness, parted with, he was 
assured by the shopman, at the price of the red-and-gold 
alone. He looked, doubtless, while he played his eternal 
nippers over Gothic glooms, sufficiently rapt in reverence ; 
but what his thought had finally bumped against was the 
question of where, among packed accumulations, so 
multiform a wedge would be able to enter. Were seventy 
volumes in red-and-gold to be perhaps what he should 
most substantially have to show at Woollett as the fruit 
of his mission? It was a possibility that held him a 
minute — held him till he happened to feel that someone, 
unnoticed, had approached him and paused. Turning, he 
saw that a lady stood there as for a greeting, and he sprang 
up as he next perceived that the lady was Mme. de 
Vionnet, who appeared to have recognised him as she 
passed near him on her way to the door. She checked, 
quickly and gaily, a certain confusion in him, came to 
meet it, turned it back, by an art of her own ; the confusion threatened him as he knew her for the person he 
had lately been observing. She was the lurking figure of 
the dim chapel ; she had occupied him more than she 
guessed ; but it came to him in time, luckily, that he 
needn't tell her and that no harm, after all, had been done. 
She herself, for that matter, straightway showed that she 
felt their encounter as the happiest of accidents — had for 
him a " You come here too .'' " that despoiled surprise of 
every awkwardness, 
" I come often," she said ; " I love this place ; but I'm 
terrible, in general, for churches. The old women who 
live in them all know me; in fact I'm already myself one 
of the old women. It's like that, at all events, that I 
foresee I shall end." Looking about for a chair, so that 
he instantly pulled one nearer, she sat down with him 
again to the sound of an "Oh, I like so much your also 
being fond ! " 
He confessed the extent of his feeling, though she left 
the object vague ; and he was struck with the tact, the 
taste of her vagueness, which simply took for granted in 
him a sense of beautiful things. He was conscious of how 
much it was affected, this sense, by something subdued 
and discreet in the way she had arranged herself for her 
special object and her morning walk — he believed her to 
have come on foot; the way her slightly thicker veil was 
drawn — a mere touch, but everything ; the composed 
gravity of her dress, in which, here and there, a dull wine- 
colour seemed to gleam faintly through black ; the charming discretion of her small, compact head ; the quiet note, 
as she sat, of her folded, gray-gloved hands. It was, to 
Strether's mind, as if she sat on her own ground, the light 
honours of which, at an open gate, she thus easily did 
him, while all the vastness and mystery of the property 
stretched off behind. When people were so completely in 
possession they could be extraordinarily civil ; and our 
friend indeed, at this hour, had a kind of revelation of her 
heritage. She was romantic for him far beyond what she 
could have guessed, and again he found his small comfort 
in the conviction that, subtle though she was, his im- 
pression must remain a secret from her. The thing that. 
once more, made him uneasy for secrets in general was 
this particular patience she could have with his own want 
of colour ; albeit that, on the other hand, his uneasiness 
pretty well dropped after he had been for ten minutes as 
colourless as possible and at the same time as responsive. 
The moments had already, for that matter, drawn their 
deepest tinge from the special interest excited in him by 
his vision of his companion's identity with the person 
whose attitude before the glimmering altar had so impressed him. This attitude fitted admirably into the stand 
he had privately taken about her connection with Chad on 
the last occasion of his seeing them together. It helped 
him to stick fast at the point he had then reached ; it was 
there, he had resolved, that he would stick, and at no 
moment since had it seemed as easy to do so. Unassail- 
ably innocent was a relation that could make one of the 
parties to it so carry herself If it wasn't innocent, why 
did she haunt the churches ? — into which, given the woman 
he could believe he made out, she would never have come 
to flaunt an insolence of guilt. She haunted them for 
continued help, for strength, for peace — sublime support 
which, if one were able to look at it so, she found from 
day to day. They talked, in low, easy tones and with 
lifted, lingering looks, about the great monument and its 
history and its beauty — all of which, Mme. de Vionnet 
professed, came to her most in the other, the outer view. 
"We'll presently, after we go," she said, "walk round it 
again if you like. I'm not in a particular hurry, and it 
will be pleasant to look at it again with you." He had 
spoken of the great romancer and the great romance, and 
of what, to his imagination, they had done for the whole, 
mentioning to her moreover the exorbitance of his purchase, 
the seventy blazing volumes that were so out of proportion. 
" Out of proportion to what ? " 
"Well, to any other plunge." Yet he felt even as he 
spoke how at that instant he was plunging. He had made 
up his mind and was impatient to get into the air ; for 
his purpose was a purpose to be uttered outside, and he 
had a fear that it might with delay still slip away from 
him. She, however, took her time ; she drew out their 
quiet gossip as if she had wished to profit by their 
meeting, and that, precisely, confirmed an interpretation 
of her manner, of her mystery. While she rose, as he 
would have called it, to the question of Victor Hugo, her 
voice itself, the light, low quaver of her deference to the 
solemnity about them, seemed to make her words mean 
something that they didn't mean openly. Help, strength, 
peace, a sublime support — she had not found so much of 
these things as that the amount wouldn't be sensibly 
greater for any scrap his appearance of faith in her might 
enable her to feel in her hand. Every little, in a long 
strain, helped, and if he happened to affect her as a firm 
object she could hold on by, he wouldn't jerk himself out 
of her reach. People in difficulties held on by what was 
nearest, and he was perhaps, after all, not further off than 
sources of comfort more abstract. It was as to this he 
had made up his mind ; he had made it up, that is, to give 
her a sign. The sign would be that — though it was her 
own affair — he understood ; the sign would be that — 
though it was her own affair — she was free to clutch. 
Since she took him for a firm object — much as he might 
to his own sense appear at times to rock — he would do his 
best to be one. 
The end of it was that, half an hour later, they were 
seated together, for an early luncheon, at a wonderful, a 
delightful house of entertainment on the left bank — a 
place of pilgrimage for the knowing, they were both 
aware, the knowing who came, for its great renown, the 
homage of restless days, from the other end of the town. 
Strether had already been there three times — first with 
Miss Gostrey, then with Chad, then with Chad again and 
with Waymarsh and little Bilham, all of whom he had 
himself sagaciously entertained; and his pleasure was deep 
now on learning that Mmc. dc Vionnet had not yet been 
initiated. When he had said, as they strolled round the 
church by the river, acting at last on what, within, he had 
made up his mind to, " Will you, if you have time, come 
to dejeuner with me somewhere? Eor instance, if you 
know it, over there on the other side, which is so easy a 
walk " and then had named the place ; when he had 
done this she stopped short as for quick intensity, and yet 
deep difficulty, of response. She took in the proposal as 
if it were almost too charming to be true ; and there had 
perhaps never yet been for her companion so unexpected a 
moment of pride — so fine, so odd a case, at any rate, as 
his finding himself thus able to offer to a person in such 
universal possession a new, a rare amusement. She had 
heard of the happy spot, but she asked him in reply to a ; 
further question how in the world he could suppose her to 
have been there. He supposed himself to have supposed 
that Chad might have taken her, and she guessed this the  
next moment, to his no small discomfort. 
" Ah, let me explain," she smiled, " that I don't go 
about with him in public ; I never have such chances — not ' 
having them otherwise — and it's just the sort of thing   
that, as a quiet creature living in my hole, I adore." It 
was more than kind of him to have thought of it — though, 
frankly, if he asked whether she had tim.e, she hadn't a ! 
single minute. That, however, made no difference — she 
would throw everything over. Every duty, at home, I 
domestic, maternal, social, awaited her ; but it was a case I 
for a high line. Her affairs would go to smash; but hadn't 
one a right to one's snatch of scandal when one was 
prepared to pay? It was on this pleasant basis of costly 
disorder, consequently, that they eventually seated them- ! 
selves, on either side of a small table, at a window adjusted   
to the busy quay and the shining, barge-burdened Seine ;   
where, for an hour, in the matter of letting himself go, 
of diving deep, Strether was to feel that he had touched 
bottom. He was to feel many things on this occasion, and 
one of the first of them was that he had travelled far since 
that evening, in London, before the theatre, when his 
dinner with Maria Gostrey, between the pink-shaded 
candles, had struck him as requiring so many explanations. 
He had at that time gathered them in, the explanations 
— he had stored them up ; but it was at present as if he 
had either soared above or sunk below them — he couldn't 
tell which ; he could somehow think of none that didn't 
seem to leave the appearance of collapse and cynicism 
easier for him than lucidity. How could he wish it to 
be lucid for others, for anyone, that he, for the hour, saw 
reasons enough in the mere way the bright, clean, ordered 
water-side life came in at the open window ? — the mere 
way Mme. de Vionnet, opposite him over their intensely 
white table-linen, their omelette aux toviates, their bottle 
of straw-coloured Chablis, thanked him for everything 
almost with the smile of a child, while her gray eyes 
moved in and out of their talk, back to the quarter of the 
warm spring air, in which early summer had already begun 
to throb, and then back again to his face and their human 
questions. 
Their human questions became many before they had 
done — many more, as one after the other came up, than 
our friend's free fancy had at all foreseen. The sense he 
had had before, the sense he had had repeatedly, the sense 
that the situation was running away with him, had never 
been so sharp as now ; and all the more that he could 
perfectly put his finger on the moment it had taken the 
bit in its teeth. That accident had definitely occurred, the 
other evening, after Chad's dinner; it had occurred, as he 
fully knew at the moment when he interposed between 
this lady and her child, when he suffered himself so to 
discuss with her a matter closely concerning them that 
her own subtlety, with its significant " Thank you ! " 
instantly sealed the occasion in her favour. Again he 
had held off for ten days, but the situation had continued 
out of hand in spite of that ; the fact that it was running 
so fast being indeed just why he had held off. What had 
come over him as he recognised her in the nave of the church 
was that holding off could be but a losing game from the 
instant she was worked for not only by her subtlety, but 
by the hand of fate itself. If all the accidents were to 
fight on her side — and by the actual showing they loomed 
large — he could only give himself up. This was what he 
had done in privately deciding then and there to propose 
she should breakfast with him. What did the success of 
his proposal in fact resemble but the smash in which a 
regular runaway probably ends ? The smash was their 
walk, their luncheon, their omelette, the Chablis, the place, 
the view, their present talk and his present pleasure in it — 
to say nothing, wonder of wonders, of her own. To this 
tune and nothing less, accordingly, was his surrender made 
good. It sufficiently lighted up at least the folly of hold- 
ing off. Ancient proverbs sounded, for his memory, in 
the tone of their words and the clink of their glasses, in 
the hum of the town and the plash of the river. It was 
clearly better to suffer as a sheep than as a lamb. One 
might as well perish by the sword as by famine. 
" Maria's still away ? " — that was the first thing she had   
asked him ; and when he had found the frankness to be - 
cheerful about it in spite of the meaning he knew her to 
attach to Miss Gostrey's absence, she had gone on to   
inquire if he didn't tremendously miss her. There were  
reasons that made him by no means sure, yet he never- 
theless answered " Tremendously " ; which she took in as s 
if it were all she had wished to prove. Then " A man 
in trouble must be possessed, somehow, of a woman," she 
said ; " if she doesn't come in one way she comes in : 
another." 
" Why do you call me a man in trouble? " 
" Ah, because that's the way you strike me." She spoke 
ever so gently, and as if with all fear of wounding him 
while she sat partaking of his bounty. ' Aren't you in   
trouble ? " 
He felt himself colour at the question, and then he hated 
that — hated to pass for anything so idiotic as woundable. 
Woundable by Chad's lady, in respect to whom he had 
come out with such a fund of indifference — was he already 
at that point ? Perversely, meanwhile, however, his pause 
gave a strange air of truth to her supposition ; and what 
was he in fact but disconcerted at having struck her just 
in the way he had most dreamed of not doing? " I'm not 
in trouble yet," he at last smiled. " I'm not in trouble 
now." 
" Well, I'm always so. But that you sufficiently know." 
She was a woman who, between courses, could be graceful 
with her elbows on the table. It was a posture unknown 
to Mrs. Newsome, but it was easy for a femvie du monde. 
" Yes— I am ' now ' ! " 
"There was a question you put to me," he presently 
returned, " the night of Chad's dinner. I didn't answer it 
then, and it has been very handsome of you not to have 
sought an occasion for pressing me about it since." 
She was instantly all there. " Of course I know what 
you always allude to, I asked you what you had meant 
by saying, the day you came to see me, just before you left 
me, that you would save me. And you then said — at our 
friend's — that you would have really to wait to see for 
yourself what you did mean." 
" Yes, I asked for time," said Strether. " And it sounds 
now, as you put it, lik.: a very ridiculous speech." 
"Oh!" she murmured — she was full of attenuation. 
But she had another thought. " If it does sound ridiculous, 
why do you deny that you're in trouble ? " 
" Ah, if I were," he replied, " it wouldn't be the trouble 
of fearing ridicule. I don't fear it." 
" What then do you ? " 
 ' Nothing — now." And he leaned back in his chair. 
" I like your 'now' !" she laughed across at him. 
" Well, it's precisely that it fully comes to me at present 
that I've kept you long enough. I know by this time, at 
any rate, what I meant by my speech ; and I really knew 
it the night of Chad's dinner." 
"Then why didn't you tell me?" 
" Because it was difficult at the moment. I had already 
at that moment done something for you, in the sense of 
what I had said the day I went to see you ; but I wasn't 
then sure of the importance I might represent this as 
having." 
She was all eagerness. " And you're sure now ? " 
" Yes ; I see that, practically, I've done for you — had 
done for you when you put me your question — all that 
it's as yet possible to me to do. I feel now," he went on, 
" that it may go further than I thought. What I did after 
my visit to you," he explained, " was to write straight off 
to Mrs. Newsome about you, and I'm at last, from one 
day to the other, expecting her answer. It's this answer 
that will represent, as I believe, the consequences." 
Patient and beautiful was her interest. " I see — the 
consequences of your speaking for me." And she waited, 
as if not to hustle him. 
He acknowledged it by immediately going on. " The 
question, you understand, was how I should save you. 
Well, I'm trying it by thus letting her know that I consider 
you worth saving." 
" I see — I see." Her eagerness broke through. " How 
can I thank you enough?" He couldn't tell her that, 
however, and she quickly pursued. "You do really, for 
yourself, consider it ? " 
His only answer at first was to help her to the dish that 
had been freshly put before them. " I've written to her 
again since then — I've left her in no doubt of what I 
think. I've told her all about you." 
"Thanks — not so much. ' All about' me," she went on 
— " yes." 
" All it seems to me," said Strether, " you've done for 
him." 
" Ah, and you might have added all it seems to me ! " 
She laughed again, while she took up her knife and fork, 
as in the cheer of these assurances. " But you're not sure 
how she'll take it." 
" No, I'll not pretend I'm sure." 
" Voila." And she waited a moment. " I wish you'd 
tell me about her." 
" Oh," said Strether with a slightly strained smile, " all 
that need concern you about her is that she's really a 
grand person." 
Mme. de Vionnet seemed to demur. " Is that all that 
need concern me about her ? " 
But Strether neglected the question. " Hasn't Chad 
talked to you ? " 
"Of his mother? Yes, a great deal — immensely. But 
not from your point of view." 
" He can't," our friend returned, " have said any ill of 
her." 
"Not the least bit. He has given me, like you, the 
assurance that she's really grand. But her being really 
grand is somehow just what has not seemed to simplify 
our case. Nothing," she continued, " is further from me 
than to wish to say a word against her ; but of course I 
feel how little she can like being told of her owing me 
anything. No woman ever enjoys such an obligation to 
another woman." 
This was a proposition Strether couldn't contradict. 
" And yet what other way could I have expressed to her 
what I felt? It's what there was most to say about you." 
" Do you mean then that she will be good to me ? " 
" It's what I'm waiting to see. But I've little doubt 
she would," he added, " if she could comfortably see 
you." 
It seemed to strike her as a happy, a beneficent thought. 
"Oh then, couldn't that be managed? Wouldn't she come 
out ? Wouldn't she if you so put it to her ? Did you by 
any possibility?" she faintly quavered. 
"Oh no" — he was prompt. "Not that. It would be, 
much more, to give an account of you that — since there's 
no question of your paying the visit — I should go home 
first." 
It instantly made her graver. " And are you thinking 
of that ? " 
" Oh, all the while, naturally." 
" Stay with us — stay with us ! " she exclaimed on this. 
" That's your only way to make sure." 
" To make sure of what ? " 
" Why, that he doesn't break up. You didn't come out 
