have still not to go down-town. But I have a fine 
facility in making myself new habits! Just now 
I am on a four months' studying campaign. It is 
monotonous — to read about. I get up at six, 
and when I have had my breakfast and fixed a 
lunch, I go over into the Park. There are only 
birds and squirrels and a few tramps about then, 
and it is glorious. Sometimes I am so happy 
that I do not want to read ; later come the squall- 
ing children and the hot sun; but I flit about 
from place to place. I wonder what they think of 
me! — 
Wer bist du, und was fehlt dir ! 
I read all day, right straight along, and all 
night, now that it is not too hot. I have always 
done my reading by periods — I read our nine- 
teenth-century poets that way, sixteen hours a 
day; I read Shakespeare in three weeks that way, 
and finished the month with Milton. So when I 
got German, I read Goethe and Schiller, and 
Moliere and Hugo again. 
Now I am reading history; it gives me the 
nightmare, but one has to read it. 
Every night when I put down my book, I 
flee in thought to my own land as to a city of 
refuge. A history where everything counts ! A 
history that is not a mad, blind chaos of blood and 
horror! A history that has other meaning than 
the drunken lust and the demon pride of a Napo- 
leon or a Louis le Grand! 
— Some day the ages will discern two move- 
ments in history: the first, the Christian dis- 
pensation, and the second the American. 
There is a great deal in knowing how to read, 
especially with such books as history. I try to 
read as I write; to lash my author, to make him fill 
my mind. If he gets sluggish I am soon through 
with him — I read whole paragraphs in a sentence, 
and whole volumes in an hour. 
September 25th. 
The third week of the publisher's month has 
gone by. God, how cruel is waiting! I wonder 
if their readers knew how hungry I am if they 
would not hurry a little! 
I say to myself — " There has been enotigh of 
this nonsense! Oh, surely there will not be any 
more, surely these men must take it! " 
September 28th. 
I still read the literary journals and tingle 
with excitement thinking of the time when The 
Captive is discussed in them. Can I believe that 
this book will not stir the world? If I did not 
believe it, I could not believe anything! 
I feel a new interest now in the authors that 
people talk about. I want to know who they are 
and what they do. And all the time I find my- 
self thinking: " Have I more than this man? — 
More than that man? " That always throws me 
into despair, because I am a great admirer; and 
because I am always hypnotized by the last thing 
that I read. 
But I find very little that is great in modern 
books. Books are better made now than they 
ever were before — I mean in the way of literary 
craftsmanship. As far as form goes, there is no 
author living who would put together such a 
hodge-podge as Wilhelm Meister, or La Nou- 
velle Helo'ise. But they all imitate each other; 
they are all mild and tame; there is no real 
power, no genius among them. They have even 
forgotten it exists. 
I came across this, for instance, the other day 
in a book of Mr. Howells's: 
" In fact, the whole belief in genius seems to 
me rather a mischievous superstition, and if not 
mischievous, always, still always, a superstition. 
From the account of those who talk about it, 
genius appears to be the attribute of a very po- 
tent and admirable prodigy which God has created
out of the common for the astonishment and 
confusion of the rest of us poor human be- 
ings. Do they mean anything more or less than 
the mastery which comes to any man in accord- 
ance with his powers and dihgence in any direc- 
tion? If not, why not have an end to the super- 
stition which has caused our race to go on for so 
long writing and reading of the difference be- 
tween talent and genius? " 
Is not that simply blasphemous? 
— Have I genius? Ah, save the word! 
How can I know? It is none of my affair — 
I do my work. 
Genius is next to the last and most sacred 
word we know, next to God; and next to the 
most abused word. Every man will possess it, 
in degree proportionate to his vanity. I think if 
they knew the work and the terror that goes with 
even a grasp at it, they would not make so free 
with it. 
September 30th. 
I wait — I wait for The Captive. I do all these 
other things — I read, I think, I study — but all 
the while I am merely passing the time. I am 
waiting for The Captive to win me the way. All 
my life hangs on that, I can do nothing else but 
pray for that — pray for it and yearn for it! 
— Yes — and do you know it? — I am sinking 
down every day! Down, down! The Captive is 
my high- water mark; where I was when I wrote 
that I shall never come again in my life — until I 
am given my freedom and new courage, and can 
set to work to toil as I did then! 
Tell me not about future books, foolish pub- 
lishers! I have told you I put all that I had and 
all that I was into that book! And by that book 
I stand or I fall. 
October 3d. 
Their month is up. I walked down there to- 
day and saw them. " The manuscript is now be- 
ing read — we are awaiting a second report." 
A second! That made my heart go like mad. 
" Does that mean that the first is favorable? " I 
asked. 
" It means that we are interested in it," the 
man answered; " we will let you know shortly." 
Oh this waiting, this waiting! 
October 8th. 
Ah, God! I came home from the Park to- 
night, and I saw something that made my heart 
go down like lead. It hurt me so that I cried 
out! 
My manuscript ! It was back again ! 
O Christ! How the sight of it hurt me! 
There was a letter with it, and my hand shook as 
I opened it: 
" We are returning you the manuscript of 
The Captive by messenger herewith, regretting 
exceedingly that we can not make you a pub- 
hshing ofifer upon it." 
Is not this awful? Oh, it is terrible! It is 
beyond belief! A whole month gone, and only a 
note like that to show for it! Four weeks of 
yearning and hoping — of watching the mail in 
agony — of struggling and toiling to forget ! And 
then a note like this! 
Oh, it drives me wild! I sat to-night in a 
chair motionless, forgetting that I was hungry, 
forgetting everything. I looked to the future; I 
had a feeling that I do not think I ever had in my 
life before — a horrible, black, yawning despair — 
a thing so fearful that it took my breath away. 
Suppose you were standing on a bridge over an 
abyss, and that suddenly it gave way, and in one 
dreadful instant you realized that you were going 
down — down like a flash — and that nothing 
could save you! 
So it is to be this, so this is to be my life! I 
am to send this book to publisher after publisher, 
and have it come back like this! And meanwhile 
to spend my time alternating between this room 
— and the wholesale-paper business! 
Yes, I am getting to see the truth! I am a 
helpless atom, struggling to survive — a glimmer- 
ing light in the darkness — and I am going out! 
I am losing — and what shall I do! Who will save 
me — who will help me? 
I was talking to a friend yesterday; he pre- 
dicted just what happened. " Make one rule," 
he said, " expect nothing of the world. When 
you send out a manuscript, know that it is coming 
back! — Otherwise you go mad." 
But I should go mad that way. Why, what 
am I to do? How am I to work unless I can get 
free? I can not live a single day unless I have 
that hope. And if these blind creatures that make 
money out of books keep on sending my poem 
back — why, it will kill me — it will turn me into 
a fool! 
October 9th. 
I did not go to bed last night until nearly 
daylight. I was desperate — I was crazy with per- 
plexity. This thing had never occurred to me as 
the wildest possibility. 
I would pace the floor for hours; and then 
again sink into a stupor. "They send it back! 
They don't want it! " — I kept on muttering. — 
And, poor fool that I am, I had pictured to myself 
how they would read it. I saw the publisher him- 
self glancing at a line of it by chance, and then 
rushing on. I saw him declaiming it with excited 
eyes — as I used to declaim it ! Poor fool ! 
— Well, I made another desperate attempt. I 
wrote last night to another poet that I respect — 
(the list is not ver)- long). I wrote in the heat of 
my despair — I told him the whole story. I said 
that I was crying for the judgment of some one 
who had love and enthusiasm; some one who 
had another idea than making money out of 
it. I told him that I knew he had many such 
requests, but that he never had one from a man 
who had worked as I had. I pleaded that he 
need only read a few lines — I begged him to let 
me hear from him at once. 
— And now I shall wait. I can't do anything 
else but wait! 
October loth. 
I tried to read a novel to-day, but I could 
not fix my attention — I could not do anything. 
October nth. 
" I answer your letter at once as you ask me 
to. In the first place let me assure you of my 
sympathy. You are at a stage at which all poets 
— or nearly all — have to pass. Do not let your- 
self be disheartened — keep at it — and if you work 
as you write you will come out the victor in the 
end. 
" As to my reading the book, you must be- 
lieve what I tell you — that I am simply crowded. 
I have no time to explain, but I could not pos- 
sibly do it now, nor can I tell you when I could. 
Go ahead and try the publishers — there are 
enough of them. And take my advice — do not 
go on clinging to that book — do not pin all your 
hope to that — go on — go on! Maybe it is young 
and exaggerated — what of it? Go on! — Mean- 
while your circumstances seem to you hard — but 
in future years when you look back at them you 
will see, as all men see, that it was in that struggle 
that you got your strength." 
It is a lie! It is a lie! It is silly cant — it is 
brutal stupidity! What, you try to tell me that 
it is in contest with these degradations — these 
horrors — that I am to find my enthusiasm and my 
hope ! Am I a dog that you must kick me to my 
task? — It is a lie, I say — it is a He! 
If you could not find time to read my work, 
very well; but you did not have to sugar the pill 
with silly platitudes such as those. " Go on, go 
on! " My God, what a mockery! Is it not to go 
on that I am panting day and night — is it not with 
the hunger to go on that I am mad? — You fool — 
do you think I wrote to you because I wanted 
some one to admire me — because I had the need 
of praise and encouragement in my work? Give 
me a year's freedom — give me two hundred dol- 
lars — and I'll show you how much I care for 
your praise. 
But then you chain me here to your torture 
stake, and bid me " Go on! Go on! " 
— And it is in that struggle that I am to get 
my strength! That sentence burns in my blood, 
it stings me! What is this struggle that you 
prate about, anyway? And what do you mean by 
" getting my strength? " Did I get my strength 
to write The Captive that day when those fish- 
wives moved in next door to me? Did I get my 
strength to dream of my new work that day when 
I was chasing after an express-driver to save a 
quarter? Do I get it now when I am sitting here 
panting and ill with a headache, and with despair, 
and with lack of food? Damn such asininity, 
I say! 
What do you mean, I cry — what do you 
mean? Would it have helped Kant to solve 
the problems of the universe to have had a 
swarm of mosquitoes buzzing about his face? 
Would it have helped Beethoven to compose his 
symphonies to have had a dance hall over his 
head? What ghastly farce it is! That a poet 
is helped to realize his dreams and his joys in 
this hellish, reeking, market-place of a city! 
Why, I tell you, sir, that every hour that I have 
lived in it I have known that I have paid out 
unmeasured powers of my soul! And I know 
now, as every other poet knows, that when I am 
out of it I come with what pittance of strength 
I have been able to save from the horrible ordeal. 
Do you think that I am a fool that I do not know 
what inspires me and what degrades me? Why, 
sir, I sit here and watch my spirit wither like a 
frost-bitten plant! 
Such things bring tears of indignation into 
my eyes. 
— As a matter of simple reference, if any one 
wants to know what I imagine helps a poet — it 
is to live in the woods, to think and to dream, to 
read books and hear music, to eat wholesome 
food — and, above all, to escape from hot asphalt 
streets, cable-car gongs, and flaring advertise- 
ments of soaps and cigars. 
October 12th. 
I had an adventure to-day. I woke up with a 
headache, dull, sick, discouraged. I cared no 
more about anything. I got out The Captive 
and made ready to take it to the publishers. 
And then I thought I would read a little of it. 
I sat down in the corner — I forgot the pub- 
lishers — I sat reading — reading — and my heart 
beat fast, and my hands shook, and all my soul 
rose in one hymn of joy! 
Oh world, do your worst, I do not care! You 
may turn me off — but the gates of heaven are 
open! I will go on — I will bear anything — bear 
all things! I will wait and live and learn mean- 
while, knowing with all my soul what this book is 
and what it must bring. So long as I can read it, 
I can wake my soul again. 
It is at the publishers'. I will read books 
meantime and be happy. 
I saw a manuscript clerk this time. She was 
very airy. I fear I am a sad-looking poet — my 
buttonholes are beginning to wear out. " We 
never read manuscripts out of turn," she said. 
" It will take them three or four weeks." 
— Yes, good poet, that is my answer to you. 
I can not take your advice — I will cling to my 
book — I will pin all my hopes to it! I will toil 
and strive for it, I will haunt men with it, I will 
shout it from the housetops. No other book — 
no future book — this book! It is a great book — 
a great book — it is — it is! 
I am not ignorant of the price it costs to do 
that; it is my fate that I have to pay it. I can 
see, for instance, how Wordsworth paid it — 
Wordsworth, our greatest, our noblest poet since 
Milton. He had his sacred inspiration, and the 
world laughed at it; and so, grimly, systematic- 
ally, he set to work to teach them — to say to all 
men — to say to himself — to say day and night — 
" It is poetry! It is great poetry! It is — if is! " 
And of course at last he made them believe 
him; and when they believed him, he — Words- 
worth — was a matter-of-fact, self-centered, dull 
and poor old man. 
— It all rests with you, good world! How 
long must I stand here and knock at the door? 
October 18th. 
I am reading, reading — and trying to forget 
meanwhile! When I get through my long list of 
histories I shall go back to my Greek dramatists 
again. My Greek is getting better now — I ex- 
pect to have a happy time with Aristophanes. — 
He is the funniest man that ever lived, Aris- 
tophanes. 
Then I am coming back to read the French 
novelists. There are many of them I do not 
know. (I do not expect to like them — I do not 
like Frenchmen.) 
October 22A. 
I was glancing to-day over a volume of Shel- 
ley's, and the memory of old glories thrilled in 
me. Ah, let me not forget what Shelley was to 
me in my young struggling days! Let me not 
forget while I am wrestling with a dull world — 
let me not forget what a poet is to young men 
hungering for beauty! Let me not forget! 
Yes, it is to such that my appeal is, it is by 
such that I will be judged! It is for such that I 
toil! For hearts upon whom the cold world has 
not laid its hand! For the poets and the seekers 
of all ages! Oh come to me, poets and seekers of 
all ages — dwell in my memory and strengthen 
my soul! That I go not down altogether — 
that I be not overcome by the dull things 
about me! 
These thoughts are not becoming to a reader 
of history. But I am not a good reader of his- 
tory — the old beasts are still growling within me. 
Something starts a longing in me — I cry out that 
I am getting dull, that I am going down, that I 
am putting ofif — I, who never put ofif before! 
And so the old storms rise and the great waves 
come rolling again! 
October 25th. 
I read that over just now. Yes, it is this that 
I dread. I dread the habit of not striving! When 
that becomes my habit it is my death! And here 
I sit, day by day — doing just the thing I dread! 
" Let me go now! " something shouts in me. 
"Now — or I shall never go at all! " 
Oh, if I could find some word to tell men the 
terror of that thought! 
— It is my life — that is what it is! To obey 
this thing within me, to save this thing within 
me, to find this thing within me — that is my life ! 
It is a demon thing — it is a thing that has 
lifted me up by the hair of my head and shaken 
me — that has glared at me with the wild eyes of 
a beast — that has beaten me like a storm of wind 
and struck me down upon the ground! It shakes 
me now — it shakes me all the time — it makes me 
scream with pain — incoherently, frantically. 
" Oh save me! — Spare me! — Let me go! " 
I rave, you say — yes, I know. That is because 
I can not say what I feel. But what matters it? 
Sometimes I say to myself, " I put all that in 
The Captive, and men have not heard it! And 
now, what can I do that they will hear — shall I 
have to go out in the streets and scream? Or 
what other desperate thing is there? " 
— Mark this, oh you world that I can not 
make hear me! Some desperate thing I shall do 
— I will not sit here and be respectable always! 
— I wonder what locusts taste like, and just 
where one could find wild honey. 
October 29th. 
I sang a song to-day — a mad, mad song! I 
wish I could bring it back. It came to me un- 
expectedly, while I was kneeling by the bed, 
thinking. 
I have forgotten it all now — one always for- 
gets his best songs. I have not a line of this one, 
except the chorus: 
For I am lord of a thousand dollars ! 
So it is that my best songs go. I can count 
them on my fingers. But I have not yet learned 
how precious they are — that is why I lose them. 
— Do you remember that time on the great 
clififs by the ocean? There was nothing left but 
the ending again — 
Oh bear me away in thy bosom. 
Thou wind of the mountain high ! 
November 2d. 
I am not always as I write here — I am not 
always angry. I have my tender moments, when 
I see my woe as the world's woe — above all the 
poverty. Oh let me always have a tender heart 
for the poor! 
November 6th. 
I have a distant relative in this city, an old 
gentleman who belongs to clubs and is what is 
known as a " man of the world." He has quite 
a sense of humor — is famous for good stories. 
He told me that he was interested in me — that he 
would be glad to find a place for me in life, if I 
would only get over my youthful follies. It has 
been years since I saw him, but I can still hear 
him. 
The last words he ever said to me were these 
— said with his quiet, amused smile: " Never 
mind, my boy, leave it to time. You needn't 
argue with me — just leave it to time, and it'll 
come out all right." 
Never have I sunk into a fit of despair that 
I have not thought of that; and the quiet smile 
has become the sneer of an imp. It has become 
all the world watching me, and knowing full well 
the issue; wise world! 
That memory has never yet lost its power to 
make me grip my hands suddenly. " So! And 
my life has no other purpose, then, than to point 
a moral for a rich clubman! " 
Leave it to time! Leave it to time! O God, 
what a sentence that is — so savage — and so true! 
Leave it to the long weary days that come one 
after another — that never tire — that never are 
beaten — that never are less — never faster — never 
slower — that wear you out as water wears a 
stone! Leave it to time! Say nothing, fear 
nothing; leave it to time! Leave it to the hours 
of dulness, the hours of sickness, the hours of de- 
spair! Leave it to failure piled upon failure, 
to insult piled upon insult, to rebuff upon rebuff, 
to sneer upon sneer! Leave it to the endless, 
never-ceasing sight of ugliness; the endless, 
never-ceasing sight of selfishness; of pettiness, 
emptiness, heartlessness, hatefulness! Leave it 
to heat and to cold, to dust and to dirt, to hun- 
ger and penury, to headache and heartache, and 
bitter, bitter loneliness! Leave it to time! Leave 
it to time! — Oh my Father in heaven! 
November 8th. 
— What am I doing? I am reading books full 
of facts — I am reading books that do not make 
me wretched. I am not reading poetry. 
I am leaving it to time ! 
November loth. 
It has been four weeks yesterday! I have 
been expecting to hear from the last publishers 
every day for a week. I have been trembling 
while I watched each mail. I have more than a 
hope that these publishers will take it — they pub- 
lish a deal of poetry. 
But I have been practising my friend's plan, 
I have been saying to myself all day: "You 
might as well know that it is coming back. What 
is the use of trying to deceive yourself? " 
It has been four months since I finished The 
Captive ! If I had known then what I know now, 
I do not believe I could ever have written a line 
of it. 
What do I know now? 
— I know more than I care to own to my- 
self. There is a deadly growth taking root in the 
depths of my soul. 
November 13th. 
It is two months to-day since I gave up my 
last place. I have gotten along on just three dol- 
lars a week, including everything. I find it is not 
possible to do better than that, there are so many 
odds and ends one needs. I have spent twenty- 
seven dollars. I have twenty-nine dollars. That 
means I can try two, or possibly three, pub- 
lishers — after this one. 
November i6th. 
My method did make it easier after all. The 
letter came this morning. 
" We have read with care the manuscript of 
The Captive which you have offered us. We are 
pleased to be able to tell you that we have found 
it a very fine piece of work, but we are sorry to 
say that our previous experience with publica- 
tions of this character does not lead us to believe 
that we could make a success of it. 
" We are holding MS. subject to your order." 
I did a desperate thing to-day — two of them. 
First I had to go and get the manuscript, so I 
asked to see the publisher. I sat down and looked 
straight into his face and said: " How is a man 
who is trying to write what is fine to keep alive 
if the publishers won't publish what he writes? " 
He was very kind — he seemed to be inter- 
ested. He explained that a publisher who pub- 
lished books that the public did not want would 
be driven out of business in a year. Then he said 
he knew many who were facing the same problem 
as I : that there was nothing to do but sxite for 
the magazines and the papers, and that it was a 
bitter shame that society made no provision for 
such men. " Your work is as noble and sincere 
as work can be," he said, " but I do not believe 
that you will find a publisher in this country to 
undertake it. unless tliere be one who feels 
wealthy enough to do it as a se•ice to litera- 
ture and a labor of love." 
That made me turn white. I got my manu- 
script and I went out on the street, and tlie houses 
reeled about me. " So." I said, " and that set- 
tles it: " 
As I walked along I stared into the future. 
It seemed very- clear all of a sudden. 
I thought it all out. " Xo one will publish 
The Captive," I said, " and no one would heed it 
if it were published. Therefore I have but one 
question to face. Have I the strength to go on, 
living as I have lived, distracted and tormented 
as I have been — and still piling up new emotions 
in my soul, daring new eiiforts, reaching new 
heights, producing new books? I can have no 
idea that my second work will be any more avail- 
able than my first; on the contrary, I know that 
it would be just what The Captive is, only more 
so. Therefore, perhaps it will be ten years — per- 
haps it will be twenty years — before men begin to 
pay any heed to what I have written! And so 
there is the question. Have I the strength to go 
on in that way — have I the strength to face that 
future? " 
Then I grew faint and had to lean against a 
railing. I knew that I could not do that! 
It is no question of what I will do! It is a 
question of what I can do! I am weakened and 
sick with the yearning that I have in me already. 
My -last " business " experience drove me mad. 
And I am to go on, I am to rouse new hunger, 
new passion, new agony in my soul! Why, the 
work that I have dreamed of next is so hard and 
so far-away that I hardly dared even whisper it! 
It would take years and years of toiling! And I 
am to do it here in this seething city — to do it 
while I sell wholesale-paper — to do it while I am 
sick for lack of food! I can not do it! I cow not! 
I went home, and I was crazy; so it was that 
I did my second desperate thing. 
I sat down and wrote a letter to Mr. . 
I wrote a letter — I can not see how it could fail 
to stir the soul of any man. I told him how I 
had toiled — I told him how for four long months 
I had waited in agony — I told him what the pub- 
lishers had said to me. I begged him — I im- 
plored him — for the sake of the unuttered mes- 
sage that cried out day and night in my soul — 
not to throw the letter aside — to read it — to give 
me a chance to talk to him. I said : " I will live 
in a hut, I will cook my own food, I will wear the 
clothes of a day laborer! If I can only be free — if 
I can only be free to be an artist! I could do it, 
all of it, for two hundred dollars a year; and I 
could win the battle, I know, if I had but three 
years. I am desperate as I write to you — I look 
ahead and I can see only ruin; and not ruin for 
myself — I do not mind that — but ruin for my art ! 
I can tell you what that means to me in but 
one way — I ask you to read my book. I have 
put all my soul into that book — I will stake my 
all upon it. If you will only read it, you will see 
what I mean — you will see why I have written 
you this letter. You will see that it is not a beg- 
gar's letter, but a high challenge from an artist's 
soul." 
So there is one chance more. I do not see 
how he can refuse, and if he will only read the 
manuscript, I will be safe, I think. 
November 20th. 
I have done nothing but wait for four days, 
but I have not heard from him yet. To-day I 
made up my mind that I would take the manu- 
script to another publisher's meanwhile. He is 
probably busy, and may not answer for a long 
while; and I can get the manuscript from a pub- 
lisher at any time. 
November 24th. 
Still I have not heard anything from Mr. 
. My soul was full of hope again, but it is 
sinking down as before. Is he not going to 
answer me at all? — Can it be that he has not 
even read my letter? 
November 26th. 
I wrote to him again to-day, inquiring. If 
he does not answer that, I shall suppose his 
secretary threw it away. 
There is nothing weakens my soul like this 
endless waiting. I wander around desolate, help- 
less. I can not fix my mind on anything. Oh, 
the shame of it! 
November 30th. 
I could not give up that hope yet. It seemed 
to me so terrible that of all the men of wealth in 
this city there should not be one willing to help 
me save my message. — I wrote to-day the same 
letter to a clergyman who I know is wealthy, and 
who I believe would be interested in my work. 
December 2d. 
" I have received your letter, and I regret 
very much that I can not grant the request you 
make. The pressure upon my time is such that I 
can not possibly undertake to read your book. 
There would be no use in my doing so, anyhow, 
for I tell you frankly it seems to me the situation 
you are in is just what you need. My advice to 
you is to be a man and face it. I do not see any 
reason why one person should be set free from 
the labor which all of us have to share; and I 
assure you that you are entirely mistaken if you 
think that an artist has nothing to expect but 
ruin from contact with the world, and with suf- 
fering and toiling humanity." 
Isn't that a slap in the face for you? 
Great God, I think that is the most insulting 
thing that has ever happened to me in all my days. 
" Set free from the labor which all of us have to 
share! "' — What do you think I am — a tramp, or 
a loafer, )'ou hound! 
" A high challenge from an artist's soul! " 
I think I never had so much hatred in my 
heart in all my life as I have to-daj-. Oh, my God, 
what a thing this world is! What stupid, blind 
brutahty, what hideous vulgarity! This man a 
clergyman! And this is his faith, his nobility, his 
understanding! 
Why, I came out of the forest with my naked 
heart in my hands! I came out quivering with 
emotion, melting with love and with trust for all 
men! I came all sensitive and raw — hunger- 
ing for sympathy and kindness! And oh, my 
soul ! — my God ! — you have beaten me and kicked 
me as if I were a filthy cur! 
Had I not offered up my heart for a sacrifice? 
Had I not. burned it with fire? Had I not made 
all m)- being one consecration? And all for men, 
for men! For men I had torn myself — lashed 
myself — killed myself — for men I had forgotten 
what self was — yes, literally that — forgotten what 
self was! So little self had I left that I was will- 
ing to ask favors! So much consecration had I, 
so much trust, that I would beg! I had wept — 
I had suffered — I had starved! I had dreamed 
and sung, toiled until I set fire to my very brain! 
And you have beaten me and kicked me as if I 
were a filthy cur! 
Those thoughts turn my whole soul into one 
wild curse! Have done with laying bare your 
heart to men, have done with telling your life 
to men! Why should you go on trying to be a 
poet, go on putting your secret soul into books, 
to be spurned at by the rabble? Your soul is 
your own — it is your God's — and what have the 
rabble to do with it! And all its tenderness! all 
its shrinking ecstasy! all its holiest consecration! 
— You will take them out to sell them to the 
rabble! 
When will you get back into yourself, you 
fool? When will you have learned your lesson, 
and let this hellish world boot you out of its way 
no more? Let ever any man know a gleam of 
your heart again! — see one trace of your joy! 
— And I came to it on my knees — to this 
world — crouching, cringing, begging! Oh, oh! 
— I scream it — Oh! 
— And after that I sank down by the bed and 
hid my face and sobbed: " Oh, Shelley! Oh, my 
Shelley! " 
December 3d. 
— I saw myself a business man to-day, clearing 
a path for myself! But it does not last — I am not 
that kind of a man. My folly is my being — rest 
assured that I shall climb back to the heights 
again where I am willing to bear any insult. 
But it will be a long time before I write any 
more letters. I have come to understand the 
world's point of view. 
I suppose busy men get thousands of letters 
from cranks; they will get no more from me. 
December 5th. 
I was reading an essay on Balzac to-day. I 
read about Balzac's fondness for things; and I 
put the book down and spent an hour of perplex- 
ity. I fear I am a very narrow person in my sym- 
pathies and understandings. Why should a man 
care about things! About all sorts of houses and 
furniture, and pictures, and clothes, and jewels! 
I can understand a man's caring about love 
and joy and aspiration. But things! I can 
understand a child's caring about things, or a 
fool's caring; I see millions of such; but an art- 
ist? A thinker? A man? 
I am reading novels nowadays — reading all 
sorts of things that entertain. I have not read a 
poem for a long time, I have no interest in read- 
ing unless I can go with it. 
I have been studying some of the French 
novelists — some of Maupassant yesterday. What 
a strange creature is a Frenchman! A nervous, 
hysterical, vain, diseased creature ! 
" The Gallic disease! " Let that be a phrase. 
The Gallic disease is this: to see only one 
thing in life, to know only one purpose, to under- 
stand only one pleasure; to have every road lead 
to that, every thought, every phrase. To know 
that every character in a book is thinking it; to 
know that every man who is introduced is look- 
ing for a woman ! And that as soon as he finds 
her, they must forthwith — whatever be their age, 
rank, character, and position at the moment — be- 
gin to burn with unclean desires! 
That is what one might call the convention of 
French fiction. It gets very monotonous when 
you are used to it; it takes all of the interest out 
of the story. For there is but one ending to such 
a story. 
One's whole being is lowered by contact with 
that incessant animal appeal. 
December 8th. 
I have discovered another trouble — as if I did 
not have enough! I am to suffer from indiges- 
tion! It plagues me continuously — I can not do 
anything for an hour after a meal, no matter what 
simplest thing I have eaten. 
And so all through my life I am to be hin- 
dered in my work by having to wrestle with this 
handicap ! Just as if I had not been a clean man, 
but some vulgar bon vivant. 
December loth. 
This is my fifth publisher. They said they 
thought it would take two weeks, but it has been 
three already, and they have not even answered 
my letter of inquiry. I see you can put no reli- 
ance on them in the matter of time. 
December nth. 
In two days more it will be three months since 
I gave up my situation. I count my little hoard 
day by day, as a castaway might, or a besieged 
garrison. I have begun to try to get along on 
cheap foods again — (that is the reason of my in- 
digestion). Yesterday I burned a mess of oat- 
meal, and now I shall live on burned oatmeal for 
I know not how long. I was cooking a large 
quantity to save time. 
I count my store. I have come the last 
month on eleven dollars ! I have been doing my 
own washing, and reading the newspapers at a 
library. I buy nothing but food — chiefly bread 
and milk and cereals. Why is it that everything 
that is cheap has no taste? 
Sometimes I am angry because I can not 
have anything good to eat, but I only write my 
dignified sentiments here. 
I am getting down to the limit again; I sit 
shuddering. I shall have to get some work 
again; I can not bear to think of it! What shall 
I do? If I go to that slavery again it will be the 
death of my soul, for I have no hope, and I can 
not fight as I did before. 
And I can only try one or two publishers 
more. Oh, take it! Take it! 
December 14th. 
I went down to see them to-day. The manu- 
script mislaid — very sorry — had written readers 
to examine it at once — expecting report any in- 
stant — will write me — etc. 
