the Senate," she said. 
" Well? " Sabina did not understand. 
"But Malipieri has come expressly to see him." 
" He can see him at the Senate," suggested Sabina. 
"But I have asked Malipieri to stay to luncheon. 
If I tell him that my husband is not coming, perhaps 
he will not stay after all." 
" Perhaps not," echoed Sabina with great calmness. 
" You do not seem to care," said the Baroness. 
" Why should I ? " 
" I thought you liked him. I thought it would 
amuse you if he lunched with us." 
Sabina looked at her with some curiosity. 
" Did you tell the Baron that Signor Malipieri is 
here ? " she asked carelessly. 
" No," answered the Baroness, looking away. " As 
my husband said he could not come to luncheon, it 
seemed useless." 
Sabina understood now, and smiled. This was the 
direct consequence of the talk which had preceded 
Malipieri's coming ; the Baroness had at once con- 
ceived the idea of marrying her to Malipieri. 
" What shall we do ? " asked the Baroness. 
" Whatever you think best," answered Sabina, with 
sudden meekness. " I think you ought at least to 
tell Signor Malipieri that the Baron is not coming. 
He may be in a hurry, you know. He may be wasting 
time." 
The Baroness smiled incredulously. 
 
" My dear," she said, " if he had been so very anxious 
to see my husband, he would have gone to the Senate 
first. It is near the palace." 
She said no more, but led the way back to the 
morning room, while Sabina reflected upon the possible 
truth of the last suggestion, and wondered whether 
Malipieri had really made his visit for the sake of 
exchanging a few words with her rather than in order 
to see Volterra. The Baroness spoke to him as she 
opened the door. 
"My husband has not come yet," she said. "We 
will not wait for him." 
She rang the bell to order luncheon, and Malipieri 
glanced at Sabina's face, wondering what the Baroness 
had said to her, for it was not reasonable to suppose 
that the two had left the room in order to consult in 
secret upon the question of waiting for Volterra. But 
Sabina did not meet his look, and her pale young face 
was impenetrably calm, for she was thinking about 
what she had just discovered. She was as certain 
that she knew what had passed in the Baroness's 
thoughts, as if the latter had spoken aloud. The 
knowledge, for it amounted to that, momentarily 
chased away the recollection of what Malipieri had 
said. 
It was rather amusing to be looked upon as mar- 
riageable, and to a man she already knew. Her 
mother had often talked to her with cynical frankness, 
telling her that she was to make the best match that 
could be obtained for her, naming numbers of young men 
she had never seen and assuring her that likes and 
dislikes had nothing to do with matrimony. They 
came afterwards, the Princess said, and it generally 
pleased Providence to send a mild form of aversion as 
the permanent condition of the bond. But Sabina 
had never believed her mother, who had cheated her 
when she was a child, as many foolish and heartless 
women do, promising rewards which were never given, 
and excursions which were always put off and little 
joys which always turned to sorrows less little by 
far. 
Moreover, her sister Clementina had told her that 
there was only one way to treat the world, and that 
was to leave it with the contempt it deserved ; and 
she had heard her brother tell his wife in one of his 
miserable fits of weakly brutal anger that marriage 
was hell, and nothing else ; to which the young prin- 
cess had coldly replied that he was only where he 
deserved to be. Sabina had not been brought up 
with the traditional pious and proper views about 
matrimony, and if she did not think even worse of it, 
the merit was due to her own nature, in which there 
was much good and hardly any real evil. 
But she could not escape from a little inherited and 
acquired cynicism either, and while Malipieri chatted 
quietly during luncheon, an explanation of the whole 
matter occurred to hef which was not pleasant to 
contemplate. The story about the treasure might or 
might not be true, but he believed in it, and so did 
Volterra. The Baron was therefore employing him 
 
to discover the prize. But Malipieri showed plainly 
that he wished her to possess it, if it were ever found, 
and perhaps he meant it to be her dowry, in which 
case it would come into his own hands if he could 
marry her. This was ingenious, if it was nothing 
else, and though Sabina felt that there was something 
mean about it, she resented the idea that he should 
expect her to think him a model of generosity when 
she hardly knew him. 
She was therefore very quiet, and looked at him 
rather coldly when he spoke to her, but the Baroness 
put this down to her admirably correct manners, and 
was already beginning to consider how she could 
approach Malipieri on the subject of his marrying 
Sabina. She was quite in ignorance of the business 
which had brought him and her husband together, as 
Sabina now knew from many remarks she remembered. 
Volterra was accustomed to tell his wife what he had 
been doing when the matter was settled, and she had 
long ago given up trying to make him talk of his 
affairs when he chose to be silent. 
On the whole, so far as Sabina was concerned, the 
circumstances were not at first very favourable to the 
Baroness's newly formed plan on this occasion, though 
she did not know it. On the other hand, Malipieri 
discovered before luncheon was over, that Sabina in- 
terested him very much, that she was much prettier 
than he had realized at his first meeting with her, and 
that he had unconsciously thought about her a good 
deal in the interval. 
CHAPTER VIII 
Malipieri was convinced before long that his doings 
interested some one who was able to employ men to 
watch him, and he connected the fact with Bruni's 
visit. He was not much disturbed by it, however, and 
was careful not to show that he noticed it at all. Nat- 
urally enough, he supposed that his short career as a 
promoter of republican ideas had caused him to be re- 
membered as a dangerous person, and that a careful 
ministry was anxious to know why he lived alone in a 
vast palace, in the heart of Rome, knowing very few 
people and seeing hardly any one except Volterra. 
The Baron himself was apparently quite indifferent to 
any risk in the matter, and yet, as a staunch monarch- 
ist and supporter of the ministry then in office, it might 
have been expected that he would not openly associate 
with the monarchy's professed enemies. That was his 
affair, as Malipieri had frankly told him at the begin- 
ning. For the rest, the young architect smiled as he 
thought of the time and money the government was 
wasting on the supposition that he was plotting against 
it, but it annoyed him to find that certain faces of men 
in the streets were becoming familiar to him, quiet, 
blank faces of respectable middle-aged men, who always 
avoided meeting his eyes, and were very polite in stand- 
no 
 
ing aside to let him pass them on the pavement. There 
were now three whom he knew by sight, and he saw 
one of them every time he went out of the house. He 
knew what that meant. He had not the smallest doubt 
but that all three reported what they saw of his move- 
ments to Signor Vittorio Bruni, every day, in some par- 
ticularly quiet little ofBce in one of the government 
buildings connected with the Ministry of the Interior. 
It troubled him very little, since he was quite innocent 
of any political machinations for the present. 
He had determined from the first not to employ any 
workmen to help him unless it should be absolutely 
necessary. He was strong and his practical experience 
in Carthage had taught him the use of pick and crow- 
bar. Masin was equal to two ordinary men for such 
work, and could be trusted to hold his tongue. 
Malipieri told the porter that he was exploring the 
foundations before attempting to strengthen them, and 
from time to time he gave him a little money. At first 
the old man offered to call Toto, who had always served 
the house, he said ; but Malipieri answered that no help 
was needed in a mere preliminary exploration, and that 
another man would only be in the way. He made no 
secret of the fact that he was working with his own 
hands, however. Every morning, he and his servant 
went down into the north-west cellars by a winding 
staircase that was entered from a passage between the 
disused stables and the empty coach-house. Like every 
large Roman palace, the Palazzo Conti had two arched 
entrances, one of which had never been opened except 
on important occasions, when the carriages that drove 
in on the one side drove out at the other after their 
owner had alighted. This second gate was at the west 
end of the court, not far from the coach-house. To 
reach their work Malipieri and Masin had to go down 
the grand staircase and pass the porter's lodge. Masin 
wore the rough clothes of a working mason and Mali- 
pieri appeared in overalls and a heavy canvas jacket. 
Very soon the garments of both were so effectually 
stained with mud, green mould and water that the two 
men could hardly have been distinguished from ordi- 
nary day labourers, even in broad daylight. 
They began work on the very spot at which the snuffy 
little expert had stopped to listen to the water. It was 
evidently out of the question to break through the wall 
at the level of the cellar floor, for the water could be 
heard running steadily through its hidden channel, and 
if this were opened the cellars might be completely 
flooded. Besides, Malipieri knew that the water might 
rise unexpectedly to a considerable height. 
It was therefore best to make the opening as high as 
possible, under the vault, which at that point was not 
more than ten feet from the ground. The simplest 
plan would have been to put up a small scaffolding on 
which to work, but there was no timber suitable for 
the purpose in the cellar, and Malipieri did not wish to 
endanger the secrecy of his operations by having any 
brought down. He therefore set to work to excavate 
an inclined aperture, like a tunnel, which began at a 
height of about five feet and was intended to slope 
 
upwards so as to reach the interior chamber at the 
highest point practicable. 
It was very hard work at first, and it was not un- 
attended by danger. Masin declared at the outset that 
it was impracticable without blasting. The wall ap- 
peared to be built of solid blocks of travertine stone, 
rough hewn on the face but neatly fitted together. It 
would take two men several days to loosen a single 
one of these blocks, and if they finally succeeded in 
moving it, it must fall to the ground at once, for 
their united strength would not have sufficed to lower 
it gently. 
" The facing is stone," said Malipieri, " but we shall 
find bricks behind it. If we do not, we must try to get 
in by some other way." 
In order to get any leverage at all, it was necessary 
to chisel out a space between the first block to be moved 
and those that touched it, an operation which occupied 
two whole days. Masin worked doggedly and system- 
atically, and Malipieri imitated him as well as he could, 
but more than once nearly blinded himself with the fly- 
ing chips of stone, and though he was strong his hands 
ached and trembled at the end of the day, so that he 
could hardly hold a pen. To Masin it \^as easy enough, 
and was merely a question of time and patience. He 
begged Malipieri to let him do it alone, but the archi- 
tect would not hear of that, since there was room for 
two to use their tools at the same time, at opposite ends 
of the block. He was in haste to get over the first 
obstacle, which he believed to be by far the most diffi- 
ciilt, and he was not the kind of man to sit idly watch- 
ing another at work without trying to help him. 
On the third day they made an attempt to use a 
crowbar. They had two very heavy ones, but they 
did not try to use both, and united their strength 
upon one only. They might as well have tried to 
move the whole palace, and it looked as if they would 
be obliged to cut the block itself away with hammer 
and chisel, a labour of a fortnight, perhaps, consider- 
ing the awkward position in which they had to work. 
" One dynamite cartridge would do it ! " laughed 
Malipieri, as he looked at the huge stone. 
" Thank you, sir," answered Masin, taking the sug- 
gestion seriously. " I have been in the galleys seven 
years, and that is enough for a lifetime. We must tiy 
and split it with wedges. " 
" There is no other way." 
They had all the tools necessary for the old-fashioned 
operation ; three drilling irons, of different sizes, and 
a small sledge-hammer, and they went to work with- 
out delay. Malipieri held the iron horizontally against 
the stone with both hands, turning it a little after 
Masin had struck it with the sledge. It was very 
exhausting after a time, as the whole weight of the 
tool was at first carried by Malipieri's uplifted hands. 
Moreover, if he forgot to grasp it very firmly, the 
vibration of the blow made the palms of his hands 
sting till they were numb. At regular intervals the 
men changed places, Masin held the drill and Malipieri 
took the hammer. Every now and then they raked 
 
out the dust from the deepening hole with a little 
round scoop made for the purpose and riveted to the 
end of a light iron rod a yard long. 
Hour after hour they toiled thus together, far down 
under the palace, in the damp, close air, that was cold 
and yet stifling to breathe. The hole was now over 
two feet deep. 
Suddenly, as Masin delivered a heavy blow, the drill 
ran in an inch instead of recoiling in Malipieri's tight 
hold. 
" Bricks," said Masin, resting on the haft of the long 
hammer. 
Malipieri removed the drill, took the scoop and 
drew out the dust and minute chips. Hitherto the 
stuff had been grey, but now, as he held his hand 
under the round hole to catch what came, a little bit 
of dark red brick fell into his palm. He picked it out 
carefully and held it close to the bright unshaded 
lamp. 
" Roman brick," he said, after a moment. 
" We are not in Milan," observed Masin, by way of 
telling his master that he did not understand. 
"Ancient Roman brick," said Malipieri. "It is just 
v.rhat I expected. This is part of the wall of an old 
Roman building, buQt of bricks and faced with traver- 
tine. If we can get this block out, the worst will be 
over." 
" It is easier to drill holes in stone than in water," 
said Masin, who had put his ear to the hole. " I can 
hear it much louder now." 
" Of course you can," answered Malipieri. " We 
are wasting time," he added, picking up the drill and 
holding it against the block at a point six inches higher 
than before. 
Masin took his sledge again and hammered away 
with dogged regularity. So the work went on all 
that day, and all the next. And after that they took 
another tool and widened the holes, and then a third 
till they were two inches in diameter. 
Masin suggested that they might drive an iron on 
through the brickwork, and find out how much of it 
there was beyond the stone, but Malipieri pointed out 
that if the " lost water " should rise it would pour out 
through the hole and stop their operations effectually. 
The entrance must incline upwards, he said. 
They made long round plugs of soft pine to fit the 
holes exactly, each one scored with a channel a quarter 
of an inch deep, which was on the upper side when 
they had driven the plugs into their places, and was 
intended to lead the water along the wood, so as to 
wet it more thoroughly. To do this Malipieri poked 
long cotton wicks into each channel with a wire, as 
far as possible. He made Masin buy half-a-dozen 
coarse sponges and tied one upon the upper end of 
each projecting plug. Finally he wet all the sponges 
thoroughly and wound coarse cloths loosely round 
them to keep in as much of the water as possible. By 
pouring on water from time to time the soft wood was 
to be ultimately wet through, the wicks leading the 
moisture constantly inward, and in the end the great 
 
block must inevitably be split into halves. It is the 
prehistoric method, and there never was any other 
way of cleaving very hard stone until gunpowder first 
brought in blasting. It is slow, but it is quite sure. 
The place where the two men had been working was 
many feet below the level of the courtyard, but the 
porter could now and then hear the sound of blows 
echoing underground through the vast empty cellars, 
even when he stood near the great entrance. 
Toto heard the noise too, one day, as he was stand- 
ing still to light his pipe in the Vicolo dei Soldati. 
When it struck his ear he let the match burn out till 
it singed his horny fingers. His expression became 
even more blank than, usual, but he looked up and 
down the street, to see if he were alone, and upward 
at the windows of the house opposite. Nobody was in 
sight, but in order to place his ear close to the wall 
and listen, he made a pretence of fastening his shoe- 
string. The sound came to him from very far beneath, 
regular as the panting of an engine. He knew his 
trade, and recognized the steady hammering on the 
end -of a stone drill, very unlike the irregular blows of 
a pickaxe or a crowbar. The " moles " were at work, 
and knew their business; sooner or later they would 
break through. But Toto could not guess that the work 
was being actually done by Malipieri and his servant, 
without help. One man alone could not do it, and the 
profound contempt of the artisan for any outsider who 
attempts his trade, made Toto feel quite sure that one 
or more masons had been called in to make a breach 
in the foundation wall. As he stood up and lighted 
his pipe at last, he grinned all alone, and then slouched 
on, his heart full of very evil designs. Had he not 
always been the mason of the Palazzo Conti? And 
his father before him ? And his grandfather, who had 
lost his life down there, where the moles were work- 
ing? And now that he was turned out, and others 
were called in to do a particularly confidential job, 
should he not be revenged? He bit his pipe and 
thrust his rough hands deep into the pockets of his 
fustian trousers, and instead of turning into the wine 
shop to meet Gigi, he went oif for a walk by himself 
through all the narrow and winding streets that lie 
between the Palazzo Conti and Monte Giordano. 
He came to, no immediate conclusion, and moreover 
there was no great hurry. He knew well enough tha,t 
it would take time to pierce the wall, after the drilling 
was over, and he could easily tell when that point was 
reached by listening every day in the Vicolo dei Soldati. 
It would still be soon enough to play tricks v/ith the 
water, if he chose that form of vengeance, and he 
grinned again as he thought of the vast expense he 
could force upon Volterra in order to save the palace. 
But lie might do something else. Instead of flooding 
the cellars and possibly drowning the masons who had 
ousted him, he could turn informer and defeat the 
schemes of Volterra and Malipieri, for he never 
doubted but that if they found anything of value they 
meant to keep the whole profit of it to themselves. 
He had the most vague notions of what the treasure 
 
might be. When the fatal accident had happened his 
grandfather had been the only man who had actually 
penetrated into the innermost hiding-place ; the rest 
had fled when the water rose and had left him to 
drown. They had seen nothing, and their story had 
been handed down as a mere record of the catastrophe. 
Toto knew at least that the vaults had then been en- 
tered from above, which was by far the easier way, but 
a new pavement had long ago covered all traces of the 
aperture. 
There was probably gold down there, gold of the 
ancients, in earthen jars. That was Toto's belief, 
and he also believed that when it was found it would 
belong to the government, because the government 
took everything, but that somehow, in real justice, it 
should belong to the Pope. For Toto was not only a 
genuine Roman of the people, but had always regarded 
himself as a sort of hereditary retainer of an ancient 
house. 
His mind worked slowly. A day passed, and he 
heard the steady hammering still, and after a second 
night he reached a final conclusion. The Pope must 
have the treasure, whatever it might be. 
That, he decided, was the only truly moral view, and 
the only one which satisfied his conscience. It would 
doubtless be very amusing to be revenged on the 
masons by drowning them in a cellar, with the abso- 
lute certainty of never being suspected of the deed. 
The plan had great attractions. The masons them- 
selves should have known better than to accept a job 
which belonged by right to him, and they undoubtedly 
deserved to be drowned. Yet Toto somehow felt that 
as there was no woman in the case he might some day, 
in his far old age, be sorry for having killed several 
men in cold blood. It was really not strictly moral, 
after all, especially as his grandfather's death had been 
properly avenged by the death of the murderer. 
As for allowing the government to have a share in 
the profits of the discovery, that was not to be thought 
of. He was a Roman, and the Italian government was 
his natural enemy. If he could have turned all the 
" lost water " in the city upon the whole government 
collectively, in the cellars of the Palazzo Conti, he 
would have felt that it was strictly moral to do so. 
The government had stolen more than two years of his 
life by making him serve in the army, and he was not 
going to return good for evil. With beautiful sim- 
plicity of reasoning he cursed the souls of the govern- 
ment's dead daily, as if it had been a family of his 
acquaintance. 
But the Pope was quite another personage. There 
had always been popes, and there always would be till 
the last judgment, and everything connected with the 
Vatican would last as long as the world itself. Toto 
was a conservative. His work had always kept him 
among lasting things of brick and stone, and he was 
proud of never having taken a day's wages for helping 
to put up the modern new-fangled buildings he de- 
spised. The most lasting of all buildings in the world 
was the Vatican, and the most permanent institution 
 
conceivable was the Pope. Gigi, who made wretched, 
perishable objects of wood and nails and glue, such as 
doors and windows, sometimes launched into modern 
ideas. Toto would have liked to know how many 
times the doors and windows of the Palazzo Conti had 
been renewed since the walls had been built ! He 
pitied Gigi always, and sometimes he despised him, 
though they were good friends enough in the ordinary 
sense. 
The Pope should have the treasure. That was set- 
tled, and the only question remaining concerned the 
means of transferring it to him when it was discovered. 
CHAPTER IX 
One evening it chanced that the Volterra couple 
were dining out, and that Sabina, having gone up to 
her room to spend the evening, had forgotten the 
book she was reading and came downstairs half-an- 
hour later to get it. She opened the drawing-room 
door and went straight to the table on which she had 
left the volume. As she turned to go back she started 
and uttered a little cry, almost of terror. 
Malipieri was standing before the mantelpiece, look- 
ing at her. 
"I am afraid I frightened you," he said quietly. 
"Pray forgive me." 
"Not at all," Sabina answered, resting the book she 
held in her hand upon the edge of the table. " I did 
not knov/ any one was here." 
" I said I would wait till the Senator came home," 
Malipieri said. 
" Yes." Sabina hesitated a moment and then sat 
down. 
She smiled, perhaps at herself. In her mother's 
house it would have been thought extremely improper 
for her to be left alone with a young man during ten 
minutes, but she knew that the Baroness held much 
more modern views, and would probably be delighted 
 
that she and Malipieri should spend an hour together. 
He had been asked to luncheon again, but had de- 
clined on the ground of being too busy, much to the 
Baroness's annoyance. 
Malipieri seated himself on a small chair at a discreet 
distance. 
" I happened to know that they were going out," he 
said, "so I came." 
Sabina looked at him in surprise. It was an odd 
way to begin a conversation. 
"I wanted to see you alone," he explained. "I 
thought perhaps you would come down." 
"It was an accident," Sabina answered. "I had 
left my book here. No one told me that you had 
come." 
" Of course not. I took the chance that a lucky 
accident might happen. It has, but I hope you are 
not displeased. If you are, you can turn me out." 
"I could go back to my room." Sabina laughed. 
" Why should I be displeased ? " 
"I have not the least idea whether you like me or 
not," answered Malipieri. 
Sabina wondered whether all men talked like this, 
or whether it were not more usual to begin with a 
few generalities. She was really quite sure that she 
liked Malipieri, but it was a little embarrassing to be 
called upon to tell him so at once. 
"If I wanted you to go away, I should not sit 
down," she said, still smiling. 
" I hate conventions," answered Malipieri, " and I 
fancy that you do, too. We were both brought up 
in them, and I suppose we think alike about them." 
"Perhaps." 
Sabina turned over the book she still held, and 
looked at the back of it. 
"Exactly," continued Malipieri. "But I do not 
mean that what we are doing now is so dreadfully 
unconventional after all. Thank heaven, manners 
have changed since I was a boy, and even in Italy 
we may be allowed to talk together a few minutes 
without being suspected of planning a runaway mar- 
riage. I wanted to see you alone because I wish you 
to do something very much more ' improper,' as society 
calls it." 
Sabina looked up with innocent and inquiring eyes, 
but said nothing in answer. 
" I have found something," he said. " I should like 
you to see it." 
" There is nothing so very terrible in that," replied 
Sabina, looking at him steadily. 
"The world would think differently. But if you 
will trust me the world need never know anything 
about it. You will have to come alone. That is the 
difficulty." 
"Alone?" Sabina repeated the word, and instinc- 
tively drew herself up a little. 
"Yes." 
A short silence followed, and Malipieri waited for 
her to speak, but she hesitated. In years, she was 
but lately out of childhood, but the evil of the world 
 
had long been near lier in her mother's house, and 
she knew well enough that if she did what he asked, 
and if it were known, her reputation would be gone. 
She was a little indignant at first, and was on the point 
of showing it, but as she met his eyes once more she 
felt certain that he meant no offence to her. 
" You must have a very good reason for asking me 
to do such a dangerous thing," she said at last. 
"The reasons are complicated," answered Mali- 
pieri. 
"Perhaps I could understand, if you explained 
them." 
" Yes, I am sure you can. I will try. In the first 
place, you know of the story about a treasure being 
concealed in the palace. I spoke of it the other day, 
and you laughed at it. When I began, I was not 
inclined to believe it myself, for it seems never to 
have been anything more than a tradition. One or 
two old chronicles speak of it. A Venetian ambassa- 
dor wrote about it in the sixteenth century in one of 
his reports to his government, suggesting that the 
Republic should buy the palace if it were ever sold. 
I daresay you have heard that." 
" No. It does not matter. You say you have found 
something — that is the important point." 
"Yes; and the next thing is to keep the secret for 
the present, because so many people would like to 
know it. The third point of importance is that you 
should see the treasure before it is moved, before I 
can move it myself, or even see all of it." 
" What is this treasure ? " asked Sabina, with a little 
impatience, for she was really interested. 
" All I have seen of it is the hand of what must be 
a colossal statue, of gilt bronze. On one of the fingers 
there is a ring with a stone which I believe to be a 
ruby. If it is, it is worth a great deal, perhaps as 
much as the statue itself." 
Sabina's eyes had opened very wide in her surprise, 
for she had never really believed the tale, and even 
when he had told her that he had found something she 
had not thought it could be anything very valuable. 
" Are you quite sure you have seen it ? " she asked 
with childlike wonder. 
" Yes. I lowered a light into the place, but I did 
not go down. There may be other things. They 
belong to you." 
" To me ? Why ? " asked Sabina in surj)rise. 
" For a good many reasons which may or may not be 
good in law but which are good enough for me. You 
were robbed of your dowry — forgive the expression. 
I cannot think of another word. The Senator got 
possession of the palace for much less than its market 
value, let alone what I have found. He sent for me 
because I have been fortunate in finding things, and he 
believed it just possible that there might be something 
hidden in the foundations. Your family spent long 
ago what he lent them on the mortgage, and Sassi 
assures me that you never had a penny of it. I mean 
you to have your share now. That is all." 
Sabina listened quietly enough to the end. 
 
" Thank you, very much," she said gravely, when he 
had finished. 
Then there was another pause. To her imagination 
the possibilities of wealth seemed fabulous, and even 
Miilipieri thought them large ; but Sabina was not 
thinking of a fortune for its own sake. Of late none 
of her family had cared for money except to spend it 
without counting. What struck her first was that she 
would be free to leave the Volterras' house, that she 
would be independent, and that there would be an end 
of the almost unbearable situation in which she had 
lived since the crash. 
" If the Senator can keep it all for himself, he will," 
Malipieri observed, " and his wife will help him." 
" Do you think this had anything to do with their 
anxiety to have me stay with them ? " asked Sabina, 
and as the thought occurred to her the expression of 
her eyes changed. 
" The Baroness knows nothing at all about the mat- 
ter," answered Malipieri. "I fancy she only wanted 
the social glory of taking charge of you when your 
people came to grief. But her husband will take 
advantage of the obligation you are under. I suspect 
that he will ask you to sign a paper of some sort, very 
vaguely drawn up, but legally binding, by which you 
will make over to him all claim whatever on your 
father's estate." 
" But I have none, have I ? " 
"If the facts were known to-morrow, your brother 
might at once begin an action to recover, on the equi- 
table ground that by an extraordinary chain of circum- 
stances the property has turned out to be worth much 
more than any one could have expected. Do you 
understand ? " 
"Yes. Go on." 
" Very well. The Senator knows that in all proba- 
bility the court would decide against your brother, who 
has the reputation of a spendthrift, unless your claim 
is pushed ; but that any honest judge, if it were legally 
possible, would do his best to award you something. If 
you had made over your claim to Volterra, that would 
be impossible, and would only strengthen his case." 
" I see," said Sabina. " It is very complicated." 
" Of course it is. And there are many other sides to 
it. The Senator, on his part, is as anxious to keep the 
whole matter a secret as I am, for your sake. He has 
no idea that there is a colossal statue in the vaults. 
He probably hopes to find gold and jewels which could 
be taken away quietly and disposed of without the 
knowledge of the government." 
" What has the government to do with it ? " 
" It has all sorts of claims on such discoveries, and 
especially on works of art. It reserves the right to 
buy them from the owners at a valuation, if they are 
sold at all." 
"Then the government will buy this statue, I 
suppose." 
" In the end, unless it allows the Vatican to buy it." 
" I do not see what is going to happen," said Sabina, 
growing bewildered. 
 
"The Senator must make everything over to you 
before it is sold," answered Malipieri calmly. 
" How can he be made to do that ? " 
" I do not know, but he shall." 
" Do you mean that the law can force him to ? " 
" The law might, perhaps, but I shall find some much 
shorter way." 
Sabina was silent for a moment. 
" But he employs you on this work," she said 
suddenly. 
" Not exactly." Malipieri smiled. " I would not 
let Volterra pay me to grub underground for his 
benefit, any more than I would live in his house with- 
out paying him rent." 
Sabina bit her lip and turned her face away suddenly, 
for the thoughtless words had hurt her. 
" I agreed to make the search merely because I am 
interested in archseology," he continued. " Until I 
met you I did not care what might become of anything 
we found in the palace." 
" Why should you care now? " 
The question rose to her lips before she knew what 
she was saying, for what had gone before had disturbed 
her a little. It had been a very cruel speech, though 
he had not meant it. He looked at her thoughtfully. 
" I am not quite sure why I care," he answered, "but 
I do." 
Neither spoke for some time. 
" I suppose you pity me," Sabina observed at last, 
rather resentfully. 
He said nothing. 
" You probably felt sorry for me as soon as you saw 
me," she continued, leaning back in her chair and 
speaking almost coldly. " I am an object of pity, of 
course !" 
Malipieri laughed a little at the very girlish speech. 
"No," he answered. " I had not thought of you in 
that light. I liked you, the first time I saw you. That 
is much simpler than pitying." 
He laughed again, but it was at himself. 
" You treat me like a child," Sabina said with a little 
petulance. " You have no right to ! " 
" Shall I treat you like a woman. Donna Sabina ? " he 
said, suddenly serious. 
" Yes. I am sure I am old enough." 
" If you were not, I should certainly not feel as I do 
towards you." 
" What do you mean ? " 
" If you are a woman, you probably guess." 
"No." 
" You may be offended," suggested Malipieri. 
"Not unless you are rude — or pity me." She 
smiled now. 
" Is it very rude to like a person ? " he asked. " If 
you think it is, I will not go on." 
" I am not sure," said Sabina demurely, and she 
looked down. 
" In that case it is wiser not to run the risk of 
offending you past 'forgiveness ! " 
It was very amusing to hear him talk, for no man 
 
had ever talked to her in this way before. She know- 
that he was thought immensely clever, but he did not 
seem at all superior now, and she was glad of it. She 
should have felt very foolish if he had discoursed to 
her learnedly about Carthage and antiquities. Instead, 
he was simple and natural, and she liked him very 
much ; and the little devil that enters into every 
woman about the age of sixteen and is not often cast out 
before fifty, even by prayer and fasting, suddenly pos- 
sessed her. 
" Rudeness is not always past forgiveness," she said, 
with a sweet smile. 
Malipieri looked at her gravely and wondered whether 
he had any right to take up the challenge. He had 
never been in love with a young girl in his life, and 
somehow it did not seem fair to speak as he had been 
speaking. It was very odd that his sense of honour 
should assert itself just then. It might have been due 
to the artificial traditions of generations without end, 
before him. At the same time, he knew something of 
women, and in her last speech he recognized the womanly 
cooing, the call of the mate, that has drawn men to 
happiness or destruction ever since the world began. 
She was a mere girl, of course, but since he had said 
so much, she could not help tempting him to go to the 
end and tell her he loved her. 
Though Malipieri did not pretend to be a model of 
all the virtues, he was thoroughly fair in all his deal- 
ings, according to his lights, and just then he would 
have thought it the contrary of fair to say what she 
OI" KOME 
seemed to expect. He knew instinctively that no one 
had ever said it to her before, which was a good reason 
for not saying it lightly ; and he was sure that he could 
not say it quite seriously, and almost certain also that 
she had not even begun to be really in love herself, 
though he felt that she liked him. On the other hand — 
for in the flash of a second he argued the case — he did 
not feel that she was the hypothetical defenceless 
maiden, helpless to resist the wiles of an equally hypo- 
thetical wicked young man. She had been brought up 
by a worldly mother since she had left the convent 
where she had associated with other girls, most of whom 
also had worldly mothers ; and some of the wildest 
blood in Europe ran in her veins. 
On the whole, he thought it would be justifiable to 
tell her exactly what he felt, and she might do as she 
pleased about answering him. 
" I think I shall fall in love with you before long," 
he said, with almost unnecessary calmness. 
Sabina had not expected that the first declaration 
she received in her life would take this mild form, but 
it affected her much more strongly than she could 
understand. Her hand tightened suddenly on the 
book she held, and she noticed a little fluttering at 
her heart and in her throat, and at the same time 
she was conscious of a tremendous determination not 
to show that she felt anything at all, but to act as if 
she had heard just such things before, and more also. 
" Indeed I " she said, with admirable indifference. 
Malipieri looked at her in surprise. An experienced 
 
flirt of thirty could not have uttered the single word 
more effectively. 
"I wonder whether you will ever like me better 
