"But I thought----" and she looked at the discarded papers, over which
she had taken so much pains.
"My dear child, I wanted you to put in practice what you had already
learned. Vacation is a trying time to the memory, unless one resolves
the subject in one's mind. It would have been better for you to come up
at once for the examination, but I didn't see how it was to be managed.
Indeed, last night I confess I did not see how the plan could be carried
through, and I am surprised at your courage and energy."
"Then the papers are of no use," she commented in a tone of
disappointment.
"They have been of a good deal of use in mental training. You will find
it much easier to write on kindred subjects. And I must say you have had
a fortunate summer; so much better than anything I had anticipated for
you. You have shown commendable courage in taking a step many girls
would have shrunk from. I am sure that you will succeed, and some way
we must all make it possible for you to go through the High School. I
feel confident that Providence will smile on our efforts."
She glanced up soberly.
"You would have gone without hesitation when school closed in the
summer?"
"Oh, yes." Then she laughed. She was the wholesome sort of girl, who
could laugh at herself. "That was because I knew so little. And since I
have found how much knowledge of every kind there is in the world, mine
seems so small. I am afraid I don't want to compare myself with the
people who know less, and those who know more seem so far ahead of me,"
she subjoined frankly.
"That need not take away one's courage. At eight and twenty you will
know a good deal more, at eight and forty if you use life rightly, you
will have discarded a good deal of the youthful knowledge, and taken on
maturer thoughts. Schooldays do not end with the close of a school for
vacation. You observe that goes on after a little rest. And the real
scholars go on. All life is a school. I did some hard studying the
fortnight I was in London. I shall do some more this winter. There is
always something ahead of the one who loves knowledge."
He had a very encouraging smile for those who deserved it. He could
frown as well, she knew, and this particular smile was used with
discrimination; it was not the every-day pleasant look.
"So you will go next Tuesday. Louise Searing did not pass. She will keep
you company. I must leave for New York in the train at four, and cannot
be back before Wednesday. But I shall be thinking of you, and for my
sake you must not fail. You see, it helps or hinders my reputation. I
want all my five candidates to pass. There have never more than three
gone from the Center school before."
"I will try my best," she returned. The thought that she would do
something for him inspired her as well.
So they said good-by, and she went out to the kitchen. Two baskets of
tempting Bartlett pears had come, and Mrs. Dayton, with a big kitchen
apron on, and her sleeves rolled up, was beginning to pare them. As soon
as Joanna had done the dishes she would can.
"If you wouldn't mind helping, Helen. Put that big kitchen sacque over
your dress, and button the sleeves around your wrists. Pear juice
stains dreadfully. And then we will talk about the plans. Mr. Warfield
is a delightful gentleman to meet, and he is very much interested in
you."
If Helen was two or three years older, she might repeat her mother's
destiny, the lady thought, and Mr. Warfield was a much more attractive
man than Addison Grant.
They discussed the examination, and Mrs. Dayton endeavored to inspire
her with hope, and she was confident a place could be found for Helen.
"But how to get the folks at home to consent to any such step will be
the puzzle. As soon as we know about the examination I will have a talk
with your uncle. I think I can persuade him to look upon the plan in the
best light for you, and you can stay here all September."
"But there will be Jenny's wedding about the middle of the month, Aunt
said."
"And on the tenth the High School opens."
"Oh, dear! My schooldays seem a great perplexity," and Helen gave a
vague smile. "Some girls' lives run on so smoothly, but mine appears
full of upsets."
"Take courage and go on. I think it will come out right. But I shall
not make a single plan until you have passed the examination."
Then Mrs. Van Dorn's bell rang.
Helen slipped off her sacque, washed her hands, and suddenly bent down
and kissed Mrs. Dayton's forehead. "Oh," she cried with deep tenderness,
"I wish I had a mother! I wish you were my mother."
Mrs. Dayton looked after her, as she flashed through the dining room.
All her motions were light and rapid, yet she never ran over chairs, or
bumped up against doors or corners. It was a grace born in her, and Mrs.
Dayton wondered that it had not all been wrenched out of her by the
crude bustling life at the Mulfords'. And she wondered how it would seem
to have a daughter growing up who would love her and care for her. Helen
was overflowing with gratitude, and one of the best features of it was
that it abounded in deeds rather than words. She always wanted to do
something in return, she often did it without stopping to inquire, daily
little things that evinced thoughtfulness. After all, her three years'
board would hardly be felt, there would be the summer vacation. Only, if
she should be sent away somewhere to teach afterward. But there would
be three pleasant years. She could afford to do it now, she had gone
past the pinches, and was putting by a little every year.
Mrs. Van Dorn, upstairs on her couch in the comfort of a dressing
sacque, was amusing herself with plans as well. She did like to enjoy
outgeneraling people. And this young Mr. Warfield's confidence rather
piqued her. The same thought had entered her mind that this enthusiastic
girl might repeat her mother's story, and she had a fancy that it had
been one of disappointment.
Years ago the daughter of a cousin, the only relative who had ever
befriended her, after a prosperous married life of a dozen years'
duration, was thrown on her own endeavors for a livelihood, with two
little girls. She had a beautiful house in a pretty, refined town, but
there was a considerable mortgage on it. Mrs. Van Dorn had come to her
assistance; she was not all selfishness. With a little aid, Mrs. Aldred
had established herself in a day and boarding school, had added to her
house, and become the pride of the pretty town of Westchester. One act
of Mrs. Aldred had gone to her old cousin's heart. She had paid the
whole sum loaned, interest and principal, and sent the most heartfelt
thanks. She was a prosperous and happy woman, and her girls were growing
up into usefulness, one was teaching, the other would be an artist.
There was no hint or suggestion that she should like to be remembered in
anyone's will, or would be grateful for any gift. The principle of the
incident really touched Mrs. Van Dorn, who paid Mrs. Aldred a visit, and
on her departure left her what she called a little gift in token of her
courage and business ability, a check for a thousand dollars.
"I'm going to take the good of what I have," she announced with a rather
grim smile, "so I shall have the less to leave behind when I die."
That had been five years ago. Now Mrs. Van Dorn had written to know if
the school was still prosperous, and what the terms were, and if she
would take the supervision of an orphan girl who was ambitious, eager,
capable of many things, a girl full of bright promise, amiable in
temper, who was to be trained to get her own living if that came to her,
but accomplished for society, if that should be her lot.
After her talk with Mr. Warfield she had made up her mind. He should not
have his way in this matter. She would try her hand, or her money with
this girl. She was going abroad again for the next year or two, and she
would give Helen two years of education under Mrs. Aldred's supervision.
Then she would decide if she wanted her, and in what capacity.
Fourteen only. Twenty would be young enough to marry. She would have six
years of interest. If the girl came to love her very much----
The poor old heart had a hungering for ardent love, as well as
admiration. And Helen Grant was grateful. To rescue her from a
distasteful life like that at her uncle's, or a life of drudgery working
her way through school would appeal to her, for Mrs. Van Dorn had
discerned that the girl had a great hungry heart for all the accessories
of finer living, though she did not know what the vague restless
stirring within meant.
The carriage paused at the gate. "Help me into my waist," she said to
Helen. "I've dawdled my time away finely. What have you been doing?"
"Peeling pears for canning," she replied merrily. "Mrs. Dayton picked
out a dish of lovely ones for you, and put them in a cool place. They
are luscious. I wonder if you would like to have one now?"
"Oh, no. That will be something to think of when I come back. The wind
has blown up a little cooler, and I am glad. Get my bonnet, and the blue
wrap."
They went downstairs together, and were helped into the coupé. "To the
Postoffice first," she said. "We will wait on ourselves this time."
Mr. Conway always brought the mail up at six, though it reached Hope at
three.
"Your friend, Mr. Warfield, is going to the city? He is very earnest
that you shall take the examination. How do you expect to arrange about
the High School? You will have to live here at North Hope."
Helen colored vividly, and a half-humorous smile parted her lips, and
made dimples in the corners.
"I shall have to earn my own living someway," she answered courageously.
"Aunt Mulford will be much opposed to it, but I think Uncle will see
before long that it will be best. Mrs. Dayton will be a very good friend
to me. It all turns on my passing the examinations successfully."
"And if you should not?"
"Then I must go back to the Center. But I would have another chance by
the first of January. And I have quite resolved that if I do not
accomplish it this year I will try next summer."
There was a charm in her courage and perseverance. Mrs. Van Dorn thought
she had never looked prettier. She could not have taken so cordially to
a plain girl.
They reached the Postoffice. Helen sprang out, and came back with an
eager smile and three letters. Then they turned into an old shady
street, and drove slowly.
One was from her lawyer in the city. The matter she had written of could
be easily adjusted.
The next was in Miss Gage's fine, almost old-fashioned hand. Everything
had gone on well, and she would come on Wednesday, prepared to go
abroad, or anywhere at Mrs. Van Dorn's behest. A very suitable letter,
but there was no suggestion of that wider living outside of her own home
relations. She was an admirable companion, an excellent nurse for small
ailments; she gave good value for what she received, but there was no
refreshment of enthusiasm that had warmed her old heart toward this
girl who seemed to rouse and stir one's thoughts, and give a breath of
sweetness.
The third was from Mrs. Aldred, who would be glad to do anything for her
relative. She was fond of girls, especially those who were bright and
capable of advancement. She would insure her a home and training for the
next two years, and fit her for either position, look after her
clothing, and make her as happy as possible. Hers was in reality a home
school. Her circle was complete with thirty boarders, all of whom were
of unexceptional character, and Mrs. Van Dorn need not be afraid to
trust her protégée at Aldred House, nor fear that any confidence would
be misplaced.
She had meant to lay the matter before Helen this very afternoon, then
she suddenly changed her mind. If the examination went against her, she
would be the more grateful, if in her favor, it would be a card at Mrs.
Aldred's. She would let the others plan, and amuse herself with
upsetting their confident arrangements.
So they talked, instead, about places. Helen never tired of listening.
Her vivid imagination pictured the scenes, while here she smiled a
little, there her straight brows drew together in a little frown of
condemnation, then the heroic appealed to her. It was so pretty to note
the changes. Two years from this time would she be anxious about gowns
and trinkets and frivolity of all kinds? Girls were risky creatures
before their characters were really formed. Yes, it would be wise not to
commit one's self too far to draw back, or substitute other plans.
"When is your old lady going away?" asked Uncle Jason, when he came in
on Saturday. "Mother thinks she can't spare you more than next week.
There's the house to clean, and the weddin' cake to make, and the
children have to have new clothes, and goodness only knows all."
"But I was to have her a week in September," said Mrs. Dayton. "If Jenny
is to be home----"
"Well, she'll be over to her house gettin' ready. We didn't make any
such fuss when we were married. We got spliced and looked after things
afterward. Well, Helen--how is it? I'm afraid you're 'most spoiled for
living among common folks any more."
Helen's face was scarlet, as she glanced into this roughened sun-burned
one.
"You've come to be such a lady," he went on admiringly. "Mebbe it wasn't
for the best. You really ought to be somewhere else and grow up into the
kind of women there is in stories. And your hands are so soft, there
isn't a freckle in your face. There's mighty little Mulford about you!"
"Oh, Uncle Jason!" She flung her soft arms about his neck, immeasurably
touched by the tone of his voice. Her eyes shone with the tenderness of
tears. She laid her fond lips to his rough cheek with a delicate caress.
"Whatever comes," she began, after a pause, "remember that I do
sincerely love you, and that I believe you would be willing to do the
best for me if it was in your power."
"Your head's level there, child," with a tremble in his voice, and he
kissed her fondly, a rare thing with him.
She watched him as he went down the path and climbed into the old wagon.
"I feel mean, and underhand, and deceitful," she cried passionately,
turning to Mrs. Dayton. "I like to live along just on the square, and
how the thing will ever get told, and whether Aunt Jane will let me
stay, and whether it is all right, and why you should want things that
seem out of your reach, and why someone should rise up and forbid you
mounting the ladder that stands just at hand--oh dear!" and Helen burst
into a flood of tears.
"You can tell it all next week. There's been nothing especially
underhand. People don't usually get out on the housetops and proclaim
the things they think of doing. And Mr. Warfield will be back. We shall
all be ranged on your side."
"Poor Uncle Jason! And I haven't finished grating the corn for the
fritters. The cold tongue looks splendid. And the cold chicken. Then we
give people scalding hot fritters."
She was merry and arch again in a moment.
Sunday was soft and rainy, the sort of day one lounged about. Monday
Mrs. Griggs came to wash, and as there were pears to pickle Helen helped
with the ironing. Tuesday she trudged off to school with a beating
heart. Louise Searing was there, one girl and two boys from the North
Hope school who had been conditioned.
"I don't see what you can do if you do get in, Helen Grant," said
Louise. "I'm going to stay with Betty all the week"--this was her
married sister. "Or has Mrs. Dayton promised to keep you? That rich old
lady is going away, isn't she? How did you like living out this summer?
I went up in the mountains with ma. There were some young fellows and we
had lots of fun."
"Hush!" said a teacher entering. Papers and pencils were distributed,
the children placed far enough apart to prevent collusion. The lady took
a seat at the desk.
Helen looked over her questions. Two were from the last year's list, she
saw with joy, and she jotted down the answers carefully. The two
problems she solved. The analysis rather puzzled her. One of the great
seaports of the country, and of Europe. The notable travelers in Africa.
Hannibal's journey across the Alps, his conquests and his stay at
Brutium. Just a week ago they had been reading Hannibal's wonderful
story, and his fifteen years' menace of Rome. How glad she was!
A rather stern looking man came in and took his seat by the lady. As the
slips were finished they were signed and passed up. By noon Helen had
answered five, when they were dismissed until two o'clock. As Helen
passed across the room the lady signaled to her, and handed her three of
the slips. She fairly clutched them in her hand and hurried away lest
Louise should speak to her.
She did not dare open them. When she reached home, Mrs. Dayton was
sugaring blackberries and placing the dishes on the waiter.
"Oh, Helen! You look roasted!"
"I walked so fast. Oh, will you look at these? I have not had the
courage. I have done five, there are four more," she cried breathlessly.
"You poor child! Why, Helen, these are all right. It is splendid."
Helen dropped on a chair and wanted to cry from the sudden relief.
"You foolish girl, to prolong your anxiety. Here, take a fan and get
some of the redness out of your face."
"I can't go in to lunch. Afterward I will go up and tell Mrs. Van Dorn.
Please do not say a word about me," she entreated.
Joanna brought her a glass of iced lemonade, and she thanked her with
overflowing eyes. Then she looked at the slips of paper and smiled.
That was only three out of nine. What if the others should be adverse!
She had a little lunch in the far end of the kitchen by the open window,
and quite recovered her spirits. It seemed as if the ladies would never
get done talking over the table. Their loitering never fretted Mrs.
Dayton, and Joanna had her lunch in the between time.
When the coast was clear she tripped upstairs smiling and steady of
nerve, now.
"And it was so fortunate that we read about Hannibal," she exclaimed,
joyously. "I knew, of course, that he crossed the Alps and menaced Rome,
but if we hadn't read the history I should have been at a great loss to
know just what to say. And one question about the Italian poets. It
seems to me I have been learning all summer from you. I was a real
ignoramus, wasn't I, except in mathematics. I owe you so much!"
She squeezed the soft wrinkled hands in hers, so plump and warm. Her
heartsome cheery voice penetrated deeper into the poor old soul than
anything had done in a long while.
She would owe her a good deal more in time. And she wondered about
taking her abroad now. They could find teachers in plenty.
"Now I must go back to my four other questions. Just pray that I shall
not fail anywhere."
"I have a feeling that you will succeed."
Two of the girls did not get through at four, but begged to stay, and it
seemed hardly worth while to break another day, unless there were some
new applicants. Helen remained. She saw her answers piled up by
themselves. Then Miss Dowling beckoned her.
"You are an excellent student," she exclaimed, "and you have had a very
fine teacher in Mr. Warfield. I think we must get him over here. You
have missed only one question, and you go in with flying colors. I wish
you were to be in my class, but I shall have to wait for you until next
year. You live at the Center? You will have to come up to us."
The girl's eyes sparkled with delight at the commendation, and she
expressed her gratification in a very pretty manner. Miss Dowling was
exceedingly interested in her.
"I like those ambitious girls who are not puffed-up with vanity," she
said to Mr. Steele. "Helen Grant. Do you know any Grants at the
Center?"
"No. And the Center is the dullest of all the Hopes. We must find out
about this bright and shining light. I'll take these papers home and
look them over, and call around about nine."
Miss Dowling nodded.
"It's just too mean for anything!" declared Louise Searing. "I'm not
sure that I shall even squeeze in, I've lost so many marks. I always did
think Mr. Warfield was partial to you, and it isn't fair."
"I've been studying all summer," returned Helen.
"And working at Mrs. Dayton's. For goodness sake what did you do? And I
can tell you it will make a difference with the real High School girls.
Some here at North Hope are very stylish. So it is true you were out
carriage riding half the time?"
The tone was unpleasant, half envious.
"I went out with Mrs. Van Dorn, and read to her, and did little errands.
Her real companion comes to-morrow. And about the middle of September
they are going to Europe."
"Oh!" Louise opened her eyes wide, rather nonplussed. Hope people did
not often go to Europe. And if companions were taken, then it wasn't so
bad to be a companion. Perhaps it wouldn't be wise to begin to snub
Helen Grant just now.
CHAPTER VIII
MRS. VAN DORN'S WINNING HAND
Helen was sitting on an ottoman and leaning her arms lightly on Mrs. Van
Dorn's knees that had a soft wrap thrown over them. She fancied she felt
little twinges of neuralgia in them now and then; August nights were
damp.
They had been talking about the successful examination. Helen had proved
the heroine of the dinner hour. Mr. Pratt admitted that he could not
have answered half of the questions. Mrs. Disbrowe said she went into
the High School of her town on quite as good a record. Mrs. Lessing said
she did not see the need of half the tests, or of College education for
women. The most satisfying destiny for a woman was a good marriage and
she was quite sure men didn't care for learned women.
"You have been a very nice, cheerful, ready girl all summer, Helen. You
really have been a great pleasure to me," said the lady.
"I am very glad." Helen's voice was full of emotion, and she gave the
wrinkled hands a soft caress. "It has been a delightful time to me. I am
so glad Mrs. Dayton thought of me when there were so many nice girls in
the world. It seems to me as if I was brimming over with happiness."
She could feel the thrill in the young hands. Ah, if she had found Helen
just as she was now, ten years ago. But she was good for many years yet,
and she would have her sweet young life, her charming womanhood.
"Would you feel very much disappointed if you didn't go to the High
School?"
"Oh, I think now, it would break my heart."
"But if something better offered?"
"Oh, could there be anything better?"
"Can't you think of anything better?"
The girl was silent. In her narrow life there had not been much room for
dreams of real betterment.
"Think, all around the world."
"Well," with a half laugh and a sound like a sigh not going very deep,
"there would be travel all round the world. I hope some day to earn
money enough to go--well I'll take London first. Then Paris, but I do
not believe I shall want to stay there long, for you see I shall not
have a great deal of money. And then Rome, dear delightful Rome, with
all its old haunts, where its poets have lived and died. And that isn't
half, is it? Is any life long enough to see it all?"
Her face was in a glow of enthusiasm, her eyes deep and luminous.
The woman had not begun very early in life and she had seen a good deal
of it. She had heard hundreds of people wish for things, but very few
who were willing to earn them, like this girl who had so little envy in
her composition.
"Suppose someone would say to you, here is a school where you can be
taught all the higher branches as well, music, drawing, painting,
literature and all the pretty society ways that make one feel at home in
any company. Would you go?"
"Oh, that is like a fairy dream," and she laughed with charming
softness. "Why, I am afraid to look at it lest I should want it."
"That isn't answering my question."
She raised her face and studied the one above her. It was wrinkled and
the eyes were a faded blue-gray. She did not guess the eyebrows were
penciled, the lips tinted, that the hair just a little sprinkled with
white had come from the hair-dresser's. The curious asking expression
transfixed her.
She drew a long breath. "Why, that would be wonderful to happen to a
poor girl who is thinking how she can work her way along. It would be
like a glimpse of heaven. I should be crazy to refuse it."
Mrs. Van Dorn took both of the warm, throbbing hands in hers. "Listen,"
she exclaimed. "I like you very much. When you first came, I thought
only of a little maid to wait upon me, and run up and down and stay with
Joanna when I wanted to be alone. I was rather curious to know whether
you understood what you were about when you recited 'Hervé Riel.' You
have a great deal of natural or inherited intelligence--your father was
a scholar. If you were two or three years older, I should take you
abroad with me and finish you on the Continent, that is, if you had not
too much self-assurance that growing girls arrogate to themselves so
easily. But that is not to be thought of at present--it must be some
dream of the future. You need real education and you are capable of
assimilating the higher part of it. I should like to send you to a
school I know of where you will get the best of training. And if you
develop into the girl I think you will, there may be a future before you
better than any of your vague dreams."
"Oh! oh!" and Helen Grant buried her face in Mrs. Van Dorn's lap and
cried, overcome by a new and strange emotion. If the elder had followed
her impulse she would have lifted the face and kissed it with the
passionate tenderness that was smoldering in her soul, and had never
been satisfied. But her experience in people had been wide and varied,
she was suspicious, she could not trust easily, and here were at least
two years that would go to the shaping of this girl's character. Might
she not care largely for what the money would give her?
"My dear! my dear!" she began in a muffled sort of tone from
contradictory emotions.
Helen raised her face of her own accord, and her eyes were like the sun
shining through a shower.
"Oh, what must you think," and her voice had a broken tremulous sound,
yet was very sweet. "I didn't see how anyone could cry for joy--but I am
learning something new all the time. Are you in very earnest? Would you
take me with you if I were older and knew more? And would you like to
have me trained and made into the kind of girl that suited you?"
"A girl proud and honorable and truthful, sincere and grateful----"
"Oh, I would try to be all that. It seems almost as if I had been
deceitful to Uncle Jason, not to tell him about the High School, but I
was not sure of passing, and not sure that I could work my way through.
And sometimes I don't tell Aunt Jane things because I know she would
make such a fuss, and they are not bad in themselves, and often don't
come to pass. But I hate falsehoods. It makes me angry when they are
told to me."
Mrs. Van Dorn smiled at the impetuosity.
"But you would give up the High School for this other plan? You would be
willing to go away among strangers, and trust me for the future? I will
provide everything for you, you will not have a care, only to study and
do your very best, and take care of yourself. Even if you should decide
to teach rather than travel about with me, you would be at liberty to
choose."
"I should choose you," she said frankly. "Oh, how can I thank you for
anything so splendid! There are no words good enough."
She kissed the wrinkled hands fervently.
"The thanks will be your improvement. Westchester is a beautiful place,
with mostly educated people. Mrs. Aldred, who is a connection, is a lady
in the truest sense of the word. You will learn what the higher class
girls are like--some are fine, some under a charming and well-bred
exterior you will find full of petty meanness. I should hate to have you
mean, grudging. I want you to keep broad, unselfish; though sometimes
you will get the worst and the smallest measure in return. And you will
be quite content to leave your people?"
A serious sweetness overspread Helen's countenance.
"If I had a mother who loved me, such a mother as Mrs. Dayton would
make, I am afraid I would not want to leave her. Oh, I know I wouldn't,"
decisively. "But Aunt Jane never liked my father, and I think she didn't
care much for my mother. Their desires and ideas are so different from
mine, and they care very little for education, yet they are all good
and kindly, and Uncle Jason is really fond of me, I think. But it seems
as if when one had neither father or mother to be disappointed, one
might choose what one liked best, if there was nothing wrong in it."
How did the girl come by so much good sense and uprightness?
"Then you will accept my proffer?"
"Oh, I can hardly believe anything so good can come to me. I feel as
if I were dreaming." She looked up uncertain, yet her eyes were dewy
sweet, her lips quivering.
"We will make it better than a dream. But we will have to disappoint
your Mr. Warfield."
That gave Mrs. Van Dorn a secret gratification. She was jealous of two
people who had come into Helen Grant's life, this man and Mrs. Dayton.
"Yes; he will be sorry, I know. But then he could not be my teacher, as
he was last year. And, oh, how proud he will be that I passed so
splendidly."
"And I shall be glad when you attain to other heights. I really think
you will not need any urging. But don't go too deep in the abstruse
subjects, and don't let anyone spoil your fashion of reading, for I may
want you to read to me in the years to come."
"I shall be glad to do anything for you," the girl replied with deep
feeling. "I wish I might spend years and years with you to repay all
this generosity and kindliness. Oh, why do you go away?"
She flushed with an eagerness, a glow of excitement that gave her a
frank, bewitching sweetness.
Why did she go? Mrs. Van Dorn had gone over the ground by herself. She
had been tempted to settle herself for life, but did she want to help
tone down the crudeness of the untrained nature, to prune the
enthusiasms, to find little faults here and there? She would rather
someone else would do the gardening, and she have the bloom in its first
sweetness. While she was away Helen would idealize her still more, and
be prepared to give her just the same girl-worship, but with more
discrimination. She would think of nothing but the benefits. She would
see none of the whims and queernesses that Clara Gage had grown
accustomed to. She would not note her growing old every day. And then
she had a longing for a change.
"Well, I had planned to spend the winter in the south of France. It is
supposed to be better to have an entire change every few years. I spent
one winter there. I had not been quite up to the mark, and it improved
me wonderfully. Then, I have made most of my arrangements."
"But you will come back?" beseechingly. "I may not stay the whole two
years. You think you will feel quite satisfied to go to Aldred House?
You will be among strangers, but girls soon get acquainted. Of course, I
could board you here, and have you go to the High School, but it would
not be as well, and it would not make the sort of girl out of you that I
should like as well, for two excellent reasons," smiling a little. "What
is it?" as a grave expression touched Helen's face.
"You have the right to decide. I know I should like best to go away, but
perhaps it will make some trouble for you. I think my aunt----"
"I shall have a talk with Mr. Mulford when he comes in on Saturday. A
man is generally master of his house. And I will see how the plan
appears to Mrs. Dayton. She is a very sensible person."
She had a talk with Mrs. Dayton that very evening. She would give Helen
her two years' schooling, and then she would be old enough and capable
of deciding what she would like to do for the future. If she should
prefer to take up teaching, that kind of training would be necessary
afterward. She had some fine capabilities, and it would be a pity not to
make the best of them.
So Mrs. Van Dorn very clearly defined her own position in the matter,
without betraying her full intentions.
"If she doesn't get spoiled," commented the listener with an odd smile.
"It is a very generous proffer, and I believe Helen is capable of
appreciating it to the full. It would be a hard thing for her to remain
here and work her way through school, though I had a plan for easing it
up somewhat. She is above the ordinary run of girls, though I didn't
think of that so much when I asked her to come here. The qualities that
decided me then were her cheerfulness and her readiness. I do not
believe her aunt half appreciates her."
"She is of a little different kind," returned Mrs. Van Dorn. That lady
possessed much cynical enlightenment as to the kinds. "There is a deal
of talk about goodness in this world, and even an east wind may be good
for something, but it isn't pleasant. You find an immense deal of
narrowness in these old country places. Saturday when Mr. Mulford comes
I want to have a talk with him."
Mrs. Dayton was really glad that the first explanation was not to come
from her.
Miss Gage arrived the next day at noon. She was a quiet,
sensible-looking girl, who might have posed for a very attractive one,
if she had known how to make the best of herself. She had a fine clear
complexion, quite regular features, an abundance of soft, light brown
hair, and a slim, graceful figure. But she had begun life weighting
herself up with care, and made many little things a matter of conscience
that were merely matters of choice. She was honest to a fault, obliging,
and with that rare gift of being serviceable. At first Mrs. Van Dorn had
been much pleased with her, but she was too proud to accept many favors,
and her heart was centered in her own family; perhaps selfishly so.
Helen seemed released from almost every duty, and was glad to devote her
time to Mrs. Dayton.
"I should like to know what Mr. Warfield will think of the plan,"
commented the lady.
"Oh, he will hold up both hands for me to go," laughed Helen. "Everybody
will, but Aunt Jane."
The boarders were all out Saturday afternoon; a party had gone
picnicking to a pretty, shady nook on the Piqua River, where a little
decline and a bed of rock made a dainty waterfall. So Mrs. Van Dorn and
Mr. Mulford had the end of the porch to themselves.
She stated her plan in a very straightforward manner. For two years she
would send Helen to school, assuming all the expense. After that the
girl might take her choice as to what she would like to follow, and she
would be willing to assist her in any pursuit for which she was best
fitted.
Mr. Mulford gave a long whistle, and stared at Mrs. Van Dorn. There was
something so amusing in his surprise that she could hardly refrain from
smiling.
"Well, I swow! You must think a mighty sight of her, ma'am, to be
willing to spend that money out and out, when she could get her
schoolin' right here for nothin'."
"I think of her capabilities. She is ambitious, and can fill an
excellent place in the world."
"She's a smart girl in everything, but the book learnin' she takes from
her father. Mother's missed her quick handy ways about the house, and
I'm afraid she won't agree to givin' her up. And back there, ma'am, I
used a word not strictly orthodox, and I'm a deacon of the church. But I
was so took aback."
Mrs. Van Dorn nodded her pardon. "You see," she said quietly, "that it
isn't quite as if she had been given to you. Her father might have
returned and taken her. Then, when a child is fourteen she is allowed to
choose her guardians. I shall stand in that capacity for the next two
years. I shall arrange matters with my legal man in New York, so that,
even if anything should happen to me she would have her two years at
school. People lose their wits, sometimes."
"I don't believe you will lose yours. You're wonderfully well kept," he
said with blunt admiration. "Well, I d'know as we could do anything if
we wanted to. Mother's had other plans for her, but the child didn't
fall in with them. She was mighty glad to come over here. There isn't
much Mulford about her," with an abrupt sort of laugh. "We never just
got along with her father, but he was a good enough sort of man. We've
tried to do by Helen as one of our own, and Mother would now. But I
can't think it would be quite right to stand in the child's way."
"No, it would not," decisively. "She has her life to live, and you can't
do that for her. She has some fine natural gifts which it would be a sin
to traverse. I will have my lawyer draw up an agreement that you will
not interfere during the next two years----"
"But are we not to see her?" he interrupted, quite aghast at the
prospect.
"Yes; you may visit her, and she can spend her vacations at home, and
write as often as she has time. I should change my opinion of her if she
was glad to go away, and forget you altogether. I am sure, then, I could
not trust her gratitude to me," she said decisively.
"No, ma'am, that you couldn't," he subjoined earnestly. "Helen isn't
that kind, I'm sure. And we wouldn't like to have her go out of our
lives altogether."
"I should not desire her to."
"But, ma'am, after she's had all this fine living and everything, I'm
afraid we'll seem very common. You don't think she'd better go to
school here, and keep nearer her own folks?"
"Well, the other plan seems best to me. But after she has tried it a
year, if she doesn't like it she shall be at liberty to come back to
Hope."
"That's fair, I'm sure. Thank you, ma'am. And I don't just know what to
say, only that I think it's mighty generous of you, though she's welcome
to my home and all I have. I've never grudged her a penny."
"I am sure of that. Will you explain the matter to your wife? The
agreement will come next week. And at the last I shall take her to New
York to be fitted out with clothes. If there is any point you do not
quite understand I shall be very willing to explain."
He rose in a dazed kind of fashion, and made an awkward bow, then went
round to the kitchen end, where Helen had been sorting over
blackberries.
"Oh, my child," he cried with a new tenderness. "I can't bear to think
of your going away!"
Helen gave a long, sighing breath, then smiled.
"Miss Gage is to be taken to Europe, and her folks are willing," she
subjoined.
"And this place isn't so far away. You can write and come home in
vacation."
Then he would consent. She felt relieved that there was to be no
argument.
"What do you think Aunt Jane will say?" she inquired, clasping his arm.
"Well, she'll be mighty set against it. I'll have a hard row to hoe when
I go home. There'll be weeds of last year and year before," laughing
brusquely. "I wish the old lady had to tackle her."
"But I don't. Aunt Jane says a good many things at first that she
doesn't mean. It's the wrong side of something full of seams and knots,
but when you get it turned out it is ever so much smoother."
"You're right. You're just right. You've quick sight in a good many
things, Helen, and I should hate awfully to have you spoiled, and get so
grand you'd look down on us. Mother aint much for book learnin', and
Jen's as smart as a steel trap, if she is ours. Oh, and there's the
wedding. Why I don't see how we can do without you," and he looked
really alarmed.
"Perhaps I won't have to go so soon." Somehow she was almost afraid she
wouldn't go at all. It was one of the happenings that seemed too good to
be true, too wonderful for her.
"Well, I must get along. Mother'll wonder what kept me."
"And, oh, Uncle Jason, don't ever feel afraid that I shall forget you,
and all your goodness."
Helen flung her arms around his neck and kissed his rough cheek
tenderly.
"No, my girl, no. I should hope not. We'll hear soon, I suppose. And you
will come over."
"Yes." Helen felt a little conscience smitten. She could go over and
spend Sunday, but he did not ask it, and she did not proffer. She could
imagine the time there would be, and oh, she would so much rather be out
of it.
Mrs. Van Dorn said he was much more amenable to reason than she had
feared. She explained about the agreement, and her plans to go the last
of next week. Helen was transfixed with amazement.
Monday afternoon Mr. Warfield made his appearance. Miss Gage had gone
out with Mrs. Van Dorn. Helen was very glad to have Mrs. Dayton explain
the proposal, and point out its advantages.
"I don't like it," he exclaimed brusquely. "And you didn't take the
examination?"
"Oh, yes, I did, and it was splendid! I'll show you the papers. But why
don't you like it?" apprehensively.
"If you are going to teach in a public school, the discipline and
advantages of the public school education are immeasurably the best. I
don't like boarding schools except for the high up people who care most
for accomplishments. And I have been thinking it over, and had a plan to
propose to Mrs. Dayton."
"My schooldays seem a great perplexity all around," said Helen with a
dubious sort of laugh.
"I do suppose Helen could have worked her way through. I had decided to
give her a home, or her other expenses if a pleasant home offered. I
would much rather not have her put on the level of a domestic. We may
have some very fine theories on this subject, but Helen would have many
snubs to endure. And if she resolves to learn what is useful, she will
learn it as well there."
"But the experience will be so different. And two years will fit her
for just nothing at all. Every year more real education is demanded. I
am studying up for a college degree myself."
"Oh, dear!" Helen sighed lugubriously.
"Then, here, I should have had an oversight of your studies, and kept
you up to the mark."
"I am resolved I won't fall below anywhere," she replied resolutely; yet
there were tears in her eyes.
"But you don't know what the standard will be."
"Don't be discouraging, Mr. Warfield. Helen, go and get your papers,"
interposed Mrs. Dayton.
"Is that old body going to have Helen trained for a lady's maid?" Mr.
Warfield asked in an imperious manner; his lips touched with a bit of
scorn.
"You don't do her justice. At the end of two years Helen will be free to
choose her future course. She will be only sixteen then."
"And spoiled utterly. Full of airs and graces. She is too fine a girl to
be made a sort of puppet. There wasn't a girl in my class equal to her,
and some had had much better advantages. I should not want her to go on
living with the Mulfords."
Helen returned bright and eager, proud of her success as she handed him
her examination papers. But Mr. Warfield would not be reconciled to the
boarding school plan, and when he saw Mrs. Van Dorn step out of the
carriage in her fine attire, he felt that he hated her; that she was an
officious old body.
CHAPTER IX
DIFFERENT STANDPOINTS
Helen would have been figuratively torn to pieces if she had spent
Sunday at the Center. Uncle Jason's first resolve was that he would wait
until Sunday afternoon before announcing the conspiracy. The more he
thought of the plan the greater the benefit to Helen seemed. She was
different from the Mulfords, and she had no Cummings blood in her veins.
She had changed these few weeks of her sojourn with Mrs. Dayton. Not
that she had grown consequential. Indeed, she had never been more simply
sweet than on this afternoon.
She would hate the shop dreadfully. And after all the three dollars a
week she would earn the first year, would not more than pay for her
board and clothes. Jenny had gone at it with a vim. But she hated books.
The only thing that interested her was arithmetic. Uncle Jason could not
put it in words, but he could feel it.
The supper passed off without any squabbles. Sam and Jenny walked down
to the house, the children were tired and went to bed, and Aunt Jane
came out on the porch to take a turn in her rocking chair and fan
herself cool. But the wind blew up, and she did not even have to fan.
"Did you ask whether Helen would come home next week? Polly Samson comes
two days to make Jen's wedding gown, and she'll be married on the
sixteenth. We've got along wonderfully the last fortnight, and I begin
to see my way clear. Dear, how I shall miss Jen, but I'm glad she'll be
so near by. And she bid 'em good-by at the shop to-day. Reely's getting
to be quite a help. I don't know but it was better for her to have
Helen away in vacation."
Uncle Jason felt this was the golden opportunity. The lovers would not
be home until about ten. It took some courage. He cleared his throat,
listened a moment to the crickets, and then plunged into the subject;
blurting it all out before Aunt Jane could recover her breath. In fact
there was such an awful silence he wondered.
Then the storm descended. He smoked his pipe and listened, though he
heard the crickets with one ear, he would have said. And when he did not
make an immediate answer, she said angrily:
"You never consented to any such tomfoolery!"
"In the first place," he began slowly, "we couldn't keep Helen against
her will. Her father didn't make us guardians. At fourteen she can
choose. She isn't bound to us, and we haven't any real claim on her----"
"Except common gratitude," Aunt Jane flung out.
"We've taken care of her a few years. I dare say there'd be people in
North Hope who would take a smart girl like Helen and pay her three
dollars a week. Mrs. Dayton thought she might stay there and go to the
High School before that other offer come along. And Warfield thinks it
would be dreadful not to give her a chance at school when she could earn
it for herself. She doesn't want to go in the shop----"
"As if a girl of fourteen knew what she wanted!"
"Jenny did, and you agreed with her. I was awfully took by surprise when
old lady Van Dorn first snapped this onto me, but Helen and Mrs. Dayton
were so much in earnest, and then drivin' home I kept thinking it over.
If someone offered to take Sam and teach him store business, and he had
his heart set upon going, and it was a good chance, I don't believe it
would be right to oppose him. It's just the same with Helen."
"And have her stick up above us and despise us! She's had pride enough,
and I've tried to break her of it. I just wish I hadn't let her go at
all. She'll be unthankful and full of conceit, and she never shall go
with my consent."
Uncle Jason kept silence, which was very irritating. Aunt Jane went over
the ground again, growing more dogmatic at every step. Then the young
people returned.
"Goodness sakes, mother, what are you scolding about?" cried Jenny.
"They can hear you half a mile away."
Then the story had to be gone over again.
"Well, I declare! I don't see that it's anything to get mad about," said
Jenny sensibly. "Why, it's--it's just splendid! Pop, don't you think she
ought to go? And if she likes teaching better than anything else, for
goodness sake, let her teach! I'd rather go out washing. And a girl who
don't like it in the shop won't get along. Helen hasn't quite the right
way with her. She's on the Grant side of the fence. My! The idea! That
old lady must have taken a smashin' fancy to her. And she has sights of
money, folks say. Maybe she'll leave her something in the end, and she's
quite old."
"I'm fairly stumped!" declared Sam. "Mother, what's the reason you don't
want her to go?"
"Mother's afraid she'll put on airs, and crow over us. Goodness! Let
her, if she wants to. I'm going to have a good home, and a good
husband," squeezing Joe's hand, "and she may crow over me as much as she
likes. It won't hurt me a bit. And if you undertake to keep her home
she'll be cranky, and you'll wish you hadn't."
They were all on Helen's side. Mrs. Mulford could not make any headway
and went off to bed in high dudgeon. All day Sunday she carried about an
injured look, and said she had reached the time of life when her
opinions were of no account, after all she had done, and where would
anyone have been without her thrift and judgment?
On Monday Jenny helped wash and iron, and sang about the house. She told
her mother the matter wasn't worth minding. Tuesday, Polly Samson came
with three new patterns of wedding gowns, and fairly alive with the
wonderful news that a rich old woman boarding at Mrs. Dayton's was going
to adopt Helen, and send her away to school.
The next afternoon the carriage came over with Mrs. Van Dorn, Mrs.
Dayton, and Helen, and the agreement. Certainly Mrs. Van Dorn's part
sounded very generous. For the next two years she would provide wholly
for Helen, and keep her at school, but she would be free in the summer
vacation. After that Helen must decide her course. Mr. Castles, the
lawyer, vouched for Mrs. Van Dorn. The Mulfords were to visit her
whenever they chose.
"I don't agree to any of this," said Mrs. Mulford, in her most severe
tone. "I don't believe in girls being brought up above their station.
We're just plain farmer people, and Helen's our kin, though if she was
on the Cummings' side, I'd have some voice in the matter. Mr. Mulford's
willing, and if it turns out bad, and she grows up proud and lazy, and
ashamed of honest labor, 'taint my fault. I wash my hands of it all,"
and she fairly wrung them out.
