"I have worked," exclaimed Mark, something choking his voice that
sounded suspiciously near a sob, "worked for it as I have never worked
for anything in my life. It has been the darling ambition of my heart to
come here. And I came--and now--and now----"
He stopped, for he could think of no more to say. Williams stood and
regarded him in silence for some moments, and then he took him by the
hand again.
"Mr. Mallory," said he, "just as sure as I'm alive this thing shall
stop! Keep up heart now, and we'll make a fight for it! While there's
life there's hope, they say--and, by Heaven, you shan't be expelled!"
The following evening, when the reports were read, Mark's list of
demerits had reached a total of ninety-five.
The excitement among plebes and cadets alike was intense, and it was
known far and wide that Mark Mallory, the "B. J." plebe, stood at last
"in the shadow of dismissal."
CHAPTER XXIV.
A LETTER.
      "MY DEAR FISCHER: I promised to drop you a line just
      to let you know how I'm getting along, though it does
      take a tremendous pile of energy to write a letter on
      a hot afternoon like this. I'm sure I shall go to
      sleep in the middle of it, and naturally, too, for
      even writing to you is enough to bore anybody. I can
      almost imagine you leaning over to whack at me in
      return for that compliment.
      "Well, I am home on furlough; and I don't know whether
      I wish I were back or not, for I fear that you will
      have cut me out on all the girls, especially since you
      are a high and mighty first captain this year.
      Speaking of girls, you just ought to be here. The
      girls at West Point are blasé on cadets, for they
      see so many; but here a West Point officer is cock of
      the walk, and I have to fight a jealous rival once a
      week."
Cadet Captain Fischer dropped the letter at this stage of it and lay
back and laughed.
"Wicks Merritt's evidently forgotten I was on furlough once myself," he
said. "He's telling me all about how it goes."
"What's he got to say?" inquired Williams, the speaker's tentmate,
looking up from the gun he was cleaning.
"Oh, nothing much; only a lot of nonsense--jollying as usual. Wicks
always is."
And then Fischer picked up the letter again, and went on.
The two were seated near the door of a tent in "Company A Street," at
Camp McPherson. Fischer was lying in front of the tent "door," which was
open to admit the morning breeze that swept across the parade ground.
His friend sat over in an opposite corner and rubbed away.
There was silence of some minutes, broken only by the sound of the
polishing and the rustling of Fischer's paper. And then the latter spoke
again.
"Oh, say!" said he. "Here's something that'll interest you, Billy.
Something about your friend Mallory."
"Fire away," said Williams.
      "'By the way, when you answer this let me know
      something about my pet and protégé, future football
      captain of the West Point eleven. The last time I
      heard from where you are, Mark Mallory was raising
      Cain. I heard that he was a B. J. plebe for fair; that
      he'd set to work to make war on the yearlings, and had
      put them to rout in style; also, incidentally, that
      he was scheduled to fight Billy Williams, the
      yearling's pet athlete. Tell Billy I hope the plebe
      does him; tell him I say that if Mallory once whacks
      him on the head with that right arm of his he'll see
      more stars from the lick than the Lick telescope can
      show----'"
"Billy" broke in just then with a dismal groan.
"I don't know whether that's because of the pun," laughed Fischer, "or
because of your recollection of the blow. However, I'll proceed.
      "'Now, I don't care how much you fellows haze my
      Mallory; he's tough and he can stand it. He'll
      probably give you tit for tat every time, anyhow. But
      I do want to say this--watch out that nobody tries any
      foul play on him, skins him on demerits or reports him
      unfairly. Do me a favor and keep your eye out for
      that. Watch particularly Bull Harris, who is, I think,
      the meanest sneak in the yearling class, and also his
      chum, Gus Murray.
      "'I know it for a fact that Mallory caught Bull in a
      very dirty act about a month ago and knocked spots out
      of him for it. I can't tell you what the act was; but
      Bull has sworn vengeance and he'll probably try to get
      it, so watch for me. If you let Mallory get into
      trouble, mind what I say, I'll never forgive you as
      long as you live. I'll cut you out with Bessie Smith,
      who, they say, is your fair one at present. Mallory is
      a treasure, and when you know him as well as I you'll
      think so, too.'"
Cadet Captain Fischer dropped the letter, sat up, and stared at
Williams; and Williams stared back. There was disgust on the faces of
both.
"By George!" cried the latter at last, striking his gunstock in the
ground. "By George! we've let 'em do it already!"
And after that there was a silence of several unpleasant minutes, during
which each was diligently thinking over the situation.
"He's a fine fellow, anyway," continued Williams. "And we were a pack of
fools to let that Bull Harris gang soak him as we did. They've gone to
work and given him ninety-five demerits in a week on trumped-up charges.
And it's perfectly outrageous, that's what it is! The plebe's
confoundedly fresh, of course, but he's a gentleman for all that, and he
don't deserve one-quarter of the demerits he's gotten. The decent
fellows in the class ought to be ashamed of themselves."
"That's what I say! He only has to get five demerits more and then he's
fired for good."
"Which means," put in the officer, "that's he's sure to be fired by next
week."
"Exactly! And then what will Wicks say? I went over to barracks to see
Mallory about it yesterday; he's nearly heart-broken, for he's worked
like a horse to get here, and now he's ruined--practically expelled.
Yet, what can we do?"
"Can't he hand in explanations and get the demerits excused?" suggested
Fischer.
"No, because most of the charges had just enough basis of truth in them
to make them justifiable. I tell you I was mad when he told me about it;
I vowed I'd do something to stop it. Yet what on earth can I do? I can't
think of a thing except to lick that fellow Bull Harris and his crowd.
But what possible good will that do Mallory?"
"Mallory will probably do that himself," remarked Fischer, smiling for a
moment; his face became serious again as he continued. "I begin to agree
with you, Billy, about that thing. I've heard several tales about how
Mallory outwitted Bull in his hazing adventures, and the plebe's
probably made him mad. It's a dirty revenge Bull has taken, and I think
if it's only for Wicks' sake I'll put a stop to it."
"You!" echoed Williams. "Pray, how?"
"What am I a first captain for?" laughed Fischer. "Just you watch me and
see what I do! I can't take off the ninety-five, but I can see that he
don't get the other five, by Jingo! And I will do it for you, too!"
And with that, the cadet arose and strode out of the tent, leaving his
friend to labor at the gun in glum and disconsolate silence.
At the same time that Williams and Fischer were discussing the case of
this particularly refractory plebe, there were other cadets doing
likewise, but with far different sentiments and views. The cadets were
Bull Harris and his cronies.
They were sitting--half a dozen of them--beneath the shade trees of
Trophy Point at the northern end of the parade ground; they were waiting
for dinner, and the afternoon, which, being Saturday, was a holiday and
for which they had planned some particular delicious hazing adventure.
Foremost among them was Bull Harris himself, seated upon one of the
cannon. Beside him was Baby Edwards. Gus Murray sat on Bull's other side
and made up a precious trio.
Murray was laughing heartily at something just then, and the rest of the
crowd seemed to appreciate the joke immensely.
"Ho! ho!" said he. "Just think of it! After I had soaked the confounded
plebe for fifty and more, ho! ho! they got suspicious up at headquarters
and transferred me, and ho! ho! put M-m-merry Vance on instead, and he,
ho! ho! soaked him all the harder!"
And Gus Murray slapped his knee and roared at this truly humorous state
of affairs.
"Yes," chimed in Merry Vance. "Yes, I thought when Gus told me he'd been
transferred again that we'd lost our chance to skin Mallory for fair.
And the very next night up gets the adjutant and reads off the orders
putting me on duty over the plebes. Oh, gee! Did you ever hear the
like?"
"Never," commented Bull, grinning appreciatively.
"Never," chimed in Baby's little voice. "Positively never!"
"Tell us about it," suggested another. "What did you do?"
"Oh, nothing much," replied Vance. "I went up there at the A. M.
inspection, and I just made up my mind to give him twenty demerits, and
I did it, that's all. They had spruced up out of sight; but it didn't
take me very long to find something wrong, I tell you."
"I guess not!" agreed Baby.
"I gave him the twenty, as you saw; and say, you ought to have seen how
sick he looked! Ho! ho!"
And then the crowd indulged in another fit of violent hilarity.
"I guess," said Bull, when this had finally passed, "that we can about
count Mallory as out for good. He's only got five more demerits to run
before dismissal, and he'll be sure to get those in time, even if we
don't give 'em to him--which, by the way, I mean to do anyhow. But we'll
just parcel 'em one at a time just enough to keep him worried, hey?"
"That's it exactly!" commented the Baby.
"He deserves it every bit!" growled Bull. "He's the B. J.est 'beast'
that ever struck West Point. Why, we could never have a moment's peace
with that fellow around. We couldn't haze anybody. He stopped us half a
dozen times."
The sentiment was the sentiment of the whole gang; and they felt that
they had cause to be happy indeed. Their worst enemy had been disposed
of and a man might breathe freely once more. The crowd could think of
nothing to talk about that whole morning but that B. J. "beast" and his
ruin.
They found something, however, before many more minutes passed. Bull
chanced to glance over his shoulder in the direction of the camp.
"Hello!" he said. "Here comes Fischer."
"Good-afternoon, Mr. Fischer," said Bull.
"Good-afternoon," responded the officer, with obvious stiffness; and
then there was an awkward silence, during which he surveyed them in
silence.
"Mr. Harris," he said, at last, "I'd like to speak to you for a moment;
and Mr. Murray, and you, too, Mr. Vance."
The three stepped out of the group with alacrity, and followed Fischer
over to a seat nearby, while the rest of the gang stood and stared in
surprise, speculating as to what this could possibly mean.
The three with the officer were finding out in a hurry.
"I am told," began the latter, gazing at them, with majestic sternness,
"that you three are engaged in skinning a certain plebe----"
"Why, Mr. Fischer!" cried the three, in obvious surprise.
"Don't interrupt me!" thundered the captain in a voice that made them
quake, and that reached the others and made them quake, too.
"Don't interrupt me! I know what I am talking about. I was a yearling
once myself, and I'm a cadet still, and there's not the least use trying
to pull the wool over my eyes. I know there never yet was a plebe who
got fifty demerits in one day and deserved them."
The captain did not fail to notice here that the trio flushed and looked
uncomfortable.
"You all know, I believe," he continued, "just exactly what I think of
you. I've never hesitated to say it. Now, I want you to understand in
the first place that I know of this contemptible trick, and that also I
know the plebe, who's worth more than a dozen of you; and that if he
gets a demerit from any one of you again I'll make you pay for it as
sure as I'm alive. Just remember it, that's all!"
And with this, the indignant captain turned upon his heel, and strode
off, leaving the yearlings as if a bombshell had landed in their midst.
"Fischer's a confounded fool!" Bull Harris broke out at last.
"Just what he is!" cried the Baby. "I'd like to knock him over."
And after that there was silence again, broken only by the roll of a
drum that meant dinner.
"Well," was Bull's final word, as the crowd set out for camp, "it's
unfortunate, I must say. But it won't make the least bit of difference.
Mallory'll get his demerits sure as he's alive, and Fischer's
interference won't matter in the least."
"That's what!" cried the rest of them.
CHAPTER XXV.
A SWIMMING MATCH.
The manner in which the cadets dine has not as yet been described in
these pages; perhaps here is just as good a place as any to picture the
historic mess hall where Lee and Grant and Sherman once dined, and
toward which on that Saturday afternoon were marching not only the group
we have just left, but also the object of all their dislike, the B. J.
plebe who fell in behind the cadets as the battalion swung past
barracks.
The cadets march to mess hall; they march to every place they go as a
company. The building itself is just south of the "Academic" and
barracks; it is built of gray stone, and forcibly reminds the candid
observer of a jail. They tell stories at West Point of credulous
candidates who have "swallowed" that, and believed that the cadet
battalion was composed of disobedient cadets, about to be locked up in
confinement.
There is a flight of iron steps in the center, and at the foot of these
steps, three times every day, the battalion breaks ranks and dissolves
into a mob of actively bounding figures. Upon entering, the cadets do
not take seats, but stand behind their chairs, and await the order,
"Company A, take seats!" "Company B, take seats!" and so on. The plebes,
who, up to this time, are still a separate company, come last, as usual;
they are seated by themselves, at one side of the dining-room.
The tables seat twenty-two persons, ten on a side, and one at each end.
The cadets are placed according to rank, and they always sit in the same
seats. The tables are divided down the center by an imaginary line, each
part being a "table"; first class men sit near the head, and so on down
to the plebes, who find themselves at the center (that is, after they
have moved into camp, and been "sized" and assigned to companies; before
that they are "beasts," herded apart, as has been said).
The dinner is upon the table when the cadets enter; the corporals are
charged with the duty of carving, and the luckless plebe is expected to
help everybody to water upon demand, and eats nothing until that duty
has been attended to. After the meal, for which half an hour is allowed,
the command, "Company A, rise!" and so on, is the signal to leave the
table and fall into line again on the street outside. This, however,
does not take place until a lynx-eyed "tac" has gone the rounds, making
notes--"So-and-so, too much butter on plate." "Somebody else, napkin not
properly folded," and so on. This ceremony over, the battalion marches
back to camp, a good half mile, in the broiling sun or pouring rain, as
the case may be.
That Saturday afternoon being a hot one, and a holiday, our friends of
the last chapter, Bull Harris and his gang, sought out an occupation in
which fully half the cadets at the post chanced to agree; they went in
swimming, a diversion which the superintendent sees fit to allow. "Gee's
Point," on the Hudson, is within the government property, and thither
the cadets gather whenever the weather is suitable.
That particular party included Bull and Baby (who didn't swim, but liked
to watch Bull), Gus Murray, Vance and the rest of their retainers. And,
on the way, they passed the time by discussing their one favorite topic,
their recent triumph over "that B. J. beast." There was a new phase of
the question they had to speculate upon now, and that was what the
"beast" could possibly have done to move to such unholy wrath so
important a personage as the senior captain of the Battalion. Also,
they were interested in trying to think up a method by which those extra
demerits might be speedily given without incurring the wrath of that
officer. Though each one of the yearlings was ready, even anxious, to
explain that he wasn't the least bit afraid of him.
"I tell you," declared Bull, "he couldn't prove anything against us if
he tried. It's all one great bluff of Fischer's, and he's a fool to act
as he did."
"I'd a good mind to tell him as much!" assented Baby.
"It won't make any difference," put in Murray, "we'll soak the plebe,
anyhow. We can easily give him five demerits in short order, and without
attracting any attention, either."
"He's out, just as sure as he's alive!" laughed Bull. "We wouldn't need
to do a thing more."
"Exactly!" cried the echo. "Not a thing!"
"All the same," continued the other, "I wish we could get up a scheme to
get him in disgrace, so as to clinch it. I wish we could----"
Just here Bull was interrupted by a sudden exclamation from Murray.
Murray had brought his hand against his knee with a whack, and there
was a look of inspiration upon his face.
"Great Cæsar!" he cried, "I've got it!"
"Got it! What?"
"A scheme! A scheme to do him!"
"What is it?"
"Write him a letter, or something--get him to leave barracks at
night--have a sentry catch him beyond limits, or else we'll report him
absent! Oh, say!"
The crowd were staring at each other in amazement, a look of delight
spreading over their faces, as the full possibilities of this same
inspiration dawned upon them.
"By the lord!" cried Bull, at last. "Court-martial him! That's the
ticket!"
"Shake on it!" responded Murray.
In half a minute the gang had sworn to put that plan into execution
within the space of twenty-four hours. And after that they hurried on
down to the point to go in swimming.
"Speak of angels," remarked Murray, "and they flap their wings. There's
the confounded plebe now."
"Of angels!" sneered Vance. "Of devils, you mean."
"By George!" muttered Bull. "You can't phaze that fellow. I thought
he'd be up in barracks, moping, to-day!"
"Probably wants to put up a bluff as if he don't care," was the clever
suggestion of the Baby. "I bet he's sore as anything!"
"I told him I'd make him the sickest plebe in the place," growled Bull,
"and I'll bet he is, too."
The yearling would have won his bet; there was probably no sadder man in
West Point than Mark Mallory just then, even though he did not choose to
let his enemies know it.
"Look at him dive!" sneered Baby, watching him with a malignant frown.
"He wants to show off."
"Pretty good dive," commented a bystander, who was somewhat more
disinterested.
"Good, your grandmother!" cried the other. "Why, I could beat that
myself if I knew how to swim!"
And then he wondered why the crowd laughed.
"Come on, let's go in ourselves," put in Bull, anxious to end his small
friend's discomfort. "Hurry up, there!"
The crowd had turned away, to follow their leader in his suggestion;
they were by no means anxious to swell the number of those who had
gathered for the obvious purpose of watching Mark Mallory's feats as a
swimmer. In fact, they couldn't see why anybody should want to watch a
B. J. beast, and a "beast" who had only a day or two more to stay, at
that.
Just then, however, a cry from the crowd attracted their attention, and
made them turn hastily again.
"A race! A race!"
And Bull Harris cried out with vexation, as he wheeled and took in the
situation.
"By the Lord!" he cried. "Did you ever hear of such a B. J. trick in
your life? The confounded plebe is going to race with Fischer!"
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE FINISH OF A RACE.
So it was; certain of the cadets, being piqued at the evident
superiority which that B. J. Mallory (his usual title by this time) had
displayed in the water, had requested their captain to take him down.
The "captain" had good-naturedly declared that he was willing to try;
and the shout that attracted Bull's attention was caused by the plebe's
ready assent to the proposition for an impromptu race.
"Fischer ought to be ashamed of himself, to have anything to do with
him!" was Bull Harris' angry verdict. "I almost hope the plebe beats
him."
"I don't!" vowed Murray, emphatically. "Let's hurry up, and see it."
The latter speaker suited the action to the word; Bull followed,
growling surlily.
"Look at that gang of plebes!" he muttered. "They're the ones who helped
Mallory take away the fellow we were hazing; they think they're right in
it, now."
"Yes," chimed in Baby. "And see that fellow, Texas, making a fool of
himself."
"That fellow Texas" was "making a fool of himself" by dancing about in
wild excitement, and raising a series of cowboy whoops in behalf of his
friend, and of plebes in general.
"There they are, ready to go!" cried Murray, betraying some excitement.
"I wish the confounded plebe'd never come up again!" growled Bull, in
return, striving hard to appear indifferent.
"I bet Fischer'll do him!" exclaimed the Baby. "He swims like a fish.
Say, they're going to race to that tree way down the river. Golly, but
that's a long swim!"
"Long nothing!" sneered Vance. "I could swim that a dozen times. But,
say, they'll finish in the rain; look at that thunderstorm coming!"
In response to this last remark, the crowd cast their eyes in the
direction indicated. They found that the prediction seemed likely to be
fulfilled. To the north, up the Hudson, dense, black clouds already
obscured the sky, and a strong, fresh breeze, that smelled of rain, was
springing up from thence, and making the swimmers shiver apprehensively.
The preparation for the race went on, however; nobody cared for the
storm.
"Gee whiz!" cried the Baby, in excitement. "Won't it be exciting! I
don't mind the rain. I'm going to run down along the shore, and watch
it! Hooray!"
"Rats!" growled Bull, angrily. "I don't care about any old race. I'm
going to keep dry, let me tell you!"
Even the damper of his idol's displeasure could not change Master
Edwards' mind, however; he and nearly the whole crowd with him made a
dash down the shore for a vantage point to see the finish.
"There! They're off!"
The cry came a moment later, as the two lightly-clad figures stepped to
the mark from which they were to start.
They were about of one size, magnificently proportioned, both of them,
and the race bid fair to be a close one.
"Ready?" called the starter, in a voice that rang down the shore.
"Yes," responded Mark, and at the same moment a heavy cloud swept under
the sun, and the air grew dark and chilly. The wind increased to a
gale, blowing the spray before it; and then----
"Go!" called the starter.
The two dived as one figure; both took the water clean and low, with no
perceptible splash; two heads appeared a moment later, forging ahead
side by side; a cheer from the cadets arose, that drowned, for a moment,
the roars of the storm; and the race was on.
It is remarkable how closely nature follows a rule in her most perfect
work; here were two figures, built by her a thousand miles apart, racing
there, and each striving with might and main, yet the sum total of the
energy that each was able to expend so nearly alike that yard by yard
they struggled on, without an inch of difference between them.
"Fischer! Fischer!" rose the shouts of the cadets.
"Mallory! Mallory!" roared the excited plebes, backed up by an
occasional "Wow!" in the stentorian tones of the mighty Texan, who, by
this time, was on the verge of epilepsy.
Onward went the two heads, still side by side, seeming to creep through
the water at a snail's pace to the excited partisans on the shore. But
it was no snail's pace to the two in the water; each was struggling in
grim earnestness, putting into every stroke all the power that was in
him. Neither looked at the other; but each could tell, from the cries of
the cadets, that his opponent was pressing him closely.
Nearer and nearer they came to the far distant goal; higher and higher
rose the shouts:
"Fischer! Fischer!" "Mallory! Mallory!" "He's got him!" "No." "Hooray!"
"Gee! but it is exciting," screamed Baby. "Go it, Fischer! Do him!"
"And I wish that confounded 'beast' was in Hades!" snarled Bull, whose
hatred of Mark was deeper, and more malignant than that of his friend.
"I believe I could kill him!"
During all this excitement the storm had been sweeping rapidly up, its
majesty unnoticed in the excitement of the race. Far up the Hudson could
be seen a driving cloud of rain; and the wind had risen to a hurricane,
while the air grew dark and chill.
The race was at its most exciting stage--the finish, and the cadets were
dancing about, half in a frenzy, yelling incoherently, at the two still
struggling lads, when some one, nobody knew just who, chanced to glance
for one brief instant up the river. A moment later a cry was heard that
brought the race to a startling and unexpected close.
"Look! look! The sailboat!"
The cry sounded even above the roar of the storm and the shouts of the
crowd. The cadets turned in alarm and gazed up the river. What they saw
made them forget that such a thing as a race ever existed.
Right in the teeth of the wind, in the center of the river, was a small
catboat, driven downstream, before the gale, with the speed of a
locomotive. In the boat was one person, and the person was a girl. She
sat in the stern, waving her hands in helpless terror, and even as the
spectators stared, the boat gibed with terrific violence, and a volume
of water poured in over the gunwale.
The crowd was thrown into confusion; a babel of excited voices arose,
and the race was forgotten in an instant.
The racers were not slow to notice it; both of them turned to gaze
behind them, and to take in the situation.
"Help! Help!" called a faint voice from the distant sailboat.
Help! Who was there to help? There was not a boat in sight; the cadets
were running up and down in confusion, hunting for one in vain. They
were like a nest of frightened ants, without a leader, skurrying this
way and that, and only contributing to the general alarm. The girl
herself could do nothing, and so it seemed as if help were far away,
indeed.
There was one person in the crowd, however, who kept his head in the
midst of all that confusion. And the person was Mark. Exhausted though
he was by his desperate swim, he did not hesitate an instant. Before the
amazed cadet captain at his side could half comprehend his intention, he
turned quickly in the water, and, with one powerful stroke, shot away
toward the center of the stream.
The cadets on the shore scarcely knew whether to cry out in horror, or
to cheer the act they saw. They caught one more glimpse of the catboat
as it raced ahead before the gale; they saw the gallant plebe struggling
in the water.
And then the storm struck them in its fury. A blinding sheet of driving
rain, that darkened the air and drove against the river, and rose again
in clouds of spray; a gale that lashed the water into fury; and darkness
that shut out the river, and the boat, and the swimmer, and left nothing
but a humbled group of shivering cadets.
CHAPTER XXVII.
WHAT MARK DID.
The surprise of the helpless watchers on the shore precludes
description. They knew that out upon that seething river a tragedy was
being enacted; but the driving rain made a wall about them--they could
not aid, they could not even see. They stood about in groups, and
whispered, and listened, and strained their eyes to pierce the mist.
Mark's friends were wild with alarm; and his enemies--who can describe
their feelings?
A man has said that it is a terrible thing to die with a wrong upon
one's soul; but that it is agony to see another die whom you have
wronged, to know that your act can never be atoned for now. That there
is one unpardonable sin to your account on the records of eternity. That
was how the yearlings felt; and even Bull Harris, ruffian though he was,
trembled slightly about the lips.
The storm itself was one of those which come but seldom. Nature's mighty
forces flung loose in one giant cataclysm. It came from the north, and
it had a full sweep down the valley of the Hudson, pent in and focused
to one point by the mountains on each side. It tore the trees from the
tops as it came; it struck the river with a swish, and beat the water
into foam. It flung the raindrops in gusts against it, and caught them
up in spray and whirled them on; and this, to the echoing crashes of the
thunder and the dull, lurid gleam of the lightning that played in the
rear.
One is silent at such times at that; the frightened cadets on the shore
would probably have stood in groups and trembled, and done nothing
through it all, had it not been for a cry that aroused them. Some one,
sharper eyed than the rest, espied a figure struggling in the water near
the shore. There was a rush for the spot, and strong arms drew the
swimmer in. It was Captain Fischer, breathless and exhausted from the
race.
He lay on the bank, panting for breath for a minute, and then raised
himself upon his arms.
"Where's Mallory?" he cried, his voice sounding faint and distant in the
roar of the storm.
"Out there," responded somebody, pointing.
"W-why don't somebody go help him?" gasped the other. "He'll drown!"
"Don't know where to go to," answered the first speaker, shaking his
head.
Fischer sank back, too exhausted, himself, to move.
"He'll drown! He'll drown!" he muttered. "He is tired to death from the
race."
And after that there was another anxious wait, every one hesitating,
wondering if there were any use venturing into the tossing water.
The storm was one that came in gusts; its first minute's fury past,
there was a brief let up in its violence, and the darkness that the
black clouds had brought with them yielded to the daylight for a while.
During that time those on the shore got one brief glimpse of a startling
panorama.
The boat was sighted first, still skimming along before the gale, but
obviously laboring with the water she had shipped. The frightened
occupant was still in the stern, clinging to the gunwale with terror.
There was a shout raised when the boat was noticed, and all eyes were
bent upon it anxiously. Then some one, chancing a glance down the river
below, caught a glimpse of a moving head.
"There's Mallory!" he cried. "Hooray!"
There was Mallory, and Mallory was swimming desperately, as the crowd
could dimly see. For the boat he was aiming at was just a little farther
out in the stream than he, and bearing swiftly down upon him. Whatever
happened must happen with startling rapidity, and the crowd knew it, and
forebore to shout--almost to breathe.
The boat plunged on; the swimmer fairly leaped through the waves. Nearer
it came, nearer--up to him--past him! No! For, as it seemed, the bow
must cleave his body, the body was seen to leap forward with it. He had
caught the boat! And a wild cheer burst from the spectators.
"He's safe! He's safe!"
But the cheer, as it died out, seemed to catch in their throats, and to
change into a gasp of suspense, and then of horror.
Mallory had clung to the bow for a moment, as if too exhausted to move.
His body, half submerged, had cut a white furrow in the water, drawn on
by the plunging boat. Then the girl, in an evil moment, released her
hold and sprang forward to help him. She caught his arm, and he flung
himself upon the boat.
And then came the crash.
Leaning to one side, with the sudden weight, the boat half turned, and
then gibed with terrific violence. The great boom swung around like a
giant club, driven by the pressure of the wind upon the vast surface of
the sail. The watchers gave a half-suppressed gasp, Mallory was seen to
put out his arm, and the next instant the blow was struck.
It hit the girl with a crash that those on shore thought they heard; it
flung her far out into the water, and almost at the same instant Mallory
was seen to leap out in a low, quick dive. Then, as if the scene was
over, and the book shut, the rain burst out again in its fury, and the
darkness of the raging storm shut it all out.
This time there could be no mistaking duty; the cadets knew now where
the struggling pair were, and they had no reason to hesitate. First to
move was one of a group of six anxious plebes, who had been waiting in
agony; it was Texas, and the spectators saw him plunge into the water
and vanish in the driving rain. Then more of that crowd followed him;
Fischer, too, sprang up, exhausted though he was, and in the end there
were at least a dozen sturdy lads swimming with all their might toward
the spot where Mallory had been seen to leap.
They were destined, however, to do but little good; so we shall stay by
those upon the shore.
The weakening of Bull Harris' followers has been mentioned; it increased
as the plebe's self-sacrificing daring was shown.
"He certainly is spunky," one of the crowd ventured to mutter, as he
shivered and watched. "I hope he gets ashore."
And Bull turned upon him with a savage oath.
"You fool!" he cried. "You confounded fool! If he does, I could kill
him! Kill him! Do you hear me?"
There are some natures like that. Have you read the tale of
Macauley's?--
    "How brave Horatius held the bridge
    In the good old days of yore."
There was just such a hero then battling with the waves as now--
    "Curse him!" cried false Sextus.
    "Will not the villain drown?"
And on the other hand--
    "Heaven help him," quoth Spurius Laritus,
    "And bring him safe to shore!
    For such a gallant feat of arms
    Has ne'er been seen before."
There were few of Bull's crowd as hardened in their hatred as was he;
Murray was one, and the sallow Vance another. Baby Edwards followed
suit, of course. But, as for the rest of them, they were thinking.
"I don't care!" vowed one. "I'm sorry we've got him fired."
"Do you mean," demanded Bull, in amazement, "that you're not going to
keep the promise you made a while ago?"
"That's what I do!" declared the other, sturdily. "I think he deserves
to stay!"
And Bull turned away in alarm and disgust.
"Fools!" he muttered to himself. "Fools!" and gritted his teeth in rage.
"I hope he's never seen again."
It seemed as if that might happen; the cadets during all this time had
been standing out in the driving rain, striving to pierce the darkness
of the storm. From the river came an occasional shout from some one of
the rescue party; but no word from the plebe or the girl.
Once the watchers caught sight of a figure swimming in; it proved to be
Fischer once more. The cadets had rushed toward him with sudden hope,
but he shook his head, sadly.
"Couldn't--couldn't find him," he panted, shaking the water from his
hair and shielding his face from the driving rain. "I was too tired to
stay long."
The storm swept by in a very short while. Violence such as that cannot
last long in anything. While the anxious cadets raced up and down the
shore, each striving to catch a glimpse of Mallory, the dark clouds
sailed past and the rain settled into an ordinary drizzle. The surface
of the white-capped river became visible then, and gradually the heads
of the swimmers came into view.
"There's Billy Williams!" was the cry. "And that's Texas, way over
there. Here's Parson Stanard! And Jones!"
And so on it went, but no Mallory. Those on the shore could not see him
and those in the river had no better luck. Most of them had begun to
give up in despair, when the long-expected cry did come. For Mark was
not dead by a long shot.
A shout came from a solitary straggler far down the stream, and the
straggler was seen to plunge into the water. Those on the shore made a
wild dash for the spot and those in the water struck out for the shore
so as to join them. And louder at last swelled the glad cry.
"Here he is! Hooray!"
The plebe was about a hundred yards from the shore, and swimming weakly;
the girl, still unconscious, was floating upon her back--and her
rescuer, holding her by the arms--was slowly towing her toward the
shore.
A dozen swam out to aid him as soon as he was seen; strong arms lifted
the girl and bore her high upon the bank, others supporting the
half-fainting plebe to a seat.
"Is she dead?" was Mark's first thought, as soon as he could speak at
all.
"I don't know," said Fischer, chafing the girl's hands and watching for
the least sign of life. "Somebody hustle up for the doctor there!
Quick!"
Several of the cadets set out for the hospital at a run; and the rest
gathered about the two and offered what help they could.
"It's Judge Fuller's daughter," said Fischer, who was busily dosing the
unconscious figure with a flask of reddish liquid surreptitiously
produced by one of the cadets.
"Do you know her?" inquired Mark, in surprise.
"Know her!" echoed half the bystanders at once. "Why, she lives just
across the river!"
"That's an ugly looking wound on the head there," continued Fischer,
bending over the prostrate form. "Gosh! but that boom must have struck
her. And here, Mallory," he added, "you'd best take a taste of this
brandy. You look about dead yourself."
"No, I thank you," responded Mark, smiling weakly. "I'm all right. Only
I'm glad it's all over and----"
Mark got no farther; as if to mock his words came a cry that made the
crowd whirl about and look toward the river in alarm.
"Help! Help!"
"By George!" cried Fischer, "it's one of the fellows!"
"It's Alan!" shouted Mark. "Alan Dewey!"
And before any one could divine his intention he sprang up and made a
dash for the river. For Mark knew how Dewey had come there; he had swum
out, cripple though he was, to hunt for him; and with his one well arm,
poor gallant Dewey was finding trouble in getting back.
Mark had been quick, but Fischer was a bit too quick for him and seized
him by the arm.
"Come back here!" he commanded, sternly. "And don't be a fool. You're
near dead. Some of you fellows swim out and tow that plebe in."
Half a dozen had started without being asked; and Mark's overzealous
friend was grabbed by the hair and arms and feet and rushed in in great
style. He came up smiling as usual.
"Got out too far, b'gee!" he began. "Very foolish of me! Reminds me of a
story I once heard---- Oh, say!"
This last explanation came as the speaker caught sight of the figure of
the young girl; and his face lost its smile on the instant.
"She's alive, isn't she?" he cried.
"Don't know," said Fischer. "Here comes the doctor now."
"Well, she certainly is a beautiful girl!" responded Dewey, shaking his
head. "B'gee, we don't want that kind to die!"
The doctor was coming on a run; and a minute later he was kneeling
beside the young girl's body.
"Jove!" he muttered. "Almost a fractured skull! No, she's alive! See
here, who got her out?"
"Mr. Mallory," responded the captain, turning toward where Mark had sat.
And then he gave vent to a startled exclamation.
"Good heavens! He's fainted! What's the matter?"
"Fainted?" echoed the surgeon, as he noticed the young man's white lips
and bloodless cheek. "Fainted! I should say so! Why, he's almost as near
dead as she! We must take him to the hospital."
CHAPTER XXVIII.
MARK MEETS THE SUPERINTENDENT.
"Yes, colonel, the lad is a hero, and I want to tell him so, too!"
The speaker was a tall, gray-haired gentleman, and he whacked his cane
on the floor for emphasis as he spoke.
"It was a splendid act, sir, splendid!" he continued. "And I want to
thank Mark Mallory for it right here in your office."
The man he addressed wore the uniform of the United States army; he was
Colonel Harvey, the superintendent of the West Point Academy.
"I shall be most happy to have you do so," he replied, smiling at this
visitor's enthusiasm. "You have certainly," he added, "much to thank the
young man for."
"Much!" echoed the other. "Much! Why, my dear sir, if that daughter of
mine had been drowned I believe it would have killed me. She is my only
child, and, if I do say it myself, sir, the sweetest girl that ever
lived."
"Wasn't it rather reckless, judge," inquired the other, "for you to
allow her to go sailing alone?"
"She is used to the boat," responded Judge Fuller, "but no one on earth
could have handled it in such a gale. I do not remember to have seen
such a one in all the time I have lived up here."
"Nor I, either," said the superintendent. "It was so dark that I could
scarcely see across the parade ground. It is almost miraculous that
Mallory should have succeeded in finding the boat as he did."
"Tell me about it," put in the other. "I have not been able to get a
consistent account yet."
"Cadet Captain Fischer told me," responded the colonel. "It seems that
he and Mallory were just at the finish of a swimming race when the storm
broke. They caught sight of the boat with your daughter in it coming
down stream. The plebe turned, exhausted though he was, and headed for
it. It got so dark then that those on shore could scarcely see; but the
lad managed to catch the boat as it passed and climbed aboard. Just then
the boom swung round and flung the girl into the water. Mallory dived
again at once----"
"Splendid!" interrupted the other.
"And swam ashore with her."
"And then fainted, they say," the judge added.
"Yes," said Colonel Harvey. "Dr. Grimes told me that it was one of the
worst cases of exhaustion he had ever seen. But the lad is doing well
now; he appears to be a very vigorous youngster--and I've an idea
several of the yearlings found that out to their discomfort. The doctor
told me that he thought he would be out this morning; the accident was
only two days ago."
"That is fortunate," responded the other. "The boy is too good to lose."
"He appears to be a remarkable lad generally," continued the
superintendent. "I have heard several tales about him. Some of the
stories came to me 'unofficially,' as we call it, and I don't believe
Mallory would rest easily if he thought I knew of them. Young Fischer,
who's a splendid man himself, I'll tell you, informed me yesterday that
the plebe had earned his admission fee by bringing help to a wrecked
train and telegraphing the account to a New York paper."
"I heard he had been in some trouble about demerits," put in Judge
Fuller.
"In very serious trouble. I had to take a very radical step to get him
out of it. Every once in a while I find that some new cadet is being
'skinned,' as the cadets call it, demerited unfairly. I always punish
severely when I find that out. In this case, though, I had no proof;
Mallory would say nothing, though he was within five demerits of
expulsion. So I decided to end the whole matter by declaring a new rule
I've been contemplating for some time. I've found that new cadets get
too many demerits during the first few weeks, before they learn the
rules thoroughly. So I've decided that in future no demerits shall be
given for the first three weeks, and that delinquencies shall be
punished by extra hours and other penalties. That let Mallory out of his
trouble, you see."
"A very clever scheme!" laughed the other. "Very clever!"
It may be of interest to notice that Colonel Harvey's rule has been in
effect ever since.
There was silence of a few moments after that, during which Judge Fuller
tapped the floor with his cane reflectively.
"You promised to let me see this Mallory," he said, suddenly. "I'm ready
now."
By way of answer, the superintendent rang a bell upon his desk.
"Go over to the hospital," he said to the orderly who appeared in the
doorway, "and find out if Cadet Mallory is able to be about. If he is,
bring him here at once."
The boy disappeared and the colonel turned to his visitor and smiled.
"Is that satisfactory?" he inquired.
"Very!" responded the other. "And I only wish that you could send for my
daughter to come over, too. I hope those surgeons are taking care of
her."
"As much as if she were their own," answered the colonel. "I cannot tell
you how glad I was to learn that she is beyond danger."
"It is God's mercy," said the other, with feeling. "She could not have
had a much narrower escape."
And after that neither said anything until a knock at the door signaled
the arrival of the orderly.
"Come in," called the superintendent, and two figures stepped into the
room. One was the messenger, and the other was Mark.
"This," said the superintendent after a moment's pause, "is Cadet
Mallory."
And Cadet Mallory it was. The same old Mark, only paler and more weak
just then.
Judge Fuller rose and bowed gravely.
"Sit down," said he, "you are not strong enough to stand."
And after that no one said anything for fully a minute; the last speaker
resumed his seat and fell to studying Mark's face in silence. And Mark
waited respectfully for him to begin.
"My name," said he at last, "is Fuller."
"Judge Fuller?" inquired Mark.
"Yes. And Grace Fuller is my daughter."
After that there was silence again, broken suddenly by the excitable old
gentleman dropping his cane, springing up from his chair, and striding
over toward the lad.
"I want to shake hands with you, sir! I want to shake hands with you!"
he cried.
Mark was somewhat taken aback; but he arose and did as he was asked.
"And now," said the judge, "I guess that's all--sit down, sir, sit down;
you've little strength left, I can see. I want to thank you, sir, for
being the finest lad I've met for a long time. And when my daughter gets
well--which she will, thank the Lord--I'll be very glad to have you
call on us, or else to let us call on you--seeing that we live beyond
cadet limits. And if ever you get into trouble, here or anywhere, just
come and see me about it, and I'll be much obliged to you. And that's
all."
Having said which, the old gentleman stalked across the room once more,
picked up his hat and cane, and made for the door.
"Good-day, sir," he said. "I'm going around now to see my daughter.
Good-day, and God bless you."
After which the door was shut.
