a thought to the subject since. In the scenes of beauty through which
they were passing such a possibility seemed incongruous, and no
apprehension was felt. But danger there was, notwithstanding.
They had spent the night at a wretched inn in the town of Melfa, and
proceeding on their way, passed on the left the picturesque town of
Rocca Secca. About a mile beyond they were startled by the sudden
appearance of three dark and swarthy Italians, who, darting from a clump
of bushes at the wayside, seized one of the horses by the bridle, and
pointing pistols at the party, called out in English in a menacing tone,
“Money!”
“Well, I’ll be jiggered,” exclaimed the American, “here’s the banditti
sure enough!”
Walter Cunningham looked troubled. It was a very disagreeable
interruption.
“Look here, gentlemen bandits,” said Amos, “we haven’t any money to
spare. We are only poor travelers. You have made a mistake. There’s some
rich gentlemen on the road who will be here about this time to-morrow.
You’d better wait for them.”
Of course all this was thrown away upon the Italians, who did not
understand English, and frowned impatiently while Mr. Sanderson was
speaking.
“Give up your money, and that at once,” said the foremost of the
banditti.
He spoke in Italian, but Bernard, who had picked up some familiar
phrases, understood and interpreted.
“Really this is very disagreeable,” said Cunningham.
“I wish they understood English. I’d argy a little with them,” added the
American.
“I am afraid it wouldn’t do much good, Mr. Sanderson,” said Bernard.
“They would probably shoot you for an answer.”
The party looked undecided. By way of hastening a decision one of the
bandits came up to the door of the carriage, and holding his pistol in
one hand, held out his hat in the other.
“I suppose we must surrender at discretion,” said the young Englishman.
“They won’t make much of a haul in my case.”
“Nor in mine,” added Sanderson. “I have about enough money to last me as
far as Naples, where I intend to call on my banker.”
“We had better give up what we have. It won’t ruin us.”
The American, who was pugnacious and liked to argue, yielded
unwillingly. He and his companions emptied their pockets, and passed the
contents over to the black-bearded fellow who acted as collector. He
looked at the sum and frowned fiercely as he turned to his companions
and spoke a few words to them.
“What does he say?” asked Amos Sanderson.
“I don’t understand,” said Bernard. “He talks too fast for me.”
Here Pasquale broke into the conversation.
“He says it isn’t enough,” he explained.
“But it is all we have. Tell him so.”
Pasquale put the message into Italian, and communicated it to his
countrymen.
“Well, what does he say?” asked Walter Cunningham.
“He says it is not enough, and that you can get more.”
“Where can we get it?”
“He says you can get it at your bankers’.”
“Bring the bankers along, and we will ask them.”
“The signor will only anger them, and that will be bad.”
“How much in the name of wonder do they want?”
Pasquale repeated the question.
“They want five thousand scudi more,” he reported.
“How much is a scudi?” asked the American, turning to Cunningham.
“A dollar.”
“And the rascals want five thousand dollars? Jumping Jehoshaphat,
haven’t they got cheek! Why do they ask so much of three poor
travelers?”
Pasquale repeated the question, and received an answer.
“They say you are not poor, that one of you is a great English milord,
and that you are a rich American.”
“I’d like to know how they found out I am rich,” said Amos, disgusted.
“Have they seen my tax bill?”
“They say all Americans are rich.”
“That’s where they make a big mistake. I know plenty of men in Omaha
that wouldn’t be worth a hundred dollars if their debts were paid. As to
my friend here being a rich milord, I don’t know but he is. I am not a
milord at all, but only a plain American citizen.”
“I am not a milord,” said Walter Cunningham, smiling. “However, I am
aware that in Italy every Englishman who has money enough to travel is
supposed to be a lord, just as every American is called rich.”
“They don’t say anything about me,” said Bernard. “I wonder whether they
take me to be rich or a milord?”
“They don’t take account of you because you are a boy. They think you
are related to Mr. Cunningham or myself.”
“I am willing to be overlooked.”
“I wonder if I could pass myself off for a boy,” said the American
humorously.
“Hardly. You have lost too much hair.”
“The gentlemen are getting impatient,” said Pas-quale warningly.
“Are they? Well, I guess we shall take our time.”
“It will not be well to provoke them needlessly,” said Walter
Cunningham. “You may tell them that we cannot give them five thousand
scudi,” he added addressing the vetturino.
The bandits held a conference, but it was not prolonged. Evidently they
were incensed at the contumacy of their victims.
After the conference, during which the three travelers were very
anxious, they spoke to Pasquale, who communicated their decision.
“They say you must either make arrangements to pay the five thousand
scudi, or go with them.”
“Where in thunder do they mean to carry us, Pasquale?”
“I don’t know. They would not tell if I asked them.”
“Tell them to take us along, then,” said Mr. Sanderson, leaning back in
his seat and nodding obstinately.
Walter Cunningham seemed to acquiesce, and the answer was returned.
Immediately one of the bandits took his seat beside the vetturino and
took the reins from him. The other two walked beside the carriage. The
party turned off from the main road, and entered a lane leading up the
hill to the left.
“Well, boys, we’re in for it, I s’pose,” said Amos Sanderson. “It’s too
bad, I vow. Such things couldn’t be done in America under the Stars and
Stripes.”
“Don’t robberies ever take place in the States?” asked Walter
Cunningham.
“Well, perhaps so, but these fellows have not only robbed us of all we
have, but are carrying us off because we won’t give them more. I’d just
like to wrestle with them one by one. If I didn’t throw them, I’d be
jiggered, that’s all.”
“I don’t think they would agree to any such plan. They carry pistols,
and probably knives. They are more used to them than to wrestling.”
“No doubt you are right, milord,” said Amos, at which Cunningham
laughed. “Where do you think they’re going to carry us?”
“They probably have some secret resort somewhere among these hills. We
shall find out before long. What do you think of our adventure,
Bernard?”
“I wish I knew how it was going to turn out, Walter,” returned Bernard
soberly.
“So do I,” said the American. “I shall have to have a good think. I
can’t think unless I have a smoke. Will you have a cigar, Cunningham?”
“No, thank you.”
“Or you, Bernard?”
“No, but it might be a good idea to offer cigars to our new friends.”
“That’s a good idea. I’ll act on it.”
Mr. Sanderson took out a cigar, and, lighting it, put it in his mouth.
Next he selected three others, offering the first to the man who sat
beside the vetturino.
“Will you have a cigar, my friend?” he said.
The bandit took it, and said politely, “Grazia, signor.”
“What’s that?”
“He says ‘thank you,’” returned Bernard.
The other bandits accepted the cigars graciously, and were evidently
more favorably inclined to the travelers they were escorting.
“I say, Bernard, we look like a friendly family party,”  said Amos, who
was amused by the situation.
The new driver was in no hurry. He drove in leisurely fashion, partly
because their way ran up hill, partly because his two companions were
obliged to walk, and could not otherwise keep up.
“I wish I knew where they were taking us,” said Amos Sanderson.
“To a free hotel,” answered Bernard.
“It’ll have to be free, for they haven’t left us any money to pay for
that or anything else.”
“Their hotel can’t be much worse than the one we stopped at last night
at Melfa.”
“I wish their bill might not be any larger,” said Walter Cunningham.
The cigars were smoked, and then the party subsided into silence. Even
the lively American realized that they were in a difficult and perhaps
dangerous situation. All three were busy with their own thoughts,
Bernard was anxious, but he was also curious, and excited. He remembered
to have read a story three years before in which a party had been
surprised by banditti somewhere in Sicily. He forgot how the story
ended. When he read it he certainly was very far from thinking that some
time a similar adventure would happen to himself.
CHAPTER XXX.  IN A TRAP.
|They proceeded thus for a short distance, when there was a sudden stop.
The vetturino was ordered to descend from the driver’s seat, and he
and the bandits had a conference.
Bernard was the only one of the party who understood Italian at all, and
he failed to get any idea from the rapid words spoken by the four
Italians. What they could be talking about not one of the party could
conjecture.
At length the conference seemed to be over. One of the bandits took out
a few scudi and handed them to the vetturino. The latter looked very
much dissatisfied and had the appearance of one who was making a bad
bargain.
Then the bandit who had taken the lead came to the door of the carriage.
“Gentlemen, you will descend,” he said.
“What’s that?” asked the American.
“He says we are to get out of the carriage,” interpreted Bernard.
“What’s that for, I wonder?”
“Probably we shall find out after a while.”
When the three travelers had left the carriage their traveling bags were
taken from the vettura and placed in their hands.
Then Pasquale mounted the box and drove away. “Where are you going,
Pasquale?” asked Walter Cunningham.
“I am obliged to go. The gentlemen will not allow me to go any further.”
“Will you inform the authorities of the outrage that has been
perpetrated?” said the American. Pasquale shrugged his shoulders.
“It would be as much as my life is worth,” he replied.
“I suppose,” replied Cunningham, “that the bandits are unwilling to let
the vetturino know their headquarters. So they have sent him away.”
“I believe he is in the plot.”
“I don’t think so. He seems an honest sort of fellow. But what can he do
single handed? Should he betray these men, it would, as he says, be as
much as his life is worth.”
The captives did not particularly enjoy carrying their baggage, and the
American in particular grumbled not a little, but there seemed no help
for it.
They ascended a rising ground, and then made a descent to a plain. After
an hour’s walking, quite spent with fatigue, they reached a large,
irregularly built stone house, which was in a state of partial ruin. It
was very old, dating back probably to the middle ages.
“I wonder whether that is the bandits’ retreat?” said Bernard.
“At any rate, it is an improvement upon the hotel where we spent last
night.”
The question was soon settled. Through a doorway the bandits led the way
into a courtyard, and; crossing it, one of them took out a huge key and
opened an oaken door.
He signed to the captives to follow him.
They did so, and found themselves in a spacious room nearly twenty-five
feet square. The floor was of stone, and it was nearly bare of
furniture. In one corner there was a heap of bedclothes. Along one side
was a bench, on which Amos Sanderson seated himself without asking
permission.
“I feel about ready to drop,” he said. “My valise is as heavy as yours
and Bernard’s together.”
“Have you a dress suit?” asked Bernard, laughing. “If our captors should
give a ball in our honor you might need it.”
“It doesn’t seem like a very gay place. I have never been in jail, but
this room carries out my idea of a dungeon cell.”
The room was indeed a gloomy one. There were windows, it is true, but so
high up that they only admitted a limited amount of sunshine.
“Now, how long are they going to keep us? That is what I would like to
know; and what object have they in detaining us?”
“I suppose,” said Cunningham, “they will keep us till they get the five
thousand scudi.”
“Then they’ll wait a long time, I reckon.”
The bandits left the room, taking care to fasten the door on the
outside.
“Boys,” said Amos Sanderson, “I don’t mind admitting that I have never
been more hungry in the whole course of my life.”
Bernard and Walter Cunningham agreed that their feelings harmonized with
his.
“Suppose we order dinner,” said Bernard humorously.
“They will be sure to feed us,” observed Cunningham. “They won’t kill
the goose from which they expect golden eggs.”
He proved to be right. In a short time the door was opened, and one of
the bandits appeared, bringing a large loaf of black bread, with a small
dish of olives, and a supply of macaroni. A quart bottle of sour wine
completed the generous collation.
It was not very tempting. It was worse than, they had fared at any of
the poor inns where they had lodged, yet Amos Sanderson’s face
brightened when he saw the food, and he did full justice to it.
“I am so hungry that I really believe I could eat shoe leather,” he
said.
Bernard and Walter Cunningham also ate with zest.
“Now I suppose they will bring in the bill,” said Amos Sanderson grimly.
But when the meal was over they were left to themselves for a time.
“Now that I have eaten I feel sleepy,” said the American. “I suppose
that heap of rags in the corner is meant for a bed. I will make one.”
He picked up a narrow mattress, which had been rolled up before it was
laid away, and spread it out on the floor. Then he selected a quilt,
and, stretching himself out, spread it over him.
“That walk with my valise quite tuckered me out,” he said. “Just call me
when the carriage is ready.” Bernard and Walter Cunningham could not so
readily throw off the burden of anxiety. They sat together upon the
bench and discussed the situation.
“We are in a bad scrape, Bernard,” said his friend, “and I have led you
into it.”
“I think we will get out of it after a while,” said Bernard, trying to
be cheerful.
“Yes; if absolutely necessary, I will persuade Mr. Sanderson to join me
in paying the ransom, though I should hate to let these rascals reap the
reward of their knavery.”
They were served with supper at six o’clock. Scarcely was this over when
the three bandits entered the room, accompanied by a man of thirty-five
or thereabouts, who looked like a clerk or bookkeeper. It was soon
evident that he was present as an interpreter.
“Gentlemen,” he said, in tolerable English, “my friends here, who are
not acquainted with your language, have asked me to act as interpreter.
They wish to confer with you about your release.”
“That’s the talk,” said Amos Sanderson, with alacrity. “A release is
what we are anxious about.”
“I may say that you won’t have to stay here any longer than you desire.”
“Then we’ll go now, and thank you for your consideration.”
“Upon conditions.”
Walter Cunningham smiled. He quite understood that there would be
conditions.
“I suppose you want us to keep your secret,” said the American. “We’ll
do it.”
“That is not quite all,” replied the interpreter. “My friends want to be
paid for their trouble.”
“They needn’t have taken any trouble. We didn’t ask them to.”
The interpreter frowned slightly. He began to-think Mr. Sanderson “too
fresh.”
“You talk too much,” he said curtly. “They have fixed your ransom at
five thousand scudi. That is certainly small for such wealthy and
illustrious signors.”
“Look here, my friend, five thousand scudi is a great deal of money.”
“Not for millionaires.”
“Who said we were millionaires?”
“All English and American signors are rich.”
“How are we to get the money to pay you? You, or your friends, rather,
have taken all we have.”
“You can get some from your bankers in Naples.”
“You seem to have got our affairs down fine. Well, let us go to
Naples--you can go with us if you like---and we’ll, see whether our
bankers will let us have the money.”
“The signor takes us for fools.”
Here Mr. Cunningham thought it time to interfere, as the American was
likely to anger their captors and upset all negotiations.
“Even if we have money,” he said, “it would probably be necessary for us
to see our bankers. They do not know us, and might not give the money to
a messenger.”
“Just what I said,” put in Mr. Sanderson.
The bandits conferred together, and then the interpreter spoke again.
“To whom does the boy belong?” he asked.
“To me,” answered Walter Cunningham.
“Is he known to your bankers?”
“No. He has never been in Naples.”
“Are you fond of him?”
“Very much so.”
“If he should go to Naples with a letter from you, could he get the
money?”
“I am not sure.”
“Then I am not sure about your release.”
“Mr. Sanderson, will you join me in paying the ransom this gentleman has
mentioned?”
“No, I’ll be jiggered if I will!”
“Then I am afraid you will have to remain here.”
“If you will pay three thousand scudi we will release you and the boy,”
 said the interpreter.
“What, and leave me here?” exclaimed the American.
“It is your own fault, signor.”
After considerable conversation a plan was agreed upon, in which Amos
Sanderson unwillingly acquiesced.
CHAPTER XXXI.  WALTER CUNNINGHAM’S MISSION.
|It was decided that Cunningham himself should go to Naples, carrying
with him not only his own letter of credit, but Amos Sanderson’s as
well. He was to draw three thousand scudi on his own account, and two
thousand on account of the American, and come back with this sum, on the
receipt of which the three would be released.
“If you don’t come back,” said the interpreter, “this gentleman and the
boy will have to take a long journey.”
“Where?” asked Amos Sanderson, with some curiosity.
“To the next world,” answered the interpreter grimly.
“Mr. Cunningham, you will not fail us?” said Sanderson nervously.
“You may rely on me. What do you take me for?”
“I thought perhaps when you found yourself at liberty you would choose
to remain so. You have no particular interest in me.”
“Even if that were so, do you think I would leave Bernard exposed to
danger?”
“Enough said. I am sure now that you will return. But,” continued the
American, who was inclined to be suspicious, “perhaps these gentlemen,
when they get the money, will keep us and demand another ransom.”
This was interpreted to the bandits, who looked angry.
“Tell the signor,” said the chief proudly, “that we are men of honor.
When we give our word we keep it.”
“I have heard that there is honor among thieves,” muttered Sanderson.
“What does he say?” asked the chief suspiciously.
“What did you say, signor?” inquired the interpreter.
“I said that you looked like men of honor.”
“That is well. You will not be disappointed.”
In half an hour Walter Cunningham was on his way to Naples. The door was
again bolted on the outside, and Bernard and Amos Sanderson were left to
their reflections.
“This ain’t exactly cheerful, Bernard,” said Amos. “Here we are, free
born American citizens, locked up as if we were criminals. It ain’t very
creditable to any country to have such things going on. I’d like to have
a short interview with the king of Italy.”
“What would you say to him?”
“What would I say? I’d give him a piece of my mind. I’d tell him that he
didn’t know how to govern.”
“Probably he can’t stop this brigandage.”
“Then he ought to resign, and let somebody fill his place that could
stop it. Do you think if old General Jackson were king that he would let
these rascals stop and plunder travelers? However, the time will come
when there will be a different government.”
“Do you think so, Mr. Sanderson?”
“Yes, I do.”.
“When will that be?”
“When Italy is under the Stars and Stripes.” Bernard looked surprised.
“Surely you don’t think that will ever happen?”
“I am sure of it,” said Amos Sanderson, in a positive tone. “It’s the
manifest destiny of the United States to annex the rest of the world.
Within fifty years England will form a part of the great American
republic.”
“I wonder what Mr. Cunningham would say to that?”
“He would deny it, it’s likely. These Britishers are mighty conceited.”
“Perhaps he would think it more likely that we should belong to Great
Britain.”
“Never! England tried to conquer us twice, and she got whipped each
time.”
“I am glad of one thing,” said Bernard, smiling.
“And what is that?”
“That we shan’t have to stay here till the Stars and Stripes float over
Italy.”
“I don’t know as I should care to wait, myself. I don’t say it will be
soon. You may be an old man before it happens. But it’s bound to come
some day.”
“I wonder how soon we may expect Mr. Cunningham back. Do you know how
long it will take to go to Naples?”
“No, but it isn’t very far. Perhaps we shall see him back in three
days.”
“I don’t expect him so soon. He will have to see the bankers.”
“Look here, Bernard,” said the American, after a pause, “I have been
thinking that we might find some way of escape.”
Bernard shook his head.
“What good would it do?” he rejoined. “Mr. Cunningham wouldn’t know of
it, and he would bring the money. When he does that we shall be released
at any rate.”
Amos Sanderson was impressed by this consideration, and no longer
allowed his mind to dwell on plans of escape.
Meals were served to the captives twice a day. This was probably as
often as the bandits ate themselves, for of all nations Italians are
perhaps the least fond of the pleasures of the table, and probably eat
scarcely more than half as much as an average Englishman or American.
They treated their captives as well as themselves, but this did not
satisfy Amos Sanderson, who from his boyhood had been a hearty eater.
“They might as well feed us on bread and water and be done with it,” he
said. “When I get through eating I am just as hungry as before. It’s as
bad as prison fare.”
“Well, Mr. Sanderson, we are prisoners, are we not?”
“But not convicts. They might remember that we are gentlemen.”
Bernard was not as much disturbed by the scanty fare as his companion.
True, he would have liked more abundant meals, but he had patience and
reflected that the present inconvenience would probably last only a
short time. Nevertheless, he and Amos Sanderson counted the days, and
every morning said to each other: “One more day is past. It won’t be
long before Mr. Cunningham returns, and we are released.”
“If he does come back,” suggested Sanderson.
“Do you doubt that he is honorable?” asked Bernard angrily.
“Well, no; but the temptation is great. If he stays away he will be five
thousand scudi in, and be his own master besides.”
“Would you yield to any such temptation?”
“No.”
“Then you doubt whether he is as honorable as yourself?”
“Don’t get riled, Bernard. I can’t help thinking how much depends on
your friend’s return.”
“He will return. You needn’t be afraid.”
But when the sixth morning came, and Mr. Cunningham was still absent,
even Bernard became somewhat anxious.
“Well, he isn’t here yet,” said the American significantly.
“No.”
“Do you still have confidence in him?”
“Certainly.”
“All I can say, then, is that he isn’t hurrying much. Why, it isn’t far
to Naples. If I had gone I’ll guarantee I would have been back within
three days.”
Bernard did not answer.
“I notice you don’t look so chipper as you did.”
“No. I have just as much confidence in Mr. Cunningham, but he may have
met with some accident.”
“Very likely,” said Amos Sanderson sarcastically. “Or, he may have
fallen into the hands of another gang of bandits on his way here.”
“It won’t be very lucky for us if he has. That’s all I’ve got to say.”
There was another cause for anxiety. The bandits, who, during the first
three or four days, had treated their captives politely and even
courteously, now wore a different expression. They looked gloomy and
frowned ominously when they entered the apartment where their captives
were confined. They made no conversation with them, but their looks were
hostile. Finally--it was on the morning of the seventh day--they entered
the room in a body, accompanied by the interpreter.
They took seats, and the interpreter addressed himself to Mr. Sanderson.
“Signor,” he said, “your friend has not returned.”
“I know it, and I am blamed sorry for it.”
“This is the seventh day since he started.”
“Correct, squire. It seemed as much as seven weeks to me.”
“Naples is not far off,” continued the interpreter significantly.
“That’s so.”
“Don’t you think he has had time to go there and return?”
“Yes, I do,” blurted out Sanderson. “I think he’s been infernally slow.
If you’d only let me go instead of him I’d have been back long ago.”
“I see the signor agrees with me. He has been gone much longer than is
necessary.”
“I think so, too.”
“Perhaps there has been some accident,” suggested Bernard.
“My friends are not willing to wait much longer,” said the interpreter.
“I don’t see that we can do anything to hurry him back.”
“No, but if he should delay another day it might be very uncomfortable
for you and the boy.”
“What do you mean by that?”
“I mean that if he is not here by to-morrow we will think that he does
not mean to come at all.”
“And what then?”
The interpreter shrugged his shoulders.
“Probably the signor can conjecture?”
“You will keep us in captivity then?”
“No, we will give you a passport to another world.”
“You will murder us?” inquired Amos Sanderson, horror-struck, for he had
a natural love for the world in which his money secured him a liberal
share of enjoyment.
“The signor has said it.”
“Why, that would be outrageous!” exclaimed the American, big drops of
perspiration forming on his forehead.
“Then your friend should come back with the money.”
“But it won’t be our fault if he does not.”
“True, but it will be very disagreeable for you.”
“Look here, what good is it going to do you to kill me?” asked Amos
Sanderson, in an argumentative tone.
“I don’t care to argue. Our friends here wish to prepare you for the
worst. If your friend does not appear to-morrow at noon you and the boy
must die.”
“Do you hear that, Bernard?” asked Sanderson.
“Yes,” answered Bernard, in a low voice.
The boy’s face was pale, and a feeling of awe was in his heart as he
felt that the end of his life might be near. He did not feel inclined to
argue the matter like Sanderson, but he inwardly prayed for Walter
Cunningham’s return.
CHAPTER XXXII.  SUSPENSE.
|Neither Bernard nor his companion slept much that night. Both realized
that it might be the last night of their lives. Bernard felt solemn, but
mingled with Sanderson’s alarm and anxiety was a feeling of intense
anger against Walter Cunningham for his desertion of them.
“It is a mean, contemptible trick that Cunningham has played upon us,”
 he said. “For the sake of saving his paltry money he has doomed us both
to death.”
“I am sure it isn’t his fault.”
“Oh, you may excuse him if you will. I won’t do it. I understand him
better than you do.”
“I don’t feel like disputing you,” said Bernard gravely, “but I know him
well, and I am sure he would not leave me in the lurch.”
They tossed about on their beds and neither one slept. They woke and
rose unrefreshed.
Breakfast was brought them, but neither could eat a mouthful.
“I can’t eat anything. It would choke me,” said Sanderson.
“Walter Cunningham may come yet,” said Bernard, but his hope was very
faint.
“Then he had better hurry, that’s all I have got to say. I wish I could
communicate with the American minister. Our government should send over
a fleet of war vessels and blow Naples sky high.”
“You must remember that these men are outlaws--that it is their work,
and not the work of the government.”
“Then the government should suppress them. I wish,” Amos Sanderson
continued, with a groan, “that I had never set foot in this forsaken
country. I should have stood a better chance in a savage land.”
“The signor is not hungry?” said the bandit who had brought in the
breakfast. He spoke in Italian, but Bernard understood.
“No,” he answered,  “we are not hungry.”
“How can you expect a man to have an appetite when he’s going to be
murdered?” growled Sanderson.
The bandit did not understand, and merely looked at him gravely.
“It’s too bad,” went on the American, “to leave the world, when a man
has made a fortune and is able to enjoy it. Why, I ought to live
twenty-five years yet. I am only forty-seven.”
“And I am not yet seventeen,” said Bernard.
“Yes, it’s hard luck for us both. And to think Cunningham has doomed us
to all this! I’d like to wring his neck. If I had gone it would have
been different.”
Bernard felt too despondent to defend his friend. In his secret heart he
felt that Cunningham ought to have managed somehow to come back and save
them from the doom which now awaited them.
“It is half past eleven,” said the American, drawing out his watch,
which, perhaps because it was only of silver, the bandits had not
confiscated.
“Then we have half an hour to live. If only Mr. Cunningham would appear
in that time!” sighed Bernard.
Slowly the minutes passed, but there was no arrival.
Punctually at twelve o’clock the door opened and the bandits entered,
accompanied by the interpreter. There was a stern gravity upon the faces
of the three Italians, which caused the hearts of the captives to sink
within them.
“Well,” said the interpreter, “your friend has not come.”
“No, confound him!” exclaimed Sanderson fiercely. “I’d like to strangle
him.”
“Give him another day,” pleaded Bernard. “He must have met with some
delay.”
The interpreter shrugged his shoulders.
“Naples is only fifteen miles away, and it is now the seventh day.
Doubtless he is enjoying himself. He has no thought of returning.”
“I have no doubt you are right,” said Amos Sanderson bitterly.
“The signor agrees with me, then.”
“You should have let me go.”
“Would it have been any better?” asked the interpreter gravely.
“Yes. I give you my word it would.”
Then a sudden thought came to Mr. Sanderson.
“Look here,” he said, “you want money, don’t you?”
“That is what we want.”
“Then I’ll tell you what I’ll do. Send me to Naples, and I’ll bring you
five thousand scudi. I’ll hurry back as soon as I can.”
“Does the signor take us for fools? We have lost one of our prisoners.
Shall we let another go?”
“But you will have the boy left.”
“Well?”
“If I don’t come back you will have him in your power.”
Bernard looked at Amos Sanderson.
He was not especially pleased with his proposal, nor did he feel in the
least certain that he would come back. Still, his life would be
prolonged, and that would lead to something. Possibly it would give
Walter Cunningham time to return.
“I am willing to be left,” he said, “if you choose to let this gentleman
go.”
“You’re a trump, Bernard!” said Mr. Sanderson cordially. “I’ll come
back, I assure you. You see the boy is willing.”
“But we are not,” said the interpreter decidedly. “Of the three the boy
is the last one that we wish to retain.”
“But you want the money, don’t you?”
“Yes.”
“Then let me go.”
“How will the signor get the money?”
“From my bankers.”
“But you gave your letter of credit to the other signor.”
“So I did,” said Amos Sanderson, with sudden recollection.
“And without your letter of credit you could get no money.”
Amos Sanderson was silent. He had no answer to make. He had still harder
thoughts in his heart of Walter Cunningham, whom he accused of the
basest treachery.
“Have you any more to say?” asked the interpreter.
“No,” answered Sanderson sullenly.
“And you?” turning to Bernard.
“I ask you to wait another day.”
“We cannot do it. It is clear that Signor Cunningham will not return.”
At a signal one of the bandits went to the door and opened it.
“Follow me,” said the interpreter.
Bernard and Sanderson had been so long confined that they were glad to
pass through the portal into the bright sunshine without.
“Now what are you going to do with us?” asked the American.
“You can choose in what way you will die. Shall it be by the knife or
the pistol?”
Just then Bernard turned his head. He uttered a joyful exclamation.
“Look!” he said in delight, “there he comes! There is Walter
Cunningham.”
A dozen rods away could be seen the figure of their missing companion.
He seemed to be extremely fatigued, and his clothing was covered with
dust.
“I knew he would come,” said Bernard triumphantly.
CHAPTER XXXIII.  RESCUED.
|I’m glad to see you, old man,” called out Amos Sanderson joyfully. “I
was afraid you wouldn’t come. It came near being serious for us.”
“Yes, I have come,” said Walter Cunningham wearily.
He looked ready to drop, and there was an expression of sadness on his
face.
“You seem very tired,” said Bernard compassionately.
“Yes, I was afraid I would be too late. Why are you all out here? What
is going to happen?”
“I’ll tell you,” said Sanderson. “These gentlemen were about to kill us.
They had just offered us the choice of how to die. But now that you have
come with the money----”
“I have no money,” said Cunningham in a low voice.
“What!” exclaimed Sanderson, in dismay.
“You have no money?” said the interpreter, in amazement.
“What have you been doing all this time, then?” asked the American.
“I will tell you, but I must sit. I have been walking for hours.”
He sat down on a broken branch of a tree and breathed a deep sigh.
The bandits looked puzzled. They did not understand what he had said,
but felt that it was something of importance, and they looked to the
interpreter for an explanation. The latter said nothing, but waited.
“Listen,” began Cunningham; “a week since I left here and went to
Naples.”
“You did go to Naples, then?”
“Yes, I reached Naples, though it took me rather longer than I
anticipated. I went to see the bankers, and----”
“Got the money?”
“Yes, I got the money.”
“Then I don’t understand.”
“You will soon. I was delayed two days, and this will account in part
for the length of time I have been absent. As soon as I could I started
on my return.”
“With the money?”
“Yes, with the money. But I was waylaid by two men twenty miles back,
and robbed of every scudi.”
Amos Sanderson groaned.
“Is this true?” asked the interpreter.
“Yes; I wish it were not.”
“And you have come here with empty pockets?”
“Yes.”
“Why, then, did you come back at all?”
“Because I felt that I could not desert my comrades. I went out as their
agent, and it was my duty to report to them, and share their fate if any
harm should befall them.”
“You hear that, Mr. Sanderson?” said Bernard triumphantly.
“If I had been the messenger this thing would not have happened.”
“Will you explain to these gentlemen what I have said?” said Cunningham
to the interpreter.
The latter did so, and the result was scowling looks on the swarthy
faces of the three Italians. The three captives awaited in silence the
result of their conference. They had not to wait long.
“I am sorry, gentlemen,” said the interpreter, “for what is going to
happen. My friends here are deeply disappointed.”
“It is not our fault,” said Amos Sanderson.
“They have stated the terms of release. They required five thousand
scudi, and they are not forthcoming. Under the circumstances they have
no choice but to doom you all to death.”
It was a terrible sentence, and the hearts of the three captives
quailed.
“At least spare the boy--spare Bernard,” said Walter Cunningham.
“We can make no exception,” replied the interpreter, after a brief
conference with the bandits. “All we can do is to give you the choice of
the knife or the pistol.”
“I choose the pistol,” said the Englishman.
“Look here, you are making fools of yourselves,” cried Amos Sanderson.
“Send me to Naples, and I will bring back the money. I see that you are
in earnest, and I will keep my word.”
Again there was a whispered conference. Then the interpreter spoke
again.
“My friends do not trust you,” he said. “You would not return.”
Sanderson wished to argue the question, but the interpreter silenced him
by an imperative gesture.
“No words of yours can alter our purpose,” he said. “We have been more
lenient with you than with most of our prisoners. We have given you
seven days to get the money for your ransom, and it is not here. We have
no time to waste. What is to be done must be done quickly.”
“There seems no help for it, Bernard,” said the Englishman.
Within five minutes the three captives, with hands tied, were bound to
trees, and with blanched faces awaited the fatal volley from the three
bandits, who stationed themselves at the distance of twenty paces
fronting them.
Bernard gave himself up for lost when something unexpected happened. He
heard shots, and for the moment thought they came from the pistols of
their intended murderers. But to his astonishment it was the robber
opposite him who fell. Another shot and another and the other two fell,
fatally wounded. Then a party of soldiers came dashing forward,
accompanied by a man whose face looked familiar to Bernard.
“Mr. Penrose!” he exclaimed.
“Yes, Bernard, it is I. I was robbed by these men a month since. I
tracked them, and I have at last brought them to justice.”
“You’re a trump, squire!” said Amos Sanderson. “I never felt so relieved
in the whole course of my life. Come and untie me.”
William Penrose took a jack-knife from his pocket, but he untied Bernard
first.
“You have the prior claim on me,” he said.
It was found that two of the bandits were dead.
The third was taken by the soldiers, and carried on an extemporized
litter to the nearest town, where he was imprisoned, but later tried and
sentenced to be executed.
Overjoyed at their unexpected rescue from peril, the three travelers
made the best of their way to Naples, where, despite the loss of five
thousand scudi, Walter Cunningham and Amos Sanderson enjoyed themselves
by trips to Mt. Vesuvius, Pompeii, and a ride to Sorrento along the
shores of the magnificent Bay of Naples.
“Have you consoled yourself for the loss of two thousand scudi?” asked
Bernard, addressing himself to the American, as they sat on a balcony
in their Sorrento hotel, looking out upon the moonlit waters of the
famous sea.
“Yes,” answered Mr. Sanderson. “Now that the three rascals who captured
us and nearly put us to death have met the same fate themselves, I don’t
make any account of the money. Thank Providence, I have plenty, left.”
“That’s the right way to look upon it,” said Walter Cunningham.
“I am the only one who has lost nothing,” said Bernard. “I have the best
reason to be satisfied.” The three still remained together. They had
been companions in misfortune, and this was a tie that still held them.
Yet, truth to tell, neither Bernard nor his English friend enjoyed the
society of the American, who was hardly congenial, and had some
objectionable qualities.
“I have no prejudice against your countrymen,” said Mr. Cunningham to
Bernard. “I have known many cultivated and refined Americans, whose
society I enjoyed, but they differed essentially from Mr. Sanderson. I
own I wish he would leave us.”
“He seems determined to stand by us,” said Bernard.
“Yes, so it seems.”
“There is one chance of separating from him. He has made up his mind to
go to Sicily and wants us to go with him.”
“We can refuse. But in that case he may give up his plan.”
“I don’t think he will. He tells me he has always wanted to go to
Sicily.”
“He may stand a chance of being again captured by banditti. I understand
that Sicily is more infested with them than the mainland.”
“I earnestly hope not. I don’t care especially for Mr. Sanderson, but I
think he has had his share of that kind of peril.”
That evening Mr. Sanderson broached the subject, and strongly urged his
two companions to start with him for Palermo.
“We shall have to disappoint you,” said Walter Cunningham. “We have
other plans.”
“But it won’t take long, and I surmise you have no important business to
keep you from going.”
The next day, however, Mr. Cunningham was provided with an excuse. He
received a letter from England informing him that an uncle, his mother’s
brother, was dying, and wished to see him.
“Are you ready to go back to England with me at once, Bernard?” he said.
“I shall be glad to do so.”
“Then pack your luggage, and we will go.”
In London Bernard received a letter from America that interested him.
CHAPTER XXXIV.  NAT BARCLAY’S LETTER.
|The day after Bernard reached London he received at his old address a
letter bearing the familiar postmark of Doncaster. It will be remembered
that it was at Doncaster our story opened, and it was there that the
boarding-school of Professor Ezekiel Snowdon was located. Bernard’s face
lighted up with pleasure, for in the superscription he recognized the
handwriting of his friend Nat Barclay.
He tore open the envelope and read the letter quickly. It ran thus:
“Dear Bernard:
“I write this with great anxiety, for I don’t know if you are living or
dead. Yesterday I met Septimus Snowdon, who is the same disagreeable
bully as ever, and he said, ‘Well, I have some news for you about your
friend Bernard Brooks.’ I was rather surprised at this, for I didn’t
suppose you would be very likely to write to him. Still I asked, ‘Have
you heard from him?’ ‘No,’ he answered disdainfully. ‘I wouldn’t have
any correspondence with a fellow like him. But he isn’t likely to write
any more letters.’ ‘Why not?’ I asked. ‘Because he’s dead, that’s why,’
snapped Septimus, and I saw that he seemed pleased. ‘I don’t believe
it,’ I returned. ‘Where do you get your information?’ ‘You’ll have to
believe it,’ he said. ‘Pa received a letter from his guardian, Mr.
Cornelius McCracken, of New York, saying that his death had been
reported to him by the gentleman in whose company he went to Europe. I
believe he wrote that he had met with an accident in Marseilles.’ Now I
had a good deal of doubt about the correctness of this statement, for I
knew from your own letters that you parted with Professor Puffer in
London, and were not likely to be in Marseilles with him. I asked
Septimus some further questions, but he seemed to have no more
information.
“‘Well,’ said Septimus sneeringly, ‘are you going to put on mourning for
your great friend Bernard?’ ‘I might,’ I answered, ‘if I believed him to
be dead, but I don’t believe it.’
“‘You’ll never see him again,’ said Septimus positively.
“Now, Bernard, though I don’t believe the story, I am anxious, and if
you are alive I hope you will write me again and tell me. I won’t
believe it till I have your own authority. That sounds like a bull,
doesn’t it? But I’ll go on and write as if you were still alive. You may
wish to know something about the school. To the best of my belief it is
far from prosperous. There are very few scholars, and those don’t look
as if their parents or guardians paid much for them. Then the professor
himself is looking very shabby and seedy. I don’t believe he has had a
new coat for over a year. Septimus looks better. There is a pupil in the
school about his size, and I really believe that Septimus is wearing his
clothes. I hear that old Snowdon gave the boy a dollar and a half for
