wrath; and he went out to ask the Chevalier if he should keep the
valuables in his own pocket or replace them in the pocket of the
pantaloons from which they had fallen.  The Chevalier took the rings
and slipped them on his fingers, all save the signet ring, which he
handed to his lackey.
"Keep this, lad, till I ask for it," was all he said.
Breton put the ring in the little chamois bag which his mother had
given him.  The ring rattled against a little silver crucifix.  The lad
then returned to the cabin and read his favorite book till his eyes
grew weary.  He looked about for a marker and espied some papers on the
floor.  These he thrust into his place and fell to dreaming.
Each afternoon the Chevalier was carried up to the deck; and what with
the salt air and the natural vigor which he inherited from his father,
the invalid's bones began to take on flesh and his interest in life
became normal.  It is true that when left alone a mask of gloom
shadowed his face, and his thin fingers opened and closed nervously and
unconsciously.  Diane, Diane, Diane!  It was the murmur of far-off
voices, it was the whisper of the winds in the shrouds, it was the cry
of the lonely gull and the stormy petrel.  To pass through the weary
years of his exile without again seeing that charming face, finally to
strive in vain to recall it in all its perfect beauty!  This thought
affected him more than the thought of the stigma on his birth.  That he
could and would live down; he was still a man, with a brain and a heart
and a strong arm.  But Diane!
The Comte d'Hérouville, for some reason best known to himself, appeared
to be acting with a view toward partial conciliation.  The Chevalier
did not wholly ignore this advance.  D'Hérouville would fight fair as
became a gentleman, and that was enough.  Since they were soon to set
about killing each other, what mattered the prologue?
The vicomte watched this play, and it caused him to smile.  He knew the
purpose of these advances: it was to bring about the freedom of the
Chevalier's cabin.  As yet neither he nor the count had found the
golden opportunity.  The Chevalier was never asleep or alone when they
knocked at the door of his cabin.
Each day D'Hérouville approached the Chevalier when the latter was on
deck.
"You are improving, Monsieur?" was the set inquiry.
"I am gaining every hour, Monsieur," always returned the invalid.
"That is well;" and then D'Hérouville would seek some other part of the
ship.  He ignored Victor as though he were not on board.
"Victor, you have not yet told me who the woman in the grey mask was,"
said the Chevalier.
"Bah!" said Victor, with fictitious nonchalance.
"She is fleeing from some one?"
"That may be."
"Who is she?" directly.
"I regret that I must leave you in the dark, Paul."
"But you said that you knew something of her history; and you can not
know that without knowing her name."
Victor remained silent.
"Somehow," went on the Chevalier, "that grey mask continually intrudes
into my dreams."
"That is because you have been ill, Paul."
"Is she some prince's light-o'-love?"
"She is no man's light-o'-love.  Do not question me further.  I may
tell you nothing.  She is a fugitive from the equivocal justice of
France."
"Politics?"
"Politics."
"She comes from a good family?"
"So high that you would laugh were I to tell you."
"As she left the private assembly that night I caught the odor of
vervain.  Perhaps that is what printed her well upon my mind."
"Pretend to yourself that it was attar of roses, and forget her.  She
will never enter into your life, my good comrade."
"I am merely curious, indifferently curious.  It is something to talk
about.  I daresay that she is pretty.  Homely women never flee from
anything but mirrors."
"And homely men," laughed the poet.  "I am going to see Bouchard for a
moment."
Du Puys, D'Hérouville and the vicomte drew their stools around the
Chevalier, and discussed politics, religion, and women.
"Why is it that women intrigue?" asked the Chevalier, recalling the
grey mask.  "Is it because they wish the great to smile on them?"
"No," replied the vicomte; "rather that they wish to smile on the
great.  Women love secret power, that power which comes from behind the
puppet-booth.  A man must stand before his audience to appear as great;
woman becomes most powerful when her power is not fully known.  The
king's mistress has ever been the mistress of the king."
"And Marie de Touchet?" asked Du Puys.
"Charles IX was not a fool; he was mad."  D'Hérouville smoothed his
beard.
Presently the Chevalier said to the vicomte: "Monsieur, will you be so
kind as to seek my lackey?  I am growing chilly and desire a shawl or a
cloak."
"I will gladly seek him," said the vicomte, flashing a triumphant look
at D'Hérouville, whose face became dark.
"Permit me to accompany you," requested the count.
"The vicomte will do, Monsieur," interposed the Chevalier, wonderingly.
The vicomte passed down the companionway and disappeared.  He stopped
before the Chevalier's cabin and knocked.  The sound of his knuckles
was as thunder in his ears.  Breton opened the door, rubbing his eyes.
"Your master, my lad, has sent me for his grey cloak.  Will you give it
to me to carry to him?"
"The grey cloak?" repeated Breton, greatly astonished.
"Yes.  Be quick about it, as your master complains of the cold."
"Why, Monsieur Paul has not touched the grey cloak . . ."
"Must I get it myself?  Be quick!"  The vicomte was pale with
excitement and impatience.
Breton, without further parley, took down the cloak and passed it over
to the vicomte.
"Monsieur will find the collar badly torn," he said.
"If he changes his mind, I will return shortly;" and the vicomte threw
the cloak over his arm, left the cabin, and closed the door.
Breton wiped his hands on his breeches as if to wipe away the
contaminating touch of the cloak.  His eyes were bothering him of late,
and he had not read from his favorite book since he left Panurge
hunting for the prophetess.  Being now awake and having nothing to do,
he took down his master's sword and began polishing the blade.  He had
scarce begun his labor when the door opened and the vicomte stood on
the threshold.
"My lad," he said, quietly, "you were right.  Your master wants the
purple cloak.  I was wrong."
Without replying, Breton hung up the grey cloak and took down another.
"Is Monsieur le Vicomte seasick?" he asked.
"It is hunger, lad, which makes me pale."
As the vicomte reappeared upon deck, he saw D'Hérouville biting his
nails.  He met the questioning glance, and laughed coldly and
mirthlessly.
"Chevalier," said the vicomte, "your lackey handed me the grey cloak
first."
"The grey cloak?"
"Yes; but I recalled its history, and returned with this.  Hang me, but
you have a peculiar fancy.  In your place, I should have burned that
cloak long ago."
D'Hérouville looked interested.
"I have a morbid fancy for that cloak," returned the Chevalier.  "I
want it always with me.  Murder will out, and that garment will some
day . . .  No matter."
"Have you ever searched the pockets?" asked D'Hérouville, in a quiet,
cool tone.
The vicomte's eyes brightened.  There was good metal in this
D'Hérouville.
"Searched the pockets?" said the Chevalier.  "Not I!  I have not
touched the cloak since I last wore it.  I never expect to touch it.
Vicomte, thank you for your trouble."  The Chevalier threw the cloak
around his shoulders and closed his eyes.  The wind, blowing forcefully
and steadily into his face produced a drowsiness.
Du Puys looked from one to the other.  A grey cloak?  All this was
outside the circle of his understanding.  When Victor returned the old
soldier rose and made his way to the cabin.  As he disappeared,
D'Hérouville moved toward the wheel.  From time to time he looked back
at the vicomte, but that gentleman purposely refused to acknowledge
these glances.
"Chevalier," he said, "you know why our poet here and myself are upon
this ship: a certain paper, ten by twelve inches, stands between us and
the block."
"Ah!"  The Chevalier opened his eyes.
"Yes.  Has it ever occurred to you, my poet, to investigate Monsieur le
Chevalier's grey cloak; that is to say, search its pockets?"
Victor smothered an oath and thwacked his thigh.  "Horns of Panurge!"
softly.
"Then you have not.  It would be droll if our salvation was
accompanying us to the desert."  The vicomte was up and heading toward
D'Hérouville.
"Victor, lad," said the Chevalier, "go you and see if there is anything
in the pockets of that grey cloak."
"Well, Monsieur?" said D'Hérouville, eagerly.
"There is a ghost upon the ship," replied the vicomte.
"You have secured the papers?"
"Papers?" with elevated brows.  "Is there more than one, then?" the
vicomte's tone hardening.
"Paper or papers, it matters not; I was speaking only in a general way."
"Do you recall that when I touched that cloak it gave forth a crackling
sound as of paper?"
"It was paper," said the count impatiently.  What was this man
D'Halluys driving at?
"Well, as I said;" and the vicomte twisted the ends of his mustache and
gnawed it between his teeth.  "There is a ghost upon this ship.  There
was nothing in that pocket, not even a piece of paper as large as your
thumb-nail."
"You lie!" roughly.
Their faces came close together.
"If Monsieur le Chevalier leaves enough of you, Monsieur," said the
vicomte.  His tone was gentle.  "When I gave you my word it was given
honestly, without reservation.  There were no papers in that cloak.
Some one has gone before us, or rather, some one has gone before me.
You spoke of papers: what gave you to believe there was more than one?
Monsieur, is not the lie on your side?  Have you not had access to the
Chevalier's room?  You say that I lie; is not your own tongue crooked?
Besides, let us not forget the poet, who, while he may be unaware of
the commercial value of that paper, has no less an interest in it.  You
have given me the lie: go about your affairs as you please, and I shall
do likewise.  When we land, if the Chevalier does not kill you, I will."
"Why?"
"You tell me that I lie."
"Bah!  Monsieur, under all circumstances there would be cause for war
between us.  Do you not love Madame de Brissac?  Heigho! she has given
the motley to us all.  Are we not fine fools?  It is droll.  Well, I
will write the Chevalier's discharge, and you shall go out by the same
order.  We are all cats in the bags, and some of us are likely to be
scratched."
"It will be an exciting day, no doubt;" and the vicomte turned on his
heel.
"There was nothing in the pockets of the cloak," said Victor, a while
later.
On the second day of June the Saint Laurent dropped anchor before
Quebec.  The voyage had come to an end, and a prosperous voyage,
indeed.  There had been only one death at sea; they had encountered
neither the Spaniard nor the outlaw; the menace of ice they had slipped
past.  What a welcome was roared to them from Fort Louis, from the
cannon and batteries, high up on the cliffs!  The echoes rolled across
the river and were lost in the mighty forests beyond.  Again and again
came the flash, and the boom.  It was wondrous to see the fire and
smoke so far above one's head.  Flags fluttered in the sunshine; all
labor was stopped, and the great storehouses were closed for the
remainder of the day.  Canoes filled with peaceful Hurons sallied
forth, and the wharves were almost blotted out of sight with crowding
humanity.
Many notable faces could be identified here and there among the
pressing throng on the wharves.  Some were there to meet friends or
relatives; some wanted the news from France; some came for mail to be
delivered to the various points along the river.  Prominent among them
was Governor Lauson, a grey-haired, kindly civilian, who, though a
shrewd speculator, was by no means the man to be at the head of the
government in Canada.  He was pulled this way and that, first by the
Company, then by the priests, then by the seigneurs.  Depredations by
the Indians remained unpunished; and the fear of the great white father
grew less and less.  Surrounding Monsieur de Lauson was his staff and
councillors, and the veterans Du Puys had left behind while in France.
There were names which in their time were synonyms for courage and
piety.  The great Jesuits were absent in the south, in Onondaga, where
they had erected a mission: Father Superior le Mercier, and Fathers
Dablon and Le Moyne.
Immediately on landing, Father Chaumonot made a sign, and his sea-weary
voyagers fell upon their knees and kissed the earth.  New France!
"Now," said Victor, shaking himself, "let us burn up the remaining
herrings and salt codfish.  I see yonder a gentleman with a haunch of
venison on his shoulder."
"One would think that you had had no duck or deer since we passed
Acadia," laughed Du Puys.  "But, patience, lad; Monsieur de Lauson
invites all the gentlemen to the Fort at six to partake of his table.
You have but four hours to wait for a feast such as will make your
Paris eyes bulge."
"Praise be!"
As he breathed in the resinous, balsamic perfume which wafted across
the mighty river from the forests and the river-rush; as his eye
traveled up the glorious promontory, now mellowed in sunshine, to the
summit bristling with cannon; as his gaze swept the broad reaches of
the river, and returned to rest upon the joyous faces around him,
joyous even in the face of daily peril, the Chevalier threw back his
shoulders, as if bracing himself for the battle to come.  Here he was
to forget and build anew; France, his mother, was dead, and here was
his foster-mother, rugged and brave, opening her arms to him.  New
France!  Ah, well, there was here, somewhere, a niche for him, and the
man in him vowed to fill it.  He did not yet say "With God's help."  It
was early, and the sting of his misfortune still stirred the poison in
his soul.
"New France, Paul," cried the poet at his side.  The newness and
strangeness of the scene had filled the poet's face with animation.  No
problems beset his buoyant soul.
"Yes, lad; this is New France.  Fortune here seems to be of the
masculine; and I daresay that you and I shall receive many cuffs in the
days to come."
"Come, my friends," said Brother Jacques, "and I will show you the path
which leads to the citadel."
And the three proceeded up the incline.
Sister Benie of the Ursulines was passing along the narrow road which
led to the river.  There was on her serene face the remains of what had
been great beauty, such as is sometimes given to the bourgeois; but the
purple eyes were wells of sadness and the lips ever drooped in pity and
mercy.  Across her pale cheek was a paler scar, which ran from the left
temple to the chin.  Sister Teresa, her companion, was young and plain.
Soldiers and trappers and Indians passed them on the way up, touching
their caps and hats; for Sister Benie was known from Montreal to
Tadousac.  Suddenly Sister Benie gave a low cry and pressed a hand upon
her heart.
"Sister, you are ill?" asked her companion.
"A dizziness; it is gone now."  Presently she caught the arm of a
gentleman who was passing.
"My son," she said, sweetly, "can you tell me who is that young man
walking with Brother Jacques; the tall one?"
"He?  That is the Chevalier du Cévennes."
"His family?"
"He is the son of the Marquis de Périgny."
"Thank you, my son."
CHAPTER XV
THE SUPPER
"Monsieur du Cévennes," said D'Hérouville, just before supper that
first night of their arrival on Canadian soil, "I see that you are not
quite strong enough to keep the engagement.  This day two weeks: will
that be agreeable?"
"It will; though I should be better pleased to fix the scene for
to-morrow morning."
D'Hérouville raised a deprecating hand.  "I should not like to have it
said that I took advantage of a man's weakness.  Of course, if you wish
absolutely to force it . . ."
The Chevalier looked thoughtfully at his pale hands.  "I shall take
advantage of your courtesy, Monsieur le Comte."
"How polite men are when about to cut each other's throats!"  The
Vicomte d'Halluys adjusted his baldric and entered the great
dining-hall of the Château Saint Louis.
He and D'Hérouville sat side by side.
"Vicomte, you have never told me why the Chevalier is here.  Why should
he leave France, he, who possessed a fortune, who had Mazarin's favor,
and who had all the ladies at his feet?"
"Ask him when you meet him," answered the vicomte, testing the
governor's burgundy.
"And will you pay me those ten thousand livres which you wagered
against my claims for madame's hand?"
The vicomte took a sip of the wine.  There was no verbal answer, but
his eyes spoke.
"Quebec promises to afford a variety," commented d'Hérouville, glancing
to where the Chevalier sat.
"It is quite probable," affably returned the vicomte.  "This is good
wine for a wilderness like this.  To be sure, it comes from France; I
had forgotten."
The first fortnight passed with the excitement attendant to taking up
quarters in a strange land.  The Chevalier, Victor and the vicomte were
given rooms in the citadel; D'Hérouville accepted the courtesy of the
governor and became a resident of the château; father Chaumonot, Major
du Puys, and his selected recruits, had already made off for Onondaga.
A word from Father Chaumonot into the governor's ear promoted the
Chevalier to a lieutenancy in lieu of Nicot's absence in Onondaga.
Everything began very well.
Seldom a day went by without a skirmish with the Iroquois, who had
grown impudent and fearless again.  The Iroquois were determined to
destroy their ancient enemies, the Hurons, primarily because they hated
them, and secondarily because they were allies of the French.  France
did what she could in reason to stop these depredations, but the task
needed an iron gauntlet, and De Lauson was a civilian.  At this period
the Mohawks were the fiercest, the Onondagas having agreed to a
temporary treaty.  Marauders were brought in and punished, but usually
the punishment was trivial compared to the offense.  The governor
wished to rule by kindness; but his lieutenants knew the Indian
thoroughly.  He must not be treated with kindness where justice was
merited; it gave him the idea that the white man was afraid.
Therefore, his depredations should be met with a vengeance swift and
final and convincing.  But nine times out of ten De Lauson and the
priests overruled the soldiers; and the depredations continued
unabated.  Once, however, the Chevalier succeeded in having several
gibbets erected on the island of Orléans, and upon these gibbets he
strung half a dozen redskins who had murdered a family of peaceful
Hurons.
Though he went about somberly, untalkative and morose, the Chevalier
proved himself a capital soldier, readily adapting himself to the
privations of scouting and the loneliness of long watches in the night.
He studied his Indian as one who intended to take up his abode among
them for many years to come.  He discarded the uniform for the deerskin
of the trapper.  But the Chevalier made no friends among the
inhabitants; and when not on duty he was seen only in the company of
Victor, the vicomte and Brother Jacques, who was assisting him in
learning the Indian languages.  Brown he grew, lithe and active as the
enemy he watched and studied.  Never a complaint fell from his lips; he
accepted without question the most hazardous duty.
"Keep your eye upon Monsieur le Chevalier," said De Lauson; "for he
will count largely before the year is gone."
As for Victor, he was more or less indifferent.  He was perfectly
willing to fight the Indian, but his gorge rose at the thought of
studying him as an individual.  As a rule he found them to be unclean,
vulgar and evil-minded; and the hideous paints disturbed his dreams.
Secretly, his enthusiasm for New France had already waned, and there
were times when he longed for the road to Spain--Spain which by now
held for him the dearest treasure in all the world.  But not even the
keen-eyed Brother Jacques read this beneath the poet's buoyancy and
lightness of spirit.  Besides, Brother Jacques had set himself to watch
the Comte d'Hérouville and the Vicomte d'Halluys, and this was far more
important to him than the condition of the poet's temperament.
D'Hérouville mingled with the great seigneurs, and, backed by his
reputation as a famous swordsman, did about as he pleased.  He watched
the Chevalier's progress toward health; and he noted with some concern
his enemy's quick, springy step, the clear and steady eye.  He still
ignored the poet as completely as though he did not exist.
Every Friday night the table was given up to the governor's gentlemen
councillors, friends, and officers.  Victor and the Chevalier were on
this list, as were the vicomte and D'Hérouville.  Usually these were
enjoyable evenings.  Victor became famous as a raconteur, and the
Chevalier lost some of his taciturnity in this friendly intercourse.
D'Hérouville's conduct was irreproachable in every sense.
One day the Chevalier entered one of the school-rooms.  In his arms he
held a small white child which had sprained its weak ankle while
playing on the lumber pile outside the convent of the Ursulines.
Sister Benie was quick to note how tenderly he held the sobbing child.
"Give him to me, Monsieur," she said, her velvet eyes moist with pity.
The Chevalier placed the little boy in her arms, and he experienced a
strange thrill as he noticed the manner in which she wrapt the boy to
her heart.  How often Breton's mother, his nurse, had taken him to her
breast that way!  And he stood there marveling over that beautiful
mystery which God had created, for the wonder of man, the woman and the
child.
"I chanced to be passing and heard his cry," he said, diffidently.
"Playing the good Samaritan?" asked a voice from the window.  The
Sister and the Chevalier looked around and saw the vicomte leaning on
the window-sill.  "Why was it not my happiness to tarry by that
lumber-pile.  I saw the lad.'"
"Ah, it is you, Vicomte?" said the Chevalier, pleasantly.
"Yes, Chevalier.  Will you walk with me?"
Being without excuse, the Chevalier joined him, and together they
proceeded toward the quarters.
Sister Benie stared after them till they had disappeared around the
corner of the building.
"Chevalier," said the vicomte, "do you remember Henri de Leviston?"
"De Leviston?"  The Chevalier frowned.  "Yes; I recollect him.  Why?"
"He is here."
"In Quebec?"
"Yes.  He came in this morning from Montreal, where he is connected
with the Associates.  Was he not in your company three or four years
ago?  He was dismissed, so I heard, for prying into De Guitaut's
private despatches."
"I remember the incident.  I was the one who denounced him.  It was a
disagreeable duty, but De Guitaut had put me on De Leviston's tracks.
It was unavoidable."
"You had best beware of him."
"I am perfectly in health, thank you," replied the Chevalier.
The vicomte covertly ran his eye over his companion.  It was not to be
denied that the Chevalier had gained wonderfully in the fortnight.  The
air, the constant labor, and the natural medicine which he inhaled in
the forests, had given a nervous springiness to his step and had
cleared his eyes till the whites were like china.  No; the Chevalier
need have no fear of De Leviston, was the vicomte's mental comment.
"Well, you do look proper.  The wine is all out of your system, and
there is balsam in your blood.  A wonderful country!"  The vicomte
stopped before his door.
"Yes, it is a wonderful country.  It is not France; it is better than
the mother country.  Ambition has a finer aim; charity is without
speculation; and a man must be a man here, else he can not exist."
"That is an illusion," replied the vicomte.  "Only the women have what
you call a finer ambition.  The men are puling as in France.  The
Company seeks riches without working; the military seek batons without
war; and these Jesuits . . .  Bah!  What are they trying to do?  To
rule the pope, and through him, the world.  My faith, I can barely keep
from laughing at some of the stories these priests tell all in good
faith."
"My thought did not include the great," said the Chevalier, quietly.
"I meant the lower orders.  They will eventually become men and women
in the highest sense.  There is no time for dalliance and play; labor
is the monitor best suited to hold back, to trim and regulate a man's
morals and habits.  There is no idleness here, Vicomte."
"I do not know but you are right."
"Shall you remain here long?" asked the Chevalier.
"Who can say?  I would return to France on the next boat were my neck
less delicately attached to my shoulders.  Let us say six months; it
will have quieted down by then.  Devil take me, but I should like to
feel that paper crackling between my fingers.  And you meet
D'Hérouville in two days?"
"In two days."
"Will you not join me in a glass of the governor's old burgundy as a
toast to your success?"
"Thank you, but I am on duty.  They are bringing some Mohawks up from
the lower town, and I am to take charge of them."
"Good luck to you;" and the vicomte waved a friendly hand as he started
off toward the citadel.
The Chevalier with a dozen men started for the lower town.  But his
mind was not on his duty.  He was thinking of Diane, her gay laughter,
her rollicking songs, the old days.
"Monsieur, are we to go to Sillery?" asked a trooper, respectfully.
"Sillery?"  The Chevalier shook himself, and took the right path.
The Chevalier and Victor sat on their narrow cots that night.  Brother
Jacques had just gone.  The windows were open, and the balmy air of
summer drifted in, carrying with it forest odors and the freshness of
the rising dew.  Fireflies sparkled in the grass, and the pale stars of
early evening pierced the delicate green of the heavens.  A single
candle flickered on the table, and the candlestick was an empty
burgundy bottle.  The call of one sentry to another broke the solemn
quiet.
"And you have not grown sick for home since you left the sea?" asked
the Chevalier.
"Not I!"  There were times when Victor could lie cheerfully and without
the prick of conscience.  "One hasn't time to think of home.  But how
are you getting on with your Iroquois?"
"Fairly."
"You are determined to meet D'Hérouville?"
The Chevalier extended his right arm, allowing Victor to press it with
his fingers.  Victor whistled softly.  The arm, while thin, was like a
staff of oak.  Presently the same arm reached out and snuffed the
candle.
"Shall you ever go back to France, Paul?"
A sigh from the other side of the room.
"I saw the vicomte talking to De Leviston to-day.  De Leviston was
scowling.  They separated when I approached."
"Will you have the goodness to go to sleep?"
"What the devil brings De Leviston so high on this side the water?"
Silence.
"I never liked his sneaking face."
A sentry called, another, and still another.
"Are you there, Paul?"
No answer.
"You're as surly as a papoose!"
Soon after that there was nothing to be heard but the deep and regular
breathing of two healthy men resting in sleep.
Some fourteen gentlemen sat around the governor's table the third
Friday night.  There were the governor and his civic staff and his
officers, three or four merchants, and two priests, Brother Jacques and
Dollier de Casson, that brother to Rabelais, with his Jove-like smile
and his Herculean proportions.  De Casson had arrived that day from
Three Rivers, and he had come for aid.
Two chairs were vacant, and presently the vicomte filled one of them.
The other was reserved for the Chevalier.
Victor was telling some amusing tales of the court; how Beaufort was
always blundering, how Mazarin was always saving, how Louis was always
making love, and how the queen was always praying.
"Ah, Monsieur de Saumaise," said the governor, "you must not tell jests
at the expense of their Majesties; Mazarin I do not mind, for he is
certainly niggard with funds and with men."
"How that handsome young king of ours will spend money when a new prime
minister is needed!" was the vicomte's comment, his gaze falling on the
Chevalier's empty chair.  "Do you remember how Mazarin took away
Scarron's pension?  Scarron asked that it be renewed; and Mazarin
refused, bidding the wit to be of good cheer.  Scarron replied,
'Monseigneur, I should indeed be in good cheer were I not positive that
I shall not outlive your parsimony.'"
When the Chevalier finally came in he was cordially greeted by the
governor.  He took his chair, filled his glass and lit his pipe.  He
waved aside all food, stating that he had eaten his supper in the lower
town.
No sooner had he lighted his pipe than De Leviston rose, shoving back
his chair noisily.  A cold, sneering contempt marked his swart face.
"What is the matter, Monsieur de Leviston?" asked the governor, mildly.
"Your Excellency will pardon me," said De Leviston; "but I find, it
impossible to sit at this table till another person leaves it."
Surprise and consternation lay written on every face.  The Chevalier
lowered his pipe, and looked from one face to another.  He was so tired
with the labor of the day, that he had forgotten all about himself and
his history.
The governor sat rigid in his chair.  Victor's hand rested on the
table; he was ready to rise and meet the blow he knew was coming.
"Explain yourself," said the governor, coldly.  "You impugn the conduct
or honor of some gentleman at my table?  Take care, Monsieur."
"It is my regret."
"Who is this person who has aroused your displeasure, and what has he
done that he may not sit in the presence of gentlemen?"
Victor rose, white and trembling.
"Sit down, Monsieur de Saumaise," commanded the governor, sternly.
"He calls himself the Chevalier du Cévennes."  De Leviston smiled.
Every eye was leveled at the Chevalier.  Victor felt his heart
swelling.  It had come at last!  Brother Jacques leaned forward,
peering into every face.  D'Hérouville's face was expressive of deep
surprise, and the vicomte was staring at De Leviston as if he believed
that gentleman to be mad.
"Calls himself the Chevalier du Cévennes?" thundered the governor.
"Calls himself?  This demands an immediate explanation from you,
Monsieur de Leviston."
"I object to sit at a table with a person who does not know who his
mother was."  Each word was deliberately and carefully measured.
"Death of my life!" roared the governor, upon his feet.
The Chevalier reached over and caught De Lauson's sleeve.  "Hush,
Monsieur; what Monsieur de Leviston says is . . . true."  He got up,
white as the broken pipe that lay at the side of his plate.  Under the
chair was his hat.  He reached for it.  Looking neither to the right
nor to the left, he walked quietly and with dignity from the room.
There was a single laugh, rude and loud.  It came from D'Hérouville.
The general silence which followed lasted several minutes.  The
Chevalier's declaration had stunned them.  The governor was first to
recover.  He rose again, quietly, though his eyes sparkled with anger.
"Monsieur de Leviston," he said, "you have wilfully broken and
destroyed the peace and dignity of my household.  I shall cross you
from my list, and the sooner you return to Montreal, the better.  Your
peculiar sense of honor in no wise appeals to me.  It is an ignoble
revenge; for do not doubt that I know your own history, Monsieur, and
also the part the Chevalier had in it.  But believing you had come to
this country to repair your honor, I have assisted you by inviting you
to partake of my bounty and of my friendship."
De Leviston paled, and turned a scowling face to those about him.  He
found no sympathy in any eye, not even in D'Hérouville's.
"You have wounded brutally and with intent," went on the governor, "the
heart of a man who has not only proved himself a gentleman, but a hero.
And I add this: Let no one repeat what has happened, or he shall feel
the weight of my displeasure, and my displeasure will mean much to
promotion and liberty."  He pushed his chair under the table, which
signified that he was to retire.
The gentlemen left the table with him.
Outside, Victor approached D'Hérouville, ignoring De Leviston.  The
vicomte followed in the rear.
"Monsieur d'Hérouville, you have a bad heart," said the poet.  "You
have laughed insolently at a man whose misfortune is none of his own
making.  You are a poltroon and a coward!"
The vicomte interposed.  "D'Hérouville, listen to me.  After what has
happened you will refuse to meet the Chevalier."
"I certainly shall."
"I am at your service," said the vicomte.
"D'Halluys," cried the poet, "you have no right to interfere."
"Stand aside, Monsieur de Saumaise."  The vicomte pressed the poet back.
"Vicomte," said D'Hérouville, "I will not fight you to-night."
"I am certain.  Here is a phrase which leaves no misunderstanding." The
vicomte slapped D'Hérouville in the face.
"Damnation!"  D'Hérouville fell back.
Victor turned to De Leviston.  "I will waive the question of
gentleman," and he struck De Leviston even as the vicomte had struck
D'Hérouville.
"Curse you, I will accompany you!" roared De Leviston.
"Very good," returned the poet.  "Vicomte, there is a fine place back
of the Ursulines.  Let us go there."
When Victor entered, his room that night, an hour later, it was dark.
He groped for the candle and stoked the flint.  As soon as his eyes
grew accustomed to the glare of the light, he looked about, and his
shadow wavered on the plastered walls.  The Chevalier lay on his cot,
his face buried in his arms.  Victor touched him and he stirred.
"It is all right, Paul."  Victor threw his sword and baldric into a
corner and sat down beside his stricken friend, throwing an arm around
his shoulders.  "I have just this moment run De Leviston through the
shoulder.  That vicomte is a cool hand.  He put his blade nicely
between D'Hérouville's ribs.  They will both remain in hospital for two
or three weeks.  It was a good fight."
CHAPTER XVI
THE POET EXPLAINS TO MONSIEUR DE LAUSON
By the next morning all Quebec had heard of the double duel, and
speculation ran high as to the cause.  All Quebec, to be sure, amounted
only to a few hundreds; and a genuine duel at this period was a rare
happening.  So everybody knew that D'Hérouville and De Leviston were in
hospital, seriously though not dangerously wounded, and that Monsieur
de Saumaise was in the guardhouse, where, it was supposed, he would
remain for some time to come, in order that his hot blood might cool
appreciably.  As for Monsieur d'Halluys, he was not under the
governor's direct jurisdiction, and was simply ordered to stay in his
room.
The officers and civilians respected the governor's command, and no
outsider gathered a word of information from them.  The officers,
talking among themselves, secretly admired the poet's pluck.  Like all
men of evil repute, De Leviston was a first-class swordsman and the
poet's stroke had lessened his fame.  As for what had caused the fight
between the vicomte and D'Hérouville, they were somewhat at a loss to
say or account for.  The governor himself was exceedingly wrathful.  At
ten o'clock he summoned Victor to appear before him, to render a full
account of the affair.  The savages made life hazardous enough, without
the additional terror of duels.
Victor found the governor alone, and for this he was thankful.
"Monsieur de Saumaise," De Lauson began, sternly, "I gave you credit
for being a young man of sense."
"And a man of heart, too, your Excellency, I hope," replied the poet,
valiantly.
"Heart?  Is it heart to break the edict, to upset the peace of my
household, to set tongues wagging?  Persons will want to know the cause
of this foolish duel.  I am positive that it was fought contrary to the
Chevalier's wishes.  He conducted himself admirably last night.  You
have done more harm than good with your impetuosity.  My command would
have been respected, and your friend's misfortune would have gone no
farther than my dining-room."
"And Monsieur de Leviston?" with a shade of irony which escaped the
governor.
"Would have remained silent on the pain of being sent back to France,
where the Bastille awaits him.  He was exiled to this country, and he
may not leave it till the year sixty.  De Maisonneuve would have stood
by me in the matter.  So you see that you have blundered in the worst
possible manner."
"And the Vicomte d'Halluys?"
"If D'Hérouville dies, the vicomte shall return to France in irons."
"Monsieur," with a sign of heat, "there are some insults which can not
be treated with contempt.  I should have proved myself a false friend
and a coward had I done otherwise than I did."
"What does the Chevalier say about your fighting his battles for him?"
asked the governor, quietly.
Victor's gaze rested on his boots.
"He doesn't approve, then?"  The governor drummed with his fingers.  "I
thought as much.  At your age I was young myself.  Youth sees affronts
where it ought to see caution and circumspection."
"When I have arrived at your Excellency's age . . ."
"No sarcasm, if you please.  You are still under arrest."
Victor bowed, and twirled his hat, which was sadly in need of a new
plume.
"I warn you, if De Leviston dies I shall hang you high from one of the
Chevalier's gibbets on Orléans.  If he lives, I shall keep in touch
with your future conduct, Monsieur; so take good care of yourself."
"De Leviston will not die.  Such men as he do not die honestly in bed.
But he was only a puppet in this instance."
"A puppet?  Explain."
"There was another who prompted him from behind."
"Who?" sharply.
"I am afraid that at present I can not name him."
"D'Hérouville?  Be careful, Monsieur; this is a grave accusation you
are making.  You will be forced to prove it."  The governor looked
worried; for to him the Comte d'Hérouville was a great noble.
"I did not name him.  There was a woman behind all this; a woman who is
the innocent cause."
"Ha! a woman?"  The governor leaned forward on his elbows.
"Yes."
"Who?"
"Mademoiselle de Longueville.  D'Hérouville insulted her and the
Chevalier took up her cause."
"Why, then, did you not pick your quarrel with the count?"
"The vicomte had some prior claim."
The governor got up and walked about, biting his mustache.  Victor eyed
him with some anxiety.
"But the Chevalier; why did he not defend himself?"
Victor breathed impatiently.  "Frankly, Monsieur, how can he defend
himself?"
"True."  The governor scrubbed his beard.  He was in a quandary and
knew not which way to move.  Tardy decision was the stumbling-block in
the path of this well meaning man.  Problems irritated him; and in his
secret heart he wished he had never seen the Chevalier, D'Hérouville,
the poet, or the vicomte, since they upset his quiet.  He had enough to
do with public affairs without having private ones thrust gratuitously
upon his care.  "Well, well," he said, reseating himself; "you know my
wishes.  Nothing but publicity will come of duels and brawls, and
publicity is the last thing the Chevalier is seeking.  I feel genuinely
sorry for him.  The stain on his name does not prevent him from being a
brave man and a gentleman.  Control yourself, Monsieur de Saumaise, and
the day will come when you will thank me for the advice.  As you have
no incentive for running away, I will put you on your word, and the
vicomte also.  You may go.  While I admire the spirit which led you to
take up the Chevalier's cause, I deplore it.  Who, then, will succeed
Monsieur le Marquis?"
"That is a question I can not answer.  To the best of my knowledge, no
one will succeed Monsieur le Marquis de Périgny."
"So this is what brought him over here?  What brought you?"
"Friendship for him, an empty purse and a pocketful of ambition."
The answer pleased De Lauson, and he nodded.  "That is all."
"Thank you, Monsieur."
"I shall keep you in mind . . . if you escape the gibbet."
Monsieur de Saumaise, in displaying his teeth, signified that the least
of his worries was the thought of the gibbet.
And so concluded the interview.
The Chevalier remained in his room all day, putting aside his food, and
staring beyond the river.  His eyes were dull and the lids discolored
from sleeplessness.  Victor waited for him to heap reproach upon him;
but never a word did the Chevalier utter.  The only sign he gave of the
volcano raging and burning beneath the thin mask of calm was the
ceaseless knotting of the muscles of the jaw and the compressed lips.
When the poet broke forth, reviling his own conduct, the Chevalier
silenced him with a gesture of the hand.
"You are wasting your breath.  What you have done can not be undone."
The tones of his voice were all on a dull level, cold and unimpassioned.
Victor was struck with admiration at the sight of such extraordinary
control; and he trembled to think of the whirlwind which would some day
be let loose.
"I will kill De Leviston the first opportunity," he said.
The Chevalier arose.  "No, lad; the man who told him.  He is mine!"
Victor sought out Brother Jacques for advice; but Brother Jacques's
advice was similar to the Chevalier's and the governors.
So the day wore on into evening, and only then did the Chevalier
venture forth.  He wandered aimlessly about the ramparts, alone, having
declined Victor's company, and avoiding all whom he saw.  He wanted to
be alone, alone, forever alone.  Longingly he gazed toward the
blackening forests.  Yonder was a haven.  Into those shadowy woods he
might plunge and hide himself, built him a hut, and become lost to
civilization, his name forgotten and his name forgetting.  O fool in
wine that he had been!  To cut himself off from the joys and haunts of
men in a moment of drunken insanity!  He had driven the marquis with
taunts and gibes; he had shouted his ignoble birth across a table; and
he expected, by coming to this wilderness, to lose the Nemesis he
himself had set upon his heels!  What a fool!  What a fool!  He had
cast out his heart for the rooks and the daws.  Wherever he might go,
the world would go also, and the covert smile . . . and the covert
smile . . .  God, how apart from all mankind he seemed this night.  But
for Victor he would have sought the woods at once, facing the Iroquois
fearlessly.  He must remain, to bow his head before the glances of the
curious, the head that once was held so high; accept rebuffs without
murmur, stand aside, step down, and follow.  If a man laughed at him,
he must turn away: his sword could no longer protect him.  How his lips
thirsted for the wine-cup, for one mad night, and then . . . oblivion!
An outcast!  What would be his end?  O the long years!  For him there
should be no wifely lips to kiss away the penciled lines of care; the
happy voices of children would never make music in his ears.  He was
alone, always and ever alone!
Presently the Chevalier bowed his head upon the cold iron of the
cannon.  The crimson west grew fainter and fainter; and the evening
breeze came up and stirred the Company's flags on the warehouses far
below.
Suddenly the Chevalier lifted his head.  He was still an officer and a
gentleman.  He would stand taller, look into each eye and dare with his
own.  It was not what he had been, nor what had been done to him; it
was what he was, would be and do.  If every hand was to be against his,
so be it.  D'Hérouville?  Some day that laugh should cost him dear.
The vicomte?  What was his misfortune to the vicomte that he should
pick a quarrel on his account?  Was he a gallant fellow like Victor?
He would learn.
He put on his hat.  It was dark.  Lights began to flicker in the fort
and the château.  The resolution seemed to give him new strength, and
he squared his shoulders, took in deep breaths, entered the officers'
mess and dined.
The men about him were for the most part manly men, brave, open-handed,
rough outwardly and soft within.  And as they saw him take his seat
quietly, a sparkle of admiration gleamed from every eye.  The vicomte
and Victor, both out on parole, took their plates and glasses and
ranged alongside of the Chevalier.  In France they would have either
left the room or cheered him; as it was, they all finished the evening
meal as if nothing extraordinary had happened.
So the Chevalier won his first victory.
CHAPTER XVII
WHAT THE SHIP HENRI IV BRINGS TO QUEBEC
The ship Henri IV dropped anchor before Quebec on the seventh day of
August.  This being the Company's vessel, hundreds of Canadians flocked
to the wharves.  And again flags decked the château and town, and
cannon roared.  The Henri IV was part merchantman and part man-of-war.
Her ports bristled with cannon, her marines wore formidable cutlasses,
and the law on board was military in the strictest sense.  Stores and
ammunition filled her hull; carpenters' tools, tea-chests, bags of
plaster, uniforms, cannon, small arms, beads and trinkets of no value
save to the Indian, silk and wool and a beautiful window for the
cathedral.  And in return she was to carry away mink, otter and beaver
skins.
Breton had been left behind by the Chevalier, who had joined a scouting
party up the river.  Love and anxiety had made the lad thin.  Any night
might bring disastrous news from Three Rivers, the burning of the
settlement and the massacre.  Such speculation counteracted his usually
good appetite.  So Breton mooned about the wharves day by day, always
looking up the river instead of down.
To-day he lingered to witness the debarkation.  Besides, the Henri IV
was a great ship, bringing with her a vague perfume from France.
Listlessly he watched the seamen empty the hold of its treasures;
carelessly he observed the meeting of sweethearts and lovers, wives and
husbands.  Two women in masks meant nothing to him. . .  Holy Virgin!
it was not possible!  Was his brain fooling him?  He grew faint.  Did
he really see these two old men climbing down the ship's ladder to the
boats?  He choked; tears blinded him.  He dashed aside the tears and
looked once more.  Oh! there could be no doubt; his eyes had not
deceived him.  There was only one face like that in the world; only one
face like that, with its wrinkles, its haughty chin, its domineering
nose.  He had seen that lean, erect figure, crowned with silver-white
hair, too many times to mistake it.  It was the marquis, the grim and
terrible marquis, the ogre of his dreams.  The lad had always hated the
