work, though I am not sure but he managed to get the 
hardest and roughest out of other people. 
We heard at intervals from Norman, who was busy 
and full of enjoyment. Paris was wonderful. The 
new physician had at first given Mr. Le Moyne a good 
deal of hope, except that the treatment could not be 
rapid. Then had intervened a really serious illness, 
and during this time the optic nerve of one eye had 
been paralyzed. After that a winter in Spain, which 
was enchanting. 
"I am afraid I see many years of exile before me," 
Norman wrote in my letter. "What can I do ? Mr. Le 
Moyne is the most delightful, the sincerest and cer 
tainly the most generous of friends. Through his con 
valescence he has said so many times, 'What could I 
do without you, Norman, when I have no son or 
nephew even?' He has one sister, who is an invalid 
from a broken hip and partial paralysis, and her 
daughter is a fashionable and titled lady. He is very 
fond of travelling and enjoys society, but now he 
needs some one continually. I know he fears he will 
be blind, and he wants to be sure of a permanent stay 
and solace. Can I relinquish some of the best hopes 
of my life yet I feel that I ought. It seems as if 
God had given me this work to do, that it was not of 
my own seeking, and I must trust Him to make it right 
in the end. It is very hard, but must I not go on 
in this straight path? Pray that I may have strength, 
little girl. If I could not see it so clearly, but I do, 
and whatever may be said, remember that I would 
rather come home without a dollar and trust for a wel 
come than remain away years and reap a fortune." 
But I thought even years, five or seven, would not 
be so very long. 
We had been down to the Piagets Homer and I. 
Mrs. Piaget was like a girl in her merry ways. We 
had some guessing of proverbs and songs, a cup of tea 
and cake, both very plain, but with the fun and frolic 
most enjoyable. Just as we were saying good-night 
we crossed hands, Sophie, Homer, Luther Chandler 
and I. 
"Oh, a wedding, a wedding !" cried Nanette, and we 
all blushed and laughed. "Sophie is the eldest, it is 
her turn first." 
Luther was very sweet on Sophie, but I thought she 
did not care much for him. 
Then Homer and I walked home. 
"It's late, but I'm coming in," he exclaimed, and the 
resolution in his voice roused me curiously. 
 
Jolette was in her chimney corner. During the cold 
weather she rolled herself in a blanket and slept on the 
old settle. 
"Ye'r pop's gone to bed," she said with a sort of 
grunt. 
We went through to the keeping room. She had 
mended the fire, and it was now blazing cheerfully. 
Oddly enough, two chairs stood invitingly before it, 
but I knew father did not like company staying late. 
It seemed unsocial not to ask him to sit down. 
"You make a room look different from any one else, 
Ruth," he said, glancing around. "There is always an 
air about it as if one really lived on a little higher 
plane. Who would think of placing those pine boughs 
in the corner, and having pictures and books around, 
and always the newspaper and little knicknacks and 
your work basket, and those pine cones with grass 
growing in them," as his eyes wandered around. 
"Was that what you came in to say?" I asked 
saucily, for it amused me. 
"No, it wasn't." He looked at the fire a moment, 
then at me. I had both hands on the back of my low 
sewing chair. 
"Ruth, will you marry me ? Could you love me well 
enough to be my wife?" 
I do not think the question took me quite by surprise. 
Mrs. Hayne had made suggestions. Father had in 
dulged in a few comments such as "that he meant to 
give Homer his walking papers it was too soon for 
any fellows to be hanging round." But we had been 
such good friends, without a bit of sentiment, as if a 
girl of fifteen could understand what sentiment truly 
was! 
"Oh, Homer!" My voice almost failed in the great 
tremble of every nerve. "Oh, what made you ask 
it?" 
"Because I wanted to know. Surely, Ruth, you will 
tell me the truth, the whole truth. I've always been 
fond of you, and it seems as if Norme left you to us 
when he went away. You were only a little girl, and 
he has companied so much with high and mighty folks 
that I suppose he will be miles and miles above anybody 
here. But mother's heart is set upon you, and she's 
nagged me lately, as if she thought I wasn't well, for 
ward enough. We're all fond of you, you know. If 
you could only I'm afraid " hesitatingly, "that you 
don't love me. A girl always shows it a little. We 
seem just good friends " 
"Oh, that is all we are, Homer!" I cried, but my 
face was scarlet with blushes, and my heart gave a 
great throb of thankfulness. For I knew by some sure 
insight, girl that I was, that he had no best of all love 
to give me. 
Then he reached over and took my hand. 
"I think I could love you dearly, and oh, little Ruth, 
I'd carry you in my arms or let you walk over me, and 
spend my whole life thinking how I could make you 
happy. I'd work day and night that you should have 
the things you enjoyed. All that would be nothing if 
you did not love me." 
"Yes, yes, you understand. And so let us keep 
friends. I think there is some one who could love you 
 
very dearly, who would be glad of your love, and you 
would be very happy. I think you are saved for that." 
He turned scarlet first, then deadly pale. "Sophie," 
he murmured just under his breath. 
"Yes, it is Sophie. Homer, I have been hoping this 
long while " 
"Mother would never forgive me if I passed you 
by," he interrupted. "You see, I had to ask you. And 
if you had said yes I should have bent every energy 
toward making you happy. Yes, I would have done it. 
But you're not quite not like " 
"Not in love," I said smilingly. "That makes every 
thing easy, levels all inequalities, I have read some 
where. Then I am still a little girl. I didn't want 
to be grown up. I don't want any real lovers this long, 
long while. And I shall be so glad for Sophie. She's 
seventeen and just the right age, and so dear, and sweet, 
and wise, and such a splendid housekeeper ! Oh, you 
will be so happy, and she will just run over with joy." 
"What I wanted to say, though I do not know as I 
can put it in the right words, is that you are not quite 
like other girls. You're like a choice china cup, while 
the every-day earthen wouldn't mind the dishwater so 
much, you see," and he laughed. "Ben understands. 
He said it wouldn't be fair, that you ought to have a 
gentleman who loved books and cultivation, and all 
that. And though I hope I'll be well-to-do some day, 
I shouldn't ever care for the fancy things. Still I 
wouldn't grudge them to the woman I loved. And 
you ought to have the best which isn't always money 
either." 
I didn't want to hear about myself, though I knew 
then there was a great gulf between Homer and me 
that only love could bridge over. Yet I did love him 
dearly at that moment. 
"And Sophie?" I interposed. 
"It's queer, isn't it? And they say girls are always 
jealous of each other. Ruth, you are the sweetest 
little thing in the world. If Sophie didn't love you, I 
don't know as I could ask her. And I shall tell her 
just how it was. Of course, mother she must know, 
too, that I asked you. I like everything open and 
above board. And I guess the sign will come right 
that crossing of hands," smiling. 
"And you'll ask her soon ? I want her to be happy." 
I know my face was all eagerness. 
"You may trust me for that." 
The clock struck eleven. 
"Ruth!" exclaimed a peremptory voice. 
"Yes, sir." Children said sir and ma'am in those 
days long after they were grown up. 
We went through the old kitchen. Jolette was snor 
ing, but covered up head and ears, and the embers cov 
ered over likewise. I let Homer out and fastened the 
door. Then I went back to father. He was leaning on 
one elbow, his head tousled and his eyes almost fierce, 
but I did not mind. 
"Was that Homer Hayne making a night of it?" 
"Yes, father," and I couldn't help a mirthful 
sound. 
"Did he ask you to marry him the truth, child." 
"Yes," and I could not forbear laughing. "But he 
 
is in love with Sophie Piaget, only his mother wanted 
him to to " 
Then father laughed and gave me a hug. 
"Yes, I knew that was in the air, but I thought I'd 
head it off. Sophie! Well, she will make just the 
right sort of wife for him. Ruth, chickabiddy, you're 
too young to get tangled up in such things. You're 
not to have any lovers for years yet. Do you hear ?" 
"Oh, father, I don't want any. I couldn't be any 
happier if I had a dozen." 
"A dozen ! I hope it will never come to that. Not 
even one in ever so long. There, little girl, give me a 
good-night kiss and go to bed." 
He held me in his arms for some seconds. Perhaps 
it wasn't the fashion in those days, but people were 
not generally effusive. 
It rained the next day. I spun with a light heart, 
looked after my hens and then knotted some fringe for 
my curtains in a pretty way Sophie had taught me. 
Father read the paper aloud. There was an Indian 
war in Florida now, and some important political 
questions discussed in a rather heated manner. 
I really wanted to run down to the Piagets, the next 
morning, but I resolutely refused myself. It was clear 
and cold. Jolette made mince pies. Father had 
brought the love of pie from his native State. What 
an appetizing fragrance they diffused. 
About mid afternoon I caught sight of Sophie slip 
ping about the frozen path full of hummocks, but she 
balanced herself with a fascinating art. I ran to the 
door. 
"Oh, I wanted to see you so, I hoped you would 
come. Of course you know. I am the happiest girl 
in all Chicago ! But if you had loved him and often I 
thought he loved you, and I stood no chance. I 
wouldn't let mother speak that is the French fashion, 
you know I was so afraid he might be affronted. 
Luther had asked mother's permission, and she 
thought it was time I was betrothed. But I couldn't 
make up my mind to that. I've been gay and full of 
fun, but sometimes my heart ached for very dread. 
Only you are such a child!" 
"Why, yes, it was ridiculous." 
"But Mrs. Hayne loves you so. You'd do worlds 
better for Ben." 
"I don't want to do for anybody." 
"But Ben isn't grown up." 
"And there's Chris, if Ben won't have me," I said, 
with a sense of amusement at being handed down. 
"And you understand Homer asked me to please his 
mother. Of course he likes me, but that isn't marrying 
love." 
"Yes, you are going to be the dearest little sister to 
us. Oh, I do wonder if Mrs. Hayne will truly like 
me?" 
"Yes, she will when she comes to know you well. 
She has hoped so that Dan would marry, only she 
didn't want Polly Morrison." 
"And now they're at it again. This time everybody 
thinks it will make a match. I don't like Dan. He's 
the great Mogul, and he flirts awfully. I wouldn't be 
his wife for half Chicago. But Homer is so sweet and 
 
patient and tender. He has some of your ways," 
smiling generously, "and he will build his house at 
once. Oh, won't it be just splendid ! I shall go to 
work immediately. What a delight it must be to make 
up one's trousseau. I have yards and yards of lace 
knit, and fringe made. I shall not sell any more. Oh, 
Ruth," studying me intently, "are you quite sure you 
are happy over it? For you could have taken him 
and I don't see how you escaped loving him." 
"Then you would have been unhappy. Now we are 
both happy and content." 
I came to know afterward that there were women 
who fancied you were dying for their particular lover, 
and it vexed me, and men who thought your world 
could easily have been bounded by them. 
I made Sophie stay to supper. Homer was not com 
ing that evening. He wanted to explain to his parents 
and make some arrangements. Father wished her all 
good fortune and teased her a little, admitting that she 
would have one of the best of husbands. 
I hesitated to make my weekly visit to Mrs. Hayne, 
and the day I set it stormed. But I walked over with 
Ben and Chris after Sunday School. 
"You naughty girl," Mrs. Hayne began. "I don't 
know when I can forgive you. I suppose you were 
ashamed." 
"What did she do?" asked Chris, eager eyed. 
"Oh, she knows. There, you two boys, run off. I 
want to talk to her and I don't want you catching 
gabble seed." 
They went reluctantly. 
"I hoped he'd wait for you, he would have been 
young enough then, and a chit like you don't know her 
mind, though many a girl has been married at fifteen. 
Sophie Piaget is a nice enough girl, industrious and all 
that, but he might have looked higher. I don't quite 
like the French of it, and the Catholic, though I'm not 
bigoted. I never supposed you were helping things 
along, or I'd put my finger in the pie sooner." 
Had I helped it along ? I had a guilty feeling. 
"Father wouldn't hear to my being engaged or hav 
ing a real lover," I said with some dignity. "And I 
don't want one, I don't care about being married." 
"You'll sing another tune presently. Though after 
all," in a softer tone, "there is plenty of time." 
CHAPTER XII 
NOT MERRY, BUT WEDDING BELLS. 
MRS. HAYNE did not feel comfortable over Homer's 
engagement. It was a full fortnight before she could 
make a formal call on Mrs. Piaget. She had been there 
on errands, and Sophie and I were often at the Haynes'. 
But she stopped for me one day, "since it had to be 
done," she said, and we walked down together. She 
was not at her best, though she had on her Sunday 
clothes. Perhaps she would have felt more at ease in 
her every-day ones. She was generally so cordial and 
heartsome that I noticed and felt sorry for the stiff 
ness. 
Of course she said some pleasant things that she 
knew Sophie would make a good, industrious wife, 
and that was what young men needed. She had no 
patience with flyaways, and girls who were too good to 
work, who were taking up the new ideas that you must 
sit in the parlor and play on the piano, and have lace 
undersleeves dangling about your wrists, and a tail to 
your frock to sweep up the dirt everywhere. Qothes, 
she took it, were made for use and comfort. 
Women were wearing very full skirts, and all around 
the back they "dipped" and had to be held up in the 
streets. Sleeves were wide and flowing with lace or 
fine muslin ruffles inside. Some had an edge of needle 
work, but if that came from the convents in Canada it 
was costly, and the younger girls were doing it for 
themselves. They took their work along when they 
went to make calls, and calls then were an hour 
or so long between friends, and you "laid off your 
things." 
There was coming to be quite a circle of what was 
considered afterward "the first people," and who had 
streets named for them. There were the Newberrys 
and Owenses, the Hamiltons and Pecks and Roberts, 
the Menards and Nobles, and Baubeins and Kinzies, 
who seemed the fathers of the town, and talked of the 
block house and the few cabins around it, the attack 
on the fort, and the Indian skirmishes. When you lis 
tened to them Chicago seemed really old. 
Then there was only one set, with the clergymen hav 
ing the place of honor. Now there were several cir 
cles, not strongly defined, and living in amity, but each 
one choosing its own friends. The cream went out 
shopping when the new goods came in, and no longer 
wore homespun. Their sons and daughters went away 
for the finishing touches in education. 
The Haynes were then in what we should call the 
middle class. There were some fine French people, 
but they seemed a little colony to themselves, as well 
as the Germans. I liked all the French people I had 
met very much, perhaps I was drawn to them by the 
thought of Norman in Paris. I did admire their 
courtesy and a certain dainty politeness as if they al 
ways knew just the right thing to do, and did it gra 
ciously. 
Mrs. Piaget brought out her best cake and wine. 
She had some fine embroidered napkins, others done in 
exquisite drawn work, and her glasses were clear and 
fine, letting the tint of the wine shine through. And 
the cake was delicious. She always flavored it. She 
had the art of making flavors and scents, and their 
clothing had an indescribable fragrance. 
"Well, well," Mrs. Hayne said, when we had left the 
house, "that's done with, and I've been dreading it. 
Sophie will make a nice wife, I dare say, but I think 
Homer could have found some good American girl. 
There's Kate and Annie Noble. They always ask him 
to their gatherings, and Mr. Noble said to father that 
he was a smart, level-headed fellow, and would make 
his mark. I've been counting on my boys marrying, 
and I've wanted some one I could company with and 
feel to like as an own daughter." 
"But Sophie is very sweet and affectionate," I ven 
tured. 
"She's French. The old saying is that 'blood's 
thicker 'n water.' And she'll have her ways, and her 
friends, and they'll jabber that everlasting tongue that 
you can't make head nor tail of until you wish there 
hadn't been any Tower of Babel, and everybody had 
gone on talking the same language." 
I laughed at that. How queer it must have seemed 
when no one understood any one else! 
"And I s'pose Norman will come home with some 
fine French body who can't comb her hair nor put on 
her stockings nor shoes, and must have a maid, as old 
Granny Verrinder talks about. What better off is she 
for all the fuss ! Granny Pettingill is eighty, and she 
can spin on the big wheel, and knit and sew, and is 
worth a dozen of that other old thing, that's wearing out 
her daughter's life. I don't know what you'd do with 
a dozen. I'd bundle 'em up in a bag an' drop 'em in 
the lake." 
Mother Hayne was forgetting Ben's training, and 
dropping back into her elisions, which showed that she 
was rather short in the temper. 
I was truly sorry about it all. Yet I could not wish 
it different. And when Sophie ran over in the edge 
of the evening I tried to comfort her. 
"She doesn't like me, I can see that," she said with a 
catch in her breath that was like a sob. "And I feel 
so sorry for Homer. He has counted on our all being 
so happy together, and I would try to be like a true 
daughter, only she is so stiff I shall always feel afraid." 
"I think she will get over it. She has such a good 
warm heart. I'm quite sure it will get settled by the 
time you are ready to be married," I said hopefully. I 
couldn't imagine Mrs. Hayne holding out. 
"We're going to have a betrothal party. Mother 
was waiting for her call to settle that, and Mr. Hayne 
has given Homer a lot. It's almost out on the prairie, 
but if the Wrights don't mind living there we oughtn't. 
We've been planning it he's going to build two rooms 
quite to the middle of the lot, and when he gets fore- 
 
handed, as you Americans say, he will put up a nice 
front." 
Father thought that an excellent idea. Homer came 
and talked it over with him, and I think he was much 
pleased. 
Then there was the betrothal party. They had a 
new priest now at St. Mary's Father Fischer, and he 
was very gracious and kindly. The ceremony seemed 
as solemn as a marriage to me. But it was true that 
most of the guests were French. I was beginning to 
talk quite well, and felt really at home among them. 
"I don't know what we should do without you," 
Homer said, squeezing my hand. "You must coax up 
mother, and we will try to do our best. Sophie's the 
one girl in the world to me, and yet I love you just the 
same. But the sweetest of all is having the girl glad 
to come to you." 
After Pere Fischer had given them a second blessing 
and gone, with some of the elders, old Billy Griffin 
came in with his violin, and we had some dancing, with 
plenty of cake and a kind of cordial made out of spiced 
fruits, that was quite harmless. 
Dan had come in and seemed a good deal interested. 
I danced with him, but Sophie said it was long and 
short division. I was still growing and almost as tall 
as Sophie. 
After that we began to plan for the wedding outfit. 
The night of her betrothal Mrs. Piaget had given 
Sophie her string of gold beads. She had one of not 
very choice pearls, but pretty, I thought, which would 
be Nanette's, six of her silver teaspoons, three table- 
spoons with the mark of a Paris silversmith on them, 
and some quaint china dishes, as well as a fine pewter 
basin. Then there was a cream silk gown with dainty 
flowers sprinkled over it, some of her mother's youth 
ful finery, that would be made over into the wedding 
gown. 
As for sheets and blankets and table linen, they were 
to be evolved somehow, and pretty underwear, so dear 
to a girl's heart. There was still a scarcity of money 
about, and so one had to exercise one's wits. 
The town was thrown into quite a ferment that en 
tirely eclipsed our simple engagement. A Frenchman, 
one Pierre Maseurier, had been up to Chicago some 
weeks. He was much interested in the canal and trade 
generally, and had a large place at Vincennes, as well 
as some sugar interests in Lousiana. Small, old, but 
sharp and eager, as if he were just beginning life, in 
stead of having it more than half spent. What brought 
him into contact with Granny Verrinder no one could 
explain, but he was quite a frequent caller. Suddenly 
the little town was astonished at another betrothal. 
Whether Polly Morrison had captured him, a widower 
of long standing, with two married sons, or whether 
he had tempted her with the brilliant prospect, no one 
could tell. She curtly dismissed her old admirers, 
there was an elaborate wedding gown sent for, and 
Polly, dressed in sumptuous furs and covered with a 
white wolf robe, was driven about as if she were a 
queen. 
Two days after a night's debauch, Dan Hayne left 
for Buffalo. He knocked down a friend who offered 
 
him a teasing condolence, but vouchsafed no explana 
tion to any one. Then there was a wedding at St. 
Mary's, with a nuptial mass and all the accessories of 
state. Bishop Quartier came up to marry them, and 
the lovely Saint Pailais, who was afterward Bishop of 
Vincennes. It was a grand affair, and it -seemed as if 
the whole town turned out. Polly looked as handsome 
as if she had just stepped out of a picture, and most 
people wondered afterward, for she had never been 
considered a beauty. 
Mrs. Hayne felt so much relieved that she began to 
take a warmer interest in Sophie and the new house. 
There were other mothers who gave thanks, no doubt, 
for wild, wilful Polly had been a terror to them. 
First it was one lover sighing at her feet and then 
another. She certainly did delight in using her wiles 
on other girls' lovers, not that she wanted the admirers 
either, but just to try her power. There was only one 
man who won her heart as I came to know afterward, 
but money and position outweighed love. 
Of course she had taken M. Maseurier for the 
luxury he could give her. No girl of eighteen would be 
likely to marry a wizened-up old man past sixty if he 
were poor. Everybody settled to that. 
About six weeks afterward Granny Verrinder died 
very suddenly, though she was past ninety-six. She 
had been taken to her granddaughter's marriage, lifted 
in and out of a coach, and so bundled up that no one 
saw much of her except two staring black eyes. It was 
supposed Mrs. Morrison would rejoin her daughter, 
but whether granny had more money than any one 
thought, or that the wealthy son-in-law had made pro 
vision for her, no one was quite certain. She repaired 
and renovated her house, built on another room, dis 
tributed the furniture around more comfortably, took 
in an old negro woman, and though she did not enlarge 
the borders of her friendship, she came to look less 
careworn, went to church occasionally, and perhaps 
found a little happiness. At least, she was exempt 
from care. 
We heard that Polly was living in great style and 
had everything heart could wish. 
Dan came back three or four weeks afterward and 
went about his business as if nothing had happened, 
held up his head and was in no wise broken hearted. 
Indeed, I thought him improved. He took a real 
interest in Homer's house, advanced him some money, 
so that he could meet bills promptly, and was pleasant 
and brotherly to Sophie, who had always felt a little 
afraid of him. 
It was a very delightful spring and early summer to 
me. Father was prosperous and jolly, and we were so 
interested in completing the trousseau and house equip 
ment. When one goes out and orders a long list, has 
them sent home and put in their places, one misses the 
delight and interest of real home-making. 
Then the wedding day was set. It would be in the 
church, of course, and that did fret Mrs. Hayne. There 
was no great fuss about mixed marriages then, though 
good Pere Fischer hoped in his pleasant manner that 
sometime Homer would be numbered among those of 
the true faith. 
 
Nanette and I were bridesmaids. I had a sheer 
white muslin frock and a wide white satin sash that 
came down to the very bottom of the skirt. There 
were no picture hats, but we each wore a wreath, and 
Sophie her mother's wedding veil, that then was folded 
up and laid away in a box for Nanette, who was free 
to have lovers now. 
The wedding was at noon, and Mrs. Hayne gave a 
generous dinner, tables being set in both rooms. 
Sophie made a sweet and blushing bride, Homer was 
fine and manly. Dan made the speech of the occasion, 
and everybody drank to the health of the bride 
and groom and wished them children and grand 
children. 
About mid-afternoon the procession started for 
home. Dan took Nanette, Ben and me in his two-seat 
wagon. There was to be an evening company, an 
"infair," as it was called, in the new house. The bed 
stead and bedding had been stored in the shed, the two 
rooms were decorated with vines and flowers and 
hanging candlesticks and lamps, so that in the evening 
the lights would be in no one's way. 
Randolph Street was a lane then with but few 
houses, and out beyond stretched the prairie that was 
to be a compact city long before the century ended. 
"Oh, I do hope you won't be lonesome way out 
here," I said to Sophie. 
"Why, I shall have Homer, you know," opening her 
eyes wide as if she thought my wish inconsequent. 
"But not in the daytime." 
"Then I shall be busy about my work." 
"Why I thought we had done sewing enough to 
last seven years," I said gayly. 
"Well there will be cooking for a hungry man, and 
I don't mean that Homer shall wish for his mother 
when meal time comes. And Mr. Hayne thinks it will 
be a good thing for Homer to bring his shop over here. 
Chicago is building up so fast, and it will have to stretch 
out every way. Then a good deal of the time he will 
be home to dinner. You and Nan and the girls will 
visit me oh no, I shall not be lonesome." 
She was so happy. And though it had not the bright 
est beginning, Mother Hayne came to take great com 
fort in her daughter. 
We had a merry time with some new plays and 
dancing. Mr. Hayne took several of the older people 
home, then his wife, Nanette and myself. 
"Well, they've had a very nice time and started fair, 
and they'll get along all right," said the satisfied 
motherly voice. 
"Homer has a long head. I shan't have made a for 
tune, but I look for my sons to be some of the rich men 
of Chicago. Dan knows how to make money, and 
if he learns how to keep it, he'll be all right. I dare say 
that blind Frenchman will do well by Norman, and 
Ben's steady going. I shouldn't wonder if Chris turned 
parson," and he laughed. 
"Dan's like his old self," returned Mrs. Hayne. "I 
don't know when I've set so much store by him as 
I have this last week. That girl was a sort of a witch, 
I do believe, and she just upset every man that she set 
her eyes on. There's 'Lias Gordon gone to the dogs, 
 
hasn't drawn a sober breath since her wedding day. 
'Twas said she promised to marry him, but I don't be 
lieve that. She was looking for the best chance. And 
I don't just see how all this good luck came to her. 
But she'll have to carry herself mighty straight, or that 
old fellow will beat her, you could see it in his eye, and 
'twould serve her just right. I give thanks, like good 
old David, seven times a day that she's out of Dan's 
way." 
I missed Sophie and the excitement, though some 
new girl friends came in, and Ben was my devoted 
cavalier. But one night he surprised me by a very 
naive confession. Were the Haynes, little and big, 
bound to own me? 
He had been descanting on Homer's happiness, which 
was ideal, of course. 
"The right thing for a man to do is to get married 
when he reaches a certain place," began Ben gravely. 
"And I've some plans I'm going in Hamilton's real 
estate and law office. They want a clerk. There isn't 
any more money in it, but I'm going to study law. 
I've been thinking of it this good while. I've listened 
to the men talking politics, and I'm awfully interested 
in that smart Stephen A. Douglas. Ruth, this is going 
to be a great country, and it will need more and more 
people to govern it. A State can have only two sena 
tors, but as her population increases she has 
more representatives, and that takes a man to Wash 
ington. Then there are judges and governors of 
States." 
"And Presidents," I laughed. 
"Only one every four years. Seems to me they tie 
his hands behind his back, and then grumble because 
he doesn't pull up every weed. He doesn't have so 
much power, after all. But I'd like to be in public life 
somewhere, to work on the souls or beliefs of men. It's 
a grand thing !" 
"Oh, Ben!" I was amazed. Quiet, apparently con 
tented Ben! 
"Yes, I'm going to set out for that. If you don't 
put up a mark you can't help shooting at random. 
Of course it will take a long while and hard study, but 
one reason why I like you so much is that you're fond 
of books, and have more real sense than most girls. 
And, Ruth, you could be a perfect lady. It's born in 
some people, and when it isn't they never get quite up 
to the mark." 
"Oh, thank you," I returned, amused, as he made a 
little pause. "On what pedestal am I to be put?" 
I had no idea of what he would say, and somehow 
I was not a little bewildered by his ambitious projects. 
"Well, when I get up to the place where I can care 
for a wife, I want you. You would read and study 
and talk with a fellow, and keep him up to the mark, 
too. I was glad you didn't want to marry Homer, not 
but what he will make a splendid, devoted husband, but 
house and wife and children will be his boundaries. 
He will vote the Democratic ticket because his father 
did, not from any principle or conviction. Oh, do you 
remember how you and Norman once quarrelled about 
politics?" and he laughed. 
"But, Ben I" 
 
He made a gesture with his hand, and I never under 
stood before how much fine dignity Ben possessed. 
"After all this, if you haven't really fallen in love 
with any one else, I shall ask you. But if you do meet 
with any one you prefer this must not stand in the 
way. I don't believe you will be the kind of girl who 
is always reaching out after lovers. Your father will 
want to keep you." 
"Oh, that is it," I interrupted. "Father has for 
bidden my having any lovers for a long while yet." 
"We will be friends just as we have been. I'll come 
and talk over my plans with you. Mother, you see, 
wouldn't understand. I like your father's bright, tren 
chant remarks, too. There's some width to his brain. 
But all the other will be put off until the right time 
comes laid away on the shelf of the future, not to be 
meddled with. And now if father scolds about my 
throwing up a good business chance, you will under 
stand why I do it." 
I could not have helped admiring Ben. He had such 
a good, strong face. All the boys were well looking, 
none as handsome as Dan, but it seemed to me later on 
in life as if each to a certain degree carried his char 
acter in his face. 
"So now we have had a good talk," continued Ben 
he had done all the talking "and we understand the 
ground we go upon. You know you are the dearest 
girl to all of us. I shall never forget the night you 
came. And we will be the best of friends." 
Could I refuse when the tender eyes looked up so 
confidently ? 
"The best of friends," I returned, and I felt the 
solemnity of my own voice. 
It was true that Ben's new plans were rather frowned 
upon. His employer was sorry to lose him. 
"There's lots of money made in speculation," said 
Mr. Hayne, "and lots lost as well. Stands to reason 
values can't always increase, and immigrants can't al 
ways come in. We have a big country, with other lakes 
and rivers, and the whole Atlantic coast for shipping. 
Then it seems rather shifty business to me for steady 
company." 
Ben did not mind, however. There were some new 
and exciting questions to greet the new President and 
his Cabinet. The boundary of Oregon and British 
America almost stirred up warfare, and a new difficulty 
loomed up when the State of Texas, an independent 
principality, asked to enter the Union. Mexico ob 
jected, and there was a talk of war. We had many 
things on hand, streets and the muddy old river, and 
at last the canal that was going to do so much for us 
approaching completion. Every year a greater demand 
for wheat and corn and live stock. Father added field 
to field, it seemed a passion with him. 
The next spring there came a little girl to Homer 
and Sophie Hayne. I think Mrs. Hayne was the glad 
dest of all. The little girl of her own blood that she 
had so longed for. A sweet, good little thing who 
seldom cried and smiled readily. 
They were all prosperous. Homer began to build 
houses and sell them. Dan was steady, and turning 
his attention largely to cattle raising and buying, and 
 
had an interest in packing. He had a room now at the 
hotel, and seemed to care little for girls, though he was 
not averse to social pleasures. His one passion was 
Chita, who was kept beautifully groomed. He raced 
her now and then. She was the mother of a splendid 
colt. He used to talk to her as if she was a human 
being, and I think she understood every word. 
As for Mr. Le Moyne, the treatment had failed. 
Norman had promised to remain with him. They 
would reside in Paris and travel. 
CHAPTER XIII 
THE SHADED SIDE 
I WAS having a happy girl's life with friends and pleas 
ures. Nanette Piaget had a lover, a young French 
Canadian, who became enamored of prairies, and saw 
boundless possibilities in wheat. He had some money 
and would settle in Chicago. 
One day father was brought home from a bad fall, 
unconscious; they feared at first that he was dead. I 
was stunned. Mrs. Piaget came over and one of our 
neighbors, Mrs. Lewis. 
They found his hip was badly broken. Three phy 
sicians worked over him, and after some hours he was 
bandaged. One doctor remained all night, and Mrs. 
Lewis stayed. She did a good deal of nursing, and 
made her home with a married daughter. 
Fever set in, and there followed six weeks of danger. 
I don't know what would have happened, but Dan 
Hayne took charge of the outside matters. The wheat 
had been cut and was to be brought in, a splendid crop 
it was. 
 
"Everything grows its best for your father," he 
said. "This is the first setback he has had." 
Everybody was very kind. But I had never known 
sorrow or anxiety, and the saddest of all was not to 
do anything that would help. He had to lie still and 
suffer. In the height of the fever he was strapped to 
the cot, to keep him from doing any worse injury to his 
hip. Mrs. Hayne coaxed me to come down and stay a 
few days, but I had an awful fear that father would 
die. Or he might come to consciousness and ask for 
me. Now and then he talked of our journey from the 
old Bay State, and murmured, "Little girl, little girl," 
but he did not realize that the little girl was at his side 
whenever she was allowed to be. 
There were a few days when he hovered between 
life and death and dozed most of the time. Then he 
opened his eyes and looked at me and said in a tremu 
lous tone, "Ruth." 
"Father !" I caught his thin white hand and covered 
it with kisses and tears. 
He drew a long breath. "I've been pretty sick, 
haven't I ? How long has it been a fortnight ?" 
"Almost two months." 
"Two months! And the wheat the corn ruined! 
And what is the matter with my side? I can't move 
my leg. Why, I don't understand." 
"You were hurt by a fall. You have been very ill 
with a fever. And now you are better. You are going 
to get well." 
I leaned my head down on his shoulder and cried. 
I could not help it. 
"Poor little girl!" he said. "Poor little girll" 
Then Dr. Carpenter came in, and I know he wag 
greatly relieved. 
"But we are not out of the woods !" He shook his 
head dubiously. "You can blow out your candle very 
easily, but with care you may burn it to the socket. 
Still you have had a mighty tight squeeze. And there 
must be no crying over him," shaking his ringer at 
me. 
"Except for joy," I retorted, wiping my eyes. 
"I do begin to recall things, but I had no idea I had 
been ill so long. And my hip my leg?" 
"It was a very bad break. It hasn't gone on as we 
hoped, the fever was too much for it. But we 
think it will be all right in the end. It will be a 
winter's job, and call for a good deal of patience." 
Father groaned and covered his face with his hands. 
"You may be dismissed, little maid," with a smile 
and gesture of the hand, "we have some secret rites to 
perform." 
I went out and hugged Jolette in my joy. 
"I knowed 'twas all right," said Jolette. "I've harked 
