"Thrue f'r ye, sorr!" exclaimed Burke, with a twinkle in his gray eye.
"Where wud th' b'ys find a dhram, sorr, wid Jimmy Burke on a scout,
sorr, thrimmin' the Tories o' Mayfield, an' runnin' the Scotch loons
out o' Perth an' the Galways, glory be!"
He bustled out to fetch us a dish of pink clingstone peaches, grown in
the gardens planted by the great Sir William. Truly, Sir John had lost
much when he lost Johnson Hall; and now, like a restless ghost drawn
back to familiar places, he haunted the spot that his great father had
made to bloom like a rose in the wilderness. He was out there now, in
the sunshine and morning haze, somewhere, beyond the blue autumn mist
in the north--out there, disgraced, disinherited, shelterless, sullenly
brooding, and plotting murder with his motley mob of Cayugas and
painted renegades.
Colonel Willett rose and we all stood up, but he signaled those who had
not finished eating to resume their places, and laying a familiar hand
on my arm led me to the sunny bench outside the door where, at his nod,
I seated myself beside him. He drew a map from his breast-pocket and
studied in silence; I waited his pleasure.
The veteran seemed to have grown no older since I had last seen him
four years since--indeed, he had changed little as I remembered him
first, sipping his toddy at my father's house, and smiling his shrewd,
kindly, whimsical smile while I teased him to tell me of the French
war, and how he had captured Frontenac.
I was but seventeen years old when he headed that revolt in New York
City, and, single-handed, halted the British troops on Broad Street and
took away their baggage. I was nineteen when he led the sortie from
Stanwix. I had already taken my post in New York when he was serving
with his Excellency in the Jerseys and with Sullivan in the west.
Of all the officers who served on the frontier, Marinus Willett was the
only man who had ever held the enemy at check. Even Sullivan, returning
from his annihilation of Indian civilization, was followed by a cloud
of maddened savages and renegades that settled in his tracks,
enveloping the very frontier which, by his famous campaign, he had
properly expected to leave unharassed.
And now Marinus Willett was in command, with meager resources, indeed,
yet his personal presence on the Tryon frontier restored something of
confidence to those who still clung to the devastated region, sowing,
growing, garnering, and grinding the grain that the half-starved army
of the United States required to keep life within the gaunt rank and
file. West Point, Albany, Saratoga called for bread; and the men of
Tryon plowed and sowed and reaped, leaving their dead in every
furrow--swung their scythes under the Iroquois bullets, cut their
blood-wet hay in the face of ambush after ambush, stacked their
scorched corn and defended it from barn, shack, and window. With torch
and hatchet renegade and Iroquois decimated them; their houses kindled
into flame; their women and children, scalped and throats cut, were
hung over fences like dead game; twelve thousand farms lay tenantless;
by thousands the widows and orphans gathered at the blockhouses, naked,
bewildered, penniless. There remained in all Tryon County but eight
hundred militia capable of responding to a summons--eight hundred
desperate men to leave scythe and flail and grist-mill for their rifles
at the dread call to arms. Two dozen or more blockhouses, holding from
ten to half a hundred families each, were strung out between Stanwix
Fort and Schenectady; these, except for a few forts, formed the outer
line of the United States' bulwarks in the north; and this line Willett
was here to hold with the scattered handful of farmers and Rangers.
Yet, with these handfuls, before our arrival he had already cleaned out
Torlock; he had already charged through the flames of Currietown, and
routed the renegades at Sharon--leading the charge, cocked-hat in hand,
remarking to his Rangers that he could catch in his hat all the balls
that the renegades could fire. Bob McKean, the scout, fell that day;
nine men, bound to saplings, were found scalped; yet the handful under
Willett turned on Torlock and seized a hundred head of cattle for the
famishing garrison of Herkimer. Wawarsing, Cobleskill, and Little Falls
were ablaze; Willett's trail lay through their smoking cinders, his
hatchets hung in the renegades' rear, his bullets drove the raiders
headlong from Tekakwitha Spring to the Kennyetto, and his Oneidas clung
to the edges of invasion, watching, waiting, listening in the still
places for the first faint sound of that advance that meant the final
death-grapple. It was coming, surely coming: Sir John already harrying
the Sacandaga; Haldimand reported on the eastern lakes; Ross and the
Butlers expected from Niagara, and nothing now to prevent Clinton from
advancing up the Hudson from New York, skirting West Point, and giving
the entire north to the torch. This was what confronted Tryon County;
but the army needed grain, and we were there to glean what we might
between fitful storms, watching that solid, thunderous tempest
darkening the north from east to west, far as the eye could see.
Colonel Willett had lighted his clay pipe, and now, map spread across
his knees and mine, he leaned over, arms folded, smoking, and examining
the discolored and wrinkled paper.
"Where is Adriutha, Carus?" he drawled.
I pointed out the watercourse, traced in blue, showing him the ancient
site and the falls near by.
"And Carenay?"
Again I pointed.
"Oswaya?"
"Only tradition remains of that lost village," I said. "Even in the
Great Rite those who pronounce the name know nothing more than that it
once existed. It is so with Kayaderos and Danascara; nobody now knows
exactly where they were."
"And Thendara?"
"Thendara was, and will be, but is not. In the Great Rite of the
Iroquois that place where the first ceremony, which is called 'At the
wood's edge,' begins is called Thendara, to commemorate the ancient
place where first the Holder of Heaven talked face to face with the
League's founder, Hiawatha."
The hawk-faced veteran smoked and studied the map for a while; then he
removed the pipe from his mouth, and, in silence, traced with the
smoking stem a path. I watched him; he went back to the beginning and
traced the path again and yet again, never uttering a word; and
presently I began to comprehend him.
"Yes, sir," I said; "thus will the Long House strike the Oneidas--when
they strike."
"I have sent belts--as you suggested," observed Willett carelessly.
I was delighted, but made no comment; and presently he went on in his
drawling, easy manner: "I can account for Sir John, and I can hold him
on the Sacandaga; I can account for Haldimand only through the
cowardice or treachery of Vermont; but I can hold him, too, if he ever
dares to leave the lakes. For Sir Henry Clinton I do not care a damn;
like a headless chicken he tumbles about New York, seeing, hearing
nothing, and no mouth left to squawk with. His head is off; one of his
legs still kicks at Connecticut, t'other paddles aimlessly in the
Atlantic Ocean. But he's done for, Carus. Let his own blood cleanse him
for the plucking!"
The gaunt Colonel replaced his pipe between his teeth and gazed
meditatively into the north:
"But where's Walter Butler?" he mused.
"Is he not at Niagara, sir?" I asked.
Willett folded his map and shoved it into his breast-pocket. "That," he
said, "is what I want you to find out for me, Carus."
He wheeled around, facing me, his kindly face very serious:
"I have relieved you of your command, Carus, and have attached you to
my personal staff. There are officers a-plenty to take your Rangers
where I send them; but I know of only one man in Tryon County who can
do what is to be done at Thendara. Send on your belt to Sachems of the
Long House. Carus, you are a spy once more."
I had not expected it, now that the Oneidas had been warned. Chilled,
sickened at the thought of playing my loathsome rôle once more, bitter
disappointment left me speechless. I hung my head, feeling his keen
eyes upon me; I braced myself sullenly against the overwhelming rush of
repulsion surging up within me. My every nerve, every fiber quivered
for freedom to strike that blow denied me for four miserable years. Had
I not earned the right to face my enemies in the open? Had I not earned
the right to strike? Had I not waited--God! had I not waited?
Appalled, almost unmanned, I bowed my head still lower as the quick
tears of rage wet my lashes. They dried, unshed.
"Is there no chance for me?" I asked--"no chance for one honest blow?"
His kind eyes alone answered; and, like a school-boy, I sat there
rubbing my face, teeth clenched, to choke back the rebellious cry
swelling my hot throat.
"Give me an Oneida, then," I muttered. "I'll go."
"You are a good lad, Carus," he said gently. "I know how you feel."
I could not answer.
"You know," he said, "how many are called, how few chosen. You know
that in these times a man must sink self and stand ready for any
sacrifice, even the supreme and best."
He laid his hand on my shoulder: "Carus, I felt as you do now when his
Excellency asked me to leave the line and the five splendid New York
regiments just consolidated and given me to lead. But I obeyed; I gave
up legitimate ambition; I renounced hope of that advancement all
officers rightly desire; I left my New York regiments to come here to
take command of a few farmers and forest-runners. God and his
Excellency know best!"
I nodded, unable to speak.
"There is glory and preferment to be had in Virginia," he said; "there
are stars to be won at Yorktown, Carus. But those stars will never
glitter on this faded uniform of mine. So be it. Let us do our best,
lad. It's all one in the end."
I nodded.
"And so," he continued pleasantly, "I send you to Thendara. None knows
you for a partizan in this war. For four years you have been lost to
sight; and if any Iroquois has heard of your living in New York, he
must believe you to be a King's man. Your one danger is in answering
the Iroquois summons as an ensign of a nation marked for punishment.
How great that danger may be, you can judge better than I."
I thought for a while. The Canienga who had summoned me by belt could
not prove I was a partizan of the riflemen who escorted me. I might
have been absolutely non-partizan, traveling under escort of either
side that promised protection from those ghostly rovers who scalped
first and asked questions afterward.
The danger I ran as clan-ensign of a nation marked for punishment was
an unknown quantity to me. From the Canienga belt-bearer I had gathered
that there was no sanctuary for an Oneida envoy at Thendara; but what
protection an ensign of the Wolf Clan might expect, I could not be
certain of.
But there was one more danger. Suppose Walter Butler should appear to
sit in council as ensign of his mongrel clan?
"Colonel," I said, "there is one thing to be done, and, as there is
nobody else to accomplish this dog's work, I must perform it. I am
trying not to be selfish--not to envy those whose lines are fallen in
pleasant places--not to regret the happiness of battle which I have
never known--not to desire those chances for advancement and for glory
that--that all young men--crave----"
My voice broke, but I steadied it instantly.
"I had hoped one day to do a service which his Excellency could openly
acknowledge--a service which might, one day, permit him to receive me.
I have never seen him. I think, now, I never shall. But, as you say,
sir, ambitions like these are selfish, therefore they are petty and
unworthy. He does know best."
The Colonel nodded gravely, watching me, his unlighted pipe drooping in
his hand.
"There is one thing--before I go," I said. "My betrothed wife is with
me. May I leave her in your care, sir?"
"Yes, Carus."
"She is asleep in that room above--" I looked up at the closed
shutters, scarcely seeing them for the blinding rush of tears; yet
stared steadily till my eyes were dry and hot again, and my choked and
tense throat relaxed.
"I think," said the Colonel, "that she is safer in Johnstown Fort than
anywhere else just now. I promise you, Carus, to guard and cherish her
as though she were my own child. I may be called away--you understand
that!--but I mean to hold Johnstown Fort, and shall never be too far
from Johnstown to relieve it in event of siege. What can be done I will
do on my honor as a soldier. Are you content?"
"Yes."
He lowered his voice: "Is it best to see her before you start?"
I shook my head.
"Then pick your Oneida," he muttered. "Which one?"
"Little Otter. Send for him."
The Colonel leaned back on the bench and tapped at the outside of the
tavern window. An aide came clanking out, and presently hurried away
with a message to Little Otter to meet me at Butlersbury within the
hour, carrying parched corn and salt for three days' rations.
For a while we sat there, going over personal matters. Our sea-chests
were to be taken to the fort; my financial affairs I explained, telling
him where he might find my papers in case of accident to me. Then I
turned over to him my watch, what money I had of Elsin's, and my own.
"If I do not return," I said, "and if this frontier can not hold out,
send Miss Grey with a flag to New York. Sir Peter Coleville is kin to
her; and when he understands what danger menaces her he will defend her
to the last ditch o' the law. Do you understand, Colonel?"
"No, Carus, but I can obey."
"Then remember this: She must never be at the mercy of Walter Butler."
"Oh, I can remember that," he said drily.
For a few moments I sat brooding, head between my hands; then, of a
sudden impulse, I swung around and laid my heart bare to him--told him
everything in a breath--trembling, as a thousand new-born fears seized
me, chilling my blood.
"Good God!" I stammered, "it is not for myself I care now, Colonel! But
the thought of him--of her--together--I can not endure. I tell you, the
dread of this man has entered my very soul; there is terror at a hint
of him. Can I not stay, Colonel? Is there no way for me to stay? She is
so young, so alone----"
Hope died as I met his eye. I set my teeth and crushed speech into
silence.
"The welfare of a nation comes first," he said slowly.
"I know--I know--but----"
"All must sacrifice to that principle, Carus. Have not the men of New
York stood for it? Have not the men of Tryon given their all? I tell
you, the army shall eat, but the bread they munch is made from
blood-wet grain; and for every loaf they bake a life has been offered.
Where is the New Yorker who has not faced what you are facing? At the
crack of the ambushed rifle our people drop at the plow, and their
dying eyes look upon wife and children falling under knife and hatchet.
It must be so if the army is to eat and liberty live in this country we
dare call our own. And when the call sounds, we New Yorkers must go,
Carus. Our women know it, even our toddling children know it, God bless
them!--and they proudly take their chances--nay, they demand the
chances of a war that spares neither the aged nor the weak, neither
mother nor cradled babe, nor the hound at the door, nor the cattle, nor
any living thing in this red fury of destruction!"
He had risen, eyes glittering, face hardened into stone. "Go to your
betrothed and say good-by. You do not know her yet, I think."
"She is Canadienne," I said.
"She is what the man she loves is--if she honors him. His cause is
hers, his country hers, his God is her God!"
"Her heart is with neither side----"
"Her heart is with you! Shame to doubt her--if I read her eyes! Read
them, Carus!"
I wheeled, speechless; Elsin Grey stood before me, deadly pale.
After a moment she moved forward, laying her hand on my shoulder and
facing Colonel Willett with a smile. All color had fled from her face,
but neither lip nor voice quivered as she spoke:
"I think you do understand, sir. We Canadiennes yield nothing in
devotion to the women of New York. Where we love, we honor. What
matters it where the alarm sounds? We understand our lovers; we can
give them to the cause of freedom as well here in Tryon County as on
the plains of Abraham--can we not, my betrothed?" she said, looking
into my face; but her smile was heart-breaking.
"Child, child," said Willett, taking her free hand in both of his, "you
speak a silent language with your eyes that no man can fail to
understand."
"I failed," I said bitterly, as Willett kissed her hand, placed it in
mine, and, turning, entered the open door.
"And what blame, Carus?" she whispered. "What have I been to you but a
symbol of unbridled selfishness, asking all, giving nothing? How could
you know I loved you so dearly that I could stand aside to let you
pass? First I loved you selfishly, shamelessly; then I begged your
guilty love, offering mine in the passion of my ignorance and
bewilderment."
Her arm fell from my shoulder and nestled in mine, and we turned away
together under the brilliant autumn glory of the trees.
"That storm that tore me--ah, Carus--I had been wrecked without your
strong arm to bear me up!"
"It was you who bore me up, Elsin. How can I leave you now!"
"Why, Carus, our honor is involved."
"Our honor!"
"Yes, dear, ours."
"You--you bid me go, Elsin?"
"If I bid you stay, what would avail except to prove me faithless to
you? How could I truly love you and counsel dishonor?"
White as a flower, the fixed smile never left her lips, nor did her
steady pace beside me falter, or knee tremble, or a finger quiver of
the little hand that lay within my own.
And then we fell silent, walking to and fro under the painted
maple-trees in Johnstown streets, seeing no one, heeding no one, until
the bell at the fort struck the hour. It meant the end.
We kissed each other once. I could not speak. My horse, led by Jack
Mount, appeared from the tavern stables; and we walked back to the inn
together.
Once more I took her in my arms; then she gently drew away and entered
the open door, hands outstretched as though blinded, feeling her
way--that was the last I saw of her, feeling her dark way alone into
the house.
Senses swimming, dumb, deafened by the raging, beating pulses hammering
in my brain, I reeled at a gallop into the sunny street, north, then
west, then north once more, tearing out into the Butlersbury road. A
gate halted me; I dismounted and dragged it open, then to horse again,
then another gate, then on again, hailed and halted by riflemen at the
cross-roads, which necessitated the summoning of my wits at last before
they would let me go.
Now riding through the grassy cart-road, my shoulders swept by the
fringing willows, I came at length to the Danascara, shining in the
sunlight, and followed its banks--the same banks from which so often in
happier days I had fished. At times I traveled the Tribes Hill road, at
times used shorter cuts, knowing every forest-trail as I did, and
presently entered the wood-road that leads from Caughnawaga church to
Johnstown. I was in Butlersbury; there was the slope, there the Tribes
Hill trail, there the stony road leading to that accursed house from
which the Butlers, father and son, some five years since, had gone
forth to eternal infamy.
And now, set in a circle of cleared land and ringed by the ancient
forests of the north, I saw the gray, weather-beaten walls of the
house. The lawns were overgrown; the great well-sweep shattered; the
locust-trees covered with grapevines--the cherry- and apple-trees to
the south broken and neglected. Weeds smothered the flower-gardens,
where here and there a dull-red poppy peered at me through withering
tangles; lilac and locust had already shed foliage too early blighted,
but the huge and forbidding maples were all aflame in their blood-red
autumn robes. Here the year had already begun to die; in the clear air
a faint whiff of decay came from the rotting heaps of leaves--decay,
ruin, and the taint of death; and, in the sad autumn stillness,
something ominous, something secret and sly--something of malice.
Seeing no sign of my Oneida, I walked my horse across the lawn and up
to the desolate row of windows. The shutters had been ripped off their
hinges; all within was bare and dark; dimly I made out the shadowy
walls of a hallway which divided the house into halves. By the light
which filtered through the soiled windows I examined room after room
from the outside, then, noiselessly, tried the door, but found it
bolted from within as well as locked from without. Either the Butlers
or the commissioners of sequestration must have crawled through a
window to do this. I prowled on, looking for the window they had used
as exit, examining the old house with a fascinated repugnance. The
clapboards were a foot wide, evidently fashioned with care and beaded
on the edges. The outside doors all opened outward; and I noted, with a
shudder of contempt, the "witch's half-moon," or lunette, in the bottom
of each door, which betrays the cowardly superstition of the man who
lived there. Such cat-holes are fashioned for haunted houses; the
specter is believed to crawl out through these openings, and then to be
kept out with a tarred rag stuffed into the hole--ghosts being unable
to endure tar. Faugh! If specters walk, the accursed house must be
alive with them--ghosts of the victims of old John Butler, wraiths
dripping red from Cherry Valley--children with throats cut; women with
bleeding heads and butchered bodies, stabbed through and through--and
perhaps the awful specter of Lieutenant Boyd, with eyes and nails
plucked out, and tongue cut off, bound to the stake and slowly roasting
to death, while Walter Butler watched the agony curiously, interested
and surprised to see a disemboweled man live so long!
Oh, yes, there might well be phantoms in this ghastly mansion; but they
had nothing to do with me; only the absent master of the house was any
concern of mine; and, finding at last the window I sought for, I shoved
it open and climbed to the sill, landing upon the floor inside, my
moccasined feet making no more sound than the padded toes of a
tree-cat.
Then to prowl and mouse, stepping cautiously, stooping warily to
examine dusty scraps lying on the bare boards--a dirty newspaper, an
old shoe with buckle missing, a broken pewter spoon--all the sordid
trifles that accent desolation. Once or twice I thought to make out
moccasin tracks in the dust, as though some furtive prowler had
anticipated me here, but the light filtering through the crusted panes
was meager and uncertain, and, after all, it mattered nothing to me.
The house was divided by a hallway; there were two rooms on either
side, all bare and empty save for scraps here and there, and in one
room the collapsed and dusty carcass of a rat. On the walls there was
nothing except a nail driven into the clay, which was crumbling between
the facing of whitewashed brick. From the heavy oaken timbers of the
wooden ceilings hung smutty banners of ancient cobwebs, stirring above
me as I moved. It was the very abomination of sinister desolation.
Some vague idea of finding something that might aid me--some scrap of
evidence I might chance on to kindle hope with--some neglected trifle
to damn him and proclaim this monstrous marriage void--it was this
instinct that led me into a house abhorred. Nothing I found, save, on
one foul window-pane, names, diamond-cut, scrawled again and again:
"Lyn," and "Cherry-Maid," repeated a score of times.
And long I lingered, pondering who had written it, and what it might
mean, and who was "Lyn." As for "Cherry-Maid," the name was used in the
False Faces rites; and at that terrific orgy held on the Kennyetto
before the battle of Oriskany, where the first split came in the walls
of the Long House, and where that hag-sorceress, Catrine Montour, had
failed to pledge the Oneidas to the war-post, the Cherry-Maid had taken
part. Indeed, some said that she was a daughter of the Huron witch; but
Jack Mount, who saw the rite, swore that the Cherry-Maid was but a
beautiful child, painted from brow to ankle----
Suddenly I thought of the hag's daughter as Carolyn. Carolyn? Lyn! By
heaven, the Cherry-Maid was Carolyn Montour, mistress of Walter Butler!
Here in bygone days she had scrawled her name--here her title. And
Walter Butler had been present at that frantic debauch where the False
Faces cringed to their prophetess, Magdalen Brant. Perhaps it was there
that this man had met his match in the lithe young animal whelped by
the Toad-Woman--this slim, lawless, depraved child, who had led the
False Faces in their gruesome rites and sacrifice!
I stared at the diamond scrawl; and before my eyes I seemed to see the
three fires burning, the clattering rows of wooden masks, the white
blankets of the sachems, the tawny, naked form of the Cherry-Maid,
seated between samphire and hazel, her pointed fingers on her hips, her
heavy hair veiling a laughing face, over which the infernal fire shadow
played.
Ah, it was well! Beast linked to beast--what need of priest in the
fierce mating of such creatures of the dusk? He was hers, and she his
by all laws of nature, and in the eternal fitness of things vast and
savage. They must live and breed in the half-light of forests; they
must perish as the sun follows the falling trees, creeping ever
inexorably westward.
Somberly brooding, I turned and descended into the cellar. There was
little light here, and I cared not to strike flint. Groping about I
touched with my foot remains of bottles of earthenware, then made my
way to the door again and began to ascend.
The stairway seemed steeper and more tortuous to me. As I climbed I
became uneasy at its length. Then, in a second, it flashed on me that I
had blundered upon a secret stairway[1] leading upward from the cellar.
At this same instant my head brushed the ceiling; I gave a gentle push,
and a trap-door lifted, admitting me to another flight of stairs, up
which I warily felt my way. This must end in another trap-door on the
second floor--I understood that--and began to reach upward, feeling
about blindly until my hands fell on a bolt. This I drew; it was not
rusty, and did not creak, and, as I slid it back, to my astonishment my
fingers grew wet and greasy. The bolt had been recently oiled!
      [1] Evidences of this stairway still exist in the ancient house of
      Walter Butler.
Now all alert as a gray wolf sniffing a strange trail that cuts his
own, I warily lifted the trap to a finger's breadth. The crack of light
dazzled me; gradually my blurred sight grew clearer; I saw a low,
oblong window under the eaves of the steep, pointed roof; and, through
it, the sunlight falling on the bare floor of a room all littered with
papers, torn letters, and tape-bound documents of every description.
Could these be the Butler papers? I had heard that all documents had
been seized by the commissioners after the father and son had fled. But
the honorable commissioners of sequestration had evidently never
suspected this stairway.
In spite of myself I started! How had I, then, entered it? Somebody
must have mounted it before me, leaving the secret door open in the
cellar, and I, groping about, had chanced upon it. But whoever left it
open must have been acquainted with the house--an intimate here, if not
one of the family!
When had this unknown entered? Was any one here now? At the thought my
skin roughened as a dog bristles. Was I alone in this house?
Listening, motionless, nostrils dilated, every sense concentrated on
that narrow crack of light, I crouched there. Then, very gradually, I
raised the trap, higher, higher, laying it back against the upright of
white oak.
I was in a tiny room--a closet, lighted by a slit of a window.
Everywhere around me in the dust were small moccasin prints, pointing in
every direction. I could see no door in the wooden walls of the closet,
but I stepped out of the stair-well and leaned over, examining the
moccasin tracks, tracing them, until I found a spot where they led
straight up to the wall; and there were no returning tracks to be seen.
A chill crept over me; only a specter could pass through a solid wall.
The next moment I had bent, ear flattened to the wooden wainscot. There
was something moving in the next room!
CHAPTER XII
THENDARA
Motionless, intent, holding my breath, I listened at the paneled wall.
Through the wainscot I could hear the low rustling of paper; and I
seemed to sense some heavier movement within, though the solid floor
did not creak, nor a window quiver, nor a footfall sound.
And now my eyes began traveling cautiously over the paneled wall,
against which I had laid my ear. No crack or seam indicated a hidden
door, yet I knew there must be one, and gently pressed the wainscot
with my shoulder. It gave, almost imperceptibly; I pressed again, and
the hidden door opened a hair's breadth, a finger's breadth, an inch,
widening, widening noiselessly; and I bent forward and peered into
another closet like the one I stood in, also lighted by a loop for
rifle-fire. As my head advanced, first a corner of the floor littered
with papers came into my range of vision, then an angle of the wall,
then a shadowy something which I could not at first make out--and I
opened the door a little wider--scarcely an inch--holding it there.
The shadowy something moved; it was a human foot; and the next instant
my eyes fell on a figure, partly in shade, partly in the light from the
loophole--an Indian, kneeling, absorbed in deciphering a document held
flat on the bare floor.
Astounded, almost incredulous, I glared at the vision. Gradually the
shock of the surprise subsided; details took shape under my wondering
eyes--the slim legs, doubled under, clothed with fringed and beaded
leggings to the hips, the gorgeously embroidered sporran, moccasins, and
clout, the smooth, naked back, gleaming like palest amber under curtains
of stiffly strung scarlet-and-gold traders' wampum--traders' wampum?
What did that mean? And what did those heavy, double masses of hair
indicate--those soft, twisted ropes of glossy hair, braided half-way
with crimson silk shot with silver, then hanging a cloudy shock of black
to the belted waist?
Here was no Iroquois youth--no adolescent of the Long House attired for
any rite I ever heard of. The hip-leggings were of magnificent Algonquin
work; the quill-set, sinew-embroidered moccasins, too. That stringy,
iridescent veil of rose, scarlet, and gold wampum on the naked body was
de fantasie; the belt and knife-sheath pure Huron. As for the
gipsy-like arrangement of the hair, no Iroquois boy ever wore it that
way; it hinted of the gens de prairie. What on earth did it mean?
There was no paint on limb or body to guide me. Never had I seen such a
being so dressed for any rite or any practise in North America! Oh, if
Little Otter were only here! I stole a glance out of the loop, but saw
nothing save the pale sunshine on the weeds. If the Oneida had arrived,
he had surely already found my horse tied in the lilac thicket, and
surely he would follow me where the weeds showed him I had passed. He
might wait for a while; but if I emerged not from the house I knew he
would be after me, smelling along like a wolfhound until he had tracked
me to a standstill. Should I wait for him? I looked at the kneeling
figure. So absorbed was the strange young Indian in the document on the
floor that I strained my eyes to make out its script, but could not
decipher even the corner of the paper exposed to my view. Then it
occurred to me that it was a strange thing for an Indian to read. Scarce
one among the Iroquois, save Brant and the few who had been to Dr.
Wheelock's school, knew A from Zed, or could more than scrawl their
clan-mark to a birchen letter.
Suspicious lest, after all, I had to do with a blue-eyed Indian or
painted Tory, I examined the unconscious reader thoroughly. And, after
a little while, a strange apprehension settled into absolute conviction
as I looked. So certain was I that every gathered muscle relaxed; I
drew a deep, noiseless breath of relief, smiling to myself, and stepped
coolly forward, letting the secret door swing to behind me with a
deadened thud.
Like a startled tree-cat the figure sprang to its feet, whirling to
confront me. And I laughed again, for I was looking into the dark,
dilated eyes of a young girl.
"Have no fear," I began quietly; and the next instant the words were
driven into my throat, for she was on me in one bound, hunting-knife
glittering.
Round the walls we reeled, staggering, wrestling, clinched like
infuriated wolverines. I had her wrist in my grip, squeezing it, and
the bright, sparkling knife soon clattered to the boards, but she
suddenly set her crooked knee inside mine and tripped me headlong,
hurling us both sideways to the floor, where we rolled, desperately
locked, she twisting and reaching for the knife again and again, until
I kicked it behind me and staggered to my feet, dragging her with me in
all her fury. But her maddened strength, her sinuous twisting, her
courage, so astonished me that again and again she sent me reeling
almost to my knees, taxing my agility and my every muscle to keep her
from tripping me flat and recovering her knife. At length she began to
sway; her dark, defiant eyes narrowed to two flaming slits; her
distorted mouth weakened into sullen lines, through which I caught the
flash of locked teeth crushing back the broken, panting breath. I held
her like a vise; she could no longer move. And when at last she knew
it, her rigid features, convulsed with rage, relaxed into a blank,
smooth mask of living amber.
For a moment I held her, feeling her whole body falling loose-limbed
and limp--held her until her sobbing breath grew quieter and more
regular. Then I released her; she reeled, steadying herself against the
wall with one hand; and, stepping back, I sank one knee, and whipped
the knife from the floor.
That she now looked for death at my hands was perfectly evident, I
being dressed as a forest-runner who knows no sex when murder is afoot.
I saw the flushed face pale slightly; the lip curl contemptuously.
Proudly she lifted her head, haughtily faced me.
"Dog of bastard nation!" she panted; "look me between the eyes and
strike!"
"Little sister," I answered gravely, using the soft Oneida idiom, "let
there be peace between us."
A flash of wonder lit her dark eyes. And I said again, smiling: "O
Heart-divided-into-two-hearts, te-ha-eho-eh, you are like him whom we
name, after 'The Two Voices'--we of the Wolf. Therefore is there peace
and love 'twixt thee and me."
The wonder in her eyes deepened; her whole body quivered.
"Who are you with a white skin who speak like a crested sachem?" she
faltered.
"Tat-sheh-teh, little sister. I bear the quiver, but my war-arrows are
broken."
"Oneida!" she exclaimed softly, clasping her hands between her breasts.
I stepped closer, holding out my arms; slowly she laid her hands in
mine, looking fearlessly up into my face. I turned her palms upward and
placed the naked knife across them; she bent her head, then
straightened up, looking me full in the eyes.
Still smiling, I laid both my hands on the collar of my hunting-shirt,
baring throat and chest; and, as the full significance of the tiny
tattoo dawned upon her, she shivered.
"Tharon!" she stammered. "Thou! What have I done!" And, shuddering,
cast the knife at my feet as though it had been the snake that rattles.
"Little sister----"
"Oh, no! no! What have I done! What have I dared! I have raised my hand
against Him whom you have talked with face to face----"
"Only Tharon has done that," I said gently, "I but wear his sign.
Peace, Woman of the Morning. There is no injury where there is no
intent. We are not yet 'at the Forest's Edge.'"
Slowly the color returned to lip and cheek, her fascinated eyes roamed
from my face to the tattooed wolf and mark of Tharon crossing it. And
after a little she smiled faintly at my smile, as I said:
"I have drawn the fangs of the Wolf; fear no more, Daughter of the
Sun."
"I--I fear no more," she breathed.
"Shall an ensign of the Oneida cherish wrath?" I asked. "He who bears a
quiver has forgotten. See, child; it is as it was from the beginning.
Hiro."
I calmly seated myself on the floor, knees gathered in my clasped
hands; and she settled down opposite me, awaiting in instinctive
silence my next words.
"Why does my sister wear the dress of an adolescent, mocking the False
Faces, when the three fires are not yet kindled?" I asked.
"I hold the fire-right," she said quickly. "Ask those who wear the mask
where cherries grow. O sachem, those cherries were ripe ere I was!"
I thought a moment, then fixed my eager eyes on her.
"Only the Cherry-Maid of Adriutha has that right," I said. My heart,
beating furiously, shook my voice, for I knew now who she was.
"I am Cherry-Maid to the three fires," she said; "in bud at Adriutha,
in blossom at Carenay, in fruit at Danascara."
"Your name?"
"Lyn Montour."
I almost leaped from the floor in my excitement; yet the engrafted
Oneida instinct of a sachem chained me motionless. "You are the wife of
Walter Butler," I said deliberately, in English.
A wave of crimson stained her face and shoulders. Suddenly she covered
her face with her hands.
"Little sister," I said gently, "is it not the truth? Does a
Quiver-bearer lie, O Blossom of Carenay?"
Her hands fell away; she raised her head, the tears shining on her
heavy lashes: "It is the truth."
"His wife?" I repeated slowly.
"His wife, O Bearer of Arrows! He took me at the False Faces' feast,
and the Iroquois saw. Yet the cherries were still green at Danascara.
Twice the Lenape covered their faces; twice 'The Two Voices' unveiled
his face. So it was done there on the Kennyetto." She leaned swiftly
toward me: "Twice he denied me at Niagara. Yet once, when our love was
new--when I still loved him--he acknowledged me here in this very
house, in the presence of a County Magistrate, Sir John Johnson. I am
his wife, I, Lyn Montour! I have never lied to woman or man, O my elder
brother!"
"And that is why you have come back?"
"Yes; to search--for something to help me--some record--God knows!--I
have searched and searched--" She stretched out her bare arms and gazed
hopelessly around the paper-littered floor.
"Will not Sir John uphold you with his testimony?" I asked.
"He? No! He also denies it. What can a woman expect of a man who has
broken parole?" she added, in contempt.
I leaned toward her, speaking slowly, and with deadly emphasis:
"Dare Walter Butler deny what the Iroquois Nation may attest?"
"He dare," she said, burning eyes on mine. "I am more Algonquin than
Huron, and more than nine-tenths white. What is it to the Iroquois that
this man puts me away? It was the Mohican and Lenape who veiled their
faces, not the Iroquois. What is it to white men that he took me and
has now put me away? What is it to them that he now takes another?"
"Another? Whom?" My lips scarcely formed the question.
"I do not know her name. When he returned from the horrors of Cherry
Valley Sir Frederick Haldimand refused to see him. Yet he managed to
make love to Sir Frederick's kinswoman--a child--as I was when he took
me----"
She closed her eyes. I saw the lashes all wet again, but her voice did
not tremble: "He is at Niagara with his Rangers--or was. And--when I
came to him he laughed at me, bidding me seek a new lover at the
fort----"
Her voice strangled. Twisting her fingers, she sat there, eyes closed,
dumb, miserable. At last she gasped out: "O Quiver-bearer, with a white
voice and a skin scarce whiter than my own, though your nation be
sundered from the Long House, though I be an outcast of clans and
nations, speak to me kindly, for my sadness is bitter, and the ghost of
my dead honor confronts me in every forest-trail!" She stretched out
her arms piteously:
"Teach me, brother; instruct me; heal my bruised heart of hate for this
young man who was my undoing--cleanse my fierce, desirous heart. I love
him no longer; I--I dare not hate him lest I slay him ere he rights my
wrongs. My sorrow is heavier than I can bear--and I am young, O
sachem--not yet eighteen--until the snow flies."
She laid her face in her hands once more; through her slim fingers the
bright tears fell slowly.
"Are you Christian, little sister?" I asked, wondering.
"I do not know. They say so. A brave Jesuit converted me ere I was
unstrapped from the cradle-board--ere I could lisp or toddle. God knows.
My own brother died in war-paint; my grandmother was French Margaret, my
mother--if she be my mother--is the Huron witch of Wyoming; some call
her Catrine, some Esther. Yet I was chaste--till he took me--chaste as
an Iroquois maid. Thus has he wrought with me. Teach me to forgive him!"
And this the child of Catrine Montour? This that bestial creature they
described to me as some slim, fierce temptress of the forests?
"Listen," I said gently; "if you are wedded by a magistrate, you are
his wife; yet if that magistrate falsely witnesses against you, you can
not prove it. I would give all I have to prove your marriage. Do you
understand?"
She looked at me, uncomprehending.
"The woman I love is the woman he now claims as wife," I said calmly.
Then, in that strange place, alone there together in the dim light, she
lying full length on the floor, her hands clasped on my knees, told me
all. And there, together, we took counsel how to bring this man to
judgment--not the Almighty's ultimate punishment, not even that stern
retribution which an outraged world might exact, but a merciful
penance--the public confession of the tie that bound him to this young
girl. For, among the Iroquois, an unchaste woman is so rare that when a
maiden commits the fault she is like a leper until death releases her
from her awful isolation.
Together, too, we searched the littered papers on the floor, piece by
piece, bit by bit, but all in vain. And while kneeling there I heard a
stealthy step behind me, and looked back over my shoulder, to see the
Oneida, Little Otter, peering in at us, eyeballs fairly starting from
his painted face. Lyn Montour eyed him silently, and without
expression, but I laughed to see how surely he had followed me as I had
expected; and motioned him away to await my coming.
It was, I should judge, nearly five o'clock when we descended by the
open stairway to the ground floor. I held the window wide; she placed
her hands on the sill and leaped lightly to the grass. I followed.
Presently the lilac thicket parted and the tall Oneida appeared,
leading my horse. One keen, cunning glance he gave at the girl, then,
impassive, stood bolt upright beside my horse. He was superb, stripped
naked to clout and moccasin, head shaved, body oiled and most
elaborately painted; and on his broad breast glimmered the Wolf lined
in sapphire-blue. When the long roll of the dead thundered through the
council-house, his name was the fourth to be called--Shononses. And
never was chief of the Oneida nation more worthy to lift the antlers
that no grave must ever cover while the Long House endures.
"Has my brother learned news of the gathering in the north?" I asked,
studying the painted symbols on his face and body.
"The council sits at dawn," he replied quietly.
"At dawn!" I exclaimed. "Why, we have no time, then----"
"There is time, brother. There is always time to die."
"To--die!" I looked at him, startled. Did he, then, expect no mercy at
the council? He raised his eyes to me, smiling. There was nothing of
fear, nothing of boastfulness, even, in attitude or glance. His dignity
appalled me, for I knew what it meant. And, suddenly, the full
significance of his paint flashed upon me.
"You think there is no chance for us?" I repeated.
"None, brother."
"And yet you go?"
"And you, brother?"
"I am ordered; I am pledged to take such chances. But you need not go,
Little Otter. See, I free you now. Leave me, brother. I desire it."
"Shononses will stay," he said impassively. "Let the Long House learn
how the Oneidas die."
I shuddered and looked again at his paint. It was inevitable; no
orders, no commands, no argument could now move him. He understood that
he was about to die, and he had prepared himself. All I could hope for
was that he had mistaken the temper of the council; that the insolence
of a revolted nation daring to present a sachem at the Federal-Council
might be overlooked--might be condoned, even applauded by those who
cherished in their dark hearts, locked, the splendid humanity of the
ancient traditions. But there was no knowing, no prophesying what
action a house divided might take, what attitude a people maddened by
dissensions, wrought to frenzy by fraternal conflict, might assume. God
knows the white man's strife was barbarous enough, brother murdering
brother beneath the natal roof. What, then, might be looked for from
the fierce, proud people whose Confederacy was steadily crumbling
beneath our touch; whose crops and forests and villages had gone
roaring up into flames as the vengeance of Sullivan, with his Rangers,
his Continentals, and his Oneidas, passed over their lands in fire!
"Where sits the council?" I asked soberly.
"At the Dead-Water."
It was an all-night journey by the Fish House-trails, for we dared not
strike the road, with Sir John's white demons outlying from the
confluence to Frenchman's creek.
I looked at my horse. Little Otter had strapped ammunition and
provisions to the saddle, leaving room for a rider. I turned to Lyn
Montour; she laid her hands on my shoulders, and I swung her up astride
the saddle.
"Now," I said briefly; and we filed away into the north, the Oneida
leading at a slow trot.
I shall never forget the gloom, the bitter misery of that dark trail
where specters ever stared at me as I journeyed, where ghosts arose in
every trail--pale wraiths of her I loved, calling me back to love
again. And "Lost, lost, lost!" wept the little brooks we crossed, all
sobbing, whispering her name.
What an end of all--to die now, leaving life's work unfinished, life's
desire unsatisfied--all that I loved unprotected and alone on earth.
What an end to it all--and I had done nothing for the cause, nothing
except the furtive, obscure work which others shrank from! And now,
skulking to certain death, was denied me even the poor solace of an
honored memory. Here in this shaggy desolation no ray of glory might
penetrate to gild my last hour with a hero's halo; contempt must be my
reward if I failed. I must die amid the scornful laughter of Iroquois
women, the shrill taunts of children, the jeers of renegade white men,
who pay a thief more honor at the cross-roads gallows than they pay a
convicted spy. Why, I might not even hope for the stern and dignified
justice that the Oneida awaited--an iron justice that respected the
victim it destroyed; for he came openly as a sachem of a disobedient
nation in revolt, daring to justify his nation and his clan. But I was
to act if not to speak a lie; I was to present myself as a sleek
non-partizan, symbolizing only a nobility of the great Wolf clan. And if
any man accused me as a spy, and if suspicion became conviction, the
horrors of my degradation would be inconceivable. Yet, plying once more
my abhorred trade, I could only obey, hope against hope, and strive to
play the man to the end, knowing what failure meant, knowing, too, what
my reward for success might be--a low-voiced "Thank you" in secret, a
grasp of the hands behind locked doors--a sum of money pressed on me
slyly--that hurt most of all--to put it away with a smile, and keep my
temper. Good God! Does a Renault serve his country for money! Why,
why, can they not understand, and spare me that!--the wages of the
wretched trade!
Darkness had long since infolded us; we had slackened to a walk, moving
forward between impervious walls of blackness. And always on the
curtain of the inky shadow I saw Elsin's pallid face gazing upon me,
until the vision grew so real that I could have cried out in my
anguish, reeling forward, on, ever on, through a blackness thick as the
very shadows of the pit that hides lost souls!
At midnight we halted for an hour. The Oneida ate calmly; Lyn Montour
tasted the parched corn, and drank at an unseen spring that bubbled a
drear lament amid the rocks. Then we descended into the Drowned Lands,
feeling our spongy trail between osier, alder, and willow. Once, very
far away, I saw a light, pale as a star, low shining on the marsh. It
was the Fish House, and we were near our journey's end--perhaps the end
of all journeys, save that last swift trail upward among those thousand
stars!
It was near to dawn when we came out upon the marsh; and above, I heard
the whir and whimpering rush of wild ducks passing, the waking call of
birds, twittering all around us in the darkness; the low undertone of
the black water flowing to the Sacandaga.
Over the quaking marsh we passed, keeping the trodden trail, now
wading, now ankle-deep in cranberry, now up to our knees in moss, now
lost in the high marsh-grass, on, on, through birch hummocks, willows,
