that deformity gives to beauty, and weakness 
to sympathetic strength. Dr. Steele watched 
this little episode with a puzzled expression. 
" I don't see Trixy." His gaze wandered 
about the lawn. "But then, I shouldn't know 
 
her if I did see her. Is that she ? " He pointed 
to the melancholy mongrel who was regarding 
the scene without enthusiasm. 
" I am ashamed of you ! " cried Miss Lau- 
riat, laughing, "not to recognize so famous 
an actress ! Trixy is in the coach house with 
Matthew. That poor, old, plebeian thing is not 
very clean, and Dan wouldn't let her asso- 
ciate with him. Trixy, you know, is an aristo- 
crat. The ice cream will be sent in to her on 
a cut-glass plate." 
"Is that gray dog one of the invited 
guests ? " 
" Why, of course. He came out on the 
steamer with the rest. He has a cough — 
that poor woman's dogs always do — and it 
was expected to do him good. He belongs to 
the little girls Mr. Surbridge is swinging. 
Come, Dr. Steele ! There are two boys who 
don't seem to be having a very good time. 
Would you mind playing Bear with them? 
Or perhaps Puss in the Corner. Or Wolf and 
Red Riding Hood ; or — something ! " 
"I can try," said Steele grimly. "But I 
am not sure how far I am to be flattered by 
your choice of roles." 
 
" You don't care for it," said Miriam under 
her breath. " You don't care for it at all. 
And it makes me so happy ! " 
" I care for anything that makes you happy ; 
you know I do." 
" Go, then," commanded Miriam, " and dis- 
cuss the tariff with Cady's Molly's father. It 
needs a man to entertain him. He has views 
about protection and free trade. The subject 
is beyond my depth, and I have never been 
able to keep up with it. It requires a mascu- 
line intellect." 
Steele laughed and obeyed her, awkwardly 
enough. His personal comfort was not en- 
hanced, nor the subject of the tariff advanced, 
by the reception which he met. 
" Oh, it 's you ! " said Cady's Molly's father. 
" You are the fellow that quarantined us, ain't 
you ? We fired you once. I never expected 
to see you again." 
Thus forced to feel his lack of position in 
slum society, conscious that he was unjustly 
made to suffer for a plain performance of 
duty, and therefore not in the best of hu- 
mors, Dr. Steele retreated from the lawn 
party and made his way to the piazza, where 
 
for an hour to come he solemnly discussed 
with Mrs. Jeffries the first arrest made by the 
Society for the Prevention of Docking and 
Cropping. The tail of a two weeks' puppy 
had been cut off, and the society had appealed 
to the humane sentiments of the state, and 
the majesty of the law. Dr. Steele did not 
return to the lawn party, which broke up 
directly after supper. 
In the little stir consequent on the de- 
parture of Miss Lauriat's guests, he stood 
embarrassed and apart. None of the people 
addressed him, and he was glad of it. Philip 
Surbridge went down the avenue with the 
consumptive woman on his arm ; in his other 
he carried the baby, and the three little girls 
clung to his coat-tails. 
" You 're coming back, aren't you ? " 
pleaded Mrs. Jeffries. " If you don't, there 
won't be anybody to talk to me." 
" I 'll come out to see you next week," an- 
swered Surbridge, with his tender smile. He 
did not meet Miriam's eye. " I will say good- 
night now. I think I 'll see them all safely 
back to town. They are a pretty helpless 
lot." 
 
This was in an undertone, but Miriam heard 
it, and warmly held out her hand. Dr. Steele 
watched her with compressed lips. She went 
part way down the avenue with Surbridge 
and the children. Dan Badger limped beside 
her with Trixy on his neck. The sea wind 
was shrewish, and Trixy wore her little over- 
coat with its hood. Miss Lauriat's poor people 
clung to her wistfully ; some of them kissed 
her, all blessed her, and then the turn in the 
avenue hid them. 
She came back walking rather fast, breath- 
less and beautiful. Steele went down to meet 
her. He had a paper in his hand ; it was a 
printer's proof-sheet. 
" It fell from your pocket," he began, " as 
you went down the steps. Will you pardon 
me? It was print, and I did look at it. I 
didn't read it, though. I didn't know that 
you wrote." 
Miriam flushed and held out her hand for 
the proof-sheet. 
" Let me read it, won't you ? " he entreated. 
" As long as you have seen it — well — 
yes. I do not know that I mind — that is — 
not very much." 
 
" I did not know that you were an au- 
thoress," observed Steele. 
" I am not an authoress/' flashed Miriam, 
"and no reading man ever uses that word, 
Dr. Steele. Let me have my proof-sheet, if 
you please." 
" Oh, forgive me ! " cried Steele. " I am 
always saying or doing the wrong thing." 
" And I am always forgiving you," she 
answered in an unsteady voice. 
Steele read the verses. There were but two, 
and they ran like this : 
SONG 
To the spaces between the stars 
We went, my love and I, 
Among the uttermost things. 
For my love hath wings; 
With twain he covers his face, 
With twain his feet, 
With twain he doth fly. 
To the earth and our rose-red door, 
We came, my love and I. 
Among the dear, daily things, 
He folded his wings. 
But the winged watch their time. 
And when he starts, 
Ah, how shall I fly ? 
 
He returned the proof-sheet to her. " I 
don't understand it," he said perplexedly. 
" It is graceful, but I don't think I know 
what you mean." 
Miriam put the verses back in her pocket. 
" Now your taste for painting," began Dr. 
Steele, " that appeals to me. I have never 
lost my interest in art. There are so many 
things that a man does lose, you know. I 
hope you have not given up whatever you 
were doing at the school? I like to think of 
you in that peaceful and aesthetic place." 
" I have not been there this summer," said 
Miriam, in a constrained tone. 
" Why not ? " 
Miriam made no reply. Her attraction for 
Dr. Steele had now reached a stage where she 
was conscious of wishing to harmonize with 
him in everything, and uncomfortable when 
she might not. She could not have explained 
to herself why it was that she often found it 
impossible to give him a confidence which she 
longed to offer. His presence brought her 
pleasure, but not peace. He came often ; the 
summer passed dreamily ; and she slowly be- 
gan to admit to herself — but not as yet to 
 
him — that he was becoming necessary to her. 
As the doctor's visits increased in frequency, 
those of the lawyer diminished. Miriam, who 
had been often beloved, had never counted 
Philip Surbridge among her suitors, and when 
she found that she missed him, felt quite at 
liberty to tell him so. 
Dear Philip [she wrote one day] : Aunt 
Cornelia is playing Mariana in the Moated 
Grange for your sweet sake. I mind it a little 
myself, that you stay away. 
Yours faithfully, 
Miriam Lauriat. 
Surbridge responded to this recall, but lei- 
surely, and it was the second week in Septem- 
ber before he came out to dme and spend the 
evening. Miriam was unaffectedly and heartily 
glad to see him. He took her out to row, for 
there was a rowing moon, and she sat in the 
stern, in her white boating dress, with her 
hands clasped behind her head, and looked at 
him affectionately. 
He rowed well, and she thought how square 
his shoulders were, and how sturdy his arm — 
for so studious a man. The values of his face 
 
in the strong, soft light were like those of a 
Reynolds portrait, which had the repose of an 
earlier, calmer age than ours. His very pre- 
sence quieted her ; it always had. Did he 
soothe most people in the same way? She 
sometimes asked herself the question. She 
was conscious of that old impulse to tell things 
to Philip Surbridge. It was not only that he 
belonged to one of the confessional profes- 
sions ; but he had the confessor's temperament. 
As he rowed her out from the shore she 
regarded him wistfully. There were no other 
boats about them, and they seemed to be quite 
alone with the sea and the sky. She thought 
of that other moon-bright night when she and 
Steele had stood upon the shore. But she and 
Surbridge were going straight out to sea. 
"It is the same sea, the same sky, the same 
moon," thought Miriam, " but it 's not the 
same woman." 
They talked little and lightly, with long 
silences between their quiet words. She felt 
a distinct relief from the mental turmoil of 
the summer. For this one hour it was not per- 
emptory to decide anything, and she was 
conscious of a sense of reprieve. 
 
Philip's boyish smile in itself was a comfort 
to her, as it always was, and his dark, mute 
eyes seemed to protect her from herself. He 
did not urge her confidence ; indeed, she was 
half aware that he fended it off. 
To Miriam, as to all high-minded girls, love 
had always seemed to be a demonstrable thing ; 
it never occurred to her that she could have 
any doubts about it when she should experience 
it, or that she could cast up the divine sum of 
her happiness in more than one inevitable way. 
Love was inexorable, in a sense mathematical ; 
it was of the celestial sciences ; it would be 
eternal, like the ordering of the stars, and she 
should follow its commands — brain and heart, 
soul and body, will and imagination — as the 
sea follows the moon. She was bewildered by 
the perturbation in which she had passed the 
last six months. If she had obeyed her mad- 
dest impulse, she would have cried out like a 
distressed girl to her elder brother : 
"Philip! Philip! What shall I do?" But 
in point of fact she said no such thing. 
"You are looking tired," Surbridge ob- 
served quietly ; but that was all. 
"I am tired," Miriam passionately exclaimed 
 
— as if he could help it ; as if she expected 
him to. 
She held out her hands to him girlishly. 
" If I thought I could really do anything " — 
began Surb ridge, laying down his oars. His 
manner had changed, and his tone, which at 
first was but gently troubled, rose into the 
ring of acute feeling. " But you must see 
— you cannot help understanding. It 's — 
hard ! " 
" Look out there ! " interrupted Miriam. 
" The steamer ! You are getting into her 
wake ! " 
Surbridge, veering sharply, skillfully escaped 
the serpent of foam which had begun to coil 
about their little rocking boat, as the steamer 
from the city passed them on her last trip 
out. Both looked up at the crowded deck. 
An undersized lad, who was leaning over the 
rail, seemed to be making an effort to attract 
their attention. 
" Why, there 's Dan Badger ! " cried Miriam 
quickly. " Look — look at his face. Row me 
ashore, please. Quick ! As fast as you can ! " 
Surbridge rowed rapidly and powerfully ; 
he beached the boat on a little cove below 
 
the wharf at which the steamer was somewhat 
slowly and clumsily making a landing. She 
was late, and would put about immediately 
on her return trip. Miriam jumped from the 
dory and ran up the bank without waiting 
for Surbridge. As soon as he could secure his 
boat he hurried after her. 
The crippled lad stood leaning on his crutch. 
He was trying to speak, but his words came 
thickly. His face was gray and pinched, like 
that of a little old man, and he shook from 
head to foot. Dan had neither eaten nor slept 
for twenty-four hours. 
" Where 's Trixy ? Where 's Trixy ? " Miriam 
was saying over and over. 
Dan stared at her stupidly as if he did not 
understand what she said. 
" Come, Dan," urged Surbridge very gen- 
tly, " tell us all about it." 
With a gesture never to be forgotten by 
those who witnessed it, the cripple dropped 
his crutch and threw both hands above his 
head, as one does in unendurable physical 
pain. 
" Trixy 's lost ! " 
" No ! No ! No ! " cried Miriam. 
 
" Not stolen ? " exclaimed Surbridge. 
But Dan repeated dully : " Trixy 's lost. I 
tell you Trixy 's lost. I 've hunted for her 
every wheres. Everybody 's hunted. Nobody 
can't find her." 
" Give me the circumstances," urged Sur- 
bridge, " if you can. Tell me when it hap- 
pened, and where. Try, Dan. Think how it 
was." 
" I can't," muttered Dan, " my — my head 
won't let me. It was last nig-ht — she had on 
her little coat you made her, Miss Laurie — 
it was sort of cold — and we 'd been playing 
at one of them beaches — I can't think the 
name — my head is bad. We was jest goin' 
home — you never see her play so pretty — 
I put her clown — I — think I put her down, 
and when I looked she wasn't there. I tried 
to hurry, but I 'm lame, you know. She wasn't 
there. — Sir?" 
For the first time since he had known her, 
Dan, disregarding his goddess, turned else- 
where for divine interference ; it was as if 
he felt that his extremity was a matter be- 
tween men. 
" Mr. Surbridge, sir," said Dan, " you told 
 
me once if ever me and Trixy needed a friend, 
to count on you. So here I be." 
" Come with me, Dan." Surbridge caught 
the boy quickly, for Dan swayed and tot- 
tered. " Come ! The boat starts right away. 
I will go back to town with you." 
" And, Dan ! " cried Miriam, " listen to me. 
I 'm sure Mr. Surbridge will find her. Do you 
hear me? Sure. Mr. Surbridge always finds 
everything that he tries to." 
She put her arm around the lad's neck, and 
kissed him and patted him, thinking no more 
of the people on the wharf than if they had 
been starfish on the rocks. 
She and Philip grasped hands. He did not 
even ask how she was going to find her way 
home without him, nor did she like him the 
less for that. 
She stood on the wharf watching the steamer 
till it reeled out of sight. Once Philip lifted 
his hat. He was tenderly enfolding the boy, 
whose face was hidden against the young man's 
heart. 
" Dan is crying in his arms," thought Miriam. 
CHAPTER VII 
Among the worlds of woe allotted to sentient 
life, there is one which hangs quite apart 
from the rest of the system, and holds a place 
unique in the astronomy of pain ; this may 
be called the world of the lost dog. In this 
alone the human and the animal can strictly 
be said to suffer together. In other catastro- 
phes shared by the higher and the lower races, 
each endures or perishes thinking of his own 
pang. When fate separates master and dog, 
each undergoes the pang of the other. It has 
been well written that the dog is the only 
animal who has elected to give himself ut- 
terly to the worship of man ; and man, to a 
certain extent, has returned this profound and 
pathetic attachment. It cannot be claimed that 
he has done this on even terms. " Dogs," 
said a student of the species, " have the grand- 
est of created qualities : love, gratitude, and 
fidelity." But the man, though he may never 
love as nobly as his dog, has requited the 
touching devotion that he receives with an 
affection which cannot be duplicated in the 
range of human feeling. 
Dan haunted the streets, the wharves, the 
steamers, the stations, the beaches, the ken- 
nels, the saloons, as a little crippled ghost 
might shadow the scenes of his former life. 
His face and figure had acquired such a look 
that happy people shrank from him, and the 
careless of heart avoided him. He had s:rown 
as silent as an insomniac ; he slept little, and 
ate less. The grasp of Mr. Surbridge's hand, 
the tears on Miss Lauriat's cheeks were more 
than he could bear ; the lad crawled away 
into his anguish as some little blind mole, 
mortally hurt, crawls into a hole where it 
cannot be found. All day he searched — and 
searched. All night he lay pondering where 
he should search to-morrow. 
More than once Cady's Molly's father tip- 
toed in and found him with wide eyes, staring 
at the ceiling of his narrow bedroom. The 
lad lay far over at one side of the cot, with 
his feet drawn up, as he was accustomed to 
do to give the little dog room. His ragged 
coat with which he used to cover Trixy was 
 
folded in its place. Sometimes lie dreamed 
that she was there, and his thin hand stole 
down to pat her. Cady's Molly's father hap- 
pened once to see this touching action, and the 
big fellow came away blubbering like a boy. 
Trixy had whirled out of sight as utterly 
as a feather caught by a cyclone; and into 
the fate of this little creature the human lives 
whose story it is ours to tell were inextri- 
cably drawn. Only this could be said in palli- 
ation of Dan's misery, that he was not left to 
bear it alone. The bereaved lad was carried 
through it with a tenderness and a fidelity 
finer than that which most men and women 
offer their own flesh and blood. Nothing that 
wisdom or power, sweetness or light, could do 
for him was denied to the afflicted lad. Miss 
Lauriat poured out money upon the search 
for Trixy as if she had no other earthly uses 
for it, and Philip Surbridge threw his profes- 
sional skill and experience at the feet of Dan's 
extremity with a large, reckless generosity 
characteristic of the man. 
At the outset Miriam had made it plain 
that she wished to retain her attorney in 
Dan's behalf. With a naive confidence in the 
 
law, born of confidence in the lawyer, she had 
directed him : 
" Spare nothing, and spare nobody, but 
find that dog." 
" I 'll find Trixy if she is alive ; but I can- 
not take your money for it," said Surbridge 
unexpectedly. 
Miriam, as unexpectedly, flushed. " I can- 
not see why. The time — the trouble — the 
skill, and you " — 
But Surbridge took fire. 
" Yes, I know I do for other things ; but 
for this I can't, and I won't. Dan retained 
me before you did." 
" Very well," said Miriam, " have it your 
own way, then. But — Philip " — 
" But what ? " 
" It is not necessary for me to hear every- 
thing, is it ? I know just how that sounds," 
she faltered. " I don't expect anybody to 
understand. But most people don't feel as I 
do about — you know, since " — 
Philip looked at her compassionately. 
" I wish you could outlive that ! — No, you 
shall not be worried. Trust me, and leave it 
all to me." 
 
This was a favorite phrase of Philip's. 
Miriam had heard it — how many times in how 
many troubles ! " Leave it all to me." She 
had always found it natural to leave every- 
thing to him. Like a sister she had leaned, 
like a brother he had guarded. She took their 
unemotional relation as a matter of course. 
In the agitation consequent upon the loss 
of Trixy, Miriam seemed like a person whose 
emotion is strained with a tension dispropor- 
tionate to the disturbing cause. The poise of 
her perfect nerve shook a little, and she be- 
came uncertain of movement, and moody of 
impulse. At the first announcement of Dan's 
calamity she would have closed her house at 
the shore and moved back to town. But Mrs. 
Jeffries, who had no moods, few whims, and 
inexorable habits, could see no reason why 
the household should leave the coast four 
weeks too soon because a boy in the slums 
had lost his dog. Miriam, therefore, took 
Maggie and the old seamstress, opened the 
town house, and vibrated restlessly between 
the two homes. It seemed to her impossible 
not to be near the scene of Dan's misery ; yet 
when she was there, it seemed impossible to 
 
bear it. For days she would leave the lad's 
affairs entirely to Surbridge, herself falling 
into a silence that was not broken by a ques- 
tion. At other times she brooded over the boy 
more tenderly than his mother would have 
done, if Dan had known one, and dwelt upon 
his bereavement as if it had been her own. 
From this too sensitive sympathy she would 
wince away like a wounded nerve, and occupy 
herself with anything and everything except 
the disappearance of Trixy. She was, in fact, 
overwrought, and not altogether reasonable. 
Afterwards — long afterwards — she perceived 
what at the time she was quite unconscious of, 
that this unnatural condition gave a subtle 
deflection to her own lot. It threw her more 
than usual into the society of Olin Steele ; and 
the young professor did not talk about lost 
dogs. He had expressed his regret for Dan's 
affliction in language that he felt would appeal 
to the excessive sympathy which he perceived 
Miss Lauriat to be cherishing. It was a re- 
lief to him that she evidently preferred not 
to discuss the matter, and thereafter he tact- 
fully avoided it. One day he happened to 
say: 
 
" I lost Barry once. He was gone a week. 
I had the whole state looking for him." 
Miss Lauriat received this remark in silence 
so unlike herself that he looked at her shrewdly. 
He was not naturally patient with inattention 
to what he chose to say. Some day, he thought, 
he would ask her what she meant by it. 
Some day — ah, that day ! As God lived, 
he swore, its sun should rise and set. In the 
magic of its haze, in the marvel of its splen- 
dor, she should be his. Oh, and willingly ! 
Yes, and joyfully. For his love had grown 
fastidious, epicurean. At the first, as he had 
told himself, he meant to win her " anyhow." 
Now, this would not content him. She — no 
subject that he should seize her against her 
own heart's will — she, the strongest and ten- 
derest woman whom he had ever known — 
she, out of whose strength came her sweetness, 
and whose capacity for love he knew that no 
heart had measured — she should come to him 
like any lesser woman, yielding, and glad to 
yield. Oh, she should crave him — as he, her. 
She should hunger and thirst for his love as he 
had hungered and thirsted — and maddened 
and waited — for hers. 
 
He pursued his suit with the ardor of an 
oriental despot, and the tactics of an occiden- 
tal diplomat. He knew he was gaining upon 
her defenses ; he made havoc with her reluc- 
tance ; he antedated his triumphs in a delirium 
of victory the mightier because it was con- 
trolled and unexpressed, and already he flaunted 
banners in his own heart. 
Miriam treated him with a guarded sweet- 
ness which at times took on the tint of tender- 
ness, and at others deepened into reserve 
amounting almost to rebuff. Then she would 
pause again, and seem to wait and look at him 
over her shoulder. It could not be said that 
as yet she experienced either peace or joy ; 
but she was now conscious of living in a world 
apart with Olin Steele. 
It has long been one of the psychological 
mysteries that a delicately reared and finely 
fibred woman may idealize a man of coarser 
grain and manifestly lower moral nature. Even 
an infatuation for brute force may possess an 
otherwise clear-headed and true-hearted wo- 
man. Call such emotional defectives; from their 
lineage Miriam Lauriat's was by the heaven's 
width removed ; yet was she subtly swept 
 
within the extended shadow of that unhappy 
fate? Sheer physical perfection did not in- 
terest her. If she had been thrown solitary 
upon some planet with a low-browed, dull- 
minded gladiator, he would not have attracted 
her in any sense of the word. But to intel- 
lectual athletics she was very sensitive, and 
this kind of prowess she felt in Steele. His 
well-trained mind, his large learning, his pro- 
fessional preeminence, commanded her. In his 
department he was a scholar ; in conversation 
he was stimulating, in manner finished, in 
character without reproach; and in the diffi- 
cult art of courtship he was without fear. In 
love he would take no denial. He surrounded 
her with a sense of power more dangerous to 
her because more fine than the kind of domi- 
nation to which a weaker woman yields. 
Miriam was besieged by his determination. 
She had begun to feel that she had no escape 
from the strategy of a love that was all will, 
and of a will that had become all love. 
"I suppose you know," said Philip Sur- 
bridge one day, " I suppose you understand — 
pardon me — what Olin Steele is ? " 
Surbridge turned very pale as he uttered 
 
these words. They seemed to be forced from 
his lips by a deliberate and solemn purpose, 
that he would have concealed, if he could, in 
an incidental manner. 
Miriam lifted her chin with that pretty, 
haughty motion which Philip so seldom saw. 
" Why, everybody knows. He is professor 
at Galen. He is at the head of one of the 
most important departments in the school." 
She brought these sentences out with little 
dents between as if she had bitten them. 
" But you know," Philip hesitated, " you 
know what he teaches ? You know what he 
does ? " 
"He teaches physiology," said Miriam 
proudly. " It is the basis of all medical edu- 
cation. I understand he teaches it thoroughly 
and brilliantly." 
Philip looked at her in silence. There was 
a certain compassion in his eyes which hers 
instantly resented. 
" Is there anything new about Trixy ? " 
she asked abruptly. " Any more clues ? " 
" Yes, a new one. And there may be some- 
thing in it. I came to say so, but I see you 
don't wish to hear about it this morning." 
 
"I will hear it to-morrow," answered Miriam 
nervously. u Tell me all about it to-morrow." 
But to-morrow when he came to tell her, 
she had gone to the shore ; and Steele had 
followed her. Maggie handed Surbridge a 
hurried note which had been left at the town 
house for him. 
Dear Philip [it said] : I am tired out 
and nervous, and I am gone to spend a 
couple of days with Aunt Cornelia. Telephone 
if I am needed. It occurs to me that if you 
have a new clue you may need to increase 
your detective force. I inclose a signed check, 
which you will please fill out to any extent 
that the expenses of the search for Trixy may 
require. I cannot tell you how I feel about 
what you are doing, and the way in which you 
are doing it. All I can say is that it 's just 
like you. I am a good deal worried about 
some other matters, and I must leave it all 
to you. How many times in my life I have 
done that ! 
I am always your grateful and faithful 
Miriam Lauriat. 
 
There was no moon, and the early Septem- 
ber dark had shut in softly. The sky was 
lightly clouded, with only here and there a star. 
The black gulf of the sea lay sheer below the 
piazza, and the rising tide reverberated against 
the cliff which rose straight as the side of a 
canon. In fact, the broad piazza overlapped 
the water, and one had the sense of hanging 
in mid-air above the abyss. The night was 
warm, the wind southerly, and the surf heavy. 
Miriam and Steele sat side by side in the 
screened, half-lighted place. The long, un- 
shaded windows revealed Aunt Cornelia read- 
ing by a lamp with a blue globe that lent to 
her face the ghastly effect which it is given 
only to this particular species of domestic art 
to offer. In fact, it seemed to color the shaft 
of light that lay across the piazza ; this had a 
sickly tint like light blue marble. It made 
Miriam uncomfortable, and she moved into 
the shadow. Steele immediately followed, tak- 
ing a piazza chair directly in front of her. 
She stirred uneasily, and made as if she would 
lean over the railing of the piazza, but the 
galvanized wire netting prevented. She drew 
back impatiently. 
" These screens keep the mosquitoes out — 
but the comfort, too. What 's the use of a 
piazza that you can't look over ? I feel as if 
I were in a cage." 
" And so you are," said Olin Steele. 
When Miriam looked up and saw his face, 
half black in the shadow, half pale in the cold 
light, every drop of red blood deserted her own. 
" Why did you come to-night ? " she 
pleaded. " I did not expect you." 
" Why did you try to escape me ? " he de- 
manded. " I do not permit you." 
Miriam's chin rose instinctively with its 
haughty motion. 
" I have given you no right to speak to me 
like that ! " 
" No," he said firmly, " but you are going 
to give it to me." 
He was obliged to speak very distinctly, or 
the roar of the surf would have quenched his 
voice. Ten feet away nothing they said could 
have been heard. They were shut apart in 
the raffe of wind and wave. 
" I have waited till I can wait no more," he 
said desperately. " You have played with me 
as long as I can bear it." 
 
" I have never played with you ! " cried 
Miriam. 
" Well, defied me, then ; it is the same thing. 
I have resolved to end it. My misery " — 
" Are you miserable ? " asked Miriam, with 
unexpected tenderness. " I don't want to 
make you — unhappy." 
"I know you don't," said Steele, "because 
you love me." 
Miriam flung her hands up against the 
screen ; he thought how well she had spoken 
when she called it a cage. Her whole being 
seemed to beat upon it. She looked like a 
creature entrapped. 
"You love me," he insisted, "only you won't 
own it. You won't own it to yourself — or 
to me." 
Miriam's forehead fell against the metal 
netting. She felt the spray from the gulf fifty 
feet below upon her face. " Oh, perhaps I 
do," she sighed, " perhaps I do." 
The noise of the surf was so great that 
Steele could not be sure he had distinctly un- 
derstood her. His heart throbbed in his body 
as the waves throbbed on the rocks ; his brain 
hammered on his temples. 
 
" Let me hear it ! " he cried. " Let me hear 
it again." 
Miriam lifted her head and raised her eyes. 
In them he might have seen the infinite sad- 
ness with which a woman yields to a powerful 
but imperfect love. " Perhaps I do," she re- 
peated, "lam afraid I do." 
As the waves to the shore Steele turned 
towards her. Her soft shoulder quivered be- 
neath his arm. She felt his breath on her 
cheek. Then Miriam shrank. 
" Oh, no ! Not now ! Not yet ! I can't — 
Not yet — not yet ! " 
In a moment, without seeming to repel, she 
had eluded him. So mystery eludes science, 
so the spirit escapes the body. Trembling and 
white she leaned against the fine, invisible 
bars of the narrowing space in which they 
stood together. She regarded him solemnly. 
There was that in her eyes before which Steele 
felt his head grow light ; but he could no 
more have touched her than he could have 
torn the sphinx from the desert. 
" Next time ! " she entreated. " Perhaps 
next time." 
Steele's outstretched arms fell. 
 
" I shall reprieve you/' he said very slowly, 
" till next time." 
Now, Miriam, wincing from these words, yet 
leaning to them, hid her face upon her hands, 
and when she lifted it he had left her. 
" That was merciful," she thought, and the 
tide of her tenderness for the man rose by 
one of the abrupt and powerful waves below 
whose high- water line, if the laws of feeling 
are not intercepted, a woman's love will not 
ebb. Sensitively craving solitude, she opened 
the screen door that led from the piazza to 
the garden, and, hardly knowing what she 
did, or why she did it, paced to and fro alone 
with wild feet among the frosted flowers. The 
nasturtiums and salvia were still alive, and 
since she brushed and bruised them, they 
splashed her white woolen dress with red petals 
that clung to it. 
But when, an hour later, she went into the 
house, she found Aunt Cornelia excited and 
annoyed. Philip Surbridge had been ringing 
at the telephone ever since Dr. Steele went 
away. " And I told him you had probably 
jumped into the ocean, for I could not find 
you high or low." 
 
"And what," Miriam inquired absently, 
"did Philip say?" 
" He said : ' When she jumps out again 
tell her I called her up on a matter of some 
importance, but she 's not to mind ; she can 
leave it all to me.' And I must say, Miriam " — 
But Miriam did not stay to hear what Aunt 
Cornelia must say. 
In the city the September night was sad 
and sultry, and Surbridge, who had hurried 
back to his rooms after his ineffectual effort 
to consult Miriam by telephone, flung open 
the window and leaned out a little over the 
sill for a breath of such air as there was. As 
he did so he heard the thud, thudding of a 
rubber-tipped crutch upon the sidewalk, and 
the uneven sound of a crippled foot trailing 
with it. Both stopped directly beneath his 
window. 
" Mr. Surbridge, sir ? " 
" Yes, Dan, yes, — anything more ? " 
" Oh, sir, I 've found — Oh, sir ! " Dan 
