kind to her, and more than kind; but it would have been quite the same
if he had treated her worse than a dog, provided he did not send her
away from him. She belonged to him, and he was the master, to do as he
pleased. If he sent her away, she would go; but if not, he might have
beaten her and she would never have complained. Now that he had given a
simple command, she was not going to disobey him. She had pride, but it
was not for him, and in her veins the blood of sixty generations of
slaves and serfs had come down to her through two thousand years, the
blood of men who had killed when they were bidden to kill by their
masters, whose masters had killed them like sheep in war and often in
peace, of women who had been reckoned as goods and as chattels with the
land on which their mothers had borne them--of men and women too often
familiar with murder and sudden death from their cradles to their
graves.
The minutes passed and Settimia's terror grew till the room swam with
her, and she lost hold upon herself, and did not know whether she
screamed or was silent, as her parched lips opened wide upon her parted
teeth. But she had made no sound, and Regina did not even look at her.
Death had not come yet; there was a respite of seconds, perhaps of
minutes.
At last Regina unclasped her hands and took up the pin again. The
miserable woman fancied that she already felt the little blade creeping
through her flesh and blood on its way to her heart. For Regina had said
she would take a long time to kill her. It must have been a strong
reason that could keep her silent still, if she knew the answer to the
question.
Regina turned her head very slowly and looked coldly down at the
agonised face.
"I am tired," she said. "I cannot wait any longer."
Settimia's eyes seemed to be starting from her head, and her dry lips
were stretched till they cracked, and she thought she had screamed
again; but she had not, for her throat was paralysed with fear. Regina
rose upon her knees beside the pillow, with the pin in her right hand.
"Where is Corbario?" she asked, looking down. "If you will not tell I
shall hurt you."
Settimia's lips moved, as if she were trying to speak, but no words came
from them. Regina got up from the floor, went to the washstand and
poured some water into the glass, for she thought it possible that the
woman was really unable to utter a sound because her throat was parched
with fear. But she could speak a little as soon as Regina left her side,
and the last peril seemed a few seconds less near.
"For the love of God, don't kill me yet," she moaned. "Let me speak
first!"
Regina came back, knelt down, and set the glass on the floor, beside the
pin.
"That is all I want," she said quietly, "that you should speak."
"Water," moaned Settimia, turning her eyes to the glass.
Regina held up her head a little and set the tumbler to her lips, and
she drank eagerly. The fear of death is more parching than wound-fever
or passion.
"Now you can surely talk a little," Regina said.
"Why do you wish to know where he is?" Settimia asked in a weak voice.
"Are the police looking for him? What has he done? Why do you want me to
betray him?"
"These are too many questions," Regina answered. "I have been told to
make you tell where he is, and I will. That is enough."
"I do not know where he is."
In an instant the point of the sharp little blade was pressing against
the woman's throat, harder and harder; one second more and it would
pierce the skin and draw blood.
"Stop," she screamed, with a convulsion of her whole body. "He is in the
house!"
CHAPTER XIX
With a single movement Regina was on her feet, for she had been taken by
surprise, and her first instinct was to be ready for some new and
unsuspected danger. In a flash it seemed to her that since Corbario was
in the house, he might very possibly enter suddenly and take Settimia's
defence. Regina was not afraid of him, but she was only a woman after
all, and Corbario was not a man to stop at trifles. He was very likely
armed, and would perhaps shoot her, in order to make good his escape
with Settimia, unless, as was quite probable, he killed his old
accomplice too, before leaving the room.
Regina stood still a moment, reflecting on the dangerous situation. It
certainly would not be safe to release Settimia yet; for if Corbario
were really in the house, the two together could easily overpower one
woman, though she was strong.
"I am sorry that I cannot untie you yet," Regina said, and with a glance
at the prostrate figure she took up her candle-stick, stuck her pin
through her hair before the mirror, and went to the door.
She took the key from the lock, put it back on the outside, and turned
it, and put it into her pocket when she had shut the door after her.
Then she slowly descended the stairs, stopping now and then to listen,
and shading her candle with her hand so that she could see over it, for
she expected to be attacked at any moment. At the slightest sound she
would have snatched her pin from her hair again, but she heard nothing,
and went cautiously down till she reached the vestibule outside the
sitting-room. She entered the latter and sat down to think.
Should she boldly search the house? Settimia could hardly have had any
object in lying. If she had meant to frighten Regina, she would have
spoken very differently. She would have made out that Corbario was
almost within hearing, waiting in a dark corner with a loaded revolver.
But her words had been the cry of truth, uttered to save her life at the
moment when death was actually upon her. She would have screamed out the
truth just as certainly if Corbario had already left Rome, or if he were
in some hotel for the night--or even if she had really known nothing. In
the last case Regina would have believed her, and would have let her go.
There is no mistaking the accent of mortal terror, whether one has ever
heard it or not.
Corbario was somewhere in the house, Marcello's enemy, and the man she
herself had long hated. A wild longing came over her to have him in her
power, bound hand and foot like Settimia, and then to torment him at her
pleasure until he died. She felt the strength of half a dozen men in
her, and the courage of an army, as she rose to her feet once more. She
had seen him. He was not a big man. If she could catch him from behind,
as she had caught the woman, she might perhaps overpower him. With the
thought of near revenge the last ray of caution disappeared, and from
being fearless Regina became suddenly reckless.
But as she rose, she heard a sound overhead, and it was the unmistakable
sound of footsteps. She started in surprise. It was simply impossible
that Settimia should have loosed the cord that bound her. Regina had
been brought up in the low hill country and in the Campagna, and she
could tie some of the knots used by Roman muleteers and carters, which
hold as well as those men learn at sea. She had tied Settimia very
firmly, and short of a miracle the woman could not have freed herself.
Yet the footsteps had been distinctly audible for a moment. Since
Settimia was not walking about, Corbario must have got into the room.
Yet Regina had locked the door, and had the key in her pocket. It was
perfectly incomprehensible. She left the sitting-room again, carrying
her candle as before; but at the door she turned back, and set the
candle-stick upon the table. She would be safer in the dark, and would
have a better chance of taking Corbario by surprise.
Poor Regina had not grown up amongst people who had a high standard of
honour, and her own ideas about right and wrong were primitive, to speak
charitably. But if she had dreamt of the deed that was being done
upstairs, her heart would have stood still, and she would have felt sick
at the mere thought of such villainy.
She had left the room and locked the door, and while her footsteps had
been audible on the stairs no other sound had broken the stillness. But
a few seconds later a whispered question came from some person out of
sight.
"Is she gone?" the whisper asked.
"Yes," answered Settimia in a very low voice, which she knew Regina
could not hear.
Corbario's pale face cautiously emerged from the closet in which he had
been hidden, and he looked round the room before he stepped out.
Settimia could not turn over to see him, but she heard him coming
towards her.
"Cut this cord," she said in an undertone. "Make haste! We can be out of
the house in less than half a minute."
Corbario knelt beside her, and took out a handsome English clasp-knife.
But he did not cut the cord. He looked down into Settimia's face, and
she understood.
"I could not help it," she answered. "She would have killed me!"
Corbario laid his left hand upon her throat.
"If you try to scream I shall strangle you," he said in a whisper. "You
have betrayed me, and I cannot afford to trust you again. Do you know
what I am going to do?"
She tried to turn her head, but his hand was heavy on her throat. She
strained frightfully to move, and her stony eyes lit up with a dying
glare of terror.
"Do it quickly!" she gasped.
"Hush!" His hand tightened on her throat. "If you were in Salta, you
should die by tenths of inches, if it took all night! That would be too
good for you."
He spat in her face as she writhed under his grasp. He looked into her
living eyes once more with all the cowardly hate that possessed him, he
struck deep and sure, he saw the light break in the pupils, and heard
the awful rattle of her last breath.
In an instant he was at the window, and had thrown it wide open. He got
out quickly, let himself down with his hands, and pushed himself away
from the wall with his feet as he jumped down backwards, well knowing
that there was grass below him, and that the earth was as soft as sponge
with the long rain. He was sure that he could not hurt himself. Yet
before his feet touched the ground he had uttered a low cry of fear.
He was on his legs now and trying to run, but it was too late. There was
the flash of a lantern in the wet garden, and between him and the light,
and just below it, he saw two points of greenish fire coming at him; for
he saw everything then; and he heard the rush of a heavy beast's feet,
tearing up the earth with iron claws, and the savage breath, and the
loud hiss of a man setting the creature on; for he heard every sound
then; and he knew that the thing of terror would leap up with resistless
strength and hurl its weight upon him, and bury its jagged fangs in his
throat and tear him, in an instant that would seem like an hour of
agony, and that the pain and the fear would be as if he were hung up by
all the nerves of his body, drawn out and twisted; for he knew
everything then; and in that immeasurable time which is nothing, and yet
is infinite, he remembered his evil life, his robberies, his murders,
and his betrayals, one by one, but he remembered with most frightful
clearness how he had tried to kill Marcello, how he had corrupted him
from his childhood, with bad counsels very cunningly, and prepared him
to go astray, how he had thrust evil in his path and laughed away the
good, and had led him on, and poisoned him, and would have brought him
to his death and damnation surely, but for one sinning devoted woman
that loved him; for he remembered everything then; and from very far
away, out of memories of his youth, there came a voice that had once
been gentle and kind, but that rang in his ears now, like the blast of
the trumpet of the last judgment.
"Whosoever shall offend one of these little ones which believe in Me, it
were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and
that he were drowned in the depth of the sea."
Far better, indeed, for it all came, when the immeasurable second's
length was past, and he was thrown down against the wall, and torn, and
shaken like a rat; it all came just as he had felt that it was coming,
and it lasted long, a long, long time, while he tried to howl, and the
blood only gurgled in his throat. And then, just as many strong hands
dragged away the thing of terror, and the light of a lantern and of a
lamp flashed in his eyes, he fell asleep in the wet grass.
For they had caught him fairly and brought him, down. Kalmon had
watched him long, and had told some of his suspicions to the Chief of
Police, and the latter, unknown to Kalmon, had caused him to be watched
from time to time. But he, who had been watched before and had once
already escaped for his life, had sometimes seen faces near him that he
did not trust, and when he had turned back from the station that
afternoon he had seen one of those faces; so he had driven away quickly
in a cab, by winding ways, so as not to be followed. Yet Kalmon and
Marcello, talking as they drove, grew more and more sure that he would
wish to see Settimia before he left Rome, the more certainly if he
believed himself pursued, as seemed likely from his changing his mind at
the station. So they had stopped their cab before they had reached their
destination, and had sent Ercole back to Trastevere with the key of the
garden gate, bidding him watch, as it was most probable that Corbario
would try to get out through the garden; and before long they had come
back to the door of the house that opened upon the street, and had let
themselves in quietly, just in time to hear the noise of the struggle as
the dog threw Corbario to the ground. For the other entrance to the
little vestibule opened upon the garden within, at the very spot where
Corbario alighted when he jumped from the window.
And now they stood there in the rain round the wounded man, while
Marcello held the lantern to his face, and Regina thrust a lamp out of
the lower window which she had thrown open.
"Is he dead?" she asked, in the silence that followed when Ercole had
got control of the dog again.
At the sound of her voice Ercole started strangely and looked up to her
face that was not far above his own, and his eyes fixed themselves upon
her so intently that she looked down at him, while she still held out
her lamp. She could not remember that she had ever seen him; but he had
seen her many times since he had made his visit to the inn on the
Frascati road.
"Is he dead?" she repeated, putting the question directly to him as he
was nearest.
Still he looked at her in silence, with his deep-set, unwinking eyes.
Marcello and Kalmon were bending over Corbario, Marcello holding the
lantern, while the Professor listened for the beating of the heart and
felt the pulse. They paid no attention to Regina for the moment.
"Why don't you speak?" she asked, surprised by Ercole's silent stare.
"You don't know me," he said slowly, "but I know you."
The rain was beating upon her lamp, and at that moment the shade cracked
under the cold drops and fell to pieces, and the wind instantly
extinguished the flame of the flaring wick. Regina withdrew into the
room to get another light, and Ercole stared after her into the gloom.
"He is alive," said Kalmon, looking up to see why the light had gone
out. "We must get him inside at once, or he will die here. Come,
Ercole! Make that dog lie down and keep quiet."
Between them they carried Corbario into the house. Nino watched on the
step in the rain, but when the door was shut behind him, he crawled down
to the wet grass and lapped the blood and water in the dark. They
carried Corbario upstairs to an empty room there was, and as they went
Regina tried to tell Marcello what she had done. They opened Settimia's
door, which was still locked, and they found her quite dead, and the
window was wide open; then Regina understood that Corbario had been
hidden within hearing, and had killed the woman because she had
confessed.
The men who had been sent from the central police station at Kalmon's
request arrived a few minutes later. One was at once sent for a surgeon
and for more men; the other remained. Soon the little house was full of
officials, in uniform and in plain clothes. They examined everything,
they wrote rapidly on big sheets of stamped paper; their chief took the
first deposition of Regina, and of the three men, and of the surgeon. At
dawn a man came with a rough pine coffin. Officials came and went, and
were gravely busy. One man spoke of coffee when it was day, and went and
made some in the little kitchen, for the two young women who cooked and
did the work of the house did not sleep there, and would not come till
past seven o'clock.
During the long hours, when Regina and Marcello were not wanted, they
were together in the sitting-room downstairs. Regina told Marcello in
detail everything she knew about the events of the night, and much which
she had found out earlier about Settimia but had never told him. Kalmon
came in from time to time and told them what was going on, and that
Corbario was still alive; but they saw no more of Ercole. He had made
his first deposition, to the effect that he had been set to watch the
house, that the murderer had jumped from an upper window, and that the
dog had pulled him down. The officials looked nervously at the dog,
produced by Ercole in evidence, and were glad when the beast was out of
their sight. There were dark stains about the bristles on his jaws, and
his eyes were bloodshot; but Ercole laid one hand on his uncouth head,
and he was very quiet, and did not even snarl at the policemen.
Regina and Marcello sat side by side, talking in a low voice, and
looking at each other now and then. The little house in which they had
been happy was turned to a place of death and horror, and both knew that
some change was coming to themselves.
"You cannot live here any more," Marcello said at dawn, "not even till
to-night."
"Where could I go?" Regina asked. "Why should I not stay here? Do you
think I am afraid of the dead woman?"
"No," Marcello answered, "but you cannot stay here."
He guessed what talking and gossiping there would be when the newspapers
told what had happened in the little house, how the reporters would
hang about the street for a week to come, and how fashionable people
would go out of their way to see the place where a murder had been
committed by such a well-known person as Corbario, and where he had been
taken almost in the very act, and himself nearly killed. Besides all
that, there would be the public curiosity about Regina, who had been so
intimately concerned in a part of the tragedy, and whose name was
everywhere associated with his own.
He would have taken her away from Rome at once, if he could have done
so. But he knew that they would both be called upon during the next few
days to repeat in court the evidence they had already given in their
first deposition. There was sure to be the most frightful publicity
about the whole affair, of which reports would be published not only in
Rome but throughout Italy, and all over the world. In real life the
consequences of events generally have the importance which fiction is
obliged to give the events themselves; which is the reason why the
things that happen to real people rarely come to any precise conclusion,
like those reached by a play or a novel. The "conclusion" lies in the
lives of the people, after the tragedy, or the drama, or the comedy has
violently upset their existences.
"You cannot stay here," Marcello repeated with conviction.
"You will go on living at your villa," Regina answered. "Why should I
not go on living in this house? For a few days I will not go out, that
is all. Is it the end of the world because a person has been killed who
ought to have died in the galleys? Or because the man who tried to kill
you was caught in a place that belongs to you? Tell me that."
"You cannot stay here," Marcello repeated a third time.
For a while Regina was silent. They were both very white and heavy-eyed
in the cold daylight, though they could not have slept. At last she
looked at him thoughtfully.
"If we were married, we should go on living in our own house," she said.
"Is it true, or not? It is because there will be talking that you are
ashamed to let me stay where I am, and would like to get me away. This
is the truth. I know it."
Marcello knew it too and did not answer at once, for it was not easy to
decide what he ought to do. The problem that had seemed so hard to solve
a few hours earlier was fast getting altogether beyond solution. There
was only one thing to be done in the first present difficulty; he must
take Regina to some other place at once. No doubt this was easy enough.
He would take an apartment for her elsewhere, as far as possible from
the scene of the tragedy, and in a few hours she could be installed
there out of the way of annoyance. He could buy a house for her if he
chose, for he was very rich. Possibly some house already belonging to
him was vacant; his lawyer would know.
But after that, what was to come? If Corbario lived, there would be a
sensational trial in which he and Regina would be witnesses together,
and Kalmon too, and very surely Aurora and her mother. For Aurora would
be called upon to tell what she knew of Marcello's movements on the
morning when he had been knocked down near the gap.
Every moment of his past life would be publicly examined, to prove
Corbario's guilt. Worse than that, there would be a long inquiry to show
that Corbario had murdered his mother. Skilled surgeons were tending the
man's wounds and reviving him by every means that science could suggest.
Kalmon said that he might live. He was being kept alive in order to be
condemned to the expiation of his crimes in penal servitude, since
Italian law could not make him pay for them with his life. The man would
be watched by day and night, lest he should try to commit suicide, for
he was to suffer, if he lived. He was to suffer horribly, without doubt,
and it was right and just that he should. But Marcello would suffer too.
That was not just. The name of his saintly mother would be in the mouths
of all kinds of witnesses, in the columns of all sorts of newspapers.
Lawyers would make speeches about her to excite the pity of the jury and
to turn the whole tide of feeling against Corbario. Marcello would
himself be held up to public commiseration, as one of Corbario's
victims. There would be allusions covert and open to Regina and to the
position in which she stood to Marcello. There would be talk about
Aurora. People would suddenly remember her mother's sad story and
gossip about her; people would certainly say that there had been talk
about marrying Aurora to Marcello, and that Regina had come between
them. Yes, there would be much talk about Aurora; that was certain.
All this was coming, and was not far off, if Corbario lived; and even if
he died there would be a vast amount said and written about all the
people concerned.
And Regina was there, beside him, telling him that if they were married
they could go on living in the little house, just as if nothing had
happened. It was not true, but he could not find heart to tell her so.
It was the first time that any suggestion of marriage had come from her,
who had always told him that marriage was impossible. If she wished it
now, could he refuse?
Suddenly he knew that he had reached one of the great cross-roads in his
life, and that fate had dragged him violently to it within the last few
hours, to make him choose his way. The full-grown character of the man
rebelled against being forced to a decision in spite of himself, but
revolted at the thought of fearing to do what was right and honourable.
He was not hesitating as he sat still in silence after Regina had
spoken. He was thinking, with the firm determination to act as soon as
he had reached a decision. When a man can do that, his weakness is past.
Regina did not interrupt the current of his thoughts, and as she watched
him she forgot all about the present; and they were just together, where
they had so often been happy, and she loved him with all her heart. That
was her strength. It had nothing to do with right or wrong, honour or
dishonour, credit or discredit, or any choice of ways. She had no
choice. She loved. It was a very simple thing.
He looked up at last. She was still wearing the loose dressing-gown she
had worn all night.
"Could you sleep now?" he asked.
"No."
"Then you must dress," he said. "While you are dressing I will walk up
to the villa and give some orders. Then I will come and get you in a
closed carriage. Put together what you may need for the day, and I will
have all your things moved before night."
"Are you really going to take me away from here?" Regina asked,
regretfully.
"Yes. I must. It will be easy to find a place that will please you
better. Will you do as I have said?"
"Why do you ask? I go."
She rose and stood beside him a moment while he sat still, and her hand
caressed his short fair hair. She bent down and kissed the close waves
of it, near his forehead.
"We have been very happy here," she said quietly.
She slipped away as he rose to his feet, with the sudden conviction that
something had happened.
"What is it?" he asked quickly, and making a step after her.
"I am going to dress," she answered.
She turned her head and smiled, but there was a touch of sadness in the
look, as if she was saying good-bye. He partly understood, and her
expression was reflected in his own face. They had been so happy in the
little house in Trastevere.
When the door had closed Marcello went to find Kalmon. He met him at the
foot of the stairs.
"The fellow is alive, and will probably recover," said the Professor, in
answer to the unasked question in Marcello's eyes.
"It would simplify matters if he died," said Marcello. "Will you walk up
to the villa with me and have coffee? We cannot get a cab at this hour
on this side of the Tiber."
"Thank you," Kalmon answered, "but I must go home. The house is in
charge of the police, and there is nothing more to be done here. They
have already taken the woman's body to San Spirito, and they will move
Corbario in a few hours. He is badly mauled, but no big arteries are
torn. I must go home and write a letter. The Contessa must not hear what
has happened through the newspapers."
"No. Certainly not. As for me, I am going to take Regina away at once. I
shall bring my own carriage down from the villa."
"By the bye," Kalmon said, "I had thought of that. The house in which I
live is divided into many small apartments. There is a very good one to
let, decently furnished. I thought of taking it myself, and I looked at
it yesterday. You might put the young lady there until you can find what
you may prefer. She can move in at once."
"Nothing could be better. If you are going home, will you say that I
take the place and will be there in an hour? No. 16, Via Sicilia, is it
not?"
"Yes. I'll see to it. Shall I take the lease in your name?"
"No. Any name will do better. The reporters would find her at once under
mine."
"I'll use my own," said the Professor. "I'll say that she is a lady who
has arrived to consult me--I daresay she will--and that I'm responsible
for her."
"Thank you," answered Marcello gratefully. "And thank you for all that
you have done to help me."
"My dear Marcello," Kalmon said, smiling cheerfully, "in the first
place, I have done nothing to help you, and secondly, through excess of
zeal, I have got you into a very unpleasant situation, by indirectly
causing a woman to be murdered in your house, and the murderer almost
mauled to death by that very singular wild beast which your man calls a
dog, and which I had often noticed in old times at the cottage. So there
is nothing at all to thank me for, though I am most heartily at your
service."
The Professor was positively in high spirits just then, and Marcello
envied him as they parted and took opposite directions.
Though the Via Sicilia was a long way from the Janiculum, Marcello had
been only too glad to accept Kalmon's suggestion at such a moment.
Regina would feel that she was protected by Marcello's friend, and
though she might rarely see him, it would be better for her than to be
lodged in a house where she knew no one. Kalmon was a bachelor and a
man of assured position, and it had cost him nothing to undertake to
give Regina his protection; but Marcello was deeply grateful. He had
already made up his mind as to what he would do next.
It had stopped raining at last, and the wind had fallen to a soft breeze
that bore the morning mist gently away towards the sea, and hardly
stirred the wet leaves that strewed the road all the way up to San
Pietro in Montorio. Marcello found the gate of the villa already open,
for it was nearly eight o'clock by the time he got there.
He summoned the servants to the library, told them briefly what had
happened, and warned them that they might be summoned as witnesses at
the coming trial, as most of them had been in his mother's service. In
the days before Corbario had lost his head, and when he had controlled
the household, it had been a part of his policy to have really
respectable servants about him, and though some of them had never quite
trusted him, they had all been devoted to the Signora and to Marcello.
They listened in respectful silence now, and waited till he was out of
the house before meeting to discuss the tragedy and to decide that
Corbario had got his deserts at last.
In a few hours Regina was installed in her new lodging with such
belongings as she needed immediately. Kalmon, having finished writing
his letter to the Contessa, left nothing undone which could contribute
to the comfort of the "lady who had arrived to consult him." He had a
respectable old woman servant, who had been with him for years, and who
came from his native town. He took her into his confidence to some
extent, and placed her in charge of Regina. As she thought that
everything he did must be right, she accepted his statement that the
young gentleman who would often come to see the young lady was deeply
interested in the latter's welfare, and that, as the poor young lady had
no relations, he, the Professor, had taken her under his protection
while she remained in Rome.
The old servant's name was Teresa, and she belonged to a certain type of
elderly old maids who take a very kindly interest in the love affairs of
the young. She smiled, shook her head in a very mild disapprobation, and
did much more than Kalmon had asked of her; for she took the very first
opportunity of informing Regina that the Professor was the greatest,
wisest, best, and kindest of mankind; and Regina recognised in her a
loyal soul, and forthwith liked her very much.
It was late in the November afternoon when Marcello ascended the stairs
and stopped before the door of the little apartment. He realised that he
had no key to it, and that he must ring the bell as if he were a mere
visitor. It was strange that such a little thing should affect him at
all, but he was conscious of a sort of chill, as he pulled the metal
handle and heard the tinkling of one of those cheap little bells that
feebly imitate their electric betters by means of a rachet and a small
weighted wheel. It was all so different from the little house in
Trastevere with its bright varnished doors, its patent locks, its smart
windows, and its lovely old garden. He wished he had not brought Regina
to Via Sicilia, though Kalmon's advice had seemed so good. To Kalmon,
who was used to no great luxury in his own life, the place doubtless
seemed very well suited for a young person like Regina, who had been
brought up a poor child in the hills. But the mere anticipation of the
dark and narrow entry, and the sordid little sitting-room beyond, awoke
in Marcello a sense of shame, whether for himself or for the woman who
loved him he hardly knew.
Old Teresa had gone out for something, and Regina opened the door
herself.
CHAPTER XX
"I have come to see if you need anything," Marcello said, when they were
in the sitting-room. "I am sorry to have been obliged to bring you to
such a wretched place, but it seemed a good thing that you should be so
near Kalmon."
"It is not a wretched place," Regina answered. "It is clean, and the
things are new, and the curtains have been washed. It is not wretched.
We have been in worse lodgings when we have travelled and stopped in
small towns. Professor Kalmon has been very kind. It was wise to bring
me here."
He wished she had seemed discontented.
"Have you rested a little?" he asked.
"I have slept two or three hours. And you? You look tired."
"I have had no time to sleep. I shall sleep to-night."
He leaned back in the small green arm-chair and rested his head against
a coarse netted antimacassar. His eyes caught Regina's, but she was
looking down thoughtfully at her hands, which lay in her lap together
but not clasped. Peasant women often do that; their hands are resting
then, after hard work, and they are thinking of nothing.
"Look at me," Marcello said after a long time.
Her glance was sad and almost dull, and there was no light in her face.
She had made up her mind that something dreadful was going to happen to
her, and that the end was coming soon. She could not have told why she
felt it, and that made it worse. Her eyes had the indescribable look
that one sees in those of a beautiful sick animal, the painful
expression of an unintelligent suffering which the creature cannot
understand. Regina, roused to act and face to face with danger, was
brave, clever, and quick, but under the mysterious oppression of her
forebodings she was the Roman hill woman, apathetic, hopeless,
unconsciously fatalistic and sleepily miserable.
"What is the matter?" Marcello asked. "What has happened?"
"I shall know when you have told me," Regina answered, slowly shaking
her head; and again she looked down at her hands.
"What I have come to tell you will not make you sad," Marcello replied.
"Speak, heart of my heart. I listen."
Marcello leaned forward and laid his hand upon hers. She looked up
quietly, for it was a familiar action of his.
"I am going to marry you," he said, watching her, and speaking
earnestly.
She kept her eyes on his, but she shook her head again, slowly, from
side to side, and her lips were pressed together.
"Yes, I am," said Marcello, with a little pressure of his hand to
emphasise the words.
But she withdrew hers, and leaned far back from him.
"Never," she said. "I have told you so, many times."
"Not if I tell you that nothing else will make me happy?" he asked.
"If I still made you happy, you would not talk of marriage," Regina
answered.
For the first time since she had loved him he heard a ring of bitterness
in her voice. They had reached that first node of misunderstanding in
the love relations of men and women, which lies where the one begins to
think and act upon a principle while the other still feels and acts from
the heart.
"That is not reasonable," Marcello said.
"It is truth," she answered.
"But how?"
"How! I feel it, here!"
Her hands sprang to life and pressed her bosom, her voice rang deep and
her eyes flashed, as if she were impatient of his misunderstanding.
He tried to laugh gently.
"But if I want to marry you, it is because I mean never to part from
you," he said.
"No!" she cried. "It is because you are afraid that you will leave me,
unless you are bound to me."
"Regina!" Marcello protested, by his tone.
"It is as I say. It is because you are honourable. It is because you
wish to be faithful. It is because you want to be true. But what do I
care for honour, or faith, or truth, if I can only have them of you
because you are tied to me? I only want love. That is everything. I want
it, but I have never asked it of you, and never shall. Is love money,
that you can take it out of your purse and give it? Is love a string,
that the priest and the mayor can tie the ends so that they can never
come undone? I do not know what it is, but it is not that!"
She laughed scornfully, as if she were angry at the thought. But
Marcello had made up his mind, and was obstinate.
"We must be married at once," he said quietly, and fully believing that
he could impose his will upon hers. "If I had not been weak and foolish,
we should have been married long ago. But for a long time after my
illness I had no will of my own. I am sorry. It was my fault."
"It was not your fault, it was the illness, and it was my will. If I had
said, any day in those first two years, 'Make me your wife, for I wish
to be a real signora,' would you not have done it?"
"You know I would."
"But I would not, and I will not now. I am not a real signora. I am
beautiful--yes, I see that. Am I blind when I look into my glass? I am
very beautiful. We have not often met any woman in our travels as
beautiful as I am. Am I blind? I have black hair, like the common
people, but my hair is not coarse, like a mule's tail. It is as fine as
silk. My eyes are black, and that is common too; but my eyes are not
like those of the buffaloes in the Campagna, as the other women's are
where I was born. And I am not dark-skinned; I am as white as the snow
on Monte Cavo, as white as the milk in the pan. Also I have been told
that I have beautiful feet, though I cannot tell why. They are small,
this is the truth, and my hands are like those of a signora. But I am
not a real signora, though I have all this. How can you marry me? None
of your friends would speak to me, because I have not even been an
honest girl. That was for you, but they do not count love. Your servants
at the villa would laugh at you behind your back, and say, 'The master
has married one of us!' Do you think I could bear that? Tell me what you
think! Am I of stone, to bear that people should laugh at you?"
She took breath at last and leaned back again, folding her arms and
fixing her splendid eyes on his face, and challenging him to answer her.
"We will go and live in Calabria, at San Domenico, for a while," he
said. "We need not live in Rome at all, unless we please, for we have
the whole world before us."
"We saw the world together without being married," Regina answered
obstinately. "What difference would there be, if we were husband and
wife? Do you wish to know what difference there would be? I will tell
you. There would be this difference. One day I should see no light in
your eyes, and your lips would be like stone. Then I should say, 'Heart
of my heart, you are tired of me, and I go.' But you would answer, 'You
cannot go, for you are my wife.' What would that be? That would be the
difference. Do you understand, or do you not understand? If you do not
understand, I can do nothing. But I will not marry you. Have you ever
seen a mule go down to the ford in spring, too heavily laden, when there
is freshet? He drowns, if he is driven in, because the burden is too
heavy. I will not be the burden; but I should be, if I were your wife,
because I am not a real signora. Now you know what I think."
"Yes," Marcello answered, "but I do not think in the same way."
He was not sure how to answer her arguments, and he lit a cigarette to
gain time. He was quietly determined to have his own way, but in order
to succeed he knew that he must persuade her till she agreed with him.
He could not drag her to the altar against her will.
Before he had thrown away the match, Regina had risen from her chair.
She leaned against the little marble mantelpiece, looking down at him.
"There are things that you do not know," she said. "If you knew them you
would not want to marry me. In all the time we have been together, you
have hardly ever spoken to me of your mother."
Marcello started a little and looked up, unconsciously showing that he
was displeased.
"No," he answered. "Why should I?"
"You were right. Your mother is now one of the saints in Paradise. How
do I know it? Even Settimia knew it. I am not going to talk of her now.
I am not fit to speak her name in your hearing. Very well. Do you know
what my mother was?"
"She is dead," Marcello replied, meaning that Regina should let her
memory alone.
"Or my father?" she asked, going on. "They were bad people. I come of a
bad race. Perhaps that is why I do wrong easily, for you. My father
killed a man and left us, though he was allowed to go free, and I never
saw him again. He had reason to kill the man. I was a little girl, but I
remember. My mother took other men. They came and went; sometimes they
were drunk and they beat us. When I was twelve years old one of them
looked upon me with bad eyes. Then my mother cursed him, and he took up
a stone and struck her on the head, and she died. They sent him to the
galleys, and me to work at the inn, because I had no friends. This is
the family of Regina. It is a race of assassins and wicked women. If I
were your wife, that would be the family of your wife. If God sent
children, that would be the blood they would have of me, to mix with
that of your mother, who is one of the saints in heaven. This is the
truth. If you think I am telling you one thing for another, let us go to
the inn on the Frascati road. Paoluccio and Nanna know. They would laugh
if they could see me dressed like a real signora, and they would say,
'This girl is her mother's daughter!' And so I am."
She ceased speaking, and again waited for his answer, but he had none
ready, and there was silence. She had put the ugly truth too plainly
before him, and he could not shut up his understanding against it; he
could not deny what she said, he could never teach himself to believe
that it did not matter. And yet, he did not mean to draw back, or give
up his purpose, even then. Men of good birth had married peasant women
before now. They had given up the society of their old friends, they had
lived in remote places, they had become half peasants themselves, their
sons had grown up to be rough farmers, and had done obligatory military
service in the ranks for years, because they could not pass an easy
examination. But was all that so very terrible after all, in the light
of the duty that faced him?
The woman had saved his life, had carried him in her arms, had tended
him like a child, had stolen food to keep him alive, had faced
starvation for him when she had got him to the hospital, had nursed
him--had loved him, had given him all she had, and she would have died
for him, if there had been need. Now, she was giving him something more,
for she was refusing to be his wife because she was sure that sooner or
later she must be a burden to him, and that her birth would be a
reproach to his children. No woman could do more for a man than she had
done. She had been his salvation and his good angel; when she had found
out that the life in Paris that amused her was killing him, she had
brought him back to himself, she had made him at last fit and able to
face those who would have destroyed him. She had loved him like a
woman, she had obeyed him and served him like a devoted servant, she had
watched over him like a faithful dog; and he had given her nothing in
return for all that, not one thing that deserved to be counted. Perhaps
he had not even really loved her; most surely his love had been far less
large and true and devoted than hers, and he felt that it was so. The
reparation he was determined to make was not really for her honesty's
sake; it was to be an attempt at repaying a debt that was weighing upon
his conscience like a debt of honour.
That was it. He felt that unless he could in some way repay her for what
she had done, his man's honour would not be satisfied. That was very
well, in its way, but it was not love. It was as if he had said to
himself, "I cannot love her as she loves me, but I can at least marry
her; and that is better than nothing, and has the merit of being morally
right."
She had told him that if she still made him happy he would not talk of
marriage. The brutal truth shamed him, now that he knew it from her own
lips. It was not the whole truth, but it was a great part of it. If he
was happy with her now, when there was nothing to disturb them, it was
by force of habit, it was because her beauty appealed to him, it was
because her touch was dearer to him than her heart's devotion. Now that
he was a grown man, he knew well enough that he craved something else
which poor Regina could never give him.
For he felt the want of companionship. Those who have lost what is most
worth having, whether by death or by their own fault, or by the other's,
miss the companionship of love more than anything else, when the pain of
the first wrench is dulled and the heart's blood is staunched, and the
dreadful bodily loneliness comes only in dreams. Then the longing for
the old sweet intercourse of thought and word makes itself felt and is
very hard to bear, though it is not sharp like the first wound; and it
comes again and again for years, and perhaps for ever.
But where there is no true companionship while love lasts, there is
something lacking, and such love cannot live long. Men seem to want it
more than women do; and women, seeing that men want something, often
fancy they want flattery, and natter the men they love till they disgust
them; and then the end comes suddenly, much to the astonishment of those
women.
Regina was too womanly not to feel that Marcello was in real need of
something which she had not, and could never have. She had known it from
the first, and had almost told him so. She gave what was hers to give,
as long as he wanted it; when he wanted it no more, she meant to leave
him, and it would make no difference what became of her afterwards.
When she had finished speaking, Marcello was very miserable, because he
could find no answer to what she had said, and he felt that she had no
right to say it at all. His head ached now, from excitement and want of
sleep, and he almost wished that he had put off speaking to Regina about
her marriage. He rested his head in his hand as he sat thinking, and she
came and stood beside him as she had done in the morning in the little
house in Trastevere. But it was not the same now. She hoped that he
would put up his other hand to find hers, without looking at her, as he
often did, but it gripped his knee as if he did not mean to move it, and
he did not raise his head.
She looked up from his bent figure to the window and saw that the light
was reddening with the first tinge of sunset. It would soon be night,
Marcello would go away, and she would be dreadfully lonely. It was not
like being in the little house, knowing that he was near her, in the
great villa on top of the hill, hidden from her only by trees. She was
in a strange place now, and he would be far away, across the Tiber, and
the great dark city would be between her and him.
For an instant her lip quivered, and she thought she was going to cry,
though she had never cried in her life, except for rage and when she had
been a little girl. She shook her handsome head impatiently at the mere
sensation, and held it higher than ever. Then Marcello looked up at
last.
As their eyes met they heard the tinkle of the little bell. Regina at
once left his side to go and open the door. It was not till she had left
the room that Marcello rose, asking himself suddenly why it had not
occurred to him to go himself. He realised that he had always allowed
her to wait on him without question. Yet if she were his wife, he would
not think of letting her do what she was doing now. He would even open
the door of the room for her to go out.
He knew why he had never treated her in that way. She was a peasant
girl, she had been a servant in an inn; it was natural that she should
serve him too. She often brought him his shoes when he was going out,
and she would have put them on for him and laced them if he would have
let her do it. It seemed natural that she should answer the bell and
open the door, as it seemed unnatural that she should ever be his wife.
The thought stung him, and again, he was ashamed.
While these things were passing in his mind, he heard a familiar voice
in the dark entry.
"Signora, you will excuse me," Ercole was saying. "I asked the Professor
and he told me. I beg the favour of a few words."
"Come in," Regina answered, and a moment later they both entered the
sitting-room.
Ercole stood still when he saw Marcello, and began to turn his hat in
his hands, as if it were a rosary, which he generally did when he was
embarrassed. Marcello wondered what the man wanted.
"Were you looking for me?" he asked. "Come in! What is it? Has anything
happened?"
"No, sir, nothing new has happened," answered Ercole.
"What is it, then? Why did you come here?"
Ercole had dressed himself for the occasion in his best clothes. He had
on a snowy shirt and a new keeper's jacket, and his boots were blacked.
Furthermore, he had just been shaved, and his shaggy hair had been cut
rather close. He did not carry his gun about with him in the streets of
Rome, though he felt that it was slightly derogatory to his dignity to
be seen without it, and Nino was not with him, having been temporarily
chained to the wall in the court of the stables at the villa.
He stood still, and looked from Marcello to Regina, and back to Marcello
again.
"It cannot be done," he said suddenly. "It is useless. It cannot be
done."
Without another word he turned abruptly and was going to leave the room,
when Marcello stopped him authoritatively.
"Come here, Ercole!" he cried, as the man was disappearing into the
entry.
"Did you speak to me, sir?" Ercole inquired, stopping in the doorway.
"Yes. Shut the door and come here." Ercole obeyed with evident
reluctance. "Now, then," Marcello continued, "come here and tell me what
you want, and what it is that cannot be done."
"I desire a few words with this lady, and I did not know that you were
here, sir. Therefore I said, it cannot be done. I mean that while you
are here, sir, I cannot speak alone with this lady."
"That is clear," Marcello answered. "You cannot be alone with this lady
while I am in the room. That certainly cannot be done. Why do you wish
to be alone with her? You can speak before me."
"It will not be so easy, sir. I will come at another time."
