of cold water poured down his back; than which homely simile there is
none more true. He had fancied her very grave and even a little sad,
going quietly to her rehearsals with a maid, or even with Mrs.
Rushmore, speaking to no one at the theatre and returning at once to
Versailles to reflect on the vicissitudes to which human affections are
subject.
He had come upon her suddenly and unawares, in a very smart frock and a
superlatively becoming hat, smiling gaily, just stepping out of a
magnificent white motor car, resting her hand familiarly on that of the
most successful young financier in Paris, whose conquests among women
of the world were a byword, and chaperoned by a flighty little
Neapolitan teacher of singing. Truly, if some one had deliberately
rubbed the back of his neck with a large lump of ice on that warm
spring day, the chill could not have been more effectual. Morally
speaking, Lushington caught a bad cold, which 'struck in,' as old
people used to say.
He might have explained to himself that as he had insisted upon parting
from Margaret for ever, and against her will, her subsequent doings
were none of his business. But he was half an Englishman by birth and
altogether one by bringing up, and he therefore could not admit that
she should be apparently enjoying herself, while he was gloomily
brooding over the misfortunes that put her beyond his reach. The fable
of the Dog in the Manger must have been composed to describe us
Anglo-Saxons. It is sufficient that we be hindered from getting what we
want, even by our own sense of honour; we are forthwith ready to
sacrifice life and limb to prevent any other man from getting it. The
magnanimity of our renunciation is only to be compared with our
tenacity in asserting our claim to what we have renounced. Even our
charities usually have strings to them on which our hold never relaxes,
in case we should want them back.
Lushington had never trusted Logotheti, but since his instinct and the
force of circumstances had told him that the Greek was making love to
Margaret and that Margaret liked his society, he hated the man in a
most unchristian manner, and few things would have given the usually
peaceable man of letters such unmitigated satisfaction as to see the
shining white motor car blow up and scatter his rival's arms and legs
to the thirty-two points of the compass.
Logotheti, on the other hand, was as yet unaware that Lushington was
the 'some one else' of whom Margaret had spoken twice with evident
feeling. The consequence was that when the Englishman began to give
himself the bitter satisfaction of watching Logotheti, the latter was
very far from suspecting such a thing, and took no pains at all to hide
his doings; and Lushington established himself in Paris and watched
him, in his coming and going, and nursed his jealousy into hatred and
his hatred into action.
He would not have stooped to employ any one in such work, for that
would have seemed like an insult to Margaret, and a piece of cowardice
into the bargain. The time would come when the astute Greek would
discover that he was followed, and Lushington had no intention of
putting some one else in his shoes when that time came; on the
contrary, he looked forward with all a real Englishman's cool
self-confidence to the explanation that must take place some day. But
he wished to remain undiscovered as long as possible.
He had gone back to his old rooms in the Hôtel des Saints Pères, but in
order to disappear more effectually from his acquaintances he took a
lodging, and walked to it, after sending on his belongings. On his way
he stopped at a quiet barber's shop and had his beard and moustache
shaved off. After that it was not likely that any of his acquaintances
would recognise him, but he took further steps towards completing his
disguise by making radical and painful changes in his dress. He bought
ready-made French clothes, he put on a pair of square kid boots with
elastic sides and patent leather tips, he wore a soft silk cravat
artificially tied in a bow knot with wide and floating ends, and he
purchased a French silk hat with a broad and curving brim. Having
satisfied himself that the effect was good, he laid in a stock of
similar articles, and further adorned his appearance with a pair of
tortoise-shell-rimmed spectacles, and a green umbrella. For possibly
cool or rainy weather he provided himself with a coffee-coloured
overcoat that had a velvet collar and tails reaching almost to the
ground.
When he had been younger Lushington had tried in vain to ruffle his
naturally excessive neatness, but he now realised that he had only
lacked the courage to make a thorough change. In his present costume he
ran no risk of being taken for a smart English lounger, nor for a
French dandy. The effect of forgetting to shave, too, was frightful,
for in forty-eight hours his fair face was covered with shiny bristles
that had a positively metallic look. Though he was so unlike his mother
in most ways, he must have inherited a little of the theatrical
instinct from her, for he wore his disguise as easily as if he had
always been used to it.
He also had the advantage of speaking French like a native, though
possibly with a very slight southern accent caught from his mother, who
originally came from Provence. As for his name, it was useless to
assume another, for Paris is full of Parisians of foreign descent,
whose names are English, German, Polish and Italian; and in a really
great city no one takes the least notice of a man unless he does
something to attract attention. Besides, Lushington had no idea of
disappearing from his own world, or of cutting himself off from his
regular correspondents.
He had not any fixed plan, for he was not sure what he wanted; he only
knew that he hated and distrusted Logotheti, and that while he could
not forgive Margaret for liking the Greek's society, he meant, in an
undetermined way, to save her from destruction. Probably, if he had
attempted to put his thoughts into words, he could have got no further
than Mrs. Rushmore, who suspected Logotheti of designs, and at the root
of his growing suspicion he would have found the fine old Anglo-Saxon
prejudice that a woman might as well trust herself to Don Juan, an
Italian Count, or Beelzebub, as to the offspring of Cadmus or Danaus.
Englishmen have indolent minds and active bodies, as a rule, but on the
other hand, when they are really roused, no people in the world are
capable of greater mental concentration and energy. They are therefore
not good detectives as a rule, but there are few better when they are
deeply and selfishly interested in the result.
Incidentally, Lushington meant to do his utmost to prevent Margaret
from going on the stage, and he would have been much surprised to learn
that in this respect he was Logotheti's ally, instead of his enemy,
against Margaret's fixed determination. If there was to be a struggle,
therefore, it was to be a three-cornered one, in which the two men
would be pitted against each other, and both together against the
resolution of the woman they both loved. Unfortunately for Lushington,
he had begun by withdrawing from Margaret's surroundings and had made
way for his adversary.
Meanwhile Logotheti made the running. He had offered Margaret his motor
car for coming in to her rehearsals, and a chauffeur appeared with it
in good time, masked, coated and gloved in the approved fashion.
Margaret supposed that Logotheti meant to ask her to luncheon again
with Madame De Rosa, and she made up her mind to refuse, for no
particular reason except that she did not wish to seem too willing to
do whatever he proposed. Mrs. Rushmore thought it bad enough that she
should accept the offer of the motor car, but was beginning to
understand that the machine had quite irresistible temptations for all
persons under fifty. She was even a little shocked that Margaret should
go alone to Paris under the sole protection of the chauffeur, though
she would have thought it infinitely worse if Logotheti himself had
appeared.
The man held the door open for Margaret to get in, when she came out
upon the step with Mrs. Rushmore, who seemed anxious to keep an eye on
her as long as possible; as if she could project an influence of
propriety, a sort of astral chaperonage, that would follow the girl to
the city. She detained her at the last minute, holding her by the
elbow. The chauffeur stood impassive with his hand on the door, while
she delivered herself of her final opinion in English, which of course
he could not understand.
'I must say that your sudden intimacy with this suspicious Greek is
most extraordinary,' she said.
'Don't you think there is just a little prejudice in your opinion of
him?' asked Margaret sweetly.
'No,' answered Mrs. Rushmore with firmness, 'I don't, and I think it
very strange that a clever girl like you should be so easily taken in
by a foreigner. Much worse than a foreigner, my dear! A Greek is almost
as bad as a Turk, and we all know what Turks are! Fancy a decent young
woman trusting herself alone with a Turk! I declare, it's not to be
believed! Your dear mother's daughter too! You'll end in a harem,
Margaret, mark my word.'
'And be sewn up in a sack and thrown into the Bosphorus,' laughed
Margaret, trying to get away.
'Such things have happened before now,' said Mrs. Rushmore gloomily.
'Greeks don't have harems,' Margaret objected.
'Don't catch cold,' said Mrs. Rushmore, by way of refuting Margaret's
argument. 'It looks as if it might rain.'
The morning was still and soft and overcast, and the air was full of
the scent of the flowers and leaves, and fresh-clipped grass. The small
birds chirped rather plaintively from the trees on the lawn, or stood
about the edge of the little pond apparently expecting something to
happen, hopping down to the water occasionally, looking down at the
reflections in it and then hopping back again with a dissatisfied air;
and they muffled themselves up in their feathers as if they meant to go
to sleep, and then suddenly spread their wings out, without flying, and
scraped the grass with them. The elms were quite green already, and the
oaks were pushing out thousands of bright emerald leaves. There is a
day in every spring when the maiden year reaches full girlhood, and
pauses on the verge of woman's estate, to wonder at the mysterious
longings that disquiet all her being, and at the unknown music that
sings through her waking dreams.
Margaret sat in the motor car wrapped in a wide thin cloak and covering
her mouth lest the rush of air should affect her voice; but the quick
motion was pleasant, and she felt all the illusion of accomplishing
something worth doing, merely because she was spinning along at
breakneck speed. Somehow, too, the still air and the smell of the
flowers had made her restless that morning before starting, and the
rapid movement soothed her. If she had been offered her choice just
then, she would perhaps have been on horseback for a gallop across
country, but the motor car was certainly the next best thing to that.
For some minutes the chauffeur kept his eyes on the road ahead and both
hands on the steering-gear. Then one hand moved, the speed of the car
slackened suddenly, and the man turned and spoke over the back of his
seat.
'I hope you'll forgive me,' he said in English.
Margaret started and sat up straight, for the voice was Logotheti's.
The huge goggles, the protecting curtain over half the face, the
wide-visored cap and the turned-up coat collar, had disguised him
beyond all recognition. Even his usually smooth black moustache was
ruffled out of shape, and hid his characteristic mouth.
Margaret uttered an exclamation of surprise, not quite sure whether she
ought to smile or frown.
'I thought Mrs. Rushmore would not like it, if I came for you myself,'
he continued, looking at her through his goggles.
'I'm sure she wouldn't,' Margaret assented readily.
'In point of fact,' Logotheti continued, with a grin, 'she expressed
her opinion of me with extraordinary directness. Suspicious Greek!
Worse than a foreigner! As bad as a Turk! The unprincipled owner of a
harem! It's really true that eavesdroppers never hear any good of
themselves! I never tried it before, and it served me right.'
'You cannot say that I said anything against you,' laughed Margaret. 'I
took your defence.'
'Not with enthusiasm.' Logotheti joined in her laugh.
'You thought there might be just a little prejudice in her opinion and
you told her that Greeks don't have harems. Yes--yes--I suppose that
might be called defending an absent friend.'
The car was moving very slowly now.
'If I had known it was you, I would have called you all sorts of
names,' Margaret answered. 'Should you mind taking that thing off your
face for a moment? I don't like talking to a mask, and you may be some
one else after all.'
'No,' said Logotheti, 'I'm not "some one else".' He emphasised the
words that had become familiar to them both. 'I wish I were! But if I
take off my glasses and cap, you will be frightened, for my hair is not
smooth and I'm sure I look like a Greek pirate!'
'I should like to see one, and I shall not be frightened.'
He pulled off his cap and glasses, and faced her. She stared at him in
surprise, for she was not sure that she should have recognised him. His
thick black hair stuck up all over his head like a crest, his heavy
eyebrows were as bushy as an animal's fur and his rough and bristling
moustache lent his large mouth and massive jaws a look approaching to
ferocity. The whole effect was rather startling, and Margaret opened
her eyes wide in astonishment. Logotheti smiled.
'Now you understand why I smooth my hair and dress like a tailor's
manikin,' he said quietly. 'It's enough to cow a mob, isn't it?'
'Do you know, I'm not sure that I don't like you better so. You're more
natural!'
'You're evidently not timid,' he answered, amused. 'But you can fancy
the effect on Mrs. Rushmore's nerves, if she had seen me.'
'I should not have dared to come with you. As it is----' She hesitated.
'Oh, as it is, you cannot help yourself,' Logotheti said. 'You can't
get out and walk.'
'I could get out when you have to stop at the petrol station; and I
assure you that I can refuse to come with you again!'
'Of course you can. But you won't.'
'Why not?'
'Because you're much too sensible. Have I offended you, or frightened
you? What have I done to displease you?'
'Nothing--but----' She laughed and shook her head as she broke off.
'I haven't even asked you to marry me to-day! I should think that I was
taking an unfair advantage, if I did, since I could easily carry you
off just now. The car will run sixty miles at a stretch without any
trouble at all, and I don't suppose you would risk your neck to jump,
merely for the sake of getting away from me, would you?'
'Not if you behaved properly,' Margaret answered.
'And then,' Logotheti continued, 'I could put her at full speed and
say, "If you won't swear to marry me, I'll give myself the satisfaction
of being killed with you at the very next bridge we come to!" Most
women would rather marry a man than be smashed to atoms with him, even
if he looks like a pirate.'
'Possibly!'
'But that would be unfair. Besides, an oath taken under compulsion is
not binding. I should have to find some other way.'
'Shall we go on?' Margaret asked. 'I shall be late for the rehearsal.'
'Give it up,' suggested Logotheti calmly. 'We'll spend the morning at
St. Cloud. Much pleasanter than tiring yourself out in that wretched
theatre! I want to talk to you.'
'You can talk to me when I am not singing.'
'No. Singing will distract your attention, and you won't listen to what
I tell you. You have no idea what delightful things I can say when I
try!'
'I wonder!' Margaret laughed lightly. 'You might begin trying while you
take me to Paris. We haven't run a mile in the last ten minutes, and
it's getting late.'
'Unless you are always a little late nobody will respect you. I'll go a
little faster, just to prove to you that you can do anything you like
with me, even against my judgment. Let me put on my glasses first.'
At that moment a man met them on a bicycle, and passed at a leisurely
pace. There was not much traffic on the Versailles road at that hour,
and Margaret let her eyes rest idly on the man, who merely glanced at
her and looked ahead again. Logotheti had taken off his cap in order to
adjust his goggles and shield. When the bicycle had gone by he laughed.
'There goes a typical French bookworm, bicycling to get an appetite,'
he observed. 'I wonder why a certain type of Frenchman always wears kid
boots with square patent leather toes, and a Lavallière tie, and
spectacles with tortoise-shell rims!'
'If he could see you as you generally are,' answered Margaret, 'he
would probably wonder why a certain type of foreigner plasters his hair
down and covers himself with diamonds and rubies! Do go a little
faster, it's getting later every moment.'
'It always does.'
'Especially when one doesn't wish it to! Please go on!'
'Say at once that I've bored you to death.' He put the car at
half-speed.
'No. You don't bore me at all, but I want to get to the theatre.'
'To please you, I am going there--for no other reason. I'll do anything
in the world to give you pleasure. I only wish you would do the
smallest thing for me!'
'What, for instance? Perhaps I may do some very little thing. You'll
get nothing if you don't ask for it!'
'Some people take without asking. Greek pirates always do, you know!
But I can't drive at this rate and talk over my shoulder.'
The way was clear and for several minutes he ran at full speed, keeping
his eyes on the road. Margaret turned sideways and kept behind him as
much as possible, shielding her face and mouth from the tremendous
draught.
She had told the truth when she had said that he did not bore her. The
whole thing had a savour of adventure in it, and it amused her to think
how shocked Mrs. Rushmore would have been if she had guessed that the
chauffeur was Logotheti himself. There was something in the man's
coolness that attracted her very much, for though there was no danger
on the present occasion, she felt that if there had been any, he would
have been just as indifferent to it if it stood in the way of his
seeing her alone. Poor Lushington had always been so intensely proper,
so morbidly afraid of compromising her, and above all, so deadly in
earnest!
She did not quite like to admit that the Greek was altogether in
earnest, too, and that she was just a little afraid of him; still less
that her unacknowledged fear gave her rather a pleasant sensation. But
it was quite true that she had liked him better than before, from the
moment when he had pulled off his cap and glasses and shown his face as
nature had made it. However he might appear hereafter when she met him,
she would always think of him as she had seen him then.
Most women are much more influenced by strength in a man than by
anything which can reasonably be called beauty. Actually and
metaphorically every woman would rather be roughly carried off her feet
by something she cannot resist than be abjectly worshipped and
flattered; yet worship and flattery, though second-best, are much
better than the terribly superior and instructive affection which the
born prig bestows upon his idol with the air of granting a favour on
moral grounds.
Men, on the other hand, detest being carried away, almost as much as
being led. The woman who lets a man guess that she is trying to
influence him is lost, and generally forfeits for ever any real
influence she may have had. The only sort of cleverness which is
distinctly womanly is that which leads a man to do with energy,
enthusiasm and devotion the very thing which he has always assured
everybody that he will not think of doing. The old-fashioned way of
making a pig go to market is to pull his tail steadily in the opposite
direction. If you do that, nothing can save him from his fate; for he
will drag you off your feet in his effort to do what he does not want
to do at all; and there is more 'psychology' in that plain fact than in
volumes of subtle analysis.
CHAPTER XIV
Lushington's first discovery was not calculated to soothe his feelings.
It had come about simply enough. He had bicycled in the Boulevard
Péreire, keeping an eye on Logotheti's house from a distance, and had
seen the motor car waiting before the door, in charge of the chauffeur.
A man had come out, dressed precisely like the latter, had got in and
had gone off, apparently in no hurry, while the original chauffeur went
into the house, presumably to wait. It had been easy enough to keep the
machine in sight till it was fairly out on the road to Versailles,
after which Lushington had felt tolerably sure that by going slowly he
should meet it coming back and probably bringing Margaret. As has been
seen, this was what happened, and, as chance favoured him, he passed
the motor before Logotheti had covered his face again. He was not
likely to forget that face either, and it had done more to reveal to
him his adversary's true character than any number of meetings in
society. For once he had seen the real Logotheti, as Margaret had. He
had ridden on till they were out of sight and had then turned back, in
no very amiable frame of mind.
He understood very well that Logotheti had made great progress in a few
days; he even took it for granted that Margaret had expected him that
morning, and approved of the disguise; for it was nothing else, after
all. If the world, and therefore Mrs. Rushmore, had been meant to know
that Logotheti was acting as his own chauffeur, Margaret would have
been sitting beside him in front. Instead, she was behind him, in the
body of the car, and had evidently been talking with him over the back
of the seat. The big machine, too, was moving at a snail's pace,
clearly in order that they might talk at leisure. In other words,
Logotheti had arranged a secret meeting with Margaret, with her
consent; and that could only mean one thing. The Greek had gained
enough influence over her to make her do almost anything he liked.
It was not a pleasant discovery, but it was an important one, and
Lushington thought over the best means of following it up. He almost
choked with anger as he reflected that if matters went on at this rate,
Margaret would soon be going to Logotheti's house without even the
nominal protection afforded by little Madame De Rosa. He rode back by
the way he had taken outward and passed the Greek's house. The motor
car was not there, which was a relief, on the whole.
He went on as far as the Opéra, for he knew from his mother that
Margaret's rehearsals were taking place there, by the kindness of the
director, who was on very friendly terms with Schreiermeyer. But the
motor was not to be seen. Logotheti, who could hardly have entered
disguised as his own chauffeur, and who would not leave the machine
unguarded in the street, had possibly left Margaret at the door and
gone away. Lushington got off his bicycle and went in under the covered
way to the stage door.
In answer to his questions, the keeper told him that Mademoiselle da
Cordova was rehearsing, and would probably not come out for at least
two hours. Lushington asked the man whether he had seen Logotheti. No,
he had not; he knew Monsieur Logotheti very well; he knew all the
subscribers, and particularly all those who were members of the 'high
finance.' Besides, every one in Paris knew Monsieur Logotheti by sight;
every one knew him as well as the column in the Place Vendôme. He had
not been seen that morning. The doorkeeper, who had absolutely nothing
to do just at that hour, was willing to talk; but he had nothing of
importance to say. Monsieur Logotheti came sometimes to rehearsals. A
few days ago he and Mademoiselle da Cordova had left the theatre
together. The keeper smiled, and ventured to suppose that Mademoiselle
da Cordova was 'protected' by the 'financier.' Lushington flushed
angrily and went away.
It had come already, then; what the man had said this morning, he would
say to-morrow and the next day, to any one who cared to listen,
including the second-class reporters who go to underlings for
information; Margaret's name was already coupled with that of a
millionaire who was supposed to protect her. Ten days ago, she had been
unassailable, a 'lady'--Lushington did not particularly like the
word--a young English girl of honourable birth, protected by no less a
personage than Mrs. Rushmore, and defended from calumny by that very
powerful organisation for mutual defence under all circumstances, which
calls itself society, which wields most of the capital of the world,
rewards its humble friends with its patronage and generally kills or
ruins its enemies. That was ten days ago. Now, the 'lady' had become an
'artist,' and was public property. The stage doorkeeper of a theatre
could smilingly suggest that she was the property of a financier, and
no one had a right to hit him between the eyes for saying so.
Lushington had been strongly tempted to do that, but he had instantly
foreseen the consequences; he would have been arrested for an
unprovoked assault, the man would have told his story, the papers would
have repeated it with lively comments, and Margaret's name would have
been dragged through the mud of a newspaper scandal. So Lushington put
his hands in his pockets and went away, which was by far the wisest
thing he could do.
He set himself resolutely to think out a plan of action, but like many
men of tolerably fertile imagination he was at a loss for any expedient
in the presence of urgent need. He could watch Logotheti and Margaret,
and they would not easily recognise him, but he was fain to admit that
he had nothing to gain by spying on them. He had seen enough and heard
enough already to convince him that Margaret had allowed herself to be
led into a situation very dangerous for her good name, to say the
least. It did not occur to him that Logotheti wished to marry her,
still less that he meant to hinder her from singing in public. He could
not help thinking of the very worst motives, and he attributed them all
to the Greek.
The mild English man of letters was momentarily turned into an avenging
demon, breathing wrath and destruction upon his adversary. The most
extravagant and reckless crimes looked comparatively easy just then,
and very tempting. He thought of getting into Logotheti's cellar with
enough dynamite to blow the house, its owner and himself to atoms, not
to speak of half the Boulevard Péreire. He fancied himself pounding
Logotheti's face quite out of shape with his fists, riddling him with
revolver bullets, running him through in all directions with duelling
swords, tearing him in pieces with wild horses and hanging him out of
his own front window. These vivacious actions all looked possible and
delightful to Lushington as he walked up and down his little
sitting-room. Then came the cold shower-bath of returning common-sense.
He sat down, filled a pipe and lit it.
'I'm an awful ass,' he said aloud to himself, in a reproachful tone.
He wished that some spirit voice would contradict him, but in the
absence of any supernatural intervention the statement remained
unrefuted. The worst of it was that he had always thought himself
clever, and in his critical writings he had sneered in a superior way
at the inventions of contemporary novelists. Just then, he would have
given his reputation for the talents of the hero in a common detective
story. But his mind refused to work in that way, and he watched with
growing discouragement the little clouds of smoke that floated upwards
to the whitewashed ceiling without leaving the least shadow of a
serviceable idea behind them.
He looked disconsolately at the square patent leather toes of his
shoes, very dusty from bicycling, and he sadly passed his hand over his
smooth-shaven chin; the curious creases in his ready-made trousers, so
conspicuously in the wrong place, depressed him still further, and the
sight of his broad-brimmed hat, lying on the table, enhanced the
melancholy of his reflections. The disguise was admirable, undoubtedly,
but it had only helped him to see with his eyes what he had already
seen in imagination, and so far as he could guess, it was not likely to
help him one step further. At that very moment Margaret was probably
seated at Logotheti's table, without even Madame De Rosa to chaperon
her, and Logotheti's men-servants were exchanging opinions about her
outside the door. Lushington nearly bit through the mouthpiece of his
pipe as he thought of that, knowing that he was powerless to interfere.
The same thing might go on for a month, and he could not stop it; then
Margaret would make her début, and the case would be more hopeless
than ever.
The truth was that after launching himself as a disguised detective, he
found himself barred from going any further than merely watching his
enemy, simply because he was incapable of stooping to a detective's
methods of work. He would as soon have lost his hand as have written an
anonymous letter or deliberately inveigled Logotheti into a trap, and
while he was so carefully concealing himself he longed in reality for
open fight, and felt that he had made himself ridiculous in his own
eyes. Yet he hesitated to put on his own English clothes and go about
as usual, for he had to pass the porter's window on the stairs every
time he went out or came in, and such a sudden change in his appearance
would certainly make the porter suspect that he was engaged in some
nefarious business. Porters are powerful personages in Parisian
lodging-houses, and this one would probably inform the police that he
had a suspicious lodger; after which Lushington would be watched in his
turn and would very probably have trouble. These reflections made him
feel more ridiculous than ever.
Now it very often happens that when a man, even of considerable
intelligence, has made up his mind to do something which at first
seemed very clever, but which, by degrees, turns out to be quite
useless, if not altogether foolish, he perseveres in his course with
mule-like obstinacy. He has taken endless trouble to prepare the means,
he has thought it all out so nicely, only omitting to reach the
conclusion! It would be a pity to go back, it would be useless to
desist, since everything has been so well prepared. Something is sure
to come of it, if he only sticks to his original plan, and any result
must be better than allowing events to go their way.
Therefore, when the clouds that curled up from Lushington's pipe failed
to shape themselves into a vision both wise and prophetic, and left
absolutely no new idea behind when they vanished, he came to the
conclusion that his first scheme was a very good one after all, and
that he had better abide by the square-toed, spring-side boots and the
rest of his admirable disguise, until something happened. Then he would
seize the opportunity and act decisively; he was not at all sure how he
should act, but he secretly hoped that the action in question might be
of the nature of a fight with something or somebody. There are many
quiet and shy men who would really rather fight than do anything else,
though they will rarely admit it, even to themselves.
Returning to his plan of watching Logotheti, Lushington argued rightly
that the trip in the motor car would be repeated the very next time
that Margaret had a rehearsal, and that the car would therefore leave
the house in the Boulevard Péreire at about the same time, every two or
three days, but never on two days consecutively. When there was no
rehearsal, Margaret would not come into town. When that was the case it
would be easy to watch the house in Versailles. Lushington was not
quite sure what he expected to see, but he would watch it all the same.
Perhaps, on those days, Logotheti would appear undisguised and call.
But what Lushington was most anxious to find out was whether Margaret
had been to the house again. He wished he had waited near the Opéra to
see where she went when she came out, or in the Boulevard Péreire,
instead of coming back to his lodgings in a bad temper after his
interview with the stage doorkeeper.
He looked out of the window and saw that it was raining. That made it
sure that Margaret would not go back to Versailles in the motor car,
but in the meantime she might very possibly be at Logotheti's, at
luncheon.
He glanced at his watch, and a few minutes later he was on his bicycle
again, an outlandish figure in his long-tailed, coffee-coloured
overcoat and soft student's hat. He hitched up the tails as well as he
could and sat on them, to keep them out of the mud, and he pulled the
hat well down to keep the rain off his big spectacles and his nose. His
own mother would certainly not have recognised him.
He spent a melancholy hour, riding up and down in the wet between the
Place Péreire and the Place Wagram, till he wished with all his heart
that he might never again set eyes on the statue of Alphonse de
Neuville. Half the time, too, he was obliged to look back every moment
in order to watch Logotheti's door, lest he should miss what he was
waiting so patiently to see. The rain was cold, too, and persistent as
it can be in Paris, even in spring. His gloves were pulpy and
jellified, his spring-side kid boots felt as if he were taking a foot
bath of cold glue, and some insidious drops of cold water were
trickling down his back. The broad street was almost deserted, and when
he met any one he wished it were altogether so. Yet he wondered why a
man as rich as Logotheti should have built his house there.
At last his patience was rewarded. A brougham drove up past him at a
smart pace, stopped before the door and waited. He turned back and
wheeled round, crossing and re-crossing the street, so as to keep
behind the carriage. As it was impossible to continue this singular
exercise without attracting the attention of a policeman who came in
sight just then, he rode on towards the Batignolles station. Just then,
when his back was turned, he heard the door of the brougham sharply
shut, and as he quickly turned again he saw the carriage driving off in
the opposite direction. It was driving fast, but he overtook it in a
couple of minutes and passed close to the window, which was half up,
against the rain. He almost looked in as he went by, and suddenly he
met Logotheti's almond eyes, looking straight at him, with an air of
recognition. He bent his head, swerved away from the brougham and took
the first turning out of the wide street. But he had seen that the
Greek was alone in his carriage. Margaret had not lunched at the house
in the Boulevard Péreire.
During the next few days Lushington did not lead a life of idle repose;
in fact, he did not remember that he had ever taken so much exercise
since his Oxford days. On an average he must have bicycled twenty or
thirty miles between breakfast and dinner, which is not bad work for a
literary man accustomed to spend most of his time at his writing-table
and the rest in society. Unknown to himself, he was fast becoming one
of the sights on the Versailles road, and the men at the octroi station
grinned when he went by, and called him the crazy professor.
More than once he met the motor, bringing Margaret to town or taking
her back, and though he did not again chance upon it when Logotheti was
without his glasses and shield, he felt tolerably sure that he was the
chauffeur, and Margaret was always alone in the body of the car. Twice
he was quite certain that the two were talking when he saw them in the
distance coming towards him, but when they passed him Margaret was
leaning back quietly in her place, and the chauffeur merely glanced at
him and then kept his eyes on the road. Margaret looked at him and
smiled faintly, as if in spite of herself, most probably at his
appearance.
He ascertained also that after one more rehearsal at the Opéra,
Margaret did not go there again. The newspapers informed him very soon
that Schreiermeyer had got his own company together and had borrowed
the stage of an obscure theatre in the outskirts of Paris for the
purpose of rehearsing. It had been an advantage for the young prima
donna to sing two or three times with the great orchestra of the Opéra,
but the arrangement could of course not continue. Margaret's début
was to take place in July in a Belgian town.
Lushington was certain that Margaret had been at least once again to
Logotheti's house with Madame De Rosa, but he did not believe that she
had stayed to luncheon, for she had not remained in the house much over
half-an-hour.
During all this time he made no attempt to communicate with her, and
was uncomfortably aware that Logotheti was having it all his own way.
He yielded to a morbid impulse in watching the two, since no good could
come of it for himself or Margaret. Almost every time he went out on
the Versailles road he knew that he should see them together before he
came back, and he knew equally well that he could do nothing to
separate them. He wondered what it was that attracted such a woman as
Margaret Donne to such a man, and with a humility which his friends and
enemies would have been far from suspecting in him he honestly tried to
compare himself with Logotheti, and to define the points in which the
latter had the advantage of him.
Very naturally, he failed to discover them. In spite of what
philosophers tell us, most of us know ourselves pretty well. The
conclusive and irrefutable proof of this is that we always know when we
are not telling, or showing, the truth about ourselves, as, for
instance, when we are boasting or attributing to ourselves some gift,
some knowledge, or some power which we really do not possess. We also
know perfectly well when our impulses are good and when they are bad,
and can guess approximately how much courage we have in reserve for
doing the one, and how far our natural cowardice will incline us to do
the other. But we know very little indeed about other people, and
almost always judge them by ourselves, because we have no other
convenient standard. A great many men are influenced in the same
general way by the big things in life, but one scarcely ever finds two
men who are similarly affected by the little things from which all
great results proceed. Mark Antony lost the world for a woman, but it
was for a woman that Tallien overthrew Robespierre and saved France.
So Lushington's comparison came to nothing at all, and he was no nearer
to a solution of his problem than before.
Then came the unexpected, and it furnished him with a surprisingly
simple means of comparing himself with his rival in the eyes of
Margaret herself.
There are several roads from Paris to Versailles, as every one knows,
leaving the city on opposite sides of the Seine. Hitherto Logotheti had
always taken the one that leads to the right bank, along the Avenue de
Versailles to the Porte St. Cloud. Another follows the left bank by Bas
Meudon, but the most pleasant road goes through the woods Fausses
Reposes.
One morning, when he knew that there was to be a rehearsal, Lushington
bicycled out by the usual way without meeting the motor car. It
naturally occurred to him that Logotheti must have returned by another
road. Whether he would bring Margaret out again by the same way or not,
was of course uncertain, but Lushington resolved to try the Fausses
Reposes on the chance of meeting the car, after waiting in Versailles
as long as he thought the rehearsal might last.
He set out again about half-past one. The road is in parts much more
lonely than the others, especially in the woods, and is much less
straight; there are sharp turns to the right and left in several
places. Lushington did not know the road very well and hesitated more
than once, going slowly and fast by turns, and at the end of
half-an-hour he felt almost sure that he had either lost his way or
that Logotheti was coming back by another route.
CHAPTER XV
Margaret knew by this time that Logotheti was really very much in love;
she was equally sure that she was not, and that when she encouraged him
she was yielding to a rather complicated temptation that presented
elements of amusement and of mild danger. In plain English, she was
playing with the man, though she guessed that he was not the kind of
man who would allow himself to be played with very long.
There are not many young women who could resist such a temptation under
the circumstances, and small blame to them. Margaret had done nothing
to attract the Greek and was too unsophisticated to understand the
nature of her involuntary influence over him. He was still young, he
was unlike other men and he was enormously rich; a little familiarity
with him had taught her that there was nothing vulgar about him below
the surface, and he treated her with all the respect she could exact
when she chose to put herself in his power. The consequence was that as
she felt nothing herself she sometimes could not resist making little
experiments, just to see how far he would run on the chain by which she
held him. Besides, she was flattered by his devotion.
It was not a noble game that she was playing with him, but in real life
very few young men and women of two-and-twenty are 'noble' all the
time. A good many never are at all; and Margaret had at least the
excuse that the victim of her charms was no simple sensitive soul with
morbid instincts of suicide, like the poor youth who cut his throat for
Lady Clara Vere de Vere, but a healthy millionaire of five-and-thirty
who enjoyed the reputation of having seen everything and done most
things in a not particularly well-spent life.
Besides, she ran a risk, and knew it. The victim might turn at any
moment, and perhaps rend her. Sometimes there was a quick glance in the
almond-shaped eyes which sent a little thrill of not altogether
unpleasant fear through her. She had seen a woman put her head into a
wild beast's mouth, and she knew that the woman was never quite sure of
getting it out again. That was part of the game, and the woman probably
enjoyed the sensation and the doubt, since playing for one's life is
much more exciting than playing for one's money. Margaret began to
understand the lion-tamer's sensations, and not being timid she almost
wished that her lion would show his teeth. She gave herself the luxury
of wondering what form his wrath would take when he was tired of being
played with.
He was already approaching that point, on the day when Lushington was
looking out for him on the road through the Fausses Reposes woods. When
they were well away from the city, he slackened his speed as usual and
began to talk.
'I wish,' he said, 'that you would sometimes be in earnest. Won't you
try?'
'You might not like it,' Margaret answered, carelessly. 'For my part, I
sometimes wish that you were not quite so much in earnest yourself!'
'Do I bore you?'
'No. You never bore me, but you make me feel wicked, and that is very
disagreeable. It is inconsiderate of you to give me the impression that
I am a sort of Lorelei, coolly luring you to your destruction! Besides,
you would not be so easily destroyed, after all. You are able to take
care of yourself, I fancy.'
'Yes. I think my heart will be the last of me to break.' He laughed and
looked at her. 'But that is no reason why you should try to twist my
arms and legs off, as boys do to beetles.'
'I wish I could catch a boy doing it!'
'You may catch a woman at it any day. They do to men what boys do to
insects. Cruelty to insects or animals? Abominable! Shocking! There is
the society, there are fines, there is prison, to punish it! Cruelty to
human beings? Bah! They have souls! What does it matter, if they
suffer? Suffering purifies the spirit for a better life!'
'Nonsense!'
'That is easily said. But it was on that principle that Philip burned
the Jews, and they did not think it was nonsense. The beetles don't
think it funny to be pulled to pieces, either. I don't. A large class
of us don't, and yet you women have been doing it ever since Eve made a
fool and a sinner of the only man who happened to be in the world just
then. He was her husband, which was an excuse, but that's of no
consequence to the argument.'
'Perhaps not, but the argument, as you call it, doesn't prove anything
in particular, except that you are calling me names!' Margaret laughed
again. 'After all,' she went on, 'I do the best I can to be--what shall
I say?--the contrary of disagreeable! You ask me to let you take me to
my rehearsals, and I come day after day, risking something, because you
are disguised. I don't risk much, perhaps--Mrs. Rushmore's disapproval.
But that is something, for she has been very, very good to me and I
wouldn't lose her good opinion for a great deal. And you ask me to
lunch with you, and I come--at least, I've been twice to your house,
and I've lunched once. Really, if you are not satisfied, you're hard to
please! We've hardly known each other a month.'
'During which time I've never had but one idea. Don't raise your
beautiful eyebrows as if you didn't understand!' He spoke very gently
and smiled, though she could not see that.
'You've no idea how funny that is!' laughed Margaret.
'What?'
'If you could see yourself, and hear yourself at the same time! With
those goggles, and your leather cap and all the rest, you look like the
Frog Footman in Little Alice--or the dragon in Siegfried!
It does very well as long as you are disagreeable, but when you speak
softly and throw intense expression into your voice'--she mimicked his
tone--'it's really too funny, you know! It's just as if Fafnir were to
begin singing "Una furtiva lacrima" in a voice like Caruso's! Siegfried
would go into convulsions of laughter, instead of slitting the dragon's
throat.'
'I wasn't trying to be picturesque just then,' answered Logotheti,
quite unmoved by the chaff. 'I was only expressing my idea. I've known
you about a month. The second time we met, I asked you to marry me, and
I've asked you several times since. As you can't attribute any
interested motive to my determination----'
'Eh?'
'I said, to my determination----'
'Determination? How that sounds!'
'It sounds very like what I mean,' answered Logotheti, in an
indifferent tone.
'But really, how can you "determine" to marry me, if I won't agree?'
'I'll make you,' he replied with perfect calm.
'That sounds like a threat,' said Margaret, her voice hardening a
little, though she tried to speak lightly.
'A threat implies that the thing to be done to the person threatened is
painful or at least disagreeable. Doesn't it? I'm only a Greek, of
course, and I don't pretend to know English well! I wish you would
sometimes correct my mistakes. It would be so kind of you!'
'You know English quite as well as I do,' Margaret answered. 'Your
definition is perfect.'
'Oh! Then would it be painful, or disagreeable to you, to marry me?'
Margaret laughed, but hesitated a moment.
'It's always disagreeable to be made to do anything against one's
will,' she answered.
'I'm sorry,' said Logotheti coolly, 'but it can't be helped.'
She was not quite sure how it would be best to meet this uncompromising
statement, and she thought it wiser to laugh again, though she felt
quite sure that at the moment there was that quick gleam in his eyes,
behind the goggles, which had more than once frightened her a little.
But he was looking at the road again, and a moment later he had put the
car at full speed along a level stretch. That meant that the
conversation was at an end for a little while. Then an accident
happened.
A straight rush up an easy incline towards a turning ahead, and the
deep note of the horn; round the corner to the right, close in; the
flash of a bicycle coming down on the wrong side, and swerving
desperately; a little brittle smashing of steel; then a man sprawling
on his face in the road as the motor car flew on.
Logotheti kept his eyes on the road, one hand went down to the levers
and the machine sprang forward at forty miles an hour.
'Stop!' cried Margaret. 'Stop! you've killed him!'
Full speed. Fifty miles an hour now, on another level stretch beyond
the turn. No sign of intelligence from Logotheti. Both hands on the
wheel.
'Stop, I say!' Margaret's voice rang out clear and furious.
Logotheti's hands did not move. Margaret knew what to do. She had often
been in motor cars and had driven a little herself. She was strong and
perfectly fearless. Before Logotheti saw what she was going to do, she
was beside him, she had thrown herself across him and had got at the
brake and levers. He was too much surprised to make any resistance; he
probably would not have tried to hinder her in any case, as he could
not have done so without using his strength. The car was stopped in a
few seconds; he had intuitively steered it until it stood still.
'How ridiculous!' he exclaimed. 'As if one ever stopped for such a
thing!'
Margaret's eyes flashed angrily and her answer came short and sharp.
'Turn back at once,' she said, and she sat down beside him on the front
seat.
He obeyed, for he could do nothing else. In running away from the
accident, he had simply done what most chauffeurs do under the
circumstances. His experience told him that the man was not killed,
though he had lain motionless in the road for a few moments. Logotheti
had seen perfectly well that the car had struck the hind wheel of the
bicycle without touching the man's body. Moreover, the man had been on
the wrong side of the road, and it was his fault that he had been run
into. Logotheti had not meant to give him a chance to make out a case.
But now he turned back, obedient to Margaret's command. Before she had
stopped the car it had run nearly a mile from the scene of the
accident. When it reached the spot again, coming back at a more
moderate pace, nearly five minutes had elapsed. She found the man
leaning against the rail fence that followed the outer curve of the
turning. It was the man they had so often met on the other road, in his
square-toed kid boots and ill-fitting clothes; it was Edmund
Lushington, with his soft student's hat off, and his face a good deal
scratched by the smashing of his tortoise-shell-rimmed spectacles. They
had been tied behind with a black string, and the rims of them, broken
in two, hung from his ears. His nose was bleeding profusely, as he
