"I never thought of that before. It has a wide 
aspect. It is not just to defraud another of hap- 
piness." 

"And what else has happened at this wonderful 
Aldred House where stories of life are being 
made all the time ?" 

"Two new scholars came yesterday, girls about 
sixteen. One is an orphan and will stay three 
years, her guardian plans; a rather aggressive 
looking girl. The other cried nearly all night 





from homesickness, so she had a home to leave. ' 
The fair was a success, the Christmas celebration 
delightful. Oh, and Mrs. Danforth told me 
Gordon had sent her a check for fifty dollars to 
buy Christmas for the rest of the parson's flock." 

"That was splendid," cried Helen, aflush with 
delight. She wondered why she should be so 
proud to have him remember. 

"It is curious," Juliet said after a pause, "but 
these few days I have felt like being in a real 
home. There was time for interest in so many 
things. One really forgot the school part. Oh, 
and you have not had your letters. How could I 
be so remiss!" 

Uncle Jason had sent her five dollars with his 
dear love. He knew she did not need it, but it 
was all the dearer for that. Nat had written a 
long letter. His violet bed was coming on splen- 
didly, and his young fruit trees were standing the 
cold robustly. The hens were bringing in money 
every week. There was so much interest in 
farming. She had sent him a book of travels and 
he was delighted with it. 

Mrs. Wilmarth had remembered both girls, but 
Helen's letter was especially dear. She was 
learning to be of some use in the world, to minis- 
ter to others as well as to be ministered to. Mrs. 



 

Gilbert had proved such a help. Mr. and Mrs. 
Walters had taken her up warmly. "We are 
making a very little new social atmosphere. Once 
a week the girls come, there are twelve now, and 
we are reading up Holland. Miss Westerly asked 
if Mrs. Gilbert would not come to the library 
some evening'and give a talk ; she has an excellent, 
clear voice. Miss Westerly said she would find 
the audience. Other places were having clubs 
and lectures, and it seems as if we might find 
something better to talk about than the foolish 
little tattle of very common life. I feel that I 
dropped down alarmingly. Hope was so slow 
and dull, but isn't it every one's fault that a place 
IS dull? The girls finish at the high school and 
then fall back into nonentities. I don't wonder 
Mr. Warfield is discouraged. Do not laugh at 
our small efforts, you wise girls, with the learn- 
ing of the ages all about you. But I am starved 
for some really fine music." 

"The world does move," Helen declared with 
gay insistence. "And Mrs. Gilbert must be a 
genius." 

When they went down to dinner Helen gave a 
furtive glance to the end of the table. Miss Kent 
was grave as usual, but she had a bit of white 
lisse at her throat and wrists, and her hair was 





not drawn quite so tightly from her face. Helen 
pitied her heartily for that sad and discouraging 
girlhood, that had shed around her the atmos- 
phere of settled distrust of everybody, that had 
made a mock of what should have been the ten- 
derest love of life. Could one really sorrow for 
the dead ? 

"I want to live the kind of life that will make 
people regret me when I am gone," Helen said 
decisively to herself. 

The young ladies were to have a little gather- 
ing in the parlor, just a sort of informal affair 
where each might bring a quotation or a poem, 
or a thought that had impressed her. 

The school-room was to be given over to the 
younger children and a number of the day 
scholars were invited. Miss Grace came to 
Helen. 

"I was going to entertain them with Miss 
Hyde's help with plays and games, but I have 
to go down in town for an hour. You are so 
good at these things, will you take my place?" 

Helen wanted to be with her own class, but 
she replied with a gay little nod and said she 
would do her best. 

"I begged Miss Grace to ask you," began Miss 
Hyde. "In between times I want to hear about 



 

Daisy Bell. Do you think she will marry that 
rich fellow?" 

"She can if she will. It is in her hands. That 
is, if her parents agree." 

"If they didn't I would run away. I suppose 
it was her pretty face and her winsome voice. 
What luck some girls do have ! And I dare say 
she's proud enough of her conquest. Why, you 
were quite honored by the invitation to visit her ! 
Will you be bridesmaid?" 

"Nonsense!" cried Helen sharply. 

"I hadn't thought you were such great friends," 
with a touch of satire. 

"I'd been there before, and I went a good deal 
to see Mr. and Mrs. Bell. Daisy was away." 

"Oh ! to be sure." 

"Come, let us begin with the children." 

Miss Hyde knew no end of entertaining things 
and she soon had the children interested. Helen 
was just getting over her dissatisfaction when 
Miss Craven came in. Elma Gartney ran to her 
and clasped her small arms about her dear friend's 
waist, crying : ""Qh, have you come to stay with 
us?" 

Juliet stooped and kissed her. 

"They want you in there, Helen," she said 
smilingly. "I'm not quick at such matters and 





you know so many bright quotations and retorts. 
And I am fond of the children. It doesn't need 
so much wit here." 

"Why, I think it does," Miss Hyde protested. 

Juliet was not aggrieved. "I fancy it needs 
readiness and fertility, and the desire to be a 
child with them. I have to put my childhood in 
as I go along for I really did not have any and 
hunger for it." 

"You are too generous, Juliet," and Helen 
felt a prick of disapproval for her own unwill- 
ingness. 

"No, just generous enough to myself to take 
what I like best, to give you what you will en- 
joy the most. There, run along." 

Helen went thoughtfully. Juliet was changing 
in many respects. Was it maturity of character ? 
She was more attractive, she had developed a 
peculiar sweetness and care for others. 

Helen entered into the recreation with great 
zest. It was truly a sharpener of wits. 

New Year's Day was quite a gala time. Most 
of the girls had come, for school began the next 
morning. They visited each other's rooms, they 
displayed gifts and shared sweets, made plans 
and expressed hopes. Some were glad this was 
the last year. The college candidates discussed 



 

various institutions and various professions, and 
the less intellectual ones, lovers, marriage and 
a home of one's very own. And the good times 
that always have a glamour for youth. 

Then study began in real earnest. One may 
fritter away time in the early part of the term, 
but there must be no lagging in the new year. 
Helen was very much in earnest. Broader views 
were opening before her. There was the fascinat- 
ing ideal of influence, of standing strongly for 
the right, the truth, the helpfulness, for then one 
believes strongly that his or her work tends to 
uplift the world. It is the girl with no ideals who 
is content to drift, and who sinks into the in- 
efficient woman later on. 

Helen could not rid herself of a feeling that 
Daisy Bell was something of a burden. It was 
mean and selfish to be bored with these letters 
of reiteration, and the "Tell me how you would 
feel, tell me what you would do?" when she could 
not imagine herself in any such position. 

"I don't believe I shall ever fall in love," she 
said to herself a little ruefully, for every young 
girl hates to admit such an incapability. "I'm 
cold, somehow. These tremendous emotions 
seem like a river rushing on and on and emptying 
itself into the sea — for what? Does the sea care? 





No, that's faulty. The other party may care. 
But friends do not, I am afraid. And I believed 
I could be a splendid friend, too." 

Then the lover came and besought his way 
into an engagement, and Daisy was wildly happy. 
There were only two pages about this, and Mrs. 
Newell had sent her an invitation to spend a 
week with them in the city. 

Helen began to like Miss Logan very much. 
She was a sensible, commonplace girl, with 
enough money for her needs and an admiration 
for a college education with a purpose in a wom- 
an's life. 

"For we don't all marry," she said rather 
humorously. "There may be men enough to go 
around but when other girls have sifted out the 
best, you don't want to take the incapables. One 
is not compelled to marry for the respectability 
of the thing in this new century. And we can 
even have homes — " 

"It's not very beguiling to think of living alone 
by one's self," interrupted some one. 

"You don't need to live alone," insisted Miss 
Logan. "I never could see why two women could 
not join hands and hearts and interests in each 
other, when their wishes are similar, and have 
a pleasant home. I don't like solitude myself." 



 

"But women never can agree," suggested an- 
other girl in a rather dogmatic tone. 

"Can't they ? I haven't heard Miss Craven and 
Miss Grant quarrel much, and I'll say just here, 
they are about as unlike as the average man and 
wife. There's a French story about two married 
lovers who insisted upon giving up to each other 
out of the abundance of their love, and they 
carried it so far that they really fell into disputes 
and finally upbraided each other, and when the 
wedding journey was finished, the bride went 
home to her mother convinced that she could 
never agree with such a brute of a husband. So 
you see virtue may be overdone. If you have a 
will of your own you can give in occasionally, 
but if you have no will, alas for you ! Vou are 
as limp as a wet towel." 

"Then, women do not have sufficient income 
to keep house," objected another. "And you 
seldom see very rich women set about it." 

"Why couldn't a bom housekeeper, and I have 
seen such among women, make a home for two 
or three women, who have to toil at something? 
It would be no more expensive than boarding 
and much more comfortable. Think of the nice 
talks around the table about books, and a picture 
seen in some one's window, and even your 





employer. Now I fancy he would be a more 
interesting subject than the average servant. 
And after you had dished him up in various 
fashions gathered from your experience of him, 
you could give thanks that he did not belong to 
you." 

"But suppose he was every way admirable? 
Then you would envy the other woman who had 
him." 

"And you would know if there were three or 
four around the table that you couldn't all have 
him. That would be the safety valve. I think we 
should be likely to choose some woman who was 
companionable to us, and if it was not a success 
we could separate. There would be no divorce 
expenses." 

There was a general laugh at that. 

"Do you mean to try it, Miss Logan?" one girl 
asked with a sort of bravado. 

"Well," rather deliberately, "we planned it two 
years ago. I kept house for a queer old aunt, 
deaf as a post and in her dotage. Kate taught 
the district school and boarded with me. My 
real genius lies along housekeeping lines. This 
was a great aunt, ninety-four when she died, and 
I was named for her. No one wanted to live 
with her, that is, none of the relatives, so I 



 

went when I was fifteen. The money and 
the old house was left to me. Miss Kent's 
mother married. So we were free to begin our 
career. I don't care so very much personally for 
a college degree, but I am going to keep Kate 
in order and develop her on womanly lines, while 
the college does the rest. You see we have both 
been a good deal in the shade and now we are 
going to get some of the sunshine of life." 

"You deserve it," Miss Craven rejoined with 
earnest emphasis. 

"Isn't it odd," Helen said when they were in 
their own room, "that almost every life has a 
romance that you cannot even suspect at the 
first glance. I like Celia Logan for her heartiness 
and her love for her friend and her earnest en- 
deavor for her. And she doesn't look a bit 
heroic. She suggested to me at first some of 
the girls at Hope who marry common men, and 
go the little round, and whose highest ambition 
is to own a parlor suite. Some of them would 
have filled the air with lamentations if they had 
to take care of a queer, childish old body. I 
know she must have been real good to her, so 
for once virtue didn't have to be its own reward," 
appended Helen gaily. "And the refreshing man- 
ner in which she calls her Kate! Katherine 





Rowena Kent. There's style for you. But Fm 
glad her name isn't Melissa or Joanna, it will 
look so much better on the register. And it 
makes your heart ache to think of that selfish 
mother running in debt everywhere for finery! 
Oh, I don't wonder she went to the other ex- 
treme." 

"I liked the thought of their living together," 
Juliet declared. "I wish women did like each 
other better. Where are the virtues and graces 
men see in them?" 

"Some of them hold off so." 

"They wouldn't if the others were cordial. 
And none of us were very cordial to these two 
girls, newcomers, too. I should like to have the 
gift of making friends easily. Yet I would rather 
be faithful. I should hate to be liked and then 
thrust aside for a newer fancy." 

"I suppose most of girls' fancies are evanes- 
cent," Helen returned thoughtfully, "because we 
haven't the judgment or the experience to discern 
the finer qualities. And sometimes you like peo- 
ple — well just because you do like them." 

"And because they come to you when you are 
a stranger in a strange land. The outgiving is 
so delightful. Yet I have wondered in the case of 
these two girls if we could have discerned their 



 

heroism so plainly if they had been really poor? 
You see Miss Kent has a thousand a year, a very 
fair income for a girl, and I dare say Miss Lo- 
gan is quite as well placed." 

"And you are going to love me, after all my 
poor little pittance is spent, and I have nothing 
left but a college degree." 

Helen clasped her arm about Juliet's neck. 

"Oh, you must always believe that," and the 
voice was freighted with truthful fervor. 



CHAPTER XIV 

MYSTERIOUS POSSIBILITIES 

There had been very little snow until in Feb- 
ruary, and then it began after a dismal gray day 
and snowed all night and all the next day, at 
first a damp windless storm that enveloped the 
trees with snowy bloom of all nameless kinds, 
long sprays like spirea, great clusters of roses, 
drooping bells, everything one could imagine. 
Then the air grew dryer, colder and every branch 
sparkled with' innumerable gems. The streets 
were shining white ways that might lead to the 
City not made with hands. Houses were hooded, 
evergreens were pyramids of white. And when 
night began to drop down there was still a mystic 
light over all. 

The next morning at sunrise it was magnificent. 
The bluest of skies against which the hills in 
the distance were outlined as if the world was 
bounded just there. And then came all manner 
of merry sounds from men armed with shovels 
and brooms, pausing in their work to snowball 
 



 

each other, boys shouting and laughing, and even 
the girls went out for a frolic. Then the sleighs 
began with their bells in various musical keys. 

On the second day in the afternoon a sleigh 
stopped at Aldred House. Elma Gartney, who 
had been standing by a window, ran down with 
a glad shout. 

"It is papa," she cried through the hall. 
"Papal" 

"Well, little chicken," he said, "where is your 
mate? And I've come to see if you would like 
a sleigh ride. Will I have to coax Mrs. Aldred 
very hard?" and he kissed the child a dozen 
times. 

Elma was snuggled against his fur coat. Mrs. 
Aldred came to welcome him while the maid went 
to find Wilma. 

"I wanted to see the children and give them 
a treat," lie exclaimed. "That is — if they have 
been good," with a sort of mischievous smile. 

"I could hardly deny them this pleasure," Mrs. 
Aldred rejoined. "But they are doing very well 
indeed. You may be justly proud of theni." 

Mr. Gartney looked gratified as he encircled 
both girls. "And I am hardly able to express 
all my obligation to you," he answered with deep 
feeling. "It is not every school that has such 





a delightful home aspect as this. I have always 
rather deprecated sending young children away 
among strange associates, but they are so happy 
here, and the influence is in every way admir- 
able/' 

His eyes were raised with a grateful light. 

"And now another favor. My sleigh is large 
and we can take in two more if Mrs. Aldred 
will consent. May the children have their 
choice ?" 

"Oh, Miss Craven!" they both exclaimed in 
a breath. "And — and — Miss Hyde," added 
Wilma. 

"No, Miss Grant. I like Miss Helen best. She 
never laughs at you" — with childish frankness 
and eager eyes. 

"It had better be Miss Grant, I think," said 
Mrs. Aldred. 

Miss Wiley carried the invitation. 

"Why, that is just glorious!" declared Helen. 
"I was thinking of proposing a regular party. 
Winter has not been very bountiful of her white 
mantle and ermine furs." 

Mr. Gartney was preferring another request, 
that he might keep the party to dinner at the 
hotel and a little while in the evening. He had to 
leave in the first train the next morning. 



 

She gave her assent. The party trooped down 
presently, bundled up warm, for the air was 
crisply cold. Helen expressed her enthusiastic 
delight. They were handed in, the young ladies 
on the back seat, and the children with their 
father, who tucked the fur robe tightly about 
them. 

"I am afraid you will be crowded, driving," 
Juliet suggested. "Had we not better take one 
of the children?" 

"I want to sit by papa awhile," Elma said, 
"and then Tm coming by you, dear Miss Juliet." 

Mr. Gartney smiled and nodded. 

"What a pity that man has a wifel" said one 
of the girls watching the party from the upper 
window. "Which one would he take?" and she 
turned to her companion. 

"If the children chose it would be Miss Cra- 
ven. / should choose Helen Grant. It's curious — 
those children have never been home since they 
came here. They adore their father but they 
rarely mention their step-mother. And any one 
can see he is extravagantly fond of them. Every 
week they get a letter." 

"Miss Craven is a rather curious girl. With 
all that money Fd be somebody. And I wouldn't 





Spend any four years in a college. I'd have a 
good time, a grand good time !" 

Juliet thought she was having a good time. 
The roads were well broken and they skimmed 
along like flying. Here and there in a sheltered 
nook some tree had not shaken off its fleecy 
covering. House roofs were white, and from 
some chimneys curled soft dun smoke wreaths. 
But the country seemed so wonderfully still. Oc- 
casionally a cow lowed, or a chanticleer sent forth 
his clarion notes. Then the soft laughs of the 
children as the father said some amusing thing, 
made Helen smile. 

They paused at a country hotel, presently, 
where two or three lumbering sleds stood with 
horses in winter furs, Helen said, they were so 
shaggy. Could they have a cup of tea and some 
hot milk for the little girls ? 

They were ushered through to the best room. 
A soft, thick rag carpet covered the floor, there 
were two cushioned Boston rockers, one on each 
side of the stove, and some rush-bottomed ones, 
ranged around. The adornments were colored 
engravings of Presidents and their families and 
the mantel-piece was a receptacle for odd miscel- 
lany. 


"It suggests remembered places in Hope," re- 
marked Helen mirthfully. 

"Hopel That ought to be a lovely town, a 
place of rest and refreshment," Mr. Gartney com- 
mented. 

"Towns, like people, often get misnamed," re- 
turned Helen. "I have seen few places as beau- 
tiful as Westchester. But then I have not trav- 
eled much." 

"I have been about a great deal and can truly 
endorse your sentiment," was the rejoinder. 

The tea and the milk came in, and a plate 
of hot gingfer bread just out of the oven. Mr. 
Gartney make a wry face over the tea, but the 
cake was excellent. Helen decided she would 
have some milk. 

"It will be colder going home," Mr. Gartney 
said. "The sun will be nearly down. You must 
get good and warm." 

The ride was as fine on the return, though 
they were going away from the sun, which was 
slipping behind the ridge of hills. The horses 
had expended their first vigor, so the points of 
beauty did not whirl by quite so rapidly. Elma 
had settled between Helen and Juliet at her 
earnest desire, though her father was afraid the 
guests would be crowded. 





"I wish you would sing," and Wilma turned 
her head. "Papa, Miss Grant sings so sweetly, 
like a bird. Can't you, dear Miss Grant?" 

"But what if the sound should freeze?" 

"Oh, that would be funny. Frozen music. 
And when it thawed would it be like an echo ?" 

"Miss Craven jings, too," said Wilma a little 
jealously. 

Mr. Gartney joined the entreaty. Helen smiled, 
thinking of another drive in Hope and a song. 
She was impelled to try the Bugle song again 
and it was beautiful on the clear air with the 
soft echoes of Juliet's voice. 

"That was a most delightful treat," declared 
Mr. Gartney. "It really seemed to come from 
Elfland." 

Then they must sing again, but presently 
Helen said she must put her muff up to her face 
to thaw it out. They were coming to civiliza- 
tion too, and the horses suddenly spurred up, 
anxious to get home. 

This parlor was* delightfully warm, and the 
dinner most gratifying to hungry people. After- 
ward they had a charming talk in the corner of 
the room, but Elma went to sleep in Miss Cra- 
ven's arms. 

"I must thank you very warmly for all this 



 

pleasure," Mr. Gartney said with deep feeling. 
"The children would not have had as happy a 
time without you. And, Miss Craven, you will 
never quite know how grateful I am for all your 
kindliness to these two children so dear to me. 
I think of it daily and thank God for their pleas- 
ant home." Then lowering his tone he added — 
"Sometime you may know what no doubt seems 
a little strange to you now." 

Juliet colored. She felt the mystery, but had 
no desire to penetrate it. 

Then they were taken home and the sleepy 
little girls hardly felt the pang of parting as their 
father kissed them fondly, and thanked Mrs. Al- 
dred most cordially for her indulgence. 

Helen and Juliet went at once to their room. 
Several letters lay on Helen's table, and by the 
time she was through Juliet was prepared for 
bed, so they wished each other a simple good- 
night. Helen's brain was awhirl with vague 
thoughts and wonders, and Daisy Bell's letter had 
no part in them. 

For a fortnight Westchester kept carnival, there 
being an addition to the snow, then a few lower- 
ing, warm, and drizzling days swept away the 
splendor, and prefigured coming spring. Oh, 
how fast the days flew to the ambitious ones, how 





they lagged to the indifferent, and the two en- 
gaged girls counted them wearily. 

"There ought never an engaged girl be ad- 
mitted to the graduating class," said Celia Logan 
emphatically. "I do hope there will not be en- 
gaged girls in college. What earthly good is 
this term going to do Miss Henderson and Miss 
Waite ? They have gone past graduation dresses 
and come to wedding gowns and bridesmaids and 
journeys and they bore you to death asking what 
you think the prettiest and what will be the most 
becoming. In the end a stylish dressmaker will 
do what she thinks proper. Why must every 
one in the world ask so much advice without the 
slightest idea of following it?" 

"That puzzles me a good deal. Do you sup- 
pose it is only girls who do it?" asked Helen. 

"Oh, no ! Women of age and experience used 
to come to me, who had neither. It's a vicious 
habit and you wear out no end of brain cells — 
if the physiological theory is true, trying to eluci- 
date other people's affairs. Why I've had a 
neighbor come over with a bit of calico and dis- 
cuss the best way of making her girl's frock 
sleeves, whether they would wear better on the 
bias or the straight? On the bias she would 
have to piece them. And didn't I think the 



 

stripes ought to match ? Now I never had any 
girls to make frocks for, and I make my own 
sleeves according to my cloth, an excellent old 
adage that I think must have come down from 
Lot's wife before she became statuary." 

Helen laughed heartily. "It is a want of self- 
reliance," she answered. 

**Or a love of gossip. But I will not drop into 
that, and spend your precious time. I want a 
little help in this translation. Fm not a bit poeti- 
cal, and I haven't much imagination. And you 
do these things in such a splendid manner." 

That was due to her father, and she was glad 
she had some excellencies to thank him for. Per- 
haps too, Mr. Walters had helped. 

They went over it studiously, and at last it was 
satisfactory. 

"Thank you a thousand times. If I could do 
anything in return I would. Why do you 
smile?" 

"Did I smile?" asked Helen in a cordial tone 
that would have neutralized any hurt if there 
had been one. "I was wondering why you were 
going to college, and what you meant to do with 
the training? You are very ambitious. You 
must have a purpose." 

"Because Kate is going. She has some plans 


