

CHAPTER XVI

ABNER VISITS NEW YORK


Several days passed, and Nat's uncle did all in his power to please his
new wife. He found her very tart at times, and inclined to have her own
way, but she was a good cook and general housekeeper, and that counted
for a great deal.

"It won't do to cross her," he told himself. "I've got to find out about
thet gold first."

At last he could stand the suspense no longer and so, one day, while at
the dinner table, he told the story of a rich find of money by a lady in
Philadelphia.

"It was in the weekly paper," said he, "and by the way," he went on,
"what about the pot of gold you found?"

"The pot of gold I found?" she repeated, blankly.

"Yes, the one you found in the well. What did you do with it?"

"Why, I never found any pot of gold in a well, Abner! What put that in
your head?"

He shoved back his chair in horror, and gazed at her blankly.

"Didn't you tell me you had found a pot of gold in a well, Lucy?" he
demanded.

"Never!"

"Certainly, you did. You asked me if you could keep it or if the law
could take it from you. I told you the law couldn't touch it."

"Oh, I remember now!" she answered, sweetly. "I read about such a find
in a story magazine, and I was wondering if the finder could keep it, or
if it would have to be turned over to the person who owned the property
on which the well was located. But I certainly never said anything about
my finding a pot of gold."

"Well, I'll be jiggered! Didn't you go to the bank an' ask 'em if they
would take five thousand dollars?"

"Oh, I was only curious to know how much they would take, that was all,
Abner." And she smiled again.

Abner could not endure that smile, and pushing back his chair still
further, he arose and left the house. Once in the barn he shook his fist
viciously at an imaginary enemy.

"Of all the fools!" he muttered. "I've been tuk in clean an' clear! She
ain't got no pot o' gold, an' never did have! If this ain't jest the
worst yet. Abner Balberry, you ought to be kicked full o' holes, and
ducked in the pond besides!"

He felt in no mental condition to go back to the house, and so did not
return until it was time for supper. He found a good meal awaiting him,
and his wife on hand as pert as ever.

"What made you run off?" she demanded. "It wasn't a nice way to do."

"You fooled me about thet pot o' gold," he answered, bluntly.

"I never did, and I want you to stop talking about it, Abner Balberry."

This was said so sharply it fairly made him jump.

"Eh?"

"Did you marry me simply for my money?" she demanded, coming up to him
with her hands on her hips.

"N--no!" he stammered.

"Well, then, stop talking about a pot o' gold. I haven't any, and
neither have you."

"Ain't you got no money o' your own, Lucy?"

"If I have I'm going to keep it to myself," she answered. "Come to
supper."

He sat down and ate in silence. The next day he wanted to speak about
money again, but she cut him short.

"I don't want to hear about it," she said, tartly. "I'm your wife, and I
am going to do my share, keeping house and helping around. And you have
got to do your share, and treat me fairly. I once heard that the first
Mrs. Balberry didn't get all that was coming to her--that she had to
wear the same dress and bonnet for years. Now, I want to say, right now,
that isn't my style. When I want a new dress I want it, and you are
going to give it to me."

"Am I?" he said, slowly.

"Yes, you are, Abner Balberry, and if I want spending money you have got
to give me that, too. If you don't, I'll quit work and won't do a
blessed thing around the house. So there!"

She spoke with such vigor that it made him groan. He felt it in his
bones that she meant to have her way.

"I am a-goin' to do my duty," he said, humbly.

"You'd better. If you don't----" and she ended with a shake of her head
that meant a great deal.

"She's bound to have her way," he told himself later. "I've got to git
used to it, I suppose. Drat the luck, anyway. I wish I had never heard
o' thet pot o' gold!"

In a roundabout fashion Abner Balberry had heard that Nat had gone to
Buffalo, and then he learned through a man who had been to New York
that his nephew was in the metropolis. Abner had often longed to visit
New York, and here he saw his opportunity to do so.

"I'm a-goin' to New York," he announced one day, shortly after the pot
of gold incident.

"What are you going to do there?" asked his wife.

"I'm a-goin' to look fer Nat. I've heard he's down there, an' I want to
save him from goin' to destruction."

"Better leave him where he is," said the new wife, who did not fancy
another of her husband's people around the farm.

"No, I'm a-goin' to hunt him up. I feel it's my duty to do it."

"Then, if you go to New York, you have got to take me along, Abner."

"Take you along, Lucy?"

"Yes. I've always wanted to go to New York. Fred can take care of the
farm while we are gone." Fred and the other Guff children had been
installed on the place, but none of them had proved of much assistance.
Fred, himself, was decidedly lazy--not half as willing as Nat, so Abner
himself admitted.

"I don't see how I can take you, Lucy. It costs a heap to go to New
York."

"Well, if you can spend the money on yourself, you can spend it on me,
too," she answered, calmly.

"But it's my duty to go--to save Nat from goin' to the dogs."

"You didn't bother about Nat when you were courting me."

"I didn't know where he was, exactly."

"Pooh! Well, if you go you must take me. If you don't, you won't find me
or the things when you get back."

This rather alarmed the miserly farmer, and he was half afraid she might
sell off all his belongings, and clear out.

"All right, you shall go," he said, at last. "But it's goin' to cost a
terrible sight o' money," he added, with a long sigh.

It was decided that they should start for New York on the following
Monday morning. Mrs. Balberry had relatives at Rochester, and they made
arrangements to stop over at that point for one night, for neither the
farmer or his spouse wished to take a berth in a sleeping car.

"It's money thrown away," said Abner, "an', besides, who kin sleep with
a car runnin' fifty miles an hour? If there was an accident a feller
would be killed before he woke up!"

Mrs. Balberry's son, Fred, grumbled greatly at having to run the farm
during their absence, and the mother had to promise the lad fifty cents
a day for the extra work.

"It's an outrage," declared Abner, when he heard of this. "He ain't
worth his keep!"

"He is my son, and you have no right to abuse him!" declared the new
wife, and then the farmer found it best to say no more. He was
discovering that his wife had a sharp tongue, and could use it on the
slightest provocation.

Not to go to the expense of buying meals on the train, they provided
themselves with a basket full of food, and set off bright and early at
the time appointed. The run to Rochester was without incident, and Mrs.
Balberry's relatives there treated them kindly. Then, on Tuesday, they
took another train for New York, and late in the afternoon found
themselves at the Grand Central Depot.

"It's a fearfully crowded place," was Abner Balberry's comment, as he
gazed around.

"Which way are we to go, Abner?" asked his wife, and now she clung to
him, for the bustle and noise frightened her.

"Let's git out on the street, where I kin have a look around," he
answered, and pulled her along through the crowd. A boy wanted to take
his carpet bag, but he shook the urchin off.

Fortunately, while at Rochester, the farmer had heard of a hotel which I
shall call the Callac House, located but a few blocks from the station.
A policeman directed the pair to this place, and here Abner Balberry
succeeded in getting a room for a dollar and a half a night.

"Steep, ain't it?" he remarked, when he and his wife had been taken to
the room, on the seventh floor.

"Steep? I should say it was, Abner--the seventh story! It's dreadful! I
know I shan't sleep--thinking of what to do in case of a fire!"

"I meant the price. I don't care how high up it is."

"Will they give us meals for that, too?"

"No, the meals is extry."

"It's 'most a waste of money, I must say."

"Well, I had to pay it, an' so there ain't no use to talk about it.
Let's go to bed, an' git our money's worth, an' in the mornin' I'll look
fer Nat."




CHAPTER XVII

A CASE OF MISTAKEN IDENTITY


On the day that Abner Balberry started for New York to look for Nat, our
hero was called into Mr. Garwell's private office.

"Nat, how would you like to take a run down to Trenton with me?" asked
the gentleman, pleasantly.

"I'd like it first-rate, Mr. Garwell," was the prompt answer.

"Very well, we'll go in half an hour. I wish to look up certain records
concerning some property."

"When will we be back, Mr. Garwell?"

"Oh, some time this evening," answered the gentleman.

It may be mentioned here that John Garwell was a real estate broker. He
handled only high-class properties, and chiefly those used for business
purposes. He had started years before in a modest way, but was now
fairly well-to-do, and his business was steadily increasing. He had
taken a great fancy to Nat, and was wondering if he could not use the
lad as a private secretary.

"I'd do it in a minute if the boy knew shorthand and typewriting," he
told himself. "Perhaps I can get him to learn those branches."

At the appointed time our hero was ready for the trip to Trenton. His
employer had stuffed a valise full of legal papers, and Nat took
possession of the bag.

"Be careful of that valise," cautioned Mr. Garwell. "The contents are
very valuable."

"I'll look out for it," was the answer.

They walked to the ferry, and there took a boat to Jersey City, and then
boarded a train bound for the capital city of New Jersey. Mr. Garwell
had obtained seats in a parlor car, and the elegant furnishings
impressed Nat deeply.

"These cars are like palaces," he said.

"They are certainly comfortable," was his employer's response.

On the trip to Trenton Mr. Garwell asked Nat much about himself, and at
last the boy told his tale from beginning to end.

"I don't suppose you care to go back to the farm," said Mr. Garwell,
with a quiet smile.

"No, sir, I want to stay in New York. I believe there is more of a
future here for me than on the farm."

"Possibly that is true. You had positively nothing to do with that fire
at your uncle's barn?"

"No, sir--I didn't even have a light around the place."

"But you saw somebody near by."

"Yes, sir. I thought it was my uncle."

"It must have been a tramp."

"Just what I think, Mr. Garwell."

"And you think your uncle is coming to New York to look for you?"

"He'll come, if the carfare doesn't scare him off. He is a very close
man."

"Hum!" The real estate broker mused for a moment. "Well, if he comes,
supposing you let me know? Maybe I can persuade him to allow you to
remain in the city."

At this Nat's face brightened.

"Oh, Mr. Garwell, will you do that? I suppose, as my guardian, he has a
legal right to order me back to the farm."

"We'll have to see about that. But he hasn't found you yet."

"That is true."

"You ought to let him know that you are well, and have a position. You
need not give him your address."

"I'll write the letter to-morrow."

"Was your father a farmer?"

"Yes, sir, although when he was a young fellow like myself he lived in
Brooklyn. His father and his grandfather were both born in New York."

"I see. Then you have city blood in your veins. That may account for
your liking New York so much."

In a short time after the conversation came to an end, Trenton was
reached, and calling a cab, Mr. Garwell had himself and Nat driven to
one of the public buildings.

Here both spent some time in looking over legal records, and one of the
records Nat had to copy off in pencil for his employer. After this, came
a visit to a lawyer's office, and Nat was sent on a short errand.

When the business in Trenton was over, both found they had two hours to
wait before they could get a train for home.

"Let us go and get a lunch," said Mr. Garwell, and led the way to a fine
restaurant in that vicinity.

The real estate broker was on the point of entering the eating place
when a child of five ran up to him, exclaiming:

"Papa, I want you to buy me some candy, please."

Now, as it happened, Mr. Garwell was a bachelor, so he was taken much by
surprise, and so was our hero.

"Did you speak to me, my dear?" he asked, kindly.

"Why, yes, papa," answered the little one, readily.

"But I am not your father, child," and the real estate broker began to
flush up.

"Oh, yes, you are!" came from the child.

"No. What is your name?"

At this the child laughed heartily.

"What a funny papa you are, to ask me my name. But won't you buy me the
candy? Please, do," went on the little one, pleadingly.

"What a funny mistake," said Mr. Garwell to Nat.

"Don't you know the little girl?"

"Not in the least."

"Get the candy!" cried the child, petulantly.

"All right, I'll get you some candy, only don't call me papa," answered
the real estate broker. And he slipped into a candy shop, and purchased
some chocolates. He had just passed the confectionery over, when a
middle-aged lady hurried up.

"Oh, mamma, see the candy papa bought me!" cried the little girl,
gleefully.

"You shouldn't have bought her so much candy, Horace," said the lady to
Mr. Garwell, severely. "Chocolates make Lulu sick."

Being thus addressed, John Garwell turned redder than ever.

"Excuse me, madam," he stammered. "I--er--this is a mistake. My name is
not Horace."

"Not Horace. The idea!"

"My name is John--John Garwell, and I am from New York."

At this answer the lady looked perplexed, and then indignant.

"Horace, quit your fooling!" she said, coldly.

"I am not fooling, madam."

"Oh, such a man! Perhaps you'll say next that I am not your wife!"
continued the lady, with a black look.

"You certainly are not my wife, for I am a bachelor, madam," and now Mr.
Garwell began to grow more embarrassed than ever, while Nat was
completely mystified.

"Not my husband? Oh, you wretch, to say such a thing!" The lady turned
to the child. "Lulu, who is this?"

"Why, that's papa," answered the little girl, promptly.

"Now, Horace, do you hear that?"

"I--I heard what she said," answered the real estate broker, feebly.
"But--but----"

"If you are not her father, why did you buy her candy?"

"Just to keep her from calling me papa."

"Indeed! Did you want to bribe her? Oh, Horace, this is infamous!
I--I--have you lost your mind?"

"No, but I think you and this child have."

At this the lady stared, and gave a gasp. She fainted, and would have
fallen to the pavement had not Nat caught and supported her. Instantly a
crowd began to collect.

"What's the trouble here?" asked one.

"The gentleman's wife has fainted," answered another.

"Excuse me, but she is not my wife," said John Garwell. "I don't know
her."

"Certainly, she is your wife," cried a bystander. "I've seen you
together lots of times, Mr. Mann."

"Wait," put in Nat. "Did you call this gentleman Mr. Mann?"

"Yes, and that's his name."

"You are mistaken. This gentleman is Mr. John Garwell."

"Go on with you, I know Mr. Mann too well to believe such a yarn."

"I don't care what you say, this gentleman is Mr. John Garwell, and he
is from New York City."

"Then he has been playing a part here in Trenton, where he is known as
Horace Q. Mann," said the bystander.

By this time the lady was coming to her senses. She clutched at the real
estate broker.

"Take me home!" she murmured. "Oh, this is too much!"

"Better take her home," said several.

"I don't even know where she lives," answered John Garwell, blankly.

"She lives at 19 Hallock Street," said a boy in the crowd. "I'll show
you the place, mister."

"Why not take her and the little girl home?" suggested Nat. "Perhaps you
can clear up this mystery there?"

"All right, I will," answered his employer. "Nat, call a coach. I'm
going to see this affair through. It's the oddest thing I ever had
happen to me."

The coach was called, and the lady and the girl got in, and John Garwell
and Nat followed.

"I knew you were coming home to-day from that trip to Washington," said
the lady, with a tearful look in her face, "but I never dreamed you
would act this way, Horace."

"Madam, will you answer me one question. Have you a husband who went to
Washington?"

"Oh, Horace!"

Seeing he could make no headway, Mr. Garwell became silent. Inside of
ten minutes they reached 19 Hallock Street, and the coach came to a
halt. A servant let them into the mansion. As she did this she stared at
the real estate broker and gave a low cry of surprise.

"Why, I--er--I thought Mr. Mann was in the library!" she stammered. "I
didn't know he went out to meet you, Mrs. Mann."

"Let us go to the library," said John Garwell.

The lady of the house was willing, and hurried hither, followed by her
daughter, the real estate broker, and Nat. As they entered, a gentleman
who had been seated in an arm-chair, reading a book, arose to meet them.

"Well, Clara, I'm back," he said, cheerily.

"Oh!" screamed the lady, and fainted again, and not without good reason,
for before her stood a gentleman who was almost the exact facsimile of
Mr. Garwell in face, form, and general appearance.

"Why, which one of you is my papa?" cried little Lulu.

"I'm your papa!" answered the gentleman of the house. "Why--er--who--who
is this?" he stammered, looking at John Garwell.

"Let us attend to your wife first," was the answer, and soon the lady of
the house was restored to her senses. Then began a series of
explanations.

"It was dreadful of me to make such a mistake," said Mrs. Mann,
hysterically. "But--but----"

"I don't wonder at it--now," answered John Garwell. "Your husband could
pass for my twin brother."

"I can hardly tell one from the other, myself," said Nat.

"Never mind; he bought me some candy," put in little Lulu, and this made
all laugh.

"I am going to ask you to do something," said John Garwell, to Horace
Mann. "I think you owe it to me to walk down town, so that your fellow
citizens can see that there are really two of us."

"Yes, Horace," pleaded his wife. "I made a lot of trouble for Mr.
Garwell."

Horace Mann agreed readily, and soon he and the real estate broker and
Nat left the residence. On the main streets of Trenton many stopped to
stare after them. Among the number was the man who had spoken to Mr.
Garwell, and insisted that the real estate broker was Mr. Mann.

"I apologize," said the man, promptly. "But I reckon you'll admit the
resemblance is simply wonderful."

"I do admit it," was the answer. "Still, that doesn't make me anybody
but myself."

Horace Mann insisted upon taking John Garwell and Nat to dinner, and
treated them to the best the restaurant afforded.

"After this I'm going to wear a badge, so my wife will know me," said
the Trenton man. "And I'll never dare to come to New York, for fear of
being taken for you."




CHAPTER XVIII

NAT MEETS HIS UNCLE


"Nat, if you wish to do me a favor, do not mention this affair to
anybody in New York," said John Garwell, when the pair were on the
train, bound for the metropolis.

"I won't say a word, sir."

"There was nothing wrong about it, but I don't want my friends to make a
laughing stock of me," added the bachelor.

"I shall never mention it to anybody," returned our hero, and it may be
added here that he never did. The matter was also hushed up in Trenton,
so nothing more was heard of it.

Our hero was kept very busy for a day or two after his trip into New
Jersey. Part of his time was spent over some books, and the balance was
used up in running errands, and delivering important papers and
documents.

Once again he visited police headquarters, to learn if anything had been
heard of Nick Smithers.

"We have learned that he visited Jersey City not long ago," said an
official. "But before we could get the authorities to lay their hands on
him, he disappeared. We rather think he is in New York again, and if so,
we shall do all we can to round him up."

On the following day Nat was sent on an errand up to Forty-second
Street. He had to deliver some real estate documents, and this done, he
stopped for a moment to look at the Grand Central Depot.

"Thank fortune, I am not quite so green as I was when I landed," he
mused.

He was just leaving the vicinity of the station, when, chancing to look
down a side street, he saw a sight that filled him with astonishment.

"Uncle Abner, and the Widow Guff!" he murmured. "What are they doing,
talking to that seedy-looking fellow?"

Our hero was right. There, near the entrance to a big building, stood
Abner Balberry and his bride, and a sharp-eyed but shabbily dressed
stranger was talking to them very earnestly.

"Uncle Abner must have married the widow," thought Nat. "More than
likely they are on their wedding tour. Wonder what that other fellow
wants of uncle?"

Nat's first inclination was to leave the spot, so that his relative
might not discover him. But he did not like the looks of the stranger,
and so drew closer, to learn, if possible, what the interview meant.

The man had just come past Abner and his wife, and had pretended to pick
up a pocketbook.

"Say, did you drop your pocketbook?" he asked, of Abner.

"I--I guess not!" stammered the farmer, and felt to make certain that
his own wallet was safe.

"Queer, who did drop this," went on the stranger. "Pretty well filled,
too," he added, opening the pocketbook and looking into it.

"Did you jest pick it up?" queried Abner, falling into the trap.

"Sure, right down there. Say, this is a find, ain't it?" and the man
smiled broadly.

"That's what it is," said the farmer.

"I wish I could find a pocketbook," sighed Mrs. Balberry.

"I'd like to return this to the owner," went on the stranger. "I don't
want to keep anybody's money."

"'Tain't everybody would say thet," was Abner's comment. He wished he
had made the find.

"I suppose not, but I believe in being honest." The stranger scratched
his head. "Hang me, if I know what to do," he continued.

"What do you mean?"

"I've got to go out of town soon--train leaves in ten minutes. I don't
want to take this with me. It don't seem just right."

"I see."

"Can't you find the owner--I'm sure he would pay us a reward."

"Me find the owner?" stammered the farmer.

"Yes. You might advertise. The pocketbook has got at least a hundred
dollars in it. The owner ought to give you twenty-five for returning
it."

"Maybe he would."

"I'll tell you what I'll do," said the stranger, earnestly. "You take
the pocketbook, and give me ten dollars. If you can find the owner, you
can claim twenty-five dollars reward."

"An' supposin' I can't find the owner?"

"Then you can keep the pocketbook."

The temptation was strong, and Abner looked at his newly-made wife.

"Might as well take it, Abner," she said, promptly. "I guess we can find
the owner quick enough," and she pinched his arm suggestively.

The farmer drew forth his wallet, and began to count out ten dollars. At
the same time the stranger gazed again into the other wallet.

"Must be about a hundred and fifty dollars in this," he said. "I'll
trust you to do the square thing by the owner."

"Oh, you kin trust me," said Abner, quickly.

He was about to pass over his ten dollars, when he felt somebody catch
him by the arm, and turning, he beheld Nat.

"Nat!" he gasped.

"Not so fast, Uncle Abner!" cried our hero. "You had better keep your
money."

"Wh--what?"

"Put your money away."

"See here, what do you mean by interfering?" said the stranger, roughly.

"If he gives up the pocketbook take the ten dollars out of that," went
on Nat. "My idea is, there isn't a dollar in the pocketbook."

"Nat!"

"That's right, uncle. This is an old game. I heard all about it only a
few days ago."

"Oh, you go to grass!" cried the stranger, with a malicious look at Nat,
and then he hurried away with all speed.

"Where did you spring from, Nat?"

"I was in this neighborhood on an errand, Uncle Abner. How do you do,
Mrs. Guff."

"I'm not Mrs. Guff any more," said the lady. "I'm Mrs. Balberry, your
new aunt."

"Oh, so you're married, Uncle Abner."

"Yes," was the answer. "But see here, Nat, I don't understand about thet
pocketbook," said the farmer.

"It's simple enough. As I said before, the game is an old one. That
fellow had the pocketbook all the time. It was stuffed with old paper,
with a dollar bill wrapped on the outside. He wanted to get your money,
and if he had gotten it he would have left you with a pocketbook worth
about a quarter, with nothing but old paper and a dollar bill in it, and
maybe he would have taken the dollar bill out, too."

"Well, I never!" cried Mrs. Balberry. "Did you ever hear of such a
swindle!"

"They play all sorts of games in a big city like this. You've got to
keep your eyes open."

"I know it," groaned Abner Balberry. "Yesterday, a cabman cheated me out
o' fifty cents, an' a boy got a quarter from me by a bogus telegram. I
thought something had happened to hum, and when I opened the telegram it
had nuthin but a sheet o' blank paper inside!"

"That was too bad."

There was an awkward pause. Now that the farmer had found Nat he hardly
knew what to say. He had expected to upbraid his nephew for running
away, but the pocketbook episode rather flustered him.

"So you come to New York, didn't you?" he said, slowly.

"Yes."

"Are you working?"

"Yes, and I've got a pretty good job, too."

"What at?"

"I'm in an office downtown."

"How much do you git?"

"What do you think, Uncle Abner?"

"About two or three dollars a week."

"I get seven dollars a week."

"Seven dollars a week--fer a boy!"

"You have been very lucky," put in Mrs. Balberry. "I wish Fred could
strike a job like that."

"I'm to have a raise later on," added Nat.

"It wasn't right fer you to run away, Nat," continued his uncle.

"There are two ways of looking at it."

"An' you had no right to set fire to the barn."

"I never did that, Uncle Abner. I wouldn't be so mean."

"And you sold thet cow."

"She was my cow."

"No, she wasn't!"

"I say she was, and I can prove it!"

"Well, we won't quarrel about the cow. What I want to know is, are you
behavin' yourself here in the city?"

"I am. I work every day, and I board with some very nice people."

"Ain't squanderin' your earnin's on theaters an' sech?"

"No, I have never seen the inside of a theater."

"Maybe you ain't seen the inside of a church either," came from Mrs.
Balberry.

"Yes, I go to church every Sunday."

"Then you don't want to go back to the farm?" came from Abner Balberry.

"No, I am never going back there."
