Thursday morning he came in late.  He dropped something on the table.
On inspection I found it to be a woman's handkerchief purse.
"Where the deuce did you get that?" I asked, mighty curious.
"By George!  but I've been enjoying the most enchanting adventure; such
as you read out of a book.  I'm inclined to believe that I shall enjoy
my studies in old Barscheit."
"But where did you get this?"  If there was a girl around, I wanted to
know all about it.
"She dropped it."
"She dropped it!" I repeated.  "What she?  Why, you old tow-head,
have you been flirting at this hour of the morning?"
"Handsome as a picture!"
"Ha! the ideal at last,"--ironically.  "Blonde, of course."
"Dark as a Spaniard, and rides like Diana."  His enthusiasm was not to
be lightly passed over.
"Never heard of Diana riding," said I; "always saw her pictured as
going afoot."
"Don't be an ass!  You know very well what I mean."
"I've no argument to offer, nor any picture to prove my case.  You've
had an adventure; give it up, every bit of it."
"One of the finest horsewomen I ever saw.  Took a wall three feet high
the other morning, just to see if I dared follow.  Lucky Dandy is a
hunter, or I'd have broken my neck."
"Very interesting."  Then of a sudden a thought flashed through my head
and out again.  "Anybody with her?"
"Only myself these three mornings."
"H'm!  Did you get as far as names?"
"Yes; I told her mine.  Who is Hildegarde von Heideloff?"
"Heideloff?"  I was puzzled.  My suspicions evaporated.  "I can't say
that I know any one by that name.  Sure it was Heideloff?"
"Do you mean to tell me," with blank astonishment, "that there is a
petticoat on horseback in this duchy that you do not know?"
"I don't know any woman by the name of Hildegarde von Heideloff; on my
word of honor, Max, I don't."
"Old Bauer, the blacksmith, knew her."
Bauer?  All my suspicions returned.  "Describe the girl to me."
"Handsome figure, masses of black hair, great black eyes that are full
of good fun, a delicate nose, and I might add, a very kissable mouth."
"What! have you kissed her?" I exclaimed.
"No, no!  Only, I'd like to."
"H'm!  You've made quite a study.  She must be visiting some one
near-by.  There is an old castle three miles west of the smithy.  Did
she speak English?"
"Yes,"--excitedly.
"That accounts for it.  An old English nobleman lives over there during
the summer months, and it is not improbable that she is one of his
guests."  In my heart I knew that her Highness was up to some of her
tricks again, but there was no need of her shattering good old Max's
heart.  Yet I felt bound to say: "Why not look into the purse?  There
might be something there to prove her identity."
"Look into her purse?"--horrified.  "You wouldn't have me peeping into
a woman's purse, would you?  Suppose there should be a box of rouge?
Her cheeks were red."
"Quite likely."
"Or a powder-puff."
"Even more likely."
"Or--"
"Go on."
"Or a love letter."
"I have my doubts," said I.
"Well, if you do not know who she is, I'll find out,"--undismayed.
Doubtless he would; he was a persistent old beggar, was Max.
"Do not let it get serious, my boy," I warned.  "You could not marry
any one in this country."
"Why not?"
"Have you been regularly baptized?  Was your father?  Was your
grandfather?  Unless you can answer these simplest of questions and
prove them, you could not get a license; and no priest or preacher
would dare marry you without a license."
"Hang you, who's talking about getting married?  All I want to know is,
who is Hildegarde von Heideloff, and how am I to return her purse?  I
shall ask the blacksmith."
"Do so,"--taking up my egg-spoon.
Max slipped the purse into his breast-pocket and sat down.
VII
"The one fault I have to find with European life is the poor quality of
tobacco used."
It was eight o'clock, Thursday night, the night of the dinner at
Müller's.  I was dressing when Max entered, with a miserable cheroot
between his teeth.
"They say," he went on, "that in Russia they drink the finest tea in
the world, simply because it is brought overland and not by sea.
Unfortunately, tobacco--we Americans recognize no leaf as tobacco
unless it comes from Cuba--has to cross the sea, and is, in some
unaccountable manner, weakened in the transit.  There are worse cigars
in Germany than in France, and I wouldn't have believed it possible, if
I had not gone to the trouble of proving it.  Fine country!  For a week
I've been trying to smoke the German quality of the weed, as a
preventive, but I see I must give it up on account of my throat.  My
boy, I have news for you,"--tossing the cheroot into the grate.
"Fire away," said I, struggling with a collar.
"I have a box of Havanas over at the custom house that I forgot to bail
out."
"No!" said I joyfully.  A Havana, and one of Scharfenstein's!
"I've an idea that they would go well with the dinner.  So, if you
don't mind, I'll trot over and get 'em."
"Be sure and get around to Müller, at half-past eight, then," said I.
"I'll be there."  He knew where to find the place.
Müller's Rathskeller was the rendezvous of students, officers and all
those persons of quality who liked music with their meat.  The place
was low-ceilinged, but roomy, and the ventilation was excellent,
considering.  The smoke never got so thick that one couldn't see the
way to the door when the students started in to "clean up the place,"
to use the happy idiom of mine own country.  There were marble tables
and floors and arches and light, cane-bottomed chairs from Kohn's.  It
was at once Bohemian and cosmopolitan, and, once inside, it was easy to
imagine oneself in Vienna.  A Hungarian orchestra occupied an inclosed
platform, and every night the wail of the violin and the pom-pom of the
wool-tipped hammers on the Hungarian "piano" might be heard.
It was essentially a man's place of entertainment; few women ever had
the courage or the inclination to enter.  In America it would have been
the fashion; but in the capital of Barscheit the women ate in the
restaurant above, which was attached to the hotel, and depended upon
the Volksgarten band for their evening's diversion.
You had to order your table hours ahead--that is, if you were a
civilian.  If you were lucky enough to be an officer, you were
privileged to take any vacant chair you saw.  But Heaven aid you if you
attempted to do this not being an officer!  In Barscheit there were
also many unwritten laws, and you were obliged to observe these with
all the fidelity and attention that you gave to the enameled signs.
Only the military had the right to request the orchestra to repeat a
piece of music.  Sometimes the lieutenants, seized with that gay humor
known only to cubs, would force the orchestra in Müller's to play the
Hungarian war-song till the ears cried out in pain.  This was always
the case when any Austrians happened to be present.  But ordinarily the
crowds were good-natured, boisterous, but orderly.
It was here, then, that I had arranged to give my little dinner.  The
orchestra had agreed--for a liberal tip--to play The Star-Spangled
Banner, and there was a case of Doppelkinn's sparkling Moselle.  I may
as well state right here that we neither heard our national anthem nor
drank the vintage.  You will soon learn why.  I can laugh now, I can
treat the whole affair with becoming levity, but at the time I gained
several extra grey hairs.
If the princess hadn't turned around, and if Max hadn't wanted that box
of Havanas!
When I arrived at Müller's I found my boys in a merry mood.  They were
singing softly from Robin Hood with fine college harmony, and as I
entered they swarmed about me like so many young dogs.  Truth to tell,
none of them was under twenty, and two or three were older than myself.
But to them I represented official protection for whatever they might
do.  I assumed all the dignity I dared.  I had kept Scharfenstein's
name back as a surprise.
Ellis--for whom I had the passports--immediately struck me as being so
nearly like Max that they might easily have been brothers.  Ellis was
slighter; that was all the difference.  I gave him his papers and
examined his tickets.  All was well; barring accidents, he would be in
Dresden the next day.
"You go through Doppelkinn, then?" said I.
"Yes.  I have friends in Dresden whom I wish to see before going home."
"Well, good luck to you!"
Then I announced that Max Scharfenstein, an old college comrade, would
join us presently.  This was greeted with hurrahs.  At that time there
wasn't an American student who did not recollect Max's great run from
the ten-yard line.  (But where the deuce was Max?)  I took a little
flag from my pocket and stuck it into the vase of poppies, and the boys
clapped their hands.  You never realize how beautiful your flag is till
you see it in a foreign land.  I apologized for Max's absence,
explaining the cause, and ordered dinner to be served.  We hadn't much
time, as Ellis's train departed at ten.  It was now a quarter to nine.
We had come to the relishes when a party of four officers took the
table nearest us.  They hung up their sabers on the wall-pegs, and sat
down, ordering a bottle of light wine.  Usually there were five chairs
to the table, but even if only two were being used no one had the right
to withdraw one of the vacant chairs without the most elaborate
apologies.  This is the law of courtesy in Barscheit.  In America it is
different; if you see anything you want, take it.
Presently one of the officers--I knew none of them save by sight--rose
and approached.  He touched the flag insolently and inquired what right
it had in a public restaurant in Barscheit.  Ordinarily his question
would not have been put without some justification.  But he knew very
well who I was and what my rights were in this instance.
"Herr Lieutenant," said I coldly, though my cheeks were warm enough, "I
represent that flag in this country, and I am accredited with certain
privileges, as doubtless you are aware.  You will do me the courtesy of
returning to your own table."  I bowed.
He glared at me for a brief period, then turned on his heel.  This was
the first act in the play.  At the fellow's table sat Lieutenant von
Störer, Doppelkinn's nephew and heir-presumptive.  He was, to speak
plainly, a rake, a spendthrift and wholly untrustworthy.  He was not
ill-looking, however.
My spirits floated between anger and the fear that the officers might
ruin the dinner--which they eventually did.
Things went on smoothly for a time.  The orchestra was pom-pomming the
popular airs from Faust.  (Where the deuce was that tow-headed
Dutchman?)  Laughter rose and fell; the clinkle of glass was heard;
voices called.  And then Max came in, looking as cool as you please,
though I could read by his heaving chest that he had been sprinting up
back streets.  The boys crowded around him, and there was much ado over
the laggard.
Unfortunately the waiter had forgotten to bring a chair for his plate.
With a genial smile on his face, Max innocently stepped over to the
officers' table and plucked forth the vacant chair.  For a wonder the
officers appeared to give this action no heed, and I was secretly
gratified.  It was something to be a consul, after all.  But I counted
my chickens too early.
"Where are the cigars?" I asked as Max sat down complacently.
"Cigars?"--blankly.  "Hang me, I've clean forgotten them!"  And then,
oblivious of the probable storm that was at that moment gathering for a
downpour over his luckless head, he told us the reason of his delay.
"There was a crowd around the palace," he began.  "It seems that the
Princess Hildegarde has run away, and they believe that she has ridden
toward the Pass in a closed carriage.  The police are at this very
moment scouring the country in that direction.  She has eloped."
"Eloped?" we all cried, being more or less familiar with the state of
affairs at the palace.
"Good-by to Doppelkinn's Frau!"
"Good girl!"
"She has been missing since seven o'clock, when she drove away on the
pretense of visiting her father's old steward, who is ill," went on
Max, feeling the importance of his news.  "They traced her there.  From
the steward's the carriage was driven south, and that's the last seen
of her.  There won't be any wedding at the cathedral next
Tuesday,"--laughing.
Queries and answers were going crisscross over the table, when I
observed with dread that Lieutenant von Störer had risen and was coming
our way.  He stopped at Max's side.  Max looked up to receive Von
Störer's glove full on the cheek.  It was no gentle stroke.  Von Störer
at once returned to his table and sat down.
For a moment we were all absolutely without power of motion or of
speech, Max's face grew as white as the table-cloth, and the print of
the glove glowed red against the white.  I was horrified, for I knew
his tremendous strength.  If he showed fight, Von Störer would calmly
saber him.  It was the custom.  But Max surprised me.  He was the
coolest among us, but of that quality of coolness which did not
reassure me.  He took up his story where he had left off and finished
it.  For his remarkable control I could have taken him in my arms and
hugged him.
The officers scowled, while Von Störer bit his mustache nervously.  The
American had ignored his insult.  Presently he rose again and
approached.  He thrust a card under Max's nose.
"Can you understand that?" he asked contemptuously.
Max took the card, ripped it into quarters and dropped these to the
floor.  Then, to my terror and the terror of those with me, he
tranquilly pulled out a murderous-looking Colt and laid it beside his
plate.  He went on talking, but none of us heard a word he said.  We
were fearfully waiting to see him kill some one or be killed.
No one was killed.  The officers hurriedly took down their sabers and
made a bee-line for the door of which I have spoken.
Max returned the revolver to his hip-pocket and gave vent to an Homeric
laugh.
"You tow-headed Dutchman!" I cried, when I found voice for my words,
"what have you done?"
"Done?  Why, it looks as if we had all the downs this half," he replied
smartly.  "Oh, the gun isn't loaded,"--confidentially.
Ellis fumbled in his pockets and produced his passports and tickets.
These he shoved over to Max.
"What's this for?" Max asked curiously.
"Ellis," said I, "it is very good of you.  Max, take those.  Mr. Ellis
wishes to save your hide.  Take them and get to the station as quickly
as you can.  And for the love of mercy, do not turn around till you're
over in Doppelkinn's vineyards."
"Well, I'm hanged if I understand!" he cried.  "I'm a peaceful man.  A
beggar walks up to me and slaps me in the face for nothing at all, and
now I must hike, eh?  What the devil have I done now?"
Then, as briefly as I could, I explained the enormity of his offenses.
To take a chair from a table, as he had done, was a gross insult; to
receive a slap in the face and not to resent it, was another insult; to
tear up an opponent's visiting-card, still another; to take out a
revolver in Barscheit, unless you were an officer or had a permit, was
worse than an insult; it was a crime, punishable by long imprisonment.
They could accuse him of being either an anarchist or a socialist-red,
coming to Barscheit with the intent to kill the grand duke.  The fact
that he was ignorant of the laws, or that he, was an alien, would remit
not one particle of his punishment and fine; and weeks would pass ere
the matter could be arranged between the United States and Barscheit.
"Good Lord!" he gasped; "why didn't you tell me?"
"Why didn't you tell me that you carried a cannon in your pocket?  Take
Ellis' papers, otherwise you stand pat for a heap of trouble, and I
can't help you.  Go straight to Dresden, telegraph me, and I'll forward
your luggage."
"But I came here to study!" Max argued.
"It will be geology in the form of prison walls," said Ellis quietly.
"Don't be foolish, Mr. Scharfenstein; it is not a matter of a man's
courage, but of his common sense.  Take the tickets and light out.  I
have lived here for three years, and have seen men killed outright for
less than you have done."
"But you don't expect me to leave this place without punching that
beggar's head?"--indignantly.  "What do you think I'm made of?"
"You'll never get the chance to punch his head," said I.  "We are
wasting valuable time.  Those officers have gone for the police.  You
have about twenty minutes to make the train.  Come, for heaven's sake,
come!"
He finally got it into his head that we knew what we were talking
about.  How we got him to the station I do not remember, but somehow we
got him there.  He sputtered and fumed and swore, as all brave men will
who feel that they are running away in a cowardly fashion.  He wasn't
convinced, but he thanked Ellis for his kindness and hoped that he
wouldn't get into trouble on his (Max's) account.
"Go straight to Dresden; say you've been studying medicine in Barscheit
for three years; refer to me by telegraph if there is any question as
to your new identity," said I.  "You're the only man in the world, Max,
that I'd lie for."
He stumbled through the gates, and we saw him open the door of a
carriage just as the train began to pull out.  A guard tried to stop
him, but he was not quite quick enough.  We watched the train till it
melted away into the blackness beyond the terminus covering; then we, I
and my fellow diners, went soberly into the street.   Here was a
howdy-do!  Suddenly Ellis let out a sounding laugh, and, scarcely
knowing why, we joined him.  It was funny, very funny, for every one
but poor old Max!  The American spirit is based on the sense of humor,
and even in tragic moments is irrepressible.
We did not return to Müller's; each of us stole quietly home to await
the advent of the police, for they would rout out every American in
town in their search for the man with the gun.  They would first visit
the consulate and ascertain what I knew of the affair; when they got
through with the rest of the boys Max would be in Doppelkinn.  The
police were going to be very busy that night: a princess on one hand
and an anarchist on the other.
There were terrible times, too, in the palace.  Long before we watched
Max's train and the vanishing green and red lights at the end of it the
grand duke was having troubles of his own.  He was pacing wildly up and
down in his dressing-room.  Clutched in his fist was a crumpled sheet
of paper.  From time to time he smoothed it out and re-read the
contents.  Each time he swore like the celebrated man in Flanders.
You forced me and I warned you that I would do something desperate.
Do not send for me, for you will never find me till you come to your
senses.  I have eloped.
Hildegarde.
VIII
Shortly before six o'clock--dinner in the palace was rarely served
until half-after eight--the Honorable Betty sat down to her
writing-desk in her boudoir, which opened directly into that belonging
to the princess, to write a few letters home.  A dinner was to be given
to the state officials that night, and she knew from experience that
after that solemn event was concluded it would be too late for the
departing mails.  She seemed to have no difficulty in composing her
thoughts and transferring them to paper.  There were times when she
would lean back, nibble the end of her pen and smile in a dreamy,
retrospective fashion.  No doubt her thoughts were pleasant and
agreeable.
She had completed addressing three envelopes, when she heard the door
leading into the princess' boudoir open and close.  She turned to
behold the princess herself.
"Why, Gretchen, where are you going?"--noting the grey walking-dress,
the grey hat, the sensible square-toed shoes.
"I am going to visit a sick nurse," replied her Highness, avoiding the
other's eye.
"But shall you have time to dress for dinner?"
"That depends.  Besides, the official dinners are a great bore."  Her
Highness came forward, caught the dark head of the English girl between
her gloved hands, pressed it against her heart, bent and kissed it.
"What a lovely girl you are, Betty! always unruffled, always
even-tempered.  You will grow old very gracefully."
"I hope so; but I do not want to grow old at all.  Can't I go with
you?"--eagerly.
"Impossible; etiquette demands your presence here to-night.  If I am
late my rank and my errand will be my excuse.  What jolly times we used
to have in that quaint old boarding-school in St. John's Wood!  Do you
remember how we went to your noble father's country place one
Christmas?  I went incognita.  There was a children's party, and two
boys had a fisticuff over you.  Nobody noticed me those days.  I was
happy then."  The princess frowned.  It might have been the sign of
repression of tears.  Betty, with her head against the other's bosom,
could not see.  "I shall be lonely without you; for you can not stay on
here for ever.  If you could, it would be different.  I shall miss you.
Somehow you possess the faculty of calming me.  I am so easily stirred
into a passion; my temper is so surface-wise.  Some day, however, I
shall come to England and spend a whole month with you.  Will not that
be fine?"
"How melancholy your voice is!" cried Betty, trying without avail to
remove her Highness' hands.
"No, no; I want to hold you just so.  Perhaps I am sentimental
to-night.  I have all the moods, agreeable and disagreeable. . . .  Do
you love anybody?"
"Love anybody?  What do you mean?"--rising in spite of the protesting
hands.  "Do I look as if I were in love with anybody?"
They searched each other's eyes.
"Oh, you islanders!  Nobody can fathom what is going on in your hearts.
You never make any mistakes; you always seem to know which paths to
pursue; you are always right, always, always.  I'd like to see you
commit a folly, Betty; it's a wicked wish, I know, but I honestly wish
it.  There is certainly more Spanish blood in my veins than German.  I
am always making mistakes; I never know which path is the right one; I
am always wrong.  Do you believe it possible for a woman of birth and
breeding to fall in love with a man whom she has known only three days?"
"Three days!  Are you crazy, Hildegarde?"
"Call me Gretchen!"--imperiously.
"Gretchen, what has come over you?"
"I asked you a question."
"Well,"---a bit of color stealing into her cheeks,--"it is possible,
but very foolish.  One ought to know something of a man's character,"
went on Betty, "before permitting sentiment to enter into one's
thoughts."
"That is my own opinion, wise little white owl."  Her Highness took her
friend in her arms and kissed her, held her at arm's length, drew her
to her heart and again kissed her.  It was like a farewell.  Then she
let her go.  "If there is anything you need, make yourself at home with
my cases."  And her Highness was gone.
Betty gazed at the door through which dear Gretchen had passed, gazed
thoughtfully and anxiously.
"How oddly she acted!  I wonder--"  She made as though to run to the
door, but stopped, as if ashamed of the doubt which flashed into her
mind and out again.
The little clock on the mantel chimed forth the seventh hour, and she
rang for her maid.  It was time that she began dressing.
(Thus, for the present, I shall leave her.  There are several reasons
why my imagination should take this step; for, what should I know of a
woman's toilet, save in the general mysterious results?  However, I
feel at liberty to steal into the duke's dressing-room.  Here, while I
am not positive what happened, at least I can easily bring my
imagination to bear upon the picture.)
The duke was rather pleased with himself.  He liked to put on his state
uniform, with its blue-grey frock, the white doeskin trousers which
strapped under the patent-leather boots, the gold braid, the silver
saber and the little rope of medals strung across his full, broad
breast.  It was thus he created awe; it was thus he became truly the
sovereign, urbane and majestic.
His valet was buckling on the saber belt, when there came a respectful
tap on the door.
"Enter," said the duke, frowning.  One can not assert any particular
degree of dignity with a valet at one's side.
But it was only a corridor attendant who entered.  He approached the
duke's valet and presented a letter.
"For his serene Highness."  He bowed and backed out, closing the door
gently.
At once the valet bowed also and extended the letter to his master.
Formality is a fine thing in a palace.
"Ah, a letter," mused the duke, profoundly innocent of the viper which
was about to sting him.  "My glasses, Gustav; my eye-glasses!"
The valet hurried to the dresser and returned with the duke's state
eye-glasses.  These the duke perched deliberately upon the end of his
noble nose.  He opened the letter and read its contents.  The valet,
watching him slyly, saw him grow pale, then red, and finally
purple,--wrath has its rainbow.  His hands shook, the glasses slipped
from his palpitating nose.  And I grieve to relate that his serene
Highness swore something marvelous to hear.
"Damnation!" he said, or some such word.  "The little fool!"  Then,
suddenly remembering his dignity and the phrase that no man is a hero
to his valet, he pointed to his glasses, at the same time returning the
letter to its envelope, this letter which had caused this momentary
perturbation.  "Call the minister of police.  You will find him in the
smoking-room off the conservatory.  Make all haste!"
The valet flew out of the door, while the duke began pacing up and down
the room, muttering and growling, and balling his fists, and jingling
his shining medals.  He kicked over an inoffensive hassock and his
favorite hound, and I don't know how many long-winded German oaths he
let go.  (It's a mighty hard language to swear in, especially when a
man's under high pressure.)
"The silly little fool!  And on a night like this!  Curse it!  This is
what comes of mixing Spanish blood with German, of letting her aunt's
wishes overrule mine in the matter of education.  But she shall be
brought back, even if I have to ask the assistance of every sovereign
in Europe.  This is the end.  And I had planned such a pleasant evening
at cards!"  The duke was not wholly unselfish.
In less than ten minutes' time the valet returned with the minister of
police.  The duke immediately dismissed the valet.
"Your serene Highness sent for me?" asked the minister, shaking in his
boots.  There had been four ministers of police in three years.
"Yes.  Read this."
The minister took the letter.  He read it with bulging eyes.  "Good
heavens, it must be one of her Highness' jokes!"
"It will be a sorry joke for you if she crosses any of the frontiers."
"But--"
"But!" roared the duke.  "Don't you dare bring up that word scandal!
Seek her.  Turn everybody out,--the army, the police, everybody.  When
you locate her, telegraph, and have a special engine awaiting me at the
station.  And if you play a poor game of cards to-night I'll take away
your portfolio.  Remember, if she passes the frontier, off goes your
official head!"
"And the fellow, who is he?"
"The good Lord only knows!  That girl! . . .  Witness these grey hairs.
Put the rascal in irons; I'll attend to his case when I arrive. . . .
Where is Steinbock?"
"He was arrested this morning in Berlin; I have already applied for his
extradition."
"Good!  Now, be off with you!  Leave no stone unturned.  The expense is
nothing; I will gladly pay it out of my private purse."
"I'll find her," said the minister grimly.  His portfolio hung in the
balance.
All at once the duke struck his hands together jubilantly.
"What is it?" asked the minister.  "A clue?"
"Nothing, nothing!  Be gone; you are wasting time."
The minister of police dashed out of the room as if pursued by a
thousand devils.  He knew the duke's mood; it was not one to cross or
irritate.  No sooner was he gone than the duke left his apartments and
sought those of his niece.  It might be a joke; it would do no harm to
find out positively.  But the beautiful suite was empty; even her
Highness' maid was gone.  He then knocked on the door which led into
Betty's boudoir, not very gently either.
"Open!" he bellowed.
"Who is it?" demanded a maid's frightened voice.
"The duke!  Open instantly!"
"It is quite impossible," said another voice from within.  It was calm
and firm.  "I am dressing."
"I must see you this instant.  Open or I shall force the door!"
"Is your serene Highness mad?"
"Will you open this door?"
"You command it?"
"A hundred times, yes!"
"Since you command it."  The voice was no longer calm; it was sharp and
angry.
The wait seemed an hour to his serene Highness, serene no longer.  At
length the bolt slipped, and the irate duke shouldered his way in.  The
tableau which met his gaze embarrassed him for a space.  He was even
ashamed.  The Honorable Betty stood behind a tall-backed chair, an
opera cloak thrown hastily over her bare shoulders.  Her hair was
partly down.  A beautiful woman in a rage is a fascinating sight.  The
duke stared at her irresolutely.
"Will your Highness explain this extraordinary intrusion?" she
demanded.  "You have literally forced your way into my room while I am
dressing.  It is utterly outside my understanding."
"I am old enough to be your father."
"That is the weakest excuse you could give me.  At your age one's blood
ought to be cooled to a certain discretion.  My father, if he had had
anything important to say, would have remained on the other side of the
door.  I am not deaf.  Your explanation is in order."
The duke had never been talked to so plainly in all his life.  For a
while he was without voice, but had plenty of color.  "It is easily
explained," he finally bawled out to her.  "Her Highness has eloped!"
The girl stared at him with wide eyes.  "Eloped?" she breathed faintly.
"Yes, eloped."
Betty wondered if she heard aright, or if the duke were out of his
mind; and then she recollected her conversation with the princess.  Her
mouth opened as if to speak, but instead she closed her lips tightly.
That wilful girl; whatever would become of her!
"Give this letter to your mistress," said the duke to the maid.  "I
will station myself in the window while she reads it."
He strode over to the window and drew the curtains about him.  Below,
the night crowds were wandering about the streets; the band was playing
in the Volksgarten; carriages were rolling to and from the opera; the
fountain in the center of the square sparkled merrily in the glare of
the arc lights.  But the duke saw none of these things.  Rather he saw
the telegraphic despatches flying to the four ends of the globe,
telling the peoples that he, the Grand Duke of Barscheit, had been
outwitted by a girl; that the Princess Hildegarde had eloped with a man
who was not the chosen one.  In other words, he saw himself laughed at
from one end of the continent to the other.  (There is something very
funny in domestic troubles when they occur in another man's family!)
No, the duke saw not the beauty of the night; instead of stars he saw
asterisks, that abominable astronomy of the lampoonists.   He had never
doubted the girl's courage; but to elope! . . .  And who the devil
had eloped with her?  He knew the girl's natural pride; whoever the
fellow might be, he could be no less than a gentleman.  But who, who?
"Your Highness?" called a quiet (I might say deceptive) voice.
The duke came forth.
"Your Highness will do me the honor to make out my passports to-night.
I desire to leave the palace immediately.  The affront you have put
upon me, even under the circumstances, is wholly unpardonable.  You
imply that I have had something to do with her Highness' act.  You will
excuse me to her serene Highness, whom I love and respect.  My dignity
demands that I leave at once."
A flicker--but only a flicker--of admiration lighted the duke's eyes.
It was a plucky little baggage.
"I will issue your passports upon one condition," he said.
"And that condition?"--proudly.
"Tell me everything: Where has she gone, and with whom?"
"I know absolutely nothing."
Silence.  The duke gnawed his mustache, while his eyes strove in vain
to beat down hers.
"Thank you, I believe you."  Then, giving way to his wrath: "You
English people, you are all the same!  You never understand.  I have
brought up this girl and surrounded her with every luxury; against my
will and reason I have let her become educated in foreign lands; I have
given her the utmost freedom; this is how I am repaid."
"You forgot one important thing, your Highness."
"What?"--haughtily.
"Affection.  You have never gives her that."
The duke felt himself beaten into silence, and this did not add to his
amiability.
"Your passports shall be made out immediately; but I beg of you to
reconsider your determination, and to remain here as long as you
please.  For the sake of appearances, I desire your presence at the
dinner-table."
"I shall leave as soon as the dinner is over."  This girl's mind seemed
immovable.
The duke shrugged.  There was no use in beating against this wall.  "I
wish you knew whither she has gone."
"Frankly, if I knew I should not tell your Highness.  My father taught
me never to betray a confidence."
"As you will.  I beg your pardon for the abruptness of my entrance," he
said, choking down his wrath.  He could not allow himself to be
out-done in the matter of coolness by this chit of an English girl.
"I grant it you."
The duke then retired, or, I should say, retreated.  He wandered
aimlessly about the palace, waiting for news and making wretched all
those with whom he came in contact.  The duchess was not feeling well;
a wrangle with her was out of the question; besides, he would make
himself hoarse.  So he waited and waited, and re-read the princess'
letter.  At dinner he ate nothing; his replies were curt and surly.
The Honorable Betty also ate nothing.  She sat, wondering if her maid
could pack five trunks in two hours.
I had quite a time of it myself that night.  As I predicted, I received
a visit from the police in regard to Mr. Scharfenstein.  I explained
the matter the best I knew how, and confessed that he had hurriedly
left the city for parts unknown.  I did not consider it absolutely
essential that I should declare that I had seen him enter a railway
carriage for Dresden.  Besides this, I had to stand sponsor for the
other boys and explain at length that they were in no wise concerned
with Mr. Scharfenstein's great offense.  The police were courteous and
deferential, admitting that Max was the culprit.  He had drawn a
revolver in a public restaurant; he had broken a grave law.  The
inspector wrote a dozen telegrams and despatched them from the
consulate.  I had, at his request, offered him the blanks.
At eleven I received a telephone call from the Continental Hotel.  It
was a woman's voice, and my heart beat violently as I recognized it.  I
was requested to come at once to the hotel.  I should find her in the
ladies' salon.  I walked the distance in ten minutes.  She told me all
that had happened.
"By this time it is all over the city.  But it is all nonsense about
her Highness' eloping with any one.  She is too nobly born to commit
such a folly.  She has simply run away; and I very much fear that she
will be caught.  The duke is in a terrible temper.  I could not remain
in the palace, for the duke suspects that I know where she has gone.  I
have my passports.  The British consul is away hunting.  You were the
only English-speaking person to whom I could come for aid."
"I am very glad."
"Will it be asking too much of you to aid me in leaving Barscheit
to-night?  There is a train at one o'clock for Dresden."
"Leave Barscheit?"  My heart sank dismally.
"Oh,"--with a smile,--"the world is small and England is even smaller."
"I shall have to give up the consulate,"--gravely.
She laughed.  "I shall be in England for something more than a year.
Truthfully, I hunger for mine own people.  You know what that hunger
is."
"Yes.  I shall go home as often as possible now.  I always stop a few
days in London."
"Then I shall expect to see you; perhaps during the holidays.  I am
determined to leave Barscheit before the duke changes his mind.
Heavens, he may put me in prison!"
"I doubt that."
I saw to it that she secured a sleeping-compartment all to herself,
took charge of her luggage and carefully examined her papers.  Then we
had a small supper.  I wanted to ask a thousand questions, but my
courage lacked the proper key.
"May I have the pleasure of writing to you occasionally?" I finally
ventured.  "I am sure that you would like a bit of Barscheit gossip
from time to time."
"Write to me, by all means.  I shall await these letters with great
pleasure."
"And answer them?"--growing bolder.
"It is easily seen that you are a diplomat.  Yes, I shall answer them.
Heigh-ho!  I shall miss my rides."  What a brave little woman she was!
Finally we started for the station, and I saw her to the gates.  We
shook hands, and I was sure I felt a very friendly pressure; and then
she disappeared.  There was altogether a different feeling in my heart
as I watched her train draw out.  Eh, well, the world is small and
England is smaller, even as she had said.  It's a mighty fine world,
when you get the proper angle of vision.
IX
There was very little light in the compartment into which Max had so
successfully dived.  Some one had turned down the wicks of the oil
lamps which hung suspended between the luggage-racks above, and the
gloom was notable rather than subdued.  So far as he was concerned he
was perfectly contented; his security was all the greater.  He pressed
his face against the window and peered out.  The lights of the city
flashed by, and finally grew few and far between, and then came the
blackness of the country.  It would take an hour and a half to cross
the frontier, and there would be no stop this side, for which he was
grateful.  He swore, mumbling.  To have come all this way to study, and
then to leg it in this ignominious fashion!  It was downright
scandalous!  Whoever heard of such laws?  Of course he had been rather
silly in pulling his gun, for even in the United States--where he
devoutly wished himself at that moment--it was a misdemeanor to carry
concealed weapons.  He felt of his cheek.  He would return some day,
and if it was the last thing he ever did, he would slash that
lieutenant's cheeks.  The insolent beggar!  To be struck and not to
strike back!  He choked.
Gradually his eyes became accustomed to the dim light, and he cast
about.
"The deuce!" he muttered.
He was not alone.  Huddled in the far corner was a woman heavily
veiled.  Young or old, he could not tell.  She sat motionless, and
appeared to be looking out of the opposite window.  Well, so long as
she did not bother him he would not bother her.  But he would much
rather have been alone.
He took out his passport and tried to read it.  It was impossible.  So
he rose, steadied himself, and turned up the wick of one of the lamps.
He did not hear the muffled exclamation which came from the other end.
He dropped back upon the cushion and began to read.  So he was George
Ellis, an American student in good standing; he was aged twenty-nine,
had blue eyes, light hair, was six feet tall, and weighed one hundred
and fifty-four pounds.  Ha! he had, then, lost thirty pounds in as many
minutes?  At this rate he wouldn't cast a shadow when he struck
Dresden.  He had studied three years at the college; but what the deuce
had he studied?  If they were only asleep at the frontier!  He returned
the document to his pocket, and as he did so his fingers came into
contact with the purse he had picked up in the road that
morning--Hildegarde von Heideloff.  What meant Fate in crossing her
path with his?  He had been perfectly contented in mind and heart
before that first morning ride; and here he was, sighing like a
furnace.  She had been merely pretty on Monday, on Tuesday she had been
handsome, on Wednesday she had been adorable; now she was the most
beautiful woman that ever lived.  (Ah, the progressive adjective, that
litany of love!)  Alas! it was quite evident that she had passed out of
his life as suddenly and mysteriously as she had entered it.  He would
keep the purse as a souvenir, and some day, when he was an old man, he
would open it.
There is something compelling in the human eye, a magnetism upon which
Science has yet to put her cold and unromantic finger.  Have you never
experienced the sensation that some [Transcriber's note: someone?] was
looking at you?  Doubtless you have.  Well, Max presently turned his
glance toward his silent fellow traveler.  She had lifted her veil and
was staring at him with wondering, fearing eyes.  These eyes were
somewhat red, as if the little bees of grief had stung them.
"You!" he cried, the blood thumping into his throat.  He tossed his hat
to the floor and started for her end of the compartment.
She held up a hand as if to ward off his approach.  "I can hear
perfectly," she said; "it is not needful that you should come any
nearer."
He sat down confused.  He could not remember when his heart had beaten
so irregularly.
"May I ask how you came to enter this compartment?" she asked coldly.
"I jumped in,"--simply.  What was to account for this strange attitude?
"So I observe.  What I meant was, by what right?"
"It happened to be the only door at hand, and I was in a great hurry."
Where was his usual collectedness of thought?  He was embarrassed and
angry at the knowledge.
"Did you follow me?"  Her nostrils were palpitating and the corners of
her mouth were drawn aggressively.
"Follow you?" amazed that such an idea should enter into her head.
"Why, you are the last person I ever expected to see again.  Indeed,
you are only a fairy-story; there is, I find, no such person as
Hildegarde von Heideloff."  Clearly he was recovering.
"I know it,"--candidly.  "It was my mother's name, and I saw fit to use
it."  She really hoped he hadn't followed her.
"You had no need to use it, or any name, for that matter.  When I gave
you my name it was given in good faith.  The act did not imply that I
desired to know yours."
"But you did!"--imperiously.
"Yes.  Curiosity is the brain of our mental anatomy."  When Max began
to utter tall phrases it was a sign of even-balanced mentality.
"And if I hadn't told you my name, you would have asked for it."
"Not the first day."
"Well, you would have on Tuesday."
"Not a bit of a doubt."  He certainly wouldn't show her how much he
cared.  (What was she doing in this carriage?  She had said nothing
that morning about traveling.)
"Well, you will admit that under the circumstances I had the right to
give any name it pleased me to give."
He came over to her end and sat down.  Her protests (half-hearted) he
ignored.
"I can not see very well from over there," he explained.
"It is not necessary that you should see; you can hear what I have to
say."
"Very well; I'll go back."  And he did.  He made a fine pretense of
looking out of the window.  Why should this girl cross his path at this
unhappy moment?
There was a pause.
"You are not near so nice as you were this morning," she said presently.
"I can't be nice and sit away over here."
"What made you jump into this compartment, of all others?"
"I wasn't particular what compartment I got into so long as I got into
one.  As I said, I was in a hurry."
"You said nothing this morning about going away from Barscheit."
"Neither did you."
Another pause.  (I take it, from the character of this dialogue, that
their morning rides must have been rather interesting.)
"You told me that you were in Barscheit to study nerves,"--wickedly.
"So thought I, up to half-past nine to-night; but it appears that I am
not,"--gloomily.
"You are running away, too?"--with suppressed eagerness.
"Running away, too!" he repeated.  "Are you running away?"
"As fast as ever the train can carry me.  I am on the way to Dresden."
"Dresden?  It seems that Fate is determined that we shall travel
together this day.  Dresden is my destination also."
"Let me see your passports,"--extending a firm white hand.
He obeyed docilely, as docilely as though he were married.  She gave
the paper one angry glance and tossed it back.
"George Ellis; so that is your name?"--scornfully.  "You told me that
it was Scharfenstein.  I did not ask you to tell me your name; you took
that service upon yourself."  She recalled the duke's declaration that
he should have her every movement watched.  If this American was
watching her, the duke was vastly more astute than she had given him
the credit for being.  "Are you in the pay of the duke?  Come, confess
that you have followed me, that you have been watching me for these
four days."  How bitter the cup of romance tasted to her now!  She had
been deceived.  "Well, you shall never take me from this train save by
force.  I will not go back!"
"I haven't the slightest idea of what you are talking about," he said,
mightily discouraged.  "I never saw this country till Monday, and never
want to see it again."
"From what are you running away then?"--skeptically.
"I am running away from a man who slapped me in the face,"--bitterly;
and all his wrongs returned to him.
"Indeed!"--derisively.
"Yes, I!"  He thrust out both his great arms miserably.  "I'm a
healthy-looking individual, am I not, to be running away from anything?"
"Especially after having been a soldier in the Spanish War.  Why did
you tell me that your name was Scharfenstein?"
"Heaven on earth, it is Scharfenstein!  I'm simply taking my chance
on another man's passports."
"I am unconvinced,"--ungraciously.  She was, however, inordinately
happy; at the sight of the picture of woe on his face all her trust in
him returned.  She believed every word he said, but she wanted to know
everything.
"Very well; I see that I must tell you everything to get back into your
good graces--Fräulein von Heideloff."
"If you ever were in my good graces!"
Graphically he recounted the adventure at Müller's.  He was a capital
story-teller, and he made a very good impression.
"If it hadn't been for the princess' eloping I should not have been
here," he concluded, "for my friend would have had a waiter bring me
that chair."
"The princess' eloping!"--aghast.
"Why, yes.  It seems that she eloped to-night; so the report came from
the palace."
The girl sat tight, as they say; then suddenly she burst into
uncontrollable laughter.  It was the drollest thing she had ever heard.
She saw the duke tearing around the palace, ordering the police hither
and thither, sending telegrams, waking his advisers and dragging them
