Meanwhile she had changed her pastel frock for another, which, if a
bit rumpled in transit, became her wonderfully well.
Annandale commented on it. "By the way," he suddenly interrupted
himself to remark, "I have more of your things. I stuffed them in my
pocket and forgot them entirely. I will go and fetch them now."
"Don't bother. Tomorrow will do. What are they, do you remember?"
"Money and jewelry. Rings and pins, I think. I am sure there were
pins. One of them stuck in me."
"Any clothes?"
"Clothes!" Annandale echoed in surprise. "Why, no, are any missing?"
"My mother's. They were in the room next to mine."
"The Lord forgive me, I never thought of it."
"It does not really matter. Only we will have to go to town tomorrow.
Mamma has not a stitch."
"The devil!" muttered Annandale in fierce self-reprobation. "Hang my
stupidity. I am a fool."
"You are nothing of the kind. If it were not for you I would not have
a stitch either."
"That is all very well. But I have bungled matters dreadfully. I don't
know what your mother can think of me. I do know, though, that I wish
she would let me replace the things which she has lost through my
fault."
In the sky a star was falling, swiftly, silently, like a drop of water
on a window-pane. Fanny watched it. She had been lolling back in a
chair. But at Annandale's suggestion she sat up. "That is absurd," she
announced.
"Well, then, it would be only nice and fair of you to put me in a
position where, without offense, I could do so."
But Fanny was rising. "It is late," she announced. "I must go."
Annandale caught at her. "Say 'Yes,'" he implored. "Or at least don't
say 'No.' Say something."
"Something, then. There, let me be."
At that Annandale, who still held her, held her yet tighter. "You are
the dearest girl in all the world."
Fanny gave him a little shove. "Don't do that, anyone might see you."
"Yes, and see too that you belong to me."
"I am not so sure."
"You shan't go then till you are." Annandale, as he spoke, planted
himself uncircuitously before her.
"Oh," said Fanny, in a little sugary, demure voice, "if you are going
to use brute force----"
"I am."
"Then I give in."
"For keeps?"
"Don't, there's my mother."
In the doorway beyond, Mrs. Price had loomed. Fanny joined her.
Annandale followed, denouncing himself to the lady for the oversight
that noon. Yet, whether because of that oversight of his or because of
some foresight of her own, so grim was Mrs. Price that Annandale,
concluding that it would be more cheerful elsewhere, turned tail,
ambled out to the road and across it to the sea wall, where he sat and
kicked his heels and told himself that he was engaged.
In the telling he lost himself in impossibilities and wondered how it
would fare with him and how with Sylvia could the past be mended and
the old plans mature. For though Fanny allured, Sylvia enchained.
Fanny was delicious. But he fancied that other men had found her so.
He fancied that her heart had been an inn, and he knew that Sylvia's
was a home. Yet from that he was barred. To those that lack homes
hotels are convenient.
Across the way meanwhile Mrs. Price was very busy. In looming on the
veranda it had seemed to her that her daughter and that man were
occupied with certain ceremonies. Regarding them she attacked the girl
at once.
"You have not taken him?" she began by way of reconnaissance.
That afternoon Fanny had visited ruins. There were others more
personal that she was viewing then, the ruins of fair things not dead
but destroyed.
"Answer me," Mrs. Price commanded.
The girl started. But she had been far away--in that lovely land where
dreams come true and then, it may be, turn into nightmares. Through
the dreams hand in hand with Loftus she had been strolling. Now she
must put them all away.
"Answer me," Mrs. Price repeated.
"I am afraid so."
Into a misty and deserted parlor of the Inn Mrs. Price pulled the girl
and there let fire.
"Afraid! You ought to be! What will your father say?"
The father here projected was a gentleman who resided abroad and who
seldom opened his mouth except to put something in it.
"And Fred!"
Fred was Fanny's brother, a young chap whose opinions were of no value
to anyone, himself included.
"And everybody!"
Everybody was the upper current of social life.
"And Sylvia!"
The earlier shots had not inflicted any visible damage, but this must
have told.
"I shall have to write to her," Fanny with unusual meekness replied.
"Yes, do. Do by all means. Tell her you have taken her leavings. And
why? Merciful heavens, why? If you were as staid and stiff as she I
could understand. But a girl like you, with your tastes, your
extravagances, a girl with a national reputation for beauty, to go and
accept twenty-five thousand a year is--is--sinful, that's what it is.
Your own father has that, and on it we are out at elbows. It is just
about enough for you to dress on. Oh, Fanny, Fanny!"
Hysterically the old lady waved her hands. "Oh, Fanny, I have so
prayed that you would make a brilliant match. I have scrimped and
saved that you might, and you go and take a blond beast of a pauper.
It is too cruel!"
Fanny winced. It was cruel. But the cruelty was not hers. It was
Fate's. She too had hoped for the very marriage her mother had so
ardently desired. But Loftus had not cared. Occupied elsewhere he had
sailed away. As well then Annandale as another.
"You see, you know," she said in a wretched effort at smoothing things
over, "he is quite a hero."
But this was too much. Mrs. Price shook her head like a battle horse
and fairly neighed.
"Because he saved your clothes? If it had been your life and you had
said 'Thank you' it would have been ample. But your clothes! Not mine;
the beast had not sense enough for that, but yours! I do hope you will
give that as an excuse to Sylvia!"
CHAPTER X
A VICTIM
Sylvia had gone from Newport. She was then at Lenox. It was there the
previous autumn that her interest in Annandale had begun. The interest
had so deepened that she gave him her heart. Never before had she
given that to anyone. Annandale had taken it and then, one night, he
had so bruised it that she thought it broken. He had written that he
had not meant to. His letter had been full of regrets, of
protestations, of bad grammar. Such things may palliate, but they do
not cure. Only time can do that.
Time is a strange emollient. In its mysterious potency it softens
without our knowledge. Suddenly a whisper, a breeze that passes, shows
that it has done its work. With Sylvia time was having its will.
Furtively she had found herself wondering, as Annandale had wondered,
how it should fare with her, and how with him, could the past be
effaced and the old days renewed. But those days were gone, she
decided. Though into that decision a doubt would creep, not indeed
concerning the departure, but concerning her attitude and the justice
of it.
Annandale had sinned. He had sinned wantonly, grievously. From an
atmosphere of vice--an atmosphere from which, under pain of her
displeasure, she had distinctly warned him--he had staggered to her,
its pollution about him, reeking with drink, talking abundantly about
nothing imaginable, and at her just remonstrance had become instantly
irritable, refusing almost to leave the house.
So had his condition and the spectacle of it shocked her that, for
awhile, memory of him and of it was repellent. In her own eyes she
felt degraded. That men drank, she knew. But in her sphere of life
they drank either moderately or else in haunts invisible to her. And
it was precisely from such a haunt he had come, a shameless haunt, one
that sullied her even to know of.
Yes, he had sinned, wantonly, grievously, almost unforgivably. Almost,
she reflected, but perhaps not quite. In his letter of protest and
regret he had told her that he remembered nothing, nothing whatever,
absolutely nothing at all, save one vague, brief vision of herself.
The rest, the beginning, the end, the inter-spaces were, he assured
her, blank. At first she had thought that sheer nonsense. But, later,
the earnest way in which it was put impressed her. Then on the heels
of that communication there had followed one from Orr, indorsing what
Annandale said, declaring that it was all quite possible, adding that,
in certain temperaments, memory when influenced by toxics will play
tricks stranger than the average mind can comfortably credit.
These letters she had not answered. Logically she could not admit the
validity of the statements which they contained. But the heart has
logic which logic does not know. Then, too, is there not that within
us that prompts us to believe less what we should than what we wish?
Sylvia's reason, guided by her inexperience, refused at first to
accept the idea that any sane man could act as Annandale had and
afterward be oblivious of it. That remorse there should be was only
natural, but that there should be no memory of anything whatever
seemed to her absurd.
But there was her cousin's assurance to the contrary. Then
imperceptibly, little by little, that assurance, filtering through the
saddened girl, took possession of her, insisting on recognition,
telling her that, though her lover had erred, yet, in erring, he was
more to be pitied than condemned. Dominated by drink, which, Orr
added, he had promised to renounce, he had gone to that haunt and,
contaminated there, knew not what he did. But she, instead of
realizing that, she who was to have been his in sickness and health,
for better, for worse, she, in her pride, had dismissed him.
He had erred, Sylvia told herself, deeply, grievously, but so, too,
had she. She had condemned when she should have condoned; she had
spurned him when it was her solicitude that he needed.
At the sure cognition of that, it was as though from her eyes a
bandage had fallen. Then at once in her tender conscience she beheld
herself, detestable in pride, a girl without a heart, one of whom he,
no doubt, was well rid of.
It was during the process of this awakening that the conflagration at
Narragansett Pier occurred. Sylvia read of it. She read, too, of
certain prowesses which the dismissed had displayed.
The account, very inexact as such accounts always are, was also highly
colored, spun out for space purposes for much more than the space was
worth. Had you not known better you would have taken it for granted
that the heroism of Annandale was on a par with that of Leonidas at
Thermopylæ and even of Roosevelt at San Juan. It quite stirred you.
It stirred Sylvia. The paper fell from her. But the past returned. At
once it seemed to her that it might be mended and the old days
renewed. The hero of whom the paper told she knew now that she had
wholly loved, and she knew, too, that wholly she still loved him.
Time had done its work ridiculously, inopportunely, yet effectively at
last. But the gates of life are double. On one stands written "Too
Soon." On the other "Too Late." It is unfortunate to get wedged
between them. Of that fact Sylvia became rapidly aware. On the morrow
she began a letter to Annandale. Before it was finished there came one
from Fanny, announcing that she was to be Annandale's wife.
In certain crises of the emotions there is a certain sense of
unreality. Even as Sylvia read what Fanny said she could not grasp it.
When presently she did, she could not believe it. But there it was.
Then immediately she experienced the agony which comes when we battle
in dream with the intangible and the dread, when we know it is dream
and yet feel it is death.
"It is all my fault," she cried. She found but that. At the moment she
was in that condition which precedes the great commotion of tears,
when the strangulation of agony is subsiding and contracted nerves
distend. But the tears did not come. The pain was infinite. There was
a weight which she felt not without but within, a weight so heavy that
she thought she could not bear it. It racked her. Only her mind was
active. "It is my fault," she repeated. Then she added, "And my
cross."
From a crisis such as this, in a nature such as hers, the soul issues
as from an orgy. It has supped on sorrow. It is fed. It ceases to look
back. It looks forward, marveling indeed that it should look at all,
yet looking. Life's burdens are more bearable than the despairful
think. Until the eyes are closed and the heart no longer beats, in
some way, somehow, they can be carried.
Sylvia took up her cross. It was leaden. But in the effort she was
aided. Pride helped her. The assistance of pride may be poor, yet is
it not better than none? To Sylvia it was useful. It enabled her to
answer Fanny's letter.
"You have my congratulations, Fanny dear," she wrote, "all of them, my
best and warmest, and so has Arthur too. Please say so to him and tell
him that, in marrying by dearest friend, he and I must be dear friends
also."
Then the tears did come, swiftly, like the ripple of the rain. On the
table where she sat she put her head down and sobbed, paroxysmally, as
sobs a child.
THE GENERAL SESSIONS
CHAPTER I
DISENCHANTMENT
"Il segreto----"
Marie's voice rang out, clear and fluid, scattering notes through the
room, filling it with them, charging the air with melody, then, like a
chorus entering a crypt, it sank in diminishing accords and, sinking,
died slowly away.
The segreto indeed! The secret of happiness was remoter now than
when, under the teaching of the ex-first lady, she had first attacked
the score. But her voice had improved. It was fuller, more resonant
and ample.
Marie, too, had improved. In face and figure beauty had developed. Her
manner was securer, her eyes more grave, her smile less frequent. The
bud had blossomed.
In the process a year had gone. From high Norman downs she had watched
the summer pass. Autumn had met her in the Elysian Fields. There the
wolfish winter had approached. At the first bite there had been a
flight to Havre, the return to New York. Now it was spring again.
Through the open windows of the Arundel came the city's hum and with
it the subtleties and enticements of May.
A year had gone. But there are years that count double. There are
others so vast that in them you may have evolved a world, seen it glow
and subside. The solitudes of space appal. The solitudes of the heart
may be as endless as they. In those where Marie loitered a world had
had its birth and subsidence, a world with gem-like hopes for stars, a
world lighted by a sun so eager that its rays had made her blind.
There had been aspirations, gorgeous and tangental as comets are.
There had been the colorless ether of which dreams are made. For
cosmic matter there was love. A year had gone. In it, these wonders
had formed and fled.
Marie got from the piano. It had no secret to tell. But there was
another which the year had revealed, a secret which, at first opaque
and obscure, little by little had taken shape and changed from an
impossibility into a monstrous fact. Marie had begun by disavowing it.
She had disowned it, would have none of it. But disavowals cease. In
certain conditions we get used to monsters. The soul makes itself at
home with what it must. The monster to which Marie was accustoming
herself was the knowledge that her lover had lied.
In departing with him from the den of the ex-first lady it was not
merely with faith and trust, but with absolute certainty that
marriage, if delayed, was only postponed; that a week, a month at the
furthest, would see her his wife.
On the way she had stopped and wired to Gay street, telling her father
not to worry, that she had gone to be married, that she would write to
him soon.
Whether he had worried she could only surmise. But soon she had
written, inclosing a photograph of Loftus, one which she had colored,
an excellent likeness that displayed his chiseled features, wonderful
eyes and thin, black mustache with a perfection of precision that was
lifelike. Above it she wrote: "Marie's Husband." It would please her
father, she was sure, and in the letter she told him prettily, in a
little, cajoling way which he loved, that while, for the moment, he
must not know where she was, yet shortly she was planning to come and
surprise him--to surprise him more than he could ever imagine, and
show him that he could be very, very proud of her, but prouder still,
much, much prouder of the man she had married.
The plan, delightful to her, first the illness of her lover's mother,
then the lady's absence from town, prevented her from at once
effecting. Then, greatly to her uneasiness, she found that the plan
must be yet further delayed. Mrs. Loftus had gone to her manor on the
Hudson, where, her son declared, he could not take Marie "like that."
Financially it was stupid to rush things. Gradually his mother must be
prepared. Moreover, as preparation could be decently managed only in
town, to which she would not now return until autumn, it would be a
good idea to run over to Europe.
So spoke Royal Loftus. It was all false as an obituary. Financially he
was entirely independent of his mother, who, at the time, was not at
her manor, but just around the corner and never better in her life.
But Marie, wholly infatuated, quite willing to believe that the moon
was made of green cheese if only he took the trouble to so inform her,
accepted it all for gospel.
The delay, of course, was a deep disappointment. She felt it, and felt
it acutely. But in Europe she supposed that people would not know, and
would not care a rap if they did, Loftus hastened to assure her.
To his project, therefore, she yielded. Presently she was glad that
she had. The journey itself was a joy. At the Arundel he had come and
gone. Often she had been lonely. Often she had sat through hours that
limped themselves away, waiting for him, waiting fruitlessly. But
during the journey and after it, on the high Norman downs, always she
had him with her. Therein was the joy.
The places, new to her and fragrant, to which he took her interested
her very much, but very much, too, as accessories might. It was from
him that their real charm emanated. He also enjoyed himself, but less
rapturously, in a fashion more detached. He found time to busy himself
with the news of the world, with menus, with wines--occupations which
to her were extraordinary. Marie did not know what she ate; as for the
world, it was sublimated in him, a fact which she confided to him--of
which, if she had not, he would have been perfectly aware and which he
accepted at first as but a proper tribute to himself, but which ended
by boring him distinctly. An excess of anything disagrees with the
best.
The first symptoms of indigestion declared themselves in Paris. They
had there a large suite in a big hotel. So large was the suite that
frequently Marie could not find Loftus in it. He was off, returning
when he saw fit, refusing to be questioned, yawning at reproaches,
but otherwise perfectly civil, agreeing with her that it was not nice
to be left alone, yet leaving her alone whenever he felt like it.
On the Norman downs the fresh fragrance of life had put a higher color
on her cheeks, marking them with the flush of happiness and health.
But in this game of hide and nowhere to seek her face became pallid as
the curious white sky which in autumn stretches itself over Paris.
Then stealthily, like a wolf, winter approached. The cheerlessness of
it Loftus hated, as all New Yorkers do. To Marie, however, it was
welcome. It meant a return to the Arundel, where she felt that the
marriage so long delayed could not be further postponed.
The illusion was pleasant but not permanent. On re-emerging in the
noise and sunshine of New York Loftus ceased to bother himself with
the invention of excuses. He told Marie that his mother would not
listen to anything of the kind, a statement which, while frank, was
not exact. Mrs. Loftus had never heard of it, or for that matter, of
the girl, and Loftus saw no reason whatever why she should. Yet if not
frank, he was patient. Marie, on the other hand, took it all very
hard. Humiliation possessed her. By day it confronted her, spectrally.
At night it came to her, sat by her side, plucked at her sleeve, awoke
her. It was a thing she could not get away from, could not forget;
what is worse, she could not understand. It tortured her, and
concerning it she tormented him constantly, displaying a persistence
that was annoying and pathetic--the persistence of a child. It was as
such that he treated it with yawning indifference, quite as though it
were but a whim which, other things intervening, she would forget.
Other things did intervene. Among them was an adventure in Central
Park. One afternoon a brougham in which she was driving crossed a
victoria where sat a remarkably pretty woman with Loftus at her side.
Marie's eyes filled. Had he struck her he would have hurt her far
less. When next she saw him she told him so. The idea amused him. He
was not a ruffian, only a cad. Like the whim, he waved the little
tragedy away.
"That was Mrs. Annandale," he announced unabashedly, "a very old
friend of mine. I have known her all my life."
"Mrs. Annandale!" Marie exclaimed. "Not the wife of the Mr. Annandale
whom you brought here last year?"
Loftus stared at her. He did not understand. Yet then, neither did
she.
"Why," she continued, "you told me he was to marry a dark young lady."
"Yes," said Loftus, fumbling as he spoke for a cigarette. "But I told
you also not to use that expression. Say girl or young woman. If you
want to be fantastic, say young gentlewoman, but never young lady. You
are right, though. Annandale was to have married a Miss Waldron, but
she threw him over and he married somebody else."
To Marie all this was inexplicable. She did not understand how a man
thrown over by one girl could so speedily marry another. She did not
understand, either, what Loftus could be doing with her. To her mind
driving presupposed an intimacy which acquaintance might explain but
did not excuse. The matter perplexed her, and not unnaturally. It is
only through our own heart that it is possible to attempt to read the
heart of another. In her heart Marie knew that nothing earthly could
induce her to appear as intimate with a man as Loftus had with that
woman. Yet, though she knew that, she knew also that many of her
views, like many of her expressions, were not in tune with the tone of
the set in which Loftus moved.
None the less a fact remained. To her other men did not exist. To him
other women existed. However she tried to console herself with
difference in breeding, that fact, remaining, pricked. It pricked
perhaps the harder because of this particular woman's looks. The woman
herself was hateful. How, she wondered, could Loftus drive about with
her when, with herself, he would barely be seen.
And why wouldn't he? In those days Marie's whys were many. But at the
end of every one of them the answer which she always found was that it
was all because she was not his wife. Yet there always another why
recurred. Why was she not what he had sworn she should be?
The possible disinheritance which hitherto he had imaginatively
displayed had no terrors of any kind for her. On bread and kisses she
would have lived with him joyfully in a slum. To luxury she was
unused. That with which she was surrounded she would not have missed
in the least. On the contrary, it had grown odious to her; it
suggested a form of compensation the very thought of which was
sickening. It was not for this that she had left Gay street, but for
him and an honest name.
In the prolonged absence of the latter there were times when her soul
seemed to slink into the obscurities of her being and swoon there for
shame. There were times when she could not look at herself in the
glass. Quite as often she had found it difficult to look at her
servants.
After the episode in Central Park the increasing sense of degradation
affected her so deeply that with a weary idea of preserving such
self-respect as she might, summoning those servants she dismissed
them--securing, meanwhile, from an agency a woman able to do what
little was essential, a negress named Blanche who talked Irish.
When Loftus discovered what she had done he was for having the
servants immediately back. He liked to have the girl entertain for
him. He liked to have his friends come to the aviary and hear the bird
sing. But Marie, with an air of determination that was new to him,
refused.
"They do not respect me," she said. "I don't blame them for that. Nor
can you. When we are married it will be different.
"When we are," she added with slow scorn.
CHAPTER II
THE MOTE IN THE EYE
A philosopher has noted that at certain periods a great many stupid
people have a good deal of stupid money. This condition, describable
as plethora, is succeeded by another catalogued as panic.
The number of stupid people who at this time stalked the streets
unchecked was phenomenal. Among them was Annandale. It was not a
beggarly twenty-five thousand a year that he had, but fifty, with, in
addition, more to come. This, though measurably satisfactory, was not
brilliant. Not brilliant, that is, as Mrs. Price used that term. Still
it was sufficient to remove him from the menagerie of paupers in which
she had classed him. Assured whereof, Mrs. Price, pocketing further
objections, gave in. Two months by the clock after the episodes at
Narragansett she assisted at his marriage to her daughter. A little
later Annandale took a house in Gramercy Park.
This house, leased fully furnished from November to June, Fanny
selected. She liked the neighborhood. Annandale, whose bachelor
quarters had, of course, been given up, liked it too. It was
convenient. He had got an idea that he ought to have something to do.
The something which he hit on consisted in going downtown every day
and standing, in a broker's office, over a ticker. Such were the
quantities of stupid money afloat that the ticker was very loquacious.
It talked and talked, generally in jumps. As it jumped Annandale
bought. As it continued to jump, he made. Whereupon he regarded
himself as a born financier. It was an illusion which that year very
many men shared.
But the illusion was agreeable to him. It was equally so to Fanny. It
took him out of the way and induced pleasant dreams. He talked of
drags and yachts. On fifty thousand a year these things are
impossibilities. But Annandale, believing himself a born financier,
believed, too, that the day was not remote when they would solidify
into facts. Pending which, Fanny, from her own carriage, distributed
to Annette, Juliette and the rest of them such orders as she liked.
It was in this carriage that Marie had seen her with Loftus. Others
also saw her. Fanny being a little more than a bride and Loftus a good
deal more than a beau, the spectacle caused comment. There were,
though, other things that the future had in charge which were to cause
more. But among those who beheld the particular spectacle was Fanny's
husband.
Annandale was in a hansom with Mr. Skitt, the broker in whose office
he looked over the tape. As Fanny drove by, Annandale raised his hat,
then, with a mimic which he meant to be humorously indignant, he shook
his stick at Loftus much as though he were saying, "Aha! making up to
my wife!"
Loftus entering into the spirit of the jest, ducked his head in
feigned alarm.
"That's a deuced pretty woman," remarked Mr. Skitt when the carriage
had passed.
"It is Mrs. Annandale," his client returned with some hauteur.
"Oh, beg pardon, I didn't know."
"Yes," Annandale resumed, "and that was Loftus, an old friend of
mine."
"Any relation to the Loftus?" Mr. Skitt, glad that the subject was
out of the way, inquired.
"He is the Loftus," Annandale, now entirely mollified, replied.
Others, however, took the spectacle less lightly. To Marie it was
distressing. To Mrs. Price it was absurd. Mrs. Price had not seen it,
but she heard of it. To air a few views on the subject she pounced in
on Fanny the very next day. Loftus, however, was there at the time.
She had to wait until he was gone. Then she let drive.
"Do you fancy," she asked fiercely, "that this is London? Do you?" she
repeated and menacingly pulled off a glove. "Don't you know that you
cannot have men hanging about you, and of all men that man? Great
heavens, if you wanted him you should have taken him at the start."
Fanny lit a cigarette, made a ring of smoke, poked a finger through it
and in a sugary, demure little way which she sometimes affected,
answered serenely: "At the finish perhaps I may yet."
"What!" cried Mrs. Price.
But from the door a servant was announcing Miss Waldron. The girl swam
in. Necessarily, for the time being, the subject was dropped. Later
Mrs. Price got back to it, but without notable result, without
obtaining either any elucidation of Fanny's rather curious remark.
That though, with graver things, the future had in charge. Meanwhile
Fanny, with nine servants and a housekeeper to run them, led the life
of any other young society woman, the life of an objet de luxe.
This form of existence would have been quite to her liking if--Yet is
there not always an If? A poet declaimed on the subject two thousand
years ago. Times have changed, customs with them, but not the human
heart. Barring great wealth and its fanfares and accompaniments, Fanny
had enough to throw the average woman into stupors of envy, enough
also to even satisfy her, if only instead of one man she had married
another. Annandale was very nice. He had but one defect. But that
defect was fatal. He did not happen to be somebody else.
This defect Fanny had fancied that she could overlook. She was young,
therefore ignorant, and, in fancying that she could ignore that fatal
defect, fancied also that she had the ability to order herself about,
to command her nature and dictate to her heart. The fallacy is common.
Many of us have entertained it and kept at it too until the discovery
is made that the heart is a force which we must yield to or break.
Fanny became aware of this shortly after Loftus returned. There in her
existence was the If. As a consequence, although Annandale was quite
perfect to her, his perfection was as nothing to his one defect.
Of this defect Annandale was wholly unconscious. Yet, though he could
not see the mote in his own eye, there was one in Fanny's which,
though he saw, he was unable to define. It is true on the mote
question he was not an expert. A husband, particularly when he happens
to be big and blond, seldom is. Then, too, the effect of the mote was
odd. It affected Fanny's disposition. When he approached her he could
not but notice that she became elusive. He could not but perceive that
she was as afraid of a kiss as of a bee.
"What is the matter with you?" he inquired on one occasion when she
appeared even more tantalizingly intangible than he had seen her yet.
"Women are the very devil," he muttered as, without answering, she
moved yet further away.
The question, though, was very unreasonable. So at least Mrs. Price,
whom he tried to take into his confidence, assured him with fine
scorn. "The idea of a man asking his wife what is the matter with
her!" she exclaimed. "A man ought to know. If he doesn't, how in the
world can he expect her to?"
But that was before the episode with Loftus in the Park. Had Annandale
gone to Mrs. Price then she would have been quite capable of putting a
flea in his ear. That opportunity he neglected. Stocks were soaring.
On paper he was making money hand over fist. He had no time to bother
with women's whims. When men do have time for such things the time has
passed.
Even then it had gone. One night early in May Fanny had a few people
in, among whom were Loftus and Sylvia Waldron.
Sylvia, who long since had let bygones be bygones, was now as sisterly
as ever with Fanny, and with Annandale on terms friendly and frank, an
attitude which, as Fanny put it, "made it so easy, don't you know, all
around." Yet then in putting it in that way Fanny may have been
actuated by the fellow-feeling which makes us all so wondrous kind.
With Loftus she was rather friendly herself.
That, however, by the way. During the dinner a telegram was brought to
Annandale. It concerned the morrow's market and interested him
considerably. As soon as he decently could he got away to confer with
Skitt. Later the other guests began to go. But Loftus lingered.
Presently he and Fanny were alone.
"How is the lady?" Fanny negligently inquired.
Her arms and neck were bare. Her dress, immaterial as cobwebs, was of
starbeams' restful hue. About her throat was a string of opals. They
were colorful, though less so than her eyes and mouth.
She was seated on a sofa. Loftus was standing. As always, he was
superiorly sent out. Other men who got their things at the same places
that he got his never succeeded, however they tried, in appearing
half so well.
"Do you know," Fanny continued, "she has improved vastly since that
day when I saw you trying to pick her up. How did you ever manage?
Tell me."
Loftus, his hands in his pockets, shrugged a shoulder.
"And she is so delightfully disdainful," Fanny ran on. "In Central
Park this afternoon she turned up her nose at me. It is a very pretty
nose, Royal, did you know that?"
"I know that it is a bit out of joint," Loftus condescended at last to
reply.
"Dear me! Fancy that! But then the course of true love never did run
smooth."
Loftus assumed an air of great weariness. "Do drop it," he said. "You
know very well that I have never cared for anyone but you."
"Oh, of course," Fanny promptly and pleasantly retorted. "I may have
had a doubt or two about it. But when you put this lady in a flat
around the corner, then, naturally, you convinced me. It was a rather
circuitous way, though, to go at it, don't you think?"
Beside her on the sofa Loftus flopped. "Why do you always go back to
that?" he asked, with the same affectation of weariness.
Fanny turned from him. "I don't seem to be able to get away from it,"
she answered, but less promptly and pleasantly than before. Her fair
face had grown serious. From her eyes the bantering look had gone.
"Besides," she added after a moment, "you took her to Europe, and that
did seem a trifle steep."
"Would you like her to go back there?" Loftus tentatively inquired.
In and out from Fanny's skirt a white slipper, butterflied with gold,
moved restlessly. "I should have preferred that you had let her alone.
It was not nice of you. It was not nice at all."
From him she had turned to the carpet. She was looking at it still. "I
wonder," she presently resumed, "if you ever suspected how it hurt
me." Pausing a bit she looked up. "But you have been so dense, Royal."
Loftus was about to interrupt. She checked him. "The first time I saw
you I was just fifteen. That is eight years ago. Since then I can
honestly say that until I accepted Arthur I had never thought of
anyone but you. Never. Not once. Can you realize now how this affair
of yours affected me? It hurt. If it had not been for that, do you
suppose I would have taken the prince in the fairy tale? You were my
prince."
"But," Loftus protested, "this affair, as you call it, came about only
faute de mieux, faute de toi. Why cannot I--why cannot we----?"
Fanny checked him again. "No, we cannot. Two years ago you said the
same thing to me. I forgave you then because I loved you. For the same
reason I forgive you now. But, however I care for you, never will I be
your mistress."
"Fanny----"
"No, never. If, as again and again you have told me during the past
few months, you still care for me, either you must love me openly or I
will not permit you to love me at all."
At the sudden horizon Loftus bent to her. "Let us go, then. In Europe
we can love before all the world."
Fanny drew back. "Particularly before all the half-world," she
answered with a sniff. "No. You misunderstand me. Perhaps, too, I
misunderstand you. Let my hand be."
"Fanny, I will do anything----"
"It is rather late to say that. But if I were free now, what would you
do? Would you repeat the invitation you have made?"
Loftus, his wonderful eyes looking deep into hers, answered quickly
and sweetly, "I would beg you to be my wife."
Fanny straightened herself. "Then give that girl her congé, give her a
dot too, send her abroad and let her marry some count."
"Very good, I will do so."
"When you have," said Fanny, "I will ask Arthur for a divorce."
"What?" And Loftus, with those wonderful eyes, stared in surprise. He
was in for it, let in for it, was his first impression. Yet at once,
on looking back, he realized that Fanny was incapable of trick of any
kind. "But," he objected, "supposing he refuses?"
"Then I will apply."
"But you can't, you see. He is good as gold."
"Oh, I don't mean here. I mean out West."
For a moment Loftus said nothing. Even in the West, he reflected,
divorce took time. Yet then, reflecting, too, that it would be very
gentlemanly of Annandale were he to go there and leave the coast free
for him, he smiled and remarked, with what seemed astounding
inappositeness, "I have been selling short."
"Ah!" said Fanny longly. "And what of it?"
"Unless the market turns I shall be out, God knows how much!"
"But what of it?" Yet even as she spoke she understood.
"Fiddlesticks!" she exclaimed with a gesture of annoyance. "I sha'n't
care if you haven't two cents."
To this Loftus had no chance to reply. Annandale came lounging in.
"Do you know what I have done?" he collectively and blandly inquired.
"I told Skitt to buy me, at the opening, 1,000 Atchison and 1,000
Steel. Now I would like a quiet drink."
Loftus stood up. "I am going in the Park for a quiet smoke. But I
thought you had sworn off."
Annandale tugged at his cavalry mustache and laughed. "I haven't
touched a thing for nearly a year. But on a night like this, when the
whole town is mad, I think I might have a drop. Stop, dear boy, won't
you, and have one with me? No? Well--" And, accompanying Loftus to the
door, he whispered to him there, "My compliments to Miss Leroy."
"Don't forget, Royal," Fanny called after him, "that you dine with us
on the ninth."
CHAPTER III
THE GATES OF LIFE
In her sitting-room at the Arundel Marie sat. It was nearly midnight.
Hours before she had dined. Since then she had wandered from one room
to another, from one chair to another, wondering would Loftus come.
Sometimes he did. More often he did not. She never knew beforehand. It
was as it pleased him. Always the uncertainty irked her. But on this
evening it was particularly enervating. She had reached the gates of
her endurance. She could stand no more. She must pass through them,
pass or fall back, where she did not know, but somewhere, to some
plane, in which, though life forsook her, at least its degradation
would be foregone.
At first, in the old days, when he met her in the ex-first lady's den,
it had seemed to her that life would be incomplete without him. Then
it had seemed that with him it would be fulfilled to the tips.
Subsequently the long train of disenchantments had ensued. In Paris
he had pained her greatly. There, after a series of those things,
little in themselves, but which, when massed, become mountainous, she
had been forced to consider not her love for him but the nature of
such love as he had for her. In him there was a reticence which
perplexed, depths which she could not reach. At times his silence was
that of one to whom something has happened, who is suffering from some
constraint, from some pressure or from some long illness of which
traces remain. At others, it had exasperated her, it made her feel
like a piano, on which, a piece played, the cover is shut. She had
seemed to serve as a pastime, nothing more; a toy which now and then
he took up, but only because it was there, beneath his feet. Yet even
then she was not quite unhappy. Even then she had faith. She believed
in him still. Hope had not gone.
Hope has its braveries. Its outposts patrol our lives. Until death
annihilates it and us, always beyond is a sentry. The sentry which she
still discerned was the promise he had made. Latterly it had not been
much of a sentry. It had far more resembled a straw. But it was all
she had. She had clung to it. Hope indeed has its braveries, but it
has its cowardices as well.
This hope, ultimate and forlorn, she knew now was craven, mated to her
degradation, born of her shame. If it were to be realized the
realization must delay no more. She was at the gates. She must pass
through. On that she had decided. When Loftus came she would tell him
so. She would tell him that she would work for him, slave for him,
envelop him with her love, pillow him on her heart. Though he lost his
wretched money what would it matter to her and how should it matter to
him? She could sing him if not into affluence at least into ease.
Tambourini, with whom until recently she had studied, had told her not
once, out of politeness merely, but again and again that in her throat
was a volcano of gold. With Italian exaggeration he had called her
Pasta, Alboni, Malibran, predicting their triumphs for her. If Loftus
would make an honest woman of her those triumphs would be for him. But
as she told herself that she told herself too that such triumphs he
would prefer to avoid. He should have, though, the chance. If he
rejected it she would go. And of its rejection she had little manner
of doubt. But the chance he should have, yes, even though she knew
beforehand that with his usual civility--a civility which she had
learned to hate--he would hand it back. She could see him at it. She
could see his negligent smile. That smile she had learned too to hate.
Always she loved him to distraction, but sometime she hated him to the
death.
From Loftus for a moment her thoughts veered to Tambourini. The week
previous suddenly, without warning, he had told her torrentially that
he adored her. He was a good teacher. Yet, of course, after that she
had been obliged to let him go.
But now her thoughts were interrupted. At the table where she sat she
started, her head drawn abruptly in that attitude which deers have
when surprised. In the door without had come the fumble of a key and,
in the hall, she caught the almost noiseless tread of her lover. As he
entered she got from her seat. Loftus had his hat on. He took it off,
put it down on the table and taking a cigar from his pocket lit it at
the chimney of a lamp that was there.
At the conclusion of the operation he looked at her. Her dress was
canary. From the short loose sleeves lace fell that was repeated at
the neck. There a yellow sapphire had been pinned. As he looked at
her, she looked at him.
"I have something to say to you, Marie," he began.
With an uplift of the chin she answered: "And I, Royal, have something
to say to you."
"The usual thing, I suppose. Well, shy a teacup at me if you like, but
spare me a scene."
As he spoke he seated himself. "Marie," he at once resumed, "I shall
have to take my mother up the Hudson shortly----"
The girl interrupted him. "Does Mrs. Annandale go too?"
The man's cigar had gone out. He relighted it. "No," he replied, "the
last time I saw her she said something about going West."
"Ah!" Marie exclaimed, and immediately with that curious intuition
which women that really love possess she added, "to Dakota?"
"Perhaps," replied Loftus with a puff. The surety of the shot amazed
him, but of the amazement he gave no sign. "Perhaps, though I do not
remember that she said just where she did intend to go." He drew in a
large mouthful of smoke, which leisurely he blew forth. It circled
about her. She moved away. "Oh, excuse me," he said, "I did not
mean--" The girl made a gesture of indifference. "You see," he began
again, "the point is just here. My mother is not well. She rather
wants me with her this summer. In the circumstances I thought you
might like to go abroad."
Marie, through half-closed eyes, cautiously peered at him. "Without
you?" she asked.
Loftus nodded.
"For good?"
To this Loftus made no answer. Provided she went, though it were for
bad, he did not much care.
Marie, who had been standing, crossed the room and recrossed it. A
year before she had suggested the kitten. Where that had been the
leopard had come. In her movements were the same supple ease, the same
grace and alertness. Suddenly at the table where he sat she stopped,
rested a hand on it and bending a little looked him in the face.
"Liar," she muttered. "Liar! I know and so do you. Yes, I knew it
almost from the first, but, though I knew it, I tried as hard to
deceive myself as you did to deceive me. You never intended to marry
me, not for a moment, not even at the moment when you called God to
witness that you would."
Her hand had gone from the table, from it and him she turned away.
Loftus, who at the arraignment had retreated a full inch in his chair,
called after her. "It is untrue; what I said, I meant."
Marie turned back. "Then if you meant it, marry me this night. If you
have any honor, any whatever, a spark of it, you will; if not----"
She paused and looked at him. It was not this at all she had meant to
say. She had meant to entreat him, to picture what their life might
be, to tell him of her enveloping love, and that failing, to go, but
to go without words, without reproaches, without suffering that which
had been between them to be marred by vituperation and, so marred, to
descend to the level of some coarse intrigue. But something, his
manner, the manifest lie about his mother, the apparition of that
other woman, battening on nerves overwrought had irritated her into
entire forgetfulness of what she had meant to do and say.
The pause Loftus noticed. What was behind it he misconstrued. "Don't
mind me," he encouragingly interjected. "Threaten away. It is so nice
and well-bred. Yet I must be allowed to say that while I did intend to
marry you, the intention has been rather weakened through just such
scenes as this. Though, to be frank, it is not so much that I object
to scenes as it is that, if scenes there must be, I prefer to make
them myself."
At the humor of that Marie ran her nails into her hands, dug them in.
Without some such moxa it seemed to her that she might take and hurl
the lamp at him, fire the place and, fate favoring, be calcinated with
him there.
"And now that I have been frank," he went on, "let me be franker. You
and I have ceased to be able to hit it off. The blame for that I will,
if you like, assume."
Then he too paused. But not at all because he did not fully know what
he meant to do and say.
"Marie," he continued, putting a hand in a pocket as he spoke, "in the
past year we have been more than friends. Friends at least let us
remain. Friends do part, and for awhile we must. Your voice, like
yourself, is charming. If I may advise, go and study abroad. Though if
you prefer remain here. But, of course, whatever you do you will need
money. I have brought some."
In his hand now was a card case which he offered her. She took it,
looked at it, opened it, then moving to a window she raised the sash
and threw the card case into the night, yet so quickly and
unexpectedly that Loftus had no time to interfere.
"That is an agreeable way of getting rid of twelve thousand dollars,"
he remarked.
Yet, however lightly he affected to speak, the action annoyed him.
Like all men of large means he was close. It seemed to him beastly to
lose such a sum. He got up, went to the window and looked down. He
could not see the case and he much wanted to go and look for it. But
that for the moment Marie prevented.
"If it were twelve times twelve million," she exclaimed, "I would do
the same! Oh, Royal," she cried, "don't you know it is not your money
