They walked beside the Alameda down to the quaint old plaza, surrounded
by white houses of varied architecture, deserted and dimly lit with the
infrequent lamp. When Englishmen are diplomatic they are the most subtle
and sinuous of mankind, but when they are not they are the bluntest.
Over said nothing whatever until he had enjoyed the half of his pipe,
and then he remarked, “I say, you must drop that man—send him about his
business without any more loss of time.”

Lydia, who had been prattling amiably, stiffened and attempted to
withdraw her arm.

“What are my affairs to you?” she asked, haughtily.

“For this trip I am your big brother. I should not merit the friendship
of your father if I did not make this affair my own. Brothers are always
privileged to be rude, you know: you are not only playing a silly game,
but a dangerous one. That man will try to kidnap you—he is only one
degree removed from a bandit.” Lydia’s eyes flashed, and he hastened to
rectify a possible misstep. “How would you like to live in the side of a
hill with your lord—to escape taxes—and cook his frijoles three hundred
and sixty-five days of the year? If he didn’t beat you, he certainly
would not serenade you; and even in a country where water is more
plentiful than in Spain—suppose you induced him to emigrate—it is
doubtful if he would ever take a bath—”

“You are a brute!”

“Merely practical. He would insist upon having his beans flavored with
garlic, and he doubtless smokes all night as well as all day. He may be
a good enough sort in the main, but there is no hope here for a man to
rise above his station in life. If there were a revolution he would
probably be in the thick of it and get himself killed; and if he
followed you to America—failing to kidnap you—he would probably open a
cigar-shop on the Bowery.”

He had expected tears, but Lydia drew herself up and said, coldly: “I
don’t think I am in danger of being kidnapped. Strange as it may appear,
I feel quite well able to take care of myself, and if with you on one
side and father on the other I can’t vary the monotony of life with a
little flirtation—well, if you were a girl, surrounded by goody-goody
people as I have always been, you might be tempted a little way by
something that had the glamour of romance.”

“Girls must find life rather a bore,” said Over, sympathetically. “And I
only wish your hero were worthy of you, but, take my word for it, his
romantic picturesqueness is only skin—clothes deep. No man is romantic,
if it comes to that. I met a long-haired poet once, and when we got him
in the smoking-room he was the prosiest of the lot.”

“There is no such thing as romance, then?” asked Lydia, with a sigh.

“Not when you are ‘up against it,’ to use a bit of your own slang.”

As the radiating streets were dark they paced slowly about the plaza.
For a time Lydia was silent, and Over drew thoughtfully at his pipe.
Finally he asked, curiously:

“Do you women really get any satisfaction out of that sort of
thing—talking with your eyes and exchanging an occasional note? I mean,
of course, unless you have a definite idea that it is going to lead to
something?”

“We like any little excitement,” said Lydia, dryly, “and the littlest is
better than none. I suppose you are too masculine—too British—to
understand that!”

“Well, yes, I am, rather. I fancy what is the matter with girls is that
they don’t have to work as hard as boys—don’t have so many opportunities
to work off steam. As for this Johnny, he must be a silly ass if he is
content with singing and sighing and rigging himself out. If he
isn’t—there lies the danger. He’ll rally his friends and carry you off.
Nothing could be simpler.”

“I should be quite like Helen—or Mary, Queen of Scots!”

“Good Lord!”

She flushed under the lash of his voice, but in a moment raised her eyes
softly to his. “You are so good,” she murmured. “Really like a brother,
so I don’t mind telling you that I am fearfully interested—but not so
much in the mere man as in the whole thing. It has all seemed so
romantic, at least. I don’t believe an American girl ever had such an
experience before. However, I will set your mind at rest—since you are
so good as to take an interest in poor little me—I haven’t the slightest
desire really to know the man. I should be disenchanted, of course, for
I could not stand commonness in the most beautiful husk. But—there is
something in one quite independent of all that—of one’s upbringing,
one’s prejudices, of common-sense—can’t you understand?—the primeval
attraction of man and woman. I have been quite aware that all this could
come to nothing, but it has been something to have felt that way for
once in a well-regulated lifetime; to have been primal for a fleeting
moment is something, I can assure you.”

Over groped in the depths of his masculine understanding. “Well, I
suppose so. But what of the man? It is a mere experience to you, but it
may be a matter of life and death to a poor devil who is nine-tenths
fire and sentiment.”

“He, too, has something to think about for the rest of his life.”

“And you fancy that will satisfy him?”

“It will have to.”

“You might have spared him.”

“There can be no romance without a hero.”

“Upon my word, you are the greater savage of the two!”

“I told you I enjoyed being a savage for once in my life.”

Over made no reply, and if Lydia’s glance had not dropped to the uneven
pavement, she would have seen his eyes open wide with incredulous
amazement and then flash with anger. As it was, she wondered why he
hurried her back to the hotel and then practically ordered her up to her
room. He stood on the lower step of the stair until he heard her greet
Jane; then he left the hotel and walked rapidly down the street again.
In a moment he met Catalina.

“Oh,” he said, with an awkward attempt at masculine indifference,
although his eyes were blazing. “Are you out—alone—as late as this?
Isn’t it rather risky?”

“I’ve been walking with Jesus Maria,” she replied, coolly. “What a baby
you were to walk off through these lonely streets with Lydia! I
supposed, of course, that you would talk to her in the hotel. Don’t you
know that man would have been mad with jealousy if he had seen you? Then
there would have been a fine rough-and-tumble if he hadn’t got a knife
into your back first. He came along with that everlasting guitar under
his arm just after you left, and I told him that Lydia was ill, and
asked him to take a walk with me. We’d better give him the slip as soon
as possible; he’s off his head about her.”

“What a little brick you are! What did he have to say?”

“I explained to him that he could never hope to marry Lydia, and
elevated the family to the ancient aristocracy of America. It made no
impression on him whatever. He expressed contempt for the entire race,
barring Lydia, whom he takes to be an angel. I concluded that disloyalty
was the better part, and told him that Lydia was nothing but a little
American flirt trying to have a sensation. That made even less
impression on him—he believes that she is ready to fly with him at a
moment’s notice. I did more harm than good, and I shall speak to Cousin
Lyman to-night.”

Over stared hard at her. “That was very brave of you. Aren’t you afraid
of anything?”

“Not of greasers!” replied the Californian. “I’ve dealt with them all my
life. I treated this one as an equal, and made him forget Lydia in
talking about himself. He’s a revolutionist, hates the queen because she
doesn’t go to bull-fights, despises the king, anathematizes all
monarchies and aristocracies, and talks like a Fourth-of-July orator
about the days when Spain will be a republic, and one of his own
sort—possibly himself—will be president. I never heard so much brag in
America. But he’s full of pluck. Now, you go and call Cousin Lyman out
into the hall, and we’ll have a consultation.”




                                  XII


The upshot of the conference was the decision that on the following
morning the Moultons should conspicuously enter a third-class carriage
of the train bound for Baeza, and while Captain Over, on the platform,
talked with Catalina in the doorway, they should slip out of the
opposite entrance, cross the track, and take the train for Alcazar. The
Alcazar train, the landlord assured them, left two minutes earlier than
that for Baeza, so that Catalina, in the confusion of the last moments,
could join her relatives unobserved. It was the habit of Jesus Maria to
saunter down late, and even then to engage in conversation on the
platform. Catalina had told him they intended to spend the following
night at Baeza, and he was under the impression they were bound for
Seville. Captain Over would take Catalina’s place in the doorway,
covering her retreat, and await the rest of his party in Baeza.

It was a programme little to the taste of any of them, but Over
heroically proposed it, and it seemed to be the only feasible plan.

In Spain there is apparently no law against crossing the tracks, nor in
leaving a train on the wrong side. On the following morning Catalina,
having reserved a first-class compartment on the train for Alcazar, the
six members of the party, portmanteaus in hand, filed down to the
station and entered a third-class carriage on the southern train. In a
few moments Over descended leisurely and lit a cigarette. Catalina
leaned forward to chat with him, then stood up, her bright, amused
glances roving over the country people who were bound for a fair in a
town near by. The peasants were interested in themselves and
contemptuously indifferent to strangers. The Moultons, including the
mystified and angry Lydia, descended and crossed the track unobserved.
Catalina, one hand on her portmanteau, was ready to make a dash the
moment she heard the familiar drone, “Viajeros al tren.” It might be
expected within the next five minutes, and it might be belated for
twenty.

“There he comes!” she murmured. “If he should take it into his head to
enter the train before it starts! We will tell him the others are late.
What a pity you don’t speak Spanish; you could engage him in
conversation! He is looking—glowering at me! Do you suppose he
suspects?”

“It is not like you to lose your nerve,” began Over, but at the same
moment his glance moved from the Catalan’s face to hers, and he smiled.
She looked, if anything, more impassive than usual. “My knees are
shaking,” she confided to him, “and my heart is galloping. It is rather
delightful to be so excited, but still—thank Heaven!” Jesus Maria had
met an acquaintance. They lit the friendly cigarito and entered into
conversation.

“They are walking down the platform,” said Catalina, anxiously, a moment
later, “and the other train is not so far back as this; however, Cousin
Lyman will no doubt keep the door shut. There, he’s turning. I’d better
make a bolt. Good-bye. Au revoir—”

“Tell me again exactly what I am to do. I don’t want to run any risk of
missing you.”

Catalina glanced over her shoulder. There was such a babble, both in the
car and on the platform, that it would not be difficult to miss the
singsong of the guard. The other train was still there.

“Do not go to the town. It is miles from the station; there is sure to
be an inn close by. If we don’t arrive to-morrow night, of course, you
will have a telegram; in any case, don’t wait for us, but go on to
Granada. You can amuse yourself there, and we are sure to turn up sooner
or later. Have you that list of Spanish words I wrote out?” He looked
forlorn and homesick, and Catalina laughed outright. “Better go straight
to Granada,” she said.

“Viajeros al tren!”

“Take my place—quick!” whispered Catalina. She let herself down on the
other side, dragged her heavy bag after her, and ran. She had a confused
idea that the northern train was closer than it had been, but did not
pause until she came to the first-class carriages. Then she saw that the
train was empty. At the same instant she heard a whistle, and glancing
distractedly up the track saw a train gliding far ahead.

There was not a moment to be lost. It was the guard of the southern
train that had sounded his warning cry, and she ran back, dragging the
heavy portmanteau—it held the day’s lunch, among other things—and almost
in tears. It had been an exciting morning, and she had slept little the
night before.

She stopped and gasped. The train was moving—slowly, it is true, but far
too rapidly for a person on the wrong side with a heavy piece of
luggage. She dropped the portmanteau and, drawing a long breath, called
with all the might of lungs long accustomed to the ranch cry:

“Captain Over! Captain Over!”

The door of a carriage was opened instantly. Over took in the situation
at a glance, leaped to the ground and ran towards her, caught up the
portmanteau, and, regaining his compartment, flung it within. Catalina
followed it with the agility of a cat, and in another moment they were
panting opposite each other.

Catalina fanned herself with her hat; she would not speak until she
could command her voice.

“How was any one to know they would run another train between?” she
said, finally. “Poor Cousin Lyman! He must be frantic. Cousin Miranda,
no doubt, is delighted. It is my fault, of course—no, it is yours; you
should not have engaged me in conversation at the critical moment.”

“I will take the blame—and the best of care of you, besides.”

She was looking out of the window at the moment, and he glanced at her
curiously. She was quite unembarrassed, and what he had dimly felt
before came to him with the force of a shock. With all her intellect and
her interest in many of the vital problems of life, she was as innocent
as a child. She might not be ignorant, but she had none of the
commonplace inquisitiveness and morbidness of youth, and he recalled
that she had grown up without the companionship of other girls, had read
few novels, and little subjective literature of any sort. She had never
looked younger, more utterly guileless, than as she sat fanning herself
slowly, her hair damp and tumbled, the flush of excitement on her cheek.
Over felt as if he had a child in his charge, and drew a long breath of
relief. He knew many girls who would have carried off the situation, but
their very dignity would have been the signal of inner tribulation, and
made him miserable; with Catalina he had but to have a care that she was
not placed in a false position; and, after all, the time was short, and
they were unlikely to meet any one who even spoke the English language.

She met his eyes, and they burst into laughter like two contented and
naughty children.

“I’m so happy to get rid of them I can’t contain myself,” announced
Catalina. “So are you, only you are too polite to say so. I could have
done it on purpose, but am rather glad I failed through too much zeal.
Do you understand Lydia?” she asked, abruptly.

“I don’t waste time trying to understand women,” he replied, cautiously.

“I thought perhaps she confided in you last night. She has tried to
unbosom herself to me, but I have not been sympathetic. I don’t
understand her. I am half a savage, I suppose, but I could go through
life and never even see a man like that.”

“I can’t make out if she loves him.”

“Oh, love!” Catalina elevated her nose the higher as the word gave her a
vague thrill. “You can’t be in love with a person you can’t talk
to—outside of poetry. Would you call that sort of thing love?”

“No. I don’t think I should.”

“I fancy it is a mere arbitrary effort to feel romantic.” She stood up
suddenly and looked over the crowded car, then turned to Over with wide
eyes.

“He is not here!” she said.

“Doubtless he is in the next car, or he may have jumped off when he
discovered the exodus.”

He searched the other cars when the train stopped again, and returned to
report that Jesus Maria was missing. Catalina shrugged her shoulders.
“We did our best,” she said, “and I, for one, am not going to bother.
We’ll have them again soon enough.”

The great, sunburned, dusty plains were behind them to-day, and the
train toiled upward through tremendous gorges, brown, barren, the
projecting ledges looking as if they had but just been rent asunder, so
little had time done to soften them. In the defiles were villages, or
solitary houses, poor for the most part; now and again a turn of the
road closed the perspective with a line of snow-peaks. The air was clear
and cool; there was little dust. Their car gradually gave up its load,
until by lunch-time only one man was left, and he gratefully accepted of
their superfluous store. He looked, this old Iberian, like the aged men
who sit in the cabin doors in Ireland; the same long, self-satisfied
upperlip, the small, cunning eyes, the narrow head of the priest-ridden
race. He had done nothing, learned nothing, in his threescore and ten,
braced himself passively against the modern innovation, and could be
cruel when his chance came to him. He cared no more for what the priests
could not tell him than he cared that Spain could not make the wretched
engines that drew her trains. On the whole, no doubt, he was happy. At
all events, he was extremely well-bred, and took no liberty that he
would not have resented in another.

But Catalina forgot him in the grand and forbidding scene, and she
leaned out of the window so recklessly that more than once Over, as if
she were a child, put his hand on her shoulder and drew her in. He began
dimly to understand that Catalina had something more than the mere love
of nature and appreciation of the beautiful common enough in the higher
civilization. She tried, but not very successfully, to express to him
that the vague desire to personify great mountains, the trees, and the
sea, which haunts imaginative minds, the deathless echo of prehistoric
ancestors, whose only revenge it is upon time, was doubly insistent in
one so recently allied to the tribe of Chinigchinich, whose roots were
in Asia.

Of immemorial descent, with the record in her brain, perhaps, of those
ancestors who personified and worshipped the phenomena of nature before
the evolution of that first priesthood on the Ganges and the Euphrates,
the Nile and the Indus, she had rare moments of primal exaltation. It is
a far cry from those marvellous first societies and the vast orderly and
complicated civilization, worshipping mysterious and unseen gods, that
followed them, to the Chinigchinich Indians of Alta California; and yet,
crushed, conquered, almost blotted out, these remnants, in their very
despair, reverted the more closely to nature. The beautiful Carmela was
the child of Mission Indians who fled back to their mountain pueblos and
savage rites when the power of the priests in California was broken.
Every inherited instinct had waged war against the Christianity which,
in nine cases out of ten, was pounded into them with a green-hide reata.
They called the child Carmela, after the Mission of Carmel, merely
because they liked the name; but she grew up a pagan, and a pagan
remained during the few years of her life. And she was as pure and good,
as loyal and devoted, as any of the women descended from her, heedful of
the wild inheritance in their blood lest it poison the strong and bitter
tide of New England ancestors. Catalina was the first to feel pride in
that alien strain which did so much to distinguish her from the million,
and was conscious that she owed to it her faculty to see and feel more
in nature than the average Anglo-Saxon.

Over, in the almost empty car, lit by a solitary and smoking lamp,
listened attentively as she groped her way through the mysterious
labyrinths in her brain, expressing herself ill, for she was little used
to egotistical ventures. It cannot be said that he understood, being
himself a typical product of the extremest civilization that exists in
the world to-day; but he saw will-o’-the-wisps in a fog-bank, and
thought her more interesting than ever.




                                  XIII


The train was two hours late. It crawled into the dark little station of
Baeza, and Over and Catalina sat down at once in the restaurant, leaving
the problem of the night until later. But, hungry as the Englishman was,
that problem dulled the flavor of a fair repast. How was he to protect
the girl from curiosity and speculation, possibly coarse remark; above
all, from self-consciousness? It would be assumed at the inn, as a
matter of course, that they were a young couple, and he turned cold as
he pictured the landlord conducting them upstairs to the usual room with
a bed in each corner. He heartily wished it was he who spoke the Spanish
language and that his companion was afflicted with his own distracting
ignorance; but he must interpret through her, and to discuss the matter
with her beforehand was, to him, impossible. For the first time he
wished she were with the Moultons in Alcazar.

Catalina did not share his embarrassment. With her hat pulled low that
she might attract the less attention, she was eating her dinner with the
serenity of a child. As he seemed indisposed to conversation she did not
utter a word until the salad was placed beside them, and then she met
his disturbed and roving eye.

“You look fearfully tired,” she said, smiling. “While you are drinking
your coffee I will go and talk to that man behind the counter and see
what can be done about to-night. You look as if you ought to be in bed
this minute.”

“Ah!” He was taken aback, and still helpless. “I must ask you not to
talk to any one unless I am with you. They would never understand it. We
had better cut the dessert and the coffee and secure what rooms there
may be. I suppose most of these people are going on, but a few may
remain.”

They went together to pay their score, and Catalina asked the
functionary behind the counter if there were rooms above for travellers.
He replied, with the haughty indifference of the American hotel clerk,
that there were not. She demanded further information, and he merely
shrugged his shoulders, for it is the way of the Spaniard to know no
man’s business but his own. But Catalina stood her ground, told him she
would stand it till dawn, or follow him home; and finally, overcome by
her fluency in invective, he unwillingly parted with the information
that behind the station across the road there was a small inn above a
cantina.

“I am half-way sorry we did not leave a message for Mr. Moulton and go
on,” said Over, as they stood in the inky darkness and watched the train
pull out of the station. “Probably, however, he would never have got
it—well, there is nothing to do but make the best of it.”

They crossed the sandy road, guided by the glimmer of the cantina.
Here they found the host serving two men that would have put the Guardia
Civile on the alert. He greeted the strangers politely, however, and
called his wife. She came in a moment, smiling and comely, followed by a
red-haired girl holding a candle.

Catalina, warned by her recent interview, uttered a few of the flowery
amenities that should lead up to any request in Spain. The woman,
beaming with good-will, took the candle from her daughter’s hand,
motioned to the girl to take the portmanteaus, and, without apology for
her humble lodgings, piloted them out into the dark, through another
doorway, and up a rickety stair. Over, feeling as if he were being led
out to be shot by the enemy, saw his worst fears verified. She threw
open the door of a tiny, blue-washed room, and there were the two little
beds, the more conspicuous as they were uncompanioned but for a tin
washing-stand. It opened upon a balcony, and, despite the bareness, it
was so clean and inviting it seemed to make a personal appeal not to be
judged too hastily. Over was unable to articulate, but Catalina said,
serenely, “We wish two rooms, señora.”

“Two!” cried the woman, and Over understood both the word and the
expression of profound amazement.

“Yes, two.” There was no voluble explanation from Catalina. She looked
the woman straight in the eyes and repeated, “Two rooms, and quickly,
please; we are very tired.”

The woman’s eyes were wide with curiosity, but before Catalina’s her
tongue lost its audacity. She replied promptly enough, however.

“But I have no other. It is only by the grace of God I have this. The
train was late, the diligences were put away for the night; there were
many, and my house is small. I see now, the señor is the señorita’s
brother—but for one night, what matter?”

Catalina turned to Over. “There is no other room,” she said.

Over went into the apartment, and, lifting a mattress and coverings from
one of the beds, returned to the hall and threw them on the floor.

“I shall be comfortable here,” he said, curtly, glad of any solution.
“Go to bed. I prefer this, anyhow, for I didn’t like the looks of those
men down-stairs. Good-night.”

“Good-night,” said Catalina, and she went into the room and closed the
door.

“The English are all mad,” said the woman, and she went to find a candle
for the hallway guest.

It is doubtful if either Over or Catalina ever slept more soundly, and
the bandits, if bandits they were, went elsewhere to forage. At dawn
Catalina was dressed and hanging over the balcony watching the
retreating stars. She heard a mattress doubled and flung into a corner.
The room was in order. She flashed past Over and down the stairs. “Go in
and dress,” she called back. “There is plenty of water, for a wonder.”

And he answered, “Stay in front of the window, where I could hear you if
you called.”

Early as it was, the woman and her brood were in the kitchen at the back
of the house, and she agreed to supply bread and cream for breakfast and
make a tortilla for the travellers’ lunch.

Over came down in a few moments with his coffee-pot and lamp, and they
had their breakfast on a barrel-top in front of the inn, as
light-heartedly as if embarrassment had never beset them. Life begins
early in Spain, notwithstanding its reputed predilection for the morrow,
and as they finished breakfast several rickety old diligences drew up
between the inn and the station.

There were no passengers for the three little towns, and Over and
Catalina went in one of the diligences to Baeza, twelve miles distant.
They spent a happy and irresponsible day roaming about the dilapidated
sixteenth-century town, and divided their tortilla out in the country in
the great shadow of the Sierra Nevada. They retained their spirits over
the rough and dusty miles of their return, but lost them suddenly as
they approached the station. The train, however, was three hours late
this evening, and they philosophically dismissed the Moultons and
enjoyed their dinner. They lingered over the sweets and coffee, then
paced up and down the platform, the Englishman smoking and feeling like
a truant schoolboy. Nevertheless, he was not sorry that the end of the
intimacy approached. The results of propinquity might ofttimes be
casual, but that mighty force was invariably loaded with the seeds of
fate, and he knew himself as liable to love as any man. With the oddest
and most enigmatic girl he had ever met, who allured while striving to
repel, as devoid of coquetry as a boy or a child, yet now and then
revealing a glimpse of watchful femininity, to whom nature had given a
wellnigh perfect shell; and thrown upon his protection in long days of
companionship—he summed it up curtly over his pipe. “I should make an
ass of myself in a week.”

He had had no desire to marry since the days of his more susceptible
youth—he was now thirty-four—and, although rich girls had made no
stronger appeal to him than poor girls, he was well aware that the
dowerless beauty was not for him. He was too good a soldier and too much
of a man to be luxurious in taste or habit, and, although a guardsman,
he was born into the out-of-door generation that has nothing in common
with the scented lap-dogs made famous by the novelists of the
mid-Victorian era. But when not at the front he indulged himself in
liberty, many hours at cricket and golf, the companionship of congenial
spirits, a reasonable amount of dining out, and an absolute freedom from
the petty details of life. Travelling third class amused him, the
English aristocrat being the truest democrat in the world and wholly
without snobbery. Single, his debts worried him no more than bad weather
in London; but married, he must at once set up an establishment suited
to his position.

He had distinguished himself in South Africa, and his county, rich and
poor, had, upon his return, at the very end of the war, met him at the
station and pulled his carriage over the miles to his father’s house,
some two thousand men and women cheering all the way. There had been so
many in London to lionize since that war, to which pampered men had gone
in their heydey and returned gray and crippled, that when he went up for
the season he was merely one of a galaxy eagerly sought and fêted; but
life had never slipped along so easily and pleasantly, and after three
years of hardship and many months of painful illness, it had made a
double appeal to a battered soldier, still half an invalid. He had
dismissed the serious things of life as he landed in England, and
devoutly hoped for a five years’ peace. Therefore was he the less
inclined to fall in love, valuing peace of mind no less than surcease
for the body. Catalina was by no means penniless, and certainly would
make a heroic soldier’s wife; but they had not a tradition in common,
and he saw clearly that if he loved her at all he should love her far
more than had suited his indolent habit when not soldiering. Hence he
welcomed the return of the Moultons, and even meditated a retreat.

“A moon in the Alhambra would finish me,” he thought, glancing up at the
waxing orb fighting its way through a stormy mass of black and silver.

A bell rang, a whistle—the only energetic thing about a Spanish
train—shrieked and blustered above the slowing headlight of an engine
approaching from the north.

“You stand here by the Thirds and I’ll go up to where the Firsts will
stop,” began Catalina, but Over held her arm firmly within his.

“No,” he said, peremptorily, “you must not be by yourself a moment in
this crowd. You would be spoken to, probably jostled, at once, and no
doubt a rough lot will get out. We will both stand here by the
restaurant door.”

“I am not afraid,” said Catalina, haughtily.

“That is not the point.”

“I was near coming to Spain by myself.”

“What has that to do with me?”

She gave a little growl and attempted to free herself by a sudden
wrench, but he held her, and she stood sullenly beside him as the train
wandered in and gave up its load. In a few moments she had forgotten her
grievance and stared at him with expanded eyes.

“Let us go to the telegraph-office,” he said. “Mr. Moulton must have
sent a message.” But at the office there was naught but the official and
the cigarito and polite indifference.

“They missed the train, that goes without saying,” said Over. “They are
sure to arrive in the morning, I should think, as they can travel
comfortably enough at night first class. Will you ask what time the
morning train arrives?”

It was due nearly an hour before the train would leave for Granada.

“You will hear your nightingales to-morrow evening,” said Over,
cheerfully. “The Moultons will never stay here all day.”

With this assurance they parted, Over sleeping in another little
blue-washed room—the entire fonda had been reserved for the Moultons—and
the next morning they drank their coffee from the barrel-top, while
their kind and now indifferent landlady made tortillas for the party.

The train arrived on time, and without the Moultons. In the
telegraph-office the gentleman of leisure was still smoking, but after
inquiring indolently into Over’s name and rank, and demanding to see his
cards and correspondence, he produced a telegram. It read:

     Toledo, Hotel Castilla.                         MOULTON.

“Toledo!” cried Catalina. “I want to go to Granada! That is what I came
to Spain for. If they go north that far they won’t come south again—they
will take the steamer at Genoa. I won’t go.”

“It is by no means certain they won’t return; it is only a matter of a
day. Doubtless they are still dodging Jesus Maria. I think we had better
join them. It is useless to expect explanations by wire. Granada can
wait a few days, and Toledo, in its way, must be quite as interesting.”

“Well, I’ll soon find out,” announced his companion.




                                  XIV


During the journey to Toledo Catalina stared sulkily out of the window
or slept with her head against the side of the car. She ignored Over’s
attempts to converse until, with chilling dignity, he retired to the
opposite end of the compartment and wondered how he could have thought
of love in connection with a bad-tempered child. He was delighted at the
prospect of reunion with the orthodox Moultons, and understood something
of their serene contempt for originality. It is true that Catalina
asleep, with the deep vermilion on her cheeks, her tumbled head
drooping, looked so innocent and lovely that she set him to wondering
regretfully why there was no such thing as perfection in woman; and from
thence it was but a step to imagine Catalina with the qualities and
training that would make her the ideal of man. There was no harm in
indulging one’s self in idyllic imagining, by way of variety, Over
concluded; doubtless it was good for the soul.

Whatever the motive, his imagination performed unaccustomed feats during
the drowsy afternoon, while his companion slept and the other occupants
of the car, few in number, smoked and said little. It pictured Catalina
ten years hence; she would then be thirty-three, an age he had always
found sympathetic in woman; she would have seen the world, have adapted
herself to many new conditions, and in the process learned self-control,
pared off the jagged edges of her egoism, and supplemented her beauty
with a distinction of manner and style that would compel the homage of
the best societies of the world.

He had seen what she was capable of, and he suspected that she was
ambitious. It was her love of solitude and dislike of mere men and women
that had swathed her so deeply in her crudities; but if she carried out
her intention of living for some years in England and Europe, and
cultivated the right sort of people, the transformation was almost
certain. Perhaps it would be worth while to ask his mother to take care
of her in England. Lady “Peggy” Over was a clever, warm-hearted woman of
the simple, old-fashioned aristocracy, who offered her sons no
assistance in choosing their wives, and had the broadest tolerance for
the vagaries of young people. With her lively mind and humor she would
win upon Catalina at once, and her complete honesty of nature would
finish the conquest of a girl whose hatred of sham was almost fanatical.

Catalina opened her eyes upon him, half awake, and he asked her,
impulsively: “What is your ambition? What do you want?”

She answered, sleepily, but without hesitation, “To have four children.”

He was too astonished to speak for a moment; then he asked, feebly, “Is
that all?”

“No,” she said, now quite awake. “I want to meet all the most
interesting people in the world, and read the most interesting books,
and show a lot of other people what frauds and useless creatures they
are; but I love children as much as I detest most people, and I’ll never
be contented till I have four. I don’t see why you look so dumfounded!
What is there so remarkable in wanting children?”

“Oh, nothing,” he said, soothingly. “Perhaps we can see Toledo in a
moment.”


Mr. Moulton met them at the station. His face was flushed and his manner
perturbed, but he shook their hands cordially and protested that he had
never been so glad to lay eyes on any one.

“Let us walk up,” said Catalina, and she strode on ahead. The men
followed, Mr. Moulton talking with nervous volubility.

“Of course I did not blame you, my dear Catalina,” he reiterated. “Such
a contretemps in Spain is easy enough. Mrs. Moulton is still a little
upset, but you know what—er—invalids are, and I beg you to be patient—”

“It won’t worry me in the least. But why this change of front? Why
didn’t you come to Baeza?”

“That wretched peasant saw us as I was craning my neck looking for you,
and reached the train in three bounds. Of course, we were safe in the
first-class carriage, and at Alcazar I had a brilliant idea. We drove to
the hotel, as usual, with all our baggage, and that mountebank—I shall
never pronounce his impious name—supposed we were settled for the night.
After dinner I told the landlord—through the kind medium of a Frenchman
who spoke both English and Spanish—that, being much annoyed by this
creature, we had determined to change our itinerary and go direct to
Madrid where we could call upon our minister to protect us. We then took
the night train and were under way a good hour before it was time for
the man to appear with his guitar. I even bought tickets for Madrid, and
as we changed cars at midnight we were practically unobserved. We are
very comfortable, and are in time for a grand fête.”

“How is Lydia?” Catalina asked, dryly.

“The poor child is very nervous, but most thankful to be rid of the man.
By-the-way, I telegraphed as soon as I arrived in Toledo.”

“This is Spain,” said Over.

The hint of Mrs. Moulton’s displeasure had fallen on heedless ears. They
were crossing the Alcantara Bridge that leads through the ancient
gateway of the same name up to one of the most beautiful cities to look
upon in the world. Toledo, the lofty outpost of the range of mountains
behind the raging Tagus, is an almost perpendicular mass of rock on all
sides but one, its uneven plateau crowded with palaces and churches,
tiny plazas and narrow, winding streets, a mere roof of tiles from the
Alcazar, which stands on its highest point, but from below a wild yet
symmetrical outcropping of the rock itself. Founded, so runs the legend,
by a son of Noah, certainly the ancient capital of the Goths and the
scene of much that was terrible and romantic in their history, a
stronghold of the Moors, who left here as elsewhere their indelible
imprint, and later of the sovereigns of Castile, equally inaccessible
from the vega and the defile of the Tagus, it was one of the most
impregnable cities in history so long as a man was left to dispute the
gates on the steep road rising from the plain. It is to-day a
sarcophagus of ancient history, compact, isolated, little disturbed by
the outer world, yet with an intense and vivid life of its own.

Catalina hung over the bridge and stared down into the rocky gorge where
the river had torn its way, and soldiers of every nation of the ancient
world had been hurled, cursing and shrieking and praying, from the
beetling heights above. Impervious to Mr. Moulton’s kindly hints, she
led them through the old streets of the Moors, streets so narrow they
were obliged to walk like stalking Indians, but with beautiful old
balconied houses on either side, and glimpses of luxurious patio within;
not pausing before the broad gray front of the hotel until the trio of
cousins had awaited her some fifty minutes.

Mrs. Moulton was so far the reverse of a cruel and vicious woman that
she had been, for the good of her soul, too amiable and self-sacrificing
for at least thirty years of her life. Not fine enough to have developed
loveliness of character, there had, perhaps, been too few opportunities
for reaction, or, if occurring, they had been conscientiously stifled. A
good woman, but not of the most distinguished fibre, the effacement of
self for the few she loved had been but a higher order of selfishness,
and when for the first time in her life a positive hatred possessed her
it found her without that greatness which ignores and foregoes revenge.
Catalina, it must be confessed, would have tried the patience of far
more saintly characters than Mrs. Moulton, and when to a natural
antipathy was added the daily jarring of long-tried nerves the wonder
was that the crisis did not come sooner.

But Mrs. Moulton was accustomed to self-control and to the exercise of
the average amount of Christianity. Moreover, she had her standards of
conduct, and held all exhibitions of feeling to be vulgar. Therefore, in
spite of her growing and morbid desire to humble Catalina, she might
have forborne to force an issue, and perhaps, had circumstances favored
the alien, have grimly, however unwillingly, triumphed once more over
self.

But these last days had unravelled her nerves. To passionate sympathy
for her pale and persecuted daughter, misled in the first instance by
the daily example of a barbarian, had recently been added a night of
hideous discomfort, when, not one of the four speaking a language but
their useless own, and without the invaluable Baedeker, they had fled
from a ridiculous peasant, changing trains at midnight, waiting hours at
way-stations, arriving at Toledo in the gray, cold dawn, hungry,
worried, exhausted, to find neither omnibus nor cab at the station.

As Mrs. Moulton toiled up the steep road through the carven gates of
terrible and romantic memory, she had heartily wished that modern
enterprise had blown up the rock with dynamite or run an elevator from
the Tagus. It was then that her hatred of Catalina—who at least with her
knowledge of foreign languages had been an acceptable courier—became an
obsession, and she could have shrieked it out like any common virago.
The emotional wave had receded, but left a dark and poisonous deposit
behind.

It was easy to convince herself that Catalina had lost the train at
Albacete on purpose. When her husband had received Captain Over’s
