was his only sister, a deserted wife, she gathered from childish
prattle of Laverne's. She knew so little about her past. Uncle Jason
had come when they were in great want, and her mother had died. And
now, Jason Chadsey knew it would be best for this idea to gain
credence. He would always be her uncle.
But he had some duties toward her. She could not always remain a
child, a plaything. That was the sorrow of it. There must be a rich,
delightful life before her. She must have the joys her mother had
missed, the prosperity that had not come to her.
He looked up from the paper presently.
"About the school," he began. "Yes, I have been considering it. And
you will have quite enough to do to keep the house and have the
oversight of her; I will make it an object for you to stay. We get
along comfortably together, though sometimes I feel I am a queer
unsocial Dick, much occupied now with business. But it is all for her.
She is the only thing out of a life that has been all ups and downs,
but, please God, there'll be some clear sailing now. I like San
Francisco. I like the rush and bustle and newness, the effort for a
finer civilization that has strength and purpose in it. Heaven knows
there is enough of the other sort, but the dross does get sifted out
and the gold is left. It will be so here, and these earnest men ten
years hence will be proud of the city they are rearing."
He glanced at her steadily, forgetting he had wandered from the main
question.
"You will not leave us----"
"I? Oh, no;" yet she colored a little.
"There will be enough to do if the child does go to school. And you
can walk down for her in the afternoon, wherever it is, and have
little outings. I am glad you are so fond of her, and she loves you.
She isn't the kind to strew her love broadcast."
"Yes, I am very fond of her," was the reply.
CHAPTER VIII
GIRLS AND GIRLS
They rambled over the hills on Sunday, for Miss Holmes had given her
ankle a little wrench and was applying hot fomentations. Up there was
the Presidio, and over here the beautiful ocean, blue as the sky
to-day, except where the swells drove up on the rocks and, catching
the sun, made spray of all colors. The ground squirrels ran about,
scudding at the slightest sound of human beings, which they seemed to
distinguish from the rustling and whispering of the trees, or the
tinkle of a little stream over the stones. It ran under a crevice in
the rock that was splitting apart now by some of Nature's handiwork
and came out over west of their house where it dropped into a little
basin. Here was a blasted pine that had been struck by some freak of
rare lightning, then piles of sand over which cactus crept. And here
was a deer-trail, though civilization had pretty well scared them
away.
But the birds! Here was the jay with his scolding tongue, the swallows
darting to and fro in a swift dazzle, the martins in bluish purple,
the tanager in his brilliant red, the robin, thrush, meadowlark, the
oriole, and the mocking birds that filled the air with melody this May
Sunday. And nearly every foot of ground was covered with bloom. Now
and then the little girl hopped over a tuft that she might not crush
the beautiful things. Great clouds of syringas and clusters of white
lilies filled the air with a delicious fragrance. And the wild lilac
with its spikes of bloom nodding to the faintest breeze. Wild barley
and wild oats, and a curious kind of clover, and further down the
coarse salt grass with its spear-like blades.
They sat down on some stones and glanced over the ocean. There were
two vessels coming up the coast and some seamews were screaming. It
was all wild and strange, almost weird, and no little girl could have
dreamed that in a few years streets would be stretching out here. As
for trolleys going to and fro, even grown people would have laughed at
such a thing.
They talked of the great procession that was to be the next day. And
then Uncle Jason wondered how she would like going to school
regularly.
"I shall like girls," she said. "There are no boys where Olive goes.
She thinks boys are more fun."
"But you don't go to school for the mere fun."
"They make so much noise in the street. And some times they sing such
funny songs. But they were nice about sledding back home, only there's
no snow here."
"Are you ever homesick?"
"You know I was sick sometimes on the ship."
"But to go back, I mean."
"There wouldn't be any one--I've almost forgotten who were there.
Mother, you know----" with a pitiful sort of retrospection.
"Yes, yes," hurriedly.
"Would you want to go?"
"Oh, no, no!" with some vehemence.
She came and leaned against his knee, put her arms about his neck, and
her soft cheek against his weather-beaten one.
"I should never want to go anywhere without you," she replied, with
grave sweetness.
"You are all I have, my little darling."
"And I haven't any one else. Olive has such a lot of cousins. She goes
over to Oaklands to see them."
There was a long pause and the wind rushed by laden with perfumes.
They heard the lapping of the surf against the rocks. The strange
beauty penetrated both souls that were not so far apart after all.
"Uncle Jason, did you ever have a wife?" she asked, with a child's
innocence.
"No, dear." Sometime he would tell her the story of his love for her
mother.
"Then you won't want to marry any one?"
"Marry! I?" Had that Personette girl put some nonsense into her head
about Miss Holmes? He colored under the weather-browned skin.
"You see, Mr. Personette's wife had died, and I suppose he had to
marry some one again to look after the children."
"Would you like me to marry some one to look after you?" in a half
humorous tone.
"Why, Miss Holmes can do that," she returned, in surprise.
"She seems to do it very well." There was a lurking smile about the
corners of his mouth.
"I like her. No, I shouldn't like any one else coming in. Perhaps she
would not stay. No, Uncle Jason, I don't want you to marry any one,"
she said, simply. "And when I get old I shall not marry, though Carmen
means to. And we will live together always. Oh," with a bright little
laugh, "let's promise. Put your little finger--so." She hooked hers in
it. "Now, you must say: Honest and true, I love but you!"
He uttered it solemnly. He had said it to one other little girl when
he was a big boy.
Then she repeated it, looking out of clear, earnest eyes.
After that she gathered a great armful of flowers and they rambled off
home.
"Who do you think has been here?" inquired Miss Holmes, with a laugh
in her very voice.
"Who--Olive, perhaps. Or, maybe, Dick Folsom."
"No. Guess again."
She cudgelled her wits. "Not Snippy?"
"Yes, Snippy. He actually came into the house and looked so sharply at
me that I told him you would be home about noon. Then I gave him a bit
of cracker, and when he had eaten a little he scampered off with the
rest. I think he has been planning a house near us."
"Oh, wouldn't that be splendid! I'm just going to scatter a path of
cracker bits as Hop o' my Thumb did."
"But if he eats them up how much wiser will you be?"
Laverne looked nonplussed. "Well, he will have them at any rate," and
she nodded her head with satisfaction.
Pablo had built a stone fireplace and was roasting some ducks out of
doors. He was sure he couldn't do it any other way.
"I must go and view the camping process," and Uncle Jason laughed.
"How is your ankle?"
"Oh, quite on the mend," she answered.
Pablo had built a stone fireplace and was roasting the ducks over a
great bed of coals that he was burning at one side. It might be
wasteful, as when the Chinaman first roasted his pig, but it was
filling the air with a savory smell, and they were browned to a turn.
"They look just delicious," announced Laverne. She took the platter
out and Pablo carried them in with a proud air.
And delicious they certainly were. The little girl was hungry, and
Uncle Jason said he had not enjoyed anything so much in a long while.
She insisted she should wash up the dishes while Uncle Jason took his
usual nap. Then she went out and dropped some cracker crumbs and
strictly forbade Bruno to touch them.
"If you would like to go down to the Estenegas I will get one of the
horses," Uncle Jason said. His Sundays were always devoted to her.
So she went out and talked to Pelajo while Pablo harnessed him. He
said very plainly that she had quite neglected him of late and he did
not like it. He did not want to be thrown over for new friends.
All along the road the beauty of the May met them, and it stirred both
riders, making them respond to the joy of motion and the sweetness of
all blooming things, the merriment of the birds, the touch of the wind
in the trees as a voice playing on a flute. He thought it was all the
delight of owning the little girl who would always be his. How he
would care for her in old age, and he quite forgot that he would be
there decades and decades first. But he suddenly felt so young, with
all these signs of youth about him, the magnetism of the air in this
wondrous land.
Here was the old house. They were straightening the road, digging away
hills, filling up hollows, and a corner of it had tumbled down. There
seemed a damp, marshy smell of the newly turned earth, and two trees
had fallen and begun to wither up. The wood doves were calling
plaintively.
"Oh, I wouldn't come back for anything!" cried Laverne. "Did we have
nice times here, and did we really like it?"
"This is the hand of improvement. Sometime, when we are trotting over
a nice level road, with pretty houses and grounds, we shall admire it
again."
But it was lovely enough at the Estenegas, out of doors. The children
were wild with delight. It seemed as if Carmencita had suddenly shot
up into a tall girl. And in the autumn she was to go to Monterey, to
the old convent, where Doña Conceptione de Arguello had gone after her
Russian lover had been killed, and where she had finally become Mother
Superior and lived to old age, always praying for his soul.
"But I am going only for accomplishments. And it seems the distant
cousin of the Estenegas wishes a wife who will grace the great house
and carry on the honors. Mamacita is very proud that he made the
offer. And the children will go up to the Mission to stay all the week
at the Sisters' School."
"And they must visit me sometimes. The new home is so much pleasanter.
I am going to school also, and I have some new friends. It is splendid
to be in the heart of the city." Then she told them about the day at
Russ's garden, and that on to-morrow, Monday, she was going out to
walk with hundreds of children.
The Spanish girl's eyes grew larger and larger at all the wonders.
They walked up and down with their arms about each other and were full
of childish happiness. Then Señora Estenega summoned them to
refreshments on the balcony, now a wilderness of roses. Uncle Jason
did not care much for the Spanish sweetmeats and candied fruits, the
freshly ripened ones were more to his taste and he had been quite
spoiled again by New England living. But he knew how to be polite.
It was quite dusk when they reached home. Olive Personette had been
over. They would call for her to-morrow, and she was to be dressed in
white, sure. It would be a greater thing than the German Festival.
And great it surely was! There had never been such an event in San
Francisco. There were over a thousand children, and each one carried a
bouquet of flowers. Miss Holmes had found some white ribbon and
trimmed her gypsy hat, and the little girl with her fair hair looked
like a lily. There were crowds of people in the streets to see them,
proud mothers and aunts. Each school had a distinctive banner, and
there was a band of music. The Queen of May wore a wreath, and so did
her maids of honor.
When they had gone through the principal thoroughfares and been
cheered enthusiastically, they moved to the schoolhouse on Broadway,
where they had a little sort of play dialogue, and sang some beautiful
songs. A few brief addresses were made, and San Francisco declared
itself proud of its children that day, the children who were to be the
future men and women of the city.
Then there was quite a feast, which the young people enjoyed mightily.
How they laughed and talked and declared they would not have missed it
for anything.
Afterward they dispersed. The Personette carriage was waiting, with
instructions to take home all it would hold, so they crowded in. And
at the gate stood Uncle Jason.
"Oh," the little girl exclaimed, with a tired sigh, "it was just
splendid. If you had only been there!"
"Do you think I would have missed it? I came up to see the procession
and I picked you out, walking with Olive. Why, I was as proud of you
as if you had been the Queen."
"But the Queen was lovely. And the play! I couldn't hear all of it,
there was such a crowd, and I had to stand up to see. Wasn't it good
of Olive to ask me! And she wanted to take me home to dinner."
"I couldn't have eaten dinner without you." He kissed her over and
over again. He was so glad to see her happy. Not that she was ever a
sad little girl.
Miss Holmes was very much improved and regretted she could not have
gone out to see the procession. Snippy had called, and all the cracker
bits were gone, but she had seen the wood doves carrying off some of
the crumbs.
"I guess Snippy has moved for good," said Uncle Jason. "It's rather
funny, too. You must have charmed him."
She gave a pleased laugh.
Nearly midnight of that happy day the bells rang out with their
dreadful alarm. Uncle Jason sprang up, and before he was dressed he
saw the blaze. Citizens turned out en masse. The Rassete House on
Sansome Street was in a sheet of flame. A fine five-story hotel, full
of lodgers, who had to flee for their lives. The firemen were quite
well organized now and made great efforts to keep it from spreading,
remembering the former big fires. In this they were quite successful.
Other generous people were taking in the four hundred homeless ones,
and it was found the next day that no lives had been lost, which was a
source of thanksgiving.
A little later there were some imposing ceremonies near the Presidio,
just at the foot of the hill. This was the commencement of the
Mountain Lake Water Works, a much-needed project. There were various
artesian wells, and water was brought in tanks from Sausalito, but the
supply was inadequate in case of fires and the city was growing so
rapidly. The rather curious Mountain Lake was not large, but a short
distance from its northern margin a stream of water gushed through the
ground, which was a great spring or a subterranean river from the
opposite shores. It was begun with great rejoicing, but like all large
undertakings it had progressed slowly.
Indeed, San Francisco had so many things on its hands. There were
plans for the State Marine Hospital and other benevolent institutions.
Churches too were urging demands on a generous people who felt they
must make an effort to redeem the standing of the city. The toughs had
been somewhat restrained, but the continual influx of miners with
their pouches of gold, ready for any orgies after having been deprived
of the amenities of social life, and the emigration from nearly all
quarters of the globe constituted a class very difficult to govern,
who drank, gambled, frequented dance houses, quarrelled, and scrupled
not at murder.
But of this side the little girl was to hear nothing, though Uncle
Jason was often shocked in spite of all his experiences. He was having
a warehouse down on the bay, fitting out vessels, disposing of
cargoes, and keeping the peace with one of those imperturbable
temperaments, grown wise by training of various sorts, and the deep
settled endeavor to make a fortune for the Little Girl. It did not
matter so much now, but when she grew up she should be a lady and have
everything heart could desire.
In a short street that came to be called Pine afterward, and was at
the head of the streets that were to be named after trees, there stood
quite a substantial brick building with some fine grounds. Here a Mrs.
Goddart and her sister, Miss Bain, kept a school for young girls and
smaller children, and had a few boarding scholars. The Personette
girls had gone there because it was near by, and out of the range of
the noisier part of the city. Howard was at the San Francisco Academy,
kept by a Mr. Prevaux, in quite a different direction. There was a
plan for a new public school on Telegraph Hill, but these were more
largely filled with boys, as is often the case in the youth of towns.
So the little girl went to Mrs. Goddart's and quite surprised her
teachers by her acquirements and her love of study. Perhaps, if she
had not lived so much alone she would have been more interested in
play and childish gossip. And her walks with Uncle Jason had brought
her into companionship not only with trees and flowers, but with
different countries of the world, and their products. Uncle Jason had
grafted upon a boy's common education the intelligence that travel and
business give, and though a quiet man he had taken a keen interest not
only in the resources of countries, but their governments as well, and
these things were the little girl's fairy stories. She would find the
places on the map, the Orient, the northern coast of Africa, the
country of the Turks, Arabia, India. A trading vessel goes from port
to port.
She liked her school very much, though she was rather shy of the
girls. Some of them called her a little prig because she would not
talk and was correct in her deportment. She found in the course of a
few days that Olive "squirmed" out of some things and did not always
tell the truth. Back in Maine children had been soundly whipped for
telling falsehoods and it was considered shameful; Miss Holmes was a
very upright person, of the old Puritan strain.
She was not finding fault, but she did want to know if a prig was
something rather disgraceful.
"It is never disgraceful to be honest in word and deed, to obey
whatever rules are set before you, to study honestly and not shirk. I
think the prig would set himself above his neighbors for this, but you
see he would only be doing his duty, he would have no extra claim.
But when he set himself up to be better than his neighbors and
triumphed over them, he would be a prig."
Her delicately pencilled brows worked a little.
"Some of them are ever so much prettier than I am," she said
innocently, "and they say such funny things, and their clothes are
very nice. Well, I like them. We have such fun playing at recess."
He remembered about the clothes and spoke to Miss Holmes.
"I do not think it best to dress a child so much for school. What will
she have afterward? And it does fill their heads with vanity."
He had given her a pretty ring for a birthday, and she had her
grandmother's string of gold beads that had come over from London with
some great, great-grandmother.
Snippy had settled himself quite comfortably, just where they could
not tell, and he had evidently coaxed his wife to emigrate. She was
not quite as handsome as he. Dick Folsom, who ran up every now and
then, said he was what was called a hare squirrel, on account of his
splendid feathery tail, though why, he couldn't see, as hares had
scarcely any tail at all. Snippy was so tame now, or else he was so
glad to be near the little girl, that he was not much afraid of
strangers if they did not offer to touch him. He would run around
Uncle Jason, and nose in his pockets until he found nuts or crumbs.
But he didn't like tobacco a bit and scolded in his funny way when he
came across that.
Pelajo was not forgotten, though he sometimes complained a little.
Uncle Jason said Miss Holmes must learn to ride. The big dray horse
was not fit for a lady, and though the Mexican and Indian women rode
mules and were very expert, they were not considered quite the thing.
There was a stream coming out in a sort of split rock up above the
place, and it made a kind of pool just below. In the autumn rains it
ran along down the slope of the ground, tumbling over the stones that
were in its way. Pablo and the little girl had made quite a pretty
waterfall and a new pond where the ducks could swim about. The upper
one they covered over and had for family use. Springs were not very
plentiful, and Uncle Jason believed this a little underground spur of
the Mountain Lake, as it never quite dried up.
And one Saturday, when Laverne was working at her stream, meaning to
make it more extensive when the rainy season set in, a great white
something fell at her very feet and gave such a screech that she
started and ran. It lay on the ground and fluttered and cried, so she
knew it was some kind of a bird and came nearer. It looked up at her
out of frightened black eyes, rose on one foot, flapped one wing, and
fell over again. Was it really a gull?
She called Pablo.
"Yes, Señorita, it is a gull. I never could get nearby one unless it
was shot. They are the wildest things. This have a leg broke," and he
picked up the limp member.
"Oh, the poor thing," softly stroking it.
"And wing too, see? Better kill it."
"Oh, no, no! Poor thing," she cried, full of sympathy.
"What then? He must die. He starve."
"No, we can feed him."
"But he eat fish."
"So do we. There is plenty of fish. And you catch so many. Can't you
do anything for him?"
Pablo lifted the leg again, and examined it.
"No--shot!" he exclaimed, shaking his head.
"Why couldn't you do it up in splints?"
"Not worth it," and he shook his head decisively. "And the wing too.
Yes, that's shot."
Laverne patted the poor thing, who screeched and tried to rise. How
soft the feathers were and snowy white, except about the neck that had
the faintest shade of blue. Then, suddenly, she picked it up in her
skirt, though it struggled. How light it was for such a large thing.
She had taken off her shoes and stockings while she was paddling in
the stream, and she ran down to the house not minding the rough path.
"Oh, see this poor gull!" she cried. "It just dropped down--out of the
clouds, I guess. There were no others around."
She laid it down on the patch of grass Miss Holmes took great pains
with for a bleachery.
"Poor thing!" said the lady pityingly.
"Better end him," and Pablo took hold of his neck.
"No, no, no! You shall not kill him. Poor fellow!" she cried.
He was gasping now, and then he lay quite still, exhausted.
"You could splint up his leg," said Miss Holmes. "You did the duck,
you know."
"That good for something. He squak and squak."
"Yes, you must splint it up," Laverne said, with decision. "I can find
some cord, and--what will you have?"
Pablo shrugged his shoulders and said something just under his breath
in pure Mexican, not quite the thing for a little girl to hear.
"And when Uncle Jason comes home we will see about the wing. Won't
this old basket make splints?"
Pablo went about his job unwillingly. Laverne wrapped him up so that
he could not kick with the other leg, and presently they had the
wounded member bandaged. The gull lay quite still, but Laverne saw the
frightened heart beat through the feathers.
Pablo raised the wing and shook his head dubiously.
"Uncle Jason is coming home early with the horses, you know," she said
to Miss Holmes. "Oh, my shoes and stockings!" and off she ran to the
spot where they had been at work. "Pablo can go on clearing this out,"
she said to herself. "It will be all ready when the rainy season sets
in. Oh, the poor flowers! Sun, why do you scorch them up so! And in
Maine the summer is so delightful. But the winter, oh!" and she made a
half wry, half amused face.
She was all ready when Uncle Jason came up the street on one horse and
leading the other; and all eagerness, she was telling her story while
he dismounted and fastened them both.
"That's funny," he said. "Next a black bear will come knocking at your
door. Or you might snare a silver-gray fox and have a tippet made of
his skin."
"As if I could be so cruel!"
The gull had hardly moved. Now, it seemed frightened at the strange
face and struggled. Uncle Jason spoke softly, and lifted the wounded
wing which was considerably shattered.
"I suppose it could be mended, but there are hundreds of gulls."
"This one came straight to me. Why, he fairly asked me to take pity on
him;" and she drew an eager breath.
She was a very sympathetic little girl, and he smiled.
Some shot had better be taken out. He opened the small blade of his
knife. It was not a really fresh wound, for the blood was dry. He
picked out the shot, scraped the pieces of bone a trifle, and studied
how they were to go together, Pablo holding the body tight. He pulled
out some of the downy feathers, pinched the skin together, wound it
with threads of soft silk and then bound it up with splints.
"Poor thing," he said.
"Don't you believe he will get over it? Oh, what if he never could fly
again."
"Then he will have to live with you."
"Oh, I should like that if he would only be content."
Then they put him in a tub so he could not flounder around much, and
laid some bits of meat near him. Pablo was to keep watch so that no
evil would happen.
Miss Holmes had hardly mounted a horse since girlhood. She did feel a
little timid.
"She's a lady's mount and very gentle. Old knowledge soon comes back
to one," Uncle Jason said, with an encouraging smile.
They took their way up on the cliff, where there was a pretence of a
road that long afterward was to be magnificent. From here the town
was a succession of terraces to the bay. The houses were in many
instances hidden, but here and there a high one, or a church, loomed
up.
On the ocean side it was simply magnificent. The wave-washed rocks
glinting in the brilliant sunlight, the seals diving, swimming about
as if they were at play, then coming up to sun themselves, the flocks
of gulls, the terns, the murres, and the fulmars, who expertly catch
fish from the gulls, the auks, diving and swimming about. To-day
almost every variety seemed out.
The air was like the wine of a new life and made the blood tingle in
the veins. The midday heat was over, the west wind bore the tang of
the broad ocean. Miss Holmes wondered if she had ever known before
this just what life was, and the joy of living.
CHAPTER IX
A PARTY AND AN ADMIRER
When the sun dropped into the ocean the world for a time seemed
ablaze. Certainly, here was the place for sunsets. And as they went on
they crushed the dying ferns and foot-high evergreens into penetrating
fragrance. Down below the Estenegas they turned around and took a
lower road that had little in it except the whispering trees and
plaintive bird songs, until houses came into view, and human figures
moving about. They did not go down in the city, there was always more
or less carousing on Saturday night. A strong young voice was shouting
out a favorite song:
     "Oh, Sally, dearest Sally; oh, Sally, for your sake,
     I'll go to California and try to make a shake;
     Says she to me, 'Joe Bowers, you are the man to win,
     Here's a kiss to bind the bargain,' and she hove a dozen in."
There were musical voices, too. A square below them a wagon load were
singing to the accompaniment of an accordion. Lights were flashing
out, throngs began to gather in the streets, and they were glad to
canter away to quiet.
"It is the most splendid thing of my life," Miss Holmes said.
"And you have done exceptionally well. You and Laverne can take many
an hour's enjoyment when I am busy."
Pablo took the horses down while Miss Holmes spread the supper, and
the two went to look after the gull, who seemed very well content, and
allowed his neck to be stroked without demur.
"And we saw a great bird snatch a fish from one of your kind," Laverne
told him. "And such lots of your relations!"
Bruno looked on curiously.
"Don't you touch him. And don't you let any wild cat or fox come after
him. Mind, now."
Bruno beat his tail on the dry grass.
If there were nations from almost every corner of the globe, they all
joined in celebrating Fourth of July. This year there was a fine
military parade, and Sutter's Rifles from Sacramento City came up and
passed in review before the old true-hearted pioneer, Major-General
John H. Sutter, rapturously applauded by the crowd. Then they marched
to the Russ Garden, where they were presented with a set of colors.
Irish and German were alike patriotic. There were singing and
speeches; booths on corners dispensed simple refreshments to the weary
and the children. Carriages were ornamented with small flags, and
filled with the better class, who cheered as heartily. It was really a
gala day. They had been invited to the Personettes, where tea was set
out on the lawn, and as there was no moon it was hung with Chinese
lanterns. There were some schoolgirls, and they had a table to
themselves, and some dancing. Several of the young people gave the
fancy dances they had learned at the classes the winter before.
Vacations had generally commenced. There were picnics to San José and
mountain climbs; there were excursions up and down the bay and to the
towns opposite up to San Pablo and Mare's Island, over to Sausalito.
And on Sunday, the road to the old Mission Dolores was always thronged
with pleasure-seekers, elegant open carriages filled with
finely-dressed ladies, equestrians of all kinds, and the Spanish
señors often disported themselves in all their bravery. Miss Holmes
was rather startled at first, and to her it was Sabbath-breaking, but
Jason Chadsey was so used to the cosmopolitan order of the day, and
she met the people who had been to church in the morning.
The hot sun and lack of rain had not dried up everything. There were
fogs on the coast that dripped like fine rain, and fairly drenched
bush and faded grass. There were fine green hills and fields of
flowers, and the new crop of wild oats and barley.
And then autumn came in again, schools opened, business stirred up,
there were blessed rains, and it was like a later summer.
The little girl had been much interested in her gull and he had grown
very fond of her, eating out of her hand, and hiding his head under
her arms as the squirrel did. She had traced Snippy to his home, and
sure enough he had a companion. There was an old scrubby dead pine in
which there was a hollow, or they had gnawed it, and thither they
carried nuts and crusts of bread that Laverne pretended to lose.
"Uncle Jason," she said one day, "did you ever see an albatross?"
"Yes. Not very often. They are in the Northern Pacific."
"They are not like gulls."
"Oh, much larger."
"There is a story about one. Miss Bain has it in a beautiful book. One
day she read it."
"Oh, 'The Ancient Mariner.'"
"Do you know about it?" Her face was alight with pleasure. "And is it
true? Did he kill the bird:
     "'Who, every day for food or play,
     Came to the Mariner's hollo.'"
"It's a queer story. No, I don't suppose it was really true. But it is
always considered bad luck to kill one. I must get the book for you."
"Oh, if you would," in her pretty, coaxing way. "Pablo wanted to kill
the gull. Then we might have had bad luck. And now we can't find any
name for him."
"That's bad, too."
His leg had mended nicely and the splints were off, though it must be
confessed he had tugged a great deal at them, and could not be brought
to understand their benefit, though it was explained over and over
again. But his wing did not seem to be just right, and his efforts to
fly were not successful.
"But I wish he could. He would look so lovely sailing about."
"And fly away!"
"Oh, I don't really believe he would."
Uncle Jason brought home a fine illustrated copy of the "Ancient
Mariner" from an English press. In the early fifties, even in vaunted
New York, Boston, and Philadelphia illustrating had not reached the
high point of art it was destined to later on.
She was delighted and in a little while knew it all by heart. She grew
very fond of poetry. She used to read to the gull until he seemed
hypnotized, and presently would nod, sometimes put his head under his
wing.
In September, there was another great celebration on the opening of
the first electric telegraph. This was between San Francisco and Point
Lobos, and was erected by Messrs. Sweeny and Baugh to give early
information of shipping arrivals. They had a station on Telegraph Hill
in which they used various signals, but this was of immeasurably
greater service.
Early in November, there was the anniversary of the founding of the
Mission of Dolores. There were a number of Catholic children in the
school, and a holiday was given.
"Oh, come, go," Olive coaxed. "Eulogia Garfias and her mother are
going, and we are great friends. You've never been in a Catholic
Church?"
"No; but I know some Catholic girls, and one has gone to a convent to
be educated. Oh, and the two little ones were to come up to the
Sisters' School."
"Why, maybe they will be there."
She had not been to the Estenegas in a long, long time; since the day
she and Uncle Jason had ridden down there.
Miss Holmes made no objection. People grew broader in this grand air.
There were many points in which all denominations worked together for
the city's welfare.
It was constructed of adobe, partly whitewashed. It had been very
grand in its day, and had a capacious interior. The walls and roof
roughly painted still held saints and angels and sacred subjects much
faded by the seventy-five years. The damp earthen floor struck a chill
to one. Some of the ornaments of the great altar had been carried
away, and those left were of no great value. But on this occasion
every year there was a large accession of worshippers, even Spanish
and Mexican men as well as women, kneeling reverently on the floor,
and that seemed strange to Laverne, who glanced up with great awe to
the figure of the Christ on the cross between the two oriel windows.
At the side was a female figure with hands clasped, the Virgin. Tall
candles were burning on each side of the altar.
The service was mostly in Latin. The congregation went out reverently,
some to walk in the small graveyard. Yes, there were Juana and Anesta
and several other girls, attended by a sister. They were delighted to
meet Laverne, and were full of confidences as they walked out to the
street. The house was shut up, their mother had gone to Monterey, and
they were staying at school all the time. They liked it so much. And,
if they were allowed, they would be so glad to visit Laverne. Eulogia
Garfias knew the sister and introduced her schoolmates; that made the
sister soften somewhat to them, and listen to their plea.
So Laverne had quite an eventful morning.
"But the little girls look sad, I think," she commented. "And the old
church isn't a bit pretty, it looks faded. And no seats to sit on. It
didn't seem at all like church."
What with lessons, her pets, and her rides, the days were all too
short. Her gull still remained and now could fly a short distance. It
really seemed to love the shelter of the house, and this amused Uncle
Jason very much. Then it never flapped its wings, but seemed to rise
slowly and float about with a serene air. It enjoyed the stream and
the new lake Pablo and Laverne had made. For now the frequent rains
swelled all the streams, and the bright bracing northwest winds
brought the fragrance of spring. Everything grew by bounds. The little
girl could hardly believe it was winter. The bluest skies, the golden
sunshine that flashed in streams of brilliance, the bay a sea of
silver bearing on its bosom treasures of every land.
And so came in a Merry Christmas, with pleasure in every home; a
children's festival, with not so much religious significance as now.
They went to a grand dinner at Mrs. Personette's, Miss Gaines with
them, who looked splendid in her satin gown, and who was coining money
rapidly. Lines were not very closely drawn; the aristocrat of to-day
riding round in his carriage was the workman of last year. The poor
mechanic lucky enough to find a nugget of gold brought his wife in the
front rank and dressed her in velvet, loaded her with jewels. The
keeper of an ordinary restaurant branched out presently in a very
respectable hotel. It was difficult to keep up with all the changes.
Then, it must be admitted, that many of these people were from the
East and had good educations, had, indeed, been accustomed to the
refinements of civilized life, but the thought of making a fortune in
a few years had given them courage to breast the vulgarity and rough
life until they could advance themselves to the old standard.
The children had a party in the evening. Howard had gone to a
preparatory school in the East, as his keen-eyed stepmother found he
was in a rather dangerous circle of young men--girls, too, for that
matter--who were likely to lead one astray, and this had also
influenced Isabel and was bringing her forward much more rapidly than
was judicious. So they were principally schoolgirls, with the cousin
from Oaklands and the young sons of a few friends and neighbors. At
first Isabel was rather stiff and important, but she thawed presently.
Mrs. Personette remembered her own youth and how much these pleasures
had been to her, and really exerted herself in a delightful manner to
keep them well entertained.
Victor Savedra, one of the cousins from Oaklands, took a great fancy
to the shy little girl, and asked her to dance.
"I don't know how," she said, flushing and drawing back.
"Why--don't you dance?" in surprise.
"Just a little, with the girls at school. But--I am afraid----"
"Why, I'll take you through. This is just the plainest quadrille. Oh,
Aunt Grace, don't you think this--" little girl, he was about to
say--"your name is Laverne, isn't it--can't she dance? She looks as if
she could--she's as light as a feather."
"Oh, you can never learn younger. All the children dance here. I think
it comes natural. But you are too late for that. And, Victor, you
might be explaining the figures to her and be ready for the next one."
Victor led her a little to one side. "Aunt Grace is just a trump," he
said. "We thought at first we shouldn't like her, some of the Yankees
are so queer, and talk so outlandish and all that, through their
noses, you know, but she is just a lady all through, and full of fun.
Now, look at this--it's an easy figure--balancing to corners, turning
your partner and a galop down the middle----"
"Why, it's like the fairy rings you read about--I have a splendid
fairy book uncle brought me, and on moonlight nights the little people
go out and dance on the green. The Irish stories are just enchanting.
They love the little people."
Her eyes had been following the dances and she moved her head faintly
as if she was keeping time. Then the fiddles gave a sharp staccato and
stopped.
"Oh," she exclaimed, in bewilderment.
He laughed at the startled look.
"They'll tune up and begin again." Oh, what eager eyes she had. Why,
she was really very pretty, with that soft rose flush and fair hair.
Olive had called her "a plain little thing."
Sure enough that was long ago, remember, before we heard of Strauss
and Sousa. Many a quadrille has begun with "Life let us cherish."
Victor took her hand and fairly impelled her out on the floor. "Now,
I'll tell you everything, and you just mind and don't feel afraid."
She never knew whether she minded or not. She was thinking of Nora of
the Mill when she stepped in the magic ring, and Laudeen, with the
blue coat and a firefly for each button all the way down, just whisked
her around until the air was full of fireflies. It was splendid.
"Oh, you've done very well," Victor said, in a delighted tone. "You
didn't mind the mistakes at all, but just kept on, and that's the way
to do. But you must learn to dance regularly. And I hope we shall
dance together often. You are just like a fairy. That Larkin girl trod
on my foot about every other step. Oh, that is the Cheat. That's rare
fun. Now, see--when it is 'All hands round,' and your partner turns
the other girls, come straight back to him, to me, will you? The
fellows left out get laughed at. Now, you'll see."
When the Cheat came he told her again. She turned away from the
outstretched arms and looked for Victor, whose face was flushed. For
he felt he had been really rude to one of the best dancers in the
room. And in the next Cheat some one picked up Laverne, almost lifting
her off her feet, while Esta Collins paid him back with interest and a
triumphant smile.
"I didn't do it right," Laverne said ruefully. "He was so big and
strong, and I never saw him----"
"Oh, that's a good deal of the fun when you know all about it. The
girls flirt awfully, but now and then one gets left in the lurch. The
next is the Spanish Galop, and then the refreshments. Who is going to
take you in?"
"Why--I don't know----" hesitatingly.
"Then I will, and we will have this galop."
"Victor," Isabel said, rather sharply, in the pause. "You take Miss
Payne in for refreshments."
"Can't, my dear cousin. I wouldn't dare poach on Leon Sturges' manor."
"Victor!" But he had gone.
"Just see how that little thing holds on to Victor! Olive, you put a
stop to it as soon as supper is over. I didn't think Victor would make
such a fool of himself. He's danced three times with her. And she's
just crazy over it. She's making a sight of herself."
Olive nodded. She had had all the attention she wanted, and had never
once thought of Laverne, or Victor either.
Victor was asking if Laverne didn't most blow away up on the hill
where she lived, and if she didn't get lost in the dreadful fogs. And
she told him about her squirrel and the gull.
"Why, I thought they were the shyest, wildest things, and that you
couldn't touch them while they were alive. And he really stays with
you?" in amaze.
"He can't fly very far. You see, his wing isn't quite right, though he
can raise it, but it doesn't seem strong. Still he flies so
beautifully a short distance it is a pleasure to see him. Sometimes I
make believe he is an albatross. And I tell him about the 'Ancient
Mariner.'"
"Oh, do you know that queer old thing! And do you love verses? We're
reading the Iliad at school. It isn't verse exactly, but it's poetry
all the same. There are some splendid heroes in it."
She didn't know exactly what it was, but she liked reading about
heroes and her eyes kindled.
"Do you think I might come to visit you and the gull? Are there any
more pets?"
"Oh, yes, a splendid big dog; and I never feel afraid with him. And
the loveliest Mexican pony. Then the birds are very tame. There is the
sauciest mocking bird, and we whistle to each other. He will come for
crumbs, and when the weather is very dry we put out a pan of water and
it is fun to see them bathe. And the jays chatter and scold so."
"How much you must love everything!"
"Well--there are no children near by. Though now I go to school."
"And you came from Maine, Aunt Grace said, all the way round the Horn.
Do you know they are talking of a railroad across the Continent? Oh,
what lots of things we would have to talk about. I'll ask father to
let me come over here and then I'll come up and see you--some
Saturday."
"Oh, I shall be just delighted." The little face was all rosy
eagerness.
"You're not eating anything. Oh, here are the mottoes. Now, we'll have
some fun."
They were prizes to children in those days. A candy in a pretty
colored fringed paper, with two or four printed rhymes, sometimes very
funny, at others sentimental. Victor had numbers sent to him by
different girls, who were beginning to think the little Maine damsel
was getting more than her share of him.
Olive stood ready to pounce upon him. But Miss Holmes was there at the
doorway.
"Uncle Jason has come," she said, in a low tone. "Are you not tired
and almost ready to go home?"
Laverne took the outstretched hand.
"Remember," Victor said, "I shall come before long."
"Really," began Olive tauntingly, "you seem very fond of small fry."
"Why--she is your friend. You have told us ever so much about her. And
she's a nice little thing."
"Oh, a mere child! A flower of the field sort of thing," rather
disdainfully.
He thought her very ungracious when she had been quite eloquent over
Laverne at Oaklands.
She leaned against Miss Holmes' shoulder and talked of the dancing,
while two or three men discussed the prospect of a road across the
continent. The hardships of the overland journey were almost
incredible. Congress could hardly be roused on the subject. Daniel
Webster, broad statesman as he was, opposed it with energy. The Great
American Desert was a formidable thing. And there were the Rocky
Mountains. The gold fields might give out--it was not an agricultural
region--how could manufactures ever be established so remote from
every centre! Spain and Mexico had tried their hands. There was enough
to do nearer home.
The little girl listened with a curious interest. It was a wonderful
country to her. Maine had nothing to compare with it. And though she
began to feel sleepy now that she was quiet, she winked her eyes hard
so as not to lose a word.
"We must go," Miss Holmes said at length; so they rose and wished
their host good-night.
What a glorious night it was! There was no moon, but the wide blue
vault was studded so thick with stars, great golden, twinkling globes,
that seemed to keep Christmas as truly as when they sang to the
shepherds on the plains of Judea. All the air was spicily fragrant,
for there was just enough fog over on the ocean side to make a dew and
distil sweetness. Some of the newly whitewashed houses glistened like
marble, and the brick ones threw a weird kind of shade. There were
clumps of trees, and the little girl half suspected Indians or wolves
lurking behind them.
"Did you have a nice time, little one?" asked her uncle, in a fond
tone.
The cool, fresh, inspiriting air had wakened her.
"Oh, it was splendid! And I danced. Don't you think I might go to
dancing school? All the children do. Olive's cousin was so nice to me,
and he wants to come and see the gull. And he has a pony, too. He is
going to ride over some day. He's nicer than Dick Folsom; that is--he
is polite and gentle, and has such a sweet voice. Oh, I liked him so
much. And there were so many pretty and finely dressed girls--maybe it
was because I didn't have any brother or cousin that he was so good to
me."
Jason Chadsey gave a soft little sigh.
CHAPTER X
ETHICS AND ETIQUETTE
It was midnight, and the bells rang out for 1854. The streets were
full of people. Banjos were being strummed, accordions lent their
music. Singers really made bedlam, but above all you heard every
little while the refrain from a chorus of voices:
     "The days of old, the days of gold,
     The days of forty-nine."
