as he kissed her, and that she had been full of 
a wild desire to sing, although she could hardly 
shape and utter the words that danced in her 
throbbing brain. But she had been conscious 
through it all of the romantic circumstance, of the 
lonely beauty of the night, of the delightful wick- 
edness of meeting her lover in the silence and the 
dark, even with a wall ten feet high between them. 
For the wall, indeed, she had been confusedly and 
deliciously grateful. 
And this was what a man 's love came to : ardors 
by night and expedience by day ! Or was it merely 
that Rezanov was the man of aifairs always, the 
lover incidentally? But how could a man who 
had seemed the very epitome of all the lovers of 
all the world but a few hours before, contemplate, 
far less accept, a separation of years? Poor 
Concha groped toward the great unacceptable 
fact of life the whole, lit by love its chief incident; 
and had a fleeting vision of the waste lands in 
the lives of women occupied only with matrimony. 
But she dropped her lashes upon this unalluring 
vision, and as she did so, inevitably she began to 
excuse the man. 
None knew better than she every side of the 
great question that was shaking not only her life 
but California itself. Appeal from the dictum of 
state and clergy would be a mere waste of time. 
The only alternative was flight. That would 
mean the wreck of Rezanov's avowed purposes in 
coming to this quarter of New Spain, and perhaps of others she dimly suspected. It would 
mean the very acme of misery for his Sitkans, and 
an indefensible blow to the Company. It might 
even prove the fatal mistake in his career, for 
which his enemies were ever on the alert. He was 
not communicative about himself except when he 
had an object in view, but he had told her something of his life, and his officers and Langsdorff 
had told more. He was no silly caballero warbling 
and thrumming at her grating when she longed 
for sleep, but a man in his forties whose passions 
were in the leash of a remarkably acute and am- 
bitious brain. She even thrilled with pride in his 
strength, for she knew how he loved her ; and although his part was action, her stimulated instincts taught her that she would rarely be long 
from his mind. And what was she to seek to roll 
stumbling blocks into the career of a man like 
that? In this very garden, for four long days, she 
had dreamed exalted dreams of the manifold gifts 
she should develop both for his solace at home and 
his worldly advancement. She had once felt all a 
girPs impatience when her mother's tears made 
her father's departure on some distant mission 
more difficult than need be, and although she knew 
now that her capacity for tenderness was as great, 
she resolved to mould herself in a larger shape 
than that. 
But she sighed and drooped a little. The burden of woman's waiting seemed already to have 
descended upon her. Two years were long — long. 
There might be other delays. He might fall ill; 
he had been ill before in that barbarous Eussian 
north. And in all that time it was doubtful if she 
received a line from him, a hint of his welfare. 
The Boston and British skippers came no more, 
and it was certain that no Eussian ship would 
visit California again until the treaty was 
signed and official news of it had made its slow 
way to these uttermost shores. She had resented, 
 
in her young ambition and indocility, the chance 
that had stranded her, equipped for civilization, 
on this rim of the world, but never so much as in 
that moment, when she sat with arrested breath 
and realized to the full the primitive conditions 
of a country thousands of miles from the very 
outposts of Europe, and with never the sight of 
a letter that did not come from Spain or one of 
her colonies. 
" Would that we lived a generation later, '' she 
thought with a heavy sigh. " Progress is almost 
automatic, and to a land as fertile and desirable 
as this the stream must turn in due course. But 
not in my time. Not in my time. ' ' 
She rose and leaned her elbows in the embrasure of the grille, where Santiago had restored the 
bars, and looked out over the fields of grain 
planted by the padres, the immense sand dunes beyond, that shut the lovely bay from sight ; the hills 
embracing the primitive scene in a frowning arc. 
With all her imagination it was long before she 
could picture a great city covering that immense 
and almost desert space. A pueblo in time, perhaps, for Eezanov had awakened her mind to the 
importance of the harbor as a port of call. Many 
more adobe homes where the sand was not hot 
and shifting, a few ships in the bay when Spain 
had been compelled to relax her jealous vigilance 
— or — who knew? — perhaps ! — a flourishing colony 
when the Russian bear had devoured the Spanish 
lion. She knew something and suspected more of 
the rottenness and inefficiency of Spain, and, were 
Russia a nation of Rezanovs, what opposition in 
California against the tide thundering down from 
the north I Then, perhaps, the city that had travelled from the brain of the Russian to hers when 
the fog had rolled over the heights; the towers 
and palaces and bazaars, the thousand little 
golden domes with the slender cross atop; the 
forts on the crags and the villas in the hollows, 
and on all the islands and hills. But when she and 
her lover were dust. When she and her lover 
were dust. 
But she was too young and too ardent to listen 
long to the ravens of the spirit. Two years are 
not eternity, and in happiness the past rolls together like a scroll and is naught. She fell to 
dreaming. Her lips that had been set with the 
gravity of stone relaxed in warm curves. The 
color came back to her cheek, the light to her eyes. 
She was a girl at her grating with the roses poignant above her, and the world, radiant, alluring, 
and all for her, swimming in the violet haze 
beyond. 
Eezanov in those days was literally lord and 
master at the Presidio. If he did not bum the 
house of his devoted host he ran it to suit himself. He turned one of its rooms into an office, 
where he received the envoys from the different 
Missions and examined the samples of everything 
submitted to him, trusting little to his commissary. His leisure he employed scouring the coun- 
try or shooting deer and quail in the company 
of his younger hosts. The literal mind of Don 
Jose accepted him as an actual son and embryonic 
Califomian, and, his conscience at peace, revelled 
in his society as a sign from propitiated heaven ; 
rejoicing in the virtue of his years. The Governor, testily remarking that as California was so 
well governed for the present he would retire to 
Monterey and take a siesta, rode off one morning, 
but not without an affectionate: " God preserve 
the life of your excellency many years.'' 
But although Eezanov saw the most sanguine 
hopes that had brought him to California fulfilled, 
and although he looked from the mountain ridges 
of the east over the great low valleys watered by 
rivers and shaded by oaks, where enough grain 
could be raised to keep the blood red in a thousand 
times the colonial population of Eussia, although 
he felt himself in more and more abundant health, 
more and more in love with life, it is not to be 
supposed for a moment that he was satisfied. 
Concha he barely saw. She remained with the 
Moragas, and although she came occasionally to 
the afternoon dances at the Presidio, and he had 
dined once at her cousin's house, where the formal 
betrothal had taken place and the marriage contract had been signed in the presence of her 
family and more intimate friends, the priests, 
his officers, and the Governor, he had not 
spoken with her for a moment alone. Nor had 
her eyes met his in a glance of understanding. 
At the dances she showed him no favor; and 
as the engagement was to be as secret as 
might be in that small community, until his 
return with consent of Pope and King, he was 
forced to concede that her conduct was irreproachable ; but when on the day of the betrothal she was 
oblivious to his efforts to draw her into the garden, he mounted his horse and rode off in a huff. 
The truth was that Concha liked the present 
 
arrangement no better than himself, and knowing 
that her own appeal against the proprieties would 
result in a deeper seclusion, she determined to 
goad him into using every resource of address and 
subtlety to bring about a more human state of 
affairs. And she accomplished her object. Eezanov, at the end of a week, was not only infuriated but alarmed. He knew the imagination of 
woman, and guessed that Concha, in her brooding 
solitude, distorted all that was unfortunate in the 
present and dwelt morbidly on the future. He 
knew that she must resent his part in the long 
separation, no doubt his lack of impulsiveness in 
not proposing elopement. There was a priest in 
his company who, although he ate below the salt 
and found his associates among the sailors, could 
have performed the ceremony of marriage when 
the Juno, under full sail in the night, was scudding for the Eussian north. It is not to be denied 
that this romantic alternative appealed to Eezanov, and had it not been for the starving wretches 
so eagerly awaiting his coming he might have 
been tempted to throw commercial relations to 
the winds and flee with his bride while San Fran- 
cisco, secure in the knowledge of the Juno's 
empty hold, was in its first heavy sleep. It is 
doubtful if he would have advanced beyond impulse, for Eezanov was not the man to lose sight 
of a purpose to which he had set the full strength 
of his talents, and life had tempered his impetuous 
nature with much philosophy. Moreover, while 
his conscience might ignore the double dealing 
necessary to the accomplishment of patriotic or 
political acts, it revolted at the idea of outwitting, possibly wrecking, his trusting and hospi- 
table host. But the mere fact that his imagination 
could dwell upon such an issue as reckless flight, 
inflamed his impatience, and his desire to see 
Concha daily during these last few weeks of 
propinquity. Finally he sought the cooperation 
of Father Abella, and that wise student of maids 
and men gave him cheer. 
On Thursday afternoon there was to take place 
the long delayed Indian dance and bull-bear fight; 
not in the Presidio, but at the Mission, the pride 
of the friars inciting them to succeed where the 
military authorities had failed. All the little 
world of San Francisco would be there, and it 
would be strange if in the confusion between performance and supper a lover could not find a 
moment alone with his lady. 
The elements were kind to the padres. The 
afternoon was not too liot, although the sun 
flooded the plain and there was not a cloud on 
the dazzling blue of the sky. Never had the Mission and the mansions looked so white, their tiles 
so red. The trees were blossoming pink and white 
in the orchards, the lightest breeze rippled the 
green of the fields; and into this valley came 
neither the winds nor the fogs of the ocean. 
The priests and their guests of honor sat on 
the long corridor beside the church; the soldiers, 
sailors and Indians of Presidio and Mission form- 
ing the other three sides of a hollow square. The 
Indian women were a blaze of color. The ladies 
on the corridor wore their mantillas, jewels, and 
the gayest of artificial flowers. There were as 
many fans as women. Eezanov sat between 
Father Abella and the Comandante, and not 
being in the best of tempers had never looked 
more imposing and remote. Concha, leaning 
against one of the pillars, stole a glance at him 
and wondered miserably if this haughty European had really sought her hand, if it were not a 
girls foolish dream. But Concha's humble moments at this period of her life were rare, and she 
drew herself up proudly, the blood of the proudest 
race in Europe shaking angrily in her veins. 
A moment later, in response to a power greater 
than any within herself, she turned again. The 
attention of hosts and gnests was riveted upon 
the preliminary antics of the Indian dancers, and 
Eezanov seized the opportunity to lean forward 
unobserved and gaze at the girl whom it seemed 
to him he saw for the first time in the full splendor of her beauty. She wore a large mantilla of 
white Spanish lace. In the fashion of the day it 
rose at the back almost from the hem of her gown 
to descend in a point over the high comb to her 
eyes. The two points of the width were gathered 
at her breast, defining the outlines of her superb 
figure, and fastened with one large Castilian rose 
surrounded by its mass of tiny sharp buds and dull 
green leaves. As the familiar scent assailed Eez- 
anov's nostrils they tingled and expanded. His 
lids were lifted and his eyes glowing as he finally 
compelled her glance, and her own eyes opened 
with an eager flash ; her lips parted and her shoulders lost their haughty poise. For a moment their 
gaze lingered in a perfect understanding; his ill- 
humor vanished, and he leaned back with a complimentary remark as Father Abella directed his 
attention to the most agile of the Indians. 
The swart natives of both sexes with their thick 
features and long hair were even more hideous 
than usual in bandeaux of bright feathers, scant 
garments made from the breasts of water-fowls, 
rattling strings of shells, and tattooing on arm 
and leg no longer concealed by the decorous Mission smock. Eezanov had that day sent them 
presents of glass beads and ribbons, and in these 
they took such extravagant pride that for some 
time their dancing was almost automatic. 
But soon their blood warmed, and after the 
first dance, which was merely a series of measured 
springs on the part of the men and a beating of 
time by the women, a large straw figure symbolizing an entire hostile tribe was brought in, and 
about this pranced the men with savage cries and 
gestures, advancing, attacking, retreating, finally 
piercing it with their arrows and marching it off 
with sharp yells of triumph that reverberated 
among the hills; the women never varying from 
a loud monotonous chant. 
There was a peaceful interlude, during which 
the men, holding bow and arrow aloft, hopped up 
and down on one spot, the women hopping beside 
them and snapping thumb and forefinger on the 
body, still singing in the same high measured 
voice. But while they danced a great bonfire was 
laid and kindled. The gyrations lasted a few moments longer, then the chief seized a live ember 
and swallowed it. His example was immediately 
followed by his tribe, and, whether to relieve discomfort or with energies but quickened, they exe- 
cuted a series of incredible handsprings and acrobatic capers. When they finally whirled away 
on toes and finger tips, another chief, in the horns 
and hide of a deer, rushed in, pursued by a party 
of hunters. For several moments he perfectly 
simulated a hunted animal, lurking and dodging 
in high grass, behind trees, venturing to the brink 
of a stream to drink, searching eagerly for his 
mate; and when he finally escaped it was amidst- 
the most enthusiastic plaudits as yet evoked. 
After an hour of this varied performance, the 
square was enlarged by several mounted vaqueros 
galloping about with warning cries and much 
flourishing of lasso. They were the cattle herders of the Mission ranch just over the hills, and 
were in gala attire of black glazed sombrero with 
silver cord, white shirt open at the throat, short 
black velvet trousers laced with silver, red sash 
and high yellow boots. Four, pistol in hand, stationed themselves in front of the corridor, while 
the others rode out and in again, dragging a bear 
 
and a bull, with hind legs attached by two yards 
of rope. The captors left the captives in the middle of the square, and without more ado the 
serious sport of the day began. The bull, with 
stomach empty and hide inflamed, rushed at the 
bear, furious from captivity, with such a roar 
that the Indian women screamed and even the 
men shuffled their feet uneasily. But neither combatant was interested in aught but the other. The 
one sought to gore, his enemy to strike or hug. 
The vaqueros teased them with arrows and cries, 
the dust flew; for a few moments there was but 
a heaving, panting, lashing bulk in the middle 
of the arena, and then the bull, his tongue torn 
out, rolled on his back, and another was driven 
in before the victor could wreak his unsated vengeance among the spectators. The bear, dragging 
the dead bull, rushed at the living, who, unmartial at first, stiffened to the defensive as he saw 
a bulk of wiry fur set with eyes of fire, almost 
upon him. He sprang aside, lowered his horns, 
and caught the bear in the chest. But the victor 
was a compact mass of battle and momentum. His 
onslaught flung the bear over backward, and 
quickly disengaging himseK he made another 
leap at his equally agile enemy. This time the 
battle was longer and more various, for the bull 
was smaller, more active and dexterous. Twice 
lie almost had the bear on his horns, but was 
rolled, only saving his neck and back from the 
fury of the mountain beast by such a kicking and 
leaping that both combatants were indistinguishable from the whirlwind of dust. Out of this they 
would emerge to stand panting in front of each 
other with tongues pendant and red eyes rolling. 
Finally the bear, nearly exhausted, made a sudden charge, the bull leaped aside, back again with 
incredible swiftness, caught the bear in the belly, 
tossed him so high that he met the hard earth 
with a loud cracking of bone. The vaqueros circled about the maddened bull, set his hide thick 
with arrows, tripped him with the lasso. A wiry 
little Mexican in yellow, galloping in on his mustang, administered the coup de grace amidst the 
wild applause of the spectators, whose shouting 
and clapping and stamping might have been 
heard by the envious guard at the Presidio and 
Yerba Buena. 
As the party on the corridor broke, Rezanov 
found no difficulty in reaching Concha's side, for 
even Dona Ignaeia was chattering wildly with 
several other good dames who renewed their 
youth briefly at the bull-fight. 
" Did you enjoy that? " he asked curionsly. 
' ' I did not look at it. I never do. But I know 
that you were not affronted. You never took your 
eyes from those dreadful beasts." 
" I am exhilarated to know that you watched 
me. Yes, at a bull-fight the primitive man in me 
has its way, although I have the grace to be 
ashamed of myself afterward. In that I am at 
least one degree more civilized than your race, 
which never repents.'' 
The door of one of the smaller rooms stood open, 
and as they took advantage of this oversight with 
a singular concert of motive, he took both her 
hands in his. "" Are you angry with me? '' he 
asked softly. He dared not close the door, but 
his back was square against it, and the other 
guests were moving down to the refectory. 
" For liking such horrid sport? " 
" "We have no time to waste in coquetry.'' 
Her eyes melted, but she could not resist planting a dart. " Not now— I quite understand: love 
could never be first with you. And two years are 
not so long. They quickly pass when one is busy. 
I shall find occupation, and you will have no time 
for longings and regrets." 
iThey were not yet alone, women were talking 
in their light high voices not a yard away. The 
hindrance and her new loveliness in the soft mantilla, the pink of the roses reflected in her throat, 
the provocative curl of her mouth, sent the blood 
to his head. 
" You have only to say the word,' he said 
hoarsely, " and the Juno will sail to-night.'' 
Never before had she seen his face so unmasked. 
Her voice shook in triumph and response. 
" Would you? Would you? " 
" Say the word! " 
'' You would sacrifice all— the Company— your 
career- your Sitkans? " 
'' All— everything." His own voice shook with 
more than passion, for even in that moment he 
counted the cost, but he did not care. 
But Concha detected that second break in his 
voice, and turned her head sadly. 
" You would not say that to-morrow. I hate 
myself that I made you say it now. I love you 
enough to wait forever, but I have not the courage to hand you over to your enemies." 
" You are strangely far-sighted for a young 
girl." And between admiration and pique, his 
ardor suffered a chill. 
" I am no longer a young girl. In these last 
days it has seemed to me that secrets locked in 
my brain, secrets of women long dead, but of 
whose essence I am, have come forth to the light. 
I have suffered in anticipation. My mind has 
flown— flown— I have lived those two years until 
they are twenty, thirty, and I have lived on into 
old age here by the sea, watching, watching " 
She had dropped all pretence of coquetry and 
was speaking with a passionate forlornness. But 
before he could interrupt her, take advantage of 
the retreating voices that left them alone at last, 
she had drawn herself up and moved a step away. 
" Do not think, however,'' she said proudly, 
" that I am really as weak and silly as that. It 
was only a mood. Should you not return I should 
grieve, yes; and should I live as long as is com- 
mon with my race, still would my heart remain 
young with your image, and with the fidelity 
that would be no less a religion than that of my 
church. But I should not live a selfish life, or I 
should be unworthy of my election to experience 
a great and eternal passion. Memory and the life 
of the imagination would be my solace, possibly 
in time my happiness, but my days I should give 
to this poor little world of ours; and all that one 
mortal, and that a woman, has to bestow upon a 
stranded and benighted people. It may not be 
much, but I make you that promise, senor, that 
you will not think me a foolish romantic girl unworthy of the great responsibilities you have 
offered me. ' ' 
" Concha! '' He was deeply moved, and at 
the same time her words chilled him with subtle 
prophecy, sank into some unexplored depth of 
his consciousness, meeting response as subtle, filling him with a rush of angry impatience at the 
mortality of man. He glanced over his shoulder, 
then took her recklessly in his arms. 
" Is it possible you doubt I will come back! " 
he demanded. '' My faith! '' 
'' No, not that. But such happiness seems to 
me too great for this life." 
He remembered how often he had been close to 
death; he knew that during the greater part of 
the next two years he should see the glimmer of 
the scythe oftener yet. For a moment it seemed 
to him that he felt the dark waters rise in his 
soul, heard the jeers of the gods at the vanity 
of mortal will. But the blood ran strong and warm 
in his veins. He shook off the obsession, and 
smiled a little cynically, even as he kissed her. 
" This is the hour for romance, my dear. In 
the years to come, when you are very prosaically 
my wife with a thousand duties, and grumbling 
at my exactions, your consolation will be the 
memory of some moment like this, when you were 
able to feel romantic and sad. I wish I could arrange for some such set of memories for myself, 
but I am unequal to your divine melancholy. 
"When I cannot see you I am cross and sulky; and 
just now— I am, well— philosophically happy. 
Some day I shall be happier, but this is well 
enough. And I can harbor no ugly presentiments. 
As I entered California I was elated with a sense 
of coming happiness, of future victories; and I 
prefer to dwell upon that, the more particularly 
as in a measure the prophetic hint has been fulfilled. So make the most of the present. I shall 
see you daily during this last precious fortnight, 
for I am determined this arrangement shall cease ; 
and you must exorcise coquetry and abet me whenever there is a chance of a word alone.'' 
She nodded, but she noted with a sigh that he 
said no more of sudden flight. She would never 
have consented to jeopardize the least of his in- 
terests, but she fain would have been besought. 
The experience she had had of the vehemence and 
fire in Eezanov made her long for his complete 
 
subjugation and the happiness it must bring to 
herself. But as he smiled tenderly above her she 
saw that his practical bra,in had silenced the irresponsible demands of love, and although she did 
not withdraw from his arm she stiffened her head. 
" I fancy I shall return home to-morrow,'' she 
said. " My mother tells me that she can live 
without me no longer, and that Father Abella has 
reminded her that if I stay in the house of Elena 
Castro I shall be as free from gossip as here. I 
infer that he has rated my two parents for making a martyr of me unnecessarily, and told them 
it was a duty to enliven my life as much as possible before I enter upon this long period of probation. The grating of my room at Elena's is 
above a little strip of garden, and faces the blank 
wall of the next house. Sometimes— who knows? " 
She shrugged her shoulders and gave a gay little 
laugh, then stood very erect and moved past him 
to the door. She had recognized the shuffling step 
of Father Abella. 
" Is supper ready, padre miol " she asked 
sweetly. " His excellency and I have talked so 
much that we are very hungry." 
'' There is no need to deceive me," said Father 
Abella dryly. ' ' You are not the first lovers I have 
 
known, although I will admit yon are by far the 
most interesting, and for that reason I have had 
the wickedness to abet yon. But I fancy the good 
God will forgive me. Come quickly. They are 
scattered now, but will go to the refectory in a 
moment and miss you. Excellency, will you 
give your arm to Doha Ignacia and take the 
seat at the head of the table? Concha, my child, 
I am afraid you must console our good Don Weeliam. He is having a wretched quarter of an hour, 
but has loyally diverted the attention of your 
mother. ' ' 
" That is the vocation of certain men,'' said 
Concha lightly. 
XXIII 
Life was very gay for a fortnight. An 
hour after the Comandante 's surrender he 
had despatched invitations to all the young folk 
of the Gente de Eazon of Monterey, Santa Barbara, Los Angeles, and San Diego, and to such of 
the older as would brave the long journeys. 
The Monterehos had arrived for the Mission entertainment, and during the next few days the 
rest poured over the hills : De la Guerras, 
Ximenos, Estudillos, Carrillos, Estenegas, 
Morenos, Cotas, Estradas, Picos, Pachecos, 
Lugos, Ortegas, Alvarados, Bandinis, Peraltas, 
members of the Luis, Kodriguez, Lopez families 
all of gentle blood, that made up the society of 
Old California; as gay, arcadian, irresponsible, 
yet moral a society as ever fluttered over this 
planet. Every house in the Presidio and valley, 
every spare room at the Mission, opened to them 
with the exuberant hospitality of the country. 
The caballeros had their finest wardrobes of colored silks and embroidered botas, sombreros 
laden with silver, fine lawn and lace, jewel and 
sash, velvet serape for the chill of the late afternoon. The matrons brought their stiff robes of 
red and yellow satin, the girls as many flowered 
silks and lawns, mantillas and rebosos, as the 
family carretas would hold. The square of the 
Presidio was crowded from morning until mid- 
night with the spirited horses of the country, 
prancing impatiently under the heavy Mexican 
saddle, heavier with silver, made a trifle more 
endurable by the blanket of velvet or cloth. No 
Californian walked a dozen rods when he had a 
horse to carry him. 
But the horses were not always champing in 
the square. There was more than one bull-bear 
fight, and twice a week at least they carried their 
owners to the hills of the Mission ranch, or the 
rocky cliffs and gorges above Yerba Buena, the 
Indian servants following with great baskets of 
luncheon, perhaps roasting an ox whole in a 
trench. This the Californians called barbecue 
and the picnic merienda. 
There was dancing day and night, the tinkling 
of guitars, flirting of fans. Eezanov vowed he 
would not have believed there were so many fans 
and guitars in the world, and suddenly remembered he had never seen Concha with either. 
The lady of his choice reigned supreme. Many 
had taken the long blistering journey for no 
other purpose than to see the famous beauty and 
her Russian; the engagement was as well known 
as if cried from the Mission top. The girls were 
surprised and delighted to jond Concha sweet 
rather than proud and envied her with amiable 
enthusiasm. The caballeros, fewer in number, 
for most of the men in California at that period 
before a freer distribution of land were on duty 
in the army, artfully ignored the unavowed bond, 
but liked Rezanov when he took the trouble to 
charm them. 
Khostov and Davidov watched the loading of 
the Juno with a lively regret. Never had they 
enjoyed themselves more, nor seen so many 
pretty girls in one place. Both had begun by 
falling in love with Concha, and although they 
rebounded swiftly from the blow to their hopes, 
it happily saved them from a more serious dilemma; unwealthed and graceless as they were, 
they would have been regarded with little favor 
by the practical Californian father. As it was, 
their pleasures were unpoisoned by regrets or 
rebuff. When they were not flirting in the dance 
or in front of a lattice, receiving a lesson in Spanish behind the portly back of a duena, or clasp- 
ing brown little fingers under cover of a fan when 
all eyes were riveted on the death struggle of a 
bull and a bear, they were plajdng cards and 
drinking in the officers ' quarters ; which they liked 
almost as well. It is true they sometimes paid 
the price in a cutting rebuke from their chief, but 
the rebukes were not as frequent as in less toward 
circumstances, and were generally followed by 
some fresh indulgence. This, they uneasily 
guessed, was not only the result of the equable 
state of his excellency's temper, but because he 
had a signal unpleasantness in store, and would 
not hazard their resignation. They had taken advantage of an imperial ukase to enter the service 
of the Russian-American Company temporarily, 
and they knew that if they evaded any behest 
of Rezanov's their adventurous life in the Pacific 
would be over. Therefore, although they resented his implacable will, they pulled with him in 
outward amity; and indeed there were few of 
the Juno's human freight that did not look back 
upon that California springtime as the episode 
of their lives, commonly stormy or monotonous, 
in which the golden tide flowed with least alloy. 
Even Langsdorff, although impervious to female 
 
charms and with scientific thirst unslaked, enjoyed the Spanish fare and the society of the 
priests. The sailors received many privileges, 
attended bull-fights and fandangos, loved and 
pledged; and were only restrained from emigration to the interior of this enchanted land of 
pretty girls and plentiful food by the knowledge 
of the sure and merciless vengeance of their chief. 
Had the rumor of war still held it might have been 
otherwise, but that raven had flown off to the 
limbo of its kind, and the Comandante let it be 
known that deserters would be summarily captured and sent in irons to the Juno, 
In the mind of Concha Argiiello there was never 
a lingering doubt of the quality of that fortnight 
between the days of torturing doubts and acute 
emotional upheaval, and the sailing away of Rezanov. It was true that what he banteringly 
termed her romantic sadness possessed her at 
times, but it served as a shadow to throw into 
sharper relief an almost incredible happiness. 
If she seldom saw Rezanov alone there was the 
less to disturb her, and at least he was never far 
from her side. There were always the delight 
of unexpected moments unseen, whispered words 
in the crowd, the sense of complete understanding, broken now and again by poignant attacks 
of unreasoning jealousy, not only on her part but 
his; quite worth the reconciliation at the lattice, 
while Elena Castro, gentle dueiia, pitched her 
voice high and amused her husband so well he 
sought no opportunity for response. 
Then there was more than one excursion about 
the bay on the Juno, dinner on La Bellissima or 
Nuestra Sehora de los Angeles, a long return after 
sundown that the southerners might appreciate 
the glory of the sunsets, when the blue of the 
water was reflected in the lower sky, to melt into 
the pink fire above, and all the land swam in a 
pearly mist. 
Once the Comandante took twenty of his 
guests, a gay cavalcade, to his rancho. El Pilar, 
thirty miles to the south : a long valley flanked by 
the bay and the eastern mountains on the one 
hand, and a high range dense with forests of tall 
thin trees on the other. But the valley itself was 
less Californian than any part of the country 
Eezanov had seen. Smooth and flat and free of 
undergrowth and set with at least ten thousand 
oaks, it looked more like a splendid English park, 
I long preserved, than the recent haunt of naked 
savages. There were deer and quail in abundance, 
here and there an open field of grain. Long beards 
of pale green moss waved from the white oaks, 
wild flowers, golden red and pale blue, burst underfoot. There were hedges of sweet brier, acres 
of lupins, purple and yellow. Altogether the ideal 
estate of a nobleman ; and Eezanov, who had liked 
nothing in California so well, gave his imagination rein and saw the counterpart of the castle of 
his ancestors rise in the deep shade of the trees. 
Don Jose's house was a long rambling adobe, 
red tiled, with many bedrooms and one immense 
hall. Beyond was a chapel and a dozen out-buildings. Dinner was served in patriarchal style in 
the hall, the Comandante — or El Padrone as he 
was known here — and his guests at the upper end 
of the table; below the salt, the vaqueros, their 
wives and children, and the humble friar who 
drove them to prayer night and morning. The friar 
wore his brown robes, the vaqueros their black 
and silver and red in honor of the company, their 
women glaring handkerchiefs of green or red or 
yellow about their necks, even pinned back and 
front on their shapeless garments; and affording 
a fine vegetable garden contrast to the delicate 
flower bed surrounding the padrone. 
There was a race track on the ranch and many 
fine horses. After siesta the company mounted 
fresh steeds and rode off to applaud the feats of 
the vaqueros, who not content with climbing the 
greased pole, wrenching the head of an un- 
fortunate rooster from his buried body as they 
galloped by, submitting the tail of an oiled pig 
in full flight to the same indignity, gave when these 
and other native diversions were exhausted, 
such exhibitions of riding and racing as have 
never been seen out of California. As lithe as 
willow wands, on slender horses as graceful as 
themselves, they looked like meteors springing 
through space, and there was no trick of the circus 
they did not know by instinct and translate from 
gymnastics into poetry. Even Eezanov shared 
the excitement of the shouting clapping Californians, and Concha laughed delightedly when 
his cap waved with the sombreros. 
'' I think you will make a good Calif ornian in 
time," she said as they rode homeward. 
" Perhaps," said Eezanov musingly. His eyes 
roved over the magnificent estate and at the moment they entered a portion of it that deepened 
to woods, so dense was the undergrowth, so thick 
the oak trees. Here there was but a glimpse, now 
and again, of the mountains swimming in the dark 
 
blue mist of the late afternoon, the moss waved 
thickly from the ancient trees; over even the 
higher branches of many rolled a cascade of small 
brittle leaves, with the tempting opulence of its 
poisonous sap. The path was very abrupt, cut 
where the immense spreading trees permitted, 
and Eezanov and Concha had no difficulty in falling away from the chattering excited company. 
" Tell me your ultimate plans, Pedro mio,'' 
said Concha softly. " You are dreaming of something this moment beyond corn and treaties." 
" Do you want that final proof! '' he asked, 
smiling. " Well, if I could not trust you that 
would be the end of everything, and I know that I 
can. I have long regarded California as an absolutely necessary field of supplies, and since I 
have come here I will frankly say that could I, 
as the representative of the Tsar in all this part 
of the world, make it practically my own, I should 
be content in even a permanent exile from St. 
Petersburg. I could attract an immense colony 
here and in time import libraries and works of 
art, laying the foundation of a great and im- 
portant city on that fine site about Yerba Buena. 
But now that these kind people have practically 
adopted me I cannot repay their hospitality by 
any overt act of hostility. I must be content either 
slowly to absorb the country, in which case I shall 
see no great result in my lifetime, or — and for 
this I hope — what with the mess Bonaparte is 
making of Europe every state may be at the 
others' throat before long, including Eussia and 
Spain. At all events, a cause for rupture would 
not be far to seek, and it would need no instigation of mine to despatch a fleet to these shores. 
In that case I should be sent with it to take possession in the name of the Tsar, and to deal 
with these simple, kind — and inefficient people, my 
dear girl — as no other Eussian could. They cannot hold this country. Spain could not — would 
not, at all events, for she has not troops enough 
here to protect a territory half its size — hold it 
ag-ainst even the ' Americans, ' should they in time 
feel strong enough to push their way across the 
Western wilderness. It is the destiny of this 
charming Arcadia to disappear; and did Eussia 
forego an opportunity to appropriate a domain 
that offers her literally everything except civilization, she would be unworthy of her place among 
nations. Moreover — a beneficent triumph impossible to us otherwise — with a powerful and 
nourishing colony up and down this coast, and 
sending breadstuffs regularly to our other possessions in these waters nntil the natives, immigrants, and exiles were healthy vitalized beings, it 
would be but a question of a few years before we 
should force open the doors of China and Japan. " 
He caught Concha from her horse and strained 
her to him in the mounting ardor of his plunge 
down the future. " You must resent nothing! " 
he cried. " You must cease to be a Spanisli 
woman when you become my wife, and help me and
only you can in those inevitable years I have 
mapped out; and not so much for myself as for 
Eussia. My enemies have sought to persuade 
three sovereigns that I am a visionary, but I have 
already accomplished much that met with resentment and ridicule when I broached it. And I know 
my powers ! I tingle with the knowledge of my 
ability to carry to a conclusion every plan I have 
thought worth the holding when the ardor of conception was over. I swear to you that death alone 
— and I believe that nothing is further aloof —
shall prevent my giving this country to liussis 
before five years have passed, and within another 
brief span the trade of China and Japan. It is 
a glorious destiny For a man, one man — to pass 
into history as the Eussian of his century that 
has done most to add to the extent and the wealth 
and the power of his empire! Does that sound 
vainglorious, and do you resent it! You must 
not, I tell you, you must not ! ' ' 
Concha had never seen him in such a mood. 
Although he held her so closely that the horses 
were angrily biting each other, she felt that for 
once there was nothing personal in his ardor. 
His eyes were blazing, but they stared as if a 
great and prophetic panorama had risen in this 
silent wood, where the long faded moss hung as 
motionless as if by those quiet waters that even 
the most ardent must cross in his time. She felt 
his heart beat as she had felt it before against her 
soft breast, but she knew that if he thought of 
her at all it was but as a part of himself, not as 
the woman he impatiently desired. But she was 
sensible of no resentment, either for herself or 
her race, which, indeed, she knew to be but a way- 
farer in the wilderness engaged in a brief chimerical enterprise. For the first time she felt her 
individiuality melt into, commingle with his; and 
when he lowered his gaze, still with that intensity 
of vision piercing the future, her own eyes re- 
flected the impersonalities of lis; and in time he 
saw it. 
XXIV 
" We should all wear black for so monrnful an 
occasion,' said Eafaella Sal, spreading out her 
scarlet skirts. 
'' Father Abella is right. The occasion is sad 
enough without giving it the air of a funeral. '' 
" Sad! Dios de mi alma! Will he return? '' 
Elena Castro shook her wise head. She was 
nearly twenty, and four years of matrimony had 
made her skeptical of man 's capacity for romance. 
" Two years are long, and he will see many girls, 
and become one again of a life that is always more 
brilliant than our sun in May. His eyes will be 
dazzled, his mind distracted, full to the brim. To 
sit at table with the Tsar, to talk with him alone 
in his cabinet, to have for the asking audience of 
the Pope of Eome and the King of Spain ! Ay yi ! 
Ay yi! Perhaps he will be made a prince when 
he returns to St. Petersburg and all the beautiful 
princesses will want to marry him. Can he remember this poor little California, and even our 
lovely Concha? I doubt! Valgame Dios, I 
doubt! '' 
