you? " she asked. 
So he found a place beside her, one step lower, and 
she leaned forward, elbows on knees, rounded white chin 
in her palms, the starlight giving her bare arms and 
shoulders a marble lustre and tinting her eyes a deeper 
amethyst. 
And now, innocently untethered, mission and all, 
she laid her heart quite bare — one chapter of it. And, 
like other women-errant who believe in the influence of 
their sex individually and collectively, she began wrong 
by telling him of her engagement — perhaps to emphasise 
her pure disinterestedness in a crusade for principle only. 
Which naturally dampened in him any nascent enthu- 
siasm for being ministered to, and so preoccupied him 
that he turned deaf ears to some very sweet platitudes 
which might otherwise have impressed him as discoveries 
in philosophy. 
Officially her creed was the fashionable one in town ; 
privately she had her own religion, lacking some details 
truly enough, but shaped upon youthful notions of 
right and wrong. As she had not read very widely, she 
supposed that she had discovered this rehgion for herself; she was not aware that everybody else had passed 
that way — it being the first immature moult in young 
people after rejecting dogma. 
And the ripened fruit of all this philosophy she 
helpfully dispensed for Siward's benefit as bearing 
directly on his case. 
Had he not been immersed in the unexpected propo- 
sition of her impending matrimony, he might have been 
impressed, for the spell of her beauty counted some- 
thing, and besides, he had recently formulated for him- 
self a code of ethics, tinctured with Omar, and slightly 
resembling her own discoveries in that dog-eared science. 
So it was, when she was most eloquent, most ear- 
nestly inspired — nay in the very middle of a plea for 
sweetness and light and simple living, that his reasonings 
found voice in the material comment : 
" I never imagined you were engaged ! " 
" Is that what you have been thinking about? " she 
asked, innocently astonished. 
" Yes. Why not .'' I never for one instant sup- 
posed " 
" But, Mr. Siward, why should you have concerned 
yourself with supposing anything? Why indulge in 
any speculation of that sort about me ? " 
" I don't know, but I didn't," he said. 
" Of course you didn't ; you'd known me for about 
three hours — there on the cliff " 
" But— Quarrier ! " 
Over his youthful face a sullen shadow had fallen — 
flickering, not yet settled. He would not for anything 
on earth have talked freely to the woman destined to be 
Quarrier's wife. He had talked too much anyway. 
Something in her, something about her had loosened his 
 
tongue. He had made a plain ass of himself — that was 
all, — a garrulous ass. And truly it seemed that the girl 
beside him, even in the starlight, could follow and divine 
what he had scarcely expressed to himself; or her in- 
stincts had taken a shorter cut to forestall his own con- 
clusion. 
" Don't think the things you are thinking ! " she said 
in a fierce little voice, leaning toward him. 
" What do you mean .'' " he asked, taken aback. 
" You know ! Don't ! It is unfair — it is — is faith- 
less — to me. I am your friend; why not.f' Does it 
make any difference to you whom I marry.'' Cannot 
two people remain in accord anyway.'' Their friendship 
concerns each other and — nobody else ! " She was let- 
ting herself go now ; she was conscious of it, conscious 
that impulse and emotion were the currents unloosed and 
hurrying her onward. And with it all came exhilaration, a faint intoxication, a delicate delight in daring 
to let go all and trust to impulse and emotions. 
" Why should you feel hurt because for a moment 
you let me see — gave me a glimpse of yourself — of 
life's battle as you foresee it? What if there is always 
a reaction from all confidences exchanged.'' What if 
that miserable French cynic did say that never was he 
more alone than after confessing to a friend.'' He died 
crazy anyhow. Is not a rare moment of confidence 
worth the reaction — the subsidence into the armored shell 
of self? Tell me truly, Mr. Siward, isn't it? " 
Breathless, confused, exhilarated by her own rapid 
voice she bent her face, brilliant with colour, and very 
sweet ; and he looked up into it, expectant, uncertain. 
" If such a friendship as ours is to become worth any- 
thing to you — to me, why should it trouble you that I 
know — and am thinking of things that concern you ? Is 
it because the confidence is one-sided? Is it because you 
have given and I have listened and given nothing in 
return to balance the account? I do give — interest, deep 
interest, sympathy if you ask it ; I give confidence in return — if you desire it ! " 
" What can a girl like you need of sympathy ? " he 
said smiling. 
" You don't know ! you don't know ! If heredity 
is a dark vista, and if you must stare through it all your 
life, sword in hand, always on your guard, do you think 
you are the only one? " 
"Are you — one?" he said incredulously. 
" Yes " — with an involuntary shudder — " not that 
way. It is easier for me; I think it is — I know it is. 
But there are things to combat — impulses, a reckless- 
ness, perhaps something almost ruthless. What else I 
do not know, for I have never experienced violent emotions of any sort — never even deep emotion." 
" You are in love ! " 
" Yes, thoroughly," she added with conviction, " but 
not violently. I — " she hesitated, stopped short, leaning forward, peering at him through the dusk ; and : 
"Mr. Siward! are you laughing?" She rose and he 
stood up instantly. 
There was lightning in her darkening eyes now ; in 
his something that glimmered and danced. She watched 
it, fascinated, then of a sudden the storm broke and 
they were both laughing convulsively, face to face there 
under the stars. 
" Mr. Siward," she breathed, " I don't know what I 
am laughing at ; do you? Is it at you? At myself? At 
my poor philosophy in shreds and tatters? Is it some 
infernal mirth that you seem to be able to kindle in me 
— for I never knew a man like you before ? " 
 
" You don't know what you were laughing at? " he 
repeated, " It was something about love " 
" No I don't know why I laughed ! I — I don't 
wish to, Mr. Siward. I do not desire to laugh at any- 
thing you have made me say — anything you may 
infer " 
" I don't infer " 
" You do ! You made me say something — about my 
being ignorant of deep, of violent emotion, when I had 
just informed you that I am thoroughly, thoroughly in 
love " 
" Did I make you say all that, Miss Landis? " 
" You did. Then you laughed and made me laugh 
too. Then you " 
" What did I do then? " he asked, far too humbly. 
" You — you infer that I am either not in love or in- 
capable of it, or too ignorant of it to know what I'm 
talking about. That, Mr. Siward, is what you have 
done to me to-night." 
" I — I'm sorry " 
"ryou?" 
" I ought to be anyway," he said. 
It was unfortunate; an utterly inexcusable laughter 
seemed to bewitch them, hovering always close to his lips 
and hers. 
" How can you laugh ! " she said. " How dare you ! 
I don't care for you nearly as violently as I did, Mr. 
Siward. A friendship between us would not be at all 
good for me. Things pass too swiftly — too intimately. 
There is too much mockery in you — " She ceased suddenly, watching the sombre alteration of his face ; and, 
" Have I hurt you? " she asked penitently. 
" No." 
" Have I, Mr. Siward? I did not mean it." The 
attitude, the words, slackening to a trailing sweetness, 
and then the moment's silence, stirred him. 
" I'm rather ignorant myself of violent emotion," 
he said. " I suspect normal people are. You know bet- 
ter than I do whether love is usually a sedative." 
" Am I normal — after what I have confessed .'' " she 
asked. " Can't love be well-bred.? " 
" Perfectly I should say — only perhaps you are not 
an expert " 
"In what.?" 
" In self-analysis, for example." 
There was a vague meaning in the gaze they exchanged. 
" As for our friendship, we'll do the best we can for 
it, no matter what occurs," he added, thinking of Quarrier. And, thinking of him, glanced up to see him within 
ear-shot and moving straight toward them from the 
veranda above. 
There was a short silence ; a tentative civil word from 
Siward; then Miss Landis took command of something 
that had a grotesque resemblance to a situation. A 
few minutes later they returned slowly to the house, the 
girl walking serenely between Siward and her preoccupied affianced. 
" If your shoes are as wet as my skirts and slippers 
you had better change, Mr. Siward," she said, pausing 
at the foot of the staircase. 
So he took his conge, leaving her standing there with 
Quarrier, and mounted to his room. 
In the corridor he passed Ferrall, who had finished 
his business correspondence and was returning to the 
card-room. 
" Here's a letter that Grace wants you to see," he 
said. " Read it before you turn in, Stephen." 
 
" All right ; but I'll be down later," replied Siward 
passing on, the letter in his hand. Entering his room 
he kicked off his wet pumps and found dry ones. Then 
moved about, whistling a gay air from some recent vaude- 
ville, busy with rough towels and silken foot-gear, until, 
reshod and dry, he was ready to descend once more. 
The encounter, the suddenly informal acquaintance 
with this young girl had stirred him agreeably, leaving 
a slight exhilaration. Even her engagement to Quar- 
rier added a tinge of malice to his interest. Besides he 
was young enough to feel the flattery of her concern for 
Iiim — of her rebuke, of her imprudence, her generous 
emotional and childish philosophy. 
Perhaps, as like recognises like, he recognised in her 
the instincts of the born drifter, momentarily at anchor 
— the temporary inertia of the opportunist, the latent 
capacity of an unformed character for all things and 
anything. Add to these her few years, her beauty, and 
the wholesome ignorance so confidently acknowledged, 
what man could remain unconcerned, uninterested in the 
development of such possibilities.'' Not Siward, amused 
by her sagacious and impulsive prudence, worldliness, 
and innocence in accepting Quarrier ; and touched by her 
profitless, frank, and unworldly friendliness for himself. 
Not that he objected to her marrying Quarrier; he 
rather admired her for being able to do it, considering 
the general scramble for Quarrier. But let that take 
care of itself; meanwhile, their sudden and capricious 
intimacy had aroused him from the morbid reaction con- 
sequent upon the cheap notoriety which he had brought 
upon himself. Let him sponge his slate clean and begin 
again a better record, flattered by the solicitude she had 
so prettily displayed. 
Whistling under his breath the same gay, empty 
She was standing beside the fire witli Quarrier, 
one foot on the fender." 
melody, he opened the top drawer of his dresser, dropped 
in his mother's letter, and locking the drawer, pocketed 
the key. He would have time enough to read the letter 
when he went to bed; he did not just now feel exactly 
like skimming through the fond, foolish sermon which he 
knew had been preached at him through his mother's 
favourite missionary, Grace Ferrall. What was the use 
of dragging in the sad old questions again — of repeat- 
ing his assurances of good behaviour, of reiterating his 
promises of moderation and watchfulness, of explaining 
his own self-confidence? Better that the letter await his 
bed time — his prayers would be the sincerer the fresher 
the impression; for he was old-fashioned enough to say 
the prayers that an immature philosophy proved super- 
fluous. For, he thought, if prayer is any use, it takes 
only a few minutes to be on the safe side. 
So he went down-stairs leisurely, prepared to ac- 
quiesce in any suggestion from anybody, but rather hop- 
ing to saunter across Sylvia Landis' path before being 
committed.  • 
She was standing beside the fire with Quarrier, one 
foot on the fender, apparently too preoccupied to no- 
tice him; so he strolled into the gun-room, which was 
blue with tobacco smoke and aromatic with the volatile 
odours from decanters. 
There were a few women there, and the majority of 
the men. Lord Alderdene, Major Belwether, and Mor- 
timer were at a table by themselves ; stacks of ivory 
chips and five cards spread in the centre of the green ex- 
plained the nature of their game ; and Mortimer, raising 
his heavy inflamed eyes and seeing Siward unoccupied, 
said wheezily : " Cut out that ' widow,' and give Siward 
his stack! Anything above two pairs for a jack triples 
the ante. Come on, Siward, there's a decent chap ! " 
 
So he seated himself for a sacrifice to the blind god- 
dess balanced upon her winged wheel ; and the cards ran 
high — so high that stacks dwindled or toppled within 
the half-hour, and Mortimer grew redder and redder, 
and Major Belwether blander and blander, and Alder- 
dcne's face wore a continual nervous snicker, showing 
every white hound's tooth, and the ice in the tall glasses 
clinked ceaselessly. 
It was late when Quarrier " sat in," with an ex- 
pressionless acknowledgment of Siward's presence, and 
an emotionless raid upon his neighbour's resources with 
the first hand dealt, in which he participated without 
drawing a card. 
And always Siward, eyes on his cards, seemed to see 
Quarrier before him, his overmanicured fingers caressing 
liis silky beard, the symmetrical pompadour dark and 
thick as the winter fur on a rat, tufting his smooth 
blank forehead. 
It was very late when Siward first began to be aware 
of his increasing deafness, the difficulty, too, that he had 
in making people hear, the annoying contempt in Quar- 
rier's woman-like eyes. He felt that he was making a 
fool of himself, very noiselessly somehow — but with 
more racket than he expected when he miscalculated the 
distance between his hand and a decanter. 
It was time for him to go — unless he chose to ask 
Quarrier for an explanation of that sneer which he found 
distasteful. But there was too much noise, too much 
laughter. 
Besides he had a matter to attend to — the careful 
perusal of his mother's letter to Mrs. Ferrall. 
Very white, he rose. After an indeterminate interval 
he found himself entering his room. 
The letter was in the dresser; several things seemed 
to fall and break, but he got the letter, sank down on 
the bed's edge and strove to read, — set his teeth grimly, 
forcing his blurred eyes to a focus. But he could make 
nothing of it — nor of his toilet either, nor of Ferrall, 
who came in on his way to bed having noticed the elec- 
tricity still in full glare over the open transom, and who 
straightened out matters for the stunned man lying face 
downward across the bed, his mother's letter crushed in 
his nerveless hand. 
CHAPTER IV 
Beeakfast at Shotover, except for the luxurious 
sluggards to wliom trays were sent, was served in the 
English fashion — any other method or compromise be- 
ing impossible. 
Ferrall, reasonable in most things, detested customs 
exotic, and usually had an Englishman or two about the 
house to tell them so, being unable to jeer in any lan- 
guage except his own. Wliich is partly why Alderdene 
and Voucher were there. And this British sideboard 
breakfast was a concession wrung from him through 
force of sheer necessity, although the custom had al- 
ready become practically universal in American country 
houses where guests were entertained. 
But at the British breakfast he drew the line. No 
army of servants, always in evidence, would he tolerate, 
either; no highly ornamented human bric-a-brac dec- 
orating halls and corners ; no exotic pheasants hustled 
into covert and out again ; no fusillade at the wretched, 
frightened, bewildered aliens dumped by the thousand 
into unfamiliar cover and driven toward the guns by 
improvised beaters. 
" We walk up our game or we follow a brace of good 
dogs in this white man's country," he said with unneces- 
sary emphasis whenever his bad taste and his wife's ab- 
sence gave him an opportunity to express to the casual 
foreigner his personal opinions on field sport. " You'll 
load your own guns and you'll use your own legs if you 
shoot with me ; and your dogs will do their own retrieving, 
too. And if anybody desires a Yankee's opinion on shoot- 
ing driven birds from rocking-chairs or potting tame 
deer from grand-stands, they can have it right now ! " 
Usually nobody wanted his further opinion ; and 
sometimes they got it and sometimes not, if his wife was 
within earshot. Otherwise Ferrall appeared to be a 
normal man, energetically devoted to his business, his 
pleasures, his friends, and comfortably in love with his 
wife. And if some considered his vigour in business to 
be lacking in mercy that vigour was always exercised 
within the law. He never transgressed the rules of war, 
but his headlong energy sometimes landed him close to 
the dead line. He had already breakfasted, when the 
earliest risers entered the morning room to saunter 
about the sideboards and investigate the simmering con- 
tents of silver-covered dishes on the warmers. 
The fragrance of coffee was pleasantly perceptible ; 
men in conventional shooting attire roamed about the 
room, selected what they cared for, and carried it to the 
table. Mrs. Mortimer was there consuming peaches that 
matched her own complexion ; Marion Page, always more 
congruous in field costume and belted j ackct than in any- 
thing else, and always, like her own hunters, minutely 
groomed, was preparing a breakfast for her own con- 
sumption with the leisurely precision characteristic of 
her whether in the saddle, on the box, or grassing her 
brace of any covey that ever flushed. 
Captain Voucher and Lord Alderdene discussed pros- 
pects between bites, attentive to the monosyllabic opinions 
of Miss Page. Her twin brothers, Gordon and Willis, 
shyly consuming oatmeal, listened respectfully and 
waited on their sister at the slightest lifting of her 
thinly arched eyebrows. 
 
Into this company sauntered Siward, apparently no 
worse for wear. For as yet the Enemy had set upon him 
no proprietary insignia save a rather becoming pallor 
and faint bluish shadows under the eyes. He strolled 
about, exchanging amiable greetings, and presently se- 
lected a chilled grape fruit as his breakfast. Opposite 
him Mortimer, breakfasting upon his own dreadful 
bracer of an apple soaked in port, raised his heavy in- 
flamed eyes with a significant leer at the iced grape 
fruit. For he was always ready to make room upon 
his own level for other men; but the wordless grin and 
the bloodshot welcome were calmly ignored, for as yet 
that freemasonry evoked no recognition from the pallid 
man opposite, whose hands were steady as though 
that morning's sun had wakened him from pleasant 
dreams. 
" The most difficult shot in the world," Alderdene 
was explaining, " is an incoming pheasant, sailing on 
a slant before a gale." 
"A woodcock in alders doing a jack-snipe twist is 
worse," grunted Mortimer, drenching another apple in 
port. 
" Yes," said Miss Page tersely. 
" Or a depraved ruffed cock-grouse in the short 
pines; isn't that the limit? " asked Mortimer of Siward. 
But Siward only shrugged his comment and glanced 
out through the leaded casements into the brilliant Sep- 
tember sunshine. 
Outside he could see Major Belwether, pink skinned, 
snowy chop whiskers brushed rabbit fashion, very volu- 
ble with Sylvia Landis, who listened absently, head 
partly averted. Quarrier in tweeds and gaiters, his 
morning cigar delicately balanced in his gloved fingers, 
strolled near enough to be within ear-shot; and when 
Sylvia's inattention to Major Belwether's observations 
became marked to the verge of rudeness, he came forward 
and spoke. But whatever it was that he said appeared 
to change her passive inattention to quiet displeasure, 
for, as Siward rose from the table, he saw her turn on 
her heel and walk slowly toward a group of dogs pre- 
sided over by some kennel men and gamekeepers. 
She was talking to the head gamekeeper when he 
emerged from the house, but she saw him on the terrace 
and gave him a bright nod of greeting, so close to an 
invitation that he descended the stone steps and crossed 
the dew-wet lawn. 
" I am asking Dawson to explain just exactly what 
a ' Shotover Drive ' resembles," she said, turning to in- 
clude Siward in an animated conference with the big, 
scraggy, head keeper. " You know, Mr. Siward, that 
it is a custom peculiar to Shotover House to open the 
season with what is called a Shotover Drive? " 
" I heard Alderdene talking about it," he said, smil- 
ingly inspecting the girl's attire of khaki with its but- 
toned pockets, gun pads, and Cossack cartridge loops, 
and the tan knee-kilts hanging heavily pleated over 
gaiters and little thick-soled shoes. He had never cared 
very much to see women afield, for, in a rare case where 
there was no affectation, there was something else inborn 
that he found unpleasant — something lacking about a 
woman who could take life from frightened wild things, 
something shocking that a woman could look, unmoved, 
upon a twitching, blood-soiled heap of feathers at her 
feet. 
Meanwhile Dawson, dog-whip at salute, stood knee 
deep among his restless setters, explaining the ceremony 
with which Mr. Ferrall ushered in the opening of each 
shooting season: 
 
" It's our own idee, Miss Landis," he said proudly ; 
" onc't a season Mr. Ferrall and his guests likes it for 
a mixed bag. 'Tis a sort of picnic, Miss; the guns is 
in pairs, sixty yards apart in line, an' the rules is, walk 
straight ahead, dogs to heel until first cover is reached ; 
fire straight or to quarter, never blankin' nor wipin' no 
eyes ; and ground game counts as feathers for the Shot- 
over Cup." 
" Oh ! It's a skirmish line that walks straight 
ahead.'' " said Siward, nodding. 
" Straight ahead. Sir. No stoppin', no turnin' for 
hedges, fences, water or rock. There is boats Tr deep 
water and fords marked and corduroy f'r to pass the 
Seven Dreens. Luncheon at one, Miss — an hour's rest 
— then straight on over hill, valley, rock, and river to 
the rondyvoo atop Osprey Ledge. You'll see the poles 
and the big nests, Sir. It's there they score for the cup, 
and there when the bag is counted, the traps are ready 
to carry you home again." . . . And to Siward: "Will 
you draw for your lady, Sir? It is the custom." 
" Are you my ' lady '.'' " he asked, turning to Sylvia. 
" Do you want me? " 
In the smiling lustre of her eyes the tiniest spark 
flashed out at him — a hint of defiance for somebod}', 
perhaps for Major Belwether who had taken consider- 
able pains to enhghten her as to Siward's condition the 
night before; perhaps also for Quarrier, who had 
naturally expected to act as her gun-bearer in emer- 
gencies. But the gaily veiled malice of the one had 
annoyed her, and the cold assumption of the other had 
irritated her, and she had, scarcely knowing why, turned 
her shoulder to both of these gentlemen with an indefi- 
nite idea of escaping a pressure, amounting almost to 
critical importunity. 
" I'm probably a poor shot? " she said, looking smil- 
ingly, straight into Siward's eyes. " But if you'll l;;ki' 
me " 
" I will with pleasure," he said ; " Dawson, do 
we draw for position ? Very well then " ; and he 
drew a slip of paper from the box offered by the head 
keeper. 
" Number seven ! " said Sylvia, looking over his 
shoulder. " Come out to the starting line, Mr. Siward. 
All the positions are marked with golf-discs. What 
sort of ground have we ahead, Dawson ? " 
" Kind o' stiff, Miss," grinned the keeper. " Pity 
your gentleman ain't drawed the meadows an' Sachem 
Hill line. Will you choose your dog. Sir ? " 
" You have your dog, you know," observed Sylvia 
demurely. And Siward, glancing among the impatient 
setters, saw one white, heavily feathered dog, straining 
at his leash, and wagging frantically, brown eyes fixed 
on him. 
The next moment Sagamore was free, devouring his 
master with caresses, the girl looking on in smiling 
silence; and presently, side by side, the man, the girl, 
and the dog were strolling off to the starting line where 
already people were gathering in groups, selecting dogs, 
fowling-pieces, comparing numbers, and discussing the 
merits of their respective lines of advance. 
Ferrall, busily energetic, and in high spirits, greeted 
them gaily, pointing out the red disc bearing their num- 
ber, seven, where it stood out distinctly above the distant 
scrub of the foreland. 
" You two are certainly up against it ! " he said, 
grinning. " There's only one rougher line, and you're 
in for thorns and water and a scramble across the back- 
bone of the divide ! " 
 
" Is it any good ? " asked Siward. 
" Good — if you've got the legs and Sylvia doesn't 
play baby " 
" I ? " she said indignantly. " Kemp, you annoy me. 
And I will bet you now," she added, flushing, " that 
your old cup is ours." 
" Wait," said Siward, laughing, " we may not shoot 
straight." 
" You will ! Kemp, I'll wager whatever you dare ! " 
" Gloves .'' Stockings ? — against a cigarette case ? " 
he suggested. 
" Done," she said disdainfully, moving forward 
along the skirmish line with a nod and smile for the 
groups now disintegrating into couples, the Page boys 
with Eileen Shannon and Rena Bonnesdel, Marion Page 
followed by Alderdene, Mrs. Vendenning and Major 
Belwether and the Tassel girl convoyed by Leroy Mor- 
timer. Farther along the hne, taking post, she saw 
Quarrier and Miss Caithness, Captain Voucher with Mrs. 
Mortimer, and others too distant to recognise, moving 
across country with glitter and glint of sunlight on 
slanting gun barrels. 
And now Ferrall was chmbing into his saddle beside 
his pretty wife, who sat her horse like a boy, the white 
flag lifted high in the sunshine, watching the firing line 
until the last laggard was in position. 
" All right, Grace ! " said Ferrall briskly. Down 
went the white flag ; the far-ranged line started into mo- 
tion straight across country, dogs at heel. 
From her saddle Mrs. Ferrall could see the advance, 
strung out far afield from the dark spots moving along 
the Fells boundary, to the two couples traversing the 
salt meadows to north. Crack ! A distant report came 
faintly over the uplands against the wind. 
" Voucher," observed Ferrall ; " probably a snipe. 
Hark ! he's struck them again, Grace." 
Mrs. Ferrall, watching curiously, saw Siward's gun 
fly up as two big dark spots floated up from the marsh 
and went swinging over his head. Crack ! Crack ! 
Down sheered the black spots, tumbling earthward out 
of the sky. 
" Duck," said Ferrall ; " a double for Stephen. 
Lord Harry! how that man can shoot! Isn't it a pity 
that " 
He said no more; his pretty wife astride her thor- 
oughbred sat silent, grey eyes fixed on the distant figures 
of Sylvia Landis and Siward, now shoulder deep in the 
reeds. 
" Was it — very bad last night ? " she asked in a 
low voice. 
Ferrall shrugged. " He was not offensive ; he 
walked steadily enough up-stairs. When I went into 
his room he lay on the bed as if he'd been struck by 
lightning. And yet — you see how he is this morn- 
ing?" 
" After a while," his wife said, " it is going to alter 
him some day — dreadfully — isn't it, Kemp? " 
" You mean — like Mortimer? " 
" Yes — only Leroy was always a pig." 
As they turned their horses toward the high-road 
Mrs. Ferrall said : " Do you know why Sylvia isn't shoot- 
ing with Howard ? " 
" No," replied her husband indifferently ; " do you ? " 
" No," She looked out across the sunlit ocean, grave 
grey eyes brightening with suppressed mischief. " But 
I half suspect." 
"What?" 
" Oh, all sorts of things, Kemp." 
 
" What's one of 'em ? " asked Ferrall, looking around 
at her ; but his wife only laughed. 
" You don't mean she's throwing her flies at Si- 
ward — now that you've hooked Quarrier for her! I 
thought she'd played him to the gaff " 
" Please don't be coarse, Kemp," said Mrs. Ferrall, 
sending her horse forward. Her husband spurred to her 
side, and without turning her head she continued : " Of 
course Sylvia won't be foolish. If they were only safely 
married ; but Howard is such a pill " 
" What does Sylvia expect with Howard's millions ? 
A man.?" 
Grace Ferrall drcw  bridle. " The curious thing is, 
Kemp, that she liked him." 
"Likes him.?" 
" No, liked him. I saw how it was ; she took his si- 
lences for intellectual meditation, his gallery, his library, 
his smatterings for expressions of a cultivated person- 
ality. Then she remembered how close she came to run- 
ning off with that cashiered Englishman, and that 
scared her into clutching the substantial in the shape 
of Howard. . . . Still, I wish I hadn't meddled." 
" Meddled how.? " 
" Oh, I told her to do it. We had talks until day- 
light. . . . She may marry him — I don't know — but if 
you think any live woman could be contented with a muff 
like that! " 
" That's immoral." 
" Kemp, I'm not. She'd be mad not to marry him ; 
but I don't know what I'd do to a man like that, if I were 
his wife. And you know what a terrific capacity for 
mischief there is in Sylvia. Some day she's going to love 
somebody. And it isn't likely to be Howard. And, oh, 
Kemp! I do grow so tired of that sort of thing' 
Do you suppose anybody will ever make decency a 
fashion ? " 
" You're doing your best," said Ferrall, laughing 
at his wife's pretty, boyish face turned back toward him 
over her shoulder ; " you're presenting your cousin and 
his millions to a girl who can dress the part " 
" Don't, Kemp ! I don't know why I meddled ! 
... I wish I hadn't " 
" I do. You can't let Howard alone ! You're per- 
fectly possessed to plague him when he's with you, and 
now you've arranged for another woman to keep it up for 
the rest of his lifetime. What does Sylvia want with a 
man who possesses the instincts and intellect of a coach- 
man? She is asked everywhere, she has her own money. 
Why not let her alone? Or is it too late? " 
" You mean let her make a fool of herself with 
Stephen Siward? That is where she is drifting." 
" Do you think " 
" Yes, I do. She has a perfect genius for selecting 
the wrong man ; and she's already sorry for this one. 
I'm sorry for Stephen, too; but it's safe for me to be," 
" She might make something of him." 
" You know perfectly well no woman ever did 
make anything of a doomed man. He'd kill her — I 
mean it, Kemp ! He would literally kill her with grief. 
She isn't like Leila Mortimer; she isn't like most girls 
of her sort. You men think her a rather stunning, 
highly tempered, unreasonable young girl, with a re- 
serve of sufficiently trained intelligence to marry the 
best our market offers — and close her eyes ; — a thor- 
oughbred with the caprices of one, but also with the 
grafted instinct for proper mating." 
" Well, that's all right, isn't it?" asked Ferrall. 
" That's the way I size her up. Isn't it correct? " 
 
" Yes, in a way. She has all the expensive training 
of the thoroughbred — and all the ignorance, too. She 
is cold-blooded because wholesome; a trifle sceptical be- 
cause so absolutely unawakened. She never experienced 
a deep emotion. Impulses have intoxicated her once or 
twice — as when she asked my opinion about running 
off with Cavendish, and that boy and girl escapade 
with Rivington; nothing at all except high mettle, the 
innocent daring lurking in all thoroughbreds, and a 
great deal of very red blood racing through that su- 
perb young body. But," Fen-all reined in to listen, 
" but if ever a man awakens her — I don't care who 
he is — you'll see a girl you never knew, a brand-new 
creature emerge with the last rags and laces of conven- 
tionality dropping from her; a woman, Kemp, heiress 
to every generous impulse, every emotion, every vice, 
every virtue of all that brilliant race of hers." 
" You seem to know," he said, amused and curious. 
"  know. Major Belwether told me that he had 
thought of Howard as an anchor for her. It seemed a 
pity — Howard with all his cold, heavy negative inertia. 
... I said I'd do it. I did. And now I don't know; 
I wish, almost wish I hadn't. 
" What has changed your ideas.'' " 
" I don't know. Howard is safer than Stephen Si- 
ward, already in the first clutches of his master-vice. 
Would you mate what she inherits from her mother and 
her m.other's mother, with what is that poor boy's heri- 
tage from the Siwards.'' " 
" After all," observed Ferrall dryly, " we're not in 
the angel-breeding business." 
" We ought to be. Every decent person ought to be. 
If they were, inherited vice would be as rare in this 
country as smallpox ! " 
" People don't inherit smallpox, dear." 
"Never mind! You know what I mean. In our 
stock farms and kennels, we weed out, destroy, extermi- 
nate hereditary weakness in everything. We pay the 
greatest attention to the production of all offspring 
except our own. Look at Stephen ! How dared his 
parents bring him into the world ? Look at Sylvia ! 
And now, suppose they marry ! " 
" Dearest," said Ferrall, " my head is a whirl and 
my wits are spinning like five toy tops. Your theo- 
ries are all right ; but unless you and I are prepared 
to abandon several business enterprises and take to the 
lecture platform, I'm afraid people are going to be 
wicked enough to marry whom they like, and the human 
race will be run as usual with money the favourite, and 
love a case of ' also-ran.' . . . By the way, how dared 
you marry me, knowing the sort of demon I am.'' " 
The gathering frown on Mrs. Ferrall's brow faded ; 
she raised her clear grey eyes and met her husband's 
gaze, gay, humourous, and with a hint of tenderness — 
enough to bring the colour into her pretty face. 
" You know I'm right, Kemp." 
" Always, dear. And now that we have the world 
off our hands fqr a few minutes, suppose we gallop.'' " 
But she held her horse to a walk, riding forward, 
grave, thoughtful, preoccupied with a new problem, only 
part of which she had told her husband. 
For that night she had been awakened in her bed to 
find standing beside her a white, wide-eyed figure, shiver- 
ing, limbs a-chill beneath her clinging lace. She had 
taken the pallid visitor to her arms and warmed her and 
soothed her and whispered to her, murmuring the thou- 
sand little words and sounds, the breathing magic moth- 
ers use with children. And Sylvia lay there, chilled, 
 
nerveless, silent, ignorant why her sleeplessness had 
turned to restlessness, to loneliness, to an awakening per- 
ception of what she lacked and needed and began to 
desire. For that sad void, peopled at intervals through 
her brief years with a vague mother- phantom, had, in the 
new crisis of her career, become suddenly an empty deso- 
lation, frightening her with her own utter isolation. Fill 
it now she could not, now that she needed that ghost of 
cliild-comfort, that shadowy refuge, that sweet shape 
she had fashioned out of dreams to symbolise a mother 
she had never known. 
Driven she knew not why, she had crept from her 
room in search of the still, warm, fragrant nest and the 
whispered reassurance and the caress she had never before 
endured. Yes, now she craved it, invited it, longed for 
safe arms around her, the hovering hand on her hair. 
Was this Sylvia? 
And Grace Ferrall, clearing her sleepy eyes, amazed, 
incredulous of the cold, child-like hands upon her 
shoulders, caught her in her arms with a little laugh and 
sob and drew her to her breast, to soothe and caress and 
reassure, to make up to her all she could of what is every 
child's just heritage. 
And for a long while Sylvia, lying there, told her 
nothing — because she did not know how — merely a 
word, a restless question half ashamed, barely enough 
to shadow forth the something stirring her toward an 
awakening in a new world, where with new eyes she 
might catch glimpses of those dim and splendidly misty 
visions that float through sunlit silences when a young 
girl dreams awake. 
And at length, gravely, innocently, she spoke of 
her engagement, and the worldly possibilities before her ; 
of the man she was to marry, and her new and unex- 
pected sense of loneliness in his presence, now that she 
had seen him again after months. 
She spoke, presently, of Siward — a fugitive ques- 
tion or two, offered indifferently at first, then with shy 
persistence and curiosity, knowing nothing of the sense- 
less form flung face downward across the sheets in a 
room close by. And thereafter the murmured burden 
of the theme was Siward, until one, heavy eyed, turned 
from the white dawn silvering the windows, sighed, and 
fell asleep ; and one lay silent, head half buried in its 
tangled gold, wide awake, thinking vague thoughts that 
had no ending, no beginning. And at last a rosy bar 
of light fell across the wall, and the warm shadows 
faded from corner and curtain ; and, turning on the 
pillow, her face nestled in her hair, she fell asleep. 
Nothing of this had Mrs. Ferrall told her husband. 
For the first time in her life had Sylvia suffered the 
caresses most women invite or naturally lavish; for the 
first time had she attempted confidences, failing because 
she did not know how, but curiously contented with the 
older woman's arms around her. 
There was a change in Sylvia, a great change 
stealing in upon her as she lay there, breathing like a 
child, flushed lips scarcely parted. Through the early 
slanting sunlight the elder woman, leaning on one arm, 
looked down at her, grey eyes very grave and tender 
— wise, sweet eyes that divined with their pure clairvoy- 
ance all that might happen or might fail to come to 
pass in this great change stealing over Sylvia. 
Nothing of this could her husband understand had 
she words to convey it. There was nothing he need 
 
understand except that his wife, meaning well, had med- 
dled and regretted. 
And now, turning in her saddle with a pretty ges- 
ture of her shoulders : 
" I meddle no more ! Those who need me may come 
to me. Now laugh at my tardy wisdom, Kemp ! " 
" It's no laughing matter," he said, " if you're going 
to stand back and let this abandoned world spin itself 
madly to the bow-wows " 
" Don't be horrid. I repent. The mischief take 
Howard Quarrier ! " 
" Amen ! Come on, Grace." 
She gathered bridle. " Do you suppose Stephen 
Siward is going to make trouble? " 
" Hov can he unless she helps him? Nonsense! 
All's well with Siward and Sylvia. Shall we gallop ? " 
All was very well with Siward and Sylvia. They had 
passed the rabbit-brier country scathless, with two black 
mallard, a jack-snipe, and a rabbit to the credit of their 
score, and were now advancing through that dimly lit 
enchanted land of tall grey alders where, in the sudden 
twilight of the leaves, woodcock after woodcock flut- 
tered upward twittering, only to stop and drop, trans- 
formed at the vicious crack of Siward's gun to fluffy 
balls of feather whirling earthward from mid-air. 
Sagamore came galloping back with a soft, unsoiled 
mass of chestnut and brown feathers in his mouth. 
