his money; and such was his life during the six weeks and a half that he
toiled for the merchants of Chicago, to enable them to break the grip of
their teamsters’ union.
In a work thus carried out, not much thought was given to the welfare of
the laborers. On an average, the tunneling cost a life a day and several
manglings; it was seldom, however, that more than a dozen or two men
heard of any one accident. The work was all done by the new boring
machinery, with as little blasting as possible; but there would be
falling rocks and crushed supports, and premature explosions--and in
addition all the dangers of railroading. So it was that one night, as
Jurgis was on his way out with his gang, an engine and a loaded car
dashed round one of the innumerable right-angle branches and struck him
upon the shoulder, hurling him against the concrete wall and knocking
him senseless.
When he opened his eyes again it was to the clanging of the bell of
an ambulance. He was lying in it, covered by a blanket, and it was
threading its way slowly through the holiday-shopping crowds. They took
him to the county hospital, where a young surgeon set his arm; then he
was washed and laid upon a bed in a ward with a score or two more of
maimed and mangled men.
Jurgis spent his Christmas in this hospital, and it was the pleasantest
Christmas he had had in America. Every year there were scandals and
investigations in this institution, the newspapers charging that doctors
were allowed to try fantastic experiments upon the patients; but Jurgis
knew nothing of this--his only complaint was that they used to feed him
upon tinned meat, which no man who had ever worked in Packingtown would
feed to his dog. Jurgis had often wondered just who ate the canned
corned beef and “roast beef” of the stockyards; now he began to
understand--that it was what you might call “graft meat,” put up to
be sold to public officials and contractors, and eaten by soldiers and
sailors, prisoners and inmates of institutions, “shantymen” and gangs of
railroad laborers.
Jurgis was ready to leave the hospital at the end of two weeks. This
did not mean that his arm was strong and that he was able to go back to
work, but simply that he could get along without further attention, and
that his place was needed for some one worse off than he. That he was
utterly helpless, and had no means of keeping himself alive in the
meantime, was something which did not concern the hospital authorities,
nor any one else in the city.
As it chanced, he had been hurt on a Monday, and had just paid for his
last week’s board and his room rent, and spent nearly all the balance of
his Saturday’s pay. He had less than seventy-five cents in his pockets,
and a dollar and a half due him for the day’s work he had done before he
was hurt. He might possibly have sued the company, and got some damages
for his injuries, but he did not know this, and it was not the company’s
business to tell him. He went and got his pay and his tools, which he
left in a pawnshop for fifty cents. Then he went to his landlady,
who had rented his place and had no other for him; and then to his
boardinghouse keeper, who looked him over and questioned him. As he must
certainly be helpless for a couple of months, and had boarded there only
six weeks, she decided very quickly that it would not be worth the risk
to keep him on trust.
So Jurgis went out into the streets, in a most dreadful plight. It was
bitterly cold, and a heavy snow was falling, beating into his face.
He had no overcoat, and no place to go, and two dollars and sixty-five
cents in his pocket, with the certainty that he could not earn another
cent for months. The snow meant no chance to him now; he must walk along
and see others shoveling, vigorous and active--and he with his left arm
bound to his side! He could not hope to tide himself over by odd jobs
of loading trucks; he could not even sell newspapers or carry satchels,
because he was now at the mercy of any rival. Words could not paint the
terror that came over him as he realized all this. He was like a wounded
animal in the forest; he was forced to compete with his enemies upon
unequal terms. There would be no consideration for him because of his
weakness--it was no one’s business to help him in such distress, to make
the fight the least bit easier for him. Even if he took to begging, he
would be at a disadvantage, for reasons which he was to discover in good
time.
In the beginning he could not think of anything except getting out of
the awful cold. He went into one of the saloons he had been wont to
frequent and bought a drink, and then stood by the fire shivering and
waiting to be ordered out. According to an unwritten law, the buying a
drink included the privilege of loafing for just so long; then one
had to buy another drink or move on. That Jurgis was an old customer
entitled him to a somewhat longer stop; but then he had been away two
weeks, and was evidently “on the bum.” He might plead and tell his “hard
luck story,” but that would not help him much; a saloon-keeper who was
to be moved by such means would soon have his place jammed to the doors
with “hoboes” on a day like this.
So Jurgis went out into another place, and paid another nickel. He
was so hungry this time that he could not resist the hot beef stew, an
indulgence which cut short his stay by a considerable time. When he was
again told to move on, he made his way to a “tough” place in the
“Levee” district, where now and then he had gone with a certain rat-eyed
Bohemian workingman of his acquaintance, seeking a woman. It was
Jurgis’s vain hope that here the proprietor would let him remain as a
“sitter.” In low-class places, in the dead of winter, saloon-keepers
would often allow one or two forlorn-looking bums who came in covered
with snow or soaked with rain to sit by the fire and look miserable to
attract custom. A workingman would come in, feeling cheerful after his
day’s work was over, and it would trouble him to have to take his glass
with such a sight under his nose; and so he would call out: “Hello, Bub,
what’s the matter? You look as if you’d been up against it!” And then
the other would begin to pour out some tale of misery, and the man would
say, “Come have a glass, and maybe that’ll brace you up.” And so
they would drink together, and if the tramp was sufficiently
wretched-looking, or good enough at the “gab,” they might have two; and
if they were to discover that they were from the same country, or had
lived in the same city or worked at the same trade, they might sit down
at a table and spend an hour or two in talk--and before they got through
the saloon-keeper would have taken in a dollar. All of this might seem
diabolical, but the saloon-keeper was in no wise to blame for it. He
was in the same plight as the manufacturer who has to adulterate and
misrepresent his product. If he does not, some one else will; and the
saloon-keeper, unless he is also an alderman, is apt to be in debt to
the big brewers, and on the verge of being sold out.
The market for “sitters” was glutted that afternoon, however, and there
was no place for Jurgis. In all he had to spend six nickels in keeping a
shelter over him that frightful day, and then it was just dark, and
the station houses would not open until midnight! At the last place,
however, there was a bartender who knew him and liked him, and let him
doze at one of the tables until the boss came back; and also, as he
was going out, the man gave him a tip--on the next block there was a
religious revival of some sort, with preaching and singing, and hundreds
of hoboes would go there for the shelter and warmth.
Jurgis went straightway, and saw a sign hung out, saying that the door
would open at seven-thirty; then he walked, or half ran, a block, and
hid awhile in a doorway and then ran again, and so on until the hour.
At the end he was all but frozen, and fought his way in with the rest of
the throng (at the risk of having his arm broken again), and got close
to the big stove.
By eight o’clock the place was so crowded that the speakers ought to
have been flattered; the aisles were filled halfway up, and at the door
men were packed tight enough to walk upon. There were three elderly
gentlemen in black upon the platform, and a young lady who played the
piano in front. First they sang a hymn, and then one of the three, a
tall, smooth-shaven man, very thin, and wearing black spectacles, began
an address. Jurgis heard smatterings of it, for the reason that terror
kept him awake--he knew that he snored abominably, and to have been put
out just then would have been like a sentence of death to him.
The evangelist was preaching “sin and redemption,” the infinite grace of
God and His pardon for human frailty. He was very much in earnest, and
he meant well, but Jurgis, as he listened, found his soul filled with
hatred. What did he know about sin and suffering--with his smooth, black
coat and his neatly starched collar, his body warm, and his belly full,
and money in his pocket--and lecturing men who were struggling for their
lives, men at the death grapple with the demon powers of hunger and
cold!--This, of course, was unfair; but Jurgis felt that these men were
out of touch with the life they discussed, that they were unfitted to
solve its problems; nay, they themselves were part of the problem--they
were part of the order established that was crushing men down and
beating them! They were of the triumphant and insolent possessors; they
had a hall, and a fire, and food and clothing and money, and so they
might preach to hungry men, and the hungry men must be humble and
listen! They were trying to save their souls--and who but a fool could
fail to see that all that was the matter with their souls was that they
had not been able to get a decent existence for their bodies?
At eleven the meeting closed, and the desolate audience filed out into
the snow, muttering curses upon the few traitors who had got repentance
and gone up on the platform. It was yet an hour before the station
house would open, and Jurgis had no overcoat--and was weak from a long
illness. During that hour he nearly perished. He was obliged to run hard
to keep his blood moving at all--and then he came back to the station
house and found a crowd blocking the street before the door! This was in
the month of January, 1904, when the country was on the verge of “hard
times,” and the newspapers were reporting the shutting down of factories
every day--it was estimated that a million and a half men were thrown
out of work before the spring. So all the hiding places of the city were
crowded, and before that station house door men fought and tore each
other like savage beasts. When at last the place was jammed and they
shut the doors, half the crowd was still outside; and Jurgis, with his
helpless arm, was among them. There was no choice then but to go to a
lodging-house and spend another dime. It really broke his heart to do
this, at half-past twelve o’clock, after he had wasted the night at the
meeting and on the street. He would be turned out of the lodging-house
promptly at seven--they had the shelves which served as bunks so
contrived that they could be dropped, and any man who was slow about
obeying orders could be tumbled to the floor.
This was one day, and the cold spell lasted for fourteen of them. At the
end of six days every cent of Jurgis’ money was gone; and then he went
out on the streets to beg for his life.
He would begin as soon as the business of the city was moving. He would
sally forth from a saloon, and, after making sure there was no policeman
in sight, would approach every likely-looking person who passed him,
telling his woeful story and pleading for a nickel or a dime. Then when
he got one, he would dart round the corner and return to his base to get
warm; and his victim, seeing him do this, would go away, vowing that he
would never give a cent to a beggar again. The victim never paused to
ask where else Jurgis could have gone under the circumstances--where
he, the victim, would have gone. At the saloon Jurgis could not only get
more food and better food than he could buy in any restaurant for the
same money, but a drink in the bargain to warm him up. Also he could
find a comfortable seat by a fire, and could chat with a companion until
he was as warm as toast. At the saloon, too, he felt at home. Part of
the saloon-keeper’s business was to offer a home and refreshments to
beggars in exchange for the proceeds of their foragings; and was there
any one else in the whole city who would do this--would the victim have
done it himself?
Poor Jurgis might have been expected to make a successful beggar. He
was just out of the hospital, and desperately sick-looking, and with
a helpless arm; also he had no overcoat, and shivered pitifully. But,
alas, it was again the case of the honest merchant, who finds that the
genuine and unadulterated article is driven to the wall by the artistic
counterfeit. Jurgis, as a beggar, was simply a blundering amateur in
competition with organized and scientific professionalism. He was just
out of the hospital--but the story was worn threadbare, and how could
he prove it? He had his arm in a sling--and it was a device a regular
beggar’s little boy would have scorned. He was pale and shivering--but
they were made up with cosmetics, and had studied the art of chattering
their teeth. As to his being without an overcoat, among them you would
meet men you could swear had on nothing but a ragged linen duster and
a pair of cotton trousers--so cleverly had they concealed the several
suits of all-wool underwear beneath. Many of these professional
mendicants had comfortable homes, and families, and thousands of dollars
in the bank; some of them had retired upon their earnings, and gone into
the business of fitting out and doctoring others, or working children
at the trade. There were some who had both their arms bound tightly to
their sides, and padded stumps in their sleeves, and a sick child hired
to carry a cup for them. There were some who had no legs, and pushed
themselves upon a wheeled platform--some who had been favored with
blindness, and were led by pretty little dogs. Some less fortunate had
mutilated themselves or burned themselves, or had brought horrible sores
upon themselves with chemicals; you might suddenly encounter upon the
street a man holding out to you a finger rotting and discolored with
gangrene--or one with livid scarlet wounds half escaped from their
filthy bandages. These desperate ones were the dregs of the city’s
cesspools, wretches who hid at night in the rain-soaked cellars of
old ramshackle tenements, in “stale-beer dives” and opium joints, with
abandoned women in the last stages of the harlot’s progress--women who
had been kept by Chinamen and turned away at last to die. Every day
the police net would drag hundreds of them off the streets, and in the
detention hospital you might see them, herded together in a miniature
inferno, with hideous, beastly faces, bloated and leprous with disease,
laughing, shouting, screaming in all stages of drunkenness, barking like
dogs, gibbering like apes, raving and tearing themselves in delirium.
Chapter 24
In the face of all his handicaps, Jurgis was obliged to make the
price of a lodging, and of a drink every hour or two, under penalty of
freezing to death. Day after day he roamed about in the arctic cold,
his soul filled full of bitterness and despair. He saw the world of
civilization then more plainly than ever he had seen it before; a world
in which nothing counted but brutal might, an order devised by those who
possessed it for the subjugation of those who did not. He was one of
the latter; and all outdoors, all life, was to him one colossal prison,
which he paced like a pent-up tiger, trying one bar after another, and
finding them all beyond his power. He had lost in the fierce battle of
greed, and so was doomed to be exterminated; and all society was busied
to see that he did not escape the sentence. Everywhere that he turned
were prison bars, and hostile eyes following him; the well-fed, sleek
policemen, from whose glances he shrank, and who seemed to grip their
clubs more tightly when they saw him; the saloon-keepers, who never
ceased to watch him while he was in their places, who were jealous
of every moment he lingered after he had paid his money; the hurrying
throngs upon the streets, who were deaf to his entreaties, oblivious of
his very existence--and savage and contemptuous when he forced himself
upon them. They had their own affairs, and there was no place for him
among them. There was no place for him anywhere--every direction he
turned his gaze, this fact was forced upon him: Everything was built
to express it to him: the residences, with their heavy walls and bolted
doors, and basement windows barred with iron; the great warehouses
filled with the products of the whole world, and guarded by iron
shutters and heavy gates; the banks with their unthinkable billions of
wealth, all buried in safes and vaults of steel.
And then one day there befell Jurgis the one adventure of his life. It
was late at night, and he had failed to get the price of a lodging. Snow
was falling, and he had been out so long that he was covered with it,
and was chilled to the bone. He was working among the theater crowds,
flitting here and there, taking large chances with the police, in his
desperation half hoping to be arrested. When he saw a blue-coat start
toward him, however, his heart failed him, and he dashed down a side
street and fled a couple of blocks. When he stopped again he saw a man
coming toward him, and placed himself in his path.
“Please, sir,” he began, in the usual formula, “will you give me the
price of a lodging? I’ve had a broken arm, and I can’t work, and I’ve
not a cent in my pocket. I’m an honest working-man, sir, and I never
begged before! It’s not my fault, sir--”
Jurgis usually went on until he was interrupted, but this man did not
interrupt, and so at last he came to a breathless stop. The other had
halted, and Jurgis suddenly noticed that he stood a little unsteadily.
“Whuzzat you say?” he queried suddenly, in a thick voice.
Jurgis began again, speaking more slowly and distinctly; before he was
half through the other put out his hand and rested it upon his shoulder.
“Poor ole chappie!” he said. “Been up--hic--up--against it, hey?”
Then he lurched toward Jurgis, and the hand upon his shoulder became an
arm about his neck. “Up against it myself, ole sport,” he said. “She’s a
hard ole world.”
They were close to a lamppost, and Jurgis got a glimpse of the other. He
was a young fellow--not much over eighteen, with a handsome boyish face.
He wore a silk hat and a rich soft overcoat with a fur collar; and he
smiled at Jurgis with benignant sympathy. “I’m hard up, too, my
goo’ fren’,” he said. “I’ve got cruel parents, or I’d set you up.
Whuzzamatter whizyer?”
“I’ve been in the hospital.”
“Hospital!” exclaimed the young fellow, still smiling sweetly, “thass
too bad! Same’s my Aunt Polly--hic--my Aunt Polly’s in the hospital,
too--ole auntie’s been havin’ twins! Whuzzamatter whiz you?”
“I’ve got a broken arm--” Jurgis began.
“So,” said the other, sympathetically. “That ain’t so bad--you get over
that. I wish somebody’d break my arm, ole chappie--damfidon’t! Then
they’d treat me better--hic--hole me up, ole sport! Whuzzit you wamme
do?”
“I’m hungry, sir,” said Jurgis.
“Hungry! Why don’t you hassome supper?”
“I’ve got no money, sir.”
“No money! Ho, ho--less be chums, ole boy--jess like me! No money,
either--a’most busted! Why don’t you go home, then, same’s me?”
“I haven’t any home,” said Jurgis.
“No home! Stranger in the city, hey? Goo’ God, thass bad! Better come
home wiz me--yes, by Harry, thass the trick, you’ll come home an’
hassome supper--hic--wiz me! Awful lonesome--nobody home! Guv’ner gone
abroad--Bubby on’s honeymoon--Polly havin’ twins--every damn soul gone
away! Nuff--hic--nuff to drive a feller to drink, I say! Only ole Ham
standin’ by, passin’ plates--damfican eat like that, no sir! The club
for me every time, my boy, I say. But then they won’t lemme sleep
there--guv’ner’s orders, by Harry--home every night, sir! Ever hear
anythin’ like that? ‘Every mornin’ do?’ I asked him. ‘No, sir, every
night, or no allowance at all, sir.’ Thass my guv’ner--‘nice as nails,
by Harry! Tole ole Ham to watch me, too--servants spyin’ on me--whuzyer
think that, my fren’? A nice, quiet--hic--goodhearted young feller like
me, an’ his daddy can’t go to Europe--hup!--an’ leave him in peace!
Ain’t that a shame, sir? An’ I gotter go home every evenin’ an’ miss
all the fun, by Harry! Thass whuzzamatter now--thass why I’m here! Hadda
come away an’ leave Kitty--hic--left her cryin’, too--whujja think of
that, ole sport? ‘Lemme go, Kittens,’ says I--‘come early an’
often--I go where duty--hic--calls me. Farewell, farewell, my own true
love--farewell, farewehell, my--own true--love!’”
This last was a song, and the young gentleman’s voice rose mournful
and wailing, while he swung upon Jurgis’s neck. The latter was glancing
about nervously, lest some one should approach. They were still alone,
however.
“But I came all right, all right,” continued the youngster,
aggressively, “I can--hic--I can have my own way when I want it, by
Harry--Freddie Jones is a hard man to handle when he gets goin’! ‘No,
sir,’ says I, ‘by thunder, and I don’t need anybody goin’ home with me,
either--whujja take me for, hey? Think I’m drunk, dontcha, hey?--I know
you! But I’m no more drunk than you are, Kittens,’ says I to her. And
then says she, ‘Thass true, Freddie dear’ (she’s a smart one, is Kitty),
‘but I’m stayin’ in the flat, an’ you’re goin’ out into the cold, cold
night!’ ‘Put it in a pome, lovely Kitty,’ says I. ‘No jokin’, Freddie,
my boy,’ says she. ‘Lemme call a cab now, like a good dear’--but I can
call my own cabs, dontcha fool yourself--and I know what I’m a-doin’,
you bet! Say, my fren’, whatcha say--willye come home an’ see me, an’
hassome supper? Come ‘long like a good feller--don’t be haughty! You’re
up against it, same as me, an’ you can unerstan’ a feller; your heart’s
in the right place, by Harry--come ‘long, ole chappie, an’ we’ll
light up the house, an’ have some fizz, an’ we’ll raise hell, we
will--whoop-la! S’long’s I’m inside the house I can do as I please--the
guv’ner’s own very orders, b’God! Hip! hip!”
They had started down the street, arm in arm, the young man pushing
Jurgis along, half dazed. Jurgis was trying to think what to do--he knew
he could not pass any crowded place with his new acquaintance without
attracting attention and being stopped. It was only because of the
falling snow that people who passed here did not notice anything wrong.
Suddenly, therefore, Jurgis stopped. “Is it very far?” he inquired.
“Not very,” said the other, “Tired, are you, though? Well, we’ll
ride--whatcha say? Good! Call a cab!”
And then, gripping Jurgis tight with one hand, the young fellow began
searching his pockets with the other. “You call, ole sport, an’ I’ll
pay,” he suggested. “How’s that, hey?”
And he pulled out from somewhere a big roll of bills. It was more money
than Jurgis had ever seen in his life before, and he stared at it with
startled eyes.
“Looks like a lot, hey?” said Master Freddie, fumbling with it. “Fool
you, though, ole chappie--they’re all little ones! I’ll be busted in
one week more, sure thing--word of honor. An’ not a cent more till the
first--hic--guv’ner’s orders--hic--not a cent, by Harry! Nuff to set a
feller crazy, it is. I sent him a cable, this af’noon--thass one
reason more why I’m goin’ home. ‘Hangin’ on the verge of starvation,’ I
says--‘for the honor of the family--hic--sen’ me some bread. Hunger will
compel me to join you--Freddie.’ Thass what I wired him, by Harry, an’ I
mean it--I’ll run away from school, b’God, if he don’t sen’ me some.”
After this fashion the young gentleman continued to prattle on--and
meantime Jurgis was trembling with excitement. He might grab that wad of
bills and be out of sight in the darkness before the other could collect
his wits. Should he do it? What better had he to hope for, if he waited
longer? But Jurgis had never committed a crime in his life, and now he
hesitated half a second too long. “Freddie” got one bill loose, and then
stuffed the rest back into his trousers’ pocket.
“Here, ole man,” he said, “you take it.” He held it out fluttering. They
were in front of a saloon; and by the light of the window Jurgis saw
that it was a hundred-dollar bill! “You take it,” the other repeated.
“Pay the cabbie an’ keep the change--I’ve got--hic--no head for
business! Guv’ner says so hisself, an’ the guv’ner knows--the guv’ner’s
got a head for business, you bet! ‘All right, guv’ner,’ I told him, ‘you
run the show, and I’ll take the tickets!’ An’ so he set Aunt Polly to
watch me--hic--an’ now Polly’s off in the hospital havin’ twins, an’ me
out raisin’ Cain! Hello, there! Hey! Call him!”
A cab was driving by; and Jurgis sprang and called, and it swung round
to the curb. Master Freddie clambered in with some difficulty, and
Jurgis had started to follow, when the driver shouted: “Hi, there! Get
out--you!”
Jurgis hesitated, and was half obeying; but his companion broke out:
“Whuzzat? Whuzzamatter wiz you, hey?”
And the cabbie subsided, and Jurgis climbed in. Then Freddie gave a
number on the Lake Shore Drive, and the carriage started away. The
youngster leaned back and snuggled up to Jurgis, murmuring contentedly;
in half a minute he was sound asleep, Jurgis sat shivering, speculating
as to whether he might not still be able to get hold of the roll of
bills. He was afraid to try to go through his companion’s pockets,
however; and besides the cabbie might be on the watch. He had the
hundred safe, and he would have to be content with that.
At the end of half an hour or so the cab stopped. They were out on
the waterfront, and from the east a freezing gale was blowing off the
ice-bound lake. “Here we are,” called the cabbie, and Jurgis awakened
his companion.
Master Freddie sat up with a start.
“Hello!” he said. “Where are we? Whuzzis? Who are you, hey? Oh, yes,
sure nuff! Mos’ forgot you--hic--ole chappie! Home, are we?
Lessee! Br-r-r--it’s cold! Yes--come ‘long--we’re home--it ever
so--hic--humble!”
Before them there loomed an enormous granite pile, set far back from the
street, and occupying a whole block. By the light of the driveway lamps
Jurgis could see that it had towers and huge gables, like a medieval
castle. He thought that the young fellow must have made a mistake--it
was inconceivable to him that any person could have a home like a hotel
or the city hall. But he followed in silence, and they went up the long
flight of steps, arm in arm.
“There’s a button here, ole sport,” said Master Freddie. “Hole my arm
while I find her! Steady, now--oh, yes, here she is! Saved!”
A bell rang, and in a few seconds the door was opened. A man in blue
livery stood holding it, and gazing before him, silent as a statue.
They stood for a moment blinking in the light. Then Jurgis felt his
companion pulling, and he stepped in, and the blue automaton closed the
door. Jurgis’s heart was beating wildly; it was a bold thing for him to
do--into what strange unearthly place he was venturing he had no idea.
Aladdin entering his cave could not have been more excited.
The place where he stood was dimly lighted; but he could see a vast
hall, with pillars fading into the darkness above, and a great staircase
opening at the far end of it. The floor was of tesselated marble, smooth
as glass, and from the walls strange shapes loomed out, woven into
huge portieres in rich, harmonious colors, or gleaming from paintings,
wonderful and mysterious-looking in the half-light, purple and red and
golden, like sunset glimmers in a shadowy forest.
The man in livery had moved silently toward them; Master Freddie took
off his hat and handed it to him, and then, letting go of Jurgis’
arm, tried to get out of his overcoat. After two or three attempts he
accomplished this, with the lackey’s help, and meantime a second man had
approached, a tall and portly personage, solemn as an executioner. He
bore straight down upon Jurgis, who shrank away nervously; he seized him
by the arm without a word, and started toward the door with him. Then
suddenly came Master Freddie’s voice, “Hamilton! My fren’ will remain
wiz me.”
The man paused and half released Jurgis. “Come ‘long ole chappie,” said
the other, and Jurgis started toward him.
“Master Frederick!” exclaimed the man.
“See that the cabbie--hic--is paid,” was the other’s response; and he
linked his arm in Jurgis’. Jurgis was about to say, “I have the money
for him,” but he restrained himself. The stout man in uniform signaled
to the other, who went out to the cab, while he followed Jurgis and his
young master.
They went down the great hall, and then turned. Before them were two
huge doors.
“Hamilton,” said Master Freddie.
“Well, sir?” said the other.
“Whuzzamatter wizze dinin’-room doors?”
“Nothing is the matter, sir.”
“Then why dontcha openum?”
The man rolled them back; another vista lost itself in the darkness.
“Lights,” commanded Master Freddie; and the butler pressed a button, and
a flood of brilliant incandescence streamed from above, half-blinding
Jurgis. He stared; and little by little he made out the great apartment,
with a domed ceiling from which the light poured, and walls that were
one enormous painting--nymphs and dryads dancing in a flower-strewn
glade--Diana with her hounds and horses, dashing headlong through a
mountain streamlet--a group of maidens bathing in a forest pool--all
life-size, and so real that Jurgis thought that it was some work of
enchantment, that he was in a dream palace. Then his eye passed to
the long table in the center of the hall, a table black as ebony, and
gleaming with wrought silver and gold. In the center of it was a huge
carven bowl, with the glistening gleam of ferns and the red and purple
of rare orchids, glowing from a light hidden somewhere in their midst.
“This’s the dinin’ room,” observed Master Freddie. “How you like it,
hey, ole sport?”
He always insisted on having an answer to his remarks, leaning over
Jurgis and smiling into his face. Jurgis liked it.
“Rummy ole place to feed in all ‘lone, though,” was Freddie’s
comment--“rummy’s hell! Whuzya think, hey?” Then another idea
occurred to him and he went on, without waiting: “Maybe you never saw
anythin--hic--like this ‘fore? Hey, ole chappie?”
“No,” said Jurgis.
“Come from country, maybe--hey?”
“Yes,” said Jurgis.
“Aha! I thosso! Lossa folks from country never saw such a place. Guv’ner
brings ‘em--free show--hic--reg’lar circus! Go home tell folks about it.
Ole man Jones’s place--Jones the packer--beef-trust man. Made it all
out of hogs, too, damn ole scoundrel. Now we see where our pennies
go--rebates, an’ private car lines--hic--by Harry! Bully place,
though--worth seein’! Ever hear of Jones the packer, hey, ole chappie?”
Jurgis had started involuntarily; the other, whose sharp eyes missed
nothing, demanded: “Whuzzamatter, hey? Heard of him?”
And Jurgis managed to stammer out: “I have worked for him in the yards.”
“What!” cried Master Freddie, with a yell. “You! In the yards? Ho, ho!
Why, say, thass good! Shake hands on it, ole man--by Harry! Guv’ner
ought to be here--glad to see you. Great fren’s with the men,
guv’ner--labor an’ capital, commun’ty ‘f int’rests, an’ all that--hic!
Funny things happen in this world, don’t they, ole man? Hamilton, lemme
interduce you--fren’ the family--ole fren’ the guv’ner’s--works in the
yards. Come to spend the night wiz me, Hamilton--have a hot time. Me
fren’, Mr.--whuzya name, ole chappie? Tell us your name.”
“Rudkus--Jurgis Rudkus.”
“My fren’, Mr. Rednose, Hamilton--shake han’s.”
The stately butler bowed his head, but made not a sound; and suddenly
Master Freddie pointed an eager finger at him. “I know whuzzamatter wiz
you, Hamilton--lay you a dollar I know! You think--hic--you think I’m
drunk! Hey, now?”
And the butler again bowed his head. “Yes, sir,” he said, at which
Master Freddie hung tightly upon Jurgis’s neck and went into a fit of
laughter. “Hamilton, you damn ole scoundrel,” he roared, “I’ll ‘scharge
you for impudence, you see ‘f I don’t! Ho, ho, ho! I’m drunk! Ho, ho!”
The two waited until his fit had spent itself, to see what new whim
would seize him. “Whatcha wanta do?” he queried suddenly. “Wanta see
the place, ole chappie? Wamme play the guv’ner--show you roun’? State
parlors--Looee Cans--Looee Sez--chairs cost three thousand apiece. Tea
room Maryanntnet--picture of shepherds dancing--Ruysdael--twenty-three
thousan’! Ballroom--balc’ny pillars--hic--imported--special
ship--sixty-eight thousan’! Ceilin’ painted in Rome--whuzzat
feller’s name, Hamilton--Mattatoni? Macaroni? Then this place--silver
bowl--Benvenuto Cellini--rummy ole Dago! An’ the organ--thirty thousan’
dollars, sir--starter up, Hamilton, let Mr. Rednose hear it. No--never
mind--clean forgot--says he’s hungry, Hamilton--less have some supper.
Only--hic--don’t less have it here--come up to my place, ole sport--nice
an’ cosy. This way--steady now, don’t slip on the floor. Hamilton, we’ll
have a cole spread, an’ some fizz--don’t leave out the fizz, by Harry.
We’ll have some of the eighteen-thirty Madeira. Hear me, sir?”
“Yes, sir,” said the butler, “but, Master Frederick, your father left
orders--”
And Master Frederick drew himself up to a stately height. “My father’s
orders were left to me--hic--an’ not to you,” he said. Then, clasping
Jurgis tightly by the neck, he staggered out of the room; on the way
another idea occurred to him, and he asked: “Any--hic--cable message for
me, Hamilton?”
“No, sir,” said the butler.
“Guv’ner must be travelin’. An’ how’s the twins, Hamilton?”
“They are doing well, sir.”
“Good!” said Master Freddie; and added fervently: “God bless ‘em, the
little lambs!”
They went up the great staircase, one step at a time; at the top of it
there gleamed at them out of the shadows the figure of a nymph crouching
by a fountain, a figure ravishingly beautiful, the flesh warm and
glowing with the hues of life. Above was a huge court, with domed roof,
the various apartments opening into it. The butler had paused below but
a few minutes to give orders, and then followed them; now he pressed a
button, and the hall blazed with light. He opened a door before them,
and then pressed another button, as they staggered into the apartment.
It was fitted up as a study. In the center was a mahogany table, covered
with books, and smokers’ implements; the walls were decorated
with college trophies and colors--flags, posters, photographs and
knickknacks--tennis rackets, canoe paddles, golf clubs, and polo sticks.
An enormous moose head, with horns six feet across, faced a buffalo head
on the opposite wall, while bear and tiger skins covered the polished
floor. There were lounging chairs and sofas, window seats covered with
soft cushions of fantastic designs; there was one corner fitted in
Persian fashion, with a huge canopy and a jeweled lamp beneath. Beyond,
a door opened upon a bedroom, and beyond that was a swimming pool of the
purest marble, that had cost about forty thousand dollars.
Master Freddie stood for a moment or two, gazing about him; then out
of the next room a dog emerged, a monstrous bulldog, the most hideous
object that Jurgis had ever laid eyes upon. He yawned, opening a mouth
like a dragon’s; and he came toward the young man, wagging his tail.
“Hello, Dewey!” cried his master. “Been havin’ a snooze, ole boy? Well,
well--hello there, whuzzamatter?” (The dog was snarling at Jurgis.)
“Why, Dewey--this’ my fren’, Mr. Rednose--ole fren’ the guv’ner’s! Mr.
Rednose, Admiral Dewey; shake han’s--hic. Ain’t he a daisy, though--blue
ribbon at the New York show--eighty-five hundred at a clip! How’s that,
hey?”
The speaker sank into one of the big armchairs, and Admiral Dewey
crouched beneath it; he did not snarl again, but he never took his eyes
off Jurgis. He was perfectly sober, was the Admiral.
The butler had closed the door, and he stood by it, watching Jurgis
every second. Now there came footsteps outside, and, as he opened the
door a man in livery entered, carrying a folding table, and behind him
two men with covered trays. They stood like statues while the first
spread the table and set out the contents of the trays upon it.
There were cold pates, and thin slices of meat, tiny bread and butter
sandwiches with the crust cut off, a bowl of sliced peaches and cream
(in January), little fancy cakes, pink and green and yellow and white,
and half a dozen ice-cold bottles of wine.
“Thass the stuff for you!” cried Master Freddie, exultantly, as he spied
them. “Come ‘long, ole chappie, move up.”
And he seated himself at the table; the waiter pulled a cork, and he
took the bottle and poured three glasses of its contents in succession
down his throat. Then he gave a long-drawn sigh, and cried again to
Jurgis to seat himself.
The butler held the chair at the opposite side of the table, and Jurgis
thought it was to keep him out of it; but finally he understand that
it was the other’s intention to put it under him, and so he sat
down, cautiously and mistrustingly. Master Freddie perceived that the
attendants embarrassed him, and he remarked with a nod to them, “You may
go.”
They went, all save the butler.
“You may go too, Hamilton,” he said.
“Master Frederick--” the man began.
“Go!” cried the youngster, angrily. “Damn you, don’t you hear me?”
The man went out and closed the door; Jurgis, who was as sharp as he,
observed that he took the key out of the lock, in order that he might
peer through the keyhole.
Master Frederick turned to the table again. “Now,” he said, “go for it.”
Jurgis gazed at him doubtingly. “Eat!” cried the other. “Pile in, ole
chappie!”
“Don’t you want anything?” Jurgis asked.
“Ain’t hungry,” was the reply--“only thirsty. Kitty and me had some
candy--you go on.”
So Jurgis began, without further parley. He ate as with two shovels, his
fork in one hand and his knife in the other; when he once got started
his wolf-hunger got the better of him, and he did not stop for breath
until he had cleared every plate. “Gee whiz!” said the other, who had
been watching him in wonder.
Then he held Jurgis the bottle. “Lessee you drink now,” he said; and
Jurgis took the bottle and turned it up to his mouth, and a wonderfully
unearthly liquid ecstasy poured down his throat, tickling every nerve of
him, thrilling him with joy. He drank the very last drop of it, and then
he gave vent to a long-drawn “Ah!”
“Good stuff, hey?” said Freddie, sympathetically; he had leaned back in
the big chair, putting his arm behind his head and gazing at Jurgis.
And Jurgis gazed back at him. He was clad in spotless evening dress, was
Freddie, and looked very handsome--he was a beautiful boy, with
light golden hair and the head of an Antinous. He smiled at Jurgis
confidingly, and then started talking again, with his blissful
insouciance. This time he talked for ten minutes at a stretch, and in
the course of the speech he told Jurgis all of his family history. His
big brother Charlie was in love with the guileless maiden who played the
part of “Little Bright-Eyes” in “The Kaliph of Kamskatka.” He had been
on the verge of marrying her once, only “the guv’ner” had sworn to
disinherit him, and had presented him with a sum that would stagger the
imagination, and that had staggered the virtue of “Little Bright-Eyes.”
 Now Charlie had got leave from college, and had gone away in his
automobile on the next best thing to a honeymoon. “The guv’ner” had made
threats to disinherit another of his children also, sister Gwendolen,
who had married an Italian marquis with a string of titles and a dueling
record. They lived in his chateau, or rather had, until he had taken to
firing the breakfast dishes at her; then she had cabled for help, and
the old gentleman had gone over to find out what were his Grace’s terms.
So they had left Freddie all alone, and he with less than two thousand
dollars in his pocket. Freddie was up in arms and meant serious
business, as they would find in the end--if there was no other way of
bringing them to terms he would have his “Kittens” wire that she was
about to marry him, and see what happened then.
So the cheerful youngster rattled on, until he was tired out. He smiled
his sweetest smile at Jurgis, and then he closed his eyes, sleepily.
Then he opened them again, and smiled once more, and finally closed them
and forgot to open them.
For several minutes Jurgis sat perfectly motionless, watching him, and
reveling in the strange sensation of the champagne. Once he stirred,
and the dog growled; after that he sat almost holding his breath--until
after a while the door of the room opened softly, and the butler came
in.
He walked toward Jurgis upon tiptoe, scowling at him; and Jurgis rose
up, and retreated, scowling back. So until he was against the wall, and
then the butler came close, and pointed toward the door. “Get out of
here!” he whispered.
Jurgis hesitated, giving a glance at Freddie, who was snoring softly.
“If you do, you son of a--” hissed the butler, “I’ll mash in your face
for you before you get out of here!”
And Jurgis wavered but an instant more. He saw “Admiral Dewey” coming
up behind the man and growling softly, to back up his threats. Then he
surrendered and started toward the door.
They went out without a sound, and down the great echoing staircase,
and through the dark hall. At the front door he paused, and the butler
strode close to him.
“Hold up your hands,” he snarled. Jurgis took a step back, clinching his
one well fist.
“What for?” he cried; and then understanding that the fellow proposed to
search him, he answered, “I’ll see you in hell first.”
“Do you want to go to jail?” demanded the butler, menacingly. “I’ll have
the police--”
“Have ‘em!” roared Jurgis, with fierce passion. “But you won’t put
your hands on me till you do! I haven’t touched anything in your damned
house, and I’ll not have you touch me!”
So the butler, who was terrified lest his young master should waken,
stepped suddenly to the door, and opened it. “Get out of here!” he said;
and then as Jurgis passed through the opening, he gave him a ferocious
kick that sent him down the great stone steps at a run, and landed him
sprawling in the snow at the bottom.
Chapter 25
Jurgis got up, wild with rage, but the door was shut and the great
castle was dark and impregnable. Then the icy teeth of the blast bit
into him, and he turned and went away at a run.
When he stopped again it was because he was coming to frequented
streets and did not wish to attract attention. In spite of that last
humiliation, his heart was thumping fast with triumph. He had come out
ahead on that deal! He put his hand into his trousers’ pocket every now
and then, to make sure that the precious hundred-dollar bill was still
there.
Yet he was in a plight--a curious and even dreadful plight, when he came
to realize it. He had not a single cent but that one bill! And he had to
find some shelter that night he had to change it!
Jurgis spent half an hour walking and debating the problem. There was
no one he could go to for help--he had to manage it all alone. To get
it changed in a lodging-house would be to take his life in his hands--he
would almost certainly be robbed, and perhaps murdered, before morning.
He might go to some hotel or railroad depot and ask to have it changed;
but what would they think, seeing a “bum” like him with a hundred
dollars? He would probably be arrested if he tried it; and what story
could he tell? On the morrow Freddie Jones would discover his loss, and
there would be a hunt for him, and he would lose his money. The only
other plan he could think of was to try in a saloon. He might pay them
to change it, if it could not be done otherwise.
He began peering into places as he walked; he passed several as being
too crowded--then finally, chancing upon one where the bartender was all
alone, he gripped his hands in sudden resolution and went in.
“Can you change me a hundred-dollar bill?” he demanded.
The bartender was a big, husky fellow, with the jaw of a prize fighter,
and a three weeks’ stubble of hair upon it. He stared at Jurgis. “What’s
that youse say?” he demanded.
“I said, could you change me a hundred-dollar bill?”
“Where’d youse get it?” he inquired incredulously.
“Never mind,” said Jurgis; “I’ve got it, and I want it changed. I’ll pay
you if you’ll do it.”
The other stared at him hard. “Lemme see it,” he said.
“Will you change it?” Jurgis demanded, gripping it tightly in his
pocket.
“How the hell can I know if it’s good or not?” retorted the bartender.
“Whatcher take me for, hey?”
Then Jurgis slowly and warily approached him; he took out the bill, and
fumbled it for a moment, while the man stared at him with hostile eyes
across the counter. Then finally he handed it over.
The other took it, and began to examine it; he smoothed it between his
fingers, and held it up to the light; he turned it over, and upside
down, and edgeways. It was new and rather stiff, and that made him
dubious. Jurgis was watching him like a cat all the time.
“Humph,” he said, finally, and gazed at the stranger, sizing him up--a
ragged, ill-smelling tramp, with no overcoat and one arm in a sling--and
a hundred-dollar bill! “Want to buy anything?” he demanded.
“Yes,” said Jurgis, “I’ll take a glass of beer.”
“All right,” said the other, “I’ll change it.” And he put the bill in
his pocket, and poured Jurgis out a glass of beer, and set it on the
counter. Then he turned to the cash register, and punched up five cents,
and began to pull money out of the drawer. Finally, he faced Jurgis,
counting it out--two dimes, a quarter, and fifty cents. “There,” he
said.
For a second Jurgis waited, expecting to see him turn again. “My
ninety-nine dollars,” he said.
“What ninety-nine dollars?” demanded the bartender.
“My change!” he cried--“the rest of my hundred!”
“Go on,” said the bartender, “you’re nutty!”
And Jurgis stared at him with wild eyes. For an instant horror reigned
in him--black, paralyzing, awful horror, clutching him at the heart;
and then came rage, in surging, blinding floods--he screamed aloud, and
seized the glass and hurled it at the other’s head. The man ducked, and
it missed him by half an inch; he rose again and faced Jurgis, who was
vaulting over the bar with his one well arm, and dealt him a smashing
blow in the face, hurling him backward upon the floor. Then, as Jurgis
scrambled to his feet again and started round the counter after him, he
shouted at the top of his voice, “Help! help!”
Jurgis seized a bottle off the counter as he ran; and as the bartender
made a leap he hurled the missile at him with all his force. It just
grazed his head, and shivered into a thousand pieces against the post
of the door. Then Jurgis started back, rushing at the man again in the
middle of the room. This time, in his blind frenzy, he came without a
bottle, and that was all the bartender wanted--he met him halfway and
floored him with a sledgehammer drive between the eyes. An instant later
the screen doors flew open, and two men rushed in--just as Jurgis was
getting to his feet again, foaming at the mouth with rage, and trying to
tear his broken arm out of its bandages.
“Look out!” shouted the bartender. “He’s got a knife!” Then, seeing that
the two were disposed to join the fray, he made another rush at Jurgis,
and knocked aside his feeble defense and sent him tumbling again; and
the three flung themselves upon him, rolling and kicking about the
place.
A second later a policeman dashed in, and the bartender yelled once
more--“Look out for his knife!” Jurgis had fought himself half to his
knees, when the policeman made a leap at him, and cracked him across the
face with his club. Though the blow staggered him, the wild-beast frenzy
still blazed in him, and he got to his feet, lunging into the air. Then
again the club descended, full upon his head, and he dropped like a log
to the floor.
The policeman crouched over him, clutching his stick, waiting for him to
try to rise again; and meantime the barkeeper got up, and put his hand
to his head. “Christ!” he said, “I thought I was done for that time. Did
he cut me?”
“Don’t see anything, Jake,” said the policeman. “What’s the matter with
him?”
“Just crazy drunk,” said the other. “A lame duck, too--but he ‘most got
me under the bar. Youse had better call the wagon, Billy.”
“No,” said the officer. “He’s got no more fight in him, I guess--and
he’s only got a block to go.” He twisted his hand in Jurgis’s collar and
jerked at him. “Git up here, you!” he commanded.
But Jurgis did not move, and the bartender went behind the bar, and
after stowing the hundred-dollar bill away in a safe hiding place, came
and poured a glass of water over Jurgis. Then, as the latter began to
moan feebly, the policeman got him to his feet and dragged him out of
the place. The station house was just around the corner, and so in a few
minutes Jurgis was in a cell.
He spent half the night lying unconscious, and the balance moaning in
torment, with a blinding headache and a racking thirst. Now and then
he cried aloud for a drink of water, but there was no one to hear him.
There were others in that same station house with split heads and
a fever; there were hundreds of them in the great city, and tens of
thousands of them in the great land, and there was no one to hear any of
them.
In the morning Jurgis was given a cup of water and a piece of bread, and
then hustled into a patrol wagon and driven to the nearest police court.
He sat in the pen with a score of others until his turn came.
The bartender--who proved to be a well-known bruiser--was called to the
stand. He took the oath and told his story. The prisoner had come into
his saloon after midnight, fighting drunk, and had ordered a glass
of beer and tendered a dollar bill in payment. He had been given
ninety-five cents’ change, and had demanded ninety-nine dollars more,
and before the plaintiff could even answer had hurled the glass at him
and then attacked him with a bottle of bitters, and nearly wrecked the
place.
Then the prisoner was sworn--a forlorn object, haggard and unshorn, with
an arm done up in a filthy bandage, a cheek and head cut, and bloody,
and one eye purplish black and entirely closed. “What have you to say
for yourself?” queried the magistrate.
“Your Honor,” said Jurgis, “I went into his place and asked the man
if he could change me a hundred-dollar bill. And he said he would if
I bought a drink. I gave him the bill and then he wouldn’t give me the
change.”
The magistrate was staring at him in perplexity. “You gave him a
