manner of address. "You made me drop that trunk."
"I did not. It was your own clumsiness."
"No, sir," said our hero, firmly; and a crowd began to collect.
"Don't dare to contradict me!" fumed the purser. "It was your fault,
and the damage shall come out of your wages."
"Mr. Polk, it was not my fault and I shall not stand for the damage
done."
"Ha! you defy me, eh, you cub! Go on about your work and I'll settle
with you later."
"What is the trouble here?" asked Captain Hadley, coming up through the
crowd.
"The blockhead of a boy dropped that trunk and broke it open."
"He ran into me and made me drop it," retorted our hero. He felt just
reckless enough to stand up for his rights, be the consequences what
they might.
"Put the trunk to one side, along with the other baggage," said the
captain. "We have no time to waste on this just now. Get that other
baggage ashore."
"My trunk!" shrieked the maiden lady, rushing forward. "Oh, who broke
my trunk?"
"It was an accident, madam."
"And all my dresses spilt out, too! I shall sue the steamboat company
for damages."
"We will settle with you, madam. I am sorry it happened," went on the
captain, soothingly.
"It was a mean thing to do," said the maiden lady and began to weep.
"Two of those dresses are brand-new."
"I guess they are not injured much."
Randy and the others had gone to work again. Our hero's thoughts were
busy.
"I believe Polk ran into me on purpose," he whispered to Jones.
"Maybe he wants to get you discharged," answered the other deckhand.
"I don't see why."
"He's down on you because of that Clare affair."
"Do you think so?"
"Sure. He hated it worse than poison, for the captain now knows just
how meanly he acted towards the widow."
The damaged trunk was passed over to a man on the dock and after some
excited talk the maiden lady accepted ten dollars, with which to have
the box repaired and her things put in proper order. It was more than
was actually coming to her and she went off secretly pleased.
In the meantime one of the passengers, an elderly man who traveled on
the line a great deal, went to Captain Hadley.
"What is it, Mr. DeLong?" asked the master of the vessel, kindly.
"I wish to speak to you about that trunk that was broken open."
"What of it?"
"I saw the accident. I was standing quite near at the time."
"Well?"
"I take an interest in that young deckhand of yours--he has done me
several small favors from time to time. It was not his fault that the
trunk was smashed, and I wanted you to know it."
"How did it happen?"
"Your purser got in the way and made the boy stumble. To me it looked
as if the purser did it on purpose."
"This is interesting, Mr. DeLong. But I don't see why the purser should
do such a thing."
"Neither do I, excepting he may have a grudge against the boy."
"Humph!" The captain grew thoughtful. "I will investigate this."
"Do so, and believe me, the boy is not to blame," said the elderly
passenger, and withdrew.
As soon as the end of the trip came, and the work on deck was finished,
Randy was called to the captain's office.
"Now what have you to say about that smashed trunk, Thompson?"
"I am not to blame, Captain Hadley," answered our hero, and told
exactly how the incident had occurred.
"Do you mean to say Mr. Polk tripped you up?"
"He ran into me and made me drop the trunk. If I hadn't dropped the
trunk I would have fallen down with the box on the top of me, and
gotten hurt."
"This is a strange statement, Thompson. Why should Mr. Polk run into
you?"
"He hates me, because through me your family learned how he had treated
Mrs. Clare when he helped to settle her husband's affairs."
This threw a new light on the matter and the captain nodded slowly and
thoughtfully.
"I did not think this of Mr. Polk."
"I think he hopes I'll lose my job," went on our hero. "He continually
calls me a blockhead, just to get me mad. I think he'd like to see me
lose my temper and pitch into him, and then he could get me my walking
papers."
"I think I will have to put the damage to the trunk down to the regular
expense account," said the captain at last. "In the future be more
careful, and keep out of Mr. Polk's way."
"I will certainly be careful, and I'll watch him, too," answered Randy.
Evidently Peter Polk was surprised to see our hero go to his work
whistling after his interview with the captain. He went to the master
of the vessel himself a little later.
"Is that boy going to pay for the trunk?" he asked, sourly.
"No, you can put it down to the regular expense account," answered
Captain Hadley.
"Humph! It was his fault."
"He says not."
"Did he blame it on me?"
"He did."
"It was his own fault."
"We won't argue the matter, Mr. Polk. Put it down to the regular
expenses and let it go at that," and Captain Hadley turned again to the
magazine he had been reading.
"Sticking up for the boy," muttered the purser, as he walked away.
"Well, I'll get that cub yet, see if I don't!"
A day passed and Randy stuck closely to his duties. He saw but little
of Peter Polk and gave the purser a wide berth. The purser watched the
youth narrowly, but said nothing.
"He has got it in for you," said Jones to Randy. "Take my advice and
keep your eyes open."
"I am watching him."
"He is a man I shouldn't trust nohow. He has got a bad pair of eyes. I
don't see how Mr. Shalley trusts him with all the boat's money
matters."
"Neither do I," answered our hero.
"He could walk off with thousands of dollars if he wanted to," said
Jones, and there the talk was dropped.
CHAPTER XXVII
RANDY MAKES A DISCOVERY
The next day Randy wanted to change some of his underwear and went into
his locker for his things. To his surprise he found in the locker a lot
of wearing apparel that did not belong to him.
"Hullo, what does this mean?" he asked himself but could not answer the
question.
He looked the articles over and made sure they did not belong to any of
the other deckhands. Then as he was folding up an extra-fine outing
shirt, he saw a letter drop to the floor. He picked it up and saw that
it was addressed to Peter Polk.
"Can these things belong to Polk?" he asked himself. "If so, how did
they get here?"
Curiosity prompted him to look into the envelope in his hand. Inside
was a single sheet of paper on which was scrawled in a bold, heavy hand
this brief communication:
    "Peter Polk: If you don't pay me that commission of twenty dollars
    at once, I will go to old man Shalley and let him know how you are
    boosting up the expense account.
    G. A. G."
Randy read the letter with great interest. It was postmarked New York
and the date was four days back.
"There is some mystery here," he reasoned. "What can it mean? Can Mr.
Polk be cheating Mr. Shalley in some way?"
Then he remembered how the purser purchased all the supplies for the
steamboat and paid the bills, and gave a low whistle.
"I must see Captain Hadley about this, and at once," he thought. "But
no, maybe it would be better to go and see Mr. Shalley direct."
He placed the letter in a safe place and then went out on deck. He had
just started to look for Captain Hadley,--to tell him about the strange
wearing apparel--when Peter Polk rushed up to him.
"Look here, Thompson, I want you!" shouted the purser, wrathfully.
"What is it, Mr. Polk?"
"I've got you, you young thief!"
"I am no thief," answered our hero, warmly.
"You are!"
"Who says Randy is a thafe?" demanded Pat Malloy.
"I do."
"And I say it is false."
"He has stolen some of my underwear," went on the purser. "Tell me what
you have done with the stuff at once!"
"Your stuff is in my locker, Mr. Polk, but I did not take it."
"Ha! what a yarn to tell. Hand the stuff over at once!"
"You can get it if you wish," answered Randy, with a shrug of his
shoulders.
"I will. Malloy, come along as a witness," answered the purser.
He walked to the compartment where the deckhands slept and from our
hero's locker hauled the articles that belonged to him.
"What do you say to that?" he cried, turning to our hero.
"I did not put the things there, Mr. Polk."
"If you didn't, who did?" sneered the purser.
"Perhaps you did yourself."
"Me!"
"Yes."
"You are crazy, boy! Why should I do such a thing?"
"To get me into trouble. You hate me and want to injure me, that's
why."
"Nonsense. You stole these things, it is useless for you to deny it."
"But I do deny it. I am no more a thief than you are--maybe not as much
of a one," added Randy, significantly.
At these words the purser turned pale for a moment. But he quickly
recovered.
"I shall report this to the captain."
"I'll report too."
"I'll have you discharged."
"We'll see about that."
Taking his things, Peter Polk went to the captain's office and told his
story. Captain Hadley at once sent for Randy.
"This is a queer happening, Thompson," he said.
"Captain Hadley, I am not guilty," answered Randy. "It is only another
plot of Mr. Polk to get me into trouble."
"And you think he put the things there himself?"
"I certainly do. I wish you would give me a day off," went on our hero,
after an awkward pause.
"What for?"
"I wish to see Mr. Shalley."
"He is in New York, on business."
"So much the better. I can call on him there, after we tie up."
"Do you want to take this matter to him?"
"Not this alone. I have something else of importance. I know he will
want to see me."
"Well, you can go. I hope you are not going to run away," and the
captain smiled faintly.
"I have nothing to run away for, sir. Mr. Polk is down on me and I am
going to do what I can to show him up, that is all. But please don't
let him know that I am going to see Mr. Shalley."
"You have learned something important?"
"Yes, sir."
"About the purser?"
"Yes, sir. But I can't speak of it just yet to you."
"Well, what about this clothing affair?"
"Won't you let it rest for a few days?"
"If you wish," answered Captain Hadley, and then he was called away to
attend to some important duties.
Although Randy did not know it, Peter Polk was nearby and caught a good
bit of the talk between our hero and the captain. His face grew deathly
pale when he learned that Randy was going to see Mr. Shalley and about
his own personal doings.
"What has that cub discovered now?" he asked himself. "What can he tell
about my doings?"
He was so worried he could not attend to his work. He turned the matter
over in his mind and suddenly remembered the threatening letter he had
received. He had paid the claim, but what had he done with the
communication? He searched everywhere for it, but without avail.
"Fool that I was, that I did not tear it up and throw it overboard," he
muttered to himself. "If that boy has the letter it may lead to an
investigation, and then----" He did not finish but clenched his hands
in rage and fear.
He watched Randy narrowly, and after New York was reached saw our hero
make preparations to go ashore. He did not know that Mr. Shalley was in
the metropolis and could not comprehend Randy's move.
"Are you going ashore?" he asked of our hero, when he got the chance.
"I am."
"Where are you going?"
"Excuse me, Mr. Polk, but that is my private business."
"Did Captain Hadley say you could go?"
"He did."
"Well, come to my office a minute, I want to talk to you," went on the
purser, in a lower tone.
"Very well," answered Randy, and followed the man to the office, which
at this time was deserted.
"Thompson, I want to know what you found in your locker besides my
clothing," said the purser, after he had made certain that no outsiders
were around.
"I found a cigar holder and a match safe."
"And what else?"
"I must decline to answer that question."
At this blunt refusal the brow of the purser darkened.
"You won't tell me?"
"No."
"Did you find a--er--a letter?"
"Perhaps I did."
"I want you to give it up."
"I didn't say I found it."
"But you did find it. It is my property and you must give it to me."
To this Randy was silent.
"Do you hear me?"
"I am not deaf, Mr. Polk."
"I know what you want to do!" hissed the purser. "You want to get me
into trouble. But I'll not let you do it."
"Maybe you'll get yourself into trouble."
"Bah! I am not afraid of a boy, but----" He paused and his manner
changed. "See here, Thompson, you are a poor boy, aren't you?"
"I admit it."
"Well, some extra money will come in handy, won't it?"
"What do you mean, Mr. Polk?"
"I'll give you--er--five dollars for that letter."
"I haven't said that I had it yet."
"But I know you have it. Come, what do you say?"
"I say, I am going about my business," answered Randy, and started for
the doorway.
"Not yet!" cried the purser, wrathfully, and flung him back into a
corner. "You'll settle with me first, even if I have to call a police
officer!"
CHAPTER XXVIII
OUT OF A TIGHT CORNER
Randy was surprised and dazed by the treatment he received at the hands
of the enraged purser and for the moment knew not what to do. He rose
slowly to his feet.
"Don't you do that again!" he cried, a dangerous glitter coming into
his eyes.
"I will do it--unless you give up that letter."
"You shall never have the letter, Peter Polk."
"Ha! so you admit at last that you have it!"
"I do."
"Then hand it over or I will call an officer and have you locked up."
"Call the officer, if you dare," and our hero shrugged his shoulders.
"You stole more than the clothing and the letter," went on the purser,
craftily. "You took fifty dollars in money."
"I took absolutely nothing, and you know it."
"Then you want me to call in the officer?"
"Do as you please," said Randy, recklessly.
Peter Polk was nonplused. He did not want to call an officer. Yet he
wanted to get the precious letter.
"You will save yourself a lot of trouble by giving up that letter,
Thompson," he said, in a more subdued tone.
"Well, I don't intend to give it up."
"If I have you arrested I can send you to state's prison for five or
ten years."
"I will risk it."
"What do you intend to do with that letter?" said the purser.
"That is my affair."
"Going to Mr. Shalley, eh?"
"Perhaps."
"It won't do you any good."
Again Randy was silent. He had stepped close to the door. On the
instant Peter Polk did the same.
"You are not going just yet," cried the purser, meaningly.
Randy looked through the little window of the office. He heard
footsteps approaching.
"Hullo there, Jones!" he called out.
"What's wanted?" came from the other deckhand.
"Come to the office, please."
In a moment Jones appeared. He was carrying a bucket of water and a
deck swab.
"Now open that door," said Randy to Peter Polk. "No more nonsense,
please."
"You are not wanted here, Jones!" cried the purser, angrily.
"You are wanted," said Randy. "Open the door. I want to get out."
Jones set down his pail and pulled on the door. Seeing resistance would
be useless, Peter Polk allowed the door to come open. At once Randy
stepped out into the gangway.
"I'll explain this to you some other time!" he called to the other
deckhand, and then ran off before Peter Polk could stop him.
"Where are ye goin'?" called out Malloy, as he crossed the gang-plank.
"I'm off on business," answered our hero, and then paused for a moment.
"Tell Jones to keep an eye on Mr. Polk, will you, please? It is very
important."
"I will," was the reply.
In a minute more Randy was hurrying up the street. He knew where Andrew
Shalley was stopping and took a car to the location.
The place was a well-known hotel and in the corridor he met the
steamboat owner, just ready to go out.
"Oh, Mr. Shalley, I want to see you!" he cried.
"What is it, Randy?"
"It's quite a story and very important."
"Then come to my room," and the steamboat owner led the way to the
elevator.
As soon as they were in the room our hero told his story in all of its
details and then produced the letter he had found. Andrew Shalley
listened closely to the story and pondered over the letter for some
time.
"Randy, have you any idea who this person who signs himself G. A. G.
can be?"
"I've been thinking that over, Mr. Shalley, and I have found out that
there is a head clerk who works for Bann & Shadow, the wholesale
grocers, whose name is George A. Gaffney. Gaffney used to come and see
Polk once in a while."
"And we buy a great many things from Bann & Shadow," put in the
steamboat owner.
"So we do."
"I will look this man Gaffney up at once."
With the steamboat owner to think was to act, and going below with our
hero he consulted a directory and found that George A. Gaffney lived on
West Twenty-sixth Street.
"I will call upon this fellow," said he. "You can go along."
They took a car on one of the avenues and got out at the corner of
Twenty-sixth Street. They had to walk half a block. The neighborhood
was not of the best, and Gaffney's residence proved to be a four-story
apartment house. The man lived on the top floor with his wife and four
small children.
George Gaffney was at home, sitting in his shirt sleeves by a front
window, smoking a pipe. He was surprised to receive visitors at that
hour.
"Is this Mr. George A. Gaffney?" questioned Andrew Shalley.
"That's my name."
"Are you a clerk for Bann & Shadow, the wholesale grocers?"
"I am."
"I would like to see you privately, Mr. Gaffney."
"Who are you?"
"I am Andrew Shalley, the owner of the steamboat Helen Shalley."
"Oh!"
George Gaffney was taken aback and showed it plainly. His wife had come
to a back doorway and was looking at the visitors curiously.
"Step in, sir," said the clerk, in a husky voice. "Mary, I will see
this gentleman alone," he went on to his wife, who at once retired,
closing the door after her.
Andrew Shalley was a good judge of character and he saw that George
Gaffney was a family man of fairly good qualities. He was extremely
nervous.
"I think I can get him to confess easily enough--if he has anything to
tell," thought the steamboat owner.
"Please be seated," said the clerk, and Mr. Shalley and Randy sat down.
Then there was a slight pause.
"Mr. Gaffney, I am afraid I have an unpleasant duty to perform," began
Andrew Shalley, in a cold, hard voice.
"Why--er--what do you mean?" stammered the clerk.
"I refer to your dealings with my purser, Peter Polk."
"I--er--I haven't had anything to do with him--that is--we had some
little business, but----" The clerk was unable to go on.
"You sent him a threatening letter the other day."
"Me? Who says so?"
"I have the letter in my possession."
The clerk winced and the steamboat owner saw that the shot struck home.
"This affair is a very serious one--you know that as well as I do,"
continued Andrew Shalley. "The fact of the matter is, it is a state's
prison offense."
The mention of prison had the desired effect. George Gaffney broke down
completely.
"Oh, sir,--I--I didn't mean to do any wrong--Polk said it would be all
right. He got me to go into it--it was all his doings. All I ever got
out of it was thirty-five dollars and that I will pay back. Mr.
Shalley, I--er--I hope you won't prosecute me, for the sake of my wife
and children!" And the clerk wrung his hands in despair.
"Didn't you get any more than thirty-five dollars?"
"No, sir, not a cent more, I swear it. And Polk said that was due to me
legally."
"If that is true, I will not prosecute you,--but on one condition."
"Name it."
"That you tell me everything you know about Peter Polk's doings."
"I will do it, Mr. Shalley."
CHAPTER XXIX
GEORGE GAFFNEY'S STATEMENT
"I cannot tell you all Peter Polk has done," said George Gaffney, on
beginning his story, "but I can tell you all so far as it concerns his
purchase of goods from Bann & Shadow."
"That will be enough," answered Andrew Shalley, and brought out a book
and a pencil, to take notes.
"He came to our firm three years ago and began to purchase various
goods for the Helen Shalley. At first he met all bills promptly and
never asked for any rebate or commission. That lasted for about three
months."
"He must have been feeling his way."
"He was. At the end of six months he made a claim of a rebate on a bill
for a hundred and fifty dollars and we allowed him ten dollars. Then he
got ten dollars more on another bill, and after that he claimed a
rebate of ten per cent. on everything he bought of us."
"You have all those bills on your books?"
"We have."
"Good. Go on."
"He gradually got bolder and wanted me to aid him in getting a
commission elsewhere on regular steamboat supplies. I was willing to
make a little extra money and introduced him to the firm of Leeson &
Bronette. Leeson is an easy-going man and he promised Polk a big
commission on all goods purchased. Polk bought hundreds of dollars'
worth of goods from them, and got, I am pretty sure, from fifteen to
twenty per cent. on every bill paid."
"Oh, what a rascal!" murmured Randy.
"Then I introduced him to another man, Aaron Denman, and he got goods
from that man too and got his commission--how much I do not know. For
introducing him to Denman I was promised that commission of twenty
dollars. I saw Polk was making money hand over fist, and when he did
not pay me I got mad and wrote the letter."
"And you are sure you never got a cent more out of him than thirty-five
dollars?"
"Not a cent. Once in a while he treated me to a dinner and twice he
sent me a box of cigars, and that is all. To tell the honest truth, I
did not press him very hard, for I did not believe in what he was
doing. I want to be an honest man, and I was led into this thing almost
before I knew it," continued George Gaffney.
After that he went into a great many more details, to which Andrew
Shalley and Randy listened with interest.
"I can get the actual figures for you from our books," said the clerk.
"What does your firm say to this?" asked the steamboat owner.
"Oh, they wanted the business, so they simply shut their eyes and
didn't say anything."
"But that was dishonest."
"True--but such things are done every day," and the clerk shrugged his
shoulders.
"If Peter Polk has been getting ten to fifteen per cent. on all goods
he has been buying for me he has robbed me of thousands of dollars,"
said Andrew Shalley.
"It will be a hard matter to prove some of the transactions, Mr.
Shalley. I guess he knew how to cover up his footprints pretty well."
"Well, if I can only prove some of them it will be enough for my
purpose," answered the steamboat owner.
Before he left that night he drew up a long document containing the
main facts of the case, and had George Gaffney sign it and had Randy
put his name down as a witness.
"What do you want me to do, Mr. Shalley?" asked our hero, after they
had left the clerk's house.
"You can go back to the steamboat. I am going to hire a first-class
private detective to investigate this matter thoroughly. When I expose
Polk I want all the evidence on hand with which to convict him."
"He will want to know what I did."
"That is true." Andrew Shalley mused for a moment. "Randy, you mind
your own business," he said suddenly and sharply. Then he began to
chuckle. "Now you can go back and tell Polk that I told you to mind
your own business."
"I will, sir," and our hero grinned broadly.
"I will also give you a line to Captain Hadley," pursued the steamboat
owner. "That will help to keep you out of further trouble."
The letter was penned, and a few minutes later our hero was on his way
back to the boat. Andrew Shalley went in another direction, to hunt up
a detective to work on the case.
It must be confessed that Randy felt much lighter in heart. He now knew
exactly what kind of a rascal Peter Polk was, and felt that the purser
could no longer drag him into trouble.
"He will soon come to the end of his rope, and that will be the last of
him," said our hero to himself.
When he arrived at the boat it was very late and everybody but the
watchman had gone to bed. He turned in without awakening any of the
others and slept soundly until morning.
Much to his surprise Peter Polk did not come near him that morning, and
our hero was kept so busy at one thing and another that he had little
time to think about the purser and his nefarious doings. As soon as he
got the chance he delivered the letter Mr. Shalley had given him to
Captain Hadley.
The captain read the communication in silence. Then he uttered a low
whistle and looked at Randy thoughtfully.
"I've been suspecting this," he said. "Randy, I believe you are to keep
mum for the present."
"Yes, sir."
"I doubt if he troubles you any more."
"I'll be glad of it."
"Well, get to work, and some time we'll see what we will see," answered
the captain; and there the talk was dropped.
It was a windy and cloudy day, and a majority of the passengers were
glad enough to remain in the cabin during the trip up the river. About
noon it began to thunder and the sky grew very black.
"We are up against a storm now," said Jones to Randy. "We'll have to
take in some of the bunting."
The order was issued, and Randy set to work, with the other deckhands,
to strip the decks. Soon it was raining furiously and all of the
deckhands got pretty wet. All of the passengers had gone inside, so the
decks were practically deserted.
Randy was folding up some bunting when he heard a quick step behind
him. Turning, he saw himself confronted by Peter Polk. The purser's
face was dark and full of hatred.
"Now, Thompson, I want to know what you did last night," snarled the
man.
"I went ashore," answered our hero, as coolly as he could.
"To see Mr. Shalley?"
"Yes, if you must know."
"And you gave him that letter?"
"I did."
"What did he say?"
"He told me to mind my own business."
"What!" For the instant Peter Polk's face took on a pleased look. "So
he really told you that?"
"Yes."
"Humph! I reckon you didn't expect such a reception."
To this remark our hero made no reply.
"Is the old man going to investigate?" went on Peter Polk.
"You had better go and ask him."
"You answer my question, Thompson!"
"I have nothing more to say."
At this the purser grew furious. There were many occasions when his
temper got the better of him and this was one of them. He suddenly
grabbed Randy by the throat, bending him backward over the rail.
"You little cur!" he hissed. "You are trying to get the best of me! But
you shan't do it!"
"Le--let go!" gasped Randy. He could hardly speak.
"I'll let go--when I am through with you. But first I----"
What further Peter Polk had to say was drowned out by a violent crash
of thunder. Then came a perfect deluge of rain, driven over the decks
by a wind that blew almost with hurricane force.
Randy struggled harder than ever, but the purser continued to hold him.
Then the steamboat, caught by the blast, careened to one side, and in a
twinkling the youth was over the rail. Peter Polk released his hold,
and down went poor Randy, until, with a splash, he sank beneath the
waters of the Hudson River.
CHAPTER XXX
A SWIM FOR LIFE
The shock came so suddenly that for the moment poor Randy scarcely
realized what was happening. He went down and down and swallowed not a
little of the river water.
When he came up, blowing and spluttering, he could see but little
around him. Fortunately, he had gone off to the rear of the steamboat,
thus escaping the danger of being struck by a paddle-wheel. All was so
dark and the rain was so thick he could not make out the shore line.
"I've got to swim for it," he reasoned and struck out bravely.
It was no easy matter to keep afloat with so much clothing on. He
listened, thinking he might hear the steamboat, but the roaring of the
wind and rain drowned out every other sound.
Presently came another flash of lightning and then he saw the boat far
ahead of him. No one but Peter Polk had witnessed his fall from the
deck and nobody appeared to be coming to his assistance.
He kept his head well above water and at the next flash of lightning
caught a glimpse of one of the river banks. Without further hesitation
he struck out in that direction.
It was a long and exhausting swim and poor Randy thought he would never
reach the shore. The current carried him far down the river, to where
there was a small cove, lined with rocks on one side and bushes and
trees on the other. He caught at some of the bushes desperately and at
last pulled himself to a place of temporary safety.
For the time being our hero did nothing but try to get back his breath
and his strength. In a general way he had an idea that he was some
distance below the town of Catskill. What to do next he hardly knew.
"The first thing to do is to get out of this storm, I suppose," he told
himself. "But that won't do a great deal of good, since I can't get any
wetter than I already am."
Feeling a little bit rested, he presently got up and walked around the
edge of the cove. Then he began to climb the river bank proper. It was
hard work, but soon he came out on a river roadway and saw at a
distance a hotel and half a dozen fashionable cottages.
"This looks familiar," he told himself. "Well, I declare, that place
yonder must be the house at which Bob Bangs and his mother are
stopping!"
Back of the house was a big barn and further to the rear was another
building, used as a summerhouse and a place where oars and other things
for small boats might be stored.
The summer storm was now letting up a bit. It was still raining, but
the thunder and lightning had ceased and the wind had gone down. To get
out of the rain and rest, Randy took himself to the summerhouse.
He was busy emptying the water from his shoes, when he heard somebody
utter an exclamation and turning saw Bob Bangs standing near, umbrella
in hand. The rich youth was staring at him in astonishment.
"Where did you come from?" he demanded, as he entered the summerhouse.
"From the river."
"You look pretty wet."
"I have been in the water quite some time."
"Oh! Did you fall overboard from the steamboat?"
"I did."
"You must be pretty careless," went on Bob, with a sneer.
"I certainly didn't fall overboard because I wanted to," answered Randy
as lightly as he could.
"Say, I understand you are trying to get my father into trouble,"
pursued the rich boy, throwing himself on a bench.
"Who told you that?"
"Never mind. You are hand-in-glove with the Bartlett crowd."
"Well, why shouldn't I be, Bob Bangs? Jack is my dearest friend."
"Humph! I shouldn't care for him for a friend."
"And he wouldn't pick you for a chum," added Jack, quickly.
"I consider myself better than Jack Bartlett."
To this our hero did not answer.
"My dad is going to make it hot for old Bartlett," went on Bob. "He is
going to sue him for defamation of character."
"When?"
"Oh, before a great while. Bartlett had no right to search our house
and break open the safe."
"He had the law on his side."
"No, he didn't. Just you wait till my dad brings suit. It will ruin the
Bartletts."
"I hope not."
"How do you like being a steamboat deckhand?" went on the rich youth,
to change the subject.
"Very well."
"It must be a dirty job," and Bob Bangs tilted his nose in the air.
"It might be worse."
"When I leave school I am going to be a lawyer."
"I hope you make a success of it."
"I shall--I am going to be one of the greatest lawyers in this
country," added the rich boy, boastfully.
"Are your folks here?"
"My mother is. Dad is at the iron works."
"They tell me he isn't doing very well there," said Randy.
"He is doing fine. He discharged some of the good-for-nothing hands,
that's all. Bartlett used to hire a lot of sticks."
"I don't believe it. Mr. Bartlett knows his business."
"Humph!"
The rain was letting up and Randy prepared to walk to Catskill. As wet
as he was, he resolved not to ask any favor at the hands of Bob Banks.
"Going, eh?" said the rich youth.
"Yes."
"Humph!" murmured Bob Bangs, and that was all he said.
Despite the steady rain, Randy walked rapidly to the town--doing this
that he might not take cold. Once at the town he hurried to the
steamboat landing.
"Hullo, where did you come from?" exclaimed the dock master, who knew
him well.
"From a bath," answered Randy with a laugh, and then said he had fallen
overboard from the Helen Shalley just before the landing at Catskill
was made.
"Nobody said anything about it," said the dock master.
"I guess they didn't know it," answered our hero.
"What are you going to do now?"
"Telegraph to Captain Hadley and then stay in town until the boat comes
back to-morrow."
"Better get dried off first. You can come to my house if you wish. It
is not far off."
"Thank you, Mr. Ball."
Randy's telegram was a short one. It ran as follows:
    "Fell overboard. Am safe at Catskill. Join boat to-morrow."
The telegram sent, our hero went with Mr. Ball to the latter's house.
Here he was loaned some dry clothing and Mrs. Ball treated him to a
late but satisfying supper. After the meal was over, and as it was now
clear, he decided to take a walk around the town before retiring. Had
he known of what that walk was to reveal he would have been very much
surprised.
CHAPTER XXXI
NEWS OF IMPORTANCE
As was natural, our hero drifted down to the long steamboat landing.
While he was standing around, he saw a ferryboat coming across the
river, filled with passengers from the railroad station on the opposite
shore.
As the passengers alighted he recognized Amos Bangs in the crowd. The
rich manufacturer looked around anxiously, and presently caught sight
of Mrs. Bangs, who had come to meet him in a carriage. Randy slipped
out of sight.
"Well?" demanded Amos Bangs, as soon as he and his wife were together.
"Oh, Amos!" the woman cried, and could not go on.
"Is that all you can say, Viola?" demanded the husband, harshly.
"I can do nothing with the girl."
"And she knows where the papers are?"
"She does."
"How did it happen?"
"When Mr. Tuller called upon me she played the eavesdropper. She saw us
open the safe and take out the papers, and when I went and hid the
papers she followed me."
"But you said you were sure nobody knew where the papers were."
"I thought so at the time, but I was mistaken."
"How did it come out?"
"The girl did not sweep and dust the parlor to suit me, and I took her
to task about it. She threw down her broom and said she would take no
words from me. Then I told her to pack her trunk and leave the house.
She grew more impertinent than ever, and said she would go, but I would
have to pay her her wages regularly anyway. I asked what she meant.
Then she told me to go and look for the papers I had hidden."
"And they were gone?"
"Yes. I was so overcome I nearly fainted," and Mrs. Bangs's face showed
her deep concern.
"What next?"
"I went back to the girl and told her she must give the papers up or I
would have her arrested. She laughed in my face. Oh, Amos, think of
that horrid creature doing that!"
"She knew she had you," growled the rich manufacturer. "What did you do
then?"
"Why--I--broke down, I couldn't help it. I asked her what she wanted
for the papers. She wouldn't tell, and I said I would give her five
dollars. Then she laughed in my face again. I wanted to drive her from
the house, but I didn't dare."
"Did she say what she was going to do?"
"At last she said she would make a bargain--think of it--a bargain with
a servant girl! She wants me to pay her wages regularly and also twelve
dollars a month for her board."
"Will she work for you?"
"No, indeed, she says she will go and live with her married sister."
"Humph! Let me see, her name is Jackson, isn't it?"
"Yes, Mamie Jackson. Her sister lives over in Oakdale."
"Did she go to Oakdale?"
"I suppose she did."
"She must have the papers with her."
"No, I think she hid them, for she said we wouldn't find the papers
even if we searched her and her trunk."
"I will have to go to Oakdale and see her," said Amos Bangs, after a
pause in which he rubbed his chin reflectively.
The rich manufacturer and his wife had withdrawn to a corner of the
dock while talking. Randy had kept nearby, behind some boxes and
barrels, and had heard every word that was spoken. That he was
immensely interested goes without saying.
"On the track of Mr. Bartlett's papers at last," he told himself. "Now,
what had I best do about it?"
His one thought was to outwit Amos Bangs, and with this in mind he left
the dock and walked rapidly toward the telegraph office.
"I wish to send another telegram," said he as he drew the pad of forms
toward him.
"Must be your night for sending messages," answered the clerk, by way
of a joke.
"I want this rushed through--it is highly important."
"All right, hand it over."
Randy hardly knew what to say, but soon wrote down the following,
addressed to Mr. Bartlett:
    "Papers taken from Mrs. Bangs by Mamie Jackson, a servant, now at
    sister's in Oakdale. Hurry if you want to get them. Address me at
    Catskill."
Having sent the message, there seemed nothing for Randy to do but to
retire. This he did, and was awakened two hours later by a message from
Mr. Bartlett, which was in these words:
    "Coming down first morning train. Meet me at Catskill Station,
    Hudson River Railroad."
Having received this message Randy consulted a time table and found
that the first Albany train would arrive at the station across the
river at about seven o'clock. He arranged to be on hand, and then tried
to go to sleep again. But the most he could do was to take a few fitful
naps.
As soon as the train rolled in Philip Bartlett alighted. Randy rushed
towards him.
"Are you going to Oakdale?" he asked, quickly.
"Do you think it worth while, Randy?"
"I do."
"Then I will go. You must come along."
"I will," answered our hero, and then Mr. Bartlett got back on the
train and Randy followed him.
"I left word with Mr. Ball, so Captain Hadley won't worry about me,"
Randy explained when seated.
"Now tell me what this means?" asked Philip Bartlett, impatiently. "I
have been on the anxious seat ever since I received your telegram."
"I want you to get in ahead of Mr. Bangs," said our hero, and then told
all he had overheard.
"I will make that servant girl give me those papers," said Mr.
Bartlett, with decision.
"Perhaps you can scare her just as Mr. Shalley scared a fellow who was
aiding another man to rob him," answered our hero. "I will tell you
about that another time. I am pledged not to say anything just at
present."
CHAPTER XXXII
BROUGHT TO TERMS--CONCLUSION
They had to make one change of cars and then take a stage running to
Oakdale, which was but a small village four miles from Riverport. When
they arrived it was close on to midday.
Fortunately for them, one of the storekeepers of the village knew Mamie
Jackson's married sister and also knew Mamie, and he told them where to
go. It was a dilapidated cottage on the outskirts, surrounded by a
garden filled mostly with weeds.
"Not very thrifty people, that is certain," was Mr. Bartlett's comment.
"I think I shall know the servant if I see her," said Randy.
They paused at the gate and saw the two sisters near the side porch.
One was on a bench shelling peas and the other was lolling in a
hammock. Each looked very untidy and both wore wrappers that were full
of holes.
"That is the servant," said Randy, pointing to the person in the
hammock. "And see, she has some papers in her hands!"
"Step behind the wellhouse," said Mr. Bartlett, and this both of them
quickly did.
"Well, go ahead and read the papers, Mamie," said the woman on the
bench.
"Ain't no use, Sarah, I can't make head nor tail of 'em," answered
Mamie Jackson.
"What do you suppose makes 'em so valuable?"
"I don't know. But I do know the Bangses don't want that Mr. Bartlett
to get hold of 'em."
"I think you made a good bargain with the Bangses--that is, if they pay
up."
"I'll make 'em pay. Oh, Mrs. Bangs was scart, I could see it." Mamie
Jackson laughed shrilly. "And to think she was going to discharge me!"
"Well, I guess you gave her a piece of your mind."
"So I did. She is too stuck-up to live," went on the former servant
