wondered a little — we thought you were so 
dissimilar. Leslie fancied she would be a great 
drain on you, but you were always so fresh 
and strong. I like strong people. I’m rather 
weak, myself. I have a longing to play ivy 
but I think it so silly. Oh, take off your hat 
and let us consider your room, and then hunt 
up your trunk! After that we will discourse 
learnedly on the difference between love and 
friendship.” 

Lorraine’s room was very pretty, and had 
an individuality; she had not overloaded it 
with trumpery. There were a few fine en- 
gravings and photographs; her other pictures 
were in portfolios. The tea-table had some 
elegant china, the book-shelves a number of 
choice books, and there were two willow rock- 
ers, also two or three folding-chairs, in a 
corner. The window curtains were ruffled 
Swiss, but the floor rug was undeniably costly. 
It was a young girl’s cosy room. 

Helen laid her hat and wrap on the couch, 
feeling very much at home, for most of these 
adornments had been in Lorraine’s other room. 
A pleasurable emotion seemed to stir her pulse 


 

in a gentle manner; it was like coming to an 
old friend. 

“You see we are on the easterly side, 
a trifle to the south. I like the morning 
sun.” 

“ I had the sunset before.” 

“ Oh, do you remember what Longfellow 
says : ‘ The setting of the sun is like the set- 
ting of a great hope.’ I like to be out-of- 
doors where you can take in all its glory. 
There is nothing sad then. But when you 
watch it slowly creeping out of a room, you 
can’t help thinking of the dying day, and it 
brings a sort of sad feeling.” 

“ I never looked at it in quite that fashion,” 
returned Helen, thoughtfully. “ After all, it 
only goes round on the other side; some one 
else has it.” 

“ But I have to say good-by to it. And the 
sunrise is joyous.” Lorraine studied her a 
moment. “If you shouldn’t care — ” 

“ I shall like it. It will bring you to mind 
the first thing.” 

“ I am so glad that we are real friends! ” 

They walked through to the other room. It 


 

had the ordinary belongings, the study-table, 
the small set of book-shelves. 

“ I will help you arrange it. Let us send 
word about your trunk," and she touched the 
electric button. “ Then come and have a cup 
of tea, and we will talk over vacation,’ 

Helen watched the pretty deftness; Lor- 
raine was a very graceful girl. She had de- 
veloped a good deal in a year, grown taller, 
Helen thought, though she was still slim, but 
with a lithe sort of roundness. 

“Well, about the vacation?” Helen asked. 
“ We had a seaside cottage on the Jersey 
shore with several friends near by. Just above 
us was a very stylish settlement. Mother 
wouldn’t hear to real society, but there were 
girls enough to have a good, gay time in the 
usual fashion. Then father had to take a busi- 
ness journey out in Pennsylvania, and I went 
with him — and inspected two mining towns. 
It was queer and weird and quite dreadful in 
some respects. I was really afraid to go down 
in a mine; you get so full of black dust. I’d 
like to write a novel about it, if I had genius 
enough. Then he took me up to Niagara, 


which was splendid, of course, but look at 
photographs and read descriptions; I won’t 
bore you. Next summer, if all is well, he will 
take me to Canada, if I go into the seniors.” 

“ As you will, of course.” 

“ Oh, I couldn’t disappoint the dearest of 
fathers! And my brother Austin enters Yale. 
Father is great on education, and he has bound 
over Austin not to get engaged until he is 
through.” 

“ Did he exact the same promise of you? ” 
laughed Helen. 

“ Well — in a way. Mother looks out that 
I don't have any lovers. I’m not anxious. 
Oh, do you know that splendid Miss Brad- 
shaw was married in Paris? ” 

A quick color mounted to the edge of 
Helen’s hair. 

“ I had known her before at Aldred House, 
and just at the last she told me. It was all 
delightful. She came to college to escape 
another lover, and this one was truly of her 
election.” 

“ Dear me! I wonder when we will be con- 
fiding our engagement to each other! I sup- 

pose most girls hope to be married. That 
Miss Coultas — you remember the antiquarian 
— thought marriage spoiled a woman’s career. " 
But what if the woman doesn’t want a career? 

I don't believe I do. I want a lot of happiness, 
and I suppose the best and sweetest comes 
through love. Victor Hugo says, ‘ Were there 
not some who loved, the sun would be ex- 
tinguished.’ But I do not think it will be in 
our time,” laughing. “Does the tea suit? 
And those are delicious wafers. I have some 
bonbons that I haven't exhumed.” 

“ I am not a great candy girl,” remarked 
Helen. 

“ Are you not ? Then there is a point of 
agreement. I couldn’t eat fudge and caramels 
every night, and I don’t like messing over 
them. What about your vacation?” 

“ I first visited my friend, Miss Craven, 
who was here at Commencement. She has a 
lovely country home. I studied mornings, and 
then we drove about, walked, made calls, had 
some guests, and went up to West Point, which 
was most entertaining.” 

“ I do adore young military men. I wish 


my brother had chosen that career, but he is 
wild on chemistry. And then where?” 

“ To Newburgh to see the curiosities and 
the historic old town, then a week spent in 
the Catskills, and afterward a fortnight spent 
in study. I am to have two examinations to- 
morrow. Suppose I shouldn't pass! What a 
fraud I'd be! Perhaps I'd better wait before 
putting the room in order. Oh, and I came 
near leaving out a week spent in the home of 
my childhood among friends and the only 
relatives I have left ! ” 

“ Why, it sounds — crowded full.” 

“ It was,” and a smile played about Helen’s 
lips. 

“ And I've hosts of aunts and cousins. A 
number came down to visit us. Oh, you 
haven't any fear that you will not pass?” 

“ I am quite sure. You see, Professor Blake 
made me out a list, and a tough one at that. 
Unless I should get rattled — " 

“ But you seem a cool-headed girl. It was 
an immense compliment, let me tell you.” 

“ I think I owe a good deal of it to Miss 
Morse, and to my father’s reputation,” re- 


 

plied Helen, coloring with a variety of emo- 
tions. “ But I have studied in strenuous ear- 
nest. I did not dream of skipping a year, but 
I will say last year was easy.” 

“ And I know half a dozen girls who were 
eager for the prize. I wonder who will get 
it this year. There is a host of new fresh- 
men.” 

The trunk came up. There was a bevy of 
girls in the hall congratulating her. It seemed 
indeed like going among old friends, although 
there had been few real approaches to friend- 
ship. But with true class esprit they were 
proud of her. 

Helen unlocked her trunk and suit-case. 
There were pretty gowns to be shaken out and 
hung in the closet, dainty articles to be laid 
in the drawers, and a few pictures and flower 
vases to be put in place. 

“ This is my contribution,” said Lorraine, 
unwrapping a picture. “ You are so fond of 
Madonnas. And this is one of the modern 
ones, — the Sichel. I stood between that and 
the Gabriel Max. In one I like the mother’s 
face, in the other, the child. But this is un- 


 

deniably a young Jewish girl, and she looks 
as if she might have a presentiment of the 
coming years, and the child is just sweet, un- 
conscious babyhood. I have one in my room 
at home.” 

“ It is most gracious and lovely of you, and 
I hardly know how to thank you. Shall I 
tell you the story of my first Madonna?” 

“ Oh, do please! ” Lorraine entreated. “ I 
like to hear stories of happenings in people’s 
lives, and you seem to have had no end of 
romances.” 

A flush and a smile wavered over Helen’s 
face. After all, they were romances. Was 
not life full of them, only some seemed prosaic 
in the passing? And she related the incident 
of being sent over to Hope Centre to do er- 
rands for Aunt Jane when she was a little girl 
and she had first seen the Bodenhausen Ma- 
donna in a window. “ And then I really knew 
nothing about pictures. I was an ignorant 
little country girl,” she added. 

“ I can’t believe you were ever very igno- 
rant — of yourself. Is that a paradox?” 
laughing. “ There are people who understand 
intuitively, and do not have to go to books for 
everything. The books are the helpers, of 
course. Then there are people, girls, who do 
not seem to take in anything until they have 
found it in a book. I’m just glad through 
and through that you are my neighbor. We 
shall have some nice talks this winter, and we 
shall be studying the same things. Two years ! 
Think of it!” 

Lorraine’s face was alight with enthusiasm. 

Helen wondered how she had come to be 
so well liked. 

They presently had the room in order, and it 
looked quite cosy, though Helen admitted she 
would like a pile of cushions in the corner, 
but she strictly forbade Lorraine to give her 
any. 

“You are a proud girl, Helen Grant, but 
some one says there is as much virtue in ac- 
cepting a favor gracefully as in bestowing one. 
Write that down in Memory’s copy-book.” 
There was a mischievous glint in her eyes, as 
she turned them on Helen in a little triumph. 
“ Now let us go out for a walk before we get 
into a dispute.” 



There was a crowd of girls around the en- 
trance and on the steps of Garth Hall. Some 
of them rushed out and captured Helen. And 
there was Betty Gamier, her frock not quite 
long, and her hair still in a big braid behind, 
tied with a black ribbon, the girl who had won 
glory for the freshmen in the basket-ball con- 
test. 

“ I think we sophs are going to beat the 
juniors next time,” she laughed. “ My 
brother gives me great credit for playing a 
fine game, and he has been putting me 
through such a course of study that I may skip 
a class. But it was an awful experience,” and 
she made a wry face. “ I'm really afraid much 
learning will make me mad, spoil my temper 
completely. Oh, why must we be continually 
scrambling up the tree of knowledge? Well, 
— a happy year to everybody," and she flashed 
off. ** 

There, too, was complacent Bessie Cochran, 
bowing and smiling to everybody, and also 
numerous freshmen getting acquainted. All 
was stir and bustle, and there was much 
laughter among the older students, while some 


girls stood solitary and uncertain. Helen felt 
moved to go to them, but just then she espied 
Miss Morse. 

“ Let us cross over and speak to her,” said 
Helen. “ She wrote me such a delightful 
letter ! ” 

“ You must not feel compelled to drag me 
everywhere, just because we are going to be 
neighbors,” said Lorraine, mirthfully. “ Only, 
I like Miss Morse, and shall be in some of her 
classes, as well.” 

Miss Morse saw then, and turned with a 
cordial greeting. Her eyes questioned Helen. 

“ Oh, Lve been wrestling like a good sol- 
dier ! ” said Helen. “ I do believe I am ready 
to go into battle to-morrow morning, hoping 
to keep my credit up, thanks to your interest. 
And Professor Blake was so good. He gave 
me the very hardest problems.” 

“ That’s a new way of putting goodness to 
the fore. I haven't had any doubt of you. 
And did you see your old friend, Mr. Wal- 
ters?” 

“ I spent a delightful half-day with him, 
and he is so interested in your brother, and 


longs to see him. And he hopes to make your 
acquaintance, also. I can’t make that old 
time seem real — it appears as if it must have 
been in some other life. ’ 

“ Old time! What will you say at thirty? ” 
and a gleam of amusement crossed Miss 
Morse’s rather grave face. 

“ So much has happened since then.” 

“ And much more to come. We look as if 
there would be a big freshman class this year, 
but it will have some left-overs in it. Every 
year girls seem more desirous to enter col- 
lege. If they were only as ambitious to 
study! Still, a year of discipline has some 
results. What a glorious day it has been! 
Are you in the mood for a walk? I have 
been unpacking and settling until I feel abso- 
lutely stuffy, and long for a draught of this 
invigorating west wind. 

They had a delightful ramble just in the 
edge of the wood, and left college lore quite 
behind them. Miss Morse’s vacation had been 
very entertaining. “ Only,” she explained, 
“ my brother and I wished for some young 
people. Oddly enough, we have no nieces or 


 

nephews nearer than Colorado. One sister, 
older than either of us, married, and went out 
there. She died and left three children, and 
her husband married again a very nice woman, 
who has none of her own, and is not willing 
to give any of them up. And my brother is 
very fond of children. When we come to live 
together we shall open an orphan asylum.” 

Helen told of Miss Craven’s proteges, and 
interested Miss Morse very much. 

“ Your friend must have a very fine char- 
acter,” she said with enthusiasm. “ I am 
glad she is one of the women who know how 
to use money wisely, and — yes — I am proud 
of her being a single woman and having her 
heart set on a home. Every year, enjoyable 
homes seem falling more into disuse. Even 
the rich have three or four that they only 
stay in a certain length of time, and can have 
no real home affection or delight. We have 
come largely to have mere staying-places. So 
I am glad to hear of some real home-makers 
in the world.” 

“ You would like her, I am sure,” said 
Helen, eagerly. 


 

“ I shall be glad to see her again, and I 
rejoice that you have such a friend. ” 

Helen went to her examinations the next 
morning. Lorraine was waiting for her. 

“Oh, it is all right!” she cried with joy. 
“ I can tell it by your face.” 

Helen gave a gay little laugh. 

“ So you read faces easily. I shall have to 
be on the watch. There is one more, but if 
I had a condition, I could soon make it up.” 

“ Let us go out and see the girls ; Leslie is 
not here to welcome them. There have been 
several new appointments. I know well 
enough how to approach some girls, but I'm 
really awkward with others. And then I won- 
der if they will like me. That’s self-seeking, 
I suppose,” said Lorraine, with a half-smile. 

“ I believe it is nobler to rise superior to 
that, and think only of the duty. But it is 
inspiriting to be met half-way.” 

“ And many girls are willing to come all 
the way and bestow themselves upon you in 
a wholesome fashion. Mother is always cau- 
tioning me against hasty friendships, but I 
liked you at once.” 


 


“ Thank you.” Helen squeezed her hand. 

Girls were still coming in, many of them 
with a confident look, sure of their present 
standing. There were eager greetings; there 
were girls who stood apart, lonely ; there were 
some mothers and elder sisters intent upon 
seeing their fledglings comfortably settled, and 
full of anxiety. Students came from the ex- 
aminations with delight written on their coun- 
tenances, but there was also fear and despond- 
ence. 

What a little world it was! Helen studied 
it with a curious interest. How many of them 
really meant to do anything with life? Why 
should her thought recur to Juliet Craven and 
the lovely home that she might be an inmate 
of if she chose, a sister friend? Oh, was she 
weakening, losing her great ambitions, and 
longing for the roses and lilies of life? 


CHAPTER II 


OF FRIENDS AND FRIENDSHIP 

Being a junior was quite different, Helen 
found. She was not altogether sure she had 
acted wisely. She knew so many of the sopho- 
mores that she felt rather strange here. 
There were numbers of older girls who in- 
dulged in a rather patronizing air, although 
they considered her a credit, and it seemed 
almost as if they took the honor of her admit- 
tance, some way. 

Well, — girls grew older, — that was it, 
and they did go through various phases. 
Sometimes, she was amazed at the changes in 
herself. 

It was really delightful to have Lorraine 
for a neighbor. They liked the same pictures, 
and Lorraine had two portfolios of engravings 
and photographs that were always a joy to 
Helen, and they studied them together until 




they could almost see the interiors of the 
grand old churches, and the galleries with 
their throngs of guests and their out-of-the- 
way nooks. 

“ I ought to be an artist,” Lorraine de- 
clared. “ I can’t rave over all of the old mas- 
ters, but I do see pictures that seem to charm 
my very heart out of me with a tender, long- 
ing pain. Yet, I can’t draw at all. I can paint 
a flower from a pattern. Mother has quite 
a genius for painting flowers. I can write 
tolerable verses, but when I read Tennyson 
and Jean Ingelow and both of the Rossettis, I 
put mine in the fire. You will have to do some 
work this year for the Miscellany.” 

“ It will be a dry-as-dust essay.” 

Both girls laughed. 

“ I oughtn’t to be glad that you have no 
special genius, but I do feel a little relieved. 
We shall be more comfortable as friends. You 
may surpass me in studies or translations or 
anything that can be just learned, but I should 
envy a God-given genius.” 

“ Yet, there are several,” returned Helen. 
“ And I learned yesterday that Miss Aymar, 


 

who had the class poem, is going to have a 
volume of verses out for the holidays." 

“ Oh, she was a genius ! But we were not 
friends. I was always a little afraid of her. 
Her eyes were forever looking into other 
worlds. Three of the seniors have gone 
abroad to study art. Can you recall that Miss 
Rosen, with flaxen hair and German blue eyes, 
who was so great on languages? She has a 
thousand dollars a year in a New York pub- 
lishing house. Why, there were some famous 
girls in the seniors. Next year, we shall have 
to emulate them." 

“We are not going to live that just 
now." 

In a week or two the seething settled, and 
regular work began ; regular pleasures, as 
well. There were out-of-door sports planned 
for the autumn, which came in with magnif- 
icent promise. There was the usual tea to 
the freshmen ; there was the forming of socie- 
ties and clubs. 

Leslie Brooks returned in unobtrusive 
mourning. Her room was at the end of the 
corridor. The girls sympathized with her, 


 

but no one knew the great burden that had 
been lifted from her. First, Laura Brooks 
had a long illness, a curious brain affection, 
which by slow degrees undermined her reason. 
She was some years older than Leslie, and 
had been almost a mother to her, and when the 
last flicker of reason expired, Leslie felt 
broken-hearted. That had been a year before, 
and up to that time Leslie had hoped against 
hope. The small patrimony of the elder had 
been spent in care for her, and during the last 
year Leslie and her brother, who had taken 
a business position, not very profitable at pres- 
ent, but in the way of advancement, had econ- 
omized closely so that Laura should have the 
best of care and attention. Her physical health 
was of the most perfect until a sudden and 
dangerous illness intervened, when the bewil- 
dered brain awoke to its true heritage in the 
better land. 

“ I’m a senior now, to be sure,” she said to 
Helen, “ but I want to see more of you this 
year. I shall have some leisure.” Yet, when 
she thought of the sad event that would in the 
future relieve her of much strenuous endeavor, 


 

she wondered if she ought to take it thank- 
fully. 

“ And I want you to join our Shakespeare 
class; you are such an excellent reader.” 

“ But — haven’t the juniors the first 
claim ? ” 

“ Oh, there will be enough left for them ! 
You'll have to go in for athletics or games. 
I do not see how you kept out of so much last 
year. But if you had taken it half in, you 
could never have skipped a class. Why that 
smile?” studying Helen with a sense of 
amusement. 

“ Not at my own smartness. I was think- 
ing of Betty Gamier, and how she won the 
game for her class. She was a good student, 
too, and passed satisfactorily.” 

“ She and Bertha Strong will carry all 
before them. They’ve challenged your class 
already, so you will have to look to your 
laurels.” 


“ O dear, — there are so many things ! ” 
and a perplexed crease came in Helen’s fore- 
head. 

“ You can’t do them all, and take in the 


 

pleasures, too. The fun is the chicken and 
ham and salad in the sandwich, and the study 
is the dry bread, often yesterday's ; the lessons 
that one had an awful qualm about and just 
squeezed through, resolving to be more thor- 
ough next time.” 

“ Yet, there are many delightful things in 
college life. I'd like it to last ten years, if 
my money held out. You can forget for 
awhile what must come afterward.” 

“ Miss Coultas stretches it along. She 
teaches, writes dry, statistical things, archaeol- 
ogy and the like, hears of some new thing, and 
comes back for another course. She is assist- 
ing a learned professor in Columbia College 
with a history, and is not coming back until 
the second semester. She loves to acquire, but 
I think she misses many of the real delights 
of life. I like to walk through the autumn 
woods, just for the pure pleasure, to hear the 
leaves talk — wasn’t it Burroughs who said 
that? And we ought to go out this minute. 
Let us find Lorraine Loree and take her 
along.” 

She was ready to go, but they paused to 


 

see the sophomores and freshmen at a tennis 
game. Bessie Cochran was flying wildly 
about, spoiling more than she gained, but when 
a girl spoke sharply to her she put on an air 
of consequence. 

“ That girl has the most self-complacency I 
ever saw,” commenced Lorraine. “ I almost 
envy her — I should so like to have a high 
opinion of myself and my belongings and my 
family. But I can't help recalling the fact that 
there are hundreds of people, families, I mean, 
who are richer, who live in much more elegant 
style, who go abroad every year, who have 
pictures and bric-a-brac that mount up to the 
thousands, and that keeps me meek and lowly.” 

“ You wouldn't want to be like her,” pro- 
tested Helen, energetically. 

“No! oh, no!" and a half-comical shud- 
der shook Lorraine. “ Yet, I think these ob- 
tuse people do manage to get a great deal of 
pleasure out of life. I don't believe they 
wanted her in that tennis club, but she some- 
how slips in, just as she achieved the class 
presidency.” 

“ Perhaps she persuades others, some, at 




least, because she has such a confident belief 
in herself,” returned Leslie. “ I’ve seen that 
before. And, somehow, those people do suc- 
ceed. They skip lightly over the boggy places 
where better-trained souls hesitate and floun- 
der, and they do seem to find friends.” 

“ It takes all sorts to make a world, I have 
heard,” said Lorraine, sententiously. “ Oh, 
girls, wouldn’t it be funny if we were all alike, 
and all aiming at the same thing, and there was 
no variety! Why, if there was nothing we 
could dispute about — there would be no vim 
in an argument. Yet, some people complain 
that colleges destroy individuality, like the 
Homes for children who come to look all alike 
in gingham aprons — the inmates, I mean. 
The Homes have a little different aspect on 
the outside.” 

“ It will not be in our time,” returned Les- 
lie. “ But when you read some abstruse article 
on the waste of time of living in small families, 
of the sinful prodigality of cooking when you 
could have a concentrated tablet that would 
dissolve in your mouth and nourish you as 
you walk along, of the great caravansaries 



where your bed is made by a machine, the 
rooms cleaned by compressed air, your clothes 
woven and sewed as if they fairly grew on 
your back — you wonder what there will be 
to do.” 

“ And the use of studying! ” 

They left the tennis court behind. Over yon- 
der was the bicycle course, and there were 
some superb riders whizzing by. There was 
also the long, smooth track where girls were 
running and leaping over hurdles. 

“ That picture rouses a thought in my 
mind,” began Lorraine. “ I saw you run 
several times in the spring, Helen, and you 
fairly flew, skimmed along, as if you hardly 
touched the ground. You were not all elbows 
and knees. And now you must do the juniors 
credit in something besides mere book-learn- 
ing. Isn't it Samantha Allen who says, 
‘ Every station house in life has its responsi- 
bilities ?’” 

“ I learned to run when a little country 
girl,” laughed Helen. “ And to climb trees 
and walk on fence-tops without tumbling.” 

“ Yet, you didn’t haunt the Gym much last 




year. Father insists that I shall take up easy 
stunts. He believes in a sound body for a 
sound mind.” 

They turned out of the pleasure-ground and 
plunged into the strip of woods where the 
wind rustled softly and the sunshine sifted 
through the trees flecks that looked like gay 
butterflies chasing one another about. The 
soft, mossy turf was like a velvet carpet, with 
here and there a red leaf that had ripened and 
fallen. October had come in with a glorious 
haze of Indian summer, and a warmth that 
still kept late flowers in bloom. There were 
gorgeous beds of salvia and chrysanthemums 
of nearly every shade. A bed of old-fashioned 
marigolds, in thick velvety leaves and rich 
brownish yellows with every variety of mark- 
ing, made a most effective show, and fairly 
dazzled in the sunshine. 

“ I wish you hadn’t gone in the seniors,” 
Lorraine began, regretfully. “ We three 
would have made a delightful trio.” 

“Why can we not make it now?” asked 
Leslie. 

