Justine had sunk into the window-seat, her thin hands clasping her knee,
in the attitude habitual to her meditative moments. "Perhaps not," she
assented; "but I don't know that I should care for a man who made life
easy; I should want some one who made it interesting."
Bessy met this with a pitying exclamation. "Don't imagine you invented
that! Every girl thinks it. Afterwards she finds out that it's much
pleasanter to be thought interesting herself."
She spoke with a bitterness that issued strangely from her lips. It was
this bitterness which gave her soft personality the sharp edge that
Justine had felt in it on the day of their meeting at Hanaford.
The girl, at first, had tried to defend herself from these
scarcely-veiled confidences, distasteful enough in themselves, and
placing her, if she listened, in an attitude of implied disloyalty to
the man under whose roof they were spoken. But a precocious experience
of life had taught her that emotions too strong for the nature
containing them turn, by some law of spiritual chemistry, into a
rankling poison; and she had therefore resigned herself to serving as a
kind of outlet for Bessy's pent-up discontent. It was not that her
friend's grievance appealed to her personal sympathies; she had learned
enough of the situation to give her moral assent unreservedly to the
other side. But it was characteristic of Justine that where she
sympathized least she sometimes pitied most. Like all quick spirits she
was often intolerant of dulness; yet when the intolerance passed it left
a residue of compassion for the very incapacity at which she chafed. It
seemed to her that the tragic crises in wedded life usually turned on
the stupidity of one of the two concerned; and of the two victims of
such a catastrophe she felt most for the one whose limitations had
probably brought it about. After all, there could be no imprisonment as
cruel as that of being bounded by a hard small nature. Not to be
penetrable at all points to the shifting lights, the wandering music of
the world--she could imagine no physical disability as cramping as that.
How the little parched soul, in solitary confinement for life, must pine
and dwindle in its blind cranny of self-love!
To be one's self wide open to the currents of life does not always
contribute to an understanding of narrower natures; but in Justine the
personal emotions were enriched and deepened by a sense of participation
in all that the world about her was doing, suffering and enjoying; and
this sense found expression in the instinct of ministry and solace. She
was by nature a redresser, a restorer; and in her work, as she had once
told Amherst, the longing to help and direct, to hasten on by personal
intervention time's slow and clumsy processes, had often been in
conflict with the restrictions imposed by her profession. But she had no
idle desire to probe the depths of other lives; and where there seemed
no hope of serving she shrank from fruitless confidences. She was
beginning to feel this to be the case with Bessy Amherst. To touch the
rock was not enough, if there were but a few drops within it; yet in
this barrenness lay the pathos of the situation--and after all, may not
the scanty spring be fed from a fuller current?
"I'm not sure about that," she said, answering her friend's last words
after a deep pause of deliberation. "I mean about its being so pleasant
to be found interesting. I'm sure the passive part is always the dull
one: life has been a great deal more thrilling since we found out that
we revolved about the sun, instead of sitting still and fancying that
all the planets were dancing attendance on us. After all, they were
not; and it's rather humiliating to think how the morning stars must
have laughed together about it!"
There was no self-complacency in Justine's eagerness to help. It was far
easier for her to express it in action than in counsel, to grope for the
path with her friend than to point the way to it; and when she had to
speak she took refuge in figures to escape the pedantry of appearing to
advise. But it was not only to Mrs. Dressel that her parables were dark,
and the blank look in Bessy's eyes soon snatched her down from the
height of metaphor.
"I mean," she continued with a smile, "that, as human nature is
constituted, it has got to find its real self--the self to be interested
in--outside of what we conventionally call 'self': the particular
Justine or Bessy who is clamouring for her particular morsel of life.
You see, self isn't a thing one can keep in a box--bits of it keep
escaping, and flying off to lodge in all sorts of unexpected crannies;
we come across scraps of ourselves in the most unlikely places--as I
believe you would in Westmore, if you'd only go back there and look for
them!"
Bessy's lip trembled and the colour sprang to her face; but she answered
with a flash of irritation: "Why doesn't he look for me there,
then--if he still wants to find me?"
"Ah--it's for him to look here--to find himself here," Justine
murmured.
"Well, he never comes here! That's his answer."
"He will--he will! Only, when he does, let him find you."
"Find me? I don't understand. How can he, when he never sees me? I'm no
more to him than the carpet on the floor!"
Justine smiled again. "Well--be that then! The thing is to be."
"Under his feet? Thank you! Is that what you mean to marry for? It's not
what husbands admire in one, you know!"
"No." Justine stood up with a sense of stealing discouragement. "But I
don't think I want to be admired----"
"Ah, that's because you know you are!" broke from the depths of the
other's bitterness.
The tone smote Justine, and she dropped into the seat at her friend's
side, silently laying a hand on Bessy's feverishly-clasped fingers.
"Oh, don't let us talk about me," complained the latter, from whose lips
the subject was never long absent. "And you mustn't think I want you
to marry, Justine; not for myself, I mean--I'd so much rather keep you
here. I feel much less lonely when you're with me. But you say you won't
stay--and it's too dreadful to think of your going back to that dreary
hospital."
"But you know the hospital's not dreary to me," Justine interposed;
"it's the most interesting place I've ever known."
Mrs. Amherst smiled indulgently on this extravagance. "A great many
people go through the craze for philanthropy--" she began in the tone of
mature experience; but Justine interrupted her with a laugh.
"Philanthropy? I'm not philanthropic. I don't think I ever felt inclined
to do good in the abstract--any more than to do ill! I can't remember
that I ever planned out a course of conduct in my life. It's only," she
went on, with a puzzled frown, as if honestly trying to analyze her
motives, "it's only that I'm so fatally interested in people that before
I know it I've slipped into their skins; and then, of course, if
anything goes wrong with them, it's just as if it had gone wrong with
me; and I can't help trying to rescue myself from their troubles! I
suppose it's what you'd call meddling--and so should I, if I could only
remember that the other people were not myself!"
Bessy received this with the mild tolerance of superior wisdom. Once
safe on the tried ground of traditional authority, she always felt
herself Justine's superior. "That's all very well now--you see the
romantic side of it," she said, as if humouring her friend's vagaries.
"But in time you'll want something else; you'll want a husband and
children--a life of your own. And then you'll have to be more practical.
It's ridiculous to pretend that comfort and money don't make a
difference. And if you married a rich man, just think what a lot of good
you could do! Westy will be very well off--and I'm sure he'd let you
endow hospitals and things. Think how interesting it would be to build a
ward in the very hospital where you'd been a nurse! I read something
like that in a novel the other day--it was beautifully described. All
the nurses and doctors that the heroine had worked with were there to
receive her...and her little boy went about and gave toys to the
crippled children...."
If the speaker's concluding instance hardly produced the effect she had
intended, it was perhaps only because Justine's attention had been
arrested by the earlier part of the argument. It was strange to have
marriage urged on her by a woman who had twice failed to find happiness
in it--strange, and yet how vivid a sign that, even to a nature absorbed
in its personal demands, not happiness but completeness is the inmost
craving! "A life of your own"--that was what even Bessy, in her obscure
way, felt to be best worth suffering for. And how was a spirit like
Justine's, thrilling with youth and sympathy, to conceive of an isolated
existence as the final answer to that craving? A life circumscribed by
one's own poor personal consciousness would not be life at all--far
better the "adventure of the diver" than the shivering alone on the
bank! Bessy, reading encouragement in her silence, returned her
hand-clasp with an affectionate pressure.
"You would like that, Justine?" she said, secretly proud of having hit
on the convincing argument.
"To endow hospitals with your cousin's money? No; I should want
something much more exciting!"
Bessy's face kindled. "You mean travelling abroad--and I suppose New
York in winter?"
Justine broke into a laugh. "I was thinking of your cousin himself when
I spoke." And to Bessy's disappointed cry--"Then it is Dr. Wyant,
after all?" she answered lightly, and without resenting the challenge:
"I don't know. Suppose we leave it to the oracle."
"The oracle?"
"Time. His question-and-answer department is generally the most reliable
in the long run." She started up, gently drawing Bessy to her feet. "And
just at present he reminds me that it's nearly six, and that you
promised Cicely to go and see her before you dress for dinner."
Bessy rose obediently. "Does he remind you of your promises too? You
said you'd come down to dinner tonight."
"Did I?" Justine hesitated. "Well, I'm coming," she said, smiling and
kissing her friend.
XV
WHEN the door closed on Mrs. Amherst a resolve which had taken shape in
Justine's mind during their talk together made her seat herself at her
writing-table, where, after a moment's musing over her suspended pen,
she wrote and addressed a hurried note. This business despatched, she
put on her hat and jacket, and letter in hand passed down the corridor
from her room, and descended to the entrance-hall below. She might have
consigned her missive to the post-box which conspicuously tendered its
services from a table near the door; but to do so would delay the
letter's despatch till morning, and she felt a sudden impatience to see
it start.
The tumult on the terrace had transferred itself within doors, and as
Justine went down the stairs she heard the click of cues from the
billiard-room, the talk and laughter of belated bridge-players, the
movement of servants gathering up tea-cups and mending fires. She had
hoped to find the hall empty, but the sight of Westy Gaines's figure
looming watchfully on the threshold of the smoking-room gave her, at the
last bend of the stairs, a little start of annoyance. He would want to
know where she was going, he would offer to go with her, and it would
take some time and not a little emphasis to make him understand that his
society was not desired.
This was the thought that flashed through Justine's mind as she reached
the landing; but the next moment it gave way to a contradictory feeling.
Westy Gaines was not alone in the hall. From under the stairway rose the
voices of a group ensconced in that popular retreat about a chess-board;
and as Justine reached the last turn of the stairs she perceived that
Mason Winch, an earnest youth with advanced views on political economy,
was engaged, to the diversion of a circle of spectators, in teaching the
Telfer girls chess. The futility of trying to fix the spasmodic
attention of this effervescent couple, and their instructor's grave
unconsciousness of the fact, constituted, for the lookers-on, the
peculiar diversion of the scene. It was of course inevitable that young
Winch, on his arrival at Lynbrook, should have succumbed at once to the
tumultuous charms of the Telfer manner, which was equally attractive to
inarticulate youth and to tired and talked-out middle-age; but that he
should have perceived no resistance in their minds to the deliberative
processes of the game of chess, was, even to the Telfers themselves, a
source of unmitigated gaiety. Nothing seemed to them funnier than that
any one should credit them with any mental capacity; and they had
inexhaustibly amusing ways of drawing out and showing off each other's
ignorance.
It was on this scene that Westy's appreciative eyes had been fixed till
Justine's appearance drew them to herself. He pronounced her name
joyfully, and moved forward to greet her; but as their hands met she
understood that he did not mean to press his company upon her. Under the
eye of the Lynbrook circle he was chary of marked demonstrations, and
even Mrs. Amherst's approval could not, at such moments, bridge over the
gap between himself and the object of his attentions. A Gaines was a
Gaines in the last analysis, and apart from any pleasing accident of
personality; but what was Miss Brent but the transient vehicle of those
graces which Providence has provided for the delectation of the
privileged sex?
These influences were visible in the temperate warmth of Westy's manner,
and in his way of keeping a backward eye on the mute interchange of
comment about the chess-board. At another time his embarrassment would
have amused Justine; but the feelings stirred by her talk with Bessy had
not subsided, and she recognized with a sting of mortification the
resemblance between her view of the Lynbrook set and its estimate of
herself. If Bessy's friends were negligible to her she was almost
non-existent to them; and, as against herself, they were overwhelmingly
provided with tangible means of proving their case.
Such considerations, at a given moment, may prevail decisively even with
a nature armed against them by insight and irony; and the mere fact that
Westy Gaines did not mean to join her, and that he was withheld from
doing so by the invisible pressure of the Lynbrook standards, had the
effect of precipitating Justine's floating intentions.
If anything farther had been needed to hasten this result, it would have
been accomplished by the sound of footsteps which, over-taking her a
dozen yards from the house, announced her admirer's impetuous if tardy
pursuit. The act of dismissing him, though it took but a word and was
effected with a laugh, left her pride quivering with a hurt the more
painful because she would not acknowledge it. That she should waste a
moment's resentment on the conduct of a person so unimportant as poor
Westy, showed her in a flash the intrinsic falseness of her position at
Lynbrook. She saw that to disdain the life about her had not kept her
intact from it; and the knowledge made her feel anew the need of some
strong decentralizing influence, some purifying influx of emotion and
activity.
She had walked on quickly through the clear October twilight, which was
still saturated with the after-glow of a vivid sunset; and a few minutes
brought her to the village stretching along the turnpike beyond the
Lynbrook gates. The new post-office dominated the row of shabby houses
and "stores" set disjointedly under reddening maples, and its arched
doorway formed the centre of Lynbrook's evening intercourse.
Justine, hastening toward the knot of loungers on the threshold, had no
consciousness of anything outside of her own thoughts; and as she
mounted the steps she was surprised to see Dr. Wyant detach himself from
the group and advance to meet her.
"May I post your letter?" he asked, lifting his hat.
His gesture uncovered the close-curling hair of a small
delicately-finished head just saved from effeminacy by the vigorous jut
of heavy eye-brows meeting above full grey eyes. The eyes again, at
first sight, might have struck one as too expressive, or as expressing
things too purely decorative for the purposes of a young country doctor
with a growing practice; but this estimate was corrected by an
unexpected abruptness in their owner's voice and manner. Perhaps the
final impression produced on a close observer by Dr. Stephen Wyant would
have been that the contradictory qualities of which he was compounded
had not yet been brought into equilibrium by the hand of time.
Justine, in reply to his question, had drawn back a step, slipping her
letter into the breast of her jacket.
"That is hardly worth while, since it was addressed to you," she
answered with a slight smile as she turned to descend the post-office
steps.
Wyant, still carrying his hat, and walking with quick uneven steps,
followed her in silence till they had passed beyond earshot of the
loiterers on the threshold; then, in the shade of the maple boughs, he
pulled up and faced her.
"You've written to say that I may come tomorrow?"
Justine hesitated. "Yes," she said at length.
"Good God! You give royally!" he broke out, pushing his hand with a
nervous gesture through the thin dark curls on his forehead.
Justine laughed, with a trace of nervousness in her own tone. "And you
talk--well, imperially! Aren't you afraid to bankrupt the language?"
"What do you mean?" he said, staring.
"What do you mean? I have merely said that I would see you
tomorrow----"
"Well," he retorted, "that's enough for my happiness!"
She sounded her light laugh again. "I'm glad to know you're so easily
pleased."
"I'm not! But you couldn't have done a cruel thing without a struggle;
and since you're ready to give me my answer tomorrow, I know it can't
be a cruel one."
They had begun to walk onward as they talked, but at this she halted.
"Please don't take that tone. I dislike sentimentality!" she exclaimed,
with a tinge of imperiousness that was a surprise to her own ears.
It was not the first time in the course of her friendship with Stephen
Wyant that she had been startled by this intervention of something
within her that resisted and almost resented his homage. When they were
apart, she was conscious only of the community of interests and
sympathies that had first drawn them together. Why was it then--since
his looks were of the kind generally thought to stand a suitor in good
stead--that whenever they had met of late she had been subject to these
rushes of obscure hostility, the half-physical, half-moral shrinking
from some indefinable element in his nature against which she was
constrained to defend herself by perpetual pleasantry and evasion?
To Wyant, at any rate, the answer was not far to seek. His pale face
reflected the disdain in hers as he returned ironically: "A thousand
pardons; I know I'm not always in the key."
"The key?"
"I haven't yet acquired the Lynbrook tone. You must make allowances for
my lack of opportunity."
The retort on Justine's lips dropped to silence, as though his words
had in fact brought an answer to her inward questioning. Could it be
that he was right--that her shrinking from him was the result of an
increased sensitiveness to faults of taste that she would once have
despised herself for noticing? When she had first known him, in her work
at St. Elizabeth's some three years earlier, his excesses of manner had
seemed to her merely the boyish tokens of a richness of nature not yet
controlled by experience. Though Wyant was somewhat older than herself
there had always been an element of protection in her feeling for him,
and it was perhaps this element which formed the real ground of her
liking. It was, at any rate, uppermost as she returned, with a softened
gleam of mockery: "Since you are so sure of my answer I hardly know why
I should see you tomorrow."
"You mean me to take it now?" he exclaimed.
"I don't mean you to take it at all till it's given--above all not to
take it for granted!"
His jutting brows drew together again. "Ah, I can't split hairs with
you. Won't you put me out of my misery?"
She smiled, but not unkindly. "Do you want an anæsthetic?"
"No--a clean cut with the knife!"
"You forget that we're not allowed to despatch hopeless cases--more's
the pity!"
He flushed to the roots of his thin hair. "Hopeless cases? That's it,
then--that's my answer?"
They had reached the point where, at the farther edge of the straggling
settlement, the tiled roof of the railway-station fronted the
post-office cupola; and the shriek of a whistle now reminded Justine
that the spot was not propitious to private talk. She halted a moment
before speaking.
"I have no answer to give you now but the one in my note--that I'll see
you tomorrow."
"But if you're sure of knowing tomorrow you must know now!"
Their eyes met, his eloquently pleading, hers kind but still
impenetrable. "If I knew now, you should know too. Please be content
with that," she rejoined.
"How can I be, when a day may make such a difference? When I know that
every influence about you is fighting against me?"
The words flashed a refracted light far down into the causes of her own
uncertainty.
"Ah," she said, drawing a little away from him, "I'm not so sure that I
don't like a fight!"
"Is that why you won't give in?" He moved toward her with a despairing
gesture. "If I let you go now, you're lost to me!"
She stood her ground, facing him with a quick lift of the head. "If you
don't let me go I certainly am," she said; and he drew back, as if
conscious of the uselessness of the struggle. His submission, as usual,
had a disarming effect on her irritation, and she held out her hand.
"Come tomorrow at three," she said, her voice and manner suddenly
seeming to give back the hope she had withheld from him.
He seized on her hand with an inarticulate murmur; but at the same
moment a louder whistle and the thunder of an approaching train reminded
her of the impossibility of prolonging the scene. She was ordinarily
careless of appearances, but while she was Mrs. Amherst's guest she did
not care to be seen romantically loitering through the twilight with
Stephen Wyant; and she freed herself with a quick goodbye.
He gave her a last look, hesitating and imploring; then, in obedience to
her gesture, he turned away and strode off in the opposite direction.
As soon as he had left her she began to retrace her steps toward
Lynbrook House; but instead of traversing the whole length of the
village she passed through a turnstile in the park fencing, taking a
more circuitous but quieter way home.
She walked on slowly through the dusk, wishing to give herself time to
think over her conversation with Wyant. Now that she was alone again, it
seemed to her that the part she had played had been both inconsistent
and undignified. When she had written to Wyant that she would see him on
the morrow she had done so with the clear understanding that she was to
give, at that meeting, a definite answer to his offer of marriage; and
during her talk with Bessy she had suddenly, and, as it seemed to her,
irrevocably, decided that the answer should be favourable. From the
first days of her acquaintance with Wyant she had appreciated his
intelligence and had been stimulated by his zeal for his work. He had
remained only six months at Saint Elizabeth's, and though his feeling
for her had even then been manifest, it had been kept from expression by
the restraint of their professional relation, and by her absorption in
her duties. It was only when they had met again at Lynbrook that she had
begun to feel a personal interest in him. His youthful promise seemed
nearer fulfillment than she had once thought possible, and the contrast
he presented to the young men in Bessy's train was really all in his
favour. He had gained in strength and steadiness without losing his high
flashes of enthusiasm; and though, even now, she was not in love with
him, she began to feel that the union of their common interests might
create a life full and useful enough to preclude the possibility of
vague repinings. It would, at any rate, take her out of the stagnant
circle of her present existence, and restore her to contact with the
fruitful energies of life.
All this had seemed quite clear when she wrote her letter; why, then,
had she not made use of their chance encounter to give her answer,
instead of capriciously postponing it? The act might have been that of a
self-conscious girl in her teens; but neither inexperience nor coquetry
had prompted it. She had merely yielded to the spirit of resistance that
Wyant's presence had of late aroused in her; and the possibility that
this resistance might be due to some sense of his social defects, his
lack of measure and facility, was so humiliating that for a moment she
stood still in the path, half-meaning to turn back and overtake him----
As she paused she was surprised to hear a man's step behind her; and the
thought that it might be Wyant's brought about another revulsion of
feeling. What right had he to pursue her in this way, to dog her steps
even into the Lynbrook grounds? She was sure that his persistent
attentions had already attracted the notice of Bessy's visitors; and
that he should thus force himself on her after her dismissal seemed
suddenly to make their whole relation ridiculous.
She turned about to rebuke him, and found herself face to face with John
Amherst.
XVI
AMHERST, on leaving the train at Lynbrook, had paused in doubt on the
empty platform. His return was unexpected, and no carriage awaited him;
but he caught the signal of the village cab-driver's ready whip.
Amherst, however, felt a sudden desire to postpone the moment of
arrival, and consigning his luggage to the cab he walked away toward the
turnstile through which Justine had passed. In thus taking the longest
way home he was yielding another point to his reluctance. He knew that
at that hour his wife's visitors might still be assembled in the
drawing-room, and he wished to avoid making his unannounced entrance
among them.
It was not till now that he felt the embarrassment of such an arrival.
For some time past he had known that he ought to go back to Lynbrook,
but he had not known how to tell Bessy that he was coming. Lack of habit
made him inexpert in the art of easy transitions, and his inability to
bridge over awkward gaps had often put him at a disadvantage with his
wife and her friends. He had not yet learned the importance of observing
the forms which made up the daily ceremonial of their lives, and at
present there was just enough soreness between himself and Bessy to make
such observances more difficult than usual.
There had been no open estrangement, but peace had been preserved at the
cost of a slowly accumulated tale of grievances on both sides. Since
Amherst had won his point about the mills, the danger he had foreseen
had been realized: his victory at Westmore had been a defeat at
Lynbrook. It would be too crude to say that his wife had made him pay
for her public concession by the private disregard of his wishes; and if
something of this sort had actually resulted, his sense of fairness told
him that it was merely the natural reaction of a soft nature against the
momentary strain of self-denial. At first he had been hardly aware of
this consequence of his triumph. The joy of being able to work his will
at Westmore obscured all lesser emotions; and his sentiment for Bessy
had long since shrunk into one of those shallow pools of feeling which a
sudden tide might fill, but which could never again be the deep
perennial spring from which his life was fed.
The need of remaining continuously at Hanaford while the first changes
were making had increased the strain of the situation. He had never
expected that Bessy would stay there with him--had perhaps, at heart,
hardly wished it--and her plan of going to the Adirondacks with Miss
Brent seemed to him a satisfactory alternative to the European trip she
had renounced. He felt as relieved as though some one had taken off his
hands the task of amusing a restless child, and he let his wife go
without suspecting that the moment might be a decisive one between them.
But it had not occurred to Bessy that any one could regard six weeks in
the Adirondacks as an adequate substitute for a summer abroad. She felt
that her sacrifice deserved recognition, and personal devotion was the
only form of recognition which could satisfy her. She had expected
Amherst to join her at the camp, but he did not come; and when she went
back to Long Island she did not stop to see him, though Hanaford lay in
her way. At the moment of her return the work at the mills made it
impossible for him to go to Lynbrook; and thus the weeks drifted on
without their meeting.
At last, urged by his mother, he had gone down to Long Island for a
night; but though, on that occasion, he had announced his coming, he
found the house full, and the whole party except Mr. Langhope in the act
of starting off to a dinner in the neighbourhood. He was of course
expected to go too, and Bessy appeared hurt when he declared that he was
too tired and preferred to remain with Mr. Langhope; but she did not
suggest staying at home herself, and drove off in a mood of exuberant
gaiety. Amherst had been too busy all his life to know what intricacies
of perversion a sentimental grievance may develop in an unoccupied mind,
and he saw in Bessy's act only a sign of indifference. The next day she
complained to him of money difficulties, as though surprised that her
income had been suddenly cut down; and when he reminded her that she had
consented of her own will to this temporary reduction, she burst into
tears and accused him of caring only for Westmore.
He went away exasperated by her inconsequence, and bills from Lynbrook
continued to pour in on him. In the first days of their marriage, Bessy
had put him in charge of her exchequer, and she was too indolent--and at
heart perhaps too sensitive--to ask him to renounce the charge. It was
clear to him, therefore, how little she was observing the spirit of
their compact, and his mind was tormented by the anticipation of
financial embarrassments. He wrote her a letter of gentle expostulation,
but in her answer she ignored his remonstrance; and after that silence
fell between them.
The only way to break this silence was to return to Lynbrook; but now
that he had come back, he did not know what step to take next. Something
in the atmosphere of his wife's existence seemed to paralyze his
will-power. When all about her spoke a language so different from his
own, how could he hope to make himself heard? He knew that her family
and her immediate friends--Mr. Langhope, the Gaineses, Mrs. Ansell and
Mr. Tredegar--far from being means of communication, were so many
sentinels ready to raise the drawbridge and drop the portcullis at his
approach. They were all in league to stifle the incipient feelings he
had roused in Bessy, to push her back into the deadening routine of her
former life, and the only voice that might conceivably speak for him was
Miss Brent's.
The "case" which, unexpectedly presented to her by one of the Hope
Hospital physicians, had detained Justine at Hanaford during the month
of June, was the means of establishing a friendship between herself and
Amherst. They did not meet often, or get to know each other very well;
but he saw her occasionally at his mother's and at Mrs. Dressel's, and
once he took her out to Westmore, to consult her about the emergency
hospital which was to be included among the first improvements there.
The expedition had been memorable to both; and when, some two weeks
later, Bessy wrote suggesting that she should take Miss Brent to the
Adirondacks, it seemed to Amherst that there was no one whom he would
rather have his wife choose as her companion.
He was much too busy at the time to cultivate or analyze his feeling for
Miss Brent; he rested vaguely in the thought of her, as of the "nicest"
girl he had ever met, and was frankly pleased when accident brought them
together; but the seeds left in both their minds by these chance
encounters had not yet begun to germinate.
So unperceived had been their gradual growth in intimacy that it was a
surprise to Amherst to find himself suddenly thinking of her as a means
of communication with his wife; but the thought gave him such
encouragement that, when he saw Justine in the path before him he went
toward her with unusual eagerness.
Justine, on her part, felt an equal pleasure. She knew that Bessy did
not expect her husband, and that his prolonged absence had already been
the cause of malicious comment at Lynbrook; and she caught at the hope
that this sudden return might betoken a more favourable turn of affairs.
"Oh, I am so glad to see you!" she exclaimed; and her tone had the
effect of completing his reassurance, his happy sense that she would
understand and help him.
"I wanted to see you too," he began confusedly; then, conscious of the
intimacy of the phrase, he added with a slight laugh: "The fact is, I'm
a culprit looking for a peace-maker."
"A culprit?"
"I've been so tied down at the mills that I didn't know, till yesterday,
just when I could break away; and in the hurry of leaving--" He paused
again, checked by the impossibility of uttering, to the girl before him,
the little conventional falsehoods which formed the small currency of
Bessy's circle. Not that any scruple of probity restrained him: in
trifling matters he recognized the usefulness of such counters in the
social game; but when he was with Justine he always felt the obscure
need of letting his real self be seen.
"I was stupid enough not to telegraph," he said, "and I am afraid my
wife will think me negligent: she often has to reproach me for my sins
of omission, and this time I know they are many."
The girl received this in silence, less from embarrassment than from
surprise; for she had already guessed that it was as difficult for
Amherst to touch, even lightly, on his private affairs, as it was
instinctive with his wife to pour her grievances into any willing ear.
Justine's first thought was one of gratification that he should have
spoken, and of eagerness to facilitate the saying of whatever he wished
to say; but before she could answer he went on hastily: "The fact is,
Bessy does not know how complicated the work at Westmore is; and when I
caught sight of you just now I was thinking that you are the only one of
her friends who has any technical understanding of what I am trying to
do, and who might consequently help her to see how hard it is for me to
take my hand from the plough."
Justine listened gravely, longing to cry out her comprehension and
sympathy, but restrained by the sense that the moment was a critical
one, where impulse must not be trusted too far. It was quite possible
that a reaction of pride might cause Amherst to repent even so guarded
an avowal; and if that happened, he might never forgive her for having
encouraged him to speak. She looked up at him with a smile.
"Why not tell Bessy yourself? Your understanding of the case is a good
deal clearer than mine or any one else's."
"Oh, Bessy is tired of hearing about it from me; and besides--" She
detected a shade of disappointment in his tone, and was sorry she had
said anything which might seem meant to discourage his confidence. It
occurred to her also that she had been insincere in not telling him at
once that she had already been let into the secret of his domestic
differences: she felt the same craving as Amherst for absolute openness
between them.
"I know," she said, almost timidly, "that Bessy has not been quite
content of late to have you give so much time to Westmore, and perhaps
she herself thinks it is because the work there does not interest her;
but I believe it is for a different reason."
"What reason?" he asked with a look of surprise.
"Because Westmore takes you from her; because she thinks you are happier
there than at Lynbrook."
The day had faded so rapidly that it was no longer possible for the
speakers to see each other's faces, and it was easier for both to
communicate through the veil of deepening obscurity.
"But, good heavens, she might be there with me--she's as much needed
there as I am!" Amherst exclaimed.
"Yes; but you must remember that it's against all her habits--and
against the point of view of every one about her--that she should lead
that kind of life; and meanwhile----"
"Well?"
"Meanwhile, isn't it expedient that you should, a little more, lead
hers?"
Always the same answer to his restless questioning! His mother's answer,
the answer of Bessy and her friends. He had somehow hoped that the girl
at his side would find a different solution to the problem, and his
disappointment escaped in a bitter exclamation.
"But Westmore is my life--hers too, if she knew it! I can't desert it
now without being as false to her as to myself!"
As he spoke, he was overcome once more by the hopelessness of trying to
put his case clearly. How could Justine, for all her quickness and
sympathy, understand a situation of which the deeper elements were
necessarily unknown to her? The advice she gave him was natural enough,
and on her lips it seemed not the counsel of a shallow expediency, but
the plea of compassion and understanding. But she knew nothing of the
long struggle for mutual adjustment which had culminated in this crisis
between himself and his wife, and she could therefore not see that, if
he yielded his point, and gave up his work at Westmore, the concession
would mean not renewal but destruction. He felt that he should hate
Bessy if he won her back at that price; and the violence of his feeling
frightened him. It was, in truth, as he had said, his own life that he
was fighting for. If he gave up Westmore he could not fall back on the
futile activities of Lynbrook, and fate might yet have some lower
alternative to offer. He could trust to his own strength and
self-command while his energies had a normal outlet; but idleness and
self-indulgence might work in him like a dangerous drug.
Justine kept steadily to her point. "Westmore must be foremost to both
of you in time; I don't see how either of you can escape that. But the
realization of it must come to Bessy through you, and for that reason
I think that you ought to be more patient--that you ought even to put
the question aside for a time and enter a little more into her life
while she is learning to understand yours." As she ended, it seemed to
her that what she had said was trite and ineffectual, and yet that it
might have passed the measure of discretion; and, torn between two
doubts, she added hastily: "But you have done just that in coming back
now--that is the real solution of the problem."
While she spoke they passed out of the wood-path they had been
following, and rounding a mass of shrubbery emerged on the lawn below
the terraces. The long bulk of the house lay above them, dark against
the lingering gleam of the west, with brightly-lit windows marking its
irregular outline; and the sight produced in Amherst and Justine a vague
sense of helplessness and constraint. It was impossible to speak with
the same freedom, confronted by that substantial symbol of the accepted
order, which seemed to glare down on them in massive disdain of their
puny efforts to deflect the course of events: and Amherst, without
reverting to her last words, asked after a moment if his wife had many
guests.
He listened in silence while Justine ran over the list of names--the
Telfer girls and their brother, Mason Winch and Westy Gaines, a cluster
of young bridge-playing couples, and, among the last arrivals, the
Fenton Carburys and Ned Bowfort. The names were all familiar to
Amherst--he knew they represented the flower of week-end fashion; but he
did not remember having seen the Carburys among his wife's guests, and
his mind paused on the name, seeking to regain some lost impression
connected with it. But it evoked, like the others, merely the confused
sense of stridency and unrest which he had brought away from his last
Lynbrook visit; and this reminiscence made him ask Miss Brent, when her
list was ended, if she did not think that so continuous a succession of
visitors was too tiring for Bessy.
"I sometimes think it tires her more than she knows; but I hope she can
be persuaded to take better care of herself now that Mrs. Ansell has
come back."
Amherst halted abruptly. "Is Mrs. Ansell here?"
"She arrived from Europe today."
"And Mr. Langhope too, I suppose?"
"Yes. He came from Newport about ten days ago."
Amherst checked himself, conscious that his questions betrayed the fact
that he and his wife no longer wrote to each other. The same thought
appeared to strike Justine, and they walked across the lawn in silence,
hastening their steps involuntarily, as though to escape the oppressive
weight of the words which had passed between them. But Justine was
unwilling that this fruitless sense of oppression should be the final
outcome of their talk; and when they reached the upper terrace she
paused and turned impulsively to Amherst. As she did so, the light from
an uncurtained window fell on her face, which glowed with the inner
brightness kindled in it by moments of strong feeling.
"I am sure of one thing--Bessy will be very, very glad that you have
come," she exclaimed.
"Thank you," he answered.
Their hands met mechanically, and she turned away and entered the house.
XVII
BESSY had not seen her little girl that day, and filled with compunction
by Justine's reminder, she hastened directly to the school-room.
Of late, in certain moods, her maternal tenderness had been clouded by a
sense of uneasiness in the child's presence, for Cicely was the argument
most effectually used by Mr. Langhope and Mr. Tredegar in their efforts
to check the triumph of Amherst's ideas. Bessy, still unable to form an
independent opinion on the harassing question of the mills, continued to
oscillate between the views of the contending parties, now regarding
Cicely as an innocent victim and herself as an unnatural mother,
sacrificing her child's prospects to further Amherst's enterprise, and
now conscious of a vague animosity against the little girl, as the chief
cause of the dissensions which had so soon clouded the skies of her
second marriage. Then again, there were moments when Cicely's rosy bloom
reminded her bitterly of the child she had lost--the son on whom her
ambitions had been fixed. It seemed to her now that if their boy had
lived she might have kept Amherst's love and have played a more
important part in his life; and brooding on the tragedy of the child's
sickly existence she resented the contrast of Cicely's brightness and
vigour. The result was that in her treatment of her daughter she
alternated between moments of exaggerated devotion and days of neglect,
never long happy away from the little girl, yet restless and
self-tormenting in her presence.
After her talk with Justine she felt more than usually disturbed, as she
always did when her unprofitable impulses of self-exposure had subsided.
Bessy's mind was not made for introspection, and chance had burdened it
with unintelligible problems. She felt herself the victim of
circumstances to which her imagination attributed the deliberate malice
that children ascribe to the furniture they run against in playing. This
helped her to cultivate a sense of helpless injury and to disdain in
advance the advice she was perpetually seeking. How absurd it was, for
instance, to suppose that a girl could understand the feelings of a
married woman! Justine's suggestion that she should humble herself still
farther to Amherst merely left in Bessy's mind a rankling sense of being
misunderstood and undervalued by those to whom she turned in her
extremity, and she said to herself, in a phrase that sounded well in her
own ears, that sooner or later every woman must learn to fight her
battles alone.
In this mood she entered the room where Cicely was at supper with her
governess, and enveloped the child in a whirl of passionate caresses.
But Cicely had inherited the soberer Westmore temper, and her mother's
spasmodic endearments always had a repressive effect on her. She
dutifully returned a small fraction of Bessy's kisses, and then, with an
air of relief, addressed herself once more to her bread and marmalade.
"You don't seem a bit glad to see me!" Bessy exclaimed, while the little
governess made a nervous pretence of being greatly amused at this
prodigious paradox, and Cicely, setting down her silver mug, asked
judicially: "Why should I be gladder than other days? It isn't a
birthday."
This Cordelia-like answer cut Bessy to the quick. "You horrid child to
say such a cruel thing when you know I love you better and better every
minute! But you don't care for me any longer because Justine has taken
you away from me!"
This last charge had sprung into her mind in the act of uttering it, but
now that it was spoken it instantly assumed the proportions of a fact,
and seemed to furnish another justification for her wretchedness. Bessy
was not naturally jealous, but her imagination was thrall to the spoken
word, and it gave her a sudden incomprehensible relief to associate
Justine with the obscure causes of her suffering.
"I know she's cleverer than I am, and more amusing, and can tell you
about plants and animals and things...and I daresay she tells you how
tiresome and stupid I am...."
She sprang up suddenly, abashed by Cicely's astonished gaze, and by the
governess's tremulous attempt to continue to treat the scene as one of
"Mamma's" most successful pleasantries.
"Don't mind me--my head aches horribly. I think I'll rush off for a
gallop on Impulse before dinner. Miss Dill, Cicely's nails are a
sight--I suppose that comes of grubbing up wild-flowers."
And with this parting shot at Justine's pursuits she swept out of the
school-room, leaving pupil and teacher plunged in a stricken silence
from which Cicely at length emerged to say, with the candour that Miss
Dill dreaded more than any punishable offense: "Mother's prettiest--but
I do like Justine the best."
       *       *       *       *       *
It was nearly dark when Bessy mounted the horse which had been hastily
saddled in response to her order; but it was her habit to ride out alone
at all hours, and of late nothing but a hard gallop had availed to quiet
her nerves. Her craving for occupation had increased as her life became
more dispersed and agitated, and the need to fill every hour drove her
to excesses of bodily exertion, since other forms of activity were
unknown to her.
As she cantered along under the twilight sky, with a strong sea-breeze
in her face, the rush of air and the effort of steadying her nervous
thoroughbred filled her with a glow of bodily energy from which her
thoughts emerged somewhat cleansed of their bitterness.
She had been odious to poor little Cicely, for whom she now felt a
sudden remorseful yearning which almost made her turn her horse's head
homeward, that she might dash upstairs and do penance beside the child's
bed. And that she should have accused Justine of taking Cicely from her!
It frightened her to find herself thinking evil of Justine. Bessy, whose
perceptions were keen enough in certain directions, knew that her second
marriage had changed her relation to all her former circle of friends.
Though they still rallied about her, keeping up the convenient habit of
familiar intercourse, she had begun to be aware that their view of her
had in it an element of criticism and compassion. She had once fancied
that Amherst's good looks, and the other qualities she had seen in him,
would immediately make him free of the charmed circle in which she
moved; but she was discouraged by his disregard of his opportunities,
and above all by the fundamental differences in his view of life. He was
never common or ridiculous, but she saw that he would never acquire the
small social facilities. He was fond of exercise, but it bored him to
talk of it. The men's smoking-room anecdotes did not amuse him, he was
unmoved by the fluctuations of the stock-market, he could not tell one
card from another, and his perfunctory attempts at billiards had once
caused Mr. Langhope to murmur, in his daughter's hearing: "Ah, that's
the test--I always said so!"
Thus debarred from what seemed to Bessy the chief points of contact with
life, how could Amherst hope to impose himself on minds versed in these
larger relations? As the sense of his social insufficiency grew on her,
Bessy became more sensitive to that latent criticism of her marriage
which--intolerable thought!--involved a judgment on herself. She was
increasingly eager for the approval and applause of her little audience,
yet increasingly distrustful of their sincerity, and more miserably
persuaded that she and her husband were the butt of some of their most
effective stories. She knew also that rumours of the disagreement about
Westmore were abroad, and the suspicion that Amherst's conduct was the
subject of unfriendly comment provoked in her a reaction of loyalty to
his ideas....
From this turmoil of conflicting influences only her friendship with
Justine Brent remained secure. Though Justine's adaptability made it
easy for her to fit into the Lynbrook life, Bessy knew that she stood as
much outside of it as Amherst. She could never, for instance, be
influenced by what Maria Ansell and the Gaineses and the Telfers
thought. She had her own criteria of conduct, unintelligible to Bessy,
but giving her an independence of mind on which her friend leaned in a
kind of blind security. And that even her faith in Justine should
suddenly be poisoned by a jealous thought seemed to prove that the
consequences of her marriage were gradually infecting her whole life.
Bessy could conceive of masculine devotion only as subservient to its
divinity's least wish, and she argued that if Amherst had really loved
her he could not so lightly have disturbed the foundations of her world.
And so her tormented thoughts, perpetually circling on themselves,
reverted once more to their central grievance--the failure of her
marriage. If her own love had died out it would have been much
simpler--she was surrounded by examples of the mutual evasion of a
troublesome tie. There was Blanche Carbury, for instance, with whom she
had lately struck up an absorbing friendship...it was perfectly clear
that Blanche Carbury wondered how much more she was going to stand! But
it was the torment of Bessy's situation that it involved a radical
contradiction, that she still loved Amherst though she could not forgive
him for having married her.
Perhaps what she most suffered from was his too-prompt acceptance of the
semi-estrangement between them. After nearly three years of marriage she
had still to learn that it was Amherst's way to wrestle with the angel
till dawn, and then to go about his other business. Her own mind could
