there. They had steamed out from the city in a 
white, flower-strewn automobile after their noon 
wedding ; and as quietly as possible, and almost 
 
unobserved, had whirred up the avenue, and pos- 
sessed themselves of the old, stately house, as dear 
to Cara still as the pangs of a lost love, and always 
thought of by her gently and in silence, somewhat 
as she thought of her husband's grave. 
She had not seen the bridal car when it raced 
up; and as it happened, Clyde himself had missed 
this tremendous event. The collie was conscious, 
as dogs are of lost opportunities, that something 
of interest had occurred, witness of which fate had 
denied him. He sat rather sullenly guarding the 
egress from the avenue, that nothing more might 
escape him. While he did so, he saw that the 
automobile was rushing down. He arose with 
dignity and reluctance to avoid the juggernaut, and 
stepped aside upon the lawn — disdainfully, 
because he perceived that the carriage and the 
chauffeur were both strangers. As the car dashed 
past and whirled away, something dropped, and 
Clyde put his paw upon it. It was a man's glove, 
a faultless bridal glove, worn for an hour, loosened 
and forgotten. With one ear up and one ear down, 
the dog considered the glove for some moments. 
But these were incredibly few. With a howl of 
rage he flung himself upon it, worried it as if it 
had been a rat of the lowest social order in the 
vermin world, and, suddenly tearing it as if it were 
shredded flesh, muscle from muscle, nerve from 
 
nerve, he dashed it away, and leaped up the long 
wooded avenue. As he went, he took mighty 
bounds, scorning the earth, scaling the air. But 
when he approached the house the dog grew astute, 
crushed his anger into diplomacy, sniffed, and 
secreted himself, watched, crawled upon his belly, 
hid, and smouldered in the shrubbery. There, a 
quivering, splendid creature, with ancient,
unforgiven wrong tense in every rigid line of his
beautiful body, with death and fire in his eyes, and an 
ominous patience in his attitude, the collie bided 
his time. 
It had been a clear, late sunset, and a brilliant 
moon arose. There was no darkness, but the 
evening advanced from glow to gleam. The windows 
of the great house flashed warm light, and the 
movements of a luxurious home set in as quietly 
and steadily among the trained servants as if the 
place had been occupied for six months. The bride 
(in Cara's old room) was dressing for dinner, and 
the newly wedded husband strolled out of the 
house ; he had the thoughtful mood in which the 
most thoughtless of men will find himself upon 
his marriage evening. 
Thomas Frost sat in Mr. Sterling's wind chair 
upon the piazza that faced the sea, but the night 
was cool and he did not remain there. He got up 
and paced the piazza for a while. He did not 
 
smoke. His tall, rather military figure moved to 
and fro with precision. With a cold gray eye he 
observed the sea. Both his firm, sinuous hands 
were in his pockets. His mind was active. What 
he called his heart was occupied. His heavily lined 
face assumed the mould of satisfaction, — -with 
himself, with his marriage, with his position, with 
his prospects. That he had been appointed to the 
Chair of Physiology in an important New England 
Medical School was, he reflected, no more than his 
distinguished skill as an experimenter deserved. 
He would enter upon the honors of his 
professorship soon after the expiration of his honeymoon. 
This, meanwhile, after the scientific method, he 
set himself to appreciate. Once he left the piazza 
and walked restlessly among the shrubbery, glanc- 
ing towards the nasturtium cottage, which, for the 
thickness of the intervening trees, he could not 
see. 
" She made a most unfortunate marriage," he 
thought. He raised his eyes to the windows of his 
wife's room ; her substantial shadow passed before 
the shade. Just then she raised it, opened the 
window, and saw him. The muscular arm and hand 
which had wielded the best brassie and driver in 
the Country Club relaxed and wafted down a kiss. 
This the bridegroom felt under obligations to re- 
turn. To do so, he withdrew his right hand from 
 
his pocket. Then Mrs. Frost let down the shade 
again. 
He was standing looking up, moonlit and visible 
every contour of him in the bright night, every 
personal sign and scent of him given to the soft 
wind, when the shrubbery behind him stirred a 
little, as if a snake had crawled through it. Thomas 
Frost turned to reenter the house, and had set 
one foot upon the piazza steps, when an ominous 
muttering sound annoyed his ear. This grew into 
a formidable growl. A dog, raging with memory 
of the unforgiven, leaped and sprang. The collie 
would have none of the physiologist's body except 
his hand, — the hand that had committed the
unpardonable sin of all that man may inflict upon 
an animal; the hand that had dissected conscious, 
helpless flesh alive. Clyde's teeth fastened upon 
the vivisector's cruel, valuable right hand, and 
crushed it, crunching. 
Kathleen had her evening off that day, and 
Joyce had been answering the doorbell. But the 
child was now in bed ; patients were many ; the 
reception room was full, and Mrs. Dane had taken 
upon herself this domestic task. The front door 
was closed. A long scratch, followed by a heavy, 
thumping sound, besieged it, and two or three 
sharp peals of the electric button succeeded. Caro- 
 
lyn opened the door, and said, " Why, Clyde! Did 
you ring that bell ? " 
No person was visible, and she let the dog in. 
He was panting heavily, and quivered in every 
nerve. As if he had been a child, he flung himself 
upon her lap, and put his paws about her neck. 
Although his eyes were wild, they had a solemn 
look. He whined and sighed, and then he began 
to sob like a little overwrought boy. Cara bent and 
put her cheek upon his forehead to comfort him. 
As she did so, she perceived that his mouth was 
dripping, and that it dripped red. 
The telephone called loudly at that moment, and 
the doctor answered it without delay. With a word 
of explanation to his waiting patients, he hurried 
limping out into the hall, and seized his hat. 
" It is an emergency call," he said to Mrs. Dane. 
" There seems to have been a little accident among 
those bridal people. I must go at once." 
He was gone some time, so long that the patients 
grew discouraged, and drifted one by one away. 
When he returned, the office was empty, and the 
house was still. Clyde was asleep upon the rug ; 
in his sleep he groaned and growled. Mrs. Dane 
was sitting by the office fire. She rose to greet the 
doctor, but asked no questions. 
"Can I have a little hot water?" he asked 
quietly. 
 
She brought it, and he boiled it over his alcohol 
lamp, that he might sterilize his instruments ; he 
put them away before he spoke. 
" There is something you have got to know, and 
I may as well tell you. It is an unfortunate affair, 
and Clyde was mixed up in it. He has bitten a 
man." 
" Not — not — " she began, and paled. 
" Yes, he has bitten Dr. Frost. He has hurt his 
hand pretty badly — his right hand." 
Cara got down upon the rug beside the dog, 
and drew his head upon her knee. Her trembling 
fingers touched Clyde's old scar — the scar so deep 
that the hair had never covered it. 
" He may have had a reason ! " she cried. 
" Yes, I know," replied the doctor. 
" What do you know ? " The searchlight of her 
troubled eyes traversed the physician's face. 
" He told me," observed Dr. Royal, quietly. " He 
explained the circumstances. He said that he once 
experimented on the dog — of course not know- 
ing him to be yours. He said that Clyde had never 
forgiven him ; that he had attacked him before." 
" Oh, what will they do to Clyde ? " moaned 
Cara. " If they are going to kill him, I would 
rather do it myself. I will chloroform him. No 
one else shall touch him." She began to tremble 
heavily. 
 
" Don't distress yourself," said Dr. Royal, kindly. 
" Clyde will not be harmed. Frost doesn't want 
the story to get out. I don't think he is 
particularly proud of it. He says he does not wish 
his wife to know. He invented some explanation 
of the accident. I think it will pass. I believe he 
slipped on the rocks; had a bad fall; a rolling 
stone hurt him; something of that kind — that is 
his business. Mine is to keep a patient's 
confidence — I told you because — " 
"Yes," interrupted Carolyn. "You had to tell 
me. I ought to know. We shall have to keep 
Clyde tied up." 
" Till Frost leaves the village, I think you will. 
He won't stay any longer than he can help. If it 
proves serious, he will go back to town, where he 
can get a bigger surgeon than I am." 
" Will he lose his hand ? " asked Carolyn, with 
difficulty. 
"No, oh, no. Only his honeymoon. With proper 
care, I think we can save the hand ; but I am afraid 
— it will be rather stiff." 
" It is shocking ! " said Cara, with emotion. 
" It is unfortunate," replied the doctor. " Neme- 
sis usually is. The most interesting thing to me 
about it — " he paused. 
"What is the most interesting thing to you 
about it ? " demanded Mrs. Dane. 
 
" Why, that he doesn't want his wife to know. 
The terrible and beautiful power of the marriage 
bond has set in already." 
" Upon Thomas Frost?" 
" Even upon him." 
The two were standing opposite each other as 
they exchanged these words. Their eyes, brimming 
lakes of feeling, met as if they united in one
unfathomable sea. Carolyn felt herself swayed to the 
deeps. Between her allegiance to the vanished and 
her attraction to the apparent, she vibrated in a 
piteous vacillation. The old contention between 
the quick and the dead made havoc of her, and 
she had no more power of resistance to it than 
a battleground has of rebellion to conflicting 
armies. The moment had become so tense, it 
was with a sense of escape that she heard the 
steps of her cousin upon the piazza, and turned 
at his familiar hand upon the door to meet and 
greet him. This she did with a cordiality so 
assumed that he felt it — his hurt face showed 
how much. He glanced from her to her tenant, 
first with the priest's and then with the prophet's 
look. 
Clyde came out slowly to extend the hospitality 
of the cottage to its kinsman. The dog walked 
with dignity. Not a cloud of guilt lurked in his 
fine eyes. He spurned the floor with a lofty pride. 
 
He had the air of a noble avenger, who had righted 
the wrongs of a race. 
Impulsively, without remembering that she was 
not free to speak of it, and because she had always 
told everything to Sterling Hart, Carolyn hastened 
to give the story of what had happened. She saw 
that Mr. Hart was troubled, if not alarmed. 
" I will go right over and see him," he said, 
turning about. 
" Excuse me," interrupted the physician, stepping 
forward, " but this matter is not to be known, 
if you please. Mrs. Dane very naturally made an 
exception of you — as I was forced to make one of 
her. But nothing whatever should be said. In any 
event, I am sure you would wish to wait before 
calling on Dr. Frost. He is really in too much 
suffering to see any person." 
" I am not attached to Dr. Frost," urged Mr. 
Hart, with some feeling, " but it is precisely where 
there is suffering that my profession calls me." 
" And that mine, in this instance, must dissuade 
you," said the physician. " I would advise you to 
wait for some days. We don't know yet how this 
is going to turn out. I may have to spend most of 
the night with him. He is considerably hurt." 
The two men regarded each other in surcharged 
silence. 
" Very well," said the clergyman, " if the case is 
yours, I will not go — not at present. Instead, if 
you please, Dr. Royal, I should like a short 
interview with yourself. In fact I may admit, if you 
will excuse me, Cousin Carolyn, that I came with 
this purpose in view. I thought I should find you, 
sir, at your office hours." 
Carolyn moved away quickly, and her cousin 
shut the office door. She thought, but she might 
have been mistaken, that he slipped the key. He 
remained in the office for a long time. She could 
hear the poignant murmur of their voices, interspersed 
with significant silences. She grew uneasy, 
she could not have told why. As the interview 
progressed, her discomfort increased. 
To escape her unpleasant position, she wan- 
dered restlessly about the house, and thinking to 
make sure that Kathleen had left the dampers as 
they should be, went into the kitchen. Now Clyde 
had shadowed her closely, aggrieved that he was 
denied the society of the two gentlemen upon an 
evening so eventful in the family history ; jealous 
of attention, and nervous for praise, he pushed 
through the pantry and pawed at the office door. 
This was not locked, and Clyde, who was distin- 
guished for his ability to open doors, forced the 
latch by means best known to himself, and lunged 
in, heavily and pleasantly wagging. There was a 
distinct interval before the door was closed again, 
 
and in this time there wandered out to Mrs. 
Dane's apprehension the articulation of these 
words : — 
" You may be the most irreproachable man in 
this world, sir, but we know nothing about you. 
Your past is a blank to us. Your present is a mys- 
tery. Apparently you have no antecedents, or none 
which you are willing to present. I am the only 
living kinsman of this lady who has the right to 
protect her. In my judgment, your presence in 
Mrs. Dane's house has continued long enough 
. . . if not too long," added Sterling Hart, with 
fervor. 
Wincing and quivering, with fire in her cheeks, 
and her heart leaping in her throat, Carolyn shrank 
back. Her first impulse was to enter the room — 
it was hers — and confront the two men with the 
matter under dispute between them — it was her 
affair. But the instinct of a lady to avoid a scene 
deterred her. She went back into the living-room, 
and stood still, — tall and distinct beneath the 
lighted gas, trying to decide what she should 
do. 
This she found not easy, and she still remained 
irresolute when the key slid in the office lock, and 
the door opened. Mr. Hart held it ajar with his 
hand upon the knob. He had his giant look ; his 
face was imperturbable and grave. He was saying 
 
— and it struck Carolyn that he made no effort to 
conceal from her that he was saying: — 
" I have put the case to you plainly, man to 
man. I have explained my reasons to you — why 
I experience the uneasiness that I do. I will deal 
with you fairly, but you will do as much by me 
. . . and by this lady, sir. Give us your
credentials. Clear up the points that I have mentioned. 
I will give you, — Dr. Royal, I give you a week." 
Sterling Hart crossed the cottage hall, and con- 
fronted Mrs. Dane with a gesture at once com- 
manding and entreating. 
" Good-night, Cousin Carolyn," he said gently. 
" I am afraid that I perplex or grieve you. I have 
no alternative. I will explain myself — with Dr. 
Royal's permission — at another time. We are all 
tired to-night." 
He closed the cottage door, and his strong step 
rang down the walk. Mrs. Dane and her tenant 
stood regarding each other silently. The collie 
ran between them, restlessly whining. Joyce in 
his bed upstairs waked and called : — 
"Mum — mumma?" Maudlin with sleep, the 
little fellow dribbled into the dialect of his baby- 
hood: "Mum — mumma? Pup — puppa? Mum 
— ma ? " 
Mrs. Dane ran up to the boy, and when she 
came down the office was empty. The doctor had 
 
gone for the night. She realized, not without a 
pang of perplexity, or even anxiety, that he had 
gone without a word. 
The vivisector lay upon the couch in the Ster- 
ling drawing-room and nursed his mangled hand. 
His wife devoted herself to his emergency without 
a weakened nerve. She read to him for hours ; 
her strong throat never tired. She tramped on 
errands for him all over the village. Her well- 
developed feet made frolic of the six-mile walk 
to Balsam which she took to find the particular 
orchids that struck his scientific fancy. For what 
might be called more human flowers, Thomas 
Frost did not care. It occurred to him that he 
had married a healthy, sensible, and not a selfish 
girl, who could attach herself to a man in the 
proper feminine ways as successfully as she had 
wielded a brassie. He went so far as to wonder if 
the golf girl, after all, might not prove a champion 
wife. But upon mere matters of sentiment his 
mind did not dwell tenaciously. His enforced 
inactivity and acute suffering had converted him 
into a raging schemer. His gray eyes smouldered 
like cool embers. 
Against the dog he was powerless, perforce. A 
man cannot sacrifice his reputation, or even his 
domestic happiness, to private vengeance upon an 
 
animal. Unfortunately, Mrs. Frost was fond of 
dogs ; she had three in her father's home. 
Then, if the story should leak out, his colleagues 
would be ill pleased. The new professor would 
start under a sentimental cloud. A disabled hand 
might be overcome ; demonstrators could be found 
to perform the butchery while he supplied the 
oratory of his brilliant experiments. But when it 
came to a moral blur, what could be done ? No 
understudy could supply the ethical quality. 
But for this obstinate fact, Clyde would have 
been shot through the head without delay. The 
vivisector was not stupid, and he accepted his 
situation. Against the dog he could not avenge 
himself; but the woman remained. 
Thomas Frost had some years since passed the 
point of sensitiveness to the sight of suffering. It 
had become as easy for him to inflict as for an- 
other man to spare. He thought of Carolyn Dane 
with a cold conviction that if she could be made 
to suffer for the fault of her dog, it would not be 
more than she deserved, at least no more than 
he was willing to impose. He brooded upon the 
matter with an icy bitterness. 
While receiving the surgical attention of Charles 
Royal, he scrutinized the man. A chance ques- 
tion to the old Balsam doctor ; a clever hint to the 
consulting surgeon from the city; a few flying 
 
arrows shot into the mind of Sterling Hart when 
the preacher made his priestly call — these psy- 
chological experiments occupied the ruined honey- 
moon of the vivisector. The human heart had 
become his laboratory, and in this, though some- 
thing of a bungler at that finer art, he worked 
with a determination which was a substitute for 
skill. The experiment did not occupy much time. 
Within two weeks Dr. Frost returned with his wife 
to her father's house, where three fine dogs em- 
braced the bride, and sniffed at the bridegroom. 
Sterling Hart did not return to Dr. Royal's 
office within the week whose iron boundary he 
had set before the man. He lingered two weeks; 
he delayed for three. If he came to see his cousin, 
it was at hours when the tenant could not be found, 
and to speak of subjects in which the doctor had 
no concern. 
It could be seen that Mr. Hart obviously avoided 
the matter which had annoyed and troubled Caro- 
lyn upon his earlier visit; and she, full of a mingled 
emotion, half resentment and half fear, did not 
herself recall it. 
But one evening in the later May — a rainy 
evening, when patients would be few — the 
preacher presented himself in office hours, and 
asked distinctly for the doctor. 
 
The two men met courteously, but without 
cordiality. The preacher, with some hesitation, took 
the patient's chair. The physician retained his 
own. His manner was as grave as that of the 
other, and possessed, it might be said, an equal 
dignity. He was, in fact, the first to speak. 
" Well," he said, " my time is more than up. I 
am not sure whether I should thank you for the 
reprieve. But I am ready to hear whatever you 
have to say to me." 
" It will not take long," replied the preacher ; 
curtly for Sterling Hart. " It is chiefly in a word: 
You have given me to understand that you are 
an educated physician, properly graduated." 
" I have, because I am." 
" You possess, of course, the diploma of some 
accredited institution ? " 
" I don't frame it and hang it," returned Dr. 
Royal, with a smile whose bitterness was disguised 
by its gentleness. " It is in one of the drawers of 
my desk." 
"Are you willing — pray excuse me — that I 
should see it?" asked the preacher point-blank. 
" No," said the physician, with equal bluntness. 
" At least," he added, " not under the present 
circumstances. I can conceive of those in which I 
might be." 
" Pardon me," proceeded Sterling Hart,
without smiling, " but the time has come when I must 
tell you that it is said, — I have been told, — the 
authority is good, Dr. Royal, or you will believe 
that I should not act upon it. I learn that your 
name does not stand upon the list of registered 
physicians of this state." 
" Have you been meddling — looking that up ? " 
The lame doctor got to his feet, and took fire, 
like a less gentle man. 
"I never thought of it!" blazed back the 
preacher. " If I had, I should undoubtedly have 
done so. I have my cousin's interests to protect. 
Nothing else matters to me beside those. I could 
not have a charlatan — an adventurer — assuming 
and sustaining the position which you hold in this 
house." 
The doctor waved these words off with a ees- 
ture whose dignity impressed itself upon the 
preacher even in that agitated moment. 
" You would be quite right," he replied with 
unexpected self-possession. " I should not blame 
you. ... I suppose," he added, wheeling, " Frost 
told you this ? " 
Mr. Hart, too, got to his feet. He made no 
reply to this question, and the eyes of the two 
men met poignantly. Then the preacher said : — 
"Would it matter who discovered the fact — if 
it were a fact ? If it be a fact ? " 
 
" He is capable of it," mused the doctor,
looking into the fire more drearily than angrily. " I 
might have thought of it — I didn't, that 's all. 
. . . Mr. Hart ! " He turned his marred face with 
a pathetic movement, half appeal, half pain. " Mr. 
Hart! The time has come, I see, when I must 
answer your questions — some of them, at least. 
We both belong to the confessional professions. 
I ought to be able to trust you. Do you demand 
my confidence ? " 
" I demand nothing," returned the preacher, 
quickly. 
"Will you accept it, then ? " 
The preacher hesitated. " I can't put myself 
under bonds — " he argued hurriedly. " You must 
see that. All I can say is : I have never betrayed 
a human soul — that I can remember — in my 
life." 
" It can't be helped, at any rate," replied the 
doctor, wearily. " There is no other way. I must 
risk it. If you will be seated, Mr. Hart? Thank 
you. I am rather lame to conduct a difficult 
conversation on my feet. Are the doors all shut? 
Where is Mrs. Dane?" 
Mr. Hart looked out into the hall, and closed 
and locked the office door again. 
" I think she must be upstairs with Joyce," he 
said. He returned to his chair before the office 
 
fire. The doctor sat looking into it. It was some 
moments before he spoke. 
It was half an hour, it was an hour, it was two, 
but the interchange of voices in the office did not 
cease. Some time after ten o'clock, Carolyn came 
down to put out the gas and go up to bed. Sud- 
denly the office door opened, and she heard her 
cousin saying gently : — 
" How much time do you want ? " 
"How can I tell you?" returned the doctor. 
" It may be a month ; it might be a day." 
Then Sterling Hart came through the door- 
way with bowed head. His manner indicated 
emotion so great that Cara shrank back, afraid to 
speak to him. But he took a step or two, and 
approached her silently. Without a word he 
stretched his arms above her head — not touching 
her — as if he blessed her; as a priest, and as a 
man, and as a kinsman ; as if he blessed her 
altogether and forever ; and so, still mute, he left her. 
In that moment she had seen his noble face ; and 
that it rained with tears. 
Now, the evening and the morning were the 
next day. The storm was spent. It was a shining 
day, and blossomed like a white, hot rose. It was 
the national Memorial Day, as it befell, and Caro- 
lyn had been early to the churchyard, taking her 
 
boy and her flowers with her. This made her late 
at her day's work, and she left Joyce, as her habit 
was, in Kathleen's quite trustworthy care, and 
hurried away, disregarding the child's peremptory 
demand "to see some soiljers," without her usual 
attention to his fixed ideas. 
Dr. Royal (to whom she offered that day an 
abstracted greeting, as if the anniversary had 
detached her altogether from him) paid his early 
morning call on Solomon Hops, and was about 
to proceed upon his rounds, when a change of 
purpose took him ; he left his horse at his office 
hitching-post, and made across the lawn of the 
Sterling place towards the house of Mr. Hart, 
musing as he walked. As he leisurely approached 
the ravine and the iron bridge he heard, or fancied 
that he heard, a scream, followed by another, and 
another, each cleaving the May morning like a 
rapier, and seeming to him like a succession of 
mortal stabs. The lame man limped into a chaotic 
run, and hobbled up — slowly, at his best — in 
time to meet the preacher coming towards him 
rapidly. Mr. Hart in his coffin will be no grayer 
than he was at that monstrous moment. 
In his arms he clasped a little shrinking figure. 
It was Cara's boy. 
" What is it? " demanded the doctor. " Let me 
have him ! Let me have him — quickly ! " 
 
But the preacher held his little kinsman to his 
leaping heart. The motion was automatic and im- 
perious. 
" He fell," gasped Sterling Hart. " He was com- 
ing to find me, I think. He slipped and rolled — 
off — off — " He shivered, and hid his eyes upon 
the sobbing child. 
" Not there ! " 
Dr. Royal pointed to the chasm with a finger 
that shook like a ribbon in a gale. 
" He fell, and rolled — his little clothes caught 
somewhere — I think it was the leather belt — he 
was hanging — over the — over the — when I found 
him. There was a break in the railing we put up 
after Timothy George — nobody knew it. I was 
out walking. It just happened so ; that is all." 
" Give him to me!" insisted the physician, with 
a formidable look. " You should not yield to any 
feeling you have — any impulse or affection till we 
know — God ! Don't you see Joyce is in 
convulsions? Give me — that is — the child, I say!" 
The preacher's mighty arms surrendered the 
boy to the doctor, who laid him on the grass and 
examined him in absolute silence. After a few 
moments he lifted the lad jealously again to his 
own breast, and the two men walked on with their 
shuddering little burden. 
In the May morning they looked at each other. 
Their eyes said: "Which of us must tell her?" 
" What will this do to her? " They had gone but 
a short and difficult distance when they met Kath- 
leen running and panting. 
" It was but the drop of me eyelash, the twist 
of me head," argued Kathleen, " an' when I turns 
the tail of me eye, he was not forninst me. He 'd 
been that crazy over them soldiers since the drums 
begun. He says, 'Mr. Cousin Sterling Hart 'll 
show me some soiljers — ' Mother of Heaven! 
Mother of God ! " cried Kathleen. She gave one 
glance at the writhing child, threw her apron over 
her head, and dropped upon the grass. The two 
men strode on. 
When they approached the cottage they stopped 
and stood irresolute. A woman's figure, draped 
in translucent black, moved uneasily about the 
grounds, and a woman's voice — the tenderest in 
all the world of women that either the physician 
or the preacher knew — was calling with 
penetrating sweetness: — 
"Joyce? Joyce? My baby! My little man! 
Where is mother's precious boy ? " 
From the village churchyard, a mile away, the 
throb of military music, like the beat of a heart, 
pulsated plainly, and seemed to answer her. Now 
the bugle was calling taps above the soldiers' 
graves, where the living had left all they had to 
 
give the dead, — their flowers and their tears. 
But Joyce did not hear the " soiljers." Without a 
wound, without a break, without a bruise upon his 
perfect little body, the child, smitten by terror and 
shock, passed from convulsion to convulsion in 
the doctor's arms. 
CHAPTER XVII 
Carolyn crept, leaning upon one elbow. She 
had put the child into her own bed at the first, 
and there, on the edge of the broad mattress, she 
had lain day and night. The sleeve of her loose 
white gown was worn through to her bare flesh 
from the constraint and persistence of her posi- 
tion. She was able in this way at once to watch 
the boy's face and to hold his hand while he slept; 
so to foretell, by the tightening of little fingers on 
her own, the advance of the throes in which he 
would awake. 
Outside of the sickroom it was laughing June. 
For three weeks the child had floated between 
life and death, as the little flags on the soldiers' 
graves fluttered and fell with wind or calm upon 
their fragile staffs. The flowers were ashes upon 
the mounds, but the small human soul clung to 
its rights in its racked body. Brain fever with 
complications, superinduced by shock, were om- 
inous words. The mother listened to them dully. It 
did not seem to her to matter what they called it. 
Nothing mattered. The child would die ; that was 
all. Nothing could save him. Consultants from 
 
the city came and went. She listened stupidly to 
what they said. Dr. Royal would understand. She 
turned to Dr. Royal. Carolyn's natural courage 
had quite forsaken her in this last extremity. She 
had reached the point of endurance where a 
woman ceases to hope, or even to struggle for any 
form of happiness, since fate has denied her so 
many, and accepts as her lot that reiteration of 
sorrow which we find to be the portion of certain 
lives. All the optimism of the situation came from 
the nature of Charles Royal. All the will power, 
all the hope concentrated upon the sinking boy, 
were his. He had held the flickering life in the 
hollow of his hand. For three weeks he had not 
known a night's rest or a day's relief. He watched 
the disease as a burning glass observes a piece of 
scorching paper. Sometimes it seemed to shrivel, 
whether before his professional skill or his 
personal absorption. Then the lad subtly lost more 
than he gained, and the unequal contest set in 
again. The physician did not yield his case by the 
width of a wearied moment, or the weakness of a 
diverted purpose. Carolyn had no heart to wonder 
at the tenacity of his determination to save the 
patient, or at his affection for the child ; but she 
was steadily and acutely conscious of both. 
Now, with the breadth of the little lad's bed 
between them, they sat, she on its edge, he on a 
 
chair at the other side. It was a warm evening, 
and all the windows were flung wide. There was 
but one light in the sickroom, and that, shaded 
from the little patient, embossed the doctor's face 
and head and hands in a soft illumination against 
the shadow of a screen. The screen was black, 
and its embroidery gold. Carolyn could see that 
one of his hands was clenched ; the other played 
along the boy's pulse like a listening finger on 
an invisible flute, — a magical instrument, which 
offered music, but did not yield it. 
The " sorryfool man " looked older than usual. 
It seemed to Mrs. Dane that he had aged rapidly 
within the last few weeks. His hair was a shade 
whiter; the hollows in his cheeks were gaunt. His 
gray beard drooped at the corners of his mouth, 
and she was sure that his unseen lips trembled. 
Her wasted eyes traversed the familiar map of his 
face. Perhaps for the first time it occurred to her 
that there were spaces upon it marked " unex- 
plored." Certain sacred words forced themselves 
upon her imagination, and her thought repeated 
them, not irreverently: — 
" For his visage was so marred, more than any 
man." 
How brutally that wreck had treated him ! A 
dark scar ran across his forehead and his temple; 
one of his cheeks was quite defaced. The strain 
 
of his battle for the life of her child, the long- 
drawn vigil, the lost vitality, and the sensitive 
anxiety which she could not deceive herself in 
thinking that he had experienced — these had em- 
phasized his physical defects and deformities. His 
hoarse voice was fainter than she had ever known 
it ; more raucous, more unpleasant to the ear. 
She had never seen him limp so much as he did 
now. Her haggard eyes absorbed every feature, 
every gesture of the disfigured and exhausted 
man. 
" He stands between me and the worst," she 
thought. 
Her hurt heart crawled towards him as a 
wounded creature seeks the only shelter it can 
find. She leaned to him with the passion of pity 
which only tender women know for unselfish, un- 
attractive men. Cara thought : " If you were well, 
and strong, and handsome, and fortunate, I should 
not care so much." 
A clock in the room ticked gently, and the boy 
stirred. 
" Hasn't he slept a good while ? " his mother 
asked. 
" Longer than at any time before." 
" What did Dr. Strang say ? " 
" Oh, he agreed with the rest." 
" Doesn't he think there is any hope ? " 
 
" Why do you ask me these questions ? " 
" What did he say to you when you were alone 
together ? " 
" The usual things. He advised anodynes, and 
so forth." 
" Have you given them ? " 
"No." 
" Do you mean to give them ? " 
" No." 
Carolyn looked at the child. Her face worked. 
" Do you want Dr. Strang to take the case ? 
I should not blame you. You are trusting me 
very far." 
" I shall trust you farther, — to the uttermost, 
to the end." 
Although subdued conversation did not disturb 
the boy, but tended rather to soothe him (so large 
a part had the element of terror taken in his dis- 
order), yet they had been speaking in the lowest 
whispers, scarcely articulate. Their own voices 
sounded unreal to them. The physician did not 
reply to Mrs. Dane's last words. His emotion over- 
came him, and he made no effort to conceal that 
it did so, but averted his scarred face from her. 
His finger crept back to the child's pulse. 
" He is still sleeping ! " breathed Carolyn. 
The doctor glanced at his watch. " Almost an 
hour more than at any time before." 
 
Her eyes ran to the little wrist where the trained 
ringer tip rested as lightly as a leaf. 
" Stronger," he whispered, " a little. More even, 
I think." 
Across his disfigured face a frail smile stirred. 
Carolyn's courage took fire from it. She sat with 
held breath, as if the child's life — still a part of 
her own being — would exhale with the action of 
her lungs. Her eyes sought the physician eagerly. 
But his cautiously replied. 
Now, when Mrs. Dane turned her head, Kath- 
leen at the door was standing with hot soup, and 
beckoning to the doctor. 
" You, too," he said ; and Carolyn followed him. 
Kathleen took the watcher's place beside the boy, 
and the two sat down in the hall. There was a 
divan beneath the window, and a small light table. 
They put the cups of soup upon the table, and 
