atmosphere seemed to breathe the same rich satisfaction. But no birds
were singing, and there was nothing normal in the groups of people,
gathered wherever there were habitations: they wore bath-robes,
blankets, overcoats, anything, apparently, they had found at hand, and
had not re-entered their treacherous habitations. No trains were
running, but the drawbridge that separated the marsh from San Pablo Bay
opened as usual.
Gwynne steered the launch, and his conversation and Isabel's drifted to
speculations as to what had happened in the city.
"Thank heaven I had the foundations of that old house replaced," she
said, "or I am afraid your mother would have shot right down to the
Hofers' doorstep. I am fairly at ease about The Otis, for in spite of
the old drifting sand-lots that district is built on, its foundations go
down to bed-rock, and thanks to the strikers there is nothing to fall
off the steel frame. But I am rather worried about the islands. San
Francisco Bay is supposed to have been a valley some two hundred years
ago, and if it dropped once it might again. Those islands are only
hilltops."
The islands, however, looked as serene as the rest of nature, although
most of the chimneys were fallen or twisted, and there were the same
groups of people in the open, awaiting another throe. These, however,
had had time to recover their balance and clothe themselves. The launch,
which had a new engine, had been driven at top speed, and it was not yet
seven o'clock, barely the beginning of day to these luxurious people,
but a day that would doubtless be remembered as the longest of their
lives. On the military islands, routine, apparently, had received no
dislocation, and on the steep romantic slopes of Belvedere the villas
might have sunken their talons to the very vitals of the rock. The most
precariously perched had paid no toll but the chimney.
As the launch bounded past the long eastern side of Angel Island, Gwynne
contracted his eyelids. "Have you noticed that black cloud over the
city?" he asked. "At first it did not strike me particularly--but--it
looks as if there might be a big fire."
Isabel, who faced him, turned her head. "There are always fires in San
Francisco after an earthquake," she said, indifferently. "And about
seven a day at any time. There are none on the hills, so your mother is
not having a second fright. Poor thing! I am afraid she is terribly
upset. I wish she had gone."
She sat about, to observe the city more critically. Already its sky-line
was changed, for every chimney, smokestack, and steeple, commonly
visible, was shattered or down. The smoke cloud, which looked like a
great ostrich plume bent at the tip, was as stationary as the hills, and
had a confident permanent air that they would lack for some time. And
fixed as it was it seemed to grow larger.
"Steer to the east of Alcatraz," said Isabel, suddenly; "and towards
Yerba Buena. I should like to see where the fires are."
When the launch was well off the point of Telegraph Hill, they saw
several large fires on the western side of East Street, the wide roadway
that divided the city from the water-front and Ferry Building. Far down,
in the South of Market Street district there appeared to be other large
fires.
"Warehouses, probably," said Isabel. "What a sight!" She indicated the
collapsed sheds about the moles, and the twisted and toppling
appearance of the tower on the Ferry Building, which stood on the edge
of the made ground. It was an immense structure of great weight, and
only an uncommon honesty--and vigilance--in building had saved it from
destruction. Had the piles been hollow, or too short to reach bed-rock,
it would either have sunken or tumbled.
And then they noticed that the bay was silent and deserted. It was a
moment before they realized that of the several lines of ferry-boats
none appeared to be running. "That means that the tracks are out of
working order," said Isabel, grimly. "We may have had the best of it,
bad as it was. Ah!" One of the Oakland ferry-boats pushed out of its San
Francisco mole. It was black with people. Isabel stared with wonder. "It
looks as if people were running away from the city. Or perhaps a good
many that live across the bay came over on the same mission as
ourselves, and have been turned back. That would mean that all East
Street was on fire and they could not get into the city. Well, let us
hurry. Even although the fires are so far off they may terrify your
mother. I remember she told me once in England that she had never seen a
fire. I have a queer sensation in my knees."
Gwynne laughed. "I should think you might be used to fires by this time.
And you have a celebrated fire department. I fancy you are just feeling
the reaction."
"I was not a bit frightened during the earthquake!" said
Isabel, indignantly. "But there is nothing phenomenal in fire to brace
one up--and those had a sinister determined look--and that boat-load of
people! I only hope your mother has not run away--under the impression
that San Francisco alone was shaken. We wouldn't find her for a week."
"My mother's nerves are not what they were, but I am positive she will
not run. She is certain to wait for us at the house."
A few moments later they ran the launch up to the landing at the foot of
Russian Hill. There were a few tumbled shanties on the slope, but none
of the well-built houses had been dislodged, and the great buildings on
this water-front were in good condition. Mr. Clatt was not visible, but
left his cottage at Isabel's call, and gave them something more than his
usual surly greeting.
"Glad to see you are all right," he said. "Been expectin' you. Jest
stepped in to git my pipe."
"Much damage done?" asked Gwynne.
"Considerable, but I guess the shake'll take a back seat. City's on
fire."
"There are always fires after earthquakes," said Isabel, angrily.
"City's on fire. Thirty broke out s'multaneous. Water main's bust. Chief
of Fire Department killed in his bed, or as good as killed. There's
plenty left to fight the fire but nothin' to fight it with. Guess the
old town'll go up in smoke this time."
"My knees feel rather weak, too," said Gwynne. He turned to the
wharfinger, who was pulling leisurely at his pipe. "We--my mother and
Miss Otis, at least, may need this launch to leave the city with," he
said. "Can I rely on you? You shall have a hundred dollars if you let no
one steal it; and if the fire should reach this side, you are welcome to
a refuge on my ranch."
"I'll see daylight through any one that looks at it," said Mr. Clatt.
"This ain't no time to stand on ceremony. The army's called out already
to help the police keep order--the lootin' was disgraceful for about an
hour. Every rat tumbled out of his hole, and of course they went for the
saloons. I'm well enough known along here to be let alone when I show my
teeth. Your house is all right, miss."
This side of the hill was almost deserted; nearly every one seemed to be
watching the fires from the crest; but occasionally Gwynne and Isabel
passed a solitary person clinging to his possessions, or a small group;
and invariably were greeted with the same remark: "City's on fire. Water
mains were broken by the earthquake."
As they passed through the crowd on the hill-top, they received similar
information, although many added confidently that "something would be
done. The wind was sure to change to the west."
And so far, at least, the picture from the heights was by no means
appalling. There were a number of fires in the south, and a wall of
flame and smoke along the water-front near the Ferry Building. Had the
earthquake spared the mains they would merely have been spectacular.
Gwynne and Isabel, as they made the slight descent to the Belmont House,
saw two of their Japs sitting on the roof throwing down the bricks of
the fallen chimneys. Then they turned the corner and found Lady
Victoria, an opera-cloak thrown over her night-clothes, pacing up and
down the veranda.
"Oh, my God!" she exclaimed. "I did not dare to wonder if you were dead
or alive. Why did we ever come to this God-forsaken country?" She did
not offer to embrace them, but her eyes were brilliant, and there was a
color in her cheeks. And no one had ever heard her talk so fast. "Was
it as dreadful with you? Did you get out of the house? I was awake when
I heard that awful roar. Somehow, I knew what it meant, and before the
earthquake was well begun I was out here. I never ran so fast in my
life, although I was flung against the walls. And I almost wished I had
stayed in the house. Such a sight! That awful reeling city! Just imagine
thousands of buildings plunging, and leaping, and dancing, and toppling.
Towers bowing to you so solemnly that I almost disgraced myself and had
hysterics. And steeples pitching off, or huddling down like corpses. And
that awful loud deep steady roar and crash of a thousand walls and
chimneys falling. And the dust that seemed to swallow the city. For a
moment I thought it had gone, and expected the hills to follow. Then it
rose and everybody on earth seemed to be in those streets--and in white.
They looked like Isabel's Leghorns. Such pigmies from up here. Pigmies!
That is what we all are. And Angélique, the wretch, has run away."
"Well, she cannot go far, as all the railroads but one seem to be
injured," said Gwynne, soothingly. "Better go in and dress and we'll
walk down and take a look at things. That will divert your mind."
But it was not until Isabel had assured her that the worst force of an
earth movement in California spent itself in the first great shock, and
offered to help her dress, that Victoria could be persuaded to enter the
house. Gwynne fetched Isabel's field-glass and studied the scene below,
picking out the more disastrous work of the earthquake. All the new
solid buildings, and most of the old, appeared to be unharmed, and the
residence district, built of wood on stone foundations, for the most
part, was much as usual, save for its altered sky-line: every chimney
and skylight had disappeared. But tall slender factory chimneys had
broken raggedly in half, and the great tower of the City Hall, standing
high against the blue sky and advancing smoke, seemed to shriek like a
man whose flesh had been torn off with hot pincers until only the shamed
skeleton was left. Nothing but the steel cage that had supported the
bricks remained: eloquent of the millions that a dishonest city
government and its confederates had stolen.
Gwynne, as his eyes travelled more precisely, picked out more and more
evidences of the power of the earthquake. Steeples were gone, walls
fallen outward, roofs caved in, or yawning where a heavy chimney had
gone through, old houses were on their knees, or had fallen into their
cellars. Great cracks and rifts in walls and asphalt, fallen cornices
and shattered windows detached themselves from the general picture of
the half-ruined but oddly indifferent city. Almost immediately, through
the smoke in the southeast, he had caught a glimpse of The Otis, an
immense skeleton of steel, that had defied the earth, and offered
nothing to the fire. But although he experienced a passing gratitude
that he should lose nothing by the disaster, he forgot the incident in a
moment: he felt wholly impersonal.
Everybody in the city, apparently, was out-of-doors. The squares were
black with people, quiet crowds, it would seem, moving slowly where they
moved at all. He saw mounted officers and parading soldiers, and groups
of firemen standing impotently by their hose and engines. In the burning
South of Market Street district rivers of people were pouring towards
the great central highway, their arms and shoulders burdened; fleeing no
doubt with their household goods. Then Gwynne began to study the fires,
and it dawned upon him that he was looking down not upon a mere
conflagration but a burning city. It was more than likely that the fires
would not cross Market Street, and that those near the water-front would
be extinguished by water pumped from the bay; but "South of Market
Street" was a city in itself, and not only did he feel a certain pity
for all those terrified black pigmies down there, but a pang for the
extinction of a region so identified with the early history of San
Francisco. Rincon Hill was obliterated by the smoke, but no doubt she
would go; with all her pretty old-fashioned houses, so unlike the
horrors on the plateau below him--and South Park with its tragic
memories. Moreover, if all the factories and warehouses, and the blocks
devoted to the wholesale business, were destroyed, the city would be
poorer by many millions.
He shifted his glass away from the fires. More and more details arrested
his eye. Inert forms were being carried out of houses where chimneys or
skylights had gone through the roof. Automobiles were flying about,
hundreds of them. Mounted orderlies were dashing at breakneck speed
between the Presidio and the city. For a moment he wondered, then
remembered that General Funston lived on Nob Hill. He inferred that the
Mechanics' Fair Building, down in the western section of the valley, had
been turned into a hospital, for automobiles were constantly dashing up
and delivering limp and helpless burdens. The old Mission Church,
Dolores, was unharmed, but not far away, and in that crowded district
built upon the filled-in lake, or lagoon, of the Spanish era, he saw
that a large building, doubtless a cheap and flimsy hotel, had sunken
to its upper story, and that people were digging frantically about it.
Every house in the immediate neighborhood had dropped into its cellar or
lurched off its foundations. But it was all like some horrid picture by
Doré: the smoky darkening atmosphere, the jets, the bouquets, the square
masses of flame, each seeming to embrace a block if not more, the dark
slowly rolling clouds not far overhead, the tides of humanity dwarfed by
the distance, the broken dislocated houses, the great haughty defiant
buildings, with the superb conflagration behind them.
One of the neighbors, who lived on the crest, returning from a
reconnoitring expedition, paused and informed him that the mayor had
been persuaded to call a meeting of the more prominent citizens, to
decide, if possible, what might be done to save the city, and to keep
the people from falling into a panic. Mr. Phelan, the "Reform Mayor"--of
the city's last period of municipal decency--had suggested sending to
the military islands for dynamite enough to blow up a wide zone beyond
the fire; but property-owners were already protesting. Many felt sure
the fire would not cross Market Street, others were as certain that the
whole city would go. A corps of marines had been despatched from Mare
Island immediately after the earthquake and would undoubtedly save the
Ferry Building and the docks, but if the fire ran over from Market
Street a few blocks higher up, nothing could save all that great
business, shopping, and hotel district; to say nothing of Chinatown, and
possibly these hills. All South of Market Street was in motion, making
for the ferries or the bare western hills, the Presidio and Park; they
must answer for many of the fires, as they had not given a thought to
cracked chimneys when they wanted their breakfast; but of course crossed
wires and the overhead trolley system were responsible for as many more.
Then he advised Gwynne to order that all the bath-tubs in the house
should be filled with what water was left in the pipes, and that a stock
of provisions from the neighboring grocer and butcher should be laid in.
"Personally I don't believe the fire will ever come as far as this," he
said. "But there'll be a famine, no doubt of that. The wires are all
down, scarcely a train is running, the country may be as hard hit as
ourselves--and all that crowd down there to feed!"
Gwynne thanked him and replied that the launch was in waiting; but when
the man had gone he called the Japs, gave them money, and ordered them
to follow his neighbor's suggestion. He realized that he had no desire
to leave this city where life was suddenly keyed to its highest pitch,
and retire to the security and inaction of the country. Moreover, he
recalled the promise he had given Hofer and his other friends on the
night of the ball: this might be the emergency, and what services he
could render should be given freely enough.
Lady Victoria and Isabel came forth, and they all made their way rapidly
down to Nob Hill. The stair was more rickety than ever, and many of the
older houses they passed looked badly shaken within, if not
without--every door was open. The floors were covered with plaster; more
often than not the furniture and ornaments, and even mantels, were
massed in an indistinguishable heap. The Hofers' door, like the rest,
was open, and they saw that the spiral marble stair was a pile of
glittering splinters and that the pictures had been turned completely
round or flung across the hall. Mrs. Hofer had been too eager to reign
on Nob Hill to wait for a new foundation. Several of the servants were
sitting on the steps, and informed Gwynne that all the family, including
the children, had gone out in two automobiles an hour before, to see the
city.
They walked down the hill, stopped many times by returning citizens
anxious to impart information. The Italians on Telegraph Hill were mad
with terror: "they were no Californians," in accents of bitter contempt.
Portsmouth Square was full of Chinamen laughing at the women that had
run there from the hotels without shoes on their feet, and only an opera
or automobile cloak over their night-clothes. Even more amused were
those Oriental philosophers at the white scared faces of the prisoners
clinging to the bars of the jail. Nobody could tell how many people had
been killed by falling roofs and walls, although the wildest stories
were current, but so far there were more doctors and nurses attending to
business than patients to care for. Down in the Mechanics' Fair
Building, which had been converted into an emergency hospital, they were
working as methodically, with book and pencil, as well as with bandage
and instrument, as if earthquake and fire were a part of the daily
routine. "Almost everybody was quiet, but there were sights down there,
Oh, Lord, there were sights!" One man button-holed Gwynne, as he had
button-holed others on his ascent, and informed him that he had "got
down there" just in time to see two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
go up in smoke. "Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and it has
taken me twenty years to make it!" he reiterated, with an excited
bitterness that was almost hilarious. He did not ask Gwynne if he had
lost anything, but passed on to button-hole the next man and pour out
his tale of individual protest; upon him the earthquake and fire had
made a personal attack.
"How strange it seems to be in the midst of so much life--mere
physical life," said Lady Victoria. "A whole city tense and helpless! I
wonder that man could think of himself. We are all mere fragments of one
great whole."
Her eyes were still restless and bright, her mask had fallen, and with
it, curiously, many of her years. For a time, at least, the heavy burden
of self had slipped from her tired spirit.
Few stood in the doorways, or even gardens; nearly every one not
exploring the city was in the middle of the street. In the
boarding-house district, half-way down the hill, the corners were
crowded with people watching the fires, although as many more had gone
to the heights to command a better view. Some were still dazed and white
with terror, a few looked distraught; more than one man was as nervous
as his wife. But the majority were calm, although they wore an
expression of being ready for anything. A few, mindful of the California
tradition, were joking and relating the absurdities of their experience.
There was no question that the shock had been far greater in the city
than in and about Rosewater, and both Isabel and Gwynne, to Lady
Victoria's disgust, expressed a regret that they "had missed anything."
But it was possible that the convulsion had been even worse elsewhere.
St. Peter was built over a known fault, and San Francisco was not; and
indeed news was already coming into the city of coast hamlets that had
literally been torn to pieces. Other wild rumors were flying about. New
York had disappeared. Chicago had been swept by a tidal wave. As the
telegraph wires were all down no one attempted to account for these
items of news, but so much had already happened that if the eastern
hemisphere had dropped to the level of Atlantis, no one would have
stared.
When they reached Union Square they found it so crowded that they hardly
could make their way. Not only the guests of the St. Francis Hotel, that
flanked it, had taken refuge in the open, but those of many other
hotels. A few of the men were still in pyjamas, and of the women in
dressing-gown or opera-cloak, caught up as they fled. But the majority
had ventured back and dressed themselves, so that the "sights" were not
what they may have been an hour earlier. But no one seemed to care for
shelter; at all events they liked companionship in misery, although few
besides the foreign members of the Grand Opera Company were voluble.
Gwynne and Victoria and Isabel saw many of their acquaintance, not all
recognizable at first, for even those that had returned to their rooms
to dress themselves had taken little pains with their hair. One woman of
great beauty, however, whose husband's hat surmounted her flowing locks,
was just informing Isabel that she had reached that frame of mind where
vanity was pressing apprehension to the wall, when there was an
explosive sound, another as of rushing wings, the crowd stumbled against
one another, and the large buildings about the square rocked. Again
there was an exodus, and some clutching and gasping; but only a few of
the refugees from the burning district, sitting on the furniture they
had dragged with them, screamed. It was over in a few seconds, and then
Gwynne pressed his women gently out of the crowd and down, through the
tide of refugees, to Market Street. They walked in the middle of the
street, for the sidewalks in this business district, where many of the
buildings were of brick or stone, were littered with the débris of
fallen cornice and shattered windows and chimneys. Market Street was
kept open for automobiles, and the crossing refugees; the spectators
stood on the edge of the northern pavement only, and in some cases on
the top of bricks that represented an outer wall. A number of the
refugees were marching towards the ferries, although a curtain of smoke
bounded the lower end of Market Street. Others were moving stolidly
towards the western hills. All were burdened with pillow-cases packed
with clothing, or dragged trunks, cribs, baby-carriages, in which was a
strange assortment of utensils, children, and household pets. The
scrape, scrape of these unwieldy objects could be heard in a monotonous
reiteration above the distant roar and crackling of the flames. Behind
the tide of humanity rolling in from the burning district, at the end of
every street, was a vista of flame and smoke. And the dark clouds were
mounting higher and higher, lit with a million golden sparks. The
temperature was tropical.
People were already beginning to talk in phrases: The doomed city. The
fire zone. Razed to the ground. Brains were not active, and any one
energetic enough to put a few expressive words together was sure of
disciples. Here, more than elsewhere, it was apparent that the army was
in possession of the city. Mounted officers rode slowly up and down, and
at the mouth of each of those dusky and menacing avenues was a guard
with drawn bayonets. They permitted the unfortunate to emerge, but few
to enter. In spite of the audible energy of the fire, the slow tramp of
the refugees, the scraping of their furniture on the ill-paved streets,
the city was extraordinarily silent. People scarcely spoke above a
mutter. There was no shouting of orders. Even the children were not
whimpering, the tawdry women were not hysterical, not a parrot raised
his voice nor a dog whined. Faces were dazed, blank, imprinted with a
stolid determination to get to a place of safety and keep families and
belongings together. The present moment was as much as they could grasp,
and truth to tell there was a good deal in it.
Some of the sightseers speculated mildly--those that owned no property
in this district--as to what would happen if the wind drove the fire
much farther north. The opposite side of the street was lined with some
of the greatest business houses in the city. The Palace Hotel looked
like the rock of Gibraltar. Not a vase in its court had been overturned,
some one said. The other buildings were of stone, brick, concrete. They
had stood the earthquake; even the great square tower of the Call
Building, unsupported by other buildings, had barely lost a cornice. Was
it possible that the fire would take them? But the fire was rolling
nearer every moment, for it met little to resist it but wood. Down by
East Street several of the Market Street buildings were blazing. But no
doubt the marines would extinguish those, and surely that sea of flame
would break and retreat before the wall of rock opposite; and behind it
were other structures of stone and brick and concrete. Now and then a
refugee, permitting his attention to be drawn from his own little
affairs, told that the back windows of these buildings were already hung
with wet blankets, and that people stood by the cisterns on the roofs,
hose in hand. But the South of Market Street fraternity shook a united
head, and when the new phrase, The doomed city, was wafted into its dull
ears, it adopted it promptly, and marched on muttering it over and
over.
XI
Already a number of automobiles had flown by, some filled with people
anxious to leave town before it might be too late, but most of them
containing surgeons and their assistants, or relays of firemen, alone
permitted to enter the burning district; or prominent men bound for the
citizens' meeting to be held in the cellar of the old jail in Portsmouth
Square, a site upon which their ancestors had gambled and Jenny Lind had
sung. Gwynne, who was already beginning to chafe at inaction, to feel
the excited blood shake his pulses, was revolving excuses to send his
mother and Isabel home, when an automobile came charging down Market
Street at a terrific rate of speed. From some distance he recognized
Hofer sitting beside the chauffeur. Not in the least considering his
act, he stepped in front of the crowd and made a signal. Hofer responded
with a shout, the automobile slowed slightly, two men stood up and
clutched Gwynne, dragging him into the machine. Gwynne's long legs flew
backward as if he were plunging head first over an embankment, and he
had only time to right himself, turn and shout "Go home," before the
automobile had regained its speed and was out of sight.
Victoria turned to Isabel with wide eyes. "It looked like kidnapping!"
she exclaimed.
"I fancy they merely want him at the citizens' meeting. No doubt they
want every steady clear brain they can muster. I think I had better go
out and see what has become of Paula and the children. Will you come?"
Victoria shook her head. "This is all too interesting," she said. "I
must see more of it, and I am no longer afraid. When I am tired I will
go home. Shall we agree to meet there for luncheon?"
Isabel nodded and started up Stockton Street alone, intending to take
the first car that led in her sister's direction. Some of the trolley
wires were down, but no doubt others were uninjured, and the cable-cars
had always seemed to her as fixed as fate. She could no more conceive of
their system being dislocated for more than an hour at a time than of
the city burning. So far she was merely interested, and although sorry
for the unfortunate poor, felt that the fates had conspired to do the
city a service in cleaning out so objectionable a quarter. Of the
millions invested in that district she did not think, but sighed as she
thought of South Park and Rincon Hill. Still, they would have been
obliterated in the course of events and before long; and as for the fire
itself it would be stopped by the great walls of masonry on and near
Market Street. She looked eastward down the deserted streets towards the
bay, and although the vista there also was closed with flame and smoke,
the fires were far away, and the marines were fighting it.
She passed many people ascending and descending, some with pressed lips,
others arguing with a certain fettered excitement against the
pessimistic attitude. After she left the business blocks the sidewalks
again were free of débris, although she could see the ruin within. The
disreputable section of this street, known as the "Red light district,"
was crowded with women, to whose rescue or comfort no man would seem to
have come. Isabel looked at them with an irresistible curiosity, but no
sense of repulsion; she even stopped and answered their eager questions
as best she could. She was possessed with the idea that there was but
one person in San Francisco that day, no matter what the optical
delusion. She was not at all dazed, but utterly impersonal.
Even in the blazing sunshine most of these women were handsome, and
young. But all assurance was gone; when not strained and haggard from
the recent and the menacing terror, they looked indescribably forlorn.
But they were very quiet. Isabel heard but one excited cry, and
something of its thrill ran along her own nerves. "My God! The wind is
blowing from the southeast and it's blowing strong!"
Isabel glanced back. It seemed to her that the great suspended waves of
smoke, red-lined, were rolling with more energy, and they certainly were
inclining west as well as north. She wondered, with some irritation, why
the wind blew from the southeast when the first of the trades should be
roaring in from the Pacific. A strong steady west wind and the fire
would be blown towards the bay, where it could be extinguished from the
marine boats. Every time a gust ruffled her hair she shook her head
irritably, wondering that she had ever loved the wind.
She reached California Street. The cars were not running. Far down where
they should have started she saw nothing but smoke. Nor was there the
usual rumble indicating that the cable was at work, a sound which was
among the first of her memories. She turned west and climbed the almost
perpendicular blocks to the summit of Nob Hill. The beautiful massive
pile of white stone, to be known when finished as Fairmont Hotel, and
which had already done so much to redeem the city from its architectural
madness, looked as serene and unravaged as if it crowned a hill of
ancient Athens; but so, for that matter, did its neighbors, two as
faultless in their way; the others appearing even more outrageous than
usual, inasmuch as they had had their opportunity to disappear and
failed to take advantage of it.
From the summit of the hill Isabel gave a hasty glance southward, then
walked rapidly west; the fires seemed to cover far more ground than when
she had first looked at them from Russian Hill, an hour ago.
After she had tripped over two large paving-stones that had met in an
upward bulge, she took more note of detail. Some of the houses had
private cisterns, and their roofs and walls were still quite wet.
Pretentious garden walls, and stone pillars supporting façades, had
fallen, while next door an apparently more delicate structure was
intact. It seemed to be a matter of foundation. And everywhere there
were groups of silent people watching the fire. Even when the Red Cross
men and women carried out the injured, Isabel did not hear a groan. And
all were losing their dazed and frightened expressions. The careless
philosophy of the city was reasserting itself, although in a more
dignified phase.
At Van Ness Avenue, the wide street that runs through the residence part
of the city from north to south, Isabel shuddered for the first time,
and, as she was ashamed to run across, stood and stared with a new sense
of fascination at the inexplicable old earth. The street lay in a narrow
valley, what would have been a mere cañon in the mountains, and the soil
was loose and sandy, although the great houses sat upon most of the
brief level and held it firm. But the stone blocks in low garden walls
were bulging and broken, and the street itself was horribly torn. Here
and there it had sunken, and looked as if a wave had passed over it and
left an impress. A large stone church had fallen, one tower into the
street and another upon the neighboring house. The stone walls of houses
were cracked; one of the "mansions" had a zigzag crevice from top to
bottom.
And the proudest had brought forth chairs and were sitting in their
gardens or on the pavement. Isabel recognized a girl who had been one of
the belles of Mrs. Hofer's ball, clad in a bath-gown and a pair of
socks, and another, noted for her gowns, passed in a wagon, a
handkerchief tied about her head and a half-filled pillow-case on her
lap. Isabel knew that both had lived in one of the beautiful private
hotels on the avenue, and she had already heard that it was so badly
wrecked that the guests had been thankful to get out alive and had not
ventured to return for their clothes. The stately building had been run
up in a night, its feet set in sand, and the wonder was it was not lying
across the avenue.
Many of the refugees had already reached this third and last wide street
of refuge, and although the greater number were still down at the
southern end, others had pushed on, intending to walk to the Presidio,
where they were likely to be fed. They were resting on their cumbrous
belongings, strange groups, unkempt and half dressed. Many of the
householders had sent within for food, and one wealthy dame, whose maid
had had time to build her coiffure and groom her properly, sat with a
dirty frowsy baby on her lap and was coaxing it to take milk from a
spoon, its bottle having been overlooked in the flight. The mother was
sitting on the bureau her husband had rescued, by no means abashed, nor
even surprised.
Isabel crossed the street and ascended and descended again, traversed
several blocks to the north, and finally approached the house in which
the Stones had their apartment. Although high-perched, it was uninjured,
and as Isabel climbed the hill she saw Paula and her children seated,
with many others, on the long flight of steps. Paula waved her hand and
walked down composedly to meet her sister. She was dressed, laced, and
painted. A sufficient time had elapsed since the earthquake to permit
her ruling passion to regain its throne.
"Well, I am glad to see you!" She greeted Isabel with something of the
grand air. She felt almost pompous with the sense of playing her part in
a great event, fancied herself, perhaps, its central figure. "Of course,
I knew you were all right up there, especially as we came off fairly
well. But you should have been here. You've missed it!"
"I know," said Isabel, humbly. "But I am glad you were not hurt. And not
frightened?"
"Oh, fearfully. And being up so many flights of stairs made it seem so
much worse. But Lyster and I managed to get out of bed and into the
nursery before it was half over, and hold the children in the doorways.
I didn't make a fool of myself like so many others, and run out in the
street before I was dressed; my hair was up on pins. Lys was more
frightened than I was--it's a wonder he has any nerves at all--and now
that there are so many fires he is fearfully excited at the idea that
all his favorite haunts may go. He has gone down-town to see what is
happening--also," in a happy afterthought, "to try and borrow some
money. He literally had not ten cents in his pocket. We have some in the
bank for a wonder, but everybody says the banks will go, and also that
there will be hard times."
Isabel handed over her purse mechanically. "Victoria and Elton have
plenty, I shall not need it," she said. But the desire to save Mrs.
Stone's feelings was superfluous. The purse disappeared with a polite
"Thanks, dear," and Paula hastily changed the subject, lest the luxury
of a carriage for the return to Russian Hill should appeal to Isabel.
"Of course you'll go back to the ranch where you can be comfortable,"
she remarked.
"I have no plan. The launch is ready for us, but it will depend upon the
others. Should you care to go to the ranch? I don't suppose you are in
any danger from fire, out here, but things may be very uncomfortable for
a time."
"Oh, I'll take the risk," said Paula, easily. "I should be bored to
death up there, and here there are so many people to talk to. I have
heard about fifty experiences this morning, and all fearfully
interesting. I guess we'll make out. It will only be for a day or two
anyhow, and everybody that has food in the house is offering to share
with the rest. I never have much on hand, but Mrs. Brooks, who lives
under me, always keeps her store-room filled, and has invited me to
lunch. You had better stop, too."
"I have promised Victoria to return. Just suppose the fire should come
out here, what should you do?"
"Oh, take a mattress or two out to the Presidio. It's not far, and would
be a regular picnic. But it won't."
"Well, I'll go, then. If you change your mind you can have the launch.
Only come to me first. Mr. Clatt is standing over it with a
six-shooter."
"Thanks. Sorry you won't come in. Lys won't sit down for about a week,
he's that nervous, so you'll probably see him up on the Hill."
Isabel started for home, and when she reached Fillmore Street discovered
that she was tired. It was then that she regretted not having reserved a
dollar or two; but no doubt Victoria was at home by this time. She found
a livery-stable, and asked the proprietor, lounging in the entrance, if
he could send her to the foot of her bluff.
"Yes, for fifty dollars," he said, coolly. Fillmore Street was a
prosperous slum, another brief level between two steep acclivities. It
was not yet aware of the proud destiny that awaited it, that for the
next year or more it was to be the teeming centre of the abbreviated
city's life, but there never was a time when it was burdened with
manners, or the grand point of view. When Isabel stared, the man
continued: "Yes, ma'am! Fifty's the ticket. And two hours later it may
be five hundred. Some people are getting mighty nervous, and I've let
five hacks and buggies already, at my own figure, to them as wants to
get out of town quick."
Isabel turned her back on him, and climbed and descended again. Lower
Van Ness Avenue was even more torn and lumpy than where she had crossed
it at California Street, and hundreds of the South of Market Street
refugees were sitting or lying in the middle of the street, worn out but
stolid. Just beyond, she caught up with a teamster, who, noticing the
fatigue in her eyes, stopped his horses and offered her a "lift,"
provided she was "going his way."
Isabel gratefully climbed to his high perch, after stating that she had
no money, and being royally silenced.
"Oh, shucks!" said the man. "I guess this is the time to do other folks
a good turn. You'd do the same for me, I'll bet. What do you think of
this business, anyhow?"
Isabel replied hopefully, but he shook his head.
"City's doomed. Far as Van Ness, anyhow. Nothin' ain't goin' to stop
that fire but water, and water's just what they haven't got. Lord! to
think of that bay on three sides of the city. Talk about the Ancient
Mariner. I don't live in the city, but I'll be sorry to see it go. Lord!
warn't that a shake? I was flung plumb out of bed and against the wall,
and the house next to mine, or the one I war in, went plumb out into the
middle of the street. Lord! what a yellin' there was inside! Nobody
hurt, but one woman went plumb out'r her mind. They've got her tied to
the bed-post now. And what a lootin' of saloons there was until the
soldiers marched in! Now, I hear, that there mayor has issued an order,
which is to be pasted up all over, that any man caught lootin' anything,
saloons or otherwise, is to be shot dead and no questions asked. Good
job, that. I guess we're in for high old times, miss. I'm makin' for
Oakland, where I live. I brought in a load last evenin' and stopped
over. Some of my friends live down by the ferry, and I'll pick them up,
if they want to get out. Don't you want to come along? My wife and me'll
be glad to put you up if you can't do any better."
Isabel thanked him warmly, and assured him that she would be safe in any
case, then discovered a loose half-dollar in the pocket of her jacket.
The man accepted it philosophically.
"You were welcome to the ride, but I'm not the one to say nay to a bit
of silver so long as you say you're not hard up yourself. Guess it'll
come in handy. Well, s'long. Good luck to you. I've enjoyed your society
very much."
XII
The teamster had deposited her at Taylor and Jackson streets, and as she
passed the Trennahans' door it occurred to her to ask how they fared.
The house appeared to be uninjured, but the electric bell was useless,
and it was not until she had knocked several times that an old Mexican
servant answered the summons. Then she learned that the family had left
for Menlo Park in their touring car immediately after the earthquake, as
the boys were at the country-house with their tutor. The woman had been
maid for many years to Mrs. Polk and had lived with Magdaléna since her
aunt's death. She was a privileged character, and during Isabel's visit
had accepted her relationship to the house of Yorba and waited on her
personally.
"So tired you look," she said. "Come in, no?" Then, as the invitation
was declined, she leaned her stout shapeless figure against the
door-frame and begged Isabel for an account of her experience. Isabel
gave it briefly, and the old woman shook her head. "So terreeblay
thing!" she sighed. "Seventy years I live in California and this the
more bad earthquake I never feel. My mother she feel the great
earthquake of 1812 in the south, when the padres plant a long straight
branch in the middle of the square of San Gabriel, and it never stop
shake for four months. Ay yi, California! I theenk we all go into the
bay this morning, and I fall down twice when I run to see how little
Señorita Inez she feeling. Ay yi!"
"Why did you not go to the country?"
"And who take care the house? The car come back bime-by for the other
servants, but I no go. Si, I can go in the train--then--perhaps. But no
in automobilia. Is devil, no less."
"Well, if you should be frightened come up to me," and Isabel went on
hurriedly to her own home, suddenly reminded of the uncertainty of her
relative's nerves. But Victoria was standing on the porch staring
outward with such an intensity of gaze that she took no notice of
Isabel's approach. And when Isabel reached her side, she too stood
silent for a time. The Call Building was on fire. This square tower of
seventeen stories and a dome, with some seventy windows on each side,
had caught fire at the top, and as the flames devoured the contents of
one floor as quickly as possible that they might dart down another
flight and gorge themselves anew, in an incredibly short time the two
hundred windows in sight, and no doubt those in the rear, were spouting
flames like the mouths of so many cannon: each sharply defined, owing to
the indestructible nature of the walls. Volumes of white smoke poured
upward to be lost in the black clouds above. At times the fire and
smoke, on either side, torn by the wind, seemed to dance and gyrate in a
Bacchanalian revel, taking monstrous forms, that exploded in showers of
sparks, glittering like the fabled California sands. Above the burning
district the smoke clouds changed form constantly. Sometimes they reeled
along like colossal water-spouts. The roar of the fire waxed louder as
one listened to it: a deep persistent energetic roar, as of a sea
climbing over a land its time had come to devour.
Suddenly a curtain of smoke swept down and obliterated the scene,
conveying a sense of respite, challenging the memory, although a moment
later it was shot with a million sparks.
Victoria announced briefly that they were to have lunch of a sort, but
for her part she would prefer a bath.
A bath, however, was out of the question, and, without washing the
cinders from their faces and hands, they sat down to beefsteak fried on
one of the oil-stoves used for heating the Mansard story, and canned
vegetables. That much indulgence they might have permitted themselves,
but human nature is prone to extremes, and they were tuned to a severe
economy that might embrace more than water for some weeks to come.
Isabel sent a plate of sandwiches and a bottle of beer down to Mr.
Clatt, and the servant returned with the information that the faithful
wharfinger was sitting on a chair in front of the launch, a pistol on
his lap; and that already a small crowd was crouched like buzzards in
front of him. Isabel asked Victoria if she cared to retreat, but the
older woman shook her head.
"Do you?" she asked.
"Oh no. I shall remain until the last minute, certainly until I know
what Elton's plans are. If the launch is seized we can go down to Fort
Mason or out to the Presidio. Every one is in the same boat. I should
hate being too comfortable. But I don't think you should sleep
out-of-doors. It is always damp at night."
"I can stand as much as you can. I am quite fit again. And this is the
first time, for heaven knows how many years, that anything has
interested me. I shall stay till the last minute; and surely no fire
could climb this hill. Did I tell you that Mr. Trennahan came up at once
and asked me to go to Menlo Park with them? Ungrateful--but I have not
thought of it since."
Isabel announced her intention to take a nap. "No one knows what may
happen to-night," she said. "And I feel as if I had not slept for a
week."
She fell asleep at once. Lady Victoria awakened her by bursting
unceremoniously into her room.
"You must get up and look!" she cried. "The Palace Hotel and the other
big newspaper buildings are on fire. The sight is something awful--and
wonderful."
Isabel ran to the window. All the valley was a rolling sea of flame, and
all space seemed to be filled with enormous surging billows of smoke.
From every window of the Palace Hotel, an immense square building of
some seven stories, from the great newspaper buildings, and from other
brick and stone structures near by, tongues of flame were leaping; the
wooden buildings were mere shapeless furnaces. Again a volume of smoke
descended, and for the moment nothing was to be seen but a red blur
somewhere in the midst of rolling black.
Victoria communicated to Isabel the information she had received from
the neighbors, always coming and going. People were pouring out of the
city, not only by the Southern Pacific boats to Oakland, and indirectly
to Berkeley and Alameda, but by freight-boats and launches to the Marin
towns. They were obliged to make a long detour round the base of the
northern hills, as the water-front and the streets behind were a roaring
furnace, although the fires had not crossed East Street. All houses in
the towns across the bay had opened to the refugees, tents had been
erected in the public squares, and emergency hospitals had been started
before nine o'clock. The militia had been called out to assist the
regulars, and also the Cadet Battalion of the State University. A
Citizens' Patrol had been formed to protect the still unburned
districts, each man provided with arms at the Presidio. People on the
lower slopes were now in full flight towards the western parks and
hills, as well as the Presidio, many being under the impression that the
ferry-boats were not running. It was doubtful if a hotel or a
boarding-house would harbor a soul that night; not east of Van Ness
Avenue, at least, and many in that region were preparing to sleep in the
Park and squares, lest the fire attack them from the south. Refugees,
exhausted, were lying on the doorsteps and in the streets of the Western
Addition.
Victoria relapsed into silence and Isabel gazed down upon the beautiful
terrible scene--the curtain had rolled upward again--at the enormous
tongues of flame leaping from every window, the showers of golden
sparks, the swooping and soaring clouds, many of them white, with
convoluted edges, and faintly tinted like the day smoke of Vesuvius.
These curled white masses rolled among the black waves towards the west,
and the low deep roar waxed louder as one listened to it.
All the wooden bow-windows of the Palace Hotel had been eaten off, but
it would be hours before the stoutly built old hotel ceased to feed the
flames. Sometimes sheets of fire seemed to drive from the apertures
across the great width of Market Street, to be beaten back by a solid
wall of flame. In the intense clear yellow light that bathed the street
Isabel could see the twisted car tracks. More than once she fancied she
saw a prostrate body, but it may have been an achievement of the
shifting flames, and certainly nothing living moved down there. The
mounted officers and their men were patrolling the blocks along all the
northern front of the fire.
"Are you not in the least worried about Elton?" asked Isabel, abruptly.
"Not a bit. I never worried about him when he was a child. He was always
the most agile and ready youngster I ever saw."
"But he is very venturesome. He might be caught in one of those furnaces
as well as another, or killed by falling bricks."
"He is a man of destiny," said Victoria indifferently. "He will live to
accomplish what he was born for."
Isabel, in truth, found worry as impossible as any other common emotion,
nevertheless thought it odd that he did not come to them for a moment or
send a message. She could appreciate his wholly masculine mood, his
temporary indifference to the charms of her sex, but he had an ingrained
sense of responsibility, and was more considerate than the average man.
Lady Victoria returned to her vantage-point on the veranda, and Isabel
went down to the garden fence where the three Japs were standing, and
asked them if they intended to remain--half the servants had already
fled from the city. Two replied that later in the day they should go to
Oakland where they had friends. Isabel told them that she should not
part with what little money there was in the house, and they answered
politely that they expected to wait for their wages. The oldest of the
three, a respectable man of thirty, who looked like, and no doubt was,
a student, announced his intention to remain.
"I can cook," he added. "Not well, but perhaps well enough for a few
days. And perhaps if we are driven out I may go to the country with you.
I should be willing to work for anything you could pay me until things
were restored to their normal condition--if you would be good enough to
give me my evenings for study."
Isabel promised him the protection of her ranch-house, and stood talking
to him for some time. His English was unusually correct and his remarks
were more intelligent than those of the average man of her acquaintance.
He told her something of Japanese earthquakes, and was good enough to
add that he had never felt quite so violent or so peculiar a series of
earth movements as California had achieved that morning. He was curious
to see the result as recorded on the seismograph, and to know at what
hour it registered in Japan.
"I think Professor Omori will come over," he said, modestly. "This
earthquake will interest him very much. He will wish to study the
ground."
"Were you not frightened?" asked Isabel, curiously.
"I appreciated the danger, but frightened--no, miss, I think I have
never felt frightened. But I do not like fire. I have seen Tokio burn. I
shall walk about constantly and see that it does not steal upon us from
the north or west. Some silly person might make a fire, and all the
chimneys must be cracked."
"I feel much relieved to know that you will patrol," said Isabel,
wondering if she were being gracious to a prince. "Would you mind going
up to the top of the hill and asking some one if he knows whether all
