invariably turns over the contract to his wife.
Williard was deeply in love, too, with Senator Gordon's lovely daughter,
and Senator Gordon was that mysterious power which directed the
Republican forces in his section of the state. So you may readily
believe that Newcomb was forced to put up a better fight than Williard,
who stood high in Senator Gordon's favor. The girl and the two young men
had been friends since childhood, and nobody knew whether she cared for
either of them in the way they desired. Everybody in town, who was
anybody, understood the situation; and everybody felt confident that
Williard was most likely to win. The girl never said anything, even to
her intimate friends; but when the subject was brought up, she smiled in
a way that dismissed it.
Such was the political situation at the beginning of the municipal
campaign. There have been like situations in any number of cities which
boast of one hundred thousand inhabitants or more; perhaps in your town,
and yours, and yours. That bugaboo of the politician, reform, brings
around this phenomenon about once in every eight years. For a while the
wicked ones promise to be good, and you will admit that that helps.
It was amusing to follow the newspapers. They vilified each other,
ripped to shreds the character of each candidate, recalled boyhood
escapades and magnified them into frightful crimes, and declared in turn
that the opposition boss should land in the penitentiary if it took all
the type in the composing-rooms to do it. What always strikes me as odd
is that, laughter-loving people that we are, nobody laughs during these
foolish periods. Instead, everybody goes about, straining his conscience
and warping his common-sense into believing these flimsy campaign lies,
these outrageous political roorbacks.
When Williard and Newcomb met at the club, at the Saturday-night
luncheons, they avoided each other tactfully, each secretly longing to
grasp the other's hand and say: "Don't believe a word of it, old boy;
it's all tommy-rot." But policy held them at arm's length. What would
the voters say if they heard that their respective candidates were
hobnobbing at a private club? Newcomb played billiards in the basement
while Williard played a rubber at whist up stairs; and the Saturday
rides out to the country club became obsolete. Only a few cynics saw the
droll side of the situation; and they were confident that when the
election was over the friendship would be renewed all the more strongly
for the tension.
One night, some weeks before the election, Williard dined alone with the
senator at the Gordon home. Betty Gordon was dining elsewhere. With the
cognac and cigars, the senator drew out a slip of paper, scrutinized it
for a space, then handed it to his protégé.
"That's the slate. How do you like it?"
Williard ran his glance up and down the columns. Once he frowned.
"What's the matter?" asked the senator shrewdly.
"I do not like the idea of Matthews for commissioner of public works.
He's a blackleg--there's no getting around that. He practically runs
that faro-bank above his down-town saloon. Can't you put some one else
in his place?"
The senator flipped the ash from the end of his cigar.
"Honestly, my boy, I agree with your objection; but the word is given,
and if we turn him down now, your friend Newcomb will stand a pretty
fair show of being the next mayor."
"You might get a worse one," Williard laughed. "Jack is one of the
finest fellows in the world," loyally.
"Not a bit of doubt; but politically," said the senator, laughing, "he
is a rascal, a man without a particle of character, and all that. But
personally speaking, I would that this town had more like him. Win or
lose, he will always be welcome in this house. But this Matthews matter;
you will have to swallow him or be swallowed."
"He's a rascal."
"Perhaps he is. Once you are elected, however, you can force him out,
and be hanged to him. Just now it would be extremely dangerous. My boy,
politics has strange bed-fellows, as the saying goes. These men are
necessary; to fight them is to cut your own throat. No one knows just
how they get their power; but one morning you will wake up and find them
menacing you, and you have to placate them and toss them sops."
"I might at least have been consulted."
"I appreciated your antagonism beforehand. Politics is a peculiar
business. A man must form about himself a shell as thick as a turtle's,
or his feelings are going to be hurt. Now, if you would like to change
any of these smaller offices, the health department doesn't matter. What
do you say?"
"Oh, if Matthews remains on the slate, I do not care to alter the rest
of it. But I warn you that I shall get rid of him at the earliest
opportunity."
"Just as you like."
The senator smiled covertly. Matthews was one of his henchmen in the
larger matters of state. His name had been the first to appear on the
slate, and the senator was determined that it should remain there. Not
that he had any liking for the man; simply he was one of the wheels
which made the machine run smoothly. The senator knew his power of
persuasion; he knew Williard's easy-going nature; but he also knew that
these easy-going persons are terribly stubborn at times. He was obliged
to hold on to Matthews. The gubernatorial campaign was looming up for
the ensuing year, and the senator was curious to learn the real power
that went with the seal of a governor of a first-class state.
There fell an intermission to the conversation. Williard smoked
thoughtfully. He recalled the years during which he had accepted the
generous hospitality of this house, and the love he held for the host's
daughter. Only since his return from abroad had he learned the strength
of his sentiment. Heretofore he had looked upon the girl as a sister,
jolly, talented, a fine dancer, a daring rider, a good comrade. He had
been out of the country for three years. On his return he had found
Betty Gordon a beautiful woman, and he had silently surrendered. As yet
he had said nothing, but he knew that she knew. Yet he always saw the
shadow of Newcomb, old Jack Newcomb. Well, let the best man win!
"I can find a way to dispose of Matthews," he said finally.
"I dare say."
But Williard did not know the tenacity with which some men cling to
office. The senator did.
Here the servant ushered in two lieutenants of the senator's. One was an
ex-consul and the other was the surveyor of customs, who was not
supposed to dabble in local politics.
"Everything is agreeable to Mr. Williard," the senator answered in reply
to the questioning look of his subordinates. "He vows, however, that he
will shake Matthews as soon as he can get the chance."
The new arrivals laughed.
"We'll put you through, young man," said the ex-consul; "and one of
these fine days we shall send you to France. That's the place for a man
of your wit and wealth."
Williard smiled and lighted a fresh cigar. He did possess the reputation
of being a clever wit, and in his secret heart he would much prefer a
consulate or a secretaryship at the French embassy. He thoroughly
detested this indiscriminate hand-shaking which went with local
politics.
But Matthews stuck in his gorge, and he wondered if Newcomb was going
through any like ordeal, and if Newcomb would submit so readily.... Why
the deuce didn't Betty return? It was almost nine o'clock.
Presently her sunny countenance appeared in the doorway, and Williard
dropped his cigar joyfully and rose. It was worth all the politics in
the world!
"Gentlemen, you will excuse me," he said.
"Go along!" the senator cried jovially. "We can spare you."
As indeed they very well could!
In a minute Williard was in the music-room.
"I really do not know that I ought to shake hands with you, Dick," began
Betty, tossing her hat on the piano. "You have deceived me for years."
"Deceived you! What do you mean?" mightily disturbed.
"Wait a moment." She brought forth a paper. "Sit down in front of me.
This is going to be a court of inquiry, and your sins shall be passed in
review." He obeyed meekly. "Now listen," the girl went on, mischief in
her eyes; "this paper says horrid things about you. It claims that you
have given riotous dinners to actresses and comic-opera singers. I
classify them because I do not think comic-opera singers are actresses."
"Rot!" said Williard, crossing his legs and eying with pleasure the
contours of her face. "Jolly rot!"
"You mustn't say 'jolly' in this country; it's English, and they'll be
accusing you of it."
"Well, bally rot; how will that go?"
"That isn't very pretty, but it will pass. Now, to proceed. They say
that your private life is profligate."
"Oh, come now, Betty!" laughing diffidently.
"They say that you gamble at poker and win and lose huge sums."
"Your father plays poker in Washington; I've seen him."
"He's not on trial; you are. Furthermore," went on the girl, the
twinkle going from her eye, leaving it searching yet unfathomable, "this
editor says that you are only a dummy in this game of politics, and that
once you are mayor, your signature will be all that will be required of
you. That is to say, you will be nothing but a puppet in the hands of
the men who brought about your election."
Williard thought of Matthews, and the smile on his lips died.
"Now, Dick, this paper says that it seeks only the truth of things, and
admits that you possess certain engaging qualities. What am I to
believe?"
"Betty, you know very well that they'll have me robbing widows before
election." He was growing restless. He felt that this trial wasn't all
play. "If you don't mind, I'd rather talk of something else. Politics,
politics, morning, noon and night until my ears ache!"
"Or burn," suggested the girl. "The things they say about your private
life--I don't care for them. I know that they are not truths. But the
word 'puppet' annoys me." She laid aside the paper.
"Have I ever acted like a dummy, Betty? In justice to me, have I?" He
was serious.
"Not in ordinary things."
"No one has ever heard that I broke a promise."
"No."
"Or that I was cowardly."
"No, no!"
"Well, if I am elected, I shall fool certain persons. I am easy-going; I
confess to that impeachment; but I have never been crossed
successfully."
"They'll know how to accomplish their ends without crossing you. That's
a part of the politician's business."
"If I am elected, I'll study ways and means. Hang it, I wasn't running
after office. They said that they needed me. As a property owner I had
to surrender. I am not a hypocrite; I never was. I can't go honestly
among the lower classes and tell them that I like them, shake their
grimy hands, hobnob with them at caucuses and in gloomy halls. I am not
a politician; my father was not before me; it isn't in my blood. I
haven't the necessary ambition. Newcomb's grandfather was a war
governor; mine was a planter in the South. Now, Newcomb has ambition
enough to carry him to the presidency; and I hope he'll get it some day,
and make an ambassador out of me. Sometimes I wish I wasn't rich, so
that I might enjoy life as some persons do. To have something to fight
for constantly! I am spoiled."
He wheeled his chair toward the fire and rested his elbows on his knees.
"He's very handsome," thought the girl; but she sighed.
                                   II
THAT same evening Newcomb and McDermott, the Democratic leader, met by
appointment in McDermott's law offices. McDermott was a wealthy
steel-manufacturer who had held various state and national offices. As a
business man his policy was absolute honesty. He gave liberal wages, met
his men personally, and adjusted their differences. There were as many
Republicans as Democrats in his employ. Politics never entered the shop.
Every dollar in his business had been honestly earned. He was a born
leader, kindly, humorous, intelligent. But once he put on his silk hat
and frock coat, a metamorphosis, strange and incomprehensible, took
place. He became altogether a different man; cold, purposeful,
determined, bitter, tumbling over obstacles without heart or conscience,
using all means to gain his devious ends; scheming, plotting,
undermining this man or elevating that, a politician in every sense of
the word; cunning, astute, long-headed, far-seeing. He was not suave
like his old enemy, the senator; he was blunt because he knew the
fullness of his power. But for all his bluntness, he was, when need said
must, a diplomat of no mean order. If he brought about a shady election,
he had the courage to stand by what he had done. He was respected and
detested alike.
The present incumbent in the city hall was no longer of use to him. He
was wise enough to see that harm to his power would come about in case
the reform movement got headway; he might even be dethroned. So his
general's eye had lighted on Newcomb, as the senator's had lighted on
Williard; only he had mistaken his man, whereas the senator had not.
"My boy," he began, "I'm going to lecture you."
"Go ahead," said Newcomb. "I know what the trouble is. I crossed out Mr.
Murphy's name from the list you fixed up for my inspection."
"And his name must go back," smiling. "We can't afford to turn him down
at this late day."
"I can," said the protégé imperturbably and firmly.
For a moment their glances met and clashed.
"You must always remember the welfare of the party," gently.
"And the people," supplemented the admonished one.
"Of course," with thin lips. "But Murphy's name must stand. We depend
upon the eighth ward to elect you, and Murphy holds it in his palm. Your
friend Williard will be forced to accept Matthews for the same reason.
It's a game of chess, but a great game."
"Matthews? I don't believe it. Williard would not speak to him on the
street, let alone put him on the ticket."
"Wait and see."
"He's a blackleg, a gambler, worse than Murphy."
"And what is your grievance against Murphy? He has always served the
party well."
"Not to speak of Mr. Murphy."
"What has he done?"
"He has sold his vote three times in the common council. He sold it once
for two thousand dollars in that last pavement deal. I have been rather
observant. Let him remain alderman; I can not see my way clear to
appoint him to a position in the city hall."
McDermott's eyes narrowed. "Your accusations are grave. If Murphy
learns, he may make you prove it."
Newcomb remained silent for a few minutes, his face in thoughtful
repose; then having decided to pursue a certain course, he reached into
a pigeon-hole of his desk and selected a paper which he gave to
McDermott. The latter studied the paper carefully. From the paper his
glance traveled to the face of the young man opposite him. He wondered
why he hadn't taken more particular notice of the cleft chin and the
blue-gray eyes. Had he made a mistake? Was the young fellow's honesty
greater than his ambition? McDermott returned the paper without comment.
"Is that proof enough?" Newcomb asked, a bit of raillery in his tones.
"You should have told me of this long ago."
"I hadn't the remotest idea that Murphy's name would turn up. You can
very well understand that I can not consider this man's name as an
appointee."
"Why hasn't it been turned over to the district attorney?"
"The plaintiff is a patient man. He left it to me. It is a good sword,
and I may have to hold it over Mr. Murphy's neck."
McDermott smiled.
"The Democratic party in this county needs a strong tonic in the nature
of a clean bill. I want my appointees men of high standing; I want them
honest; I want them not for what they have done, but what they may do."
McDermott smiled again. "I have made a mistake in not coming to you
earlier. There is a great future for a man of your kidney, Newcomb. You
have a genuine talent for politics. You possess something that only a
dozen men in a hundred thousand possess, a tone. Words are empty things
unless they are backed by a tone. Tone holds the auditor, convinces him,
directs him if by chance he is wavering. You are a born orator. Miller
retires from Congress next year. His usefulness in Washington has
passed. How would you like to succeed him?"
Insidious honey! Newcomb looked out of the window. Washington! A seat
among the Seats of the Mighty! A torchlight procession was passing
through the street below, and the noise of the fife and drum rose. The
world's applause; the beating of hands, the yells of triumph, the
laudation of the press--the world holds no greater thrill than this. Art
and literature stand pale beside it. But a worm gnawed at the heart of
this rose, a canker ate into the laurel. Newcomb turned. He was by no
means guileless.
"When I accepted this nomination, I did so because I believed that the
party was in danger, and that, if elected, I might benefit the people. I
have remained silent; I have spoken but little of my plans; I have made
few promises. Mr. McDermott, I am determined, first and foremost, to be
mayor in all the meaning of the word. I refuse to be a figure-head. I
have crossed out Murphy's name because he is a dishonest citizen. Yes, I
am ambitious; but I would forego Washington rather than reach it by
shaking Murphy's hand." The blood of the old war-governor tingled in his
veins at that moment.
"It must be replaced," quietly.
"In face of that document?"
"In spite of it."
"I refuse!"
"Listen to reason, my boy; you are young, and you have to learn that in
politics there's always a bitter pill with the sweet. To elect you I
have given my word to Murphy that he shall have the office."
"You may send Mr. Murphy to me," said Newcomb curtly. "I'll take all the
blame."
"This is final?"
"It is. And I am surprised that you should request this of me."
"He will defeat you."
"So be it."
McDermott was exceedingly angry, but he could not help admiring the
young man's resoluteness and direct honesty.
"You are making a fatal mistake. I shall make an enemy of the man, and I
shall not be able to help you. I have a great deal at stake. If we lose
the eighth, we lose everything, and for years to come."
"Perhaps. One dishonest step leads to another, and if I should sanction
this man, I should not hesitate at greater dishonesty. My honesty is my
bread and butter ... and my conscience."
"Corporations have no souls; politics has no conscience. Williard ..."
"My name is Newcomb," abruptly. "In a matter of this kind I can not
permit myself to be subjected to comparisons. You brought about my
present position in municipal affairs."
"We had need of you, and still need you," confessed the other
reluctantly. "The party needs new blood."
"You are a clever man, Mr. McDermott; you are a leader; let me appeal to
your better judgment. Murphy is a blackguard, and he would be in any
party, in any country. In forcing him on me, you rob me of my
self-respect."
McDermott shrugged. "In this case he is a necessary evil. The success of
the party depends upon his good will. Listen. Will you find, in all this
wide land, a ruling municipality that is incorrupt? Is there not a fly
in the ointment whichever way you look? Is not dishonesty fought with
dishonesty; isn't it corruption against corruption? Do you believe for a
minute that you can bring about this revolution? No, my lad; no. This is
a workaday world; Utopia is dreamland. You can easily keep your eye on
this man. If he makes a dishonest move, you can find it in your power to
remove him effectually. But I swear to you that he is absolutely
necessary."
"Well, I will assume the risk of his displeasure."
"Show him your document, and tell him that if he leaves you in the lurch
at the polls, you'll send him to prison. That's the only way out."
McDermott thought he saw light.
"Make a blackmailer of myself? Hardly."
"I am sorry." McDermott rose. "You are digging a pit for a very bright
future."
"Politically, perhaps."
"If you are defeated, there is no possible method of sending you to
Washington in Miller's place. You must have popularity to back you. I
have observed that you are a very ambitious young man."
"Not so ambitious as to obscure my sense of right."
"I like your pluck, my boy, though it stands in your own light. I'll do
all I can to pacify Murphy. Good night and good luck to you." And
McDermott made his departure.
Newcomb remained motionless in his chair, studying the night. So much
for his dreams! He knew what McDermott's "I'll do what I can" meant. If
only he had not put his heart so thoroughly into the campaign! Was there
any honesty? Was it worth while to be true to oneself? Murphy controlled
nearly four hundred votes. For six years the eighth ward had carried the
Democratic party into victory. Had he turned this aside? For years the
elections had been like cheese-parings; and in ten years there hadn't
been a majority of five hundred votes on either side. If Murphy was a
genuine party man, and not a leech, he would stand square for his party
and not consider personal enmity. What would he do when he heard from
McDermott that he (Newcomb) had deliberately crossed him off the ticket
of appointees?
From among some old papers in a drawer Newcomb produced the portrait of
a young girl of sixteen in fancy dress. When he had studied this a
certain length of time, he took out another portrait: it was the young
girl grown into superb womanhood. The eyes were kind and merry, the
mouth beautiful, the brow fine and smooth like a young poet's, a nose
with the slightest tilt; altogether a high-bred, queenly, womanly face,
such as makes a man desire to do great things in the world. Newcomb had
always loved her. He had gone through the various phases: the boy, the
diffident youth, the man. (Usually it takes three women to bring about
these changes!) There was nothing wild or incoherent in his love,
nothing violent or passionate; rather the serene light, the steady
burning light, that guides the ships at sea; constant, enduring, a sure
beacon.
As he studied the face from all angles, his jaws hardened. He lifted his
chin defiantly. He had the right to love her; he had lived cleanly, he
had dealt justly to both his friends and his enemies, he owed no man, he
was bound only to his mother, who had taught him the principles of manly
living. He had the right to love any woman in the world.... And there
was Williard--handsome, easy-going old Dick! Why was it written that
their paths must cross in everything? Yes, Dick loved her, too, but with
an affection that had come only with majority. Williard had everything
to offer besides. Should he step down and aside for his friend? Did
friendship demand such a sacrifice? No! Let Williard fight for her as he
(Newcomb) intended to fight for her; and if Williard won, there would be
time then to surrender.
It was almost twelve when the scrub-woman aroused him from his reveries.
He closed his desk and went home, his heart full of battle. He would put
up the best fight that was in him, for love and for fame; and if he lost
he would still have his manhood and self-respect, which any woman might
be proud to find at her feet, to accept or decline. He would go into
Murphy's own country and fight him openly and without secret weapons. He
knew very well that he held it in his power to coerce Murphy, but that
wasn't fighting.
Neither of the candidates slept well that night.
                   *       *       *       *       *
So the time went forward. The second Tuesday in November was but a
fortnight off. Newcomb fought every inch of ground. He depended but
little, if any, upon McDermott's assistance, though that gentleman came
gallantly to his rescue, as it was necessary to save his own scalp. It
crept into the papers that there was a rupture between Murphy and the
Democratic candidate. The opposition papers cried in glee; the others
remained silent. Murphy said nothing when questioned; he simply smiled.
Newcomb won the respect of his opponents. The laboring classes saw in
him a Moses, and they hailed him with cheers whenever they saw him.
                             [Illustration]
There were many laughable episodes during the heat of the campaign; but
Newcomb knew how and when to laugh. He answered questions from the
platform, and the ill-mannered were invariably put to rout by his
good-natured wit. Once they hoisted him on top of a bar in an obscure
saloon. His shoulders touched the gloomy ceiling, and he was forced to
address the habitués, with his head bent like a turtle's, his nose and
eyes offended by the heat and reek of kerosene and cheap tobacco. They
had brought him there to bait him; they carried him out on their
shoulders. To those who wanted facts he gave facts; to some he told
humorous stories, more or less applicable; and to others he spoke his
sincere convictions.
Meantime Williard took hold of affairs, but in a bored fashion. He did
the best he knew how, but it wasn't the best that wins high place in the
affections of the people.
The betting was even.
Election day came round finally--one of those rare days when the pallid
ghost of summer returns to view her past victories, when the broad wings
of the West go a-winnowing the skies, and the sun shines warm and
grateful. On that morning a change took place in Newcomb's heart. He
became filled with dread. After leaving the voting-polls early in the
morning, he returned to his home and refused to see any one. He even had
the telephone wires cut. Only his mother saw him, and hovered about him
with a thousand kindly attentions. At the door she became a veritable
dragon; not even telegraph messengers could pass her or escape her
vigilance.
At six in the evening Newcomb ordered around his horse. He mounted and
rode away into the hill country south of the city, into the cold crisp
autumn air. There was fever in his veins that needed cooling; there were
doubts and fears in his mind that needed clearing. He wanted that sense
of physical exhaustion which makes a man indifferent to mental blows.
The day passed and the night came. Election night! The noisy,
good-natured crowds in the streets, the jostling, snail-moving crowds!
The illuminated canvas-sheets in front of the newspaper offices! The
blare of horns, the cries, the yells, the hoots and hurrahs! The petty
street fights! The stalled surface-cars, the swearing cabbies, the
venders of horns and whistles, the newsboys hawking their extras! It is
the greatest of all spectacular nights; humanity comes out into the
open.
The newspaper offices were yellow with lights. It was a busy time. There
was a continuous coming and going of messengers, bringing in returns.
The newspaper men took off their coats and rolled up their sleeves.
Figures, figures, thousands of figures to sift and resift! Filtering
through the various noises was the maddening click of the telegraph
instruments. Great drifts of waste paper littered the floors. A sandwich
man served coffee and sandwiches. The chief distributed cigars.
Everybody was writing, writing. Five men were sent out to hunt for
Newcomb, but none could find him. His mother refused to state where he
had gone; in fact, she knew nothing save that he had gone horseback
riding.
At nine there was a gathering at the club. Williard was there, and all
who had charge of the wheels within wheels. They had ensconced
themselves in the huge davenports in the bow-window facing the street,
and had given orders to the steward to charge everything that night to
Senator Gordon. A fabulous number of corks were pulled; but gentlemen
are always orderly.
Williard, however, seemed anything but happy. He had dined at the
senator's that evening, and something had taken place there which the
general public would never learn. He was gloomy, and the wine he drank
only added to his gloom.
The younger element began to wander in, carrying those execrable
rooster-posters. A gay time ensued.
Newcomb had ridden twelve miles into the country. At eight o'clock the
temperature changed and it began to snow. He turned and rode back toward
the city, toward victory or defeat. Sometimes he went at a canter,
sometimes at a trot. By and by he could see the aureola from the
electric lights wavering above the city. Once he struck a wind-match and
glanced at his watch. Had he lost or had he won? A whimsical inspiration
came to him. He determined to hear victory or defeat from the lips of
the girl he loved. The snow fell softly into his face and melted. His
hair became matted over his eyes; his gauntlets dripped and the reins
became slippery; a steam rose from the horse's body, a big-hearted
hunter on which he had ridden many a mile.
"Good boy!" said Newcomb; "we'll have it first from her lips."
Finally he struck the asphalt of the city limits, and he slowed down to
a walk. He turned into obscure streets. Whenever he saw a bonfire, he
evaded it.
It was ten o'clock when he drew up in front of the Gordon home. He tied
his horse to the post with the hitching-chain and knotted the reins so
that they would not slip over the horse's head, wiped his face with his
handkerchief, and walked bravely up to the veranda. There were few
lights. Through the library window he saw the girl standing at the
telephone. He prayed that she might be wholly alone. After a moment's
hesitation he pressed the button and waited.
Betty herself came to the door. She peered out.
"What is it?" she asked.
"I did not expect that you would recognize me," said Newcomb, laughing.
"John? Where in the world did you come from?" taking him by the arm and
dragging him into the hall. "Good gracious!"
"The truth is, Betty, I took to my heels at six o'clock, and have been
riding around the country ever since." He sent her a penetrating glance.
"Come in to the fire," she cried impulsively. "You are cold and wet and
hungry."
"Only wet," he admitted as he entered the cheerful library. He went
directly to the blazing grate and spread out his red, wet, aching hands.
He could hear her bustling about; it was a pleasant sound. A chair
rolled up to the fender; the rattle of a tea-table followed. It was all
very fine. "I ought to be ashamed to enter a house in these reeking
clothes," he said; "but the temptation was too great."
"You are always welcome, John," softly.
His keen ear caught the melancholy sympathy in her tone. He shrugged. He
had lost the fight. Had he won, she would already have poured forth her
congratulations.
"Sit down," she commanded, "while I get the tea. Or would you prefer
brandy?"
"The tea, by all means. I do not need brandy to bolster up my courage."
He sat down.
She left the room and returned shortly with biscuit and tea. She filled
a cup, put in two lumps of sugar, and passed the cup to him.
"You've a good memory," he said, smiling at her. "It's nice to have
one's likes remembered, even in a cup of tea. I look as if I had been to
war, don't I?"
She buttered a biscuit. He ate it, not because he was hungry, but
because her fingers had touched it. It was a phantom kiss. He put the
cup down.
"Now, which is it; have I been licked, or have I won?"
"What!" she cried; "do you mean to tell me you do not know?" She gazed
at him bewilderedly.
"I have been four hours in the saddle. I know nothing, save that which
instinct and the sweet melancholy of your voice tell me. Betty, tell me,
I've been licked, haven't I, and old Dick has gone and done it, eh?"
The girl choked for a moment; there was a sob in her throat.
"Yes, John."
Newcomb reached over and tapped the hearth with his riding-crop,
absent-mindedly. The girl gazed at him, her eyes shining in a mist of
unshed tears.... She longed to reach out her hand and smooth the furrows
from his careworn brow, to brush the melting crystals of snow from his
hair; longed to soothe the smart of defeat which she knew was burning
his heart. She knew that only strong men suffer in silence.
From a half-opened window the night breathed upon them, freighted with
the far-off murmur of voices.
"I confess to you that I built too much on the outcome. I am ambitious;
I want to be somebody, to take part in the great affairs of the world. I
fought the very best I knew how. I had many dreams. Do you recollect the
verses I used to write to you when we were children? There was always
something of the poet in me, and it is still there, only it no longer
develops on paper. I had looked toward Washington ... even toward you,
Betty."
Silence. The girl sat very still. Her face was white and her eyes large.
"I am honest. I can see now that I have no business in politics...." He
laughed suddenly and turned toward the girl. "I was on the verge of
wailing. I'm licked, and I must begin all over again. Dick will make a
good mayor, that is, if they leave him alone.... Whimsical, wasn't it,
of me, coming here to have you tell me the news?" He looked away.
The girl smiled and held out her hand to him, and as he did not see it,
laid it gently on his sleeve.
"It does not matter, John. Some day you will realize all your ambitions.
You are not the kind of man who gives up. Defeat is a necessary step to
greatness; and you will become great. I am glad that you came to me."
She knew now; all her doubts were gone, all the confusing shadows.
Newcomb turned and touched her hand with his lips.
"Why did you come to me?" she asked with fine courage.
His eyes widened. "Why did I come to you? If I had won I should have
told you. But I haven't won; I have lost."
"Does that make the difference so great?"
"It makes the difficulty greater."
"Tell me!" with a voice of command.
They both rose suddenly, rather unconsciously, too. Their glances held,
magnet and needle-wise. Across the street a bonfire blazed, and the
ruddy light threw a mellow rose over their strained faces.
"I love you," he said simply. "That is what drew me here, that is what
has always drawn me here. But say nothing to me, Betty. God knows I am
not strong enough to suffer two defeats in one night. God bless you and
make you happy!"
He turned and took a few steps toward the door.
"If it were not defeat ... if it were victory?" she said, in a kind of
whisper, her hands on the back of the chair.
                   *       *       *       *       *
The senator came in about midnight. He found his daughter asleep in a
chair before a half-dead fire. There was a tender smile on her lips. He
touched her gently.
"It is you, daddy?" Her glance traveled from his florid countenance to
the clock. "Mercy! I have been dreaming these two hours."
"What do you suppose Newcomb did to-night?" lighting a cigar.
"What did he do?"
"Came into the club and congratulated Williard publicly."
"He did that?" cried the girl, her cheeks dyeing exquisitely.
"Did it like a man, too." The senator dropped into a chair. "It was a
great victory, my girl."
Betty smiled. "Yes, it was."
                  THE ADVENT OF MR. "SHIFTY" SULLIVAN
                                   I
"IT is positively dreadful!"
Even with the puckered brow and drooping lips, Mrs. Cathewe was a most
charming young person.
Absently she breathed upon the chilled window-pane, and with the pink
horn of her tapering forefinger drew letters and grotesque noses and
millions on millions of money.
Who has not, at one time or another, pursued art and riches in this
harmless fashion?
The outlook--from the window, not the millions--was not one to promote
any degree of cheerfulness, being of darkness, glistening pavements and
a steady, blurring rain; and at this particular moment Mrs. Cathewe was
quite in sympathy with the outlook; that is to say, dismal.
"Only last week," she went on, "it was an actor out of employ, a man
with reversible cuffs and a celluloid collar; but even he knew the
difference between bouillon and tea. And now, Heaven have mercy, it is a
prize-fighter!"
Mrs. Cathewe reopened the note which in her wrath she had crushed in her
left hand, and again read it aloud:
    "DEAR NANCY--Am bringing home Sullivan, the boxer, to dinner.
    Now, ducky, don't get mad. I want to study him at close range.
    You know that I am to have a great boxing scene in my new book,
    and this study is absolutely necessary. In haste.        JACK."
Mrs. Cathewe turned pathetically to her companion.
"Isn't it awful? A prize-fighter, in spite of all this reform movement!
A pugilist!"
"A pug, as my brother would tersely but inelegantly express it," and
Caroline Boderick lifted an exquisitely molded chin and laughed; a
rollicking laugh which, in spite of her endeavor to remain unmoved,
twisted up the corners of Mrs. Cathewe's rebel mouth.
"Forgive me, Nan, if I laugh; but who in the world could help it? It is
so droll. This is the greatest house! Imagine, I had the blues the worst
kind of way to-day; and now I shall be laughing for a whole week. You
dear girl, what do you care? You'll be laughing, too, presently. When a
woman marries a successful painter or a popular novelist, she will find
that she has wedded also a life full of surprises, full of amusing
scenes; ennui is a word cast forth to wander among commonplace folk.
Your husband must have his model, just the same as if he were an artist,
which he undeniably is."
"Models!" scornfully. "I wish he were a romanticist. I declare, if this
realism keeps on, I shall go and live in the country!"
"And have your husband's curios remain all night instead of simply
dining." And Caroline pressed her hands against her sides.
"That is it; laugh, laugh! Carol, you have no more sympathy than a
turtle."
"You are laughing yourself," said Caroline.
"It is because I'm looking at you. Why, I am positively raging!" She
tore her husband's letter into shreds and cast them at her feet. "Jack
is always upsetting my choicest plans."
"And my sobriety. If I had a husband like yours I should always be the
happiest and merriest woman in the world. What a happy woman you must
and ought to be!"
"I am, Carol, I am; but there are times when Jack is as terrible and
uncertain as Mark Twain's New England weather. Supposing I had been
giving a big dinner to-night? It would have been just the same."
"Only more amusing. Fancy Mrs. Nottingham-Stuart taking inventory of
this Mr. Sullivan through that pince-nez of hers!"
A thought suddenly sobered Mrs. Cathewe.
"But whatever shall I do, Carol? I have invited the rector to dine with
us."
Mirth spread its sunny wings and flew away, leaving Caroline's beautiful
eyes thoughtful and contemplative. "I understood that it was to be a
very little dinner for the family."
"Carol, why don't you like the rector? He is almost handsome."
"I do like him, Nan."
"Oh, I don't mean in that way," impulsively.
"In what way?" asked Caroline, her voice losing some of its warmth.
"Passively."
The faint, perpendicular line above Caroline's nose was the only sign of
her displeasure.
"Has he proposed to you?"
"Gracious sakes! one would think that the rector was in love with me.
Nan, you are very embarrassing when you look like that. Match-making
isn't your forte. Besides, the rector and I do not get on very well.
Bifurcated riding skirts are not to his fancy; and I would not give up
my morning ride for the best man living. Oh, Nan, you ought to ride a
horse; there's nothing like it in the world."
"The rector has called upon you more than any other girl in town." When
Mrs. Cathewe had an idea, she was very persistent about it. "I have even
seen him watching you when delivering a sermon."
Caroline laughed.
"Calling doesn't signify. And you must remember, daddy is the banker of
St. Paul's. No, Nan; I don't mean that; I am sure that the rector's
calls have nothing to do with the finances of the church. But, to tell
the truth, daddy calls him a mollycoddle; says he hasn't enough
gumption--whatever that may be--to stand up for himself at the trustees'
meetings. All the trustees are opposed to him because he is not over
thirty."
"And the best-looking rector the church ever had," supplemented Mrs.
Cathewe.
"But a mollycoddle, Nan! You wouldn't have me marry a mollycoddle, would
you?" There was a covert plea in her tones which urged Mrs. Cathewe
emphatically to deny that the Reverend Richard Allen was a mollycoddle.
Mrs. Cathewe did deny it. "He is not a mollycoddle, and you very well
know it. Jack says that his meekness and humility is all a sham."
"A hypocrite!" sitting up very straight.
"Mercy, no! His meekness is merely a sign of splendid self-control. No
man could be a mollycoddle and have eyes like his. True, they are mild,
but of the mildness of the sea on a calm day. 'Ware of the hurricane!"
"Has Mr. Cathewe found out yet to what college he belonged before he
became a divinity student?"
"No; and even I have never had the courage to ask him. But Jack thinks
it is Harvard, because the rector let slip one day something about
Cambridge. Why don't you write to ask your brother about him?"
For reasons best known to herself, Caroline did not answer.
"Are you ever going to get married? You are twenty-four."
Caroline was laughing again; but it was not the same spirit of mirth
that had been called into life by the possible and probable advent of
Mr. "Shifty" Sullivan.
"You ought to get married," declared Mrs. Cathewe. "Think of the dinners
and teas I should give, following the announcement."
"It is almost worth the risk," mockingly. Caroline arose and walked over
to the grate and sat down in the Morris chair. She took up the tongs and
stirred the maple log. The spurt of flame discovered a face almost as
beautiful as it was interesting and amiable. Her principal claim to
beauty, however, lay in her eyes, which were large and brown, with a
glister of gold in the rim of that part of the iris which immediately
surrounded the pupil. With these eyes she was fascinating; even her
dearest friends admitted this; and she was without caprices, which is a
rare trait in a beautiful woman. She was also as independent as the
Declaration which her mother's grandfather signed a hundred and some odd
years before. She came naturally into the spirit, her father being a
retired army officer, now the financial mainstay of St. Paul's, of which
the Reverend Richard Allen had recently been duly appointed rector.
It is propitious to observe at once that the general possessed an
unreliable liver and a battered shin which always ached with rheumatism
during rainy weather. Only two persons dared to cross him on stormy
days--his daughter and his son. The son was completing his final year at
Harvard in the double capacity of so-and-so on the 'varsity crew and
some-place-or-other on the eleven, and felt the importance of the luster
which he was adding to the historic family name. But this story in
nowise concerns him; rather the adventures of Mr. Sullivan, the
pugilist, and the rector of St. Paul.
"Mollycoddle," mused Caroline, replacing the tongs.
"Oh, your father's judgment is not infallible."
"It is where courage is concerned," retorted Caroline.
"Well, what's a mollycoddle, anyway?" demanded Mrs. Cathewe, forgetting
for the time being her own imminent troubles.
"Does Webster define it? I do not recall. But at any rate the accepted
meaning of the word is a person without a backbone, a human being with
rubber vertebræ, as daddy expresses it."
"Oh, fudge! your father likes men who slam doors, talk loudly, and bang
their fists in their palms."
"Not always," smiling; "at least on days like this."
"Yes, I understand," replied Mrs. Cathewe, laughing. "B-r-r-r! I can see
him. Jack says he eats them alive, whatever he means by that."
"Poor daddy!"
"I remember the late rector. Whenever he made a begging call he first
asked the servant at the door, 'How's the general's liver to-day?' 'Bad,
bad, your worship.' I overheard this dialogue one day while waiting for
you. I had to bury my head in the sofa pillows."
"You are going to have Brussels sprouts for salad?"
"Yes. Why?" amused at this queer turn in the conversation.
"I was wondering if your Mr. Sullivan will call them amateur cabbages?"
"Why did you remind me of him? I had almost forgotten him."
"If only I can keep a sober face!" said Caroline, clasping her hands.
"If he wears a dress suit, it is sure to pucker across the shoulders, be
short in the sleeves, and generally wrinkled. He will wear a huge yellow
stone, and his hair will be clipped close to the skull. It will be
covered with as many white scars as a map with railroad tracks. 'Mr.
Sullivan, permit me to introduce the Reverend Richard Allen.' 'Sure.'
Oh, it is rich!" And the laughter which followed smothered the sound of
closing doors. "Nan, it is a tonic. I wish I were a novelist's wife.
'Mr. Sullivan, I am charmed to meet you.' I can imagine the rector's
horror."
"And what is going to horrify the rector?" asked a manly voice from the
doorway.
Both women turned guiltily, each uttering a little cry of surprise and
dismay. They beheld a young man of thirty, of medium height, who looked
shorter than he really was because of the breadth of his shoulders. His
face was clean-shaven and manly; the head was well developed, the chin
decided, the blue-gray eyes alight with animation and expectancy. The
clerical frock was buttoned closely to the throat, giving emphasis to
the splendid breathing powers concealed beneath. The Reverend Richard
Allen looked all things save the mollycoddle, as the flush on Caroline's
cheeks conceded. And as she arose, she vaguely wondered how much he had
heard.
The rector, being above all things a gentleman, did not press his
question. He came forward and shook hands, and then spread his fingers
over the crackling log.
"What do you suppose has happened to me this day?" he began, turning his
back to the blaze and looking first at Mrs. Cathewe because she was his
hostess, and then at Caroline because she was the woman who lived first
in his thoughts.
"You have found a worthy mendicant?" suggested Caroline, taking up the
hand-screen and shading her eyes.
"Cold, cold."
"You have been asked to make an address before some woman's club," Mrs.
Cathewe offered.
"Still cold. No. The Morning Post has asked me, in the interests of
reform, to write up the prize-fight to-morrow night between Sullivan and
McManus, setting forth the contest in all its brutality."
The two women looked at each other and laughed nervously. The same
thought had occurred to each.
"Mr. Allen," said Mrs. Cathewe, deciding immediately to explain the
cause of her merriment, "as you entered you must have overheard us speak
of a Mr. Sullivan. You know how eccentric Mr. Cathewe is. Well, when I
invited you to dine this evening I had no idea that this husband of mine
was going to bring home Mr. Sullivan in order to study him at close
range, as a possible character in a new book he is writing."
The rector stroked his chin. Caroline, observing him shyly, was positive
that the luster in his eyes was due to suppressed laughter.
"That will be quite a diversion," he said, seating himself. What a
charming profile this girl possessed! Heigh-ho! between riches and
poverty the chasm grew wide.
"And we have been amusing ourselves by dissecting Mr. Sullivan," added
the woman with the charming profile. "I suggested that if he wore a
dress suit it would be either too large or too small."
"Mercy!" exclaimed Mrs. Cathewe, rising suddenly as the hall door
slammed, "I believe he has come already. Whatever shall I do, Carol,
whatever shall I do?" in a loud whisper.
The rector got up and smiled at Caroline, who returned the smile. In the
matter of appreciating humor, she and the rector stood upon common
ground.
Presently the novelist and his guest entered. Both he and Mr. Sullivan
appeared to be in the best of spirits, for their mouths were twisted in
grins.
"My dear," began Cathewe, "this is Mr. Sullivan; Mr. Sullivan, Miss
Boderick and the Reverend Richard Allen, of St. Paul's."
"I am delighted," said Mr. Sullivan, bowing.
There was not a wrinkle in Mr. Sullivan's dress suit; there were no
diamond studs in his shirt bosom, no watch-chain; just the rims of his
