in a state of bewilderment and dismay. When at last he got up and
walked away, it was with a new sense of the complicated nature of the
problem that confronted him. Who was there that could give him the key
to this mystery--who could interpret to him a world in which a man such
as this was in control of four or five hundred millions of trust funds?
CHAPTER VII
It was quite futile to attempt to induce anyone to talk about serious
matters just now--for the coming week all Society belonged to the
horse. The parties which went to church on Sunday morning talked about
horses on the way, and the crowds that gathered in front of the church
door to watch them descend from their automobiles, and to get "points"
on their conspicuous costumes--these would read about horses all
afternoon in the Sunday papers, and about the gowns which the women
would wear at the show.
Some of the party went up on Sunday evening; Montague went with the
rest on Monday morning, and had lunch with Mrs. Robbie Walling and
Oliver and Alice. They had arrayed him in a frock coat and silk hat and
fancy "spats"; and they took him and sat him in the front row of
Robbie's box.
There was a great tan-bark arena, in which the horses performed; and
then a railing, and a broad promenade for the spectators; and then,
raised a few feet above, the boxes in which sat all Society. For the
Horse Show had now become a great social function. Last year a visiting
foreign prince had seen fit to attend it, and this year "everybody"
would come.
Montague was rapidly getting used to things; he observed with a smile
how easy it was to take for granted embroidered bed and table linen,
and mural paintings, and private cars, and gold plate. At first it had
seemed to him strange to be waited upon by a white woman, and by a
white man quite unthinkable; but he was becoming accustomed to having
silent and expressionless lackeys everywhere about him, attending to
his slightest want. So he presumed that if he waited long enough, he
might even get used to horses which had their tails cut off to stumps,
and their manes to rows of bristles, and which had been taught to lift
their feet in strange and eccentric ways, and were driven with burred
bits in their mouths to torture them and make them step lively.
There were road-horses, coach-horses, saddle-horses and hunters,
polo-ponies, stud-horses--every kind of horse that is used for
pleasure, over a hundred different "classes" of them. They were put
through their paces about the ring, and there was a committee which
judged them, and awarded blue and red ribbons. Apparently their highly
artificial kind of excellence was a real thing to the people who took
part in the show; for the spectators thrilled with excitement, and
applauded the popular victors. There was a whole set of conventions
which were generally understood--there was even a new language. You
were told that these "turnouts" were "nobby" and "natty"; they were
"swagger" and "smart" and "swell."
However, the horse was really a small part of this show; before one had
sat out an afternoon he realized that the function was in reality a
show of Society. For six or seven hours during the day the broad
promenade would be so packed with human beings that one moved about
with difficulty; and this throng gazed towards the ring almost
never--it stared up into the boxes. All the year round the discontented
millions of the middle classes read of the doings of the "smart set";
and here they had a chance to come and see them-alive, and real, and
dressed in their showiest costumes. Here was all the grand monde, in
numbered boxes, and with their names upon the programmes, so that one
could get them straight. Ten thousand people from other cities had come
to New York on purpose to get a look. Women who lived in
boarding-houses and made their own clothes, had come to get hints; all
the dressmakers in town were present for the same purpose.. Society
reporters had come, with notebooks in hand; and next morning the
imitators of Society all over the United States would read about it, in
such fashion as this: "Mrs. Chauncey Venable was becomingly gowned in
mauve cloth, made with an Eton jacket trimmed with silk braid, and
opening over a chemisette of lace. Her hat was of the same colour,
draped with a great quantity of mauve and orange tulle, and surmounted
with birds of paradise to match. Her furs were silver fox."
The most intelligent of the great metropolitan dailies would print
columns of this sort of material; and as for the "yellow" journals,
they would have discussions of the costumes by "experts," and half a
page of pictures of the most conspicuous of the box-holders. While
Montague sat talking with Mrs. Walling, half a dozen cameras were
snapped at them; and once a young man with a sketch-book placed himself
in front of them and went placidly to work.--Concerning such things the
society dame had three different sets of emotions: first, the one which
she showed in public, that of bored and contemptuous indifference;
second, the one which she expressed to her friends, that of outraged
but helpless indignation; and third, the one which she really felt,
that of triumphant exultation over her rivals, whose pictures were not
published and whose costumes were not described.
It was a great dress parade of society women. One who wished to play a
proper part in it would spend at least ten thousand dollars upon her
costumes for the week. It was necessary to have a different gown for
the afternoon and evening of each day; and some, who were adepts at
quick changes and were proud of it, would wear three or four a day, and
so need a couple of dozen gowns for the show. And of course there had
to be hats and shoes and gloves to match. There would be robes of
priceless fur hung carelessly over the balcony to make a setting; and
in the evening there would be pyrotechnical displays of jewels. Mrs.
Virginia Landis wore a pair of simple pearl earrings, which she told
the reporters had cost twenty thousand dollars; and there were two
women who displayed four hundred thousand dollars' worth of
diamonds--and each of them had hired a detective to hover about in the
crowd and keep watch over her!
Nor must one suppose, because the horse was an inconspicuous part of
the show, that he was therefore an inexpensive part. One man was to be
seen here driving a four-in-hand of black stallions which had cost
forty thousand; there were other men who drove only one horse, and had
paid forty thousand for that. Half a million was a moderate estimate of
the cost of the "string" which some would exhibit. And of course these
horses were useless, save for show purposes, and to breed other horses
like them. Many of them never went out of their stables except for
exercise upon a track; and the cumbrous and enormous; expensive coaches
were never by any possibility used elsewhere--when they were taken from
place to place they seldom went upon their own wheels.
And there were people here who made their chief occupation in life the
winning of blue ribbons at these shows. They kept great country estates
especially for the horses, and had private indoor exhibition rings.
Robbie Walling and Chauncey Venable were both such people; in the
summer of next year another of the Wallings took a string across the
water to teach the horse-show game to Society in London. He took twenty
or thirty horses, under the charge of an expert manager and a dozen
assistants; he sent sixteen different kinds of carriages, and two great
coaches, and a ton of harness and other stuff. It required one whole
deck of a steamer, and the expedition enabled him to get rid of six
hundred thousand dollars.
All through the day, of course, Robbie was down in the ring with his
trainers and his competitors, and Montague sat and kept his wife
company. There was a steady stream of visitors, who came to
congratulate her upon their successes, and to commiserate with Mrs.
Chauncey Venable over the sufferings of the un-happy victim of a
notoriety-seeking district attorney.
There was just one drawback to the Horse Show, as Montague gathered
from the conversation that went on among the callers: it was public,
and there was no way to prevent undesirable people from taking part.
There were, it appeared, hordes of rich people in New York who were not
in Society, and of whose existence Society was haughtily unaware; but
these people might enter horses and win prizes, and even rent a box and
exhibit their clothes. And they might induce the reporters to mention
them--and of course the ignorant populace did not know the difference,
and stared at them just as hard as at Mrs. Robbie or Mrs. Winnie. And
so for a whole blissful week these people had all the sensations of
being in Society! "It won't be very long before that will kill the
Horse Show," said Mrs. Vivie Patton, with a snap of her black eyes.
There was Miss Yvette Simpkins, for instance; Society frothed at the
mouth when her name was mentioned. Miss Yvette was the niece of a
stock-broker who was wealthy, and she thought that she was in Society,
and the foolish public thought so, too. Miss Yvette made a speciality
of newspaper publicity; you were always seeing her picture, with some
new "Worth creation," and the picture would be labelled "Miss Yvette
Simpkins, the best-dressed woman in New York," or "Miss Yvette
Simpkins, who is known as the best woman whip in Society." It was said
that Miss Yvette, who was short and stout, and had a rosy German face,
had paid five thousand dollars at one clip for photographs of herself
in a new wardrobe; and her pictures were sent to the newspapers in
bundles of a dozen at a time. Miss Yvette possessed over a million
dollars' worth of diamonds--the finest in the country, according to the
newspapers; she had spent a hundred and twenty-six thousand dollars
this year upon her clothes, and she gave long interviews, in which she
set forth the fact that a woman nowadays could not really be well
dressed upon less than a hundred thousand a year. It was Miss Yvette's
boast that she had never ridden in a street-car in her life.
Montague always had a soft spot in his heart for the unfortunate Miss
Yvette, who laboured so hard to be a guiding light; for it chanced to
be while she was in the ring, exhibiting her skill in driving tandem,
that he met with a fateful encounter. Afterward, when he came to look
back upon these early days, it seemed strange to him that he should
have gone about this place, so careless and unsuspecting, while the
fates were weaving strange destinies about him.
It was on Tuesday afternoon, and he sat in the box of Mrs. Venable, a
sister-in-law of the Major. The Major, who was a care-free bachelor,
was there himself, and also Betty Wyman, who was making sprightly
comments on the passers-by; and there strolled into the box Chappie de
Peyster, accompanied by a young lady.
So many people had stopped and been introduced and then passed on, that
Montague merely glanced at her once. He noticed that she was tall and
graceful, and caught her name, Miss Hegan.
The turnouts in the ring consisted of one horse harnessed in front of
another; and Montague was wondering what conceivable motive could
induce a human being to hitch and drive horses in that fashion. The
conversation turned upon Miss Yvette, who was in the ring; and Betty
remarked upon the airy grace with which she wielded the long whip she
carried. "Did you see what the paper said about her this morning?" she
asked. "' Miss Simpkins was exquisitely clad in purple velvet,' and so
on! She looked for all the world like the Venus at the Hippodrome!"
"Why isn't she in Society?" asked Montague, curiously.
"She!" exclaimed Betty. "Why, she's a travesty!"
There was a moment's pause, preceding a remark by their young lady
visitor. "I've an idea," said she, "that the real reason she never got
into Society was that she was fond of her old father."
And Montague gave a short glance at the speaker, who was gazing fixedly
into the ring. He heard the Major chuckle, and he thought that he heard
Betty Wyman give a little sniff. A few moments later the young lady
arose, and with some remark to Mrs. Venable about how well her costume
became her, she passed on out of the box.
"Who is that?" asked Montague.
"That," the Major answered, "that's Laura Hegan--Jim Hegan's daughter."
"Oh!" said Montague, and caught his breath. Jim Hegan--Napoleon of
finance--czar of a gigantic system of railroads, and the power behind
the political thrones of many states.
"His only daughter, too," the Major added. "Gad, what a juicy morsel
for somebody!"
"Well, she'll make him pay for all he gets, whoever he is!" retorted
Betty, vindictively.
"You don't like her?" inquired Montague; and Betty replied promptly, "I
do not!"
"Her daddy and Betty's granddaddy are always at swords' points," put in
Major Venable.
"I have nothing to do with my granddaddy's quarrels," said the young
lady. "I have troubles enough of my own."
"What is the matter with Miss Hegan?" asked Montague, laughing.
"She's an idea she's too good for the world she lives in," said Betty.
"When you're with her, you feel as you will before the judgment throne."
"Undoubtedly a disturbing feeling," put in the Major.
"She never hands you anything but you find a pin hidden in it," went on
the girl. "All her remarks are meant to be read backward, and my life
is too short to straighten out their kinks. I like a person to say what
they mean in plain English, and then I can either like them or not."
"Mostly not," said the Major, grimly; and added, "Anyway, she's
beautiful."
"Perhaps," said the other. "So is the Jungfrau; but I prefer something
more comfortable."
"What's Chappie de Peyster beauing her around for?" asked Mrs. Venable.
"Is he a candidate?"
"Maybe his debts are troubling him again," said Mistress Betty. "He
must be in a desperate plight.--Did you hear how Jack Audubon proposed
to her?"
"Did Jack propose?" exclaimed the Major.
"Of course he did," said the girl. "His brother told me." Then, for
Montague's benefit, she explained, "Jack Audubon is the Major's nephew,
and he's a bookworm, and spends all his time collecting scarabs."
"What did he say to her?" asked the Major, highly amused.
"Why," said Betty, "he told her he knew she didn't love him; but also
she knew that he didn't care anything about her money, and she might
like to marry him so that other men would let her alone."
"Gad!" cried the old gentleman, slapping his knee. "A masterpiece!"
"Does she have so many suitors?" asked Montague; and the Major replied,
"My dear boy--she'll have a hundred million dollars some day!"
At this point Oliver put in appearance, and Betty got up and went for a
stroll with him; then Montague asked for light upon Miss Hegan's remark.
"What she said is perfectly true," replied the Major; "only it riled
Betty. There's many a gallant dame cruising the social seas who has
stowed her old relatives out of sight in the hold."
"What's the matter with old Simpkins?" asked the other.
"Just a queer boy," was the reply. "He has a big pile, and his one joy
in life is the divine Yvette. It is really he who makes her
ridiculous--he has a regular press agent for her, a chap he loads up
with jewellery and cheques whenever he gets her picture into the
papers."
The Major paused a moment to greet some acquaintance, and then resumed
the conversation. Apparently he could gossip in this intimate fashion
about any person whom you named. Old Simpkins had been very poor as a
boy, it appeared, and he had never got over the memory of it. Miss
Yvette spent fifty thousand at a clip for Paris gowns; but every day
her old uncle would save up the lumps of sugar which came with the
expensive lunch he had brought to his office. And when he had several
pounds he would send them home by messenger!
This conversation gave Montague a new sense of the complicatedness of
the world into which he had come. Miss Simpkins was "impossible"; and
yet there was--for instance--that Mrs. Landis whom he had met at Mrs.
Winnie Duval's. He had met her several times at the show; and he heard
the Major and his sister-in-law chuckling over a paragraph in the
society journal, to the effect that Mrs. Virginia van Rensselaer Landis
had just returned from a successful hunting-trip in the far West. He
did not see the humour of this, at least not until they had told him of
another paragraph which had appeared some time before: stating that
Mrs. Landis had gone to acquire residence in South Dakota, taking with
her thirty-five trunks and a poodle; and that "Leanie" Hopkins, the
handsome young stock-broker, had taken a six months' vow of poverty,
chastity, and obedience.
And yet Mrs. Landis was "in" Society! And moreover, she spent nearly as
much upon her clothes as Miss Yvette, and the clothes were quite as
conspicuous; and if the papers did not print pages about them, it was
not because Mrs. Landis was not perfectly willing. She was painted and
made up quite as frankly as any chorus-girl on the stage. She laughed a
great deal, and in a high key, and she and her friends told stories
which made Montague wish to move out of the way.
Mrs. Landis had for some reason taken a fancy to Alice, and invited her
home to lunch with her twice during the show. And after they had got
home in the evening, the girl sat upon the bed in her fur-trimmed
wrapper, and told Montague and his mother and Mammy Lucy all about her
visit.
"I don't believe that woman has a thing to do or to think about in the
world except to wear clothes!" she said. "Why, she has adjustable
mirrors on ball-bearings, so that she can see every part of her skirts!
And she gets all her gowns from Paris, four times a year--she says
there are four seasons now, instead of two! I thought that my new
clothes amounted to something, but my goodness, when I saw hers!"
Then Alice went on to describe the unpacking of fourteen trunks, which
had just come up from the custom-house that day. Mrs. Virginia's
couturiere had her photograph and her colouring (represented in actual
paints) and a figure made up from exact measurements; and so every one
of the garments would fit her perfectly. Each one came stuffed with
tissue paper and held in place by a lattice-work of tape; and attached
to each gown was a piece of the fabric, from which her shoemaker would
make shoes or slippers. There were street-costumes and opera-wraps,
robes de chambre and tea-gowns, reception-dresses, and wonderful ball
and dinner gowns. Most of these latter were to be embroidered with
jewellery before they were worn, and imitation jewels were sewn on, to
show how the real ones were to be placed. These garments were made of
real lace or Parisian embroidery, and the prices paid for them were
almost impossible to credit. Some of them were made of lace so filmy
that the women who made them had to sit in damp cellars, because the
sunlight would dry the fine threads and they would break; a single yard
of the lace represented forty days of labour. There was a pastel
"batiste de soie" Pompadour robe, embroidered with cream silk flowers,
which had cost one thousand dollars. There was a hat to go with it,
which had cost a hundred and twenty-five, and shoes of grey
antelope-skin, buckled with mother-of-pearl, which had cost forty.
There was a gorgeous and intricate ball-dress of pale green chiffon
satin, with orchids embroidered in oxidized silver, and a long court
train, studded with diamonds--and this had cost six thousand dollars
without the jewels! And there was an auto-coat which had cost three
thousand; and an opera-wrap made in Leipsic, of white unborn baby lamb,
lined with ermine, which had cost twelve thousand--with a thousand
additional for a hat to match! Mrs. Landis thought nothing of paying
thirty-five dollars for a lace handkerchief, or sixty dollars for a
pair of spun silk hose, or two hundred dollars for a pearl and
gold-handled parasol trimmed with cascades of chiffon, and made, like
her hats, one for each gown.
"And she insists that these things are worth the money," said Alice.
"She says it's not only the material in them, but the ideas. Each
costume is a study, like a picture. 'I pay for the creative genius of
the artist,' she said to me--'for his ability to catch my ideas and
apply them to my personality--my complexion and hair and eyes.
Sometimes I design my own costumes, and so I know what hard work it
is!'"
Mrs. Landis came from one of New York's oldest families, and she was
wealthy in her own right; she had a palace on Fifth Avenue, and now
that she had turned her husband out, she had nothing at all to put in
it except her clothes. Alice told about the places in which she kept
them--it was like a museum! There was a gown-room, made dust-proof, of
polished hardwood, and with tier upon tier of long poles running
across, and padded skirt-supporters hanging from them. Everywhere there
was order and system--each skirt was numbered, and in a
chiffonier-drawer of the same number you would find the waist--and so
on with hats and stockings and gloves and shoes and parasols. There was
a row of closets, having shelves piled up with dainty lace-trimmed and
beribboned lingerie; there were two closets full of hats and three of
shoes. "When she went West," said Alice, "one of her maids counted, and
found that she had over four hundred pairs! And she actually has a
cabinet with a card-catalogue to keep track of them. And all the
shelves are lined with perfumed silk sachets, and she has tiny sachets
sewed in every skirt and waist; and she has her own private
perfume--she gave me some. She calls it Occur de Jeannette, and she
says she designed it herself, and had it patented!"
And then Alice went on to describe the maid's work-room, which was also
of polished hardwood, and dust-proof, and had a balcony for brushing
clothes, and wires upon which to hang them, and hot and cold water, and
a big ironing-table and an electric stove. "But there can't be much
work to do," laughed the girl, "for she never wears a gown more than
two or three times. Just think of paying several thousand dollars for a
costume, and giving it to your poor relations after you have worn it
only twice! And the worst of it is that Mrs. Landis says it's all
nothing unusual; you'll find such arrangements in every home of people
who are socially prominent. She says there are women who boast of never
appearing twice in the same gown, and there's one dreadful personage in
Boston who wears each costume once, and then has it solemnly cremated
by her butler!"
"It is wicked to do such things," put in old Mrs. Montague, when she
had heard this tale through. "I don't see how people can get any
pleasure out of it."
"That's what I said," replied Alice.
"To whom did you say that?" asked Montague. "To Mrs. Landis?"
"No," said Alice, "to a cousin of hers. I was downstairs waiting for
her, and this girl came in. And we got to talking about it, and I said
that I didn't think I could ever get used to such things."
"What did she say?" asked the other.
"She answered me strangely," said the girl. "She's tall, and very
stately, and I was a little bit afraid of her. She said, 'You'll get
used to it. Everybody you know will be doing it, and if you try to do
differently they'll take offence; and you won't have the courage to do
without friends. You'll be meaning every day to stop, but you never
will, and you'll go on until you die.'"
"What did you say to that?"
"Nothing," answered Alice. "Just then Mrs. Landis came in, and Miss
Hegan went away."
"Miss Hegan?" echoed Montague.
"Yes," said the other. "That's her name--Laura Hegan. Have you met her?"
CHAPTER VIII
The Horse Show was held in Madison Square Garden, a building occupying
a whole city block. It seemed to Montague that during the four days he
attended he was introduced to enough people to fill it to the doors.
Each one of the exquisite ladies and gentlemen extended to him a
delicately gloved hand, and remarked what perfect weather they were
having, and asked him how long he had been in New York, and what he
thought of it. Then they would talk about the horses, and about the
people who were present, and what they had on.
He saw little of his brother, who was squiring the Walling ladies most
of the time; and Alice, too, was generally separated from him and taken
care of by others. Yet he was never alone--there was always some young
matron ready to lead him to her carriage and whisk him away to lunch or
dinner.
Many times he wondered why people should be so kind to him, a stranger,
and one who could do nothing for them in return. Mrs. Billy Alden
undertook to explain it to him, one afternoon, as he sat in her box.
There had to be some people to enjoy, it appeared, or there would be no
fun in the game. "Everything is new and strange to you," said she, "and
you're delicious and refreshing; you make these women think perhaps
they oughtn't to be so bored after all! Here's a woman who's bought a
great painting; she's told that it's great, but she doesn't understand
it herself--all she knows is that it cost her a hundred thousand
dollars. And now you come along, and to you it's really a painting--and
don't you see how gratifying that is to her?"
"Oliver is always telling me it's bad form to admire," said the man,
laughing.
"Yes?" said the other. "Well, don't you let that brother of yours spoil
you. There are more than enough of blase people in town--you be
yourself."
He appreciated the compliment, but added, "I'm afraid that when the
novelty is worn off, people will be tired of me."
"You'll find your place," said Mrs. Alden--"the people you like and who
like you." And she went on to explain that here he was being passed
about among a number of very different "sets," with different people
and different tastes. Society had become split up in that manner of
late--each set being jealous and contemptuous of all the other sets.
Because of the fact that they overlapped a little at the edges, it was
possible for him to meet here a great many people who never met each
other, and were even unaware of each other's existence.
And Mrs. Alden went on to set forth the difference between these
"sets"; they ran from the most exclusive down to the most "yellow,"
where they shaded off into the disreputable rich--of whom, it seemed,
there were hordes in the city. These included "sporting" and theatrical
and political people, some of whom were very rich indeed; and these
sets in turn shaded off into the criminals and the demi-monde--who
might also easily be rich. "Some day," said Mrs. Alden "you should get
my brother to tell you about all these people. He's been in politics,
you know, and he has a racing-stable."
And Mrs. Alden told him about the subtle little differences in the
conventions of these various sets of Society. There was the matter of
women smoking, for instance. All women smoked, nowadays; but some would
do it only in their own apartments, with their women friends; and some
would retire to an out-of-the-way corner to do it; while others would
smoke in their own dining-rooms, or wherever the men smoked. All agreed
however, in never smoking "in public"--that is, where they would be
seen by people not of their own set. Such, at any rate, had always been
the rule, though a few daring ones were beginning to defy even that.
Such rules were very rigid, but they were purely conventional, they had
nothing to do with right or wrong: a fact which Mrs. Alden set forth
with her usual incisiveness. A woman, married or unmarried, might
travel with a man all over Europe, and every one might know that she
did it, but it would make no difference, so long as she did not do it
in America. There was one young matron whom Montague would meet, a
raging beauty, who regularly got drunk at dinner parties, and had to be
escorted to her carriage by the butler. She moved in the most exclusive
circles, and every one treated it as a joke. Unpleasant things like
this did not hurt a person unless they got "out"--that is, unless they
became a scandal in the courts or the newspapers. Mrs. Alden herself
had a cousin (whom she cordially hated) who had gotten a divorce from
her husband and married her lover forthwith and had for this been
ostracized by Society. Once when she came to some semi-public affair,
fifty women had risen at once and left the room! She might have lived
with her lover, both before and after the divorce, and every one might
have known it, and no one would have cared; but the convenances
declared that she should not marry him until a year had elapsed after
the divorce.
One thing to which Mrs. Alden could testify, as a result of a
lifetime's observation, was the rapid rate at which these conventions,
even the most essential of them, were giving way, and being replaced by
a general "do as you please." Anyone could see that the power of women
like Mrs. Devon, who represented the old regime, and were dignified and
austere and exclusive, was yielding before the onslaught of new people,
who were bizarre and fantastic and promiscuous and loud. And the
younger sets cared no more about anyone--nor about anything under
heaven, save to have a good time in their own harum-scarum ways. In the
old days one always received a neatly-written or engraved invitation to
dinner, worded in impersonal and formal style; but the other day Mrs.
Alden had found a message which had been taken from the telephone:
"Please come to dinner, but don't come unless you can bring a man, or
we'll be thirteen at the table."
And along with this went a perfectly incredible increase in luxury and
extravagance. "You are surprised at what you see here to-day," said
she--"but take my word for it, if you were to come back five years
later, you'd find all our present standards antiquated, and our present
pace-makers sent to the rear. You'd find new hotels and theatres
opening, and food and clothing and furniture that cost twice as much as
they cost now. Not so long ago a private car was a luxury; now it's as
much a necessity as an opera-box or a private ball-room, and people who
really count have private trains. I can remember when our girls wore
pretty muslin gowns in summer, and sent them to wash; now they wear
what they call lingerie gowns, dimity en princesse, with silk
embroidery and real lace and ribbons, that cost a thousand dollars
apiece and won't wash. Years ago when I gave a dinner, I invited a
dozen friends, and my own chef cooked it and my own servants served it.
Now I have to pay my steward ten thousand a year, and nothing that I
have is good enough. I have to ask forty or fifty people, and I call in
a caterer, and he brings everything of his own, and my servants go off
and get drunk. You used to get a good dinner for ten dollars a plate,
and fifteen was something special; but now you hear of dinners that
cost a thousand a plate! And it's not enough to have beautiful flowers
on the table--you have to have 'scenery'; there must be a rural
landscape for a background, and goldfish in the finger-bowls, and five
thousand dollars' worth of Florida orchids on the table, and floral
favours of roses that cost a hundred and fifty dollars a dozen. I
attended a dinner at the Waldorf last year that had cost fifty thousand
dollars; and when I ask those people to see me, I have to give them as
good as I got. The other day I paid a thousand dollars for a
tablecloth!"
"Why do you do it?" asked Montague, abruptly.
"God knows," said the other; "I don't. I sometimes wonder myself. I
guess it's because I've nothing else to do. It's like the story they
tell about my brother--he was losing money in a gambling-place in
Saratoga, and some one said to him, 'Davy, why do you go there--don't
you know the game is crooked?' 'Of course it's crooked,' said he, 'but,
damn it, it's the only game in town!'"
"The pressure is more than anyone can stand," said Mrs. Alden, after a
moment's thought. "It's like trying to swim against a current. You have
to float, and do what every one expects you to do--your children and
your friends and your servants and your tradespeople. All the world is
in a conspiracy against you."
"It's appalling to me," said the man.
"Yes," said the other, "and there's never any end to it. You think you
know it all, but you find you really know very little. Just think of
the number of people there are trying to go the pace! They say there
are seven thousand millionaires in this country, but I say there are
twenty thousand in New York alone--or if they don't own a million,
they're spending the income of it, which amounts to the same thing. You
can figure that a man who pays ten thousand a year for rent is paying
fifty thousand to live; and there's Fifth Avenue--two miles of it, if
you count the uptown and downtown parts; and there's Madison Avenue,
and half a dozen houses adjoining on every side street; and then there
are the hotels and apartment houses, to say nothing of the West Side
and Riverside Drive. And you meet these mobs of people in the shops and
the hotels and the theatres, and they all want to be better dressed
than you. I saw a woman here to-day that I never saw in my life before,
and I heard her say she'd paid two thousand dollars for a lace
handkerchief; and it might have been true, for I've been asked to pay
ten thousand for a lace shawl at a bargain. It's a common enough thing
to see a woman walking on Fifth Avenue with twenty or thirty thousand
dollars' worth of furs on her. Fifty thousand is often paid for a coat
of sable, and I know of one that cost two hundred thousand. I know
women who have a dozen sets of furs--ermine, chinchilla, black fox,
baby lamb, and mink and sable; and I know a man whose chauffeur quit
him because he wouldn't buy him a ten-thousand-dollar fur coat! And
once people used to pack their furs away and take care of them; but now
they wear them about the street, or at the sea-shore, and you can
fairly see them fade. Or else their cut goes out of fashion, and so
they have to have new ones!"
All that was material for thought. It was all true--there was no
question about that. It seemed to be the rule that whenever you
questioned a tale of the extravagances of New York, you would hear the
next day of something several times more startling. Montague was
staggered at the idea of a two-hundred-thousand-dollar fur coat; and
yet not long afterward there arrived in the city a titled Englishwoman,
who owned a coat worth a million dollars, which hard-headed insurance
companies had insured for half a million. It was made of the soft
plumage of rare Hawaiian birds, and had taken twenty years to make;
each feather was crescent-shaped, and there were wonderful designs in
crimson and gold and black. Every day in the casual conversation of
your acquaintances you heard of similar incredible things; a tiny
antique Persian rug, which could be folded into an overcoat pocket, for
ten thousand dollars; a set of five "art fans," each blade painted by a
famous artist and costing forty-three thousand dollars; a crystal cup
for eighty thousand; an edition de luxe of the works of Dickens for a
hundred thousand; a ruby, the size of a pigeon's egg, for three hundred
thousand. In some of these great New York palaces there were fountains
which cost a hundred dollars a minute to run; and in the harbour there
were yachts which cost twenty thousand a month to keep in commission.
And that same day, as it chanced, he learned of a brand-new kind of
squandering. He went home to lunch with Mrs. Winnie Duval, and there
met Mrs. Caroline Smythe, with whom he had talked at Castle Havens.
Mrs. Smythe, whose husband had been a well-known Wall Street plunger,
was soft and mushy, and very gushing in manner; and she asked him to
come home to dinner with her, adding, "I'll introduce you to my babies."
From what Montague had so far seen, he judged that babies played a very
small part in the lives of the women of Society; and so he was
interested, and asked, "How many have you?"
"Only two, in town," said Mrs. Smythe. "I've just come up, you see."
"How old are they?" he inquired politely; and when the lady added,
"About two years," he asked, "Won't they be in bed by dinner time?"
"Oh my, no!" said Mrs. Smythe. "The dear little lambs wait up for me. I
always find them scratching at my chamber door and wagging their little
tails."
Then Mrs. Winnie laughed merrily and said, "Why do you fool him?" and
went on to inform Montague that Caroline's "babies" were griffons
Bruxelloises. Griffons suggested to him vague ideas of dragons and
unicorns and gargoyles; but he said nothing more, save to accept the
invitation, and that evening he discovered that griffons Bruxelloises
were tiny dogs, long-haired, yellow, and fluffy; and that for her two
priceless treasures Mrs. Smythe had an expert nurse, to whom she paid a
hundred dollars a month, and also a footman, and a special cuisine in
which their complicated food was prepared. They had a regular dentist,
and a physician, and gold plate to eat from. Mrs. Smythe also owned two
long-haired St. Bernards of a very rare breed, and a fierce Great Dane,
and a very fat Boston bull pup--the last having been trained to go for
an airing all alone in her carriage, with a solemn coachman and footman
to drive him.
Montague, deftly keeping the conversation upon the subject of pets,
learned that all this was quite common. Many women in Society
artificially made themselves barren, because of the inconvenience
incidental to pregnancy and motherhood; and instead they lavished their
affections upon cats and dogs. Some of these animals had elaborate
costumes, rivalling in expensiveness those of their step-mothers. They
wore tiny boots, which cost eight dollars a pair--house boots, and
street boots lacing up to the knees; they had house-coats,
walking-coats, dusters, sweaters, coats lined with ermine, and
automobile coats with head and chest-protectors and hoods and
goggles--and each coat fitted with a pocket for its tiny handkerchief
of fine linen or lace! And they had collars set with rubies and pearls
and diamonds--one had a collar that cost ten thousand dollars!
Sometimes there would be a coat to match every gown of the owner. There
were dog nurseries and resting-rooms, in which they might be left
temporarily; and manicure parlours for cats, with a physician in
charge. When these pets died, there was an expensive cemetery in
Brooklyn especially for their interment; and they would be duly
embalmed and buried in plush-lined casket, and would have costly marble
monuments. When one of Mrs. Smythe's best loved pugs had fallen ill of
congestion of the liver, she had had tan-bark put upon the street in
front of her house; and when in spite of this the dog died, she had
sent out cards edged in black, inviting her friends to a "memorial
service." Also she showed Montague a number of books with very costly
bindings, in which were demonstrated the unity, simplicity, and
immortality of the souls of cats and dogs.
Apparently the sentimental Mrs. Smythe was willing to talk about these
pets all through dinner; and so was her aunt, a thin and angular
spinster, who sat on Montague's other side. And he was willing to
listen--he wanted to know it all. There were umbrellas for dogs, to be
fastened over their backs in wet weather; there were manicure and
toilet sets, and silver medicine-chests, and jewel-studded whips. There
were sets of engraved visiting-cards; there were wheel-chairs in which
invalid cats and dogs might be taken for an airing. There were shows
for cats and dogs, with pedigrees and prizes, and nearly as great
crowds as the Horse Show; Mrs. Smythe's St. Bernards were worth seven
thousand dollars apiece, and there were bull-dogs worth twice that.
There was a woman who had come all the way from the Pacific coast to
have a specialist perform an operation upon the throat of her Yorkshire
terrier! There was another who had built for her dog a tiny Queen Anne
cottage, with rooms papered and carpeted and hung with lace curtains!
Once a young man of fashion had come to the Waldorf and registered
himself and "Miss Elsie Cochrane"; and when the clerk made the usual
inquiries as to the relationship of the young lady, it transpired that
Miss Elsie was a dog, arrayed in a prim little tea-gown, and requiring
a room to herself. And then there was a tale of a cat which had
inherited a life-pension from a forty-thousand-dollar estate; it had a
two-floor apartment and several attendants, and sat at table and ate
shrimps and Italian chestnuts, and had a velvet couch for naps, and a
fur-lined basket for sleeping at night!
Four days of horses were enough for Montague, and on Friday morning,
when Siegfried Harvey called him up and asked if he and Alice would
come out to "The Roost" for the week-end, he accepted gladly. Charlie
Carter was going, and volunteered to take them in his car; and so again
they crossed the Williamsburg Bridge--"the Jewish passover," as Charlie
called it--and went out on Long Island.
Montague was very anxious to get a "line" on Charlie Carter; for he had
not been prepared for the startling promptness with which this young
man had fallen at Alice's feet. It was so obvious, that everybody was
smiling over it--he was with her every minute that he could arrange it,
and he turned up at every place to which she was invited. Both Mrs.
Winnie and Oliver were quite evidently complacent, but Montague was by
no means the same. Charlie had struck him as a good-natured but rather
weak youth, inclined to melancholy; he was never without a cigarette in
his fingers, and there had been signs that he was not quite proof
against the pitfalls which Society set about him in the shape of
decanters and wine-cups: though in a world where the fragrance of
spirits was never out of one's nostrils, and where people drank with
such perplexing frequency, it was hard to know where to draw a line.
"You won't find my place like Havens's," Siegfried Harvey had said. "It
is real country." Montague found it the most attractive of all the
homes he had seen so far. It was a big rambling house, all in rustic
style, with great hewn logs outside, and rafters within, and a winding
oak stairway, and any number of dens and cosy corners, and broad
window-seats with mountains of pillows. Everything here was built for
comfort--there was a billiard-room and a smoking-room, and a real
library with readable books and great chairs in which one sank out of
sight. There were log fires blazing everywhere, and pictures on the
walls that told of sport, and no end of guns and antlers and trophies
of all sorts. But you were not to suppose that all this elaborate
rusticity would be any excuse for the absence of attendants in livery,
and a chef who boasted the cordon bleu, and a dinner-table resplendent
with crystal and silver and orchids and ferns. After all, though the
host called it a "small" place, he had invited twenty guests, and he
had a hunter in his stables for each one of them.
But the most wonderful thing about "The Roost" was the fact that, at a
touch of a button, all the walls of the lower rooms vanished into the
second story, and there was one huge, log-lighted room, with violins
tuning up and calling to one's feet. They set a fast pace here--the
dancing lasted until three o'clock, and at dawn again they were dressed
and mounted, and following the pink-coated grooms and the hounds across
the frost-covered fields.
Montague was half prepared for a tame fox, but this was spared him.
There was a real game, it seemed; and soon the pack gave tongue, and
away went the hunt. It was the wildest ride that Montague ever had
taken--over ditches and streams and innumerable rail-fences, and
through thick coverts and densely populated barnyards; but he was in at
the death, and Alice was only a few yards behind, to the immense
delight of the company. This seemed to Montague the first real life he
had met, and he thought to himself that these full-blooded and
high-spirited men and women made a "set" into which he would have been
glad to fit--save only that he had to earn his living, and they did not.
In the afternoon there was more riding, and walks in the crisp November
air; and indoors, bridge and rackets and ping-pong, and a fast and
furious game of roulette, with the host as banker. "Do I look much like
a professional gambler?" he asked of Montague; and when the other
replied that he had not yet met any New York gamblers, young Harvey
went on to tell how he had gone to buy this apparatus (the sale of
which was forbidden by law) and had been asked by the dealer how
"strong" he wanted it!
Then in the evening there was more dancing, and on Sunday another hunt.
That night a gambling mood seemed to seize the company--there were two
bridge tables, and in another room the most reckless game of poker that
Montague had ever sat in. It broke up at three in the morning, and one
of the company wrote him a cheque for sixty-five hundred dollars; but
even that could not entirely smooth his conscience, nor reconcile him
to the fever that was in his blood.
Most important to him, however, was the fact that during the game he at
last got to know Charlie Carter. Charlie did not play, for the reason
that he was drunk, and one of the company told him so and refused to
play with him; which left poor Charlie nothing to do but get drunker.
This he did, and came and hung over the shoulders of the players, and
told the company all about himself.
Montague was prepared to allow for the "wild oats" of a youngster with
unlimited money, but never in his life had he heard or dreamed of
anything like this boy. For half an hour he wandered about the table,
and poured out a steady stream of obscenities; his mind was like a
swamp, in which dwelt loathsome and hideous serpents which came to the
surface at night and showed their flat heads and their slimy coils. In
the heavens above or the earth beneath there was nothing sacred to him;
there was nothing too revolting to be spewed out. And the company
accepted the performance as an old story--the men would laugh, and push
the boy away, and say, "Oh, Charlie, go to the devil!"
After it was all over, Montague took one of the company aside and asked
him what it meant; to which the man replied: "Good God! Do you mean
that nobody has told you about Charlie Carter?"
It appeared that Charlie was one of the "gilded youths" of the
Tenderloin, whose exploits had been celebrated in the papers. And after
the attendants had bundled him off to bed, several of the men gathered
about the fire and sipped hot punch, and rehearsed for Montague's
benefit some of his leading exploits.
Charlie was only twenty-three, it seemed; and when he was ten his
father had died and left eight or ten millions in trust for him, in the
care of a poor, foolish aunt whom he twisted about his finger. At the
age of twelve he was a cigarette fiend, and had the run of the
wine-cellar. When he went to a rich private school he took whole trunks
full of cigarettes with him, and finally ran away to Europe, to acquire
the learning of the brothels of Paris. And then he came home and struck
the Tenderloin; and at three o'clock one morning he walked through a
plate-glass window, and so the newspapers took him up. That had
suddenly opened a new vista in life for Charlie--he became a devotee of
fame; everywhere he went he was followed by newspaper reporters and a
staring crowd. He carried wads as big round as his arm, and gave away
hundred-dollar tips to bootblacks, and lost forty thousand dollars in a
game of poker. He gave a fete to the demi-monde, with a jewelled
Christmas tree in midsummer, and fifty thousand dollars' worth of
splendour. But the greatest stroke of all was the announcement that he
was going to build a submarine yacht and fill it with
chorus-girls!--Now Charlie had sunk out of public attention, and his
friends would not see him for days; he would be lying in a "sporting
house" literally wallowing in champagne.
And all this, Montague realized, his brother must have known! And he
had said not a word about it--because of the eight or ten millions
which Charlie would have when he was twenty-five!
CHAPTER IX
In the morning they went home with others of the party by train. They
could not wait for Charlie and his automobile, because Monday was the
opening night of the Opera, and no one could miss that. Here Society
would appear in its most gorgeous raiment, and, there would be a show
of jewellery such as could be seen nowhere else in the world.
General Prentice and his wife had opened their town-house, and had
invited them to dinner and to share their box; and so at about
half-past nine o'clock Montague found himself seated in a great balcony
of the shape of a horseshoe, with several hundred of the richest people
in the city. There was another tier of boxes above, and three galleries
above that, and a thousand or more people seated and standing below
him. Upon the big stage there was an elaborate and showy play, the
words of which were sung to the accompaniment of an orchestra.
Now Montague had never heard an opera, and he was fond of music. The
second act had just begun when he came in, and all through it he sat
quite spellbound, listening to the most ravishing strains that ever he
had heard in his life. He scarcely noticed that Mrs. Prentice was
spending her time studying the occupants of the other boxes through a
jewelled lorgnette, or that Oliver was chattering to her daughter.
But after the act was over, Oliver got him alone outside the box, and
whispered, "For God's sake, Allan, don't make a fool of yourself."
"Why, what's the matter?" asked the other.
"What will people think," exclaimed Oliver, "seeing you sitting there
like a man in a dope dream?"
"Why," laughed the other, "they'll think I'm listening to the music."
To which Oliver responded, "People don't come to the Opera to listen to
the music."
This sounded like a joke, but it was not. To Society the Opera was a
great state function, an exhibition of far more exclusiveness and
magnificence than the Horse Show; and Society certainly had the right
to say, for it owned the opera-house and ran it. The real music-lovers
who came, either stood up in the back, or sat in the fifth gallery,
close to the ceiling, where the air was foul and hot. How much Society
cared about the play was sufficiently indicated by the fact that all of
the operas were sung in foreign languages, and sung so carelessly that
the few who understood the languages could make but little of the
words. Once there was a world-poet who devoted his life to trying to
make the Opera an art; and in the battle with Society he all but
starved to death. Now, after half a century, his genius had triumphed,
and Society consented to sit for hours in darkness and listen to the
domestic disputes of German gods and goddesses. But what Society really
cared for was a play with beautiful costumes and scenery and dancing,
and pretty songs to which one could listen while one talked; the story
must be elemental and passionate, so that one could understand it in
pantomime--say the tragic love of a beautiful and noble-minded
courtesan for a gallant young man of fashion.
Nearly every one who came to the Opera had a glass, by means of which
he could bring each gorgeously-clad society dame close to him, and
study her at leisure. There were said to be two hundred million
dollars' worth of diamonds in New York, and those that were not in the
stores were very apt to be at this show; for here was where they could
accomplish the purpose for which they existed--here was where all the
world came to stare at them. There were nine prominent Society women,
who among them displayed five million dollars' worth of jewels. You
would see stomachers which looked like a piece of a coat of mail, and
were made wholly of blazing diamonds. You would see emeralds and rubies
and diamonds and pearls made in tiaras--that is to say, imitation
