   been married long enough to do that. It isn't square to me,
   either.
   "And while I'm about it I want to add that, at Mrs. Ascott's
   suggestion--which really is my own idea--I have decided not to
   build all those Rhine castles, which useless notion, if I am not
   mistaken, originated with you. I don't want to disfigure my
   beautiful wilderness. Mrs. Ascott and I had a very plain talk
   with Hamil and we forced him to agree with us that the less he
   did to improve my place the better for the place. He seemed to
   take it good-humouredly. He left yesterday to look over Mrs.
   Ascott's place and plan for her a formal garden and Trianon at
   Pride's Hall. So he being out I wired also to Virginia and to
   Philip Gatewood, which will make it right--four at a table. Your
   brother-in-law plays a stiff game and your sister is a
   wonder!--five grand slams last night! But I played like a
   dub--I'd been riding and walking and canoeing all day with Mrs.
   Ascott and I was terribly sleepy.
   "So come on up, Louis. I'll forgive you--but don't mind if I
   growl at you before Mrs. Ascott as she thinks I ought to
   discipline you. And, confound it, I ought to, and I will, too, if
   you don't look out. But I'll be devilish glad to see you.
                             "Yours,
                                  "W. VAN BEUREN PORTLAW."
Malcourt, in his arm-chair by the open window, lay back full length,
every fibre of him vibrating with laughter.
Dolly Wilming at the piano continued running over the pretty firework
melodies of last season's metropolitan success--a success built entirely
on a Viennese waltz, the air of which might have been taken from almost
any popular Yankee hymn-book.
He folded Portlaw's letter and pocketed it; and lay for a while under
the open window, enjoying his own noiseless mirth, gaily accompanied by
Dolly Winning's fresh, clear singing or her capricious improvising.
Begonias bloomed in a riotous row on the sill, nodding gently in the
river-wind which also fluttered the flags and sails on yacht, schooner,
and sloop under the wall of the Palisades.
That day the North River was more green than blue--like the eyes of a
girl he knew; summer, crowned and trimmed with green, brooded on the
long rock rampart across the stream. Turquoise patches of sky and big
clouds, leafy parapets, ships passing to the sea; and in mid-stream an
anchored island of steel painted white and buff, bristling with long
thin guns, the flower-like flag rippling astern; another battle-ship
farther north; another, another; and farther still the white
tomb--unlovely mansion of the dead--on outpost duty above the river,
guarding with the warning of its dead glories the unlovely mansions of
the living ranged along the most noble terrace in the world.
And everywhere to north, south, and east, the endless waste of city,
stark, clean-cut, naked alike of tree and of art, unsoftened even by the
haze of its own exudations--everywhere the window-riddled blocks of
oblongs and cubes gridironed with steel rails--New York in all the
painted squalor of its Pueblo splendour.
       *       *       *       *       *
"You say you are doing well in everything except French and Italian?"
Dolly, still humming to her own accompaniment, looked over her shoulder
and nodded.
"Well, how the dickens are you ever going to sing at either Opera or on
the road or anywhere if you don't learn French and Italian?"
"I'm trying, Louis."
"Go ahead; let's hear something, then."
And she sang very intelligently and in excellent taste:
    "Pendant que, plein d'amour, j'expire à votre porte,
    Vous dormez d'un paisible sommeil--"
and turned questioningly to him.
"That's all right; try another."
So, serenely obedient, she sang:
    "Chantons Margot, nos amours,
    Margot leste et bien tournée--"
"Well, I don't see anything the matter with your French," he muttered.
The girl coloured with pleasure, resting pensively above the key-board;
but he had no further requests to make and presently she swung around on
the piano-stool, looking at him.
"You sing all right; you are doing your part--as far as I can discover."
"There is nothing for you to discover that I have not told you," she
said gravely. In her manner there was a subdued dignity which he had
noticed recently--something of the self-confidence of the very young and
unspoiled--which, considering all things, he could not exactly account
for.
"Does that doddering old dancing-master of yours behave himself?"
"Yes--since you spoke to him. Mr. Bulder came to the school again."
"What did you say to him?"
"I told him that you wouldn't let me sing in 'The Inca.'"
"And what did Bulder say?"
"He was persistent but perfectly respectful; asked if he might confer
with you. He wrote to you I think, didn't he?"
Malcourt nodded and lighted a cigarette.
"Dolly," he said, "do you want to sing Chaské in 'The Inca' next
winter?"
"Yes, I do--if you think it is all right." She added in a low voice: "I
want to do what will please you, Louis."
"I don't know whether it's the best thing to do, but--you may have to."
He laid his cigarette in a saucer, watched the smoke curling
ceilingward, and said as though to himself:
"I should like to be certain that you can support yourself--within a
reasonable time from now--say a year. That is all, Dolly."
"I can do it now if you wish it--" The expression of his face checked
her.
"I don't mean a variety career devoted to 'mother' songs," he said with
a sneer. "There's a middle course between diamonds and 'sinkers.' You'll
get there if you don't kick over the traces.... Have you made any more
friends?"
"Yes."
"Are they respectable?"
"Yes," she said, colouring.
"Has anybody been impertinent?"
"Mr. Williams."
"I'll attend to him--the little squirt!... Who are your new friends?"
"There's a perfectly sweet girl in the French class, Marguerite Barret.
I think she likes me.... Louis, I don't believe you understand how very
happy I am beginning to be--"
"Do people come here?"
"Yes, on Sunday afternoons; I know nearly a dozen nice girls now, and
those men I told you about--Mr. Snyder, Mr. Jim Anthony and his brother
the artist, and Mr. Cass and Mr. Renwick."
"You can cut out Renwick," he said briefly.
She seemed surprised. "He has always been perfectly nice to me,
Louis--"
"Cut him out, Dolly. I know the breed."
"Of course, if you wish."
He looked at her, convinced in spite of himself. "Always ask me about
people. If I don't know I can find out."
"I always do," she said.
"Yes, I believe you do.... You're all right, Dolly--so far.... There,
don't look at me in that distressed-dove fashion; I know you are all
right and mean to be for your own sake--"
"For yours also," she said.
"Oh--that's all right, too--story-book fidelity; my preserver
ever!--What?--Sure--and a slow curtain.... There, there, Dolly--where's
your sense of humour! Good Lord, what's changing you into a
bread-and-butter boarding-school sentimentalist!--to feel hurt at
nothing! Hello! look at that kitten of yours climbing your silk
curtains! Spank the rascal!"
But the girl caught up the kitten and tucked it up under her chin,
smiling across at Malcourt, who had picked up his hat, gloves, and
stick.
"Will you come to-morrow?" she asked.
"I'm going away for a while."
Her face fell; she rose, placed the kitten on the lounge, and walked up
to him, both hands clasped loosely behind her back, wistfully
acquiescent.
"It's going to be lonely again for me," she said.
"Nonsense! You've just read me your visiting list--"
"I had rather have you here than anybody."
"Dolly, you'll get over that absurd sense of obligatory regard for
me--"
"I had rather have you, Louis."
"I know. That's very sweet of you--and very proper.... You are all
right.... I'll be back in a week or ten days, and," smilingly, "mind you
have your report ready! If you've been a good girl we'll talk over 'The
Inca' again and--perhaps--we'll have Mr. Bulder up to luncheon....
Good-bye."
She gave him her hand, looking up into his face.
"Smile!" he insisted.
She smiled.
So he went away, rather satiated with the pleasures of self-denial; but
the lightly latent mockery soon broke out again in a smile as he reached
the street.
"What a mess!" he grinned to himself. "The Tressilvains at Portlaw's!
And Wayward! and Shiela and Virginia and that awful Louis Malcourt! It
only wants Hamil to make the jolliest little hell of it. O my, O my,
what an amusing mess!"
However, he knew what Portlaw didn't know, that Virginia would never
accept that invitation, and that neither Wayward nor Constance Palliser
would remain one day under the roof that harboured the sister of Louis
Malcourt.
CHAPTER XXV
A CONFERENCE
When Malcourt arrived at Luckless Lake Sunday evening he found Portlaw
hunched up in an arm-chair, all alone in the living-room, although the
hour was still early.
"Where's your very agreeable house-party?" he inquired, looking about
the empty room and hall with an air of troubled surprise.
"Gone to bed," replied Portlaw irritably,--"what's left of 'em." And he
continued reading "The Pink 'Un."
"Really!" said Malcourt in polite concern.
"Yes, really!" snapped Portlaw. "Mrs. Ascott went to Pride's and took
Wayward and Constance Palliser; that was Friday. And Gray and Cecile
joined them yesterday. It's been a horrible house-party; nobody had any
use for anybody else and it has rained every day and--and--to be plain
with you, Louis, nobody is enchanted with your relatives and that's the
unpleasant truth!"
"I don't blame anybody," returned Malcourt sincerely, removing his
driving-gloves and shaking off his wet box-coat. "Why, I can scarcely
stand them myself, William. Where are they?"
"In the west wing of your house--preparing to remain indefinitely."
"Dear, dear!" exclaimed Malcourt. "What on earth shall we do?" And he
peered sideways at Portlaw with his tongue in his cheek.
"Do? I don't know. Why the devil did you suggest that they stop at
your house?"
"Because, William, curious as it may seem, I had a sort of weak-minded
curiosity to see my sister once more." He walked over to the table, took
a cigarette and lighted it, then stood regarding the burning match in
his fingers. "She's the last of the family; I'll probably never see her
again--"
"She appears to be in excellent health," remarked Portlaw viciously.
"So am I; but--" He shrugged and tossed the embers of the match onto the
hearth.
"But what?"
"Well, I'm going to take a vacation pretty soon--a sort of voyage, and a
devilish long one, William. That's why I wanted to see her again."
"You mean to tell me you are going away?" demanded the other
indignantly.
Malcourt laughed. "Oh, yes. I planned it long ago--one morning toward
daybreak years ago.... A--a relative of mine started on the same voyage
rather unexpectedly.... I've heard very often from him since; I'm
curious to try it, too--when he makes up his mind to invite me--"
"When are you starting?" interrupted Portlaw, disgusted.
"Oh, not for a while, I think. I won't embarrass you; I'll leave
everything in ship-shape--"
"Where are you going?--dammit!"
Malcourt looked at him humorously, head on one side. "I am not perfectly
sure, dear friend. I hate to know all about a thing before I do it.
Otherwise there's no sporting interest in it."
"You mean to tell me that you're going off a-gipsying without any
definite plans?"
"Gipsying?" he laughed. "Well, that may perhaps describe it. I don't
know; I have no plans. That's the charm of it. When one grows tired,
that is the restful part of it--to simply start, having no plans; just
to leave, and drift away haphazard. One is always bound to arrive
somewhere, William."
He had been pacing backward and forward, the burning cigarette balanced
between his fingers, turning his handsome head from time to time to
answer Portlaw's ill-tempered questions. Now he halted, dark eyes roving
about the room. They fell and lingered on a card-table where some empty
glasses decorated the green baize top.
"Bridge?" he queried.
"Unfortunately," growled Portlaw.
"Who?"
"Mrs. Malcourt and I versus your--ah--talented family."
"Mrs. Malcourt doesn't gamble."
"Tressilvain and I did."
"Were you badly stung, dear friend?"
Portlaw muttered.
Malcourt lifted his expressive eyebrows.
"Why didn't you try my talented relative again to-night?"
"Mrs. Malcourt had enough," said Portlaw briefly; then mumbled something
injuriously unintelligible.
"I think I'll go over to the house and see if my gifted brother-in-law
has retired," said Malcourt, adding carelessly, "I suppose Mrs. Malcourt
is asleep."
"It wouldn't surprise me," replied Portlaw. And Malcourt was free to
interpret the remark as he chose.
He went away thoughtfully, crossing the lawn in the rainy darkness, and
came to the garden where his own dogs barked at him--a small thing to
depress a man, but it did; and it was safer for the dogs, perhaps, that
they sniffed recognition before they came too near with their growls and
barking. But he opened the gate, disdaining to speak to them, and when
they knew him, it was a pack of very humble, wet, and penitent hounds
that came wagging up alongside. He let them wag unnoticed.
Lights burned in his house, one in Shiela's apartments, several in the
west wing where the Tressilvains were housed. A servant, locking up for
the night, came across the dripping veranda to admit him; and he went
upstairs and knocked at his wife's door.
Shiela's maid opened, hesitated; and a moment later Shiela appeared,
fully dressed, a book in her hand. It was one of Hamil's architectural
volumes.
"Well, Shiela," he said lightly; "I got in to-night and rather expected
to see somebody; but nobody waited up to see me! I'm rather wet--it's
raining--so I won't trouble you. I only wanted to say good night."
The quick displeasure in her face died out. She dismissed the maid, and
came slowly forward. Beneath the light her face looked much thinner; he
noticed dark shadows under the eyes; the eyes themselves seemed tired
and expressionless.
"Aren't you well?" he asked bluntly.
"Perfectly.... Was it you the dogs were so noisy about just now?"
"Yes; it seems that even my own dogs resent my return. Well--good night.
I'm glad you're all right."
Something in his voice, more than in the words, arrested her listless
attention.
"Will you come in, Louis?"
"I'm afraid I'm keeping you awake. Besides I'm wet--"
"Come in and tell me where you've been--if you care to. Would you like
some tea--or something?"
He shook his head, but followed her into the small receiving-room. There
he declined an offered chair.
"I've been in New York.... No, I did not see your family.... As for what
I've been doing--"
Her lifted eyes betrayed no curiosity; a growing sense of depression
crept over him.
"Oh, well," he said, "it doesn't matter." And turned toward the door.
She looked into the empty fireplace with a sigh; then, gently, "I don't
mean to make it any drearier for you than I can help."
He considered her a moment.
"Are you really well, Shiela?"
"Why, yes; only a little tired. I do not sleep well."
He nodded toward the west wing of the house.
"Do they bother you?"
She did not answer.
He said: "Thank you for putting them up. We'll get rid of them if they
annoy you."
"They are quite welcome."
"That's very decent of you, Shiela. I dare say you have not found them
congenial."
"We have nothing in common. I think they consider me a fool."
"Why?" He looked up, keenly humourous.
"Because I don't understand their inquiries. Besides, I don't gamble--"
"What kind of inquiries do they make?"
"Personal ones," she said quietly.
He laughed. "They're probably more offensively impertinent than the
Chinese--that sort of Briton. I think I'll step into the west wing and
greet my relations. I won't impose them on you for very long. Do you
know when they are going?"
"I think they have made plans to remain here for a while."
"Really?" he sneered. "Well, leave that to me, Shiela."
So he crossed into the western wing and found the Tressilvains
tête-à-tête over a card-table, deeply interested in something that
resembled legerdemain; and he stood at the door and watched them with a
smile that was not agreeable.
"Well, Helen!" he said at last; and Lady Tressilvain started, and her
husband rose to the full height of his five feet nothing, dropping the
pack which he had been so nimbly manipulating for his wife's amusement.
"Where the devil did you come from?" blurted his lordship; but his wife
made a creditable appearance in her rôle of surprised sisterly
affection; and when the two men had gone through the form of family
greeting they all sat down for the conventional family confab.
Tressilvain said little but drank a great deal of whisky--his long,
white, bony fingers were always spread around his glass--unusually long
fingers for such a short man, and out of all proportion to the scant
five-foot frame, topped with a little pointed head, in which the eyes
were set exactly as glass eyes are screwed into the mask of a fox.
"Bertie and I have been practising leads from trick hands," observed
Lady Tressilvain, removing the ice from her glass and filling it from a
soda bottle which Malcourt uncorked for her.
"Well, Herby," said Malcourt genially, "I suppose you and Helen play a
game well worth--ah--watching."
Tressilvain looked dully annoyed, although there was nothing in his
brother-in-law's remark to ruffle anybody, except that his lordship did
not like to be called Herby. He sat silent, caressing his glass; and
presently his little black eyes stole around in Malcourt's direction,
and remained there, waveringly, while brother and sister discussed the
former's marriage, the situation at Luckless Lake, and future prospects.
That is to say, Lady Tressilvain did the discussing; Malcourt, bland,
amiable, remained uncommunicatively polite, parrying everything so
innocently that his sister, deceived, became plainer in her questions
concerning the fortune he was supposed to have married, and more
persistent in her suggestions of a winter in New York--a delightful and
prolonged family reunion, in which the Tressilvains were to figure as
distinguished guests and virtual pensioners of everybody connected with
his wife's family.
"Do you think," drawled Malcourt, intercepting a furtive glance between
his sister and brother-in-law, to that gentleman's slight confusion, "do
you think it might prove interesting to you and Herby? Americans are so
happy to have your countrymen to entertain--particularly when their
credentials are as unquestionable as Herby's and yours."
For a full minute, in strained silence, the concentrated gaze of the
Tressilvains was focused upon the guileless countenance of Malcourt;
and discovered nothing except a fatuous cordiality.
Lady Tressilvain drew a deep, noiseless breath and glanced at her
husband.
"I don't understand, Louis, exactly what settlement--what sort of
arrangement you made when you married this--very interesting young
girl--"
"Oh, I didn't have anything to endow her with," said Malcourt, so
amiably stupid that his sister bit her lip.
Tressilvain essayed a jest.
"Rather good, that!" he said with his short, barking laugh; "but I
da'say the glove was on the other hand, eh, Louis?"
"What?"
"Why the--ah--the lady did the endowing and all that, don't you see?"
"See what?" asked Malcourt so pleasantly that his sister shot a look at
her husband which checked him.
Malcourt was now on maliciously humourous terms with himself; he began
to speak impulsively, affectionately, with all the appearance of a
garrulous younger brother impatient to unbosom himself to his family;
and he talked and talked, confidingly, guilelessly, voluminously, yet
managed to say absolutely nothing. And, strain their ears as they might,
the Tressilvains in their perplexity and increasing impatience could
make out nothing of all this voluntary information--understand
nothing--pick out not one single fact to satisfy their desperately
hungry curiosity.
There was no use interrupting him with questions; he answered them with
others; he whispered ambiguities in a manner most portentous; hinted at
bewildering paradoxes with an air; nodded mysterious nothings, and
finally left them gaping at him, exasperated, unable to make any sense
out of what most astonishingly resembled a candid revelation of the
hopes, fears, ambitions, and worldly circumstances of Louis Malcourt.
"Good-night," he said, lingering at the door to look upon and enjoy the
fruit of his perversity and malice. "When I start on that journey I
mentioned to you I'll leave something for you and Herby--merely to show
you how much I think of my own people--a little gift--a trifle!
No--no!"--lifting his hand with smiling depreciation as Tressilvain
began to thank him. "One must look out for one's own family. It's
natural--only natural to make some provision. Good-night, Helen!
Good-night, Herby. Portlaw and I will take you on at Bridge if it rains
to-morrow. It will be a privilege for us to--ah--watch your
game--closely. Good-night!"
And closed the door.
"What the devil does he mean?" demanded Tressilvain, peering sideways at
his wife.
"I don't exactly know," she said thoughtfully, sorting the cards. She
added: "If we play to-morrow you stick to signals; do you understand?
And keep your ring and your fingers off the cards until I can make up my
mind about my brother. You're a fool to drink American whisky the way
you did yesterday. Mr. Portlaw noticed the roughness on the aces; you
pricked them too deep. You'd better keep your wits about you, I can tell
you. I'm a Yankee myself."
"Right--O! But I say, Helen, I'm damned if I make out that brother of
yours. Doesn't he live in the same house as his wife?"
Lady Tressilvain sat listening to the uproar from the dogs as Malcourt
left the garden. But this time the outbreak was only a noisy welcome;
and Malcourt, on excellent terms with himself, patted every sleek, wet
head thrust up for caresses and walked gaily on through the driving
rain.
The rain continued the following day. Piloted by Malcourt, the
Tressilvains, thickly shod and water-proofed, tramped about with rod and
creel and returned for luncheon where their blunt criticisms on the
fishing aroused Portlaw's implacable resentment. For they sneered at the
trout, calling them "char," patronised the rather scanty pheasantry,
commented on the kennels, stables, and gardens in a manner that brought
the red into Portlaw's face and left him silent while luncheon lasted.
After luncheon Tressilvain tried the billiards, but found the game
inferior to the English game. So he burrowed into a box of cigars,
established himself before the fire with all the newspapers, deploring
the fact that the papers were not worth reading.
Lady Tressilvain cornered Shiela and badgered her and stared at her
until she dared not lift her hot face or open her lips lest the pent
resentment escape; Portlaw smoked a pipe--a sure indication of
smouldering wrath; Malcourt, at a desk, blew clouds of smoke from his
cigarette and smilingly continued writing to his attorney:
   "This is the general idea for the document, and it's up to you to
   fix it up and make it legal, and have it ready for me when I come
   to town.
   "1st. I want to leave all my property to a Miss Dorothy or Dolly
   Wilming; and I want you to sell off everything after my death and
   invest the proceeds for her because it's all she'll have to live
   on except what she gets by her own endeavours. This, in case I
   suddenly snuff out.
   "2d. I want to leave my English riding-crop, spurs, bridle, and
   saddle to a Miss Virginia Suydam. Fix it legally.
   "3d. Here is a list of eighteen ladies. Each is to have one of my
   eighteen Chinese gods.
   "4th. To my wife I leave the nineteenth god. Mr. Hamil has it in
   his possession. I have no right to dispose of it, but he will
   have some day.
   "5th. To John Garret Hamil, 3d, I leave my volume of Jean DuMont,
   the same being an essay on Friendship.
   "6th. To my friend, William Van Bueren Portlaw, I leave my dogs,
   rods, and guns with a recommendation that he use them and his
   legs.
   "7th. To my sister, Lady Tressilvain, I leave my book of comic
   Bridge rules, and to her husband a volume of Methodist hymns.
   "I'll be in town again, shortly, and expect you to have my will
   ready to be signed and witnessed. One ought always to be
   prepared, particularly when in excellent health.
                                  "Yours sincerely,
                                        "LOUIS MALCOURT."
   "P.S. I enclose a check for the Greenlawn Cemetery people. I wish
   you'd see that they keep the hedge properly trimmed around my
   father's plot and renew the dead sod where needed. I noticed that
   one of the trees was also dead. Have them put in another and keep
   the flowers in good shape. I don't want anything dead around that
   lot.
                                         "L.M."
When he had sealed and directed his letter he looked around the silent
room. Shiela was sewing by the window. Portlaw, back to the fire, stood
staring out at the rain; Lady Tressilvain, a cigarette between her thin
lips, wandered through the work-shop and loading-room where, from hooks
in the ceiling, a thicket of split-cane rod-joints hung, each suspended
by a single strong thread.
The loading-room was lined with glass-faced cases containing
fowling-pieces, rifles, reels, and the inevitable cutlery and
ironmongery associated with utensils for the murder of wild creatures.
Tressilvain sat at the loading-table to which he was screwing a delicate
vise to hold hooks; for Malcourt had given him a lesson in fly-tying,
and he meant to dress a dozen to try on Painted Creek.
So he sorted snell and hook and explored the tin trunk for hackles,
silks, and feathers, up to his bony wrists in the fluffy heap of
brilliant plumage, burrowing, busy as a burying beetle under a dead
bird.
Malcourt dropped his letter into the post-box, glanced uncertainly in
the direction of his wife, but as she did not lift her head from her
sewing, turned with a shrug and crossed the floor to where Portlaw stood
scowling and sucking at his empty pipe.
"Look at that horrid little brother-in-law of mine with his ferret eyes
and fox face, fussing around those feathers--as though he had just
caught and eaten the bird that wore them!"
Portlaw continued to scowl.
"Suppose we take them on at cards," suggested Malcourt.
"No, thanks."
"Why not?"
"They've taken a thousand out of me already."
Malcourt said quietly: "You've never before given such a reason for
discontinuing card-playing. What's your real reason?"
Portlaw was silent.
"Did you quit a thousand to the bad, Billy?"
"Yes, I did."
"Then why not get it back?"
"I don't care to play," said Portlaw shortly.
The eyes of the two men met.
"Are you, by any chance, afraid of our fox-faced guest?" asked Malcourt
suavely.
"I don't care to give any reason, I tell you."
"That's serious; as there could be only one reason. Did you think you
noticed--anything?"
"I don't know what I think.... I've half a mind to stop payment on that
check--if that enlightens you any."
"There's an easier way," said Malcourt coolly. "You know how it is in
sparring? You forecast what your opponent is going to do and you stop
him before he does it."
"I'm not certain that he--did it," muttered Portlaw. "I can't afford
to make a mistake by kicking out your brother-in-law."
"Oh, don't mind me--"
"I wouldn't if I were sure.... I wish I had that thousand back; it
drives me crazy to think of losing it--in that way--"
"Oh; then you feel reasonably sure--"
"No, confound it.... The backs of the aces were slightly rough--but I
can scarcely believe--"
"Have you a magnifying glass?"
The pack has disappeared.... I meant to try that."
"My dear fellow," said Malcourt calmly, "it wouldn't surprise me in the
slightest to learn that Tressilvain is a blackguard. It's easy enough to
get your thousand back. Shall we?"
"How?"
Malcourt sauntered over to a card table, seated himself, motioned
Portlaw to the chair opposite, and removed the cover from a new pack.
Then, to Portlaw's astonishment, he began to take aces and court cards
from any part of the pack at his pleasure; any card that Portlaw called
for was produced unerringly. Then Malcourt dealt him unbelievable
hands--all of a colour, all of a suit, all the cards below the tens, all
above; and Portlaw, fascinated, watched the dark, deft fingers nimbly
dealing, shuffling, until his senses spun round; and when Malcourt
finally tore up all the aces, and then, ripping the green baize cover
from the table, disclosed the four aces underneath, intact, Portlaw,
petrified, only stared at him out of distended eyes.
"Those are nice tricks, aren't they?" asked Malcourt, smiling.
"Y-yes. Lord! Louis, I never dreamed you could do such devilish things
as--"
"I can. If I were not always behind you in my score I'd scarcely dare
let you know what I might do if I chose.... How far ahead is that little
mink, yonder?"
"Tressilvain?"
"Yes."
"He has taken about a thousand--wait!" Portlaw consulted his note-book,
made a wry face, and gave Malcourt the exact total.
Malcourt turned carelessly in his chair.
"O Herbert!" he called across to his brother-in-law; "don't you and
Helen want to take us on?"
"Rather!" replied Tressilvain briskly; and came trotting across the
room, his close-set black eyes moving restlessly from Malcourt to
Portlaw.
"Come on, Helen," said Malcourt, drawing up a chair for her; and his
sister seated herself gracefully. A moment later the game began, Portlaw
passing it over to Malcourt, who made it no trumps, and laid out all the
materials for international trouble, including a hundred aces.
The games were brutally short, savage, decisive; Tressilvain lost
countenance after the fastest four rubbers he had ever played, and shot
an exasperated glance at his wife, who was staring thoughtfully at her
brother.
But that young man appeared to be in an innocently merry mood; he gaily
taunted Herby, as he chose to call him, with loss of nerve; he tormented
his sister because she didn't seem to know what Portlaw's discards
meant; and no wonder, because he discarded from an obscure system taught
him by Malcourt. Also, with a malice which Tressilvain ignored, he
forced formalities, holding everybody ruthlessly to iron-clad rule,
taking penalties, enforcing the most rigid etiquette. For he was one of
those rare players who knew the game so thoroughly that while he, and
the man he had taught, often ignored the classics of adversary play, the
slightest relaxing of etiquette, rule, precept, or precedent, in his
opponents, brought him out with a protest exacting the last item of toll
for indiscretion.
Portlaw was perhaps the sounder player, Malcourt certainly the more
brilliant; and now, for the first time since the advent of the
Tressilvains, the cards Portlaw held were good ones.
"What a nasty thing to do!" said Lady Tressilvain sharply, as her
brother's finesse went through, and with it another rubber.
"It was horrid, wasn't it, Helen? I don't know what's got into you and
Herby"; and to the latter's protest he added pleasantly: "You talk like
a bucket of ashes. Go on and deal!"
"A--what!" demanded Tressilvain angrily.
"It's an Americanism," observed his wife, surveying her cards with
masked displeasure and making it spades. "Louis, I never held such hands
in all my life," she said, displaying the meagre dummy.
"Do you good, Helen. Mustn't be too proud and haughty. No, no! Good for
you and Herby--"
"I wish you wouldn't call him Herby," snapped his sister.
"Not respectful?" inquired Malcourt, lifting his eyebrows. "Well, I'll
call him anything you like, Helen; I don't care. But make it something I
can say when ladies are present--"
Tressilvain's mink-like muzzle turned white with rage. He didn't like to
be flouted, he didn't like his cards, he didn't like to lose money. And
he had already lost a lot between luncheon and the impending dinner.
"Why the devil I continue to hold all these three-card suits I don't
know," he said savagely. "Isn't there another pack in the house?"
"There was" said Malcourt; and ironically condoled with him as Portlaw
accomplished a little slam in hearts.
Then Tressilvain dealt; and Malcourt's eyes never left his
brother-in-law's hands as they distributed the cards with nervous
rapidity.
"Misdeal," he said quietly.
"What?" demanded his sister in sharp protest.
"It's a misdeal," repeated Malcourt, smiling at her; and, as
Tressilvain, half the pack suspended, gazed blankly at him, Malcourt
turned and looked him squarely in the eye. The other reddened.
"Too bad," said Malcourt, with careless good-humour, "but one has to be
so careful in dealing the top card, Herby. You stumble over your own
fingers; they're too long; or perhaps it's that ring of yours."
A curious, almost ghastly glance passed involuntarily between the
Tressilvains; Portlaw, who was busy lighting a cigar, did not notice it,
but Malcourt laughed lightly and ran over the score, adding it up with a
nimble accuracy that seemed to stun his relatives.
"Why, look what's here!" he exclaimed, genially displaying a total that,
added, balanced all Portlaw's gains and losses to date. "Why, isn't that
curious, Helen! Right off the bat like that!--cricket-bat," he explained
affably to Tressilvain, who, as dinner was imminent, had begun fumbling
for his check-book.
At Malcourt's suave suggestion, however, instead of drawing a new check
he returned Portlaw's check. Malcourt took it, tore it carefully in two
equal parts.
"Half for you, William, half for me," he said gaily. "My--my! What
strange things do happen in cards--and in the British Isles!"
The dull flush deepened on Tressilvain's averted face, but Lady
Tressilvain, unusually pale, watched her brother persistently during the
general conversation that preceded dressing for dinner.
CHAPTER XXVI
SEALED INSTRUCTIONS
After the guests had gone away to dress Portlaw looked inquiringly at
Malcourt and said: "That misdeal may have been a slip. I begin to
believe I was mistaken after all. What do you think, Louis?"
Malcourt's eyes wandered toward his wife who still bent low over her
sewing. "I don't think," he said absently, and sauntered over to Shiela,
saying:
"It's rather dull for you, isn't it?"
She made no reply until Portlaw had gone upstairs; then looking around
at him:
"Is there any necessity for me to sit here while you play cards this
evening?"
"No, if it doesn't amuse you."
Amuse her! She rested her elbow on the window ledge, and, chin on hand,
stared out into the gray world of rain--the world that had been so
terribly altered for her for ever. In the room shadows were gathering;
the dull light faded. Outside it rained over land and water, over the
encircling forest which walled in this stretch of spectral world where
the monotony of her days was spent.
To the sadness of it she was slowly becoming inured; but the strangeness
of her life she could not yet comprehend--its meaningless days and
nights, its dragging hours--and the strange people around her immersed
in their sordid pleasures--this woman--her husband's sister,
thin-lipped, hard-featured, drinking, smoking, gambling, shrill in
disputes, merciless of speech, venomously curious concerning all that
she held locked in the privacy of her wretchedness.
"Shiela," he said, "why don't you pay your family a visit?"
She shook her head.
"You're afraid they might suspect that you are not particularly happy?"
"Yes.... It was wrong to have Gray and Cecile here. It was fortunate you
were away. But they saw the Tressilvains."
"What did they think of 'em?" inquired Malcourt.
"What do you suppose they would think?"
"Quite right. Well, don't worry. Hold out a little longer. This is a
ghastly sort of pantomime for you, but there's always a grand
transformation scene at the end. Who knows how soon the curtain will
rise on fairyland and the happy lovers and all that bright and sparkling
business? Children demand it--must have it.... And you are very young
yet."
He laughed, seeing her perplexed expression.
"You don't know what I mean, do you? Listen, Shiela; stay here to
dinner, if you can stand my relatives. We won't play cards. You'll
really find it amusing I think."
"Do you wish me to stay?"
"Yes, I do. I want you to see something."
A few moments afterward she took her umbrella and waterproof and went
away to dress, returning to a dinner-table remarkable for the silence of
the diners. Something, too, had gone wrong with the electric plant, and
after dinner candles were lighted in the living-room. Outside it rained
heavily.
Malcourt sat beside his wife, smoking, and, unaided, sustaining what
conversation there was; and after a while he rose, dragged a heavy,
solid wooden table to the middle of the room, placed five chairs around
it, and smilingly invited Shiela, the Tressilvains, and Portlaw to join
him.
"A seance in table-tipping?" asked his sister coldly. "Really, Louis, I
think we are rather past such things."
"I never saw a bally table tip," observed Tressilvain. "How do you do
it, Louis?"
"I don't; it tips. Come, Shiela, if you don't mind. Come on, Billy."
Tressilvain seated himself and glanced furtively about him.
"I dare say you're all in this game," he said, with a rattling laugh.
"It's no game. If the table tips it tips, and our combined weight can't
hold it down," said Malcourt. "If it won't tip it won't, and I'll bet
you a hundred dollars that you can't tip it, Herby."
Tressilvain, pressing his hands hard on the polished edge, tried to move
the table; then he stood up and tried. It was too heavy and solid, and
he could do nothing except by actually lifting it or by seizing it in
both hands and dragging it about.
One by one, reluctantly, the others took seats around the table and, as
instructed by Malcourt, rested the points of their fingers on the dully
polished surface.
"Does it really ever move?" asked Shiela of Malcourt.
"It sometimes does."
"What's the explanation?" demanded Portlaw, incredulously; "spirits?"
"I don't think anybody here would credit such an explanation," said
Malcourt. "The table moves or it doesn't. If it does you'll see it. I'll
leave the explanation to you, William."
"Have you ever seen it move?" asked Shiela, turning again to Malcourt.
"Yes; so has my sister. It's not a trick." Lady Tressilvain looked
bored, but answered Shiela's inquiry:
"I've seen it often. Louis and I and my father used to do it. I don't
know how it's done, and nobody else does. Personally I think it's rather
a stupid way to spend an evening--"
"But," interrupted Portlaw, "there'll be nothing stupid about it if the
table begins to tip up here under our very fingers. I'll bet you, Louis,
that it doesn't. Do you care to bet?"
"Shouldn't the lights be put out?" asked Tressilvain.
Malcourt said it was not necessary, and cautioned everybody to sit
absolutely clear of the table, and to rest only the tips of the fingers
very lightly on the surface.
"Can we speak?" grinned Portlaw.
"Oh, yes, if you like." A bright colour glowed in Malcourt's face; he
looked down dreamily at the top of the table where his hands touched. A
sudden quiet fell over the company.
Shiela, sitting with her white fingers lightly brushing the smooth
mahogany, bent her head, mind wandering; and her thoughts were very far
away when, under her sensitive touch, a curious quiver seemed to run
through the very grain of the wood.
"What's that!" exclaimed Portlaw.
Deep in the wood, wave after wave of motion seemed to spread until the
fibres emitted a faint splintering sound. Then, suddenly, the heavy
table rose slowly, the end on which Shiela's hands rested sinking; and
fell back with a solid shock.
"That's--rather--odd!" muttered Tressilvain. Portlaw's distended eyes
were fastened on the table, which was now heaving uneasily like a boat
at anchor, creaking, cracking, rocking under their finger-tips.
Tressilvain rose from his chair and tried to see, but as everybody was
clear of the table, and their fingers barely touched the top, he could
discover no visible reason for what was occurring so violently under his
very pointed nose.
"It's like a bally earthquake," he said in amazement. "God bless my
soul! the thing is walking off with us!"
Everybody had risen from necessity; chairs were pushed back, skirts
drawn aside as the heavy table, staggering, lurching, moved out across
the floor; and they all followed, striving to keep their finger-tips on
the top.
Portlaw was speechless; Shiela pale, tremulous, bewildered;
Tressilvain's beady eyes shone like the eyes of a surprised rat; but his
wife and Malcourt took it calmly.
"The game is," said Malcourt, "to ask whether there is a spirit present,
and then recite the alphabet. Shall I?... It isn't frightening you, is
it, Shiela?"
"No.... But I don't understand why it moves."
"Neither does anybody. But you see it, feel it. Nor can anybody explain
why an absurd question and reciting the alphabet sometimes results in a
coherent message. Shall I try it, Helen?"
His sister nodded indifferently.
There was a silence, then Malcourt, still standing, said quietly:
"Is there a message?"
From the deep, woody centre of the table three loud knocks
sounded--almost ripped out, and the table quivered in every fibre.
"Is there a message for anybody present?"
Three raps followed in a startling volley.
"Get the chairs," motioned Malcourt; and when all were seated clear of
the table but touching lightly the surface with their finger-tips:
"A B C D E F"--began Malcourt, slowly reciting the alphabet; and, as the
raps rang out, sig-nalling some letter, he began again in a monotonous
voice: "A B C D E F G"--pausing as soon as the raps arrested him at a
certain letter, only to begin again.
"Get a pad and pencil," whispered Lady Tressilvain to Shiela.
So Shiela left the table, found a pad and pencil, and seated herself
near a candle by the window; and as each letter was rapped out by the
table, she put it down in order.
The recitation seemed endless; Malcourt's voice grew hoarse with the
repetition; letter after letter was added to the apparently meaningless
sequence on Shiela's pad.
"Is there any sense in it so far?" asked Lady Tressilvain.
"I cannot find any," said Shiela, striving with her pencil point to
divide the string of letters into intelligible words.
And still Malcourt's monotonous voice droned on, and still the raps
sounded from the table. Portlaw hung over it as though hypnotized;
Tressilvain had fallen to moistening his lips with the tip of his
tongue, stealthy eyes always roaming about the candle-lit room as though
searching for something uncanny lurking in the shadows.
Shiela shivered, wide-eyed, as she sat watching the table which was now
snapping and cracking and heaving under her gaze. A slow fear of the
thing crept over her--of this senseless, lifeless mass of wood,
fashioned by human hands. The people around it, the room, the house were
becoming horrible to her; she loathed them and what they were doing.
A ripping crash brought her to her feet; everybody sprang up. Under
their hands the table was shuddering convulsively. Suddenly it split
open as though rent by a bolt, and fell like a live thing in agony, a
mass of twisted fibres protruding like viscera from its shattered core.
Stunned silence; and Malcourt turned to his sister and spoke in a low
voice, but she only shook her head, shivering, and stared at the wreck
of wood as though revolted.
"W-what happened?" faltered Portlaw, bewildered.
"I don't know," said Malcourt unsteadily.
"Don't know! Look at that table! Why, man, it's--it's dying!"
Tressilvain stood as though stupefied. Malcourt walked slowly over to
where Shiela stood.
She shrank involuntarily away from him as he bent to pick up the pad
which had fallen from her hands.
"There's nothing to be frightened about," he said, forcing a smile; and,
holding the pad under the light, scanned it attentively. His sister came
over to him, asking if the letters made any sense.
He shook his head.
They studied it together, Shiela's fascinated gaze riveted on them both.
And she saw Lady Tressilvain's big eyes widen as she laid her pencil on
a sequence; saw Malcourt's quick nod of surprised comprehension when she
checked off a word, then another, another, another; and suddenly her
face turned white to the lips, and she caught at her brother's arm,
terrified.
"Will you keep quiet?" he whispered fiercely, snatching the sheet from
the pad and crumpling it into his palm.
Sister and brother faced each other; in his eyes leaped a flame infernal
which seemed to hold her paralyzed for a moment; then, with a gesture,
